

e
-Pi
Think of the pleasure of making your own
motion-pictures—and making them as easily as
snapshots with a Kodak or Brownie. Add to that
the enjoyment of screening these pictures in your
own home, as well as films from the Kodascope
Library—famous stars in dramas, comic, travel
and educational subjects. Both are yours with
the Cine-Kodak and the Kodascope. Complete
outfit as low as £37.
THE VISIT OF THE DUKE OF YORK
—EASTER HOLLIDAYS.
There will be happy days and days worth remembering. There
will be picture opportunities everywhere. Do not forget to take
your Kodak and a good supply of Kodak film.
Of all Kodak Dealers, and
if
I\wUA\IV
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
C43*
f,
%
i
§
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
‘The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street,
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Rambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N
The Bulletin
VoL 48.—N0. 2457,
Thursday, March 17, 1927.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHIN THE SHADOW,
By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
r J'HE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, op application to
DYMOCK’S ROOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J_YSAGHT?
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Late to bed and early to rise
AND so the good proverb is remembered —by
‘-breaking it. Some girls have to be at dances
late at night. Some have to be at offices early in
the morning. Others have to be at both. No
wonder powder puffs wear out.
ENO’s “Fruit Salt’" is for inner health. Being
an aid to Health, it is also among the best aids to
Beauty. ENO begins at the beginning mildly,
gently and naturally, keeping the vital organs in tone
and tune, and the reward comes in good time —in
the form of freshness, colour, complexion and bloom.
Prepared only bf
J. C. ENO, Limited,
London. England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
f
♦ *
♦♦
TWO SI
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARK!
A
#r
■m
K^ST'.
&
RO O KS
UCE
Host jffol6rooi.Says - 1
“I blend. I stir and 1 brew
the Sauce of the House of
Holbrook. Aye, and then
I mature it in vats of
English oak.” 3
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price !/•
CjsVjfl
» Vjti
s*s2
BOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
Reading
I think it was Abimus Minor, though
indeed it may lian e been Pilamus, who esti-
mated that there .are 77 ways of reading a
book. He descrifi es them variously; thus,
the intent way, tfc e judicial way, the erect
way, and so on. But Abimus Minor—or
Pilamus, if it were .he —was an acute logician
and given to .subth distinctions and defini-
tions. For me there is only one way of read-
ing, and I cannot d efiue it further than to
say that I read will it I like. Now, if one
only reads what one likes, one must first
read to discover win it one likes. But this
preliminary scanning, this running survey, is,
to my mind, not reading at all.
Let us say that oltie meets an author in
person; one says * How d’ ye do?” and
passes on; but one meets him again, and
talks long and intimately, laughs with him,
quarrels with him, shouts, roars, whispers,
gets blind drunk wit h him, is completely
familiar and utterly l rude. That is really
meeting him. So it isi with books. I reckon
no book really read until one has soiled every
page of it, smiled and jbked and quipped over
it, grown tender, sentimental and angry with
it, touched it reverently and thrown it furi-
ously at the wall. Wluiu you have done thus
with it, you may be sai d to have truly and
well read your work.
Now it is perfectly obvious that one cannot,
so brief is our life, be acquainted with many
books on such thoroughgoing terms. It is
equally obvious that if we lived for a thou-
sand years we could hope for few additions.
Every man has in him the ability to know
one or two or a few authors well. It is his
business, then, to survey* the field swiftly,
and to hit upon those for whom he hafs what
might be called an affinity, and to read them
as often as he wishes.
It is foolish, and contrary to true, compre-
hension, to attempt to master the mass of
literature; just as in a crowtd of men we can
find few who might really be our friends-, so
in a crowd of books we waste time chumming
up to all. That is why professors and aca-
demic students of literature are so deplor-
ably lacking in appreciation; they have so
vast an acquaintance that they have no time
for intimacy.
When one has discovered one’s book —and
one, of course, continues to discover at rare
and joyful moments during life —then one will
re-read it again and again. On each occasion
it will be found that the book has taken on
a new significance. As we grow, the book
grows too; that is the most remarkable and
most neglected fact in literary criticism, that
a book is not static, but a living, growing
thing. As our experience ripens and
develops, so does the book, for, after all, it
is true in literature as in life that, we under-
stand and sympathise in so far as we enter
into the object of understanding and sym-
pathy. A tic of common knowledge must
be formed; and as our position changes, our
path of entry changes too, and as we grow
in knowledge and perception our books come
to mean something more and something dif-
ferent.
I recall my readings of “Don Quixote.”
Each time I have found it a new book. So
surprisingly has it grown that I almost hesi-
tate to say that I have read it, for certainly
when I come to it again I shall find some-
thing there that I have never known before.
Apart from the growing life in books, there
is a peculiar savor in writing that is usually
best sensed on repeated readings. If the
savor be to your liking, then the book offers
you beauty and joy to the end of your days.
Some people have a stupid way of saying, “I
envy you for still having such or such a thing
to read.” It is evident that if their affection
were sincere, their only envy would be for
one who had tasted more frequently of the
dish.
Some authors are only to be appreciated,
even in their more obvious excellencies, after
many readings. Sterne and Dickens are evi-
dent to a glance, but Congreve and Trollope
and Wordsworth are for the life-loyal.
An extraordinary number of reasons for
reading are given or implied. There is really
only one good one, and that I have suggested.
It is futile to read for anything but pleasure;
not merely the pleasure of excitation and
stimulation, but the pleasure of the senti-
ments and the feelings, and the deep
exquisite pleasure of thought. There is
nothing else at all that excuses a man
dealing with books, unless indeed they
are account books. They are- the only
proper volumes for the one who reads to
“improve and inform”—presumably a mind
that is beyond all improvement and all infor-
mation in any tolerable sense of tfie word.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Punctuation
Probably someone knows who it was that
invented punctuation, but at any rate we
were never told about it at school. We were
told something about the discovery and
development of printing, from pictures to
signs; but the quaint little stops were taken
for granted. All we were told was to pause,
counting one for a comma, two for a semi-
colon, three for a colon and four for a full-
I wonder if anyone does that! We
didn’t: we felt there was something more
interesting about those various signs than
could be got out of a metronome. We used
to think, pleasantly, that punctuation was
one of the things we would understand when
we grew up.
Grown up, one discovers that punctuation,
ic English, is in a state of more or less
charming chaos. In German there are clear
rules, not according to sound but according
to grammar. Thus a relative clause is
always cut off by commas. “Those, who are
willing, may remain here.” In writing such
a sentence in English one has all sorts of
scruples. Is that relative clause heavy
enough to be cut off by commas? Will it
be pedantic if I do use commas—or if I
don’t?
In English we must resign ourselves to
chaos, and if possible enjoy the charms of
freedom. It is interesting to watch different
writers and see how they use this freedom.
At school we learnt, or perhaps just gath-
ered, that whenever anyone talks straight
out you put double inverted commas; and
whenever anyone else talks, inside the first
talk, you put single inverted commas. That
seemed quite simple and sufficient, surely,
for all cases. But was it so? Modern
writers have wanted other ways to suggest
the shades of speech, the half-aloud medi-
tations, or the speech running off into silent
thought. Have you noticed what Galsworthy
does? When his people are actually speak-
ing to one another, using their vocal cords,
he encloses tlieir words in double inverted
commas, as anyone would expect. Further
down the page, though, you find him using
single inverted commas, not inside the others
but quite independently. At first it seems
a printer's error, but you find it again and
again. The plan is soon clear. Double
inverted commas for “You are here,” said
Soames. Single ones for ‘You are here,’
thought Soames. It is doubtful whether
readers feel the different intentions, but cer-
tain that the writer himself felt the need
of such discriminating accuracy.
On the other hand, a writer with a very
personal style, like George Moore in his
later books, simply rejects inverted commas
altogether. Ilis books are as bare of
them as a legal document is of commas. In
this way he melts everything on the page
in the alembic of his own style. He may
be quoting the Heloise or analysing her
thoughts or describing the scene through
which she moves: all this floats down evenly
on the stream of George Moore’s mind.
Another writer sometimes manages, by the
use of an exclamation mark, to show that a
thought is in the mind of a character, not
of the author. “It was a calm night. The
boat would be able to slip over .the bar!”
This cannot be done continuously, but it is
an escape from the heavy “The boat, Henry
thought, would be able”....
But there is no end to the devices that
can be used when writers are really in love
with their theme and anxious to express it
by hook or crook. For these experiments,
interesting as they may seem after the event,
all began as sheer necessities, never as deco-
rations of style. There was that dreary
man in one of Richard Middleton’s stories
who published a book and was chiefly
anxious to know what the reviewers would
make of his colons, which lie knew he used
in a distinguished way. No one noticed
those intentional colons at all, the one im-
portant thing in the book! For once review-
ers' were right. I think punctuation has been
developed by just the opposite type of mind,
that of a child with something very urgent
to set down. When children first learn to
write words, I think something like this
crosses their minds: “I’ll be able to write
things down, just the way Miss Jennie says
them, and then the way Jack says them.”
They write words down, but find they look
flat and colorless. Then the children become
acquainted with stops; question-marks,
wonder-marks! Surely now they can get
the tune of Miss Jennie’s talk on paper,
showing how her voice goes up and down.
It is a long time before they realise the limi-
tations of pen and paper. In any case, their
appetite for experiment ought to be fed by
full acquaintance with what resources there
are in the way of stops. I may be wrong,
but my impression is that teachers at pre-
sent prefer i to let children use no stops until
they can write long, fluent compositions
without them! But children enjoy handling
stops, even before they can spell reliably.
They even invent extra signs, using them
partly as a cryptic delight, partly as a neces-
sity of expression. A girl at my school
invented “laugh-marks,” to be used at the
end of a sentence that was a joke, a sort
of abbreviation of the phrase: “N. 8., this is
wrote sarcastick.” Children, too, leap at
the idea that in Spanish the question-mark
is printed at the beginning of the question.
That would save a person from being fooled
by sentences that don’t show they are ques-
tions until the end, like: “You can never
be sure about the differential calculus?”
How much more comfortable if it began:
“ ?Y0u”.... One liberty or license, quite
common in German, looks to me as if child-
ren invented it. You simply put a question-
mark and an exclamation-mark together:
“Are you going?!” That may seem like
jam on cake, but it does express something.
A good writer does not seek out freak
punctuation marks, but like a child he has
found a need for some variations that suggest
the rhythms that haunt him as he writes.
If he wrote for no one but himself, indeed,
he might fill his pages with subjective, caba-
listic signs. He writes to be read, however,
and has to plan an effective attack on the
general mind, which has accepted only a
limited number of punctuation marks and
can respond to only a few modifications in
the use of these. A writer who punctuates
carefully does it usually because he has
something to say, and knows that complete-
ness of expression is supremely difficult. A
writer who reels a novel off in a month and
leaves it to the typist and the printer’s devil
to shake a pepperpot of commas over the
contraption, is one unaware that the repre-
sentation of life and thought is a task at all.
Punctuation needs. I think, to be rein-
stated as a fundamental part of writing. It
is only by knowing the old rules that we can
break them or vary them intelligently. It
is unlikely, though, that punctuation will
again become the oral matter that it once
presumed to be. (Once at an Australian
literary society someone read a paper brist-
ling with brilliant phrases that were un-
acknowledged quotations. Someone else said
afterwards that it was all right, only you
were deafened by the burr of the inverted
commas! But that critic was surely one
whose ear was in tune with unheard
melodies.)
On the whole, the modern use of punctua-
tion is a matter for the eye, except of course
(Continued on page S.)


a,
nee
Travel and Camp Requisites
Suitable for your Canberra Visit
Motor Table Case.
A suit case in appearance, this novelty
develops into an efficient outdoor dining
outfit. The Table Case, folded (see small
inset), measures 24 x 16 x 4 inches. It
contains four camp-stools of wood and
steel, with Pegamoid leather seats; also
Sandwich Tin, 12 x 8 x 3 inches. The
case, when opened, forms a sturdy table
24 x 32 inches. It has nickel-plated angle
shields, and is covered with Pegamoid
leather. The four telescopic legs are of
stamped angular steel. The whole outfit
is finished iu%ard-wearing black, nrr* /
Price 75/-
(Furniture —First Floor.)
Thermos Flasks.
Genuine English Thermos
Flasks, well made, a necessity
to all motorists on long trips.
Will keep contents at the same
temperature for hours. Nickel-
plated.
Size ..1 li 2 pints
Price 15/- 20/- 22/6
Vacuum Flasks.
Unbreak able
Vacuum Flasks,
tional value. Size
pints. Price ....
Size 4 pints.
Price
Steel-lined
An excep-
-2 50/-
.. 60/-
(Motor Accessories —
First Floor.)
Make your trip to and stay at
Canberra enjoyable —pro cu re
equipment that has dependability
and that will give entire satisfac-
tion-then you have assured your-
self of a comfortable and pleasing
journey . Anthony Horderns’ give
you the assurance of both these
important factors in all purchases
at the “House of Economy,” where
better goods cost you less -
High-grade Tents and Flys
Strongly made from reliable material. All measurements less Hems and Seams.
Calico Tents.
Calico Flys to Match,
(Manchester —First Floor.)
Folding Stretchers, Chairs and Tables
Folding Canvas Stretchers. Special
fine Brown Canvas of exceptional
quality is employed in the making of
these stretchers, not the usual coarse
bagging.
Prices, each —
Steel, Price 27/6
Telescopic, Price 23/ 6
“Sussex,” Price ••• 26/6
Folding Steel Stool with strong
canvas top. Will fold into the pocket
of car. /
Price, each • / "
Comfortable Folding Arm Chairs
of steel, with striped canvas seat and
back. 26/-
Price, each
Folding Camp Stool of wood. A
handy and convenient size.
Price, each
4/6
Folding Camp Chairs of wood with
durable canvas seats and back. Ser-
viceable and comfortable for campers.
Prices, *7 / q /£•
each / 7 57/ O
Folding Camp Tables of wood with
strong steel supports. Indispensable
in your camping equipment.
s : 14/6, 26/6
(Furniture —First Floor.)
i
I
Fitted Motor Cases.
Suit Case Style, for 2, 4 or 6 persons,
contains Stainless Knives, Forks, Spoons,
White Enamel Cups and Plates, quart-size
Vacuum Flasks, N.P. Food Tins. Wash-
able lining—
Covered Black Enamel Duck—
-4 persons, Price .... £7/15/-
6 persons, Price .. . £lO/10/-
Covered Solid Cowhide —-
2 persons, Price £5/5/-
4 persons, Price £9
6 persons, Price ... £ll/17/6
(Travel Requisites—Ground Floor.)
Dust-Covers for Cars.
Dust Covers for Motor-cars,
made from strong unbleached
calico. Could also be used as a
fly for tent.
Japara Auto-Tents, size 9x9
(walls 3ft. 6in.), with curtain
between tent and car, including
four 3ft. 6in. poles, 18 gal-
vanised tent pegs and ropes
attached ready for pitching.
Price,
complete
£B/5/-
(Manchester—First Floor.)
**'•! _ I
f Vi VviS
&rJS%
•mi
or
ts
The Elysian Settee Hammock.
Strongly made from Striped Canvas, with a
diamond mesh spring mattress and overlay
mattress with valance. There are two square
cushions, a pocket receptacle, and adjustable
canopy. Back can be lowered to any angle,
or level with bed. Tripods are of green
enamelled steel. f 1 Q/1 A/
Price, complete Xl«s/I.U/"
Without Canopy and Tripod, Price £B/17/6
(Furniture —First Floor.)
Durable Travelling Rugs
Wonderful progress has been made by Australian Rug Manufacturers in
recent years. To-day the “Made in Australia” Rugs are ranked among
the world’s best. New designs and colors constantly arriving.
Pure Merino Wool Rugs, in neat
reversible designs. Many beautiful
colors to select from. Size 60 x
80 inches. /n
Price, each . O
Other qualities:
60/-, 70/- to £6/10/-
Merino Wool Rugs, in a wide
range of pleasing designs. Size,
60 x 80 inches.
Price, each *5O/ O
Waterproof Rugs.
Fancy Seal Face, with black
rubber backs, size 48 xi6o in. qq /£*
Price ... O
Plain Seal, Dark Gresen or Brown
Face, with black rubber* backs.
Size: Price
48 x 60 in 32/6
48 x 72 in. .. .. 38/6
Fawn Mackintosh, strong and
serviceable. Size, 48 x 72nn. Q 1 /
Price m
All-Wool Australian Rugs.
Fringed ends. In a variety of
serviceable colors and designs.
Whether for travelling, extra bed
covering or the many uses for a
travelling rug, you will find the
utmost in value at Anthony
Hox-derns’.
“The Ascot,” Size, 54 x
68 in. Price • . .
“The Palace,” Size, 60 x
72 in. Price
OThe Royal,” Size, 60 x
72 in. Price
“The Bovvral,” Size, 60
x 80 in. Price
“The Derwent,” Size, 60
x 80 in. Price
17/6
21/-
25/-
27/6
30/-
“The Manly,” Reversible, or; /
Size, 60 x 72 in. Price . . oD/«
We Pay Carriage on Rugs.
(Travel’Rugs'—Ground Floor, George St.)
e
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD 4 HILL J SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


HUDSON
ESSEX
Are Now 70%
Australian Built
This Adds a Further Great Price Advantage
to These Already Outstanding Values
While Insuring the Same High Quality
in Materials and Manufacture
Now 70 % Australian-built, Hudson and Essex
more than ever represent that leadership of value
which gave their long leadership of sales.
The collaboration of Australian and American
efficiency in building these products changes the
relative values of all automobiles in this market.
The low price you now pay for Hudson or for
Essex by no means expresses the high degree of
performance, reliability and distinction these cars
afford.
For under this combination of resources, American
and Australian industry has achieved manufac-
turing economies that no other builder for the
Australian market shares. It assures a value
position above all comparison through this pro-
gramme which has required years to organise,
bringing together the material resources, executive
ability and industrial skill of the two continents.
Consider the outstanding position Hudson and
Essex values held under the former regime, before
these exclusive economies multiplied their advan-
tage. And now compare these 70 % Australian-
built cars —the Essex Touring at £239, the Essex
Coach at £299, and the Hudson Touring at £399
—with any car on the market within £3O of their
prices.
To-day you get the finest Hudson-Essex cars in
material, quality and workmanship. In both you
get the advantages in performance, smoothness
and long car life of the famous Super-Six principle
on which more than 900,000 motors have been
built.
Priced the
Lowest in History
Essex Touring - £239
Essex Coach £299
Hudson Touring £399
Any comparison will satisfy you
that such automobile values were
never before offered.
Also on Display—
Essex Sedan, £345.
Hudson Coach, £465.
Hudson Brougham, £525.
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan, £560.
Prices some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launeeston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth-
j 166-172.


Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LINE
The three new 20,000-ton Liners and the
fourth now building are fitted with more single-
berth cabins than any other vessels afloat.
Their vast decks for recreation and exercise,
their palatial public rooms and their excellent
cabin accommodation, ensure a very comfort-
able and enjoyable voyage.
Write for Illustrated Literature,
2, k, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
that some of the simplest stops suggest
breath-pauses of uncertain lengths. These
uo ints all remain important. Whoever it
was that invented punctuation, that person
hammered a fine group of light holes into
the darkness separating our human minds
from one another. The alphabet made a pri-
mary group of such sources of illumination :
the modest little stops or points come a good
second.
NETTIE PALMER.
An Australian National Theatre
An Australian sojourner in Dublin,
“K.McE.B.,” makes in the Red Page a misty
plea for an Australian National Theatre on
Abbey Theatre lines. One meets the same
su.t of shadowy aspiration frequently in this
country, especially amongst lecturers con-
nected with some academic literary move-
ment. Stuffing a copy of Zane Grey, or may-
be D. II- Lawrence, into her vanity-bag,
some blythe young thing will begin “When
Australian writing starts, in a hundred
years or so” Buttonholing the lady
afterwards, you ask her casually if she has
read O’Dowd, Lawson, Esson, Brennan,
McCrae, Palmer, and so on ; and, of course,
she hasn’t. The exile to the cloudy hills of
Ireland spoke as if his suggestion was a new
one, and a daring one at that. As a matter
of fact, all liis (or her) demands were
thought out 15 years ago and put into prac-
tice in 1922 by that modest but seriously-
intentioned organisation called the Pioneer
Players. Louis Esson (whose short play,
“The Drovers,” was listed by the British
brama League among the 101 best plays
of all time) went to New York and London,
and Palmer joined the A.I.F. They were
not back in writing harness till 1920. The
following year the Essons came home and
plays were really made.
Esson’s sheaf, “Dead Timber,” had
appeared in London, and Masefield (who,
with Synge, had met the author many years
before) and Ye'ats wrote congratulating
him. Esson stayed with Yeats, and when
he put forward his ideas on national
dramatic movements, the Celtic playwright
agreed entirely with the Australian’s pro-
positions. Yeats emphasised, however, that
Esson’s job was to go back to his
own country and produce and write
plays there. By April, 1922, then,
the Pioneer Players were launched upon
this continent. Incidentally, the MS. pro-
duced for the opening performance was
burned, along with the writer’s house, and
had to be rewritten by Esson and his wife
from memory after rehearsals had begun. In
the constitution of the Pioneer Players the
emphasis was on the players because the
idea was to build up a group of actors,
something like the Abbey people, who would
learn that for the purpose of Australian
plays a special Kind of group-action was
required. The atmosphere of Australian life,
as this weary theatregoer can vouch, is a
complete stranger to the Australian stage,
and the actor’s job included not only the
expression of fundamental emotions, but the
importation of the said atmosphere on to the
hoards. For example, in the average play
from overseas, a butler or a country house
is a fixed convention and is accepted cheer-
fully by Australians who, off the stage,
have never seen either. Young .Repertory
actresses who would call for smelling-salts
before the problem of acting a girl from Fitz-
roy or a cow-maid from Cootamundra
would leap at the chance of representing
Lady Flapdoodle from a Milne or Pinero
piece.
The Pioneers had to find actors who were
prepared to tackle local raw material, and
they found some who were good enough,
after the society went out of action two
years later, to be grabbed by the Melbourne
Repertory Society for some of its most
exacting plays. Leo Burke, Rex Moyle and
Ruby May were some of these. The Pio-
neer Players from the first had a cash-box
that rattled a melancholy solo anthem. They
could take no huge financial risks. They
had no gentlemen or ladies of leisure amongst
their hard-working entourage and the two
leaders of the movement had simply to drop
money-making for a month or two when a
production was under way. Yet the public,
accustomed to wartime amateur shows got
up for some charity or other, frequently
indulged in suspicious wonderings as to
where all the profits went to.
“It would not be necessary to keep to
Australian plays—at present, unfortunately,
they are negligible,” says “K.McE.R.” It
would be interesting to know how many
Australian plays he (or she) has examined
and found negligible; that they are neglected
is a truer statement. Most of Esson’s plays
are not in book form, and some of his best
have had only a single production, and that an
inadequate one, as first productions in un-
tried conditions are apt to be. Neverthe-
less, despite all their difficulties, the Pioneer
flayers have no need to feel apologetic
about their brief blaze of modified glory.
!-her a dozen plays were produced, includ-
es several nights of short pieces, five on
one night, four on another, by different
authors. When “K.McE.R.” speaks of the
Abo. and Society pages of The Bulletin
as providing an untouched mine of dramatic
material, he is jumping a claim already
Pegged. What else but such material was
used by the Pioneers?
In short, the movement yearned for by
the wanderer from Sydney was in being for
two, years in Melbourne. It needed, but
didn’t get, support by artists, musicians and
creators of all kinds. The daily newspaper
critics dropped in to a performance, like
that of Palmer’s atmospheric “Black Horse”
and Furnley Maurice’s poetic “Disturber of
the Pools,” scribbled five lines on their shirt-
cuffs and then hastened off to write a column
ut fashion notes about “Mercenary Mary.”
Die promoters of the enterprise probably
made a tactical error in not indulging in
more showy propaganda first. They pre-
ferred to let the plays speak for themselves,
nut the public prefers to listen to lectures
°n the philosophy of some work of art
father than to attempt to surrender at once
tO . Inc work itself. In spite of having
neither funds nor leisure, the Pioneer Play-
ccs did make some dint in Melbourne theatri-
cal history; and they even planned a Sydney
season. J
M. G. S.
Archibald’s Intent
How the great misfortune in connection
with the Archibald Prize occurred has been
clearly indicated by Fred. J. Broomfield
(R.P. 3/3/’27), a valuable witness. F.J.B.’s
testimony shows that Archibald’s good inten-
tions have but paved the way to an appa-
rent impasse. There may be hope, however,
of a way out of the barbed wire entangle-
ment within which the splendid bequest is
imprisoned. It is obvious that Archibald
desired that the winning portrait should be
of an Australian, preferentially distinguished
in “art, letters, science or politics.” The
important point, it seems to me, is the order
in which the professions are laid down. Art
comes first, followed by letters, then science,
and lastly politics. As far as we can probe
his mind, his chief intention was that an
Australian artist should paint a fellow Aus-
tralian artist or a poet or man of letters.
Indeed, we may infer that “science” or
“politics” was indicated in the will in case
there were no distinguished artists or writers
available in Australia—which is absurd.
Obviously that ideal should have been easily
realised year after year. There was then,
and there is now, and there will always be
no shortage of painters and poets and authors
and dramatists. The ideal collaboration of
poet and painter, or painter and painter,
was evidently in Archibald’s mind, even
passionately. By the disregard of Archi-
bald’s intention even a visiting mummer has
been painted by a prize-winner; and there
have been other shocking incongruities.
The intention is the thing. Let us see
how we may be able to follow the trend of
Archibald’s intent. My suggestion is that
there could be a “gentlemen’s agreement” on
the part of the competitors in the annual
contest. Would it not be possible for all
entrants each year to give preference to
subjects distinguished in art or letters?
There are plenty of distinguished Australians
about, without including bathing beauties
and business men. Sydney possesses and
cherishes the portrait of one characteristic
poet of our era, Henry Lawson; but how
many other waiters have left for posterity
no presentment of their features except a.
bald and unconvincing photograph with their
hair carefully parted and an inane smile on
their smoothed-out features? In the plan
suggested there need be no compulsion.. A
friendly letter sent to all the competitors
each year, suggesting that the subject chosen
should be a painter, a poet or a scientist
should be sufficient to prevent any com-
petitor wasting his time on a figure who was
not conspicuous in the arts and sciences. If
it w T ere unofficially understood tha,t, all
things else being equal, the artist who
painted the portrait in the order of Archi-
bald’s preference would have a better chance
of winning the annual prize, the artists
would sit up and take notice before they
selected their sitters.
As the whole purpose of the Archibald
bequest had behind it, if we rightly interpret
his wishes, the building up of a Pantheon
for perpetuity, that intention is frustrated
while the winning portrait remains) ithe
property of the artist. At present the artist
is paid for his work, but retains possession.
This, too, is a matter that might be equitably
adjusted. A working arrangement might br
made so that the winner of the prize
would leave his picture on loan to some Aus-
tralian gallery for an indeterminate period.
It is obvious that in a gallery it would be
safer and better cared for than in any private
collection or among the litter of the atelier.
The longer it remained on loan the more
difficult would it be for the artist to reclaim
it. The public would protest if the effort
was made. And it should be an easy matter
to arrange that on the artist’s death the
portrait should be bequeathed to the gallery
of his choice. The artistic prestige of the
artist would not suffer by the exhibition of
the portrait in the gallery; and the painter
whose canvas was permanently placed in the
Archibald Bequest place of honor on the
gallery walls would reap both honor and
higher fees.
A. H. A.
Cousin Jane
Talking shop with Harry Leon Wilson
when he was in Sydney a few years ago I
had the cheek to ask him how he did it. My
cheek was not wanton; Wilson’s work, which
began with the plain laughter of “Ruggles
of Red Gap” and at that time had reached
the tender pungency of “Merton of the
Movies,” was proving a theory of mine that
the true basis of literary expression is
laughter. If, with only cold print to help
him, a man can make you laugh, he can make
you see anything, in fact. So I chanced a
brick in what I thought (or what to me)
was a good cause. The man’s work is really
remarkable; it has a charmed sweetness
which is yet astringent with ironic laughter;
it is wise and yet tender with laughter; and
it is utterly free from the deadly self-
consciousness which is the besetting sin of
most laughter-makers.
No brick hit me ; but what didjjome seemed
disappointing and even commonplace. “I get
the idea, and then go to work and write it.
It writes itself, mostly; the only work I
put in is getting the people right. If you
get your people right, the stuff’s right.” I
knew that, of course; I didn’t have to wait
until I saw one of my heroes in the flesh to
learn that the modern secret is characterisa-
tion. So I concluded that my brick had
reached me, but in velvet. It was rather
like asking a man his opinion of the Ten
Commandments, wasn’t it?
“Cousin Jane” (Hodder and Stoughton,
Dymock’s) is just to hand. I had already
read it in the Saturday Evening Post :
but very happily I read it again last night.
It is the story of a little girl absorbed
into a household of old people, old, wrecked
people who fill her dreams and make up the
whole of life for her. That is the idea. The
plot, which writes itself, is that she gets
away to the radiant beckoning world outside,
discovers that it is the half of life, and goes
back to the place where her whole life
awaits her. Wilson is over 60. Jane is
nine when she enters the Tedmon house-
hold ; she is 32 when the book ceases, but by
that time she has lost all the limitations of
mere years. She might be still any little
girl of nine, or she might be 60, like Wilson.
“Merton of the Movies” was got so right
that he broke your heart while you laughed
at him; the professor in “Professor, How
Could You?” was every old dryasdust on
earth reaching out for his one and only
caper with the world, the flesh and the
Devil. But as ideas they are devices, how-
ever poignantly right they are got. We
have met the dear clown who would play
Hamlet, as we have met also the Verdant
Green who falls in with wastrels, cannot
understand them, and yet takes a measure
of inspiration for life from them. The
structure of these devices is static, as are
the situations—as, in a way, are the char-
acters, though Wilson has, I think, got
them righter than anyone yet.
But Cousin Jane is a little girl, and the
structure of her story is her life and growth
in a broken old house. We are watching
her all the time, with nothing adventitious,
nothing dramatic, not even any “action” to
sustain her. And she is every little girl,
every grown woman, that ever was.
There was no brick inside that velvet.
The modern skill in characterisation is a
matter of luminous touches, luminous notes
in dialogue, high-lights which come and go.
while the author gets on with his yarn, his
plot. It is excellent, of course; it keeps
alive and flexible the most melodramatic
carpentry. But, except at its very best, it
is a matter of skill and sensitiveness rather
than of vision ; the writers learn where to
put in those telling high-lights, as painters
learn where to put them in. They do their
excellent skilful job; and we get on with
the murder or the sex-complex or the baffling
mystery.
It is not that Cousin Jane is merely
vivid and alive. She is there in all her
thoughts and dreams while she grows up
and turns from make-believe to sympathy and
from sympathy to help. Placid and abso-
lutely unconscious, the words go on, that
charmed sweetness and chuckle blooming
under them; and presently your own heart
and mind have become Cousin Jane. It is
the great juxtaposition: not tears and
laughter, as traditionally, but wisdom and
laughter.
Also it is work, real solid work, with every
memory, every least item of observation,
every waking moment of 60 years, extended
to the utmost all the time. All skill, subtlety,
technique, all artifice is subjugated, even
suppressed, for this beautiful job of putting
all Cousin Jane on paper. So here she is,
in terms of herself, from her shoelaces to her
ultimate destiny. There are girls and women
alive on paper in our tongue—bonzer girls
and women; but to me there is not one so
clear and complete as Cousin Jane.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
Mem Dost, by Almon Clark (Vidler, Melb.). A
metrical tragedy set in a small Indian town, the
chief characters being Ram, a cynical rice-grower;
Amman, a young poet; and Leila, a temple dancer.
The atmosphere is well conveyed, with passion,
frankly portrayed, as the motif. There are finely-
written passages, but the success of a stage production
is unlikely owing to its mysticism.
Robert Schumann, by Frederick Niecks (Dent, and
Robertson and Mullens). Schumann was broad-
minded in the matter of money. He did not mind
who made it so long as he had the spending of it.
Except for the strain of imposing this view on his
friends, his life was placid and devoted almost
exclusively to the production of his cloying and
romantic harmonies. The book is one of a self-
respecting and well-dressed series devoted to the
lives of the great musicians.
Under the l'onto Rim, by Zane Grey (Harpers).
Zane Grey knows what his readers expect from him
—-strong men, coyotes, stagecoaches, quick guns, etc.
—and once more they get it. The standard is well
maintained.
The London Year, by H. V. Morton (Methuen).
Mr. Morton is the author of a number of volumes
dealing with the world’s greatest city from different
angles. The present volume describes what may be
seen and done from day to day throughout a year.
Readable and informative.
The Little Angel, by Robert Lynd (Methuen).
Lynd is one of the agreeable gossips of the new
century, and in the present book of 27 essays, which
range from “Hats” to the dolors of Dean Inge, all
the little tricks and whimsies characteristic of
previous collections are deftly re-dished.
With the Prince Round the Empire, by Charles
Turley (Methuen). A condensation of the more
detailed accounts of the Prince of Wales’s tours
through Canada, Australasia, India and South and
West Africa. Maps and illustrations enhance the
interest of a well-compiled record.
The Kid Glove Skipper, by Lawrence David (Par-
sons; Robertson and Mullens). Described as “a
romance of silk and sailcloth,” it deals with loose
life ashore and strenuous life at sea'. A novel in
which the scents of patchouli and the brine of the
sea mingle. Powerful to the point of brutality.
The Historical Life of Christ, by J. Warschauer
(Fisher and Unwin). The author asserts the right
of his work to the title of a history because it claims
to find its principle of interpretation in a historical
element in the Gospels. It is a lengthy and highly
analytical treatment of its subject, and should
attract the interest of theologians and Bible students.
How to Succeed on the Stage, by Philip Beaufoy
Barry (Allen and Unwin). “Do not attempt the
theatre as a profession unless you are absolutely
certain that you will be miserable in any other
career.” That is the advice a theatrical manager
offers to the stage-struck, and if the aspirant bears
it in mind this handbook will be of use to him —or
her. It is launched with the blessing of Sara
Allgood.
Monteverdi, His Life and Work, »by Dr. Henry
Prunieres (Dent and Sons). A translation from
the French text. Prunieres’ work is a happy com-
bination of biography and musical criticism, and
readers who may find the technical side of its con-
tents too arduous to follow will not lack for pic-
turesque and dramatic incidents in a life full of
color.
Clumdu, by Owen Rutter (Fisher Unwin). Simon
Baird, “commissioner of the opium monopoly,” falls
in love with a woman who becomes a victim to
“Ohandu,” the Chinese name for prepared opium.
The interest of the story turns upon the sacrifice
Baird makes to rescue her from the thrall of the
drug, the sale of which he officially regulates. The
book shows a first-hand knowledge of the evils asso-
ciated with the opium traffic, but does not pose as
a novel with a purpose. Its action is rapid and
dramatic.
Native Diet, by Ettie A. Rout (Heinemann). “The
native, living on his very simple but sufficient diet,
enjoys a complete freedom from the diseases of the
gastro-intestinal tract which abound in civilisation,”
writes Sir William Arbuthnot Lane, president of the
New Health Society, at whose request Mrs. Hornibrook
has written this book. The lady selects the ancient
Maori race and its food cultivation as a basis for
her thesis. “The Ancient Maori,” she affirms,
“regarded the health of the body as mainly dependent
upon the health of the bowels; that is, the bowels
were the seat of health.” Food was therefore both
cultivated and prepared with a strict regard to its
dietetic valuer The author believes that with the
education of the people the present excessive con-
sumption of flesh foods could be modified, and with
proper organisation the production of root and
other vegetables could be so increased that Britain
could feed her own people. Practical recipes are
appended.


urther
B.S.A.
proofs of
Reliability
Riders of B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are constantly obtaining outstanding
successes in Reliability Trials or Competitions throughout the world.
Recent B.S.A. successes include:—
London-Gloucester Triad.
Two Silver Cups, Three Silver Spoons
LoncTon-Exeter-London Triad.
Seven Gold Medals, Two Silver Medals
Wood Green and District Ladies’ Trial.
Best Performance & 2nd Best Performance
Casterton M.C.C. Hill Climb, Australia. November, 1926.
1 st & 2nd Prizes & Silver Cup for Consistency
U.S.A. Acme M.C.C. 100-Mile Non-Stop Trial, January, 1927.
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. Ist (37 Entrants —-4 finished)
U.S.A. Crotona M.C.C. New Year’s Eve Night Run.
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. 2nd
Lost first place through headlights failing in blinding snowstorm
Matsumoto Nagana Prefecture Motor Cycle Races, Japan, November, 1926.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. Ist in 250 c.c.-Class, B.S.A.
3.49-h.p. 2nd in 350 c.c.-Class
Royal Mo to Club of Cataduna, Spain, Mountain (Snow) TriaL
B.S.A. Ist, 2nd & 3rd
South African T.T. Races, January 1 and 3, 1927.
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. 3rd in 350 c.c.-Class & 4th
in 600 c.c.-Class
The widely-varied nature of these events, held in so many different
countries, proves the consistent reliability of B.S.A. Motor Bicycles
under all conditions. It’s B.S.A. reliability you want in your new
motor cycle.
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. Motor Bicycle.
Specification includes B.S.A. three-speed gear-
box; clutch; kick-starter; all-chain drive;
internal expanding brakes, front 51m., rear 7in.
diameter; shock absorbers; screw adjustment
on gear-box for accurately setting front chain
tension; improved lubrication system, with oil
feed to front chain; grease gun; silencer of
increased capacity, etc.
Price £67/101-
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. Super-Sports O.H.V.
Specification includes B.S.A. three-speed gear-
box; front and rear internal expanding brakes;
double row roller bearing; tapered
tubular alloy steel push-rods, fitted with adjust-
able return springs; steel flywheels, B.S.A,
steering damper and shock absorbers; two-
gallon capacity petrol tank; oil tank, 5 pints, on
seat tube; Brooks T.T. or Terry racing spring-
seat saddle, etc.
Price £B2/101-
Lead the way
on a BSA
PRICES FROM & 57/10/-
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- FINLA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS. J. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS.-mortlock bros., ltd.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA— snvi king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia .
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


Jhis is true MadioAchkPment
I 7
> \ %
% A
\ I }
%\/W *»’ I
3#
ti;jrt '
' - i
.
.
*1
<.!m, U///I
3*931
’■ »fc |
BB
■ ' ■; : :
l;‘ :.' *-5
n I
vl V&
.?c
-
wa-'iwmT,.
mm
■
' ■
■ ; ■
;.l 3
mw.t
KtfXT'• '/
%
' %
2K
urn
SW1MEI& IPOWIEffi'
EIGHT
GOLDBERG.
The
MINGAY
Super Power Eight
There can be only one BEST,
one set which attains to the ulti-
mate point of constructional
superiority, beauty of design
and performance.
The Mingay Super Power Eight
measures up to the ideal stand-
ard in every particular. In tone
and selectivity it has no superior
—in appearance it is genuinely
perfect. Covered by guarantee
and with its vital parts sealed,
it is the “dernier cri” of Radio.
Let us tell you, by demonstra-
tion or mail, the magnificence
of this set, and how easily you
can become an owner.
THE MINGAY RANGE
OF SUPER RADIO.
Super Three
Super Five
Super Five de Luxe
Super Power Eight
Super Portable Five.
Sold for Cash—or the easiest of terms.
Demonstrations at any time
convenient to you.
Sydney Radio Co.
60 Castlereagh Street
(Next Carlton Hotel), Sydney.
Country residents, be sure to see the
Mingav agent in your town, or write
direct to the manufacturers: —
MINGAY’S WIRELESS
MANUFACTURING, LTD.,
| Alma Street. —■
DARLINGTC _T. /
m
X
V
THE BEST GIFT
of all
FOR THE FAMILY
or for
THE LONELY MAN
u
A LAFF ARGUE OR VICTOR
NATURAL EXPRESSION PLAYER PIANO.
A new departure in the construction of Player Pianos and Rolls. The Natural
Expression Rolls have been played by skilled Pianists, and their exact playing is
faithfully recorded with every shade of phrasing and expression, together with
crescendos and diminuendos as intended by the composer.
Can you imagine anything finer than a classic of Beethoven played by an eminent
pianist? This and hundreds of other rolls, including Dance, Vocal and Jazz items,
in your home at a moment s notice.
These trulv wonderful Players can be bought on Easy Terms. We will take your
used Piano in exchange and allow you its full value.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS. CATALOGUES FREE.
338 George Street,
Sydney.
è è
206-210 Pitt Street
(next Lyceum Theatre).


PACKARD
Big Price
Reduction
WE have pleasure in announcing substantial reduc-
tions in the prices of Packard Single-Six five-
passenger Sedans, five-passenger Touring Cars and four
passenger Roadsters. These new prices make it possible
to own a car that ranks amongst the world’s finest
motor productions at an outlay which is just a little
more than so-called "cheap” cars.
Appreciation of the quality ofthe Packard—its superior-
ity in every point of comparison—can come only with
actual experience, and we invite you to ride in and
drive a Packard Six whether you intend to buy a new
car or not.
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX
5-PASSENGER SEDAN
(Old price was £925)
iB5O
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX
5-PASSENGER PHAETON
(Old price was £875)
£ 795
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX
4-PASSENGER ROADSTER
(Old price was £900)
*795
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (Packard) Ltd.
‘ Distributors : BERK HOUSE, 72-76, WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY
Ring 8W1517 for demonstration. Write or call for illustrated literature.
Kellow, Falkmp Pty. Ltd.,
906 Russell St., Melbourne ,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
.Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors (Packard) Ltd.,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide,
FI. C. Heathom & Co. Ltd* Denny Bros. Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania. 439~447 Murray St., Perth


Springiness !
That’s a notable feature of
these smart-looking Abbey
Golf Shoes—designed on a
special last and made of
rich-toned brown willow calf.
The uppers are hand-
somely patterned. They’re
lined from toe to heel with
soft leather—nothing more
comfortable.
The soles of tough, crepe
rubber are sewn to a strong
leather foundation that helps
to preserve the good shape
of the shoes. The welt is
continued around the heel.
With all their solidity,
these shoes are supple and
light in weight. Each size is
made in three widths—
narrow, medium and wide—
and there’s no risk of painful
gripping anywhere.
Order by Post
Abbey Golf Shoes are available
in full and half-sizes at 47/6 per
pair. Specify width when ordering.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years f
313 George Street, and
224 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Lll.
J0HNST0NE5
TUTOR
EASIEST AND BEST.
Price 3/-; posted 3/3.
All Music Sellers, or
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE.
VIOLINS
PERFECTLY CONSTRUCTED
Student's oUcdel
1
In rich cherry color varnish, slightly shaded,
correctly fitted. Complete with leatherette fully
lined shaped case, and good bow. A desirable
instrument for young players.
Price *7 ICt
(Freight Free) / /
Other models from 50/- to £ 10 /
Full stocks of strings and accessories carried.
Descriptive Catalogue on application.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANV MUSIC.DEALER.
OR DIRECT FROM
I
A.P. SYKES
XJZ Lit Collins St.
(^Melbourne.
I
When ordering plta.se mention fhtr pah&r.
.V*l „
GLOBE
i ma
TIMBER MILLS C 9
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE
TIMBER. , JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
Lowest' Prices.Highesh Qualify, Prompt- Service'
S®*;
Hit
SMQSATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
MJYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
bHmBBBBHMMMMM comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
Guaranteed & Kepf ( _
in order for two years free.
to
Word
‘Swan’
k\
%
Self-filling
« Swan ”
No. 230 C
with Clip
27/6
Young Main—
Thirty-five years ago the earliest form of
cc Swan ” Pen was a novelty—to-day you have
a great advantage over the earlier generation,
for now the perfected form of cc Swan ” Pen
is at your service.
True, your needs are greater than were theirs.
Work is keener, and, to win through, you must
equip yourself. And thirty-five years have
taught us what is wanted in pens—
We know—it is our business to know—it is
the “ Swan.”
As a house is built up brick by brick, so has
the altogether splendid reputation of cc Swan ”
Pens been built up pen by pen over the last
thirty-five years.
And cc Swan ” Pens are better to-day than ever
before —more quickly filled, free from fault
or weakness, efficient in the highest degree,
durable and fast in action.
Self-filling “ Swans ” from 17/6
5WAtf
« Swan ” P.ens « Blackbird ” Pens « Swan ” Ink
*
Of Stationers and Jewellers
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., 133 & 135 Oxford St., London, W.l
Factory: Swan Works, London, N .W.
Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
é
m
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield
England
0
No. 1369.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Star-wise.
I made a bed on green moss
And up and over me
I saw all stars toss
Through a black tree.
The warm wind bent it
And a star fell through;
’Twas the old moon that sent it
To sparkle in the dew.
Merry was the night wind.
Says the star to me:
“Man, but your heart’s blind
Under leaf and tree.
Man, but you’ve a foolish thing
Singing in your head —
Life is more than bargaining
For white meal bread.”
Says the star again to me:
“Katty is asleep.
White saints, three and three,
A good watch keep.
Katty’s dreaming line dreams,”
Says the star in dew:
“She kissed five moonbeams
And thought she kissed you.
"Early in the morning light
She will surely wake
On a pillow soft and white
Smiling lor your sake.
Man, but you’ve a tine thought
To sing in your head—
Not all the world’s bought
For white meal bread.”
Early in the morning light
Airs were swept as silk;
Three goats black and white
Walked home with milk.
Early in the morning light—
Bless the stars and tree—
Katty from a pillow white
Rose and kissed me.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Wallaroo Jetty.
“Pick-up” at the rail in the morning
(My man stands in with the rest) ;
The big ships loom at the wharfside,
And the wheat comes east and west.
The lumpers sweat at the truck edge;
The chattering winches scold
As the ship’s slings scurry the wheat-bags
To the stackmen in the hold.
It’s hell in the hold on a hot day
With the water bottles dry;
The hatchman signals the winches
And his hand blacks out the sky.
The tally drones through the heat haze,
While the bags go ten by ten
To the ship’s great maw, and the black hold
Vomits the slings again.
The fenders glint in the back wash,
The ketches joggle and sway,
And, eased of the last brown wheat-bag,
Make out into the bay.
“Knock-off” at the rail in the evening
(Home, get you home to bed!)....
The big hulls blur on the skyline,
Freighting the world its bread.-
S.A.
M. R. C.
The Mourner.
The night is still, is still as Death;
The wmrld is silent, dim;
The creek glides noiselessly along—
They mourn alone with him.
A grey wraith through the shadowed glades,
He steals with downcast glance,
For he has come to seek the grave
Of his self-slain romance.
No rustle in the leafy boughs,
No whisper in the night,
No torch to seek the pathway save
A moon’s wan gloom of light.
She loved him with a wondrous love;
He played, but never fair.
From Disillusion’s bitterness
’Twas but one short step—there.
Yes, there to where the little mound
Is shadowed by the tree;
The drift, drift, drift of autumn leaves
Conceals the tragedy.
But now he comes each night alone,
He comes, soul-wracked with pain;
And oh, exquisite irony,
He loves, and now in vain.
The night is still, is still as death,
The world is silent, dim;
The creek glides noiselessly along—
They mourn alone with him.
N.S.W.
B. ANDERSON.
Blue Flowers.
Blue flowers blossoming in the summer air,
Blue flowers soft and cool,
Like limpid waters in a lonely pool
Tree-shaded from the glare.
Shaming the sunflower with its crown of gold,
Fragile and delicate convolvuli
Twine sapphire bells of tender drapery,
Plumbago blooms unfold.
Beyond the shadow of the clustering trees
Delphiniums deepen to dark indigo,
While close to where the tufted cornflowers
blow
Duranta hedges slumber with the bees.
And lovelier than some faint Eastern dream
Jby a magician spun,
Their full curled petals sheltered from the
sun,
The great hydrangeas gleam.
Blue flowers blossoming in the summer time,
Blue flowers soft and cool
Like limpid waters in a lovely pool.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.


e
è
mlnm
>
m
■
m
■
A
J
■
I
ilSi
i/n
*
I
’ . •-
■ i
-V
■ 1
m


The Bulletin
Vol. 48—No. 2457.
March 17, 1927.
SPOILING THE PANTO.
“The fight between the Seale and the A.W.U. factions for command of the A.L.P. is increasing the difficulties of the Lang Government.”
THE TRAINER: “Gripes, if they go on like that, they’ll bring it down. As it is, it doesn’t look a bit like an elephant.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosutan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tup, Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
"The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
70 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.Ij.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C-.1i.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, J/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” i-li-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 I Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and j'ind Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West J/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 lloyal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
s)lk South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn- and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
I-’ui. — A. Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Sheet (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch. 75-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
llloz., Id. United Kingdom: !\oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional I/oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffie'S&xxlleivTi.
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 1927.
THE BLIND ALLEY.
Two shepherds of men, both concerned with
the elimination of sin from the human sys-
tem, have recently arrived at identical ampli-
fications of the theory of the acute Dr.
Watts, who laid it down that Satan finds
some mischief still for idle hands to do. They
attacked the subject from different sides —-one
of them, a Roman Catholic Archbishop, from
the top, as it were, and the other, the Comp-
troller-General of the Prisons of New South
Wales, from what must be reckoned to be
somewhere near the ground floor. Both
arrived at the conclusion that about the best
prophylactic a young man can have against
moral declension is a skilled trade.
* * * *
The obiter dicta of these authorities is of
special interest to Australia above all other
nations for the reason that this continent is
full to running over with blind-alley occupa-
tions. And it is cornucopic in the matter of
jobs that lead nowhere mainly because the
vast majority of its politicians cling crab-
like to the belief that what this country
needs more than anything else is countless
millions of money borrowed abroad as a first
mortgage on the taxes. The excuse is that
the land needs development and opening up,
and a great wielding of picks and shovels is
always the outward and visible sign of the
inward and spiritual grace that glows in the
national heart every time Bullcohen shoves
a pawnticket across the counter. It is an
excuse that British colonies cherish with
such whole-hearted devotion that, on
Burke’s • principle of the impossibility of
drawing up an indictment against a whole
people, one is constrained to admit that
somewhere, on a leg, or half a leg, or maybe
a stump, it must still have some footing on
solid ground. But when the alien golden
stream is found to be drenching, more abun-
dantly than anywhere else, the already richly
developed soil of such areas as the City of
Sydney, the most tolerant of observers is
bound to tumble to the fact that national
and municipal borrowing is more of a bad
habit than a necessity. There is, of course,
a good political reason for the bad habit, and
it is a reason that appeals to the Labor
party with special force. It wants to keep
all its supporters happy, and the easiest way
of doing so is to keep the banjos swinging in
vast numbers without any too close scrutiny
of the necessity for the job, the way
it is done, or the cost thereof. But the easy
way is not a royal road to anywhere. When
it is taken in politics it generally means that
it leads away trom the heavens, both material
and spiritual.
* * * *
A relevant and important witness on this
point is George Steele, the N. S. Wales
prisons official earlier referred to. In his
latest annual report he says :
The properly trained, skilled tradesman is rarely
received into gaol. The civil occupation of the
average person committed to gaol is of an occasional
character, and his wage-earning capacity at honest
employment is comparatively low, as he is, when
inclined, obliged to follow the less remunerative
forms of casual employment. He is unable to compete
with the skilled workman in the higher-paid avenues
of industrial occupations, and unemployment, lack of
moral fibre and loose habits lead to his downfall.
The prisons chief goes on to say that his best
chance of reforming such men is to get them
consigned to his care for a long stretch, so
that they _ can be taught a trade. But a
morally diseased community cannot expect
to be made whole through its gaols; and
fortunately there are other available avenues.
Tom Mutch, who, though in very bad com-
pany, has made, apparently, an honest en-
deavor to do his duty to the State as its
Minister of Education, put his hand nearly
on the key of one avenue the other day when
he suggested that the compulsory educational
course should be extended to the age of 16.
If he meant that the State primary system of
education should flow direct into a thought-
fully devised system of technical education,
as is the case in Maoriland and in some
countries much further off. then he had the
key in a firm grasp. Most boys have a
natural taste for some handicraft or the
other, and the youngsters from technical
schools naturally tend to become apprentices
to skilled callings. That is the experience
wherever good technical schools have been
established.
* * * *
But there are two reasons why technical
schools, however useful, prove, and are likely
to prove, less successful in Australia than
in certain other countries. One reason is
that the short-sighted but determined policy
of Labor in trying to chase the Cost of
Living with advances in the Basic Wage
has materially narrowed the margin of wage
advantage between skilled and unskilled
occupations. The great voting strength of
Labor lies among the unskilled and, there-
fore, less disciplined members of the com-
munity. To multiply that class and penalise
all others seems to many Labor leaders the
essence of statecraft. The other reason can
be expressed in one word—Poverty. Parents
who are themselves the victims of the will-
o’-the-wisp policy of raising wages and reduc-
ing hours are not prepared to make sacri-
fices while their boys earn the comparatively
small wages of apprentices when those same
boys might be earning as much as their
fathers by digging holes in the streets and
filling them up again. There are indications
that this phase is drawing to a close. The
Queensland wage-fixing tribunal has refused
to continue trotting round the vicious circle,
and even the pachydermatous Lang, of N. S.
Wales, moves as slowly as a sulky elephant
when driven by his Caucus towards the
same treadmill.
The best cure for poverty is a Govern-
ment that encourages people to work intelli-
gently and hard and live within their means,
and which sets an example in that respect
itself. When Mr. Mutch- is older he may
find a place in such a Government. He may
even lead it.
A GAMING AND BETTING
EXTENSION BILL.
If N. S. Wales politicians of the auti-Labor
species were as keen on restricting facilities
for betting as Labor politicians are keen on
extending them, industry would have been
saved from a shameful addition to the bur-
dens imposed and proposed by Lang’s
“humanitarian” legislation. For that legis-
lation. though the production of gabbling
incompetents who fancy they have nothing
to learn, there is the excuse that it is
“humanitarian,” but no argument with a
moral basis can be advanced in favor of the
Gaming and Betting Amendment Bill. It is
really a Gaming and Betting Extension Bill,
and might just as well have been so called,
for that its object is to feed the gambling
interest fatter at the expense of fruitful
labor sticks out a mile. The measure made
its first appearance in the Leg. Assembly,
and was taken through all its stages in a
few hours. That is the usual thing nowa-
days ; in fact, the Lower House has ceased
to be a deliberative body since the Lang
Government met Parliament after the gen-
eral election of 1925, bills being bludgeoned
to the third-reading division with savage
intolerance of criticism, though several High
Court decisions have shown how greatly
criticism is needed. But the Leg. Council
still claims to be a House of Review. And
it would have had a strong case for throw-
ing out the Gaming and Retting Extension
Bill, for the Government gave a solemn
undertaking to legislate only on matters
mentioned in the Premier’s policy speech,
and the multiplication of opportunities for
betting was certainly not among them. How-
ever, there were so many Reviewers absent
when the bill was brought on that the Gov-
ernment succeeded in shoving it through
(minus a clause permitting wagers on cours-
ing with mechanical hares) in less time than
was taken in the Assembly, the Ayes at their
maximum numbering 34 in a House of 93
available members. They were mostly Labor-
ites of the Lang vintage; on the other hand,
the late John Storey’s brother was among
the Noes, and the most powerful speech on
that side was made by sometime Labor
Speaker Simon Hickey.
* * * *
The measure contains some remarkable
provisions, and some remarkable arguments
were dug up to support them. One clause
allows two Sydney trotting clubs to race
on days other than Wednesdays and Satur-
days, when they would have to compete with
ponies and galloping horses respectively
(hitherto they have declined the competi-
tion), in effect granting each of them ten
more meetings per annum. It was asserted
by way of justification that the so-called
trotter, which is nearly always a pacer, is
a* “utility horse,” whereas, as was pointed
out, the strapped-up brute is worthless for
any purpose save gambling; the motor-car
has made him a ridiculous anachronism for
road work. One of the clubs on which the
valuable concession of 10 more meetings p.a.
has been bestowed is a proprietary concern.
The Labor party professes to abominate
capitalism, and to aim at the socialisation
of industry, but here it is discriminating in
favor of a form of capitalism which is
utterly pernicious, being associated with
a legalised gambling hell. Another pro-
prietary concern specially favored is the
Men angle Park Club. This company or
syndicate is to get back 10 race days p.a.
which it lost when a deviation of the rail-
way brought its course within 40 miles of
Sydney by rail, and will thus have 16 days
as before it went out of action. By a legal
subterfuge, the course is to be reckoned out-
side the 40-mile radius, though actually 38
miles from Sydney; the supporting argu-
ment was that shareholders sold out when
they heard the deviation was coming, and
that the State ought to compensate the pur-
chasers. After this, there should be a shoal
of applications for compensation from people
who buy into two-up and hazard schools
which are subsequently closed by the police.
* * * *
When Menangle Park resumes and the
“Red Hots” have their 40 meetings p.a.
there will be racing five days a week in and
about Sydney, sometimes six days a week.
But in this respect the Newcastle area will
run Sydney close, for the Newcastle area,
hitherto immune from the trotting disease,
is to have 25 trotting days p.a. and three
more days for the gallopers. The registered
clubs in Newcastle and district already race
on 61 days p.a., and there are unregistered
clubs which occupy about 60 days. By an
ingenious amendment of the Totalisator
Act, the registered clubs are empowered
to take 7 p.c. from totalisator receipts
instead of p.c. as formerly. One
of these privileged bodies—the one that ’s
to get the three more meetings per annum —
hangs out at Heddon Greta. According to
Dr. Doyle, a Newcastle M.L.C., “Heddon
Greta has been hawked around everywhere
for sale,” and with a 7 p.c. cut from the
totalisator and seven meetings per annum
in place of four it will no doubt find buyers.
How the measure will affect Newcastle was
described by Dr. Doyle in the following
terms :
It will mean practically four days’ racing a week.
Trotting events will have to be on Mondays, Tues-
days, Thursdays or Fridays, otherwise they will clash
with the other racecourses. Anyone whose eyes are
open will see that mid-week racing is most disastrous
in an industrial community. I have been racing-
since I was a boy, and I am not opposed to it,
but I am opposed to the infernal betting that goes
on. Hard things were said at the Sydney Town Hall
in connection with the Family Endowment Bill, but
they -were as nothing compared with what I hear
frorn mothers and wives in iny consulting-room. It
is a political crime to bring in a bill like this.
A political crime it is, and the wonder is
that Premier Lang, who is not a racing man
and can have no bias for or against the busi-
ness, sanctioned it. The Premier should not
require to be told of the immense amount of
harm that is done by the betting craze in
industrial neighborhoods or reminded of the
pitiful cases in which unsuccessful gamblers,
nearly always good men gone wrong, figure
in the dock—and for every such case that
comes into court half a dozen are hushed up.
* * * *
Instead of encouraging people to bet still
more, the Lang Government ought to be
trying to wean them from their folly. Even
lottery loans, the nominal interest on which
would be ail distributed periodically as
prizes, wrnuld be infinitely better for Gov-
ernment and punter (though, of course, no
substitute for steady investment in industrial
enterprises) than the mad pursuit of riches
on the racecourse or in the s.-p. shop.
THE PUBLIC AND THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION.
There was a short paragraph recently in
one of the daily papers to the effect that a
dissatisfied client was bringing an action
against his former legal adviser for negli-
gence, and claiming substantial damages.
Of course, the plaintiff had no difficulty in
obtaining the services of another solicitor
to act on his behalf. Whenever a solicitor
makes away with trust funds and is brought
to trial, there is never any suggestion that
other members of the legal profession, soli-
citors and barristers, should refrain from
assisting the prosecution, representing the
public, to secure a conviction. Frequently
other solicitors are called as witnesses on
one or both sides, and give their evidence
just as unreservedly and honestly as they
would in any other case. Where a member
of the legal profession fails in his duty to
the general public, there is an entire absence
of obligation on the other members of the
profession to shelter the sinner from liability
for his misdeeds.
-Compare what happens when a doctor is
accused of failing in his duty to a patient.
Nearly all Australian doctors are members
of the British Medical Association, and most
of those who practise in N. S. Wales are
insured in the Medical Defence Association.
They cover themselves at the cost of £1 Is. per
£lOOO against legal proceedings by patients.
If an action for damages is brought against
a doctor, the Medical Defence Association
undertakes the defence, employs solicitors
and barristers, pays the amount of the ver-
dict, if hostile, and all costs and expenses—
including even expenses to the defendant for
attending to give evidence on his own behalf
—up to the amount of insurance carried.
In fact, the action is contested, not against
the individual practitioner blamed, but
against the Association, with the force and
influence of a great profession behind it. And
the evidence of another doctor, himself very
probably a member of the Association, may
be the only possible means of proving the
plaintiff’s claim!
All this is no doubt an excellent thing for
doctors and conclusive proof of the strength
of the organisation of the Medical Defence
Association; but it is highly questionable
whether it is in the public interest. In a
modern civilised community certain laws are
laid down to guide the conduct of one member
of it towards another. If one man kills
another he may be hanged, if it was murder,
or imprisoned for various terms, all settled
by law and precedent. It is the same with
lesser offences, such as assault, trespass and
defamation. Where the offence is rather one
against a particular individual than against
the good order and well-being of the
general community, the punishment usu-
ally takes the form of making the offender
pay damages to the person aggrieved, and
there are exact principles according to
which the amount of such damages is
assessed. The liability of the offender
and, if he is guilty, the extent of his
punishment are decided by a complicated
system of trial by a judge and jury. It is
not a perfect system, perhaps, but it is
better than any other method that has been
attempted during past centuries. At any rate,
trial by judge and jury is definitely part
of our modern civilisation, and a factor in it
is that decisions are based on the evidence
of witnesses who have special knowledge with
regard to the matter in dispute. Now, it
seems to me that the setting-up of an organi-
sation under which doctors, already notori-
ously indisposed to testify against one
another in medical cases, benefit to some
extent when patients bringing action against
brother-doctoTs fail, is an offence against
our whole system of government. That
it is cloaked under the euphemism of “medical
etiquette” leaves it none the less an offence.
A LAWYER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
State Frights.
Tiie gallant band of State Righters, a sect
which almost passed out of sight in recent
years, is working itself into a fury oyer the
par capita allowance, the separation of
Federal and State finance, the retirement
of the Commonwealth from direct taxation,
and cognate subjects. Melbourne Age quite
struck the form of 30 years ago in a recent
issue:—
The Federal Government should be told, and it
cannot be told too emphatically, that it must
evacuate the field of direct taxation completely. It
has no moral right, it should have no legal right, to
be there. As long as it seeks to remain, the States
will most justly and laudably carry on the war. The
Federal Treasurer need not issue any more statements
showing that the States will pifoflt. The State Gov-
ernments need not further worry to prepare tables
showing how great will be the losses. These profit
and loss accounts do not affect the essential prin-
ciple.
It suggests, with its note of tragedy, that
someone had burgled a cathedral and hit the
sacred vessels fatally with an axe. As a
matter of fact the argument is upside down,
and all the precedents are against it. No
Federal Government “evacuates the field of
direct taxation,” and for Australia to do so
would only be making itself a grotesque
curiosity. The United States raises more
than half its Federal revenue from direct
taxation, and income-tax receipts exceed
those from customs by three to one. The
U.S. doesn’t import oceans of foreign goods
and pay for them largely out of foreign
loans, as mad Australia does, so the cus-
toms returns are low though the tariff is
high, and if the Government went out of
the direct-taxation field it would go into the
Insolvency Court. Direct taxation also sup-
plies a great part of the Federal revenue m
Argentina, Switzerland, Germany (more
than two-tliirds), and. of course, Soviet
Russia. Also, some Federal Governments
have big land revenues.
Supposing the Commonwealth swore ott
direct taxation, as it is invited to do, its
position would be remarkable. It would
have no land revenue unless it could extract
something from Canberra and the Northern
Territory, and if the N.T. became so popu-
lous that it yielded any land revenue worth
a mention it would be due to set up as a
State, and then the Federal Government
would lose the land receipts. The Federal
tariff return is liable to fall to one-half when
Australia is driven, by the bursting of the
boom, to buy only what it can pay for. The
Commonwealth is responsible for the arm.'
and navy and the air services, for the man-
dated territories, for the bills left over from
the last war. and for the chances and
expenses of the next war. It has become
liable for the principal and interest of over
£100,000.000 of State debts, and it is assum-
ing more liabilities at short intervals, h
may be called on to pay if a default takes
place. Its railways, including the one
Westralia, are an unpayable collection. *■
there is to be a uniform gauge it must fin.
the means. States that are, or pretend m
be, in difficulties call successfully on their
parent for doles ; if the position was reversed
and the Commonwealth had to ask the State.'
for contributions, its reward would almos
certainly be scorn and contumely. - The idea
of the new State Righters, among whom tm
Melbourne Age is an outstanding example-
is that the Government of All Austrafi
should be left with all its burdens, presen
and future, and reduced to an iron ratio
as regards the wherewithal to meet them.
Australia’s Greatest Electoral Swindle-
In Westralia, where single electorates obtain-
there were 483 electors in Menzies at the m'-
appeal to the people, and 11,540 in Canni-s-
Political Labor came into office pledged


■liter this and many similar travesties of
the one-vote-one-value principle which Labor-
ers love so much —when it suits them, as in
Victoria. In point of fact, the party led by
Pjjujp Collier has been committed to
redistribution of seats since 1911. But the
Collier Government made no attempt to
pass the necessary legislation. It could never
even be drawn into a discussion on the sub-
iect Vic. Labor-leader Hogan, who ought
to know all about tMs Westralian business,
having been a Westralian Laborite lnmselt
not so very long ago, is furiously denounc-
in'' the Axlancocks’ redistribution scheme ;
biit an adaptation of the Allancock plan to
Westralian conditions would really be an
immense improvement on the arrangement
which the Collier crowd once cursed and has
remained to bless. That work of man and
time has become so outrageous that when
the Electoral Department made up the rolls
for the argument on March 26 it found there
were only 265 people in Menzies and 17,348
in Canning—to quote the worst of the
swindles. .
There are now more electors m banning
than in 16 other constituencies combined,
there being 50 altogether. Labor members
—the Premier and the Mines Minister among
them —have been returned unopposed for Cue
(555 electors), Mount Leonora (685), Mt.
Magnet (995), Murchison (1172). Kanowna
(1527), Brownliill-Ivanhoe (1998) and
Boulder (2356), seven electorates with a
total of 9288 on their rolls, whereas there
are 10,737 people in the Opposition strong-
hold of Claremont. In short, the electoral
map is tremendously in favor of the crowd
in office, so tremendously that it may con-
ceivably win hands down without securing
even one-third of the votes. To help towards
this undemocratic end advantage was taken
of the supremely silly Federal-aid roads-
scheme to draft 2000 Labor-unionists into
doubtful electorates just in time to get their
votes transferred ; and 2000 votes, judiciously
distributed, may determine half a dozen ver-
dicts, perhaps more. So Westralian Labor
expects, a comfortable victory on the last
Saturday in the month.
Expectations thus founded are natural,
and perhaps logical, but they are not always
fulfilled. Apart from the electoral swindling,
the Government has a pretty good record-
better, in the opinion of most people, than
that of the Nat.-Cocky Ministry which pre-
ceded it —-and with that record improved by
an honest redistribution of seats its appeal
might have been irresistible. As it is, the
ruling mob will have to reckon with the dis-
gust felt by decent people capable of seeing
a hole through a ladder when a party which
claims to be democratic defrauds them of
electoral rights. The aforesaid Hogan
spoke strongly on this phase of the subject
last week: —
The redistribution of seats matter was a political
swindle, devised for the purpose of handicapping the
Opposition and cheating the electors, thereby ensur-
ing that even if a majority of the electors expressed
their hostility to the Government it would still be
able to secure a majority of members in the Leg.
Assembly. It was devised for the purpose of ensuring
minority rule. I am convinced the Government over-
reached itself, for the electors despise men who cheat
and swindle. The electors are shocked at such
depravity, and will not tolerate it.
Hogan was referring to the comparatively
mild Allancocks, but it will be odd if his
words come true in Westralia.
■#>
Australia as a Victim of Over-
production.
Now and then tlie stern advocates of a 40-
(or fewer) hours week, with strict day-
labor conditions to prevent an excess of work
during said hours, grow almost hysterical
over the dread lest Australia may do too
much —in fact, lest it may be doing too much
already. This, for instance, was ex-parson
Jock Garden in one of his frequent out-
pourings on the subject:—
Commonwealth statistics demonstrate that the Aus-
tralian worker is the fastest in the world. I cannot
conceive how the Judge could get them to work any
faster. Workers who come here from other countries
complain about the speed of Australian workers.
■Jock’s “statistics” defy all research, but that
is a common event. And this official utter-
ance was by Holloway, Jock’s brother-
secretary in Melbourne: —
Unionism is not opposed to any system which will
increase production so long as unemployment arising
from over-production can be avoided, and as long
as workmen are protected from over-competition
among themselves.
Meanwhile a situation, exists which ought
to attract the attention and agitate tlie intel-
ligence (if any) of tlie Gardens and Hollo-
ways. Last financial year production was so
low that tlie export of Commonwealth pro-
ducts was about £38,000,000 short of tlie
amount required to pay for imports and inter-
est bills. If the first half is evidence of what
the whole year is going to be like, tlie lack
of products to export or to use in place of
imports promises to result next June in a
deficit of some £44,000,000. Wherefore “Com-
monwealth statistics” show that tlie Austra-
lian debt is tlie fastest in the world, even if
they say nothing about the Australian worker.
This is what they set forth: —
Australia’s Liabilities, Less Sinking Funds.
June, Added During Year. Total.
1922 .. .. - £884,377,233
1923 .. .. £21,107,713 905,484,946
1924 .. .. 49,526,640 955,011,586
1925 .. .. 10,859,258 965,870,844
1926 . . . . 47,886,217 1,013,757,061
The liability increased from £156 16s. Bd.
Per inhabitant in 1922 to £167 4s. Bd. in
1926, so it should be £2OO per inhabitant by
1938 or so, only the country’s credit will pro-
bably be stopped before 1938. Then it will
wonder what struck it, and a lot of Gardens
and Holloways will say that the wicked
employer has been at it again, and they will
recommend a general strike and a revolution,
combined with shorter hours and a new basic
wage. And if the situation looks serious
after that there may be the strange spec-
tacle of foreign warships scooting hither to
“protect their nationals.”
There is no need to get anxious about
“unemployment arising from over-production”
for a while, though there may be a _ good
deal of unemployment through premeditated
under-production, and tlie consequent reck-
less buying of foreign goods with promissory
notes, about tlie meeting of which none of
Australia’s noisy fools worry in the least. In
fact, the noisy fools hardly know that the
promissory notes exist.
The Yorks and the Maoris.
If tastes are inherited, Albert of York will
place the recollections of his flight through
Maoriland in the forefront of pleasant memor-
ies of his odyssey. For Maoriland in con-
figuration and national temperament is the
Scotland of the Greater Britain of the South
that is called —to the deep disgust of the
Maorilanders, who bar the word —Australasia.
Great-grandmother Victoria and her exemp-
lary Albert cultivated the friendship of the
Scotch to an extent that called forth many
a hot protest from across the Irish Sea.
George Moore devoted his powers of irony,
which were not to be despised, even by kings,
to a bitter tirade against this penchant. He
was especially sore because statues of all
the members of the Royal Family had been
done in Highland costume, which Moore
reckoned to be an “odious and ridiculous”
sort of garb. But of course he was a very
prejudiced -witness.
The Yorks saw what they might take for
the southern counterparts of the wild High-
landers when the Maoris were rounded up at
Rotorua in decollete mats that most of them
hadn’t worn for many a long day, and
accompanied their flowery words of welcome
with much stamping on the ground and
poking out of tongues. They are an amiable
people, the Maoris, and picturesque in
native attire, but it is doubtful if civilisa-
tion has improved even the remnant it has
failed to stamp out. As a social or even a
political force they have long since ceased to
cut any figure in their own country, where they
represent not much more than 6 per cent,
of the population. They are brought to the
fore when distinguished visitors arrive
because they like it, and because all tourists
expect it.
The white population, which is more purely
British than that of any other part of the
Empire, Mother’s own kingdoms included,
but which is rather overshadowed on great
occasions, thrives on the virtues the Maoris
lack. It is hard for any northern race to
delude itself about facts in a land that is
stern and rugged and ribbed with towering
snow-capped ranges, and Nature’s primary
fact, that man must work or starve, is well
impressed on young Maorilanders, who don't
forget it when they grow older. The Com-
munist, in the rare instances where lie crops
up in so unpropitious a soil, is regarded at
best with something of the half-contemptuous
tolerance of the Scotch for the village idiot.
It is unlikely that the Yorks will notice the
difference, since royalty is not in the way
of making analyses of the characteristics of
the common people, but the Maorilanders and
the Australians are in many important par-
ticulars as far apart as the Poles. The
Australian type cannot be paralleled any-
where in Britain. The Maoriland type can
be found all over Scotland. Yet, save in the
far south of the Dominion, there is no
greater percentage of folk of Scottish parent-
age than there is in Australia. It is a matter
of natural environment. Even in its period
of political experiment Maoriland was more
Scotch than colonial, for in no single instance
—save in the matter of the State leasehold,
and that was a Scotchman’s idea—did the
administration bite off more than it and its
successors could chew.
Rather dour folk, judged by Australian
standards, but good grafters and thrifty. It’s
a pity the Yorks won’t really make their
acquaintance.
The Conflict, of Laws.
A deputation recently waited on the
Premier of Queensland urging upon him the
necessity for taking steps to secure uni-
formity‘in all the States with regard to com-
pany iaw. McCormack expressed liis sym-
pathy, but could not, of course, speak on
behalf of the other States. Since then the
Vic. Attorney-General has said that if his
crowd wins the impending election he will
endeavor to bring the six States into line
with regard not only to company law, but to
the laws relating- to marriage, the guardian-
ship of infants, criminal law and other
branches in which there is at present a want
of uniformity. Australia, as he pointed out,
has taken no steps to secure the harmonious
operation of its States’ laws. In Canada, on
the other hand, a system is in operation
between the law departments of the Provinces
to secure uniformity in laws affecting the
business operations and general welfare of
the whole group.
Only Victoria and Tasmania have .any-
thing approaching modern company laws,
their acts being based on the English statute
of 1908. Queensland has one act which
dates back to 1863. The other States are
not quite as backward; South Aus. has one
dated 1892 and Westralia another dated
1895. There are 34 of them altogether.
Under existing conditions the first question
that presents itself when the flotation of a
company is proposed is “Which State offers
the greatest advantages?” by advantages be-
ing meant the minimum of restriction. All
companies are not as genuine as their pros-
pectuses desire them to appear. It is obvi-
ous that' in the dubious cases the slacker the
law the easier it is to rook the public.
No better instance than that of the United
States could be quoted to illustrate the desir-
ableness of uniformity in marriage laws. In
the dollar republic ei T ery State has a marri-
age law of its own. Some States on the
eastern slope preserve almost the old Puritan
attitude towards divorce, whilst, westward,
papers of divorcement may be bought at
almost six a penny. As time goes on, we
may, if some attempt at uniformity be not
made, arrive at the same condition. Indeed,
we are not very far from it now. In N. S.
Wales divorce is so readily granted that
with but four times more people than S.
Aus. it has 11 times more divorces and
judicial separations. Victoria has only twice
as many people as Queensland, but four times
more divorces.
In criminal law and that new branch of
criminology represented by the juvenile court,
the States are in different stages of develop-
ment. N. S. AVales leads in the completeness
and efficiency of its juvenile courts. No two
States have anything like the same liquor
laws, and when amending them no considera-
tion is ever given to what the law may be in
other States. So, also, with the laws relat-
ing to gambling and many other social mat-
At the very least these differences are
annoying, and they tend to divide people who
should not be divided, and often make crimi-
nals of honest men and women, while giving
the criminal an opportunity to carry his
practices with little or no risk. In a Com-
monwealth it should not be necessary for
the representatives of six Parliaments to dis-
cuss the matter of uniformity in such things.
Indeed, experience has shown that it is simply
impossible to secure uniformity in that way.
It has been tried again and again and has
always failed. Yet there is no other way
until the people agree at one or more refer-
endums to amend and extend the Constitu-
tion. Hitherto they have almost invariably
been fooled into voting No.
4 r-
Melboume’s Street Misusers.
Melbourne is making a reasonable attempt
to restrain motorists from turning- its prin-
cipal streets into free motor-parking areas.
Too many motorists have grossly misused
their privileges. Driving in in the morning,
they have hung up their cars in the public
thoroughfares and left them there till the
evening. With streets cluttered up in this
fashion, no wonder traffic was congested and
accidents were numerous. The most that
motorists can reasonably ask is that they
may leave their vehicles in a public place
while they attend to a particular bit of busi-
ness near by; and the only practicable plan
in such a case is to put a time limit on the
stop. On the strict reading of the new regu-
lations, Melbourne has abolished even this
privilege in the central part of the city within
certain hours; but no deubt the spirit rather
than the letter of the law will be enforced.
By way of compromise, certain streets have
been declared parking areas where vehicles
may be left for a whole day on payment of
the nominal fee of one shilling. Even this
is really a misuse of thoroughfares; and
the time will certainly come when the whole
question will have to be reconsidered. A
man has no more right to go into more or
less permanent and exclusive occupation of
a valuable portion of the highway with a
motor-car than with a tent or an office-table.
We have allowed him to do it hitherto merely
because conditions changed so rapidly • that
he hadn’t had time to accommodate himself
to them. But the concession can’t go on
indefinitely.
Another of Melbourne’s motor-traffic prob-
lems remains untackled: The taxi is a great
public convenience; but the driver who
prowls about the streets looking for fares is
a great public nuisance. No other Australian
city suffers him as Melbourne does, and it
shouldn’t be a tremendously difficult matter
to suppress him. He is in exactly the same
position as the barrowman and street-
hawker ; and we pushed them off the city
streets without much compunction.
Mechanised Warfare.
The British Army estimates this year are
of unusual interest, for they include in-
creased provision for “mechanised warfare.”
The Secretary for War told the Commons
that a complete “mechanised” force was now
being formed as an experiment. This was to
include a tank battalion, an armored-car
company, a field brigade of R.A. and a pack
battery. A field company of engineers, an
infantry battalion with three dozen machine-
guns, and six regiments of cavalry with eight
“mechanised” machine-guns to each regi-
ment, are entirely served by machine trans-
port. the humans of the units and the
cavalry horses being the only live items in
the outfit.
The cavalry have been retained because
nothing has yet been found to adequately
replace them for some purposes, but their
numbers are being cut down, the loss being
made up by machine-guns drawn by trac-
tors. In Europe, with its comparatively
ordered terrain and its vast system of good
roads, it may be that, in a great majority
of instances, the machine will better the
horse at all points. But even in Europe
there are great areas wherein no machine
yet invented can hope to go on equal terms
with the adaptable beast. As for Australia,
even if we had money enough to buy the
huge machine transport-equipment necessary,
a big proportion of the continent must be
for many years practically inaccessible to it.
In our country more than in most the horse
will continue an important factor in peace
and war for many a year to come.
The Pacific Changes Color.
It seems inevitable that at no very distant
time tlie prevailing color of the Pacific
Islands will be yellow. In the New Heb-
rides alone nearly 5000 Tonkinese have been
imported by tlie French Government as
plantation laborers during the past six years,
and the fact that another well-capitalised
French company is to start cotton-growing
very shortly will no doubt mean that many
more will arrive in the group in the next
couple of years. Hawaii has a very big
Asiatic population ; Samoa, Tahiti and New
Caledonia are steadily adding to their num-
ber, and presumably the Japanese in the
Marshall and Caroline Islands are also on
the increase. And even then no account has
been taken of our own Indian coolies in Fiji,
and they are about the biggest and noisiest
section of the Pacific Asiatics.
Now another addition is proposed. Very
shortly a Commission, comprising the High
Commissioner for the Western Pacific, as
representative of the British Government;
Brig.-General T. Griffiths (Administrator of
Nauru), on behalf of Australia; and Major-
General Sir G. S. Richardson (Administra-
tor of Samoa), as M.L. representative, will
visit the New Hebrides. They will consider,
among other matters, the provision of an
adequate supply of labor for British settlers.
The present British Resident-Commissioner
in the group, G. B. Smitii-Rewse, previously
had experience with Chinese coolie labor at
Ocean Island, and both he and the local
settlers favor that brand if any importation
at all is approved. So it seems highly pro-
bable that Britain will do a bit more to
Orientalise the Pacific by the aid of the
übiquitous Chinese. From the British
planter’s point of view, there is much to be
said in favor of Aii Cnow. British interests
in this group of islands have been completely
overshadowed since the French got in their
Tonkinese, and any recovery is hopeless
without imported labor, since the native-
black is not to be seriously considered as a
plantation laborer. And of all imported
colored labor for island use, the Chinese has
fewest objectionable features.
Buying Up Australia.
Supposing Australia to come into posses-
sion of a uniform company law, which
appears as improbable just now as the
acquisition of a live cmtzosaurus, there might
be room in it for a clause prohibiting the
sale of Australian institutions to outside
buyers. Failing the company law, it might
bo possible to invent a prohibitive stamp
duty. The habit which Australian banks
and insurance offices have acquired of being
“merged” in British concerns applies only
to good banks and good insurances offices.
Any dubious or shoddy ventures are naturally
left alone. And it is all one-way traffic, the
purchase of British or Anglo-Australian
institutions by purely Australian ones
being practically out of consideration. (A
liberal Australian offer to buy the Bank of
England might be tried in an inquiring spirit
to see if the shock would lead to a change
of dynasty or only to a dissolution of the
House of Commons.) The absorption is
sometimes done so silently that it almost
entirely escapes notice. The stock of one
concern, or a controlling interest in it, is
acquired by another, but the old Australian
sign remains up. This possibly makes a
useful appeal to people who prefer to sup-
port local industry; but the plan is only
more or less honest. If Australia was
expected to fizzle out, this process of realis-
ing its capital might be recommended, but
the place is suspected of having a business
future despite its politicians and other draw-
backs, and to sell that future before it is
half-grown seems improvident.
♦
Tom Mann Embraces His Brother.
“Bilbao” : Tom Mann lately arrived in the
piratical city of Canton to encourage the
Chinese “Nationalists” in their anti-foreign
and especially anti-British campaign, and, so
it is reported, went so far as to deliver a
speech and sing a song or two at a “National-
ist” meeting. I presume this is the same old
Thomas who was four times an unsuccessful
candidate for Parliament, and at one time
owned a beer emporium, and had his liquor
fined for being watered down. In that case,
liis singing voice, if he ever had one, is 71
years old, and can hardly be at its best. Tlie
two loudest, or at least two conspicuously
loud, grievances of the Manns and the
Ciiens are that foreigners settled in China
have consistently refused to be tried by the
Chinese criminal courts, and that they live
in “concessions”—bits of land generally held
on perpetual lease —where they have built
some really handsome little cities, and have
their own police; also, when it seems neces-
sary, their own troops. Many Chinamen
live in the foreign quarters, which they find
better quarters than their own, but they are
there on sufferance. The chief reason why
various European races objected to their
people being tried by Chinese courts has
always been that these institutions were
corrupt, erratic and too much addicted to
extracting admissions of guilt by torture.
Also the punishments were at times gro-
tesque and extraordinary (the cangue looks
a prize horror, yet it is used on the minor
variety of Ah Sin, criminal), and the gaols
were dirty and infested with drawbacks and
other animals. Even the faint possibility of
a European lady being bambooed to extract
a confession of, say, shoplifting gave
foreigners a feeling of aversion. One explana-
tion of the concession idea is that Chinese
mobs are spasmodic, that Chinese police
have never commanded any respect and
that a Government which was so futile in
the matter of piracy and brigandage was
a smashed reed. So strangers liked to make
some provision for their own safety. Another
reason was that the position of the com-
paratively few Europeans in China differed,
in sanitary and other respects, from that of
the multitudinous Chow in European pos-
sessions. If a quantity of wealthy Chinamen
went to London they found splendid hotels
available, and large, reliable policemen to
protect them, and all the apparatus of civili-
sation lying round. On the other hand,
when rich Europeans went to China they
had to provide their own towns and streets
and drains and water-supply and many other
things, or else live where the ways were often
a bare Bft. wide, though the stench and the
offal were broad enough for anything. So
On the Importance of Wills.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s pleasure in the song of birds,
Joy in the rising sun,
And music in the lowing herds;
But when the trial’s done
This pleasantly appeals to me—
To see my leader, Bluff, K.C.,
Rise suavely as a summer breeze
And asks for costs and counsel’s fees.
Perhaps he’ll get them, perhaps not;
For, confident and bland,
Opposing counsel, on the spot,
May make the same demand.
And thus uncloak a master-stroke
Which, when he’s finished, may provoke
That fiat weak, with discord sown :
“The costs? Each party pays his own.”
And sometimes in a case half-fought
One scores a minor win.
For hours w r e argue, as we ought,
Whose bill that figures in.
His Honor yawns. These fights for pawns
Threaten to last till next day dawns.
He seizes on the first real pause
With: “Get on, please! Costs in the cause.”
But worse things sometimes have been known
Despite our stress and strain.
We ask for bread and get a stone;
Our labor is in vain.
A cold-eyed Judge cries “Nonsense! Fudge!”
Refuses from his stand to budge.
Then follows worst of killing frosts —
He snaps: “No order and no costs!”
Yet there’s a pleasure unalloyed,
Beyond dispute or doubt,
Which compensates for hopes destroyed
Eike raindrops after drought.
A dubious will, argued until
All counsel talk each other still.
The judgment’s end is worth the wait:
“All parties’ costs from the estate.”
S.A.
WILLIAM O'COSTS.


lie first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 D
Army Club
CIGARETTES
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
20
for
1/6
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
m
m
COFK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
a system grew up to which Tom Mann,
fresh from England, has raised sudden objec-
tion, though it is rather a pity the squalling
veteran doesn’t live up to the Labor motto
and keep his hands off China.
♦
Victoria Can Prevent Its Busli-fires.
“Wanchai” : The most valuable timber in
Victoria—possibly in Australia —is contained
in the forests of East Gippsland. In these
preserves the eucalypts attain staggering
height and girth. Between the Cann River
and Mount Drummer there are stringy-barks
and wliite-gums from 60 to 70 feet around.
These giant trees are not isolated ; very often
they are bole to bole. Thereabout thrive
the white, yellow and red stringy-barks, the
silver-tops, grey box, ironbark, the white-
gum, mahogany (along the banks of the
Snowy) and the rare kanuka (this last only
near the creeks).
Danger to all this fine timber lies mainly
in the presence of undergrowth. Native
shrubs and scrub, ferns and creepers, most
of which are annuals, die off yearly, and
combined with fallen leaf and bark —white-
gum is the worst offender in this respect —
the accumulation of dead and dried vegeta-
tion often is waist-deep. Thus is laid a trail
of tinder requiring in summer only a chance
spark or a careless hand to fire it off.
Beam- and sleeper-cutters supply another
menace. These workers are allotted to cer-
tain areas, and each man, after a few months’
work, cuts his trail over a distance of per-
haps four or five miles. When left unburned,
as they are 99 times in 100, the dead leaves
and branches of the felled trees provide a
nice kindling for some future forest blaze.
Cutters are expected to burn this rubbish ;
indeed, £1 is deducted from the earnings of
each worker as a guarantee that he burns
up all the dead timber in his area. Only
the first week in November is allowed for the
burning off, and if that week be wet the
menace must remain. Often a proper burn-
ing would occupy 10 days, and £1 is nowa-
days considered an insulting offer for work
spread over a week or more. So nearly
always the deposit is forfeited.
The methods followed by the Forests Com-
mission to combat these menaces are chiefly
the employment of (1) gangs of men to cut
fire-breaks, and (2) fireguards, whose duty
it is to patrol the forests. Activities of the
former about 12 months ago resulted in “fire-
breaks” ranging in width from six to ten
feet cut for miles through the bush between
Mount Drummer and Cann River. When
buslimen of the district made the ludicrous
discovery, they pointed out to the Commis-
sion that breaks even half a mile wide would
not stop a fire spreading in timber from
200 to 250 feet in height. Finally convinced
by East Gippslanders that the narrow clear-
ings, instead of acting as breaks, really con-
stituted very effective flues, the Commission
abandoned this work. To save its face, how-
ever, it explained that the lanes would be
convenient tracks for the rangers.
Fireguards were the next innovation. I
know of four of these who patrol 24 miles
of country between Orbost and Nowa Nowa.
Their duties are to prevent fires and extin-
guish any which start. They have as little
hope of doing the one as the other. When
an outbreak occurs the best they can do is
to ride around it, or —more wisely—away
from it. As a matter of fact, there is now
scarcely an acre of timber visible along the
railway line from Orbost to Nowa Nowa
which has not been burned since the advent
of the fireguards. This failure lies not
against the men, but against their bosses.
Although it can never prevent minor bush-
fires, the Forests Commission certainly can
lessen—perhaps altogether check —disastrous
outbreaks. Instead of employing men to
'prevent fires, gangs should be distributed
throughout the bush to lic/lit them. If all
undergrowth and forests debris were burnt
off during early spring and late autumn,
when the big timber will not catch, the great-
est menace would be removed. Stockmen
and bushmen could then indulge in beer-
drinking and bottle-smashing, and bullockies
exercise their fieriest vocabularies, without
fear of starting a conflagration which would
endanger the timber resources of the State.
-+
The defence of Hankow during the evacua-
tion deserves to go down iu military annals,
although not a shot was fired. From early
in the morning until nightfall the British
marines and volunteers in full fighting kit
fronted a howling mob representing the van-
guard of an outside native population of 1J
millions. When a front-rank man got his
cheek gashed open by a stone he simply
stepped to the rear and another took his
place. The temptation to retaliate must
have been strong, but not a solitary instance
of it was recorded. In the end the Chinese
authorities suggested to the commanding
officer that, to avoid a massacre of the white
population, the defence of the settlement
should be handed over to the Ivuo Ming Tang
troops. The suggestion was only a ruse.
No sooner had the Chinese soldiers taken over
than the mob swarmed over the settlement
like a tidal wave. Yet Labor leaders in the
British Parliament want the defence of
European Shanghai, a city as big as Sydney,
and as full of desirable loot, left in the same
trusty hands.
4
“Bunkie” : “X.N.0.” in his remarks on Jut-
land (B. 3/2/’27) affirms that a general
wishing to change the direction of his army’s
attack is better circumstanced than an
admiral wishing to realign his ships, as the
former merely has to say “Bight turn,” and
the thing’s done, so to speak. I think the
boot is on the other foot. For one thing,
an admiral doesn’t have to choose his ground ;
there are no obstacles at sea, so he can
turn anywhere. In the case “X.N.0.” cites
the whole of the North Sea was handy. An
army commander, on the other hand, is
always committed to a close study of topo-
graphical features and enemy defences before
he dare order a fresh directional movement.
Again, should the admiral decide to change
direction, his instructions are in the hands
of all his squadron navigating officers pretty
well as quickly as light waves travel. Con-
trast with this the army commander’s posi-
tion —his dictum must reach every front-line
company commander before the new move-
ment can be started. What chance was there
during, say, that famous counter-attack of
the 13th and 15th Brigades on Villers-Bret-
onneux in April, 1918, of getting quickly into
touch with front-line company commanders
once the fight was on? Elliott and Glas-
gow drew up their plans for the encircling
THE EXTREMISTS.
movement at the h.-q. of the Bth English
Division at Blongy-Tronville, and the Diggers,
moving on to their allotted fronts, were soon
swallowed up in the murky gloom of that
cold, drizzling evening. We all knew per-
fectly well that there would be no news
until the morning. All night the advance
was carried on through the dense Bois L’Abb6,
criss-crossed as it was by countless old defen-
sive systems, and as often as not drenched
with gas. Under such conditions an attack
once launched, the initial orders must stand.
This is only one instance, but it is far from
being unimportant; there are plenty of others
of a similar nature, all going to show that
it is a matter, not of minutes, but of hours,
before a general could hope to get his orders
to the front-liners once the fight is on.
❖
Bananaland’s new Justice Macrossan is
likely to prove unpopular with divorce-
evidence devotees and certain unwholesome
newsprints because of his recent ruling that
sections 9 and 10 of the Evidence and Dis-
covery Act apply to divorce as to other
actions. Both sections have been on the
Statute Book since 1897, but have been
disregarded. The non-observance of No. 9
lias been the means of adding much spicy,
though irrelevant, particulars to divorce liti-
gation, and in future what Jones said in
his sleep on the night that Mrs. J. found a
blonde hair on his coat may not be allowed.
Section 9 reads: “No husband shall be com-
petent or compellable to disclose any com-
munication made to him by his wife during
the marriage, and no wife shall be competent
or compellable to disclose any communica-
tion made to her by her husband during the
marriage.” Section 10 will compel divorce
petitioners to appear in person, and in
future the petitioner will not be able to
carry on a divorce action from unknown
parts with the aid of a barrister, a private
detective and half a dozen paid witnesses.
0
The inroads of the alien maker of shoddy
upon Australian textile and apparel manu-
facturing industries are made apparent in
the latest trade returns of the Common-
wealth, those for the seven months ended
last January. Apparel imports were valued
at £4,333,000, and textile imports at
£15,500,000, and these two items show an
increase for the period of £2,250,000. A
large proportion of these imports—how large
it is impossible to say, though a guess can
be made by the aid of the drapers’ windows
—is made up of garments and fabrics which
appear to be quite frankly made for only
two purposes—to look attractive in a shop
window and to sell at a price lower than
any honest article of the kind could even
be made for in this country. The purchasers
of this meretricious trash are losers, but
apparently they don’t learn much by experi-
ence, since the demand for such stuff never
seems to slacken. If some unthinkably cour-
ageous Government were to forbid the
entrance of goods of the shoddy class, every-
one—save possibly the importers who special-
ise in such lines—would be better off.
———» ——
Melbourne the other day prosecuted a
group of half a dozen men and women for
calling themselves doctors —doctors of osteo-
pathy. Surely there are enough frauds in
the community calling for police attention
without wasting time in the pursuit of people
who at the worst are faddists. Of osteo-
pathy there are <3OOO practitioners in the
U.S.A. alone, and many of them are persons
who have qualified as medical practitioners
in their own States ; the others, if they are
recognised osteopathists, have had a cours*
of training running as a rule to six years.
As far as The Bulletin has been able to
ascertain, they are the least dangerous of all
unorthodox practitioners; in certain cast -
there is undoubted merit in their practice.
If it was proved that they undertook to mak.
impossible cures, and so obtained money by
false pretences, they ought to be prosecuted
criminally on that specific count; but t<>
sweep them up in a heap and throw a general
charge at them is absurd. Orthodoxy in
medicine is not so firmly established that
we can afford to make criminals of those
who are merely unorthodox.
—*
The head of N.S.W.'s Slangwhang Govern-
ment lately made another announcement on
the matter of land policy:—
The alienated lands of the State must be acquired
if there is to be any development of closer settle-
ment. It is the aim of the present Government to be
in a position to place every suitable applicant on a
living area.
Remarks like these are understood to be a
prelude to more expensive bungling. The
position includes a good many factors. More
than half N.S.W. is a doubtful proposition
for closer settlement. A great deal of the
good land is so far from any port which the
settler is permitted to use that a living area
is pretty large. Various Governments have
been resuming estates since 1910, and by
1925 they had acquired 0,819,376 acres, and
cut them into farms. Agriculture has
increased, but the cost has run to many
millions and the agricultural population has
diminished through machinery taking the
place of the human “desirable applicant.”
This isn’t a matter of putting people on the
land so much as of pushing sheep off and
sowing the soil with iron instruments. Many
apparently “suitable applicants” are not suit-
able, and many would prefer an industrial job
in the nearest town if the importing craze
would permit. In any case a State which
puts up 1200- and 1600-acre farms (per-
petual lease, nominal rent and occupation by
dummy permitted) is a curious specimen in
the closer-settlement line. It is probable that
the business would get on better if fussy
office men would leave it alone.
O
“Murkah” : Re wireless v. cable (B.
3/3/’27). Sea-power cannot save the lonely
cable. The Yankee-erected war-station at
Bordeaux is a 1000-k.w. affair, with an
aerial system strung on a row of 800 ft.
towers. It was presented to the French
Government, and still stands. The erection
of that outsize radio station in a foreign
country proves that the Americans saw the
folly of depending absolutely on so vulner-
able a means of communication as the cable.
When the Brisbane-Noumea cable sawed
through early in 1914, it was left to rot on
the ocean-floor, and a radio station was
erected. Noumea’s extensive business has
been handled via Brisbane and Sydney radios
ever since. Now it is proposed to slightly
increase the power and project the business
direct to Paris. The previously-mentioned
Bordeaux station works trans-ocean, notably
with Buenos Ayres. Townsville radio works
continuously with Rabaul, Woodlark Island
and other island stations dotted about the
Pacific. Which shows that the Common-
wealth, like the French and American Gov-
ernments, isn’t laying cables, but is erecting
radio stations. But for radio, when the Tas.
cable parted in June, 1921, the Speck would
have been isolated for over a week. Pro-
bably existing cables will operate for years
to come. But no more will be laid. Why
spend millions linking the continents with
costly cable when there already exists a link
—a free, unbreakable link —the impalpable,
all-pervading ether of radio-telegraphy?
♦
Victoria’s railway bosses and the heads of
the Railwaymen’s Union may rage like the
heathen against “motor pirates,” but the
fact remains that, except for such heavy
loading as wheat, wool, coal and the like,
the motor-truck is winning the first round
of its fight against the steam engine. What
officialdom overlooks is that steam transport
has made little progress in the last 20 years
as regards efficiency and cheapness, whereas
motor transport has progressed marvellously.
And no regard is paid to changed conditions.
A few years ago all Melbourne’s vegetable-
were grown within 20 miles of the city; to;
day the gardeners are being steadily pushed
out by the everlasting sub-divider. So they
go to Gippsland, Bacchus Marsh and even
further away, and run their stuff in by
truck. But instead of, going home empty
they back their trucks into the wholesale
grocer-shop and warehouses, load up, and
deliver goods to retailers. Thus there is no
double cartage to and from the railway, no
demurrage, no delay, nor any mysterious loss
of goods in transit. The railway heads are
up against a tremendous problem, and no
bellowing about “motor pirates” will alter
the fact.


GOOD READING
There is absorbing reading in your own Bank Pass Book.
It is not fiction, but hard fact, and will tell you much about yourself
if you study it faithfully and intelligently.
Do that and it will make you think.
If you have a steady job ; keep it!
Get yourself a Bank Account and keep that, too.
4 Kept growing, it will eventually mean more to your family than anything
you can buy now with the money.
And it is so easy. A Savings Account costs you nothing, and every Post
Office in Australia is an agency of the
Commonwealth lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
mt
Operating Costs
arc lowered efficiently with the use of
"Mangrovite” Leather
or
Raw-hide Belting.
Our staff of experienced engineers is at
your disposal for the careful investigation
of your transmission problems. We
specialise in making belts to order. Every step, from the tann g N
hides to the first revolution after the belt is fitted, is under strict sup
belt drives as well as a “Mangrovite” belt, and we guarantee results.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hughes and Watt joined the rabble of
State Frighters and disappointed office-
seekers who voted with the Federal Labor
Reps, against Bruce’s State Grants Bill,
which abolishes the 255. per head subvention
to the States as from June 30, though the
money is to be distributed for another
months as an act of grace. When Watt was
Commonwealth Treasurer in 1919 he pro-
posed that the payments, no longer obliga-
tory, should be reduced at the rate of 2s. 6d.
p.a. When Hughes was a Labor man in
1910 he fought the State Frights scheme of
putting the 255. per head swindle into the
Constitution ( saying, during the debate on
the enabling bill, “The Commonwealth could
take the lot”), and the Labor Government of
which he was a member limited the payments
to the 10 years ending June 30, 1920. It is
an intolerable outrage, of course, that the
Bruce-Pages should be in office, but Hughes
and his new-old friends ought to try to be
consistent, just for once.
The N.S.W. Government has still another
bill in hand to “break up large estates.”
Of course, large estates in agricultural dis-
tricts ought to be broken up; but Lang’s
policy won’t do it. What it is doing is to
throw even comparatively small farms out
of cultivation, because nowadays it pays
better for a man to run a few sheep with-
out help than to engage help in wheat-
growing.
A Labor Government’s housing scheme may
do something besides putting roofs over the
heads of homeless citizens. Hitherto the
South Aus. Labor party has found the old
Sturt electorate difficult, but the Thousand
Homes over whose building Joe Timms got
into difficulties are confidently expected to
give the party a great lift.
Queensland Treasury continues to button
up its pockets. Its latest is the cancella-
tion of the system of granting railway passes
to Alt. Morganites wishing to leave the
Mount in search of work elsewhere. _ This
has been in force since October, 1925, but
the Government weakened wdien it found that
people had a pleasant custom of returning to
the home town for rest and relaxation, know-
ing that they could always get a free ride
out when search for another job became
imperative. The concession cost £5015 alto-
gether.
Kyabram (Vie.), which started the poli-
tical movement that overthrew the first
Peacock Government in 1902, had no hatchet
in its hand when Peacock, as joint head of
the Composite Cabinet, accompanied -Pre-
mier Allan to Ivyabram to hear Ins oftsider
deliver the policy speech. At the conclusion
of Farmer John’s effort. Peacock rose to
move a vote of thanks to the chairman, lie
was given a rousing reception, whereupon
he said he forgave Ivyabram for plucking all
his feathers when he was a quarter ot a
century younger.
Former Westralian Premier Jack Scaddan
is expected to wrest the Leederville seat from
Laborite Harold Millington, one of the silent
members of the Leg. Assembly, who won it
narrowly, and a trifle luckily, m IJ-A. tt
Jack comes back he will have a good chance
of succeeding Jimmy Mitchell as leader of the
“United” party, and of beating linn m the
race for the Premiership in any event. or
the Cockies. although they have patched up
a sort of peace with the United party, have
little use for Mitchell, whereas they have
nothing against Scaddan now. Another who
may return to the Assembly in place ot a
Laborite is Harry Maley, sometime member
for Greenougli, Minister of Agriculture and
leader of the Country party. Labor believes,
however, that sufficient A.W.U. road-toilers
were introduced into Greenougli before
the rolls closed to keep Maley out It also
hopes to unseat ex-Speaker ‘ Mulga laylor
in Mt. Margaret, which he has held since
1901, and ex-Works Minister George m
Murray-Wellington.
Mr. Badly, introducing his Family Endow-
ment Bill, said: “The total cost 9f the
scheme to the Government railways is esti-
mated at £500,000, including the cost of
administration” (N.S.W. Hansard, pages
1068-09). The Leg. Council select com-
mittee was assured last week by the duet
Accountant in the Railway Department that
the cost to the railways and tramways
THE SOCIAL PROBLEM—
ANOTHER FAILURE.
HARD OLD LADY: “Why don’t you
work if you are hungry?
Tired Tim: “I tried that, Mum, an
it only made me ’ungrier.”
(£205,000) would be £1,051,000 a year.
Staggered by the discrepancy, or (what is
more likelyV sobered by • Mutch's revolt and
the expulsion; of A.L.P. president Seale,
Premier Lang called off his war to. the km c
against the Council and asked for a confer
ence with the idea of arriving at an agiee-
ment on the child endowment question. If
child endowment comes at all it should come
by agreement; for one thing, the danger
nf nnrties bidding against one another as to
per child will thereby be lessened.
But the business is loaded with dynamite.
Success came to the Prime Minister eandy,
and he has not learned how to comport him
self when sniped at by a section of Ins own
party. So when the State 1 righters on
both sides of the House were attacking his
State Grants Bill he lost the calmness which
distinguishes him when things are going
smoothly, and suggested that lie might resign
“Have someone else as your leader, it yon
like, and I will give my successor support.
There was no occasion for this outburst, 101
the situation was never really dangerous.
Most opponents of the abolition of the
per capita payments would accept tlieir
removal if it was certain that that step was a
preliminary to the bringing of order out ot 11 .
fin uncial chaos—to the Federalisation of
state debts, a national sinking fund, Com-
monwealth control of borrowing, and one
income-tax for Australia instead of seven.
If Bruce will get on with that programme,
the people will stand behind him though the
last of the State Frighters bellow until they
lose their voices.
Just on a million electors will he entitled
to vote at the Vic. Assembly election on April
i) and it is expected that 93 per cent, will
visit polling-booths or avail themselves ot
the postal voting facility. As they are not
legally obliged to attend candidates meetings,
however, they are staying away m thou-
sands; even party leaders and their lieuten-
ants are finding it hard to attract audiences.
Everybody expects that there will be another
non-Eabor Coalition after the poll. l-aj,or
which had 28 seats in the Assembly dissolved
on March 5, will probably lose four as a
result of the redistribution, and the National-
ists, who had 23 members of sorts m the last
House, may increase the number to -7. Coun-
try Progressives and Independents will
muster about four, and the Cockles, led by
Premier Allan, will be not less than 10.
Perhaps the non-Eabor tally will be 41 or
42, leaving 23 or 24 for Hogan and Co.
Simultaneously with the appointment of
a committee of Senators and Representatives
to investigate the moving-picture business
the Baldwin Government produced its
Cinematograph Films Bill. This provides
against blind advance booking of foreign ( i.e
Hollywood) films, many of winch are not
in existence when the British showman s
signature is secured, and insists that the
British article shall be at least 7* p.c. of
the footage of feature films exhibited by the
said showman in 1928, the proportion rising
p.c. annually until it reaches 25 p.c. British
films are defined as films made within the
Empire. With this measure as a starting-
point, Britain and Australia have it in then-
power to deliver themselves from a monstrous
foreign monopoly and help each other to
establish a national film industry; Australia
has all the natural advantages, while Britain
is strongly equipped on the artistic and
historical side. A customs duty of 6d. a
foot, with a two-thirds concession to the
other party (or parties) to an understand-
ing, should be the next step.
At the close of 1921 it was reckoned that
5184 out of every 10,000 South Australians
lived in Adelaide, but at the end of . last
year tlie proportion was 5597. It is a
remarkable result, especially as the State
te borrowed nearly £21,000,000 in five
years, always with a general view to the
settlement of people out among the wheat
and the fruit. If the estimate is correct
the result has been rather to take people
off the land. The capital cities have grown
wonderfully since city politicians got really
to work at pawning posterity so that they
might send folk into the country.
Had N.S.W. Premier Lang kept faith with
Parliament and people and gone to the coun-
try in March, 15 policy speeches would have
been heard this month or thereabouts. As
it is, a dozen have been delivered by gentle-
men speaking, or claiming to speak, for
Labor Liberals and Country party m South
Aus.; Labor, United party and Country party
in Westralia; the Allan-Peacock Government,
Labor, Nationalists, Farmers’ Union Coun-
try party, Progressive Country party, and
New Liberals in Victoria. If Australia isn t
saved it isn’t for want of saviours.
Sydney City Council, which numbers
among its enterprises a public motor-garage,
an electrical supplies store, a coffee “palace”
and a block of flats, is starting a dental
clinic for civic employees. It only remains
to add a maternity ward to round oft the
series neatly.
Modesty is not a guiding principle of the
Vic. Farmers’ Union, so wireless listeners-
in were not altogether surprised when they
heard Premier Allan, speaking at Kyabram,
say through the microphone, “The policy I
have to announce is—these chairs are not
reserved; come up to the front.” The last
few words were supposed to be addressed
to people crowding into the hall at the back,
but they unintentionally crystallised what
had happened in Vic. Parliament and wliat
may happen again. The Farmers Union,
with a party of 13 (subsequently reduced
to 11), demanded half the portfolios in the
Composite Cabinet and the Premiership as
well, and collared the lot. “No front seats
reserved” was its attitude then, and it
is not at all likely to change.
If A B. Piddington ever cherished the
notion that his duty as Industrial Commis-
sioner of New South Wales was to be any-
thing more than the ventriloquial doll ot the
Labor Caucus, he must have got rid of it by
now Professor Peden’s amendment to the
Basic Wage Bill in the Upper Hou&jg which
strove to keep some small discretionary
power in Piddington’s hands was categori-
cally condemned by Caucus because of that
very thing. Caucus decided that Piddington
must be put where he could do nothing more
or less than Caucus, through Parliament,
told him to. A soul less serene than that
of the Commissioner would get hot and
bothered in such a situation. There are many
souls that would evolve an idea of resigna-
tion, and a few that might even carry out
the idea.
The N.S.W. Labor Government has been
carrying on without a Lands Minister since
Loughlin resigned in December, and there
was a move last week to fill the vacancy,
Loughlin’s friends having abandoned hope of
inducing him to come back to the caucus.
But the quarrel between Education Minister
Mutch and the Premier over the treatment of
an officer in the Child Welfare Department
took so menacing a turn that the 20-odd
applicants for the vacancy had to be asked
to possess their souls in patience for another
week or two. There is an audacious sugges-
tion that the number of salaried Ministers
should be increased from 12 to 13. Consider-
ing that Dunn and McTiernan were abroad
a good part of last year, and that Baddeley
and McKell will be abroad a good part of
this year, while Loughlin’s work has been
done somehow, the State shouldn’t have to
keep a dozen.
The life of the average suburban branch of
the N. S. Wales A.L.P. is a brisk and sport-
ing one nowadays, one cometli up as an
official and in the evening is cut down. Raids
and reprisals, with possession of the books
as their objective, are commonplaces of exist-
ence ; to be kicked downstairs in the heat of
a friendly discussion in a branch meeting
may be, and occasionally is, the cheerful
lot of an official, or even of a mere mem-
ber. Flammenwerfer and tear bombs have not
yet made their appearance, but, at the pre-
sent rate of progress, both factions should be
bringing howitzer batteries into action within
six months.
There is more talk in N. S. Wales of
extending the functions of the State Savings
Bank to further assist home-building. It
is time the big trading banks considered
whether they are doing all they might. Most
of the funds which they employ is deposit
money, and practically no deposits are
accepted for more than two years, and a very
large proportion for six months or less. Lots
of first-class loans are wanted for seven years
or more; so Australian banks are poorly
placed to handle this business. They ought
to consider whether they can’t raise com-
paratively cheap money for much longer
terms.
THE MILLION CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Lord Mayor of Sydney said that, in order
m iive the King’s son and representative a right
welcome, it had been determined to decorate
and illuminate the city in a manner worthy of the
auu ilium keenimr with the importance ot
thTcity’ ■■ • He urged that Sydney should be made
a city of a million lamps.” ,
Now mark ye with what mounting pride
No mask of diffidence may hide
Stout Bumble beats his swelling breast,
And north and south and east and west
Brave words unto the world lie ilings:
“Ho, City mine 1 A scion of kings
Soon knocks at our Pacific gate;
With busy braid and soul elate,
I rush to robe your beauty rare,
To show you regal as you’re fair;
Till all the world your worth extols,
0 City of a million souls!”
Now mark ye with what manner grand,
What lordly air and lavish hand,
He takes him to his gracious task,
As knight of old, who dons his casque
To lay about his lady fair
Rich spoils of earth and sea and air.
“Ho, City mine!” he loudly calls,
“Your streets and squares, your homes and halls
I string with gleaming gems of light,
Till day no brighter shows than night,
Nor meanness your importance cramps,
0 City of a million lamps 1”
Now mark ye how he burbles on
Of splendors that are yet to don,
Of grand and ever grander dress,
That may both honor and impress.
“A royal city, ere I’m done,
We’ll show,” he cries, “this royal son!”
Nor hears, as I, that caustic word,
That voice well, either dreamt or heard:
“Ay, show your richest garbs and hues,
But show him not —your lOU’s,”
It grimly says (and grey its tones),
“0 City of a million loans!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


“Metrovick” Products Include
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
è
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
■
é
Write
to
Desk B.
MARTIN DITCHER’S TRIUMPH.
Mr. H. L. Tooth, Murami Irrigation Settlement, on
the Murrumbidgee, writes:—
“The ten acres of rice field yielded me lWi
bushels. I consider the use of the Martin Ditcher
reduced the cost of ditching and check bank work
by 50 per cent.”
The photograph shows a section of Mr. Tooth -
fine field which was recently described in the Agri-
cultural Gazette. Many other rice farmers are
now using the Martin Ditcher.
CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
499 Eittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Eight Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth. fe n-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney):—
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1900 .. £55,713 £24,450 £16,265 £1,950 £13,048
1905 .. 70,242 27,515 15,615 1,971 25,141
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1916 .. 253,963 108,811 36,145 3,000 106,007
1917 .. 282,008 142,900 41,105 2,271 95,732
1918 .. 339,743 149,279 51,456 581 138,427
1919 .. 392,530 150,216 55,829 6,466 180,019
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1921 .. 570,065 198,603 78,755 11.488 251,219
1922 .. 641,593 231,764 81,292 5,977 322,560
1923 .. 715,179 266,200 79,765 12,036 357,178
1924 . . 809,039 292,241 83,115 4,613 429,070
1925 .. 867,172 339,366 90,190 25,912 411,704
1926 .. 980,372 371,455 98,364 2,410 508,143
Last year’s income was £113,200 greater
than that of 1925, and more than four
times that of 1915. Next balance-sheet
should see the million mark left well behind.
It hasn’t been done by frenzied forays for
new business either. New business isn’t
discouraged, of course; but the office idea
is to make results so attractive that busi-
ness will come without much pulling. A
good idea of the quality of the policies writ-
ten may be gathered from the renewal
figures:—-
Renewal First New
Premiums. Premiums. Assurances.
1910 .. .. £71,987 £21,771 £537,300
1915 .. .. 115,628 32,610 804,614
1920 .. .. 215,103 84,771 1,998,906
1921 .. .. 261,293 88,415 2,168,487
1922 .. .. 291,719 76,967 2,194,076
1923 .. .. 338,420 65,453 1,964,583
1924 . . . . 371,934 66,427 2,025,000
1925 .. .. 406,432 74,642 2,436,056
1926 .. .. 453,599 74,825 2,482,000
Renewal premiums plus first premiums in
1925 were £481,074; that last year’s renewal
premiums should amount to £453,599, after
allowing and providing for maturities and
surrenders, was decidedly good. Lapses
must have been very few.
Purchasers of insurance don’t lightly relin-
quish their policies when bonuses are on a
munificent scale, and the City Mutual’s are
claimed to be “the highest of any in the
world.” In 1914 they amounted to £28,317.
Last year £193,750 was declared compared
with £175,000 in 1925. The amount used
in the purchase of new paid-up insurance is
shown in the accounts: policy-holders last
year put all but £6894 back into extra insur-
ance. Chairman and managing-director
George Crowley is delightfully frank about
all this. To a great extent bonus spells
bluff:—
The directors recognised towards the close of last
century that the life office that gave the best results
to its constituents was going to be the life office
of the future. Up to that date the premiums
charged by the society were practically non-profit
rates; they were really cost price, without a margin
for bonuses. But it was evident that bonuses were
wanted by the assuring public. The rates of pre-
miums therefore were raised to the level of those
charged by the most successful British institutions.
But probably not one policy-holder in a
dozen when lie gets his fine premiums real-
ises that he gets them chiefly because he has
been charged too much for the service in
the first place—that much of it is merely
his own money coming back to him.
Still, bonuses are not all bluff and
humbug. Some part of them is honestly
earned. (Incidentally, there are offices which
take the public’s money in excess of reason-
able requirements and waste it. That really
is the worst feature of these unnecessarily
high rates : while the good office collects them
in order to return them, the poor office is
enabled to collect them and hang on to
them.) Three sources supply the real
bonuses —extra-good mortality experience ;
extra-good interest; extra-small costs. Pretty
well every office claims to benefit by all
three. The City Mutual" certainly scores
heavily in regard to its earnings. Its high
interest rates are partly explained by the
disposition of its funds: —
1914. p.c. 1926. p.c.
Public securities . . £123,008 16.0 £911,647 22.6
Mortgages . . . . 362.992 47.0 2,090,721 51.8
Loans on policies.. 102,196 13.3 374,995 9.3
Properties .. . . 119,404 15.5 339,281 8.4
Shares & debentures, etc. 39,507 5.1 98,362 2.4
Cash and sundries.. 24,243 3.1 218,115 5.5
£771,350 £4,033,121
The office long ago decided that a concern
which chased round for a couple-hundred-
pound policy and took care that the risk
was a good one shouldn’t be above looking
at a couple-hundred-pound mortgage and
taking care that that risk was a good one,
too. Most big offices can’t be bothered with
these sweet litle fish. The City Mutual,
in spite of its growth, is still not too big to
throw its net for them; and the result last
year was that it earned more than twice as
much as it had reckoned upon when it
framed its premium tables. That and a
healthy mortality experience (the world’s
increasing healthiness is playing wonderfully
into the hands of life offices) has given the
City Mutual big reserves; and big reserves
have made it easy to hang on to policy-
holders, to the great advantage of the expense
rate; and the good expense rate has im-
proved the bonus reserves, and so the snow-
ball has grown. The “enormous sum”
remaining after the 1925 bonus had been
distributed impelled the management to
tighten things up. “One of two courses was
imperative. Either the bonuses paid each
year should be considerably increased, or,
as an alternative, some even stricter method
of valuation should be discovered.” Actuary
Wolfenden was called in and told to value
the policy liabilities on a net premium basis
—a method which makes no allowance for
the heavy cost of getting new business.
Despite the move the divisible surplus was
£360,000, of which, as already mentioned,
£193,750 was marked for cash bonuses. -The
office assumes that it will obtain not more
than 3£ p.c. p.a. from its investments. Last
year’s return on average funds, as already
stated, was more than twice that much.
Included with interest, divs. and rents, how-
ever, was “profit on realisation of securities,
etc.”; and, though the office alleges that
investments are undervalued by hundreds of
thousands of pounds, there is £60,000 in a
contingencies reserve and £25,000 for equali-
sation of Government stock.
» • • • • •
Apart from all the records established and
broken, the more conservative basis of valua-
tion, and the general improvement, the out-
standing feature is the substantial move in
the disposition of funds, the (relatively)
heavy decrease in mortgages and the robust
increase—almost a quarter of a million in
amount —in Government stock. The manage-
ment’s enterprise in the investment of the
society’s funds has been justified by results.
Now that the chief trouble appears to be
the size of the annual surplus, it might con-
tinue last year’s movement as a partial solu-
tion.
* * * *
Pelaco, Ltd., formerly Pearson, Law,
Ltd., Melbourne, manufacturers of shirts,
collars and men’s wear, from the reconstruc-
tion of the co.:—
f— Dividends
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written
Dee., Profit. 7 p.e. 9 p.c. 121 p.c. Off. Deficit.
1918. . £15,131 £2092 £1406 £SOOO £1053 £12,788
15 p.c.
1919.. 26,181 2082 2812 7718 1284 503
Reserves.
1920.. 29,455 2082 3656 8766 2165 12,283
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 14,473 2082 4500 Nil - 8,772
Profit. 10 p.c.
1922.. ’ 20,518 2082 4500 10,724 5,560
1923.. 24,723 2082 4500 14,908 2,327
Reserves.
1924.. 30,551 2082 4500 16,500 5,142
8 p.c.
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13,200 10,727
1926.. 21,692 2082 4500 13,200 12,637
Shortage of raw materials due to the indus-
trial disturbances in England was the
adverse factor on this occasion. There
wasn’t much to spare out of the year’s pro-
fits after prefs. had been attended to and
ords. given 8 p.c. Gross earnings fell away
by £6331
1918 .. £46,337
1919 . . 67,662
1920 ... 89,659
1921 . . 49,849
1923 .. £111,631
1924 . . 126,008
1925 .. 124,421
1926 . . 118,090
Expenditure, which includes an unspecified
amount for depreciation, was cut back
£2658 to £96,397, and that assisted. Never-
theless, with the same volume of capital at
work and a gross profit of £126.008, total
outgo for 1924 was only £91,957. iCon-
sidering the chief trouble plus the continu-
ance of keen competition from low-wage
overseas makers, the co. is moving fairly
well. Now that adequate supplies are avail-
able, the plant is speeding up, and the man-
agement is ambitious of smashing records
during the current term. The co. certainly
will do no harm if it unloads some of its
stocks, of which there was £40.000 worth
more on hand at December 30 than at the
close of the previous year. The balance-
sheet position is not brilliant: —
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 192,916 183,645 156,345 200,905
Premises . . 127,027 116,229 120,592 116,929
Plant, etc. . . 63,552 65,592 69,328 72,549
Book debts- . . 87,290 101,046 103,143 110,215
Stock.. .. 167,129 155,727 129.280 169,764
Cash, etc. .. 1,868 9,970 4,356 3,712
Bank overdraft was pulled down a trifle, but
other debt increased by £50,000-odd. Although
the position w T as not uncomfortable, much
has to be done before the management can
slacken pace, particularly since the ques-
tion of plant is hardly likely to be absent
from consideration for any length of time.
Last year, for instance, additions amounted to
a net £3221. Expansion has been rapid (paid
capital 10 years ago was only £49,560), and
the big amount necessary for premises and
plant made the co. go outside for a solid
amount. Much depends on the current
term, and if management counts for any-
thing an improved result may be expected
next balance. Capital is in 29,736 “A”
prefs. (7 p.c.), 50,000 “B” prefs. (9 p.c.)
and 340,528 10s. ords. Security for the
“A’s” at December 31 was equal to £8 13s.'
Id., and for the “B’s” £4 11s. Both classes
are well held. There have been sales of the
ords. at 11s. Od.
* * * *
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Cos. (Syd-
ney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1916.. £40,019 12i p.c. = £33,334 £6,685 £116,231
1917.. 37,637 12j „ „ 33,334 4,303 120,534
1918.. 32,360 10 „ „ 26,667 5,693 126,227
Reserves transferred to capital, £88,890 37,337
Written off reserves, £2450 .. .. 34,887
1919.. 21,309 7-J p.c. = 26,667 29,529
Written off reserves, £1446 .. .. 28,083
1920.. 66,938 10 p.c. = 35,556 31,382 59,465
1921.. 25,271 7-J „ „ 2-6,667 58,069
1922.. 5,520 8 „ „ 28,445 35,144
Written off, £4761 30,383
1923.. 36,815 10 p.c. = 35.556 259 30,642
1924.. 15,329 5 „ „ 17,778 28,193
Written off reserves, £SOOO .. .. 23,193
1925.. 10,995 2 p.c. = 7,111 3,884 27,077
Goodwill item, £l6Bl .. .. 25,396
Loss.
1926.. 8,870 Nil 16,526
Twelve months ago the board decided to
spend some money in an attempt to recapture
the circulation, which had gone astray. The
attempt was half-hearted in nature and more
«.* less futile in result. Now once more there
is talk of change and re-organisation; but
the only visible ray of hope is that at the
annual meeting A. G. Wise was one of the
elected directors, and his experience on the
Melbourne Herald in pre-SuN days may be
worth something.
This Column pointed out 12 months ago
that the urgent and obvious need was a vigor-
ous and resourceful management which knew
what it wanted and was prepared to spend
money to get it. The problem to be faced
becomes more difficult with each passing
month. In the daily newspaper fight the
loser is trampled on, and the Telegraph has
strong opposition. The S. M. Herald is
solidly placed, and its keen management exam-
ines the foundation and superstructure ever
so often to make sure. The Labor Daily
has its own circle, which it will hold while it
lives. The Guardian has hit the D.T. hard-
est. Now% w 7 hat is it the Guardian has
that the Telegraph lacks? Not finance cer-
tainly. Here is the balance-sheet position :
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Creditors.. .. £51,358 £6,303 £7,755 £8,432
Freeholds .. .. 194,476 195.159 194,506 193,973
Plant, etc. .. 52,155 50,756 48,037 49,744
Stocks .. .. 28,214 32,720 30,791 44,555
Debtors .. .. 49,264 38,794 34,709 42,671
Public securities and
shares .. 39,748 34,600 34,711 44,936
Cash .. .. 49,036 45,137 47,638 10,350
Despite some small adverse movements the
assets position is still very solid. The bal-
ance sheet is almost clear of hot air: it
speaks volumes that on this occasion an
intangible appears—“£l6Bl, establishment
Boys’ Weekly.” Almost £50,000 is in public
securities or on deposit and £5453 in shares
in other cos. Freehold is worth a lot of
money and is wholly unencumbered. Good-
will, as mentioned already, practically doesn’t
appear in the accounts, and reserves, though
they have been cut into, are still fairly sub-
stantial. In that respect the D.T. compares
with some of its contemporaries as follows:
Reserves
(Ex Good-
Capital. Goodwill, -will).
Daily Telegraph Cos. ..£355,560 £1,681 £16,526
S. Bennett (News) .. 372,245 62,000 10,575.
Deficit.
Sun Newspapers .. .. 894,094 245,633 140,290
Smith’s Newspapers
(Guardian) .. .. 299,993 200,000 167,495
Yet the D.T. co. shows a loss of £BB7O for
the year, and the loss on the Telegraph
itself must have been three times as great:
Estimated net earnings of D.T. freehold.. £7,500
Estimated net earnings of World’s News. . 6,000
Loss admitted .. .. .. .. .. 8,870
Total .. ..£22,370
Nevertheless, to those who despair of ever
seeing the paper and the co. on their feet
again one may recall that the Telegraph
has not got into such a wretched state as the
News was in before it was taken hold of
and saved.
Sales of shares were made last year at
prices which ranged from 18s. to 235. .6d.,
but mostly at and around par. There is no
doubt that the co.’s old extravagant record
still influences some investors. The co.’s gift-
giving used to be lavish. This table shows
how capital was built up by issues of bonus
shares.
1897.. .. £50.000
1898.. .. 57,500
1899.. .. 60,100
1900.. .. 66,100
1902.. .. 75.000
1903.. .. 85,000
1904.. .. 100.000
1905.. .. 110.000
1906.. .. 120,000
1907.. ..£133,100
1908.. .. 150,000
1909.. .. 165,000
1910.. .. 181,500
1911.. .. 199,650
1912.. .. 219,620
1913.. .. 250,000
1914.. .. 266,666
1919.. .. 355,560
Good divs. in addition to regular bonuses sent
the shares (then £10) up to £7O. To those
who bought at £65 in 1914 the 7 p.c. which
represents the total distribution over the past
three years represents little more than 1 ti c
* * * # V ' ’
D. Mitchell and Cos.. Ltd., merchants,
manufacturers of foodstuffs, etc., of Sydney •
To Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves
1917.. £12,317 8 p.c. = £10,038 £2279 £25 414
1918.. 14,012 8 „ „ 11,775 2237 27’65l
1919.. 16,944 8 „ „ 11,775 5169 32 B*>o
1920.. 19,785 9 „ „ 17,250 2535 35A55
1921.. 6,206 64 „ „ 14.625 2G 936
1922.. 16,418 7 „ „ 15,750 668 27 604
1923.. 12,478 7„ „ 15,750 24,'33->
1924.. 21,725 7* „ „ 16,875 4850 29,182
1925.. 13,882 7 „ „ 15,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 22,275
The directors say they have “sufficient con-
fidence in the outlook to feel justified in
recommending that the reserves be drawn
upon to make up the usual dividend at the
rate of 7 p.c. p.a., and provision for income-
tax, etc.” But most of the factors which
operated to diminish profits last year—l -
hour week, increased wages, new workers’
compensation—will be present for the whole
of the current term, in some cases in an
intensified form. The position is not quite as
good even as the figures of the introductory
table would suggest. Reserves there shown
out of the balance (£22,275) have to come
consist of general reserve account, £23,881,
and P. and L. balance, £6269, less the
amount drawn to pay the final div. But
out of the balance (£22,275) have to come
income-tax and some apparently unimportant
payments hidden under an “etc.”
The last line of this table doesn’t exactly
shriek optimism:—
Gross Profit. Expenses.
1918 .. .. £97,422 £80,418
1919 .. .. 102,834 84,602
1920 .. .. 121,958 100,745
1921 . . . . 109,734 98,842
1922 .. .. 117,813 99,705
1923 .. .. 118.273 102,981
1924 .. .. 125,360 101,492
1925 . . . . 119,746 100,563
1926 . . .. 124,936 110,792
Evidently the co. maintained its trade-
turnover is probably in excess of a million
p.a.—but unless the slender margins on the
lines handled can be improved, the manage-
ment will have a struggle to make the cur-
rent year’s figures confirm its confidence.
There hasn’t been much in dry goods for a
long while past, and the position certainly
isn’t changing for the better. It is a little
consolation to shareholders to know that the
business holds fairly well in the lean years;
the trouble is that the rich seasons
bring them no cream. The chief trouble is
the keenness of competition,- coupled in many
cases with excessive overhead charges. The
latter point is one upon which the directors
of this co. might well say something.
In hiding its position from its competi-
tors the co. incidentally leaves much to the
imagination of shareholders :
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £145,136 £206,994 £195,641 £202,093
Properties and
plant .. 24,4 3 5 52,6 1 8 53,309 53,854
Stock . . 128,350 111,260 108.171 121.251
Book debts, etc. 255,186 294,748 279,585 266,826
Cash, etc. .. 8,770 11,549 14,765 15,312
Not that intending trade rivals would feel
encouraged by last year’s—or any year’s—
figures. Liabilities are heavy, but the sum
covers all fixed and floating debt, and pos-
sibly something put aside against contin-
gencies. In any case the position is com-
fortable, book debts and investments more
than covering all outside liabilities. -Neither
nature nor volume of investments is specified.
Included, however, is Mitchell’s Factories,
Ltd., an organisation in which the co. owns
all the shares. The board has never been
suspected of over-stating things: fixed assets
are in at a conservative figure, and there
are no intangibles. In the latter half of the
year the board decided to cut out the hard-
ware department at the Newcastle branch,
and stocks were written down for realisation
purposes. In the circumstances the increase
in stocks over the 12 months must have been
substantial. The public came in in 1913.
It has had only a modest time. The last
sale was at 19s.
* * * *
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd. (Sydney),
tanners and manufacturers of leather goods,
from the reconstruction of the co., when
there was a one-in-three bonus issue. Patent
rights and trade-marks (£6732) are not
reckoned as an asset hereunder:—
Net To Re- De-
Profits. Dividends. serves, ficit.
£6732
June, 1921 .. £3729 7* p.c. = £3312 £417 6315
Dec., 1921 .. 6677 10 „ „ 4417 2260 4054
June, 1922 . . 6454 10 „ „ 4417 2037 2017
Re-
serves.
Dec., 1922 .. 6747 10 „ „ 4417 2330 313
June, 1923 . . 8387 10 „ „ 4417 3970 4253
Set aside for taxation, £3257 .. 1020
Dec., 1923 . . 4417 10 p.c. =44 1 7 1026
June, 1924 .. 7818 10 „ „ 45 7 4 32 4 4 4270
Dec., 1924 . . 4824 10 „ „ 5048 4046
June, 1925 . . 3897 74 „ „ 3786 111 4157
Dec., 1925 . . 4554 8j „ „ 4207 377 4534
June, 1926 . . 4332 SJ „ „ 42 0 7 12 5 4 659
Dec., 192 6. . 44 33 9.1 ~ ~ 46 2 7 4465
Disturbed conditions in China have affected
the export trade in leather, and Australian


THE CHOICE OF
INVESTMENTS
HOW TO PICK THEM.
§OO
“WildCat’ Monthly”
for March.
Available at all principal
Newsagents, or direct from
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
We stock 4- OF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is rust and corrosion-proof.
It cannot foul internally, and actually increases in
efficiency when in regular use. It is much lighter
than metal pipe, and can be freighted, transported
and installed with far greater economy and facility.
It costs practically nothing to maintain, and is
practically indestructible. Send for free, profusely
illustrated catalogue, with comparative data. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.- — Advt.
* * * #
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
• * * •
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colei son & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty veais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * m
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore —and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * » *
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane ; or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT I 2/- 1/- 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN ( 15/-, 20 words)
Week-endT^d.(minimumchargel2/6, 20 words)
FRANCE 2/7 l/3i Nil
HOLLAND
81-'LGI UM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
Nil
2/6 1/3
CANADA .. 1/2 9Jd. 7d. (minimum
11 IS. 20 words)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge 9/7,2owords)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to v Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND.. 4id.
f N.Z. Night Letter
| Rate minimum charge
13/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and 157784.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Cc.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
ê
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
ril'< .V Company A nst rnln«init Agents. 2G 30 Clarence St., Sydney
DT
ARE YOU AWARE
TH\T IT IS NOT NECESSARY FOR YOU TO IMPOSE UPON YOUR FRIENDS THE ARDUOUS
DUTIES OF EXECUTOR OR TRUSTEE?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Was specially incorporated by Act of Parliament to undertake these duties, and its AVide Experi-
ence and Reasonable Charges ensure for Estates entrusted to it Specialised Administration at a
Minimum of Expense. The value of Estates and Agencies at present under the Company s care
exceeds £28,000,000, which is evidence of the confidence in which it is held by the Public.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. R. J. BLACK, M.L.C. (Chairman) Dr. R. L. FAITIIFULL
T. 11. KELLY WALTER T. BRUNTON
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN HERBERT R. LYSAGHT
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
RESERVE FUND £105,000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL £160,000
Write or call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
exporters, according to chairman Charles
Ludowici, have had to take lower prices than
those obtained by foreign competitors, who
are not subject to Customs regulations. Profit
for the six irionths was about recent aver-
age, but the div. was lifted from KM. to lid.
per share, making the distribution greater
than net earnings for the term. This is
handsome treatment considering that reserves,
moderate at £8697, are- offset by intangibles
amounting to £4232. Paid capital is
£100,963. Most of it is represented by free-
hold and plant: —
Dec., Dec., Dec., Dec;, Dec.,
1922. 1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £7,395 £7,908 £1,769 £8,042 £2,802
Property and
plant .. 52,083 54,040 54,838 62,281 62,024
Stocks . . .. 34,887 39,123 45,132 48,270 39,641
Bobk debts .. 11,465 11,061 9,683 9,574 10,961
Cash, etc. .. 768 818 5,641 410 3,350
Reduction of stocks enabled the co. to reduce
its liabilities and add to its cash holding. Net
tangibles in sight—and there is no indication
that anything important is hidden—amount
to 20s. lid. for each £1 share. The extra
penny div. hasn’t impressed the market:
there are sellers at 19s.
* * * #
The proposed amalgamation of Golden
Horseshoe Estates and Great Boulder Prop,
with Lake View and Star would bring pro-
bably a shade better results than were
obtained by amalgamated Lake View Star
and Ivanhoe, but the improvement would not
be such as to warrant any considerable capi-
tal expenditure on new mainshaft sinking
or plant. Star and Ivanhoe profits are prac-
tically nil; Boulder has reached the tribut-
ing stage, and Horseshoe could not make
ends meet even with a £50,000 cash advance
froßii the Government. It is stated that the
flotation process will do much, but so far
as ,Kalgoorlie ores are concerned that pro-
cess is unproved in a practical way. It is
also claimed that greater tonnages of Kal-
goorlie ore treated at one plant will effect
great savings, but the combined plant of the
Lake View. Star and Ivanhoe hasn’t improved
the position twopence. For years South Ival-
gurli has been doing well, not because of
lower working costs, but because a higher-
grade ore is available for treatment. A cen-
tral plant, amalgamation, lower power costs
and new processes would perhaps be followed
by reduction of working costs and a higher
percentage of gold extraction, but it is doubt-
ful if it is all worth while. The operation
of reglanding old mines is rarely a success.
* * * *
Perth got mildly excited the other day
over a report that 2oz. gold ore had been
struck in a Darling Range orchardist’s well,
L 8 miles away. Samples taken a few days
later by a Mines Department official, how-
ever, assayed only 14gr. per ton. Darling
Range, which runs parallel to the coastline
for a considerable distance north and south
of Perth, has been known for many years
to be gold-bearing in places, but nothing pay-
able has ever been found.
* * * *
The most permanent ore body; so far dis-
closed at Hollow’s Find (W.A.) is in Arthur
Smith’s prospecting area adjoining Hollow’s
Reward on the South East. Smith has sunk
a shaft to a depth of 65ft., and crosscutting
from this has disclosed a lode of consider-
able width. If the ore body maintains the
gold content shown where intersected by the
crosscut, Smith will own something worth
while.
* * * *
In the attempt to sink a winze from tlie
800 ft. level, Sand Queen mine, Comet Vale
(W.A.). such a heavy inflow of water was
struck as promptly swamped the Sand Queen
and its neighbor, the Gladsome, which was
opened up to depth of 400 feet. A strong
co. is now succeeding, where many others
have failed, in reopening the properties, and
it appears certain that the extraction of
the ore known to exist in both shows is
a matter only, of time. The density of the
Sand Queen mine water is equal to that of
the Dead Sea; but this, although awkward,
is not a vital matter.
* * * *
By an issue of 20,000 cum. prefs of 20s.
each, Cock’s Pioneer (Vic.) has got its over-
draft down by 50 per cent. The barge has
had to be moved up-stream 800 ft., and the
creek diverted. So spending has gone on
steadily ever since the issue was made, and
the overdraft now stands at £12,000. Work
will be resumed a little below the spot
where Run 5 came from No. 1 paddock.
Ground there averaged Is. 3d. a c. yd., and
as the values were followed as close to the
creek bed as safety would permit, a profit-
able start will be made by manager Falconer.
A clean-up of lGloz. recently brought Run 47
to an end. Four months’ sluicing will
have to go on to get down to the 70ft. floor.
With luck, gold and tin should show in the
boxes from 30ft. down. Falconer ought to
know his mine well, and he is buttressed
with optimism that he will get Cock’s Pio-
neer again on the div. list. If he can he has
six years’ wash to work upon. That will
give the ordinary shares a chance. As
things stand, the cum. prefs. first get their
capital back in full, and then a 25 p.c. div.
as a solatium for putting up. good stuff when
things looked as if the old barge might
have to go to the wreckers.
* * * *
Sardine Tin, the Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.)
lode-tin show, continues to do well, anew
lode of 20-24 in. having come m on the hang-
ing-wall formation of No. 3 north drive.
Angus Macallum and George Urquhart, ot
the Towers, are said to control most ot the
shares. Both being solemn Scots, neither
can be found guilty of the little mine s apt
name, which was bestowed on it by the ori-
ginal locator —an Australian.
Tasmanian Tin, which, witli Oriental Tin,
was testing a tin-dredging proposition in
the Annan River in N.Q„ has given up
the attempt on account of difficulty encoun-
tered in boring the heavy wash. Tasmanian
does not despair, however, of locating payable
dredging areas, and field-manager Miller is
getting ready to test other country in the
same locality.
* * * *
The following statistics show that the tin
position gained in strength _in 1 ebruary,
total stocks being 1125 tons, lighter than in
January, and 2033 tons lighter than 1-
months earlier : , „
A Month A Year
Ago. Ago.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Total, stocks at the end of A 1
February .. .. 13,0(>8 14,193 15,101
Consumption during the
month of February .. 8,856 9,702 8,990
Supplies received during the
month of February .. 7,/31 8,891 8,489
* * * *
Twyford Malaya announces the terms of
the float of its Gunong area (F.M.S.)
200,000 ss. shares, 40,000 paids to go to
the vendor co. along with £SOOO in cash,
and 160,000 to the public. Joe Millican,
Charley Todman and Harold Deventhal
appear on the board. The property is 16
miles from Ipoh, and three miles from
Chemor railway station. Of an area of 300
acres check-bored, C. J. Rowe vouches for
160 acres holding 4,500,000 c. y. of lOJoz.
wash to an average depth of 17ft. “No
boulders were met with, and sunken timber
was found in only one hole.” The ore-bear-
ing strata contains 67 p.c. sand and gravel,
and bedrock is limestone; but sedimentary
deposits, clay and decomposed limestone
forms the ore-bearing bottom in 75 p.c. of
holes, the remainder being on hard limestone.
A second-hand bucket dredge has been
secured for £16,000 on easy terms. The new
co. also secures prospecting licenses for 1000
acres of tin-bearing ground adjoining its pro-
perty on the south, and over 2000 acres at
Bang Thong, Siam. Holders of the 10,000
Twyfords will get 10s. a share in cash and
four fully-paids for one. Sydney Malaya, the
original parent, paid its first div. of 2s. a
share on its 1000 shares this week.
To dredge part of the Ronpibon area is
Teddy Miles’s arrangement on behalf of the
Ronpibon Extended. Its plant went off the
old Deebook books into that of the Extended
as a swap for a 50 p.c. holding in the
Extended’s issue of 30,000 £1 shares. The
deal helped not only Deebook, but Ronpibon,
which furnished the land and took the other
half of the Extended’s scrip. East year
Deebook got £11,500 in divs. from the pup,
which treated 658,000 c. yds. for tons
oxide. Between June and November, the
last patch of ground held by the Extended
was worked out, 263,000 c. yds. giving 71
tons oxide. Now the dredge is being patched
up preparatory to digging into the Ronpibon
ground.
As the Ronpibon Extended’s dredge couldn’t
scrape up bottom wash in its own paddocks
Ronpibon put its plant on a selected plot.
The scheme was good: 863,000 c. yds. were
dredged and 280 tons oxide recovered —an
average of 11.600 z. a yard. As oxide was
worth £162 6s. 9d. a ton, the co. obtained
£45,313 from sales. Costs were 7.55 and. a
yard, and the mine profit 5.04 and. a yard, less
a royalty of l-'d. a yard. The ground was
fairly stiff, so costs were a bit higher and
the yardage a shade less. Now the plant is
to go ahead in the Ronpibon’s new ground
in the western area. Including receipts from
Ronpibon Extended, Ronpibon’s work for the
12 months gave profits of £19,938, out of
which £18,500 went for divs.; £7879 was
written off? for depreciation. As earnings
have kept up another £6750 was allotted as
a div. after the year closed on June 30.
The co.’s stranded asset, the Talerm, is at.
last on the stocks. A float is about arranged,
probably with A. W. Palfreyman as under-
writer. The co.’s list of assets of £205,097
show the Talerm as having cost £II.OOO.
During the year, by writing down the Ron-
pibon dredge £5615, plant book value is
reduced to £93,000. That is still a big item,
and the co. would do well to amortise when-
ever the chance offers. The co.’s own dredge,
the holding of 15,000 £1 shares in the
Extended, the mine account £59,670, and the
Talerm lease comprise the bulk of the
£205,000 of assets. A good float with Talerm
will improve things materially. As reports
about that area are good and as tin is
high, any new co. will slip off the stocks
without the necessity of greasing the ways.
Malay-Siamese Prospecting Cos. reports
that Nawng Pet, which has been cleaning up
faces, got 6J tons out of the job, and has
resumed regular work. Normal production
is expected for March. Phin Soon, the old
Chinese open-cut show, took 15 tons out of
18,000 yards—a first-class result. Huey
Yot’s Dutch dredge has arrived at Penang,
and erection should soon be set in hand.
The parent co.’s lode-tin proposition at Ivose-
bah promises well.
* * * *
Still they come! Edie Creek G.M. Leases,
Ltd., is the latest registered for a smack at
the New Guinea mountain goldfield. Capital
is £IO,OOO, and the rights to be acquired
are on the same run as the Royal and Chis-
holm leases, which have been the centre of
the objections raised by the miners.
Ivundang, capital £125,000, is on a sticky
wicket just now, and its first div. is still
around the corner. The February return, 12
tons from 41,000 c. y., shows a marked drop
from January’s figures of 17 tons at a
slightly better yardage rate. It is not a
matter of the dredge, for Kundang is Well
equipped. The trouble is that affecting quite
a number of Malayan shows just now —there
isn’t enough tin in the ground turned over.
This is especially indicated by the recent fall
in average returns among the Malayan
dredges, and the situation is fully appre-
ciated in the F.M.S. itself, where tin interests
at the moment are notably dull and depressed.
There is a reflex of this in Australia, where,
in spite of the good metal prices lately ruling,
tin stocks have been moving sluggishly, and,
in many cases, downwards.
* * * *
Rawang Concessions, an addition to the
I’ratten interests, has been oversubscribed.
The new show, 1000 acres in extent, is close
to Rawang, and has been worked for years
by two open-cut shows under Chinese direc-
tion. Testing showed 360 acres available for
dredge or gravel pump, and Malcolm New-
man has estimated that there are 22 million
yards going 1-jlb. to the yard. If these
figures are anything near correct, the show
is a bonanza. That such an excellent pro-
perty has been left for years in Chinese
hands is probably explained by the stiff con-
sideration the vendors exacted —£90,000, half
in cash and half in f.-p. shares. Rawang
itself takes 45,000 f.-p’s.
* * * *
Guinea Gold, the New Guinea alluvial
show with sluicing properties in the Bulolo
Valley—no dredge is ever likely to get over
the 6000 ft. ridge which cuts it off from
the sea—had mining-expert E. B. Jensen, of
Adelaide, furnish a report on sample gold
from the leases. Jensen considers that the
specimens, being only slightly water-worn,
could not have travelled far from the rich
“mother reef” close by. This old theory has
broken many a speculator’s heart and many
a prospector’s spine. Far above these Bulolo
areas, on the same watershed and in streams
which feed the Bulolo and Karanga creek,
the same sort of specimen gold is being got,
though nobody has yet located that “mother
reef.” In all the history of alluvial gold-
mining, the “mother reef” theory has proved
a will-o’-the-wisp. The evidence against it
is so strong that even the diehards are weak-
ening nowadays.
* * * #
Unusual candor was the order of the day
when Jelantoh Tin, Ltd., Ipoh (F.M.S.),
held its annual meeting. Chairman Mair
announced a deficit of £IO,OOO for the term,
bringing the aggregate up to £55,000, share
capital being in 590,000 dollar shares, of
which 450,000 are ords. and 140.000 in
the “A” issue. “The co. has carried on for
some years in a very unsatisfactory financial
position,” commented the chairman, “and
shareholders were informed at last general
meeting that 49 propositions had been exam-
ined without success, and it appeared with
the passing of time that likelihood of suc-
cess was becoming more and more remote.”
And so the co. decided to accept a merger
whereby it disappeared in the innards of
the Kent (F.M.S.) Cos.
* * * *
The Pungkah float has not materialised as
expected, although one well-known broker is
reported to have already sold shares in wads
at 12s. 6d. The market is now 10s. seller.
The managing director has just gone to “the
East” to fix up surface rights, which by all
accounts have not so far been arranged.
Further details of Tingha Tin’s (N.S.W.)
determination to seek its fortune in Asiatic
fields appear in the prospectus of Tingha
Eastern Development Cos., capital. £150,000
in £1 shares. Of these 20,000 will be issued
as fully paid and used “for acquiring pro-
perties.” Tingha Tin will take 80,000 con-
tribs., and the balance of 50,000 is to be
held in reserve. F. A. Wilson, manager of
Tingha Tin, will shortly depart, for Malaya
to visit three areas on which; applications
have been lodged.
* * * *
Mandated Development Cos., which holds
oil leases at Matapau, New Guinea, lias
granted an option to Arthur Rickard and
Colonel Kindon, who propose raising
£IOO,OOO in London to work the concessions.
The infant eo. failed to collect sufficient
funds in Australia a year ago, but the
optioneers have hopes of London.
# # * #
The Freeman stable, in conjunction with
L. V. Waterhouse, confidently predicts a
strong revival of gold-dredging on the M.L.
West Coast. Four properties at present
being considered include a likely-looking beach
between the Paparoa foothills and the sea,
and some often-flooded farm areas at Mur-
chison. The beach below the Paparoas would
seem good for modern dredging, inasmuch as
one prospector thereabout has worked a 40-
acre patch for 18 years by obsolete methods
and banked, it is alleged, £70,000. F. W.
Godden, late manager of the Morning Star
(Vic.), is handling these areas for the
Freeman-Waterhouse group, whose parent
co., Clutha Development, in 10,000 20s.
shares, is issuirig a further 5000. The co.
holds 1200 acres on the Clutha, extending
eight miles along the river from Lowbura
Ferry to Bowman’s Flat, where the Lindis
empties into the parent stream. Professor
James Park gives the uniform depth of wash
as 50ft., with an absence of boulders, cement
or clay, with gold content clean and heavy,
and such as should easily be saved on tables.
Borings show that 52 holes completed, after
discounting 3s. and 4s. values by 60 p.c.,
give 6d. per cubic yard. On the river islands
18 holes gave lOfd. per cubic yard. Five-
holes on island D gave 20fd. to the cubic
yard. Further boring on the islands is being
done, and the river bed itself will be tested.
The directors speak of a big dredge to treat
200,000 cubic yards a month, believing that
their conservative values at 6d. a yard should
return high profits, as costs are worked out
at 3|d. The report shows £4425 at debit
of p. and 1.; but the issue of 5000 new shares
is underwritten. An operating co. will be
floated to put the dredge on and conduct the
actual recoveries.


CONSIDERING. THE COUNTRY HE COMES "ROM
With its wide open spaces* t -
The Bushrangers to be met^
The. wh.o S To Be
CON^uEReDj
AMD AM- other Dangers of a NEW i_ANO (
IT IS TO WOW THKT THE
DwJNTI.E SS HERO —“
CAN H'HiSEUF LOON U^e
Tms>,
OUR MR. BUCK JONES BRUCE.
Mr. Bruce is cheered in the movie theatres of Canada whenever his movements are filmed. Canada greatly admires him.” —Press item.


\WieivyouVe tried the
rest-jyoull smoke the best
2 O for I^6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD. LONDON
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Claude Weston”: An inspector descended
upon the State School at Wooroolin (Q.)
recently, and was pre-
sently examining the
lowest class. A small
boy was asked to
spell “Bob,” and nego-
tia t e d the hurdle
scornfully. “N o w,”
said the inspector,
“spell it backwards.”
Quite innocently the
youngster right-about-
faced and gave an
encore.
STILL A GAMBLE.
“He has tickets on her, all right.”
“Bet your life! Heart-union tickets!”
“Babette”: During the Royal procession
through Auckland (M.L.), a telegram men-
tioned the other day, the Duchess’s hat was
ruined by rain. The city offered the same
moist welcome to the Duke’s parents upon
the occasion of tlieir visit 26 years ago, but
the Duchess of that era, more economical m
her generation, took no chances with her
hat. She raised the royal brolly immediately
upon entering the carriage. As an enter-
prising youngster I was as close up to the
scene as I could get, and I heard our pre-
sent King say in a distinct stage whisper:
“Put your umbrella down.” The Duchess s
reply was a prompt and uncompromising 1
won’t.” She didn’t either, but bowed her
way all along the route from the shelter
of the umbrella and an undamaged black
hat.
“Kerys”: There recently died in Sydney
a well-known civil servant who had gained
an unpleasant reputation for meanness.
Although a bachelor and in receipt of a good
salary he lived at a cheap boarding-liousc,
and sternly discouraged all those who tried
to induce him to subscribe to deserving chan-
ties or to contribute to the presentations
that came along in his department Witn
harassing regularity. He went to no enter-
tainments and indulged in no pastimes, un-
less solitary walks can be called such. But
some months after his death a widowed sister
in-law and her brood of seven arrived from
England to take possession of a small home
that had been left for them by the deceased
in Sydney. It transpired that for the past
10 years they had been almost wholly depend-
ent on their Australian relative, _ and his
acquaintances have since been revising their
harsh judgments about his rigid economies.
“N’lmporte”: There was some quiet hero-
ism at Cairns (Q.) during the night of the
Willis cyclone. It was a hair-raising
experience to be out in the streets between
10.80 and 11.30 that night; but the Cairns
ambulance brigade made nothing of it. The
Grierson Private Hospital threatened to fan
about the ears of the helpless patients. When
the brigade set out for the scene yards of
sheet-iron were flying about in the darkness,
trees were falling, and live electric wires
were trailing around every corner. A local
medico volunteered his help, though the
elements had already wrecked one car in
which he was trying to get around. Two
policemen were among others who risked
decapitation, electrocution and other forms of
sudden death to aid the helpless. When the
rescuers got to the hospital, the matron and
the nursing staff had already done their bit
in preparing the patients and dragging them
downstairs before the roof fell in. They
were all shifted safely to the public hospital.
“Sir Sol” : The same old red, white
and blue banner has waved for 70
years at the head of the Melbourne
Eight Hour procession. When the
Eight Hour movement was inaugu-
rated in 1856 by Galloway and Ste-
phens, the founders, one of their
staunchest offsiders was an English
Chartist named Vine, a earpenter.
His three daughters, imbued with the
paternal spirit, made the banner with
jts motto: “Eight Hours’ Labor, Eight
Hours’ Recreation, Eight Hours’ Rest.”
The letters are white
on a blue ground,
with red border.
There was a differ-
ence of opinion be-
tween Vine and
Galloway about the
style and color of
the flag. The
latter, who. was
Scotch, wanted a
replica of the
“Blue Blanket of
Scotland” present-
ed to the Guilds in
1482 by James 111.
of that country,
and still preserved.
Vine, however, was
English, and in-
sisted on the red,
white and blue.
The motto was
taken from words
used in a speech by
Dr. Embling, a
gentleman never
suspected of any
violent enthusiasm
for the cause of
the workers.
Though the old
banner is hardly in
keeping with the
more elaborate and
elegant ones of the
societies, its asso-
ciations are too
sacred to allow of
it being replaced
by a more preten-
tious one.
“P.X.”: A man got one of the surprises of
his life in a Sydney hotel a few days ago.
lie had travelled from Melbourne by the
Limited, and, being in a hurry on his arrival
in Sydney, grabbed from the pile that had
been got ready for removal a familiar-looking
bag with his three initials on it, and sped
off in a taxi. He at once went about his
business, and it wasn’t till late in the after-
noon that he opened the bag, to find it packed
with feminine gear. Then for the first time
he turned the thing over and found a label,
the name on which was that of his ex-wife,
from whom he had been divorced a year or
so ago. The obvious explanation was that
she had been a passenger in the same car-
riage ; so a mutual friend was called up, and
an exchange was promptly effected.
END OF THE SECTION.
“May I have the last dance with you?”
“You’’ve just had it.”
“Wal” : The guileless Papuan! A Mores-
by lady hired a local lad to erect a fowl-
house for her for £l, all the material being
supplied. Along lobbed the contractor in
a red loincloth, a soft in his sloe eyes.
He marked out the site, talked to two younger
youths,, and went to sleep in the shade
of a poinciana-tree until sunset. The house
was finished the second day, the contractor
sleeping while the other two lads sweated
and hammered the structure together. Said
the lady: “Why you not do this work your-
self?” Quoth Brown Brother: “Me contlac-
tor, sinebada [madam]. You pay me £1; I
pay these two boys 2s. each, and I take lrome
for myself 16s. My. word, sinpbada, me
ploper contlactor man!”
* * * *
“E. Metic”: I rather fancy that the
popular prejudice against mineral drugs (B.
3/3/’27) is due (1) to disgust at the nausea
produced by mercurials such as calomel, and
(2) to fear of cumulative effect. Amongst
the alkaloids “E. M. Pyric” omits to men-
tion two poisons very much more powerful
than those he quotes, viz., aconitine and
atropine. The former is 100 times as toxic
as brucine. They are the active principles
of common European plants, wolf’s bane
and deadly nightshade respectively, that,
have been used for medicinal (and other)
purposes from time immemorial. The con-
centrated aqueous or spirituous extracts of
these herbs when used as poisons are less
bulky and more difficult of detection by
layman or expert than the mineral, sub-
stances referred to, whether mixed with food,
or located in the cadaver after doing their
deadly work. They were well known in
mediaeval Italy. For this reason, if for.no
other, it is incorrect to say that the poisons
employed by the Borgias and Medicis were
little beyond compounds of arsenic and
mercury.
* * * *
“E. Mudhook” : The Strophanthus of the
Congo is a deadly poison (B. 3/3/’27), but
the natives of this section of Darkest Africa
are more addicted to paying off their grudges
with powdered glass. Hence many a white
man has been buried and a death-certificate
made out for dysentery. I do not know if
there is any antidote or treatment, but when
I was on the Congo none was known. The
symptoms closely resemble those of acute
dysentery, and where no fully-qualified medi-
cal man is available it is almost impossible
to sheet this class of crime home." One of
the methods adopted by Europeans to mini-
mise the danger is to make the cookboy eat
part of the food he has prepared before it
is served. But there is always the possi-
bility that the boy is not in the joke; I
once lost an admirable servant in this way.
“Sola”: Something of a novelty in real
estate was offered in Ashburton(M.L latey
when the freehold of a river, 45 acres and
about 15Q chains by 3, came under the
hammer at a subdivision sale of portion of
the f amo us Longbeach estate. The explana-
tion is that the original grant to John Grigg,
a b o ut 1875. included an “almost impenetrable
b o g.” in which the Hinds River lost itself,
mouth was there and the upper tribu-
taries, so Grigg dug a channel connecting the
two an( j drained the swamp. To-day the
area among the finest agricultural land in
m.L., though a bit infested with the Cali-
fornian thistle. The lot was passed in at
t i ie sa i e an d John Grigg the third still retains
it .
* * * *
“Hayband” : At Summer Hill, Sydney, the
other night, a young friend of mine picked
up with an ether-pal in Cleveland, Ohio. Said
the Yank: “Listen carefully till 1 speak
in .„ In a second or tW o we heard a series
ot - f a i n t"“traps “Hear him?” asked the Ameri-
can Receiving an affirmative, he told us
*£ fly walking across a piece of tissue-
paper> Q ae G f t i ie se days he is going to let
ug J iear a flea’s heart beating from the other
s jd e of the world. Middle-aged astonish-
ment at these miracles only amuses the youth
to „day.
*' » * *
“Strict Veg.”: Apropos the cabled state-
ment of the surgeon-general of the U.S.A.
rm y that rejuvenation is a sham. The
best commentary on Prof, Eugen Steinach’s
c ] a i m s, which, incidentally, the medical fra-
ternity rejected long ago, was provided by
one G f bis own patients. In May, 1921, a
rejuvenated Tithonus of 72 announced that
be would lecture London on “How I nas
Made Twenty Years Younger by Eugen Stem-
acli.” He was found dead in his bed the morn-
jn g before the opening lecture. The modern
view of Steinach’s alleged successes is that
they were merely the sport of auto-sugges
tion. An old body can no more be restored
by the substitiition of a new gland than an
old Ford can be renewed by the addition of
a fresh carburetter. So a slump m the Indo-
European trade m monkeys may shortly be
expected.
BALLADE OF A CRAYFISH SUPPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have tasted the joys of the jazz and the whirl
Of the waltz; 1 have followed the hounds o'er
the lea;
I have sat on the beach with a cuddlesome girl
While our kisses beat time to the lap of the sea ;
I have steered through the Heads a fast cutter,
its lee-
Rail a-wash and its stem splitting silvery spray,
But thrills were my lot in a keener degree
When Olive and I had that supper of Cray.
1 took her to sob o’er “The Paid and the Pearl.”
She seemed slightly distrait when I jostled her
knee
As the lariat shot with a serpentine twirl,
Ere the Ghoul of the Gulch got his shooting-
iron free.
But she made full amends when we started the
spree
At the Dago’s whose fish-shop stands facing the bay,
Sure, our spirits were lighter than silk lingerie
When Olive and I had that supper of cray.
From each black patent shoe to each soft ebon
curl
She sparkled and rippled, my fair vis-a-vis.;
I wouldn’t have envied a globe-trotting earl
With his countess at Government House faking tea.
And the sequel? Oh, guess it. Well, I had the
key
Of the street, where I woke, in a dawn cold and
grey,
Dead-broke, with the thirst of a Yarra bargee,
After Olive and I had that supper of cray.
Envoy.
Mates, blame not the girls who are fickle, and free
W T ith their love. There is always some reckoning
to pay.
And withal it was worth it, you take it from me.
W 7 hen Olive and I had that supper of cray.
TASMANIA.
S. N. O. B.


“Ibn El Issar”: The natural
mummification of bodies in
Western Egypt (B. 3/3/’27)
has long been availed of by the
extraordinary communities of
Coptic monks and nuns who
live together in the walled-up
monasteries known as Deirs
which are scattered about the
desolate Libyan plateau. These
are built round a well, and the
high walls are doorless and win-
dowless. Supplies and the very
rare visitor are drawn up in a
basket. The dead are covered
lightly with the alkali-impreg-
nated soil and left in the sun-
shine. In a few weeks they are
disinterred, and literally stacked
like cords of timber in the midst
of the living community, no soul
of which ever leaves the Deir
after having once entered it.
* * *
“Quero”: The world is full
of astonishingly unobservant
people. I left my purse in a
city shop last week, and when
nearly home discovered the loss.
It took me half an hour to get
back to town by train, but I
went straight to the place where
I had been trying on hats, and
picked up the small purse wdiero
I had left it. Crowds of shop-
pers had passed to and fro; an
assistant remembered one
woman having placed her hat
over the purse while she tried
on some headgear, and in the
interval the hat I had fancied
had been sold. I had an even
more curious experience years
ago, when I left a small purse
on a shop counter, and on going-
back picked it out of a basket
of purses standing on the coun-
ter for sale. An assistant had
actually handled it, and mistak-
ing the notes inside for packing-
paper, had restored it, as he
thought, to the basket.
* . * *
“Erua”: I know a very
youthful typist who slipped by
pure luck into a good position
the other day. A small city
firm required a temporary girl,
and a local business college sent
a junior along to fill the posi-
tion. The girl duly went to
the address given and shyly
announced that she had come
to act as stenographer. Some-
body asked her to take a seat,
and she noticed several em-
ployees looking at her curiously,
but presently a member of the
firm arrived and remarked that
they had not anticipated engag-
ing a girl so soon, but he sup-
posed the college had sent her
up on speculation. It was a
tribute to Australian enterprise,
he added. Half an hour later
a much delighted girl was tell-
ing her friends that the firm
had engaged her permanently at
a salary that astonished the col-
lege. On investigation they
found they had given the
wrong address, and the junior
had strayed into the premises
of a firm representing a
big New York concern.
* * *
“X2X” : So-called “rheumat-
ism rings” owe their vogue, as
“A.M.J.” suggests (B. 3/3/’27),
to the absurd idea that they
generate some sort of helpful
electricity. But the mediaeval
rings worn for the same pur-
pose, and mentioned by Ben-
venuto Cellini (something of a
quack-doctor himself), depended
for their reputed efficiency ou
having been officially blessed by
some bigh prelate of the Church.
In the later Middle Ages there
was a brisk demand for such rings,
The modern article appeared about 80 years
ago. It was supposed to consist of a layer
of copper and another of zinc; the combina-
tion, after being dipped in a solution of a
weak acid and placed on the finger, was said
to have the effect of sending a continuous
current through the wearer’s body. The
idea is a preposterous one, from both the
medical and the chemical viewpoints, despite
the numbers who swear by it.
*,_ * * *
“Molokihi” (Papua) : I would like to
enter the native sago of Papua for the relia-
bility stakes in the way of sustenance. I
know of thousands of natives in the. western
Papuan deltas who live on a diet of sago
almost exclusively, the only change in the
menu being at a far from frequent communal
feast, when pigs, fish or water-snakes are
consumed as luxuries. Once I had my work
cut out to keep a string of native prisoners
alive on a diet of well-cooked rice and bully-
beef, and was as relieved as they were to
strike again a patch of good sago.
, * * * *
“Silenus”: The insoluble problem. “When
is a man drunk?” has cropped up again in
a Victorian trial. The jury wrestled for two
hours over the question whether the pri-
soner, charged with having obtained £3 by
a valueless cheque, knew what he was doing
when he filled it in and signed it. Then they
trooped back into court, and a harried fore-
man told ’Sonah: “If we stop here till
Doomsday we can’t agree. It all hinges on
the question—When is a man drunk?” A
desire was expressed for some further judi-
cial enlightenment on this fine point. But
the Judge contented himself with ponder-
ously remarking that whilst drunkenness was
no excuse for crime, it was vital to the pre-
sent case that the man should have known
the consequences of his act when he signed
the cheque. Evidently that didn’t help the
jury, and even a threat of being locked up
for the night failed to promote unanimity.
In the end they were discharged, and doubt-
less went home to take their wives’ opinion
on the stage when complete sobriety ceases.
* * * *
“Wang”: Paragraphs about wives pulling’
their husbands out of the A.1.F., or forbid-
ding them to enlist, remind me that in our
suburb the recruiting-office was opposite a
“As a mail of the world nothing annoys
me more than to see an amateur
toying with an oyster.
“Tut tut, my dear sir! That’s not the
way to eat an oyster. Allow me
“First grasp the fork firmly in the right
hand, thus
“Then, with a graceful motion, the head
is thrown back—care being taken not
to bite the luscious bivalve.
“There you are my dear sir, that”
“Wonderful, Mister! What do YOU
think was wrong with it?”
AN OYSTER TRAGEDY.
pub daily patronised by a chap who pro-
claimed that he was dead anxious to have
a go at Fritz, but his wife wouldn’t hear
of it. His oft-repeated regret that he was
thus prevented from offering his services to
King and country earned him a good deal
of sympathy and a certain amount of beer.
One afternoon there were sofinds of strife
and bad language in the pub opposite the
recruitingvoffice, and presently a couple were
pushed out to the street. The lady was
intensely excited and violently loquacious.
Pointing to the building across the road, she
screeched, “Go'on over an’ enlist, y’ mis’rable
dog! Yer been blamin’ yer wife all tli’ time
fer not enlistin’! I, ain’t yer wife, an’ never
was!” Later it transpired that the cold-
footed Lothario had been found out by his
unofficial wife philandering with some other
woman. I don’t know to this day whether
he joined up or not, but his pet pub knew
him no more.
* Jfr * *
“Narara”: The “long arm” again. An
ex-A.I.F. officer, walking along George-street,
Sydney, last week, was hailed by a man he
had not seen since they were on leave together
in Cairo in 1915. While there they had
joined about a dozen others on a trip to the
Pyramids. Yarning over old times, the pair
moved close to a shop window, and there
one of them happened to notice a photo which
looked familiar. Investigation proved it to
be a remarkably clear enlargement of a snap-
shot one of the Cairo party had taken on
the return trip from the Pyramids; it showed
the two who had just met, a few paces away,
standing together alongside their donkeys.
They bought the photo, and now each has a
copy of it.
* * * *
“Recurrent F'actor”: “X.N.O.’s” wonder-
ful naval code (B. 3/8/’27) is just a “jar-
gon” code, closely akin to the “secret” lingoes
little boys delight to converse in. In
“X.N.O.’s” code of “words and phrases”
“Pig’s whiskers shaved last week”'may mean
anything previously agreed on. Change a
jargon code as often as you like, its weak-
ness and danger remain. As “X.N.0.”
admits, the sender and receiver must have
“a code and decode volume” —in other words,.
an easy means of translation for outsiders
if the numerous volumes become lost, stolen
or strayed.
“Murkah” : The first discoverer of gold in
Australia was neither Hargraves nor Hunt
(B. 24/2/'27). Gold was found, not far
from where Hargraves afterwards struck it.
in 1814 by some convicts engaged’ in road
work, but they were compelled to silence by
threats of flogging, the authorities being
apprehensive that a gold-fever would break
out and upset the colony. On February 1.
1828, assistant-surveyor James Mcßrian
found gold on the Fish River, 15 miles
east of Bathurst, and methodically recorded
the exact place in his field-book, the extract
being preserved in the Surveyor-General’s
Office, Sydney. But the two names insepar-
ably connected with Australian gold dis-
covery are those of Count Strzelecki and
Rev. W. B. Clarke. The former, a Polish
refugee, applied a scientific knowledge of
geology and mineralogy to the problem, and
spent £SOOO of his personal fortune in the
search. He discovered gold in the Blue
Mountains in April. 1889. and soon after-
wards proved the existence of the Bathurst
goldfield. To his astonishment (as he records
in a book written long years afterwards)
Governor Gipps bound him to secrecy on
the ground that there would be no holding
the convicts if they got to know of the find.
The Rev. Clarke, also a geologist, discovered
gold in various places from 1839 onwards,
and on April 9, 1844, exhibited specimens
to members of the N.S.W. Legislature. Har-
’ graves struck gold at Summerhill Creek in
February, 1851, and, unlike his predecessors,
was able to advertise his find to the world.
The Government, in 1853, voted him £IO,OOO.
and the Rev. Clarke received £6000; Count
Strzelecki had returned to England in 1546.
Oddly enough, Hargraves and James
Esmond, Vic. pioneer gold-discoverer, with
the same ideas stewing in their minds,
were fellow passengers on the return journey
from California in 1850. Esmond struck
gold at Clunes, Vic., on June 1, 1851.
* * * *
“A.H.A.”: The Duke of York, it seems,
is to be given the gratification of going under
no fewer than 19 arches when he drives
through the streets of Sydney. The struc-
tures will cost £SOOO, approximately £250
per arch. The Duke is known to be a
serious-minded young man, and, apparently,
he is credited by those in charge of the recep-
tion arrangements with a sneaking fondness
for arches. The only drawback
appears to be that the metro-
polis will be so cluttered up
with arches during his visit that
the Duke will wonder where the
public buildings and shops are
hidden. On the other hand, we
have the comforting assurance
that the £SOOO spent on arches
will merely be a sprat to catch
a mackerel. “Sydney will be a
centre of attraction during the
Royal visit. Hotels and accom-
modation-houses will be filled to
overflowing. Business through-
out the metropolitan area will
receive a tremendous fillip.
Money spent on decorations and
illuminations will get a speedy
return.” If this is so. why
should not the City Council
erect permanent arches at every
street corner, with the figure of
a city alderman rampant on the
top? It might enable it to
reduce the rates.
* * *
“X.N.0.” : British Navy tra-
ditions would not necessarily be
“knocked endways by piping the
side for a mere lieutenant” (B.
24/2/’27). The side could,
would and should be piped for
a mere engine-room artificer
provided he was in command, of
a ship, which is the only thing
that matters. I am still won-
dering what sort of ship it was
where “Cro” had to cross the
quarter-deck to get from the
port main circulating engine,
presumably well down below, to
the engineer’s workshop, also as
a rule somewhere between
decks? “Cro’s” par, is a tilt
at the “sanctity of the quarter-
deck,” but it is not the q.-d.
for which respect is exacted but
the White Ensign, which one
first sees on reaching the quar-
ter-deck. In ships of the R.N.
in which the officers lived
“for’d” and the men aft, one
still saluted the quarter-deck,
although it was part of the
men’s quarters.
* * #
“Narara”: Thirty years ago
there came into my possession
an old rusty triangular bayonet
whereon a number and a Gov-
ernment brand are still discern-
ible. It was found, together
with a pair of old leg-irons, in
a cave near the stockade on the
main Northern-road, not far
from Wiseman’s Ferry
(N.S.W.). Old residents on
the Ilawkesbury to whom I have
shown it are unanimous that it
was one of the bayonets issued
to the “Rum Corps” in the
early days of the colony. Can
anyone tell me if there was ever
a detachment of the “Rum
Corps” stationed at Wiseman’s
Ferry ?
“Hamer”: The rapid growth
of the religious sect whose mem-
bers call their temple the Church
of Christ Scientist is shown by
the new sanctuary nearly com-
pleted at the corner of Liver-
pool and Forbes streets, Dar-
linghurst. The sect claims
many wealthy members, free
spenders, and the building will
be an imposing one. Yet even
in Darlinghurst it will hardly
be as well-placed as. the orna-
mental structure of the denomi-
nation which is a feature of St.
Kilda-road, Melbourne. Ser-
vices in that edifice mean a
long row of luxurious motor-
cars waiting without.
FRIENDS.
[For The Bulletin.]
“He had made friends with middle-age.”— Ant/
novel.
The soursobs have shut their eyes,
The purple flags are furled ;
The soft night slips across the skies
To clasp a sleepy world.
The cat creeps in, content, to sit
Before our late spring Are;
And I am fain to watch you knit,
And build the pine-logs higher.
Content is here, and tranquil ease,
Within these four walls shut.
Leave Carnival to those who please,
And jazz, and moonlight—tut!
1 shall sit here, and smoke, and nod,
Nor for young follies sigh;
Wo are congenial friends, thank God,
This middle-age and IJ
s.a. M. B. C.
ZOOLOGICAL NOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They have waited many a day,
And when comes the stain
Of some shower’s earliest drop
As by magic up they pop,
Chasing tram and train;
As the pavement, hot and grey,
Darkens fast with splash and spray,
Out come the elephants,
Short, fat elephants,
Little black elephants,
Bobbing in the rain.
Staid umbrella, battered gamp.
Showers set them free;
Where we watched, an hour ago,
People passing to and fro
Now we only see,
Jostling up the station ramp
Through the misty twilight damp,
A long line of elephants,
Funny little elephants.
Hungry little elephants,
Going home to tea.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Ok Equitable Life
e
FIDS
iTut
COV;
Australasia 01
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
\
V's
WSmml
mm
A
K ;\*s
ALWAYS ORDER
£
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“Wal”: Without detracting one iota from
the excellent performance of Squadron-
Leader Williams in flying a seaplane from
Point Cook to the Solomon Islands, it was
not the pioneer flight in the Western Pacific,
as lias been widely claimed. That record
belongs to the seaplane of the raider Wolf,
which captured the Matunga. The next
aerial explorer was poor Andrew Lang, in
a Curtiss flying-boat and a Short biplane.
Lang made his first flight at Port Moresby
on September 5, 1922, when with Alec Hill
he took the air after a short spin on the
surface of Port Moresby harbor. That may
fairly be called the first pioneer flight in
the Western Pacific, for the Wolf ’plane did
not fly far from her mother ship. In the
weeks that followed, Lang flew from Port
Moresby to Hula (52 miles east of Moresby)
and from Port Moresby to Daru; also he
made numerous photographic excursions all
over the Delta in the Gulf of Papua, and
finally he flew from Daru across Torres
Strait to Thursday Island. All these
flights were made by the flying-hoat; the
Short seaplane was only flown once—at Port
Moresby—by Lang and Hill, when she got
into an air-pocket above Koki and nearly
crashed. This was the seaplane that spilt
Lang and Hill into the harbor off Longnose
Point on their attempt to fly the craft from
Sydney to her hangar at Botany. Williams
and his two mates deserve all the tributes
that have been paid them, but poor Andy
ANOTHER PAINFUL MISUNDERSTANDING.
EARNEST INQUIRER : “Is it true you sailors have a-
wife in every port?"
SAILOR JACK ASHORE: “Wot’s yer game, 'Ector?
Toutin’ for a matrimonial agency?"
Lang and Alec Hill were actually the aerial
pioneers of New Guinea and the Western
Pacific.
MERELY WASTING TIME.
“And didn’t you tell her I teas the most brazen hussy in the city?"
“Yes."
“Why didn’t you come and tell me that?"
“How absurd, m’dear! You knew."
“Dixie”: Was strolling down Pitt-street
(Sydney) with an elderly lady friend, when a
man of about her own age stopped before her
in obvious surprise. “Why, it’s
Mary!” he cried. “Fancy you
being in Australia, John?” she
returned. I withdrew dis-
creetly, and sought to absorb
myself in the contents of a
shop window, but I couldn't
help catching some scraps of
the dialogue. “Be sure to come
to tea on Thursday, John,” my
friend concluded, “and bring
your wife. My husband and I
shall be charmed to have you.”
He promised. Rejoining me,
she remarked casually: “That’s
my first husband. I divorced
him in England 20 years ago.
He has just married again, and
is on his honeymoon. I’m
so pleased he’s coming to see
us. Mark [her present hus-
band] has never met him.”
“Bouragi”: The murder of a
squad of native police on Gaud-
alcanar, in the Solomons, while
the party was asleep draws at-
tention to a universal defect in
the make-up of the South Sea
policeman-soldier, be he Poly-
nesian, Melanesian, Micrones-
ian or just plain Papuan, viz.,
his inability to keep awake on
sentry go and his invariable dis-
regard of the danger of night
attacks. It is all the stranger
since it is the custom of nearly
all the above races to rely on
the night attack when raiding
a rival tribe or village. The
Papuan, curiously enough, can
keep awake all night to visit a
neighboring village and mas-
sacre its inhabitants when he
gets there, while the people
attacked, though with every
reason to apprehend a raid of
the kind, never make an at-
tempt to post night sentries,
though they will readily and
skilfully do so by day. The
recognised procedure is for the
decimated mob to wait till it
has recruited its forces, and
then visit its enemies by night. These, in
their turn, are sure to be found sleeping
like logs and so the hlutgelt is paid off.
“0.P.11.” : The other Sunday night a Mel-
bourne Scotchbyterian meenister brightened
up a discourse on the deeficulty of concen-
tration while praying with the following
sprightly anecdote. An Anglican vicar, he
told his suburban flock, and “one of our
own meenisters” were arguing on this very
subject a while back, and the vicar made
our brither an offer to gi’ him the riding-
horse that stood at the vicarage gate if he
would there and then say the Lord’s Prayer,
and assure him at the end that there had
been no wandering from the holy purpose
of addressing Heaven. The meenister
engaged in prayer, but he wouldn’t claim
the horse. He had to admit that when he
came to the words, “and lead us not into
temptation,” his attention deviated for a
moment while he speculated whether the
saddle and bridle would be thrown in with
the nag.
* » * *
“Traffic”: A unique extra freight-train
took the rails in S. Aus. the other day to
transfer five farmers, their families and pos-
sessions from the Mallala district, 37 miles
north-west of Adelaide, to the Pinnaroo dis-
trict. Thanks to Webb’s big engines, the
job was done in one piece. The gross load
was nearly 400 tons, made up of cattle,
horses, sheep, furniture, implements, trac-
tors and waggons. The farmers had tea in
their old home town, and reached their new
district in time for breakfast.
* * * »
“The Wowser”: In 1917 we were in camp
in Blighty at a big aerodrome. One Digger,
who was always complaining that he’d en-
listed “to see the war, not to mend
flamin’ aeroplanes,” was missing one morn-
ing, and remained so for 10 months. Then
he returned (under arrest). He had gone
to London, and after a trip to Manchester
landed back at Marylebone at 4 o’clock one
morning. An officer was there to take men
returning from leave to Victoria station to
catch the boat-train, and our man promptly
mixed in with the mob and invented a tale
about losing his brief. He was conveyed to
France, and actually fought with an Aus-
tralian division for seven months. Then he
got knocked, and his identity was disclosed.
I was on the corporal’s guard at the court-
martial, and the heads were puzzled as to
what to charge him with. Finally they found
a clause which seemed to meet the case:
“Firing on the King’s enemies without the
King’s permission.” And on that charge he
got 30 days in Lewes, and after that a trip
back to Aussie.
“Way Out” : The pathetic suicide by shoot-
ing of a young girl near Sydney was a rare
way for ii woman to take of ending earthly
troubles. Men prefer it. On an averaged sta-
tistical record over the past five years, only
one woman takes to the gun for every 28
males, though the rate of female to male
suicide is as 1 to 4. Poisoning is the
woman’s favorite method, with drowning a
fair second. As Kipling makes Mulvaney
say in “Love o’ Women,” “They will not
face the shot.”
* * * *
“Molokihi” (Papua) : Popular novelists to
the contrary, red calico and bright beads
are not the chief articles of trade in the
Islands. Dp New Guinea way a native will
almost always choose a white or dark blue cal-
ico from a trade box, and white is invariably
tne most popular color, even in beads. The
most important articles of trade are tobacco,
salt, Jews’ harps and plane irons. Of course,
young girls and village pigs have also a trade
value, but they are mostly used in transac-
tions attending the purchase or exchange of
wives.
* * * *
“Momokeni”: “Chloe” (B. 3/3/’27) tells
of the French fishmongers’ salt- and fresh-
water-tanks, where one may “handpick”
one’s meal. Durum a long period of house-
keeping on the Continent, I met with only
one instance of fish in tanks;. that was at
Fluellen, on Lake Lucerne, in Switzerland.
There the chef catches lake trout in a tank
at the back door, but to me it was always
the reverse of appetising to see them swiftly
beheaded and tossed into the frying-pan.
Similarly the Arab meat-purveyors will bring
the bleating kid to one’s door and slaughter
it there so that the customer may rely on
getting the tender young meat she has paid
for, and the Maltese dairyman patrols the
street with his goats and milks directly into
the customer’s jug as evidence of good faith.
It never struck me that either practice was
worth imitating.
* * * *
“Kit”: Included among the round of
festivities arranged in honor of the Duke of
Edinburgh during his stay in Melbourne was
the memorable Free Banquet held on Novem-
ber 28, 1867. Among the fare provided were
70 tons of potatoes, 120,0001 b. of cooked
meat, besides 28001 b. sent uncooked; 5000
pies, 45001 b. of plum-pudding, 600 lb. of
fish and cartloads of bread, cheese, buns,
lollies, fruits, etc. The drinkables included
six hogsheads of ale in bulk, a large quantity
in bottle and innumerable cases of spirits
and wine. In the centre of the old Zoologi-
cal Gardens (the venue chosen for the gorge)
stood a huge cask containing 500 gallons
of best colonial wine, which the Prince was
to set flowing. Alfred, however, didn’t,
materialise, being advised, at the last minute,
to keep aloof lest harm should befall him in
such a vast concourse; it is said that over
100,000 people attended. The disappointing
news soon spread and thousands went home
in disgust. Others manifested their disap-
EXPLAINED AT LAST.
THE SHEIK: “You know , life to me was a
great desert until I met you."
THE MAID: “Oh, how thrilling! And is
that why you, dance just like a camel?
probation by wrecking the tents and tables;
more victuals and liquor were destroyed than
consumed. Men knocked or kicked heads on
beer-casks; the pipes attached to the wine
fountain were rent asunder, and most ot the
red wine went to waste. My dad came home
with a bottle of pickles and an indelible pic-
ture in his mind of a huge negro mounted
on a table triumphantly brandishing a ham
as his share of the loot.
SUMMER SUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun is up at half-past four,
All orange-red among the trees;
He lights my room at half-past four
With ruby lamps set on the floor,
And, crouching low upon his knees,
Peers curiously between the trees.
The sun walks swiftly on the lawn,
And wakes the red rose and the white;
He drives tall shades across the lawn
With eager spears of flaming dawn;
Then, climbing pine-trees dark as night,
Unbars his gates of golden light.
The sun is high at six o’clock,
His yellow face like molten brass;
His burning breath at six o’clock
Has drooped the rose and hollyhock,
And in my bedroom looking-glass
Reflected glows his face of brass.
The sun is blazing on my bed,
And morn is yet no more than seven;
His streams of gold o’erflow my bed,
His shafts of gold torment my head,
Rut pitying Sleep wings swift from Heav’n
And softly shuts my eyes at seven.
VICTORIA.
H. C. C.


Wmnotte fpel
Brisbane 09
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
cen/ne of
Queens/an c/s
'Di'S/inpuished
Social Life.
n
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES -LENNONS , BRISBANE.
* TELEPHONE CENT. 5 780 (lO LINES).
BEAUTY OF DESIGN AND LASTING SERVICE
are well represented in this attractive canteen of
“CHIPPENDALE”
SILVER SPOONS AND FORKS.
Rasy to dean and keep in order, these
spoons and forks have the- same artistic
effect on the dinner table as has “Chippen-
dale” furniture in the room. These spoons
and forks are practically sheaths solid
silver on bases of hard, white metal. They
will give 40 years or more of hard, every-
day service.
The knives are of the highest quality,
stainless Sheffield steel.
This Chippendale set costs very little
more than those of ordinary patterns, and
is a splendid example of the high quality
and unequalled value of Fairfax and
Roberts’ silverware. Fairfax and Roberts’
prices are the lowest in Australia.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
-CASH ONLY.
PLAIN FIGURES-
e
M
m
Handsome Oak Cabinet, containing
Chippendale Spoons and Forks and tn p
best Sheffield Cutlery. 48 pieces in ali,
£lB.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
CLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRANO
With the exception of Dr. Argyle, who is
in Yankeeland, the full Vic. Composite
Cabinet mustered at Kyabram to hear Pre-
mier John Allan deliver his policy speech.
PADEREWSKI.
John called attention to the .presence of his
colleagues, as though to indicate that the
Coalition expects another lease of office.
Thirty-five years ago when Shiels took his
re-constructed Cabinet to .Casterton to listen
to his policy speech, he prompted the Minis-
ters to wear evening-dress, whereupon
“Foxy” Graves whispered, “I see Shiels. has
brought his Christy Minstrels with him.”
The Allancocks, as befits robust democrats,
wore ordinary sac suits.
There was a flavor of irony in the situa-
tion when Sydney City Council opened the
sealed envelopes disclosing the name of the
winner of the design for reconstructing Hyde
Park. It was Norman Weekes, the English
city engineer whom the council imported and
then threw out when Labor came into con-
trol. Weekes will not only take £l5O reward
from his old—er —friends, but will superin-
tend the reconstruction job.
P. R. (“Peter”) Macgregor, appointed
Royal Commissioner to inquire into the dis-
satisfaction on the New Guinea goldiields.
is a Queensland barrister. Born at Ipswich
in the days when it was practically a Scot-
tish colony, he was educated at Ipswich
Grammar School, and at the Bar he built
up a reputation for soundness notably in the
field of mining law. For a few years he was
IM.L.A. for Merthyr, but a re-arrangement
of boundaries enabled Labor to capture the
seat.
P. S. Gillen, ivho is opposing sitting-
members Nicliolls and Lyons for the Stan-
ley seat in S. Aus. Assembly, is a son of
that Gillen who was Commissioner for Crown
Lands in Kingston's Government. The
young man, who served in France with the
43rd Battalion, has Stanley for his second
Christian name, having been born when his
dad was the district member.
The Rev. E. R. B. Gribble, whose allega-
tions as to the slaughter of East Kimberley
blacks are being probed by a Royal Commis-
sioner, became a missionary to Black Brother
against his will. His father, Rev. ,T. B.
Gribble, mislied in three States, and tried
to induce his son to follow in his footsteps.
Rut the son found the work so little to his
taste that he went droving. Later the father
fell ill in North Queensland, and asked the
young man to relieve him for a few months.
Gribble came—and stayed 15 years. He has
been head of the Forrest River Mission for
a decade. Old Westralians recall that ,T. B.
Gribble accused North Westralian pastoral-
ists of atrocious treatment of blacks, and,
being roughly handled in the West Austra-
lian by John Winthrop Ilaekett, sued the
paper for libel. He lost the case.
Harrison Moore is about to relinquish his
job as Professor of Law at Melbourne Uni.
Thirty-four years have elapsed since he took
charge; on arrival from the Cold Land, he
looked young enough to pass for a first-year
student. While working up to prof, status
lie reported speeches in the gallery of the
Commons. In his spare time Moore has been
standing counsel for Vic. Government on
Federal constitutional matters as they
affected the State. For “exercise” he used
to go for a ride on the front seat of the
dummy of a cable-tram- —that, he told an
inquirer, was his idea of exercise and thrills.
It was appropriate that the bronze tablet
erected in the memory of W. A. Notting,
and unveiled last week, should have been
placed at Neil sen Park, Sydney. Notting
strove for years to regain alienated harbor
foreshores for the people, and Nielsen Park
was the scene of his greatest triumph. The
lolanthe disaster made an abiding impres-
sion on his mind. The picnickers on the
lolanthe had spent the day on Carrara
Beach, as the pretty stretch of sand now
included in Neilsen Park was then called.
They were entitled to use the beach up to
highwater-mark; but at high tide they had
to quit—and a gale sprang up. The lolanthe,
a centre-board boat, heeled over and, the
centre-board playing tricks, could not be
righted. The death-roll was terrible. After
that Bill Notting never rested till Carrara
Beach became public property.
Ernest E. Wagstaff, of the British Im-
perial Oil Co., is returning to London to
take things easy. General manager for his
co. in Australia for 23 years, Wagstaff has
seen the petrol trade grow from a few tins
to 120,000,000 gallons. In 1908 he drove
a big Daimler through the Coorong from
Melbourne to Adelaide, and Australia has
had no more enthusiastic motorist, though
he has left pioneering and record-breaking
to the younger men. O. W. Darch succeeds
him.
Dead in Adelaide, at 71, C. R. Wilton,
known to Bulletin readers as “Autolycus.”
In his youth Wilton was articled to a Mel-
bourne firm of solicitors, but, tiring of the
law, he went to Adelaide and joined a firm
of architects, for which profession he was
singularly fitted. However, the smell of ink
was too strong, and he finally devoted his
whole time to journalism. With others he
ran Adelaide Punch, and 37 years ago lie
joined the staff of the ’Tiser, for which
paper he wrote miles of “copy,” from lead-
ing articles to sporting pars. One of his
three sons is Elder Professor of Mathematics
at Adelaide ’Varsity ; another is an engineer ;
the third is the cricketing medico, Dr. A. C.
Wilton, of Clarendon.
An old identity closely connected with
Broken Hill and its companies was Thomas
Rollason, of Rollason and Brandon, the
Melbourne accountants. Rollason came
from England and joined William Knox at
the time when Knox secured the secretary-
ship of the Broken Hill Proprietary at £75
a year. The late accountant was not the
least capable of the highly-efficient group
whom Knox selected with unfailing judgment
to officer his companies.
If anyone in Queensland knows anything
about cargo-stowing it should be Fred Brown,
who claims to be the oldest working steve-
dore in the Commonwealth. One of the
old man's cherished memories takes him
back to the time the Cutty Sark tied up at
Parbury’s Wharf, in South Brisbane, and
he put 5000 bales of wool into her, the
biggest wool cargo she ever took from Aus-
tralia. Brown came here in the Corinth in
1870. and now superintends the stevedoring
work of the N.Y.H. and B.P. lines.
CHARLES JOHN LOWE , who has been
appointed to the vacancy on the Vic.
Supreme Court Bench caused by the
retirement of Justice Schutt.
There are not many of the old mining
“captains” left; the new generation of man-
agers would faint at the name. In the days
when South Aus. thought, it was big enough
to hold a score of Broken Hills, the Govern-
ment appointed tw T o of the old “captains” of
the silver boom-days to report on prospects
and generally help on the industry. The
senior man, Captain Bill Matthews, who had
been manager of Round Hill, which was
once expected to be a rival of Broken Hill,
went underground for the last time years
ago; his colleague, iCaptain J. V. Parkes,
after years of retirement, has just followed
him, aged 83. They both reached the Barrier
via the Victorian goldfields.
“Spare Corp.”; The schoolboy-book plot
of the lad who works his way from popular
disfavor to being the seminary hero worked
out to some extent in the case of Fred Davi-
son, who becomes president of the N.S.W.
R.S.D. in place of Bt.-tCol. Hyman, who
resigned. Davison, whose earnestness
brought him from America to enlist in the
A.I.F'. in spite of his 49 years, did not start
his military career right, from the popular
point of view. Proud of being handed his
acting-sergeant’s stripes two days after the
transport left Australia, he sewed them on
in public, which action was viewed as swank.
One night there was a scene; the central
figure was Davison, in his nightshirt, facing
a score of young fellows who had been
annoying him, and challenging them to select
their champions for him to fight. Fred said
that he would fight rather than that the
matter should be reported to the heads. The
middle-aged warrior’s valor shamed his dis-
turbers; but the complete change in popular
feeling came gradually. In France I met
two of the boys who had been amongst his
tormentors that night. “Saw old Davo up
at headquarters takin’ an extra turn on the
machine-gun for a sick feller,” they told
me. “Great old bloke, isn’t he?”
While Tommy Bent was Premier of Vic.
21 years* ago a country deputation big enough
to fill his room came down to see him about
a local grievance. Bent sent for just-dead
David Martin, who was Sec. for Public
Works, gave him a chair at the head of the
table, and asked him to see that he (Bent)
didn’t fall into a pit. When a member of
the deputation made a suggestion for adjust-
ing the difficulty the crowd had come to dis-
cuss, Bent said, “But that’s a matter for the
Governor-in-Council.” “AVho is the Gover-
nor-in-Council?” asked a councillor testily.
“Have a look at him,” said Tommy; “for
your purposes he is the Governor-in-Council.”
And Thomas put his hand on the shoulder
of the Sec. for Public Works. Martin, being
used to Tommy’s ways, didn’t turn a hair,
but when the councillor went on to hope that
“his Excellency would condescend to make
the necessary adjustment,” Bent guffawed.
What he had meant to convey was that
Martin would be the man to . prepare an
Order-in-Council for the Rubber Stamp to
brand; he didn’t dream that Martin would
be. mistaken for the Rubber Stamp itself.
The Vic. Agency-General will he vacant
at the end of .Tune. Fairbairn won’t accept
an extension; he is just on 72, and the Eng-
lish climate does not suit him. The pay of
£1750 a year was a bagatelle to Fairbairn.
as it was to his predecessor, McWhae; both
are well-endowed. McPherson lias been men-
tioned as a possibility, but he has big busi-
nesses from which he would find it difficult
to sever himself. Payne, M.L.C., who is
wealthy, might be susceptible to persuasion,
and Frank Tate, if given a free hand, would
compel people to take notice of him and
prove that the Education Department was
able to supply a man for one more of the
big jobs. If an acting A.-G. has to be
appointed for a few weeks or months cx-Gov.
Stradbroke may be called upon.
“Antonio” ; News of the death of Signor
Girilamo Nerli recalls that some 30-odd years
ago he was a sojourner in Sydney. The
Art Gallery contains pictures he painted
here, and for years the vestibule of the Cri-
terion Theatre exhibited a portrait of the
late Myra Ivemble which the artist executed
at the request of his friend J. F. Archibald.
During a holiday trip to Samoa, Nerli be-
came intimate with Stevenson, and painted
his now famous portrait of R.L.S. Nerli’s
mother was the daughter of that Captain
Medwin who was friend and comrade of
Shelley, Reats and Byron during the early
years of last century at Florence. She
married the Marquess Nerli, a Florentine
noble. The artist was a younger son, who
succeeded to the title when two brothers •'n
succession had died without issue. Even
when he had become possessed of an ample
fortune he never laid down palette or paint-
brush. Pope Deo XIII. (Count Gioacchino
Pecci) was a cousin.
Sam Barnes, who was fraternising with
other Cousin Jacks in Cornwall when the
last Vic. general election was held, but man-
aged to hold Walhalla, thanks to his friends,
will have a difficult job to capture the re-
modelled constituency on April 9. A Cocky
and a Laborite are challenging him, and it
is by no means sure that the Hayseed will
exchange preferences. An Assembly without
Sam. who used to manage the big goldmine
at Walhalla, would be duller. He earned
some little renown as the author of the legis-
lation for extending Vic. lines into Riverina,
and it was d proud day for him when the
Balranald line was opened. He is a bache-
lor, and has had a good innings as a Min-
ister and member of the Railway Committee.
“Ngarnhal” : A recent mention of the late
Sir Wilfred Stokes and his trench-mortar
recalls that it was an Australian, Captain
11. H. S. Abbott, who improved the imple-
ment by the addition of a driving-band which
enabled much greater accuracy as regards
range and direction to be obtained. This
same Digger, after being scuppered at Lone
Pine, was invalided to Blighty, and was
subsequently attached by special order to the
British ordnance. After the Armistice he
turned his fertile brain to coal-distillation
problems with conspicuous success. A
brother has done some equally big things in
the world of mechanics.
The £lOO,OOO which Charles Rolling gave
to establish a college for the sons of Free-
masons in Sydney has boiled down after a
deal of litigation to £20,000. That amount
had been paid over for land and build-
ings before the Masons discovered that
the Spartan conditions for the boys
upon which Rolling insisted in the
trust deed made the whole thing imprac-
ticable. Argument was proceeding when
“It’s time Mutch was given a show. W[?]
don’t Lang get out?”
“Aw, well, I serpose ’e thinks the unemploy-
ment problem’s had enough as it is."
Rolling died; and the legal problem aros*-
whether the £20,000 paid over on the uncom-
pleted trust belonged to the widow or couW
still be used for school purposes. The
Court has straightened out matters, wP
assistance from all parties interested. T«
assets of the uncompleted trust are to bi-
realised and applied to the purposes of tm
William Thompson Masonic School,.started
by the Masons when the hitch occurred wit-
Rolling.
THE SEX APPEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The six ladies who were appointed a deputation to
request Governor de Chair to nominate some of their
sex to the N.S.W. Leg. Council returned unsuccessful
but much impressed with his Excellency’s courtesy.
One of the deputation asserted that Sir Dudley was
a ( harming man; another effusively described him as
a dear.”
What though they failed to win his acquiescence
To making any of them M.L.C.,
Purring delightedly they left the Presence
Full of appreciation and of tea;
Of manly grace they found him the quintessence,
They voted him the pink of courtesy,
Those formidable dames who in his lair
Bearded the ever chivalrous De Chair.
He shook his head —-I think a trifle sadly—
Because he couldn’t give them what they sought.
But -where explosive Lang or peppery Baddeley
Might bluntly have insisted that he ought
To do what he was told, emerging madly
Annoyed (when he refused) and overwrought,
Forth from their futile quest the ladies went
Acclaiming him, withal, a perfect gent.
Is there no lesson here? When sex complexes
Are what they are, and likely to remain,
Isn’t it possible that female Exes.
Might serve to obviate the stress and strain
’Twixt Governor and Minister, that vexes
When either side has made it fully plain
Their views on that whereon they’ve met to talk
Are as dissimilar as cheese and chalk?
The Admiral disarmed his callers faster
Than -winking, just because a man.
Mightn’t some satrap like (say) Lady Astor
Be as successful with the trousered clan,
Averting constitutional disaster
Thereby, as skirts and blouses always can,
So that dour democrats, won by her wiles,
Would leave, rebuffed perhaps, but still in smiles.
It might be worth far Downing-street’s attention.
I peer ahead and glimpse a Labor pack
Leaving vice-royalty, not with dissension
Denoted in their scowling brows and black,
But mollified by gracious condescension,
Conquered by woman’s charm, resigned to lack
Of what they sought, and murmuring low and clear
“Euchred again!—but isn’t she a dear!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
%
i
I
m
m
m
i
i
*
i
I
■
I
i
m
«
m
m
«
1
m
#
i
i
I
i
m
Vi
m.
m
they must be
OVAL H EAVY WEIGHT
CIGARETTES


&
©
e
Leek bv (ht Trademark f Agrnu Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
it. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 300-60 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. M1N0GUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
PLEASED TO MEET YOU!
f/y
My name is JACK
WIENEKE, well known to
every sport and horseman
in Queensland and manyin
other parts of Aus-
tralia. Years ago I
could ride anything
on four legs, but
to-day I am kept
busy making saddles
for others. The
GENUINE WIENEKE
Saddle is without a doubt
the world’s best saddle for
station work.
Introduce yourself. Send me your name and I will
post you a colored book of my life’s experiew’’
post free.
Yours, waiting for your letter,
JACK WIENEKE,
C/O JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Up North” : A weak case was put up by
“Roh P.” (B. 23/'l2/’26). There have been
too many instances of capable and unimagi-
native riders finding their mounts suddenly
displaying signs of seeing something invisible
to the rider for liis argument to hold good.
THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN.
LATE MOTORIST ( to St. Peter): “Has th’ bloke I banged into turned up yet? I’d like
to do the fair thing and beg his pardon.”
The aboriginals’ philosophy is mostly childish
nonsense, like some of our own cocksure
assumptions, but there are streaks of seeming
truth in it quite unexplainable to shrewd
white men who have closely investigated the
matter. The abo. would say that on the
occasion of “Rob. P.’s” rides there was
nothing to see, or else that the atmospheric
conditions were not suitable for the “thing”
to make its presence visible to the horse.
The correct “atmosphere” is absolutely neces-
sary before beings of the other world can
tune in and be even partly felt, let alone
recognised, by denizens of this world. Also,
if the horse were not in a reciprocatory state
then, even with atmospheric conditions fav-
orable, it could not see. It is hard to explain,
but the abos.’ idea may be illustrated thus:
Life goes on in a thick fog, through which
we can see anything born into the world,
such as men, plants, animals, etc., because
our eyes are equipped with power to see the
things of mundane life only. We cannot
vision things which have been born into
another life through death, because our sight
is not adapted to that purpose. But isolated
men, and some animals, are gifted with a
very keen supplementary or inner sight. For
them the fog occasionally lifts, though only
momentarily and hazily. Their minds and
the minds of beings in the next world become
attuned, as it were. This the abo. firmly
believes.
* * * *
“M. Gildea”: I once witnessed a rousing
fight between a bull and a ram. The
bull, an extra big one, pushed the ram ahead
of him, but couldn’t get sufficient force on
its light body to do any damage. Suddenly
the ram drew off. and, going back about 20
paces, charged the bull, hitting him just
above the nostrils with the crown of his head.
The bull went down on his knees, and the
ram repeated this performance. The second
charge brought the bull down on his side.
Scrambling to his legs, the big beast shook
liis head and strode casually away.
* * * *
“Ginger”: Chameleon birds and reptiles
are occasionally seen, but flounders are the
only fish I know of that possess the gift of
changing color. Flounders almost invariably
lie flat in the sand or rock. If it is a black
rock, they quickly turn back; but when they
move to a light-colored sandy bottom, their
hue soon changes to the local shade. This
gift is the flounder’s chief protection against
its enemies, as it is a comparatively slow
swimmer. It adds to the deception by partly
burying itself in the loose sand.
“C. Coral” : The first to introduce swim-
ming-glasses to Torres Strait in connection
with pearling was John Cowling, who now
runs a cocoanut plantation in New Guinea,
hut was then living at Mabuiag Island,
where amongst other things he retrieved
from the ocean’s bed was a quantity of
copper ingots of supposedly Spanish origin.
Before the advent of glasses, the native boys
used to chew up cocoanut and eject the spittle
into the water to clear it sufficiently to
enable them to see into the depths. When
down below it was difficult to discriminate
between pearl-shell and stones. The boy
tapped the object, however; if it gave out
a hollow sound it went into the bag—“We
savee he shell then, but if he dead then he
some kind stone.”
* * * *
“R.lv.”: Our brush-box ( Tristania con-
ferta) is rapidly supplanting imported
trees for street-planting. Besides being a
quick grower, with a smooth, round stem
and a big, well-shaped head, it has the great
advantage that its roots go straight down,
and consequently do not disturb the asphalt
on footpaths as the imported trees do. One
of the best avenues of brush-box round Syd-
ney is the one in Liverpool camp, planted
only about six years ago.
* * * *
“Mephisto” : People suffering from insom-
nia should rest where there is a slight breeze,
as it is conducive to sleep, and especially so
if near the sea. It is my custom to sleep
only during the night hours, but almost
invariably I snooze during the daytime if
resting where there is a slight breeze blow-
ing on me. In India, when the natives
creep into the settlements to steal the blan-
kets from the sleeping white men, they
carry a fan. Squatting in the darkness
beside the sleeper they softly fan his face and
neck, meanwhile tugging gently at his blan-
ket, and nearly always they get it.
HIS GRIEVANCE.
DOMAIN INTERRUPTER: “What we wanter is to abolish the boss."
DITTO ORATER: “Ya don’t wanta do any such thing. Ya wanta keep the boss who pays
ya yer wages, and abolish the overseer —he’s the bloke who flogs ya to
work!”
“Gooni” : I have watched rats taking both
potatoes and eggs, the principal thief lying
on his back and hugging the booty, and in
every case the tail of the rat holding the
edible was a drawbar which the other rat
held in his teeth. Often a squeal resulted
from too tight a grip, and the food was
allowed to roll on the floor. I never saw
them hook tails, as lately described by one
Councillor.
* * * *
“Mario”: A short time ago a friend and
I were fishing at Mario, near the mouth
of the Snowy River (N.S.W.). My friend
placed his rod on the bank of the stream
and turned his back on it for a few minutes.
When he looked round the rod had dis-
appeared, and marks on the sand showed
that it had been drawn by a fish into the
river. As the rod and gear were valuable,
my friend got out a hand line, and with
the first cast the hook on it caught in one
of the runners on the rod. On pulling it
in he not only salvaged his rod, but caught
a big salmon affixed to the hook on its line.
* * * *
“Pat”: Since reading “M.M.M.’s” par. (P».
10/2/’27) about the snake-eating S. Aus-
tralians, I have been wondering if they were
wise scouts. My father frequently partook
of nigger delicacies, including snake. The
abos., however, would never touch a reptile
they had not killed themselves. The reason
was fear of poisoning. The white man was
liable to permit the snake, in its death
agonies, to bite itself and thus poison its
flesh.
* * * *
“Queensland Nut”: Some friends had been
blaming a recent deluge of rain for having
on three successive mornings to kill young
snakes in the house. The horrors were
always in the same room, and puss showed
very keen interest in the back of the piano
there. They moved the instrument, and found 18
broken shells. Everybody then remembered
the curious little bunch of eggs brought homo
by one of the school children and left care-
lessly on top of the instrument, whence they
had been brushed on to the floor and fqif
gotten. Snakes’ eggs are apparently very
adaptable and do not need incubation in the
hot sun to hatch them out.
* * * *
“Geoloin”: This is the yarn that Yorky
spun to me recently: “The Prince of Wales,
when out here, was taking a walk in the
country when he met a man who had a pair
of terriers on a leash. The Prince, who was
unknown to the man, said, ‘A pair of fine
dogs you have there.’ ‘Yairs,’ said the bloke,
‘they’re a fine pair o’ dogs all right; they
cost me a tenner for the pair.’ ‘I should
think if you’d bought a couple of pigs with
the tenner they would have served you
better,’ said the Prince. ‘A coupla pigs!’
replied the man. ‘What a fool I’d look goin’
rabbitin’ with a coupla pigs !’ ”
“Longo” : Apropos the extraordinary ways
in which conflagrations start. Week-ending
with. a friend recently, after motoring 25
miles to his dairy-farm, I gave him assist-
ance in effecting some adjustments to Lizzie,
which had been garaged under the house,
built on high blocks. Mentioning that it
was milking-time he casually tossed the
spanner he had been using into the back seat
cavity where other tools were stored. We
then proceeded toward the cow-bails, some
distance away, over a rise and not visible
from the house. I chanced to glance back
and noted a small flame in the car. Prompt
investigation revealed a wax match blazing
in close proximity to oily cloths.
* * * *
“Bihai”: Although barking- or whistling-
snakes are unknown in Papua, there is a
species of reptile there which is apparently
unique. In the Gulf Division the natives
tell of a snake having two tusks, which grow
upwards from the lower jaw, somewhat simi-
larly to those of a boar. This snake is found
in swamps, and is of a deep green color,
matching the color of the leaves of the man-
grove-trees and nipa-palms, amongst which
it lives. It is from 12 to 16 feet in length,
and combative to an unusual degree, which
makes its rarity a fortunate circumstance.
So far as is known, no white man has yet
seen this wriggler, but a trader at Orokolo
showed me two pairs of snakes’ tusks the
natives had given him. They were about
three inches in length, curved back a little
and hollowed, as if the snake were venom-
ous.
* * * *
“Outback” : The emu’s drinking habits are
interesting. Sometimes the bird wades into
the water, and sometimes kneels down at
its brink, but the second part of the opera-
tion is always carired out in the same way.
The bill is used as a scoop, and water is
obtained by a dipping movement followed
by swallowing. I counted 70 dips made by
an emu, and calculated that each dip would
be approximately a tablespoonful. Little
wonder, then, that the squatter objects ta
the emu drinking from his tanks in time
of drought!
* * * *
“Lily Beale” : Probably the host egg a resi-
dent of Maclean (N.S.W.) ever had served
up to him was one which contained a dia-
mond. He had lost the stone out of a
ring, and after a futile search had given it
up as lost. Breaking an egg for breakfast
the other morning, he found the missing gem
embedded in the white part of the egg.
THE OLD-TIMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am weary of the city, where the boss is lord of all,
Of the clamor and the strife and ugliness,
Where the thoughts of men are twisted, and the
hearts of men grow small,
And a steady job’s the hall-mark of success.
For there’s nothing in the city save a senseless,
fevered grind;
Here a man must walk in terror of the sack ;
And the city people’s chatter is as empty as the wind.
But—there’s always something doing ’way out back.
Curse upon the humming pavements: here it is that
mateship dies
And the warm hearts of the bushland seem to
freeze.
Aye, though only bushmen know it, still the real
Australia lies
Beyond the last suburban boundaries.
Soon again will I be going down the well-remembered
track
That we trod, my mates and I, long, long ago,
For there’s always something doing when a man's
away out back
In a land the city people do not know.
And the city folk are welcome to the empty, foolish
round
Where the great dull god of Trade asserts his due;
For there’s still, old timers know it, one more leader
to be found
In the mulga-covered ridges back of Cue.
There is still a camp-fire burning by a lonely gnamma
hole;
There are still some drovers yarning by the track ;
There is still a boundary-rider going on his long
patrol.
Oh, there always something doing ’way out back.
For the city ways are narrow, and the city ways are
hard,
And the minds of men are crooked as the streets.
And the town-bred people ever seem to stand upon
their guard,
As suspicious as the Johns upon their beats.
And the grimy ways they travel, and the gods to
whom they pray,
Couldn’t satisfy a man of go and push,
Who has known the wider spaces, who has trod the
open way;
For there’s always something doing in the bush.
WESTKALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


JOO
d
CJ
>
o
4
m,
©
4
s
©
d
&
«■*»
B
&Z 3
©
o
A
<*G
G*
■r
d
431
H
w
<
mmummmm
:
Look at this artistic Dunlop Inlaid Rubber
Matting laid down at the Melbourne Hospital.
It is 66 ft. long by 9 ft. wide and' has a buff ground, the design being
inlaid with white, black, and royal blue, the whole comprising one of
the most attractive rubber mats in this country. An important feature
of Dunlop Matting is that it retains its brilliancy and attractiveness for
an exceeding long period. Other advantages it confers are quietness,
cleanliness, non-slipping, waterproof, and thoroughly sanitary.
Dunlop Matting is made in runner formation with solid rubber back, in any length,
and from 10 inches to 72 inches wide. The thickness is inch or % inch as required.
THE DESIGN IS NOT A SURFACE ONE, but is so inset as to ensure permanency
of pattern. For banking chambers, corridors or public buildings, hospitals, billiard
rooms, ship saloons, bath rooms, lavatories, vestibules, railway cars, etc., etc.,
this matting is ideal and specially desirable, ensuring A RESILIENT AND
SILENT FLOOR COVERING THAT NO OTHER MATERIAL WILL GIVE.
Dunlop Inlaid Rubber Matting
is infinitely superior to clay or marble tilings, and being a non-conductor, the coldest
or hottest weather has no effect upon it. It can be made in various designs and
permanent color schemes. The cost of having Dunlop Matting installed is the first
and only expense, and on account of its remarkable durability it is the most
economical floor covering existent. Where necessary, plans are prepared by our
draughtsman, and the laying is carried out by experienced and practical workmen.
Designs will be submitted with pleasure, together with various border effects. A
wide range of colors is available. Correspondence invited. Prices and drawings
submitted.
# # #
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart and Launceston, and New Zealand.


ee
You should read this Booklet — it’s Free !
“This Business of Advertising” is the work
of an authority. Its mission is to give every
business man a thorough acquaintance with
the principles of modern advertising practice.
It embodies valuable suggestions and ideas.
and offers a tested plan for making your
advertising more resultful.
Write us NOW, on your letterhead, for a
copy. It will be forwarded by return with
our compliments.
Stott
& Underwqod, Ltd.,
»-ll O’Connell Street, Sydney.
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
207 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
55 William Street, Perth.
MULT/GPAPH
“Romeo” : Overlanding from Hall’s Creek
to Derby (W.A.), I missed my tobacco-knife
and thought that I might have left it on
an old stump near our last camp. I called
Wunamarra and sent him back to see if it
was there. Four or five hours later AYuna-
marra caught us up, but minus the knife.
“Knife there all right, boss,” he cheerfully
explained.
* * * *
“Spadgcr” : A Monaro man, cutting timber
for posts, chopped down a big old stringy-
bark. The trunk broke as it fell, and he
found that the inside, from about sft. up,
was wet rotten. From a break in the rotten
HE’D TAKE A SPORTING CHANCE.
“Look here, Charley, if you cat any more cake you'll burst.”
“Well, then, give us another piece an’ stand back.”
part struggled out an animal, shaped like a
ring-tailed ’possum, but naked, hairless and
white. The eyes also were white, and appa-
rently blind. The creature appeared to be
lethargic, and died a few minutes after
exposure to the air. There was neither ingress
nor egress in the rounded hollow in which the
animal existed, except by the new split caused
through the tree falling. The discoverer told
the story to a friend in the same district, who
replied that he had had just the same experi-
ence when felling a similar tree.
* * * *
“Babette”: If “M.L.F.” (B. 10/3/’27)
dissolves camphor in his turps (loz. to a pint)
he will find that it gives increased efficacy
to this remedy for fleas. It operates instan-
taneously, and is more lasting than plain
turps. I have used it with excellent results.
“Alvran”: Talking of grim relics reminds
me of a cocky on the Richmond (N.S.W.),
at one time a first-rate oarsman. He and
a brother had held a double-sculls champion-
ship for years, and it was wrested from them
through an accident in which one of the
brothers had all the ribs on one side smashed.
The other escaped without a scratch. An
operation was performed on the injured
brother, but after numerous pieces of rib had
been extracted from his body, he died. The
surviving brother had one of these pieces of
bone polished and mounted. He kept the
gruesome relic in a glass c'asc at the farm
house, and. showed it to visitors when relat
ing the story of the accident.
* * * *
“W.J.T.”: Some years ago at Makambo
(Solomon Islands (I watched a 7ft. sea-snake
swimming in shallow water, accompanied by a
number of youngsters measuring four to
six inches. I endeavored to capture the
wriggler, but at the first sign of danger
the mother snake opened her mouth and the
little ones disappeared down her gullet. Cap-
ture followed, and, on splitting the snake, the
family wriggled out. Quite recently I saw
the performance repeated by a Gft. black
snake.
* * * *
“Murrungurry” : Bill Bates was taking a
mob of porkers on the hoof to the saleyards.
a three-days’ droving trip. A cartload of
pumpkins led the way, a ration of which
was broken up at each camping-place. Bill
broke the pumpkins by throwing them hard
on the ground and calling, “Pig, pig, pig!”
at the same time. During the day, whenever
the pigs became cantankerous or stubborn,
and it was hard work to get them along, he
walked some distance in front and started
bouncing a big football, calling “Pig, pig,”
with each thump. The mob brightened
up at once, and soon were jogging along
with flapping ears and eager grunts after
the man with the bouncing ball. They
thought it was pumpkin-time.
* * * *
“Mapee”: A little-known timber that is
very useful to the bushman is the jhitu, or
jlieetu, of the Atherton Tableland (N.Q.).
This tree grows in the dense jungle and
attains about 15in. diameter, with a trunk
height of perhaps 30ft. The timber is free
splitting, yellow in color, and so hard that
none but the thickest and best-tempered of axes
will cut it across the grain without gapping
or turning. Contract scrubfallers usually
stipulate that all jliitu may be left standing.
An axe-handle made from jliitu is unequalled.
It may be made as
thin as desired, and
the axeman can
wrench away at his
chips to his heart’s
content- —he will
not break it with
fair usage. After
about 12 months’
use, however, it
begins to shatter in
the eye of the axe,
and it is time to
make a new one.
Still, I know of no
imported handle
that will stand up so
well to a year’s solid
scrub - chopping.
Its chief claim to
the bushman’s
blessing, though,
lies in its useful-
ness as a fire-
lighter. To light
a fire in the north-
ern jungle in the
wet season, with
everything dripping
wet and all wood
covered with slimy
moss, would appear
to be a hopeless
task. The bush-
man who knows his
tree has simply to
split a few splin-
ters off the trunk
of the nearest
jliitu, green or
dead, apply a
match, and they
will burn as furi-
ously as if the
wood were satu-
rated with kerosene. A bundle of splinters
tied together makes an excellent torch.
“Jim Carew”: Sassafras wood is recom-
mended by “Pick” (B. 10/2/’27) for the
inside lining of wooden dwellings. But it
can be put to a better use than that. Some
years ago, when pusli-bikes were popular,
many riders insisted on having wood-rimmed
wheels on their machines, and sassafras was
always used for that purpose. Being both
light and durable, it might be useful in
aeroplane construction.
* * „ * *
“Harvib” : I was at Blake’s selection when
Jackson rode over to borrow a broody fowl.
Six months later Jackson confided to me that
Blake was a miserly old cow. “ ’Ere’s cliick-
wlieat three bob,” he groaned, “and ’e’s never
come an’ collected that ’en!”
“Horsewoman": This remedy, in use 50
years ago. for flies on horses may prove bene-
ficial : Take two or three small handfuls of
walnut leaves, and. covering them with three
quarts of cold water, let them soak over night;
next morning pour the whole into a pot and
AN INJUSTICE TO DIRTY DICK.
DIRTY DICK (ordering goods for house): “I want a cake of sand-
soap, a tin of caustic-soda, bottle of phenyl, tin of sheep-
dip, two scrubbin ’ brushes an' ’arf a dozen sheets of sand-
paper.”
KNOWING DAD: “Hey, Joe! Old Dick's gain’ to have a bath!”
let it boil 15 minutes; when cold the emfil-
sion will be fit for use. Before the horse
goes out of the stable, moisten a sponge and
smear the liquid over the most sensitive
parts, such as the ears, the neck, the flanks,
etc.
* * * *
“Detonator”: My younger brother shot
on Stewart Island, where we beachcombed
for some years, a sft. “goanner,” of which
I still have the skin. Her innards disclosed
two pullets and a new-born angora kid. The
go. and her cargo were cast into the mighty
deep, and the same night we caught a shark,
and his innards disclosed the defunct go., the
two chooks and the kid aforesaid.
* * * *
“B.B.”: I would be glad to learn the
experience of members of the Council on one
of our biggest Australian questions—that is,
whether prickly-pear is or is not a useful
fodder plant. My own ex-
perience, gathered in North
Queensland, is that, while
certain species of the pear
are utterly useless, there are
others which not only con-
stitute valuable fodder, but
will carry stock through a
drought when water is un-
obtainable. On Tregoning
OCharleville) at the end of
the 1922-23 drought I found
bullocks mud fat that had
lived exclusively on pear in
a paddock in which they had
not seen water for two years.
This is a fact which can bo
fully verified. In “pear bul-
locks” the fat is a rich yel-
low color, quite different
from that of grass-fed stock
in the same area. In N. S
Wales I have noticed that
they will devour one plant
to the very roots while leav-
ing its neighbors untouched :
and this occurs throughout
the pear-infested area. It is
on these facts I base my
contention that only species
of pear are edible. I have
observed also that pear-
growing on the black soil is
a more vigorous plant and a
more valuable fodder than
that growing on red soil in
the same district.
“The Maorilander”: The abos.’ antidote
for jewfish-spike wounds is no stranger than
the universal salve for the scorpion’s prod
in Hindustan. Almost every medicine-shop
east of Suez stocks a large squat bottle of
bloated scorpions pickling in a spirituous
solution When a scorped victim tears in
for relief, the swelling is painted with the
liquor, and occasionally with some effect
One evening I wrapped a scarf round mv
throat—and two seconds later could have
sworn that a glowing cheroot had got tangled
in it and was being
pressed against my
throat. From the
fragments of the
wrap the tonga-
walla produced a
scorpion. I dashed
back to my tent
for whisky, am-
monia or any-
thing which might
allay the burning.
My quarter-master
havil d a r. Amir
Khan, an Orakzai
from the Frontier
Hills, came in.
“Sahib,” said he,
“wait in peace. The
cure is here.” He
rubbed a small
brown bean on a
rough stone, moist-
ening it occasion-
ally, until a white
patch of the inner
kernel was exposed.
Then, while the
warmth of the fric-
tion was still in it,
he pressed :t
against the sting.
It stuck. A ting-
ling, tickling sen-
sation commenced,
and in 10 minutes
the seed fell off.
The burning agony
went with it. On
the white kernel of
the bean was a
spot of virulent
green. I asked the
Q.M.11. the name
of the cure, and he
answered: ' “Sahib,
it is a secret of the
Orakzai. It is
bitli. Take these.”
He saluted, and
went out. Seven
times I have tested
it, and seven times I have proved it the
dinkum goods. I looked up “bitli” in a
Hindustani dictionary, and found it to be
the name for the seed of the tamarind.
Almost immediately below it was “bitu: a
scorpion.”
“Baomata” : Bill had been having trouble
with one of the Binghi crew on his beche-de-
mer cutter. “Damn it all, Yarrie,” he said,
“do you want to loaf all the time?” “No,
boss, I want sleep sometimes,” was the
reply. Yarrie was sacked at the next port.
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : A Yankee visitor to
Darwin was recently being shown over the
native compound at Milly Point, where about
300 natives are fed, clothed and kept in
idleness by a benevolent Government at the
expense of the taxpayer. “Wal,” observed
the Yank, “I guess Australia’s the only
“THE BITER BIT.”
country in the world that works to keep its
niggers loafing!” And it looks uncommcmb
as if lie were right. Plenty of struggling
Territorial! and Queensland farmers could
make a living on the land with a dozen
niggers to assist them, whereas the. expense
involved by the employment of white labor
kills the show.
THE HANDY MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out here on.the edge of One Tree Plain
We haven't a single store,
And tlie things we want we rarely get—
For the roads are long and sometimes wet
To the town of Mangalore.
So we do without the odds and ends
And we leave the jobs to Dad.
There’s scarcely a thing he can’t put right,
A broken wheel or a black snake’s bite,
Or a shoe for his oldest prad.
A greenhide thong is his stock in trade
When lie visits the harness room
To patch a trace, or a broken rein,
Or rivet the girth that broke again
AVhen the black colt threw the “ehoom.”
From an ancient pile of hessian bags
And some bits of three by one,
He could fashion a safe that kept the meat
And butter cool through the fiercest heat
Of the burning noonday sun.
On picnic day he sets the wheel
Of a tip-dray on the ground,
And the fun is fast and rides are free,
When the kiddies gather round to see
Dad’s home-made merry-go-round.
He has lived his threescore years and ten,
But a job still makes him glad.
He’s getting slow, but the ancient code —
“The oldest dog for the hardest road”—
Is good enough for Dad.
He will be there when the last trump blows
To rouse up Gabriel’s choir,
They’ll form a queue and the mob will wait
While Dad repairs the heavenly gate
With a lump of fencing wire.
VICTORIA.
E. F. M.


g§§af mmm
.. 'V;<vv ijy-fs
iH f «ilSi .
®ls
&
!•'•> >‘gig
-r-M:
stem
r/Z?
m
m
r;>
XsSIfil
:!*•<>
3«
V" 'O'
m
x
i
;■:
» -vy
m
5V; •• t .f .ikf. ‘,*‘.7- ‘ * -»"*«4.->*
j?W' - ; •*•;'• ’.-'Vi '•-•i ■
V- V :
~r.t
SKF ANTI-FRICTION SERVICE COVERS THE WORLD
gjCP wages its anti-friction crusade under thirty-eight flags. Its counsel
on friction problems is given in twenty-two tongues. SKF possesses
factories in England, Sweden, France, Germany, Russia and U.S.A. In
practically every civilised corner of the globe, wheels turn on SKF*
marked bearings.
Every country in the world brings its bear-
ing problems to SECF to-day, for
SKF alone has the world-wide orga-
nisation essential to coping with them.
SKF maintains its own laboratories
in different parts of the globe, its own
mines from which the special ores come,
its own factory offices in more than a
hundred cities throughout the world.
SKF offers all industry counsel on
bearing problems that is backed not by
national, but by international experience.
When you specify SSCF*-marked Ball
and Roller Bearings, you enlist this
experience on your behalf.
No matter what your bearing problem
may be, put it up to SIC 13,I 3,
SJCF" carries a complete stock of Ball and
Roller Bearings of all International Standard Sizes,
1 US
SELF ALIGNING
BALL BEARING
FOR NORMAL LOADS
SELF ALIGNING ROLLER
BEARING FOR HEAVY
LOADS AND SEVERE DULY
THE SKF BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595 Bourke Street.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Win. Adams© Cp. Ltd.
Brisbane: Win. Adams ©Co. Ltd.
Perth: Unbehaun © Johnstone
(W.A.) Ltd.
Launceston : W. H. Knight ©
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart: Charles Davis Ltd.


Under
Royal
.Warrant
e
Tom
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Champagne
cbarlesllcidsic#
Reims
i
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
PELLISSO
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
SnfD
\M
•ml
8W1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
11l
I
l*
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity : Dining and Supper Dances up to 1300.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.30,
10/C ; Suppers, 10.30, 5/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ danqing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/fi.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Tvvo hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
“Paderewski,” winking in electrics over
the Town Hall, sent out a dazzling summons
to the city on Saturday night. The older
generation answered it with senses aswoon
with concert memories of 23 years ago. The
newer generations answered it in the con-
viction that here was a man of their own
times, no matter what his years—a great
Musician who had proved himself a con-
siderable statesman, even in the tangle of
post-war Europe. Little waves of excitement
ran through the surging masses on the Town
Hall steps. Australian shingles and the
plaits of Poland alike bristled with expect-
ancy as their owners paced along the Town
Hall corridors. By eight o’clock not a seat
was empty, and hydraulic rams could not
have butted the rows of chairs any closer.
Bare backs were worn here and there in
the fashionable manner: and when these
were neither unduly adipose nor wiry and
brown, the effect was as seductive as the
dress-designer intended. Black, which seemed
almost the universal wear, proved under the
civic lights a delusion and a snare to all
but the fair of complexion—Mrs. Carty
S aim on was one of its happiest inhabitants.
The great man’s wife, clutching a small
posy of white roses, kept a loving but anxious
eye on her Ignace in a setting of sap-
phire velvet, covered by a black silk, collared
in what might have been ermine but was
probably rabbit. But the diamonds in her
dagger brooch were the real thing. When
her leonine-headed husband played the open-
ing bars of “God Save,” any doubts on this
subject completely vanished. In the inter-
val, at the end of the three tremendous
works which formed the first part of the
programme, there was another thrill when a'
replica of the flag which Kosciusko first
proudly unfurled was carried into the Hall
by staggering attendants and stood against
the base of the platform. This was tlm
offering of the Polish community to their
great man. For the rest of the evening the
white eagle, worked in chrysanthemums, out-
spread itself in great pride against its back-
ground of crimson dahlias. In the hall Mr.
Holman proudly wore the same curving bird
aswoop on his Polish decoration. It was a
night of cheers and bravos and the wild
beating of hands. Before the final encore,
E. J. -Tait himself wasn’t above springing
from his chair to join in this; but, to be
sure, by this time E.J. knew just how great
Paderewski was —the typed slip of the box-
office takings was even then between his
palms!
Pad. retains his old amazing trick of
curving the right arm suddenly into mid-air
as though he were just about to cleave the
waves asunder in a strong overarm, whereas
actually he is about to pluck gently, tenderly,
but decisively some violet or primrose of a
note. Is it based on the higher mathematics
—on some wonderfully worked-out system of
curves that ensures a certain weight striking
the destined ivory?
Viking Dudley de Chair’s solution of the
problem set him last week by the deputation
from the Women’s Central Organising Com-
mittee of the A.L.P. was worthy of Machia-
V ii Gilbert rolled into one. Forty ladies
called on the Governor to request the appoint-
ment of a few women to the Leg. Council.
The Governor, looking over the portcullis,
whispered hoarsely: “Forward six!” The
guard passed on the order, and six spokes-
wonien were elected. The remaining 34
waited. They waited a long time. Within
the castle the ladies made speeches, good
speeches,'pointing out how women would grace
the Upper House. His Ex. listened with his
best Navy-cut courtesy. Really, the argu-
ments used were so forceful they had him
floored. Did he get hot, did he get flustered ?
Not at all! He marked time with words
that said nothing; and then on a wave of
inspiration he invited the delegates to a dish
of tea. Before the speakers realised it they
were in the drawing-room. There was a
picture here Sir Dudley would draw their
attention to; and the view from that window
could be commended. The arrival of the
Pekoe suggested the situation in China"
which the Viking in his most weighty quarter-
deck manner assured them was very serious
I erhaps it was only when they met the
34 at the. outer gate that the six who had
been admitted realised that the deputation
was as futile as deputations backed onlv bv
arguments generally are.
There was a look of shining cleanness
about the Lyceum Club on Thursday after-
noon, when its members met for the first
time in the 1927 season. The rooms had not
only been swept and garnished, but
vacuumed, massaged, manicured and be-
dizened. The new writing-room should see
many a poem indited at its well-lighted table
by the poetesses in which the club abounds.
Already home-grown inspiration has flowed
between the Wal. Taylor covers of the album
presented to Mrs. A. G. Thomas, the club
president. Her State Ex., who was the guest
of honor, added her signature between tea
and her lecturettc on Athenian Culture. One
member whose mind has been set on wander-
ing rheumatic pains was disappointed when
she realised with a bang that the address had
to do with art and not with lactic acids
similar to the Bulgarian and Russian “cul-
tures” of other years. Syria and Persia,
Phoenicia and Pharaoh were swiftly passed
in review of the Vice-reine, who told that
Cecil Rhodes had been the firsc to encourage
her small-girl inclinations to delve into the
civilisations of the past. The chairs of the
establishment not being sufficient to seat all,
many of the listeners gave an Eastern Bazaar
atmosphere to the afternoon by squatting in
a great semi-circle around the room. Mrs.
Thomas, in misty greys, looking more than
ever like a delicate pencil sketch, made the
address of welcome to her Ex., whose black
marocains wore their lush silk fringe with
quite a Hellenic air. Rose Soley, the
founder of the club, a tiny spark of a woman
in an ankle-length blue dress, voiced the
speech of thanks; and then there was tea on
the light-splashed roof.
May Moore is responsible for this photo-
graph of Sister Norman, matron in charge
of Tresillian
North, the new
headquar ters of
the Royal Wel-
fare Society
at Willoughby.
Miss Norman
served her
apprenticeship
at Balmain
hospital, and
took her ob-
stetric train-
ing at Mon-
trose, in Bur-
wood, the ob-
stetric branch
of the Coast
Hospital. For
two years she
was matron of
the original
Tresillian at
Petersham, so
the babies of
North Sydney have a brighter and better
prospect than ever ahead of them. The new
Mothercraft Training School will be opened
on Wednesday next, the 23rd.
The country’s old friend, the Great White
Train, steamed off last Sunday on another
mission of bringing light into dark places,
and for the first time it carries women lec-
turers. It is now the Better Farming Train,
and in addition to white-lined carriages piled
enticingly with articles manufactured in this
State, it has a clinic that deals with an article
manufactured all over Australia. Mary
Vaughan Jenkins, whose photograph was in
these pages a few weeks ago, is the smiling
competent in charge of a Baby Welfare De-
partment, and # eyes with delight the shining
white domain in which she will instruct bush
mothers how to feed, wash, weigh and, for
slight damages, mend the baby. Porcelain
sifiks and scales and low forms blink at the
gay posters on the wall —a baby outfit com-
plete is one of the exhibits. Next door there’s
a Health Foods Department, and here cot-
tages show model drainage and sewerage.
Here, too, war on the mosquito and the fly
is preached. The Home Economics Depart-
ment, with ice-chest, sewing-machine, electric
stove and many other etceteras, is directed
by Miss Dettman, of the Technical College
(her brother is Sydney Grammar’s brilliant
chief), and with her are jolly-looking Miss
Byrne, from the Hawkesbury College, who
will teach the cultivation of herb and cottage-
garden graces, and Miss Rollason, who will
carry on the good work which she started
at Broken Hill of expounding need! ecraft —-
not only batik and the stencilling of curtains
and such-like frivolities, but the sterner pro-
blems of using paper patterns and getting
that sleeve to “sit right.”
On Friday last the train was officially
inspected by a group of Government heads
and made-in-Australia enthusiasts, among
whom Railway Chief Commissioner Frazer
and Colonel Somerville, of the R.A.S., were
in evidence. But, alas! the buff and red
and rather cowlike tones of the train blushed
amid the grime of Darling Island, only half-
ready for the long journey; -furnishings
were still being put aboard at half past
three. The funny little gay step-ladders
attached to the carriages, and giving the
whole a gypsy-caravan appearance, weren’t
very popular with the weighty gentlemen
of the party. A slow amble along the length
ot the train, with impressive pauses at the
wide openings of the carriages, satisfied the
majority.
The Jewish Council of Women unfurled
the flag of Judea, and, in a Town Hall
richly caparisoned with black, orange and
gold, held their Eastern Garden Fete that
is to benefit Jewish migrants to Australia
and the unborn babe in Palestine. The first
will be done by means of a hostel, and the
second by establishing in Palestine a mater-
nity ward with provision for 500 mothers
and babies annually. Dr. Fanny Reading,
through whom the Jewish Council of Women
has its being, and whose enthusiasm never
flags, had netted two other important people
from her home suburb of Kogarah. They
were Sydney’s Mayor Mostyn and his lady.
The Mayor, looking down at the array of
well-furnished stalls, at the eager traffickers,
and at the curious and gay goods which
ardent workers had brought direct from
Palestine, could not conceal his pride in
the good citizenship of his capable neighbor.
Although Jewry in Australia is helping to
re-build a Jewish State in Palestine, not
ipany of the Chosen care to leave this coun-
try’s fleshpots for the land of Abraham. An
exception is Phyllis Slutzkin, who had
charge of one of the stalls at the Eastern
Fete. She is a niece of Aaron Blasliki,
the most stalwart pillar of orthodox Judaism
in Sydney. A Melbourne girl, the cultivated
Jewess calls Palestine her home nowadays ;
her father, whose family made a big fortune
in Australia, has taken his portion of it
there, and his daughter shares his enthusi-
asm. Her visit to Australia was to help
raise money for the women’s clinics in Jeru-
salem.
Heaven alone knows what sort of an abat-
toirs Canberra will look like during the
ducal opening of Federal Parliament.
Designer Burley Griffin will never recog-
nise its lines and contours, so bespattered
o'er will they be with tents and camping
equipment and huddled-togetlier humanity.
Apparently the whole walled-and-roofed
accommodation of the capital has been
absorbed by the political locust. Of the
general public, enticed for weeks and months
past to make the long journey, Priminister
Bruce, like Pontius Pilate, washes his hands
with a “blood-be-on-their-own-heads”, ges-
ture. The following paragraphs from the
notification to motorists and campers, issued
by the Federal Capital Commission, tell their
own tale of luxury:—
The Commission will establish camping areas, each
to accommodate several groups of 250 cars each.
For each group a community centre will be provided,
where caterers will provide meals for campers who
prefer not to cook for themselves.
Campers and other visitors are warned that the
ceremonies will take place in May, when frosts are
frequent and rain often falls. They are advised to
equip themselves accordingly.
God Save the King!
The list of the officially invited reads to
youth like an obituary notice. Only 500 of
the 4000 people actually invited are given
a bed-and-breakfast ticket. The others and
the tens of thousands who are expected to
be present without invitation must make
their own dossing arrangements.
Artist Pearl Sheldon greets Australian
friends after a five years’ absence. It is
just as long
as that since
the subject of
this M a y
Moore picture
packed her
brushes an d
sailed off to
Europe. First
she went to
Paris for some
hard work,
then she wan-
dered through
B r ittany,
Florence,
Rome and
Spain. She
pitched her
camp whenever
the fancy
stirred her and
moved on when
another call
proved irresist-
ible. The result is a great collection of
pictures of quiet charm, painted in a reflec-
tive or wistful mood. Many of them are
like little winds stirring through twilight.
A few of them have that up-in-the-morning-
early look, and these are mostly quaint bits
of farm-houses, and old streets expressed in
a crisp clearness. Now Miss Sheldon is
digging herself in in the Sydney she declares
she will not leave again. Already she is
busy with the blue and gold and the high
sunlight of the South. The artist is a sister
of Mark and of brilliant surgeon Stratford
Sheldon. Mark, by the way, has just stepped
on an Atlantic liner, homeward bound
again.
Paul Ilaskevitch beckoned the musical
critics of Sydney one night last week, and
they fed and wined at his expense at the
Australia while he expounded the plans of
the new Concert Tours, Limited; but it was
much more a convivial than a business
gathering. Paul, who is likely to become a great
deal better known to Australia, claims that
Ms pals are the pressmen of a dozen cities
in various parts of the world, and he wanted
the opportunity to get close to those of
kydney. His ability in one direction, at any
rate, has been shown by his capture of
ranees Alda, who has previously refused
big offers to visit her own country. Paul
illustrates his success in stirring the lady’s
desire to triumph with her own people by
mentioning that, directly the contract was
signed, orders went out for dress creations
which will cost more than the singer will
make out of the expedition. She is deter-
mined to dazzle the eyes of her country-
women, apparently, as well as enchant their
ears.
Portia Geacli took the salute of the good
Housewives at Farmer’s the other day. It
was the association’s welcome-home to its
former president, who has been travelling
tlie world over for two years. This modern
Portia doesn’t wrestle with knotty points of
law, but she can confound the toughest piece
ot steak with her pot-roast arguments. Home
economics and the ways of housewives in other
lands were her theme over her presenta-
tion posy of red roses. Incidentally, her silken-
soft green felt hat was banded with snakeskin
modern Eve’s “Keep off the grass!” signal
to the serpent.
The fellow-feeling that makes us wondrous
kind has caused Netta Derritt, who some
time ago lost her two legs to a shark in a
Bronte surf-batliing sensation, to chum up
with Lilian Batty, of Bankstown, who lost
her two legs through a recent accident near
Blacktown railway station. Public admira-
tion was awakened by Netta’s line, unselfish
spirit after her rescue from the shark; and
soon after Lilian’s accident, the Bronte girl
was able to motor out and comfort her com-
panion in misfortune. The Bankstown girl
is only in her early teens, and as her simi-
larly-maimed friend is able now to walk
about on her artificial limbs, she sees more
hope ahead of her than at first she thought
possible.
Sister Brisbane gets busier:—
The gallery was a wedge, and the rest of the
house full, for the opening*night of “No, No, Nin-
ette ! and Jimmie Godden harvested a heavy crop of
hosannas. After the show the members of the com-
pany were invited to a supper dance at Lennon’s,
Judge and Mrs. Jimmy Blair, the Roger Hartigans,
the Don Chauvels, Elma White, Naera Sampson and
Joyce Godsall being amongst the other guests.
Charles Dearden, who was until recently with the
Allan Wilkie Co., has collaborated with Snow Robin-
son, of Toowoomba, in a jazz song, “Fig Leaves,”
which Queenie Paul is putting on with a ballet ::t
Cremorne this week.
At the Empire Jim Gerald’s revue co. takes charge
after the fleeing of Stiffy and Mo to the south. He
came over by car from Sydney.
The National Council of Women, the Women
Grads, the Lyceum and the Women’s Club joined
to welcome Freda Bage at a big “At Home” in
the Women’s Club rooms. Mrs. Cumbrae-Stewart,
Jean White-Haney, Mrs. F. Wedd and Dorothy
Denniss spoke the greetings, and the guest responded
with thumb-nail sketches of the women at the
Geneva Assembly.
After the game the losers in the match between
the president’s and the captain’s teams of Royal
Queensland golfers entertained the winners at dinner
in the club house, players sitting down a hundred
strong. Incidentally, Guy Packard, one of the club's
best men, was farewelled. President George Brown
said that in 1920 there was~only one club in Bris-
bane; but the formation of the R.Q.C. in ’2l com-
menced a golf boom that spread throughout the
State. He thought it would be well for the club
to ask for the services of Dr. Mackenzie, who is to
re-design the Melbourne links. A life membership
was conferred on Leonard Francis; George Brown
was again elected president and H. Cupples captain.
The Church of Christ was decorated with wedding
cells and ferns when Rev. E. P. Aderman, of Auburn,
Sydney, married Phyllis May Lowther, of Carinya,
Windsor. Her father gave the bride away in
ivory pussy-willow; her veil, worn over a cap of
silver tissue, was caught with orange blossoms, and
her bouquet was of roses and carnations. Ethel
Lowther, in almond green, and May Aderman, in
peach color, ’maided. The Cafe Majestic saw to the
feast.
The principal of the Kindergarten, Marion Coch-
rane, had a nice party given to her and Miss J.
Dowling in the Women’s Club, which was dressed
in pink roses and fern.
St. Philip’s Church, South Brisbane, roofed the
marriage of J. A. Leslie to Dorothy Colman, who
was given away by her uncle, C. B. Crofton, in
white mariette with a Limerick veil. She carried
roses, stephanotis and cactus dahlias. Marie Thond-
ley ’maided in blue.
And Frank Aiorris, son of George Morris and the
late Mrs. Morris, Charters Towers, tucked May Auld
under his aim in the Albert-street church. The bride
was in ivory mariette, and had a silver slipper tied
to her bouquet. Hilda Little, in lavender, and Mar-
garet Auld, in pale blue, ’maided.
The G. A. Shands, of Hilltop, Cannon Hill, had
their golden wedding on March 7. They were married
in South Aus. in ’77, and have six sons and three
daughters.
Rev. Dr. Youngman, a pillar of the Methodist
Church in Australia, died at his home, Dean-street,
on March 11. Born in England in ’4B, he came to
Queensland from N. S. Wales in ’BB, and was this
State’s first President of the Conference. At Ade-
laide, in later years, he was made President of the
General Conference.


JjARgY BROTHERS IXD
Mens Wrist Watches
m :
\\
&
Xl
BAB2O8 —Popular-shape Silver Wrist Watch with high-grade
Lever Movement, On leather strap, 65/-
In 9-carat Gold, £6/10/- 15-carat Gold, £B/10/-
BAB2O6 —Smart New Shape Wrist Watch, with high-grade Swiss
Lever Movement. Mounted on broad leather strap.
Silver, £6. 9-carat Gold, £lO/10/-
i :
W- ® <
&
8A8209- —Another smart shape Wrist Watch in 9-carat Gold case;
high-grade Lever Movement. On leather- strap, £ll/10/-
Fivc p&T cent. Discount allowed on Cash Puvchases ,
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE.
hardy
BROTHERS LTD.
S&TTouse aP&s dusux-VeweiUn/
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN S T.,
BRISBANE.
TWO GREAT WRITERS
In the Famous Shilling Series of Bookstall Novels:
Arthur Wright and Steele Rudd
Steele Rudd’s Famous
Australian Novels.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
DAD IN POLITICS
DUNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
GRANDPA’S SELECTION
MEMOIRS OF CORPORAL KEELEY
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
ON EMIT CREEK
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON OUR SELECTION
SANDY’S SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
THE BOOK OF DAN
THE DASHWOODS
THE OLD HOMESTEAD
THE POOR PARSON
Arthur Wright’s Sporting
Novels.
A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY
A GAME OF CHANCE
A ROGUE’S LUCK
A ROUGH PASSAGE
BOSS O’ YEDDEN
FETTERED BY FATE
GAMBLER’S GOLD
IN THE LAST STRIDE
OVER THE ODDS
RUNG IN
THE BREED HOLDS GOOD
THE OUTLAW’S DAUGHTER
THE SPORT FROM HOLLOW-LOG
FLAT
UNDER A CLOUD
WHEN NUGGETS GLISTENED
Price 1/-; Posted 1/1 2.
COMPLETE CATALOGUE, COMPRISING 150 TITLES, POST FREE.
When ordering, please mention The Bulletin.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD., Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
GETS AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The Book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; w T hilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
The Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/-. 4d. Postage.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Your Health!
zmm
mm
mm
mm
m
Guinness’s Stout
m
H
1759-1927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


gfc .SAL?N?L%.
e
is Hvl
ONLY
NON-SCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
D/ie CrccKt
Tofi Dal Monte
sdjjs it umEmixm'
obtck.ina.ble
ONLY
Home Recreations I J
<3BB George St., Sydney.
[opp Oea.rd W&tson’s)
“WHERE ARE YOU STAYING IN MELBOURNE ?”
“Oh, Scott’s, of course! It’s handy to everywhere—right in the heart
of the city, near offices, wharves, shops, warehouses, railway
stations and theatres. And they look after you well at “Scott’s”;
you can’t equal it elsewhere for comfort, excel-
lent table and personal attention. And there’s
hot- and cold-water service and direct and inter-
communicating telephones in all bedrooms.”
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and
Breakfast Bate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
SartHi
MELBOURNE
REED
8798,
TRUE TO TIME
The name CYMA is the
synonym of good timekeeping
*
m
"Right with
the Sun-’
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
saSB
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
It was in vain that one looked for any-
thing out of the ordinary in feminine cover-
ing at the V.A.T.C. races at Caulfield on
Saturday. There was a sort of we-didn’t-
know-what-to-wear look about the general
appearance of the sex, for what is generally
known as early autumn brings sudden
changes of temperature. It may be hot
enough for chiffon at mid-day, and a fur coat
may be necessary after lunch. The sex donned
jumper suits of crepc-de-Chine, frocks of
georgette, coats and skirts of woollen fabric,
furs or topcoats; and the winter-clad were
the happiest. The vagabond felt hat top-
dressed everything, whether gossamer or
tweed. Owing, no doubt, to the finals of the
M.C.C. tennis tournament, there was a
decided falling off in feminine patronage.
The committee ladies’ box was nearly
deserted, and there was nothing arresting
in apparel there. Mrs. Ireland, a brunette
whose husband is one of the lights at our
naval base, brightened the pen with her
cerise-silk raiment with its gold-thread
traceries. Mrs. Tabart was suited in navy,
and Mrs. V. Kewney dangled much width
of black fringe upon a black gown with mil-
linery of brown. A cape ensemble frock of
black georgette with distinguishing and
attractive adornment of collar and bands of
fur secured dress honors for the stately Colin
Fraser lady. The Norman Bayles couple, she
in silk all-over sprigged, allied to a navy
blue hat, were of the just-returned-from-
abroad travellers. Mrs. T. M. Burke aired
upon sand-hued upholstery a double flounce
of harmonising fringe. Maud Carr, a visitor
from Fiji, figured in a smart black tailored
suit, as also did Ada Reeve, who found time
between the races to have a word with the
cot cases from Caulfield’s convalescent hos-
pital for soldiers, and to hand round smokes.
The popularity of tennis seems not to
decline; a full attendance saw the M.C.C.
finals at the Albert Cricket Ground on Satur-
day. St. Kilda-road presented an expensive
front of private cars. A most appreciative
audience caused some clever playing to the
gallery in the finals for the doubles, in
which Wood and Hawkes were beaten by
Gerald Patterson and Wertheim of the
reach-us-down-a-star attitude. Some nice
little bits of raiment were seen during events,
notable being a black satin frock with flat
flounces, buttons dashed with red, and a
huge side-tassel, also crimson. The stands
presented a gay scene; there were many
frocks and hats of every tone of red, with
a big percentage of green and blue. The
sun was kind, but a cool breeze saw wraps
donned early. Patrons mainly bore names
of those long associated with the game in
these parts, and of those likely to carry
the same into Davis Cup honors in the
future.
The tennis was followed by a hop at the
Kooyong clubhouse. Some of the new
season’s glittering finery flitted amid the floral
decorations of blooms, blends of reds and
blues, for which Yera de Bavay and Gwen
Bedggood were responsible. Esna Boyd
danced in satin-striped taffeta of azure-blue;
Shirley Nott had tracery of gold embroidery
and beads upon a black frock dashed with
powder-blue; Mamie Felstead figured also
in black with a sprinkling of gilded sequins.
When Melba offered to sing an Austra-
lian national anthem at Canberra she over-
looked the prodigious crop of manuscripts
that would arrive. An awakening came when
the postman staggered along with the Coombe
Cottage mail. The Dame took fright as the
pile of odes grew daily, and fled to Sydney,
leaving the task of sorting out to others.
However, C. J. Dennis and Willie James
have produced an anthem which will be
broadcasted in the near future, backed by the
full strength of our Choral Society. It
seems a good guess that when the Duke
opens Parliament this hymn of praise will
be sung by the Dame.
Mrs. Roy Steyne went over to Sydney
last week to join her husband, the stage-
manager of the “Tell Me More” company.
The lady, -whose marriage is new enough to
be yet a nine days’ wonder, was Dorothy
Greaves, daughter of the J. C. Greaveses, of
Bendigo. Her lately-acquired husband is a
brother of comedian Hugh Steyne, and
though not of many years, stage-managed
here with the last Melba opera company.
Much Spanish lace, vellum tinted, with
tulle additions of the same tone, and a sheaf
of lilies with streamers of gold, was the
bridal outfit of Marjorie Valentine Shaw,
daughter of tin 1 J. A. Shaw couple, formerly
of Tandara, when changing her name to
McKay. The bridegroom was Cecil New-
ton, eldest son of the late H. Y. McKay and
of Mrs. McKay, of Sunbury. The two
attendant maids made an effective contrast
in frocks of jade-green chiffon velvet, with
a couple of pink roses of outsize order. The
Toorak kirk staged the ceremony on Thurs-
day night, and the W. P. Sliaws’ residence
at Toorak held the accompanying dining, at
which mostly relations were assembled. A
silver salver was a gift from employees of
the Sunshine Harvester works.
At a big afternoon crush at the Alexandra
Club the hostesses were Mrs. P. Warford
Mein and her sister, Mrs. Eric Byron Moore.
Much fine early-autumn upholstery and mil-
linery had background of pink and white
lilies, gladioli and other blooms, amid gum-
tips. Noticed among the crowd were Mrs.
Norman Parbury and the stately Mrs. Gil-
bert Wilson, both of Bananaland’s capital;
and Mrs. George Dowling of Jellalabad’s
. many acres.
The net result to date of Jimmy Dyer's
gift of £lO,OOO to endow a permanent orches-
tra is an unholy row. After six weeks'
wrangling between the trustees of the Lady
Northcote fund, the board interested in the
“million shillings” project, professional musi-
cians and those mere music lovers who had
sufficient courage to venture into the scrum,
Mr. Dyer has placed his donation in trust,
presumably to save it from being torn to
pieces. The money will remain there accu-
mulating interest until the various parties
achieve a better frame of mind. It is rather
a melancholy commentary on the alleged
power of music to soothe the savage breast.
None of the existing organisations can do
anything musically effective -with their small
resources, so why not pool them?
Wives of Commonwealth Ministers helpe,
to take the first freshness off the new carpei
in the committee-room of the Senate, put
ting on tea and musie there by way ot
welcoming home Prime Minister Bruce’s
wife. Mrs. George Pearce shared the grasp-
ing of hands with the guest of honor, who
had narrow pieatings of ribbon edging the
flounces of a black georgette gown, the
sombreness of which was broken by a
shouldered white gardenia. Mrs. Pearce’s all-
black turn-out had a deep border of ecru
lace beneath its mitred edge. Quite impos-
ing was the display of food spread upon two
large tables fore and aft of the reception-
room, with howls of cactus dahlias and La
France roses, scattered with the first
fallen leaves of autumn. Senators and
Representatives slipped out from debates to
sample the refreshment and honor their
leader’s life-partner. The Howse lady, just
returned from England with her convalescent
husband, sipped tea to the accompaniment
of the Anzac orchestra and the warbling of
Grace Evans. Senator Kingsmill’s wife
looked cool in spotted green and white cover-
ing and green hat; Mrs. Glasgow wore soft
upholstery of two tones of pink ; Mrs. Pratten
and Mrs. Perkins were Sydney repre-
sentatives ; Prowse, M.H.R. for Sw r an,
brought his two daughters along to the billy-
boiling ; Mrs. Frank Guthrie, Mrs. Harry
Gullett, Mrs. Watt and Mrs. J. G. Latham
were also sighted.
At the International Congress of Lyceum
Clubs to be staged in London from May 31
to June 3,
Melbourne
Lyceum Club
will be repre-
sented by Mrs.
T. a’Beckctt
(p re sident),
Miss Barrow
(assistant-sec-
retary) and
Enid Derham,
here pictured
by Ruth Hol-
lick. Enid, a
daughter o f
solicitor
Thomas Der-
ha m, is an
M.A. and lec-
tures in Eng-
lish at the Uni-
versity, from
which she has
leave of
absence for a
year. When the last mail left she was in
Greece. Her objective is a further course
of study at Oxford, where she picked up
some extra knowledge during the first year
of the Great War. Miss Derham, who has
written some excellent verse, was the club’s
third president; the first was Mrs. Alfred
Deakin.
Prime Minister Bruce defended his Gov-
ernment’s financial policy before the
A.W.N.S. on Thursday afternoon, and con-
cluded with a touching picture of the
Federal and State Governments of the future
clinging together in love and understanding.
His listeners applauded the vision beautiful,
then cooled their ardor in tea, since it was
the 23rd birthday celebration of the league.
Mrs. Bruce smiled her sympathy over a big
presentation sheaf of lovely blossoms. This
was the first occasion that Mrs. Claude
Couchman took her stand as the president,
following with some timidity in the foot-
steps of the late Janet Lady Clarke, Mrs.
F. G. Hughes and Mrs. H. S. Crocker. The
lady’s name was, therefore, included in the
many-happy-returns greetings to the politi-
cal feminine body. Mr. H. S. Lawson, Mrs.
A. J. Sage and Mrs. Knox Chapman were
other speakers.
It was quite a relief to learn from an
English visitor that in stalls and dress-
circle of London theatres fair patrons have the
disgusting habit of combing their locks and
making running repairs to their faces. The
Chatterer labored under the delusion that the
practice of scattering loose hairs, dust and
what not else over one’s neighbor at the
play was an occupation peculiar to Mel-
bourne’s shingled.
Archibald Strong, now of Adelaide Uni-
versity, was one of the battlers in Me!-
bourne’s early
struggles for a
repertory
movement. On
the opening
night of the
Ta i t Reper-
tory Theatre
Society at the
Theatre Royal,
the brilliant
p rofessor,
whose likeness
is given here-
with, was an
honored guest
at a celebra-
tion supper-
party. His
father, the
late Herbert
A. Stro n g,
was Professor
of Classics at
M e 1 b o urne
Uni., and later was attached to the Univer-
sity of Liverpool, where his son collected
the M.A. degree, as well as distinctions at
Oxford and Middle Temple. Archibald has
been associated with the chief censor of the
movies for the Commonwealth, the Shaks-
peare Society and Melbourne’s Literature
Society. Much war literature and many
poems and essays have given him his literary
reputation. A Ruth Hollick camera snapped
the famous Aussie.
A recent Air Force union was that of
Flight-Lieutenant (Dr.) F. T. Hartnett and
Nancy Gertrude O’Neill, the bridegroom’s
brother, Father Hartnett, of Mentone, doing
the linking at St. Patrick’s Cathedral. The
bride’s chief finery was a Limerick-lace veil
(it was lent by the sisters of the Presentation
Convent) that floated over an ivory georg-
ette gown with ribbon embroidery in pink
and blue. The one bridesmaid was a sym-
phony in pink and gold. Mrs. L. D. Healy
hostessed the after-celebrations at Menzies’.
The Austral Salon’s report for the last 12
months shows there is £139-odd in the bank
for future activities. The Salon is by no
means a money-making concern, nor is its
membership plutocratic, so it’s pleasant to
note that donations to charities during the
38th year of its existence were just over
£137. The report contains tribute to the ser-
vices of Alice Richardson, who understudied
the role of secretary during the absence
abroad of Mrs. May Quinnell.
Melbourne is being robbed of the festivi-
ties incident to the wedding of James Bar-
rett’s second daughter, Bertha, to John Can-
ning, of Oakbourne, Waipukurau (M.L.).
The ceremony is to be staged at Waipukurau
on April 12; the doctor’s lady and daughter
Cara journey thence towards the end of
March.
Edna Armytage, now Mrs. Lionel Mundy
Baily, who was married in India, is about
to bring her airman home for inspection.
Nita Leonline, only daughter of the Baron
and Baroness de Fegely, of Quamby, Dobie,
glided up the red carpet at Christ Church,
South Yarra, the other morning and said “I
will” to Ronald Charles, fourth son of the
late David Coutts and Mrs. Coutts, of Ingle-
wood. The bridal gown was a blush of faint
pink georgette, glittering with a shower of
silver and crystal. Worn on her head was
a coronal of silver leaves, ringed with orange
blossoms, from which escaped a mist of pink
tulle, and she carried a fair load of lilies and
carnations. The one ’maid, Miss M. Hooke,
was frocked in mauve crepe, embroidered
with gold sequins, and wore a swathe of tulle
confined with a cluster of leaves on her hair.
Owing to a recent family bereavement only
relatives were bidden to the ceremony. Mr.
and Mrs. Ronald Coutts will make their
home at Pastoria Park, which once belonged
to the David Mitchell family. The bride’s
mother is one of the three Carr-Riddell sis-
ters, the others being Mrs. George Riddell
Stanley and Bessie Carr-Riddell.
Mrs. Edgar Dye, in cedar-pink raiment
with some burnishing of beads and felt mil-
linery, served tea at the Wattle on Thurs-
day afternoon to fellow-workers of the Mel-
bourne Hospital Red Cross Social Service, who
said au revoir to Mrs. W. Kent Hughes off
to glimpse the other side of the world Tlr-
traveller, who helped to establish the useful
body, has also filled the lob of bon. secre-
tary since its infancy.
“Ghosts," that unpleas; nt Ibsen play wa
the Little Art Theatre’s offering of Thurs-
day at the Queen’s Hall. Maisie Bennett
who glimmered in black jet and rose beads
was a charming widow Alving. and Marjorie
Carr wore the trim black frock with a touch
of red of the maid, Regina. W. T. Devine'-
Engstrand was a capital study: ('laud
Thomas aired the garb of the plausible cleric
and J. Beresford Fowler was seen in the roh
of the artist son with the hereditary taint
Next Monday will be given the second per-
formance of “The Seagull,” by Tchekov.
Adelactivities:—
We are to have a new musical society—the Coro,
sponsored by John Dempster, with the mayoress, the
Headmistresses’ Association, and other notable citizen-
to assist him. Members will be drawn from past
pupils of secondary girls’ schools; and with Mr.
Dempster as conductor it should go well.
Returned voyagers include Mrs. H. P. Wilson, back
from a long trip by little-known paths in Asia, and
the Percival Stows, whose three years and more in
Kurope and England ended with a couple of months
in AVestralia. The R. M. Hawkers and their younger
children are back, too, for a visit only. They left
behind them their eldest daughter hunting in Ire-
land, and two sons—one at Cambridge and the other
being coached for that university. Mr. and Mrs,
Hawker are keen on sports, and a good deal of last
year went in salmon fishing in Norway.
Mrs. Andrew Smith, Keith Smith’s mother, leaves
early in April for England.
The Mayoress’s bridge party for the Town Hall,
organised in aid of the Tubercular Soldiers’ Aid
Association, was a great success. Over 100 tables
were booked, and tea and sweets brought the takings
to just on £BO.
Passengers by the Ascanius included the Arthur
Lungleys and their daughters and Mr. and Mrs.
W. E. Txmgbottom. The H. W. Swifts have returned
from their trip overseas.
The United Arts Club followed a social, whereat
John Precee spoke on contemporary European art,
with an exhibition of paintings that was opened by
Mr. Alec Melrose. For so young an association, it
strikes a good average; it has a keen secretary in 0.
H. Dutton.
The Oronsay Ball has been the chief distraction of
the week;. it fell on the first cool night after days
of stuffy mugginess. The ship was gay with bunting
and, in the supper room, fragrant with pink roses
that sprouted from delphiniums and mauve asters.
Mr. and Mrs. Max Anderson (she with a blue-patterned
pink velvet wrap over her beaded frock) did the
honors with Capt. Owens, and special trains took
guests to and from the Outer Harbor. Frocking
was a-glitter with beads, so much so that the eye
fell thankfully on the comparative plainness of
gilded or silver brocades and on the plain geor-
gettes of some of the younger girls.
George Tallis, visiting Adelaide to see Herbert
Myers, who is in hospital, found that their trip
overseas together would have to be declared off.
Tallis announces yet another picture theatre for
Adelaide. The situation is in Rundle-street, and
the cost will be £lOO,OOO.
The old Argus office in Collins-street will
open its doors on the last two days of this
month for an Opportunity Show, where
almost anything can be purchased. Profits
of the two days’ selling will help fit the new
kindergarten home at Blackburn with lots of
necessaries and comforts. Several young
people are responsible for the idea and the
realisation of this free kindergarten home for
kiddies; £l5OO was collected by them, much
of it being earned by girls in their spare
time. One lass whitewashed a friend’s kit-
chen to get her contribution. Entertain-
ments were also engineered for the cause.
Folk interested in the kindergarten movement
are asked to contribute stock towards the
opportunity shop, hut no second-hand clothes
will be accepted.
From Southward Ho-bart:—
Dark-haired Mollie Dowling, the one ewe lamb of
the Squire of Barton, Campbell Town, and his dam*,
while going up the aisle of St. David’s Cathedral
to keep an altar engagement with James Melrose,
R.N., was a picture in a Paris frock. It was com-
posed of silver sequins, with shoulder train oi
georgette embroidered in silver and crystals, and
long tulle veil, topped with a tiara of crystal pearl?
and tiny orange-blossom buds, a silver holder keeping
her white roses together. She was ’maided by Peggy
Chapman and Alison Taylor, frocked and hatted in
pale blue with silver furnishings. The bridegroom
was supported by Alan Cameron and Jack Foster.
Mrs. Dowling, gowned in black georgette with cham-
pagne ficelle embroidery and black hat, greeted
over 200 guests at the Imperial afterwards.
The poor and needy in Hobart lost one of the.,
best friends when Harold White died. For many
years he was president and treasurer of the City
Mission. His mantle has fallen on his son.
The Hobart Wattle League’s yearly report show
that the tidy little sum of £1175 dropped i®
the funds of the Consumptive Sanatorium as the
result of the last Wattle Day appeal.
F. E. W. Cotton, a member of the Hobart branct
of the Australasian Institute of Secretaries,
carried off the gold medal issued by the head count
for the highest number of marks at the Decern *
exam. In ’25 Tasmania gained the highest num er
in the Commonwealth. This year Maoriland vra.-
included.


/r
Vn
diamonds
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAHONDCIRCLERINGS
FROM &15150
DIAMONDS
//
DIAMONDS
*1
At/
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rinfes completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching,
to the purchase of the finest rings procurable.
Speaking from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rings
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rings.
Drummond’s rings are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rings that can be made.
WM-DRUMMOND &. CO.
cn*THE house for fine quality diamonds-*
AND PEARLS
344.346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
A. SAUNDERS’
DIAMONDS
A. Saunders’
Two-Diamond
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Ring, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold,
£7O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum
18ct. Gold Riiv
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Oeta go n- sh aped.
Platinum setting,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
% AJf
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Fancy
Platinum Setting,
18ct. Gold Ring,
FIRST QUALITY,
SPECIALLY SELECTED,
FANCY PLATINUM SETTINGS.
v * h
ammo
A. Saunders’ Fine Diamond-set 18ct. White Gold,
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband, £32/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Three-Diamonds, Octagon-shaped, Plati-
num-set, 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, £2O.
V. Saunders’ Single Diamond Knife-edge Bracelet,
£4O.
Smaller Diamond, £2O, £3O.
A Saunders’ Single Diamond Octagon-shaped Plati-
num-set 15ct. Gold Brooch, £5.
Larger Diamond, £7/10/-
BIMIIIMI
A, Saunders’ Fine Diamond-set 18ct. Gold, Jewelled
Lever Watch, Silk Wristband, £l7/10/-
Guaranteed.
Sent Per Regd. Post Free.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum Setting,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
mm
A. Saunders
Single-Diamond
18ct. White Gold
Ring, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Button-
cluster, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £25.
A. Saunders’
Five Diamonds,
set Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Fancy
Platinum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
MUti
i
w.
■w:
men
The Popular
Oceanic Route
The popularity of the “Oceanic” route to
America has been gained owing to reasons
// which cannot but be appreciated by every
/' Tourist and Traveller. It is the quickest route,
only 19 days from Sydney to San Francisco. It
is the most varied —delightful calls at Suva
(Fiji), Pago Pago (Samoa), and Honolulu (Hawaii)
enable passengers to get just that touch of the Pacific
Islands and semi-oriental life which is so full of novelty
and charm. While on board it is ever the desire of the
Ship's Company to make the journey comfortable and
pleasurable, to which the appointments, convenience
and services so very greatly contribute.
Every day a holiday.
S.S. SIERRA.
S.S. SONOMA.
S.S. VENTURA.
Free sailing lists
and descriptive
booklets.
Every three weeks.
SteamshipG?
~ \ MATSON NAVIGATION CO - MANAGING AGENTS C
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcilvuraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne, 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide ; Fremantle. P. rth andjllbam: Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS* Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
INCLUSIVE TOUR IN EUROPE 50 Days for £BO
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES . .
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES ..
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON
49 days, £396
71 days, £302
66 days, £283
53 days, £179
48 days, £166
46 days, £124
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.O.)*
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.O.)*


NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
* livcrp BARNET,, GLASS TENNIS BALL Stitched
k and 'Stitchless All Court is Manufactured in
L accordance with the
Compression Standard
as well as every other standard -
of the International Lawn
- Tennis Federation. -g,
n
LJ
m
r
&
9
d
n
\!
Ev
e
&
Wi
b.
8
st.
Uhese
are the
Jldvantages
2f
ALL-BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
The keened sports-
men and the world’s
leading shots
Use Only
ELEY &
KYNOCH
All-British
Cartridges
OBTAINABLE AT ALL
GUNSMITHS AND
DEALERS THROUGH.
OUT AUSTRALIA
273
A GOOD GUN
DESERVES A
GOOD CARTRIDGE
&
O. MEE’ATT —Father of Fortune, King; of Luck-
bringers and inventor of Send Round the Hat.
9"
a
i
mm
\
£
E
£
i
£
N.S.W. Fire Brigades
Art Union
For the Hospitals and Ambu-
lances of the State (Sanctioned
by the Attorney-General).
£6666
in Prizes.
Tickets
II-
First Prize, a Solid Gold Fireman’s Helmet
valued at £lOOO. This is a veritable Pot
of Luck, for it can be converted into
sovereigns at a moment’s notice
AS GOOD AS GOLD FROM THE MINT
Consult 0. Mee’att, who invented Lucky Brain
Waves from Hats. Listen to his words:
Good luck to those who nieeteth man or
woman with their Considering Cap at the
right angle. Should you meet one with a hat
brought forward to shade the eyes, it means
hasten, he is dazzled by the splendor; tilted
to the right, do not waste time dreaming;
tilted to the left, pursue your wish at once;
titled to the back of the head, a sure sign of
confidence and luck. Beware of the man who
hath no hat, for he seeketh what thou hast
got, and hath nothing to pass round for
charity.”
Other prizes: 2nd, Rtudebaker Six, £B4f>
3rd, Thornycroft Motor Lorry, £041; 4th
Six-cylinder Nash, £595 ; sth, Austin Five
seater, £395; 6th, Buick Touring Car, £395,
7th, Essex Coach, £299; Bth, Shulz Player
Piano, £225 ; 9th, Victor Player Piano,
£212 ; and 130 other prizes valued at from
£175 to £4/10/-
TICKETS ONE SHILLING. BOOKS OF 25
FOR £l. 12 TICKETS FOR 10/-
6 FOR 5/-
Write to the Secretary of the
Fire Brigades Art Union,
Circular Quay Station, Sydney,
N.S.W.
White plainly. State whether
Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
Drawing Takes Place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10.
Positively no postponement. Closing Date, July 27.
Send stamped and addressed envelope for result slip.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Sec.
3475
Chances
for £1
“ De Reszke
—of course.”
Ivory Tipped
or Plain
i
>vJ
m
/£
\
■36.
A/
t\
/
l
R JX-fc
The
Choice for the Voice
“Late nights don’t seem to affect your pretty
voice.”
“ To tell you the truth, I’m surprised at
myself, considering the number of cigarettes
I smoke.”
“ The explanation, my dear, is that you’re
only smoking De Reszkes. In fact, you’re
doing exactly what the great Jean de Reszke
did. When he found that ordinary cigarettes
affected his golden voice, he got his friend
Millhoff to make him a cigarette that he
could smoke all day with impunity. And
that’s the origin of the famous cigarettes
which to this day are known as De Reszkes.
Go on smoking them.”
DE RESZKE
Virginias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
c_ Also • in 20's. 50’s and 100's
J. MILLHOFF & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
j Agents for N.S.W. : I)ALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney.


2
The TOPNOTCH’ScotcK
A>v
' vl «
Vt SnyWHE* «»rl
jw r>\
MI
I'
1 *
i
i4T
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., DTD., PERTH AND GERALDTJON.
[x
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The prices on offer about Don Moon for
the Doncaster Handicap and Murray King ior the
Sydney Cup shortened materially after the races at
Moorefield on Saturday. With 81b. more than his
Doncaster weight, 7st. 121 b., Don Moon (5 to 1) made
hacks of a pretty good fidd of sprinters in the Flying
Handicap; Highland and Prairie Belle (each 5 to 1)
were no use to him when it came to solid work in
the straight. The going was on the heavy side, and
if it is that way on Easter Saturday the game little
Don Reynaldo—Full Moon gelding will have to be
reckoned with. He was a fortunate purchase for
Bailih at 400 guineas last season ; he has won seven
races, including the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes, since.
The Moorefield Handicap, 10 furlongs, was Murray
Ring's race. Backed from 14 to 1 to 10 to 1, he
paced it with St. Eaton (6 to 1) for a mile or so,
settled him in the straight and beat off challenges
from Freddie C. (3 to 1) and Luddenham, who were
separated from him by heads. The time was 2min.
7}see. Murray King ran very kindly for Davidson,
and if he could only be relied upon to do his best
he- might share with The Barb the distinction of
winning two Sydney Cups. The weight won’t trouble
him, for he has only 7st. 121 b. and is sturdily built.
But hitherto his practice has been to run one good
race and a dozen bad ones. Spaghetti (Polycrates—
Polvere), who won the Carlton Mile in taking
style;at 10 to 1, is in the same stable (that of Dan
Lewis) as the Doncaster favorite, Grecian Orator;
he is in the Doncaster himself with 7st. 4lb. and
in ■ the Cup with 7st. 31b. He may not be class
enough for such races, but is decidedly useful.
Notwithstanding all the racing they have
had lately, punters w«e in vast numbers at the
V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield on Saturday, and on
the’ whole they broke even, three favorites being
mccessful. Bunkie, wbo hadn’t started since, pulling
hard, he failed to stay 2T miles in the Australian
Cup, was firm at 7 to 2 for the St. Kilda Handicap,
12. furlongs, Wallarak and Imitator being at 9 to 2,
Xaos and Cyden at 8 to 1 and All Sunshine at 10's.
Head Girl, the Launceston Cup winner, was the early
leader, and was still in charge six furlongs from
heme, with Thracian, Wallarak, All Sunsbue, Imi-
tator and Bunkie following her and Naos last. All
Sunshine was first into the straight, but just ms'de
the distance Bunkie got in front, and though IN’ aos
came with a wonderful run, Jimmy Wilson’s horse
prevailed by a short head, the unlucky Martian
gelding being a neck in front of AH Sunshine, with
Imitator and Cyden close up. It was an inspiriting
finish.
Bunkie has now won three nice handicaps for his
owner-trainer. Bidden by little Fullarton, the gelded
i*on of Burrabadeen —Florenza carried Bst. 51b.. and
carved out the 12 furlongs in 2min. 3 5 Wee. He is
in the Sydney Cup at 7st. 81b., and if he goes across
to Randwick will have backers, but Kaos, who carried
Sst. 121 b., and drops to Bst. in the two-miler, looks
to hold him safe.
There was another spectacular finish in the Orrong
Two-year-old Handicap, Sacedon (4 to 1), after appa-
rently being out of it at the home turn, galloping
so brisklv for Dempsey that he just touched off the
outsider Zanibar (16 to 1), who looked invincible
in the straight, with Gleamlight (9 to 2), one of
Scobie’s, third. And in the South Yarra Handicap,
six furlongs, the Kellow-owned gelding Metellus (7
to' *)- was only a head in front of unlucky Biskra
(7 to 2) when the winning post was reached, Lady
Tlifill (8 to 1) being a neck away. Cairns rode
Metellus, who had 41b. more than his Doncaster
weight, 9st. 51b., and registered the fast time of
lmin. 121 sec. He ought to pick up a race at
Randwick. although he is well looked after in the
Doncaster.
* * * *
“.Tack Point”: Punters who look for co-
incidences in their efforts to spot winners were
furnished with a full issue at a recent pony meeting
at Strathpine (O.). A jet-black mare appeared in
the racebook as All Black; the colors were all black,
and her jock claims Jamaica as his birthplace. As
the race was a trot and trots are a little —er —Gil-
bertian in Queensland, maybe the bookies’ looks were
black when they had to pay out on her. I suppose
mine were, at any rate. I backed the second horse.
* * * *
When “Cowboy” Moore, “the Arizona
Annihilator,” showed his paces at the Sydney Stadium
the crowd decided that he was very little better than
Nicola Alexandrovich Costica, who went into the
ring with Les Darcy and spent most of the three
“rounds” on his knees whispering “Plees, you no
killa me, plees, Missa Darcy!” Yet the Annihilator
has won his three fights, all by the knock-out route.
On Saturday he met Alf Stewart, each scaling list.
sJib., and for five rounds Stewart made a punching-
bag of the 1 Annihilator, as far as any man can do
so with an opponent who two-thirds of the time is
turned almost back to front, grappling and clinging
to hands and arms. The Melbourne man won the
fifth by a great margin, his straight left to the
face considerably puffing lips and nose and raising
lumps under the eyes. But in the sixth Moore staged
a rally, after stopping two sweet jabs with his
mouth, and a chip to the chin sent Stewart flying
back to the ropes Before he could get-his hands
up again Moore was at him with powder-charged left
and right, and Alf dropped heavily on his face, his
nose flattened against the canvas. At “nine” he
struggled up and tried to fight his man off, instead
of rushing into a clinch. Another terrific right to
a wide-open jaw, and Melbourne went down and. out.
Moore was the first to raise the fallen foe, no light
job, and the small crowd struggled out into the air
asking “How in the name of the old Marquis does
he do it?” The man must have a great punch
concealed in those lean arms.
* * * *
Abo. Billy Samuels was matched to fight
Joe Hail at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night, but
Hall wasn’t available. Pat Petty, a loose-limbed Sydney-
sider, filled the gap and made Billy look cheap for
a few rounds, easily evading the black’s annihilating
right. Looking as fresh as if he’d just walked from
Westralia, Billy lurched in when the ninth round
arrived and landed a double to the body and head
that felled the lanky visitor. While Pat argued
with the referee about the ’ legitimacy of the punch,
the necessary 10 seconds were ticked off. Billy
was very groggy leaving the ring. Samuels, 10st.
ljlb.; Petty, lOst. 6jlb.
* * * *
“Julian”: Buttan Singh, the old Sikli
wrestler, wants to get back into the catch-as-ca ten-
can game, and is challenging all and sundry from his
headquarters, Perth. Twenty-five years ago he was
an attractive performer on the Westralian goldfields,
there being at that time keen rivalry among the
Indian tribes represented in the camel-driving in-
dustry between Norseman and the North West; he
was never beaten on the goldfields. Indian -wrestling
is a fine, manly game, free from the gouging and
throttling introduced by Americans. Buttan, though
rising 66, offers to risk £2OO on himself, and I
daresay he could make Clarence Weber travel even
yet-
* * * *
“Ploughman”: Of all games golf is pro-
bablv most immune from allegations of “stiff run-
ning',” but the nefarious practice exists, if members
of the Armidale (N.S.W.) club can be believed. One
member asserted at the annual meeting that pot-
hunting was the cause of it; he alleged that players
often “ran in wraps” so as to get their handicaps for
coming competitions reduced. Several others cor-
roborated the accusing angel’s testimony, and
“stipes”—in this instance the committee —are to take
drastic action, if occasion arises. Come to think
of it, few sports offer such opportunities to run a
bye as golf. Not one player in a million can
maintain a fixed form, even for one round, and the
game is subject to hazards and slips impossible to
diagnose as accidental or deliberate. And there
is a lot of wagering nowadays, even in Australia,
while in England and America bagmen follow the
round and bet on the running. And even golfers
are but sinful mortals after all.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The deletion of the notori-
ous “manual-worker” ban from-the English Rowing
Association’s rules as to amateur status has caused
some wonder as to how the embargo originated.
When amateur rowing was organised in London in
the mid-Victorian period, the swankiest London
THE DRAWBACK.
RUPERT : “I don’t sec ’ow it would hurt to
win a Tatt.’s sweep, Jock.”
JOCK: “Mon, ye'd hae to count the money.”
clubs, such as Leander and Thames, were composed
of Oxford and Cambridge oarsmen; Westminster
and Eton also lent tone to the proceedings. The
outside London clubs of those days included many
coarse creatures who often refused to be defeated
in races and wore regrettable clothes when out of
their boats. It was felt that if these persons wished
to row, it could hardly be among the elite, and
action was taken accordingly.
* * * *
“Herr von Ped” : Germany has made np its
mind to sweep the board at next year’s Olympiad at
Amsterdam. The whole athletic strength of the
nation is being mobilised, £BO,OOO has been raised
—the Government gave £BOO0 —and training stadia
are being erected in the principal cities, where
candidates will be prepared at the expense of the
municipalities. Hotels and boarding-houses to accom-
modate Germania’s 400 representatives have been
leased near, Amsterdam, and motor transport has
been bespoken. The weight of the offensive will
be thrown on boxing, swimming and running events;
the German peds., at least, are admittedly in the
front rank. The clash between Fritz and the
equally well-organised Yank ought to be Homeric.
Such casual countries as Australia, which is only
beginning to think of preparing, will _ perhaps be
lost in the dust of the battle, though in Charlton,
Jones (W.A.), Doris Thompson Edna Davey
(for whom a world’s record is claimed, she having
won the 300 yards swimming championship of
N.S.W. in 3 min. 54 4-ssec.), Winter, Eve (if
he hasn’t forfeited his amateur status), sculler
Pearce, hurdler A. J. Wilson, Hyde and others, the
Commonwealth has the makings of a great team.
* * * *
“15-30”: The appearance of Germany In
the line-up for this year’s Davis Cup will probably
mean that France will not have such an easy passage
to the final —at least, in the European zone. The
Teutons have always played respectable tennis, and
AN IRON MAN.
GRURB : “There’s nothing like golf for
nerves.”
STUHB : “Yes, it must reguire a lot of nerve
to wear a costume like that!”
in the two or three years prior to the war they
established a reputation which reached a climax
in 1914, when Norman Brookes just dodged defeat
at the hands of Froitzheim. Froitzheim is still a
very good player but, having passed the frontier
of 40, is no longer speedy enough for international
tcurneys. The Germans, however, possess two good
doubles players in Kleinschroth and Bergmann, and
as solos in the singles they will probably unloose
Moldenhauier and Landmann, the last-named an
active hitter with a gallery of winning strokes who
defeated both Richards and Kinsey, then third and
sixth on the American ranking list. A match between
Germany and France should be worth seeing, especi-
ally if it is staged in Paris or Berlin, _ though
the authorities probably would put it up in some
provincial town where the possibility of a scene
would be reduced to a minimum.
* * * *
The finals of the M.C.C. lawn tennis tour-
nament drew a big crowd. The singles, wherein
O’Hara Wood met the Queenslander, Moon, ran to
four sets, the Queenslander taking the second one.
The experienced Wood out-generalled the younger
player in the third and fourth sets and came home
on the bit, full scores being 6 —3, 3 —6, 6—4, 6 —4.
Paterson, with Wertheim as his partner, dominated the
doubles, serving and placing in his top form. Wood
and Hawkes took the first set easily enough, but
their opponents ran through three straight sets,
winning 6 : —3, 6 —4, 6—4.
* * * *
Although heavy tracks were against the
making of records, R. D. Norman (Eastern Suburbs)
equalled the best figures for the State, lmin. 55
4-ssec., in winning the half-mile championship of
N. S. Wales at Manly on Saturday. Others who
kept their N.S.W. titles were A. W. Winter (Western
Suburbs) in the hop. step and jump (47ft. 4in.,
whereas his Olympic figures were 50ft. 11 3-16 in.) ;
It. W. Thomson (West) in the 161 b. hammer throw
(118 ft. sin.), and G. R. Parker (Manly) in the
mile walk (6min.. 46 l-ssec.). In the 220yds., A.
Walker (Manly) met a good; field of sprinters and
had six yards to spare at the tape from W. Hunt
and -J. Carlton in 22 2-ssec.—an excellent effort;
and another youth to surprise was C. O. James
(West), who won the three miles from H. S. Grande-
mange in 15min. 44sec., putting in a fine finish.
A Floyd (East) had an easy victory in the pole
vault (10ft. Bin.) ; and W. F. Payne (West), with
a discus throw of 113 ft. 111 in., got within 3ft.
7fin. of the State figures. Among the girls, E.
Robinson won the 100yds. in 12sec.
* * * *
Last Saturday’s grade cricket in Sydney
gave eloquent proof of the modern Australian batsman’s
inability to make runs on a rain-damaged wicket. Scores
were lamentably small, and the attacking methods so
necessary in the circumstances were conspicuous by
their absence among batsmen, who propped and
poked till the bowler mastered them. A notable
exception was Bradman, the recruit from the country,
who smote a lusty 58 for St. George—a very promis-
ing youngster this. Bowlers fairly wallowed in
their" opportunity: Fisher (Balmain) headed the
slaughter with 6 Northern District victims for 33.
Glebe, though beaten by Western Suburbs (its first
loss for the season), still heads the first-grade comp,
with 29 points, Waverley and Western Suburbs run-
ning neck and neck for second with 27 each.
* * * *
“Tenakohe”: “Darby” Ryan, wlio passed
the ball for the last time at Taupo (M.L.) the
other day, was one of the greatest full-backs Maori-
land ever saw. He’d get his kick in even if the
whole opposing XV were apparently about to trample
him flat in the mud, and he made Sydney Rugby
plavers anil onlookers gasp at the way he fooled the
opposition when he played back for the unbeaten
1884 team. Gifted with an artist’s nature —a queer
anomaly in a footer champion—“ Darby” showed
such promise as a painter that friends enabled him
to enjoy several years’ study in Paris. But he
couldn’t live on art and, always a keen yachtsman,
ho took on the job of conveying visitors over the
lakes and was as popular as his lovable nature
deserved. Sixty-three when the referee whistled
“no side,” “Darby” should meet congenial company
across the creek, for most of his contemporaries of
those days of grand football and footballers —Joe and
Bill Warbrick, Joe Macky, Walter Jones, Bob White-
side and Steve McGechie among them —have gone
before.
* * * *
“Gate”: There was no suggestion in n.y
par. about football “gates” in England that Rugby
attendances were eclipsing Soccer crowds, though
“Adsum” (B. 10/3/’27) read something of the sort
into it. My point was that, since the war, R.U.
attendances have jumped from a small band of the
elect to vast crowds of the type once seen only
at big Soccer matches. I can recall the time when
a Rugby international at Birkenhead Park, the
Rectory field at Blackheath, or at Inverleith was
considered a huge popular success if it drew 5000
spectators. Now, a gate under 50,000 is exceptional.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Not long ago a Bulletin
bard sang of the rise of Rugby Union football in
old Nippon. According to the annual report of the
N.S.W. Rugby Union, the game is cutting out base-
ball in the land of the cherry-blossom; and a
Rugby team from Japan may be counted a certainty
of the near future. Amateurism is a principle of
all athletic sport in Asia, where the professional —in
European-introduced games, at least—is banned. The
Asiatic mind finds it hard to grip the Western
sophistry that a man may turn play into work
and demand pay therefor.
* * * «-
“T’Boggart” : The dreadful changes that
are taking place in the English national fibre are
made all two evident in the semi-finals for the
Association Cup. The four teams left in are Millwall,
Arsenal, Chelsea and Cardiff. Incredible as it may
seem, all are southern clubs, and one is actually
Welsh! This must be about the first occasiqn on
which one fit the great North Country clubs has
failed to reach the penultimate round. Tears must
be falling and beers being dashed down in Lancashire
to-day, and March 26, when the ties will be played,
will be observed there as a day of mourning. Even
the success of one of “they” Yorkshire sides or of
Newcastle United would have been preferable to
this debacle at the feet of the despised southerners
fiom “down country.”
* * *-
“Naklioda”: Now that horses in the bull-
ring are clad in armor, and sport generally is being
made more and more innocuous, the seeker after gory
spectacles will have to go to Java. The national
sport of the mild-looking Javanese is the getekan.
The village champion, bare from the chest upwards,
goes to meet his challenger with a long stout cane,
split to give a nice cutting edge, bent like a bow
behind his head. With the typical Malay love of
play-acting, one crawls through the grass in the
manner of the serpent; the other makes short, stealthy
jumps like the panther. Then they rise to their
full height facing one another. Each makes a
lightning blow in turn, the other ducking, leaping
in the air or trying to guard it with his weapon.
The stroke smacks across cheeks and mouth, and like
a flash the hitter is dancing round the ring crowing
his triumph, while the smitten puts his hands on
his hips, throws his head back and roars with
laughter. Then he has his turn, while angry red weals
begin to accumulate on faces and shoulders and blood
begins to drip. And so on, until the laughter of
one begins to slacken, and he flinches, and breaks,
and runs. Then his rival’s supporters spring col-
lectively in the air yelling the sorak, the Malay
war-cry, at every leap and the regent’s police endeavor
to lash the enthusiasm out of them with bullock
whips. These tournaments are now forbidden, for
they generally end in inter-village riots, and the
Dutch Government has had enough of riots. But
they occur surreptitiously.
* *
“Greeu Chequer” : In the lioming-pigeon
world Belgium occupies much the same position as
does Australia in regard to merino sheep. When
the Prussian eagle swooped down on the Belgian
lofts, fanciers from China to Peru wept to think
that the famous strains of Flanders and Brabant
had been souvenired or obliterated. Their surprise
was great when some of the famous Belgian breeders,
after the Armistice, announced that birds from the
old stocks were again available. How it was done,
in one instance, was told me by a Sydney fancier
who has just imported birds from the lofts of
Josef Justius, at the sound of whose name all
good fanciers bend their heads. Justius, who dwelt
in one of the minor towns of Brabant, planted his
choicest birds in a specially-contrived excavation
under the floor of his house. The invaders were
keen acquirers of homers for military purposes, and
the reputation of Justius as a breeder made them
keep a sharp eye on him. They never found his
birds, which, in darkness, and with only occasional
flights when Fritz was out of the way, increased
and multiplied. So Justius was able to hang out
the “Business-as-usual” sign as soon as the .last
grey-coat went over the n.-e. horizon.
* * * »
“Long Rest”: The continual altering of
the rules of billiards in order to prevent inordinate
and wearisome scoring only seems to arouse the
leading practitioners to embittered reprisals. The
soul-destroying red-ball game led to losing hazards
of this nature being restricted to 25 in succession.
Yet, in the very first season of the new rule, Willy
Smith, who has evidently all the obstinacy of his
Yorkshire origin, has piled up a break of 1176.
George Gray has a record of 2190 (1620 off the red),
made in London before the war, and Walter Lindrum
put together 1413 out of 1879 off the red, with
compo. balls. The best ivory-ball break, before the
restriction of red losers to 25, was Newman’s 1374.
Smith’s performance is thus the record under the
new rule, till someone else beats it so hollowly that
the rule will have to be altered again.
* * * •
“Wambat”: One (lay’s record of big-fish
catches in North Auckland waters (and only the
monsters were thought worth reporting) : swordfish,
2041 b., 2281 b., 2341 b., 2501 b., 2801 b.. 3051 b., 3101 b.,
3501 b., 3701 b., 3761 b. and 3841 b. ; niako sharks, 3211 b.
and 4201 b. Captain Mitchell, of Zane Grey’s party,
caught the big mako, but most of the others were
hauled in by residents. A girl, Sybil Martin, landed
a 3201 b. mako the other day.
BALLADE OF THE LUCKLESS SEASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though leaves be green upon the tree,
And still all growth beneath the sun
Owns lusty summer’s seigneury,
The autumn racing has begun ;
The hungry shrieks of “Fives bar vun”
Too long have vexed the hapless bard;
And this his leading thought, bar none....
Will winter’s winners be as hard?
Though leaves be firm upon the tree,
Nor yet decay his shadow dun
Has spread, abroad on wold and lea,
Autumnal thoughts each' sporting son
May now no longer shelve nor shun,
As feverishly he cons the card
And wonders, with each race that’s run,
Will winter’s winners be as hard?
Though leaves be left upon the tree,
Such thoughts as these my senses stun....
WiU any leaves be left to me
(In cheque-books) when the season’s done ?
Or, when Macßook has had his fun
And small’s the treasury left to guard,
What further webs the Fates have spun....
Will winter’s winners be as hard?
Envoy.
Lord, have they “got me in the gun ?”
Should I this dreadful • vice discard ?
Or one more season try—but one—
Will winter’s winners'be as hard?
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
12
10
Ahead of its time
A HEAD of its time in all things but Time !
Such is the Elgin. For reliable service,
durable strength, and intrinsic beauty of
design the Elgin is the world’s foremost
achievement in watch-making.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
dsflgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/hi? fade Mark
è
in the Watch Cape
DANKS Modem
<•7 Vy x
#Ol
ti
i/f/i'y /> /9-T
rCtitf cIfsKJ O
Create ttie atmosphere of
the past or the present
r
\\ allpapers are the vogue. Decoration is the effect reached for in
the modern home. Backgrounds, suitable for the contents of well-
turmslied rooms, are provided for by the use of the best English
and American Wallpapers.
We are specialising in these and have many of the 1927
designs in hand. They stand our brilliant lights and
sun, and are in accord with the furnishing spirit
of the times.
Call in to our Showrooms in either Sydney
or Melbourne and inspect them, or write
for samples.
Modern
Wallpapers
in a
Modern Showroom
Our Showrooms have been
designed on generous lines, as
suitable mediums for the dis-
play and sale of wallpapers.
The wallpapers are displayed
on revolving screens. You
can inspect a large number
in a few minutes, making
your selection easy.
Papers are priced in propor-
tion to the value of the
building in which they are
to be used, without sacrifice
of good taste.
We cordially invite you to
call and inspect; also
Electric Light Fittings.
Sanitaryware.
Electric and Gas Cookers.
Euilders’ Hardware.
Mantels, Grates, Tiles.
Electric Glow Logs.
Ideal Hot-water Systems.
Kitchenware.
Write for prices of lines you
require.
rn
i®
A
: i
P#«;
M
II!
h*i
%
w
. M 3
-
oS3OT *£«-<Wr<sar
MS
©>•
•
■
John Dams&Son Pty M
324-330 PITT ST. SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
THE INKY WAY.
‘ Mac” : It wasn’t W. H. L. Bailey who
pushed the Sydney Sunday Times barrow
when the paper was started (B. 10/3/’27);
I think the first editor was Edward Ellis.
At that time Bailey was running, with little
luck, a sheet called Bailey’s Sunday News.
“Carpe Diem” : Stopped at the end of his
Inky Way. at Tunstall (Vic.), George Arthur
I’Anson, 78, a confirmed journalist, better
known as “Old Pennyweight.” I’Anson was
born at Taradale about the time Castlemaine
was putting up its record of £15,000,000 of
gold in 10 years. A first-class geologist, he
knew mining practically and theoretically.
“Loyola” : Touching the S. M. Herald’s
munificent offer of 25 quid for the best ode
on the most important event in Australian
history, _ 50 years ago Henry Kendall won
from this same newspaper a prize of £lOO in
open competition for his verses upon the
opening of the Great Exhibition. As £lOO
in 1877 was the equivalent of at least £250
in 1927, one is forced to the conclusion that
the 5.M.11. considers Australian verse of
to-day worth only one-tenth of what it
brought half a century ago.
“Tareela”: C. H. Wilton, -who came to
the Adelaide Advertiser from the Mount
Barker Courier 40 years ago, has sent up
his last slip of copy. During the last 12
months he was practically bedridden. He
did the ’Tiser good service in many capa-
cities. In his time he was leader of the
Parliamentary staff, and in close touch with
pMitical celebrities of a past era. His remi-
niscences of such were full of interest, and it
is hoped they have not all perished with
him.
“lan C.” : Bill Turner, who for 40 years
trod the Inky Way in Melbourne, has
written his last par. and seen his last forme
to bed. In the ’nineties he was on the
Sportsman, when Sam Winter and the
Massinas ran it as a side-line. Later, he was
for years associated with one of the agencies
which supplied news to provincial papers;
recently he was assisting to run a Brighton
(suburban) sheet. In spite of his bulk he
managed to squeeze in everywhere where
news was obtainable, and the official frown
that scared off more sensitive scribes left
Turner untouched. A Governor-General or
Prime Minister was no more to him than a
source of copy, like a boxer or a footballer.
He was close on 75 at the end.
“Spare Sub.”: The Sydney evening papers
recently put floods, fires and strikes on
one side to chronicle a couple of Ameri-
can sporting events. The world-shaking con-
tests, duly “boxed” on front pages, were
the world’s coffee-drinking marathon and
the -gum-chewing championship of the globe-
Ihe winner of the first drank 96 cups of
coffee in six hours, beating the title-holder
by one cup, and ’Frisco cheered him to
the echo. The gum-chewer made history at
Chicago by proving he could continue chew-
ing with 44 sticks of gum in his mouth; he
easily distanced the place-getters, who were
both typists. Possibly a world tour by the
champions will follow, in which case the
Lord Mayor of Sydney may be relied upon
to tender them a civic reception.
“Ike Hollar” : Auckland’s new paper, the
Sun, will have Percy S. Crisp, who is only
in his thirties, as its editorial chief. A con-
cert entertainer before he went to the war.
where he won a lieutenancy, Crisp got his first
writing job on the Christchurch Sun eight
years ago, and his progress was so rapid
that when C. A. Marris left he became
editor. His chair there is to be filled by
Bert Hall, who is still in his twenties. Hah
started on the paper as a youth, and was
soon promoted from proof-reading to the
literary staff: in 1922 he left to go to the
University, having decided that he wished
to be a parson, but the offer of the editorial
charge of the Hawera Star drew him bac»
to journalism,
POST-MORTEM EULOGIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H,r j « hn , S , will §' letree » a good old bogger-in turned
the fanal furrow”.... “Hoisted his lose n„„i.
ore, William Windlass, a very determined battler”
It’s a trait of human nature, when a cobber's race
is run,
To plaster on a tombstone all the worthy deeds
he’s done ; .us
How he helped the poor and seedy, how he never
bashed his wife,
But shouted freely, voted right, and led a moral
life.
If rich and famous, you may get a statue in the
park
(The steps to which make bosker seats for spooning
after dark).
And if you’ve saved the Motherland frcm wars and
loans and things,
They’ll plant you in the Abbey with a gang of
mouldy kings.
When valorous and noble acts entitle you to fame,
The fact’s perpetuated by a street that bears your
name.
In “Boulevard de Billjim” or “The Hardly Staggers
Square,”
Posterity pays homage to the moniker you wear.
But all such stuff just leaves me cold; I think it’s
utter tripe. ,
Give me a bright and pithy par. set up in printers’
type,
To let my old-time cobbers know I’ve cashed in my
last check—
They’ll read it in The Bulletin from Fiji to the
Speck.
I like to ponder how ’twill run—say, “Assayed final
bar,”
Or “Smelted his last furnace-charge” to start the
natty par.
And then my wild and mis-spent life will be exposed
to view,
The beers I’ve sunk, the lies I’ve told, the langwidge
loud and blue.
Some bloke once told an angel with a golden fountain-
pen
To write him in a book as one who loved his fellow
men.
But write me in The Bulletin: “He’s left this
world of sin.
An Australian, a battler, and a good old bogger-
in.”
PLAZA DE BAD CIGARRO, SPAIN.
O. E. J.


... and that and Summer well agree
-r\toih
The shimmer of sun on sapphire sea, and the restful
green of tree-clad cliffs the rhythmic throb of the
engine as it bears you steadily up the land-locked bay
.... a picnic luncheon where the whispering breeze
swee p S across the water. . . .“and that and Summer
well agree.”
Then with the meal the additional delight of ‘"K B.”-— the logical beverage
for a Summer s day As it glistens in your glass—clear amber beneath
its foaming crest —its inviting sparkle is a promise of real refreshmen . . • •
The mellow flavor instantly appeals—its dietetic properties add nourish-
ment to enjoyment.... Cool and thirst-quenching—pure and satisfying
.“that and Summer well agree.” “K.B. is a True Lager.
TOOTHS
K i
rm lb#
a true
I>\ U'/
NW
H>£s
m
m
S'
a
\Y'
V\
Jf
%
rc
!/?<?..
if V"
;>3
Oil
a rr>
y
vl
y y.
'"m
I
W\
pt
fcrwfcs
k
Vk
w
m
S'H
m
m
yv m
\\
m
N,
w
8m
>L
&
Wu±
ik
Cg
$
1
£
Oc
b#
m
w-
tsa
tb
II
Ilk
w
m
w
*»>#*«
Brewed and Bottled by "Tooth & Co., Limited, Kent Brewery, Sydney,,


MARTELLS
BRANDY
For Over Two Hundred Years
a household word in sickness
and health*
Martell’s for Age and Quality
From, the Cognac District
of France only.
m
lUIIU
a
MTF
§2
■SSx
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SI PAYS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Tell Me More”
Criterion “Tea for Three”
Royal “Patience”
St. James “The Big Parade”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK,
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “Daddy Longlegs”
Royal “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Princess Shakspearean Productions
Atiienieum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures.
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures.
♦
Mendelssohn’s Variations Serieuses, Schu-
mann’s Fantasia in C Major, op. 17, and the
Appassionata sonata of Beethoven were the
three gigantic works with which Paderewski
opened his season at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday. He played them one after another
without so much as a five minutes’ spell-oh—
nearly an hour and a half of intense, force-
ful and brilliant music that exalted and left
the emotional listener almost sated with
pleasure. The older people in the audience
were delighted. This was the Paderewski of
their memories. The younger generation
crescendoed to an applause just as loud of
hand and voice as their elders. This was
the Paderewski of their dreams. It was
applause that testified to an art with its
quality and flavor unimpaired after a 23
years’ absence, but the tired-looking man
with the deeply-sunken eyes was not moved
by it to even a smile. A combination of the
village blacksmith at the anvil and the sum-
mer dew falling on the grasses is Paderewski
seated before a really good weight-for-age
piano. Crashing chords, passages of sus-
tained beauty, and a suave golden singing
tone that, made you think of water-lilies
were the ingredients in Saturday night’s
musical banquet.
* * * *
All the thunder and wild chain-lightning
of the previous night’s storm in Sydney
were in the Beethoven Sonata, while the
Chopin Mazurka closed with a gossamer-like
delicacy. Not only the vigor but the romance
of youth fired the player’s interpretation of
the well-known works on the programme that
woke to new life under his fingers; the Schu-
mann Fantasia was a glowing example.
About the opening Mendelssohn number there
was a delicate shading of tones, a sparkling
gaiety that sent the audience into a tranced
delight from which even the Town Hall
chairs failed to rouse them. None of your
buffet sandwich-and-ice recital, xvith a
breather after each item or group, to end at
9.45, was Saturday’s concert. It waS a
many-coursed banquet of melody; the final
number was not over till half past ten; and
after that came a Lizst and a Chopin encore.
The second part of the programme was with
two exceptions (the player’s own Nocturne
in B Flat and Lizst’s 12th Hungarian Rhap-
sody) given over to Chopin. Then it was
as if Paderewski had said: “I have shown
you my powers, now I will show you my
loves.” The Nocturne in G and the A Flat
Valse (one of the sheerest delights of the
evening) led on to his own delicate Nocturne,
and so to the final Lizst number and a whirl-
wind of applause.
* sjs * *
Tennyson wrote his “Princess” when
swooning was still regarded as a genteel
feminine accomplishment; the Gilbert and
Sullivan combination produced their “Prin-
cess Ida,” something of a parody on vanished
Victorian idiosyncrasies, whm the New
Woman was beginning to appear above the
skyline. The play was introduce o Sydney
at the Royal on Saturday, am’ the rolling
years have made it look as if Gilbert were
hanging his whimsicalities on a rather feeble
peg. The music in patches is easily the
opera’s best recommendation. Strella Wil-
son has opportunities which she uses to tin-
top note; her presentation of the Princess
dominates the whole show. There are bright
choruses and a plentiful display of polished
tin in the armor of the defenders of Castle
Adamant and the masculine forces which
assail it. James Hay is an insufficiently
assertive Hilarion, the young man who pur-
sues to the castle the Princess to whom he
was wedded in infancy, anu eventually weans
her from her man-forswearing feminism;
in the part (wherein Ilonry Bracy, amongst
others, shone) Hay allows Hilarion to be
overshadowed by his cobbers, Cyril and
Florian (Leo Darn ton and Lance Fairfax),
especially in the funny scene when the trio
disguise themselves as girls. Darnton sings
“Would You Know the Kind of Maid?” very
well indeed. Charles Walenn is the dis-
agreeable King Gama, and John Ralston is
disguised in the plentiful whiskers of King
Hildebrand —both parts of limited opportu-
nity ; as the three armor-clad warrior sons
of King Gama, Bernard Manning (Arac),
John Byrne (Syntliius) and Moran Gilford
(Guron) acquit themselves creditably. Wini-
fred Williamson gives the pedantic Lady
Blanche a full measure of dignity; Mabel
Gibson imparts a roguish turn to Melissa,
and Patti Russell is content to be merely
graceful as the Lady Psyche. A mere week
is being allotted to “Ida”; on Saturday night
“Patience” is due.
There is no pretence that “The Nervous
Wreck,” with which Frank Neil opened
his season at Sydney Grand Opera
House last Saturday, is anything but
a farce; indeed it is, in places, that
old and almost-forgotten friend, the roar-
ing farce, well stocked with delirious
impossibilities. One Henry Williams is the
person whose dark imaginings about the state
of his health give the play its name; but
when he is introduced in a broken-down
motor-car, with a mountain range in the
offing, there is little left to sustain the illu-
sion of ill-health which has caused a medical
specialist to tell him to take a car and go
west, and keep going. His elopement with
Sally Morgan is not his fault, but hers.
Frank Neil, as Henry, pursues laughs over
the boundaries of all reasonable exaggeration,
but he certainly secures them; and he has a
very vivacious Sally Morgan to help him in
Gerty Cremer. The lady, daughter of an old
Australian stage identity, is not only charm-
ing, but has a lively sense of humor and a
beautifully clear enunciation. George Wil-
loughby is a blustering Jerome Underwood,
also suffering from imagined nerves, as is
Sheriff Bob Wells—nerviness seems to be an
almost universal complaint in the Wild West
judging from the alacrity with which most
members of the cast dive for shelter
whenever a chair is banged to the floor. The
sheriff is one of the best bits of work Jeffer-
son Taite has done; and Fred Macdonald, as
the cowboy, Mort, and Field Fisher, as Judd
Morgan, help substantially in the laughter-
making. The falsetto voice employed by Paul
Longuet to help out the sickly role of Chester
Underwood is not a success, however; and
Mary Gannon as Hariet Underwood has very
little to do but appear in the picture occa-
sionally and look pleasant—which she does,
it may be said, without any difficulty what-
ever.
* * $' $
Two other Sydney shows will have run
their course next week; “Tea for Three,”
which lias been packing audiences, largely
feminine, into the Criterion, concludes on
Thursday night. The revival of “Is Zat So?”
at the St. James went so well that it is to
be given another week at the Criterion on
the heels of the Judith Anderson play—so
that the robust laughter-maker will have
appeared at three Sydney theatres, the
Palace, St. James and the Cri., within
six months. “Hullo, Healo!” winds up its
bright career at the Palace on Friday week;
it lias run a couple of weeks longer than
was at first anticipated. “Tell Me More”
goes happily on at Her Majesty’s; and
“Sunny” is fulfilling even the sanguine anti-
cipations of the management at the Empire.
In the film world, too, the Prince Edward
will see the end of the perfect day enjoyed
by “Beau Geste” on Thursday of next week.
“PRINCESS IDA,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Prince Hilarion (James Hay ) and Florian
(Lance Fairfax).
“Don Juan,” with the artistic Johu Barry-
more as the wanderer, is to follow on the
Friday; and the management, for fear of
accidents, is asking the public to pronounce
the second word “1100-ahn.”
❖ * ;i:
The wholesome tonic of laughter continues
to be dispensed in generous measure by Ole
Olsen and Chick Johnson to full houses at
Sydney Tivoli. Don Zelaya helps the pair with
all the gusto of a schoolboy enjoying a lark,
as well as contributing his own excellent turn
to the programme. Among commendable new
arrivals are the Three Bordens, who do clever
work on the horizontal bar, and Paddy Saun-
ders, a lightning-sketch artist, originally an
Australian, who has overcome local prejudices
by making good overseas.
There should be a riotous evening at
Fuller’s next Saturday, when Stifl'y and
Mo resume their
old partnership.
The event over-
shadows everything
else in the vaude-
ville house, which,
however, is keep-
ing going with a
very fair pro-
gramme supplied
by a mainly-new
gang of performers.
They include Marie
Nyman, who shows
a keen dramatic
sense in presenting
a dope fiend in a
sketch rather lack-
ing in originality,
and a Jubilee Trio
of negro singers.
“The Big Par-
ade,” unleashed at
the St. James, Syd-
ney, last F'riday, is
not as big as was
expected. Holly-
wood is shown win-
ni n g the war
according to the
strategy and tac-
tics evolved within
an American
studio. One scene
shows the Ameri-
can troops advanc-
ing in open order
through a planta-
tion, without any
preliminary bar-
rage, failing t o
take cover and
being mowed down
by concealed Ger-
mans. In another,
the Yankees are
marching along an
open road with an
enemy aeroplane in
sight, when they
"Henry the Hor-
rible,” at Melbourne
Princess.
Sixteenth-century
example of Digger
in tin hat.
might reasonably
be under the trees. It is evident that
the film has been censored by the Australian
authorities—enough, anyhow, to indicate
that some British soldiers had been on the
battlefields during the course of the war.
Still, they were three American soldiers who
won it—a barman, a silly youth, and
the hero; and the trio feature some good
comedy behind the lines, though “Old Bill,”
of “the better ’ole,” will be remembered
longer.- In the big scenes there are some
stirring effects, especially in the final advance
to victory, and the ruthlessness and action
in the shell craters are vividly portrayed.
Renee Adoree makes a delightful French
heroine; in one scene her figure caught in
the swirl of the troops is genuinely pathetic.
Yet it is the orchestra, playing the well-
known airs of the war, that carries the
play. Without that, it would be a dud.
We have this week another Sheik
With startling variations,
Though on the screen again are seen
More Beau-Gesticulations.
We see the fort; the same old sort
Of soldiers of the Legion,
With Arab bands and shop-soiled sands
In that exploited legion.
The Sheik’s not wild; in fact, he’s mild,
And makes a smiling fade out.
He’s not required; he should be fired;
His hectic role is played out.
One tires of plays of desert ways— ?
This one’s “The Silent Lover”—
It’s time they should in Hollywood
Some other plot discover.
Those Sydney people who shriek for sheiks
can become acquainted with this one at
Hoyt’s and the Strand.
:J; ij:
Elephants an’ lions an’ everythin’,
Wirtlis’ Circus dumped itself into the Syd-
ney Hippodrome, with its usual Easter mes-
sage to the youth of all ages, on Thursday
of last week; the band blared, the tinsel
shone, horses pranced and elephants now and
then trumpeted, and the very young voiced
their appreciation in yells. It would be
pleasant to be able to say that Wirths’ is
as good as ever it was, but the quick rush
of incidents and the outstanding acts which
thrill the marrow hardly make up for some
of the vanished glories. “The Aerial Bon-
nellys” do their work up near the roof;
and it is work that calls loudly for the plac-
ing of a safety net underneath, especially
when one of the trio stands on his head,
waggling his legs towards the ceiling, on the
top rung of a swinging ladder which is held
steady by the weight of his two partners.
This is the last act, and the crescendo of
the night’s excitements. Previous performers
include Hilary Hong, a really remarkable
head balancer, the liedam co., which is
mainly there to be carried about on the head
and shoulders of a massive-muscled humae
edition of Atlas, and a Red Indian cyclist
Chester Dieck, who, amongst other stunts!
rides down a stairway, somersaults, bike still
between his legs, over a table, and lauds
right-side up on the other side. There aiv
also some interesting performing bears, which
did not arrive in time for the first night -
performance ; the usual horse tricks ar-
expertly expanded by Alf Clarke and Miss
Gladys, whose intelligent Duke is the equine
star; a perfect mob of elephants, some oi
them a little impatient at the petticoat gov-
ernment of Eileen May; a bunch of enter-
taining lionesses, and a couple of humorous
dogs. It is a big conglomeration of turns;
but a tear might be shed for the lost arr
of circus clowning; there are no Grimaldis
nowadays.
Streeton comes to Sydney:—
The possibilities of the cauliflower in art lay
unplumbed in Austi-alia until George Lambert dis-
covered them; Arthur Streeton, in his exhibition
at the Macquarie Galleries, has followed on with a
portrait of the vegetable, with some of its com-
panions of the pot. It looks a bit death-like in the
murky atmosphere with which it is surrounded; for
100 guineas (the price asked) ,it should certainly
have been presented in a cooked state and served
with white sauce. This is one of the variations in
a show for which the artist has coined the phrase
“Landscape with Variations”; another is “Chops and
Tomato Sauce,” wherein Streeton has poured out tin
dinner ale before putting the chops on the griller;
and yet another is “Fruit and Wine,” with some
peaches which any housekeeper would say, on sight,
were only fit for stewing. Besides the interest
attaching to the revelation of what the artist has
had to eat, there is delicate work, with a rich appre-
ciation of color values, in these stills; but his real
metier remains landscape. The Song of Sydney, for
which the Sun has been looking, is here, only it
is done in paint, and Streeton calls it “City of Love-
liness, Sun-girdled Queen,” a panoramic vision, of
Sydney in a bath of sunshine. By his use of color
in “Land of the Golden Fleece” the artist has secured
some fine and convincing effects; the painting is
cleverly done, too, in “Our Untidy Bush,” but the
masses of rock and fallen tree are over-chaotic.
Some of the most appealing items are in the smaller
and, comparatively speaking, less expensively priced
pictures; “Cremorne—Evening,” is a gem, for in-
stance, and “An Ocean Beach,” with its sunglow upon
it and light ripples full of movement breaking lazily
on the sands, is another. More than £lBOO worth
of the exhibits are said to have been sold on the
opening day of the show.
$* * *
Allan Wilkie presented “Antony and Cleo-
patra,” a play by the late Dr. Bowdler, at
Melbourne Princess last week. To get tbc
full savor of the piece it was necessary to
re-read afterwards the drama in the original
version by William Shakspeare. The
excision of one of the best mots of the piece
was explainable on the ground of propriety,
but the omission of the passage in which
the intriguing queen endeavors to cheat
Octavius Caesar of half her worldly goods
was hard to understand. Perhaps Wilkie
felt that that side of royal Egypt’s char-
acter was beyond the range of Miss Hunter-
Watts’s powers of exposition. Miss Watt-
served Cleopatra without sauce. The rapids
of tragedy were there, but not the sparkling
shallows, nor yet the sensuous deeps. It was
a relief, too, when Miss Wilkie-Watts re-
paired some omissions in her wardrobe in
the second act. It may be that queens in
ancient times sat in their draughty palaces
clad in the sort of pneumonia blouse affected
by Oriental choruses in Hollywood extrava-
ganzas, but the evidence is lacking, and in
any case the passionate poetry of Shaks-
peare is not in need of such adventitious
aids. Wilkie succeeded in exciting interest
in the fortunes of the infatuated Antony, and
was faithfully squired by John Cairns as
Enobarbus, who has the elocuting of one
of the noblest passages in the play. Dennis
Barry wore the purple of Caesar in the
charming manner of a youthful ingSnue, and
the rest of an extensive cast tramped about
the Roman world, accompanied by a not
wide but quite adequate range of scenery,
in exemplary style. Wilkie’s choice of auxi-
liaries in his new company is remarkably
good. Most of them speak crisply and com-
port themselves with suitable aplomb, twn
essentials of Shakspearean presentations.;
sk * *
Ten thousand Melbourne citizens arrived
home late for lunch on Saturday, the Show
in this ease being a fire which broke out
exactly at one o’clock in the Stewart Daw-
son building on the Collins-Swanston street
corner. The building is of a type that more
stringent regulations don’t permit nowadays,
and the flames found it so much to their
liking that they soon had two women
trapped, as well as several civilians, a police-
man and firemen who went to their rescue.
The crowd which packed the crossroads was
provided with more thrills than there is in
a movie night’s entertainment, and it was
too much for some of them. When a police-
(Continued on page 36.)


BLACK
WHITE
m
y
■
.■m
feffe ",}0::' : \s
isiiiiiii
*
y
lit
5 :
'
£5
m
■■'■ k - .
KK
Ml
II W3C
■
4r? ■■•• * I"-*
Wr
p
*
.
V
m
\ -■ ’
II
i
pp
wsSfcfß
', "; UjT^
:. »
Y -
m
m
sK P» - i l^^as
Ep
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE : : YORK
HARROGATE, EDINBURGH
and other
Beautiful Cathedral Cities.
These are on the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
The track of the “Flying Scotsman.”
SHORTEST AND QUICKEST
between
LONDON AND SCOTLAND.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on
the L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on
application to Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
LTD., 10 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches;
or in London at the L.N.E.R. West End
Offices, 71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly,
W.l.
Tour England and Scotland
by L.N.E.R.
SVAUOWi Arieus
Plum Poddincs
m
have a deliciousness all their
own—a deliciousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day.
ACCURATE SHOOTING
with a
COLT .22 CAL. AUTOMATIC
PISTOL.
Perfectly balanced; fires 10 ordinary .22 Cal.
long-rifle rim-fire cartridges as fast as you can
pull the trigger for each shot. This model has
proved most useful to sportsmen requiring a
handy weapon of highest quality firing a
standard cartridge which is both economical
and easy to procure. Length of barrel 64 inches;
length overall 10-4 inches; weight 28 ounces.
IDEAL FOR TARGET SHOOTING AND
SMALL GAME, £8 10s.
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE WITH A COLT
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IS ABSOLUTELY
IMPOSSIBLE.
CADET RIFLES, Cal. 297/230 Converted Mili-
tary Rifles, Martini Action, 500 yards range,
555.
318
Gun and Cartridge Makers.
Little Collins St., Melbourne.
J
man, two civilians and a woman appeared
on the top storey, obviously cut off from
descent, some of the crowd could not face
the prospect of people being roasted before
their eyes, and hysterically shrieked to them
to jump. Luckily commonsense or the
shouts of the firemen reassured them, and
in a few minutes the ladders were up and
they walked down. Two women on the
Collin s-street frontage were similarly saved,
and one showed great nerve by refusing the
rescuer’s arm and climbing down unaided.
One of the pluckiest displays, however, was
going on out of view of the crowd. The lift-
man continued to make his trips bringing
down the inmates from the various floors
until tlie metal of his conveyance became
too hot to touch.
Melbourne’ Tivoli’s current feast is rich
and various. The Cansinos weave their
limbs in subtle and vivid Spanish patterns,
and make an interesting comment on their
national dance by finishing up with the
nigger Charleston. B. N. Lewin, who mished
in “White Cargo,” gives acceptable impres-
sions of Dickens characters. Johnnie
Clarke continues to pursue an elusive bottle
up a pyramid of furniture, and his final
crash on to the stage is as spectacular as
ever. Paddy Saunders chalks and talks, but
his art is seldom much above the elevation
of the pavement. Sid Beck, the Australian
comedian, provides humor that would make
a Murray cod smile even while being gutted,
and Kwong Sing Wall and his celestial choir
still baffle with their mysteries and surprise
with their dexterity.
“Salammbo,” the motion drama of ancient
Carthage, at Melbourne Auditorium, only
serves to show that France, when it likes,
can do these things quite as badly as
America. Nor is the pasteboard pageant made
any brighter by sundry obvious excisions by
the censor. Flaubert would be surprised if
he could see the happy ending devised for
his sensuous masterpiece, but that is the
least of the demerits of the picture from
the movie connoisseur’s point of view.
$ * * *
The preparations for Barclay’s entertain-
ment in magic and mystery at Melbourne
Bijou include the marshalling of half a dozen
of the shyest members of the audience on
to the boards to bear witness that the bullet
put into tlie pistol is indeed the one which
appears in the entertainer’s mouth after
somebody has fired the weapon from the
back of the stalls. As everybody knows that
here is merely an example of sleight-of-hand,
tlie biggest sensation of the turn is the
actual explosion. Leslie and Kitcher, Leeds
and Le Mar and Bonny and Gerald, who
bear the rest of the first part of the pro-
gramme on their shoulders, don’t even make
a bang; but Phil Smith’s revue company is
immersed in a fresh confection which is
moderately bright and immoderately whirl-
ing.
Melbourne Repertory’s first adventure in
the Tait barque with a double-barrelled event
at the Royal was reasonably well attended,
but more satisfactory still is the appearance
of the subscription-list. The Taits required
a quota before they would touch the thing,
and members’ cards are still dropping into
the society’s letter-box at the Auditorium.
To-morrow night will see the last of Mrs.
Cheyney at Melbourne King’s, after which
Miss Kelly will say farewell five times in
that saccharine masterpiece, “Daddy Long-
legs.” “Tea For Three” will then be handed
round by the fair hands of Judith Anderson,
aided by Leon Gordon. Sweet Nell will con-
tinue to pervade the Royal until Moscovitch
and “They Knew What They Wanted”
arrive on the 26th. “Gum Tree Gully,” at
the Palace, is the resort of theatrical tour-
ists in search of an inexpensive rural excur-
sion, and “Rose Marie” provides a more
costly trip at His Majesty’s. It is still
necessary to book well ahead to get a seat
in “The Ghost Train” at the Athenaeum. Sad
disagreement exists in the press about
“Antony and Cleopatra,” at the Princess.
One paper says it is a gorgeous spectacle
and another that it is drab. Mere lovers
of Shakspeare’s poetry, however, express
themselves as well satisfied with the words
—when they can be heard.
At Adelaide Theatre Royal “Abie’s Irish
Rose” continues to be viewed with approba-
tion by sentimental and crowded galleries. A
thoroughly good variety show is being given
at the Majestic Theatre by the Gayle Wyer
Bandbox Revue company. The McLaglen
brothers pose statuesquely, and Rene Dixon
'shows there are other dances than the
Charleston. “The Squaw Man” is at the
Prince of Wales Theatre with a cast of 31
performers, of whom George Cross as “Jim”
and Guy Hastings as Big Bill loom largest.
The Lady Elizabeth of Nellie Dennes and the
Nat-ur-ich of Mary Anderson deserve a line.
Billy Maloney is still serving up “New
Ideas” at the Garden Theatre.
Poverty
Point
“Yarra Banks”: The doctoring for Aus-
tralian consumption of “The Big Parade,”
the movie misrepresentation of America win-
ning the war, doesn’t reflect any credit on
the physicians. A Digger utters some paci-
fist sentiment in a prologue, tlie Stars and
Stripes melt into tlie Australian flag, and
there are sub-titular allusions to Britain.
France and other helpers of XJnde Sam
which fail to conceal the fact that they are
after-thoughts. The whole business of tam-
pering with the film seems foolish. Tlie fact
is freouently forgotten that most of Aus-
tralia’s films are prepared for her by people
who are scarcely aware that she exists. They
cater for a larger audience nearer home, nine-
tentlis of whom know that America won the
war. It would have been better to have
shown “The Big Parade” in all its original
infantile self-sufficiency. Some of the public
steam which might have then been aroused
might have been directed into the machinery
for producing our own films.
“Flaming Youth”: The Carroll luck,
which to a large extent follows the Carroll
intuition, seems likely to harvest the Aus-
tralian theatrical partners another small
fortune. The 10 weeks’ vacancy of tlie
Lyceum in London was quite a chance snap,
and E. J. Carroll, who is in England, found
he could get Pauline Frederick to fit into
it; Frank Harvey, newly arrived in London,
was also available, and E.J. knew he was
a sound man—especially for “Madame X.”
The cable reports that the lady’s reception
was “remarkable,” and that Frank Harvey
was a success.
“Mephisto”: The effeminate tenor with
the emaciated voice had got the bird. The
audience was too well-bred to hiss and too
polite to boo, but some genius had delicately
suggested a retirement by throwing up a
penny. The singer stopped, reddened with
anger, and walked off in silence. A man
in front of me protested. “Ish not fair!”
lie said thickly, as he climbed to his feet.
“You sliouldn’tsh tlirowner penny. You
sliouldav thrown two bob!” And he added
as lie staggered out, “All in pennish!”
“Goldilocks” : One of my most painful stage
moments occurred during a performance of
“The Guv’nor.” In that play a jug of beer
is brought to Freddy, the comedy juvenile;
and I arranged that it should be real beer —
a quart, in fact. I was Freddy. Resolved
to give the public some real acting in that
scene, I poured out and tossed off a glassful
—of the juice of boiled cloves ! In the wings
I saw the boys drinking my beer. But I
scored over them in the notices —a critic
wrote that I played Freddy “with really
remarkable fire.”
“M.G.S.”: Sliakspeareana being more or
less the vogue, I should like to ask where
Allan Wilkie gets some of his remarkable
conventions? What is the justification for
making Roman senators shake—well, hands
—by clutching each other massively just
below the elbow? And what is the origin
of the Wilkspearean salutation —the sema-
phoring with the right arm affected by kings,
queens, soldiers, slaves and fools? Surely
it can’t be the traffic-cop at the Flinders-
Swanston streets intersection?
“Caesar’s Ghost”: It was natural that
Bland Holt should make one of his infre-
quent appearances at the theatre to have a
look at Allan Wilkie’s production of “Henry
VIII.” in Melbourne. He is the last sur-
vivor of the last production of that effort of
Will Sliakspearc—-and others. It took place
nearly 50 years ago at the Victoria Theatre,
Sydney, where McCatliies’ stands to-day,
with William Creswick as Wolsey and
Bland Holt as the Lord Mayor. The father
of Rege Carey, stage manager with the
Judith Anderson co.» was also in the cast.
“Old ’Un”: A suggestion is made by a
correspondent in Melbourne Herald that,
following Nellie Stewart’s triumphant return
to the footlights, Bland Holt should be invited
to give one of his old shows. A great idea.
Full-blooded melodrama would these days
prove a successful novelty. Also it might
give an object lesson to the young actor or
actress of to-day in the art of speaking up.
In one recent performance the artists were
so confidential that not half they said could
be heard. There was never any doubt as to
wliat Holt and his colleagues were talking
about.
“Curtain-raiser”: I have often wondered
why producers, who haven’t boggled at silly
horrors like “The Cat and the Canary,” have
taken so long to discover “Dracula,” Brain
Stoker’s genuinely blood-curdling tale of the
Carpathian count who lias his body conveyed
to England in grave soil so that he can
indulge liis habit of transforming himself
into a vampire bat and feeding on the best
veins of Britain. The dramatisation is at
last being presented in the Little Theatre,
London. Four women fainted and several had
hysterics on the first night, since when a
doctor and nurse have been in attendance at
all performances.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : John McCormack's
objection to his manager’s advertised descrip-
tion of him as “the world’s greatest tenor"
will do something to terminate the ridiculous
excesses of publicity employed by so many
managers. In the final advertisements for
John’s London concerts all references to his
artistic standing were deleted. Only the
name “John McCormack” appeared.
“Russ”: Melba’s broadcast from Flinders
Naval Base recently was not a success. The
only telegraph line to the Naval Base wqs
one runfling parallel for many miles yyith
Morse, _ ’phone and automatic lines. Behind
the voice of the diva was a background of
Morse signals, mixed up with high-pitched
squeals from the short-wave wireless station
operating a few hundred yards away. The
humming of the Hobart-Wheatstone line also
provided a weird obligato through which
now and then Melba’s voice managed to
percolate.
“Caul Boy” : The best theatrical joke Mel-
bourne has been presented with for a long
time is the current advt. in the Argus of
“Antony and Cleopatra.” The Argus critic
is quoted thus: —
Wonderful color effects. Like a series of wonder-
ful tableaux, the scenes shifted from court to camp.
The scenes in Cleopatra’s Palace were magnificently
staged—Beautiful in color was the scene on Pompey’s
galley—while in each scene were the vivid colors
and burnished armor of Roman and Egyptian soldiery.
Alongside it the Age’s bitter words appear:
Mr. Wilkie has not attempted to present the
bright pictures for which the fast changing scenes
in the (Queen’s palaces and on the battlefields give
opportunity. The presentation is somewhat drab.
It isn’t often the publicity man allows him-
self the luxury of a back-handed slap like
that—but whose were the withers that were
wrung?
“Curtain Raiser” : There is one objection
to the speaking film which hasn’t been con-
sidered. Where will the mothers with babies
get their amusement once silence becomes as
important in a movie-house as in the talk-
ing-theatre? The other afternoon I dropped
into a show in which the star feature was
preceded by a gent, who lectured about
wild-animal photography. There were
dozens of mothers with their offspring in
the audience, and if the show had been
entirely silent nobody would have noticed
their presence, and the babies would doubt-
less have slumbered peacefully. But before
the lecturer had been at it for a quarter of
an hour every second madonna-and-child was
sitting in the vestibule outside.
“Hamfat”: With a programme which
starts off with Zimbalist, who will be at the
Sydney Town Hall on July 2, and Frances
Alda, who follows 10 or 12 weeks later, and
which continues early next year with Mischa
Elman and others, Concert Tours, Limited, is
a welcome addition to the limited list of big
Australian managements. Five wealthy
Sydneyites have provided the cash for th'
venture, and secured a cosmopolitan entre-
preneur named Haskevitch to act as director.
The large dividends the Carrolls and Taits
have made out of their concert importations
have no doubt inspired the new group to
secure the world’s greatest artists when they
are at their zenith, instead of on the wane.
“Caul Boy”: The dust will commence
rising any day now opposite His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, where the Firm is going to erect
its new theatre. It will be a small play-
house —probably 1000 will more than fill
it —and there will be no peanuts because
there is to be no gallery. Six months should
see it finished. “The Comedy” is the name
selected, lest there should be any doubt about
the kind of entertainment to be provided
■when it isn’t being Repertorian.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A Sydney music-sellin?
firm the other day received a written request
from the country for a copy of “The Song of
the Vulgar Boatmen.” Other treasured
memories of the same shop include demands
for “Robin, a Dare,” “Locking the Stable
for the Sheep,” and “a separate copy of the
operatic air, ‘Ah, Tooty Force.’ ”
“N’Yoik”: In New York recently wowsers
invoked the ancient, unrepealed blue lans
of the State and indicted several entre-
preneurs for running Sabbath shows. Under
these laws anybody can requisition the ser-
vices of a police-inspector to make arrests
of offenders. On the following Sunday four
of the theatre managers affected sallied forth,
and in the course of a busy day indicated to
their constabulary escort 98 law-breakers.
Barbers had to abandon their customers half-
shaved, bootblacks left clients to put the
shine on their shoes, a well-known violinist
was abstracted from an Elks luncheon,
motormen were arrested for running street
cars and ’busmen for steering ’buses. To
improve the publicity, the theatrical men
indicated 10 press photographers and report-
ers belonging to leading papers. Finally om
of the victims obtained a warrant for the
arrest of a constable for having arrested him,
work for pay on Sundays being an offence.
The originators of the jest claim that under
the same humorous old statute they can sftjp
all the trams, ’buses and trains running in
and out of the metropolis. They are now
sitting back waiting for the next move.
THE BOX OFFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wise dramatic critic,
Allusive, analytic,
Who criticises shows
Has got a man behind him:
Not in the stalls you’ll find him,
But what he says, it goes.
Of matters histrionic
He speaks one word laconic,
For he is wisdom’s font;
Enthusiasm fudge is;
He is the best of judges
Of What the People Want.
A play may be artistic
Or sweet or realistic
Or bubbling o’er with mirth—
With humor really funny ;
The man who counts the money
Knows just what it is worth.
You’ll never catch him looking
At acting, for the booking
Is all he needs to see;
It’s not the critic’s capers
Or splurges in the papers
Decide its destiny.
If people wildly clamor
For gory melodrammer,
It doesn’t touch his heart;
He judges by the process
Of merely counting noses—
A crowded house is Art.
His not the task to break spears
In tilting at old Shakspeare’s
Incomparable plays;
BAD FOR THE JUNGLE KING’S NERVES.
LIONTAMER (to attendant): "Don’t hang the door like that, you
silly vow! Can't yer see it frightens out of him?”
He doesn’t mind that buffer
If takings do not suffer—
No royalties he pays!
Though you’re enthusiastic,
The man behind is drastic;
He doesn’t care a bit.
Sufficient just a cough is;
If damned by the box-office
That is the end of it!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


A clean, cool chin
—every morning
THEY meet every morning, the “Valet” and its owner.
Both very keen on each other! And whereas his
close shave used to be in catching his morning train, he
now gets it in the bathroom. For the “Valet is the safety
razor that strops its own blade, tunes it up as new in
ten seconds every morning without removal from the
frame. There is no secret —a child can do it. Just insert
the end of the strop through the slot provided and move
it to and fro for ten seconds. The result, a keen edge that
will overcome the most obstinate beard. For 40 or 50
mornings you can do this and with exactly the same
result. Ask your dealer to show you the Valet s simple
action.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
\
X\
X'
Of all dealers
it
%
&
vX>
CD
C&e
£
No. 99 SET—Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor, strop .
and blade in leatherette-covered case. . ,5/0
h
Tired?
Why should you be, when it
has been proved with facts
and figures that Sanatogen will increase
your vitality by about 23%, and when
a man like Cosmo Hamilton writes:
"Sanatogen enabled me to do
twice as much , twice as well.”
By infusing into the cells of blood and
nerves exactly those elements—phosphorus
and albumin—which are wanted, Sanatogen
conquers fatigue of both body and brain,
A few weeks’ use of Sanatogen will
give you back that youthful feeling
of energy and perfect health.
Determine to try
The True Tonic~Food ™ 9
Sanatogen is obtainable at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
Easter Suits
should be ordered notu
m
X
The styles for Winter 1927
are now completely formu-
lated, and in addition,
Peapes notu display an
entirely neu) selection of
suitings from the most ex-
clusive Australian and
overseas sources.
All the materials possess a
character of absolute in-
dividuality, because they
are in designs exclusive to
Peapes.
New effects have been ob-
tained by the interleaving
of woollen threads of many
colours, resulting in suit-
ings that are original but
restrained in tone.
All Wool Worsteds, Sac Suits
to Measure, Seven Guineas
Medium weight, plain or fancy weaves in Grey, Fawn,
Navy and Brown. These are suitings of great durability
which lend themselves admirably to the excellent work-
manship and good style with which Peapes master
tailors invest them.
Patterns and simple self-measurement form
promptly on request.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters
GEORGE STREET (opp. Hunter Street), SYDNEY


RodSl.tf?
British cars have more than their origin to recommend them it is
their sturdy, enduring quality that has given them supremacy in
the markets of the world.
It pays the motorist to buy a picked British car, specially designed
for Overseas conditions, from the houses that are associated with
Rootes, Ltd.’s Export Organisation.
Home-coming motorists can obtain from any Rootes distributor particulars
of a scheme under which they can avail themselves of a Guaranteed Repurchase
principle.
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND
Cables : Rootesmoti. London.
Codes; Bentley’s & A.B.C. (sth Ed.)
DISTRIBUTORS:
ROBERT DICKSON & CO.,
900 Hay Street, Perth.
ENGLISH MOTORS, LTD.,
Melbourne.
CARS OF ENGLAND, LTD.,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
WAYMOUTH MOTORS,
Adelaide.
Representative for Australasia;
Harold Heath, Esq., Australia Hotel,
Sydney.
4
m
A
sfssm
* ■■■MW
;-r
A- v
SOJ
c&i
©
i
Bf*.
4
HILLMAN ABRIDGED SPECIFICATION.
II h.p., I cyl., s.v.: 72 mm. and 120 mm. = 1,951 c.c.,
R.A.C. Ilatina, 12.8 h.p , 1-Speed Gear Box, Riaht
Hand Control, F.W.8., 9 J" clearance.
Records
1927-
March,
Selections from
March Supplement
NOW ON SALE.
In this latest supplement there is a wide range of musical
numbers that will fill the hours with gladness. They prove
conclusively the supremacy of “His Master’s Voice’’ Records.
Ask your dealer for a copy or write us direct.
Greatest Artists—New Electrical Recording--Silent Surface.
Chaliapin.
The superb re-recording of one of Chaliapin's greatest. records
makes a very memorable impression, for not only his singing but
also the orchestral and choral accompaniments are most realistically
reproduced.
12in. Red, 10/6.
D 8934 —Boris Godounov —Farewell of Boris.
Boris Godounov —Death of Boris.
Granforte-Hislop.
The great Italian Baritone, who made such a splendid impression
in Australia during 1924 Grand Opera Season, sings two well-known
duets reproduced for the first time by electrical recording. He is
supported by Joseph Hislop, the eminent English tenor, who will
visit Australia this year. One of the features of this great recording
is the wonderful volume of the orchestral accompaniment.
12in. Red, 10/6.
D 8939 —Boh&me, O Mimi tu piu.
Forza del Destino, “Solenne in quest’ora.”
Royal Opera Orchestra.
This is the first of a series of records made by the Royal
Opera Orchestra of Covent Garden, conducted by Eugene Goossens.
The two marches need no introduction to the public, whilst the
orchestral reproduction, which is as fine as could possibly be
achieved, offers for the first time an orchestral record of the
highest standard at a popular price.
12in. Plum, 6/-
C 1279 —Marche Ilongroise Berlioz
Marche Militaire Schubert
Wilhelm Backhaus.
In his third new process record the great pianist gives us four
Etudes and one Prelude by Chopin. Backhaus’ all-Chopin Recitals
in Sydney and Melbourne amply demonstrated that he is a wonderful
interpreter of the emotional and dramatic music of the great com-
poser. The sweeping arpeggios of the C Major Study and the
mighty chords of the “Revolutionary” Study are reproduced with
amazing effect.
12in. Red, 10/6.
D 8928 —(a) Prelude in 0 Major, (b) Study in C Major .. Chopin
(c) Chromatic Study in A Minor Chopin
(a) Revolutionary Study Chopin
(b) Study in F Major Chopin
The Australian tour of the world’s greatest,
composer pianist is an event of utmost import-
ance. As an interpreter of the great masters,
I. J. Paderewski is unsurpassed. His truly
inspired interpretations are available in per-
manent form on “His Master’s Voice” Records.
Amongst them will be found works by Chopin,
Schubert, Schumann, Liszt and his own.
Two Choice Records.
DBB33 —Impromptu in B Flat. Op. 142 No.
3 (in 2 parts). (Schubert.)
D 8379 —Minuet in G Major. (Paderewski.)
Cracovienne Fantastique.
(Paderewski.)
"His Masters \foice*
“His Master’s Voice,” Registered
Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,” Registered Trade-mark.
Herbert Dawson (Organ).
Herbert Dawson’s organ records have made quite a sensation
during the last few months, and he adds another fine disc this
month, achieving a very magnificent effect in the “Hallelujah
Chorus” from “The Messiah” and the equally popular “Wedding
March” by Mendelssohn.
12in. Plum, 6/-
C 1271 —Hallelujah Chorus (“The Messiah”) Handel
Wedding March Mendelssohn
Symphony Orchestra.
Many Gramophone enthusiasts who have in their collection the
recently made wonderful Wagnerian Records of “Ride of the
Valkyries,” “The Funeral March,” “Prelude to Tristan” and others
will be delighted with the “Entrance of the Gods” from “Rhine-
gold,” which entirely eclipses these records.
12in. Black, 8/-
Dlll7—“The Rhinegold”—Entrance of the Gods into
Valhalla—Parts 1 and 2 Wagner
Zimbalist.
This favorite violinist makes this month his d£but in electrical
recording. He plays very charmingly a Persian Song by Glinka
and one of Chopin’s most melodious waltzes. This record should
be of great interest to music lovers, because the artist will make
his first tour of Australia this year.
lOin. Red, 7/6.
DA7B8 —Persian Song
Waltz in G Flat. Op. 70, No. 1
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Glinka
Chopin


on
There are thirty-six insulators in a 6-volt,
13-plate battery, and a flaw in any one of
them is an open gate for trouble. That’s
why Willard inspectors are so particular
to accept only flawless insulators to serve
in Willard Batteries. Insulation is inspect-
ed one piece at a time in the Willard fac-
tory —holding each one before a light to
find any imperfections.
that’s
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
:
itlil»
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PITSK: RUBBER.
Amusements.
3YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: TELL ME MORE.
CRITERION: TEA FOR THREE.
ROYAL: H.M.S. PINAFORE.
3YD N E Y’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: THE BIG PARADE.
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
DICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J. _£•_ WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
DADDY LONGLEGS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
NELLIE STEWART in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
•THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAK-
SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
VICTORIAN SEASON:
Melbourne.—PßlNCESS THEATRE, to April 8.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
ATHENAEUM theatre,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE GHOST TRAIN.
LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL. ,
Played by E. J. Carroll’s London Comedy Company.
NEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
PHIL SMITH REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
(V|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LADY WINDERMERE’S FAN,
with a superb east including
RONALD COLMAN (of “Beau Geste” fame), IRENE
RICH, MAY Me AVO Y and BERT LYTELL.
Never such a cast seen in Australia and directed
by the world-famous Ernst Lubitsch.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* MELBOURNE.
MARY ASTOR and LLOYD HUGHES in
FOREVER ARTER.
ALSO
THERE YOU ARE,
with CONRAD NAGEL.
Prices as usual.
IRTH BROS. LIMITED.
:rning Directors: Messrs. Philip & George Wirth.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THIS YEAR’S ALL NEW PROGRAMME
Bewilders the Audience with its THRILLS,
VARIETY and NOVELTY ACTS that stagger the
Imagination.
HIPPODROME, Haymarket, at 8 p.m.
Matinees Saturdays, Wednesdays and Holidays.
Missing Friend.
U EORGE GILMOUR. Information is
required as to death of George Gilmour,
who is believed to have died by accident in
Sydney during the past three years as a
result of a fall from a window. Any person
who can give particulars of the death should
communicate with the undersigned. A reward
will be given.
SEWELL & SEWELL,
Solicitors, Colac, Victoria.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
WINTON”
Write for List of Crepe
Rubber-soled Boots.
The“WINTON”
IMPROVED
STOCK SADDLE.
DESIGNED TO INCREASE
THE COMFORT AND
SECURITY OF THE RIDER
PRICE - - - - £l6/10/-
Fittcd with Folded Girth, Bevelled
Leathers, and Solid Nickel Stirrups
Freight paid for cash with order to
any N.S.W. Railway Station.
Write for our catalogue, describing
this and many other favorite saddles.
Iting Head Bridle, with lin. Reins
and Ring Bit 19/6
Shaped Felt Saddlecloth ... . 8/6
Bush Spurs with Jin. n.p. Steel
Sides, with Straps 11/6
Solid Nickel Spurs
Saddle Pouch ...,
7/6
15/-
iVALTHERg STEVENSON, LTD.
395 George Street,
Sydney.
THE BENEFITS OF LONG EXPERIENCE
Wide experience is quite as important a factor in efficient Estate administration as the
integrity of the trustee or executor you appoint.
Too often the appointment of an individual trustee, with little or no experience in
intricate trust matters, has involved unnecessary trouble and expense. This butden need
not be yours.
The Permanent Trustee Company
of N.S.W., LTD.,
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS,
has Estates under control exceeding £11,000,000.
After 39 years’ service the Company possesses a wealth of experience rarely acquired
by an individual.
Security is afforded you by its special Act of Parliament, which renders the whole of
the Capital and Assets, over one million pounds, available for the protection of your
interests.
A special feature of this service is the Company’s practice of charging its Corpus
Commission at the end, and not at the commencement, of a trust.
Arrange an interview now, or write for booklet sent post free on request.
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED G. MILSON.
LIEUT.-COL. T. F. RUTLEDGE.
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
m
TRADE MARK
\AS FINE AS FINE CHINA CAN BE
With all its grace, and thinness of body,
Shelley China is tough and strong—good
enough to give a generation’s service with
ordinary care. Nor do the gay colors fade
or grow stale —they will still be as richly
beautiful a hundred years hence as they
are now.
pattern illustrated is Queen Anne No.
11475, and in it the potter has recaptured
the charm of that stately period. It is
British throughout and will withstand years
of continued wear.
Obtainable from all high-class stores and
Pottery Dealers; if any difficulty, write for
name of nearest stockist to our Wholesale
Represen tativ es.
u
If
L2 A
Queen Qnne
T.W HEATH & CO.
/limited.
232. Clarence St. Sydney & Commerce 'House-. CMelbourne*
CHINA
1
Answers to Correspondents.
2Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.E.R.: A good picture, but a taine end-
ing.... Worth N.: Brumby running stories must be
better done than that nowadays. The other is a
familiar horror. But you’ve got vigor.... Reg W.:
Material for a good yarn put to poor use.... Alf
Jurd: Not brisk enough for a tale so often told.
The Wowser: Ditto E.S.H.: Cut “Sinbad”
down and he should sail into port E.H.F.:
“Chute” moves too ponderously.... Ben G.: Not
enough for a yarn; but there’s a good par in the
old chap... .C.T.L.: You’ve overdrawn the poor
woman and put too much in her mouth R.R.T.:
A poor example E.J.G.: Too pallid P.C.: No
milk in “C0w”.... S wastika: “The Miner” won’t go
down... .G.K.T.: You address your stuff to “the sub-
editor.” Was it the sob-editor you meant?... .H.N.:
Appalling.... Terrigal: Why the Americanese ? Isn’t
the English language good enough? R.8.M.: End-
ing very lame G.E.D.8.: That “way-play-may-
stray” repetition is dreadfully monotonous.... Pat:
Do you really think Melbourne rhymes with “do
yearn”?. .. .J.McG.: A continuation of your “Song of
Sydney” ? Certainly :
Sydney’s the finest city in the Pacific,
Where the first old pioneers settled down.
They didn’t think in the near future
It would be a gem in the Empire’s crown.
And, with her population still increasing—
It has now reached a million and more—
But, thanks to Mr. Bradfield’s skill and brains,
There’ll be relief with the Bridge to North Shore.
She has the finest, surfing beaches in the world ;
And, with the Duke at Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair,
There are many yearning hearts over the seas,
That are longing for to be there.
....W.H.O. (M.L.) : Rough as a hand-made nutmeg-
grater... .Cool: You mismanage a possible yarn....
R. : All slight, but one may d0....A.M.
(Cairns): Not without merit; but construction is
rocky D.L.8.: If your spirit’s flight is as poor as
that of your verse, you’ll crash John R.: The first
stanza of “Does Occult Forces Dream?” is a master-
piece :
Oh, would th’ world would waken and redeem
Its honor and brooks no thought of war;
But, while peace tarries, does occult forces dream,
Or do they act as hithertobefore ?
... .F.E.Iv.: It’s very cheap, easy stuff. .. .Tom M.:
Regret we cannot supply liquid refreshment for your
effort. As a matter of fact, it is too watery...,
Kant: The Yorks will never read your ode in this
paper.., .M.G.: “Window-skinned toe”: hero!....
Fred M.: Not enough in the croc, story... .J.S.D. :
Not greatly improved; and the other thing is dull.
John B.: Grumio, in “The Taming of the Shrew,”
suggests “a piece of beef worth mustard” to Kath-
arina and then says mustard is too hot. That
dates the “discovery” at least a century and a
quarter before 1720... .Helen Z.: A few awkward
lines spoil it.... Alex. B.: All those revolver shots
must have startled Toowoomba G.H.R.: Jogs
drearily... .L.P.J.: Mildly amusing, but overdone.
... .G.M.M.: Nothing funny in a man being wakened
by the milkman.... G.A.8.: If that’s your idea of
getting hilariously drunk, keep sober.... Ross D.:
“‘My God, can it be true!’ he exclaimed.” Well,
it reads very unconvincing... .A. A. 8.: Tame....
V.G.W.: The comparison is prosaically drawn....
V.U. (Townsville); Nothing in it but easy jingle.
T.E.M.: Most of the introduction should be cut....
Jim D.: “Bush Music” is in a monotonous key....
Cal S.: Glad you think “an awful lot of This
Bulletin.” Sorry, we can’t reciprocate... .Delia
S. : Even the noble line “My loved one lies
a-dead” couldn’t save it....A.D.C.: “Tell me when
you will print it.” Never Cam D.: “Pay Docket”
has nothing in it... .E.M.S.: First page showed pro-
mise which wasn’t fulfilled... .A.A.A.: Form too
awkward.... Jack W.: Your verse has gone back
“leaving weary footprints in the sands of memory.”
... .Paul C.: Too much like a sermon... .M.K.P.:
Improving still; but you need to be more careful
in your choice of words Seesun: Tritely told
L. : The milking verse is a fair cow J.S.G.:
The last shovelful from your diggings spoils the
load. .. .G.A.8.: Story well told; climax incredible.
....V.G.W.: “‘Going to join the Salvation Army?’
he sneered.” And the story is of Ben Hall’s days-
long before the Salv’army had arrived W.E.8.:
Weak.... J.D.H.: Your “Imagination” lacks it....
Cro: No humor to justify the jape N.L.N.: Some
gleams; but your poetic dawn is far off. ...A.N.0.:
“Original.” We should say so. And it will never
be imitated C.A.F.: The opening stanzas are the
best
With cloudy grief our hearts did freeze
Beneath the dreadful blow;
Appendicitis, grave disease,
Hath laid our loved one low.
The doctor came last week and took
His ,’pendix right away;
And now, with one last, loving look,
Our darling would not stay!
.... D.G.A.: Six times “he printed a kiss on her
lips.” They must have had the appearance of a
magazine E.C.D.: All very slight. The form is
fairly good; but even the best-made building needs
furnishing. .. .L.R.8.: The cleaner has swept
“Spider” away K.F.M.: Patriotic verse is usually
as poor as a patriot. Yours is no exception....
M. :We would deserve it if we printed those verses.
F.O’Y.: Your pome leaves it doubtful whether
death was due to a cold caught through sitting on
the river bank, mosquito bites or the blight of a
love affair.... Cam D.: You sat on the point and
made your yell your story. The point is still hidden.
.P.R.M.: Just a conventional little love story.
. ...A.C.W.: The colorlessness of the characters give
no reality to the obsession of dislike... .Emily B.:
Unconvincing J.S.: It does read rather like a
headache Yaraka: Yes, but that’s not the point.
Couldn’t the £5 be spent to the far greater advan-
tage of the mother? Paul C.: Glad to Maurice
G.: All so obvious. .. .C.H.H.: Hardly; but glad to
hear again Ernest G.: The talk of the psalmist is
not g00d... .Waimea: “Fear” much better; but the
subject doesn’t attract us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.K.: The gag was so tame that it ate out of our
hand... . R..5.R.: Shadow on wall gazing at girl
perched on mantelpiece rejected... .8.H.: An army of
vague, wriggling lines sauntering aimlessly over a
sheet of paper... .R.H.C.: Your pluck in signing
your name to it deserves the M.M C.T.W.: Re-
production would be the finish of them E. J.P.:
Where do they employ waitresses with arms like a
seal’s flappers? B.O.B.: Mournful little head study
illustrating a puny joke J.F.D.: “What’s it
worth?” Not a Russian rouble... .C.S.: Your steeple-
chaser that jibbed at the water-jump is as wooden
as the Trojan horse. .. .D.F.N.: Promising, if a
bit splintery N.E.: Phil May anticipated you.


Greater Comfort —Greater Beauty—Greater Economy
CH RYSLER
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS
❖
50
*
If you will picture the Chrysler “50”
on the one hand, and the few
other four-cylinder cars of large pro-
duction on the other, the amazing
difference between them will make
your choice an astonishingly simple
matter. Q. In full size, family room-
iness; in beauty of appearance and
furnishings; in wonderful perform-
ance and economy, you will need
no one to point out to you that the
Chrysler “50” is quite alone in its
field—that there is really no com-
parison in value.
a
The CHRYSLER “50”
Tourer also Roadster,
Coupe, Coach and Sedan —
Bodies Typically Chrysler
Chrysler Standardized
Quality is a fixed and in-
flexible quality standard
which enforces the same
scrupulously close limits
the same rigid rule of
engineering exactness
the same absolute accur-
acy and precision of align-
ment and assemblage—in
the measurement,the ma-
chining and the manu-
facturing of every part,
practice and process in
four lines of Chrysler cars.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S. W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street. Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street. Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West, Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tbs.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd'., Hobart and Launceston.
H.Z.: Todd Motor Company. 97 Courtenay Place. Wellington^,
SOB,


Wm
yap*
Get the Skins
That is the first necessity. But the last essential is
not least. It is most important with your
RABBIT, i FOX, KANGAROO and all other
skins. Get top values for them.
SEND YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO
WINCHCOIVIBE, CARSON
LTD.
i Salesmen,
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
They are life, reliable selling agents, and sell on
commission qnly. They make it their sole business
to secure top market prices for all clients.
i 3
Monarch
4
ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL size
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/~
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
wewiH LT! U d Wl,h H com P la "". write m and
PATTFMX A°.V U^ a , taloB[ue - ful| y describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
«r/nm* P J; , * nCe f d T a 'V’ y W ‘ ,h all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from ihe
first day s use. It „ the most scientific appliance yet
. ' ~s . 14 ine »*»QSI scie
conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
!! *'"'“factory we do not expect you to keep
It, and the trial costs you nothing, his suitable for
S: n ;.. w c°hT.ii ch,ldren - and ,be price > s witu.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne. Vic.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff— Good Position.
Cooling in Summer
—Reliable Always
KRUSE’S .
FfflM#— 9
die Celebrated
Stomach Medicine
A cooling and soothing
Aperient, containing no
harmful drugs.
Mothers can gi-9e it to
Infants Ttfifh perfect safety.
msm
FLUORUGIVESfA
mwinini'cißU
Manufactured and
bottled under tke
strictest hygienic
conditions.
‘Bottled in three
sizes.
DON’T TAKE CHANCES —Get <he genuine KRUSE’S, v?itk 4ie
blue Wrapper and our name, Felton, Grimwade & Co. Ps. Ltd.,
on the label.
<sr
V 4
Quicker Easier -Better
*r.
*A PLEASURE NOWNOTA TORTURE
Jl wonderful Mew Method /
HUNDREDS of years have gone by, yet man has had only
one idea of Shaving—that is, rubbing a brush hard on his
face with soapy lather. Now the modern method is,
you smear Shavex from the tube, lightly over the beard, then
shave. Yet get new shaving comfort and the most perfect and
easy shave you have ever had in half the time, and your face will
feel like the softest satin no after lotions are required.
Shavex is a skin food. Shavex keeps your face young, and
frees it from wrinkles, and does not dry up the pores of the skin
like soaps that are made of soda. Shavex is obtainable everywhere
Large Tube 1/9 Larger Size
(Double Quantity) 2/6
°)ke
obsolete \
soap -6- brush
way
SHAVEX
Ohe Modern c Way
NO BRUSH, NO SOAP, NO PAIN
FREE SAMPLE —-A Free Sample on receipt
of 3d. stamp from Sole Australian Agents:
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (Aust.) Ltd.
(Dept 4 ). Eagle and Globe Buildings,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery., etc.
“Sucre” : Clancy and Co. are moving with
the times. A party of drovers has gone to
Brunette Downs to" take 18,000 cattle from
the Territory to Adelaide. The mob is to
be split into two lots, travelling 60 miles
apart. Two sets of wireless will keep the
sections in touch with one another.
* * * *
“Jim Domino”: The other Sunday the
dght of a score or more of likely-looking
prospects seated about a Royal Park (Melb.)
subdivision caused a real-estate salesman
to descend on them with a series of plans.
Two men sat apart from the rest, but. he
booked orders from all the others, and in one
case three choice blocks were selected. Con-
gratulating himself on his success, the sales-
man approached the isolated, pair. When
he learned that they were asylum warders
and the others were their charges out for
exercise, he was sorry that he hadn’t begun
with them.
* * * *
“Croesus” : Tons of Murray lisli, cod par-
ticularly, are sent away every week from the
river and its tributaries to Melbourne and
Sydney, and as local residents are seldom
able to obtain sea fish there is a movement
to press for Government prohibition of the
sale of Murray cod outside the river dis-
tricts. Cod brings 2s. 6d. a. lb. retail in
Melbourne, and up to 3s. 6d. in Sydney, and
consequently there are many river fishermen
making good livings at the trade and carry-
ing it on with motor-trucks and modern
plant. Several of the river towns, such as
Swan Hill and Mildura, have long been
endeavoring to attract tourist traffic, and
fishing would help. Line catches of cod,
however, grow less and less frequent, and
fish of any kind and size is harder to
come by.
* * * *
“Tongio West”: Rare articles of grocery
and clothing are sometimes found in the
most unexpected places. For years I had
been vainly trying in Melbourne and Vic.
towns to obtain a bottle of a certain Eng-
lish sauce much beloved by me in boyhood.
Recently I happened to be at Wollongong
(N.S.W.), and the first thing I saw in the
window of a big Chinese store was an array
of bottles of this particular brand. About
three years ago, a wealthy American visited
Australia, and tried all over Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to get a pair of his
“Vy, it’s a pleasure to me to pay my debts.”
“Yes, but you never let pleasure interfere
mid business, do you?”
favorite suspenders. He had worked up
quite a grudge against Australia for not
stocking them, but when travelling on the
Transcontinental to Perth happened to see
a pair exhibited in the one little store at
Hughes, a station on the line.
* * * *
“Cuv6e” : Australian wine-growers are
likely to suffer in more ways than one by
the restrictions on wine clearances imposed
by the British Customs. The check came
just when the Australian trade was getting
well into its stride: the clearances for
January, 1927, were 161,778 gallons, as com-
pared with 87,976 gallons in January, 1926.
A great proportion of the Australian import
was the full-bodied red type of wine which
a big class of Britain’s population has
learned to like since spirits, and particularly
whisky, became so expensive. But there
are expectations that the heavy excise duties
on spirits will soon be reduced by Winston
Churchill, the Chancellor. Even if they
are not, amalgamation on the grand scale
during the past feiv years has greatly less-
ened the costs of the Scottish whisky dis-
tillers, and these are in a position to
announce a reduction in the price of whisky
at any moment. Any such drop would, of
course, cut into the market Australian wines
have made for themselves.
* * * *
Tabac : If you are walking homeward
along the public footway and a heavy limb
from an over-reaching tree on your neigh-
bor s property falls upon you to your hurt
don t jump to the conclusion that an action
for damages will lie. A recent English case
*oble v. Harrison, shows that such reasoning
may be quite fallacious. The defendant had
a line beech-tree growing on his property
with branches towering 30ft. above a public
footpath. Under this canopy came Noble
and was smitten down by a falling branch.
But when he took his case to court he
learned that the defendant had a right to
grow the tree, which was not of itself a
dangerous object, and its spreading branches
were not a nuisance since they did not inter-
fere with Nobles right of user in the foot-
way. Nor, it appeared, was there any negli-
gence on the neighbor’s part, as the break-
away of the branch was due to some latent
undiscoverable defect in the wood. What then
had Harrison done to warrant an action bein«
brought against him. “Nothing,” said the
Judge, and Noble had to pay the costs


V.
X
■’A:
*1
-■P£
m
i
I
?Ck
m
m
Safeguarding Quality
One of
Graham Brothers
Great Factories .
Thousands of trained men in
factories covering many acres
of ground are constantly safe-
guarding, with the pride of
artisans, the high quality of
Graham Brothers Trucks and
Buses and Dodge Brothers
Commercial Cars.
Fine materials, fine precision
standards and skilled workers
make each truck and bus a
sure, dependable hauling unit
—to operate at low cost for
years and years.
Each work day more than 250
trucks, commercial cars and
buses are built by Graham
Brothers. It is this great mass
production that enables Graham
Brothers to build such fast,
powerful, sturdy vehicles at so
low a price.
Graham Brothers Trucks and Commercial Cars
meet 91 °/ 0 of all hauling requirements .
1-Ton Chassis, £325; li-Ton Chassis, £445;
2-Ton Chassis, £485.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE


s
Keep The Scalp Healthy
Regular shampoos with a suds
of Cuticura £ta&p\snd hot water,
preceded by light' applications of
Cuticura Ointment, are most effec-
tive. They do much to cleanse the
scalp of dandruff, allay irritation,
stimulate circulation and promote
the healthy condition necessary to
a luxuriant growth of hair.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W”
IMT* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Ready in a moment
always hade
in the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
The Wonderful ‘‘Lock-Grip’' Wire Strainer
18)
i6«y'6
LOCK
Simple, Powerful, Rapid.
TIME, MONEY AND ENERGY SAVED.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything
invented for the straining of fencing wires.
It saves hours on a job. Joins, tightens and
repairs with the utmost ease. Its , enormous
concentrated power makes light of any fencing
work—the hardest tensile wire cannot slip
through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can
be carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your
motor-car out of a bog.
Get one and test it—there’s no risk. Failure
or breakage impossible. Thousands sold—
everyone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6:
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange).
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents:—
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted inhere not represented.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealandek, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
‘ from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
IF anyone knowing the whereabouts of
1 WILHEMINA FREDERICA REINKE,
who resided at Westbrook, Crosshill,
Toowoomba, Queensland, Australia, about 30
years ago, please communicate with WESTON
WARD LASCELLES, Christchurch, Now
Zealand. Father anxious.
IWIcLEOD, JOHN, and Brother GEORGE
IVA McLEOD and Sister Mrs. MUNRO or
descendants, advantage. Write Mr. TELFER,
1(> Pirie Street, Adelaide, immediately.
IV/T cCTJLLOCII-GALLAGHER. Michael
VA McCulloch married Elizabeth Gallagher,
probably in Ireland, about 1858. They emi-
grated to Australia. Next of kin ' write
Sir. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street. Adelaide.
jyiARY ANN HEATH (or"RCTSE), who
left Nelson, New Zealand, at the end
of 1918 with the intention of going to her
daughter in Sydney or Melbourne, or anyone
knowing anything of Mrs. Heath (or Mrs.
Rose) or her daughter, is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned, who has in-
formation for the benefit of Mrs. Heath or
her next-of-kin.
HILLIER CHEEK,
Solicitor, Nelson, N.Z.
VY/TLL CHARLES VALE, or any person
who knew C. ROBINS, who died in
the Sydney General Hospital on the 17th
December, 1890, communicate with
H. GRIFFITHS,
Albert Avenue,
Sprxngvale, Victoria^
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esa.
M. J. ltyan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also represen'tatior*
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, th;-
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
e
è
t POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BQSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6<f. ps? tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
■ > <®3i4
m
X
r
✓
\
\
AERTEX
Increased vigour in the hottest weather is
the gift of AERTEX wonder weave.
AERTEX insulates keeps the body at an even
temperature—prevents chills stimulates when
other underwear chafes and causes acute dis-
comfort.
See that you get AERTEX—the original health
underwear
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters and or in
case of difficulty apply to
M'ST'Jvli
ISt
AERTEX
S*'«
fr'UXWON
Tfm label on #ll Garment AM
fflsmsssmsm
SEE THIS LABEL ON
ALL GARMENTS.
rHE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LIMITED
313 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia
•who supply Wholesale Trade only A6j
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Models:
U/40h.p,, 20/60h.p.,
SO/90h.p. and 8-litre.
Fitted with Four-wheel Brahes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars fori
British People •
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD-,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address: “Supermoco, London.”
Works, Wolverhampton.
Dr. Charles A. Jarman has returned to
Sydney after a three-years’ sojourn in
London, where he has been the conductor
for two choral societies and lias given organ
recitals and acted as adjudicator. The pub-
lication of some of his compositions was part
of the business that took him overseas; and
at one of his recitals the entire programme
was made up of his own works.
A dandy to his fingertips is Eugene Chen,
the Foreign Minister of the Canton Govern-
ment, who has been talking so saucily to
Britain. One ot the only touches of the
Orient about him is the silver thimble on
his right-hand little finger, which is an indi-
cation that the wearer is not used to hard
toil. Chen was born in Trinidad, and a
good deal of his life has been spent in
Britain and its colonies, where he learned to
wear frock-coats and belltoppers and spats.
“Shed Hand”: It costs the Groperland
railways about £4O per annum to keep up-
to-date the stencilling which records the
capacity ofeach truck and coach for carry-
ing man and horse in time of war. One
thoughtful employee, nosing out this item,
put it to the Suggestions Board that the
expense was unnecessary, seeing that the
iniormation could be obtained for nothing
from the rolling-stock books. The board
was disposed to agree, but a special request
from the military authorities caused them to
alter their minds.
A Melbourne councillor, J. W. Ferguson,
has an example of what a pair of Australian
hands in more leisurely and painstaking
times could do. It is a sideboard which took
10 years to make. It measures lift, by 3ft.
and carved on it in relief are a number of
historical pictures, interspersed with speci-
mens of native fauna. One panel contains
over 1000 inlaid pieces, in over a score of
different local timbers. All that is known
about the craftsman is that his name was
McLean, that he flourished 60 years ago and
that his habitat was North Melbourne.. Ex-
perts consider that the massive article would
fetch £lOOO at. Christie’s.
The heat wave in January gave South
Aus. the highest' death-rate for the month
during the last five years, but it didn’t kill off
all the old-timers. The Methodist Confer-
ence in Adelaide numbered among its mem-
bers eight padres over SO, and their ages
aggregate 673 years. The oldest is Thomas
Piper, the father of the K.C., who is 92,
whilst among the three youngsters of 81
is Walter Howchin, for many years Professor
of Geology at Adelaide Uni. And the parsons
don’t have it all their own way, for the
.veterans among the bowlers at the South Park
tournament included eight with an average
age of S 3.
“Pall Mall” : A soldier-settler was riding
a motor-cycle into Bendigo (Vie.) the other
night when his wife, who was seated in the
side-car muffled up in a rug against the cold
wind, was startled by the machine suddenly
stopping. Throwing aside the rug she dis-
covered her husband lying across the handle-
bars, with blood running from a wound in
his forehead. When he recovered he ex-
plained that an owl had flown out of the
trees by the roadside and, dazzled by the
headlights, had collided with his face, which
was scratched by the bird’s beak and claws.
The force and suddenness of the impact
pitched him forward, and his head struck the
handlebar.
“M.G.S.”: From San Francisco comes
tne news that one Joseph Seybold, having
been introduced to a spirit named Sarah, who
desired matrimony with a mortal, spent
£2O on a wedding feast and invited his
friends to the marriage ceremony, at which
an empty chair was placed in case the tenu-
ous bride got tired of floating. Joseph is
now suing the medium who arranged the
introduction for £lOOO, owing to the ghost’s
non-arrival. Which reminds me that I knew
a man in Australia who was regularly
treated, with the assistance of a medium,
by dead doctors. The deceased physicians
so often prescribed slippery elm-bark that
a sceptic might have wondered if the medium
had the local monopoly of the potion, what-
ever it is.
Tom Saywell, who has been a pioneer in
more things than most men have touched,
was 90 years old last month. Fifty years ago
Saywell was a partner of Hugh Dixson in
the tobacco business that has grown so
largely. Then he plunged into real estate,
and out of portion of the Cooper estate
made the old Albert Ground —Sydney’s first
enclosed cricket ground, now obliterated by
bricks and mortar. Next he laid out a
model suburb at Lady Robinson’s Beach and
connected it with the railway at Rockdale by
a tramway, since bought by the Government.
While steam was still king Saywell began
to experiment with motor transport. His
other interests were in coal, machinery and
furniture; but these were only side-lines
among his adventures in industry. He had
the adventurous spirit, and was—and is—
willing to risk his money on a long shot.
“Hamfat”: The news that Ranfurly has
had to dispose of his ancestral home in
Tyrone, owing to heavy taxation, touches my
sympathies. When he was Governor of
M.L., Ranfurly proved a good fellow. Some
of us would have missed the Rotomahana, at
Lyttelton, after the Christchurch carnival,
if he had not asked the captain to put back
as we sprinted along the wharf from which
the vessel had just cast free. The Earl
accepted our thanks in the saloon, where
some hours were spent swapping yarns over
drinks. Later, arriving in Wellington with
a theatrical company booked for a season
“on terms” at the Royal, after a country tour
which had been all wet weather and disaster,
we found the outlook so black that I rushed
into my best stage clothes, spent the com-
pany’s last half-crown on a cab, and was
fortunate in catching his Ex. at Government
House. I told him that his patronage would
mean all the difference between a stranded
co. and a successful season, and half an
hour later I was able to show the newspapers
a letter which authorised us to put the lion
and unicorn at the top of our ads., and
which, incidentally, secured us credit for
the advertising. On the night the Royal had
more carriages outside its doors than ever
before. But our troubles were not quite
over. The only carpet we could lay down
for the vice-regal feet had been so long
disused that rats had perforated it. The
mechanist and property man had to cut out
the worst bits and piece the remnants
together.


Shipping,
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
,Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Have a New Holiday in
HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra cost in the isles of eternal
springtime. Tropical scenery, fragrant flowers,
luscious fruits. Haunting melody ’neath moon-
lit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surfboard
riding, golfing, motoring and outdoor sports
the year round. Inter-island cruises, volcanic
spectacles.
Or take a round-trip from Sydney, 8 weeks or
less, for about £lOO to £l5O all expenses,
allowing 3 to 4 weeks in Hawaii and a day
at Suva or Pago Pago. Good hotels with meals,
12/- to £3 per day. Ask steamship or travel
agency or write Hawaii Tourist Bureaus, Dept.
2fi, Box 241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifully-colored booklet, enclosing this adver-
tisement.
On Your Next Trip Include Hawaii
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,085,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyabd.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Diiuhn.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Faiuhairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agent? throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Hank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE aiul WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £525,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 876,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
B 7 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.j General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
e
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cue
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
TAHITI ....... 7,900 tons, MARCH 24, for San Francisco
NIAGARA 13,415 ~ APRIL 7, for Vancouver.
MAKTTRA 8,075 „ APRIL 21, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,490 „ MAY 5, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spaeious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
r I SM <*
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom,- via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM IN TEE CHANGEABLE FOB RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. { House > 247 George Street, Sydney.
(.William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about l t \ Weelcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Naw Rritain- S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
new Villain. Sails March 29 and May 10.
I\l ftiv/I MATARAM (3500 tons)
OUtymun laiailUd. Sails March 16 and April 27.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
è
é
ê
ë
ē
ĕ
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
ru.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BAN R
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors■ W H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office — 29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
1 Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND ------- 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors:
PEORGE J COHEN, Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman • Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General tlie Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office. —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
AH°Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND FORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough and
Bundaberg, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkcrLjsi'
Magnlfloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing!
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
CoilinsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
FLtzroy Estates, Ltd.
ISlackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P, & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
l td. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Trout Fishing - - Golf,
Tennis and Croquet.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Petrol for sale and garage
accommodation available.
Summer Tariff:
From £5/5/- per week.
£1 per day.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


The Whippet Offers:
35 miles to an Imperial gallon
of petrol.
55 miles and more per horn
5 to 30 miles in 13 seconds.
4-wheel brakes . . . stops in 51
feet from 40 miles an hour.
Turns in 34 foot circle . . . easi-
est car to park.
5 feet 9 inches high . . . low
center of gravity . . . greater
safety . . . irreversible steering
gear.
Smart body lines . . . more
room than any other light car
. . . ample road clearance.
The Whippet is built for power and speed—of
quality materials that make it a long-life car „
Millions Welcome its Amazing new
Performance Thrills
In the short time the new Overland Whippet has been
on the market, millions have acclaimed it as the greatest
step ahead in motor car development in the past 16 years.
It has established a new revolutionary trend in light car
design that all others must follow or be swept into discard.
It has taken Overland engineers three years to design,
develop, and perfect this new-type car. What the Whippet
offers you now cannot be obtained in other light cars.
Power Designed
Its 31 horse-power, “high-torque” motor has tremendous
power to carry you over steep hills, deep mud and sand
with ease. It actually develops more horse-power per
cubic inch of piston displacement than any other light
4-cylinder car made today.
Beauty
The new Whippet has a long, low body
of modern design, finished in durable
Dnotone Duco Finish, with black bead-
ing and gold stripe.
While only 5 feet 9 inches high, it pro-
vides more room and comfort than any
motor car of this class.
Be fair to yourself—see this remarkable
new car. Ride in it. A demonstration
may save you from buying an obsolete car.
No more sitting bolt upright—seats
are placed in natural , restful positions*
Overland
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
W XLLYS - OVERLAND • FINE • MOTOR . CARS


■
m
■ I
> '
. . -■ -
V
■V.
m .
a .;■*>'
1
y
;
VI
is
; i *if
? ; .j
! ?
M
«
Be Pretty!
Be Dainty!
Be
Attractive!
Be a
REXONA GIRL!
Use Only
REXONA SOAP
For Health and Beauty.
Miss DOROTHY
DEWAR, a beauti-
ful Rexona Girl,
writes: “I am a
constant user of
Rexona Soap and I
find it ideal for
shampooing the
hair and keeping
the complexion in
the pink of condi-
tion, and recom-
mend it always to
my friends.”
m
o
»
Chocolates
“I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home/"
The Famous Red Box of Cliooolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS J
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue
with reproductions elf our con-
fectionery in colors.
HA
if
tilL •'■■■ \
;- j- ■
w
\
■
:
lilii
Rolling Roads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TTTEST and north and south they go,
1 1 Rolling up and down —
' ’ All the roads the rovers know,
When they quit with eyes aglow
Pavement, street and town.
Here they dip and there ascend;
Wedding plain to sea
Red and white they curve and bend;
And who treads them has for friend
Bird and flower and tree.
Here they pass through golden wheat,
There through barley green,
Drowsing in the noonday heat —-
Where in city lane or street
Are such visions seen?
Crossing rivers, creeks and rails,
Bearing many loads —
Loads of bags and loads of bales,
Station stores and station mails —•
Go the rolling roads.
Hearken, hearken to their call
Ringing through the land,
Saying to all folk in thrall—
“ Elbow-room we have for all,
Freedom to expand!”
Now through leafage green and red
Winding, and anon
Wending on through timber dead,
Little town to town they wed
As they journey on.
Speeding from some mountain’s back,
Green with frond and stem,
Or through country burnt and black,
Lumber-track and cattle-track
Run to join with them.
He who will their calling hear
And their summons heed
Shall, with shining shapes a-near,
Drink from beauty’s well-spring clear
And on wonder feed.
When with lights of pearl and pink
Sunset hues some waste,
Or some river’s breast and brink.
Draughts of beauty he shall drink,
Sweets of wonder taste.
Soft and rich, on breezes borne,
As lie camps beside
Bracken brown or tasselled corn,
Song lie’ll hear at dewy morn,
Song at eventide.
Free of trouble he shall hie,
Free of yokes and goads,
Who. beneath the open sky.
While the golden hours go by,
Treads the rolling roads.
West and south and north they go,
Linking town to town,
Shadowed roads and roads aglow,
Over high land, over low,
Rolling up and down.
k.s.w.
RODERIC OUINN.
Donatio Mortis Causa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is one last rallying post at
which the old mining prospector can
be found. Away on the north-west
plains of New South Wales sprawls Light-
ning Ridge, a weird collection of tin and
bark humpies, clustered round hotel, school
and post office, encircled with potholes,
shallow shafts and earth dumps. To the
passing motorist the town, an ugly inter-
ruption of the monotony of endless arid
plains, is the final outpost of civilisation.
In summer time the thermometer often
registers 110° F. The air is hazed with red
Inst. Except for great stretches of tawny
native grass and an occasional clump of
stunted trees, no vegetation exists. Water
;s often scarcer than bottled ale. Why some
iur hundred people, in a continent which
tEers a choice of mountain heights, cool
valleys coursed by running rivers and the
blowing warmth of tropical forests, should
r hoose to pass their days in the squalor of
a place seems a mystery. But here is
gathered the last brigade of roving miners.
Here, still, is the element of chance. Em-
bedded in the white clayey subsoil of this
oesert are pockets of crude opal. No capital
required for crushing plants or cyaniding.
~o u just sink a little shaft, and with the
tightest of timbering drive a short lateral
You may sink fifty shafts without
Jesuit. But you may with one stroke of the
•eck unearth a treasure worth hundreds of
.founds. It is a gambler’s paradise, and to
came and still come the few old die-hards
■'ho, despising the steady job, continue to
-'eat life as a gamble. They make a strange
Atle community. Primitive in instinct and
J esires, they are content with their lot;
f . Ve ® when luck furnishes them w r ith enough
ypital to start a new life they stay on
hh the resolve to get to a big city after
°he more find.
. The greatest mystery of the Ridge is the
parent contentment of the women and
Aildren in such surroundings, welded with
'.V fc * r placid menfolk into a happy community,
• ith its round of domestic duties and social
hiemties. But every village has its odd man
J ht, its one malcontent who does not fit into
Jig-saw puzzle.
Dick Hayes, known to all as the
ombat, had been one of the first opal
m the North-West, and was the
dest inhabitant of Lightning Ridge. But
. was also the most isolated. Living alone
r a oa.e-roomed hut on the edge of the town,
. .avoided all intercourse with his fellows,
, a P er Petual grievance against the
I, 1 , large. Some twenty years before
\r , a(t worked in partnership with Jim
Thl . a other , old identity of the field,
v y had quarrelled over the division of a
l‘ e verdict of the community had
From that moment the
had withdrawn from all intercourse
rt ref ot } l , er villagers; the “socials” at the
5 th< I gatllerin gs at the hotel and the
lurintr c^) . tlcerts knew him no more. Except
iendi W , ee ; ly , visit l t 0 the sto r e . or his
ance at the hotel when an opal-buyer
dropped off the coach for a day’s bargaining,
he spent all his days prospecting for new
treasures and his nights in feeding an ever-
growing distrust of his fellows.
The great events of the year were visits
of opal-buyers. Then all work would be
suspended, as the miners with their wives
gathered at the hotel and displayed their
hoards of “stone.” No one ever sold right
out. It was a universal custom, by way of
insurance against the future, to reserve a
portion of each find. Secreted in every hut
were old cigarette-cases and jamtins, some of
them containing reserves worth many hun-
dreds of pounds. The Wombat never sold
more than was sufficient to provide for his
simple needs, and never displayed the whole
of his find. He was thus reputed to
hoarded great wealth, and there was con-
stant speculation by his neighbors as to
what would be its ultimate destination. Jim
Marsh brought the matter up at a meeting
of the Progress Association. By judicious
cross-examination of the storekeeper he had
discovered that his ancient enemy had
recently purchased samples of all available
patent medicines and had consumed numer-
ous bottles of “Parson’s Painkiller.” All
present at the meeting agreed that the old
man was beginning to totter, and that a
new habit of constantly talking to himself
indicated mental as well as physical decay.
Without adopting any formal resolution, the
meeting dispersed on the understanding that
the Wombat’s wealth was a community asset
and should in the end be divided amongst
the married miners. The Wombat’s physi-
cal condition became the most absorbing
topic of the village. Every unusual move-
ment of the old man was noted; but,
although he was growing feebler every day
he seemed determined not to die, and ordered
a six months’ supply of Painkiller. One
enterprising matron at last decided that the
time had come for action. There was no
knowing what the man might do with his
unsold opals. So, armed with the best
delicacies that the village could muster, she
invaded the misanthrope’s hut with a pro-
posal that he should occupy a spare room in
her cottage. The Wombat did not argue
the matter. He had always been a man of
few words. Taking an old shotgun from
its rack, he told his solicitous neighbor to
get out, and as she retreated he threw her
tribute of delicacies to a gaunt sheep-dog
which he kept chained to the hut.
That night, after dismissing his unwel-
come visitor, the Wombat realised that his
nmlady was approaching a crisis. It was
midwinter, and the wind which swept across
the desolate plains was bitterly cold. He
tossed restlessly in his bunk, and towards
morning noticed that the wind had dropped
and a frost had set in. He drank an extra
dose of his favorite medicine, a concoction
really made for external application, but
often swallowed by back-country men as a
cure for colicky pains. Piling every avail-
able article of clothing on to his bunk, he
again crept under cover and sought sleep.
A few moments later he was sitting up
clutching his chest, gasping for breath and
bathed in cold sweat. It had come again !
There flashed through his mind a doctor’s
warning issued four years ago. The doctor
had explained it to him—the thickening of
an important heart muscle. He remembered
now —angina something. The doctor had
told him to keep his affairs in order, as an-
other attack with fatal results would soon
occur. But the doctor had been wrong. Four
years had passed without another attack.
But now—was it coming again? He could
never again endure that agony. He waited
in horror for the next spasm, and when it
came was overwhelmed with dismay. The
doctor had been right! The attack was
going to be worse than the first one.
He managed to crawl to a cupboard, and
after much fumbling found a flask of brandy
which years before had been stored for some
such emergency. He half-emptied the flask
and crawled back to bed. The stimulant
gave momentary relief, and, free from acute
pain, his mind became active. If this was
the end, what would become of his stones ?
Again he crept from bed, and, groping in a
recess under a loose floorboard, returned with
a rusty biscuit-tin, from which he poured
the result of twenty-five years’ toil and
privation. He knew it was the finest col-
lection of uncut, unpolished opals ever held
by one man, and that its value was well
over a thousand pounds—not the meagre
hundreds with which his enemies across in
the village were contented.
By the time he had restored the treasure
to its tin the pain had gone, and the few
moments of respite were given to quick cal-
culation. If he died with that tin in the hut
his enemies would find it. Perhaps in the
end their leader, his recreant partner, would
become the new owner of its contents. He
would get over this attack and then lodge
all his wealth in the nearest bank —there
was one within a day’s coach journey.
And then he was sitting up again. Hot
pincers were tearing his heart from its
bearings, an intolerable ache assailed his
arms, vicious stabs of pain cut into his back.
In his head was the confusing roar of mighty
winds. With the remnant of consciousness
left him, he realised that this was the last
attack. To defeat his enemies he must act
before sunrise. He finished the flask of
brandy, and, grasping the precious tin to his
breast as though it possessed some healing
qualities, laboriously felt his way to the
door. That marvellous opaline tint which
in the Far West immediately precedes sunrise
was suffusing the horizon. A heavy coating
of frost whitened the ground. A rush of
cool air set him gasping again. Slowly,
mechanically, he began to move towards the
last shaft he had sunk. If he could only
reach it all would be well. There was three
feet of water at the bottom of the shaft, and
anyone working the claim in the future
would never sink it lower, but would con-
tinue the lateral drive into the clay. If he
could but reach it! There was sure con-
cealment for wealth which must never get
into the hands of his enemies !
A fresh gush of pain with intolerable
nausea forced him to rest on a mullock heap.
But once more he began his journey through
a labyrinth of pathways interspersing the
shafts and earth-mounds. He became con-
fused, and a few moments later was terri-
fied to find that he had circled back to the
last resting-spot.
Again he started out, but found that he
(Continued on next page.)


“€very picture
Zells a Story”
. J.
M
xr* —^
fi'V
J:
US
Id
'\ 3
- 2.
. i
That backache again!
Why not get at the cause?
MORE than likely your kidneys are to blame. Backache, head-
aches, dizziness, urinary disorders, sciatica, rheumatism,
lumbago, dropsical swellings, gravel and dropsy may all be caused
by harmful impurities which weak or sluggish kidneys have failed
to take out from the blood. Be quick to correct this! Don’t allow
the kidney weakness to go from bad to worse! You run too grave
a risk! Use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, without any further
delay; they will not fail. Grateful people, everywhere, recommend
this special kidney medicine for relieving and preventing kidney
disorder and its many symptoms.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY
GIVEN HERE.
Mr. Henry Francis, 2 Oxford Street, Burwood, Sydney, says:—
-‘Eighteen months ago I commenced to feel off color. A slight scalding of
the secretions began, and gradually grew worse, until they were intensely
painful, and I could not retain them. A pain then crept up my back, and
I suffered torture. I went into the hospital and was treated there for nine
weeks, and although I came out a little relieved. I was still in pain, and a
week later was as bad as when I went in. By accident I came across a
pamphlet about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and after reading it, I
resolved to give this remedy a trial, so sent for some at once. The first
bottle did not stem to do me much good, but I persevered and while using
the second bottle I got a little ease, and four bottles completely cured me.”
Over twenty years later Mrs. Francis says :—“My husband has great
faith in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and always keeps them by him.
This medicine cured him many years ago, and it always acts beneficially
whenever he has occasion to take it.”
DON’T BE PUT OFF—
INSIST ON DOAN’S.
Sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney,
D OAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills.
PILES AND ECZEMA CURED
BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY,
Eczema Cured.
Mrs. Horwitz, Ethelwood, Hayward
Street, Kensington, Sydney, says :—“I
sent for a pot of Doan’s Ointment, and
used it for Eczema on, my little girl’s
forehead. The rash covered the brow
and it was around the eye as well. The
itching was frightful, and it made her
very fretful and kept her from sleeping.
I had used several preparations previous
to getting Doan’s Ointment, but none of
them gave more than passing relief. I
am pleased to tell you that this remedy
cured her completely. We have since
used it on another little girl with
equally good results. Doan’s Ointment
is splendid, and I advise its use in all
itching skin diseases.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Horwitz
states: —“My daughter has not suffered
with Eczema since Doan’s Ointment
cured her eighteen years ago.”
Piles Cured.
Mrs. M. Brown, Toronto, Lyons Road,
Five Dock, Sydney, says : —“Three years
ago I used Doan’s Ointment for a bad
attack of Piles, and I am pleased to tell
you it completely cured me. Previous to
trying this ointment I tried all kinds of
remedies; but they gave me little or no
relief. I was suffering terribly when 1
first applied Doan’s Ointment, and had
little hope of it doing me any good; but
its soothing and healing effects were
noticeable almost at once, and by the
time I had used one pot I was com-
pletely cured. I am a great believer in
Doan’s Ointment, and consider it the
best Pile remedy known. It cured me
after other remedies had failed.’’
Four years later Mrs. Brown says:
“I have had no return of my old com-
plaint since Doan’s Ointment cured me
about seven years ago.”
KEEP
At all chemists and stores at 2/9 per tin.
A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND
could not longer stand, and the mounds of
earth seemed to be growing larger. Some
of them were mountains, shutting out the
light. And it had become much colder.
At last the pain stopped, but in its place
was a strange sensation as though those
relentless pincers had at last torn out his
heart. And he was shivering terribly. It
seemed incredible that anyone could be so
cold and still live. With superhuman effort,
foot by foot he crawled on all fours towards
his shaft. Yes, this was the one. But
somehow it seemed different. Everything
was different. He knew the sun was up, but
it brought no light, no warmth.
On reaching the shaft he kept very still
for a few moments; then, concentrating the
energy left in his quivering body, he threw
the tin and waited to hear the splash which
would indicate that his task was accom-
plished.
But there was no splash. Instead a voice
called from below: “Who’s playing the fool
up there?”
It was the voice of his enemy! He had
gone to the wrong shaft!
A shrill scream echoed through the mounds
of earth.
* * * *
Jim Marsh showed his gratitude for the
unexpected gift by erecting an ornate tomb-
stone to the Wombat’s memory. The vil-
lagers claimed a portion of the treasure, but
in the end could not dispute the opinion of
a passing lawyer that as the gift had been
accompanied with delivery, it was a good
“donatio mortis causa.”
GEO. S. BEERY.
The Huntress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fleurette beaudesart pursed
her rosy lips with a pretty little
moue. At least, she fondly hoped it
was a moue, for such things always seemed
so delightful to read about, and since she
had discarded her less impressive but truer
name of Flo Bodgett she was determined
that her every action should as far as pos-
sible be appropriate to its much more aristo-
cratic substitute. Hence the moue.
Her escort was a gentleman somewhat
difficult of description. He had none of
that sartorial sketchiness or cow-like sport-
iveness of manner which had so sadly marred
so many of her former admirers. He was
dressed immaculately—yes, that was the
word, immaculately—in a full evening-dress
suit of perfect fit, with linen and tie to
match. As she glanced down at his dainty
French patents, topped by sober black silk
socks, Fleurette recalled with a shudder a
past swain who had escorted her to what
he called a darnce clad in a dinner-suit whose
lamentable cut paled into insignificance
beside the awful fact that his extremities
were cased in lemon-yellow socks and brown
shoes amazingly inlaid with snake-skin.
Fleurette’s present companion, however,
was as a being from another sphere. Mr. J.
Bertrand Ogilvy possessed that somehow
elusive bearing which may be suggested as
a combination of the slightly pained con-
descension of a hew and unbroken Governor-
General and the cynical insouciance of the
late Mr. Valentino.
The son of a Queensland squatter, he had
come down to Melbourne for a spell before
settling down on the station which his father
had given him ; and he further confided that
lie hoped to take back with him a little Mel-
bourne girl to share his home and fortune,
for “fihose Brisbane girls were so infernally
coarse. Grate on a fellow’s nerves—what!"
His voice took on a more tender tone, his
eyes a less cynical gleam, when he told
Fleurette that he’d an idea that a few of
them would be disappointed presently.
Fleurette was a writer, a noveliste, com-
pelled by a Spartan self-discipline to write
for a fixed number of hours per day in
order to satisfy the insistent demands of an
anonymous editor. This seemed to her to
be the [most convincing way of accounting
to Bertrand for her inability to meet him
during the day time, without confessing the
utterly degrading truth that she earned
wages. For her alter ego, Flo, was a “white
worker,” who, submerged daily in the roar
of a myriad electric sewing-machines, made
interminable quantities of necessary but un-
mentionable garments ; an occupation which
was, of course, admirable, but uninspiring to
a young lady of Flo’s peculiar temperament.
Leaving the small Gippsland dairy-farm
which her father worked on shares as soon
as her schooldays were over, she had, in
company with another girl, the daughter
of a neighbor, come to Melbourne. Then
there quickly grew up in her a determina-
tion to be, if not a lady, at least as nearly
one as a carefully-assumed manner of speech
and deportment and judicious expenditure of
her meagre clothing allowance could render
her. The result, she calculated, added to
her naturally attractive personality, formed
a bait sufficiently alluring to land a matri-
monial fish socially large enough and financi-
ally fat enough to satisfy the hunger of her
ambition. Bites there had been in plenty,
some perfervid with matrimonial intentions
but lacking one or both the other essentials,
and many more that had offered everything
but matrimony ; but Flo persevered.
One Saturday afternoon at St. Kilda a
resplendent Adonis had picked up and
restored to her a book which she had care-
fully dropped for the purpose, and the
few murmured words, the gracious smile,
caused him to comment on the subject of the
book, a _ volume of Nietzsche’s. It had
achieved its object, for lie was duly impressed
with her evident erudition, whilst actually,
of course, she knew as little of the subject
as he. Psychology has the advantage, how-
ever, that two people completely ignorant
of the subject can discuss it without reveal-
ing their ignorance to each other. When
Flo first tried dropping impressing books as
a means- of dispensing with introductions,
she used a volume of Alexandre Dumas in
the original. That was a tactical error,
for the first picker-up spoke French like a
native, and having glanced at the book
returned it with a graceful speech in pure
Parisian to one whom he supposed was a
kindred spirit. Whereupon Flo was so per-
turbed that she relapsed momentarily but
most regrettably into the vernacular and
asked “what was crawling on him.” Thus
was an excellent prospect lost.
The resplendent Adonis, however, im-
proved on acquaintance, and upon parting,
after having sipped afternoon tea with Flo,
gave her his card bearing the admirable
name of “.T. Bertrand Ogilvy,” and the
vague but comprehensive address, “Queens-
land,” and asked in the most courteous way
imaginable if he might have the honor, etc.
With wonderful mental alacrity Flo decided
that her name was Fleurette Beaudesart and
so informed him; then with becoming reluc-
tance said that it was so shockingly uncon-
ventional, and she really didn’t think she
ought, still she might be on the esplanade
next day at three o’clock. “Bai-Bai!” And
she was.
And so for three glorious weeks Flo en-
joyed a whirl of motor rides, dinners, dances
and suppers, and Bertrand was, she decided,
the cat’s pyjamas. . Her discreet questions
from time to time were answered with a
readiness almost embarrassing, for she found
it difficult to be correspondingly communi-
cative. After all, there is a limit to the
number of lies one can tell about oneself
in three weeks without overlapping. Bert-
rand was, nevertheless, obviously very thor-
oughly smitten, and the future looked rosy.
They had one evening just finished a
dinner at the toniest restaurant in town, a
dinner which had been an unalloyed joy,
except for a little faux -pas with the unaccus-
tomed array of cutlery, which Flo prayed
had gone unnoticed. The orchestra was
playing a dreamy waltz from an old-time
musical comedy, and as Flo sipped her coffee
and benedictine it seemed that, judging from
the way these things happen on the movies,
conditions were just right for Bertrand
to put over the big question. He had been
a little moody all the evening, and when
suddenly after a long silence he looked up
and said, in that thrilling, deep voice of his,
“Fleurette!” Flo went all goosey. She had
always been “Miss Beaudesart” before.
“Yes?” she whispered.
“I have taken stalls for the Italian Opera
premiere on Tuesday evening,” lie said. “I
particularly want you to come, for I have
something to tell you, and something to ask
you. You will, won’t you?”
It was then that Flo’s afore-mentioned
moue, which actually covered an objurgation,
arrived. She thought she had got him
screwed right up to popping-point, and now
here was another delay. Dam’ the opera!
How was she to get the new frock which
she absolutely must have for such an affair?
Blasted sickening! Then: “Oh, you deah
boy! I shall be delaighted!” she cooed.
The next two days were a ravening tor-
ment. A round of the shops showed nothing
fit to wear under fifteen pounds, and the
whole available exchequer amounted to less
than half that sum. Vague schemes of tally-
men, moneylenders and cash orders floated
through Flo’s mind, each to be rejected in
its turn, mainly on account of the shortness
of time available. The only alternative, to
cancel the appointment for the opera, was
utterly unthinkable. Bertrand might turn
ratty and cruel the whole thing. Some of
these society blokes had funny ideas.
At lunch-time on Monday Flo wandered
into Buckton and Myatt’s, hoping that some-
thing would turn up to solve her difficulty.
In the huge dress department she found
crowds of women harrying the saleswomen,
examining, criticising, rejecting. Then, on
a rack, she found the frock! A flimsy dream
of pale orange loveliness, price eighteen
guineas. Flo handled it adoringly, felt its
texture, held it against her own trim figure
to see its length. Just right! But eighteen
guineas! She wondered would they take
less, or would they Oh, curse it! It
was a rotten shame! It wasn’t worth it,
anyhow.
Tears stood in her eyes as she looked round
for an assistant who might sympathise and,
somehow, help. No, all were too busy: to
notice her. She wondered what the color
was like in the daylight. These electrics
were so deceptive. She took the frock and
wandered slowly towards the landing, which
was lit by windows. The color was just
right, and suited her perfectly. Still, what
was the use? She must take it back and
forget it.
But she didn’t. With a quick glance
round the deserted landing, she rolled the
wispy thing up rapidly and tightly, and
thrust it under her arm inside the small
jacket she was wearing; then, with ashen
face and racing heart, she turned and stepped
steadily down the stairs. As she reached the
next floor she commenced to breathe an ill-
considered and entirely inappropriate prayer
of thanks, when:
“Excuse me, Miss,” and a shopgirl, wear-
ing a quizzical smile, touched her sleeve.
“Did you see what became of that orange
evening frock you were looking at? The
senior assistant wants to show it to a cus-
tomer.”
Flo gasped, then, rapidly pulling herself
together, said in her haughtiest manner:
“You are mistaken. I know nothing about
any clothing.”
The girl, however, was not abashed. On
the contrary, her sarcastic smile grew wider.
“Aw, come off,” she said in a low voice.
Look, I was watching you all the time.
Give me back the frock and I won’t put your
pot on.. I been broke meself,” she added
magnanimously.
Flo, with one last effort to preserve her
aristocratic pose, produced the crumpled
garment and replied: “I intended to buy
the thing, but I wouldn’t dream of it now.”'
“ ’Course, not, dearie,” grinned the girl.
Now you just com© along and have a word
with Joggy, and if you haven’t been nabbed
before you’ll be set.”
Flo, now trembling with terror, gasped:
“What do you mean?”
“Well,” said the girl, “the firm ain’t too
bad. They always take your name and let
you off the first time; but the second they
send for a John. Nbw, take my advice
and talk nice,..to Joggy, and he’ll treat you
like a mother. He’s keen on the sheilas, and
lie only come back off his holidays this morn-
ing, so he’s going easy.”
‘‘But who’s Joggy?” whimpered Flo
He s the house cop. Some boy, he is,”
babbled the girl. “Calls himself Bertrand
Ogilvy, but Ins first name’s really Joe. That’s
why we call him Joggy. \ Likes to kid he’s a
toff, but I know his old man, and he
Hey! Hold up, Miss!.... Gor’, she’s
fainted!”
F. GERALD WALLACE


e
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHURCH, Brisbane.
“ °® ce r:L 3 - 107 o *' e “ therst «“ st s ce ** Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.),
School lunches
t(C (£)he kiddies off to school are set,
RfDith lunches made from dz^nchovette! >
PECKS
ANCHOVETTE
Always keep a jar tn the pantry
Harry
è
HARROW”
"NITRO CLUB”
"NEW CLUB”
"REMINGTON”
Supplied in all standard
gauges and loads
é
NY one of these Remington UMC grades will give
-fl you entire satisfaction. Not only are these
cartridges quick-firing and hard-hitting but every
one in the box may be depended on to give equally
good results.
Small Gauge Shotgun Cartridges
Remington UMC makes .410 gauge cartridges in
2 and 2V2-incb cases which are highly efficient and
widely used for small game and bird shooting. Try
them and you will be surprised with the results.
;
o
'OO
C
Sf
E-22
All grades are “Wetproof
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686
f
o^a
A Pill is .
Edstj to take
Handy to use
Place on the tongue
Take a little water - it’s gone I
What could he simpler?
Can be taken at any time
There is no better pill
Than Beecham’s Pills
Their effect is prompt and certain
The results are lasting
Of vegetable origin
They contain no harmful drugs
For sick headache, Indigestion
Biliousness, constipation
BEECHAM’S PILES are
A wonderful medicine
a.JWG> the vum-
tut it mutt te
jSeecAanC*
8 to' loo
Cylinders
is
s
Ms
<a
*5
KERMATH Marine Engines are made
with the precision of a watch, all parts
evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and
friction. More power with less fuel.
All Parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
MALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.),
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.W.
Kermath Manufacturing Co*
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Addre..:—KERMATH
MASTERS THE
HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne... .Baldwin & Slattery Ptjr., Ltd.
Sydney. Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane ... Gregory & Collina.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
gr,
zi
'v
a\
/^\
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 3.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6. Children, 1/- and Gd.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY « S No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
T.U.: 86270 (4 Urn.), *“*“*• C ““ <1 »°- «• Ud .


The whisky with the small
label and the big reputation
-that’s Johnnie Walker
Born 1820 " Still going Strong
It’s easy to see why
JOHNNIE WALKER'
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
?■
/
\ <
■£ L
Winnie
tzea
e;
A
Bfo,
HI
»*l
&
s‘<s-
-
/-' l
• it
,7 r> P °°Gmout t hf E QUALITY Mf
£feiTz^r
