

HAD
DS
LIMITED
During the last four years have been Building,
Equipping and Organising what is to-day the
Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry and
Engineering Works in Australia.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED have acquired from HADFIELDS
LIMITED, SHEFFIELD, their Formulae and methods for making their
World-Famed High-Grade Carbon and Alloy Steels under the HADFIELD
Sheffield System, and are Manufacturing IN AUSTRALIA under the
above Formulae
THE WORLD’S BEST QUAUTY
STEELS AND STEEL PRODUCTS
Heavy Plant and Machinery and Specially Durable Steel Wearing Parts
for all Industries are now Produced in HADFIELDS Australian Works,
and Guaranteed to be equal to the Best Imported from Overseas.
Recent Extensive Additions to Works and Plant at Sydney (N.S.W.)
and Perth (W.A.) enable Prompt Deliveries to be given.
HEAD OFFICES, MAIN FOUNDRIES, FORGE AND ENGINEERING WORKS!
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NCH WORKS?
Bassendean,
PERTH, W.A.
VICTORIAN OFFICE!
422 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND OFFICE:
T. and G. Building, Queen Street,
BRISBANE, Q.
The Bulletin
Vol. 48. —No. 2451*
Thursday, February 3, 1927*
Price 64
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r pHE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK AJRCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(LYSAGHT
0
o
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
§
'wmmm
&& ?Ssg?,
ffigl
SSSStf
Take ENO with you
ANY change of climate is apt to throw the inner
„ system out of humour and out of tune. Safe-
guard yourself against these troubles when travelling
—always take ENO’s “Fruit Salt 11 with you. It is
the simplest and most efficacious corrective you can
take. The morning “dash” of ENO in a glass of
water, will keep your whole system in perfect tune
when travelling and at all times.
Ask for the “Handy” size bottle. It was intro-
duced specially for the convenience of travellers.
The Household size (double quantity) is more suit-
able for family use.
Prepared only by
. C. ENO, Limited,
Sales Agents: The Btitiih
Harold F.Ritchie &. Co.,
Ltd.. Sydney, N.S.W
i
♦ »
'A
'-r ' ;,
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKR
SHAV£X
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
“SHAVER” is a production of modem civilisation whereby men can
shave without using a bijish and soaps composed of soda. \v ltn
“Shaves” you can shave in half the time and get a perfect and
smooth shave. This preparation leaves, the skin like, satin and .keeps
one young, and no after lotion is required. “Shavex” is a skin food.
It makes shaving a pleasure instead of a torture. Safety Razor Blades
last twice as long, and no hot water is required. 1/9 large tube lasts
3 months. At all chemists or from sole Australian Agents: SALMONu
and SPRAGGON (Australia), Ltd. (Dept. 4), Eagle & Globe Buildings,
379 Kent Street, Sydney. Manufactured by The Zeekol Manufacturing
Co., London, England.
f
\
Large tube, 1/9;
larger tube
(double quan-
tity), 2/6.
FREE SAMPLE
‘a - . * • .
on receipt of 3d. stamp.
The celebrated author and composer, IVOR NOVELLO,
writes: —“It is a great pleasure to be able to say sincere!;'
that ‘Shavex’ is a really splendid invention. I am so often
asked to recommend preparations and can so seldom do so,
but in this ease my appreciation of your ‘Shavex* is
genuine. I shall always use it.”
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
"MUSTDIE”
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitos.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Of forward 1/- in stamps to
ROX 1520 G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
typhoid Fly
ĥ
rough t-
body
bead is
lefis. c ;
which
Microbe*
Disease s^
r RILL ,
WHAt FLV
The Red Page
lsrafel and Alcohol
In her recent book, (Uuvre, Vie et Amours
i’Edgar Poe , Lucie Delarue-Mardrus, poetess
and novelist, reveals how completely the
French world of letters has adopted the
American poet, critic and short-story writer
into the bosom of the Latin family. The
cults of Byron and Poe are a French slap in
the face of English puritanical hypocrisy.
Despised and maligned by the Pharisees of
Boston and New England, Poe found a
supreme translator and worshipper in the
author of “Les Fleurs du Mai.” Baudelaire
—the esprit damn 6 of the artistic revolt
against the tyranny of a self-righteous
middle-class —sensed a fellow-martyr in Poe,
the- Christ recrucified upon the cross of
American materialism, and the "Histoires
Extraordinaires” became a classic in French
because of the fascination for both poets of
the mysterious, shadowy borderland lying
between life and death and their aristocratic
contempt for the intellectual aridity of the
literati of their own times and countries.
If Shelley, is destined to be known as Ariel,
Keats as Adonais and Byron as the Apollo
of the nineteenth century, the soul of Edgar
Allan Poe must be identified with that Israfel
of whom he sang:—
In Heaven a spirit doth dwelt
Whose heart-strings are a lute;
None sing so wildly well
As the angel Israfel,
And the giddy stars (so legends tell),
Ceasing their hymns, attend the spell
Of his voieb, all mute.
This delicate versifier, this peerless artificer
of fantastic beauty and melodic cadences,
this master craftsman in the romance of
horror is pre-eminent as the type of suffering
genius out of harmony with his immediate
environment. Poe lived, it is true, in the
heyday of romanticism, but lie was almost
its only representative in America. He was
entirely antipathetic to the spirit of Boston,
to its concern with religious and ethical dog-
matism, and to the business of money-
making. Amongst the Puritans he was anti-
Puritan. Amongst the eminently respect-
able he was' a vagabond with the untamed
heart of a wild bird. He abhorred the didac-
tic in poetry. Literature to him was an
artistic and intellectual thing. Amongst his
own people lie was without fellows and com-
panionship, isolated by his genius, a solitary
and pathetic figure distinctly un-American in
an age of Emersonian transcendentalism and
common materialism. If Israfel had lived
in this time of unrest and anarchy, and had
come undter the influence of Dostoievski or
.Tames Joyce, imagine what an extraordinary
human document could have been written by
him, drawn from misery besetting such a
temperament, from the deceptions, dreams,
persecutions, contempt, exaltations and suf-
ferings of so morbidly sensitive a nature!
It is one of the miracles of modern litera-
ture that Poe did not make a human docu-
ment of himself, nor chronicle the perversi-
ties of his subconsciousness in the manner of
Joyce’s “Artist as a Young Man.” What
we see of Poe in his work is always so care-
fully and modestly transposed. The age of
those who have gone further than Rousseau
in the revelation of their nakedness was not
yet. In the scanty references to his life and
loves which occur in his works w T e find no
trace of his poverty, or of the sordid side of
his existence. His revelations always remain
on the higher plane, as if his misery with all
the terrible details of his heart’s wounds
were a blemish to be jealously hidden. Un-
like Baudelaire he makes no parade of his
alcoholism. His art was indeed the sublima-
tion of his experiences and sensations. A
constant solicitude for nobility has trans-
figured everything. A Robert de Montes-
quieu in his Palais Rose, an aristocratic
litterateur enclosed within the walls of his
own aestheticism, is how Poe appears to us
through the medium of his works, “What a
lamentable tragedy was the life of Edgar
Poe,” says Baudelaire in the preface to the
“Histoires Extraordinaires,” “his death a
horrible denouement, the .horror of which was
aggravated by its triviality! America was
for Poe only a vast prison which he paced
with the feverish agitation of a being cre-
ated to breathe a finer atmosphere.. . .his
interior spiritual life of a poet, or even of a
drunkard, was merely a perpetual effort to
escape the influence of .this uncongenial air.”
His widest dominion as a poet and conteur
was undoubtedly over the early symbolists of
France —Baudelaire, Mallarmd and Gautier,
who were the poetical children of Israfel.
Lucie Delarue-Mardrus, herself the gifted
translator of Poe’s most. elusive verse, de-
clares “L’oeuvre d'Edgar Poe se conserve
jamais isolee, non pas ff la faeon autori-
taire d’up Shakspeare, mais comme quelquo
arbre d’essence unique, et s’impose, parmi
les geants, par la seule force de son Strange
parfum. Sur ce tronc odorifgrant, deux
branches principals: Baudblaire, Mal-
larme.” Their aesthetic grammar is the
faithful application of Poe’s “poetic prin-
ciple” that the self-set goal of the poet is
the transmission or creation of a mood. The
portion of Latinity which they brought into
their works alone sufficed to make them
original; this bouquet of the flesh is absent
from the art of Israfel. Baudelaire’s inti-
mate spiritual kinship rests on two sympa-
thies : alcoholism and a deep pre-occupation
vrith the masteries which lurk within the
tenebrous precincts of death.
Why do certain poetic natures inevitably
become the victims of alcohol? Perhaps
drunkenness, like avarice, is, after all, an
eminently intellectual and poetic vice. Un-
like other human monstrosities and sins it
has not its roots in animalism and bestiality.
The poet drinks not through gluttony, but to
obtain a certain mental and emotional result
which transforms for him a monotonous and
painful life, putting him on a new plane
which delivers him from the terrors of the
real. Poe avows in certain letters that he
drank at times lured on by his company, and
sometimes to forget his misery. “In intoxica-
tion,” says Baudelaire, “there exists not
only the concatenation of dreams, but a
series of reasonings which for the purpose
of literary .reproduction must reseek the
place and condition which gave them birth;
in many cases I believe that the alcoholism
of Poe was a mnemonic system, a method of
work, forcible and fatal, yet appropriate to
his impassioned soul.” Baudelaire’s own
method was not far otherwise. Did he not
put a soul into wine and make it sing to
man ?
Un soir, Tame du vin chantait dans les bouteilles:
“Homme, vers toi je pousse, 0 cher desherity,
Sous ma prison de verre et ines cires vermeilles,
I'n chant plcin de lumiere et de fraternity.
“En toi je tomberai, vegfitale ambroisie,
Grain pr&ciieux jet 6 par l’yternel Semeur,
Pour que de notre amour naisse la poesie
Qui jaillira vers Dieu comme une rare fleur.”
Edgar Allan Poe is as spiritually native
in France as Stuart Alernll, who was a
native of New York, and iis Francis? Viel6-
Griffin, another of Virginia’s poetic sons,
although both wrote in French, and the
latter was an incontestable master of the
vers fibre.
FRANCIS AND JACKSON.
An Anti-White Australia Tract
In Australia —White or Yellow (Heine-
mann), by Fleetwood Chidell, an English-
man gives reckless expression to feelings
about this country which may be in the
minds of many other Englishmen too polite
to voice them. Briefly, his thesis is that
this land is an undeveloped oasis, knee-deep
iii milk and honey, and surrounded by
colored hordes condemned to wander in
the desert of over-population. The descend-
ants of the Englishmen who colonised
the oasis regard themselves as owners
of the paradise, whereas in justice they are
only trustees for the rest' of the Empire.
Although population is the only thing that
will save them from Asiatic invasion, they
have put such restrictions on immigration,
in the interests of their trades unions and
their standard of living, that arrivals from
Britain have sunk to a minimum. This
minimum is of no importance in solving the
Old Band’s unemployment, but it is of ter-
rible importance from a eugenical stand-
point. Australia will accept only the robust,
the enterprising and the provident. The
physically C 3, who are also the most reck-
less breeders, are left behind to further
exacerbate the homeland’s problem, and the
British Government, like the lunatic owner
of a stud-farm, actually subsidises the sys-
tem. The author’s remedy is the removal
of all restrictions, even on criminals, and
the shifting annually of. half a million aver-
age Britishers to Australia; the building
of roads and railways, erecting of schools
to turn Cockneys into cockies, and the bor-
rowing of money to buy up private land on
a hitherto unheard-of scale are to accom-
pany the scheme. The shifting of 200,000
Irishmen yearly to America is quoted as
proof that the thing can be done.
The population of Japan is increasing at
the rate of 750.000 yearly, and that group
is also uncomfortably crowded. The Eng-
lish writer docs not believe in miscegenation,
but he believes that a line could be drawn
across Australia and the northern division
colonised by the surplus of Japan, China
and India under Australian supervision. But
the duty of Australia does not end with the
easing of the strain in Britain and Asia.
The whole of Europe is hideously over-
crowded, and Italy in particular is feeling
the pressure. Air. Chidell quotes comments
of Italian journalists sent out to study Aus-
tralian possibilities, which will surprise
many local readers; and the opinions of
Italian statesmen are no less outspoken. The
parallel between Italy’s position and that
of Japan has lately been noticed, and
recently 15,000 Japanese in Tokio sang
“Giovinezza,” the Fascist anthem, after an
inspiring message from Alussolini had been
read to them. Italians increase by more
than half a million annually. To accommo-
date their surplus Mr. Chidell would fence
off for Italy’s exclusive benefit a portion of
northern Westralia which, unfortunately for
his argument, happens to be desert.
At this stage one begins to wonder exactly
what is the foundation on which the writer
has built his vigorous plaint, and further
investigation tends to confirm the suspicion
that he is a prey to emotional discharges
that leave him no leisure to ascertain the
facts. For instance, although he quotes
Dominion politicians and other professional
boosters at great length, he supplies the in-
formation (page 58) that Australia is cap-
able of supporting 100 to 200
without quoting any authorities at all.
Later, lie remarks that “the northern half of
Australia could probably support 200,000,000
of Asiatics,” and leaves it at that. Queens-
land’s population-carrying capacity, he says,
is 50 million whites, calls it an official esti-
mate, and quotes a pocket guidebook as
authority, querulously adding that “for some
reason” this figure has of late been whittled
down to 12 millions. The higher figure is,
of course, essential to his argument, but the
layman confronted with statistics of such
startling collapsibility and powers of expan-
sion will prefer to keep an open mind.
The English author frequently quotes
Edward M. East, one of America’s leading
population experts, but apparently he missed
this passage—
Australia is almost exactly the size of the United
States. Only l per cent, of her land is cultivated.
Here, many have said, is a perpetual fountain of
plenty. But the truth is, Australia was settled by
energetic Anglo-Saxons, who, as in Canada, are
repeating the history of the United States. They
have used, and are using, their brains for extensive
agriculture just as was done in our own land from
1850 to 1890. They have been able to produce such
large crops per man that .the population, though
increasing more rapidly now than in almost any
other country, has not been able yet to overtake it.
But these worthy people are living on the rim of
a soup-plate. The rim is fertile —at least, in spots—
the bowl is a barren desert without water-supplv.
Out of their 1904 million acres, there are only
about 40 million acres of arable land by the most
optimistic estimate. Thus Australia, when treated
as a place to live in, shrinks to the size of Spain or
possibly Italy.
Australians have plenty of faith in the
potentialities of their country. They would
(Continued on page 3.)


k
m
ace
&
Men’s Clothing Offers Supreme Values
at Anthony Horderns’
m
m
k
The man who cares is certain
to appreciate the Quality and
Distinction of Anthony Hor-
derns 1 tailored suits . Our
iViade-to-Measure Suits wiil
give you complete satisfaction
and prove a revelation in
Tailoring values, ever in keep-
ing with Anthony Horderns f
policy of the utmost value .
£7(1 7|6
Made to Measure. A
perfectly-tailored suit by
Anthony Horderns’ own
expert tailors, faultlessly made and finished
throughout. Suits are cut and tailored to your
own individual style and taste, from excellent
quality English and Australian Worsteds. You
have a choice of either Blue-Grey, Fawn or
Navy shades. An exceptional value of out-
standing excellence.
PRICE
£7/17/6
£6/6/-
Made to Measure. Careful
tailoring, combining your
personal style preferences
with accepted decrees of Bond Street, is
assured if your order is placed with Anthony
Horderns’. Write to-day for self-measurement
form and patterns, posted free on request, and
select from New Worsteds in shades of Greys
and Brown, showing Herringbone, Plain and
Check designs; also Navy
Indigo-dye Serge. PRICE . .
£6161
Excellent Shirt Values
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts —a splen-
did wearing and washing shirt. In a range of
exclusive check designs, on various
colored grounds. PRICE
14/6
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts, featuring
Satin stripes, in novel, contrasting
color effects. PRICE,
15/6
Men’s British Twill Golf Shirts, Horrockses
Weave, in smart neat stripes, on
White ground.
PRICE
8/6
Men’s British Zephyr Golf Shirts —i
weave, in smart Jacquard stripes, on
super-
light and medium grounds—a shirt
popular with all men. PRICE .. .
12/6
The Sports Shirt, made with roll back collar,,
which also buttons close up to neck.
White Mercerised Twill. PRICE .... 7/6
Cream Bradford Twill. PRICE 7/6
White Poplin de Luxe. PRICE 10/b
Natural Fuji Silk. PRICE 19/6
"a
J
AB
Men’s Fuji Silk Golf Shirts, a
firmly-woven All-Silk quality in
a wide range of varied
and smart striped de-
signs. PRICE
211-
In plain Fuji Silk,
cellent quality.
PRICE
19(6
h
Golfers’ Attire
Men’s Sports Coats, ready to wear, in this
season’s latest weaves, made from the
strongest English Tweeds. Designed with
patch pockets, Plain or with Vent at back.
In shades of Grey and Brown.
PRICE
35 1-
Men’s Plus Four Knickers, correct style,
giving the necessary freedom in the
proper place. The latest designs
and colorings in Fancy Tweeds.
PRICE
25 1-
Men’s Two-piece Sports Suits, made in
our own workrooms from All-Wool
Tweeds, bought direct from the mills for
our exclusive use. The Coat is designed
with four patch pockets and belted back.
The Trousers possess side and hip
pockets, loops for belt, side
straps, and cuir bottoms.
PRICE
59/6
Other Values: 65/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-
(Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street.)
Smart Golfing Hose, made in England, all
the latest designs,
in shades of Fawn
and Grey. PRICE
916 to 16 6
Golf Pullovers, with V neck; knitted all-
wool; ideal to wear with plus fours; in
all shades of mixtures and marie, with
multi-colored stripes; also in plain marie
shades, with or without pockets.
PRICES 18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 39/6
(Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.)
Golfers’ Tweed Caps, in light, medium or
dark Greys, Fawn and Grey Checks.
PRICES 4/6 fco 10/6
Similar style, Navy, Fawn Gabardine.
PRICES 3/9, 6/6
(Men’s Caps—Ground Floor.)
Ls6l—Tan Calf Golf Shoes, with stout
Crepe Rubber soles and heels.
Ideal for golf. PRICE
35/-
(Men’s Shoes —Second Floor.)
Postage Paid oil Men’s Clothing and Footwear in N.S.W. and to the nearest Interstate Port.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440,


<5^P
lf\% Australian
!\J Built
HUDSONESSEX
Give Greatest Quality and
‘Price Advantage in History
Through this new and epoch-making programme,
collaborating Australian and American production
resources, Hudson and Essex to-day offer the great-
est value achievement ever placed before Australian
buyers.
By years of development, Australian material
wealth and technical skill have been consolidated
under modern production methods to build 70 % of
Hudson and Essex cars. This not only contributes
to the advancement of Australian industry and
prosperity, but it gives to car buyers the advantage
of unrivalled manufacturing economies that no
other make of car shares.
Think of the Essex Touring at £239, the Essex
Coach at £299 and Hudson Touring at £399 —prices
that were wholly impossible under the old system
of the All-American built car. Yet, at the new, low
prices, these are even finer cars. With new lines,
color and beauty, each is more striking and distinc-
tive in appearance. Each is mechanically at the
height of its value with chassis betterments, sub-
stantially increasing gasoline mileage and giving
even greater performance and reliability. Years of
concentration on these chassis in the great Detroit
plants of the Hudson Motor Car Company and the
building of more than 900,000 cars on the famous
Super-Six principle have produced not only a finer
car, but have resulted in economies of manufacture
and distribution that give amazing price and value.
Priced the
Lowest in History
New Lines, New Colors, Richer
Upholstery and Appointment.
Essex Touring - £239
Essex Coach— £299
Hudson Touring £399
Any comparison will satisfy you
that such automobile values were
never before offered.
Also on Display—
Hudson Coach, £465.
Hudson Brougham, £525.
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan, £560.
Prices some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street. Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H C. HK.ATIIORN & CO. LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston,
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
1164-I*o'


Not only a very comfortable, but also a most enjoy-
able voyage is ensured by travelling on the luxurious
Mail Steamers of the Orient Line, with their
enormous deck spaces for recreation and exercise,
their palatial public rooms and their excellent cabin
accommodation.
And the Orient Line follows the shortest and by
far the most attractive of all routes to London—
Ceylon, Egypt, Italy, The Riviera and Gibraltar.
ORIENT LINE
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealwnd.
likp to absorb Britons to the limits of their
canadtv if that will help the mother coun-
try But few will be prepared to swallow
the' fairv tales of the author of Australia
-White or Yellow,” or his remedy either.
The gentleman would make Australia the
mrftinVpot of a world whoso annua mcreaso
m reckoned at upwards of 12 millions, a
world which breeds at that rate is plainly
lacking in self-restraint.
M. G. S.
Creative Vision
Alan Mickle’s “If” (R.P. 2/12/’26) sug-
gests the interesting question, "What is the
value of artists to the seeing and thinking
world of men?” True artistic training is
a definite training in the exercise ot tui
“sixth sense” of which lie speaks. Ihe
great creative artists were men who not
merely touched and felt the shape ot things
usually unseen, but who saw through and
beyond the veil which separates man from
“the delectable land.” There is a quite
definite spiritual sight which conveys vision
to the mental faculties, just as accurate anil
keen and objective as any vision seen through
the ordinary sense organ.
If one takes the great works of art which
have come down the ages, one notices that
they all have a spiritual content which dis-
tinguishes them from lesser works. Greek
tragedy and scTilpture, Gothic architecture,
the Taj Mahal, Elizabethan drama, Italian
and Dutch painting, modern landscape-
painting, such as Turner s and Corot s, great
music from Palestrina to Scrimbine—all these
were the worlfe of men \yith a sixth sense
who saw tlie eternal energy and life which
lies behind the material form which the
senses know. Artist and prophet would
give the name of “reality to the eternal
energy rather than to the material form
which we commonly call reality. That is
the point which makes the possession of the
sixth sense valuable, and the ordinary man
who has not developed his extra sense real-
ises this, if somewhat dimly, and wonders
if he can possess it, too. He can if he
would only take the trouble to train and
use it as the artist does.
It is through the medium of this “sixth
sense” that the artist possesses the earth,
and is often content if he only earns suffi-
cient material goods to maintain himself.
He has untold wealth of another kind that
gives him deep and restful satisfaction. That
men are awakening to this fact is evident
on many sides. One interesting evidence- of
it is the Bach revival which is taking place
so quietly in Europe and America, and in
Australia also. Bach brought up a large
family in decency and happiness on the
smallest possible income; but from a spirit-
ual point of view he was a millionaire,
and he distributed his wealth in the form
of great music that the world has hitherto
never valued at its proper worth. Now, two
centuries after his lifetime —he died in 1750
—his music is coming into its own.
In spite of what pessimists say, human
beings seem to be tiring of their orgy of
materialism, and are beginning to turn to
those who may be able to lead them to fresh
pastures, to satisfy their instinctive spiritual
hunger, which is as natural as any other
desire. The immediate future will probably
witness a great artistic and spiritual revival.
Indeed, such artists as Ivreisler, Chaliapin,
Pavlova and Backhaus have already given
us a share in it. Just as the primitive
animal energy released by the World War
found its expression in jazz and kindred
activities, so the civilised elements' in man
are finding their natural expression in the
greater forms of art. Everywhere artists are
awakening to their responsibility of showing
men the way to the land of which they
dream, and for which they will hunger until
they reach out to it and find the satisfac-
tion and rest that they seek.
This wonder-world is close at hand, if we
have only eyes to perceive it and ears to catch
its harmonies ; and it is art in its myriad forms
that possesses the magic key which throws
open the door for us, and can lead us within
to find refreshment and strength.
H. J. WOLFE.
BI
In his interesting speculations as to why the
sound represented by the letters “bl” should
be so often associated with the contemptuous
and the derogatory (R.P. 30/12/’26),
Warren Graves takes us back to the begin-
nings of human speecn. Biologists have
discussed at vast length how man, after his
descent from the treetops, first learned to
use his tongue and to develop the speech-
centres of his cerebral apparatus, and the gist
of their conclusions is that language arose
from the reflex expression of the more simple
human, passions, such as fear, hate and love.
Thus it is probable that one of the first
speech-sounds, to coin a name for them,
was made when some tribal leader conveyed
an order to his followers by pointing with
his spear or club, and at the same time,
under the stimulus of the excitement, un-
consciously uttered the appropriate sound
which his brain suggested to him.
Other sounds were made under similar
stresses, such as the ejaculation of fear
uttered by ancient man when he suddenly
and unexpectedly came face to face with
some human enemy or prehistoric monster, or
when there arose within him the urge for the
expression of his feelings during his primi-
tive love-makings. The more frequent use
of these sounds was paralleled by the
slow and gradual development of the primi-
tive brain, made possible by the discovery
of various tools, implements and artifices,
which had the effect of removing disabili-
ties and giving man more time for the pro-
cess which corresponded with thought or
mental exertion. By degrees there were
produced different modifications of the basic
sounds, suitable for employment in varying
circumstances, and these naturally fell into
specific classes according to the passions
which gave rise to them. Thus, the sounds
haying to do with fighting formed one class,
w r hile those which arose from fear and love-
making comprised others, the different ones
in each classification naturally bearing a
resemblance to each other; and it was the
characteristic sounds for each class which
later, possibly thousands of years later,
formed the roots from which eventually there
came words, the ancestors of those in use
at the present day.
What factor it was which governed con-
nection between a thing and the sound repre-
senting it we cannot say, that being a matter
which lies deep in the structure of the
human brain, or, at least, the mechanism
by which it is operated. But if one takes
a primitive language like Sanskrit, or even
a not-so-primitive one like Greek or Latin,
and sorts out the comparatively small num-
ber of roots to which the hundreds or thou-
sands of words associated with the elemental
emotions and passions owe their origin, it
is possible to put this hypothesis to the test
by discovering the resemblance borne to each
other by the classified roots. In the course
of the lengthy philological evolution which
has since taken place to produce our differ-
ent modern tongues, many of the root-sounds
have become changed almost beyond recog-
nition. But in the great majority of cases
those concerned with the basic feelings of
man have remained unaltered, as in the in-
stance of the “bl” sound, and probably they
will continue to do so while language passes
through all the diverse forms of the next
ten or twenty thousand years.
R. W.
English and Australasian Speech
May a Maorilander who has recently
visited England support Padre James
Green’s remarks on Australian and English
speech? The absence of dialects in Australia
and M.L. probably gives us an average
superiority over England, but I am sure there
is proportionately more good speaking, by
which I mean cultivated speaking, there
than here. One trouble in Australasia is
that a large number of people regard culti-
vated speech as swank. It is part of the
prejudice against graciousness and refine-
ment in manners. Such things are confused
with effeminacy and servility.
A fellow-countryman of mine who had an
unusual eye and ear for beauty (there was
never a manlier man ; he had an important
command at Gallipoli, and fell there) told
me of an experience in London when he
went there with the Coronation contingent
in 1902. Sitting at Lords one day near
a group of Guards officers, he was attracted
by their speech. He called over a well-
known Australian officer whose voice and
accent were rough, and invited him to listen.
The Australian listened. “You call that
beautiful?” lie said, “I call it side.”
I hear yells of expostulation—l am actually
justifying “re-ar-lly” and “bai Jove” ! I am
not, though I do prefer “re-ar-lly” to “reelly.”
I am simply contending that men of this
class sometimes well, though they
may not be perfect, and that this class does
a good deal to keep up the standards of
speech. I met a highly-placed Guards officer
in England, and perhaps he was rather free
with his “ars,” but it was a pleasure to
listen to him.
I heard no oratory in the House of Com-
mons, but I did hear from Ministers English
well spoken. Words were clearly and cor-
rectly enunciated in a pleasant voice—the
sort of agreeable, cultivated voice that puts
you at your ease at once. Can one find the
same level on the front bench of an Aus-
tralasian Parliament? It is no serimis dis-
grace if we cannot, for our conditions are
different from those of England. My point
is that we should value correct, cultivated
speech much more than we do. As things
are, one is apt to be stared at in some
circles if one says “re-cog-nise” and not “re-
cer-nise,” or “lit-er-ary” and not “lit-ery.”
or “Come and have a drink” instead of
“Comeanavadrink.”
Another difficulty is that so much depends
on the teachers, and so many teachers them
selves need correction. In England more
importance is attached to a teacher’s speech :
not only his pronunciation, but the quality
of his voice. I discussed this matter with
an M.L. man who has much experience in
the University world in England, and he
assured me that no man with an unculti-
vated accent would be given the headmaster-
ship of an important secondary school. It
is! a question of cultivating beauty and
refinement and treating your own tongue
with respect. After talking on the way
home with a Trinity College Dublin man.
who was a professor somewhere in Canada.
I agree that Dublin may provide the purest
English. It was a pure delight to listen
to that man speak on any subject, from
the weather to poetry; he could have made
a stock-market report interesting. We can-
not all equal such a man in purity of
enunciation and charm of voice, but we can
declare war on the slipshod, slovenly, slurred
nasal drawl that so often passes for speech.
A. E. M.
Australian Composers
Keith Barry writes (R.P. 13/l/’27) that
Australian composers, like Australian
authors, leave home “because as far as pub-
lishers are concerned they are not wanted
here.” Local composers leave home if they
are any good at all, and go where the flies
are thickest, and that is London, Paris or
New York. All forms of artists and artistes, be
it for grand opera, sculpture, painting, cari-
cature, to do the best for themselves, must
go where the biggest money grows. But,
apart from pelf, they must associate with
the world’s best in their own sphere, other-
wise they are apt to become narrow. Even
good pressmen take the trip to furbish up.
Notwithstanding, the local publishers do
publish a lot of local stuff, and are always
on the look-out for promising authors and
composers, and do encourage talent. Take
a few whom Dr. Barry mentions. Mae
Brahe’s first efforts saw the light in Mel-
bourne. Allans published a string of her
stuff, and wanted more; but her husband
had to go to the Big Smoke on business,
and Mae, being a dutiful wife, went with
him. She carried letters of introduction to
English publishers, and it was after many
months of waiting that Enochs took her up.
Roy Agnew is another example. Ilis “Dance
of the Wildmen” and “Deirdre’s Lament”
and others were published here before he
left. Another is Fred Hall, who has writ
ten a sheaf of songs; his suite, “Omar,” is
played more or less in every movie house
in Austraßa. Others who are published are
Fritz Hart and Louis Lavater. And what
about “I Was Dreaming,” Nellie Stewart's
big hit in “Ma Mie Rosette,” written by her
conductor, Junker? Marshall Hall had a
go, but he was a bit too heavy. Herbert
Chandler, of Perth, had his “Pandora
March,” published by Glen’s.
These, of course, are only a few at ran-
dom, and quite outside that big class, the
Pops. There is Jack O’Hagan and his “Gun-
dagai”—he bouglft himself a Rolls-Dodge
out of his winnings, and is still collecting.
His publishers print all he can write. But
the poor publishers’ editors have to wade
through tons of slush to reach even their few
successes. As for published failures, Aus-
tralian houses could give Dr Barry a package
of catalogues of local stuff that would keep
him in fuel for the winter.
LOC.
Novels Worth Reading
This list lias been compiled by a committee
nominated by the Associated Booksellers of
Australia and Maoriland. It is issued to
serve as a reliable guide to new fiction of
outstanding merit: —
Books of Literary Merit. —Joanna Godden Married,
by S. Kaye-Smith; Introduction to Sally, by the
author of “Elizabeth and Her German Garden.”
Books for Popular Reading. —lt Happened in
Peking, by Louise Jordan Miln ; Goose Feather Bed,
by E. Temple Thurston ; Under the Tonto Rim, by
Zane Grey; The Gallant Lover, by H. St. John
Cooper; The Black Knight, by Ethel M. Dell; The
Big Mogul, by Joseph C. Lincoln ; The Bushland Man,
by James Pollard; Introduction to Sally, by the
author of “Elizabeth and Her German Garden.”
A Satchel of Books
Winni-e-the-Pooh, by A. A. Milne (Methuen). Good
nonsense suggesting the spirit of Lewis Caroll.
The Black Pavilion, by Augustus Muir (Methuen).
Muir knows how to tell a detective story, and the
e3'es won’t need propping to keep them open so long
as the book is unfinished.
The Batin Quarter, Past and Present, by Jean
Emile-Bayard (Benn). Profusely illustrated, and
reminiscences of past days are contributed by such
of the old school of students as remain.
Smoky, by Will James (Scribner’s). This is the
story of Smoky the cowhorse told in the tongue of
the “or’nary cowboy.” It is a far more gripping
story than 99f p.c. of the tawdry, bawling out-west
yarns that pour from the LkS.A. printing press. A
book for all people with the “the soft spot.”
Spenser, by Emile Legouis (Dent). The author is
the Professor of English Letters in the University
of Paris, and his volume lets us see our literature
as others see it. The author places Spenser between
Ariosto and Milton, and regards him as much
nearer the Italian voluptuary than the great Puritan.
Outwitting Middle Age, by Carl Ramus (Allen and
Unwin). The author is a surgeon and also an officer
of the U.S.A. Public Health Service. He points to
the wasteful arrangement of Nature that puts men’s
bodies out of business just about when their minds
have become best trained, and thinks Nature can be
foiled in her uneconomic scheme. But of practical
value there really isn’t much here.
The Gypsy Life of Betsy Wood, by M. Eileen
Lyster (Dent). The history of the Wood family
dates back at least two centuries, when Abram Wood
rode into Wales with his wife and brood. In Bri-
tain it is these Welsh gypsies who have best pre-
served and cultivated the racial love of music. From
the family of Abram has sprung a race of fiddlers
and harpers. The writer has constructed out of the
material furnished, to her by Betsy Wood a vivid
picture of Romany life.
A Romantic in Spain, by Theophile Gautier
(Knopf). In 1840 Gautier visited Spain. The
Carlist war was hardly over, and he was one of the
first travellers in a land that had for years been
practically closed to the outsider. Starting life in
a painter’s atelier, Theophile abandoned the palette
for the pen, but carried over with him an intense
love of color and spilled it abundantly in these
pictures of the Spain of those days. Though more
than one edition has been issued in French, this is
the first translation of it into English.
The Heart of Black Papua, by Merlin Moore Tay-
lor (Mcßride, New York). The stirring adventures
of the author while being personally conducted
through the Mt. Yule-Amenorofo district by Magis-
trate Richard Humphries. Taylor was about seven
weeks on the trip. Humphries wrote an official
report of the tour which took up five pages of
the Annual Report. Taylor has written a book
about it. But Humphries seems to have overlooked
the thrilling incidents which Taylor features Tay-
lor says that he has been in “the heart of blaca
Papua, where the foot of no other white man his
ever trod.” Considering that, years before, the feet
belonging to Blayne.v, Winter, MacGregor, Armit.
Barton, Giulannetti, Loria, Cameron, Strong, Hum-
phries, Chinnery, Flint, Stanley, Carson and a host
of others, civilians and officials, to say nothing ot
those wonderful Sacred Heart missionaries Fathers
Fillodeau and Desnoes, had stirred the mosses anu
ferns on peaks miles further inland than Taylor ever
reached, this remark is, like many others, not only
ridiculous, but impudent.
Harmer John, by Hugh Walpole (Macmillan). Into
Mr. Walpole’s familiar cathedral town of Polchester
comes Hjalmar Johanson, whose Swedish father had
married a woman from this provincial centre of
ecclesiastical interests. How “Harmer John, ’ as
the Polcastrians renamed him. tried vainly, and in
the end at the cost of his life, to permeate the
highly conventionalised and rigidly conservative
townsfolk with his love for physical beauty, the
beauty of nature, of pictures, of music, the
beauty of furniture, of houses and streets, and
attempted to cleanse the town of the slums that lay
beneath the shadow of the cathedral is the theme of
this book of fine thoughts, impossible ideals, wide
human sympathies, and skilled characterisation.
The Further Venture Book, bv Elinor Mordaunt
(John Lane). This vivacious lady, well known to
Australian readers, eschewed continents and went in
search of little islands. She found the Trobriands,
the Scouten Tsles, Halmalieira, Celebes and Bali. Some
of these are only little by courtesy. The last-named,
for instance, contains nearly a. million people, plus
Mak Patimah. Miss Mordaunt did not miss much,
but she seems to have missed Mak Patimah, a lady
after her own romantic heart. In the good old days
she was the wife of a rajah and escaped being burnt
at his funeral pyre by bolting over the palace wall.
To-day she runs a tourist agency, owns a fleet of
cars, makes imitation batik for American visitors,
and brews the finest coffee in the Indies. So civili-
sation spreads, even to the little islands. An
entertaining book, illustrated by photos and the
author’s own rather indifferent drawings.
The Memoirs of Carlo Goldoni (Knopf). It was not
till he was a broken, weary old man, “half blind and
all but forgotten, with nothing left to him but his
old wife and the ghosts of the past,” that Carlo
Goldoni, who in his day had been to Italy what
Moliere was to France, set about writing his memoirs.
These are now rendered into English by John Black.
Vernon Lee, in some comments on the comedies that
in rapid succession flowed from Goldoni’s pen,
compared him wi'th Sterne. He possessed “the: same
power of realising with a single touch, of filling
trifles with the importance of life and feeling, of
riveting and charming us with a couple of figures
employed in unimportant action, with a simple every-
day incident, with a simple every-day character.” A
prolific writer of plays, with “a stout stomach and
a tender heart,” he was more than once able to
finish a comedy of five acts, in verse, in five days,
and in his lifetime produced one hundred and fifty
or more comedies. Without the profundity of
Moliere or his keen wit, he had a more popular
appeal, was more natural, and invested his comedies
with qualities drawn out of an exceptionally varied
experience of life. The memoirs have the interesr
of a novel.


B-R-C
• *:/ Jte'vhJksJib _«,
jdpv' fe S ’”'s*. *- **A w j
>„ : •■•. :l 3§& „ . p-p .; *
p ; .; '*■
.
I
■
1
■iifln
*■- ;■■ s j
«
naa
m
r'-ri'
-,),• .....
•' I
. \’ ,<i
"*i
m* f—
m
%
4 nuj
Rim
\
«
r
.
m
Fabric
|
msm
New Railway Station, Adelaide, South Australia,
Constructed for -■• South Australian Railway
Department.
Floor Slabs Reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric.
Strength, safety and ease and accuracy of spacing are features of B.R.C.
Fabric that are definitely recognised by architects and builders, combined
with the increased speed with which constructional work can be carried out.
n
E
nc
dJLLLdJ
have proved themselves under most varied and severe conditions and have
never been found wanting.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861.
Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
h
ĥ
Sole Distributing Agents
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA ... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
• •
• I •
mrrmTTTrr^nr'


*
T
*
0
*
0
7
0
0
s
A?
0
o
y
*
0
*
*S
«
D
(&®@
0
*
>
3n
*
[
ai
*>
>%
9
BALLOON TYRES
Made with SUPERTWIST
THE Goodyear Balloon Tyre
greatly Improves the riding
qualities of your car. A bigger
tyre —a more flexible tyre —more
cushioning—rides on lower air
pressure. Eases over bumps and
ruts. Saves the car —and saves
passengers too.


A Good Investment
Careful buyers recognise Graham
Brothers name on a Truck or Bus as
a symbol of satisfactory performance
and extra value. Quality is higher than
ever before, prices lowest in Graham
Brothers history. Consequently world-
wide demand is constantly and rapidly
increasing.
Graham Brothers Trucks, with Dodge Brothers \-Ton
Commercial Cars, meet 91°l 0 of all hauling requirements .
1-Ton Chassis, £325; I.J-Ton Chassis, £445;
2-Ton Chassis, £485.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Winterbottom’Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
B. 3/2y’27.


ft/l (FomforiaUe
jading Booi
Smart-fitting, gaod-looking and
strong. Made by Abbey on a speci-
ally designed last.
The Abbey Riding Boot slips on
easily. Stout elastic insets at the
sides preserve its' comfortable fit.
The roomy, strongly-reinforced toe
eliminates risk of painful gripping.
Inside, the boot is lined with soft
leather. There are no joins that
hinder pulling on or cause rubbing
that hurts the foot. The sole is
hard-wearing and flexible.
Order by Post
Abbey Riding Boots are made in
rich-toned tan willow at 42/- per
pair, or in black at 37/6. It is
easy to secure a perfect fit —each
size is made in three widths —
narrow, medium and wide.
ABBEY
Established over 80 Years,
313 George Street and
224 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L 5.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
i '
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
robber.
Quality Durability Economy.
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
Is the best golf ball you can play.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:—
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [1
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
•rV should read the British Australian
and Zealander, Od. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC,2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
r v
Cl
"w
SHEARING SHEDS
STABLES
FLOORS FORWOOLSHEDS
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PRICES FREE
GLOBE TIMBER^ 8
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S.A.
COLGATE'S
CASHMERE BOUQUET TALC
After the bath a fragrant shower of
Colgate’s Cashmere Bouquet Talc
will keep you fresh and dainty all
day.
Cashmere Bouquet Talc Powder is
soft and absorbent, with qualities
that cool and refresh. It has also
soothing virtues that help to keep
the skin healthy.
You will like its delicate flower
fragrance which can also be had in
perfume, face powder and soap.
as
TALC
ASHMERE
Kouqvet
4
M
MM
;
ħ
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
®-3i4
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
I2a
LPOST FREE j
m
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a Public Garden.
This garden I enter
Was planted for me;
Here, near the town’s centre,
Is rest offered free.
The noon sun is spilling
Its gold o’er the green;
Cicadas are shrilling
Their joy, all unseen.
I sit ’neath a fig-tree—
Cool shade ’midst the shine.
Oh, stout-leaved and big tree,
This hour you are mine !
Here, near the town’s centre,
Is rest offered free;
This garden I enter
Was planted for me!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
The Cliffs.
All along the amber shingle
Gold sea-poppies break in flame;
Two-winged shells like butterflies
Catch the sunshine crystal-wise
Where the last high-water came.
Many an age the storms have chiselled
Cunningly the rocky wall,
Till to-day the high cliffs show
Staring seaward in a row
Sculptured monks austere and tall.
Pointed cowl and straightened garment,
Stark as shroud and white as bone—
Su're they turned away from good,
This old sinful brotherhood
Locked in penitential stone!
Blandishing blue waves of summer
Round their frozen sandals play,
And the wind in gay alliance
Tosses to their grim defiance
Softest rosaries of spray.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Armatree.
Not long ago the magpies sang
In pairs their mating melody,
And all the bushland places rang
With song for miles from Armatree.
Green tangled clovers rampant grew,
And paper-daisies spread between
Dense crowfoot blooming pink and blue
And softer grasses high and green.
Blue brolgas waded to their knees
In gilgais fresh with .waters white,
Where straight belars and myall trees
With skies were mirrored day and night.
But young birds in their nests have grown
And one by one they’ve taken wing;
The bush seems empty now and lone,
For nesting birds no longer sing.
The grass that was so green and tall
And far on plain and paddock spread;
The daisies white and crowfoot, all
Are withering or parched or dead.
Where once the perfumed petals swayed
There’s clover, burr and bindy-eye,
And where the morning brolgas played
The gilgais, too, are cracked and dry.
The header hums its harvest song;
Cicadas leave on apple-trees
Their pupa shells, where all day long
They pipe their summer harmonies.
The dusty whirlwind ever blow’s
Fleet roly-polys o’er the plain ;
Through smoky haze a red sun glows—
The summer days are here again.
But it is pleasing this to know:
The building birds in ecstasy
Will sing and herbage rank will grow
And bloom again at Armatree.
N.S.W.
JIM DOWLING.
The Flame Bearer.
Here, where Illusion marks the Demiurge,
Where naught is wholly true, no thing
found sure,
Where but the sea’s cry mocks the land’s dim
verge
And formless shadows keep the maze’s core,
Happy is he, if there be happiness,
Who walks the world in simple faith of
dreams;
He shall lift forehead to the star’s caress
And drink of Avalon’s eternal streams.
The sweet wild honey of tranquillity
He savors not; transmuting loss to gain,
With bruised and surging lips he pays Fate’s
fee
Of bitter kisses perilous with pain.
Yet—for Fate’s jests are edged with irony—
From forth this bitter comes the sweet of
song,
The vindication of man’s right to be,
The instant’s light that proves the dark-
ness wrong.
He calls us singing to' a shrouded land
That none knows surely, whether Heaven
or Hell;
Far off in shadow-lists we see him stand—
To what strange tourney come we may not
tell;
Nor know if love or dreams shall triumph
past
Time’s twisted fantasy of rose and rue;
Yet one great hope is ours, that sees at last
The lovers’ dreams, the dreamers’ love
come true.
QUEENSLAND.
J. Holloway.


9
*t£9,
:
*
i
'
6&BOT||g§||
iili
t:
Hi
mam
mm
ki
wl
■
I
I ■
I
■
M
»*
B
I
s
■
WSk
pS| ■■■
♦


The Bulletin.
Vol. 48—No. 2451.
February 3, 1927.
VICTORY.
“The Communist group is again extraordinarily active among the labor unions in Australia.”
FIRST FLEA: “But, brother, will they take any notice of us?”
SECOND FLEA: “It’s all right, comrade. We just bite the dog, and the dog rouses the neighborhood.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleoo, o
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mostnan, tor in
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Austialia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly:
12 months, £1 1/s.; 6' months, 12s. lid.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 195.; 0
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs. , .
Cheques, drafts, etc., winch should he crossed, ana,
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydnef). ~ . . '
Insufficiently stdmped letters are liable to be
refused. . , , , ,
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short lales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
I,utters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
"The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Jj. St. C. Orondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” <‘oll he obtained from him or
Che_hookstallintheßlainJHali_ > iH^Am>tralia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch , i -
7<i Farringdon Street, London, L.C. j.; and IF. Paw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1,.; E. T. Hole, Holertli Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” J/H-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, 11.0.2 ; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Uhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
0< Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 0,1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 16t East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: llrentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaking s
News Agency, 203 West l/tst Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street. San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
51,11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt.— Jacques , Horn and Co., the Colonial
Boole and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. ... _
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China. „ .
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo. ....
Pafua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A. —J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.; l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
TTie'^ulleiZn.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1927.
IN SUPPORT OF THE PER CAPITA
SUBSIDY.
Dear Bulletin, —People who endeavor to
take a Federal or All-Australian view of
politics, as distinguished from State Righters
or State Frights, appear mostly to have
arrived at the conclusion that the per capita
allowance paid by the Commonwealth to the
States should cease as a matter of course.
The necessity for the separation of Federal
and State finance is spoken of as a self-
evident fact, just as a different school of
thought might speak of the self-evident need
for tlie separation of the upper end of the
pants from the waistcoat, with a visible inter-
val of shirt between. (It was said of Charles
Wetiierell, a passionate and ill-clothed poli-
tician of the early nineteeenth century, that
this was the only lucid interval he ever had.)
A most persistent argument in favor of some
drastic form of re-arrangement is that the
Federal allowance to the States, of 255. per
inhabitant yearly, was for a fixed period;
that the period has expired; and that the
grant has become an act of grace, like the
extra dole made to a State in difficulties.
Still, the fact that it can be stopped at any
time, the same as a clock, or can be, reduced,
isn’t dead certain evidence that it should
be stopped or even reduced. Nor is the fact
absolute evidence that it should be increased.
Against the alleged necessity for abolishing
State grants to make the public accounts
look tidy may be set the argument that
the other two Commonwealths of the Empire
haven't discovered any such necessity, and,
in fact, the Bruce-Fage Ministry appears
to have the find almost wholly to itself. In
three of the four States of the South African
Union, the Central Government's donation
constituted, in 1923-24, the larger half of
the revenue. Various forms of Federal aids
to the minor Governments prevail in Argen-
tina, Brazil, Switzerland, etc. Furthermore,
it appears equally logical to demand the com-
plete severance of State and Local Govern-
ment finance*; yet all manner of casual helps
are common. And, curiously enough, the
same Federal Government which wants to
disentangle Federal and State monetary
affairs, by doing something violent with the
familiar old subsidy, seeks harder than ever
to butt in by interfering in a large financial
way with local matters such as road-making
and house-building.
T * * *
One reason why the money concerns of
the Central authority and the six minor
authorities won’t wholly come asunder, no
matter how hard they may be dragged, is
that the States owed the Commonwealth,
on June 30, 1926, nearly 103 millions, which
was about 10 millions more than they owed
it a year earlier. Between “loans and
advances” (so described in the “Quarterly
Summary”) for specific purposes, and
temporary advances out of the Notes Fund,
had been helped by the indul-
gent parent who is shortly moving to Can-
berra to the extent of £19,269,259. That
was nearly one-third of its total debt, and
was a large responsibility for a population
of 375,000 people, whose leaders talk so
much about how their State may yet secede
from its big creditor, and say so little about
taking their debts along with them if they do.
Westralia’s was the record bad case; South
Australia is next worst. Between what the
Commonwealth raised for itself and what
it raised for the five children who still adhere
to the Loan Council, the Federal debt grew
by 271 millions during the last financial
year, all except about two millions being a
new foreign liability, with interest payable
in gold. What the States raised for them-
selves is not yet published. This process of
high and mixed Federal-State finance is ex-
pected to go on indefinitely, and if necessity
drives N. S. Wales back into the Federal
cadging pool, the finance is likely to mix
higher and tangle worse.
* * * *
An idea which might be worthy of con-
sideration is that the States, instead of the
Commonwealth, should retire from tlie
income-tax and dividend-tax field, and that
the subsidy principle should be continued
with enlargements and improvements and
with new conditions. One condition would
certainly be that any necessary portion
of any defaulting State’s allowance might
be intercepted to cover arrears of interest.
The grant, at the rate of something in the
neighborhood of £2 15s. per head per annum,
might be fixed for a term of years, and then
the subject be debated afresh. If the fresh*
debate led to the federalisation of State rail-
ways and State debts it would be so much
gained. It might even lead to the sub-
division of some big States. In addition
to the fixed subsidy it would be necessary
to grant additional aids to impecunious
members of the Commonwealth as at present.
Additional aid might take a permanent form
in the shape of an offer to relieve a State of
part of its liabilities and also of an area
of unprofitable territory, if the State pos-
sessed such a thing, and the Federal authority
coveted it. If the aid was in the form of
an annual money grant, it might be best
that it should be for a short term only. This
would introduce a dubious element, but a cer-
tain amount of uncertainty is good for some
types of State Treasurer as tending to economy
anl humility. The circumstance that the Fed-
eral Treasurer held in his hands cash secu-
rity against default on the part of a State
might some day prove salutary also.
Bitter argument would doubtless arise as
to the amount of the fixed per capita allow-
ance and the period for which it would be
fixed, but argument is inevitable in any
case. Anyhow, the Commonwealth, having
a firm seat on the cashbox, is in the better
position to argue. The arrangement outlined
looks more liberal to the States than the
Bkuce-Page Ministerial scheme printed in
rough draft on page 1000 of the new Federal
“Official Year Book,” as well as being less
complicated, and being a definite attempt
to assert Federal supremacy. An obvious
objection is that the plan embodies nothing
in the way of an effective sinking fund;
but, then, neither does the Government plan.
The sinking fund must be the subject of a
separate chapter or volume. No device, how-
ever brilliant, for saving some paper-money
at the expense of the States or anybody
else, and making a paper sinking fund
against liabilities payable in paper, fully
meets the case of a Commonwealth, or the
component parts thereof, when said Com-
monwealth had its usual paper surplus,
and yet borrowed 251 millions of gold
abroad during the year, partly for itself and
partly for the family. The principal mis-
fortune, which no shuffling of per capita
allowances will affect much, is that this
country now fails consistently to export
neariv enough gold, or goods which repre-
sent that commodity, to pay its foreign
bills with, and the loan has become the
regulation way of filling the gap. When
this situation develops into a large and com-
plicated crisis, the States will certainly call
to the Commonwealth for assistance, and
just as certainly they will offer none. It
would be a very unwise Commonwealth
which parted definitely with any potential
sources of income at such a time, and pinned
its faith to the continuance of the Customs
revenue boom, for that depends on the con-
tinuance of the importing boom, and that
depends in considerable degree on the per-
manence of the loan boom, and that depends
on a rope of sand and a wild cat; —Yours,
etc., James Edmond.
IDEALISM AT A CITY HALL.
“Heraldic motto of municipal Sydney: ‘I take, but
1 surrender.’ Badge: A mullet.”
Labor’s ideals, of which a great deal is heard
in Sydney these days, were gracefully alluded
to by P. V. Stokes. M.L.A., at a dinner given
by his friends and admirers in celebration
of his two years as Lord Mayor. The retir-
ing functionary said lie was glad to see so
many bookmakers present, bookmakers being
presumably emancipators of the masses, and
proud to think that 1200 names had been
added to the municipal pay-sheets during las
term. At the end of W. P. McElhones
mayoralty four years ago, there were 3548
municipal employees altogether, so Stokes s
increase on the McEliione total is upwards
of one-third. But it is one of Labor s ideals
to stuff the city departments with ‘com-
rades,” for every “comrade” who can show
that he has been a lodger for six months
before the municipal rolls are made up is
entitled to vote for his favorite alderman.
And an alderman’s nomination is the only
qualification required from the applicant for
a job. Many of the 1200 additional em-
ployees are engaged on a new power-house
at Bunnerong, several miles out, and are
motored there in the morning and back to
the city when their work is done, so that
they may retain the right to vote for their
alderman. The work pans out at 36 hours
a week, or thereabouts, and motoring costs
have been reckoned at £lO,OOO p.a. There
was a little trouble recently because their
free ’buses were not up to the Rolls-Royce
standard; but it was “satisfactorily adjusted,”
as also was the complaint of a number of
hardy toilers that some jack-in-office had
refused to pay them for a holiday they had
taken without leave.
* * * *
Labor idealism may be the key to the mys-
tery of other City Council proceedings which
have been morosely criticised. It perhaps ex-
plains why tenders for the turbo-alternators
at Bunnerong were “irregularly opened,” and
why it was decided to pay £30,000-more than
the amount of the lowest tender for another
portion of; the plant. The ignoring of an
allegation, made in white and black, that a
man tendering for a City Council contract
was told he would get it if he distribute.!
£15,000 in the right quarter is possibly ex-
plicable on the same ground. Idealism may
also account for the triumphs of the muni-
cipal day-labor system, such as taking 80
weeks to raise four floors of steel and con-
crete offices, with 20,000 sq.ft, of space, while
10 floors of the Government Savings Bank
building, with 500,000 sq. ft. of space, went
up in 35 weeks. And there is the matter of
the Park-street resumptions, as described by
Alderman Waeder :
Mr. John Wren, as owner of the Criterion Hotel,
got his compensation money increased by £60,000,
as it was agreed that the property would be worth
this additional amount for the building of shops and
offices. We now find that shops and offices could
not be erected on the Criterion Hotel site, as the
depth is only 12ft. Mr. P. J. Minahan sold a
piece of land to the City Council, which the Council
did not really require, for £6060, insisting that
the Council should sell him a corner block with a
frontage to Park and Pitt streets for £17,600. His
adjoining property was valued by the Council at
£27,000. Within the past month Mr. Minahan
has refused £87,000 for the property concerned in
these transactions.
Idealism again, no doubt, and Minahan and
Wren appreciate ,it, if the common herd
can’t. The same Alderman W alder asserted
that, as a private citizen, he had been offered
Italian motor-cars for less than the City
Council agreed to pay for the same makes.
That was the time when a young Labor
alderman, indignant at its being pointed out
that the Council’s officers had recommended
the purchase of less expensive British cars,
demanded to know why a man shouldn’t
push the interests of a friend in the Italian
motor-car business. What was the good of
being an alderman if a chap couldn’t do little
favors like that?
* * * *
Of course, this Labor idealism doesn’t con-
quer all along the line. It meets with its
checks and reverses, as capitalism does. For
example, the arrangement to give the
£BOO.OOO turbo-alternator contract to the
Commonwealth Shipping Board, which could
have passed its losses on to the Australian
taxpayer, collapsed in the High Court. An
engaging proposal for a 50 years’ lease of
the Queen Victoria Markets, the value of
which will be immensely increased by the
underground railway, to a syndicate which
sprang up in a night, as it were, also crashed
on legal grounds. And there was so much
unfriendly comment on the finance commit-
tee’s recommendation that a resumed hotel
should be leased for six years at £45 a week
to a gentleman who happily chanced to be the
only tenderer, the Council having lately paid
compensation on a £9O-a-week basis, that
the thing was sent back to the committee.
Moreover, idealists have been taken to task
for buying condemned properties, ostensibly
for improvement purposes, and letting them
stand that the occupants may be on hand
with their votes; for swarming into free
seats at City Hall entertainments, and at
the Domain Baths when champion swimmers
compete; and for joy-riding to the mountains
and the South Coast and elsewhere in Council
motor-cars. Again, two Government auditors,
reporting on the civic garage, state that “ex-
tensive credit for services” has been given
to outsiders, that £971 was “outstanding
prior to October, 1925, and £1690 owing on
June 30,,1926,” and that “72 batteries could
not he accounted for at the date of our check.”
And, although the Council had a surplus of
£93.496 in the last non-Labor year, the
pursuit of idealism has led to deficits which
it has been found impossible to conceal (its
1926 debit balance, it was given out recently,
might amount to £80,000), albeit the use or
abuse of loan money has been magnificent.
* * * *
All the same, the ratepayers don’t seem
to mind. If they feel any indignation at
what is -going on they never express it by
way of public meeting. Thousands of them
haven’t enough civic pride to visit a polling
booth once every three years. As for a
Greater Sydney Council, which might draw
to itself the best elements of Nationalism
and old-style Laborism, and tackle problems
which .are now neglected—slum eradication,
a pure milk supply and sewage pollution of
beaches, for instance —these languid gentry
never even think of it. An opportunity of
getting rid of the gang at the' City Hall will
come round in November, but if there is to
be another 50 p.c. poll, as in 1924, the gang
will certainly get in for three more years!
And it will never be restrained from any
eccentricity of idealism by the reflection that
it represents a minority of the electors, as
it does now.
A NATION ON ITS HAMS.
“I go on circuit to-morrow,” remarked the
controleur; “have you lust therefor?” I
had lust therefor, at any rate, in the Dutch
sense, and in the dim light of the next morn-
ing, very early, we started. The Australian
water the controleur rode looked like the
vehicle of a Hindu deity amongst the rats
of Bima ponies bestridden by the rest of
the procession. The mas patch, a sort of
grand vizier, thrust thin, high-caste toes into
decorative stirrups, and behind him the caval-
cade graduated down from wcdonu and
assistant wcdono through lesser ranks to
coolies.
As we mounted from the moist coast town
the mountains emerged from their cloud
blankets like blue gods rolling out of bed.
At each boundary of a district we were joined
by the pa tingyi, or village headman, who
escorted us with pomp through his territory
and then handed us over to the guidance
of the headman of the next. Each new arri-
val performed the sembah, the ceremonial
obeisance which son performs to father, each
rank to the rank above it, and all except the
highest to the white man. A clerk in a
white Eton jacket and a crownless official
hat flung himself off his pony and prayed
to us from the level of our stirrup-irons.
Market-going peasants hastily backed their
packs, their ponies and themselves off
the track into the jungle, and remained
in an attitude of adoration until we
had passed—the stout Dutchman and
his Australian horse accepted the attention
with the indifference of a marble group.
The Dutch, however, were not guilty of
fastening this servile etiquette upon their
subjects. They took the system over ready-
made from this hereditary slave-nation’s pre-
vious oppressors. Its previous oppressors
were the Arab proselytisers of the fifteenth
century, who introduced Mohammedanism to
the island, and whose descendants rule in
spiritual affairs to-day. The Arabs did not
originate the system either. They took it
over from the Hindus, who arrived, some-
what dimly, about 600 years before, with
a strong belief in their own superiority and
a thirst for temple-building. They taught
the people how to cultivate sufficient rice
to provide the leisure for the temple build-
ing, and in the frescoes on those temples
the natives carved, with exquisite skill, the
evidence of their self-abasement for succeed-
ing generations to see.
Our ponies clambered like goats into an
atmosphere which was becoming perceptibly
cooler; up roads that steadily degenerated
until they were merely the beds of mountain
torrents, and through villages that became
more dilapidated and more precariously
clinging as we proceeded. At each village
the controleur formed himself into a court
of divine justice, before which policemen,
witnesses, accusers and offenders crawled on
their hams in a perfect orgy of politeness.
At one hamlet he adjudicated in the matter
of a bullock owned jointly by 40 members
of the same family; at another he arbitrated
between a grasping half-caste, who wanted
to plant sugar for export on the communal
holding, and the village, which wanted to
plant rice; at another he confirmed the popu-
lar selection of a new headman.
In this corner of Java the white popula-
tion is small, the native dcssas are scattered,
and the people innocent of guile. With
unconscious irony they still call the present
Government “Tuan Kompeni,” from the old
East India Company which originally bor-
rowed them from their Hindu owners, most
injudiciously bled them and then handed
them over to the Dutch people as a not very
going concern. What the Dutch Government
under Van den Bosch did with them is a
commonplace of history, which, however,
belongs to a section that is not taught in
the schools. The present generation is thus
blissfully spared the knowledge that its great
grandfathers were made the objects of tne
most stupendous experiment in human affores-
tation that has ever been recorded. Pro-
bably only the unsentimental Dutchman could
have succeeded in the enterprise of treating
men like trees. By conscripting the labor
of the whole nation he first broke the power
of the unproductive jungle which had kept
the population down to half a dozen millions,
and then, by forcing the native to plant one-
fifth of their land in export crops whicu
they were compelled to sell to the Govern-
ment at a fixed price, he taught a thriftless
race the habit of hard work. The result to
the Netherlands was a dividend which be-
tween 1831 and 1877 amounted to one billion
seven hundred million francs, and the con-
sequence to Java was that the objects
of experiment increased from five millions a
the beginning of last century to close on
40 millions to-day. Finally, sugar having
slumped and blight having smitten its con
lands, the Government, strictly on human -
tarian grounds, sold out to Private Enterpris.
But its policy had sown good seed and t
native continued to multiply. ,
Clinging to a dripping precipice m a per-
petual hothouse we found the highest vum?-
of all. Its affairs were in order, except
that a Chinese hawker had eloped with 1
headman’s youngest wife. Here the cont ■
leur, who had been rolling in his saddle,
cumbed to an attack of malaria and had
be accommodated in a litter. But he
tinned to administer justice on his way ao
to the plain, and, prostrate as he was, -
long frame encased in stiff white duck, ■-
blue eyes and the Nordic curls (now re„ .
tably damp with fever) were still the sy
of that high distant deity, WilhelMlNA
Holland, and received the same dumb adora
tion from the populace as had been best
on their equestrian ascent. *
* * * I i.
This picture of a race of hereditary he oi
accepting without question their new
lords from Europe seems in sharp c -
with some recent happening in the c•
In parts of the island the ancient Q
has fallen into disrepute. Bombs ha'
thrown and there have been armed *
that have had to be put down by fo r . c • mj
both pictures are true, and the Drie


never be properly understood until they are
studied in relation to one another. Some
years ago the Dutch suddenly became con-
science-smitten about their 3o million
charges. Liberalism was in the air, the island
was getting overcrowded, and crowds are apt
to lose their politeness, so the Government
essayed the herculean task of preparing their
helots for home rule. There was to be an
advisory assembly which would pave the way
to popular elections; education was to be
universal; in short, the native was_ to be
encouraged to meet his ruler standing up,
instead of squatting on his hams. Whether
this programme would have been realised is
now a question of merely academic interest.
Woodrow Wilson made some remarks about
self-determination, and shortly afterwards
the Bolshevik arrived. Since then education
has gone on apace, but instead of being
universal it is confined to a few. It has been
absorbed with alacrity by the Arabs, heredi-
tary despots; by the Javanese-llindu aristo-
cracy, whose past record for positively hellish
cruelty could hardly be excelled; and by the
Chinese, who enjoy a present monarchy in
commerce and would like to make it political
as well. Between them are the Eurasians of
all kinds, who far outnumber the pure
whites, and whose allegiance to one side or
the other is a matter of uncertainty. The
rest of the 35 millions, whom a socialist
paper in London recently exhorted to rise and
cast off their chains, have probably not yet
heard of the new evangel. Whether they are
destined to sustain another change of masters
it would be foolish to predict, but should a
new invader arrive they will be ready to
receive him—on their hams.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Commitments in London.
“ ‘The money,’ said Mr. Lang, ‘will be utilised to
meet commitments in London, and the funds have
been raised at a considerably better price than could
have been obtained in that capital.’ ”
The remarkable N.S.W. Government has
raised a loan of £5,000,000 in New York,
allegedly at a better rate than London
offered, which may mean that the London
price was so startling that it is better not
mentioned. According to cable accounts, an
attempt was first made to find more money
in the British metropolis, but, the response
there being cold, New York was sounded
for an advance of £10,000,000. The negotia-
tion falling through, London was apparently
approached again; but more icicles devel-
oped, so it appears that New York was
induced to compromise on half the original
amount.
Speculations were indulged in that the
visit of the head man of the Bank of Eng-
land to the U.S., announced a few days
before the £5,000,000 flotation, might be to
smooth the way. The Bank of England is
one of the two British institutions which
attend to N.S.W. affairs on the other side,
and would naturally want its client to get
the wherewithal to meet liabilities. This
deal makes £13,000,000 floated abroad by the
Lang Ministry within 12 months, yet appa-
rently it will be not much more than suffi-
cient to pay off the overdraft on the other side,
and will leave the hand-to-mouth Premier-
Treasurer nothing to go on with except
more overdraft, and more overdraft will pre-
sently create the imperative necessity for
still another loan. The dead horse is always
at the door.
The news that the money is to meet
“commitments in London” is hardly to be
called news. The pretence is kept up of pro-
ducing a schedule of public works, includ-
ing mental hospitals and all manner of
things, to roughly correspond with the
borrowings ; but, apart from the purchase of
a trifle of material abroad, they are paid
for with local paper currency, and have no
earthly connection with any London or New’
York finance. The outstanding and insati-
able “commitment” for which new outside
loans are wmnted is to pay interest on old
loans, there being no adequate surplus, and
often no surplus at all, of exported goods
for the purpose. In the case of Westralia
another “commitment” in London is pay-
ment into the sinking fund. That State has,
by reason of a provision made in its early
days and bitterly resented by shiftless poli-
ticians since, to make a provision, in real
money, invested with trustees in London,
for redemption purposes, and the regulation
way now to get real money in London is
to borrow it there or in New York.
If Austral-Yankee finance becomes a habit
and Y'ankee financiers continue to insist on
repayment conditions, “commitments” of the
kind hinted at by Premier Lang will inevit-
ably increa; >. But there will be nothing to
meet the increase, apart from the old IOU
dodge, unless the country buys less or con-
trives to have more to sell. With a good
deal of 44-hour week, and demands for a
40-liour week, and the beginnings of a
demand for a 30-hour week, the prospects
of increased production are not bright. Some-
thing might be done without a serious ex-
pansion of the working-day if a lot of men
could be taken off public works and really
productive employment found for them, but
if there were not enough public works to
fill up the loan schedule some of the other
“commitments” (interest, etc.) might have
to be put in, and they would look beastly.
Foreign “commitments,” especially when
they grow bigger every year and almost
every month, are always beastly.
<?>
“The King Can Do No Wron,g.”
The ancient common-law maxim cropped up
incidentally in a case recently brought before
the P.M. at Parkes (N.S.W.). An Act of
the State makes it an offence for any person
to leave a fire which he has lighted or used
in the open air before the same has been
thoroughly extinguished, and an offender is
liable to a penalty not exceeding £10. A
railway ganger and a fettler started a fire
for the purpose of burning off certain
material on railway property. The fire,
it was alleged, had not been extinguished; it
got away and caused a bush fire that spread
over a wide area and did great damage. The
ganger and the fettler were proceeded against
for a violation of the Act. Their solicitor
raised the point that as the men were em-
ployees of the Crown, and lit the fire in
pursuance of their duty in that capacity, no
charge could be laid against them, inasmuch
as no express provision was contained in
the Act binding the Crown. He said he had
therefore no case to answer, sat down and
left the matter in the hands of the magis-
trate, who upheld the point, and the men
quitted the court. Those attracted to hear
the case, probably among their number some
cockies whose little homes had vanished in
the fire, were left to puzzle out how it could
be that, whereas, had they been the offen-
ders, they would have smarted under £10
fines, these equally-human employees of the
Crown walked off free. It is a little puzzling,
and rather amusing—if your home has
escaped the fire.
To get at the root of it all, one has to
go back to days when the divine right of
kings was no more questioned—no man
daring to do it—than the truth of the Trinity,
An ancient authority put it that the King,
“being God’s lieutenant, cannot do a wrong,”
and on this foundation a curious structure
rose. In the course of time the subtle
brains of the lawyers were set to work to
water down this doctrine of kingly perfec-
tion. But it has not been wholly eliminated.
Whilst the subject may now by a prescribed
statutory process obtain damages from the
Crown for a tort committed in the improper
or unwarranted exercise of its authority, the
King still remains beyond the provisions of
statutes that • do not bind him by express
words or by clear implication. Statutes
may impose duties on the subject and fix
penalties for his non-compliance with them,
but the King is exempt from their operation
if the enactment docs not make him expressly
answerable to it.
The evil effects of thus leaving the
King outside the ordinary operation of the
Statute law except where expressly bound
may not have been felt keenly in old days,
when Governments did not, as they do to-
day, enter into commercial and industrial
enterprises in competition with citizens. To-
day it is a distinct injustice to the subject.
Take, for example, our factory laws, and this
applies probably to all the States ; certainly it
does to N. S. Wales. An inspector under that
legislation goes into the engineering works
of a citizen, and directs every scrap of dan-
gerous machinery to be guarded. He walks
into a hat or clothing factory, and sees that
adequate air space, proper sanitary accom-
modation, sufficient means of exterior escape
in the event of fire, and so on, are provided.
He guards the life and health of the factory
worker at every point. But that inspector
dare not put his nose into the fitters’ shop of
the railways, the machine rooms of the Gov-
ernment printing office, the State timber-
yards or the State bakery. He has no power
to order a single guard to machinery nor
a single convenience for the employees in
those establishments. The answer to any
application he may make to abate condi-
tions he has reason to believe are bad, and
such as would be remedied by summary pro-
ceedings in a court in the case of the mere
citizen, is that the Factories Acts do not
bind the Crown. It may be said that if an
accident does happen through negligence on
the part of the Crown, there is a remedy in
damages, and there is the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act. But the essence of factory
legislation is to prevent accident, ill-health
by insanitary surroundings and so on. If
compensation after the accident or after the
causation of the disease were all that was
needed, factory legislation would be super-
fluous.
It is certainly time some action was taken;
time that commissions and omissions which
are punishable in the private individual
should not be allowed in the case of the
Government under the plea that the Crown
is not bound by the particular Act creating
the offence. If it is not bound, then it ought
to be bound; and the duty rests with Parlia-
ment to see that it is.
*
Our Ill-named Wines.
It is satisfactory to learn that Australian
wines have been making good headway in
English favor this last year or two. If they
had started under new and distinctive names
a couple of generations ago, instead of hang-
ing on to the skirts of age-old European
ones, they might already be rivalling the
vintages of Spain and Portugal, of Italy and
the Rhine, instead of toiling painfully be-
hind them. Possibly the struggle to secure
an English market might have been harder
at first, but once it was secured Aus-
tralian wines would have advanced on their
own merits and not on their alleged resem-
blance to brands that Europe has been drink-
ing for centuries. And on their own merits,
which are so considerable as not to be fully
realised yet, even by ourselves, they would
indubitably have advanced much faster.
Australians are always being told to be
Australian and think Australian, but there
is one class that turns a deaf ear. The
manufacturer of anything new insists on
trading, so far as he can, on some established
name—something, if possible, narrower than
a generic one. He gets as near to it as he
can, in a determination to capture some of
the reflected glory. It is so much easier to
follow the line of least resistance than to
christen the product of a new country with
a new name. The best British cement comes
from Portland and a highly regarded cheese
from Cheddar district of Somerset, and so we
airily borrow the qualifying word, which
stands for excellence, as well as the noun.
Every nation does it. of course. The Yankee
turns out a capital imitation of Gruyere
cheese, even to the holes, and calls it Ameri-
can Gruyere, undeterred by the fact that the
flavor which popularised the famous cheese
of Switzerland depends upon Alpine herbage
as fodder for the animal which gives the
milk. It may be contended that the old
geographical significance has gone out of such
words as port, sherry. Burgundy, hock and
the like nowadays—that the terms merely
imply a wine of a certain body or flavor, or
anything reasonably near thereto. But that
is not quite so, legally at all events. Portu-
gal and other countries which have had in
Britain a good customer for centuries still
fight desperately for their rights in these
matters, and it is but natural that they
should. Hence our vintages have to be
labelled “Australian port,” “Australian
sherry,” etc., and there is something essen-
tially invidious in the qualification, just as
in “German silver” or “Colonial goose.”
Our wines are good enough to stand on
their own bottom; why not let them? The
best are every bit as good of their kind as
wines produced in any part of the world,
and might be made as fine testimonials for
the vineyards where they grow. But our
port, for instance, cannot be a true
Oporto wine in every essential because
climate and half a dozen other considerations
intervene. It may be equally good or better
as wine—and probably the bulk of Aus-
tralian port is a great deal better and more
wholesome than nine-tenths of the fortified
and clieaper stuff from Portugal that the
British grocer purveys—but it won’t fill all
requirements in flavor. Even South Africa
has shown a little more originality, a little
less slavish adherence to the principle of
trading on established names, in its liquor-
making industry. Cape brandy has a specific
label of its own, and at least one vineyard
has sent the fame of its product oversea
without calling it “South African” this or
that. Australia is destined to be a great
winemaking country in the future, there can
be no shadow of doubt. It is a bit late in
the day, perhaps, to start fastening distinc-
tive Australian names on good Australian
wines, but the longer it is delayed the harder
it is going to be.
♦
The By-ways of Life Insurance.
The shoddy and often dishonest little life-
assurance companies which have sprung up
like grass after rain, principally in N. S.
Wales, have begun to perish, but there is
still no law to prevent new ones being formed.
The Constitution says that insurance is
a matter for Federal regulation, but the
Commonwealth does nothing, and the Ma
State doesn’t jump the unworked claim. In
1920 there were 18 life concerns seeking
premiums in Sydney and adjacent parts. In
1920 there were 35 of them, and births,
marriages (amalgamations) and deaths had
happened in the interval. Many of the names
were quaint and crude—so much so that it
would probably have caused only mild sur-
prise if the Chiropodists and Citizens’ or
the Pacific Mutual Disadvantages and Gen-
eral had hung up its name-board some
peacetul morning.
A recent case produced in Sydney concerned
the General Finance Mercantile Insurance
Co., which didn’t live long enough to be
put on record in the annual “Summary of
Australian Statistics.” The information
before the Court was that two directors
were in gaol; that the others (if any) and
the staff (if any) had evidently dispersed;
that the office had gone away and taken
the furniture with it; that a lady share-
holder (seemingly the only shareholder, for
there was no unpaid capital to meet her
claim) had secured an order in Equity for
the return of her £150 but had collected
nothing; that of the alleged £250,000 of 8
per cent, preference capital and £200,000
ordinary capital, only £7 10s. lOd. had been left
behind; and that the policy-holders, as a
matter of natural inference, hadn’t an earthly
hope. Other concerns may pass out, but
in the matter of completeness it is difficult
to beat the short-lived affair which left
nothing behind save a share-holding woman
and £7 10s. lOd.
There are thrilling possibilities in the
case, especially now that companies have
the habit of buying up each other in
a casual fashion. If one high-sounding
show, which has got in very little capital
and has only a trifle of petty cash with
which to meet all troubles, decides that it
ought to finish its independent existence, the
decision is doubtless a wise one. And if
it sells its goodwill, and its insuperable
difficulties, and all the liabilities which it
can’t face, for £50,000 worth of the ordinary,
valueless and left-on-hand stock, or even
the preference stock, of another show of the
same sort, it is obvious that the seller has
given as much value as could be expected,
and that the buyer hasn’t paid too much.
If the goodwill of No. 1 is put in at £50,000
among “other assets” in the balance-sheet
of No. 2, it can’t be denied either that it
was valued at that amount in a sort of
way. And if the No. 1 people start, or com-
bine with the No. 2 people to start, another
enterprise (No. 3), and make the prospect
look brighter by including among the assets
“Shares in other companies, £50,000,” these
being the shares in No. 2 which were handed
over in payment for No. 1, no one can deny
that No. 3 has the shares. These brisk
proceedings may lead to a certain amount
of business, even though there may be a
pqor look-out for policy-holders.
The Statistician mentions once a year that
“in New South Wales there is no legislation
dealing specifically with the conduct of
insurance business,” but adds that it comes
under the Companies Act. Unfortunately
the Companies Act doesn’t provide that
assets must equal liabilities, though if there
are insufficient assets or none at all, and the
matter is brought before the eye of the
law, it may order that the concern be wound
up so that it won’t incur more liabilities.
As far back as 1905. and probably before
that, the statistical gentleman remarked:—
No deposit or other guarantee of genuineness is
required, and it is open to anyone to start a life
office, the business transacted being only limited
by the extent to which the credulity of the public
may be abused.
It is open to any Government, provided it
knows how, to pass the right kind of Life
Insurance Act, and thereby earn the grati-
tude of all save the criminal classes, and
especially the thanks of the institutions
which do a strictly honest business and
dislike outlaw competition. But the inertia
of Sydney Governments, except in loan-
floating and rude rejoinder, is a marvel.
O
Not in the Interests of “the Movement.”
A MEMBER of the Piddington Industrial
Commission is vexing the N. S. AVales Labor
Government with a proposal which, though
well-intentioned, is “not in the best interests
of ‘the movement,’ ” as “the movement” is
run nowadays. A professional boxer in
former days (a very good one, it should be
said, and a decent citizen always), he has
satisfied himself from personal observation
that the control of “the game,” particularly
in Sydney, is far from what it should be.
So he suggests the appointment of a State
Boxing Commission on the American plan.
If “the interests of ‘the movement’ ” are left
out of consideration there is a lot to be said
for the notion; and were promoters, boxers,
trainers and the like licensed, as racing
people are, relatively small fees would defray
the cost. The U.S. experience is that regu-
lation by commission is a good thing for
boxers and public alike. It makes for clean
sport, and for fair tariffs and rewards. Also,
it saves immature lads from being ruined by
the brutal 20-round business. The New
York Boxing Commission is so careful in
this respect that it recently forbade the
champion in his class to engage in a 10-
round contest because of his youth—he is
IS or 19. If there were a similar controlling
body in N. S. Wales, its first act would
unquestionably be the abolition of the bar-
barous 20-rounder and the fixing of a 10-
round limit for lads; and other improve-
ments would doubtless follow. The trouble
is that Sydney boxing is virtually a Stadium
monopoly, and the Stadium, as the Sun
said the other day, is “controlled by Mr.
John Wren.” And Mr. John Wren,
although (or because) he is a reputed mil-
lionaire, is a big man in “the movement” —
immeasurably bigger than a conciliation-com-
mittee chairman who gets £750 p.a.
The Stadium enterpi-ise enjoys extra-
ordinary privileges and immunities. It is
exempt, as regards boxers, from Mr.
Badly’s Workers’ Compensation Act,
although practically all other employers
in the sporting line have to insure their
employees, even caddies, and although
boxer after boxer has been bashed to death
or badly hurt in Stadium rings. The
Stadium is also permitted to bring in numer-
ous black and brown pugilists under con-
tract, and keep some of them here for years,
regardless of the fact, among others, that the
coons are rarely accompanied by* wives. If
a “capitalistic” Sydney employer imported
an equal, number of colored bricklayers or
pick-and-shovel men under contract, “the
movement” would assuredly declare a strike,
probably a general strike. Betting is illegal
in N. S. Wales, except on licensed race-
courses, but it goes on without let or hind-
rance at the Stadium. And a Labor Min-
ister is certain to be in the picture when
the hat is sent round for the dependants of
an uninsured boxer who has been carried
away in his death-agony from the Stadium
ring, while if a Labor Lud Mayoral recep-
tion is wanted for the advertising of third-
rate Stadium importations, it is always
forthcoming. By the same token, there is
invariably a profusion of “friends of the
workers” in the 20-sliilling (plus tax) seats.
So the man who is after a Boxing Com-
mission is not likely to get it. He is much
more likely to be shot out of his job for
“doing something contrary to the best inter-
ests of ‘the movement.’ ”
♦
The Dunce.
Dr. Phillips, to whom the psychology of
the child is an absorbing interest, put a dis-
concerting proposition before the N. S.
Wales school inspectors in a recent lecture.
He baldly declared that “it is probable the
schools are, in a way, a recruiting-ground
for criminals”; and he based the startling
statement on figures supplied him by the
magistrate who presides over the Juveniles'
Court in Sydney, and who is himself not
only personally interested in child welfare but
a most diligent collector of sociological and
psychological data that may throw light on
the many problems in juvenile life he has to
deal with. What the magistrate found was
that a very large percentage of thefts and
kindred offences charged against boys and
girls under the age of 14 were committed either
during periods of truancy or by offenders
who had a history of more or less persistent
truancy. The lecturer gave the proportion
as 43 per cent., but, as a matter of fact,
this understates rather than overstates the
case. For example, in the year .1924, out
of a total of 412 such delinquents, 200, or
nearly one-lialf, had a truancy record. Syd-
ney has a special truancy school at Guild-
ford, to which persistent truants may be
committed, and where they receive special
treatment. In the greater number of these
cases the children specially referred to by
Dr. Phillips gave as their reason for truant-
ing the treatment they received from their
teachers; and the lecturer remarked that
the blaming of the teacher was so general
that he had to believe there was something
in it. However that might be, truancy led
to delinquency, and delinquency to crime.
No direct cruelty was inferred in this charge
against the teachers, but it appeared to arise
from “a tendency to apply particular pres-
sure to dull children.” That it was the
result not of mental deficiency on the child-
ren’s part but merely of dulness the statis-
tics of the Children’s Court seemed to prove,
as of those found guilty of serious offences,
less than 6 per cent, were feeble-minded.
Special schools are, as a matter of fact,
being established to deal with cases bf
retarded mentality, but the normal truant
does not come within their scope.
Without accepting in its entirety this
direct charge against the modern educational
system, The Bulletin sees a weakness in the
system at one point. Under the old plan
of education, from whose shackles the
modern teacher is trying to escape, the atti-
tude of teacher and pupil to each other was
more or less antagonistic. The new system
seeks to establish a bond of active sympathy
between them. The logical conclusion of
such a method is individual tuition, since
psychologically and intellectually each child
differs from every other. Yet the existing
system of regimentation in classes, with
a head of proficiency and a draggled tail of
bewildered misery, appears, with all its
obvious faults, to be the only practicable
one at present, since the cost of individual
teaching would swamp the financial resources
of any State. At the same time, if we
cannot go the whole Avay, there is no reason
why we should not go as far as we can. It
does not take a vivid imagination to realise
the state of mind that stimulates rebellion
in the bobtail of the class. A teacher would
be less than human if some mark of appre-
ciation of the bright boy and some sugges-
tion of contempt for the dull did not escape
him. But mental dulness does not invariably
connote an absence of sensitiveness oil
the part of the blockhead. He is not
commiserated with for being dull, but is
sharply reprimanded for not being clever or
for lack of diligence in acquiring what he
does not understand. It is easy to realise
how hateful school must become to
such a boy whom nature has not fitted for
the role of student, and who pines for the


r JTie first puff co]
of the superior
10
tor
9°
Arm y CD u b
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper,
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
mi
mk
a
7%
m
CORK-TIPPED
activities of physical life ; and a system of edu-
cation that tends to sift out the brilliant rntel-
telligences and lets the mentally-handicapped
drift into the avenues of crime calls plainly
for reform.
The Loan Terms of Uncle Samuel.
When the details of the deal which Premier
Lang had made on behalf of N. S. Wales
with the Yankee moneylender came to light,
the immediate conviction was that the finan-
cial precipice must have been very deep, and
the edge to which the Government was hang-
ing very crumbly. The amount of the
advance is nominally £5,000,000, and if it
had all come to hand in a lump it would
barely have cleared off the overdraft. But
the U.S. people took off £3 15s. out of every
£IOO as discount, and £2 out of every £IOO
for underwriting, and it is expected that,
when everything is added up, miscellaneous
expenses will absorb another pound or two
out of each £IOO. The interest is nominally
5 per cent., but it is really £5 p.a. on every
£93 or thereabouts; also 15s. p.c. p.a. is to
be added to provide for repayment,
the U.S. idea being that provision
for repayment should start as soon
as the loan does. Finally, though
the N. S. Wales Government gets
only £93 or so in every hundred,
it has to pay the full hundred at
the due date, which is not so far
ahead. The transaction is probably
better than State insolvency, the
consequences of which are difficult
to foresee, and it looks very much
as if acceptance of it was the
alternative to State insolvency. The
position may be estimated from the
fact that S. Australia raised almost
simultaneously £2,500,000 in Lon-
don (about £1,150.000 for new
works and the rest for renewal pur-
poses) without anything like such
heavy deductions. S. Australia
has no particular resources as com-
pared with the Ma State, and it.
has a quarter of N. S. Wales's
population, and a considerably
larger debt per head. On the other
hand, it is a member of the Loan
Council, and borrows (a great deal
too much) in partnership with the
Commonwealth. It went into the
Commonwealth sin k in g-f un and
arrangement voluntarily, while
N. S. Wales has no sinking fund
which works at all except in the
case of one or two loans, and in
these cases it was provided under-
pressure of necessity. And S. Aus-
tralia has no such stunning accu-
mulated deficit as N. S. Wales
possesses, though all the States
have deficits. Above all, it hasn’t
a Government which roars after
the N; S. Wales fashion, which is
constantly advertising itself with
huge and almost impossible money-
spending devices, when the Trea-
sury is notoriously empty, and
which can be ordered by outside
forces to rush into these devices
whether they are impossible or not.
A Ministry of the Lang type is
an expensive luxury.
__4.
The Spineless Samson.
Theodore began his campaign in
Dailey (Sydney) with the usual
fair words. No man in Australia
can speak fairer words—no man
can better fail to live up to them.
He can roar like a lion and fly
from danger like a rabbit. Gen-
erally speaking, he knows what is
the right thing to do; there are
not very many men in the public
life of Australia who in their
policy speeches have got nearer to
The Bulletin’s own policy.
But whenever the party whip has
cracked, Theodore, saying he would ne’er
consent, has always consented. His weak-
ness, more than any other man’s, has turned
the finances of the richest State of the Com-
monwealth into a nightmare; it has changed
the public service of the State into the
greatest money-wasting institution in Aus-
tralia. He encouraged the demoralisation
of a vast number, perhaps a majority, of the
workers of the North; to-day they really
think that they have only to ask and they
can get. There has been so much talk about
the worker having been robbed that they
honestly believe, many of them, that there
is an enormous fund somewhere that can
be drawn upon. Theodore knew that all
this was nonsense; he knew whither the
working men of the State were drifting. And
instead of guiding and directing them into
right paths—if necessary, whipping them
back into those paths—he encouraged them
in their dangerous follies, and especially
masked the true position by enormous bor-
rowings abroad. It is, therefore, no use
putting him forward as a strong man. He
can be put forward as almost anything else
—as a clear-headed man. as a well-read
man, as an attractive man. But of all things
in the world strength is the least of his
virtues.
The Shanghai Situation.
Barring accidents, Britain will presently
have 13 cruisers, S destroyers, a seaplane-
carrier and “other units” in Chinese waters,
and 16,000 soldiers and marines, with air-
craft, tanks and a War Office administrative
staff, round about Shanghai. These large
forces are being sent, a British Cabinet
Minister said last week, “to prevent another
Khartoum,” which statement, as far as it
goes, is unquestionably true. There was
nearly “another Khartoum” at Peking 27
years ago, and the course of events has made
it only too obvious that an attack as formid-
able as that of the Boxers, if not more so,
may be launched against the foreigners in
Shanghai. But the expedition has other
objects besides the protection of British
lives in the greatest of the treaty ports,
although that would be reason enough. It
is designed to remove unfounded impressions
of weakness produced throughout Asia by
A MAN OF HIS WORD.
FIRST ONE: “Old Binks promised to stand by me to the last shilling”
SECOND ONE: “Did he keep his promise?”
FIRST ONE: “Yes, but it was my shilling .”
the bloodless withdrawal from the Hankow
and Kiukiang concessions; to convince the
Cantonese by its presence that peace with
the British Empire is better than war; and
to counteract the intrigues of Soviet Russia,
which, having failed to Bolshevise the rest
of Europe and the English-speaking coun-
tries, is trying to stir up color wars against
“Western imperialism” in other parts of
the globe.
Britain has sought no quarrel with any
of the military Governments into which
China has been divided since the Republic
was proclaimed in 1912. At the Washing-
ton Conference it offered to give up Wei-
hai-wei, acquired in 1898, and pledged
itself “to safeguard the rights and interests
of China and to promote intercourse between
China and the other Powers upon the basis
of equality of opportunity.” It has sided
with none of the Chinese factions, though
well aware that the Ku Ming Tung or
Nationalist party, founded by the late Sun
Yat Sen at Canton, was in the closest com-
munication with Moscow. There are
branches of the Ku Ming Tung in Australia.
In a recent communication to the news-
papers one of them asserted that the. Ivu
Ming Tung controlled of China
(Austen Chamberlain, the British Foreign
Secretary, says it controls only one-third,
taking both population and area) : that our
armies are advancing in midwinter on a
front of nearly 1000 miles, which postulates
good staff work, excellent transport j( an< *
highly-organised commissariat”; that our
arsdnals at Hankow can turn out artillery
up to Bin. in calibre, complete with hydro-
pneumatic buffer recoils”; and that we
seek the friendship of all peoples in no
part of the country administered by the Ku
Ming Tung Government has there been any
instance of violence to foreigners.” Cham-
berlain is a witness on the other side. He
affirms that the Nationalists have declared
boycotts of British goods, have raised cries
of “Down with the British !” and _ Kill the
British!” and gave such an exhibition of
mob violence at the seizure of the Hankow
and Kiukiang concessions as to prove that
“at present there is no guarantee for the
safety of British lives under the .Cantonese.
Wherefore the British at Shanghai are to
be defended, if attacked.
According to Chamberlain, the British
are in China, not as “imperialists,” but as
“shopkeepers,” and their Government’s policy
is one of “patient conciliation.” As evidence
:of this, it is prepared to let Chinese law
courts deal with cases in which British
parties are concerned; to make British citi-
zens, liable to Chinese taxation not involving
discrimination against British citizens and
goods; and, in connection with Treaty ports,
to either amalgamate the administration
with that of adjacent areas under Chinese
control or to hand it over to the Chinese,
provided the British are given some muni-
cipal representation. At present Britain
and the U.S. A. maintain special courts in
China, and have a say in framing the Chinese
tariff, interest on foreign loans being a first
charge on the revenue. In effect, the Old
Man offers to abandon the privileged posi-
tion he has held in China for the best part
of a century for the sake of peace. If the
Cantonese meet him in the same frank spirit,
peace there will be.
The question of sending Australian troops
to China has been dragged into the argu-
ment; by pacifists of the bellicose breed.
Australia doesn’t want to send troops to
China, nor will it think of sending them
unless Australian help is obviously and
urgently needed ; in that case, troops will
from this country though pacifists pass hos-
tile resolutions till they are black in the
face. But such a situation has clearly not
arisen, and does not seem likely to arise
4
If you have courage and a few thousands
Melbourne is the place for your investments.
In that city the business of providing bail
for prisoners has been elevated almost into
an honorable profession with a brass-place
on its door. The boarding-house business
being over-done, most of the professional
bondsmen are bondswomen, and many of
them even get wealthy on the proceeds.
There are no fixed rates of interest, for
when a criminal is desirous of getting out
of the country before his trial comes on he
may be prepared to pay as much as 500 p.c.
for accommodation. In Maoriland, if the
police object to the person proffering bail,
the magistrate upholds the objection. Meh
bourne magistrates please them-
selves, and some of them are easily
pleased. Also, under the Mel-
bourne system, if the bondswoman
is refused by one honorary magis-
trate, she may look up another
and get satisfaction. Recently one
of the ladies, who goes under «
surprising variety of names, had
her bond refused by one J.P. on
the ground of having been in gaol
herself. She then brought along
another more open to reasonable
argument and the prisoner was let
go. What with the jury-squarer
and the sentimental juryman who
hates to convict because the sen-
tence may be hard, the way of the
criminal in Vic. is paved with
roses.
*
“Gregor” : Considering the amount
of wealth which this country
annually derives from its wheat
harvest, it is amazing that so little
scientific research is done in wheat
and its problems. During the
pretty long period I spent in one
of our principal universities I can
recall only one research student
engaged on work connected with
wheat, and the lack of interest in
his efforts exhibited by both the
’Varsity and the Government
department concerned so discour-
aged him that he went to America,
where the subject is a live one.
Yet the problem of producing
strains entirely proof against dis-
ease and of increasing the grain-
yield would not only provide a
sphere of effort for dozens of re-
search workers, but justify the
creation of a special institution to
provide them with facilities for
their work. It is the same with
wool. Probably there is no coun-
try which devotes less time and
money than Australia to the scien-
tific aspect and the technological
side of its primary industries. It
seems almost as though Austra-
lians are content to let other coun
tries interested do the work of this
sort, and to be satisfied with what
meagre scraps of information are
thrown to them.
♦
Longreach, in Central Queens-
land, may have a niche in his-
tory some day. The aviation con-
cern that supplies a long-felt want
by transporting citizens very
quickly and safely between Char-
leville and Camooweal has started
a flying-school there. It’s only a
small affair, limited to half a dozen pupils
or so, but the terms are attractively low.
The same company is also establishing a
school at Brisbane. In each place it has
provided a couple of “Moths” for the use of
pupils, with the necessary facilities for re-
pairs and renewals. There is a Federal
bonus available to help with the fees of every
pupil who qualifies for a private pilots
license, and the two schools have the blessing
of the Commonwealth. The cost of qualify
ing for a license under the scheme is some-
thing under £40 —barring breakages, whicJ
have to be paid for—-and folk who have the
speeding craze may indulge it this way more
safely, more cheaply and with more beneft
to their country than in any other. The time
may come when Australia will number its
flying pilots among its most cherished jewels;
at present it hasn’t got as many as woulu
make a decent necklace.
[For any Plain English paragraphs which require
a signature under the law, S. H. Prior, J. E. AVebb
and James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney,
are responsible.]


AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won in this great land.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Commonwealth lank of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
m
Xw,
m
POWER-LOSS
Can be eliminated by the use of
Mangrovite Leather
or
Rawhide Belting
Specially and carefully made to meet the exacting demands of modern factory
conditions, this ideal belting is guaranteed for strength and durability, anc! trans-
mits full power all the time. Our staff of experienced engineers is at your disposal
for free advice on your transmission problems.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal Labor-leader Charlton has em-
erged from his melancholy retreat to complain
of having been gagged during the referendum
campaign. Tackled on the same subject at
the A.W.U. Conference, Senator Jack Barnes
was touchingly candid as to the confusion
that reigned in the councils of the party in
those days. When the enabling bills were
brought in, he confided, the Federal Par-
liamentary party decided, with only two
dissentients, to support the first question
(Legislative Powers) and oppose the second
(Essential Services). Then the Federal A.L.P.
executive met “and came to a deadlock.” Pre-
sently State Labor executives said “Yes-no,”
and others “No-no” ; and finally the A.W.U.
said “No-no,” too. So Barnes plunged into
silent thought for the rest of the campaign.
As a sign of forgivenness, the A.W.U. has
re-elected him president with a majority of
5801 over the next man. It all shows the
power of the Labor machine. But it doesn’t
show who the few men are who work
the machine, though it suggests that they
are not the people’s representatives in Par-
liament.
After weeks of mental agitation, the
N.S.W. Labor Caucus has instructed the
hapless Government to pay an endowment
of ss. a week in respect of “every child
under 14 years whose parents’ annual in-
come, together with the endowment, does
not exceed £364.” Except that £364 was
substituted for £4OO, this scheme was sug-
gested by a sub-committee on which there
wasn’t a man with a nodding acquaintance
with factories. Yet manufacturers will be
expected to pay “6 per cent, on the wages
bill,” as the good Piddington recommends,
towards the cost of the experiment, which,
it is expected, will slug industry to the
extent of £6,000,000 p.a. The Government’s
payments are estimated at £2,000,000 p.a.
Not one of the crowd has thought to check
Piddington’s figures. Yet the Queensland
Economic Commission, on which there were
two Uni. professors, reported harshly on
“the errors of Mr Piddington,” with the
result that the Gillies-McCormack Govern-
ment, after committing itself to child endow-
ment on the Piddington plan, turned the
thing down cold.
Loan-raising in Australia is, in one import-
ant respect, cheaper than loan-raising abroad.
In 1920-21 N.S.W. borrowed £6,500,000 in
London, and £3 9s. Id. out of every hundred
pounds was eaten up by expenses.
In the same year it borrowed £5,309,000
locally, and the expenses were only 4s. 6d.
per £lOO. The previous year a local loan
of £14,778,156 cost only 2s. Bd. per cent,
in odd charges. When the expense per cent,
of the latest plunge is worked out and the
discount is added, the figure will be startling.
Still, when a State with a population of a
mere 2j millions runs three separate loan
accounts in three separate continents, you
must expect something to be startling.
Wanting a new steamer for its pilot ser-
vice, the Queensland Labor Government
called for tenders in Australia and Britain.
The Australian tenders (two) reached
£67,500 and £89,800; the British (20) went
from £27,950 to £53,800. A Scottish co.
which quoted £32,990 got the job. Union
leaders are now railing at the Government,
but they are partly to blame themselves.
They insist on having London loans for
“works” which fail to return interest, and
are piling so many burdens on Australian
wagepayers as to handicap the latter out
of the race with overseas competitors. So
contracts naturally go abroad.
Forced by the pressure of its supporters,
the Allan-Peacock (Vic.) Coalition has
decided to hold the election in the remodelled
electorates not later than Saturday, April
9. The Government would rather have let
things slide till the end of May, but as
parties opposed to Labor show a tendency
to multiply, a thing which is worrying
coalesced Nats and Cockies, the people are
to get their turn as soon as complete rolls
can be guaranteed. It looks as if the dis-
solution will be on March 5, and nomina-
tions 16 days later.
TO HIS ADVANTAGE, TOO.
“The recent Pan-Pacific Health Conference lost heavily in effect by being held in camera. The
Federal Health Council, with threats of an influenza epidemic, is making the same mistake.”
THE GERM: “That’s right, Doctor, put the light out. I can work much letter in
the dark!”
Progress has been putting on a breathless
spurt. The Northern Territory has been
formally re-born as “Northern Australia,”
and it was announced that it would presently
be subdivided into “Northern” and “Cen-
tral” Australia, each with a Resident as
figurehead. And three Commissioners solemnly
took over the administration at Darwin,
especially the administration of the land
system, which consists principally in refus-
ing to sell a living area to anybody.
In its own bright off-hand way, the N.S.W.
Works Committee has recommended the con-
struction of a dam on the Lachlan, to cost
±1,325,000 of the loan money which is so
hard to find, and as much more (perhaps
another £1,325.000) as the chapter of inci-
dents may decide. It says in a general way,
lil i the prospectus of a new insurance com-
pany, that the enterprise will provide water
for stock, grow lucerne in spots and “add
to the wheat-producing area of the State/'
If a wheat district is saddled with the inter-
est for a very expensive irrigation system,
built by day labor with high-priced loan
money, and the interest has to be paid in
flood time or drought, a big dam is much
more likely to kill farming than to help it.
The Murrumbidgee irrigation settlement had
its beginnings when both money and .labor
were cheaper than they are now. In 1925
there were 114,241 acres under cultivation,
and the deficiency was £285,259, or about
£2 10s. per acre.
Queensland’s Minister for State Enter-
prises has made the melancholy announce-
ment that there is no probability that any
more Government meatshops will be opened,
and given as the melancholy reason, that the
“workers” pass them by and go in search
of cheaper flesh at Private Enterprise empori-
ums. At one place, he said, a shop was
opened in response to a numerously-signed
petition, and less than one-tenth of the peti-
tioners bought their meat there. And if
the State does get business here and there
it loses the taxes the private butcher would
pay, which is the final irony.
In an arrangement which the A.W.U.
has made with the manufacturers of copper-
wire and the like at Port Kembla (N.S.W.),
there is provision for a bonus system; for
paid holidays from December 23 to January
2, both inclusive, and six other holidays
during the year; and for a welfare committee
“consisting of two representatives of the co.
and two of the employees.” There will be
a lot less industrial ti'ouble if that spirit
grows.
Sawmillers and others interested are ask-
ing the Tariff Board for a prohibitive, duty
on Oregon. It is a pity, of course, that
Australians should be thrown out of work
because of the influx from overseas; but in
the present condition of the forestry business
there are blessings in disguise concealed
about the subject. Other countries are
rapidly denuding themselves of their timber,
and all, judging from the roars of their
experts, are making insufficient provision
for the future. A time will almost certainly
come when the imported article will become
few and far between. What is wanted, then,
concurrently with a tariff on the stuff from
America, is a law. making replacements
for every tree cut down obligatory; thus
not only the present job of the timber-
hewer but the future welfare of the coun-
try would be secured.
Fred Sear, secretary of the Vic. Railways
Union, must have found it difficult to make
his voice vibrate with anything like, honest
indignation when he announced that an
appeal would be lodged with the Commis-
sioners against the finding of the Depart-
mental Board of Discipline in the much-
limeliglited case of motorman Milvain and
guard Hargreaves. These two railwaymen
controlled the electric train which crashed
into the van of another “spark” waiting at
the Caulfield station in May last, killing
three passengers and injuring more than a
score. It was proved before the board that
the train had passed a “home” signal at
danger, and that both men had been guilty
of carelessness. Under the circumstances
not one in a hundred in the service expected
anything less than the sack for the erring
ones. Milvain was reduced to the position
of ostler and Hargreaves knocked back into
the rank of first-class porter. Neither man,
therefore, will lose his superannuation, and
the sooner the union lets the matter drop
the better.
In one of its lucid intervals, the N.S.W.
Government has introduced legislation
authorising the cessation of contributions
to Bung’s compensation fund, which has
grown to £960,000 (the Treasury has the
use of most of it at 5 p.c.), although not a
third of that amount is required by the
Licenses Reduction Board, and empowering
the latter body to grant permits for the sale
of liquor with meals after the statutory
closing hour, 6 p.m. This moiety of the
measure removes an irrational restriction,
and if the board refuses permits to grog-
shops which merely make a pretence of pro-
viding beds and board, the standard of those
places will probably improve. But one Lane,
a “Nationalist” M.L.A., hotly insinuated
that Bung had the Government in the bag,
and included the Fuller Government in the
charge, whereupon Nationalist-leader Bavin
curtly recommended him to quit the party
if that was the way he felt. Which simply
shows the wickedness of the party system
—all the members of a party must pretend
to believe in the same things whether they
do or not.
Vic. soldier-settlers are behind to the
extent of close on £5,000,000, and even the
Allancocks are getting alarmed. Of the
2700 Diggers who have gone off their hold-
ings, no less than 1800 simply failed. The
Cocky party is talking of providing a sink-
ing fund for the loans raised for conces-
sions to Digger-farmers, and that is quite
right. But someone mentions that to find
the requisite amount it would be necessary
to put 10 p.c. on to the income-tax; and
then everybody shudders and hurries on.
Can’t the kid struggle with the problem pre-
sently?
“Just visualise what it would mean,” said
Arthur Rickard, the Moltke of estate agents,
to the National Club, Sydney, “if the
Empire, with 450,000,000 of people, could
have inter-Empire Freetrade and Protection
against the rest of the world.” Well, any
one can visualise the inter-Empire Freetrade
idea. It suggests a nightmare of blue goril-
las, all drunk and immoral and with previous
convictions, and a panorama of 300 witches
dancing on 3000 blasted heaths. A serious
question is this: Supposing all the tariff
revenues derived from inter-Empire com-
merce were abandoned, how could the
Dominion Treasurers live unless they levied
a tax of 974 per cent, on the profits of estate
agents ?
“Clifford Snook”: It is a favorite expres-
sion nowadays that “politics are a dirty
game.” For that matter religion is a dirty
game if its ministers make it so, and charity
is a filthy proceeding if the professed Good
Samaritan lives by swindling wounded travel-
lers, and art is a loathsome job if the artist
is a dealer exclusively in the obscene. It
isn’t politics which are unclean, but a lot of
the men in them. Certainly they pretend
that they would be clean if politics would
let them. But they wouldn’t. There are
plenty of members and aldermen who would
be grimy in Heaven. Which is the reason
why they won’t go there.
“Bihlad”: Although the Government is
moving in to Canberra, so much remains to
be done that the workmen now employed
have been assured of five years’ more em-
ployment at £2,000,000 a year. After that, I
suppose the permanent Parliament House
will remain to be built, the sumptuous exist-
ing structure being only temporary. Next
time I look in at the Eternal City I will
ascertain if the Papal palace is regarded
as permanent, or if the Pope is living in a
temporary Vatican and intends to put up
a real edifice shortly. If he was an Aus-
tralian Government he would certainly have
some much scheme in view. It is a relief
to know that the Pyramids have come to
stay. If they proved to be temporary after
all these years, it would be a blow.
[For any Political paragraphs which require a
signature under the law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney,
are responsible.]
BACK TO THE FOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Gillies, who with Messrs. Loughlin and
Goodin broke away from the ranks of the N-ia-W.
Parliamentary Labor Party, returned to Caucus last
week. Mr. Goodin had already rejoined the party.
In Parliamentary circles it is predicted that at an
early date Mr. Loughlin will resume his place in
the Labor ranks, though he still remains an Inde-
pendent.”
Back to the fold, chaps, back to the fold!
Dreary without is the prospect and cold.
Hopeless your task, as you doubtless have seen,
Useless attempting to “buck the machine.”
Wisest is he -who sneaks back by the gate
Fitly repentant before ’tis too late.
Threatened or blarneyed, dragooned or cajoled,
Back to the fold!
See, you’re forgiven your folly and sin,
Comrades are thronging to welcome you in,
Backslidings pardoned in heads that are hot,
Midsummer madness condoned and forgot.
Veal such as smoked for the Prodigal Son
Waits for you now that your travels are done.
Bygones were bygones the moment you strolled
Back to the fold.
Back to your galley thwarts now you must go
But you’ve l had your few crowded hours', youjknow.
There were newspaper headlines screaming your
names
And loudly bellowing your altruist aims.
You bearded a Premier to his face
And shook a Government to its base.
You were rebels who now are —lo and behold !
Back in the fold.
Well, they cannot rob you, re-branded strays,
Of the memory of those few hectic days
When you held the stage and counted a bit—
At least as much as Sim Tappertit.
You have had your fling in the limelight’s glow ;
Now, sadder and wiser men you go,
My lads of wax with the hearts of gold,
Back to the fold.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
ĥ
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
;
; ■
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
MSSSJN
nrrr»ir»?* , > —CO. LTn
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Road-Maker
and Crop-Raiser
The Martin Ditcher
Builds, Repairs and Maintains
Roads; Ditches, Terraces, Grades,
Levels, Fills In, Reclaims, Irrigates.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T.T. B’l’gs, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
Write
to
Desk B.
ttniiin.'inmnmiiimrfo LTD.'
Challis House, Martin Place,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.,
Melbourne (in this table goodwill. £198,000,
is not reckoned as an asset) :
, Dividends ■,
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ord. Off. Deficit.
Sept., £ £, £ £ £
1915’.. 47,157 7500 144 p.c. =18,125 9,766 48,687
Transferred to capital, £125,000 .. 173,687
1916.. 54,201 7500 8 p.c. = 20,000 4,881 151.367
1917.. 47,179 7500 8 „ „ 20,000 6,122 138,310
1918.. 29,035 7500 7 „ „ 17,500 5,754 140,031
1919.. 56,573 7500 9 ~ „ 22,500 10,359 123,817
1920.. 60,048 7500 10 „ „ 25,000 5,484 101,753
1921.. 61,438 7500 111 „ ~28,750 5,836 82,401
Reserves.
1922. .165,478 7500 13 „ ~32,500 8,529 34,548
1923.. 94,194 7500 20 „ „ 50,000 20,099 [ ...
Reserves written off . . . . 37,000 j ’
1924.. 98,495 7500 20 p.c. =50,000 33,684 21,454
Deficit,
Co. reconstructed. Pref. rate lifted
to 64 p.c. ; three new ords. issued for
two old, absorbing £125,000 .. 103,546
Additions to reserves, £29,937 .. 73,609
61 n.c. To Reserves.
1925.. 80,872 83125 13g p.c.= 51,250 21,497 52,112
Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 39,612
Reserves.
1926.-191,858 8125 14 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
There has been a sharp rise in the stock.
Twelve months ago there were sales at
465. 9d.; early in December a parcel was
picked up at 625.; by the end of the year
70s. was got; after touching 82s. the price
fell back to 755. Obviously the market is
expectant. In presenting the 1926 accounts
the directors told shareholders: —
Although the profits show considerable increase,
the directors consider it essential, in the best interests
of the company, to further strengthen the reserves
so that all contingencies arising in the constantly
changing newspaper world may be provided for. It
is not necessary to state what these contingencies
are. Many, experience shows, are unforeseen. They
include competition, fluctuation in selling prices, the
replacement of plant which, although serviceable,
may become obsolete by successive modern improve-
ments, and other eventualities. If any of our
publications be faced with competition in the future,
it may be assumed that such competition would be
supported by capital, skill and modern plant. To
meet this our equipment must be thoroughly effective.
From the spring both in the disclosed
profits and the price of the shares, it might
be concluded that all danger of competition
has passed. But danger of competition
never will pass, and it will increase
with the growth of Melbourne; and
the prolonged prosperity of the State will
make it more inevitable. It is no use the
investor saying that the Herald has beaten
off opposition so often that it will never
have any more. A new generation of triers
is always growing up; and each generation
thinks it knows some trick that its predeces-
sor missed. If a few years ago you had
asked that well-established character, the
Man in the Street, what chance there was
for a new morning newspaper in Sydney, he
would have told you there was precious little :
yet to-day there are two new papers, and
one of them claims a circulation greater
than the S. M. Herald’s. Maybe the direc-
tors made a little less generous internal
provision for contingencies last year; but
there are other good reasons why the profits
should have moved up briskly. Early in
the year the co. got rid of the Sun competi-
tion, from which it had been suffering more
than, naturally, it cared to admit. Not only
was there freedom from competition, but
there was the profit from the Pictorial,
which was bought when Sun Newspapers
were induced to relinquish the fight. Of some
importance also was the co.’s happy release
from the drag of Punch.
Profits of the introductory table include
additions to reserves (income-tax appropria-
tion account, 1925, was written back into
p. and 1.). This comparison shows the move-
ments of the various funds: —
1925. 1926.
Contingency reserve .. .. £115,000 £167,600
Depreciation reserve .. .. 23,500 61,000
Div. equalisation .. . . . . 25,000
During the term 50,000 employees’ ordinary
shares of £1 each were issued at a premium
of ss. per share; the £12,500 is included in
contingencies reserve. The additions (ex-
cluding the share premiums) have, as stated,
been counted as true profits. The accounts
and report don’t claim so much. “Profit for
the year,” the directors say, “after providing
for depreciation in respect to plant, machinery
and paper and bad and doubtful debts is
£141,470.” But further on : “Profits of Pic-
torial News Pty., Ltd. [Sltn Pictorial] and
United Press Pty., Ltd. [Table Talk, etc.],
are not included in the balance sheet; they
remain to the credit of the cos. concerned.”
There may, however, be good reason for
letting the profits remain “to the credit of the
cos. concerned.” “Shares in other cos., at
book values,” stand at £151,037 ; and in that
there may be a lump of goodwill which will
have to be —or at any rate ought to be —
written off out of profits. Nevertheless the
time should come when the subsidiaries ought
to be throwing a trifle into the pool.
Big changes have occurred in the balance-
sheet figures during the last couple of years:
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Stock.. ..£108,087 £79,754 £119,308 £155.391
Book debts, etc. 56,890 156,336 240,914 320,847
War Loans, etc. 70,389
Shares in other
cos. .. 100 5,662 151,037 151,037
Cash .. .. 27,621 115 115 115
Liquid.assets £263,087 £241,867 £511,374 £627,390
Liabilities . . 91,782 196,925 337,781 285,239
Liquid surplus £171,305 £44,942 £173,593 £342,151
Freeholds . . 73,645 180,528 176,157 *192,765
Machinery and
plant .. 45,796 210,733 256,241 278,143
Net assets . . £290,746 £436,203 £605|991 £813,059
•Includes leasehold £282.
So, after paying for additional premises and
plant and other things, including purchased
papers, the co. has £168,558 more in liquids
(net) than it had a year ago; and meantime
it has got in £64,096 of capital and £12,500
of premiums.
• •••••
What are the prospects? The dividends
last year took less than half 'of the profit
according to the table above; and this paper
doubts whether the table overstates the true
profit. On the other hand, the divs. amounted
to more than the total profits of any previous
year except 1922-23-24. Are 1922-23-24 fail-
examples of what the future is to be? Or
were those years of extraordinary prosperity?
With opposition can the co. do much better
than it did in 1924 and 1925? It is quite
possible that there may be a new issue of
shares. But that won’t improve the earn-
ings. On the basis of last year’s profit the
dividend is much less than it might be. More-
over, if everything goes very well, there is
no reason- why those nrofits should not be
maintained. But there are pretty large risks.
* * *
British Australian Cotton Associa-
tion, Ltd.—There was turmoil and trouble
two years ago when the growers combined
and forced the co. to terms. A movement
for the establishment of co-operative gins was
gaining momentum, and practically nothing
was left for the co. but to offer the growers
the physical assets (with the exception of the
liquids) on certain terms. It is unnecessary
to state the conditions, for the option granted
to the growers is not to be exercised. The
report records the latest development in
these words:—
The Queensland Council of Agriculture, acting on
behalf of the growers, having notified your directors
that it is not their intention to exercise the option
granted them under agreement dated April 21, 1925,
the negotiations in connection with the same have
been terminated and the growers’ representatives have
retired from the board.
The original action was not over-generous
treatment of a co., which has tried bravely
to place cotton-growing in Australia on a
firm footing. Practically the whole field had
to be pioneered and most of the growers
cotton-educated. That some of the pioneer-
ing was done in a manner more lavish than
efficient is, at this distance, merely a matter
of regret. In all the circumstances, the
growers’ latest decision seems wise.
Much of the cotton area is in the belt
affected by the drought in Queensland last
year, and the result is visible in the quantity
received at the ginneries: 9,047,0631 b. of
seed cotton, equal to 6135 bales of lint,
compared with 18,244,0141 b. and 11,630 bales
for the previous year. The agreement with
the Queensland Government, under which the
growers received a guaranteed price, has
now expired, and the Federal Government
has granted a bonus of lid. per lb. of seed
cotton. The co.’s oil mill handled 6,363,2191 b.
of seed and the valuable by-products were
in good demand —“greater than could be sup-
plied”—a bright feature. To stabilise. the
demand interests in two cos. which handle
the by-products have been acquired: “Shares
in other cos, £25,505, and Jetter bleaching
process, £1000,” record the movement. The
light crop affected revenue, which was
£51,011 for the 13 months to September 30,
compared with £71,858 for the preceding
12 months. But, despite the smaller crop,
expenditure was £43,236 as against £34,690.
That 25 p.c. increase is discouraging, par-
ticularly when it is recalled that the board
gave itself three cheers over the decrease in
1925. It is explained that “all the expenses
in connection with the valuation of the co.’s
assets and negotiations with the growers
and other non-recurring exes, were written
off against the net trading profit of £15,828.”
That makes it a bit better, but not much ;
there always is something to blame for
heavier outgoings—and no doubt always
will be. Both prefs. and ords. are passed
over, the £7776 of alleged net profit being
transferred to the “general reserve to be
applied in providing for depreciation, taxa-
tion, extinguishing of preliminary and other
establishment charges, or such other manner
as the directors shall determine.” That will
lift the account to £37,179 (it was drawn on
for £942 during the term). There is, in
addition, a reserve for depreciation of £3603
(unchanged). The two reserves total
£40,782, a small sum to do the job. Fixed
assets at September 30, for instance,
amounted to £329,205, and the accounts don’t
suggest that the provision for depreciation
has been anything like adequate. Here are
the fixed assets and all other tangibles:—
Land and buildings, railway sidings, road-
ways, machinery, plant, furniture, etc... £329,205
Stocks 31,518
Cash and Commonwealth Loan .. .. 40,098
Book debts, investments, etc. .. .. 80,165
The value of many of the fixed assets depends
upon the future of the industry, and that is
very cloudy at present. The intangibles to
be “extinguished” are: Establishment and
research charges, £57,550; and preference
share expenses, £22,370. There is also the
£91,000 down for goodwill, an item which
needs to be “extinguished” no less than the
others. At September 30 the co. owed
£9094 to sundry creditors and £11,013 to the
bank; but these debts were covered twice
over by Commonwealth stock. There are
200,000 prefs. and 361,335 ords. Prefs. are
preferential as to divs. and assets in the
event of distribution. The outlook isn’t
brilliant by any means, but a hope or two
may be pinned to the oil mill and its pro-
ducts. Meantime the pref. div. accumulates ;
ords. need not take any interest just yet.
On the subject of the oil-mills, an informed
correspondent writes: —
The British-Australian Cotton Association’s
factory at Whinstanes, Brisbane, opened in 1924
primarily to deal with the seed from the Queensland
cotton crops, now employs about 50 hands. When
it was found that, through indifferent seasons and
the uncertainty among farmers regarding the future
of cotton-growing in Queensland, the local crop was
insufficient to keep the mill going, the management
turned abroad for raw material. The result has
been the purchase of several lots of cotton seed from
New Caledonia and elsewhere, and lately a shipment
of 3000 tons has been landed from East Africa. The
mill met another want during the late drought by
helping to supply the market with stock foods in
the shape of cotton-seed meal, oilcake, etc. Since
it was opened, not a day has been lost through
labor troubles.
* * * *
The Equitable Building and Invest-
ment Co., of Welliugton (M.L.) :
To
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1916.. £7725 10p.e.=£6000 £1725 £76,693
1917.. 6624 10 „ ~ 6000 624 77,317
1918.. 6870 10 „ „ 6000 870 78,187
1919.. 7185 10 „ „ 6000 1185 79,372
1920.. 7936 10 „ „ 6000 1936 81,308
Profit on sale of assets .. 3767 85,075
1921.. 6814 10 p.c. = 6000 814 85,889
1922.. 4704 10 „ „ 6000 84,593
1923.. 7811 10 ~ „ 6000 1811 86,404
1924.. 9682 10 ~ „ 6000 3082 90,086
1925.. 9238 10 ~ „ 6000 3238 93,324
1926.. 8265 10 „ „ 6000 2265 95,589
Profits for the past four years have been
well over the 10 per cent., and although the
decrease in earnings last year was rather
substantial, the old rate is not in danger;
conservatism in the matter of divs. in earlier
years is benefiting present shareholders.
Balance-sheet figures suggest that the present
management is, to say the least of it, con-
servative too :
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital and
reserves . . £144,308 £153,086 £156,324 £158,589
Liabilities .. 295,249 245,000 250,161 237,081
Assets:—
Advances . . 400,240 369,559 377,299 366,363
Freeholds . . 9,300 —•—
Liquid . . 30,017 28,527 29,185 29,308
The co. disposed of its freehold in 1921 at
£3767 more than the figure at which it stood
in the books. That surplus was transferred
to a contingency reserve, which has grown to
£6300. It is included with reserves in the
introductory table: speaking at a recent
annual meeting, chairman Beauchamp said
there was no reason to believe any portion
of it would be required and that it could be
regarded as an addition to the total laid by.
Allowing for the final div. there was £26,308
liquid and advances in the books at £366,368
to cover £237,081 of outside money, which
means that the advances could depreciate
£155,000 in value before a penny of
depositors’ money would be jeopardised.
The decline in earnings in 1925, notwith-
standing the prosperity of that year, and the
further fall last term, don’t look promising.
Still the large reserves—equal to one and a
half times paid capital—make the earning of
the 10 p.c. div. easy; total funds have to
bring in less than 4 p.c. p.a. to do the neces-
sary. Considering the amount of money at
risk, the return over the past decade has
been meagre. It suggests that the co. is
either selecting only high-class securities and
lending at a modest rate, or paying heavily
for overhead. The latter it certainly isn’t
doing. Directors’ fees last year were only
£250 and total salaries no more than £3050.
It might do better if it was spending twice
as much.
Stockton Borehole Collieries, Ltd.,
Teralba (N.S.W.), which, in September,
1920, wrote up the book value of its mine
from £49,525 to £120,017 and issued 123,014
shares of £1 paid to 17s. 6d. in place of the
10,991 prefs. paid to 10s. per share and the
60,000 fully-paid 10s. shares: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1921.. £8,567 Nil £4743 £3824 £3,824
1922.. 1,983 Nil 4293 1,514
1923.. 9,571 Nil 3543 5728 7,242
1924.. 10,027 2* p.c. = £2845 7182 14,424
1925.. 639 Nil 639 15,063
Loss
1926.. 3,472 Nil 11.591
“The colliery,” the report says ambiguously,
“remained on strike for nine months” of the
period under review; there was a general
resumption on June 22, since when work has
been continuous. For the 12 months a loss
of £3472 was recorded, but the directors are
not disturbed, nor, seemingly, are the share-
holders. The co. started in 1910, was recon-
structed in 1921, and in the whole of its
history there has been but one div. —the 21
p.c. of 1924. There is a debenture debt of
£21,300 —down £540 —while at the close of
the accounts a pay was due to the miners and
£3732 to sundry creditors, making £9130 in
all. More or less liquid assets amounted to
£12,743 compared with £21,643 at the previ-
ous balance, with the mine property and
plant, shares in other cos. and deposits £6923
greater at £143,040. (In 1924 shares and
deposits were in at £24,269.) The mine is
working a good quality coking coal, its chief
market being the 8.H.P.; R. N. Kirk is one
of the directors. Shareholders have either a
strong vein of benevolence or philosophy in
their make-up, for a million pounds’ worth of
coal has been extracted, out of which they
have received £2845 in divs! There were
sales of the £1 shares at 6s. 9d. last month.
* * * *
Australian Traders’ Insurance Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re-
Sept., Surplus. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
1921.. £5846 8 p.c. = £1776 £4070 £4,070
Share premiums . . .. 250 4,320
1922.. 4039 8 p.c. = 1980 2059 6,379
1923.. 4189 8 „ „ 1980 2209 8,583
1924.. 2902 8 „ „ 1980 922 9,510
1925.. 2846 8 „ 1980 866 10,376
1926.. 6176 10 „ „ 2475 3701 14,077
•Including reserve for unexpired risks.
All the shares of this solid little concern
were acquired by the Commonwealth Traders’
Insurance Co., Ltd., two years ago, and the
fact that those responsible for the progress of
the A.T.I. now have a hand in the manage-
ment of the bigger co. is worth noting. Pro-
gress last year was the best recorded: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1921.. £9,577 £3,433 £1435 35.8 p.c. 15.0 p.c.
1922.. 12,893 7,129 3416 55.3 „ 20.5 „
1923.. 16,959 9,031 5573 53.2 „ 33.4 „
1924.. 19,349 12,160 6220 62.8 „ 32.1 „
1925.. 21,411 13,177 7577 61.5 „ 85.4 „
1926.. 30,166 18,942 6780 62.7 „ 22.5 ~
The underwriting experience was unfortunate
—the co. does a big island business, and
losses there always have been high;
and last year’s general experience was
not good. Expenditure, however, was
cut well back. Although the div. was
lifted a couple of points only 40 p.c. of
the surplus was distributed. In addition to
the reserve for unexpired risks which, at
£12,065, was the 40 n.c. usually looked for,
there was £2OOO-odd left over after the final
div. had been distributed. Balance-sheet
figures compare:—
1921. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital . . £22,200 £24,750 £24,750 £24,750
Liabilities .. 4,134 8,745 12,420 7,341
Public securities. . 9,960 23,952 21,605 13,156
Loans at short call,
etc 15.575 13,697 15,588 17,106
Book debts .. 3,053 5,859 5,815 7,189
Cash . . ~ 3,053 555 6,238 10,885
Property . . .. - 281 307
Chief movement of funds was an increase of
cash and loans at the expense of Common-
wealth loans, with the result that the return
from investments (£1731) was £457 less. A
continuance of the 10 p.c. div. seems a
reasonable anticipation for the parent co.
Invincible Colliery, Ltd., Cullen Bullen
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Net Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
1916.. £2,860 £2860 £1,634
1917.. 7,508 8 p.c. = £8,320 822
1918.. 7,882 5 „ „ 5,200 2682 3,504
1919.. 4,513 4 „ „ 4,160 353 3,857
1920.. 14,832 11 „ ~ 10,400 4432 8,289
1921.. 23,810 20 „ „ 20,800 3010 11,299
1922.. 5,720 51,, ~ 5,720 11,299
1923.. 10,854 10 „ „ 10,400 454 11,753
1924.. 10,400 10 „ ~ 10.400 11,753
1925.. 5,365 5 „ „ 5,200 165 11,918
1926.. 5,216 5 ~ „ 5,200 16 11,934
This time the chief cause of the small profit
is clear: the co. suffered from the long stop;
page produced by the colliery engine-drivers’
strike. The directors, as usual, offer no
comment. That is in keeping with the ship-
ping practice: Lloward Smith holds a con-
trolling interest and acts as managing agent.
In addition to the reserves shown in the
table there is an accident insurance fund of
£19,932 —£1891 was added last year despite
the small profit—-though it is almost certain
that cover for workers’ accidents has been


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
&
P o ORP,Jk£ °N
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DTi
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Bates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND
EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G - HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
THE CHOICE OF
INVESTMENTS
HOW TO PICK THEM.
See
"'WitdCat' Monthly”
for February.
Available on Saturday at all
principal Newsagents, or direct
from
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
We stock -f GF -j- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
# * * *
Numberless problems confront engineers designing
efficient water systems, and experts are turning more
and more to the use of Pioneer Wood Pipe for their
most important projects. This highly efficient conduit
cannot rust or corrode even after years of service,
and at all times maintains consistent, full flow
delivery. Maintenance costs are practically nil, and
it is installed with far greater facility and at much
less cost than is metal piping. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, New
South Wales.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
• # * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yea is' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * •
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
taken out in the usual manner. The amount
therefore probably ought to be reckoned as a
true reserve, and if that were done of course
the annual additions would have to be
regarded as true profit also. These figures, at
any rate, suggest that the position is not
made to look better than it is: —
1916. 1921. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets .. £10,410 £59,605 £62,788 £59,269
Liabilities .. 3,588 12,266 7,326 f,856
Surplus .. £6,822 £47,339 £55,462 £51,413
Thus, though reserves (apart from the acci-
dent fund) have moved up only ±635 since
1921, liquid assets have increased by £4074;
and meantime a good deal of money has cer-
tainly been spent on plant, etc. Last year,
it is true, liquid assets shrank; but the
greater part of that was admittedly due to
payments for fixed assets. Deducting the
final div. the liquid surplus amounted to
£48,813. As the paid capital is £104,000 in
£1 shares, that amount is equal to 9s. 4d. per
share. The fixed assets are in at a written-
down value equal to 16s. 9d. On those
figures the market isn’t over-valuing the scrip
at 19s. But the big co. controls the situa-
tion, and that isn’t an attractive feature.
• * * •
Unless some unforeseen accident happens
flic Bank of New South Wales will presently
absorb the Western Australian Bank.
Although the final steps have yet to be taken,
it is understood that the price is to be
£1,900,000, equal to 545. 3d. for each of the
700,000 £1 shares. If that is the price the
B.N.S.W. is taking over the smaller concern
at a conservative valuation, seeing that
visible reserves at last balance were in at
£1,310,850. Although the capital of the
Bank of New Zealand is greater than that
of the Wales, the latter is easily the great-
est Australasian bank, and the absorption,
when completed, will emphasise its su-
premacy.
# * * #
“Trier”: Sydney management of mining
shows has done much to kill the
industry in N. S. Wales. The crazy
Companies Act under which “managers”
of isolated ventures operate gives them
power to do just what they like with
shareholders’ funds. Articles of association
are submitted to, and accepted by, the
Registrar-General, who possesses neither
power nor authority to enforce their observ-
ance. “Meetings of shareholders shall bo
held annually, on a date to be fixed by the
directors,” who “bind” themselves that they
will, at such annual meeting, render accounts
and generally give a report of their steward-
ship. This they do —if it suits their book.
If it doesn’t —well, they just let the annual
meeting slide. Directors or other officials
resign, and the others fill the vacancies with
their nominees “until the annual meeting.”
This is pushed back further and further,
according to the outlook, mining and other-
wise. Shareholders, in a ferment, say hard
things and go on longing for the day when
they will have a chance to impeach the man-
agement. Some of them see the Registrar-
General ; he tells them how powerless he is
to assist them in prodding the procrastinat-
ing directors, who may have “directed” their
cash westward. In the end such a co. just
ceases to function when every bob has been
blewed and no more can be wheedled out of
the victims —and the corpse isn’t even buried
in an official winding-sheet. It is just left
to rot by the wayside, while its officials pro-
ceed to do something similar to another
group of mugs. Maybe the same group will
come to light in chasing what they have just
buried. Every Government for the last
quarter of a century has stated its intention
of “amending the Companies Act,” but the
outrage remains intact. Attorney-General
McTiernan might do worse than try his
hand on a cure for this form of spieling.
* * * »
J. B. Jaquet, N. S. Wales chief inspector
of mines, raises the point whether the. copper
and silver-lode at Captain’s Flat might be
taken up and exploited at the point where
production ceased in 1899. The locality is
a flat patch of earth, perched among high
mountains. 27 miles from Bungendore, going
towards Monaro. The demise in the ’seven-
ties of an old working bullock named Cap-
tain gave the later mining camp its name,
and there was much spasmodic activity under
the leadership of W. H. Trewenack during
the ’eighties and ’nineties, when the Lake
George was the dominant show. Jaquet says
that the lode, where worked, varied from
“a few feet to 40 feet” in width, and that
the content, primarily copper, was not more
valuable than 1 p.c. in the best spots. Also,
the lode appears only exceeded in bulk by
Broken Hill, it having been traced for 4000
feet on the surface. The silver and gold con-
tent was recoverable in small fractions during
the life of the Lake George Co. Newer
processes may, as Jaquet suggests, alter the
outlook; but the railway at Bungendore is
still 27 miles away, and transport and all
other costs have leaped since 1899. The
scrip had some lively spasms on ’Change, the
20s. shares at one stage seeing as much as
80s.
* # # #
Carpathia (N.S.W.), which was feeling
pretty uncertain of itself on account of short-
age of water, has had a good enough fall to
carry things on for a couple of months.
Results at this the most consistent little
lode-tinmine Australia has seen for 20 years
continue quite fair, and the next dividend is
coming round the corner. A rather more
ambitious plan of development is proceeding,
too.
• • * *
The murk surrounding Flagstone (N.S.W.)
grows thicker. The 10-head mill managed 230
tons and recovered three tons of concentrates
for the first three weeks in January, the
usual crop of excuses accompanying the
report of this performance. “New screens
are reducing our crushing very much,” says
the mine manager, and adds that he will not
know definitely whether this reduction in
output will improve extraction until a further
trial. The second truckline to connect the
Cartwheel lease was started four months
ago, and was to have been a six weeks’ job.
It is still unfinished, and “no further work
was done here last week owing to labor
shortage.”
* # * *
In a recent Yankee estimate of the amount
of oil likely to be extracted from the world’s
oil-sliale deposits Australia was named first.
N. S. Wales was stated to “have enormous
deposits of great oil riches; thick, horizontal
seams with markets near at hand for refined
products. The torbanites with oil yield up to
150 gallons per ton is especially rich and
has a low sulphur content!” Murrurundi was
mentioned as yielding 70gals. to the ton, and
"attention was also called to the fact that
“Queensland has deposits of both kerosene
and petroliferous shale.” The Hartley
(N.S.W.) shale gives the highest oil content
in the world —130 to 170 gallons to the ton.”
Scotland made a start on shale in 1850, and
is to-day the largest producer of oil-shale
products in the world, having £12,500,000
invested in the business.
* * * *
Unsuccessful attempts have been made
during the past few years to liven up West-
ralia’s last remaining but almost dead tin-
field. Now another effort is to be made by
a London syndicate in conjunction with two
or three Perth speculators. To date Green-
buslies has produced over a million pounds’
worth of tin, but for some time past the
output has been very small.
* * * *
At last the long-drawn-out case in which
Neil McNeil and Claude de Bernales
claimed many thousands alleged to have been
overcharged by the Westralian Mines Depart-
ment for smelting copper ores at the Ravens-
thorpe State plant has come to an end.
Worsted in the State courts, successive Gov-
ernments unsuccessfully appealed first to the
High Court and then to the Privy Council.
But for their pigheadedness litigation which
first started in 1921 would have been settled
long ago and the State saved a big sum in
law costs.
* • * *
Reasons why the Kalgoorlie mining cos.
were ignoring the State Government’s request
to amalgamate were given by chairman Bell
at the Perseverance meeting. Bell said there
were almost insuperable difficulties in the
way of amalgamation, not only in obtaining
one suitable man to manage all the mines,
but in settling a satisfactory basis for a
fusion. He cited the case of the Persever-
ance, which, although regarded as a derelict
a few years ago, had since produced and
sold nearly £2,000,000 worth of gold. Bell
added that the State Government’s idea of
lielpiug the industry by installing a central
power-station was not considered by the
Federal Government as the best means of
lending a hand. Dr. Edwards, director, who
followed Bell, said that indications were
all in favor of the Perseverance having a
good few years of life providing working con-
ditions did not get worse. Costs would be
brought down if humanly possible. He
praised tins present manager, Ernest Wil-
liams, to whom the meeting unanimously
voted an honorarium of £250. The hono-
rarium is worth a lot more than the reasons
given why the cos. shouldn’t amalgamate.
They are so thin that the wind whistles
through them.
* * * *
Associated Co.’s Canadian mines are doing
better than ever. The Vipond produced
578,642 dollars’ worth of gold during the
11 months ended November 30 last, against
511,220 for the same period of 1925. Pro-
duction of the Keeley silver-mines for the first
11 months of 1926 amounted to 1,368,9010 z.
against 1,274,7560 z. for the same period of
the previous year.
**, * *
Devon (W.A.) formerly blamed manage-
ments for its failure to make good, but now
it reckons that the use of salt water in
the roasting-plant is the fly in the ointment.
To cope with this difficulty more capital has
been raised. Shareholders’ optimism was so
pronounced at the meeting recently called to
sanction such increase of capital that some
of them agreed to find their share right away.
As this Column has remarked on more than
one occasion, the Devon belongs to a hand-
to-mouth class of mine which does not show
enough ore to make the shares more than a
risky gamble. Its gold deposit is capricious
both in size and value..
* * * *
Ashburton, in Nor’-Westralia, is being
talked of in Perth on the strength of a
report by the late W. J. Kohler, who was
there in 1899. Kohler reckoned that some
of the Ashburton copper and lead outcrops
rivalled, and in some instances surpassed,
the cap of the Broken Hill lode in outward
appearance, and that gold and other minerals
were widely distributed. But of course
present cost of transport would be very
high. It becomes a question, then, whether
there are large and rich enough lodes to
justify railway connection.
* * * *
While good discoveries at Glenelg (W.A.)
have, so far, been few, the field should have
a fair trial during the winter. A number
of good prospectors are now there. One
case of salting has come under notice, but
there is no hope of getting away with that
sort of thing these days. As prospectors
are having a pretty rough spin, the Govern-
ment might let them have the few kerosene-
tins of water they require from the State
tanks gratis, instead of charging them 2d.
per tin. The mining industry owes the
Avater-supply department nothing, and a little
encouragement is due to prospectors.
* * * *
A prospecting syndicate has applied for
160 acres on the Pascoe River (N.Q.I and a
dredging area on Howie Greek for tin. The
160 acres to be worked by hydraulic sluicing
is said to show good wash 30ft. deep. In
the old tin days the Pascoe yielded some
extraordinarily rich patches, but was aban-
doned when tin fell and richer fields nearer
civilisation were opened up. Its drawback
is its inaccessibility. By pack-team it is
hundreds of miles to the nearest port. The
river mouth is sand-barred and open to the
s.-e. blows, although a wharf on Rock Island
would enable large boats to discharge cargo
in comparative shelter. A large area of
practically unprospected country lies behind
the Pascoe, and the Batavia gold area is
within coo-ee.
* * » *
The search for oil at Orallo (Q.) having
failed, the Roma Oil Corporation, a pup of
the Lander Co., has decided to give Roma
another trial, and preparations are now
being made to sink Roma No. 5 bore. The
site is being selected by oil-geolOgist Ball,
but as not very much is known of the under-
ground structure of the gas-bearing rocks
there, the most important point appears to
consist in getting far enough away from the
previous bores to avoid the possibility of
striking water-logged beds which may have
caused migration of the gas, etc. Previous
bores struck heavy supplies of gas of a suffi-
ciently wet nature to carry a fair content
of petrol, and proved the presence of a
large gas field there. But petrol is the
present objective.
# * * *
Redcap mine, Mungana (N.Q.), was
recently reported on by geologist Morton.
The Lady Jane and Girofla having been
closed down, the fate of the Chillagoe Smel-
ters now depends almost entirely on what
development work on the Redcap reveals.
Cairns .Chamber of Commerce is trying its
best to father a scheme for keeping Chil-
lagoe afloat; but its appeal to the Townsville
Chamber for support has been turned down
cold on the plea of the great loss to the State.
Redcap may make Cairns’s problem easier
to solve. The lode has been proved 220 ft.
in length and 45ft. wide, and the tunnel
is still going strongly through ore. Morton
gives 40,000 tons of oxidised ore proved so
far, but this figure is reached after paring
measurements to the bone. The ore carries
no silver, but averages 10 p.c. lead and
negligible zinc values. Further, it is an
ideal smelting mixture, though too low in
value as matters stand at present, for motor
haulage to Mungana is necessary. Morton
recommends urgent development work to see
how big the tonnage is and what the sul-
phide ore is likely to go, for everything points
to the leaching of lead, zinc and silver in
the present workings. Failing higher sul-
phide values, it is possible that present
values will pay if the tonnage is big enough
to warrant transport by tramway or aerial
ropeway. Manager Bussey and his team are
doing excellent work in opening up the lode.
* * * #
Details of Ratrut Basin’s new venture in
Siam show that the property is on the
east coast, 15 miles from the port of Sichon.
It is to be worked by bucket-dredge, and
Ratrut Basin proposes to finance the ven-
ture and increase its nominal capital by
issuing 34,487 pound shares now held in
reserve, plus 90,000 new shares to be author-
ised by the shareholders. The present issued
capital of the co. is £125,513; the new total
will be £250,000. Vendors are 'to get 54,487
shares, 7821 of which will go to people who
have had something to do with securing the
options, or with testing and inspecting the
property. The balance of 70,000 shares will
be offered to the public at ss. premium—
-ss. on application, ss. on allotment, the
balance in calls. The co. intends to put two
dredges on. The first will be shifted from
Ratrut, near Renong; another, electrically
operated, is to be ordered; Diesel engines
on the dredge will generate the juice. It is
hoped that the Itatrut dredge will be operat-
ing by the end of this year. The other may
be starting in 20 months’ time.
Boring and check-boring has divided the
new property into three sections. In the
upper section, the original syndicate, work-
ing with gravel pumps, recovered, it claims,
31b. per c.y. from 115,000 c.y. The middle
section has been tested to go lib. per c.y.
over 200 acres—a trifle under 10 million
yards. The lower section also contains a
similar yardage, and has averaged 12oz. for
all holes, with lib. for those that bottomed
at 50ft. From 60 or 70 tons of tin a month
are forecasted for the old dredge when that
sets in on the upper area in 12 months’ time.
It is all very glowing, and if it only works
out according to schedule, the new venture
will easily carry the old one on its back—
which is, of course, what is hoped for.
Last week’s Malayan tin reports indi-
cate that the properties are getting over
the damage and obstruction caused by the
monsoonal floods. In several cases heavy
deposits of sand and muck have to be cleaned
up, and this means delay in production.
Rawang had an unusual interruption; an
electric motor of the sluicing plant was put
out of action by lightning. It was estimated
that repairs would take a week, but
damages and loss of profits are covered by
insurance.
* * *■ *
Salamoa Goldfields is the latest New
Guinea flotation to be listed in Sydney.
Capital, £15,000 in £1 shares; 2000 f.-p’s
to the vendors; 6000, also f.p., the public’s;
balance in reserve. A gamble pure and
simple, with nothing much to suggest the
chances.


WHY THE BOSS IS SO AWFUL.
“The leaders of the Communist section of the Labor party are putting every obstacle in the way of the delegation which is to go to the U.S. A. to discover why the
workers in that country are so well paid and prosperous.”
THE KIND WOMAN: “But if, as you say, your husband is such an awful brute and makes you beg, why don’t you find out how to get rid of him?”
THE POOR LADY: “Oh no, mum! He’s my living, mum, and the more awfuller he is, mum, the more I get.”


tried the
rest-you’ll smoke the best
20 for VG
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD» LONDON.
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Teacher”: The appended are six of the
answers given by a class of Domestic Arts
girls at the December examination to a
question in civics: “What are policewomen
and what are their duties?”—
Policewomen have an easy position, no work to do
but a lot of worry. They keep their eye on women
MET HIS MATCH.
“He’s fast, isn’t he?”
“Oh, not very. Susan caught him.”
whom they think are mischievous or flighty. They have
sometimes to strip young or old ladies who thieve
from shops. This would not be a nice job for
WS „ith bad
■women and the policemen, and helps them to solve
what the} r cannot solve themselves.
Policewomen have a nicer way about them than
policemen and can do things a policeman cannot.
The only difference between a policeman and a
policewoman is the man wears a helmet but the
woman doesn’t.
The policewomen talk gently to women who are
about to travel the “Road to Ruin,” or to take the
wrong turning, .and persuade them to be good. Police-
men might not know which was the best way to
stop them, but policewomen do, because they know
the bad roads to wickedness best.
Policewomen are good, true women, the friends of
every man and woman, boy and girl who is good,
but . enemies of all wrongdoers. They carry an «
umbrella and only wear a badge.
* * * *
“Apache”: “Uramao” suggests a silk
posterior patch for pedestrians who don’t
want to be juggernauted by motors (B.
23/12/’26). I saw something of the sort
tried years ago. The squatters’ annual ama-
teur grass-fed picnic race meeting is the
“Cup Week” of our district, and during
that period cars of every make and condi-
tion, piloted by drivers of either sex and
irrespective of age or ability, make our main
street look like an over-worked ant-track.
The traffic not being under police super-
vision, the task of enforcing the by-laws is
left to the nuisance inspector-cum-common-
ranger, and he doesn’t amount to much as
a preventive agency. A few years back
Baddy Close came in for the races and Ins
bi-annual spree, and narrowly missed being
harvested by reckless drivers three times on
the opening night of the meeting. Early
next morning the publican noticed Paddy
gazing intently at the rear of his (Bungs)
new car. The next evening the bushman
sallied forth intent on enjoying himself and
minimising his risk. Attached to his belt by
a piece of wire, and covering his rear eleva-
tion, was a shining tin plate about a foot
in diameter, bearing the injunction “Stop.”
Some lady drivers were indignant, but among
the small boys at the hospital garden fete
that night Paddy was a bigger draw than
the ice-cream stall.
# * * *
“Gr.S.”: One of our firemen was missed
near the Mexican coast one pitch-dark night
last year, and the steamer, which was doing
31 knots in a fairly calm sea, was turned
back on her track. It was a thousand-to-
one chance against the swimmer being
located, but it came off. He had been in
the water for five hours, and, though badly
pecked by birds and nibbled by fish, had
managed to keep his head. After reaching
port he took a job on a farm inland where
the deepest water is in the rain-spout on a
wet day. Apropos, a bad scare came the
way of a Norwegian sailor on the barque
Grenada in 1910 in the North Atlantic. The
Old Man went to check the course at the
binnacle, and the man at the wheel reported
that he fancied he could hear a voice calling
faintly somewhere in the darkness astern.
Then they noticed that the patent log was
not spinning and ticking as it should. The
skipper felt the line, and got a couple of
hands to haul it in. The voice stopped call-
ing, and the log got heavier, until it was
near the ship’s side, when they saw a mem-
ber of the crew hanging on to the fan and
THE COWARD.
“Before we were married he used to call me an angel. Now he doesn't call me
anything.”
“Perhaps he doesn’t want to hurt your feelings.”
“Not he — it’s my private opinion that he isn’t game.”
weight. He said he fell from the jib-boom
and the log-line scraped his neck as he
floundered in the wash astern. He had been
in the water for about an hour, and was
so cliockfull of salt sea and cramped
with cold that the ship had to be hove-to
and a boat lowered to retrieve him. Ilis
harrowing experience should have left him
a changed man, but the last I saw of him
was outside the Palisade, Miller’s Point
(Sydney), drunk, and threatening to throw
a policeman into the harbor.
« * * *
“Sclmorrer”: The Chosen in Sydney
knitted their brows the other day when a
wealthy Jewish lady, lately deceased, was
found to have provided in her will for her
cremation. At the same time, as a good
Jewess, she wanted burial according to Jewish
rites. This is the first time that Sydney
Jewry has struck a difficulty which has
already cropped up elsewhere. The practice
in Britain is to bury the ashes in an ordi-
nary sized coffin and try to forget that there
is no full-sized body inside it; and here the
Chevra Kadusha (“Holy Brotherhood”) got
out of the difficulty by receiving “the
remains” for interment and ignoring the
knowledge of what had previously happened
to them.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: There is one job worse than
the hangman’s. It is to be a dog-inspector
at St. Hilda (Vic.). Not. only is the dog-
inspector’s moral sense liable to be con-
stantly outraged by the distressing nudity
and deplorable frankness of dogs, but he is
obliged, in the course of his official duties,
to secrete himself in rockeries, and .watch
mothers of grown-up families indulging in
sea bathes. And not only that again, but
he has to stand up in court and make a
confession such as this: “I watched the
defendant cross a strip of sand. She was
wearing a long wrapper and carrying a
towel. At the edge of the rockery she
divested herself of the wrapper, underneath
which was a bathing-costume. After swim-
ming for about ten minutes she came out
and removed the top portion of her costume
and dried that portion of her body. She then
removed the lower portion, dried herself and
walked in a nude state into the water and
washed her costume. When she had dressed
herself I approached her.” If the dog-
inspector had lived in classic times the lady
would then have sprinkled his face with
water, and he would have been turned into
a deer and been hunted along the Corso by
the dogs he inspects until his antlers were
caught in a Moreton bay and he was happily
killed. This, alas! is an unpoetie age—for
dog-inspectors.
* * * *
“Wanchai”: In Melbourne last week a
young migrant to this country supplied some-
thing original in the forgery line. By some
undisclosed means a collar from a suburban
laundry came into his possession. The bright
youth from overseas discovered that the
linen belonged to a man of substance, and
the owner’s signature in Indian ink on it
provided the material he * needed. A forged
cheque for the amount of £42 followed; and
he got it cashed, too.
• * * *
“X.A.M.”: Several members of a family
living in the district of Rangitata (M.L.),
having had a meal in which cauliflower
figured conspicuously, were suddenly stricken
with illness. A doctor was called in and
promptly diagnosed the trouble as arsenic
poisoning. It was a close call, but all
recovered. Inquiries elicited the fact that the
cauliflowers had been purchased at an auc-
tion mart in the neighboring town. They
had been grown in an orchard. While the
orchardist was spraying his. trees with an
arsenical compound, the liquid, dripping oft
the trees, had been absorbed by the vegetable.
A DILEMMA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The captain stood upon the deck and said in accents
short,
“Now get a move on, all of you; it’s time to
leave the port!”
Some members of the crew came up and said, “Sir,
here we stick
Until you send the cook away; the victuals make
us sick.
“The stews are covered thick with grease, the
spuds are always raw,
The steaks are burnt to cinders and so tough they
break your jaw ;
Bill gives us porridge full of lumps, we cannot
drink the tea.
Unless you fire him on the spot we’ll never get
to sea.”
“All right,” the captain answered them, “the cook
shall leave to-day.”
And then a lusty fireman rose, and said “Sir, let me
say '
We think Bill’s stews are crimson fine, we love
his mutton chops,
Ar.d me and all my mates will quit unless old
Bill he stops.”
The controversy raged for years —in fact, it’s raging
still —
Between the mates the cook has made and those
whom he makes ill;
The cargo has been jettisoned—it mouldered long
ago;
And, on the captain’s worried head his hair has
turned to snow.
The spiders spin between the masts; the shell-fish
clog the keel,
And half the crew gets very sick each time it has
a meal;
But others still stick to the cook. One hope alone
prevails—
The ancient cook at last must die; ’tis then the
vessel sails.
M.L.
ELEANOR PHARAZYN.
SECOND PHASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I loved you just a little, just a little
(Love is brittle),
When I loved you just a little, just a little, Dear,
my Dear,
I could make you songs in plenty, 0 my sweet-and-
less-than-twenty,
Free from fear.
But I’ve learnt to love you lately very greatly
(Love is stately,
Love is oddly shy and tender, O my slender lass of
dreams),
And I cannot make you love-songs, for you stand too
far above songs,
So it seems.
N.S.W.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.


THE OBSTACLE RACE.
“The Melbourne police complain that the task of bringing criminals to book is made much harder owing to the operations of professional female bonds-
women who allegedly work in conjunction with complaisant J’s.P.”
“Hamfat”: A variant of an old theatrical
jape was worked recently by a plain-looking
citizen upon two thespians. These consented
to accept his entertainment as one of the
Great Public that is expected to be proud to
be allowed to buy drinks for Greater Actors.
One of the mummers had told how he had
held the house with the mental anguish of
Denver in “The Silver King” until at the
close it burst into applause, lasting three
minutes by the stage-manager’s watch. “My
greatest triumph,” said the other actor, “was
in the tremendous silence of the audience,
stunned into ab-so-lute awe by my rendering
of Gabbett in ‘The Term of His Natural
Life.’ ” They both looked hard at the citizen
to see if he was impressed. “That’s very
curious,” he said earnestly, “and I know that
what you have said is true. On both occa-
sions I was the audience!”
* * * *
“T.N.”: Three years ago last Christmas a
man fishing from the jetty at Mandurah
(W.A.) dropped his watch and chain into
the sea. This Christmas a visitor hauled
it np entangled with his sinker. A football
medal attached to the chain indicated the
owner.
* * » *
“Two Seas”: It’s good to read those
stories about quick rescues; it’s good to read
even of record tardy rescues. But what
about “men overboard” who had no more
chance of being rescued than an unwanted
eat? In the packets I used to sail in the
boats were lashed bottom-up on the skids;
no davits for lowering them were shipped.
The only way they could be put overside
was by lifting them with the to’gallant hal-
liards at one end and the staysail halliards
at the other—a job never attempted in rough
weather. If a hand fell off the tops’l-yard
he was “gone and given over” before he
struck the water. Even in fine weather
a boat put into the water after a long
voyage would leak like a sieve until this
seams tightened up. I once tossed a “life-
buoy” to _ a chum in Port Louis, and the
darned thing submerged, and I got a wigging
for “throwing away the ship’s furniture.”
There were few rescues, tardy or otherwise,
in those days. Once, when I boasted of
being a good swimmer, our old bos’n
remarked : “You were a young fool to
learn if you meant to be a sailor. Gord pity
you if you ever fall over the fence in a
squall!” In his mind’s eye he evidently saw
me swimming in the wake of the barque until
she disappeared.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: That unique Sydney charity
the Jewish Aid Society is a monument to
Aaron Blashki, who has been its president
ever since it was started, over 25 years ago.
lake its prototype in Melbourne —and that
was founded by Blashki’s father —it makes
advances, free of interest, to assist impecuni-
ous .Tews to start in business. Last year
applications were made for S 3 loans, and
only two were refused. Aaron Blashki, a suc-
cessful business man, is a remarkably ortho-
dox .Tew in a community much inclined to
slip in religious details. He is always ready
to cross verbal swords with the Rabbi, or
the synagogual authority over any departure
from tradition; and he makes a hobby of
teaching Jewish children Hebrew, and
encouraging them with prizes.
* * * *
“Blanc”: Sgt. “Scotty” Dawson, D.C.M.,
I.3th Batt., was not one to let little things
interfere with his share of winning the war.
Once, while he was in charge of the guard
at Codford (Wilts), his section was for-
gotten by the cooks. The hungry Diggers
were cursing the whole army, from the War
Office downwards, when a prisoner called
out: “Snow an’ me can fix you up, Sarge,
if you Jet us out for an hour. We’re on the
Q.M. Staff.” Scotty would have lost his
stripes if the prisoners hadn’t returned, but
he decided to risk it. The result was a mid-
night supper long remembered by both the
guard and the prisoners, for the enterprising
pair brought back not only the choicest
rations in the store, but a kitbag of “com-
forts.” On his rounds next morning, the
Field Officer sympathised with Scotty. “The
sergeant-cook tells me that you unfortunately
missed your meals yesterday. As you’ve put
up with it without a complaint, I am asking
the Colonel to give you and your guard the
week-end’s leave to Bristol.”
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: It happened in Oxford-street
(Sydney). A tail, sunburnt bushman
emerged from a hotel and essayed to cross
the road, getting knocked down by a motor-
car in the process. He arose, dusted
himself and staggered towards the car,
which had pulled up a few yards away.
The driver called out concernedly “Are you
hurt?” He got no answer. The overturned
one reached the car and held on, swaying a
little. The driver leaned towards him and
repeated the question, whereat the object
of his solicitude hauled off and smote the
other fairly between the eyes with an even
more pertinent “Are you?” He got no
answer either, but he stood watching the
receding car as if he hadn’t expected one.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A precedent was established
by Sydney City Coroner Fletcher when he
granted bail to the Frenchman Pierre Aitrien
Mousset after committing him for trial on
a murder charge. In ordinary cases British
law hardly contemplates the granting of bail
to any man who, being liable to lose his life
after trial, may regard everything else in
the world as of very slight value in com-
parison. In Iceland the law is a great
deal more generous. A British legal light,
holidaying in that country, got into conver-
sation with a tall, honest-looking stranger
who was striding across country, and was
curious to know the reason of his haste.
“They have let me out of gaol in order that
I may say farewell to my old mother,”
explained the Icelander simply. “I must
hurry, because I have promised to be back
early. I am to be hanged at six o’clock
to-morrow morning.” And, according to the
British Judge, who claims to have attended
the suspension ceremony, his casual acquaint-
ance was duly hanged on time. But. then,
an island like Iceland is probably hard to
leave; and, in any case, living there may
not be enjoyable enough to induce any man
to break a promise in order to prolong his
life.
* * * »
“J.H.L.”: An old identity in a W.A. town-
ship went to see an old friend who was lying
very sick in the public hospital. The visitor
gazed down at the patient, scratched his
head hopelessly, _ and finally turned to the
nurses with, “Gripes. what can a man say?”
Then he had a happy thought. “After all,
Joe,” he said, “you’re in for a better time
than me. You always did get on well with
your missus.” Like his visitor, Joe was a
widower.
* * * *
“Macduff”: It was a quiet suburban Mel-
bourne street. A small, weedy, middle-aged
man drew up his turn-out laden with pot-
plants and, selecting a sample of his wares,
walked up to the front door of a cottage. A
large and grim-lookiug party answered the
knock. Inside of a second the pot had dropped
to the verandah floor, smashing to bits, and the
hawker, was bolting down the garden path
with the lady in hot pursuit. Before he could
get through the gate she had caught him and,
holding him firmly by the shoulder, propelled
him towards his cart. He clambered up, his
captor did likewise, and the conveyance
moved off to the local police-station. A few
days later at the local police-court the grim-
faced lady sued the vendor of pot plants for
maintenance for herself and four youngsters
He was her husband, who had deserted her
about five years before in an up-country
township, passing right out of her life from
then until the day she opened the door to
him. Asa sort of precaution against losing
the run of dad again, his eldest son, a hefty
lad of about 16, now accompanies the
returned one on his rounds.
* • • #
“Bad Australian”: The bogus income-tax
collector who descended on the Kanaka pea-
nut-growers outside Rockhampton (B
20/l/’27) was a relative of the sham mis-
sionary who exploited Brown Brother in
the Bundaberg (Q.) district away back in
the ’nineties. He peddled ten-shilling tickets
purporting to entitle the holder to free entry
whenever he should present himself at the
Pearly Gates. And he never failed to impress
upon the buyer that possession of the ticket
must be kept strictly secret—it must
never be shown to anyone else. Other-
wise, instead of admitting him to Paradise, it
would most certainly be the means of land-
ing him in the Other Place. The tickets
sold like hot cakes, and after several months'
labor in the caneyards, the enterprising evan-
gelist lit out for parts unknown with a well-
lined wallet.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Shortlived is the fame that
aldermen try to make permanent by hitch-
ing names to streets and parks. Green
Park, Sydney, becomes Birt Park, in honor
of the good Laborite who was M.L.A. for
King; but the change wipes out the memory
of Alderman Green, who was responsible for
having the patch of earth put to a commend-
able use.. Names change as readily as
fashions in many spots in Sydney. There is,
for instance, a house in Woollahra which
was “Hopetoun” when it was first built in
the days of a long-ago Governor-General;
it is—after many changes—“Stonehaven” to-
day. Long-ago Senator Neild made a flaunt-
ing speech at the opening of Neild-avenue,
which, running beside the Stadium, connects
Ruslicutters Bay and Goodhope-street. Pad
dington; he said he was proud to think that
his descendants would remember that the
road was named after him. Within a week
the local residents were calling it “The
Sewer-road,” after the drain alongside. And
nine times out of ten when the Barkly Table-
lands, in the Territory, get into print, the
old Vic. Governor of the days of Burke
and Wills is forgotten, and it becomes
‘Barclay.”
* * * *
“Light Horse” : Someone in Honduras asks
(B. 20/l/’27) the Diggers’ honest opinion of
the West Indian black regiments in the war.
A\ ell, they did good work in the Palestine
campaign, where two battalions of them,
with tlie two London Jewish battalions, were
joined up with the Anzac Mounted Division
to hold the Jordan Valley during Allenby’s
final leap on Damascus. When this suc-
ceeded, the West Indians, advancing with
Chaytor’s force, acquitted themselves with
entire credit in the little fighting they got
a chance to see. Their best stunt was an
advance and dig-in under heavy shelling at
Bakr Ridge. They hung on all night, and
rushed this and other positions with the
bayonet at dawn, earning the entire appro-
val of the Anzacs. About the two Jew units,
under “Travo” Paterson, perhaos the less
said the better. But the 8.W.1.’5, once they
got their chance, proved worthy of the com-
pany they travelled with.
HORRIBLE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J ’ , M^ Le ° d - director of the Victorian Steve-
P°. 5, ai ' d Contracting Co., told the Arbitration
Con.'*-, 3 esterday that a lumper, asked to ‘shove along
a little quicker, had used bad language. ‘Are you
sure he was one of our members?’ asked Mr. A E
Turley, president of the AVaterside Workers’ Federa-
tion. —Melbourne Sun.
The Court had never, as I live, heard such a charge
before;
The AVharfies’ rep. seemed like to fall upon the
court-house floor ;
As one whose sight some phantom fronts, his eye was
wide and wild;
He breathed in heavy, labored grunts and trembled
like a child.
\ow perspiration beads his brow, he licks his drying
lips
Through which, in thick, unequal flow, his speech
protesting trips.
“A r our Honor! 1.... 1....” stammers he, “I’m all
but stricken mute;
S-send, I beg, for Hunk Magee this horror to refute!’’
So enters Hunk, a lumper bold, into the legal lists,
Of scowling and heroic mould, with mighty, knotted
fists ;
He glares about at one and all, and with no gentle
hand
His cargo-hook into the wall he digs and takes the
stand.
“Atagce, though you are still at large,’’ the Court then
gravely said,
“We warn you that a dreadful charge against you
has been laid.
This gentleman, the accuser there, bespoke you
yesterday ;
Now tell us, and of lies beware, just what you both
did say.”
Then Hunk spat deftly at a fly that buzzed upon
the pane
And cheerfully replied, “Oh, ay! ’E spoke me pretty
plain.
“’Ere, get a move on yer!’ says ’e. ‘Don’t stand
about all day ! ’
And I says, ‘Sorry! Pardon me, I tries to earn me
pay.’ ”
“And was that all ?” the Judge inquired. The court
was hushed and still.
“And was that all that there transpired?” And Hunk
said, “Search me, Bill!”
“I mean you said naught else, you’ll swear ?” And
Hunk he answered, “Oh,
’E says, ‘We don't want loafers ’ere!’ And I say-,
‘Dear me, no !’ ”
Ah, sternly then the Judge did frown to Hunk’s
unfeigned surprise.
“’Tis said that you”....he whispered down, “you
damned his eyes !”
But plain for all the world to see the answer that
he got,
For with a piercing shriek Magee had fainted on the
spot!
Then strong men wept for sheer relief and e’en
policemen cheered,
While Hunk Magee awoke to grief although his name
was cleared ;
They bore him forth, forlorn and pale and sobbing
like a kid,
And long and long they heard his wail of “O-o-o-o,
I never did !”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


ĥ
ħ
The TOPNOTCHScotcI
<£>. 'SayWfJEl* Alafl/rll jJ
t
ye
&
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“P.P.”: I have just concluded 43 years’
service in the G.P.O., Melbourne, and in that
time got pretty well acquainted with Santa
Claus. Twenty years ago we used to think
we’d reached the neak every Christmas. But
last Christmas was surely the limit. For
instance.' Two lonely young men up Mil-
dura way advertised in some English paper
that they were anxious to correspond with
some nice girls in the Cold Country “with
view to” the usual thing. The English mail
prior to Christmas brought them just on 500
letters, three bags of
newspapers, and 25
parcels. Seven hun-
dred letters came by
later mails. And then
people wonder why
some of their Clirist-
mas-cards arrived a
day or so late.
IT MIGHT HAVE STARTED AN
AFFAIR.
TEACHER (who has found Tommy out
before): “Tommy, did your father write
this essay on ‘ Why I love teacher’?”
TOMMY: “No, Miss; Mum stopped him.”
“M.H.H.”: A suprising number of gates
in Sydney suburbs have a. “Beware of the Dog”
notice, but my experience is that only about
one in ten really has an animal behind it.
Sometimes we battlers find a terse
note on the front door —“Nothing to-day,
thank you.” But a comfortable-looking
bungalow in Edgecliff takes the palm. A
notice on one gate remarks: “No Hawkers,
No Circulars, No Bottles”; on the other
gate I found “Beware of the Dogs” and “No
Admittance.” Only a super-optimist would
proceed in the face of those defences.
* * * *
“Wang”: The caretaker of a Melbourne
suburban town hall, returning home late one
recent night, was alarmed to see a light
suddenly flare up in the town-clerk’s office.
With visions of burglars in his mind, he
rushed to the police-station and roused a
constable. As the pair crossed the road the
light went out in the office, but a minute
or two later, was switched on again. The
watchers let themselves into the building,
and as they silently tiptoed towards the
t.-c.’s office, the light was extinguished once
again, and they heard the rustling of papers
inside the room. The John got his revolver
ready, while the caretaker grabbed a cliair.
Then, with a “Surrender in the name of the
Law,” they burst into the room. At this
moment the lights blazed up again, and the
pair were astounded to find the burglar look-
ing stupidly at them. He was a starling,
JIMMIE'S DONE FOR.
MADGE : “So that’s Doris Browne! She’s awfully fond of your
pal Jimmie, isn’t she?”
TACK: “Yon let! She’s cut out cocktails, dropped fags and
hardly swears now —all for poor old Jimmie's sake.
perched on the bar controlling the gas-lamp
hanging from the ceiling. Hi's on-sider,
another bedraggled, soot-covered bird, was
souatting on some papers on the mantelpiece.
Both birds had fallen down the chimney into
the room. The pilot light burning in the
gas-jet had evidently attracted them, ana,
fluttering about, they had perched on the
lever controlling the gas Supply, thereby
putting on or shutting off the supply,
according to which end of the lever they
chanced to perch on. Two disappointed men
grabbed the dazed birds and hurled them out
into the darkness.
* * * *
“E J. Hall” : It is rumored that the Gov-
ernment has decided to postpone all other
business in order that it may its^ atten-
tion to a matter of real urgency. The follow-
ing measure has been drafted-
1. Before leaving his home a pedestrian shall obtain
a permit from the nearest Automobile Association. If
any pedestrian be found on the roads without such
permit, he may be taken before a magistrate and
summarily dealt with.
2. Should a pedestrian wish to cross a road, tie
shall furnish a policeman with the reason, and,
should permission be given, he shall stand on the
kerb and wave his permit above his. head, thus pro-
claiming the fact that he wishes to cross the street.
This he shall do at his own risk.
3. If he should collide with a motor-car or cycle,
he must not remain lying on the road for more than
one minute, provided always that he has not received
injuries to more than one limb, in which case five
minutes will be allowed him.
4 No motorist shall be obliged to stop or assist
any person who has struck a car or motor-cycle, but
should any delay be caused to drivers, they shall be
allowed to travel at twice the usual speed, and such
delay shall be accepted by all authorities as sufficient
excuse for any such excess speed.
5. If a car or motor-cycle has, in any way, been
injured by colliding with or running over a
pedestrian, such pedestrian shall pay the full cost
of repairs, plus 10 p.c. for time lost whilst colliding
with or runniiig over same. .
6. If a pedestrian shall be suspected of having
collided with a motor-car or cycle on more than one
occasion, he shall be taken before a magistrate, and,
on proof of same, he shall be disentitled to a further
permit. * ,
7. A motor-cycle shall be allowed to make any
noise however hideous, and the driver of such motor-
cycle shall be permitted to continue such noise for
as many miles as he may deem wise, or during the
entire journey.
This passed, the pedestrian will know better
where he is.
» * * *
“Croiack”: China’s quaint name, for Aus-
tralia is “the second gold mountain, Cali-
fornia being the first colossal pile of gold
from the Celestial viewpoint. B. H. Cam-
bage, president of the Australian National
Ilesearch Council, who attended .the I'aeific
Science Congress at Tokio. gathered that
the Chinese who followed the gold trail to
California in 1849 and to Australia m 1851
sent word home of the amazing finds, and the
names were given to the two countnes at
that time. The only name that Japan lias
for Australia is “Goshu,” which means laig-
land.
“Q. 1.8.”: I note that the Sydney Health
Officer, Colonel J. S. Purdy, has suggested
to the R.S.L. that a conference should be
held in Sydney in 1931 of representatives
of all the soldiers’ associations in the world,
participants in the last war or any other,
past, present or to
come. As an old
colleague of Dr.
Purdy in the Big
Show and the
S’African scrap of
a generation ago, I
heartily agret. _ I
particularly desire
that plenty of
South Africans
who fought with
the Boei'S should
be invited. I am
looking for the man
who, when I was
lying badly wound-
ed, not far from
Ermelo, in the
Transvaal, took off
my hat and substi-
tuted his own
dreadful lid. He
meant well, no
doubt, and I was
too sick to care.
But days after-
wards, in a base
hospital, I noticed
that the minister-
ing angels didn’t
extend to me quite
the carefree glad-
ness that the other
chaps enjoyed.
There was a sur-
geon whom Dr.
Purdy and I knew.
One day I told him
about my anxiety.
Said he : “Dear old
boy, I hate to tell
you. When you
came in your hair
was full of head-lice. One can put up with
a certain amount of body-lice, even m an
officah, but licad-\ice— they're the bally limit,
you know.” As I say, there is one S Afri-
can above all others I desire to meet.
* * *
“Stellsby”: Tardy rescues at sea (B.
20/l/’27)'? In T 7 a French transport
loaded mostly with mules which we were con-
voying along with half a dozen tramps in
the Mediterranean was tor-
pedoed the night before we
made Port Said. Detaching
ourselves from the convoy,
we cruised around until long
after daylight, searching for
survivors. Having, as wo
thought, made the final
rescue we pointed our nose
Port Saidwards. Presently
the lookout reported a human
leg sticking out from some
wreckage right ahead. The
lucky owner of the leg was
hauled aboard 15 minutes
later. He was a Senegalese
mule-attendant who had
propped himself between two
heavy battens, and with
superhuman strength had
maintained that position in
the water from 11 p.m. the
previous night—a period of
nine hours.
*
“Arklow”: Tardy rescues at sea (B.
20/l/’27) ? I think this is the record. Some
30 years ago a Lascar on one of the mail
steamers, while dumping ashes into the
Indian Ocean at about 8 a.m., fell down
the ash-chute unnoticed by anybody.
About noon next day, or 28 hours later,
another steamer was in the same locality
and one of the officers saw a man swimming
slowly. A boat was lowered, and he was
picked up. It was the Lascar of the other
liner.
* * * *
“The Deacon”: Among historical gather-
ings on Anniversary Day was one at the
auld kirk at Ebenezer, nine miles out of
Windsor (N.S.W.), the scene of the settle-
ment of the first English Presbyterians m
Australia in 1802. These canny migrants
soon discovered the potentialities of the rich
flats about the Hawkesbury River and settled
on its left bank. There they let a contract
for the erection of the stone church which
is still intact. Payment was made in kind:
the currency being wheat at 10s. per bushel
and live pig at Od. per lb. James Mein,
an elder, conducted the first service m 1808
and John Youl, an ordained Anglican min-
ister, of Windsor, became the first school-
master ; his residence is still standing. After
being a cosmopolitan chapel, Ebenezer
became Presbyterian in 1824, when Dr,
Lang arranged for a permanent chaplain.
The pioneers sleep in the graveyard along-
side, the first decipherable inscription being
dated 1813. These epitaphs are in some
cases decidedly frank —one at least of them
would certainly not pass the censor nowa-
days.
“Sixenate”: The public didn’t know all
there was to know about a suicide of not so
long ago. A Lothario and a wife not his
own repaired to their trysting-place in a
secluded public park, only to be disturbed m
their billing and cooing by a rustling amongst
the trees overhead. Investigation disclosed
that swaying to and fro in the foliage above
tlie pair was the body of the lady s husband.
All the indications went to show that the
aggrieved consort, having discovered the
trysting-place, had made his suicide a sort or
revenge. In a way it was successful, llie
woman managed to escape publicity m con-
nexion with the affair ; leaving her companion
to report the grim discovery, she hurried
home to her children, and, when the police
called, was duly amazed and distressed at
their information. But the lawless lovers
parted from that night. The remembrance
of that hanging horror was a bar to any-
thing further between them.
* * * *
“Wanga”: Hori was being measured for
a new suit by one of our local tailors.
“How about the hip pocket?” asked Snip.
The customer knit his brows over the prob-
bl»m. Then his face lighted. “Look, lie
said, “sometime I get prenty money from
the Ran [Land] Court. Better, I tmk. you
put the hip pocket inside the waistcoat, eh t
* * * *
“L. 1.”: Lots of listeners-in regard the
police inquiries for missing people broad-
casted by Australian stations as a waste ot
time, but it is surprising how many of these
chance shots into the ether find the bull’s-eye.
3LO reckons the hits at no less than 90 p.c.,
and some reach their objective abroad. A
recent call to a N.S.W. tourist holidaying
in Maoriland to return to a sick mother was
picked up by a newspaper reporter in Dun-
edin. He searched the hotel lists and found
his man within two hours.
M # * *
“lan C.”: When there was an immigra-
tion boom in Vic., in Lands Minister
Mackey’s time, Agent-General Taverner sent
out a Micawber-like Cockney with a wife
and a .family of 13, including two or three
sets of twins. It was found difficult to
place the man, who had been a muffin-ven-
dor or something of the sort, and the depart-
ment, after housing the bunch at Richmond
for three months, was getting uneasy when
a telegram came from an Irish farmer in
the Wimmera, asking for the biggest family
obtainable to be sent up. After a few
inquiries the whole 15 were entrained and
WHERE BARLINE HAD THE
ADVANTAGE.
MABEL: “Oh, dearie, you can’t imagine how
many boys wanted to dance with me last
night.”
ILDA: “No, darling; you always could
imagine things better than I.”
despatched. Several months later a Hibernian
husbandman strolled into the Lands to ex-
press his thanks. The immigration officer
made some adroit inquiries, and then gm
the explanation: “I know the man isn t
worth what I give him. He’s as lazy as
they make them, and his wife’s slow at
learning farming ways, but I had to get
some kids from outside to keep the whole-
time school going and a first-rate teacher
there.” There wac no more trouble about
that family.
THE NINETEENTH HOLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tangiers, Thursday—At Marakeesh the Pasha is
laying down what is described as the most perfect
golf course in the world. A European professional is
supervising. The course will be open to natives,
who have expressed a keen desire to play golf.’
To the Sheikhs of Morocco ’twas Marakeesh spoke:
“Dolce far niente's no good to a bloke.
So let each warlike Riff who’s fed up with ennui
Buy a bagful of golf-clubs and make for the tee.
Away, then, with coffee, chibouk and harem,
These joys of the Moslem are not all they seem ;
Though the Mullah may mouth and the Feringhi scoff,
From henceforth the Faithful are taking on goff.
“A Giaour instructor’s to show us just what
Are the desiderata for giving a swat
To the ball that will make it fly straight and afar—
Not to right or to left, as is sung by Omar.
To the Koran’s precepts we must add one or two:
‘Slow' back, and don’t press,’ and likewise, ‘Follow-
through, ’
‘Keep your eye on the ball’ and ‘Your headpiece
keep down,’
If ever at goff we would win to renown.
“And while on that subject, W'e’d better revise
Those parts of the Book of the l.aw which comprise
The ban upon alcohol; otherwise, boys,
The game will be stripped of its chiefest of joys.
In vain the approach shot, the stymie well laid,
The Colonel defeated, a course record made,
If, when triumph has crowmed us, and gained is our
goal,
No sherbet aw'aits at the Ultimate Hole.”
He ceased; and the meeting decided, nem. con.,
To adopt his proposals, and so carry on,
At all risks retaining that crux of the game,
The hole that in France is called dix-neuvieme.
And, now, when Old Atlas looks down on the land,
And hears, as night’s shadow's steal over the sand,
The Sons of the Prophet brag loud as they quaff,
He knows they are playing that last hole at goff.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


Usher's Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bsd-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled,
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
€
* WzmA
V99S
.. •-•Av4^
Pyrex Dish in artistic frame which is
extra heavily silverplated, on specially
hard white metal. Diameter 7-iin.
45/-
Fair Comparison
In Purchasing Silverplate
is the only means by which a wise
decision can be reached. Cursory
inspection through shop windows
does not do justice to the value or
usefulness of articles displayed—
no idea can be formed of the
weight of silver deposited—of the
nature of the base metal, or details
of construction. These factors
determine the lasting value and
beauty of silverplate. The
strictest comparisons will serve
to prove that, quality for quality,
Fairfax and Roberts’ prices for
silverplate offer the best value in
Sydney.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery Home in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PI,AIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
Us
mmrnmmm
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES
NEVER FAIL
h
Uol to , ih. Ttrnd.™.* ! Arr*l. Ev.fT>*™-
Write for llluurattd Coulofot.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Briuin) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some February birthdays :
Melb. ex-Mayor Brunton, 60, on Ist ; Ma State’s
Min. of Agriculture Dunn, 60, Colonel Brinsmead
(Aviation), 44. and Cecil Andrews (W.A. Director of
Education), 57, on 2nd ; Geo. Swinburne (Vic.), 66,
on 3rd; L. E. Bennett, M.A., B.D. (Master of Wesley
Coll., Syd.), 49, and William Carey (A.L.P. Gen.
Sec.), 44, on sth; Dr. A. B. Walkour (Gen. Sec. of
the Australasian Science Ass’n), 38, on Bth; Robt.
Garran (Federal Solicitor-Gen.), 60, on 10th; J.
M. Chanter (formerly M.H.R.), 82, F. W. Bamford
(formerly M.H.R.), 78, and Harry Chisholm (Syd.),
69, on 11th; E. H. Wittenoom (sometime Agent-Gen.
for W.A.), 73, Albert J. Gould (late Pres. Federal
Senate, 80, Prof. Carslaw (Syd.), 57, Prof.
Ewart (Melb.), 65, and Major-Gen. Rosenthal, 52, on
12th; Archbishop Kelly, 77, and Frederick Chapman
(Vic. Nat. Museum), 63, on 13th; Edward Lucas (ex-
Agent-General for S.A.), 70, and his successor, J. L.
Price, 45, on 14th; Robt. Burns (Ed. of Register),
68, on 15th; “Banjo” Paterson, 63, Dr. L. Keith
Ward (S.A. Govt. Geologist), 48, and Bishop Shiel
(Rockhampton), 54, on 17th; ornithologist A. J.
Campbell (Vic.), 74, on 18th; Justice Macrossan
(Q.), 46, on 20th; H. I. Cohen, K.C. (Vic.), 55, and
ex-W.A. Senator Drake Brockman, 43, on 21st;
Justice Starke (High Court), 56, on 22nd; Octavius
C. Beale, 77, and Norman Lindsay, 48, on 23rd;
W. A. Selle (Registrar Syd. Uni.), 44, and H. W.
Apperly (A.M.P. Soc.), 66, on 24th; J. A. Browne,
K.C. (N.S.W.), 61, on 25th; S.A. ex-Premier Bar-
well, 50, and C. R. Chapman (N.S.W. Treasury), 52,
on 26th ; and medico.-Knight James Barrett (Melb.),
65, on 27th.
C. J. Lowe, Vic.’s newest Supreme Court
Judge, in place of Schutt, resigned, is only
46. Even when he was a lad of 14
attending Panmure State school, in the west-
ern district of Vic., he knew what he wanted.
He told his pals, one of whom was Akeroyd.
now Inspector-General of Vic. Prisons, that
he was going to be a Judge when he grew
up.
Henry Brett, one of the founders and
managing director of the Auckland Star.
who died the other day, discovered a land of
opportunity in the Shivery Isles. Arriving
from England as a young man, he began
as shipping reporter on the Herald, at a
time when a shipping reporter’s beat extended
right out into Hauraki Gulf. About 1870
he and George McCullough Heed unloosed
the Star. The Thames gold boom helped
tli cm to acquire a circulation. Then a series
of articles on the “Rollicking Rams,” a band
of swell hooligans who were taking charge
of Auckland by night, served to further
advertise the new venture, especially when
one aggrieved R.R. undertook to correct the
editor and got an ignominious hiding for his
pains. Reed sold out his interest to Brett,
anil the latter had the good luck to acquire
T. W. Leys as editor and, presently, as
partner. Brett remained an active writer
-almost up to the end, which came at 84.
Larry O’Loughlin died in Adelaide the
other day at 73. In 1890, at the request
of hundreds of brother-farmers, Larry stood
for Parliament in the Liberal interests, was
returned at the top of the poll, and six
years later became Commissioner of Lands.
He held his seat until 1918, and had several
spells of office; then he dropped right out
of public life, and devoted himself to improv-
ing his own farms.
“The Deacon”: The Kalgoorlie priest
Edmund Sullivan, who has taken his D.D.
degree at 25, may be the youngest
holder of the distinction to-day; but there
has Deen a younger. A Sydneyite, Stephen
Burke, had only just come of age when he
startled the Roman professors in the Propa-
ganda College with his learning and became
a D.D. Immediately he returned to Sydney,
despite his youth, Cardinal Moran appointed
him to the chair of Philosophy, which he held
for many years. All ecclesiastical know-
ledge came easy to this brilliant graduate
of Riverview. A throat operation proved
fatal to him in his early forties.
The N.S.W. cow country lost one of its
Anglican big guns when Canon G. Watson
crossed the River. Born in the Cold Country,
he studied for the Church in Melbourne, and
after workingin theMallee and Bendigo, crossed
to N. S. Wales to establish the Brotherhood of
Our Saviour, with headquarters at Kyogle.
For eight years he carried on there as vicar
and lecturer to the brothers in Theology.
But he had fragile health and death came at
55.
S. Aus. is short of “silks”; only three are
at the moment in practice—Piper, Cleland
and O’Halloran. Smith is on his way to
England, Grundy is living in retirement
there, Isbister has given un the courts,
Symon is writing his reminiscences, Dr.
Richards is Acting Judge (the Fifth
Judge Bill promises to make his job perma-
nent), and Glynn has retired from the old-
established firm of which he was senior
partner. Some further appointments are
likely in the near future—A. J. McLachlan
may at last accept a place at the Inner Bar.
Forty-four years ago Cardinal Moran
brought from Ireland six nuns of the Order
of the Poor Clares-and established them at
Waverley (Sydney). Their special vocation
is the care of very small children. One of
the foundation sisters, Mother Mary Domi-
nic Clare Conningham, died the other day
at Waverley. She was 77, and had spent
53 years of her life behind convent walk.
“Ex-Dig.”; One of the liveliest greetings
given by the crowd at the Band Association
carnival in Sydney was to the boys of the
Kincumber Orphanage—it was partly a tri-
bute to the lads, who were the juveniles
of the competitions, and partly (for there
were many ex-Diggers in the crowd) to the
conductor, Tom Mellor. Tom, as band-
master at the Liverpool camp during the
war, played the Diggers out of bunk in
the morning with musical advice to “Pack
Up Your Troubles in Your Old Kit Bag”;
and he likewise played them out of camp on
the w T ay to their transports. He is a jolly
DR. STAN. ARGYLE. Vic. Chief Secretary,
who has just left for America at the
head of a delectation to try to yet some
Rockefeller dollars for medical research
in Melbourne.
little personality, whose recreation in his
leisure hours is euchre; on one magnificent
occasion he squashed the criticism of a
colleague who was denouncing a bandsman’s
faults with: “He may be a poor musician ;
but I never saw him put his right bower
on his partner’s left.”
There will be more lawyers than usual in
the field at the S. Aus. elections next month.
Attorney-General Bill Denny seeks re-elec-
tion for Adelaide, and his partner, J. J.
Daly, will contest a seat for the Deg. Coun-
cil. B. J. Kearney, ex-Norwood footballer,
is appealing for a seat in the East Torrens
district. On the Liberal side is Shirley
Jeffries, a strong prohibitionist, who will
stand for North Adelaide; while F. G. Hicks
and Dr. Kerr will have a fly at Adelaide,
which has long voted Labor. Both are well
known in the courts; Dr. Kerr’s achieve-
ments range from a Military Medal in France
to a widely-read text-book on the Australian
Constitution.
A link with John Batman dropped with
the passing of George Worthy, of Yass,
whose father accompanied the founder of
Melbourne to Port Phillip when George,
whose christening is the second entry in
the register of the Melbourne Cathedral,
was six months old. Worthy, in his youth,
did everything that might be expected of the
hero of a boys’ adventure yarn. He dived
overboard from the wrecked Phoenix at Hun-
ter’s Head to carry ashore a rope which
enabled the crew to escape; and he was
amongst the men imprisoned by bushrangers
at Collector on the occasion of the shooting
or Ben Hall. Death waited for him till he
was 91.
A remarkable war-service record belongs
to the family of the Rev. John Walker, for-
merly of the Woollahra (Sydney) Presbyterian
Church, who, at 72, has been given the job
of establishing the kirk at Canberra. He
himself saw service abroad as a chaplain;
his five sons all enlisted, and three of them
were killed—the fourth was with the Anzac
Mounted Division in Palestine, and the fifth
with the Royal Flying Corps. The only
unmarried daughter served as a nurse in
Salonika.
Captain George Killen, who died at Mosman,
Sydney, last week, was the son of a professor
at Queen’s College, Belfast. He ran away
to sea when he was a youngster, and while
still a young man was the owner-captain
of the Rockhampton, with which lie traded
between England and Australia. Forty-one
years ago, when he was 47, he decided to
quit ploughing the waves, and became a
station-owner in N. S. Wales. Friends pro-
phesied failure, but he did even better at
the new job than at the old.
Although May Matthews is from the Labor
ranks, it was the National Council of Women
that nominated her for a place on the Ameri-
can industrial mission. Miss Matthews was
discovered by \Y. A. Holman; and there-
after she became the No. 1 woman organiser
in every Labor campaign. Nearly 15 years
ago she got a Government job as an inspec-
tor in the Children’s Relief Department, but
always, when the elections came round, she
got leave of absence and threw herself into
the fray. She was one of the first, five
women members, of the Clerks’ Union, and
has been the spokeswoman of the women
pen-workers ever since.
Intent on building up a legal business at
Castlemaine for himself and his son, Vic-
toria’s ex-Premier Lawson will be content to
be a private member if returned for the
Castlcmaine-Kyneton seat. He may, how-
ever, be campaign director for the Libs.
Maoriland gets its first full-blown Italian
Consul in Michele Blunno, who was for 24
years with the Department of Agriculture in
Sydney and later a chemist for the C.S.R. Co.
in Fiji. Returning to . his native Italy, he
was found useful in the Department of
Foreign Affairs and the International Insti-
tute of Agriculture. When the Italian Gov-
ernment wanted to fill the new Consular
job it decided that Blunno’s experiences in
this part of the world made him just the
man for it.
The übiquitous Australia! Japan aims
at breaking the monopoly of Hollywood by
encouraging native ideals upon the screen.
Two types of drama are being produced, one
with the picturesque settings of feudal times
and the other depicting the modern ferment.
The managing director of the biggest enter-
prise engaged in this patriotic task is L.
Prouse Knox, one time of Melbourne, and
at present revisiting his former home.
Frank Tate, Vic. Director of Education,
will have a double official jubilee within the
next seven months. On February 26 he
will finish 25 years as permanent head of
his department, and on August 13 he will
have been 50 years a member of the staff.
Tate will be 64 on June 18. Ilis salary
is £l5OO, and when he retires he will be
entitled to a pension of £lOOO or thereabouts.
Buffalo-hunter Cecil Freer, of North Aus-
tralia, who came south by the Marella, killed
1500 buffaloes last year, taking only the
hides and horns, as there is no market for
the carcases. These buffaloes are of the
Timor variety, and were introduced into Aus-
tralia at Port Essington in the early ’thirties.
The animals have spread right across the
continent and down the Gulf country, as well
as being numerous on Melville Island. But
the island is n<sw owned by Vestey’s, and free-
lance hunters are warned off. Freer has a run
somewhere near the Gulf, where he raises
horses and cattle. But the motor has super-
seded the horse in all the heavy work of the
trackless North.
The first public ceremony at Canberra took
place 86 years ago. This was the laying
of the foundation-stone of St. John the Bap-
tist Anglican Church on May 11,1841. The old
church is still used, and its history is one long
tribute to the generosity of the Campbell
family, the first settlers in the territory. The
cost of the building was £2OOO, half of it
given by Robert Campbell, who also put 100
acres of land on the plate. His brother, C.
Campbell, donated another 200 acres. The
original square tower was removed in 1864,
L. V. BIGGS, the new editor of the Age.
and the present tower and steeple were built
between 1865 and 1875 —at the expense of
George Campbell. The nave and chancel were
erected in 1872-73, George and John Camp-
bell footing the bill; and Chas. Campbell and
the widow of George Campbell bequeathed the
church £lOOO and £2OO respectively.
THE KEYING ALDERMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The Lord Mayor of Sydney, speaking at the
Anniversary Day Regatta luncheon, said that the
City Council proposed to give the people a lead in
the matter of aviation. Why were they disposing
of their motor-cars? (Loud laughter.) The reason
was that they hoped to be soon making aerial
inspections.”
I watched a flight of aldermen
Across the “central blue”—
Or anyway I dreamed I did —
To right and left they flew;
Some fluttered up above the Rocks,
Some hovered o’er the ’Loo.
Faint honks, like those of homing geese,
Came down upon the breeze.
“They make things hum,” some humorist
Suggested, “these grandees,
Like”—he felicitously closed —
“Like blooming bumble bees.”
“The blighters make our money fly,”
Another critic said.
“ ’Tis satisfactory to see
Aloft themselves have sped
To find, perhaps, how much of it
Is blewed in ‘overhead.’ ”
But on they flew, all undeterred—
They couldn’t hear who scoffed—
They came and went and circled round
Industriously and oft,
Intent to get a bird’s-eye view
Of Sydney from aloft.
Their keen eyes marked which jobs were done
O.K. and which were burked;
They saw where corporation hands
Bogged into toil or shirked,
They noted down the places where
The funny games are worked.
They saw what corner pubs should bring,
Where rents might be increased;
They spotted various stunts whereby
Poor ratepayers are fleeced,
And sites where bowser pumps may stand
If someone’s palm is greased.
They watched municipal serangs
Unscrupulous and bold
With lady friends in council cars
On festive joy-jaunts rolled.
(At least they would have watched them if
Those cars had not been sold.)
How hard they work for us, I mused,
Inspecting from the air,
Self-sacrificing, noble souls—
And then became aware
Each city father had a skirt
With him, and some a pair.
THE CANDIDATE: “Gentleman, my opponent
hasn’t got a leg to stand upon!”
THE VOICE : “Then why not let the poor
beggar have the seat?”
Down came the sound of popping corks,
The click of forks at lunch
And drops—but not of “ghastly dew”;
1 had a sort of hunch
Some chap had spilled the turtle soup
Or brimmed too high the punch.
I dreamed a flock of aldermen
Their ways aerial wound
Above the piles that stab the sky,
The Astor Flats around,
And showed themselves —the same old birds
As down upon the ground!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CAPSTAN
11
a,
Pn
1
lIS
11
c fKPST/\^
=COJ=r
kia
a
■ «
■MM
;
its
Ml
1
■
i
' ~-J
■■ m ' ■
• i
mm wmmtis m.
x®mm
J
: : : - a'/.-i\:a Itill
* iwa ®t ■ s st ■ sip ■
ap«',,va'- «ISfc
n
- - -_ji,
r> *
t- j g
OVAL HEAVY-WEIGHT
TINS OF 25-l's
TINS OF 50-2'9
• ( i
Pure Virginian


Cbe equitable Cife
flssce.
e<s
O U
Coy.
of
Australasia Etd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records .)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
" Good Pfellah
Christmas Gifts”
ĥ
ħ
h
Jack Calling!
r : ;'l
r. si
(T I
to EVERY MAN in Aus-
tralia who can RIDE.
LET ME PUT YOU WISE
ABOUT SADDLES. I was
the FIRST man to
make a real strong
stock saddle that
will stand Station
Wear. And the
GENUINE
WIENEIvE
is recognised to be
the best Saddle in
the World to-day.
My New Book is worth
writing for. Post FREE
TO YOU. WRITE NOW.
Jack Wieneke,
THE EXPERT SADDLER,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT
432 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THE FOREMAN'S WEDDING: THE ARCH
OF STEEL.
“Narara’’: A fish story I’ll swear to. I
was working for a Lower Hawkesbury
River orchardist, who, being sick, fancied
some fish. Another man and I took the
nets out and tried to get some, but were
unsuccessful. On our way home, when
about two hundred yards out from the jetty,
w r e both saw a big mullet swimming towards
us, almost on the surface of the water. The
fish was right in line with the blade of my
scull, and as we passed over it I jerked the
handle down. This lifted the mullet into
the air on the surface of the blade, whence
it slid down into the boat. The most novel
catch I ever made.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Until a few years ago,
before the motor ousted the moke and the bul-
lock from many tracks, there was a com-
petition amongst teamsters nearly every
wheat and wool season for the honor of
carrying the record load. In 1915 Tom
Edgerton drew 313 bags, of wheat, weighing
2(5 tons 2qr., from Spyhill to Wyalong with
18 bullocks. The gross weight (including
waggon) was 29 tons 12cwt. Later, Owen
Matthews with 18 horses drew 342 bags,
but the net weight was only 251 tons.
Then Con Hilderbrand drew 333 bags of
wheat into Calean Siding, near West Wya-
long, with 15 horses. The net weight was
26 tons 16cwt., and the gross weight 32
tons 12cwt. Other warriors were preparing
to do better when the shire councillors
butted in.
* * *
“Grundy” : The cow indicted by a recent
Abo. scribe for cheating him of the sub-
stantial part of her lactation is simply a
survival. In the days wdien the butter-
factory was not, most farmers kept a few
milkers to supply household requirements,
the calves being suckled on the mothers dur-
ing the day and locked up overnight. The
cows were milked in the morning, and each
withheld more or less milk for the benefit
of her offspring. The present-day cow is a
vastly different type, wdiose calf is removed
from sight as soon as possible after birth;
unless it is a valuable heifer, it is killed at
once. This cow 7, not having developed the
maternal instinct, has evolved into a milk-
producing machine, and now on an average
her output will supply the wants of at least
three calves.
* * * *
“Loco” : A word in defence of our engines’
responsibility for causing bush fires (B.
13/l/’27). I speak for Victoria, though the
inter-State Commissioners’ conferences and
other officers’ meetings held periodically help
to make many railway contrivances con-
tinent-wide. Here we have the best-known
appliances for preventing fire escaping from
the funnel or ashpan. Instead of the 80
per cent, of fires said by “Buttendcrry” to
originate from locomotives, I don’t believe
20 p.c. are caused thus. Not only have we
the best, but they are kept absolutely in good
order. A daily certificate is issued during
the summer months as to the condition of
every engine. These are from competent offi-
cials —-engine-drivers and other loco.-mcn
who know their jobs, and wdio have nothing
to gain by issuing untrue statements. Our
railway lines are burned clean of all grass
on either side, thereby making a valuable
break for fires that is not appreciated as it
should be. But I’ll tell you what I saw
only the other day during the heat wave
between January 10 and 15. We were pass-
ing a ripe wheat-crop, with the harvester at
work. At one corner of the crop a man
was standing amidst bags of wheat, his feet
ankle-deep in grain husks. As we passed
lie lit his pipe and threw the match down as
casually as though he was standing in
Collins-street.
* * * *
“Prop” : “Aide de Camp” tells about a rat
and a potato raid. But how is this? I saw
a rat dipping its tail into an uncorked bottle
of salad-oil, haul it out again, lick off the oil
and so on—and off.
* * * *
“Ledraw”: A rider may be able to tele-
patli his fear to his horse, but that does not
account for all the pheno-
mena. I know’ several places
in the back country where
stock will not camp or even
graze. One is a bend close
to Moree. Drovers who did
not know its reputation have
camped cattle there. The
result has always been the
same a breakaway. A
hawker once drove in at
dark, and was picked up on
the road with his turnout
smashed. Returning down
the Boulia on one occasion,
I came to some old yards
and a hut. I noticed an old
man at the door, and, want-
ing some directions, started
to ride to him. My horses
at once played up, so I
secured them and walked.
The old chap turned and
went inside; yet I found the
hut deserted. Some days
afterwards I heard its his-
tory—a very eerie one. As
I knew nothing about it at
the time I could not have influenced my
horses in any way.
“Larrapinta”: Those who keep bees for
a living, and regard a return of two 601 b.
tins per hive for the season as good, get a
shock when they strike a real red-gum honey-
flow. The red-gum is a most unreliable
honey-yielder, but when it does yield it is
thorough. In some seasons the flow is spoilt
by the Rutherglen bug. It comes in mil-
lions, and packs tightly into the calyx of
the flower, sucking up its nectar as fast as
it is formed; consequently the bees starve.
But if the bugs don’t appear, and the
weather is hot and sultry when the red-
gum comes into blossom, thq honey literally
pours out. I’ve seen the ground under the
trees smothered in it, falling out of the blos-
soms like a shower of bird-lime, although
800 swarms of bees were close by, rushing
A PERVERTED TASTE.
FIRST TRAMP : “We won't git nothin' any good in this' place. They're vegetarians.”
SECOND: “That a fact?”
FIRST TRAMP: “Too right. An’ they’ve goiter a dog as don't hold with their ideas.”
from flower to hive honey-laden. On one
such flow, 25 years ago, at Gumeracha
(S.A.), a beekeeper took nearly 1000 601 b.
tins of honey from 100 hives of bees in 17
days. But, alas! there has been only one
similar flow since. Apart from red-gum,
blue- and sugar-gums are Australia’s best
honey-trees. They yield every alternate
year, and can always be relied on, but if
one takes an average of three tins per hive
for the season from these trees lie's done
well. The honey is equal to any in the
world.
* * * *
“Herodot”: As “Ledraw” says, there is
no doubt concerning the ability of the snake
to hypnotise (B. 13/l/'27) ; but he is wrong
in saying that this power is used only for
food-catching purposes, as a Sydney woman
can testify. Some years ago she was sitting
in a small stone garden-seat surrounded by
shrubbery and grass, and the day being
hot she * dozed off. Presently she awmke
to become instantly conscious of a powerful
sense of fear, so strong that it seemed to
impose a kind of paralysis on her body, ren-
dering her unable to move either hand or
foot. After a few moments she realised that
two beady, bright eyes were watching her
from the grass. A curious feature was that
she seemed to know that they had been
doing so continuously. How long she
remained in this state she cannot say, but
during the whole time she could not move,
although her one desire was to get away.
Then, suddenly, a pet cat walked through
the grass towards her, and, coming to where
the eyes were, arched its back and began
to hiss and spit. There was a rustle in the
grass, the snake darted away, and the spell
was broken. For hours afterwards the
woman felt ill and extremely weak, as
though she had been sick for some time.
“Bad Australian”: All bushmen—city and
otherwise—who affirm that snakes hypnotise
tlieir prey before swallowing it will be
interested in the following. This is how
the trick was done by serpents in the waste
places of Lancashire in the days of Samuel
I’epys. “They observe when the lark is
soared to the highest, and do crawl till they
come to be just underneath them ; and there
they place themselves with their mouths
uppermost, and there they do eject poyson
up to the bird ; for' the bird do suddenly come
down again, and falls directly into the mouth
of the serpent; which is very strange.” It
is very strange. But as one who has wan-
dered in the waste places of the earth for
more than half of my allotted span, I have
no hesitation in saying that it is as near
the truth as any of the weird yarns rung
in by the exponents of the hypnotic theory.
* * * *
“Johnny H.”: The practice of cutting
strips off the ears of poisoned dogs is very
old (B. 20/l/’2T). A well-known bullocky
on the Cobar-Wilcannia road had a blue-
and-white cattle-dog that had been poisoned
and cured so many times that he had nothing
left to flap. When “Bluey” picked up his
LUCKY.
STOCKMAN : “What name piccaninny. Billy?"
B ILLY: “Lucky.”
STOCKMAN : “What you call ’im Lucky for?"
B ILLY: “Lucky to he black about here, Boss."
last bait, there being no ears left, we forced
salt and tobacco down his throat and swung
him round by the tail; but he died in
spite of all our efforts.
OUR SHANTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Cotter erected our rickety shack
With saplings and clay,
He slung it together like harvesters stack
A paddock of hay ;
And as he was a man who often had swung
A hayfork, the rafters just hung where they clung.
He filled it with comforts for dingoes and rats,
But none for a bloke;
He must have intended the chimney for bats,
The door for the smoke;
And doubtless the roof, by the clamor it makes,
And the way that it jumps, is to scare off the snakes.
The door’s like a show-card of hinges and screws ;
To open it quick
There’s always two keys for the toilers to use—
The axe and the pick ;
Though on it the architect scribbled “Don’t knock,”
Our regular callers come armed with a rock.
To enter the door you jump over a ditch
With entanglements clad,
And climb round the floor that is cursed with a pitch
That the roof should have had;
Then probing the fog you are bound to collide
With a ramshackle rafter, and know you’re inside.
Each bloke’s got a cattle-pen all to himself
Where hornets careen,
And over each bunk there’s a thing called a shelf
That's a flying machine;
And everyone legropes his stretcher before
He blows out the candle and lets go the floor.
We sort ourselves out of the wreckage at dawn
When, buried, we wake,
To find that a hurricane’s called in and gone;
Yet none of us take
Umbrellas to bed, and we sometimes forget
To doss in our boots when the weather is wet.
We know that it’s Spring when the beetles swarm in,
And flavor our beers,
And spiders, that banquet on bluebottles, spin
Their webs in our ears ;
And though the foundation is W’allaby-proof,
They drop in to see us through cracks in the roof.
No jigs are permitted, for after a dance
We always remark
It rains for a week caterpillars and ants,
Goannas and bark;
And everyone’s sick of rebuilding the shack
When Tanner gets pickled and walks on his back.
VICTORIA.
ALFRED E. BRIDGES.


The only way to determine
how much a mile it costs
you for tyre service is to
keep a record of the miles
each cover runs. If you fit
..TYRES..
and do this it will not be
long before you will realise
how supreme these high-grade
covers and tubes are for
mileage value and freedom
from trouble. Help yourself
to tyre satisfaction by fitting
“Dunlop.” Garages stock them
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
m
eb *0(,
\V
8S
®l®l@
□
o
(®H)
M
W
/
o
4 '</'
««nw
/ ;
m
n
/
&
a
&
LOP
MAXFLI
GOLF
BALLS
:
If
y
: ■ '
SPORTS DEPOTS * PROFESSIONALS STOCK THEM
i DUNLOP
' GARDEN
HOSE
, for value.service
Land economy.
All Stores.
-- nY^mnaißr'— -v^msrA,..,
DUNLOP INLAID
RUBBER MATTING
is particularly suited /or Corridors,Vestibules. Bathrooms,
Kitchens, &c. Impervious to water and the most hygienic
floor covering made. Lasts a lifetime. Various designs
in attractive color schemes. Particulars on application.
m
THE
MEW
maai cuku
(xa Pua&G/,
S&wtai <*
'JvHUtfl
i l ' :
.
fWBW*


The Federal Mutual
\ ciOTig&k
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Svdnev.
it. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
SMOKE
cpGEWO RTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Colub”: In his advice in cases of snake-
bite, “Bisley” "(B. 6/l/’27) omits an impor-
tant requirement—the application of a
tourniquet wherever possible. Altogether
too much reliance is placed on the value
of potassium permanganate as an antidote,
This compound is all right when it can get
at the venom, which it oxidises into simpler
and harmless bodies, but it is seldom applied
under such conditions as to enable it to
come into contact with more than a very
small portion of the poison. Since medical
aid is now nearly always procurable, the
best course is to apply the tourniquet, rub
in the crystals and get a doctor as soon as
possible.
THE TONIC.
DOCTOR: “Your hush and, -will never he able to work again.”
MISSUS: “I’ll go an’ tell ’im. It will cheer ’im up.”
“Cuchulain”: The snake has the upper
hand of most animals and nearly all birds,
but a common barndoor hen recently distin-
guished herself by coming out of a fray the
winner. Betsy’s owner, going out to see
what was the matter in the henhouse, found
the hen still sitting on her nest of hatching
chicks, while beside the box wriggled a
nearly-dead brown-snake, pecked almost right
through the back of the neck. It is, of
course, an unusual thing for the feather-
brained fowl to think of getting the right
spot, but it did this time.
“Stellsby”: Do fowls fret after their
absent owners? A Digger poultry-farmer in
the next bed to me in hospital received a
letter from his wife the other day announc-
ing a cliook hunger-strike since he had left
the farm. Several of the birds had died.
* * * *
“Cat” : The epistle by “Sucre” (B. 6/l/’27)
about the contents of a python’s pantry re-
minds me of the yarn Jimmy the Scrubber
told us one day. “My word,” he said,
“I killed an awful great carpet-snake to-
day. He seemed as though ’e’d just ’ad a
pretty good feed, an’ I thought I’d see fer
meself what it was. So I cuts ’im open, an’
inside I found another great snake. I cuts
’im open,. too, and inside was another big
snake. I wus gettin’ curious to know just
’ow many of ’em there was, so I nicked
this one up, too —an’ guess wot was inside?”
“Another big snake. I suppose,” put in
Ginger Brown. “No,” said Jimmy—“a
native-bear!”
* * * *
“Robt. G.” : Yous blokes don’t know what
a good dog is like, so I’ll tell yer about one
I ’ad. I was takin’ a mob of sheep from
the Gascoyne down to Midland, and w’en
I ’anded ’em over I found I was three shy.
I ’ad an idea I’d lost ’em in a range of
’ills about a ’undred miles back. I couldn’t
spare the time to go an’ look for ’em myself,
so I sent me dog to find ’em. I never saw
anythin’ of ’im again till about three
months after, w’en ’e comes limpin’ ’omc
one day with three skins slung over ’is back.
He’d found the sheep, but ’ad to kill ’em
for rations.
“Corso”: One of my horses was struck
by lightning while harnessed to the plough.
He recovered, and is now in the pink of con-
dition, but each time I put the harness on
him he collapses. Has any member of the
Council seen or heard of a similar case?
“Bill R.” : The prolonged drought headed
off by the Christmas rains on the Southern
tableland (N.S.W.) has revived the old dis-
pute among settlers as to whether eating
watercress or drinking the water of deep-
seated springs is responsible for black disease
in sheep. Only in paddocks where the water-
cress grows and springs spout are the jum-
bucks affected. There numbers throw a
seven. When the new-sprnng verdure of the
hills takes the place of the watercress the
disease immediately vanishes, though- the
dispute goes on. Can any vets, of the Abo.
page shed light on the vexed question?
DAD GETS A RUN OUT OF THE NEW CAR.
“Up North”: The poison spikes of the
northern jewfish and catfish cause danger-
ous and exceedingly painful wounds. The
natives’ antidote is. to immediately slit off
the spikes and their web-like skin attach-
ment, and, having burnt them to powd.br
on a strip of iron, to rub this residue into
the wound. I’ve seen men suffering intense
pain get relief through this means inside 'of
10 minutes. The baby daughter of an Over-
land Telegraph linesman was bitten by I a
red-backed spider, and rapidly developed
symptoms of poisoning. The nearest doctor
was 300 miles away, and not a motor-c.br
within 500 miles. A bushy with much nigger
lore ’phoned down the line to squash a red-
backed spider and rub the juice well over
the inflamed portion of the wound. The
child' ceased screaming within 15 minutes.
Possibly if these cures were scientifically in-
vestigated something important might be
added to our knowledge of toxicology. The
sting of a ’ray causes intense agony, with a
subsequent rotting of bone and tissue, the
latter lasting in some cases as long as 18
months. Possibly its own poison could
be used as an antidote. Incidentally, a
Jap pearler recently reported in T.I. that
one of his crew had been stung by a stone-
fish, and on an aboriginal applying the juice
of the white mangrove, the pain had dis-
appeared within 20 minutes.
* * ** *
“Muggins, .Tun.”: Can any Abo. reader
tell me if the bite of a lizard is really danger-
ous? I heard of a man at Walcha who was
bitten on the finger by a frill-necked lizard
and died a few hours later. While splitting
logs in the Malice (Vic.) a long time ago,
nW mate was bitten by a blue-tongue, but
took no notice of it. About half an hour
later he became violently sick and could
not stop vomiting, and was quite livid. I
harnessed a pair to a light waggon, and
started for the doctor with him, and he
was “dry-retching” the last lap of the trip.
He got out of the hospital a week later, but
has never been really fit since. And yet
I’ve had hours of argument with local old-
timers, who all say that the lizard is harmless
but can offer no solution of my mate’s illness,
which the doctor is certain was caused by
the bite.
“Colub”: The recent death of a Queens-
land schoolmaster from the effects of the
bite of an ordinary frilled lizard bears
out my old contention that one of these
creatures, like most other Australian lizards,
can be just as deadly as a snake. Their
long and curved needlelike teeth are so con-
structed that they have a channel or groove
behind them for their full length, and this
becomes filled with matter in the last stages
of putrefaction. When the reptile withdraws
the teeth with which it bites, generally the
two front ones, this matter leaves the groove
and remains in the wound in the victim’s
flesh, where, it promptly sets up a virulent
septic infection, and, unless properly treated,
kills by septicmmia. Actually, the wound
caused by a lizard’s bite should be regarded
as more dangerous than that inflicted by a
snake, and no time should be lost in taking
measures. These should consist of making
several deep cuts at the seat of the injury, so
as to allow the blood to run freely and carry
away the toxic matter, after which the
wound should be thoroughly treated with
antiseptics. To be on the safe side, these
measures should be repeated several times
at intervals of a few hours.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Although, probably on
account of the beast’s repulsive appearance,
few people will eat it, the flesh of the jew-lizard
is a delicacy. An old N.S.W. South Coast
farmer first introduced me to it, and since
then I have neglected no opportunities of
making its better acquaintance. If soaked in
hot water for a few minutes the skin comes
off easily, leaving beautifully white firm
flesh beneath it. It may be cooked in any
fashion, but my preference is for it fried.
Thus served it is hard to distinguish from
fresh blackfish.
* * * *
“Saaedi” : In my garden are two oleander
shrubs. One of them has pink flowers, the
other white. Not long ago I found a small
white spider spinning his web amongst a
cluster of white flowers, and soon after I
detected a small pink spider making his
home amidst a cluster of pink flowers. Both
were as like as two peas in appearance
except as to color. I have never heard of a
spider that could change his hue to blend
with his surroundings, and would like to be
enlightened on the matter by some spider
expert.
* * * *
“Merrigal”: Another meaning for “Eun-
onyhareena” (B. 6/l/’27) is “go away,
woman”: yunyanna =go away, and eena--
woman. “Wagga Wagga” signifies “reeling
like a drunken man,” according to the Rev.
Threlkeld, missionary at Lake Macquarie in
the early ’thirties and the leading authority
on the Wirraidliari language, which obtains
over the greater part of N. S. Wales. Any-
one who has watched a crow’s antics when
banqueting will appreciate the definition.
Threlkeld gives two words for the crow, one
waggan and the other waggura, the latter
representing a different kind. Also Waggana
= to dance, and waggadain - a dancer.
WHEN BEARDS WERE BLACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s the welcome hour of smoke-o, and we’re sitting
round the barn;
We’ve had a snack and rolled a fag and settled down
to yarn;
We’ve talked of droughts and aeroplanes, and now
we’ve drifted back
To the days gone by when we were young and all
our beards were black.
When the comely girls we used to know wore dresses
to their feet
And collar-bancls up to their ears, and yet we
thought them sweet!
We’d have been as shocked as blazes had we met
them in the town
With their legs encased in silken hose beneath a
knee-length gown.
When accordions made music for mazurka or quad-
rille,
'V’ith Mary for the polka and the waltz always for
Lil—
Oh, the leisure hours were happy when upon our
saddle hacks
We rode to country dances over plains or rough bush
tracks.
Now we moon about the cities ill at ease and out of
place
As we watch the couples jazzing, looking round for
one known face,
All our thoughts go backward flying to the dances
on the floor—
The barn-dance and the old schottishe, dear memories
of yore!
In the welcome hour of smoke-o once .again our beards
are black;
We are young and ride behind our teams along the
furrowed track ;
And a wealth of health and strength is ours, and age
seems far away—
Then some fool will crank the tractor and we’re old
again and grey !
QUEENSLAND.
L. R. BINNINGTON.


Users Unanimous for the
en
is
A
K
JMsS \
vvvi,
ENGINES
.. CP-
c
(A 4' a'a4^a%
* y>*‘ aaaxaa
jyjA . <*° cp ;^ v n°
r//
*X * o \<A A A.A? A A A*
„v v° 4P * .<P _<®'
V
■>v >"«<«"
•.*S •Cv' oN .A 4 - <v y
* A o 4
V C°
A«
«V° <° v 4 ,
*&
, v -s.'
V v . N #VVV*>
- y V'A^'«^*
9 *
<Ao-n*pv a -
V* **V >*> v '<?<**&
x * VV# V
•^' V V ./ \\s N V c A e,- &*s> cP
v <r> A . X, V A. Q, C- .V
-® >
*«•
* o^;#
Nf*. .s a
f\v° *i> v
v*V <K °\*
%*VV
V
IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Mr. Frank Laird, “Willandra,” Booligal, says:—
“We have a ‘Lister’ Engine that has been working here for about 12 or 13 years, and
has given every satisfaction. The man in charge has no mechanical knowledge, but
still she goes.”
Messrs. Miller Bros., of “Narrawilly,” Milton, say:—
“We have much pleasure in informing you that we have just completed LI
years’ run with a ‘Lister’ Engine, Ridd Milking-machine (four-cow plant)
and a ‘Lister’ Separator. We wish to mention that this machinery runs the
whole year and gives every satisfaction.”
Messrs. Mackay Bros., of “Gunyerwarildi,” via Warialda, say:
“The ‘Lister’ Engine has been a pronounced success in every
way. We have some other types of engines, but find the
‘Lister’ in every way ‘out on its own.’ ”
Mr. Malcolm Badgery, of “Bloomfield,” Yass, says:
“I have now so much confidence in the ‘Lister’ Engine
that the possibility of engine trouble never enters my
head.”
IN SOUTH
AUSTRALIA:
Mr. H. H. Howard,
of “Nangultie,” Tetina,
S.A., writes:—
“I have much pleasure in
reporting on your ‘Horwood-
Lister’ Engine purchased for har-
vest operations. It has given entire
satisfaction in every direction, and it
gives me pleasure to commend your firm
on securing this engine, which is most
suited for the country, i.e., the entire absence of
working parts exposed to natural elements, dust and
wet weather, etc. The simplicity of the engine speaks
for itself, when once examined.”
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Mr. W. D. Johnson, Bruce Rock, states:
“I have now had my ‘Lister’ Engine five years, during
which time it has not given me the least cause for
trouble. I have always found it very simple to
operate. Its main work is driving a lOin. mount
chaffcutter and 14ft. elevator. It is a 4-5 H.P. and
has no trouble in driving the cutter, which puts
through approximately 35ewt. per hour. For the five
years the cost of upkeep has keen nil."
This is a user’s story—or rather a few chapters
from a continuous narrative that pours into our
office every day of the year. It’s a practical
story, easy to follow for the man on the land.
Reading it, even skimming it, you will quickly
realise why “Lister” users enjoy security from
engine troubles while their neighbors using
other engines are “stuck up” from time to time.
You will see that numbers of users admit that
the “Lister” is more than we claimed for it —
although that seemed a lot. In short, this story
gives you all the reasons needed to decide you
on making your next Engine a “Lister.”
The Rolls Royce of Farm Engines.
Sole Agents for Queensland:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, j LTD., Brisbane.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD., West Footscray.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.,
Sydney.
Sole Agents for S. Australia:
HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD., Adelaide.
Sole Agents for W. Australia:
MALLOCH BROS., Perth.


Under
Royal
Warrant
h
To H.M.
Kind;
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917. ( .
CHAMPAGNE (
Charles Heidsierfc
mmwMß
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY. ,
<*Hampagnc
'^arJeslleidsieoC
Reims
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
BWIB6I for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
<23
Th? cen/rw of Oueen s /onc/s
' c//s/ingu/s/>ec/ Soc/o/ Life.
WM
Go RDTCn
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
ĥ
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
As the Renown draws nearer, wars and
rumors of wars reach the ears of those who will
have to see the coronets as through a barri-
cade darkly. The ferment among many who
are customary front-seaters is that special
cards have not been sent to them inviting
them to form part of the Royal progress
to and from Canberra. Various members
of the State Parliament declare that for two
pins they’d stay away altogether; and there
arc dark threats that if the Federal author-
ity isn’t more obliging, it will get a nasty
reminder that the State authority owns the
only railway that leads to Canberra.
City functions are limited. Sydney has
bagged a procession, a garden party at Gov-
ernment House, a Lord Mayor’s ball and a
State reception at the Town Hall. There
will be, of course, less spectacular parties
in the week’s whirl, but those are the ones
at which the diamonds will sparkle, and
which will leave Sydney’s three safe deposits
as empty as a robbed bird’s nest. Optimists
say that Wednesday, so far the only unoccu-
pied night of the week, will be filled by the
young Yorks with a dance aboard their own
lugger. But that’s as may be. One thing
remains firm as the Rock of Peter, and that
is the week-end in the bosom of the Macar-
thur Onslow family at Camden Park. The
Prince of Wales is said to have recommended
that as a rest cure.
Government House is elated because it is
going to be completely whitewashed and
shingled for the Royal visitors. (This Letter
wonders if the adjective as applied to herself
still holds a thrill for the little Duchess.)
■‘ he Government isn’t stinting expense, and
if a new set of upholstery and decorations
in the ballroom will make the difference
between joy and the other thing, then H.R.H.
can take it that joy complete will be hers.
Charity workers who had looked upon the
Visit as a dispensation of Providence as far
as their particular movements were con-
cerned are feeling a hit down in the mouth
over the announcement that the Duke and
his lady cannot attend any money-raising
function. So much has the committee that
had planned the Extra Chukker ball for the
Country Women’s x\ssociation taken this to
heart that it lias chucked the Extra Chukker
into the discard till the merry winter
months.
One dazzling fixture for the week when
Royalty is in town is the United Service
Institute ball. It is billed for March 29.
but the visitors have not so far been
announced as amongst those who have
accepted invitations.
The greatest aquatic event in the history
of our world is celebrated fittingly enough
every year by a water party. On a notable
-yth of January Governor Pliillip brought
his little fleet to anchor after a
journey _ that, taking all its circum-
stances into account, must have seemed
a long nightmare to that quiet man
of Hampshire. Now on the 26tli of January
every year Port Jackson spreads a pageant
to the glory of the great seaman. The
actors in it are sailers and sailor-men and
the master of any sort of craft that can keep
afloat. The affair is named the Anniversary
Regatta, and, given the right weather, it
turns the harbor from a ferry highway to
a place of buoyant beauty—a training-place
for such as Phillip ; a Lorelei with blue eyes
that will lure the lads upon whom they have
smiled as long as life shall last. Last week
upon the tumbling blue crystal of its waves
(and that thumbnail sketch is from Byron)
yachts, a flickering glare of sail and Charles-
tonmg as to keel, strained and fluttered in
their hundreds. Bunting danced and tossed
in the lively breeze. Motor-launches, some
br ave and hashing back the sun from highly-
polished brasses and some rakish and pirati-
? and ferries and the flagship
Moldavia combined in the sort of picture that
Charlie Bryant’s brush loves. And a gentle-
man in stone in Macquarie-street felt" some-
thing suspiciously like a lieartswell beneath
his waistcoat.
The A.J.C. turned out with great enthusi-
anniversary of Captain
1 lnllip s arrival in Australia. It was really
owing to a mix-up in the date of the sailin'*
that a party wasn’t spread at Randwick
to cheer the distinguished voyager; if Charlie
Cropper had been A.J.C. secretary at the
time, the Mitchell Library would contain
a far different account of Australia’s wel-
come to the new settler. However, 46,000
punters did the old navigator’s memory
belated honor last week, and the flower-beds
and the grasses at Randwick were sparkling
and clean for the occasion—Nature had just
run over them with her vacuum. There
were no vice-regals, and the dressing was
smart and trig rather than pictorial. Yellows
and reds again struck the dominant note in
the frocKing, and a tunic and pleated skirt
worn by Jessie McMasters was notable
among the daffodil shades. A neat pillar-
box effect was gained by Mrs. Douglas Levy
in a straight red frock. Navy was backed
(and breast-boned, too) by many a woman,
among others by Mrs. Pat Osborne, who
wore hers in a mixture of georgettes and
taffetas. Mrs. Colin Stephen’s soft sand
tones suggested a delicate water-color; and
Rosemary Osborne’s greens and white looked
as cool as a celery and lettuce salad. Black
satin was worn by Mrs. Sep Levy, very
slinky as to cut, and waving a miniature
feather-duster disguised as a flower posy on
its shoulder. Visiting Mrs. Hargraves (Mrs.
Tom Hixson who was) wore her well-remem-
bered fair complexion allied to smart black.
Premier Lang smoothed the frown out of
his strong jaw, exercised his dimples and
hasted to a wedding one day last week. His
was a giving-away job, and there was no-
thing ruthless —in fact, there was something
timid —in the air with which he entered the
Church of St. Barnabas in George-street.
Daughter Hilda tripped beside him in georg-
ettes and lace, as cool as the coffee-ice
they resembled in coloring. A shady hat
and a sheaf of yellow roses completed her
outfit. Sister Rene, in leafy greens, set off
by an armful of pink roses, was in attend-
ance, and the bridegroom, H. Arnold, was
supported by Archdeacon Charlton and best-
man R. Edwards. The revels were held
at Dungowan, in Martin-place.
Sydney’s new Mayoress, Mrs. Mostyn, was
at home, for the first time officially, in her
rooms at the Town Hall last week.' It was
an unpretentious curtsey to her world, but
her smile was as a pearl set between the
amethyst of her hat and her pleated crepe
de Chines. The frock, by the way, had one
of those jaunty little bolero tops that always
suggest revolutions and uprisings in the Bal-
kans, they have such a dashing, up-and-at-
them look. One thing no mayoress of Sydney
has to economise on, and that is her floral
decorations. And it is just as well, for
only a wealth of blossom can prevent the
sober rooms looking like a Hall of Judgment.
Over Mrs. Mostyn’s party pink and yellow
roses spilled their splendor, and hydrangeas,
cool and pink and plump, cooed and mur-
mured. As the afternoon wore on Town Clerk
Layton led Chief-Citizen Mostyn to the tea-
drinking. His proud mother was already
there, with his sister, Mrs. Needy. The just-
abdicated Cecilia Walsh was among the
guests, and Mrs. Layton was another well-
known present.
Greet one of Sydney’s distinguished and
good-looking women. She is A._M. Kellett,
C.8.E.,R.R.C.,
matron of
Sydney Hos-
pital and (she
is rather
proud of this
one) Princi-
pal matron,
A.A.N.S., 2nd
Military Base.
In 1914 Miss
Ivellett left
with N.S.W.’s
first convoy,
and remained
in Egypt till
1916 as ma-
tron of Cheon-
bah Hospital;
after that for
a year the 2nd
A. A. Hospi-
tal at South-
all (Eng.)
knew her as
its head; in the dark days of 1917-18, and
on till March, 1919, she was matron of
No. 25 General Hospital, Hardelot; and on
her return to Australia No. 4 A.G.H., Rand-
wick, was put in her charge. Now the big
Macquarie-street institution runs like so
much clockwork under her administration.
Yet when off duty the matron, with her rose-
leaf complexion, her white hair and her meti-
culous dressing, looks like some exquisite
example of Molyneux’s art whom the sight
of blood would send into a swoon.
A gentleman at the Liverpool Old Men’s
Home recited his Burns with even more
fervor than usual last Saturday—it was
Bobbie’s birthday. No, not the anniversary
of it; to McTavish of Liverpool Burns lives
and will continue to be of the quick just as
long as heather grows in the Highlands. So
while the clans gathered about the lad of
Ayr in the Domain with speech and pipes
and song, Old Mac contented himself with a
“Many happy returns of the day to ye, Rab.”
Manly by-tlie-sea, which had its jubilee
celebrations opened by the Viking, finished
up with a flight of rockets across the bleak-
ness of Saturday night. The water pageant,
however, was spoiled by the rude blasts, and
many a little boat snuggled down to sleep
in the shelter of the bays rather than put
out to sea with lanterns trimmed and burn-
ing, to make a carnival. But the water-
front with the gay lights tangled in its
trees and curled in a sparkling plume drew
its thousands of holiday-makers. Manly,
lamplit or starlit, always does that. '
A nephew of Lord Beauchamp, Governor of
N.S.W. in the ’nineties, is. aboard the
Renown. The Earl's sister, Lady Susan
Lygon, married General Gordon-Gilmour, and
this is the only son. His wife, the Hon. Mrs.
Gordon-Gilmour, is one of the Duchess of
York’s ladies, and is a daughter of the late
Lord Chelsea, whose brother, Lewin Cadogan,
is still remembered in Hobart.
If you own a little factory and think you
might put some of its by-products to account,
but are not
quite sure how,
the lady in this
picture may
solve your
difficulty. She
is Nita Kibble,
principal re-
search officer
of the Public
Library, and
in her time
she and her
assistants have
grubbed out
tons of help-
ful data for
tinker, tailor,
soldier, sailor,
rich manufac-
turer, poor
engineer and
poorer scien-
tist. The Pub-
lic Library,
. execrably housed, a bewildering maze to the
, casual caller, is a storehouse spilling with
, riches to those who, like Miss Kibble, know
, just which shelf to clamber to and which
i cave to explore. _ But such a tree of know-
, ledge does not rise to its full height in a
, day. Miss Kibble’s is a growth of 27 years.
In the first moments of this century a girl
from the country walked into the Public
Library and asked its chief if she might
sit _ for an examination for the library’s
junior officers. He said “Go ahead,” and
she found she was the only girl entrant.
That’s how Nita Kibble came to be the first
woman to work in the Public Libraries of
Sydney. .She passed her years of training
in the midst of the written word at the
Queen Victoria Markets (that was before
the Municipal Library was housed there),
since when the Macquarie-street institution
has been her daily Mecca. A pioneer of her
day, this lady with the serene gaze is as
much a woman of the times as the Eton-
cropped, knee-skirted young women-in-a-
hurry who consult her as to racial hygiene,
social organisation, psycho-analysis and the
other movements of which they are the
torches and the standard-bearers. The pic-
ture is by May Moore.
Everybody was pleased when Crown Prose-
cutor Coyle last week became a Judge.
Besides having native charm and legal attain-
ments, he fathers a trio of Sydney’s prettiest
and most popular girls. Mrs. Coyle, who,
strangely enough, places Prisoners’ Aid high
among her good works, is as pretty and
popular as any of them.
Edna Dorothy Gibson, of Roseville, sails
by the Marella for Thursday Island. There
she will be married to Lieutenant A. G.
V llson, of the R.A.G.A. The ring will be
adjusted at the Quetta Cathedral.
St. Mary’s blessed Mary Elizabeth Regan’s
vows to love and honor Joseph James Clark,
of Dubbo. Mary herself hails from Coon-
amble, and the young man’s father is the
ML. A. Ivory georgettes weighted with
sequms and pearls enfolded this bride, who
was squired by her brother and supported
by two ’maids. A rally at the Wentworth
followed.
Dulcie Sully introduced a veil of ancient
lineage to St. Michael’s at Vaucluse. This
was of Limerick birth, and 150 years are
claimed for it. The bride, who was a spark-
ling frost of silver tissue and diamente, was
armed by father and attended by sister Doro-
thy and two girl chums to her tryst with
Norman E. Mills, of Rose Bay.
Lieutenant A. Primrose Anderson-Stuart
chose St. Leonard’s Church in Deal (Eim-
land) as the vow exchange when he and
Mrs. Margaret O’Callaghan became one. The
lady is of the U.S.A., and the two will dwell
in Deal for the next 12 months, while the
groom serves his time with the Royal
Marines at the depot there.
Last month’s appeal of the Country
VY omen s Association for the sufferers by the
bush fires produced £97 in cash and much
more m land. Complete outfits of suitable
clothing were made up from the parcels sent
V? t ? 1 B.urdekin House and passed on for
distribution to the various C.W.A centres
rom now on to February oh u'
Park will be a scene of cS™l -n
make tire affair of Nice took Uke 8 & „Tl‘k
It is m aid of the Picton Lakes T R
M ladS ra S SSe„ d T!“
ductoryprocession! ll SParS from Tt s intr °'
worthy object, the
man, woman and child in the district to il,
support. The Newtown appeal for the Ime
cause netted £3OOO. Marrickville hopeTto
go at least a thousand better. n P 1
The Tuesday music teas at Burdekin House
continue to be popular forms of entertain
week 'STItHeTw “ “*"*£*££
.n eJ %y r i e „ e theatre was as scented
the 4 alley of Sharon with masses of pink
and cream roses when that good friend of
the Hospital Mrs. Alfred Lee, was the guest
h~ n °n and a special Programme arranged
l l *, le *' honor was contributed by the Dean
of Sydney’s lady. Mrs. .Tack Gordon and Mrs
St. Vincent Welch. Mrs. Rudder was Higli
Dispenser of the Pekoe, and Mrs. Arthur
s part was as important as that
of the Chorus to the Greek drama.
If you meet a boy scout of the First Mos-
man Troop, salute him. The D S O
Scouts, the Trenchard Miller shield' was won
m competition throughout Australia last
by the First Mosman Troop. That troo,
iiiso earned away the Fairfax banner which
Own 1 ” d 4i m ihp 0 A be /' al , led “ Lord Forster’s
i 11 '• tiie Australian corroboree iusf
lieW in lasmania the Mosman boys had no
competition to meet; and the shield was
Scnnt d p° ver aft - er a dls P la y described by the
bcout Commissioner as the smartest he hml
ever seen The credit of this achievement
was largely due to Scoutmaster Jim Pilcher
son of Captain Pilcher, of s.s. Tanda
Sister Brisbane writes a moist P g •
The Queensland Press Institute lured Bertram
Maekennal into the Mandarin-room at the Carlton
for afternoon tea. The principal table was decked
in royal purple asters; and roses, pink and reel
diessed up the lounge. Australia’s most famous
U or , s P oke cheeringly of much of Brisbane’s
of vivTd P 6 i w antS ™ to feel with h ™ a
of vmd color. He regretted his country home in
England, which excessive taxation had obliged him
to leave, and passed on to some red and green Chinese
lacquers Thank God, I have them still!” A spon
taneous cry which captured all the listening lovers
of color. He regrets that he has only seen Brisbane
as a monochrome by Whistler; it has been raining
ever since he arrived, and our river, sometimes so
beautifully blue, reflecting distant hills, i s now a
turgid stream, bearing dead animals and sometimes
Whole trees on its tawny surface. From One Tree
Hill to which Sanderson Taylor motored him the
world was smoke-grey and silver.
On Foundation Day many would-be holiday makers
ti ailed round in trams to the flooded districts—
Windsor and Ivedron are metamorphosed into muddy
Venices or watched the flood waters from Victoria
Bridge; incidentally seeing, among other things,
thousands of dead rats being hurried out to sea. The
Commercial Rowing Club’s pontoon broke loose and
careered down the tide.
However, nothing prevented throngs spending the
evening at His Majesty’s, where “Abie’s Irish Rose”
runs gaily on.
The National Council of Women has asked Mrs.
lorrest to write an ode to the Duchess of York to
be recited in the Exhibition Concert Hall in April
Barbara Sisley is to be the elocutionist.
The downpour at Southport has not rusted the
marriage bells. Colin Lilley Cran, elder son of the
Alec Grans, went to St. Peter’s and carried off
Kathleen Phyllis, elder daughter of the Mackenzie
Shaws of Ingham. She was in a frock of pale
pink mariette, with flounces of cream rose-point The
bridegroom’s mother lent the cream lace veil, which
was caught with orange blossom; and the bride
carried yellow roses and pink carnations. Vera
Wearne ’maided in pale pink and cream lace with
black hat, carrying pink roses and heliotrope water-
lilies. The Donald McLeans lent their home, Duart,
to Mrs. Mackenzie Shaw for the reception, at which
Wedgwood blue and black, the regimental colors of
the ’groom, were prominent in the decorations.
1 oundation Day races were postponed on account
of the rain, but Lennon’s broke out in a rash of tea
parties. Mrs. G. G. Hutton gave one for her daughter
Vida, who soon marries W. Cameron. Vida was in
cerise and blue figured silk, and tea was taken in
the ballroom.
Lilies and roses and greenery lined St. Colomb’s,
Clayfield, for William G. Hassall’s marriage to Edna
Sully. He is son of the Mount Übi Hassalls, and she
is daughter of the late W. H. Sully and Mrs. Sully,
of Clayfield. The bride was given away by her
mother, in ivory mariette and Chantilly. The silk
tuUe veil was circled with orange blossom, and
white water-lilies and carnations were carried. Elsie
and Clarice Sully ’maided in delphinium blue
patterned crepe de Chine, with blue erin. hats
wreathed in pink roses, and they carried pink Radi-
ance roses. Mrs. Sully entertained the guests at
the breakfast, in a beaded black gown.
Quantas, the Queensland commercial air service,
strikes a new note in its last monthly report. In
addition to detailing miles flown, numbers carried
and so on, it mentions that the “loading” of the
’planes on several of their outward trips just before
Christmas consisted of schoolboys and girls going
from the cities to their out-back Western homes. The
nowaday youngster lives in a new world all right.


HARJDT BROTHERS ET&
Platinum and 18 Carat White Gold
\\ nstlctW arch,set\vitli Diamonds,£46
:
m
mm
Dainty Wristlet Watch of 18 Carat
White Gold, set with Diamonds, .6 27
Gem-set Wristlet Watches.
Hardy’s present here two new and dainty styles in
Gem-set Watches that are characterised by unusual
delicacy of design and moderate price.
Both Watches are fitted with fully jewelled move-
ments that ensure accurate timekeeping and are
mounted on Moire Ribbon bands with gold snap 3.
A selection will be sent to any address on approval
at the Company’s risk and expense.
Five Per Cent. Discount Allowed for Cash.
Hardy’s New Catalogue, post free, to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST..
MELBOURNE.
H A RDY
BROTHERS LTD.
tfjie'Tfou&e oP &vlusvcc ZJeweU&y
IJ6-JlB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
NOVELS THAT THRILL!
The Famous Bookstall Series of Novels hold the Reader. They are virile, they
tell of
ADVENTURE, LOVE, TRAGEDY AND HUMOR.
Every Writer of Bookstall Novels gives of his best. That is why they are
best sellers.
5,000,000 Copies Have Been Sold.
A POPULAR SELECTION
Queen Yaiti .... Beatrice Grimshaw
The Coral Queen. . Beatrice Grimshaw
White Savage Simon
Beatrice Grimshaw
The Mystery of the Boxing Contest
Bert James
Double-Bed Dialogues
James Henry James
A Curate in Bohemia
Norman Lindsay
Dawson’s Uncle George
Sumner Locke
Mum Dawson, Boss. ..Sumner Locke
Übique Clarence W. Martin
Fagaloa’s Daughter . . Jack McLaren
Feathers of Heaven ... Jack McLaren
Oil Seekers Jack McLaren
Red Mountain Jack McLaren
Savagery of Margaret Nestor
Jack McLaren
The Skipper of the “Roaring Meg”
Jack McLaren
Hack’s Brat A. lan McLeod
At Holland’s Tank .. Edward Mcryon
FROM THE CATALOGUE.
Yellow Silver ..... Edward Meryon
Harry Dale’s Grand National
Jack North
Son of the Bush Jack North
Black Opal Jack North
Bodger and the Boarders
E. O’Ferrall
The Mount Marunga Mystery
Harrison Owen
The Plantation Manager
Ernest Osborne
The Copra Trader . . Ernest Osborne
Shantykeeper’s Daughter
Vance Palmer
The Boss of Killara . . Vance Palmer
Mystery of Wall’s Hill
Sydney Partrige and Cecil Raworth
A Maker of Pearls .... S. W. Powell
Great Jade Seal S. W. Powell
Hermit Island S. W. Powell
The Pearls of Cheong Tali
S. W. Powell
Trader of Kameko .... S. W. Powell
Dan Kelly—Outlaw . . Ambrose Pratt
Price 1/-, Posted 1/IJ.
COMPLETE CATALOGUE, COMPRISING 150 TITLES, POST FREE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
PRICE 16/- Posted
Please add exchange on inter-
state and Country Cheques.
HODGSON’S
Modem Carpentry
and
Joinery.
2 VOLS.
Elementary and Advanced.
A new and complete Guide containing
hundreds of quick methods for performing
work in Carpentry, Joinery and General
Woodwork, written in a simple, everyday
style that does not bewilder the working-
man. Illustrated with hundreds of
diagrams which are especially made so
that anyone can follow them without diffi-
culty. These two volumes show the most
modern and practical methods known in the
Arts of CARPENTRY AND JOINERY.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
Castlereagh & Market Streets,
Sydney.
THE NEW BUNGALOW
MODEL.
Oak or Mission, £33.
Mahogany Finish, £37.
WORLD.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE
THE, OLD
"His Mister's Voice*
TRADE-MARK
OVER THE
NEW
GRAMOPHONE
The New Wonder Instrument. The secret of the amazing realism of its
reproduction is the design of the special tone chamber, new taper arm
and new type of soundbox.
It will reproduce details of orchestration that were formerly unheard.
The Tone is richer, rounder and more true to the original than ever.
In quality and workmanship the New Gramophone Models uphold the
high tradition of all machines bearing His Master s Voice trade-mark.
Another feature is that it is “all British” and reflects the high skill and
ingenuity of British mechanics.
You should take the earliest opportunity of hearing the New Gramophone
Models and you will agree that this great invention has achieved the ideal
of what real reproduction should be.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS IF YOU WISH.
Write for Catalogue and Full List of Records.
338 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
h
206-210 PITT STREET,
Next Lyceum Theatre.


SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.80,
10/6; Suppers, 10.30, 5/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 3666.
Melbourne
Its location is ideal —at the heart
of Melbourne’s business zone and a
few steps from railway stations,
steamship wharves and houses of
entertainment. It is complete in
every essential that should charac-
terise the City’s best hotel —perfect
cuisine, sumptuous appointments,
quietness and instant, yet unobtru-
sive attention. Direct and inter-
communicating telephones and hot-
and cold-water service in all bed-
rooms.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9012 (4 lines).
jLiuuiwmuy
S. 9
CTo
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
an*.
PATHEORAMA
Rested ?6 Films l9ea~
j'jome Recreations
368 George St, Sydney.
[opp. Beard M4i£so/i'.s}
V
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
In our city on the day we had our 139th
birthday, the Flag was remarkable by its
absence. Indeed, there seemed to be an
elaborate undressing of poles, and every-
where against the skyline they were as stark
as wireless uprights. The A.N.A. had its
annual dinner, Governor Somers being among
those who played fork and spoon. Member-
ship of the association has now reached
35,000, it was announced; and the Federal
Capital can boast a branch of its own.
Heaven must have set approval on Mel-
bourne’s decision to push Australia Day
back a bit, for a more perfect week-end
it would be impossible to have. Beautiful
sunlight and a nip in the breeze made the
call of the open irresistible. Even the old
cable-cars put on a festive air and waved
fore and aft Union Jack and Southern
Cross. It was a bonny day.
Despite a host of other attractions, there
was no lack of interest in the tennis cham-
pionship matches, which were concluded at
the Kooyong courts on Monday. The new
stand was a sea of parasols and gayest sun-
shades. Onlookers leaned towards frocks
with a little warmth in them, since the wind
was cool; the effective frisca cloth found
favor, and also lightweight tweed. The vaga-
bond felt hat was worn with coverings of
material of any kind, from lace to serge.
Melbourne saw the first of Mrs. Cheney
at the King’s on Saturday night. The three
acts permit of a large display of garden-
party gowns, evening raiment, attractive
negliges and morning frocks. Dainty Renee
Kelly makes her first entrance full-skirted in
periwinkle-blue taffeta, scattered with bas-
kets of flowers; and Dorothy Fane in lily-
of-the-valley green embroidered in white-
chalk beads, crowned with a white and green-
splashed hat. An all-mauve turnout shows
up Phyllis Best’s fair shingle, and Emma
Temple contrasts a white marcelled coiffure
with petunia millinery and grey draperies.
In the second act Renee Kelly wears some
gorgeous upholstery of parchment hue with
ropes of rose-toned sparklers amid crystal
and gold embroidery; and Margaret Damer’s
black-draped covering that has relief of a
trail of diamente climbing over one shoulder
is arresting. Renee made thanks for the
warmth of the co.’s reception, and called
out the new leading-man, Alexander Onslow,
of the square shoulders, to share the
hosannas.
An Eton-cropped lass in the stalls looked
like the embodiment of Joan of Arc in a
long-sleeved fore-shortened frock of gold
cloth, which served as violent contrast to
a front-row d.c. patron, who produced a
large-sized mirror of the handled variety
and combed her shingled locks as calmly
as she might in her bedroom.
There was a full house for the first run-
ning of “The Ghost Train,” which passed
on its noisy, lighted yet unseen way at
the Athenaeum to the accompaniment of
stage rain and a wind that made even stall
patrons shiver. E. J. Carroll’s new com-
pany was welcomed in a garden of flowers,
and all the passengers who missed the con-
nection and were stranded at the spooky
railway station were forced to speechify;
also the guard, Hugh E. Wright, who pro-
duces the thriller. Being merely train-
travellers, the ladies, save Betty Ross Clarke,
are well coated and felt hatted. The fair
haired Joan Bailey, as a newly-wed, is a
harmony in red; and Mascotte Ralston has
bottle-green and fur. Laura Smithson, the
spinster who sleeps all the excitement
through, following an overdose of brandy,
is in navy blue. The good-looking leading
lass of husky voice dashes in from the sur-
rounding gloomy country wearing a brown
raincape beneath which is an evening-gown
that begins pale-pink satin and wanders
into a hem line of black satin with crystal
embellishment. Incidentally, after this
ghost season, the Jarnfeldt “Praeludium,”
when played as a concert offering, will cause
even brave hearts to quake.
While Lady Stonehaven is the guest of
Governor and Lady Bridges in South Aus.,
the G.-G. is leading the simple life in Tas-
mania. His son lan and an aide or so are
also seeing the island per boot.
Melbourne mourned last week the passing
of a kindly and popular lady, Mrs. Harring-
ton Lees, wife of the Archbishop of Mel-
bourne. The funeral service on Friday, at
which St. Paul’s Cathedral was crowded,
was conducted by a nephew, Bishop Crans-
wick, of Gippsland.
Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Dyer hope to leave
for England in April. They plan to go to
Noumea and travel from there to Marseilles
by way of Tahiti and Guadaloupe. Mrs.
Jimmy has made elaborate arrangements for
promoting interest in modern British com-
posers, and has enlisted the help of the prin-
cipals of many of the secondary schools. The
energetic lady wants to make sure that the
good work will continue in her absence. As
a sort of parting gift the public-spirited pair
are handing over £lO,OOO to trustees towards
the maintenance of an orchestra.
The Alliance Frangaise is losing some valu-
able members for a space; among others the
Belgium Consul and Madame Vanderkelen
and Madame Gay are booked for holidays
abroad. Mrs. Dyer, who is the president of
the body, gathered the council, 17 strong, to
have luncheon with her one day last week by
way of saying lon voyage.
The person showing most signs of activity
these days in Melbourne is Sam the Smasher,
whose talent is the scientific destruction of
buildings. There is a renewed burst of
remodelling in the city—such a burst as
we have never had before. Where bricks and
cement are not falling, cranes are swinging
iron girders up to the skyline. And now
there’s another development. One Bourke-
street emporium this week started a spring
cleaning for the Royal Visit; so besides his
chance of falling mortar and girders, the
wayfarer goes on his way to a possible white-
washing.
The State Government reception to the
Royal visitors will have an accompaniment of
orchestral music and song. The warbling
will be done by choirs representative of all
established musical societies. It’s to be hoped
that the choristers will get away from the
“Hallelujah Chorus,” “Heavens Are Telling”
and other oratorio selections which have
hitherto been regarded as suitable thunder-
ings for ’most any historical occasion.
In Tasmania the Royal visit is not to be
without a sort of opposition—Launceston will
open its annual musical competitions while
the Duke and Duchess of York look in on
the island. Fritz Hart is this year’s adjudi-
cator.
The Stonehavens gave bed and board at
Federal Government House to the Hon. Mar-
garet Greville when she put in by the
Naldera, en route to Maoriland. The lady,
who is the widow of Captain Hon. Ronald
Greville, M.P., shares some of the limelight
of the Yorks’ visit, since the Royal couple
honeymooned at her country home in Dork-
ing. She will be not far from the Royal
couple throughout their wanderings.
The Chutterer proposes as an inexpensive
adjunct to Melbourne’s illuminations for the
Yorks that the Exhibition building be burned
down. This painful example of mid-Victorian
architecture has tried to obliterate itself no
less than 20 times, the latest occasion being
a few days ago, when the blaze, occurring in
the same old basement, crammed with the
junk of years, was impulsively extinguished
by Louis McCubbin, who, being an artist and
the son of an artist, should have known
better. The inelegant old tinder-box is
bound to burn properly some day, and it
might decide to do it when there are several
thousand of the best people inside.
Here is 1 another lass looking for a theat-
rical manager who is not averse to giving
young Austra-
lia a chance.
She is Millie
M c C ormack,
whose nicely-
m o d u 1 a ted
tones have
been heard
with pleasure
at concerts
and operatic
p e rformances
engineered by
the Albert-
street Conser-
vatorium,
where she has
lately con-
eluded her
studies, hav-
ing gained her
third-year dip-
loma in 1925
with honors.
In last year’s
performance of Gluck’s “Orpheus,” under
Fritz Hart’s direction, she was very
successful as Eurydice, showing fine pro-
mise in both singing and acting. Be-
sides having a good voice, she is not
hard to look at; Spencer Sliier’s picture
herewith is evidence on that point. She is
the adopted daughter of Mrs. and the late
W. H. McCormack, of Albert Park.
An all-Australian programme was the
feature of a Wattle League at-home at the
Lyceum Club last week, when those two
good citizens, ex-Mayor William Brunton
and his wife, were honored guests, and were
given God-speed on their holiday. President
Mrs. Britomarte James, in primrose georg-
ette and fine lace, handed into their keep-
ing an Aussie flag of silk decorated with
a bunch of wattle; the lady, whose lilac
gown sparkled with rhinestones, collected
also an autographed copy of A. J. Camp-
bell’s “Golden Wattle.” Both said their
thanks for the party and the gifts. Jennings
Carmichael’s “When Blackwood Flowers,”
spoken by Edna Holmes, made a suitable
opening to the entertainment, which was
rich in home-made songs. Of particular
interest was Hilda Elspetli Meadows’s set-
ting of “The Hulk,” verses by G. H. Gill,
Florence Ewart’s arrangement of Dorothea
Mackellar’s “My Country,” which was dedi-
cated to the guest in the days when she
was Mayoress, was another of the offerings
—it was heard, too, at the Wembley Exhibi-
tion. Ethel Hobday played the only fiddle
piece—by Louis Lavater —and Izobel Diincan
gave a dramatic recital of W. H. Ogilvie’s
“Riding Camel.”
This charming face, pictured by Ruskin,
belongs to Phyllis Best, a clever young Aus-
tralian who
chose the hard
grind of a
t h e a t rical
career to the
joys of social
life. Lately
she has been
helping to
make a genu-
in e Austra-
lian picture—
scenario, com-
pany, money
all raised here.
The camera is
unkind to most
blue - eyed
people, but it
passed Phyllis
without a pro-
test. Though
she prefers
legitimate art,
it proved a
fine adventure after she had learned to keep
within the chalk-line —especially the days
out “on location” at Warburton, where some
scenes were shot. Summer visitors put in
the day watching the antics of this strange
company, and flies descended in clouds and
held up the proceedings. Phyllis is a daugh-
ter of the knighted Robert, long a Senator
and longer still a figure in the political life
of Victoria. She has now resumed her rSle
in “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney.”
Descriptions of the upholstery at the Lulu
Berry-E. L. Granville wedding in London
have reached us. The bride, who is the
daughter of the Percy T. Berrys, of Woodend,
was in Venetian and rose point-lace, with a
train of white satin. Margot, a daughter of
the Robert Bests, was an attendant maid, with
Jacqueline, daughter of the Baroness de
Lime, of Paris; their attire was of sunset
tones—pink-and-gold gowns topped by veils
of gold net. The bridegroom is the prospec-
tive Liberal candidate, for Aldershot. The
Berry couple and Margot Best are now on
their way back home.
On December 11 Mrs. Campbell Walker,
well known in this city as Mary Marsliall-
Ramsay, took her second plunge into matri-
mony. The ceremony took place at St.
Mark’s, Hamilton-terrace, London, and Fran-
cis Eden Lacey was the lady’s second choice.
He is well known to many Australians as
the secretary of M.C.C.; when he retired, a
knighthood was handed him.
The H. L. Trethowans contemplate a part-
ing from their only daughter, Gwendoline;
Keith L. Miles, of Levuka Downs, N. Queens-
land, has persuaded her to consider a mar-
riage date. This go-getter is the youngest
son of Captain and Mrs. E. T. Miles, Ring-
wood.
Enid Mcllwraith said “I will” in Lon-
don last month to Norice Corbet-Singleton,
of Perak. St. Peter’s, Crossley-square, was
the scene of the ceremony. Special heating
was turned on in the church to enable the
delicate bride—newly recovered from an ill-
ness—to keep her date. Supported by her
fatner, Sir Malcolm Mcllwraith, and an im-
posing train of ’maids, she faced the cere-
mony in a cloud of white mousseline-de-soie.
The Business and Professional Women’s
Club had a rather sorrowful reunion after
the Christmas holidays: during the recess its
far-seeing and enthusiastic founder and
president, Nellie Martyn, had crossed the
Great Divide. Miss M. Cuthbertson, who
was elected to the vacant office, referred
feelingly to the big loss the club had suffered
and the personal affection which Miss Mar-
tyn had gained in all her interests. The
members were elated over the appointment
of two of their sex to the Industrial Mission
bound for U.S.A., since the club was the
first association to ask that women should
have a place in the delegation. Miss Jessie
Webb, who is on the staff at the Uni.,
furnished most of the evening’s talk with a
description of recent travels abroad.
Esther Paterson (Mrs. G. H. Gill) leads
off the year’s art shows with an exhibition
at the New Gallery in Elizabeth-street. Her
canvases will have a summer holiday flavor,
and consist mainly of beach scenes. The
industrious girl has carried her stool and
paint-box from South Melbourne to Brighton,
the better to ring the changes on sea and
sand. Only a stray portrait will break
the coastline.
Agnes Goodsir, a figure in the Parisian
world of art, has decided to come home for
a holiday, and may be expected next month.
It is 18 years since this Melbourne girl
packed her suit-case and went abroad in
search of fame and fortune. A measure of
the former recently came her way—she wa3
elected an associate of the Salon of Beaux
Arts. Dame Nellie Melba was so pleased
with the work she saw when making a
friendly call at the studio that she promised
to open a Goodsir exhibition in Melbourne
if the artist would have one. Of course
she consented.
The Charles Buckleys are again in these
parts after nearly five years’ absence. It
has been their custom since removing to
London to dodge the winters of the Big
Smoke; last year was spent looking over
Italy and Austria, while Burmah and the
Soudan were sampled during the two previous
Christmas seasons. Many Aussies who
joined in the Big Scrap hold pleasant recol-
lections of the Buckleys’ London home in
Hans Crescent —it was from there that
General Birdwood’s daughter was married
to Colin Craig, of W.A. By the way, Keith
Dawson, of Melbourne, is still the valued
aide of Birdie, now Commander-in-Chief in
India. Lady Birdwood. with her son, goes
across to England in March, and later will
convoy her daughter to India.
Mention of the return of the Charles Buck-
ley couple recalls that the Toorak home of
Mars Buckley, the founder of the Bourke-
street firm (to which no members of the
family belong now), is in these latter days
the home of the ultra-fashionable St. Cath-
erine’s School.
The Kyffin Thomases, of Adelaide, have
again postponed their return, and the Maloja
will now probably bring them back in time
to participate in the Royal festivities. The
unfortunate illness of the head of the house
has sadly interfered with the planned itin-
erary. However, he mended sufficiently to
join Lord Burnham’s shooting party at
Beaconsfield, at which King George was the
first gun.
The Thomas Bakers, who sing a daily
hymn of thanksgiving for the amateur photo-
grapher, had a “golden wedding” on Aus-
tralia Day. The executive of the National
Council of Women chose the occasion to
recognise Mrs. Baker’s great services since
IDOS. At a chat and tea at the Lyceum
Club, the president, Mrs. Andrew Glencross,
passed to the guest the gold honor-badge of
the Council. Mrs. D. A. Skene, Mrs. Edward
Bage and Dr. Edith Barrett certified that
it was well earned, for besides lending much
aid financially, Mrs. Baker has held the
office of president for three years and is still
a vice-president.
A note or two from Adelaide:—
The A. E. V. Richardsons are back from a trip
that took them through a score or so of countries—
she full of notes made by the way: of Melba at her
farewell at Oovent Garden, ‘‘her voice more brilliant
than I had heard it for 15 years”; of orange
groves in Southern California, wanned in winter by
artificial heat, but flourishing where there had
been nothing but barren scrub seven years ago; of
Australian goous in growing volume in London shops,
but still handicapped by careless and inartistic pack-
ing and wrapping.
The State elections will see at least one woman
candidate—Mrs. A. K. Goode, who will join Dr.
Donald Kerr and F. G. Hicks in making a bid
for Adelaide. The lady is an astute and practised
speaker.
More than once estimable (and inestimable) citi-
zens have disappeared into disused and unsuspected
wells, and the trap nearly cost the Tubercular
Soldiers’ Aid Society its secretary, Miss Cleggett,
the other day. She was storing goods in the cellar
of the society’s room, when a dip in the floor sud-
denly became dippier, and the brick flooring was
deposited in a well 45 feet deep. Miss Cleggett
grasped at some shelving, and hung on till a
couple of anxious committeemen rescued her.
Miss Freda Bage, on her way from Geneva, ha?
spoken on the Assembly work in general for the
South Australian branch of the League and the
National Council of Women, and given in more detail
her views on mandates, women delegates (there were
only seven out of the hundred) and University
life in Austria and the Balkans.
There were two pink-clad bridesmaids (Helen
Bristowe and Thelma Halbert) for a silver bride at
the Bowden-Tolley wedding—silver from the lace
that held her veil in place to the heels of her shoes
and the stripes in her shimmering train. Pink, too,
was the keynote of the decorations at St. Matthew s
Church and at the Tolley home, where there was
dancing to follow toast-drinking; and there was
more pink in the electric lights that festooned the
garden. Mrs. Tolley’s own black-and-gold frock
was topped by a black hat and veiled by a blue
georgette coat.
The Talbot Smiths, sailing in the Demosthenes,
have as fellow-passengers Mary Grant Bruce and her
husband and two sons and Leonard Merrick.
The Mrs. Fuller who died lately was the first
Australian Mayoress to entertain royalty. That was
when the Duke of Edinburgh looked in on Adelaide
before going further east. The lady was the mother
of H. E. Fuller—not the wife, as previously mis-
reported.


vrei
FV/SIHJ
LX
Diamond a Sapphire Wrist" Wahrh £57/10/-
Diamond eSapphire Wrist-Wafch £2OO
Diamond Set - Wrist - Wahch £35
Bracelet Watches in Platinum or Gold, plain or set with
choicest Gems, represent a very important feature of the
firm’s present selection of Gift Jewellery. These are to be
had in many chaste and exclusive designs, with Moire
Silk Bands, or flexible Diamond-set Bracelets.
Those Watches are made by the finest makers in the world, and their
appearance is indicative of unparalleled quality. Every watch Is,
however, thoroughly tested before leaving the establishment, and the
Firm guarantees their exceptional time-keeping qualities and perfect
reliability. A discount of Svc per cent, will be allowed on all
cash purchases.
WM.PRUMMOND £ CO
344=34§ COLONS §1 MIELffiOOJIRNE
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
“More Work, Better Work,
and in far Less Time ! ”
That’s the unanimous verdict of Underwood Portable
users in every sphere of life. Writing with the
Underwood is a pleasure! No effort, no drudgery.
The light, springy keys set your thoughts on paper
smoothly, quickly, neatly. Pages of clean, attractive
typewriting fall from the machine with rapid ease,
leaving you with extra hours for leisure and recreation.
Mail the coupon to our nearest
branch for full particulars, in-
cluding price . No obligation .
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91-93 William Street, Melbourne.
Post to G.P.O. Box 1556 E Sydney, or 91 William Street, Melbourne.
Pd lilce full details about the
Underwood Portable, without
obligation, of course.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Bulletin 3/2/’’27.
A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION CUTLERY CANTEEN AND SET OF
STAINLESS KNIVES IN OAK CASE.
I
A. Saunders’ Half-dozen Table or Dessert Knives,
Stainless Steel, Xylonite Handles, in Oak Case,
20/-, 25/-
Larger Case, with Half-dozen each Table and
Dessert Knives, £2, £2/10/-
Bull ■
mmm
fk
*m
J
A. Saunders’ “Cutlery Canteen,” containing 5-piece Carvers; Half-dozen
each Table and Dessert Knives, Stainless Steel, Xylonite Handles;
Half-dozen each Tea, Dessert and Table Spoons; Half-dozen each Table and
Dessert Folks. In Oak case, £l5/10/-. Others, £lO/10/-, £l2/10/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours front: LONDON 46 days, £149
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
m
m
n
1
:
Every TENNIS BALL Stitched
and StitehlessAll Court is Manufactured in
E
accordance with the
Compression Standard
as well as every other standard
of the International l awn
Tennis Federation. ..
m
Reduced Prices of
“Warrego” Shirts
Peapes 5 Special Productions
for all outdoor workers.
Uj
nr
“Warrego” Shirts arc
made of specially woven
English materials, which
wash easily and well,
although most of them
are in colours which do
not readily soil.
Liberal proportions, two ca-
pacious pockets with button-
down flaps, collars which
fasten down at peaks, and
cuffs with a single button,
are points which ensure com-
fort and convenience.
Having contracted for new
large supplies of materials,
Peapes have gained an ad-
vantage in price, which, ac-
cording to their usual policy
they pass on to clients in
these new reduced prices.
FB6l—“The Warrego.” Blue, Grey or Faum, close-set pinhead
squares 10/6 —now 9/6
FB62—The “Tropo Warrego.” Tropical weight, strong-wearing
Khafei Drill 10/6 —now 9/6
FB63 —The “Khafei Warrego.” Khafei Gabidrille, very soft and
comfortable, medium heavy-weight, 12/6 — now 11/6
FB64—The “Oxford Warrego.” Made of Oxford Shirting in six
designs, plain shades of Blue or Fawn, White stripes
on Blue or Fawn, narrow close-set stripes in Blue or
Black on White ... 12/6
Peapes 5 “Warrego” Shirts can be made to measure of Cambridge
Twill, in Blue or Fawn, incorporating any special individual
requirements, at 14/6 each.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE
Please state size of collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters
CjEORCjE ST. (opp. Hunter St.) SYDNEY
Why Let that Running Stream
Run Uselessly by when - - -
A Billabong Hydraulic Ram
WILL PUMP IT
TO YOUR TANK?
ĥ
Of all pumping plants the “Billabong” Hydraulic Ram is by far the
cheapest to run. Under suitable conditions it will work continuously every
hour of the day—every day of the year—with but the slightest attention. If
the running stream has a sufficient fall a “Billabong” Hydraulic Ram is just
the pumping plant for supplying water to Factories, Dairies, Stock Yards,
Homesteads, Small Towns, etc. Full particulars Post Free.
ElO-btS
B 1
Billabong
Hydraulic
Rams
This Centrifugal Pump is constructed to lift large quantities of Water for
Irrigation and other purposes. By independent test the “Billabong” reaches
75.8 per cent, efficiency, and is a high-grade pump offered at a very moderate
price.
STOCK SIZES:
lin., l|in., 2in., 2Jin., 3in., 4in., sin., 6in., Bin,
Larger sizes made to order.
ħ
Billabong
Double-Acting
Piston Pumps
For Elevations up to 175 feet
The “Billabong” Double-acting Piston Pump combines ample power and
large capacity in most compact form. The Base, Cylinder, Gearings and
one Cylinder Head are east in one piece—ensuring the alignment of Gearing
and giving an unusually rigid construction.
It is specially adapted to meet the demand for a medium-priced power pump
to be operated by kerosene or petrol engines, or other belt power.
h
Deep Well
Working Heads
The design of working head is arranged
to give five different strokes in the large
size and two in the smaller size, to suit
pumps varying in capacity. The head is
of vertical type on large base with round
cast-iron column and guides attached to
the top. An oval brass stuffing-box gland
is provided and fitted with studs. The
spur and pinion wheels are cast-iron and
the shaft is fitted with wrought-iron
pulleys, having cast-iron centres.
For other Pumps, Irrigation Machinery and Pump Accessories
see our General Pump Catalogue—Post Free on application.
BORE CASING.
4in. and sin., Black or Galvanised. Write for prices.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE'
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


m
Vmi
r«Tsnr
1
S?
5!
/TTrn
—f~rrr zl
si
m
Immediately you enter the Hotel
Windsor you realise the comfort
it affords and the modern service
at your command.
The
jfoMMnctaot
Spring Street, Melbourne,
is indeed amongst Australia's
foremost residential hotels.
Charmingly located, convenient
and select to a degree.
You will be doing right
to register at the
“Windsor/’ and remem-
ber that it is always
advisable to book well
ahead.
Minimum Tariff
from 22/6 (inclusive)
Room and Breakfast
from 15/-
Telegrams and Cables:
‘Telwinsor,’ Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9260.
Welcome the Coining—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [s
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Horses that had run respectably at Rand-
wick did well at Moorefield on Saturday. Avrom
(10 to 1) beat a poor lot in the Three-and-Four-
Ycar-Old Handicap, and it was surprising that there
was so little money for him, as he had been promi-
nent in better company. Kalare (Burri —Thistleseed),
successful at headquarters a week before, had an
easy task in the first division of the Flying Welter,
a six-furlong event; and Kurrianna, twice placed
on the A.J.O. course, won the Moorefield Handicap,
10 furlongs, from end to end. Ellis rode this Valais
—Postea mare, who is owned and trained by Joe
Tomlinson; St. Eaton, the second horse, was favorite
at 9 to 4, Kurrianna being at 5 to 2. And Cave
Dweller (2 to 1) made the opposition look very
commonplace in the Stewards’ Mile, though Kalare
was saddled up again and Bootlegger was among the
■others. Cave Dweller, a natty bay gelding by
imported Peter the Hermit —Minahi, raced very
unluckily last season, but since Christmas he has won
good races at Randwick, Warwick Farm and Moore-
iield (twice), without having his colors lowered once.
A fall which caused the death of a mare called
Licoris and the rider, A. F. McCurley, was a
tragic episode of the meeting, and, in view of some
newspaper comments, the evidence in the Coroner’s
Court will be awaited with interest.
* * * *
William Kelso’s achievement in running
first and second in the A.J.C. Anniversary Handicap
with Bacchus, his own horse, and the Queensland-
owned Piastoon, recalls that he did the same thing
with Bairn and Boaster in a Trial Handicap at
Randwick two years ago. In each ease the Kelso-
trained steeds were first and second favorites, and
backers of the beaten animal got a rattling good
run for their money. Those who stuck to Boaster
recovered their capital with thumping interest in
the ensuing 12 months, and followers of Piastoon
may be just as fortunate. This fine son of Piastre
—Laratoon looks more like a Sydney (or Australian)
Cup horse than the Magpie —Mal't Lassie gelding,
and is more susceptible of improvement, albeit
Toohey’s mount impressed the Randwick crowd
greatly by moving from last to first of a strung-out
field in about a furlong.
• • • •
“Thormanby”: Sydney racing pressmen
have been making a fuss of Dick Wootton’s notion of
employing a motor-van to take his horses to race
meetings rather than trust them to the tender mercies
of the railways. The new contraption is a motor-
truck fitted with a caravan body holding three horse
stalls and a cubicle for the attendant. It is elabo-
rately cushioned and sprung. Long before the
motor arrived vans were used in England for trans-
porting racehorses that were thought too precious
for the old-fashioned road journeys. Voltigeur, The
Flying Dutchman, and many another equine hero of
the North of England travelled in their vans on the road
many years after the advent of railways, being drawn
by prads of inferior degree. Lord George Bentinck,
in the 1840’s, had a special van with barouche C-
springs for his mare Crucifix. This was wanned
with a hot-water system, and was the envy of mere
humans who had to go to Doncaster or Newmarket
in the cold comfort of the old stage coaches.
* * * *
Newmarket and Australian Cup candi-
dates were conspicuously absent from the Epsom
(Vic.) meeting on Saturday, but inasmuch as three
favorites were successful and three of the other
four winners were well backed punters bore the
absence with fortitude. The Cooltrim—Lady Abdy
mare Abdera (3 to 1) captured the chief event of
the day, the Epsom Handicap, m very easy style
from another Cooltrim in Coolness (10 to
Cyanate (20 to 1) third; the favorite, Smoke Bomb,
finished in the ruck. Abdera didn twm out of her
turn- it was her first success since she took the
Toorak Handicap. The Cooltnms had quite a good
day, as another of that sire’s progeny in Sol Green s
Coogee Bay (7 to 2) scraped home, thanks to Reed,
from Threeasta (10 to 1) in the Epsom Plate; Sail-
ing Home, favorite again, disappointed once .more.
Zanibar (12 to 1) donkey-licked a good field m the
second division of the Two-year-old, L. Iv. S. Mac
kinnon’s Absurd—Leta colt Farrago, who cost 2500
guineas as a yearling, and Ragazzo, Otway Falkme
expensive purchase, being beaten out of a place.
Both wiU do better, however.
• • * *
Heroic won the last Newmarket Handicap
with 9st. Blb. Can, he win the next with lOst. 31b. t
Half Melbourne thinks he can, and its confidence may
be justified if he takes his place in the field, but
as an ante-post proposition, as experience suggests, he
is not to be recommended. Top Gallant heads th.
list with lOst. 41b. (Sydney people who saw Valicare
beat him would not accord him that eminence) .
Manfred gets the same weight as Heroic; Fuji ban,
Valicare and Amounis have 9st. 131 b., Waranton a
pound less, Quintus 9st. 111 b., Comus 9st. 4lb. and
Bairn 9st. 2lb. Heroic certainly looks the pick of
that mob. Perspective (Bst. fib). Persuasion
(Bst. lib.) and Grecian Orator (Bst. lib.) take the
eye among the eight-stoners, and Lausanne (7st.
121 b.), old St. Speed (7st. 111 b.) and Crystal
(7st. 61b.) among the seven-stoners; but Heroic
reads best. Neither Windbag (lOst. 31b.) nor Man-
fred (lOst. 21b.) is likely to start m the Australian
Cup. Spearfelt has 9st. 131 b. and Pilliewinkie
9st. lllb.; the latter won last year with 9st. bib.
and Spearfelt carried off the Melbourne Cup with
9st. 31b. Sydney is powerfully represented by ian-
theon (9st. lllb.), Strongbow (Bst. 51b.), Piastoon
(7st. 131 b.) and Bacchus (7st. 121 b.), but this Page
will have Naos (7st. lllb.) on its side once more.
With lllb. less he was very unlucky to lose the
Melbourne Cup.
# * * *
“Ilarket” : It is rather early to pronounce
Maple, the Westralian-owned daughter of Rossendale
—Honeywood, a non-stayer (B. 6/l/’27). Maple
certainly failed (as Rampion did) at her only effort
over two miles, but she was a bit off color in the
Perth Cup, nor was she ridden a good race. As
it was, she finished third to Au Fait and Char, the
latter an old stager who has been thrice placed in
the Perth Cup. Maple belongs to Ernest Lee Steere,
of Eurythmie fame, and is likely to do well if tried
in the Eastern States. But not so well as Au Fait,
who, in spite of his humble parentage (Ayrville —
My Country), is a stylish-looking fellow and quite
in the same class as Lily pond, Easingwold, Mistieo,
Macadam and other good ones that have come out
of the West.
* * * *
American negro Joe Hall, whom Grime
reckons the best lightweight now in Australia —next
to himself, of course —gave Johnny Reisler the
father of a hiding at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night, before a very slim “house.” Both men
exceeded the legal 9st. 91b. that limits this class,
the white U.S. citizen by 71b. and the discolored by
2-Jlb. From kick-off to no-side, the black dominated
the situation, and only Reisler’s abnormal toughness
enabled him to see the 20 rounds out. Johnny was
floored in the first round. He did not linger there
long, and went after his elusive opponent in bull-
dog fashion, but with little better luck than he
had in chasing Grime. He bumped the canvas
again in the second round. In the seventh, one
of his wild swings landed on Joe’s shield, and, while
Hall was explaining matters to the referee, the
paleface sneaked a sockdologer to the head. It was
adding insult to injury, besides being an error of
judgment in choice of a target, for Hall is solid
A LAST REQUEST.
CONDEMNED MAN (in brighter days a
golfer): “Any objection to my having a
practice-swing this morning?”
ivory from the teeth up. Joe proceeded to seek
revenge and got it in such large quantities that he
received the referee’s verdict and that of everyone
else.
* * * *
Boxing with exceptional speed and force
Billy Grime (9st. 71b.) gave Jacky Jones (9st. 61b.)
such a hiding for five rounds, at the West Mel-
bourne Stadium, that the Welshman, after visiting
the boards twice for the count of nine, fell from
sheer weariness, and the referee placed a hand on
the champion’s expectant head. Although Jones
possesses ability above the average, he had no hope
against Billy, who has never fought better. It was
Grime’s last bout in Australia for a year or two, for
he is off to the U.S.A. If he looks after himself
there, and doesn’t give away lumps of weight, as
the late Tim Hegarty did, he is quite likely to
return with a world's title.
* * * *
The big event of the last day of the Aus-
tralian swimming championships at Melbourne was
the half-mile, swum in the City Baths. Takaishi
finished 10 yards in front of “Brasher” Jones, of
WestrAlia, who takes the title; Grier, of Bananaland,
beat Kelly (N.S.W.) for third place by a bare two
feet. The Jap’s time was llmin. 6 2-ssec.; the
Groperlander’s llmin. 35 2-ssec. Stedman (Vie.),
3min. 6 4-ssee., easily left Stevens (W.A.) in the
220yds. breast-stroke championship.
* * * •
“Time Clock”: A pigeon fancier I once
knew had queer notions, notably with regard to
the bathing habits of his birds. If a pigeon lingered
on the edge of the morning tub, as birds occasion-
ally do, the owner would time him with a stop-
watch. If the fowl hadn’t dived in within a
minute, it was put into a special pen and, with
companions in misfortune, shot out of a trap in
a private shooting ground kept by its disappointed
boss, as having “no intelligence.” One day a
brother breeder arrived ori the scene as a basket of
defaulters was being taken to execution. Par-
ticularly struck with a fine young cock, he tried
to buy it, but was refused, on the ground that “the
cow had no intelligence.” After argument, he sug-
gested a shooting match, with the other pigeons as
targets, the cock to be reserved and given him as
a prize if he won. He managed to win, and bore off
his trophy, which turned out one of the best “stock”
birds he ever had, breeding numerous race-winners.
Long after, he told the original owner of the bird
what a prize he had missed. His hearer grew purple.
“Don’t believe a word of it!” he yelled. “A dam
tissue of lies! Th’ blankard, I tell yer, had no
intelligence!”
* * * *
The Australian lawn tennis championships
in Melbourne early took on a Victorian flavor. Illness
prevented Daphne Akhurst from playing, and the
final of the women’s singles was fought out by Esna
Boyd and Mrs. Harper, Esna winning, 5—7, 6—l,
6 —-2. In the men’s doubles Gerald Patterson and
J. B. Hawkes met two more Victorians in O’Hara
Wood and I. D. Melnnes, all Davis Cup players. They
gave a rattling exhibition of tennis, Patterson and
Hawkes retaining their title, B—6,8 —6, 6—l, 6—2. The
junior singles went to Jack Crawford, the New
South Wales hope, who whipped the Victorian Cold-
ham after losing a set; and, with Hopman as his
partner, Crawford was successful in the junior
doubles, Lum and Cattanach being settled in straight
sets. But Crawford went down in the champion
singles, E. F. Moon, the Queenslander, overcoming
him after a great fight, 2- —6, 9 —-11, B—6,8 —6, 6 —3,
B—6. Moon was fated not to reach the final,
Patterson vanquishing him in straight sets.
In the concluding tussle Jack Hawkes wore out
shoes and court in a fine attempt to break down
Patterson’s last-minute opposition. He must have
run furlongs to Patterson’s yards. Patterson’s work
was poor at the beginning. The first serve was
frequently netted and the second well punched by
the active Hawkes. And Gerald frequently fumbled
the left-hander’s easiest shots. Hawkes won the first
set (6 —3), Patterson the second (6 —4), Hawkes
the third (6 —3). The fourth was a magnificent
straggle, Hawkes hovering one stroke from victory
a dozen times; but Patterson, who was now playing
a hard forcing game, always recovered, and won the
set, 18 —16. Patterson faced the final set apparently
as fresh as a lily. Hawkes was tottering, but he
captured the first two games by brilliant slicing
drives. Patterson, altering his methods, hammered
in the first serve and smashed surely. He won the
set, 6 —3, after 31 hours’ play under a gruelling sun.
But the tournament showed that it is no use sending
a Davis Cup team abroad this year.
* . * * *
“Bond.”: Australia’s old friend S. N.
Doust has challenged Suzanne Lenglen’s ranking of
the leading tennis players. Suzanne put Lacoste
at the top, with Borotra and Cochet next, Johnston
being placed fifth and Tilden sixth. Doust admits
Lacoste’s supremacy, but places Tilden, and Johnston
(in that order) above the other Frenchmen. Patter-
son and Anderson are eighth and ninth in his list,
just after the Japanese Harada. Greig, tenth, is
the only Englishman Doust includes.
“Past Grammar”: The N.S. W. Rugby
Union football team, which is to leave for England
by the Ormonde on July 23, will have a tougher task
before it than its predecessors of 1912, or, indeed,
any other Dominions team which has visited Britain.
Only 28 games will be played, as against 74 by the
M. Natives in 1888-89, and 31 by the Wallabies
of 1912. But, whereas all earlier teams were given
two or three pipe-openers before the serious work
began, the Waratahs will start in on a very strong-
combination 16 days after landing—combined Devon
and Cornwall. After that they will face four con-
secutive games in Wales. The internationals will be
against Wales, Ireland, Scotland and England, France
having apparently dropped out; the Wallabies met
Wales and England only. A full week’s spell will
be allowed before each Test, but the rest of the
programme consists of Saturday and Wednesday
matches. English football has greatly advanced
since 1912, and there does not seem an easy match
in the whole 28. Everything will depend on our
forwards, and, on form against M.L. of late, these
should prove satisfactory.
“J.H.” (Lond.) : The 19-year-old Welsh Rugby
marvel, Windsor Lewis, is sure to be a thorn in the
N. Rugby flank. Against Oxford in the annual
’Varsity match be gave easily the best exhibition of
five-eighth play I have seen since the days of Percy
Bush, making openings galore for his centres. The
Oxonians never saw the way he went. In fact, the
stamp of genius was over everything he did. Lewis
was quite first-class at his first international appear-
ance for Wales v. Ireland as a boy of 18 : and the
critics should have spotted him then. But, with
one or two exceptions, they played for safety.
» * * *
“Dainty Ariel” : A quaint character on the
long-distance running track in the late ’eighties and
early ’nineties was Billy Dunn. Billy’s matches at
the old Carrington ground with Dave Livingstone,
an English ped. settled at Newcastla (N.S.W.), were
the cause of heavy betting. Dunn always won, but
the coalies could never be persuaded that he was
the better man. Ten miles an hour was just mild
exercise for Billy, who scaled only about Bst. 101 b.,
but his favorite pastime was to start (in street
clothes) along with the Newtown ’bus at Circular
Quay, and race it to the White Horse Hotel, King-
street, its terminus. He always beat the ’bus, as
he beat Livingstone. Last time I saw Dunn, he was
chief engineer of a scissors-grinding outfit, and still
smiling. A peripatetic philosopher.
With Macartney, Taylor, Everett and Old-
field back in the side, N. S. Wales won the return
match against Victoria by an innings and 253, hav-
ing been obliterated at Melbourne by an innings and
656. Getting first usp of a first-class Sydney
wicket, N. S. Wales rattled up 469, Kippax dominat-
ing the situation with a grand 217 n. 0., flecked by
a single chance at 176. The pitch was damp when
ALLAN KIPPAX.
who has again
headed the Shef-
field Shield aver-
ages for N.S.W.
lie does it nearly
every year.
the visitors went in,
and they were all out
for 35, McNamee tak-
ing 7 for 21 and
Macartney 3 for 10.
They did better in the
second innings, thanks
to Liddieut (55) and
Baring (35), but paid
dearly for the V.C.A.’s
insistence on covering'
wickets ; and had Pons-
ford, Ryder and Wood-
full been in the team
it would have made no
great difference.
McNamee took 3 for
49 in the second
innings—10 for 7 0
altogether. He has
amply justified the
State selectors, who
persevered with him in
the face of much
criticism. Hendry, who
captained the Vic-
torians, cruelly over-
bowled Morton, the
new express.—-192 balls,
129 runs, 2 wickets
was the victim’s record
at the end of the first
day, one of the mug-
giest of a muggy
season. But, then, it
is the fashion of Aus-
tralian skippers to
overburden their fast
bowlers. That is chiefly
why fast bowlers break
down.
Tasmania was trounced on the Melbourne
0. G. by a second eleven of Victorians, for whom
Mitchell scored 220 and Onyons 128, and who had
an innings and 78 to spare at. the finish. The
batting of Martin and Newton impressed the old
’uns in the members’ stand, but the Speck sorely
needs a McDonald or an Eady.
* * * *
“Wang”: On my way to the Melbourne
Cricket Ground I met my hard-case acquaintance
“Tuggo” Ryan. “Where to —the lolly factory?’
“Tuggo” asked. I replied with dignity that I was
going to the Cricket Ground and not to any mere
lolly factory. “Same thing,” said “Tuggo,” with
a grin. “Ain’t that th’ place where they make
’undreds an’ thousands?”
* * * *
Ponsford has decided to remain in Aus-
tralia, but Arthur Richardson will probably go to
Lancashire and play with one of the League clubs.
Since 1919-20 Richardson has scored 2351 runs,
averaging 39.18, for South Oss, and taken 84 wickets,
averaging 43.27. # *
“Mindinao” : A movement is afoot to secure
the visit to Australia of a Filipino athletic team.
This country is familiar with the little brown man as
a boxer, and he made his mark as a track athlete
at the Oriental Olympic Games. Filipino records
run from 9 4-5 sec. for the 100 yards to 35 min.
52 2-ssec. for the 10,000 metres, figures which com-
pare favorably with this country’s best. The N.S.W.
Association is taking up the matter, and. the. other
States and Maoriland are to be .asked to join in.
“Ploughman” : Golf handicapping has sent
more players to the reception house than even
the nineteenth hole. The N.S.W. Golf Council has
decided to follow Britain’s lead. On the advice of
the State handicap committee, and as far as the
State national handicapping is concerned, the
standard “par” will be taken as the scratch score.
Kensington golf course will be the State standard
course, and State scratch will be reckoned at par
(73), while the club scratch will be 77. Each
club is to handicap from its own standard scratch
score, and this will be fixed by the State handicap
committee, on request. The scheme aims at stan-
dardising N.S.W. handicaps, whatever the course;
the Kenso. scratch man rated at being able to go
round in 77 will then be automatically, and fairly,
handicapped on any other N.S.W. course. *
“Bias” : Add to the interesting list of early
sporting history mentioned in the invaluable “Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia” (B. 6/l/’27) that of . bowls.
According to this authority the first game in Aus-
tralasia was played between T. Burgess and 1.
Lipscombe, at the latter’s home on Sandy Bay, near
Hobart, on January 1, 1845. The first green was
laid down by William Turner at his hotel on the
Sandy Bay road, in the same year, and he called
his pub the Bowling Green Hotel. The followmg
year he formed the first bowling-club. A match
between civilian and military teams in 1852 was
watched by nearly 1000 paying spectators. . The
green at Windsor (Vic.) laid down in 1864 .is the
oldest on the mainland, although, according to
an engraving in the Mitchell Library, the game was
played in the grounds of the Sir Joseph Banks hotel
at Botany in 1854. The first club m the Ma State
was the Woolpack, formed in 1870, at Parramatta.
The first set of bowls turned in Australia was
made by Thomas Eades, .of Parramatta, m 186■ <•
The first intercolonial match was played on the
Kentville green in 1880, between N.S.W. and Me.,
the latter winning by 21 points (112 to 91).
THE HEALING GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The English L.T.A. has lifted the post-war ban
on Turkey and Bulgaria. Representatives of these
nations may now compete in English tournaments,
with the certainty of being later admitted to the
Davis Cup. Germany had previously been white-
washed.”
What is it that smothers
War’s rancours and woes,
Converting to brothers
Belligerent foes?
League of Nations be jiggered! It’s tennis —lawn
tennis, as ev’ryone knows.
Can statesmen achieve a
New working entente
Though years at Geneva
In jawing they’ve spent?
Not they, but the ball and the racquet will find
some enduring cement.
Ho, Abdul and Boris,
Whom starkly we met
In battle, the war is
A thing to forget.
Come along and shake hands on the courts, chaps,
and be volleyed at over the net.
War’s horrors to choke you
We gave you to sup,
We beat you and broke you
And walloped you up,
Now send us your champions in flannels, and pull
up your socks for the Cup.
League of Nations! What hope in
Their feathers and fuss?
If they’re aiming to rope in
The Yank and the Russ
And the Chow for a world federation they’d best
take a pointer from us.
Let the ensigns of battle
For ever be furled
Where back-liners rattle
And racquets are twirled,
And the trophy presented by Davis make the place
in the sun for the world.
N.S,W.
IFORD.


Dependable
GUNS
and
RIFLES
Attractively Priced
at
Mick Simmons’
No. 14.
No. 14—THE CERT CO.'S D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12-gauge, top-lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, walnut
stock; weight about
71b
(Carriage Paid.)
£3/3/-
No. 17.
No. 17—THE CERT CO.’S D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12-gauge, steel barrels, left
choke, bar locks, X bolt, pistol grip.
plain finish ; weight about £4/5/-
(Car’dn are Paid.)
71b.
No. 22.
No. 22—RIYERSIDE ARMS
D.8.8.L. GUN, 12-gauge, top lever,
X bolt, steel barrels, both choke,
matted rib, rebounding locks, pistol
grip ; tested for nitro powders ; weight
7 Mb. to 81b.; 30in. £4/17/0
barrels
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 2.
No. 2—STEVEN’S “LITTLE SCOUT”
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 22-calibre,
18-in. round steel barrel, open rear
and knife-edged front sights ; no/C
weight about 2Jlb *0
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/3; other
States 2/2.)
No. 5.
No. 5 —STEVEN’S “FAVOURITE”
RIFLE, .22 calibre R.F., round 24in.
barrel, case-hardened frame, solid
breech-block, take-down action, open
front and sporting rear AA/
sights ; weight, 4Jlb e r e if “
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/9; other
States 3/2.)
No. 12.
No. 12—WINCHESTER REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, 1906 Model, 22-cal. 16-
shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide
action; magazine handles 15 short, 12
long or 11 long rifle
cartridges; weight
about s Jib
£4/17/6
(Carriage Paid.)
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
“The World’s Greatest Sports
Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.
(others
Know
/
J
Sr
l
Va
/
%
L
r
7
/
P
V
Y
7
IT/JMEItWITH
U
am
BECAUSE Zam-Buk is a natural prepara-
tion of extraordinary fineness and purity,
and not a mere lardy ointment, it may be
implicitly relied upon in an emergency.
Zam-Buk is so fine that its valuable herbal
essences soak through the tiny pores and
heal from below, thereby regenerating the
entire tissue. In this, the only natural way,
does Zam-Buk soothe pain, allay inflamma-
tion, and grow new, healthy skin.
Whatever your skin trouble try a daily
dressing with this purest and most potent of
healers —Heal it with Zam-Buk!
'T-
i
PS
*
A Handy Box Costs
Only 1/6
THE INKY WAY.
It will be almost a pity if John Allan
isn’t Victoria’s head when the Yorks are
landed, for whatever John’s faults he isn't
easily overawed. When Lord Somers arrived
the farmer-statesman went down to meet
him, and was presently approached by the
reporters for impressions of the novice. “I
think lie is a very likely young feller,” is
what the sub-editors had to try to turn into
official language later.
Another American novelist has discovered
Maoriland. This is Gouverneur Morris, at
present running through the Dominion and
making comment on its manners and cus-
toms. He states that on his return he will
encourage Americans to visit M.L. “And,”
he adds kindly, “I will probably mention
New Zealand in articles I will write for
American magazines.” And not take a penny
for the writing either!
“Hinemoa” : The Dominion, the farmers’
morning paper in Wellington (M.L. 1 ), lias
bought out the opposition morning paper, the
N. Z. Times, and the latter came out for the
last time on January 22. Old Tommy
McKenzie, “the Father of Wellington,” pub-
lished the first copy in 1852, under the name
of the Independent. The last copy went to
press under the direction of Earl McKenzie,
one of the founder’s sons.
Like Martin Donolioe, Percival Landon, a
war correspondent whose death was recently
announced, had a connection with Australia ;
he was private secretary to Governor Beau-
champ after he had acted as correspondent
for the Times in the S’African War. Landon
lacked the initiative and vividness of Dono-
hoe. He was more at home at such big
functions as the Delhi durbar and the tour
of the present King in India and Japan;
but as war and special correspondent he was
in constant commission, mostly for the Lon-
don Daily Telegraph. He wrote a few
books and a couple of plays.
“Ellae”: “Hamer's” par. re “The Beaten
Colors” (B. 20/l/’27) recalls probably the
only time Henry Lawson ever cheered a vic-
tor. About 16 years ago in Mount-street,
North Sydney, progress returns were being
given out in the contest between Cocks
(Nationalist) and Downs (Labor). Henry
was alternately reciting snatches of “The
Beaten Colors” and urging the crowd to
“Never mind Cocks, but cheer the beaten man
—hurrah for Downs!” Suddenly someone
said: “Why, Downs is in.” “Wliat!” qua-
vered Henry; “Downs is in! Well, then,
hurrah for Cocks —Cocks —Cocks!!!” And
Downs wasn’t within hailing distance after
all.
BUDDING WRITER:
“I don’t like the
new editor. Just
look at the way
he’s cut m y
story!”
ANCIENT SUB.:
“Reminded him
of some poor rela-
tion, I suppose.”
“17.4.88”: In the latest battle of wits
between the various Sydney dailies, the
Guardian seems likely to score. Anticipat-
ing the other papers by a day it announced
the inclusion of a receipt for the tax with
every copy of the paper. As the Herald
and others could not possibly be guilty of
cribbing from the Phillip-street journal, they
announced that no method could be devised
for returning the tax to the public if and
when it is declared illegal and returnable
to the papers. So, when and if that time
comes, the older papers have undertaken to
pay the refund over to some public institu-
tion. The cream of the joke is that they will
have to pay out the whole amount collected
by the Crown, whereas the Guardian will
only have to pay out to such of its readers
as have taken the trouble to cut out and
keep their receipts.
A North Coast (N.S.W.) paper used to
publish a weekly column of feminine chatter,
supplied by a city agency, under the caption
of “Our Lady’s Letter.” One morning the
contribution included what the sprightly
writer called a “conundrum” wliftcli ran
thus: “What is the difference between a
young lady coming out of a hot bath and
a train coming out of a tunnel?” “One
comes out with a ruddy blush and the other
comes out with a . . . . ” No paragraph ever
made such a hit in the township. In the
pubs and barbers’ shops it was greeted with
ribald laughter; in wowser circles it created
consternation. That a lady should have
written this ! The editor-proprietor, a well-
Known country-pressman, was kept busy
making explanations for days afterwards.
The thing had really escaped his notice ; the
comp, and the proof-reader failed to draw
his attention to it. And he compromised with
his conscience by sending a stinging rebuke
to the penwoman whose “unladylike conun-
drum” had brought all the pother about his
ears.


Electricity
gives
perfect
Refrigeration
foods and
drinks have
a distinct comfort that
appeals universally.
You can now have a
refrigerator as cold as a
snow-clad Alp, even if
you have no means of
obtaining ice. Kelvinator
is a marvellous device
that furnishes crisp,
frosty air by electricity.
v-Wtf&lkk
Q® 1
sfil
8:
..*4 r
piIUMIH
KZT7J
R llirai
cz'.i
1
-UdKASEX.
rv : L:V;fe\
*ii'
IT V
ram
ii
JKSwfi*
_J
p m
y i
mi
j^a&aaa
.‘3
! I -
r ■ i.
ft- I
iseassnjca
■it-< ,r • V
a-.
.. IKS’
3:4
rafi
w,
if CftV
Kelvinator automatically main-
tains an even temperature —
clean, dry, intensely cold. It
checks deterioration of focd
and the consequent develop-
ment of bacteria, stopping the
present waste of food caused by
spoiling.
Moreover, Kelvinator freezes its
own crystal-clear cubes of ice for
chilling beverages and for other
table uses. Once Kelvinator is
installed, you can forget all
about refrigeration—and just
enjoy the most perfect refrigera-
tion obtainable.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.
Kelvinator Showrooms: 75 William Street, Sydney.
’Phone: F 1778,
Kelvinator
The Oldest Domestic Electric Refrigeration


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. WM. NORTHAM (Chairman), T. W. RAPLEY (Managing Director), ALEX. KING, P. R. HIGGINS, and Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY.
Total Assets exceed. . . . . . £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
<2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. PEACOCK, A.C.1.5., Secretary-
T. W. RAPLEY, Managing Director.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Rose Marie”
Criterion “Cobra”
Rotai, “The Pirates of Penzance”
Patace “White Cargo”
St. James “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Puller's Yaudeville
Tivoli Yaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Cousin from Nowhere”
King's “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
Princess “Puss in Boots”
Athenaeum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
llott’s Moving Pictures
+
“The Ghost Train” blew its spectral
whistle and started off at the Melbourne
Athenaeum on Saturday afternoon. It _is
a tribute to Arnold Ridley, the English
author, that his night of horror satisfac-
torily diddled at least some of his audience,
although it was a nice sunny day outside.
Half a dozen passengers on a Cornish branch
line miss their connection through a silly
ass losing his hat and stopping the train
to find it. There will be no more trains
till morning and the travellers proceed to
spend the night in a wayside-station waiting-
room. The stationmaster tells the story of
an accident which happened 20 years before,
when, the s.m. having fallen dead, a special
train dashed over a swing bridge that wasn’t
there. With the assistance of the dead
engine-driver, the spook of the deceased s.m.
and six mouldering corpses, the apparition
of the train, to the terror of the countryside,
always runs, on its anniversary, which hap-
pens to be to-night. He then goes home
and leaves them to a pleasant evening. A
dead stationmaster is next found on the
doorstep. A Cornish girl rushes in, pur-
sued by her brother and a doctor. She has
seen the ghost train before, and is irresis-
tibly impelled to look on it again. In due
course the signal-bell announces the approach
of a train, it thunders past into the river,
the dead engine-driver hurries back to haunt
the platform, and generally the night seems
far from normal. Whereupon, the super-
natural perfume having been admirably
sprayed over two acts and a half, the silly
ass who lost his hat comes out of his cloud
of imbecility and reveals himself as a Brit-
ish _ secret-service agent, switches the ghost
train, now on its return journey, on to a
siding, and arrests the girl, her brother, the
pseudo-doctor, the corpse of the station-
master and the engine-driver’s spook. The mask
being torn from their pretensions they are
disclosed as Russian agents engaged in dis-
tributing machine-guns to British workers
in furtherance of the glorious revolution.
* * * *
Having already suffered “The Bat” and
“The Cat and the Canary,” the Australian
public is not easily bluffed by Yankee spoof
melodrama, but this English specimen is a
superior member of the family. It is vastly
more _ astute in its stage mechanics, which
are simple but effective; in its characterisa-
tion, which is seldom tiresome; in its spooky
atmosphere and the very necessary element
of humorous relief. Basil Radford, as the
secret agent, provides the humorous relief;
Betty Ross Clarke, the star, as the fey Cor-
nish lass, displays a talent for conventional
melodramatics; Hugh E. Wright, the pro-
ducer, shows a capacity for grisly elocution
as the stationmaster; Roger Barry, hero,
discharges his words as if they were the guns
of a vice-regal salute, but is none the less
impressive for that; Joan Bailey serves as
the hero’s wistful wife; Maseotte Ralston is
not at ease in dramatic clothes; and Mayne
Lynton and Laura Smithson are passengers
who are worth their fares.
“The Last of Mrs. Cheney,” at Melb. King’s,
introduces an Australian widow who owns an
immaculate establishment in London run on
ball-bearing butlers. Widow Cheney is dis-
covered entertaining the best people (also
the worst), who discuss her in the smart
Frederick Lonsdale manner and vote her
charming and innocent of guile. They then
depart. Mrs. Cheney sits down at the piano.
Whereupon the perfect servants, after draw-
ing the curtains, light cigarettes, deposit
themselves about the furniture, proceed to
read the sporting papers, and provide the
only really fetching moment of the play.
Having revealed herself as one of a gang of
international crooks, Mrs. Cheney dis-
appoints her accomplices in crime by falling
in love with one of their victims and soften-
ing to the rest. In a sleeping-chamber scene,
dragged in, as such scenes customarily are,
by the bedposts, Lord Arthur Dilling catches
the crook lady stealing pearls, offers amiably
to be her lover, is surprised (and so is the
audience) to learn that she is indeed a simple
maid and would far rather go to gaol; and,
after considerable ado (a whole act of it, in
fact), decides to marry her instead.
* * * *
Renee Kelly can generally be trusted to
misinterpret a part, although she may be
more than attractive while she does it. Mrs.
C. is the latest addition to her gallery of
pretty but inexact portraits. This Showman
is unable to accept her artless ingenue as the
girl who, bred in Clapham and educated by
thieves, successfully bulldozes smart society.
Nowhere does Miss Kelly hint at deeper con-
tact with life than is sustained by the really
nice girl who sells silk socks to men over a
city counter but refuses to tell them the name
of the ’bus she catches home. Nevertheless,
everybody in a Frederick Lonsdale play has
to be clever, and everybody in this rather
vapid play is frightfully clever. Alexander
Onslow, as the impressionable lord, is a new
arrival and arrives rather nicely, on the
whole; he is tall and has a certain massive
grandeur, though his hands are occasionally
as full of embarrassment as a wedding night.
Hylton Allen is a sedate and gentlemanly
crook; Antony Holies a foolish fellow fol-
lowed by much laughter; Emma Temple,
Margaret Darner and Phyllis Best three
entertaining aristocrats ; and Dorothy Fane,
as usual, _ a brisk comic lady, who gives a
curious _ richness and sincerity to a meagre
and artificial role. Leslie Victor, as a pomp-
ous and platitudinous peer, presents himself
as the most consistent artist of the lot.
Seventeenth-century oranges will be on
sale on the Royal stage in Melbourne on
the 26th of February instead of the 19th, as
originally announced by “Sweet Nell’s” man-
agement.
** * *
Other Melbourne theatres: “The Hotten-
tot,” a farce, with real racehorses and situa-
tions not so real, at the Palace. “Pins and
Needles,” a mannequin parade plus Ada
Reeve, at the Royal. “The Cousin from
Nowhere,” a musicomedy both musical and
comic, at His Majesty’s. At the Princess,
“Puss in Boots,” a panto.—an eyeful.
Rumored that Little Tich was costing Mel-
bourne Tivoli more than £3OO a week, and.
as the small comic was not more than a
moderate attraction, the management may
not have been broken-hearted when he took
ail ill-natured shower of coppers from a sec-
tion of the house as a mark of disapproval
and broke his contract. Any atmosphere of
gloom that may have gathered round the box-
office was dispelled when Olsen and John-
son, two dishes of slapstick Yankee humor
more to the modern taste, arrived with a
bang on Saturday.
** * *
“April Fool,” a young man who waited
lo years for a girl, is this week’s romantic
story at Melbourne Majestic, and Flinders-
street is emptying twice daily to study the
phenomenon. Alexander Carr does the wait-
ing, and there are thJee remarkably “cute”
children in the cast. At Hoyt’s house Harry
Langdon is “The Strong Man,” a simple
hero who bombards Germans with a shang-
hai, accidentally wrecks a theatre, and other-
wise is artlessly comic. Nor has “The Boy
Friend,” the supporting picture, any serious
intention.
“PUSS IN BOOTS” PANTO., AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS.
Phil Smith as the Queen of Donowherski,
and Reg Hawthorn as the King who
can’t smile, from the same address.
At Melbourne Bijou, Taylor and Summers,
whose song is sadness but whose patter is often
joy, continue to extract the latex of laughter
from their listeners; Norah, who calls herself
an English caricaturist, draws Highlanders
stiffly,, but, as she draws them upside down,
gives inexhaustible delight; Lorna and Lanee
are talented juveniles who don’t distress;
and Baby Leslie, described as the youngest
drummer in the world, though this Showman
knows of a younger, is an amusing little
cuss. George Wallace is indulging in ‘ Alpine
Antics” amidst goats, Swiss cheeses and ava-
lanches of female legs.
... ...
“Fair and Warmer,” in which Nellie
Bramley has shown her best work, opens at
the Sydney G.O.H. on Saturday. Another
change that day will occur at the Royal,
where, with the substitution of “Pirates oi
Penzance” for “lolanthe,” the public will be
told why a policeman’s life is not a happy
one. “Rose Marie” is finding the mention
of “last weeks” so successful that its melody
is likely to be still at Her Majesty’s in
August. There have been rumors that Judith
Anderson is to change her vamping medium
from “Cobra” to Arlen’s “The Green Hat,”
“IOLANTHE,” AT SYDNEY THEATRE
ROYAL.
Charles A. Walenn as the Lord Chancellor
in a gay mood.
but actually the co. has not yet started on
rehearsals. The Criterion is therefore likely
to remain snake-infested for a time. Remarks
about “last weeks” are also being aimed at
“Jack and the Beanstalk”; but Fullers’
pantos, usually last long, and the sole
relic of the past Christmas may linger for
a little time —five weeks definitely—at St.
James’s. The delivery of “White Cargo” at
the Palace will cease after the performance
on to-morrow (Friday) week; on Saturday
week the medicine of laughter, as bottled
by Kenneth Duffield under the label “Hullo,
Healo,” will be -supplied at the Palace.
n* v
The dancing five of Francis J. Haney’s
“Revuette” are the bright lights at Sydney
Tivoli this week; yet, although their toes
speak best for them, the act is spiced with
fair patter. Bluett and Mo, neither yet set
in the habit of being a f©il for the other,
have put into the bill a supply of average
broad comedy; and the act of Johnnie Clark
and Co., who do drunken acrobatics, also
wins the laughter whose absence from the
show was noticed last week. The Lynn
Smith Trio supply very passable melody—
they are the surviving wreckage of a jazz
organisation; and Sanoyoa Valencia is a
dare-devil who, not satisfied with the stage,
swings out above the stalls and does some
remarkable twistings with Satanic assur-
ance.
❖ ❖ #
The revue part of the programme at
Fullers’ Theatre (Sydney) has added Madge
White to its attractions; the banking-up of
all these musical-comedy people at the vaude-
ville house (Florence Hunter, Sydney Smith
and Oliver McLennon are there also) pro-
bably indicates active preparations for some-
thing to fill the St. James when “Jack and the
Beanstalk” is pushed out. The revue, which
is “Autumn Love” this week but might just
as well be anything else, is a great height
above the crude stuff of the Stiffy and Mo
days, and Nat Hanley depends on something
more than knock-about comedy for his
laughs. In the vaudeville half of the pro-
gramme an attractive young Australian who
calls herself Phyllis du Barry does remark-
ably well, considering that an always too-
loud orchestra seems to have declared war
against her; and the McLaglen brothers, in
a living statuary turn, also score.
There were no subsequent complaints,
although some hooting amongst the crowd at
the time, when the Bondi Beach Concert
Band, which was formerly the City of Syd-
ney Band, walked off with the A-grade cham-
pionship at the inter-State Band Contests
in the Sydney Sports Ground. The Bondi
organisation started well by winning the
marching display; it scored high points for
music, but the detail and the “turn-out”
were not so good. When it delivered Hubert
Bath’s “Freedom,” its music occasionally
swelled like a fine organ. But music, although
it is said to “soothe the savage breast,”
doesn’t. The football fanatic howling “Good
Man!” to one of his own side who deliber-
ately infringes a rule, and yelling to the
referee who penalises him to “Put on a
guernsey!” is a tame canary alongside the
band-contest barracker. With him the
adjudicator takes a daily risk of death. Two
visaing hands—those of Charters Towers and
the Toowoomba Municipality— got
and third places. On the whole the ™]
contests were disappointing. The tenor horn
chamrnonslnp went to B. Fortesque, of the
- amways > ™ ho scor ed 44 points out
of 50. He was a long way ahead of his
competitors J Compton of the Toowoombu
Municipal Band, won the B Flat Hornet
Championship with 42 points.
** * *
The winner in the pictures this week
At last a delightful human movie that touches
the heait! The Boy Friend” eschews all the
pictures’ worst and most common faults. There are
no spectacular sensations, no parade of half-dressed
girls, no glittering society ballrooms, no aeroplanes
no court trials, no sensational escapes from death, no
divorces. The scene is set in a quiet country town,
and stays there most of the time. Marceline Day
is lured by a society young man towards New York •
but she doesn’t go till the last scene, and by then
she is happily married. John Harron, a youn-
country-store man, loves her but she turns him down!
Then comes to his homely house a book-hawker
with a volume which shows how to acquire person-
ality and charm. Carefully following the instruc-
tions, the girl’s mother gives a “reception,” hut
their bid for social recognition is a dud. The book
has failed them. The girl determines to seek the'
bright lights of the city. But there was one chapter
that the grocer-boy had not read. It was titled “Sex
Appeal.” He tries it on now and the girl finds that
the mild youth has become a cave-man. She
discovers, too, that she likes that kind of man. And
then every girl in the town wants him. The picture
loses its punch, however, owing doubtless to the
censor’s deletions; and the audience has to take for
granted his whirlwind wooing. But for those who
want genuine humor and pathos, delicate character
acting and a sense of absolute reality, “The Boy
Friend” will make many friends. This picture is
now showing at the Strand (Sydney).
** * *
An also ran :
The hero’s an archaeologist; the scene is set in
an ancient tomb, where ages ago two lovers kissed
and went to their death in a murky gloom. For
Pharaoh of old had put a curse upon the tomb of
Raineses IV., with boiling oil or something worse
—and woe to the person who dares explore! But
the nice excavator his wife forgot; and she was
incensed and turned to play with admirers three
who helped the plot to live again in our modern
day. The wife was the shingled Lettice Joy—in
her Eton crop she appeared a freak—she looked like
a silly and simpering boy. Then into the game came
a Turkish sheik! The reconciled pair are buried
deep in the tomb with a mountain of rock above;
and the ending is thrilling, but rather cheap; and,
to give it a name, it is “Made for Love.” If for
faked history you should seek, the Empire is star-
ring it all this week.
jJj 5$C
The first swallow of a new Spring;—
The love of peace that was in the soul of Alex-
ander McOlintock, who died in 1922 at the age of
53, is reflected in the 87 water-colors now decorating
the Hordern Gallery—the first gallery to resume
after putting away the Christmas harvest. Nearly
any one of these tranquil landscapes would be an
angel of peace in a suburban household; nobody
could remember the angry grouch about burnt
steak and poorly-made coffee when his eye fell
upon the placid serenity of, say, “From the Top of
the Range” (No. 6), “The Quiet Valley” (No. 20)
or “The Pomegranate Tree” (No. 84). McClintoek
did not like even his clouds to seem angry, but he
shows that he can depict the shadows of storm in
“Bad Weather” (No. 4), in which a wind-swept
swamp shivers before the growing gale. In “Oranges”
(No. 83) the fruit doesn’t look eatable; and the two
portraits mainly show that portraiture was not the
artist’s forte. Essentially, the show is a pleasant
rest for the mind.
t “C. Ockney” : “Digger Stror-’At” is out of
his reckoning when he says (B. 20/l/’27)
that W. H. Denny was given the part of the
Gaoler in the Savoy production of “The
Yeomen of the Guard” after his visit to Aus-
tralia. Denny did not get to this country
till 1903, when he did his excellent work
with Musgrove’s Shakspearean co. Reginald
Denny, the stunting and boxing hero of many
Hollywood pictures, is the late comedian's
son.
“Bis”: I ran across this at the last
Tingha (N.S.W.) show. A painted banner
announced that at the bottom of the pit
surrounded by a staging was “An Algerian
Mermaid Wriggling Under the Water.” I
bit. Lying on a stretcher at the bottom was
a young girl, not hard to look at, either,
swathed, in bandages to give the impression
of a being part-fish, part-woman. She was
covered with a green gauze on which rested
a bottle of water, thereby keeping within the
law. Nobody squeaked.
“Topee” : Does any Bulletin reader know
of an earlier reference to jazz effects in music
than this? It is from Pepys’ “Diary,” dated
June 3. 1660: “My Lord [Montagu, after-
wards Earl of Sandwich] called for the lieu-
tenant’s cittern, and" with two candlesticks,
with money in them, for symbols ( !), we
made barber’s music, with which my Lord
was well pleased.” In those days barbers'
customers beguiled the tedium of awaiting
the curling or powdering of their wigs with
a little improvised harmony, a guitar being
usually provided by the perruquier for that
purpose.


✓* **
: ■
■
's
i: *
* 1
:
Sill
" " ;
" :' ■ ! • •' ■
Mm»e {$ *
• \
•
: •;!’ 1 ? '■
:
mm
i
? v;
1
s
<
m:
i
. jj| -
MB
: ' ■! ■ ■ :
%w& fMWkwM
, :
"V ; V
Mm
oAt the Sign of the “White Horses”
There is only one brand of White Horse
Whisky, We, the actual Distillers, believe in
the policy of one brand only , and that the best.
You can’t get two kinds of White Horse —-every
drop, in every bottle, in every part of the world
is made according to the original recipe of
1746. White Horse, therefore, never varies.
It is made by the largest independent Whisky
Film in Scotland from the original recipe
of 1746.
white house
"scotch Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.


300-YARD BEAM.
6, tt'-Ul'iiT KfKftl'ff
THE IDEAL TORCH FOR
ALL USES.
THE NEW WINCHESTER FOCUSSING
TORCH throws a narrow beam of light for a
distance of 300 yards. Ideal for all outdoor
purposes. In the car, on the land, boating or
fishing. Nickel Case, lens. Length of
torch 10 inches. Price 21 /-
WINCHESTER 100-YARD FOCUSSING TORCH.
Fibre case, well finished. 61in. long. Neat
and compact. Price is/
WINCHESTER PLAIN TORCH, 6 Jin. long"
Fibre case. Strong and serviceable. Price, 8/6
All Winchester Torches are fitted with patent
Safety Switch, and are remarkably strong.
Spare Batteries for the large torch, 3-cell, 2/6
Spare Batteries for the smaller torch, 2-cell, 1/U
Postage on Torches, 9d. Spare Batteries, 6d.
SPORTS CENTRE,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
ĥ
KARTELL'S
BRANDY
The Essence of
Hospitality 0
eMARTELL’S
for Age and Quality*
From the Cognac District
of France only .
CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
Poverty
Point
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Twelve to fifteen years
ago there was no more popular entertainer
in Australia than Joseph Blascheck, who has
just died in England at the age of 59. His
recitations from Dickens and other humor-
ous works were for several years a sure
draw at Melbourne public and private enter-
tainments. He had a well-stored mind, a
great fund of humor, and commanded a won-
derful variety of facial expression. Over-
coming certain physical disabilities which
would have prevented most men from making
headway in the profession, he won very defi-
nite success. He brought Ellen Terry to
Australia, but as the great actress was then
THOROUGHLY WELL GROUNDED.
MANAGER (to would-be actress) : “Have you
had any theatrical experience?”
W.B.A.: “Ooh, lots! Me mother used to
keep a nactors’ boardin’-ouse!”
in very poor health, with her eyesight seri-
ously affected, the financial result was dis-
appointing. From this set-back Blascheck
made a good recovery, and in August last
completed a successful tour of South Africa.
Death came to him at the London Temper-
ance Hospital, for which he had raised £BOO
by voluntary recitals.
“Curtain Raiser” : The first official German
war film to be shown to the enemy will be
“The Exploits of the Cruiser Emden”; it
will shortly be seen in London. In the film
Emden 11. takes the place of Yon Mueller’s
cruiser, and a substitute had also to be found
for Yon Mueller, dead. Von Miigge, the lieu-
tenant who led tlic raid on Cocos Island and
then escaped in Governor Ross’s schooner, re-
enacts his original role, and several of the
German crew are in it. The love interest is
small. The climax shows Commander
Glossop refusing to accept the defeated cap-
tain’s sword, because of his gallant fight. But
this isn’t the first picture to be made on the
subject. An Australian syndicate during the
war chartered a steamer, and with the assist-
ance of the island cable staff —half disguised
as German and half as British sailors —pro-
duced a highly-colored and romantic version
of the episode.
“Caul Boy” : Melba’s impulsive heart can
always be expected to exude some scheme for
the amelioration of Australia’s lot at the
expense of somebody or other. She had no
sooner wiped away her happy tears at sight
of Fremantle’s sandy shores than she advised
the Federal Government to establish a
national opera house at Canberra. If the
project is adopted a national repertory
theatre at Algebuckina should certainly
follow.
“Quince”: Verbrugghen’s rendering of a
simple tune on the fiddle at a millionaires’
party in Minneapolis, U.S.A., was warmly
greeted. Alfred Hill, who was present,
remarked “That’s a nice little thing. Where
did you get it?” Verbrugghen smilingly
answered, “It’s your own!” Hill had for-
gotten the piece, composed 25 years ago.
“R.”: “Hamfat” (B. 27/l/’27) mentions
that somebody proposes “a Common-
wealth subsidy for Allan Wilkie.” Who
is this enemy of Australian education that
proposes such a thing? Mr. Wilkie is an
actor from abroad no more burdened with
modesty than any other importation, and Aus-
tralia has been very good to him; accepting
at face value his patronage of W. Shakspeare
and forgetting that W. Shakspeare is out of
copyright and collects no author’s fees. If
a Commonwealth subsidy is seriously pro-
posed for Mr. A. Wilkie, why not a Common-
wealth subsidy for the Sunday actors who
recite the Sermon on the Mount or the lay-
reader who bleats the story of Jonah and the
whale? These are out of copyright, too.
“Hamfat”: The penny-throwing method
of criticism, which caused Little Tich to
leave the stage at the Melbourne Tivoli and
end his contract a day ahead of time, is a
habit that has never been acclimatised in
Australia, and I suspect that the coppers
which angered Tich came from an English
pocket. It is a cruel kind of insult; in the
deadly silence which has told the struggling
mummer that he has failed to be entertaining,
the cold, hard clink of the copper coin as it
hits the stage is like a bullet in his heart.
“Curtain Raiser”: Little Tich’s refusal to
complete his contract with the Tivoli be-
cause a very small coterie in the stalls in
Melbourne bombarded him with pennies
recalls the experience of Barry Lupino at
His Majesty’s in Wellington (M.L.). Lupino
walked off and out after one copper had been
thrown, whereas Tich’s collection, spread
over several weeks, would have purchased a
nice cigarette-case. As his reception has
been generally good, the fusillade, coming
from one corner of the theatre, suggests pri-
vate malice. Tich says that the coppers came
from the same little crowd on each occasion
and that one of the crowd was the director
of a big city firm.
“Goldilocks”: James Hay, another of the
Australians in the G. and S. company at
Sydney, owns Clare (S.A.) as his birthplace;
but he learnt to sing in the choir of the
Anglican Cathedral at Perth. After musical
training in London he joined the D’Oyly
Carte management in 1912. His first part
was Colonel Fairfax in “The Yeomen.” So
thorough was the drenching he had received
in the G. and S. operas that when he re-
turned from Australia in 1920 he did Rack-
straw in “Pinafore” at a moment’s notice.
He had called in at D’Oyly Carte’s office
merely to pay his respects, and while chatting
with the entrepreneur word was received that
Derek Oldham, who was playing the part,
had fallen ill. Hay seemed to have been
Heaven-sent; without him the show would
have had to close down. In spite of his Aus-
tralian breeding a slight Scotch burr clings
to Hay’s voice.
“W.L.”: Charles Chauvel is looking to
England. With more or less amateur casts
he has produced two films in Queensland and
now aims at making a “super-production” of
“Geoffrey Hamlyn.” He will go to England
to take the early scenes, and put “The Moth
of Moonbi” and “Greenhide” on the English
market and link up, if possible, his Australian
co. with a British producing unit.
“M.R.C.”: Re Judith Anderson’s first-
night speech (B. ld/l/’27). Years ago we
lived at close quarters with the Anderson
family, and I know that nothing but the
sheer and amazing pluck of Judith Anderson’s
mother kept the family boat from shipwreck.
At that time she was struggling to conduct
a small grocery business near the Rose Park
State School, Adelaide; and Judith (or
-Fanny as we knew her) was a cheery little
dumpling in the infants’ class. Hats off to
Judith’s mother!
“Lud”: Oscar Asche, Diana Wilson and
Frank Harvey on the same bill! The three
Australian favorites are all in the cast of a
new play written by two new authors, C.
Harold Bourne and Y. Langridge, entitled
“What Shall It Profit?” The piece is having
a trial run round the provincial cities before
being put on in London. Most managers
would sliy at such a title; but Oscar doesn’t
mind taking chances in that respect. His
previous vehicle was called “Big Business.”
“Philm Up” : The Hollywood vandals have
laid their irreligious hands on “The Ancient
Mariner” ; and the picture they have evolved
is just what one might expect. Not only has
Coleridge’s classic been mauled in its story,
but even the poet’s lines have been sub-
edited ; “The fair breeze blew, the white
foam flew, the furrow followed free,” was not
good enough for the ’Murkan producer. He
preferred this version, “The fair breeze blew,
the white foam flew; it filled the crew with
joy.” And here is one of the sub-titles:
“You were justified to kill the albatross. It
really did bring the fog.”
PUTTING HIM IN HIS CLASS.
“Every week you say you'll pay me my rent next week.
You're one of these Futurists, I s'pose.”
“Qwerty”: Though Dorothy Gumming
“had no chance of anything above the chorus
before she tried her fortune in America”
(B. 28/10/’26), she early showed her capa-
bilities in amateur work. At Walter Bent-
ley’s Shakspearean recital at St. James’s
Hall, in September, 1910, a press critic
wrote that in the part of Desdemona she
had “a handsome stage appearance and a
pleasing musical voice. Her acting is strong
in emotional parts.” Eight years later
Edmund Fisher said (B. 26/9/’18) that
Dorothy was “interestingly decorative in
‘Grumpy’ 1 and impressively emotional in
‘Caste.’ ” He added: “Time and opportu-
nity are bound to bring fortune to Dorothy.
She is the stuff that ‘great’ actresses are
made of, and would shine in a round of
Shakspearean heroine parts.”
“Murkah”: Add gramophone records to
the list of things Australia can make.
Recently I purchased a Sydney pressing of
a violin record made at least seven years
ago. The Sydney disc reproduced the most
delicate tone shades. A gramophone record
is, literally, a casting, with indentations so
tiny that up to 200 of them are packed into
one inch of groove.
“Goldilocks” : Tal Ordell knows his Aus-
tralia. Besides having travelled all over
it as a Thespian, he is quite capable of
retiring into the bush and making a good
living from it —and that knowledge he is
putting into his new children’s film, “Fatty
Finn,” based on the Sydney Evening News
comic character. His own youngster “Pop”
is Fatty. Now Ordell is off to Rockhampton
to “shoot” the greatest annual goat-race in
Queensland. The 32 entries for the event
include the champion goats Ooongal and
Windbag. A goat is one of Fatty Finn’s
chief companions. Everybody loves Billy
except Hugh Ward’s gardener. Ward lent
his garden to the film-maker for a couple of
days.
“Bisley”: Ridgeways’ Circus, now in
Sydney suburbs, is a family affair, and the
youngsters are the main performers, none
over 14. The show is well presented and
clean, and the motorised outfit can travel 50
miles in a day and show that night.
„ “Leybis” : If the Duke likes bellow-drama
Newton Carroll, with his big canvas theatre,
will provide the stuff in Sydney suburbs
during his visit. It might be an enjoyable
change from laying foundation-stones.
“Ilamfat” : Albert 11. Baile started on a
long road when he took the Newcastle
Steelworks Band to Britain, where it won
two out of four band championships and got
third and fourth places in the other two.
On his return he formed a new organisation
from men chosen from bands all over the
Commonwealth; and this little crowd lias
had 16 months of triumph in Britain, the
United States, Canada and S. Africa. The
Australian Commonwealth Band is now in
M.L., but is returning to give its own coun-
try a taste; after that the 30 members will
play at the Toronto Exhibition and through-
out Canada.
“Curtain Raiser”: I wonder if the audi-
ences that stare at the dumb sheet with such
satisfaction will really want to hear the
speaking film? The puppet show has always
been popular; and the more
primitive or infantile the
audience, the more popular
it is. Movie lovers, judging
by the quality of the stuff
they look at, are primitive
and infantile enough—per-
haps they are the lineal de-
scendants of the folk who
stared rapturously at the
early marionette and “Punch
and Judy” shows. Their
predilection for the drama
that is silent doesn’t neces-
sarily indicate poor dramatic
taste. Even the greatest
drama is very largely dumb-
show. What the gatekeeper
in “Macbeth” says could be
said in a few seconds; what
he does occupies minutes,
and his pantomime creates
an atmosphere of almost un-
bearable tragedy. At Mel-
bourne Majestic, if the
device can be got ready in
time, “Don Juan,” a forth-
coming film, will be heard a.s
well as seen. John Barry-
more, New York’s leading
“legitimate” star, will do
most of the chatting.
“Maori”: When Edgely
and Dawe’s “Midnight Fro-
lics” co. lost all their cos-
tumes, scenery and proper-
ties in the fire which de-
stroyed Fu 11 er s’ Opera
House, Auckland, they did
net appeal to the public to
make good the loss by funds
and subscriptions. Instead,
they set to work quietly to
replace it, with the result
that they are now going as
breezily as ever at H. M.
Theatre, Wellington. And, being a very
tastefully-staged show, it took some replacing,
“Permanent Blot”: Leslie Victor (B.
20/l/’27) was understudy to Dot Bouci-
cault with Chas. Froliman’s company. Dur-
ing Dot’s frequent visits to Paris Victor
played most of his parts in London. In-
cluded were photographer (“Letty”), dra-
matic author (“Rich Mrs. Repton”),Tavis-
tock (“His Excellency the Governor tv and
Captain Dieppe—a round of roles as diver-
sified in type as could be found anywhere.
“Cornstalk”: Leslie Victor’s real name is
Leslie Victor Jellicoe, and he was born in
England. At school he wrote a successful
one-act sketch; now he writes short stories
in local magazines. His delineation of the
dope-fiend in “Kick In” was a revelation in
character acting. His Johnny (in “It Pays
to Advertise”), Bishop (“Nothing but the
Truth”), Major Petkoff (“Arms and the
Man”), Chauvelin (“The Scarlet Pimper-
nel”) and various phases of Ned Pym, with
clever make-up and characteristics in “Mile-
stones,” prove his versatility.
“Quince”: Alfred Hill considers that the
average N’York theatrical production is very
thin material stretched over a lot of double
meaning. At one show, “Artists’ Models,”
a comedian who failed to score a laugh on
a dirty joke climbed back again by saying.
“You don’t get me now. But, by Ileck.
you’ll appreciate it at a quarter to ten!”—
the scheduled time for a troupe of naked
liouris to come on.
“Retired Critic”: “T.P.O’C.”(B. 13/l/’27)
mentions that “M.L. called the Fullers to
more profitable fields.” Really the Fullers
returned to Maoriland. Originally papa John
Fuller was brought to Auckland from Eng-
land as tenor of the Rose Sisters’ concert
party. Stranded, he got work at his trade
(he was a compositor), and founded a for-
tune by running Saturday-night pans.
“Bisley”: Billy Carroll, manager of the
Newton Carroll dramatic touring co., has
little trouble in securing Australian pro-
ductions. He has a playwright in the show
—Toddy Stewart, vivacious little wife of
comedian Billy Stewart. Her latest, “The
Bush Girl,” has met with immediate success.
THE LURE OF LEGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alack, the gallant ballets gay
That in my youth I loved to greet!
That row of legs in trim array,
The twinkling little tootsies fleet,
Those knees so nubbly and so neat!
When legs -were hidden and secure
Beneath long skirts that swept the street,
Those panto, legs had their allure!
But in this mere enlightened day
On every pavement you may meet
A thousand calves in full display
That blatantly the passers greet,
With jazzing garters all complete.
Those rows of stockings we endure;
No longer are mere legs a treat.
Those public legs have lost their lure.
So when I go now to the play,
I choose a back-stall for my seat;
I see so much of legs each day
No more I ever want to meet;
From so much calf I must retreat.
I contemplate in silence dour
The ballet that was once so sweet—
The modem leg has lost its lure!
Ah, Youth ! If one again could meet
Those sheltered ankles so demure!
But to this buffer quite effete
All legs, alack, have lost their lure!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


m
Q
VALET\L/
AmlctU trop
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials
for a perfect “Valet” shave—the
razor, strop and blade in
leatherette-covered case. .
3/6
Of all dealers.
m
n
kQ
vD
m
Quality
Economy
Simplicity
“Valet” Blades outlast the blades of the non-stropping
variety of safety-razor because the original superline
edge is kept in the pink of condition by a simple
method of stropping.
The “Valet” Razor is the only Razor that strops its
blade without requiring a special machine. Nothing
to take to pieces. Nothing to unscrew. Simplicity
itself.
Quality of blade, simplicity of mechanism and
economy in practice are the underlying principles
which characterise the “Valet.”
BRITISH
MADE.
T T
Safety Razor^
OF ALL
DEALERS.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.. 181 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Rad ge-Whitworth Motorcycl
ħ
POUR O/H VALVES
RUDGE-WHITWORTH PATENT
PROPORTIONAL COUPLED BRAKES
FOUR SPEEDS
AUTOMATIC LUBRICATION
INTERCHANGEABLE WHEELS
The new Rudge Four
has got improvements
that no other motor cycle
has got. It is good for
a steady 60 m.p.h. The
new brakes are a great
advantage on bad roads.
*rtimmniiin
i'"w-
"n,,
m
For full particulars write to the agent in your territory—
Flower, Davies and Johnson, 404 Murray street, Perth, West Australia
Behrens Thiem Co., 3 Devon Hjuse, Chesser-street, Adelaide, South
Australia.
Rogers Bros. Pty. Ltd., 305 Swanston-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Biden and Roberts, 150 Hay-straet, Sydney, New South Wales.
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency(Q’land) Ltd., Creek-street, Brisbane.
Queensland.
il iTT ard ’ Elizabeth -street, Hobart, Tasmania.
Carl Mantach, 110 Charles-street, Launceston, Tasmania.
Factory Representative: James Thornell, Sheffield House, Pitt-street.
byaney, JN.S.W.
Rudge-Whitworth Ltd., Rudge Works, Coventry, England.
Buy ‘BRITISH’ and be proud of it.”
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
h
TRADE MARK
AS FINE AS FINE CHINA CAN BE
m
m
m
i
i
OKELLEY Chira lias
a Charm which
makes it a treasured
possession in the home,
both to-day and in years
to come. Its perfection
is due to the experienced
craftsmen who make it.
commencing as boys and
acquiring their skill from
their fathers.
This pattern is Versailles No. 111/26.
Obtainable from all high-class stores and pottery dealers.
If any difficulty, write for name of nearest stockist to our
wholesale representatives,
T.W HEATH & CO..
limited.
232. Qlarence St. Sydney & Commerce ‘House. (Melbourne*
CHINA
m


VITAL POINTS on a
SUPER INVESTMENT!
IThe number of shares already placed is rapidly approaching the 100,000 mark and when this eventuates no
more Option Shares can be issued at any price. Get in on the “ground floor and apply for your shares
while the Options are available.
2 This is the only finance company to start operations with £lOO,OOO worth of sound and profitable business.
There is no business to be built up. The capital does not have to wait for the business. The business is
waiting for the capital.
3 The Company does not handle goods. It does not spend its capital. It LENDS its capital. Its capital is
never idle—it is always working—always being turned over rapidly, producing the highly profitable
pyramiding effect and enabling the Company to earn very large profits and pay handsome dividends.
4 Since the Company does not spend its money, it cannot lose it for the reason that it exacts the utmost security
for every pound it lends and a large proportion of it will be covered against the slightest loss by insurance.
5 Can you wonder why it is that a finance company is able to pay such high dividends when it can earn 17 £
per cent, by using its own capital ONLY—when it can earn Al\ per cent, by utilising £3 of borrowed money
for every pound of its own capital, and when it can earn per cent, by utilising £5 of borrowed money for
every pound of its own capital? And then consider what it means when you are told that this Company has
a double source of income and profit by operating BOTH motor finance and the cash-order system!
6 Do you know that motor finance companies’ dividends run all the way from 22 per cent, to 55 per cent, on
capital? You can verify this for yourself. AND do you know that cash-order companies have paid
dividends up to 37i per cent. AND—let us say it again—Motor and Cash Orders, Limited is operating
BOTH these profit-producing departments of finance!
7 Financial experts all over the Commonwealth have all said the same thing, which means that this Company
is in a position to earn the biggest profits of any finance company yet launched in this country. One well-
known financial writer stated in type recently that “the dividend possibilities of the ordinary shares are
such that there would be nothing astonishing in their rising to a value of from £5 to £lO per share.” While
the issue lasts the shares may be bought at par value —£l.
8 The British-Australian Underwriters (Amalgamated), Limited, the Brokers of the Company, have the option
of taking up and paying for at par (£l ) 100,000 Ordinary Shares which are being granted to the holders of
the first hundred thousand shares.
9 The number and character of those who have already applied for shares is an unanswerable tribute to the
intensely profitable nature and absolute soundness of the Company’s shares.
Tki s i s by far the most attractive opportunity to invest in the shares and participate in the profits of the only
1 U finance organisation in Australia combining two of the most profitable undertakings known in this country.
Motor & Cash Orders, Ltd.
CAPITAL - - £500,000
Divided into
50,000 Ten Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, and
350 000 Ordinary Shares of £l each, offered for public subscription, payable 2/6 per Share on
application, 2/6 per Share on allotment, and the balance in calls of not more than
1 /- per Share at intervals of not less than one month.
100,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each may be issued as stated in the prospectus.
h
DIRECTORS:
SENATOR HON. W. MASSY GREENE, Company
Manager, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SIR EDWARD LUCAS, K.B. (late Agent-General for
South Australia), Menindie, South Australia.
H. C. MACFIE, Esq., Company Director, 14 Martin
Place, Sydney.
PERCY FREEMAN, Esq., Investor, Shadforth Street,
Mosman.
SOLICITORS:
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Hunter Street. Sydney.
AUDITORS:
C. A. Le MAISTRE WALKER & CO., 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SECRETARIES:
RUSSELL & RUSSELL, Public Accountants and
Auditors, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
ORGANISING BROKERS:
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN UNDERWRITERS
(AMAL.), LTD., Adyar House, Bligli Street, Sydney.
THERE ARE NO FREE SHARES
ISSUED TO ANYONE.
THE DIRECTORS ARE PAYING
FOR THEIR SHARES IN CASH.
This advertisement was prepared and inserted by
British-Australian Underwriters (Amalgamated),
Limited, Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
FILL IN THIS FORM FOR PROSPECTUS.
COUPON.
To the Directors,
MOTOR AND CASH ORDERS, LIMITED,
c/o British-Australian Underwriters ( Amal. ), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 2558 E.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus of above Company
without any obligation whatever to me.
NAME
ADDRESS
Date
S.B. 3/2/’27.


ĥ
ħ
The powerful engine has a rigid five
bearing crankshaft lull pressure oiling
system and many other advanced features
M
.S
I
f
The rear engine suspension absorbs
road shocks and prevents stresses
from passing to the crankcase
«
The air cleaner sifts out dust and
■ grit and prevents the passage of
abrasive material into the com-
bustion chambers.
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd„,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street.
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motoi
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co.,
Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets.
Wellington.
MEASURED in pounds and shillings Republic
quality stands supreme. Fine materials and
workmanship mean longer life, greater freedom from
repairs, economy and savings! And Republic
performance assures more money-making miles each
day; performance that translates big service into big
profits.
There’s a Republic Truck
for every haulage need.
The quality built into each Republic Truck is instanced by
powerful motor, specially designed anti - shock suspension, and
such improvements as air cleaner, sturdy spring shackles and
rigid tubular cross - member where stresses are most severe.
Investigate Republic quality. See your local dealer for a
Republic demonstration, free and without obligation.
REPUBLIC
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House,
Castlereagh Street. Sydney, N.S.W


THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
IN ENGLAND FOR
OFFICE FURNITURE
•Specialising in Roll Top and
Pedestal Desks, Piling
Cabinets, Office Chairs and
everything for the perfectly-
equipped office, at prices
which are positively the
lowest in England.
SAVE TIME!
Send your indent direct to:—
The OXFORD CABINET Co.
146 Charing Cross Road,
London, W.C. 2, England.
For %
f up-to-date 1
DECORATIO!
in the HOME,
use
RIPOLIN
PAINT
Protects and Beautifies.
k procurable everywhere: A
Special Ripolin
Undercoating
, Preferred. A
V
Thirty years of scientific development
in the factory—thirty years of honest
and skilful merchandising—have estab-
lished the fame of Ripolin throughout
the civilised world. Every European
country, South America, Africa, Aus-
tralia, from Siberia to India and all of
North America as well have approved
and accepted Ripolin.
All Leading Paint Distributors
Stock Ripolin.
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Motors, Yachts, Hospitals, etc.
Write for Color Card and Booklet to
L. A. CORMACK
(FACTORY REP.),
4 Underwood St. (off 35 Pitt St.),
SYDNEY.
Telephone 83284.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD., 379
Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
S. J. SQUIRES & CO., LTD., 171 Elizabeth
Street, BRISBANE.
CLARKSON, LTD., 122 Bundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
Legal Notice.
SAORSTAT EIREANN.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of
Justice made in the Matter of the Estate of JOSEPH
THOMAS SUTTON late of Marina House Wicklow
in the County of Wicklow Gentleman deceased and
in a Cause Halpin v. Sutton (1926 No. 4466) all
persons claiming to be next of kin of the said Joseph
Thomas Sutton living at the date of his death on
the 30th October 1926 or to be the legal personal
representatives of such of the said next of kin as
have since died and especially his brother William
Henry Sutton his brother George Alfred Sutton and
his sister Ellen Jane Warren formerly Sutton or
their children if they be dead are by their Solicitors
on or before the 20tR April 1927 to enter their
claims at the Central Office Law Courts Dublin and
they are to prove their claims by the same day or
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order. Friday the 22nd April 1927 at the
Examiner’s Office Law Courts Dublin is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating on the claims. Dated
the 16th day of December 1926. THOS. W.
ELLERKER, Examiner. P. J. O’Flaherty and Son,
Solicitors, 22 Nassau Street, Dublin.
For Sale.
COR SALE.—DRILLING PLANT, com-
* plete, Combination (Standard and Rotary)
Rig capable of drilling to 4500 feet. Full
particulars obtainable from
H. C. MACFIE & CO.,
Box 1787 K, G.P.0., Sydney.
Agents Wanted.
\I/ANTED, a Melbourne firm of share-
vv brokers (must be members of the Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange) to act as Agents
for a reliable firm in Eastern Asia. Apply
X.Y.Z., c/o The Bulletin.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth, It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THE APEX STOCKWHIP
A BEAUTIFUL PIECE OF TWO-COLOR
PLAITING IN A PLEASING ARTISTIC
DESIGN. The thong is Bft. long, plaited to
match the handle.
Price 75/- complete.
WHIPS
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS are plain plait,
guaranteed Kangaroo Leather right through, with
inside plaited belly.
SENT POST FRE.E FOR CASH.
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 16/6; 24-plait, 18/6; 32-plait,
21/6. Loaded Handles for Oft. Thongs are 1/6 more.
WALTHER & STEVENSON. LTD
h
Write for
Catalogue
Australian
and Texas
Saddlery.
395 George Stree
Sydney.
Amusements.
gYDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: COBRA.
ROYAL: PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
PALACE: WHITE CARGO.
3YD N E Y’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: JACK & THE BEANSTALK
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
“ * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CE LE BR IT YVA U D K VIL LE.
The World's Best.
.1 C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY.
|\|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO,
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
Amusements.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE
The Theatre Beautiful.
Sir BENJAMIN FULLER and JOHN FULLER
present
PUSS IN BOOTS,
London’s Greatest Fairy Pantomime.
Every Evening. Matinees Daily.
Plan at. Glen’s.
Reserved Seats 7/- plus tax. Matinees 5/- plus tax.
Children half-price to all parts.
A TIIEN M U M THEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE GHOST TRAIN.
LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL.
Played by E. J. Carroll’s London Comedy Company.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FRED THOMSON and his wonder horse
SILVER KING in
THE WILD BULL’S LAIR.
Pulsating drama in a new form enacted in
picturesque surroundings.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE.
MELBOURNE.
HARRY LANGDON as
THE STRONG MAN.
ALSO
THE BOY FRIEND
with MARCELINE DAY and JOHN HARRON.
Prices as usual.
Missing Friends.
pKATT.—HENRY PRATT, son of William Prat;
and Mary (Leamin), or his children or personal
representative, or any person knowing of his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the Public
Trustee, Sydney. Mention Estate of Louisa Row.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ff
U)-m *=■
Ho
\
s
MHO OKS
UCE
i
/fosi ffoJ6rooASaj/s — 1
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
Aye, and then I mature it
like an old wine.”
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
M
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAK.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
©l.F 3
No. 1369.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L.C.M.: “Dead Hand” is poorly done....
R.J.F.: A tame ending. .. .Harold Han: The
Bulletin would want it in a quarter the space....
D. Bolos: You have overdone the villain.... France
M.: The conclusion is weak... .N.S.M.: Just failed;
the coincidence was a bit too hard to swallow....
I'.S.H.: Doesn’t read true.... Edward D.: Now do
you think a wife would write that note with the
other man still at work in the mine?... .F.S.G.:
Too raw.... Tony G.: A very small point.... Harold
G. B.: Makings of a good short yarn. You have
beaten it out too thin... .Louis G.: Rough work....
Claudius C.: The telling is too long drawn 0ut....
W.A.F.: It doesn’t scintillate; and only scintillation
would save a thing of that sort Geoffrey M.:
Don’t get on stilts to write. In a plain tale of the
wheat-country and its workers “zephyrs” shouldn’t
“steal across the plains,” and things like that....
C.R.8.:
I can feel the corned-beef moisture oozing down my
sleeve and arm,
But these trifles never vex you when you’re living on
the farm.
Now, honest, don’t they? We want true pictures;
and you can do them, t 00... .R.G.H.: Try “Words”
again.... C. Rex B.: Those “Gypsy-blood” pomes
need to be done very well these days... .H.K.W.:
Overdrawn.... Larrap: “Devil plant” is a very un-
exciting vegetable... .A.C.W.: Worth attention, but
not that much space.... J.8.C.: More sound than
sense Isabel: “Piper” is slight and uneven. It
should be reduced... .R.A.C.: Sorry, but it doesn’t
make us believe it’s true.... Paul C.: “Thorough-
bred” is a good story, not well t01d... .A. 8.: “Pani”
is pretty dull. .. .H.L.8.H.: That substitution is too
old a trick... .E.J.H.: Get rid of shop-soiled phrases
like “wild waves” and “boundless deep,” and give
first-aid to the last couple of lines. Then resubmit.
.... Dolly M.: Modern dress is one thing; but when
a woman “bares her soul” we draw the line. ...
Clare S.: The sixth heroine this year named Rose
Marie... .P.H.8.: Your “Clancy” verse has three
gaits—the amble, the trot and the gallop. You
can’t alter metre like that.. .M.C.P.: Too slight....
Stan D.: The old cannibalistic joke about the rash
man eating a rasher shouldn’t take 1500 words....
G.8.P.; Verses that are only pretentious charades
have no chance... .F.C.8.: Both went c105e....
Pat: The breathless incident rushes to its close:—•
A motor-car. A rut.
Into it full butt.
Much language unspoken.
Poor youth badly broken.
Much damage, they say;
Very deuce to pay.
Wrecked all youth’s raiment.
Car on time-payment.
On morrow, much sorrow;
Friends curse; .r.mth worse.
Maidens crying “He’s dying.”
Funeral. Sad tale.
Motor-car for sale.
....H.L.8.H.: Cut the long introductions 0ut....
Chrissie: One line that fascinated us was “She rose
and got my breakfast; ere dinner she was dead.”
Too bad !... .P.R.N.: The floppy lady flopped....
J.S.L.: Another ship that returns.... K.P.C.: The
same old sea and the same old m00n... .N.K.L.:
Nothing original in the discovery that a woman loves
a man for his soul. .. .Ripponlea: It’s a bit confused,
but bright as ever:—
“Go! Die on the wicked, cruel moors!
I renounce you and everything yours,
Ne’er again darken my doors!”
He said. Then his face was hideously distorter’d,
Reflecting his many feelings so tortured,
For a viper at his breast he’d nurtured.
He felt bereft of all human consolation.
And, embitter’d, he made a strong resolution.
Never more to encounter derision.
Something kept gnawing at his heart like a termite
And suddenly he came to a decision firm. It
Was to lead the isolated life of a hermit.
He went to the door to his feelings giving vent.
And in the balmy air by the gate-post leant,
Gazing up the bush-track she’d ashamedly went,
It was not that he was really callous
So much as insanely jealous
At her carrying on with other fellows.
....F.S.G.: Very near. But the theme is very
ordinary. .. .E.L.8.P.: “The Rocks of Victor” is
worth going over to remove the loose stones. And
get an ending—the “grip-sit” combination goes into
the Courageous Rhyme Competition... .B.B.: The
policeman’s large feet make too small a point for
a long verse... .G.L.P.: You ask for our “candied
opinion” of it. Well, it’s going back....
T.F.L.: Rough, and weak finish. May do altered.
. ...H.A.L.: Has a fair chance; would like to see
the others... .Mavis C.: Not bad; but try a new
path. Your trolly runs in a well-worn rut. ...F.W.:
Weak, yet musical; try again... .A.T.S.: Not enough
story to carry it A.J.: Truly terrible E.P.S.:
Bulldog verses have no bite. .. .H.F.L.: You’ve
lost some of the quality of the tragedy
in recasting it....H.8.: The tiger-man story
is prosaically told E.S.H.: Somehow, the
twin drownings left us quite unconcerned—
probably because we never really believed the people
existed... .Paul C.: Has an overburden of heavy,
harsh lines.... Alan S.: Little fancies not quite up.
.... Alice J.: There’s a story there; as told it is
merely an account of a rather sordid happening....
Sib M.: The long verse is only a dramatic skeleton,
and its bones rattle,.. .C.D.: “I will try you again.”
You did.... A.D.C.: We liked best the reference to
“the billers of the foaming deep”.... Della G.:
Merely a bath of bathos... .G.E.5.8.: Formal sort
of verse... .E.R.M.: The device of getting a pen
to tell it doesn’t improve a slight story... .G.T.8.:
The sigh for the open spaces has been sighed better.
... .G.T.: Fails to awaken interest. .. .L.M.8.: “The
Bucket” doesn’t hold water... .C.P.P.: Punning in
verse has to be very lightly done; there is cold-
blooded premeditation in yours... .Eve M.: You start
well on the plains; getting towards the hills the
verse becomes rocky.... .T.W.: No promise... .J.D.:
No; we can’t call it poetry, it’s hard to say what
to call it.... Joan H.: Something appealing in what
are merely brief sighs. Try again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.T.: It fell a long way short... .H.L.: Young
Australia is a reckless spender, but not the queer
specimen you depict... .M. 8.: Improve your work
and think out some original jokes. .. .L.A.8.:
Immature work.... J.H.: Not smitten by your beefy
vamps... .P.U.P.: We gave the old sundowner a
“pint of dust” and sent him along the track.
. ...R.R.H.: The work of a brumby in the art
world... .WAV.: A lesson or two wouldn’t do any
harm... .D.K.: Is the cocky a descendant of Anubis,
the dog-headed Egyptian god?... . A.G.0.: The paper
and ink are much better than the drawing.


ht>y/.
Qrct.
I
Extra heavy top connectors in
Willards, Making them extra
heavy cuts down the resistance
between cells. You receive a
more powerful battery—quicker
response when you step on the
starter,
that’s
Quality
ĥ
STORAGE
BATTERY
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A.


A Clip Well Grown
may be half sold. But work half done does not hit
the mark. You want full value for the clip. And
the work of a competent salesman is essential to
produce it. That is where the advantage arises in
accepting this advice—
SEND THE WOOL TO
WINGHGOIVIBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney, or Brisbane.
Success constantly attends the firm’s efforts in
obtaining top figures for owners at the sales.
[2
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etp. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GODROCK
ROPE WORK T rim
EXPORT CO. LIU.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
A ROYAL
smokeH
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each.
ħ
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciub
Reil Cigar Factory.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
"The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” ’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most,
Published by “The Bulletin,”. 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
W&W26.
M
Imndon Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, EC.*.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers 1 Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mature s Loving ‘Proxy —
OKe
Watchful Mother
end watchful mothers are
cautious mothers, who vJon’t
take risks Widt “His Roj)al
Highness”—the bab^—but
keep him and bonnp
b)? giving small doses dails
iiiiriiviiiniiviiiiitisiiimffiiiviiiinriffiiffiifiiiffiKVVfrrimvififtiiiiitfiii
/»
fit
h
Bottled in three sizes.
This safe and reliable family
Medicine minimises {he dis-
tress caused b$ teething and
vaccination, besides checking
{he development of o{her
ailments that retard the
progress of young children.
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular {Kan ever, because
it does all {hat is claimed
for it —and more.
See {hat sou get {he genuine
Kruse’s, with our name,
Felton, Grimwode & Co.
Ps. Ltd., on the label.
Coo/»n? in Summer —Reliable Always
A Most Exceptional Offer
in Stainless Steel Cutlery
Wade and Butcher Manufacture.
For a limited period only Stewart Dawson’s axe offering this
Special Bargain in Stainless Steel Cutlery. Each knife is Guar-
anteed Firth’s Stainless Steel throughout, with White Xylonite
balanced square Handles. The name of the manufacturers (Wade
and Butcher) is a “household word’’ for dependability.
This is a most exceptional offer—the Value is unapproachable
anywhere for Quality.
BOXED in HALF-DOZENS, as FOLLOWS:
TABLE
KNIVES
16/6
Half Doz.
ĥ
DESSERT
KNIVES
Higher Grades in Wade and Butcher Stainless Cutlery Mirror
finish, both square and round handles. Prices: —
Table Knives, 25/- Half Dozen.
Dessert Knives, 24/- Half Dozen.
Wade and Butcher Real Knife Sharpeners,
2/- to 4/6 each.
Call and inspect these wonderful offers without delay.
Catalogue of Jewellery, Watches, Silverware, etc., Post Free to
Country Residents.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
S 4 YEABS* WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N.S.W.). I/TI).
Two Sydney
412 George Street Strand Corner.
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Co.-Sec.'’: I don’t mind tlie Common-
wealth Bank mis-spelling “yolk” when talk-
ing about eggs on their free-issue pay-
envelopes (B. 20/l/’27), but I wish they’d
make the darned things wide enough to take
a pound-note once folded.
* * * #
“Wingella”: I may tell “AdeL.” (B.
25/11/’26) that there is a very flourishing
salt industry in the Territory even now.
One can get fine or coarse; nearly all the
pastoralists in the Territory obtain their
supplies from the firm, and so do most of
the storekeepers. The enterprise has been
established for five years, at least.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” : One result of rubber restric-
tion in Malaya, a result unexpected by most
oi. the sponsors of the scheme, has been the
enormous growth of “native rubber.” The
Dutch refused to join the British scheme
of compulsorily reducing tapping and began
to plant more trees. The natives did likewise.
Every native dwelling had its cocoanut
grove, its mango and mangosteen trees —why
not its rubber orchard? The Chinese, inevi-
table go-betweens, saw the possibilities, and
helped to finance the planting and to organise
collection. The official estimate of native-
owned trees, properly planted, is nearly 100
millions, and only a fifth of them have been
tapped. British plantations, with their
expensive staffs, compulsory sanitation for
workers and other costly troubles, will have
to consider this competition in the future.
* * * *
“W.P.D.”: “Tops” (B. 13/l/’27) is wrong
in crediting the Corriedale breed of sheep
to Australian flockmasters. In 1874 one
Davidson, manager of the Levels, near Christ-
church (M.L.), a property belonging to the
N. Z. and A. Land Co., mated Lincoln rams
with merino ewes, but found the progeny of
the crosses too small and the wool too uneven
in quality. Next, he mated 1000 pure merino
ewes with selected Lincoln rams. After
lambing, the ewes were heavily culled, and
two-thirds of the female lambs were rejected.
In due time the half-bred ewes were mated
with rams from the same flock, and culling
was continued till the progeny was entirely
inbred and a fixed type evolved, having the
weight and constitution of the Lincoln, and
a clip, while not so soft in the handle or
so fine as the best merino flocks, well suited
for the Yorkshire trade.
FOLLOWING HIS FORTUNE.
“That's the second time you've touched me
for money to-day. Why the devil don't
you. follow up some profession?"
“That's wot I’m doin’, boss. I’m a re-
toucher.
“Jackerooster”: As a “general utility”
sheep for large or small flockowners the.
Corricdale (B. 13/l/’27) cannot be beaten.
In addition to carrying a fine fleece of shafty,
soft-handling, medium-quality wool, he pos-
sesses a heavy carcase, which renders him an
excellent proposition for the fat-lamb trade.
Corricdale wool is in many instances finer
than the stronger grades of merino, and well-
bred comeback wool has been known to fetch
higher prices than fine merino, notably at
Geelong a couple of years ago, where the clip
of a well-known comeback breeder brought a
higher price than the stud merino clip of the
station from which the aforementioned
breeder had originally purchased his rams.
Corriedale wool is becoming more and more
sought after on account of its length of
staple, elasticity and general high textile
qualities.
.** * *
“Bildad”: “Feng-Shui” said that in 10
years Yellow Brother “has increased his
shipping tonnage from 20 to 32 millions,
and now owns 25 per cent, of the fleet
winch trades up and down his magnificent
waterways and overseas to foreign ports.”
The origin of this quaint bit of misinforma-
tion is obvious enough. The record reads:—
During 1924, 186,382 vessels of 141,432,827 tons
aild cleared Chinese ports. Of these 6435 of
6,309,089 tons were American; 48,886 of 55 715 995
tons were British; 2912 of 1,046,046 tons were Portu-
guese... .and 94,751 of 33,288,363 tons were Chinese.
But a vessel is counted twice at each port,
on arrival and departure, and even a small
ship of 350 tons, making constant short
trips among coastal ports and to foreign
ports a few miles away, may accumulate
wonderfully in a year. The smaller it is
the more likely it is to pile up shipping
records through hugging the coast. Only
about 5,000,000 tons, or less than one-sixtli,
of the trade carried in Chinese ships was
done with foreign ports, and with so many
bits of foreign territory close at hand it
probably didn’t travel far. The figures are
no reason for a burst of admiration about
a country which had to its credit on the
shipping register in 1926 (its best year for
shipping records in every respect) 178 craft
totalling 269.937 tons. (These are steam
vessels of at least 100 tons gross and sailing
craft of at least 100 tons net.) If I felt
that I must go in for marine enthusiasm
I would specialise on a plain white country
like Sweden. It has a small area, about
one-sixtieth of China’s population, has no
magnificent waterways,” owns five times
China s shipping, does its own coastal trade
in its own ships and nearly half its foreign
trade and has no “Feng-Shui” to shout for
it. Or I might try Belgium, which has
42 miles of coastline, and beats China out
of sight for sea-going ships.


‘The t9\ew
CHRYSLER FOUR
J 9
GJ
0
O
qp
l
a
a
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS
Chrysler Standardized
Quality is a fixed and in-
flexible quality standard
which enforces the same
scrupulously close limits
—the same rigid rule of
engineering exactness
the same absolute accuracy
and precision of alignment
and assemblage in the
measurement, the machin-
ing and the manufactur-
ing of every part, practice
and process in four lines
of Chrysler cars.
Thousands upon thousands hail the
new Chrysler Four as the greatest value
to buy and the thriftiest car to operate.
It brings outstanding Chrysler superior-
ities within their reach —at a very low
first cost, combined with unequaled
operating economy.
By virtue of Chrysler’s unique plan of
Standardized Quality the new Chrysler
Four gives you so much more for your
money in size, power, comfort, depend-
ability and long life that you will not
want to consider any other car anywhere
near it in price.
Come for a ride in this Finest of Fours .
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larkc Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney
K'i j' C°U ,ns Motors Ply. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street. Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. ftodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attuiood. 299,301 Murray Street. Perth.
Tas.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company. 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington


CUTICURA
Helps
Business
Girls
iu
/
VN
To look their best. The regular
use of Cuticura Soap, assisted by
touches of Cuticura Ointment when
required, keeps the complexion
fresh and free from eruptions, the
hair live and glossy and the hands
soft and smooth. Cuticura Talcum
is fragrant and refreshing, an ideal
toilet powder.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress;'“R.Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
JIMS' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
h
ĥ
ħ
Water Can’t Wet
1 Your Matches
if you carry Mar-
ble’s Match Box.
Only big as io-
gauge shell, made of
seamless brass nickeled.
Rubber gasket in cover
makes it wholly moisture-
proof. Can’t lose cover.
50 cents—may save your
life sometime.
Can’t Lose This
Trusty Compass
Waterproof screw case.
Double safety pin bracket—
snaps on coat or belt TO
STAY. Won’t mislead, and
may save your getting lost.
This "Ideal” Knife
made of GOOD steel, handy In
shape, great for sticking, skin-
ning, or camp use. Light and com-
pact but hugely strong. Blades 5 to 8 in.
MSRBIfS
Famous Safety Axe
Fits the pocket yet will fell an 8-inch
tree in five minutes. Lead-lined spring-
hinge guard precludes accidents. Staunch, i
keen-edged and invaluable to campers.
These are 4 of 60 Marble Specialties you
should own, including Marble’s Great
Game Getter Gun. Drop in and see them,
or order now and your money back if
dissatisfied. 84-E
Write for illustrated catalog. Sent postpaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representative:
David Molden, Box 1349, Sydney
h
ĥ
adu in a moment
aiuiatfs have
ħ
in the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
I his appliance does away with all cumbeisome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. _ It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If It is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it. and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men. women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Kvan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
Gkxkuai, Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
04 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi-
Bank"offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busines-.
V
dj/fflLtrL f
W£&
*£L- —-£
mm,
.
3%
, -CajCO^lL
WOVEN
FOR MARKING LINEN
Saves Trouble—Ensures Ownership
CASH’S NAMES, Unsurpassed for Distinc-
tion and Quality, are indispensable in every
household. Any Name woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
“A few stitches and they’re on.”
h
Sold by all
Leading
Drapers
Actual Size, Style No. 6
Prices: 1 2 doz, 7/6, 6 do*. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. GASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne.
IVORY-
TIPPED
or
ttC De cßeszke
-—of course
m
k
Nk.
M
SS
De Reszkes now
at 10 for ninepence
Who is there so unregardful of his palate that he
would not smoke the best cigarettes he can buy ?
Who is there of so poor a business mind that he
would not get the best value for his money? In
short, who would not smoke De Reszkes now that
the new De Reszke Virginias are to be had at
ten for ninepence ?
These cigarettes are the very best in their class;
otherwise they would not bear the honoured name
DE RESZKE, which indeed is your guarantee that
the new De Reszke Virginias will always keep their
present high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced “ DE RES-KEY m
Virginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10’s, 20% 50’s and 100’s
MILLHOFF 8C CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. S. Wales: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
“X.D.”: Casual Australians again! > In
the last six years there has accumulated a
total of unclaimed Tatt.’s prizes running
into nearly £lOOO. The largest amount
awaiting an owner is £B7 and the smallest 6s.
Gone out in Victoria, It. V. Daley, an origi-
nal member of the old Shearers’ Union, which
later blossomed into the A.W.U.. Seven
years ago he ceased barbering the jumbucks
and took things easier. Jean Daley, Vic.’s
best-known Labor organiser, who had a shot
at a Federal scat last election, is a daughter.
“C.Q.” : Chocolate workers suffer from the
heat more than you’d think. During a
torrid burst such as Melbourne has just
gone through, the sweet stuff melts, and
when it hardens again it turns dirty brown.
So if a heat wave lasts long, manufacturers
shut up shop. During Melbourne’s recent
warm experience, over 1000 hands were
thrown idle. It was the first time since
1917, though.
“Borom” : Recent paragraphs about amber-
gris make no mention of the fact that nowa-
days the value of this stuff has been con-
siderably reduced by the presence on the
market of various synthetic substitutes.
Modern chemists can imitate the genuine
article so that even experts arc sometimes
deceived. There is still some demand for the
natural product, of course, but it is steadily
diminishing, and the price does not compare
with that offered 20 or even 10 years ago.
“Sanitos” : We noticed that old Mac had
suddenly changed his men on the sawing
from day-work to contract, so we asked him
the reason. “Well.” said old Mac, “it was
this way. I used to pay ’em eight bob a day,
and when I’d go down to see how they were
gettin’ on that old saw’d be singin’ a slow
dirge like this : ‘Eight bob a—• —day,
eight bob a : day.’ It used to give
me the creeps. But jest listen to the tunc
they’re playin’ down there now: ‘Con —tract,
con—tract, con —tract,’ that blanky fast you
can’t keep up with it.”
“M.IT.H.”: As I left a suburban bungalow
carrying a suitcase, a small woman with
three children trailing behind her darted out
of a neighboring house. It was very hot,
but there was no sign of perspiration on her
lean face, which was tanned to the color
of leather. “Say, Mister,” _ she called out
to me, “have yer done that side?” I suppose
I looked at her blankly, for she exclaimed
“Have yer been selling on that side of the
street?” I told her I had not, and looked at
her bodyguard of ehildreh. “Surely,” I
said “you don’t take them with you when
you go canvassing?” Her scorn was wither-
ing. “Do you think I’d sell anything with-
out ’em?” she asked. “They’re the Human
Touch. Come on, kids!” You can’t teach a
woman salesmanship.
The most romantic of the exploits of
former detective-inspector Christie, who
passed out in Melbourne at 81 the other day,
was the nabbing of the gang concerned in
the Snowbird conspiracy. Two partners in
a Sydney firm, being in financial straits,
decided that their difficulties would be solved
if the junior member married a wealthy
female acquaintance. To acquire the means
for him to push his suit in style, the pair
purchased a ship called the Snowbird, filled
her with dummy goods, insured the lot for
£lO,OOO, plus the bare cost of the vessel, and
sent her off to Queensland with strict in-
structions not to arrive. The captain fired
the fraud and escaped with his crew in the
boats. Meanwhile, another vessel of the firm
voyaged out from Auckland and was
never heard from again. Delay in the
payment of the insurance money com-
pelled the pair to start selling the
genuine goods, which they had kept con-
cealed. When the lid blew off the plot
Christie moved with such lightning swiftness
that he had all the principals in custody
before more than a sprat or so of their gains
had been dissipated.
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly doesn’t house a
very large proportion of old hands. Fifty-six
of its 90 members entered the House for the
first time after proportional representation
arrived seven years ago, 21 took their seats
in 1920, a dozen three years later, and 19
at the last State elections. The remaining
four owe their political existence to Fuller’s
foolish casual-vacancies law. There are still
four (Bagnall, Chaffey, Hoskins and Lang)
left of the newcomers who entered in
1913, and three (Dunn, Keegan and Mina-
han) remain of the freshmen who gave
Jimmy McGowen a majority and the Pre-
miei’sliip in 1910. Stuart Robertson and
Dooley made their debut in 1907, and Brunt-
nell in 1906. ■ Dr. Arthur and Henley have
been fixtures since 1904. With 26 years
to his credit, Dan Levy holds the record
for continuous sitting, for he went in in
1901. Walter Bennett, R. T. Ball and .1. C.
L. Fitzpatrick all entered the House earlier
than Danny, but slipped later. George Fuller
is the patriarch of the Chamber. He is the
only survivor of the 1889 Parliament, but
had nine years on the “outer” and 12 in
Federal politics.
“J.W.”: About 33,000 bales of wool are
still handled at Ecliuca, on the Murray,
during the river season. In one record year,
before the railways ran to Mildura and
Swanhill, 90,000 bales were carried to
Echuca by boat, and railed hence to the sea-
board. The river boats and barges draw
from three to five _ feet of water, and the
sides of the boat rise only three feet above
the surface. They are propelled by two
paddles, one at each side; above the engines
are the cabins and wheelhouse. The boats
carry a skipper, mate, engineer, fireman,
cook and one deckhand. The barges, which
are without cabins or motive-power, usually
have a master and three bargemen. The
average boat carries 600 bales of wool,
whilst the barges go up to 1500 bales. The
boats take supplies to the stations, whence
they obtain their cargoes of wool; their load-
ing includes farm implements, building
materials, tanks, fencing-wire and stores.
The advent of railways has played havoc
with the river trade. The new Balranald-
Echuca line has already captured much of
the Murrumbidgee trade, as wool sent from
Balranald takes about three days to reach
Melbourne by rail, whereas by the river
route the time taken would be a fortnight.
The present regular fleet, all told, consists
of six steamers and the same number of
barges.


Shipping,
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLI.ONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
,Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, OH ALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAWAII
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. No extra passage money
to stop off in Hawaii. Quaint tea-rooms and
gardens; all modern conveniences) good hotels
with meals, 12/- to £3 per day; apartments,
furnished cottages. Entire cost .Sydney to
Honolulu and return (2 or 3 weeks in Hawaii),
and a day at Suva or Pago Pago, about £lOO.
Unique vacation ; complete change in land of
music, sunshine, tropical coloring, fruits and
flowers. Balmy climate, golfing, tramping, out-
rigger canoeing, surf-board riding, outdoor
sports. Inter-island cruises. Ask nearest travel
agency or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau. Dept.
20, Box 241 D G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifully colored booklet, enclosing this
advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, '0.8.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY' (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney - .
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Djbdix.
LONDON (37 Tlueadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and YVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,088
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875^000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,76(L000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
BRAHTS DRAFTS Se s™2:
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fUSSS, JS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 26” Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADEN HALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted All usual banking business
transacted.
Established
1849.
Australian Mutual
87rat d s°t"wna, Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.j General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ĥ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
,f you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-ALJSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 tons disp. FEB. 10, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,300 ~ ~ FEB. 24, for San Francisco.
AORANGI .. . 22,000 „ „ MARCH 10, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,300 „ „ APRIL 24. for San Fi ■anciseo.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
m ■
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
tickets to the united kingdom interchangeable fob liETCRJ
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. / Uuion House ’ 24 ? George Street, Sydney.
(.William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Jj.% Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Rrit/lin- S.s. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
1/1 *1(1111 ■ Sails February 15 and March 29.
Solomon Isl&ndv ss “mataram” (3500 tons),
VJVIUIUUU laidllUd. Sails March 16 and April 27.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability.
m
£6,00Q,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Janies Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C. 2
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated arid collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP - £3,500,000* 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ------ 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors .*
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L C Deoutn
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.: Major-General the Hon T IV
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C. 3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular Bailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to llobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
I or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Golf, Tennis and Croquet.
Snow Sports, Ski-ing and
Tobogganing on the
higher ranges.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Special arrangements for parties.
Bookings and further particulars
at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Ride a B. S. A. this
year
Prices from
£57/10/0
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe Motor Bicycle.
Easy Payment
Terms
if desired
HIS year will be a B.S.A. year.
* B.S.A. Motor Bicyles are gaining
in popularity month by month, and
there is now no quarter of the civilised
globe in which they are not known
and ridden. The reason for this
immense popularity is their consistent
reliability and the outstanding value
offered in the comprehensive B.S.A.
range. Whether for competition work
or for touring, solo or sidecar, you will
find a machine just to suit your re-
quirements in the B.S.A.range. Choose
one now and make one of the world-
wide army of satisfied B.S.A. riders.
The B.S.A. Range.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p £57/10/
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe .. £62/10/
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p £67/10/
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. ... £75/0/
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p.
Super-Sports O.H.V. £B2/10/
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p £69/10/
B.S.A* 4.93-h.p. de Luxe .. £77/10/
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. .. £95/0/
B.S.A. 5.57-h.p £B2/10/
B.S.A. 7.70-h.p. Light Twin. £97/10/
B.S.A. 7.70-h.p. de Luxe Twin £lO5 /0 /
B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. de Luxe Twin £lO7/10/
B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. Colonial ... £lO7/10/
Motor Bicycles
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. V
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA F//VL/I Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY. f LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-J. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide„
WEST AU S.-IVIORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —s//w king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Look for this
Trade-mark
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


George Cook, Heavyweight
Champion of
Australia,
Praises Australia’s
Greatest Ointment —
REXONA
GEORGE COOK, the heavyweight
champion of Australia, who recently
returned from a highly successful tour of
England and America, writes: “Perhaps
you do not realise what a wonderful
thing you have got in Rexona from an
athletic point of view. I train with
Rexona Ointment and use it as a rub-
down. It is very good and I have found
it quickly disperses a bruise.”
Athletes All Need
Rexona —
The Reliable Rub-down.
Athletes everywhere will find Rexona
of the greatest value, and no training or
dressing-room is complete without a pot
of this Rapid Healing Ointment. It is
invaluable as a rub-down and promptly
relieves sprains and takes the stiifness
out of over-exerted muscles. Rexona
heals cuts and wounds; removes dis-
coloration and soreness from bruises and
knocks of all descriptions. Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, is a reliable and quick-
acting panacea for all possible acci-
dents. Remember, Rexona is a complete
first-aid cabinet in itself; so, athletes, be
sure to keep a pot of Rexona handy for
all pmpre'pneips
George Cook
(from a
r'hoto).
7Ae 'Rapid deale/i.
CL ffledtcone Guzst dn dtse/f
fmniufk
/w
M Cooling
lyjoothing
f Healing 'IS.
<inliseplic Ointment
/fi
p u rif'« -f Absolutely
‘ Heals Reliable
V
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the 3kin Eczema. Sorey Cuts. \
Burns Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insect). \
and all kinds of Inflammation I
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG C° L TO SYDNEY,
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices; 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue,
with Reproductions
Confectionery, in
illustrated
of our
color.
LMuxtHUiieJi
162-166 PITT STREET
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE Or KING STREETS
CAST LEREAGH STREET\
NEXT THE A IRE RO YAL,
S YDNE V.
“ What a lovely
h
An Uncut Opal.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HERE where the fire of dreams lay
deep
In bonds of stone through years
of night
I see lialf-wakened from its sleep
A sudden bloom of rainbow light.
Unsure of this strange world, it seems.
It flashes, fades to flash again,
Drops its shy lids on broken gleams,
Then veils itself in golden rain.
A thousand ages pent and blind
It lay unwakened, still and cold ;
And through its colored cosmic mind
Passed visions of strange hills of gold,
Of broad, green fields and yellow seas,
Of deep blue rivers set with stars,
Of sunset flames in ancient trees
And masted ships with violet spars.
What strange, wild piping did it hear
To make this rhythmic dance of light?
What shepherd led these rosy sheep
To pasture on the purple height?
Still shy, it veils its lovely dreams
Beneath a cloud of silken grey,
Yet at a finger’s turn it streams
A thousand banners down the day.
With trumpets blown and helms of gold
And flying scarves the troops go by;
Black hills shut round them fold on fold
And sudden lightnings fill the sky.
What more? I ask the flying wheel
A greater wonder to release.
•Through grinding pain new lights shall steal
Into a smooth and radiant peace.
It seems an image of the world,
This magic stone with hidden fire.
Not yet its wonders are unfurled ;
It faintly lisps its heart’s desire.
Have we but seen the things that are
Through broken edges of delight,
Dreamt dayshine round a misty star,
Not knowing that it still is night?
And shall the grinding wheel of years
Through pain reveal the perfect morn,
\vhen all the vast horizon clears
And greater gods and men are born?
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Mail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
ON the pearling fields they called him
Diogenes.
An Englishman who had once been
a gentleman had found him in a world of
hard-bitten disillusioned men, the hardest
bitten and most disillusioned of them all,
and had named him after the Greek cynic.
He accepted it as he accepted everything
else in his life, with a species of sullen
humor that seemed ever on the edge of bitter
satire yet never fulfilled its promise. In
Broome they sought him year after year to
open shell on their luggers because they
knew he was honest. It takes ambition to
be dishonest; and he had finished with ambi-
tion.
The lugger pitched sickeningly in the
short, choppy waves: it was always either
pitching or rolling. In the cockpit the men
turning the handles of the air-pump slid
backwards and forwards, alternately pulling
and pushing at the long handles. The pump
made a soft thudding sound, a regular triple
beat as one after the other its three pistons
descended and rose in their cylinders. As
they worked, the two men sang. Their voices
rose and fell, monotonous, chantlike, with-
out meaning or expression, in a long, appa-
rently never-ending song that had no words;
nothing but a sequence of drawled sing-song
vowels that melted into one another. Any-
thing might be going on behind their eyes
and»that song.
Should he go down into the cabin and
clean up the mess made by the overturned
teapot?
In the stern, the tender, sitting with the
sea-soaked lifeline over his knees—protected
by a square of old diving-dress material —
uttered an order. The man crouched over
the coil of piping threw out a couple of coils
that slowly uncurled over the sea, and re-
lapsed into the frowning stolidity that he
had preserved all the. morning. The tender
never spoke and never sang, except when the
diver was aboard. Then they spoke some-
times in their native tongue, and sometimes
laughed together. Diogenes had never learnt
Japanese. The tender was a queer fellow.
He tried sometimes to speak English, halt-
ing utterances that he had evidently thought
over for a long while; but he never learnt
to speak it fluently, not even the grotesque
“beche-de-mer” that some of the colored men
could speak with amazing rapidity and
coherence.
The tea had made an appalling mess on
the cabin floor. A roll of the lugger had
caught it, and had sent it sliding along with
a plate of bread and corned meat, a tin of
condensed milk, a couple of tin plates and
two tattered- books that had fallen from the
bunk, across to the edge of the diver’s bunk,
where it had toppled neatly over. It often
did that, if it wasn’t watched. The cabin
was just four feet six inches in height from
the floor to the ceiling. You crawled or
wriggled under the decking on each side to
get into your bunk. When the shell over-
flowed the space in the hold, it had to be
packed under the floor of the cabin; and
there arose from it a faint, sickening odor
of stale shellfish from the partially-dried
shreds of mussel that adhered to the shell
after it had been cleaned. Probably the
queer boring insects of the sea that had
eaten homes for themselves in the thicker
parts of the shell and died there when the
shell was brought up, contributed. Nobody
knew how many years Diogenes had opened
shell in Broome; but it was a very long
time; and at the end of it he still disliked
the smell.
One of the crew was fishing up in the
bows. If he had luck there might be china
fish for tea. In a diet of tinned meat and
tinned everything else, they were welcome
enough, though they were only six inches
long; and after they had been boiled there
was little left but backbone. Two fish lay,
gasping occasionally, on the deck; and an-
other had flapped into the coils of chain that
filled the space behind the anchor-winch.
He was a young body, this colored fisher; a
Koepang Islander, of lighter skin and less
sophistication than the men from the Straits.
He had not been long in Broome, and
laughed a good deal. Compared with the
larrikins of the cities down south lie was a
gentleman in his ways ; and his hands were
like the hands of all the young colored men,
soft and smooth and long-fingered and deli-
cately nailed. Japanese divers were his
aristocracy.
The wind struck cold. There had been
rain in the night; and the hot monsoon
season—lay-up time for the luggers on the
fields everywhere—was yet two months off.
Diogenes had been out eight months now
on this accursed little lugger, with one trip
into Broome to replenish stores and unload
shell. The other time was when he had
required stores. iChrisson’s schooner had
been at hand; and there had been only a
couple of days aboard her, with a table to
eat at and potatoes twice a day. He had
managed to get a pumpkin from the ship’s
crate when lie left; that had lasted for a
week, though one night the cockroaches had
found a hole in the paper he had wrapped
it in, and he had shaken a pint of them
over the side the next morning.
What did it matter, anyway? Even if
anyone had ever troubled to find out why he
lived, they would not have cared greatly. He
was not sure himself why he went on with
it. It was utterly inconsistent. They did
not quite understand in Broome why he never
drank. The shunning of women, including
(lie two or three barmaids that supplied
Broome with its feminine attraction, they
accepted without mental comment. There
are many reasons why men shun women:
reasons well comprehended on the pearling
fields. But drink —everyone drank; it was
an escape from the eternal problem of the
fardels —whether to bear them to the end
or to throw them down in disgust and walk
away into the unknown. But Diogenes
never drank.
The boy in the bows hauled in another
fish, laughing in excitement and delight.
From the cockpit the man lighting the fire
for the morning tea that was their only mid-
day meal stood up and said something to
the boy and laughed with him. From where
he sat on the rail Diogenes could see two
other men, in the dark place under the deck
in the bows where all the bunks of the crew
were situated. One was scratching and
examining a sore on his abdomen, and the
other, before a piece of broken mirror, was
pulling hairs out of his face with a pair of
thin brass tweezers. They were old hands
on the fields, Malays in the fourth year of
their One of them had beri-beri,
Diogenes believed. Not that Chrisson
troubled himself about it. Chrisson’s only
medicines were salts and iodine; and he had
a pair of forceps with which he murderously
extracted teeth when necessary.
In the cabin something suddenly began to
roll about the floor with a tinny sound. With
every jolt and sway of the lugger, it dinned
across the boards and fetched up against the
edge of the bunk with a bang, like a pebble
in a box. The sound brought to the pitch of
action his vague resolve to clean up the mess
of tea. Two things to set right would make
it worth while leaving his seat on the rail
to go down into the foetid little cabin and
crouch about on his knees with a cloth. He
rose slowly, holding on to the guys, and
dropped through the hatch.
Only the mug, after all. He captured it
and put it back under the edge of the mat-
tress in his bunk. Under the mattress were
all sorts of things. It was the only place
to put anything in the cramped little hutch
of a hole. Everything went there, from a
collection of singlets washed in salt water to
his shaving tackle, which the sea had rusted
all over in spots. His knees became promptly
wet with tea as he moved about; and he
pulled out a dirty towel to mop it up. Ex-
cept for lying down in the bunk, the cabin
was a desperately uncomfortable place. No-
thing was still or steady; and it was neces-
sary to hold to things all the while. He had
shared it with the Japanese diver for eight
months; now anchored out at sea, with the
place full of cocki-oaches that crawled and
fluttered and rustled about all night; now
lying in creeks, with mosquitoes from the
mangroves, and the lugger lying on its side
so that everything was slanted at an angle
of 45 degrees. Rats were the only things that
kept the cockroaches down ; and they ate the
food and frightened the crew.
With the tea mopped up, he clambered on
deck once more. Back to the rail again;
and now a smoke with cheap tobacco that
he rolled into untidy cigarettes. A little
more pipe was out, and the tender had
shifted his position slightly. The man in
the cockpit was climbing out with a cane
basket of rice to wash it ready for the even-
ing meal. They said that these colored men
regarded their rations as princely. There
was one 31b. tin of corned-beef amongst
eight of them per day, and a great iron pot
of rice. Jam there was, too, but that was a
rarity, doled out in precious doses by the
diver. They wolfed great plates of boiled
rice in the evening, sometimes moistened with
the water the fish had been boiled in, and one
fish as a titbit. The diver kept a jar of
Japanese sauce in the cockpit for himself and
the tender; and they shared between them
now and again a plat of soya beans from
their homeland. They were a lean, wiry
race, keen as knives and tempered like steel,
and their browny-yellow faces were the faces
of intelligent, vitally alive men. If they had
a future, it was no passive one. Broome dis-
liked them because it was afraid of them.
Five miles from them another lugger
pitched in the waves, with 3ft. of jib raised
to keep her head to the wind. Presently
they might pass close enough for the white
man aboard her to come up on deck and ex-
change a hail. Or it might be manned
merely by colored men, who handed over their
bags of shell to somebody’s schooner. He
had not spoken to three white men in as
many months now, and then only brief hails
exchanged between passing luggers. Thank
God the schooner was due in another two
days! Even Chrisson was better than the
utter loneliness; and he had a gramophone
(Continued on next page.)


“'Sverif picture
a St° r y
r'
/ \
F-
f j
m
O
Eft
w.
m
Heed that
Backache!
Too often it indicates kidney weakness
WHY risk kidney breakdown? Those pains
in the back, dizzy attacks, rheumatic
twinges, and annoying bladder irregulari-
ties warn you of kidney weakness. Never neglect
such symptoms; they are often the start of stone
formation, inflamed bladder, rheumatism, dropsy,
sciatica or lumbago. Be healthy! Strengthen the
weakened kidneys with Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. Thousands owe their good health to the
curative and preventive properties of this kidney
medicine.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
Mr. P. Smith, Clifton, 13 Hopetoun Street, Petersham, Sydney,
says: “I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and
they worked a miracle in my case. I had been under three doctors at
different times, but their treatment did me no good. The attacks
used to come on suddenly, and on many occasions I have had to knock
off work and be taken home. Several times I was so bad that I was
driven to the hospital, and had to stay there for days. I could never
bend my back or move at all when I had a bad turn, and the secretions
were always disordered. The people at the hospital gave me medicines,
and recommended rubbing in liniments, but it was no use ; they did
not benefit me. I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills and procured this remedy. I only took a short course, and was
cured. After that I started work, and have kept at it ever since, and
it is heavy work I am doing, but it does not affect me. These Pills
cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was almost instan-
taneous.”
Twenty years later Mr. Smith says : “I have still the same good
opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as when I made the above
statement twenty years ago. If ever I feel the slightest sign of my
old complaint returning I take a few doses, and they never fail to
relieve me.”
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
2/9 per bottle at all Chemists and Stores.
D OAN£
Backache Kidney Pills.
TWO RESIDENTS OF SYDNEY CURED OF
PILES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
A KENSINGTON CASE.
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, senior, No. 29
Anzae Parade, Kensington, Sydney,
says: “For years I was tortured with
Itching Piles. The irritation of this ail-
ment is terrible, and only those who
have suffered know how awful it is. I
used dozens of Pile remedies, but could
not get anything to give me ease. A
friend urged me to try Doan’s Oint-
ment, saying he was sure this prepara-
tion would cure me. I got some and
commenced using it, and in a very short
time I was completely cured.”
Nine years later Mr. Abrahams says :
“I have not been troubled witli Piles
since Doan’s Ointment cured me over
nine years ago. I have advised many
sufferers to use this grand remedy, and
I am sure it will cure in every case if
people will only apply it properly.”
AN UNDERCLIFFE CASE.
Mr. F. W. Martin, Homer Street,
Undercliffe, Sydney, says: “For about
12 months 1 was tortured with Itching
Piles and the pain and irritation nearly
drove me mad. I consulted a doctor,
and used Pile remedies, but could not
get permanent relief. I heard that
Doan’s Ointment was good, and decided
to try it. After a few applications 1
felt better, and by the time the third
pot was finished I was perfectly cured.
I advise all those who suffer with Piles
to use Doan’s Ointment, as I am sure
they will benefit by it.”
Eleven years later Mr. Martin says:
“Eleven years ago I told you Doans
Ointment had cured me of Piles. 1
can now add that my cure has lasted,
for I am still free of this torturing
ailment. I always keep Doan’s Oint-
ment in the house, and use it occasion-
ally, just as a preventive against any
return.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES AT 2/9 PER TIN.
aboard, and he and the supercargo were fond
of well-eookgd food. And there would be
mail.
The shore was long and grey and desolate.
Inland, low smooth hills covered with dry
scrappy grass relieved the dead monotony;
and here and there the edge of the sea was
broken with magnificent rocks against which
the waves spouted like smoke from bursting
shells. But in general it was an arid, desert-
like strand, with gulls and mangroves where
there was mud and nothing save sandflies
where it was not. There was a thousand
miles of it, stretching down south without
a break or a river mouth till it reached
Geraldton, and up north going on and on,
hundreds of miles, right round the north-
west corner, along the great deserted north
till it reached the Kimberleys.
Smoke was rising from the mangrove-wood
fire in the oil drum that served as a galley.
Tea in half an hour and a slice of sour-
tasting bread covered with oily tinned butter.
But better that than the water from the
tanks of the lugger—it had the flavor of
kerosene. When it was tepid—and it was
nearly always tepid in the tanks—-it nau-
seated most men. Chrisson kept a tank of
rainwater for himself on the schooner—pre-
cious stuff that he had to be asked for if
visitors wanted a drink.
Two more days before the schooner was
due. It took three months sometimes for a
letter to get to him. There was the catch-
ing of a boat in Sydney, and its long, slow
voyage along the coast past the big southern
cities; then the slower trip up the west
coast, stopping at Geraldton and Port Hed-
land, and finally Broome. There it waited
at the office till the schooner store-lugger
came in on its fo'rtnightly trip and went out
again. After that it waited in the cabin of
the schooner until such time as it was no
longer possible to hold more shell aboard the
lugger, and it went in search of the schooner.
Then, at last, it reached its owner.
Diogenes treated his mail with public in-
difference. But he was always particular—-
very particular—about asking for it. It
was more precious than many fine rubies.
“Letter for you!”
Chrisson threw it across the table to Dio-
genes, and grabbed at a parcel that threat-
ened to slide from the edge as the schooner
gave a more sprightly lurch. The super-
cargo came in from the forecabin whistling
arrd rolling a cigarette. He stopped whist-
ling and said something about shell averages
and divers.
Diogenes had opened his letter and was
reading it casually enough.
The doctor's letter first.
He read : “She has improved wonderfully
....At this rate she should be well in an-
other six months. If you have a place to
keep her, where she can be watched for a
month or two, it might be sooner. . . . The
Lunacy Board will examine her next week
....Very seldom a paranoic recovers, but
there has been a miracle.... She cannot
believe you have waited all these, years. Her
letter is enclosed.”
He took out a thick envelope and put it very
carefully in his trousers pocket. When he
was alone and quiet he would read it again
and again. He proceeded to re-read the
doctor’s letter.
PHILIP BENN.
Tragedy in Portland-lane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOUIS GOLDBERG spent much of his
time on the doorstep of the entrance
to No. 29 Portland-lane. It was
pleasant to watch the passing crowd and
speculate on their cash values. He had an
unfailing instinct in picking out those who
were in search of “accommodation,” and
liked to watch them examining the brass-
plates.
This morning he was calculating the in-
crease of business necessary to recoup the
cost of a gorgeous plate, bearing the legend:
THE ATLAS LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
LOUIS GOLDBERG,
Managing Director.
It had cost him fifteen pounds, but it was
certainly more likely to attract custom than
the old sign underneath: —
L. GOLDBERG, MONEY-LENDER.
Even money-lenders must adopt new methods,
and, although the last in the street to hang
out a brass-plate, on this bright spring morn-
ing he felt sure of a harvest sufficient to meet
the added expense of “efficiency.”
He preferred small business, and liked
most to deal with women. Five pounds on a
sewing-machine for three months—with two
pounds interest added! At the end of the
three months there was generally a balance
of two or three pounds owing, and he would
always oblige by renewing. with fifty per cent,
added —even advance a further pound or two.
But occasionally he would fly high and lend as
much as a hundred pounds on furniture and
effects. With great care he could turn each
hundred into a hundred and fifty annually,
but, of course, there were losses, sometimes
disastrous losses which reduced the profit to
forty per cent.
Still, five thousand pounds in circulation at
forty per cent, meant two thousand pounds per
annum, and it cost him less than five hundred
pounds to live. What he prided himself
most on was the gratitude of his clients. He
didn’t mind a payment being missed now and
again, and would always renew the balance
with something added for the extra accom-
modation. The great thing was to keep a
customer on his books. Only that morning
a little woman had, with tears in her eyes,
thanked him for his kindness—a matter of
a ten-pound loan on furniture two years
before. Many payments had been missed,
iriany renewals made, but the actual advance
with the original five pounds interest had
long since been repaid by irregular five shil-
ling instalments, and the renewal had been
for thirteen pounds. But it wasn’t the
money only; her profuse thanks had made
the world bright on this particular morning.
He knew at once, as the new-comer turned
into the Lane, that she was in search of the
Atlas Company, and lie was back in the inner
office some seconds before the clerk ushered
in a rather plain woman, who had evidently
seen better days. She was shabbily-dressed
and was appraised as a boardinghouse-keeper
“And what can I do for you?” asked
Loms,
It was rather a large amount she required
—seventy pounds on the furniture of a Dar-
linghurst flat, two rooms of which were
sub-let to lodgers. But everything appeared
to be in order, rent and insurance dockets
showed payments right up to date, and
receipts were produced verifying purchase of
the furniture three years before.
“You will make declarations —swear that
everything is all right, and that you are a
widow?” he asked.
Yes, she would verify everything, any way
he wished.
“When did your husband die?” Louis
asked.
“He was killed in the war.”
“And what do you do for a living?”
“I get the rent of the two rooms and work
in a dressmaking-shop,” she replied.
“Then vy do you dress so poor? And how
comes it you so much money owe?”
It was just an ordinary tale of misery. No-
thing in her husband’s estate but the furni-
ture ; then an operation and long sickness,
the steady accumulation of debt, and now
either a sale or “accommodation.”
And yet Louis was not satisfied. He would
inspect the furniture next day, make the
usual searches and let her know the result
in two days.
“You must come before 8.30,” were her
parting words. “I must be at work at 9.”
Promptly at 8.30 next morning Louis was
at the flat, taking an inventory and making
a valuation. He even went back in the
afternoon and made inquiries from a local
grocer, the occupant of an adjoining flat,
Yes, Mrs. Oliphant was a respectable
woman—a widow. Generally absent in the
daytime. No one had a word to say against
her.
Next day Mrs. Oliphant left the Lane with
her seventy pounds, to be repaid at the rate
of thirty shillings a week. Louis had dis-
liked her readiness to agree to such heavy
instalments, but they all did it —anything to
get their hands on a bit of money. She
hadn’t even questioned the sixty pounds
added for interest. Still that was her busi-
ness. The security was ample, and if he
didn’t sell the furniture in a few 7 weeks’ time
someone else would.
Mrs. Oliphant was a much more cheerful-
looking woman on reaching her flat. Enter-
ing her bedroom, she promptly discarded the
shabby black frock, and also a black wig of
straight, bobbed hair. The use of plenty
of hot water resulted in a magical chan;?;.'
of features. The sallowness of a sick woman
gave way to the healthy glow of youth. The
stooping shoulder, which had told of con-
stant working at a machine, straightened.
Within an hour she emerged completely
transformed. No one could identify her
as the poor drudge who had just been
dabbling in finance. And before long a theat-
rical eostumiere had put back into stock
certain “props” which had been hired a week
previously by a lady interested in an amateur
production of “Merely Mary Anne.”
A fortnight later there was an air of
excitement about the Atlas Company. Louis
was restless and irritable, and the clerk was
having a much rougher day than usual. No
payment had yet been made by Mrs. Oli-
phant. Invariably his clients met the first
few payments, or came in and made excuses.
But nothing had been seen or heard of Mrs.
Oliphant since the day of the loan. At last
Louis became a man of action. Many little
features of the negotiations had passed
through his mind, and he grew pale at a
suggestion from the clerk that the lady might
have been a crook ’un. Within an hour
Louis was superintending the removal of
the furniture to an auction-room. Every-
thing was there. It would be in time for
that day’s sale, and he would get the whole
£l3O back in a lump sum—much better than
the worry of collecting instalments.
The sale was a great success, leaving a
surplus of ten pounds, which could be easily
absorbed in “special” expenses.
Then came the crash—a writ from Mrs.
Oliphant claiming £lOOO damages for tres-
pass, trover and conversion!
Louis was accustomed to an occasional
protest, after sale; but a writ without
notice!
He seized his hat,and hurried down tin
Lane to the attorney whose name was en-
dorsed on the blue slip of paper. The story
told by that suave gentleman sent Louis
reeling back to his office. It couldn’t be
true—Mrs. Oliphant had never visited the
Atlas Office, had never borrowed any money,
didn’t know of the existence of Louis Gold-
berg ! She had gone out in the morning, and
on returning had found her flat empty! It
had taken her all day to trace the pilgrimage
of her furniture, but she had been too late
to stop the sale!
Louis knew he would not sleep that night,
and after dinner went up to make his own
inquiries. Mrs. Oliphant was staying in the
next-door flat, and would only see him in
the presence of her solicitor. He rushed
back to town, found the solicitor’s address,
and paid him a special fee to settle the busi-
ness, that night. Mrs. Oliphant, radiant in
evening-dress, received him with brutal
frigidity. The only possible explanation was
that a woman, a dressmaker, sub-lessee of a
room of the flat, might have impersonated
her. A bundle of private papers and receipts
had been stolen from her room a day or two
before, and the dressmaker had disappeared.
She didn’t want to be vindictive. The fur-
niture was worth £250, and then there was
the inconvenience—say, another fifty, and
the solicitor’s costs, of course!
Louis haggled with that solicitor for a
week. His own advisers had told him that
unless he could produce the dressmaker lie
hadn’t a leg to stand on, and as delay only
meant increasing costs, and as his greatest
dread in life was being cross-examined in a
law case, he wrote out a cheque at last for
£32s—with the £7O advanced, a dead loss o
£395.
It was about a year later that the occu-
pants of the Lane were startled by the sight
of a bald, hatless old man, with coat tails
flapping, running, with staring eyes and
gasping breath.
Louis had caught sight of a woman in
black, with hunched shoulders and straight
bobbed hair, turning out of the Lane. But
he collapsed before reaching her, and that
night his doctor told him that if he ever
ran again the Atlas Finance Company would
transfer its operations to some other world.
G. S. REEBY.


mm
iM
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
l&ZZlSSS! SuJS«rS>mH •* CO.. LTD., Adelaide. 8.A
journe
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
MASTERS THE HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
M
-
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne... .Baldwin & Slattery Pty,, Ltd.
Sydney... .. .Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane... Gregory & Collins.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO.,
Manufactured by
LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
UMC =
DUCK LOAD
Supplied only in Nitro Club Cases
' OADED SCIENTIFICALLY to get the highest
velocity consistent with the best pattern,, these
/vO"s>
|?ca.
DUCK LOAD
Er^-
tproof
cartridges are “ Wetproof”
throughout—top-wad, crimp
and body—positively sealed
againsteveryclimaticchange.
Next time you are going after
ducks, ask your dealer for a
box of DUCK LOAD cartridges
—give them a trial.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. Bryant, Representative
E 24 G.P.O. Box 686 Melbourne, Viet.
T
I
o
T
A Pill is .
East) to take
Hdndu to use
Place on the tongue
Take a little water - It's gonet
What could be simpler?
Can be taken at any time
There Is no better pill
Than Beecham’s Pills
Their effect is prompt and certain
The results are lasting
Of vegetable origin
They contain no harmful drugs
For sick headache, indigestion
Biliousness, constipation
BEECHAM’S PILES are
A wonderful medicine
a <Ae ttuno
4at it nutaC Ce
j&eecfanfo
10
SAMSON
CLARK.
The LAST WORD
in SPARK PLUG
DESIGN
LODGE
STANDARD PLUG
C 3 (New Model)
The old Lodge “Standard” became the
most famous plug in the world through
its exceptional powers of withstanding
both heat and oil. In the new model
the oil-resisting qualities are retained,
and the powers of heat resistance are
still further increased.
5/6 Packed in Sealed Red Metal Box.
ask for it by name and number.
LODGE PLUGS Ltd., Rugby, England
ENGINES
MARINE
H
All Paris Stand-
ard and Inter-
changeable.
American Bosch
Magnetos - im-
pulse coupling.
3 SO 100 H.P.,
1 to 6 cylinder*,
4-cycle Engine*.
Built with the greatest care so
that only ordinary care is required to
keep them in perfect running order— -
Kermath Marine Engines are first in
service, economy, and dependability.
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St.,
North Sydney, Australia.
MATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan. O.S.A.
Cable Address, Kermath
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
- ...... - ————
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.iu. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/0: Half-day, 1/6. Children. 1/- and 6d
laincheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
3 P m . No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries. Ltd.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Tels.: 8627fi (4 lines).


I** 1
is?*
TT-*'
*s
rv
y®
*
&
/
7
s»
a
*
%
\tSi
\
\
*C^/t
£
■ i
World-wide Popularity
—-with the best of reasons behind it.
A century-old reputation for purity
and maturity, both positively guaran-
teed. Make sure you get “Johnnie
Walker” by asking for it.
m
o
iPlsSii
o
fix
Bottled only by ourselves in Bond, under
Government supervision, and guaranteed
the same quality throughout the world.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG!
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
