

m
>4.-;
1m
a
m
v
m
ss
Vli
«S»i
«=5
m
-m
X
&
a
s
*<2:33
ESS«SS!
if-:
V
Efecy:
2SE3
K
&
ri
m
£
£ 1
WRLlfft’
x-»
MDIHC
27
%pg?r*ji£
!&£>*£#*
”'v|j
NONE GENUINE
WITHOUT
&/ie BRAND,
SIVH **
AU S T RALIAN
MADE
The Bulletin
Vol. 48.—N0. 2458.
Thursday, March 24, 1927,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WITHINTHESHADOW,
By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
6/-' (Postage Bd.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will he forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
42S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
sf
'POLlSHES—preserves—prevents cracks
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6<f, per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
sdf
What Chance Would
He Have
—if you suddenly surprised a fox while
the Colt .22 Automatic Pistol swung in a
holster on your belt ?
Ten vicious, expanding point bullets can be aimed, and fired
with the unerring accuracy of a rifle from this weapon in less
than half as many seconds.
If the first misses, there are nine more at the instantaneous
command of your trigger finger to follow relentlessly in pur-
suit ....
£7/17,6
Post
Free
Could He Escape Such Deadly Machine-gun Fire Directed by YOUR Hand?
Write for further particulars and special leaflet “B” concerning this extraordinary weapon. It
is super-accurate, absolutely reliable, safe, and—well, nothing in the world is everlasting, but
this pistol is very nearly so.
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-established Gunmakers in Australia), 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone : M 3388.
/'“'LIMPSES of an ancient race —valleys of lovelmess— placid pools
and raging torrents trappers' shacks and majestic buildings—
go to make the ever-changing panorama on the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
The world’s finest scenery is unfolded to your gaze • verily the trip
it an education and delight.
TRAVEL TO ENGLAND VIA THE
ALX RED ROUTE
Fhe new Quadruple Screw Motor Passenger Liner 7 Aorangi"
(23,000 tons displacement), together with the favourite S.S
" Niagara,’’ afford an unrivalled service to and from Vancouver, B G
Write for illustrated literature to any office of the Union
S.S. Co., any Tourist Booking Agency, or to
|. Sclater, Representative
Canadian Pacific Railway Company
Union House, 247 George St., Sydney
v JLi
in x
IB
m
i ii hi*
im
S/L
<*u.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN
1*
INSECTS.
u3Jfel£\..N
asm*
m*.
'Jy'x-i
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price \L
*
DUERDIN & SAINSBURV,
Melbourne, Agents. (j
-s’" vv
The Red Page
Beethoven’s Centenary
When an artist has been dead 100 years
the world usually has a fair idea of
his worth and prospects of immortality.
Beethoven died on March 26, 1827, just as
the shrewder musicians of his time began
to realise the extent of his greatness; not
one of the 100 years that have followed
has gone by without making his position
more secure. It is worth remembering that
even to-day, when music is beginning to find
new methods of expression, when the nerve-
destroying outpourings of the Modernists are
being met with wild, uneducated commen-
dation, when 90 per cent, of our population
is jazz mad, the great Beethoven holds a
more impregnable position than any other
musician who ever lived.
Public opinion, or, rather, musically-edu-
cated public opinion, names Bach, Beetho-
ven and Wagner as the three immortals of
music. But in versatility Beethoven stands
alone. The Immortal Nine symphonies were
of themselves passports to immortality. Yet
beyond them are his 82 sonatas; and his
chamber-music is only a small and not very
important part of his ■ gift to posterity.
Though he only lived to be 57, he found
time for a bundle of operas, oratorios and
cantatas, not lo mention 215 songs. It all
borders on the miraculous, especially when
we consider that the master was smitten
by a rapidly-increasing deafness at the early
age of 10.
Yet the greatest thing about Beethoven is
not his actual compositions. It is the effect
those compositions had on a receptive world.
Beethoven marks a very clear turning-point
in the history of music. He made a definite
breakaway from the Bacli tradition. As
another has expressed it. Bacli made music
an art, Beethoven made it a language. The
underlying force is not hard to seek. Beetho-
ven was born in a time such as Europe had
not seen for many years. As he grew older
Europe grew more restless. The French
Revolution burst on an unprepared world.
A succession of troublesome wars imme-
diately followed on. It was a time when
the world was being flooded with restless-
ness. out of which came a striving for new
modes of expression and a seeking after new
ideas. Germany rose to the occasion and
gave us Beethoven, Schiller and Goethe.
Schiller never became very much more than
a great voice of Germany, but Beethoven
and Goethe became the voices of mankind.
The insurgency of the times made Beethoven
unconsciously dissatisfied with music as it
then was. The majesty, the cold majesty, of
flic great Bacli was the only pattern one
could copy. Beethoven could not live on
a diet of cold majesty. That
troubled soul of his could find no relief in
the writing of scicntifically-perfect organ
fugues. The passionate emotions of his end-
loss and hopeless love affairs wanted 1 nare
titan the brilliant austerity of a B-mir.or
mass by which to express themselves. The
Bolshevistic tendencies of his political be-
liefs found echo in an acute dissatisfaction
with all existing forms of musical expres-
sion. The summation of all these effects
gave us a member of the Musical Trinity.
Australia has paid homage to Beethoven
twice; firstly when it gave Marshall Hall,
of Melbourne, a first-class orchestra, and
later when the Sydney Conservatorium
Orchestra was at its zenith. No country
can pay homage to Beethoven or any other
orchestral master without means of expres-
sion. Surely if there was a time to give the
Australian nation a great orchestra, that
time is now. Gould we celebrate the cen-
tenary of Beethoven in more fitting style
than by endowing the instrument through
which he rose to the sublimest limits of musi-
cal expression? The money spent in an
hour of any Melbourne or Sydney Cup Day
would be more than everlastingly sufficient.
KEITHE BABRY.
The Creative Instinct and the Critic
It is reasonable to assume that the age we
live in will be viewed by our great-grand-
children as an age of destructive criticism.
It is a commonplace that generations, like
individuals, are susceptible to a reactionism
that is imperfectly but forcibly expressed in
the simile of the pendulum. There is a
deeper significance in the phenomenon,
though, than that of the swinging weight.
The critical attitude has such a relationship
to the creative impulse as ploughing has to
reaping: it is a necessary preparation of
the mind.
Men do not make bricks of straw. Cre-
ation is a user of ideas and originating ener-
gies—an exhaustive user. The impulses that
move in a period of great creative activity
are forward-looking rather than present-
searching; they are, in a certain doubtful
sense of the word, idealistic; and they are
almost invariably naive. The man who builds
his own house is so absorbed in the beatific
vision of a finished house, so assured and
confident .in a sense of personal effort, that
he is an insufficient critic of his house as a
place to inhabit. With the passage of years
it is not unlikely that some perception of
its defects will come to him ; it may be that,
as he and the house grow older, inconvenient
and uncomfortable and even dangerous
draughts and leaks will be brought to bis
consciousness; and from that moment he
will enter on a period of criticism which
will also be a period when new ideas on the
matter of house-building will germinate like
seeds. In a further passage of years the
seeds will grow and bear fruit; and then the
impulse to lutve a new house will be so
strong that it will overcome all other con-
siderations and get the house built.
Now. one should be suspicious of all
analogy. It is too easily forgotten that in a
comparison the thing compared is always dif-
ferent in some essential from the primary
thing. Yet I hope that my figure of the
house may be allowed to stand for a moment.
Let 11s apply it in some measure. The
nineteenth century was on all counts an age
of tremendous creative effort, and it was con-
sequently (and I think this is the really sig-
nificant feature of what we call Victoria.i-
ism) naive and simple-hearted. It is difficult
to conceive anyone less distracted by cross
purposes than those great, unsophisticated old
men who were dying out in the last quarter
of the eighteen hundreds —Morris, Darwin,
Browning and the rest; all of them eminently
qualified to enter as little children those gates
which doubtless were so widely opened to
them.
“Victorianism” was not an attitude of
mind; it was an affair of the heart, incredibly
romantic and hence incredibly real. That is
why we will never comprehend the Vic-
torians ; we have learned so well to break up
the spectrum and analyse its components,
whereas the Victorians, like nature, insisted
upon regarding the spectrum as a whole and
a unity.
The nineteenth century ceased, for all sig-
nificant purposes, in 1889. One says 1889 for
no reason whatever than that it was the year
before 1890, and “the nineties” are commonly
and properly regarded as something not of
the type of the century. Mr. Philip Guedalla
has remarked somewhere that the ends of
things and men are their most interesting
passages, and there is a good deal of truth in
the remark for me as well as for Mr. Guedalla.
When a man or a period or an influence has
finished its task, when it has ceased to be a
striving towards something beyond itself, it
may, for a space before it dies, be itself. The
man ceases to be author, artist or undertaker,
and is merely human. So, in a way, the
nineteenth century reveals itself in its closing
decade, even though its work is done and its
peculiar forces spent. In Wilde and Beards-
ley and Dowson and Prank Harris is an
outburst of final, complete naivete. Nothing
is more representative than the dictum “Art
for Art’s sake”—and what' is the buttonhole
of Wilde but the quintessence of that senti-
mental age?
Vet it would be neglecting the facts for a
phrase, and falling deep into the quagmire by
the path of generalisation, if one were content
to recognise in the fin de siecle merely the
end of an age. In it the seeds of the new
world were germinating and pushing up-
wards. If Wilde and Beardsley are obviously
allied to the epoch gone, they have as evident
and more significant relations with the enter-
ing years.
The great critical movement stirs first in
them; the creative impulse of the century
is ceasing, and the critical attitude is being
taken up. So Wilde gives us “The Import-
ance of Being Earnest,” and the comedy of
manners is re-established: and presently one
Shaw comes along to exploit it.
An essential point has been overlooked in
the kind of comparison that sets Shaw over
against Shakspeare, or that suggests, more
crudely, that we have lost the touch of great-
ness. It is perfectly true that we largely lack
the creative greatness of the Victorians and
the Elizabethans; but we have the greatness
that examines, relates, classifies and clarifies.
We have reached the stage where the draught
is noticeable and the leak obvious; and if we
are not yet prepared for reconstruction, we
are gathering the fund of notions, the mass
material, that will be needed. One can-
hot make a thing right until one knows where
it is wrong, and our age is mightily engaged
in the search.
Take, as an example that may illuminate
my trend, the case of the later Mr. Wells.
Mr, Wells has written a number of books
that are singularly interesting and thought-
ful ; but would one ever regard him as a con-
structive thinker? Has he ever offered a re-
motely possible solution to the difficulties and
problems he has so admirably stated? In
the truest sense, is Mr. Wells or Mr. Shaw
or Mi*. Huxley or Mr. Galsworthy creative?
(“Creative” is used, of course, in a sense dis-
similar to that of an aesthetic jargon in which
the word is applied more loosely than legi-
timately ; I have, as must be evident, subdued
that sense to the much more significant one of
Genesis or Bergson throughout this article.)
What they have done is to set up, as an object
before them, the social-economic system that
survived to us, and to examine it coldly and,
on the whole, destructively.
In brief, the thought* of the day is not a
creating thought in any other sense than look-
ing for cracks is building; it is a necessary
preliminary, and therefore in a sense a part
of the creative process, but its most signifi-
cant features are examination and rejection.
D. P. McGUIRE.
The Everlasting Quest
In the beginning a great fear possessed
the heart of man. Blows were unavail-
ing against hostile storms and rocks, and
physical effort was futile against trees that
crushed him, caves that smothered him,
mountains that belched forth lava to destroy
him. When the dawn-man became conscious
of his life and the innumerable hazards that
beset it, lie did not pause to examine those
hazards; instead, he set himself to avert
them. As lie gazed on a prostrate inert form,
a form which had been familiar to him as an
erect and vibrant tiling, he fitted the same
explanation to the phenomenon that had
seemed to explain how, when lie liad‘ lain
down in his cave of a night, something had
gone out from his body to wander in time-
less and boundless space, and there came to
him the very satisfactory■! explanation that
he was a dual entity ; possessed, in fact, of
a body and a spirit. And thus he endowed
all the things he came across with a spirit;
and man rose up and commenced to exploit
those spirits when he discovered that: his
universe might possibly be controllable by
magic.. In the shaman, or medicine-man, the
primitives found an effective instrument by
which hostile spirits might be bludgeoned
into submission. The shaman was an im-
portant factor in the early development of
(Continued on page S.)


A
a,
nee
Men’s Distinctive Clothing'
attractively priced
at Anthony Horderns’
.¥ '
mm
W
Your quest for dependability
and quality for Value and
Satisfaction will always lead
you to Anthony Horderns’- the
House of Economy. Our gen-
uine service begets confidence
in all purchasers. Send your
orders by mail—an efficient
mail-order staff will skilfully
and expeditiously execute
them.
These Suits, as illustrated, will surely please the most
cultured taste. Made in our own workrooms, they
possess every attribute of correct style, combined with
real durability. The Coat has a two-button front,
outside breast pocket, no vent. Vest has fashionable
medium opening and four pockets. Trousers possess
side or cross and hip pockets, cuff bottoms. In Navy
Indigo Serge or Australian Worsteds in
neat Grey and Brown effects. Price ....
1
Men’s Two-piece Sports Suits, made in our own work-
rooms from All-Wool Tweeds, bought direct from
the mills for our exclusive use. The Coat is designed
with four patch pockets and belted back. The Trousers
possess side and hip pockets, loops for belts,
side straps, and cuff bottoms. Price
//»
«3x//0
Other Values 75/-, 84/-, 90/-
( Men's Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street.)
Men’s Mercery Values
Men’s Pull-Overs
We have a choice assortment of the New Reason's
Pull-overs, from which to make your choice , They
are invitingly easy and very smart and dressy .
Men’s All-Wool Pull-overs, well finished; in
broken-stripe designs in various contrast colors,
on Fawn, Putty, Grey grounds. Made with V-
shape necks. Sizes, 34 to 42 inches chest.
Price, each
i
/ “
Also in above colorings, made with roll-back
Sports Collar, which also buttons close
up to the neck. Price, each
3916
Others of better quality, with V neck, in choice
jacquard effects.
Prices, each
45/-, 57/6
Men’s Coat Sweaters
For the man who prefers this style sweater that
buttons down the front, ive have a varied assort-
ment for him to choose from.
Men’s All-Wool Coat Sweaters. An extra heavy
warm knit. V neck; in shades of Navy, Heather,
Grey, Sand, Mole and Marl.
Sizes, ~ . 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in,
Prices , , 36/6 39/. 41/6 44/. 47/- 50/-
Men’s Heavy Knitted Coat Sweaters, with double
chest and roll-back collar, which also buttons
close up to neck. In Navy, Grey, Sand and Mari
shades.
Sizes .... 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
Prices, ea.: 46/6 49/- 51/6 54/6 57/6 60/-
( Mercery—Ground Floor; George Street.)
Ankle-
Fashioned
n'ng
for lash
Good looks
Heel i
K
86 ,
iiT 1 »
This splendid value Footwear is exclu-
sive to Anthony Horderns’ and is
branded on the soles with the famous
Tree Brand. Every pair is guaranteed
solid leather throughout and will be
replaced should reasonable service not
eventuate. Choose from the following
smart leathers: Box Calf, Nigger Calf,
Tan Calf, Glace Kid and Patent. Each
of the several styles has genuine welted
soles and is designed with full regard
to comfort and the anatomy of the
human foot. Ideal footwear no matter
what the weather—rain or
shine. Every pair bears the
same price
19/11
( Footwear —Second Floor.)
Race Saddles
Reliable & Durable
Suede Leathers of Various Colors,
weights from 10 ounces to 3G ounces, and
built on the best steel-plated tree. Very
neatly finished. /tr\f
Price, each **>/ lU' -
Exercise Saddles, Tod Sloan pattern,
London color, Hogskin seat and plated
tree. ’JC. /
Price, each / D/-
Exercise Saddles, Tod Sloan pattern,
all over Grey Suede on best plated
tree. ,
Price, each • / &/-
Exercise Saddles, Tod Sloan pattern,
all-over selected Kip Leather.
Price, each Ojy/ ©
Fulford’s (Patent Ne-grip) Exercise
Saddles, all-over Hogskin, London color,
English manufacture and well i-a/& /
finished. Price, each .. *ll/ &/-
Fulford’s (Patent Ne-grip) Race
Saddles, all-over Hogskin, j .ondon color,
weights from 32 ounces to 48 ounces.
English manufacture and very neatly
finished. Plxcellent value. ~ ,
Price, each xlO/10/-
Morrison’s Exercise Saddles, Tod
Sloan pattern, all-over Grey Suede, best
.. £6/3/6, £9/7/6
Polo Saddles, Hogskin seat, London
color, extra long kip flaps and
skirt, Victoria facings, skeleton
panel.
Price, each £7/15 -
Queensland Park Saddles, Hogskin
seat and pads, English pattern knee-
pads, kip flaps and skirt, Victoria
facings, skeleton panel and plated
Prices, each £5/15/-, £7
Queensland Park Saddles, Hogskin
seat and pads, London color, Serpentine
knee-pads, Victoria facings, skeleton panel
and plated tree.
Price, each £715-
Wieneke Pattern Stock Saddles, all-
over selected Kip, capped knee-pads, Vic-
toria facings, skeleton panel, extended
girth-straps and plated tree. /•» r - /
Price, each Xo/15 7 -
Northern Stock Saddles, Hogskin seat,
Ivip flaps and skirt, capped knee-pads,
Victoria facings, skeleton panel, best
£6, £7/15/-
Stock Saddles, Hogskin seat, full skirt
and plated tree.
Price, each £4
Stock Saddles, Hogskin seat and pads,
full skirt and plated tree. _
Price, each £3
Park Saddles, Hogskin seat and pads,
London color, half-panel. ~ ,
Price, each £4 10 -
Park Saddles, Hogskin seat, full skirt
and plated tree. _
Price, each £4
Boys’ Saddles, Hogskin seat, full skirt,
jda ted tree and stock or park knee-
l>ads, rrr l /s*
Price, each 75/©
Fittings for above saddles, including
girth, stirrup leathers and stirrup irons.
Race Saddles . . . . 22/- extra
Exercise Saddle
Park Saddles
Stock Saddles
Boys’ Saddles
Surcingles
12/6
14/(5
14/6
11/3
4/9
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
Postal Address:
Box 271 2C G.P.O.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Gar Sensation ofthe mu'
r
n
%
)
FLAWLESS mechanism, jewelled with the details of individual design!
Hugging the road with the long, lithe lines of a low-swung body set on disc
wheels with positive four-wheel brake control, and equipped with a ventilating
windshield (exclusive to Studebaker) which ensures fresh air without draughts
or moisture —in all weathers—
STUDEBAKER
New Custom Sedans
Underneath the luxury of these superb New Custom Sedans is the famed longevity of the Unit-Built
Studebaker chassis. Powered with the Studebaker L-head engine, with a smooth, vibrationless flow of
power which could be ensured only by Studebaker’s crankshaft, fully machined and dynamically balanced.
Poised above the radiator is the silvered figure of Atalanta, a fitting symbol of beauty, grace and fleetness.
Yet, because of Studebaker’s unique Unit-Built, One-Profit facilities, these exquisitely appointed and coni"
pletely equipped Sedans cost no more than you would pay for a car of commonplace, conventional design*
Standard Six 5-Passenger New Custom Sedan, completely equipped . . . . . . . . .. £570
120 in. Wheelbase Big Six 5-Passenger Custom Brougham . . . . . . . . . . . . £695
127 in. Wheelbase Bix Six 7-Passenger Custom Sedan, “The President” . . . . £845
Open Cars from £395 to £685. Closed Cars from £455 to £865.
Vour used car taken as part payment. Terms arranged.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Branch at
Newcastle.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle 8C Motor Agency (Q.) Ltd., Creek 8C Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
The Armstrong Cycle &. Motor Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Duncan 8C Fraser Ltd., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
WMB4
Cl
m
as


Worsted Sac Suits
£9/15/-
High grade Worsted Sac Suits all art. silk lined—the lining
wears as long as the suit itself. Ask the man who wears one.
Fancy designs and plains in light and dark grey. A size for
everyone. Prices .. £lO/10/- and £ll/11/-
DAVID JONES’
civilisation, for it was through him that
tribal government passed into the hands of
the shrewd.
r jfhe spirits were also exploited by fetish-
ism, which was more popular, for the reason
that it was less complicated. The supply of
fetishes was unlimited, for at first they were
selected from natural objects. If a fetish
failed in a moment of emergency it was a
simple matter to get another one. Later, as
the idea of tribal fetishes was introduced, a
boulder or tree trunk was carved in some
significant manner and became an idol. These
were probably first used to frighten evil
spirits away; but as they became endowed
with a more benign appearance, their duties
were extended to attracting the good spirits
near. Alien the idol was found to be a vain
and hungry creature there arose the practice
of supplicating him with words of praise,
and food was ceremoniously offered. In time
they built for him a shelter, and later a rude
hut. Thus animism—fetishism —idolatry—
priestcraft sacrifice prayer and the
church.
iEons passed and in their course man left
off shepherding and became a farmer, thus
completing his dependence on the elements.
Agriculture, for those early farmers, was
more a matter of religion than of science;
but magic became of secondary importance
in the technique of religion. In times of
drought food and psalms of praise were
offered to whatever elements were considered
as most likely to be in control of the water
supply; but these things were now offered
more humbly, for man had learnt that some
attempts to coerce the spirits were doomed to
inevitable failure. Seasonal festivals were
a natural development in the religion of those
early farmers. The same logic led to periodic
ceremonies in the lifetime of an individual.
At birth, at puberty, at marriage and at
death the favor of the spirits was specially
invoked. Whence came the sacraments.
And as the tribal chieftain in time became
a king, so the tribal fetish in time became
a god. In the transition from pastoral to
agricultural life some of the deities perished,
others came through the ordeal completely
altered in character. Tribes fused and gods
fused. Tribe fusion led to nations, and
god fusion created a heavenly band of
national gods in whom man at last found
allies and partners. Earthly kings punished
crime that was detectable; and the un-
detectable was left to their heavenly brethren.
The gods in the sky were witness to all, and
against these neither might nor cunning was
of any avai’ - and thus was born the idea of
sin. Morality w*as established and preserved,
but only at the cost of being rcligionised.
Religion saved morality— at a price; but the
price was surely worth it. It saved society
too, for it made it possible for man to live
in spite of his fear. It also made it possible
for men to live together, to clothe and adorn
their nakedness and to quicken a mere
existence into life. Sculpture has its origin
in idol-making ; architecture in temple build-
ing; poetry in prayer writing; music in
psalm singing; drama in legend telling; and
dancing in the seasonal worship of gods.
Primitive religion was holy in this respect
—that it saved mankind.
Religion is for the most part the technique
whereby man seeks to conquer his environ-
ment. Thus the religion which Zoroaster
conceived and proclaimed in Persia was one
of fierce struggle and courage. For Zoroaster
the earth was one great battle ground on
which good and bad struggled for mastery.
Midway between the two contending armies
stood man, and not as a neutral, for without
the slightest compromise or evasion one had
to enlist on one side or the other, even as
the very beasts, the winds and the plants
were enlisted in the struggle. Zoroastrian-
ism, through Judaism, left its mark on
Christianity, and indirectly also it influenced
the religion preached by Mahomet. It was
eventually overwhelmed by Christianity and
Mahomedanism, but the fire of Zoroaster’s
gospel still burns brightly amongst the
Parsecs.
It was left to Übu’l-Kassim, who in later
years was called Mahomet, to found the
latest, and maybe the last, of the great reli-
gions of the world. Mahomedanism is a
complete and final expression of religions
militarism. It has been a civilising influence
in the history of Africa and of Asia, and in
some measure of Europe as well. It re-
stricted limitless polygamy to a state in
which a man might have no more than four
wives, it condemned the common practice of
infanticide, it opposed gambling and drtr k-
enness, and it put an end to devastating
tribal feuds. But the supreme gift of Islam
was the ideal of unity under which it
gathered 100 races, and not merely the unity
of God, but the unity of the mankind of its
faith.
So far have we followed Lewis Browne in
a simple account of the great religions of
mankind —This Believing World (Macmillan :
Angus and Robertson). He lias not, of
course, omitted the history of the Christian
faith, but for the orthodox Christian the
chanter entitled “What Happened in Europe”
will prove unsympathetic, yet not unin-
teresting, reading. He who was born in the
Galilean village of Nazareth and who died
on the Cross of Calvary was one who, “had
he been stronger in body, no doubt would
never have joined the school of John the
Baptist and become a saver of souls. In-
stead. he would have joined the Zealots,
fighting with the sword against Rome, and
coming to his end not on a cross but behind
some bloodsoaked rampart.”
The author has succeeded in writing a
unique history, of comparative religion. It
is a narrative in which there is great beauty
of expression and in which a commanding
interest sustains one all through.
GERALD DILLON.
When Rudyard Kipples
J he ‘irresponsible, indolent reviewer.” as
Tennyson called him. can live up to those
adiectives. for once in a way. when he is
writing about Kipling’s new book, Delits
and Credits. No amount of eloquence or
epigram, no subtle analvsis or clever plead-
ing nothing at all will really make a
ha porth of difference. They will not touch
|. 1P author. Kipling lias his manner and
'p? mannerisms, clear cut and fixed as steel,
i liey will not be modified at this* time of day
by any cajoling critic. Nor will the reviewer
influence the reader. The reader’s idea of
Kipling is about as fixed as is Kipling’s
idea of fare suitable to the reader. Long
ago he has been definitely placed by every-
one.
That is not to say, of course, that all
readers agree in their judgments of his work.
In point of fact, they disagree violently. To
begin with, his fellow-craftsmen admire his
work. They must admire it. They may
like or dislike it, but, unless they are blind,
they cannot escape envious amaze at its slick
precision, its consummate mastering of
material, its sureness of touch. Then there
is a vast public, almost entirely masculine,
which relishes his work beyond that of any
other living writer. This is the public of
real Kiplingites. They do not gush about
him; most of them are stolidly incapable of
gush about anyone. But they buy and keep
and read and re-read every word he writes.
They are not blind, for the most part, to
certain faults of taste. There are passages
which make them squirm; occasional jests,
certain phrases, which —how can one put
it? —well, which probably would have been
written otherwise had the youthful R.lv.
been sent to a normal public school instead
of to that strange academy (with the slight-
est stress on the second syllable), that home
of bounding youth (and masters), which he
lias described realistically. But if the Kip-
lingite squirms often, he secedes never.
Likely enough he cares little for most modern
fiction. Yet this Kipling somehow holds
him ; he may write about tigers or tintacks
or even time-tables, but he gets there every
time. His words grip; they fascinate. There
is not a scrap of blither in them. They
hammer on reality ; they stir rejoicing echoes
in their reader.
But also, beyond doubt, there are the
people who cannot stand Kipling’s work—
except possibly the Jungle stories—at any
price. Certainly no other writer of our
day appeals so exclusively to men. Among
the true Kiplingites are very, very few
women. (A gifted actress will at this point
meditate an indignant remonstrance to the
editor. She is among the few exceptions.)
The number of women who profess to appre-
ciate Kipling is far larger. That, however,
and not only in the sense he used to
give the words, is another story. No; the
real Iviplingite public is almost wholly male.
Nowadays, too, it is becoming bald or
grizzled. Yet to have gained such a public
is no small feat.
In one way or another, then, opinions
about this author are already fixed. We can
say what seems needful to be said without
imagining that we can do much to change
these fixed ideas. And the things useful
to be said are few.
Imprimis, the old technical mastery is as
triumphant as ever. “Sea Constables”
almost deserves to rank with “The Man Who
Would Be King” for its sheer artistry in its
contrast of atmospheres. Into the fashion-
able restaurant close to the scented artist
and her escort come the group of middle-
aged men, newly, off the seas they have been
patrolling for England; and their close-
bitten talk of sleepless vigils on the dark
seas, their adventures within a stone’s cast
of death, the grim ending of the tale —who
else could have used the material as Kipling
does? “The Janeites” is another triumph,
not dissimilar in kind. These two tales are
tiie best in the book. There are a couple
of “Stalky” stories, good in their way and
interesting in their revelations. In one of
them the headmaster asks the school chap-
lain : “What’s this new line of patriotic dis-
course you’re giving us?” And the school
chaplain replies, “Oh! My Early Chris-
tianity sermons? I bought a dozen ready-
made in town just before my return. Some-
one who knows his Gibbon must have done
them.” That little glimpse is, as just
remarked, explanatory. Probably it accounts
for the version of life in “The Eye of
Allah,” another story in the volume; and,
to be quite frank, an outrageous travesty.
Yet the collection includes two absolutely
first-rate stories, several that are character-
istic of Kipling in his various moods and
their various ways, and many interspersed
verses, which, mainly rhymed prose, show
here and there a sudden phrase of transcen-
dent vision or beauty. So the true Kipling-
ite need have few qualms as he adds this
to the long row of red volumes—with some
early ones in blue, perhaps, and, possibly, if
he began at the beginning, as he should
have done, one or two in faded paper covers,
treasures of great price.
The other thing to be said is that the war
has had a deep effect on Kipling’s work.
That may seem quite obvious, especially as
there are war stories and allegories in this
book. But it has affected his style and, pub-
licly, at least, his outlook. It was not as
spectator alone that he knew its deepest
sorrows.... And the result has been to seem-
ingly make him more brusque than before,
more averse from letting the public even
suspect the deep tenderness that lies beneath,
for that excess of curt, worldly-wise talk is,
in a sense, a pose—a pose he laid utterly
aside when he wrote “They" and “The Brush-
wood Boy.” That, after all, was the real
man, the best Kipling. That charm and
glamor and sympathy are carefully concealed
in his latest batch of stories. As yet, maybe,
the wounds, the ganing wounds of the war,
are too recent; the sensitive man of letters
has refused to give us further glimpses of
his real self. The present stories are brilli-
antly clever. “They” and “The Brushwood
Boy” were clever also—but how much besides !
A. H. G.
Jealousy in Our Musical Midst
Some time ago a visiting violinist of great
talent and experience bewailed the fact that
there appeared to be no genuine camaraderie
among musicians here. Professional musi-
cians, whether singers or instrumentalists
following the same line of work, are indeed
mostly in the grip of the green-eyed mon-
ster. Granted there is a friendship of a
kind amongst them; but practical demon-
stration of good-will and warm-hearted
regard appears to be lamentably absent.
An Australianised Hungarian violinist, for
instance, who has built up a considerable
teaching connection, rarely has a word of
encouragement for any struggling though
talented violinist. If George Fitz-somebody’s
technique is considered beyond reproach by
the general public, the Hungro-Austral
authority, with a significant shrug of the
shoulders and a closing of the eyes, merely
grunts: “Cold as a fislx. Plays like a dead
man. No life, no warmth.” Another player
may possess a remarkable tone. A brother
critic ungenerously will say, “A good enough
chap—fine fellow, in fact —but his tone’s too
coarse. No artistic restraint. He’ll get
nowhere.” Singers and teachers of singing
criticise and condemn each other ad nauseam.
Nearly all suffer with an unaccountable
smouldering jealousy. This lack of sympathy
and loyalty in a small musical world like
ours is detrimental to the development of
the talent which exists in Australia.
There is, to be sure, that age-old element
of hero-worship of the very young amateur
for his or her teacher. Miss Bobbed Hair
openly and desperately admired Jenny Cullen
and Verbrugglien in their time. Coteries of
pupils at the Sydney Conservatorium, too,
have admitted the genius of the teaching
staff, but have denounced all others of the
same profession. In an atmosphere of this
kind we can hardly expect musical students
to develop generosity of spirit or breadth
of outlook. One sighs for the high soul of
a Beethoven, who made proud boast of his
admiration for Mozart. Said he: fl have
ever counted myself among the profoundest
worshippers of Mozart and will continue to
be such to my last breath.”
In happy contrast may be considered the
attitude of our painters, sculptors and liter-
ary men towards one another. One quite
celebrated artist, notwithstanding the poor
sales of his pictures at times, never wearies
of lauding the genius of Norman Lindsay.
Artists flock to brother artists’ “shows,” to
criticise, perhaps, but nearly always to
genuinely admire and applaud. It is refresh-
ing to note the open-hearted apprecia-
tion of a new book, a striking article or a
poem by other writers. The small-souled
and the mean amongst them are happily in
the minority.
For the sake of Australia’s musical future,
musicians should cultivate a more generous
spirit and help one another with the word
of encouragement which means so much to
the struggling aspirant. I had the joy of
seeing a light spring into the great Fritz
Ivreisler’s eyes when he spoke of Heifitz—
“A great technician, and a charming, lovable
boy,” he pronounced. I timidly suggested that
Heifitz’s playing lacked appeal. Kreisler
sprang at once into resentment and pleaded
for the youth of Heifitz—“a young genius of
his instrument.” Unstinted praise flowed
from a noble-souled middle-aged violinist who
had no envious feeling for a young man
who might step on to his pedestal and dis-
place him from the pre-eminent position he
now holds. The really great are great in
their sense of appreciation.
DOROTHY HOPKINS.
A Satchel of Books
Tm „
Horse Sense and Sensibility, by Crascredo (Country
Life). A book well written, well illustrated and
permeated with a genial spnit that will appeal
to all horse-lovers.
Auction Bridge Dialogues, by A. E. Manning
Foster (Methuen). This little book offers a very
agreeable means of learning as much about the
game as most people need for social purposes.
Daily Telegkaph Radio Handbook. Sydney’s D.T.
has a wireless editor,, and runs a weekly supplement
that attracts to the journal many hundreds of subs,
from folk who have replaced the gramophone with
the more modern talking-machine. It has now issued
a little book that both listeners and senders in Aus-
tralia will cherish. It contains all the local data and
is illustrated on almost every page with diagrams that
make everything as clear as crystal and as titillative
to the experimental mind as a cat’s whisker.
Potted Stories, bv Vera C. Barclay (Brown and Son,
Glasgow). The object of this book is to promote
story-telling round the camp-fires and on other occa-
sions when scouts and wolf-cubs assemble. “Choose
a story that is not too long,” advises the author,
speaking to scout and cub masters, “one that has
plenty of incident and not much explanation. Get
right into an absorbing incident at once.” Which
is the whole gospel for short-story writers or
narrators.
The Earliest Times, by Fr Funck —Brentano
(Heinemann). A translation from the French by E.
F. Buckley. The volume is one of a series of books
which when completed will constitute “The National
History of France.” It contains the beginnings of
French historv from prehistoric times to the advent
of the Capets. The national revolution is traced
from primitive days through the early feudal System
to the period of civilisation which preceded the
Roman invasion and on through the age of disruption
that followed under Merovingian and Carolingian
rule.
History of Sydney, by George Forbes (William
Brooks and Co.). The author is a grandson of the
late Chief Justice Forbes, N.S.W. In a prefatorial
note he states that whilst he has not been con-
sciously neglectful in recording historical happen-
ings, it has also been his endeavor to present in a
concise and convenient form those achievements of
individual effort which mark the rise and progress
of the community. The history of Sydney remains
yet to be written. It certainly has not, in either
historical form or perspective, been written by Mr.
Forbes. His book, which contains a lot of discon-
nected local matter, has been well produced, and is
illustrated with many photographs.
Collier Brigs and Their Sailors, by Sir Walter
Runciman (Fisher, Unwin). This author, in his
life as well as in his literary work, makes a link
between the days of the sailing-ship and the
steamer. It is doubtful if steam will ever have
associated with it the element of romance that
clings to the old windjammer and the sea-tramp.
“My sole object,” says the author, “has been to try
to convey to the reading public a brief and simple
account of seamen and sailing-colliers long since
extinct. As the captains and seamen loved then-
mother the sea, so they loved the old ships they
sailed in, and could never be charged with becoming
lukewarm.” With a range of over 65 years’ associa-
tion with the sea, the seamen and their ships, it
would be strange if the author did not succeed in
this object. The book, amply illustrated and
admirably produced, should appeal to every ancient
mariner.
Samuel Butler and Ilis Family Relations, by Mrs.
It. S. Garnett (J. 51. Dent and Sons). The author
of “Erewhon,” under-rated in his lifetime, has in
recent years been lifted out of comparative obscurity
into prominence as one of the isolated forces which,
in the words of C. E. M. Joad, “took the portentous
lay figure of Victorian complacency by the throat
and shook it, until the stuffing came out.” Butler's
novel “The Way of All Flesh” is not so well known,
though it plunged the sword of his satire still closer
into the heart of Victorian life. It is difficult to
find sympathy with the writer who satirises in
bitter and uncompromising language the members of
his own family, father, mother and brethren. Yet
that is what Butler did in “The Way of All Flesh.”
It seems at least indecent. Mrs. Garnett, whose
mother was a cousin of Butler’s mother, in this
book takes up the task of showing the Butler family
in a more sympathetic light, toning down the harsh
and ironical presentments of the son, and at the
same time endeavoring to show that in what he did
he was actuated by impersonal factors rather than by
any personal bitterness. Apart from the value the
book possesses as a piece of advocacy in defence of
a defamed family, it is an interesting picture of
domestic life in the days of the late Queen’s long
reign.


The Whippet Offers:
35 miles to an Imperial gallon
of petrol.
55 miles and more per houi
5 to 30 miles in 13 seconds.
4-wheel brakes . . . stops in 51
feet from 40 miles an hour.
Turns in 34 foot circle . . . easi-
est car to park.
5 feet 9 inches high . . . low
center of gravity . . . greater
safety . . . irreversible steering
gear.
Smart body lines . . . more
room than any other light car
. . ample road clearance.
The Whippet is built for power and speed—of
quality materials that make it a long-life car.
Millions Welcome its Amazing new
Performance Thrills
In the short time the new Overland Whippet has been
on the market, millions have acclaimed it as the greatest
step ahead in motor car development in the past 16 years.
It has established a new revolutionary trend in light car
design that all others must follow or be swept into discard.
It has taken Overland engineers three years to design,
develop, and perfect this new-type car. What the Whippet
offers you now cannot be obtained in other light cars.
Power Designed
Its 31 horse-power, “high-torque” motor has tremendous
power to carry you over steep hills, deep mud and sand
with ease. It actually develops more horse-power per
cubic inch of piston displacement than any other light
4-cylinder car made today
Beauty
The new Whippet has a long, low body
of modern design, finished in durable
Duotone Duco Finish, with black bead-
ing and gold stripe.
While only 5 feet 9 inches high, it pro-
vides more room and comfort than any
motor car of this class.
Be fair to yourself—see this remarkable
new car. Ride in it. A demonstration
may save you from buying an obsolete car.
No more sitting bolt upright— seats
are placed in natural, restful positions*
overland \V^^>o/
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
WIILYS • OVERLAND - FINE - MOTOR - C ARS


. 4
■
■
■
tmt.
m
m
■
m
' 1
m
mm
'
m
ISH
; :
R
■> i
II
: :
Before
Starting Out
Shopping, social duties and
the many calls upon modern
women are fatiguing. A little
*9711 ” sprinkled on the hand-
kerchief and inhaled will make you feel yourself
again.
Always ask for ‘*9:711" with the Blue and Gold
Label. It is the Eau de Cologne with an established
reputation of nearly 1 50 years, for sustained fragrance
and absolute purity.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
PARKER, BLAU & CO.,
8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
wn.
Eaude
oloPne


Greater Comfort —Greater Beauty—Greater Economy
CH RYSLER
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS
❖
50
2#
If you will picture the Chrysler “50”
on the one hand, and the few
other four-cylinder cars of large pro-
duction on the other, the amazing
difference between them will make
your choice an astonishingly simple
matter, In full size, family room-
iness; in beauty of appearance and
furnishings; in wonderful perform-
ance and economy, you will need
no one to point out to you that the
Chrysler “50” is quite alone in its
field —that there is really no com-
parison in value.
«$»
a
a
The CHRYSLER “50”
Tourer also Roadster,
Coupe, Coach and Sedan —
Bodies Typically Chrysler
sdf
Chrysler Standardized
Quality is a fixed and in-
flexible quality standard
which enforces the same
scrupulously close limits
the same rigid rule of
engineering exactness
the same absolute accur-
acy and precision of align-
ment and assemblage—in
the measurement,the ma-
chining and the manu-
facturing of every part,
practice and process in
four lines of Chrysler cars.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S. W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street. Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West, Aust.: William Attwooti, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N.&.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington, A


Choose
ABBEY RIDING BOOTS
They’re lightweight, but strong;
close-fitting, but everywhere
comfortable.
The uppers are of double thick-
ness —the inside being lined with
a smooth, soft leather that has
no seams to chafe the foot, or
to drag when pulling on. The
toes are well reinforced.
Finished with welted, tough
soles, Abbey Riding Boots are
popular because of their great
comfort and remarkable wear-
ing qualities.
Order by Post
These boots are made in tan
willow at 42/- per pair, or in
black at 37/6. Each size is
made in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide. Specify
width when ordering.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street, and
224 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Ll 2.
MOUTHORGANS
|(iC r '' O TH BARN
WSVy
Sr.
Thi
Professional Artist Models. The plates are
made of finest non-corrosive alloy, fitted with 4U
best Bell Metal Reeds. Tuned by new process
to ensure a rich and sonorous tone. Easy to play.
Covers and mouthpiece are heavily nickel-plated.
Complete in handsomely decorated metal case.
Price
( Post Free)
Other styles from 21- to 3/6
4/6
Descriptive Catalogue on application.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER.
OR DIRECT FROM
A.P. SYKES
X7Z Lit Collins St.
cMelbourne.
men ordering pleare mention llur paher.
fo be healthy-
J drink
sdf
the finest!
tonic food ■■
In 4 sizes - drink
of all Chemists
and Stores
The Strongest Mouth Gag Made
sdf
Here is a Mouth Gag that will give you years of hard service and
save much of the trouble you have hitherto experienced in throat
and veterinary work.
DENYER’S ECLIPSE MOUTH GAG.
The most durable Mouth Gag made, Denyer's is the only one that
can be released by hand when the pressure of jaws is on the plate,
and also the only one that affords sufficient exposure to permit the
free use of instruments in the mouth and throat.
Price 45/-; or complete with rubber-covered front
plates, 50/-
(Postage extra.)
Write to Department 1 for Catalogue of Veterinary Instruments and Supplies.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists,
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable tariff —Good Position.
Holds 50 % More Ink
SSSSSSSSSSSSSS/SSSSSS/S/Sf,
m
o
[p©ffi
SELFFILLING
SAFETY
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
HO Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Plub He.il
V-y
mm
mam
m
m
mm,
wm
m
m
n
m
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Royal Easter Show
llth TO 20th APRIL, 1927.
NINE DAYS. FIVE NIGHTS.
£14,000 - - - PRIZES - - - £14,000
Finest Show of Stock in the Commonwealth.
Magnificent Display of Agricultural and Primary Products.
Most Attractive Ring Events.
Grounds and buildings brilliantly illuminated by Electricity on Five Nights.
Spacious Halls of 110,000 square feet floor space for the display of
Machinery, Manufactures and Motor-cars.
Magnificent and Commodious Grandstands, providing every comfort, convenience
and accommodation, unsurpassed anywhere.
60,000 Persons can view, from the ringside alone, the Greatest
Spectacular Panorama of Events provided' in any part of the world.
Lectures on Stock Raising, Scientific and Practical Agriculture, and on Topics of
Everyday Interest to all Classes of the Community delivered by Experts and those
best qualified in the new Lecture Hall, back of Poultry Pavilion, day and night.
GRAND MUSICAL PROGRAMME DAY AND NIGHT.
Admission: Outer Gates—Day Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
Night. . . . Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
PARKING AREA FOR MOTOR-CARS WITHIN THE GROUND.
Endeavour House, C. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Macleay-street.
From the turmoil of the crowd —
King’s Cross with its traffic loud —
Shrinks a street with proper pride,
Solemn, stately, dignified.
On this street’s respectful mood
No mere vagrant may intrude:
Pompous, curving carriage-drives,
Pompous, purse-proud, petty lives!
With a meek and sombre air
Waits a cabby for his fare.
Lo, his shining topper tall
Makes the street respectable !
To Macleay no odor comes
Of its closely nestling slums;
Haughty dwellers of Macleay
Simply sniff the other way!
Soft, secluded are their lives,
Solid husbands, heavy wives;
But their pride is out of joint
If you whisper “Darling Point!”
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A Ballade of Commelina.
Commelina fine and frail,
Blossom spun of turquoise dew,
Waif from some old pretty tale
Flirting fans of fluted blue 5
Pure as ever summer knew,
Why so swift to take affright?
Flower of morning, why must you
Flee the noon’s remorseless light?
Imagery and fancy fail,
You escaped all nets they threw:
Sloop with quaint cerulean sail
Bearing who knows wiiat wee crew
Back to Elfland whence they flew?
Flamelet from the stars of night
Who. daring day an hour or two,
Flee the noon’s remorseless light?
Dropping petals loose and pale
Roses mourn their early hue;
Poppies spread a bleeding trail
Where hot winds of mid-day slew;
You they vainly storm or sue,
Azure alien, winged for flight!
You heard wiser voices woo :
“Flee the noon’s remorseless light!”
Envoy.
“Dreamers, don brave wings and true !”
Thus you counsel, mocking sprite:
“Who’d rejoice and never rue;
Flee the noon’s remorseless light!”
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Mona Lisa.
Madonna mia.
Lean down a little while;
Fra poco gid,
I mean to see you smile.
Not with sad eyes
That seem to mock at mirth,
Nor song that dies
In sorrow at its birth;
But richly glad
With laughter, and the joy
That once we had
When we were girl and boy,
And climbed the hill
And watched the waters flow,
And found no ill
In aught the world might show.
This life indeed
Holds sorrow, I admit;
But is there need
That we should nurture it?
Madonna, we
Were wiser in our youth ;
We held the key
To happiness and truth.
Come ! As of yore
We’ll wander hand in hand
Beside life’s shore,
Or sit upon the sand
And each to each
Murmur some well-known lay
And let love teach
A simpler, sweeter way.
Then tread no more
In devious paths, and leave
The bitter lore
The serpent taught to Eve;
Forget the smart
And all the old-world sin :
Open your heart
And let the sun shine in.
N.S.W.
ROBERT MURRAY.
Land Lust.
I am the spawn of the good brown soil
And the wind that sleeps in the tree;
Songs of the sun and the bread of toil
Are a birthright to me.
Who is it sings of the masts of ships,
The lure of a distant strand?
I know a madcap joy that grips
O’ me when I tread the land.
I want no lotus fair and sweet
Borne upon surging seas;
Give me the sound of noisy feet
And the smells on solid quays!
Give me the sea when I am old,
With secrets to bury deep;
But the land, the land, while I am young
And laughing at age and sleep!
Fill un my lungs with an earthy breath ;
I'll chant you joy and strife.
Let the sea-wind murmur “Peace, and
Death.”
’Tis the hind and I, for life!
QUEENSLAND.
L. LUCAS.


sdf
sdf
t?nw«Asnv
■ttiwn s.
WAOOS
V JLI3iJM3S *8
R
.£P'x :
I
sdf
sd


The Bulletin
Voi. 48 —No. 2458.
March 24, 1927.
THE FLUNKEY,
“As shown by the debate on the Per Capita Bill, the Federal Senate has ceased to function independently of parties, and is nowadays a mere echo of the House of Reps.”
THE BRUCE-PAGES: “Show the lady into her car, Jeames.”
JEAMES SENATE: “Yes, sirs—certainly, sirs, certainly.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the.
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia."
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, 3s.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which, should he crossed, and
all Ilusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager,
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SHOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forivarded
ivithout stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Kulletin’s” representative in London is
Xj. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can .be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.I/.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 1/Vi-ll Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algor, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; ITotaling’s
News Agency, 203 IKest 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 101/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
51/1\ South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Pafua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N, Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Hostage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper)Commonwealth, Neiv Zealand and Fiji :
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1/oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1927.
ELECTIONS IN TWO STATES.
There will be general elections on Saturday
in South Aus. and Westralia. Each State
has had a Labor Government for the last three
years, and the electorates are so arranged
that each Labor Government can win a
majority of seats without polling a majority
of votes or anything near it. This has been
emphasised in Westralia by the unopposed
return of nine Labor Assemblymen, including
Premier Collier and one of his Ministers,
in districts —mostly goldfields pocket-boroughs
—with fewer electors altogether than a Perth
suburb returning one member contains. The
position is not so bad in South Aus., but it
is bad enough. In the metropolis, for in-
stance, Adelaide, with 14,527 electors, has
three Labor members; East Torrens, with
35,547 electors, has two Liberals and one
Labor member; Sturt, with 48,172 electors,
has three Liberals. In the country, two
Labor members were returned without a con-
test in Wallaroo, 5941 electors, and two more
in Port Pirie, 6535 electors; whereas there
are 13,495 electors in Albert, for which two
Country-party men sat in the last Parlia-
ment, 12,026 in Victoria, represented by a
Liberal and a Laborite, and 9434 in Stanley,
represented by two Liberals.
* * * *
In justice to Premier Hill and his associ-
ates it should be said that they introduced to
the S. Aus. Assembly a redistribution-of-seats
scheme coupled with proportional voting, but
failed to get it through the Leg. Council.
They are now committed to redistribution on
a single-seats basis, with preferential voting
and a reduction of members from 46 to 35.
On the other hand, Collier and co., though
pledged to reform the Westralian distribu-
tion ever since it became law in 1911, when
they stumped the country against it, did not
try to reform it when they had the chance,
nor can they be relied upon to substitute a
democratic arrangement if returned to office.
They also stand accused of having made use
of the Federal-aid roads scheme to send a
couple of thousand Labor-unionist navvies
armed with electoral claim cards into half a
dozen doubtful districts just in time for the
sturdy fellows to acquire the residence quali-
fication ; and their replies to the accusations
(when they deigned to reply) have been
evasive and unsatisfactory. No charge of
this nature has been brought against the Hill
Government, which did not become a party
to the foolish Bruce-Page roads scheme till
it had to, its own roads policy having crashed
when its tax on petrol was declared uncon-
stitutional.
* * * #
Both Labor Governments inherited a tra-
dition of borrowing and spending, and have
borrowed and spent lavishly on their own
account. In the S. Aus. case this has led to
heavy additional taxation and strenuous,
though unsuccessful, efforts to explain that
there is no deficit. In Westralia the deficit
is a hardy annual which no Government feels
called upon to explain away or even apolo-
gise for, but Collier made the taxes stiffer
until the Beuce-Pages were beguiled into
feeding Westralia with huge grants over and
above the per capita payments. A lot of the
extra money was stowed away until the elec-
tion was in sight; then came the cool
announcement that it would be utilised for a
one-third cut in the State income-tax. Not
having received any corresponding Federal
favor, Hill can make no such appeal. He
is also unfortunate in having fallen out with
bodies of Government employees and has
had the unemployed on his track, whereas
the shrewd Collier has taken care of the
unemployed, when they became numerous
enough to make their presence felt, and been
always mindful of the Government-employee
vote. Another fact with a bearing on the
S. Aus. situation is that the Liberals and
Cockies are now allied against Hill’s party,
whereas three years ago they were at
dageers drawn —in fact, Labor helped to put
Mclntosh, the Cocky leader, in. So Hill’s
job is much tougher than John Gunn’s was
in 1924. and his prospect of remaining Pre-
mier is not nearly as bright as Collier’s.
* *• *• *
Judged on their administrative records,
there is little to choose between the Ins and
Outs in either State. Neither of the Oppo-
sition parties awakens any enthusiasm in
The Bulletin. Probably a full half of
those who will go to the poll anid vote against
the Labor Governments will do it because
it is “expected of them” —because, in plain
words, they own a few hundred pounds and
it has come to be regarded as the right thing
for people with a few hundreds to vote on
. one side and people without the few hundreds
to vote on the other. So elections have be-
come less and less intelligent, and political
parties have become more and more “class-
conscious” frauds. Our whole Parliamentary
system encourages the fraud. The party
whip cracks, and if the whole mob on one
side does not come to heel there are shouts
and shrieks of horror—as there have been in
the Federal Parliament lately over the per
capita business. And then, of course, we
inevitably come to the point when a very
small number of men dominate a caucus; and
the caucus controls the party; and the party
rules the House. So the country is governed
not by the people, but by two or three bosses
of a caucus. We have ourselves to thank
for it and nobody else. We make no serious
attempt to change the present system; and
until we do change it we shall have the rule
of minorities. in the House and the rule of
mediocrities in the Departments. The latter
point is almost as important as the first.
The average South Aus. and Westralian Min-
istry consists of one or two good men, one
or two mediocrities and the rest duds. In
a representative elected Ministry there would
assuredly be more good men and fewer duds.
THE MAD YEARS.
Australian finance is like nothing else on
earth, save perhaps a corroboree or a free-
for-all dog-fight. According to revelations
just published, the six States owed, at June
last, about 642 million pounds, less a trifle
of sinking fund, being an increase of 39|
millions in a year. The foreign debt stood
at close on 361 millions, the increase for the
year being 24 millions. Since June, 1926
(that is to say, in the current financial
year), N. S. Wales has borrowed a further
nine millions abroad, and the haggard Trea-
surer is understood to be anxious for five
millions additional. At the same time there
appear in the Sydney papers, and plastered
on the Sydney tramcars, his appeals to all
and sundry to put their money into his local
loan, which is always open, the same as the
two ends of the Roofless and Unfloored Pit.
In addition, the uncouth politician from
Auburn has accumulated a deficit of nearly
£2,200,000 in eight mouths, because, though
revenue increased handsomely, no amount of
revenue can keep him out of the soup. Other
States have raised loans in a smaller way,
both here and abroad, and hope to raise
more; also they mostly have deficits. Fur-
ther, the municipality of Sydney is
sniffing round the London and New York
markets (New York has become quite a
familiar spot) for £2,000,000, and the Bris-
bane Lud Mayor proudly reports that he is
getting £1,500,000 in Wall-street “at better
terms than those secured by N. S. Wales for
a much larger loan.”
* * * *
If all these explosive proceedings have
brought peace and happiness and extensive
land settlement, or even a visible diminu-
tion of the house shortage and the crime
record, said blessings have been disguised.
If they have furnished the country with any
big outstanding works and improvements
or the sort which make the world sit up
and take notice, these works and improve-
ments have escaped attention. There have
been extra taxes because ’‘development of
the country” always tends somehow to be
a losing development. The interest bill of
the six States (which has nothing at all to
do with war charges) has grown in 12
months by two millions per annum, and
stands at some 314 millions, which is more
than all the State outgoings amounted to,
railway charges included. 20 years ago. The
rate of interest per cent, has also gone up,
which is natural, as credit is going down,
and the N.S.W. rate has risen beyond the
average because Ma has been drinking extra
hard. Perhaps it was because Lang’s
State enjoyed the bulk of the fleeting new
affluence that recrimination roared, in the
political highways, and Parliament became
a bear-garden full of studied insults (at
least there were bears but no garden), and
Laborites in their wilder moments exposed
one another promiscuously, and bad char-
acters went around swearing and stealing in
droves.
* * * *
In this wonderful financial riot the com-
munity is naturally divided. The Red-flaggy
section regards national insolvency with great
favor as an event which ought to lead to
revolution, and to the establishment of some-
thing in the Soviet line of business, with
themselves as rulers and chief plunderers.
Already the tribute payable abroad in gold,
or wliat will sell for gold, is far beyond any-
thing which the country takes the trouble to
furnish, and if the liability expands indefi-
nitely, and at the same time production is
diminished by every possible means, includ-
ing the kindly aid of judicial gentlemen of
the Dethridge and Beeby type, it is a
hastening of the Day. A respectable and
more or less dull crowd has a conviction that
the position is bad and may become tragic,
but considers that the only way. or the
easiest way, to political power is to bid as
high for the votes of fools as the other
fellows, or higher. Some think that things will
last their time, especially if they are elderly
and have advanced symptoms of one sort or
another, and the rest try to think so, or to
think they think so. Then there is the
vast section which left school too early, and
devoted itself too exclusively to horse in
after years. It believes what is easiest, and
it is easiest to believe that life is an easy
business, and that this land of ours has won-
derful assets, including its droughts and its
worked-out goldmines, which will automati-
cally pull it through any emergency. Per-
haps if all the racehorses in Australia were
put to death it might be possible to educate
the casual and dilatory mob to a knowledge
that something is wrong and that something
might be done. Meanwhile too many strange
people are acquiring a title to interfere in
Australia’s affairs on some future date, and
to look into the accounts, and inspect the
assets, and to demand the assignment of the
Customs revenues or some other specific
assets as security.
UNCLE SAM’S CONSCIENCE STIRS.
That Uncle Samuel has a conscience there
can be few so cynical as to doubt. His
representatives at international palavers are
always on the side of the angels—unless the
conversation strays to dahlers owed by John
Bull and Marienne and Madame Italia
and the others, and then there is an awk-
ward halt in the love-feast. Hence Sam
has become the target for a great many
gibes that until quite recently have bounded
harmlessly off a hide that seemed to be pro-
tected by a thick golden armor. The magni-
ficent assumption that America won the war,
and thereby laid the Allies under an eternal
debt of gratitude, has remained undisturbed
by caustic comments from abroad, and the
rich, golden harvest reaped during the first
three years of the war, when the Allies paid
cash for all they required, is now being sup-
plemented by a steady stream of tribute in
respect of credits granted to the Powers
arrayed against Germany during the period
when Uncle Sam was merely arming himself
for the fray.
* * * *
It was agreed by the Yankee hard-heads
who, close on the heels of peace, were charged
with the job of debt-collecting that it was
no use trying to recover the whole debt. They
applied instead the principle on which their
railroads are worked—the principle of charg-
ing “all the traffic will bear.” Translated
into terms of debt-collecting, this meant that
each debtor nation was called upon to con-
tribute according to its “capacity to pay.”
A little over half the amount of the -war
credits, which amounted in all to ten thou-
sand million dollars, was written off straight
away, not because Uncle Sam was feeling
generous, but because he knew quite well
that if he put the screw on too hard he
might get nothing. Capacity to pay varied
with the different nations. Broad-shouldered
old John Bull, who had borne practically
the whole financial brunt of the war tiii
Sam took a hand, got 18 per cent, knocked
off his debt to Sam. Marienne was for-
given 50 per cent.; the sorely-stricken Bel-
gians got a discount of 46 per cent., and
Italy, which showed a balance-sheet that
made even the Debt Commission weep tears
of sympathy, got 74 per cent, of its debt
swept into limbo. And nobody was required
to pay more than 4-} per cent, on the unfor-
given residue. Uncle Sam. when the result
was reported to him, leaned back and purred
over his own magnanimity. But the nations
that had to pay took a different view of it.
They looked on Sam as a landlord who had
distrained for rent by taking every stick of
furniture in the hovel. And when Sam
remarked sardonically that poverty was a
good thing, because it kept folk from fight-
ing, they looked at their idle factories and
ravaged territories and made unpleasant
grimaces. For 60 years or so they must
tax themselves to the bone to pay America
for her share in what, after all, was a war
for a common cause! And. as they also
pointed out, the tribute, which means so
heavy an impost upon the nations that must
pay it, means comparatively little to Uncle
Sam. It amounts, annually, to less than 5 per
cent of the value of his exports and less than
5 per cent, of the value of his imports. And
he has to take tribute in imports, because his
debtors cannot pay gold. Above and beyond
all there is the fact that the prejudice against
America is harming American export trade.
These are plain business considerations
that have been impressed on the Unite(
States Congress—all except the bit about
the injury to export trade —by 46 grave and
reverend seigneurs who constitute the faculty
of Political Science at Columbia University
Their joint statement is a model of brevity
close logic, and plain speaking. Their point
of view is that America is too big and honor
able a nation to behave like a huckster to her
late comrades-in-arms. They would like tin
advances to the other nations in war-time
to be regarded as their country’s free contri-
bution to the common pool—even at that an
inadequate off-set to the millions of valuable
young lives that the others sacrificed while
waiting for America to mobilise her man
power. These professors say everything that
was worth saying that has been said by alien
critics concerning America’s attitude to war
debts, and they say it more effectively because
they have knowledge of both sides. They
plead for a “full and frank reconsideration
of the debt and reparation problems at an
international conference” at which Ameri-
can representatives shall go unfettered by
instructions, save that they are to strive for
a new settlement “calculated to promote the
future peace and prosperity of the world."
It is an ebullition of the idealism that in-
formed such men as Washington, Lincoln
and Wilson, and it may or may not appeal
to Coolidge and his Cabinet. But it is sig-
nificant that the cry is being taken up by
some of the publicists who write from tin
Washington lobbies. Clarence Darrow, for
instance, in last month’s Vanity Fair.
adopts the argument of the college men, and
winds up by saying that a complete cancella-
tion of war debts would bring America mor°
return, for a smaller outlay, than anything
else the nation could do. He is probably
right, too.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Few Words About “The Bulletin.”
Six months ago, having spent a busy two
years installing the most modern printing-
presses, The Bulletin began an active cir-
culation campaign, and the results have been
so good that the men in charge of the paper
have been encouraged to. materially increase
its size and scope. Next week will therefore
see the first issue of a 60-page Bulletin. To
all the old features will be added several new
ones.
Owing to the continued increase of costs it
has become necessary for Australian farmers
of every sort to adopt the most up-to-date
methods, and to give them all the assistance
in its power The Bulletin will print a
weekly section for the Man on the Land. The
enthusiastic co-operation of some of the Com-
monwealth’s best-known experts has been
secured, and the pages will be kept intensely
practical. While the matter will be made as
interesting as possible, the chief thing held ir
view will be to help the farmer, whether b
grows wheat or wool or sugar or ’fruit, i
produce a little more at a little less cost.
The contributor always has been the back
bone of The Bulletin ; and every farmer
with anything to say for the benefit of his
fellows is invited to use these pages to say it.
To the Women’s Letters from Sydney and
Melbourne will be added letters from “the
Little Sisters.” Brisbane and Adelaide and
Perth and Hobart: more pages will be
given to sport, including motoring: the space
given to Australian short stories will be
doubled; there wall be a page of thistledown:
and, finally, among the new features, one
which The Bulletin believes is quite new
to journalism—a Service Department. To
this readers will be invited to send their
“wants.” Years ago somebody was good
enough to call The Bulletin “the Bush-
man’s Bible,” and this Service Department is
the most practical method the paper can
think of to further enhance its value to its
readers, and especially its country readers.
No charge whatever will be made for this
service; and, of course, the price of the
paper wall remain the old sixpence.
The Bulletin doesn’t often talk about
itself; but the pending developments are of
such consequence that they seem to warrant
a fracture of the old rule.
♦
How the Railways “Help” Country
Industries.
When the Great White Train went through
N.S.W. last year, country residents were
edified to hear that the interests of country
industries were the first consideration of the
Railway Commissioners. Eloquent persons
said that the land flowed with _ milk and
honey solely because the Commissioners pro-
vided the necessary channels. They omitted
to mention that, because of the way railway
freights are regulated, much of the honey,
milk and other things goes to Sydney agent'.
As an instance of the help given to
country industries by the N.S.W. railways,
take the case of a co. which commenced busi-
ness in Moss Vale a few years ago. An
enterprising Australian, A. C.' Howard, bit
upon an ingenious method whereby the resist-
ance of the soil to the blades of a cultivator
can be utilised to reinforce the drive of tm
engine. The makers soon discovered tka
to send a machine to Melbourne from Atos v
Vale cost £2 15s. lOd. more than .to
send it to Sydney first, and then re-epnsign
it to Melbourne —through Moss \ ale 1 ;
extra miles over the same line! As nnie-
local steel as possible is used ; but as the on -
put of the quality required is limited, a « -
tain amount has to be imported, '' hde tui
manufactured implements —most of them i
ported—are carried from Sydney to mo*'
Vale at £1 12s. lid. per ton in five-ton lots,
the railage on raw steel for manufactur
varies from £2 6s. Id. (in 15-ton lots)
£2 15s. lOd. per ton if carried in any smai' -
quantity. Coal is carried for 10s. bo. I
ton. but oxygen (used for oxy-acetylene
ing) costs £3 10s. Sd. per ton for , carrm,y
As about a to.n of material, including -
oxygen, etc., has to be carried to.Pfi
half a ton of the finished product. lr ?
to the plant at Moss Vale were a s
item. The result was that a good deal
haulage was done by motor-lorries: a > -j
way of making the railways pay, blu. n .
for repairing roads to be used by loi


competition with the railways is carried at
consignment of 10 tons of steel sent from
England to this co.—Austral Auto Cultiva-
fors-in March last year, and for conveni-
ence made up to 12 tons m Sydney, cost m
freight: — _
From Sheffield to Liverpool (86 miles) .. £6 18 o
From Liverpool to Sydney (13,000 miles) 2? lo l
From Sydney to Moss Vale (92 miles) . 12 1 0
In other words, the N.S.W. rate is five times
higher than the English rate and 230 times
higher than the rate from England by water.
An engine brought from the U.S.A. cost in
freight:—
From Detroit to Vancouver (1000 miles) £3l 14 6
From Sydney to Moss Vale (92 miles).. 31 11 0
—sixpence less on a difference of 90S miles.
The N.S.W. rate is nearly 12 times higher
thau that of the U.S.A. and Canada.
During 1926, haulage from Sydney cost
the factory £l5OO, so it became necessary
to move the plant to Northmead, near Parra-
matta. A shipment of steel from England
delivered at the shop at Northmead worked
out at Bs. Id. per ton as compared with
£3 10s. Bd. per ton—not including cartage
from the wharf to the railway—which would
have been charged if sent to Moss Vale. The
removal of the factory means that Moss
Vale has lost about 60 people. In a town
the size of Moss Vale, such a loss leaves a
big hole; the butcher, the baker, the grocer,
the draper, the shoemaker, the doctor, the
chemist, the picture-show proprietor, etc., all
have lost 60 customers, and the town itself
is poorer by a number of ratepayers. Pro-
perty-owners have empty houses which they
are unable to let, while in the congested
areas nearer Sydney factory employees are
having difficulty in finding homes. In other
countries a far-sighted policy, on t;lie part of
railway-owners, of adjusting freights so as
not to penalise country residents, has made it
possible for a large number of factories to
spring up and flourish in the inland towns.
A centre of industry attracts more people,
all of whom have to be fed, clothed, housed,
doctored and amused; other businesses are
established in the towns; surrounding farms,
orchards, dairies, poultry-runs, etc., thrive—
and the railways carry more goods and more
passengers.
— ♦
The Gambling Mania.
Last week’s police raid on an elaborate
Sydney starting-price betting hell furnishes
material for further comment on Lazzarini’s
bill for the encouragement of pony _ racing
and petty betting. This bill, under its offi-
cial title of the Gaming and Pitting Amend-
ment Bill, aims at a very considerable
increase in the number of racing dates in
N. S. Wales. In no case, however, has pro-
vision been made for permitting extra racing
for such clubs as the A.J.C., under whose
auspices is seen a type of horse which is
of some use to the community. The bill will
merely enlarge opportunities for obscure and
unnecessary racing organisations whose
whole reason for existence is that they offer
a medium for gambling and work-dodging to
the horde of parasites who throng to them.
Australia, and N. S. Wales most of all. is
rotten with the gambling spirit, and
especially’ with its most debasing form,
s-p. betting on low-class galloping and
trotting races. The country is honeycombed
by pseudo-secret “dives” wherein, under rules
and regulations drawn up by themselves, the
s.-p. vampires operate, and too often help to
fill the gaols in doing so. The one raided
last week, with its seven telephones, its
radio set, and its list of 2000 bets for a
single morning, was an aristocrat of its
kind. There are many others like it, and the
long perspective dwindles down to tiny shops
in mean suburbs where “grocers” and “tobac-
conists” bet with 10-year-old babies for a
penny stake! Surely the situation calls for
the curtailment of opportunities for this
senseless form of gambling, and not for
deliberately increasing them and adding
weight to the burden already heavy on the
community. The most disheartening thing
about the whole business is that the bill
for adding to the betting facilities which are
corrupting the people is sponsored by a repre-
sentative of Labor.
♦
Encouraging; Australian Literature.
But how is it to be done? The Australian
Literature Society (Melb.) recently gathered
its forces at Anzac House and tried to tackle
the subject. The speakers were represen-
tative men with labels attached to them —
descriptive writer, novelist, poet, journalist,
editor, bookseller, etc.
The Novelist was clear and to the point.
After interviewing publishers and editors in
London he could say that there was no pre-
judice against Australian novels as such;
but the fact had to be faced that Australian
readers were poor supporters of their own
works. Unlike England and America, they
preferred foreign fiction. They were voraci-
ous readers, and in one instance it was the
Australian sale that started a rush to make
a certain author, non-Australian, the world’s
best seller. If the Australian public gave a
reasonable share of attention to local works,
English publishers would be very willing to
publish a considerable number of popular
Australian novels. In quality, the London
publishers assured the Novelist, the Aus-
tralian book was up to standard.
The Descriptive Writer thought the only
solution was a strict copyright law, on the
American model, and a tariff against cheap
and nasty importations. The silly" serials
that disfigure so many newspapers should be
taxed. At present Australia is a dumping
ground for overseas magazines, with the
result that its own papers and magazines are
heavily handicapped. It is grossly unfair
competition. If there is no chance for the,
Australian publisher, where is the Australian
writer to find his market?
The Poet held that the best encouragement
of poetry was a Critical appreciation.
The Educationist thought a great deal
depended on the school paper. If the love
of their own literature were implanted in
the young, we would soon have an eager and
discriminating audience in the future. And
intelligent children were not bad critics ; they
had a natural affection for Henry Lawson,
as shown in the touching way they sent
flowers when he was lying ill in hospital.
The Bookseller declared that, shown a new
Australian book, lie would order one copy
on sale or return. If anyone came to his
shop and bought the book, he would then
order another copy. He mentioned the old
English law under which the dead had to be
buried in wool to support the industry, and
suggested the idea that every corpse should
be buried with a volume of Australian verse.
It is very pretty and all that; but there
is nothing very practical about it. The
truth seems to be that Australia is suffering
in this, as in a thousand other ways, from
the struggle to get through without paying.
The cursed borrowing system is largely res-
ponsible ; we have only got to sign a p.n.
or an lOU and the railway is built or the
road is made or the motor-car or player-
piano is delivered. The disease has spread
until now we think all we have to do is to
arrive at some mysterious thing called a
formula and the country can pay basic wages
whether they are earned or not —whether
they are earned is indeed not considered
at all. It is precisely the same with
Australian literature. We meet and talk
and talk, searching for the formula that is
to work the miracle. It is waste of time.
The only formula worth while is in our
pockets. The only way to make Australian
books and magazines a commercial success is
to buy them. If we haven’t the money, there
is a pretty sure way of getting it. We can
work a little harder or even save a little
harder.
A
Australia’s Butchering Business.
A N.S.W. grazier has been telling the London
press that Australia lost the recent big con-
tract for Army meat, which went to the
Argentine, because it lacked “aggressive
representation” in London. Australia’s pub-
licity work, he said, was confined to dairy
products and fruits, while meat was left
obscure and unsung.
The gentleman’s idea of having a roaring
individual armed with a megaphone on the
spot is primitive. Something more than
noise and aggressiveness is needed to sell
Australian beef in world markets. Two
essentials for success are that its quality
shall be at least as high as that of its com-
petitors, while its price shall be no higher
than theirs. In the case under notice these
essentials were not visible.
Under present conditions, at least, our
beef is not up to Argentine quality, while
the price is higher. The British Secretary
for War told the Commons the other day
that the two Australian tenders for the
army contract were 2fci and 45 per cent,
higher respectively than the Argentine tender.
No desire to benefit the Empire could over-
ride such a tremendous discrepancy as that,
and the War Office, entrusted with John
Bull’s cash, cannot be blamed for laying out
the Boss’s funds in the best market, especi-
ally as the successful tenderer was a British
firm.
The outlook for future tenders is no
rosier. The Australian beef producer, like
every other in Australia, is strapped to the
back of high wages, and. with continually
rising costs and dwindling output, his
MAZEPPA-like career to the ultimate crash
becomes faster and more furious every week.
There seem only two rays of hope for him
in the darkness. One is that Australia’s
population will become numerous enough to
eat all the cattle he can grow and ask for more.
The other is that his various Governments
will not only remit a lot of the rental and
other imposts they have loaded upon him,
but actually try to help him along with his
job, as it has helped lots of others less worthy
from a national point of view.
♦
The Chinaman’s New Joy.
“Feng-Shui” : There was no cause for
general rejoicing in the recent shooting of
three Soviet envoys by Ciiang Tsung-
Chang, a ruffian from Shantung, who fought
on the Czar’s side in the Russo-Japanese
war, on the Republican side in the first
years of the Celestial revolution, on all sorts
of other sides since; who now finds himself
an anti-Red on principle and a passionate
defender of British interests, and who has
been lopping heads so heartily around Shang-
hai as to thoroughly disgust the people he
pretends to be protecting. The notion that
this pleasant gentleman’s shooting of white
men (even if they are Bolsheviks) is good for
the general white cause in China is, unfor-
tunately, widespread. It helps to explain
why Europe has so signally failed to control
the Chinese situation.
People flatter the Soviet too much in giving
it all the credit for the decline of European
prestige in China. The decline might be
better dated from an event which happened
before the word “Bolshevik” was generally
known. That event was the forcing, mainly
by the French, of the yellow horde into the
great European squabble of 1914-18. No
Chinaman ever visualised that conflict as
other than a civil war, the sordid sort with
which he is himself familiar. He had no
particular objection to joining in, especially
as Europeans had often enough joined in his
own internecine brawls. He wasn’t asked to
do anything of a warlike nature, except accept
a loan which he spent on an army that never
got to France because a general stole it for
domestic purposes and removed it to Mon-
golia. But he enjoyed himself thoroughly
cancelling on behalf of his European friends
all the rights and safeguards of his Euro-
pean “enemies.” Previously he had never
been allowed to so much as boo at a Euro-
pean man, woman or child without having to
answer for it. He was now allowed —in
fact, encouraged—to take “enemy” Euro-
peans out of their homes and missions and
eject them from the country. Many Euro-
peans who could not be accused of having
German sympathies shook their heads at
the spectacle and wondered what it portended.
But the most significant thing came later.
It was significant because in Chinese eyes it
seemed to be symbolic. When the Peking
legations were beleaguered in 1900, Baron
von Ketteler, the German Ambassador,
pluckily sallied forth to lodge a last protest
with the Chinese Ministers and was mur-
dered by the Boxer mob on the way. The
monument which the Celestial Government
was later peremptorily ordered to erect on the
spot as a mark of its contrition was a lesson
on the disadvantages of assassinating Euro-
peans which burned itself into Chinese minds
for close on 20 years. During the late war
Allied nationals, assisted by some sozzled
French soldiers, attempted to demolish it,
but only succeeded in making it groggy; so
the Chinese Government was asked to remove
it, which it did, effusively. No better proof
could have been provided to the yellow
thinker that the European race was a divided
people and could be kicked, if not collec-
tively, at any rate in sections. The kicking
has gone on hilariously ever since, ever grow-
ing in intensity.
But Europe doesn't appear to have learnt
the lesson. To-day the British have been
singled out for kicking and Americans are
idiotically applauding, under the belief that
their own prestige is not involved, and that,
vrgo, they will profit mightily later.
4
Maorilantl’s Butter Pool.
There is scarcely a cow-farmer in Maori-
land who is not convinced that he does not
get, and never has got, an adequate price
for his butter and cheese exported to Britain.
Tooley-street is regarded by the gentleman
who valets Strawberry as an octopus, a
blood-sucking vampire, and a conscienceless
extortioner, given to forestalling, engrossing
and withholding, and possessed of mysterious
and formidable powers. But the Maoriland
cow-cockies are by no means unanimous on
the subject of handing over their produce
to a sort of counter-octopus whose duty it
shall be to vamp the vampire and extort
from the extortioner. When it was proposed
that their property should be vested in a
board composed of leading cow-cockies, with
a Government representative in the box-seat,
there were many of them who said out loud
that this board might make a worse mess
of things than they had ever brought about
themselves. However, the thing w-as wished
on the dissentients by Act of Parliament
backed up by a ballot that is still the sub-
ject of acrimonious controversy, and for
several months past the dairy exports of the
Dominion have been compulsorily taken from
the producers and handed over to a market-
ing board for sale. What has happened is
instructive. Tooley-street, after remarking
that the proposed pool was, in its opinion,
bad business, being in restraint of trade,
went on its way with tightened lips, and
emitted an ominous silence. And while
Maoriland stocks of butter came into store
as usual, there was a sad lack of orders.
The marketing board, which knew it would
have to place 100,000 boxes a week in order
to keep pace with the influx, found it
couldn't sell much more than a quarter of
that number at the price it had fixed. The
board wouldn’t give way, and the market
wouldn’t pay the price, so at the end of
last month there were more than a million
boxes waiting in store, and the price-fixing
policy had to be ignominiously thrown over-
board. Tooley-street had won the first round
with a knock-out, and the Maoriland pro-
ducers reckon they are about £1,000,000 out
of pocket as the result of the tussle. The
prestige of the board, too, has been consider-
ably damaged, and it is on the cards that
the Government, as a partner in the trans-
action, may have to stand suit at law be-
cause a board on which it was represented
has inflicted so serious a loss on farmers
who were compelled to entrust their affairs
to it for administration. Should such action
be taken, it may be ascertained to what
extent the compulsory pool, adopted by so
many “colonial” Governments, is in conflict
with the common-law principle that gives
citizens the right to control the disposal of
their own property. Theoretically, it is
sound enough to counter a buying ring with
a selling ring, but if the latter is _ made a
matter for governmental compulsion and
losses accrue through the actions of the
people to whom selling is officially entrusted,
then there ought to be a legal remedy. And
it may be that the remedy will make com-
pulsory pools unpopular with Governments.
♦
“The Public and the Medical
Profession.’’
Dear Bulletin, —“A Lawyer” contends
(B. 17/3/’27) that the existence of a Medi-
cal Defence Association is prejudicial to the
public interest. He says that, as “doctors
benefit to some extent when patients bring-
ing action against brother-doctors fail,” the
setting-up of such an organisation “is an
offence against our whole system of govern-
ment.”
“A Lawyer” says that doctors are “notori-
ously indisposed to testify against one an-
other in medical cases.” Why “notoriously”?
Might not their deeper knowledge of the
vissicitudes of what, after all, is not an exact
science make any decent Britisher averse
to litigiously pulling—without anaesthetic —
the alleged mote out of a fellow-practitioner’s
eye? Particularly when, as often happens,
he is called upon to medically criticise treat-
ment given months and years before? Only
a fool or a blackguard with an axe to grind
would lend himself gladly to such an
attempt; and the greater the witness-doctor’s
“special knowledge,” the more averse he is
to damning the pilloried medico.
“At any rate,” says “A Lawyer,” “trial
by Judge and jury is definitely part of our
modern civilisation.” Maybe, but so sup-
posedly is judgment by one’s peers. When
Prince Ranjitsingiti can claim freedom on
the above ground from appearing in court
to answer a charge of speeding a motor-car
to the danger of the public, surely a doctor,
whose treatment of a case of pseudo-hyper-
trophic pulmonary anthropathy may be
brought before a lay jury by a dissatisfied
patient, is justified in taking insurance pre-
cautions ! For, even a strictly honest,
learned and scientifically-correct disquisition
by him on the subject might be misunder-
stood by 12 or even 4 “good men and true,”
where sentiment, in default of trained know-
ledge, might end in having him “butchered
to make a Roman holiday.”
“A Lawyer’s” comparison with what
happens “whenever'’ (happy word!) “a soli-
citor makes away with trust funds,” is not
apposite. Theft can be more accurately
grasped by a lay jury than facts demonstrat-
ing medical negligence or lack of skill, or the
contrary. For any alleged technical, non-
criminal breach, a solicitor or barrister is
entitled to be judged by his occupational
peers, as also are the members of the Ser-
vices, be they admirals or colonels. Doctors
and clergymen (both specialists in then-
branches of human activity) are unfortu-
nately exempt from this refinement of justice.
No! The existence and activities of a
Medical Defence Association are no more
“an offence against our whole system of gov-
ernment” than is tin; business of an insur-
ance company which takes third-party risks
for motorist policy-holders. In a non-
trivial case of genuine medical injury, coun-
sel should be skilful enough to extract the
necessary evidence from even a “notoriously
indisposed” medical witness, when the learned
Judge will be able to sift such evidence, and
marshal facts for the guidance of the jury,
Medical Defence Associations notwithstand-
ing.
When every unsuccessful client may take
action against “A Lawyer” for negligence
and lack of skill in the handling of a case, I
fancy my professional cousin will bestir him-
self to have formed a Legal Defence Associa-
tion for his own and his brethren’s protection.
—Yours, etc., S. N. It.
Proposed New University for N.S.W.
Dear Bulleti n, —Education Minister
Mutcii caused a flutter in the Sydney Uni-
versity dovecots when he pointed out that
the N.S.W. Government was in a position to
cut off a lot of the institution’s revenue and
devote it to a new university at, say, New-
castle. These remarks were made in the
course of an argument as to whether the
matriculation exam, in French was exces-
sively stiff; this particular dispute is not
very important, but the issue raised by
Mutcii is.
Many educationists have long been con-
vinced that the Ma State needs another uni-
versity. In the first place, Sydney is not a
true university city. It is too modern, too
noisy, and has far too many butterfly attrac-
tions to lure the undergraduate, who is very
easily lured. Compared with Oxford aud
Cambridge it offers very little inducement for
quiet study. Secondly, Sydney Uni., in most
of its faculties, is taxed to the utmost. Since
the great Wentworth started it on its career
its growth has been phenomenal.
With this sense of solitary strength has
crept in inevitably an overbearing disposition.
The Senate and the professors know that
they are without opposition. They can do
exactly what they like when they like, and
no man can say them nay. This sort of
thing is apt to go to the head of the person
and institution affected. At all events, there
has been a lack of true University spirit and
co-operation, so noticeable that it has been
the subject of round-table conferences which
settled nothing. Last term the undergraduate
editor of the Uni. magazine allowed the pub-
lication of an article complaining of Star
Chamber methods. He was compelled to
resign. This is only one of a series of
unpleasant incidents, with the Senate on one
side and the undergraduate body on the other.
When faith-healer Hickson was in Aus-
tralia the Senate carpeted undergraduates
who had exercised their right of criticising
the gentleman’s mission, a right freely exer
cised in the Sydney newspapers. A still
more recent example of the arrogance of
officialdom was the campaign conducted by
the mouthpieces of the Senate against a move-
ment aimed at giving the war memorial caril-
lon a worthy home. If the Senate had
opposition, it would no doubt mend its ways.
It might even go so far as allowing reporters
to attend its meetings. Perhaps a Sydney
Morning Herald man teas admitted to the
last affair of the kind. At any rate, the
Herald published a report showing an esti-
mated deficit of £19,466 on the general
account, which surpluses from the Ciiallls
and MacCaughey funds reduced to £4963.
The third and most important reason for
the erection of a new university is conveyed
in the word decentralisation. Intellectually,
as well as industrially, Sydney grabs every-
thing of value in N. S. Wales. A university
placed beyond its reach would be the means
of adding a considerable population to one
of our lesser cities, as well as making it a
centre of learning. Finance is the stumbling
block at present, but the Government ought
to be in a position to establish an Arts faculty
at Newcastle or one of the North Coast towns
for a start. —Yours, etc., Double Graduate.
*
Why We Get “Tripe” Pictures.
“Amontalado” : Unconsciously, Professor
Wallace, in his report to Parliament upon
the work of the Film Censor’s Department,
has hit upon the cause of all the trouble,
when he quotes his figures, and he is sup-
ported by the highest authorities in the trade.
It is shown that about 50 per cent, of the
pictures are good and the other 50 per cent,
are vulgar and silly. Most of this vulgar
product of the U.S.A. does not find a place
upon the programme of any decent American
picture-house. They show only the 50 per
cent, good; they have no need to show the
tripe, for the simple reason, that in America
the programme is much shorter than in Aus-
tralian theatres. In America the average
programme is 10,000 feet; in Australia it is
15,000 feet or more. In America and Europe
the films are shown at correct speed, because
the programme is of reasonable length. In
Australia they race like maddened hares. It
is a rest cure to go into an American or
European picture-house and see the pictures
shown at their natural speed—the programme
usually consisting of some interesting news
pictures, a travelogue, a short comedy, one or
more musical items, and. after the interval,
one good star picture. Because of the great
length of Australian programmes we have
become the dumping-ground of everything
America produces, good or bad, and if we
only follow the example of the Americans
themselves, we will throw out the bad by
shortening the programme and thus do away
witli some of the fuss.
_4
The Signed Article.
“Pollio” : A few months’ stay in France
leaves me wondering why Australian jour-
nalists make such a fuss about signing their
articles. French journalists would regard it
as intolerable tyranny if they were not
allowed to sign theirs; most of them would
probably seek other means of livelihood, and
French journalism would drop rapidly to the
level of —shall we say Australian? Great
Frenchmen are proud to be journalists, to
have the platform of a daily paper from
which to address their audiences; and the
whole tone of public thought is raised be-
cause it is influenced day after day by men
who really can think. The most prominent
journalist in France to-day, Charles Maur-
kas, was a fortnight ago declared (by a
Supreme Court Judge who was summing up
strongly against him) “the glory of modern
French letters and philosophy”; he is the
head of a political party that has attracted


•PS
p-ir i
F
ITlffl
K
F
53oiu;>
am
R 1
6s
Jilli.
n
n«
r
CTniilf
dM
Crit
5^
«T
fsdf
Capital Paid-up £Ji%2,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
EASTER IN SYDNEY
Royal Show and Autumn Races—-Gala Events, whose magnetism draws thousands
to Sydney. But to only some four hundred can be offered the unique hospitality
of “The Australia,” the comfort and convenience, the world-famous cuisine, the
refinement and gaiety, the unobtrusive service. Telegraph reservations at once!
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Our regular patrons are ashed to confirm their reservations to avoid possible disap ointment.
to itself practically all the youth of the
French universities.
Signed journalism, too, is probably respon-
sible for another marked feature of the
French newspaper the astounding frankness
of the personal criticism. An unsigned lead-
ing article could hardly permit itself to
speak of “that old blighter,” So-and-So ; but
the man who is going to sign one can do
much worse —saying exactly what he means,
he can call a superintendent of detectives a
“master-blackmailer,” stigmatise the whole
secret police-force of Paris as a “blood-
stained and purulent mob,” and explain
regretfully to the world at large (after giving
a vivid and almost indecent account of
Monsieur Brian it’s past, life) that France’s
Minister for Foreign Affairs is “a cesspit in
a clump of rhododendrons, and unfortunately
Chamberlain has not yet got beyond the
x-hododendrons.” I do not suggest that Aus-
tralian journalists need be quite so direct
(I have been, as a matter of fact, very
prudish in my choice of quotations) ; but
think of the unholy joy of saying once or
twice in your life exactly what you feel
about our politicians!
Remember, too, that these are not gutter-
rags I am quoting from, or guttersnipes who
write in them. The author of the Briand
biography is a man as able and as cultured
as. say, Professor Mungo MacCallum —-
who would be, I am sure, the first to admit
the fact. Only, the French habit of claiming
responsibility for one’s own opinions makes
for straightforwardness, and renders it im-
possible to smother a direct attack on nuis-
ances with feather-beds of ponderous ver-
biage. It is an English superstition that
straight talk is “vulgar”—which it may or
may not be —and therefore undesirable;
whereas the only vulgarity that is really and
always undesirable is that which pretends to
respectability.
4
Gardens.
“T. Jasper” : When we think of gas-bombs
and jazz bands and Bolshevism we are apt to
wonder if we are getting anywhere, after all.
But when we think of gardens, a gleam of
light shines through the stupidity and sorrow
that enfolds us. This is the first real garden
age and the interest in gardens is extraordi-
nary, as evidenced by the fact that most
papers find it necessary to devote a column
or a page to the subject. Some people cer-
tainly grew flowers in former ages, but they
were a small, select circle. Man is evolving
from gladiator to gardener, and, while some
might sigh for the valiant and violent old
days, there is more merit (as a general
thing) in slaughtering a slug than a human
being.
There goes on within the individual a con-
tinual conflict between the gardener and the
gladiator, between the desire to conserve and
beautify and the urge to destroy. And gar-
dens are doing more to procure victory for
the former than any other aesthetic influence.
While poetry, music and art all tend to
establish the reign of beauty, they lack the
widespread appeal of the perfumed beds and
borders. It needs considerable culture and
a certain quality of mind to appreciate art,
but the beauty of flowers is for the eye of
almost every beholder.
There is a moral as well as an aesthetic
element ini gardens. Gardens cultivate
patience, and something of a lover’s tender-
ness. There is a touch of humor about
the thought of the divine heir to the ages
engaging in a war of wits with slugs and
snails, but the spectacle of a short-sighted
middle-aged suburbanite carrying a splut-
tering candle round his garden, risking rheu-
matism and pneumonia in-defence of a frail
transient beauty, is not without pathos also.
He does not differ greatly from Sir Gala-
had.
Then gardens are just. They grant their
deepest delights only to those who have
tended them. It is not the plutocrat who
employs two gardeners and never tends a
flower himself who knows the joy of these
treasures; it is rather the individual who
devotes his scanty leisure to the service of
liis goddess. To the plutocrat the garden is
a spectacle; to the devotee it is the spirit
of delight.
“If you have two loaves of bread,” said
a Chinese mystic, “sell one and buy a'lily.”
In an allegedly materialistic age it is well
to realise that, after all, we are beginning
to conform to the spirit of the proverb. We
may not be half as materialistic as we some-
times think.
4
“Life Sentence”: It may be true, as lately
claimed, that through the operation of the
Fair Rents Court rents have been reduced
in Queensland by 17 per cent., but in reality
the tenant class is worse off than ever owing
to the fact that nowadays hardly a single
builder erects small or moderate-sized
cottages for renting purposes. The specula-
tive builder puts up his house and sells it
on terms—down as low as £5, £lO or £2O
deposit, the balance at 6 or 7 per cent, to be
paid “as rent,” weekly or monthly. The
simple toiler, overjoyed at the prospect of
getting a house of bis own, closes joyfully
with the shrewd agent and finds after six
or seven years, especially if he has had sick-
ness in the family, that he is very little
nearer to owning his own roof-tree. “Small
deposit and long terms,” they call it. “A
life-sentence” would be a much better name
for the transaction. The Court as a remedy
for scarcity of houses and a suppressor of
the rack-renter is a great and awful failure
and has resulted in the packing of two or
three families into premises which used to
accommodate one family apiece only. The
rack-renting is worse than ever, but is done
not by the landlord, but by the tenant-in-
chief.
Australian merino wools have been gradu-
ally coarsening, and those who think that
it’s rather a good thing might do well to
note a cabled extract from the weekly report
of the Bradford Chamber of Commerce. The
excuse given by so many Australian growers
for allowing the quality of their output to
deteriorate is that the world’s buyers want
the type of deep, coarse merino, with inferior
spinning qualities, that counts about 60’s
tops. To this some add that the extra weight
of the strong wools off the bigger-bodied sheep
gives a better and more profitable return than
the fine merino stuff. But Bradford roundly
asserts that there is a strong and rising
market for fine merinos, and that the strong
stuff is being side-stepped everywhere. Con-
tinental buyers, who cut so much ice in Aus-
tralia’s wool market, are looking for nothing
else just now except the characteristic fine-
QUITE EASY.
“During the past week Mr. McTiernan and other N.S W. politicians have been trying to ‘work out
a formula’ for providing a basic wage and child endowment.”
FLUFEY: “I’d buy that hat, darling, if I had the money.”
MUFFY: “Oh, must you have money? Wouldn’t it do if toe just went and ashed Eddie
McTiernan for a formula ?”
haired Queensland wools and those of the
same type which N. S. Wales continues to
produce. These have risen steadily in price;
it is evident that there is to be a strong
and increasing demand for the fine-haired
sorts,_ and though the grower of strong wools
promises to do well enough, the cream will
6e waiting for the fine-merino men—too many
of them, unfortunately for this country,
South African growers nowadays.
♦ :
Anybody who can throw his mind hack 25
years will recall how the streets of Austra-
lian cities were littered Avith the debris of
humanity, who displayed their unhappy
deformities to the passer-by in order to
awake, his charity. Probably the number of
these unfortunates is still as large as ever,
but they are no longer half as obvious.
Dozens of charitable organisations give them
a _ more comfortable and self-respecting
living. In Melbourne a number of canini-
tarians banded together to establish a Lost
Dogs Home which would do the same sani-
tary service to the derelict mongrel. The
law authorises the home to rid the world
of useless mongrels and find decent masters
for dogs of value. The result is that disease-
bearing mongrels are now conspicuous by
their absence in the streets of Melbourne.
As an example of what needed to be done,
the home offered to visit one suburb whose
council declared that it had no stray hounds,
and in one day it swept up 50. The Young
Turks, also moved to obliterate the blot on
their civilisation that the thousands of
savage wonks which infested Constantinople
presented to the world, put them on a desert
island and left them to solve their popula-
tion problem in their own way. The Mel-
bourne institution uses the more efficient and
humane method of a lethal chamber, which
deals with the canine refuse more speedily
than a murderer is dealt with at Pentridge.
An echo of the original opposition to the
home has just come from London, where the
Melbourne Board of Works, on the plea that
the institution is not a charity, has taken
a demand for £25 for water used. The case
has already gone through the County Court
and the Full Court, and is now being pre-
sented to the Privy Council. The legal fees
to date amount to close on £lOOO. Even
when the Privy Council has spoken no prin-
ciple will have been settled: it will be open
for the Yic. Parliament next day to declare
that the Home is or is not a charity within
tin- meaning of this Act. Why in such cases
Parliament isn’t appealed to to settle what
only Parliament can settle is a mystery.
4
An important statement was lately made in
the S’African Parliament on the subject of the
Mandate held by the Union over the one-
time German territory of South-West Africa.
Premier Hertzog was asked if the Per-
manent Mandates Commission’s report was
correct in affirming that the Union possessed
sovereign rights in South-West Africa. The
reply was that the matter rose out of a
treaty between South Africa and Portugal
defining the boundary of South-West Africa
and the Portuguese Colony of Angola, and
that the Commission had pronounced in
favor of the Union’s sovereign right to enter
into such treaties. Further, the South
African Supreme Court had decided, in con-
nection with the Hohenzollern claims
against the Union, that sovereignty over
South-West Africa did not lie in the Allied
Powers, the League of Nations, or the
British Empire, but, in the Union only. It is
a pretty strong judgment . from both tk
League Commission and the Courts, and mav
prove useful when Fritz next lifts up In-
voice demanding the oversea stakes he lo-
in his 1914 gamble.
“NakHODA” : Although Japan has not y.
been specifically cited in the League inquiry
into the international White Slave Traffic, it
is still the chief source of supply as far
as the Pacific is concerned. Of course, tin
Government gives the trade no official coj
nisance, but the fact, that the smiling littS*
shuffling ladies are to be found almost every
where in Asia and the Pacific islands indi-
cates that the restrictions on their exporta-
tion are not stringent. In the Japan?-
dependency of Korea, the yoshitcara is pari
of the municipal equipment, like the water
supply. Malay-street, Singapore, in its hey-
day resembled a village in Nippon, the Euro-
pean population being small and the British
nil, there being absolute prohibition of the
last-named. The trade hasn’t such baleful
consequences for the Japanese woman—and
this is really the most interesting feature—
because of her mental attitude towards it.
Peasant girls often serve a term at. the local
yoshiwara with the consent of their parents
and the approval of their young men, return-
ing to the domestic hearth or the wedding
ceremony without loss of prestige and with
the dowry they have earned. Consequently
Japanese “white slaves” seldom show the
corrosion of moral degradation which spoils
the manner and appearance of their European
colleagues next door.
4
“The Listening-Insect”: Although I have
had no experience of Government depart-
ments, I can confirm with a private example
“Recurrent Factor’s” contention (B.
17/2/’27) that “Murkah’s” faith in the
security of codes is misplaced sadly. For
generations a great British cable combine
tried to evolve a code that would enable its
London h.q. to correspond with its scor?s
of superintendents scattered about the world
on staff matters without the staff being able
to decipher the messages which, of course,
they had to handle. Superintendents were
given dictionaries of an out-of-print edition,
-which they kept locked up. Sometimes the
cipher key jumped 40 columns ahead and
sometimes 40 back; and sometimes the figure
was 10 or 15. Sometimes the key was
changed with each successive word in the
same message, and sometimes the whole
system was changed completely. But non;
of these devices baffled the subordinate
sleuths for long, and while the superintendent
was toilsomely decoding his latest secret
message in his office his staff was frequently
already discussing the contents outside.
Through long practice, some of them could
even read the meaning straight off the tap-,
and “Oh, blast! They’re sending me to
Peking,” would burst from a startled operator
seated at his instrument.
4
“Lagani-Namo” : Nobody saw Nohoro, th
big Elema “boy,” drive an axe through tin
head of old Andy Doyle, a planter at Loloki.
Papua, but Nohoro subsequently confided ;
the only other native thereabouts that he
had killed the taulada (boss). Certainly
he afterwards varied this with a statement
about seeing Koiari natives running from
the scene of the murder, but when con-
fronted with the Koiaris he cried to tin'
policeman, “ Taubada , I lie. True, Ido ini.
Cut my throat.” Though he subsequently
pleaded not guilty, the Coroner decided that tin l
evidence was sufficient to commit him for
murder, and Judge Herbert later sentence-!
Nohoro to death. The Lieut.-Governor
fixed the time and place for the execution,
a gang of carpenters erected a gallows, and
the hanging was announced for Monday,
making Nohoro look like a bad risk for any
life-assurance concern. At this stage, how-
ever, Authority suddenly discovered that ;t
should have supplied Nohoro with counsel
at his trial. Then another “boy” who had
wandered into the gaol and chatted with the
condemned said that the latter insisted that
one of the witnesses had told lies. A magis-
trate examined this witness, who repeated
the story originally told by Nohoro, widen
had been proved to be absolutely impossible
The hanging wag postponed; the witness, re-
examined, reverted to the story he had tola
in court, that Nohoro admitted hav-
ing done the killing—and by this time tin
Executive Council was so muddled that n
seriously considered the holding of a fres
trial. Then somebody raised the question
whether a man could be tried twice on tin
same capital charge. The longer every bo?
pondered the knottier became the problem
and at last it was solved by the Governor
taking Nohoro out of gaol and restoring him
to his own village, a free man. When the
news got abroad there was an outburst of
indignation among the whites. By its vacil-
lating procedure over the case the Execu-
tive Council has incurred a heavy responsi-
bility : the effect on the native mind is per-
haps the worst part of the whole sorry busi-
ness.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Virectors: Messrs. W. NORTHAM (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and Mr. EDMUND S. W. PAUL.
Toted Assets exceed.. .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. PEACOCK; F.C.1.5., Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Despite Little Australian predictions that
the State Grants Bill would never get
through the Senate, the second reading was
carried by 21 to 11. Features of the debate
were Massy Greene’s attack on the Country
party, to please which, he said, the Govern-
ment was committing suicide; the Labor
Senators’ rapturous approval of Barwell’s
State Frights rhetoric (they called him
’‘Black” Barwell not so long ago), and Mc-
Lacldan’s skilful defence of the Government.
McLachlan’s speech, it was conceded in the
lobbies afterwards, strengthened his claim
to Cabinet rank; and then members went on
to discuss a dreadful rumor that Pearce is
to be sent to the High Commissioner’s office,
where he would be of as much use to Aus-
tralia as a jarrah sleeper.
The annual conference of Vic. Farmers’
Union (in future to be called the Vic. Coun-
try party) was marked by “vigorous protests
against the tariff.” One speaker said, amidst
applause, that “the tariff had much to do
with the drift of settlers to the cities” ; it
has certainly had a great deal to do with
keeping the dried-fruits industry in being,
having saved it from being swamped by cur-
rants from the Levant and Californian
raisins, prunes, pears, apricots and so forth,
but that wasn’t mentioned. After the enthu-
siasm had subsided, conference resolved to
demand heavier duties on butter, especially
the Maoriland article, which is taxed 2d. a
pound, and went on to the next item.
The S. Aus. Opposition has got hold of an
uncommonly good candidate in Dr. Donald
Kerr, a brainy young lawyer who won a
decoration as a Digger. When Labor dis-
covers a man as promising it gives him some-
thing easier than Adelaide, which is almost
hopeless from the Liberal point of view. To
lose the first time won’t do Kerr any harm,
but his party needs enthusiastic young men,
whereas some of its elderly hacks would
never be missed.
Westralia may have two Assembly-women
after the general election on Saturday. It
is assured of one, for Miss Holman, who
became Labor M.L.A. for Forrest after, her
father’s death, has been returned unopposed;
then Mrs. Cowan, who was Nationalist M.L.A.
for West Perth in the last Parliament but
one. is having another shot. In 1921 Mrs.
Cowan beat Attorney-General Draper, now
a Judge, and she is given a good chance
against Rliodes-scholar Davy, who defeated
her three years ago, but hadn’t much to
spare.
The Vic. Electricity Commission’s works
at Yallourn closed down on Monday, and it
was given out that current would be cut off
from 7 a.m. till 11 p.m. in one half of the
metropolitan area on alternate days “as long
as the strike lasts.” For the familiar strike
is responsible; a section of the laborers
objected to the cut of a foreman s jib and
downed tools when the Commission refused
to sack him. other unionists striking in
sympathy. The affair is expected to be as
helpful to political Labor, now fighting elec-
tion campaigns in Vic., South Aus. and
Westralia, as the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council’s announcement that the Yorks’ tour
is “black.”
Though the proletariat occasionally regards
them as a variety show, Queensland’s indus-
trial courts fairly earned their oats during
1925, the latest period for which figures were
available. Some 331 applications were made
for new awards or variations of awards and
495 for compulsory conferences. Only 17
requests for de-registration were made, which,
is moderate for Queensland, while 31 secret
ballots were taken by unions. It is to be
hoped that the secret-ballot habit will grow.
The more it grows the less trouble will be
brought on by union bosses like those who
rushed into the building-trade strike for a
40-hour week and have had to crawl out of
the mad business.
Long disquisitions on finance by Premier
Hill and Opposition-leader Butler have made
the S. Aus. election campaign very dull, but
a Labor orator must be given credit for a
THE BENEFACTORS.
“Melbourne’s Fire-chief H. B. Lee complains that when buildings are condemned as dangerous
owners go to the Appeal Board and obtain exemption. Vie. Minister for Works Goudie upholds the
Appeal Board.”
VIC MINISTER OF WORKS GOUDIE: “You know, boys, the„ firemen want me to compel
you to make your buildings less like death-traps.
TTHE PROPEKTEERS: “Ungrateful wretches! How would they be able to display their
matchless heroism if it wasn't for the likes of us.
manly attempt to brighten things. His effort
was as follows :
The Opposition reminds me of the. habits of the
cuckoo bird. Perhaps some of you don’t know the
habits of the cuckoo bird. The cuckoo bird does
not build a nest. It waits for the other bird to
build a nest and then it goes and throws the other
bird out and hatches its eggs and calls them its
own.
Almost on a par with Representative Forde’s
tremendous indictment of the Ministerialists
during the debate on the per capita pay-
ments : “You are bound hand and foot, like
limpets to a rock.”
The Northern Territory having been
divided into North Australia and Central
Australia, and a Resident appointed to live
at Darwin and another at Alice Springs,
and a North Australia Commission having
been sent up from the south to take general
charge, events have begun to move. The
shipping service between Darwin and the
outports was formerly conducted by one
disappointing vessel, the Navigation Act
having destroyed a lot of casual traffic. The
disappointing vessel was supported by a sub-
sidy of £10,400 a year, but it seldom got any-
where because of “trouble with the crew,”
and the law being quite useless, its owner
retired from the business. The North Aus-
tralia Commission has now offered £5OO a
year subsidy. At that rate it may get a
vessel which is too small to need a crew.
The Vic. Nationalists, Cockies and Labor-
ites think it will be a miracle if “the
Australian Liberal party,” for which the
Age can be blamed, wins one seat at the
Assembly election; nevertheless, the “party”
already sees itself in possession of the loaves
and fishes. The policy speech of the “presi-
dent and field leader” was largely made up
of remarks like “the Australian Liberal
party will not tolerate.... the party will
require... .it cannot condone... .it will not
enact or re-enact. . . .it is possible my party
will devise the party I represent views
with grave a1arm....1 will accept any
invitation to any conference convened to
settle this Federal-State financial question,
but... .pending some such solution my party
will make whatever temporary financial
arrangements are necessary to finance the
State.” The Age, which would obviously
rejoice to hear that the new “party” had
been run over by a tram —several trams,
indeed —toned these artless assurances down,
but the Argus cruelly reported the speaker
in the first person.
The S. Aus. Lib.-Cocky organisation
showed poor judgment in the case of Dr.
Basedow, who is again a candidate for
Barossa. Three years ago, when the Libs,
and Cockies were divided, the eminent autho-
rity on the abos. stood in the C.P. interest
and polled well enough to suggest that he
would do the trick next time if the parties
came together and endorsed him. Come
together they did, but their ticket is Crosby,
M.P., Lyons and Rudall —there are three
seats and no preferential voting. The Labor-
ites nominated Cooke and Hopkins, M. sP.,
and realising that two seats is the party s
limit, they are bespeaking the third Labor
vote for Basedow, who is Independent Cocky.
There will be some very sick wirepullers on
the Coalition side if Basedow ousts Crosby.
The N.S.W. Opposition managers left the
child-endowment conference with more char-
itable views of Premier Lang. He impressed
them as being an overworked and worried
man, trying to do what he conceives to be
right in a wrong-headed way. When the
long-drawn-out session, which has exhausteu
nearly everybody, comes to an end at last,
his friends should insist on his taking a
month’s holiday in some sequestered spot, and
The Bulletin recommends him to include
in his luggage the political novels of Dis-
raeli, that shrewd old counsellor of would-
be rulers of men. In one of the novels he
will read how Wellington failed as a states-
man, because he did not know England; and
it might then occur to him to ask himself
whether he knows N. S. Wales. Reading on,
he will come to this: —
In 24 months (of the Wellington Administration)
we find an aristocracy estranged, without a people
being conciliated, while the prejudices and then the
pretensions of the middle class were alike treated
with contumely.... This administration, which
commenced in arrogance, ended in panic.... When
even his parasites began to look gloomy the Duke had
a specific which was to restore all, and, having
allowed every element of power to escape his grasp,
he believed he could balance everything by a beer
bill.
A passage which might suggest a parallel.
In another book, the Premier will be told
that a necessary ingredient of good govern-
ment is good temper.
Up to last week nothing worse than the
expulsion of the president and the customary
outbreak of personal abuse, with an occa-
sional personal assault, had obtruded on the
periodical family quarrel in the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. When, however, a section of the old
executive, under the expelled president, set
up a new H.Q. staff in opposition to the
comrades who had thrown them out, a change
came over the free-for-all argument. The
new crowd has announced that, being the
only genuine executive, it is prepared to col-
lect expenses for a conference (declared
“black” by the other side) from branches of
the A.D.P. This dastardly move has roused
the expelling executive to fury, and it threat-
ens legal action if the breakaways collect any
branch cash. Even Solidarity can’t face a
prospect like that with equanimity.
The Vic. Country party, late Farmers’
Union, has decided to admit rural townspeople,
as well as cockies, to membership. Premier
Allan, who leads the Parliamentary section
of the organisation, thinks there is no fear
of shopkeepers and their counter-jumpers
swamping the soilocracy; and the West-
ralian Cockies, who announced some years
ago that sympathisers would be allowed in,
and waited for a rush that never came, will,
if necessary, support him. Replying to the
suggestion of his critics that he had allowed
his party to be swallowed by the Nats.,
Allan told his fellow-Agrarians in confer-
ence that it was rather the other way about;
his “swallow,” at any rate, was equal to
that of the other crowd. Allan knows that,
after the April election, his 10 or 11 will
either have to be conciliated or placed in a
position where they can dictate terms.
Echuca’s Bill Hill, who is supposed to see
that the Commonwealth Government gets
the worth of the £20,000,000 it is distribut-
ing among the States for road-construction,
is too green and soft for a job of that
description. When advised by Westralian
Federal members that day-labor road works
were being hurriedly started in Westralia
under his scheme so as to get a couple of
thousand A.W.U. navvies transferred to
doubtful State electorates before the rolls
closed, he said there was nothing in it —
his permission would be required in such
a case, and the State Government hadn't
sought it. In fact, the State Government
had wired saying the assertions were “abso-
lutely untrue.” The date of that message
was February 9, the rolls having closed on
the 6th. On February 22 came another tele-
gram to the effect that the State Govern-
ment would be charmed to have Hill’s sanc-
tion for day-labor roads, estimated to. cost
£173,000. and was sorry it hadn’t mentioned
them before —and he discovered then that
“approximately 2500 men are being employed
on roads without my approval.” Bill pun-
ished the slippery Administration by inform-
ing it that, “in order to prevent men being
thrown out of work through no fault of
their own,” he would finance the roll-stuffing
works from February 22 to April 30, and
would see what he could do after that, if
“satisfactory tenders” had not been accepted
in the meantime. He told the House this
with an air which suggested that he was
astonished at his own severity.
The value of British-owned factories and
the like “socialised” by the Red Republic
without compensation is estimated at
£180.000,000. So a British Minister said
in the House of Commons last week, and
Americans have been robbed of as much or
more. This helps to explain the favor with
which Bolshevist “ideals” have been received
in certain rowdy quarters. There are very
pretty pickings for some people in the dic-
tatorship of the proletariat.
“E.T.C.”: That reference to W. J.
McGrath, Peacock’s Labor opponent in
Allandale (B. 3/3/’27), is not quite correct.
McGrath is a native of Springbank, and
thi-ough his business activities has been as
closely associated with the district as if he
had never left it. Springbank has always
been in Warrenheip, E. J. Hogan’s constitu-
ency, and the present election will be the
first occasion on which Peacock has ever
had a chance to bag a vote there.
PEACE, PERFECT PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When one recalls the turbulence of former years,
the present seems a period of unusual political calm.
We have now no members attempting to throw water-
bottles at the Speaker. Expulsions from the House,
which were a daily occurrence a few years ago, are
now very rare, and altogether the tone of Parliament
has considerably improved since the present Govern-
ment came into office.”— N.S.W. Premier Lang.
A brawling Parliament, all gas and gaiters,
Threatenings and slaughter? Don’t believe such
rot!
A slur on well-conducted legislators—
I never saw a less unruly lot.
Through summer’s heat we’ve sat and never slackened,
Tempers may fray at times and hot words fly
Across the floor, but nobody has blackened
So far the Speaker’s eye.
Harnett, our chucker-out, as staunch a fellow
As ever grappled a refractory gent,
Must feel occasionally like Othello
When that swart worthy’s occupation went.
’Tis seldom now he gets a single victim ;
Time was a dozen in a week he bore
Forth, disregarding how they cursed and kicked him,
And shot them through the door.
"A rough-and-tumble session!” Thus we’re slandered.
Whenever Labor comes into its own
You see us set a more exalted standard,
You note in politics a purer tone.
Our ways were perfectly polite and polished
When, with clean, noble aims and words as fair,
We tried to have the Upper House abolished
And sought to bounce De Chair.
The House of howling rage and ruddy riot
’Neath our benighted predecessors’ rule,
These piping times is very near as quiet
As a church synod or a Sunday-school.
True, like all other Parliament’ry bosses
Who emulate the Mussolini touch,
1 have my private troubles and my crosses—-
houghlin, to wit, and Mutch.
But in our talk-ship on the Rue Macquarie
No indication of the time remains
When Norton challenged Crick to combat gory
Or Crick’s front teeth met in the ear of Haynes.
No blistering defi’s or insults raucous
Diffuse their venom on the ambient air.
What’s that? And how do we behave in caucus?
Well, that’s our own affair.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


- omng,,-
C 2
a
'A
GOOD JUDGMENT
Rood business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belling and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros.. Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEKNSLANB: Hoey, lry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton. Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurcn.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia-
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
HadfieldS’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ( Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries j Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Bianeh | 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia :
Profit. Reserves.
Dec:., 1917 . . .£232,659 £758,951
June, 1918 .. 317.075 1,076,026
Dee., 1918 .. 458,271 1,534,297
June, 1919 . . 388,673 1,922,970 '
Dec., 1919 . . 440,530 2,363,500
June, 1920 . 392,604 2,756,104
Dee., 1920 .. 292,219 3,048,323
June, 1921 .. 403,042 3,451,365
Dec., 1921 .. 341,301 3,792,726
June, 1922 . . 208,933 4,001,659
Dec., 1922 . . 197,307 4,198,966
June, 1923 .. 205,021 4,403,987
National
Debt
Sinking To Re-
Profit. Fund. serves. Reserves.
Dee, 1923. . £123,346 £61,673 £61,673 £4,465,660
June, 1924.. 127,340 63,670 63,070 4,529,330
Transferred to capital, £4,000,000.. 529,330
Dec 1924.. -133,614 66,807 66,807 596,137
June, 1925.. 200,944 100,472 100,472 696,609
Dec., 1925.. 251,445 125,704 125,741 822,350
June, 1926.. 215,875 104.944 110,931 933,281
Dec., 1926.. 263,982 131,335 132,647 1,065,928
Tile profit was the best recorded since the
last half of 1021 —the close of the post-war
boom. From the banking business proper net
earnings were £262,671; in accordance with
the Act, half of this was placed to reserve
and the other half paid into the National
Debt Sinking Fund. The £1312 profit from
the Rural Credits Department was sent to
reserves as laid down in the amendment to
the Commonwealth Bank Act. Capital ot
this branch is to be provided from profits
from the note issue, one-fourth to be allo-
cated each year until the amount reaches
£2,000,000.
Aggregate figures, as usual, showed sub-
stantial movement. And, as usual, no expla-
nation is offered. Deposits are grouped with-
out any indication of the proportions of Gov-
ernment and private, fixed and current. Here
are three December comparisons :
1924. 1925. 1926.
Ordinary de- _ „„
posits, etc. .. £28,997,612 £31,463,836 £28,0/0,330
Savings bank
deposits . . 40,948,614 43,875,693 46,063,129
Bills payable, etc. 3.343,419 4,743,93 / 5,716,103
Ordinary deposits were more than 81 mil-
lions lighter than at June 30; movements in
Government balances doubtless were respon-
sible. The increase in savings-bank deposits
continued, the expansion in the six months
amounting to £525,524, and £2,187,436 over
the 12 months. Those figures tell of the good
conditions ruling throughout the Common-
wealth plus the “prosperity” which is based
on the still unbridled loan expenditure of
most of the States. But although savings-
bank deposits are stated, the investments m
which the funds are placed are lumped with
all other investments. So, too, with the
rural branch, no details being given. As
each section is separate and distinct the
information regarding the disposition of
their funds should be published. December
comparisons of grouped assets are as follows :
1924. 1925. 1926.
Coin, bullion and
fixed deposits of
other banks .. £8,728,168 £11,673,694 £4,616,8(1
Australian notes 5,350,032 4,548,049 3,941,126
Monev at short
calT in London 10,630,000 16,185,000 5,710,000
Public securi-
ties .. ~ 39,021,464 39,467,603 53,041,916
London bills, etc. 3,167,902 2,231,160 4,353,977
Advances .. 10,054,956 10,098,0/1 12,958,836
Premises . . 933,258 828,430 ,05.8 91
There, as with deposits and earnings, details
and explanations are lacking. The contrac-
tion in coin and bullion (fixed deposits witn
other banks were unchanged at £954,000),
although more than seven millions compared
with December 31. 1926. amounted to only
£1,943,654 compared with the June total.
Money in London was £6,240,000 less than at
June and £10,475,000 less than at Decem-
ber 31, 1925. Plainly there has been sub-
stantial selling of London exchange to the
other banks, visible also in the increase in
public securities of £6,819.875 over June
and £13,574,314 over December, only a few
thousands of the increase being in Common-
wealth stock.
Profit from the note issue for the six
months was £528,592, £70,000-odd less than
the June figure and almost £200,000 below
that of the previous December. Of the amount
£396.444 went to the Commonwealth
Treasury and £132,148 to the Rural Credits
Department capital account. Notes issued
totalled £49.890.226. £21.982,066—44 p.c.--
being held in gold.
For 10 days recently the directors sat
almost continuously in consultation with Sir
Ernest Harvey, Comptroller of the Bank of
England, who had come to Australia on their
invitation. They want to know how their
bank can become a central-reserve bank. His
advice—so far as he has given advice-
recalls the instructions given to the Yankee
millionaire who got the keeper of one of the
lawns at Oxford to tell him how to make
such things. “First you prepare the ground,
and then you sow the seed, and then you
water it, and next you cut it, and then you
roll it and water it and cut it—and you go
on doing it for 300 years and then if the
climate is right and other circumstances
favorable you’ll have a green like that. ’
The Old Lady is now a central bank, a
bankers’ bank, but she has taken long years
to reach that position. And she is still not
wholly a central bank. About the com-
monest banking axiom in Australia is that
the Commonwealth Bank can’t be both a
central bank and a trading bank. That is
far too sweeping an assertion. It can do
what the Bank of England has done —steadily
expand its central-bank functions while con-
tracting its trading-bank operations. For
the Bank of England is still a trading bank:
it takes business if it is offered, but doesn’t
look for it, and it generally charges a bit
more for the accommodation than it could be
got for elsewhere.
There is a lot of loose talk on either side.
The politician—Labor politician especially
—wants the Bank to provide everybody with
cheap money and services. People inter-
ested in the private banks naturally want the
Commonwealth to stand off ordinary trading.
But the Commonwealth Bank cannot function
purely as a central bank. For one thing it
hasn’t the bill material to work on which
makes the operations of the Bank of England
possible. Besides, it has the Savings Bank
Department, not to mention the Rural Credits
Branch—both things foreign to a central
bank. But, while it must for the present do
a certain amount of general business, it can
steadily move on towards the central-bank
objective—if the politicians will let it. What
the Labor politician in particular must be
shown is that, while moving towards that
objective, it can do very great service to the
people. First it has charge of the note issue.
This means that it can do much towards pre-
venting booms and bursts —it can stop exces-
sive inflation and deflation. It can arrange
and maintain quick and cheap exchange, and
that is very important to the wool and wheat
growers. It can prevent congestion at either
end. In this connection the friendly rela-
tions established through Sir Ernest Harvey
with the Bank of England w T ill be most
important. And it will be able to exercise a
more or less general supervision over banking
charges in Australia, by using its vast re-
sources to cheapen rates for any service what-
ever if it regards them as excessive. To what
extent the private banks will agree to pro-
mote this gradual movement towards the
central-bank system remains to be seen. That
can only be arranged at conferences; and so
far none have been held in which the private
banks have joined. Meantime Australia
should at least say “Thank you” to the Bank
of England for putting its knowledge so
fully at the Commonwealth Bank’s service.
* * * *
Ilunnart Parker, Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends. —,, To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec. SL £ £>£,£,
1916. .117,140 30,000 10 p.c.- 50,000 37,140 116,129
1917. 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 60,615 176,774
1918. .220,747 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000 135,747 312,621
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000 204,387 516,908
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 ~ „ 70,000 84,372 700,492
1922. 30,000 15 „ „ 75,000 100,243 800,735
Transferred to Capital .. £250,000 550,735
1923. .159,479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 121,, „ 93,750 18,565 608,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 124 „ „ 93,750 9,255 618.034
1926. .198,008 30,000 16 ~,,120,000 48,008 666,042
It being the 50th anniversary of the birth of
the old Huddart-Parker firm, the board
allowed sentiment to dictate a “jubilee bonus”
of 5 p.c., which implies that 10 p.c. div. plus
1 p.c. bonus is regarded as the ordinary
thing, though actually the last 11 p.c. was
paid in 1919. However, a div. by any other
names tastes just as sweet. While 16 p.c.
was paid without effort last year it could not
be made a habit judged by the visible earnings
of 1925 and 1924. The 12 months was fairly
free of industrial troubles, although the co.
was affected to a certain extent by the col-
liery engine-drivers’ strike. Net earnings,
according to the accounts, were £141,063, but
that ignores additions to reserves amounting
to £56,945, and Australian shipping cos. are
so adept at conjuring up contingencies to
provide for, and finding hiding places for
nest-eggs, that this Column wouldn’t swear
that its £198,008 is more than a minimum.
Reserves of the introductory table, for in-
stance, consist of: —
Reserve fund . . . . .. . . £370,000
Insurance fund . . .. .. 277,154
Undistributed balance . . . . 18,888
But there is another accumulation which is
not counted —a “reserve for contingencies,
taxation, repairs and maintenance, boilers
and renewals, superannuation fund, etc.. - ’
and it is fairly certain that a wod of true pro-
fit is hidden there. Movements in that fund
since 1916 have been as follows: —
1916 . £123,117. .Increase 59,305
1917 .. .. 131,239 „ 8,122
1918 . . • • 202,089 „ 5,911
1919 . . . . 292,494 ~ 7,324
1920 .. •• 330,385 ~ 2,521
19-91 . . . 324,474 Decrease 30,405
355.518 Increase 11,340
1 9 1-> . . . 347,178 Decrease 130,850
1904 . . . 354,502 Increase 34,044
1995 .. .. 351,981 Decrease 37,891
1926 . . . • 304,142 Increase 12,161
What that mixture represents it is impos-
sible to say. It is equal to almost a third
of the book value of fixed assets —and in-
cluded with the latter are shares in other cos.
Outside interests form a substantial por-
tion of the £1,123,666 at which “steamships,
tugs, lighters, plant, furniture, freeholds and
leasehold properties and shares in other cos.
at valuation” appear in the books. Huddart-
Parker floated Hebburn Coal; it controls
Metropolitan colliery; it has a half interest
in Tasmanian Steamers and a nice holding
in the money-spinning Abermain-Seaham
Collieries. Just what portion is for steamships
and tugs is not indicated. The co. reaped
a golden harvest in the war years when it
disposed of some of its old arks at boom
prices. Wisely, it held off purchasing while
tonnage values were at high levels, but has
been building up. In 1925 it bought the big
cargo-carrier Hebburn and last year it bought
the Dinoga and Delungra from the Common-
wealth Line. The Corio was sold. The net
movement in the fixed-assets mixture was an
increase of £22,939; the “at valuation” sug-
gests that an eye is given to depreciation,
although no allowance is traceable. Here is
a comparison
1924. 1925. 1926.
Ships, etc.. . .. £1,055,442 £1,000,727 £1,123,666
Cash .. ... 35,127 8,242 14,046
Book debts .. 159,817 161,745 161,767
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,268,536 1,320,754
Stores .. .. 54,441 56,320 57,002
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,595,570 £2,677,235
Less liabilities.. 311,052 311,805 307,050
Net assets .. £2,277,031 £2,283,765 £2,370,185
In the past two years the co.. while main-
taining its fleet and various plants and pay-
ing rich divs., has added a net £93,154. Last
year’s expansion was £86,420. £52,218 of the
improvement being in gilt-edged and other
securi'ies. , . » . »
For the future 124 p.c: p.a. seems a reason-
able assumption so long as nothing out of the
way in waterside or higli-seas industrial
piracy occurs. The helpful half million of cheap
pref. Capital may be noted. The market has
ideas despite the 50 p.c. gift handed out
only four years ago. There is excuse for
optimism: at December 31 in public securi-
ties and other investments (excluding shares
in other cos.) was visible more than the
whole of present paid capital. Allowing for
all outside liabilities and the final divs. and
bonus, there were assets amounting to
£1,916,042, equal to £3 16s. 7d. for each
pref. share and £1 17s. 9d. for each ordinary.
It must be remembered, however, that profit-
making to-day is not on the same scale as in
the bloated war vears. and the present
strength belongs to that' period. There are
buyers at 48s. 6d. with sellers asking 495. 6d.
* * * *
Hotel Sydney, Ltd., formerly Central
Palace Buildings. Ltd., from its reconstruc-
tion in June, 1923, when assets were written
up £65,000 and two new shares issued in
place of each old one, ordinary and pref. :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1923.. £16.450 12* p.c.* - £15,387 £1063 £1,279
1924.. 15,252 10' „ „ 14.083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16.917 10 „ „ 13,000 3917 '6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 „ „ 13,000 3723 10,088
*l4 months.
This was one of the subsidiaries of Arthur
Rickard’s co. But the parent has lost its
control, though Arthur Rickard stays on
as chairman. The parent’s accounts as
at December 31, 1925, showed that the
holding in Hotel Sydney had been re-
duced to 35,000 shares; a few years
ago, just before the co. was re-formed, it;
held all the ordinaries, and all but 1101 of
the 45,000 £1 prefs. However, that doesn’t
mean anything perhaps, except that the
parent co. wanted money for its many
activities. What counts is that share-
holders are interested in a property
which commands steady and, it seems,
growing support, because it is very handy
to the Central Railway Station: casual tra-
vellers who haven’t booked in advance make,
it their first port of call. Also shareholders
can see a nice profit for the 12 months,
despite increased working costs, due to the
44-hour week and the new workers’ compen-
sation. The directors report that the figure
was written in only after ample provision
had been made for depreciation of furnish-
ings and plant, and the “necessary propor-
tion of sinking fund to cover the cost of
building and land” set aside. These, of
course, are matters of the utmost consequence
in connection with hotel finance; and it is
impossible to check the published statement.
During the year substantial additions were
erected. Operations interfered with busi-
ness, and as the new building was not avail-
able until the New Year, no benefit accrued
to the co. for the term just closed. The
additional rooms should add to revenue with-
out increasing overhead.
At December 31 bank overdraft was
£46,023 (up £27,4!)!)) and sundry creditor:-
£m27. More or less liquid assets totalled
£0620. The hotel, furnishings and fittings
were in at £104,724, which may be just, but
is not over-modest —the property was writ-
ten up £65,000 in 1022. The comfortable
margin between profits and distributions in
the past two years and the advantage which
should accrue from the new building make
the outlook bright. The market favors the
stock, and 265. is offering.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which, in
1910, began with a deficit of £2030. repre-
senting preliminary expenses:—
To Reduce
Dec.. Loss. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1916. . £1092 £ll9l
Profit. Reserves.
1917.. 2072 £2072 881
To Reserves.
1918.. 2799 7 p.c. =£2450 349 1230
1919.. 35G1 8 „ „ 2800 761 1991
10-’O.. 4538 10 „ „ 3000 1038 3029
1921.. 4174 8 „ „ 2800 1374 4403
1922.. 4305 8 „ „ 2800 1505 5908
1923.. 6GIB 10 „ „ 3500 3118 9026
1924.. 5892 10 „ „ 3500 2392 11,418
1925.. 6901 10 „ „ 3500 3401 14,819
1926.. 5603 10 ~ „ 3500 2163 16,982
Shareholders received a lone 5 p.c. in the
first eight years. In 1918 the co. began
to pick up, and last year's div. was the
fourth consecutive 10 p.c. A continuance
of that rate seems a reasonable expectation:
original holders certainly deserve something
for the early famine. The. management is
pursuing a conservative policy in the matter
of distributions, but there should be a plum
or two to pick later on. The falling away
in profits was put down to- the burden of
the new Workmen’s Compensation Act and
the 44-hour week, which increased expen-
diture and doubtless influenced the book-
ings by country visitors. The financial posi-
tion improved a trifle :
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities . . £26,075 £27,170 £27,846 £26.997
Liquid assets .. 11,718 10,401 11,474 12,788
Excess liabilities . • £14,357 £16,769 £16,372 £14,209
Buildings, etc. .. 60,133 64,937 67,941 6< ,941
There is a debenture debt of £20,000. Exclud-
ing it, the excess of liquid assets at December
31 amounted to £5993, from which must be
deducted the final div. Extensive improve-
ments were made to the hotel in 1925, and
although the property and fittings appear
unaltered at £67,941, adequate provision is
reported to have been made for wear and
tear. If tlie allowance has been sufficient,
the co. is comfortably placed. But lean
times in the country affect seaside hotels,
and there is wisdom in the £2OOO-odd addi-
tion to reserves. Prospects are bright. Good
wool and wheat cheques are likely to impel
a large number of country cousins city-
wards, and that should help the current year.
* -* * *
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd., hardware
merchants, of Fitzroy (Vic.), who do a big
mail-order business. The present co. paid
£10.937 for goodwill, and spent £1146 on
preliminaries :
Towards
Net r~ Dividends Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£12,083
1923.. £9,913 S p.c. 8 p.c. £6,133 £3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 ~ 11,600 2149 3,020
1926.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8,, 6 „ 8,40 0 21 83 477
The manufacturing side of the business has
been enlarged and that is worth a cheer.
Improvement in trading is credited to that,
and although the increase was not tremendous
—gross profits went from £57.456 to £65,291
—it was sufficient to meet a general increase
in expenditure and leave £2183 for reserves
after prefs. had received 8 p.c. and ordinaries
a modest 6 p.c. Development of manufactur-
ing called for capital expenditure:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities . . £15,741 £31,432 £30,806 £40.449
Freeholds .. 25,933 27,394 27,516 30,149
Plant, etc. . . 13,3 1 3 16,531 17,604 19,508
Stocks.. .. 73.628 ',91,119 86,74 1 83,930
Book debts . . 24,3 0 2 26,58 4 2 6,901 38.686
War Loan, cash, etc. 8,324 2,401 2,594 7L
Liabilities were £9643 heavier, bank over-
draft accounting for £2592 of the increase.
The co. was carrying its customers for
£38,686 at Jan. 14, compared with £26,901
12 months earlier. A sentence in the direc-
tors’ report may explain this: “The fruit-
growing and dairying sections of our country
clients have been faced with a very unre-
munerative season.” Conditions in most
country areas demand that customers' debits
be given careful scrutiny. Not only hay l,
land values been high for some time —whicu
makes the newcomer’s task difficult —but tin-
t.-p. evil has spread to every centre, with fh ■
result that, in addition to the things tli“
farmer needs, he has in many cases tied him-
self up with others which are either not
essential or plain rubbish. In 1925 Chand-
ler’s had to cut prices hard to hold business,
despite their very solid standing. And com-


THE CHOICE OF
INVESTMENTS
HOW TO PICK THEM.
See
“Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
for March.
Available at all principal
Newsagents, or direct from
'The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Price 2/-
We stock -f- GF -|- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
Reasons for the unparalleled success of Pioneer
Wood Pipe in almost any class of water system are
not hard to find. Firstly, it is lighter and more
easily handled than metal piping. Secondly, it costs
less to freight, transport and install. Thirdly, it
cannot rust nor corrode, nor harbor interior growths.
In addition, it is immune fom the effects of electro-
lysis and frost, and its efficiency actually increases
when it is in regular use. For further particulars
write to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yea«s’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buvers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore—and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers— of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia by
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane ; or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be* promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888)', hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
All Rig'ht!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe."'
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
=s*
Ye Jolly Abbot.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
T TNFILTERED WATER
contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
Abbot. The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
ABBOT FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip.
Obtainable at All Stores.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
petition is still keen. However, the position
it the close of the accounts was comfortable,
an d provided the stock was conservatively
taken and book debts closely scrutinised (the
amount is less provision for bad and doubtful
debts), last year’s improvement should be a
foundation for better figures this term. Manu-
facturing should give a handy lift; and the
management has been at the game for half
a century, which should be worth something.
* * * *
North Westralian tin, asbestos and other
mineral deposits are again to be exploited,
this time by a Kalgoorlie syndicate with
Adelaide backing. Hitherto want of water
has prevented the working of fairly large
areas of known tin-bearing ground, but the
crowd hopes to use a dry process. An
expert is also being sent by a Perth crowd
to look at some Pilbara tin deposits which
Calvert, the kid-gloved explorer, gazed at
years ago, but passed by on account of
the outlandishness of the surroundings.
* » * *
“O.B.”: The recent gold find at Parker-
ville, Darling Ranges (W.A.), recalls mem-
ories. Gold was first discovered in the State
in the ’forties near Armadale, which lies
at the foot of the aforesaid ranges, about
IS miles south of Perth and about the same
distance south of Parkerville. The find
proved a dud, but shareholders in the small
syndicate formed to acquire and work it
received a div. out of the sale of the land
on which the gold was found. One of the
principal men in this venture was a grocer
named Habgood, who at that time owned the
Geraldine lead mines, Northampton, and who
was the first in the West to erect a smelter.
* * * *
Poona emerald field (W.A.J, which has
lately made a small stir again, had some
great admirers in the past. In 1912, on
the recommendation of Woodward, then Gov-
ernment Geologist, a small syndicate formed
by J. Pearl, a Perth jeweller, spent £lOOO
in mining emeralds on the very spot where
the Star Co. is now working. Woodward
had great faith in the Poona deposits. He
maintained that it promised to be one of the
world’s best emerald fields, and was well
worth developing. The syndicate got down
50 feet, and obtained thousands of carats
of emeralds, but they were of such poor quality
as to be commercially valueless. However,
two very fine stones were found in a parallel
lode; one was sold to a syndicate for £lOO
and subsequently re-sold to the trade for £l7O.
The other stone, which was broken during
extraction, was declared by London experts
to be a most lustrous gem. The Montana
Syndicate was so impressed with the quality
of these two stones that it sent an expert
to investigate. He reported so favorably
that the Montana syndicate decided to
spend £5OOO in sinking 170 feet to water-
level, as its expert thought that at that
depth the stones would be perfectly trans-
parent and unfractured. Unfortunately, the
war came and put an end to operations. The
Montana. Syndicate was not allowed to send
its capital to Australia, and it was forced to
abandon the project.
* * * #
Jack McDermott, with whom were associ-
ated three well-known London mining men,
lias abandoned his opinion on the Glen-
elg Queen, Glenelg Hills (W.A.), and
the few struggling Adelaide cos. that
took options or acquired surrounding
'iaims in the belief that McDermott and
co. were going to do business are lament-
ing. Like a lot of others, the Queen’s shoot
is wanting in length at depth.
* * * *
Bright Hope, which has tried two or three
times to make a rise in Wesfralia, is now
anxious to have another go there or else-
where. Funds are very low, but the co. is
hopeful of getting an option on something
good enough . to make the forfeited scrip
saleable.
* * * *
Great Boulder tributing parties are break-
ing ore of an average value of £l6 per ton,
while ore broken by the co. is worth about
16s. per ton. There is a great difference
between pig-rooting for small patches of
rich ore and taking the lode in bulk.
* * * *
Someone claims to have discovered the con-
tinuation of the original Bullfinch find
(AY.A.). Found in 1910, the Bullfinch pro-
mised to be a wonder, but a disturbance
at shallow depth spoilt it. Big low-
grade lodes came to the rescue and enabled
the production of bullion to be continued
until about £BOO,OOO worth had been taken
out. Then working costs became too expen-
sive to carry on, and after one or two recon-
structions the Bullfinch co. gave up. Tribute
parties are now in possession.
* * * #
Since the Brilliant Company was advised
not to purchase its mine at Yalgoo (W.A.),
it has expended out of profits, calls and Gov-
ernment advances over £30,000 on the pro-
perty, and divs. are as far off as ever.
Heavy water and a falling ore grade are the
principal causes of failure.
* * * *
Westralian G.oldfields Prospecting Boards
deplore the absence of young men from the
ranks of State-aided searchers for gold. The
fact is that so many have unsuccessfully
roamed the wilderness in recent years that
the business is getting a bad name. Parties
are generally out some months and return
with records of having prospected promising
belts without sighting payable results, of
getting traces of alluvial gold whose source
could not be located, or of passing through
dry auriferous country which could not be
tested for want of water. Little wonder
that the hunters in the West are. now grey-
beards, and that youth is apathetic.
Westralian Copper Separation Co. has
sent someone to London to raise the wind.
In theory its process seemed good. Adelaide
and Melbourne came to the co.’s. financial
rescue a year or two ago, but neither was
inclined to do so again. So the board
decided to try London.
* * * *
Melbourne has acquired Sugarloaf Tin at
Stanthorpe (Q.), from O. T. Lempriere and
A. J. Reid, and other adjacent areas, giving
six miles of creek bed and flats. Duncan
McNab estimates 3,500,000yd5. of 240 z.
ground already proved, on which two sluicing
plants should be operating on April 1, and
two further plants by June 30. McNab esti-
mates 35 tons oxide a month from the four
plants on a double-shift basis.
« * * *
Carpathia (N.S.W.) got 60f tons concen-
trates from 1383 tons for the six months to
January 31, the product realising £10,927
against mining costs of £8022. Drought inter-
fered with working. The net profit of £lBlO
was less than half that of the previous term
—the July figure being £4733, and that at
January last year £2700. However, the co.
had £2325 to bring forward, lifting available
cash to £4135, and thus giving £2601 to
holders by way of a 6d. div. After that
there was £398 to feed the income-tax people
and £2999 to carry forward against £2325
brought in. Paid capital is £45,424, and
there is £8132 at reserve and £18,123 allowed
as reserve for the Ardlethan plant. Assets
show £62,998 allowed for the property and
plant at cost, £6591 on deposit, £4292 as
stocks, and £404 in cash. N. E. Giblin, who
reported on the mine, does not advocate a
main shaft, and is generally favorable to the
outlook of the co. Water troubles shut work
down on February 12.
* # * *
“Sol”: H. I. Jensen’s argument (B.
3/3/’27) is poor consolation to those who
bought Tanami at 45., Antimony at 10s. and
Queensland Tin at 4s. These purchases have
deteriorated almost to waste-paper values
because the goods tabulated in the reports
have not been produced. Queensland Tin
did a heap of scratching about in old work-
ings at Koorboora and Gurrumbah, and
should have done something great had the
prospectus been verified by the stamps —and
now the floods have spoiled the good thing.
Rare Metals Co. last week put up 41,840 for-
feited shares by auction, and nobody bid even
2d. —and this was the third auction in the
co.’s paper. A detailed explanation regarding
Antimony would not be amiss. Sydney-
controlled mining shows have known several
bands of call-paying Stoics, but anaemia sets
in after the patient has been bled month
after month for 6d. a time on big parcels of
paper on which the div. fades further and
further into the distance in unison with the
disappearance of quotations on ’Change.
* * * *
From a Northerner who can draw a de-
tailed map of the place:—
Re tin dredging on the Pascoe River, in North
Queensland (B. 3/2/’27). There is 9ft. on the bar
of the Pascoe at high water; deeper inside, and
navigable for at least four miles up—from which
it is three miles inland to the find of tin made
recently. Across the bay, about 10 miles, at Rocky
Island, there is room for wharfage three miles long
in six fathoms of sheltered water, very easy in and
out. If the Pascoe field is one of the richest of
Queensland’s mineral areas, as is claimed, shipping
would not be lacking once the field was opened up.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan town is half deserted, and a
sale of houses for arrears of rates a few days
ago saw a number sold at £2. The Towers
had the same experience nearly 20 years ago.
There were compensations there, though, for
Cloncurry and the Duchess were doing well,
and hundreds of Towers frame-houses were
pulled down and shipped by rail to the nor’-
west copper-fields, bringing a fair price to
owners. Mt. Morgan’s prospects outside the
big mine are not bright. Agriculture ■ and
dairying are reviving Gympie’s prosperity,
and may do the same for the Towers, but the
Mount has little hope in that direction.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: The biggest consignment
of gold yet received from New Guinea,
14,0000 z., came to Sydney by the Melusia
last week. The fact is being shrieked, and
will probably encourage registration of get-
ricli-quick shows. Sydney and Melbourne
are full of “old hands” —the experience of
some of them would not be understated at
six months. Each one either has an option
to sell or knows another “old hand” in the
pub just round the corner who has.
* * * *
Guinea Gold’s air service from Salainoa
beach to its leases in the Bulolo valley is
expected to open on March 25. Though
much of the native labor has been employed
in clearing the aerodrome and building han-
gars, the Koranga Creek sluicing is yielding
gold freely. But until this and other N.G. con-
cerns give the outside world some idea of
the yardage washed and the cost of the pro-
cess, in addition to the mere number of
ounces won, no serious attention should be
paid to their talk. The aeroplane experi-
ment will be watched with interest, for its
success will mean that the Bulolo’s greatest
drawback, inaccessibility, will have been
more or less overcome. Costs, however,
should be stated.
* * * #
Commonwealth Malaya Tin, one of the
shows which are making preliminary tests of
propositions in the Renong district, Siam, has
received a cabled report of boring on its
property. Twenty-nine bores averaging 39ft.
have shown 12}oz. to the cubic yard. Con-
sidering the depth of ground, there is pro-
mise in those figures, but they yet have to be
confirmed by check boring.
* * * #
Pulo Tin, a Siamese venture which has
so far been blushing shyly in the back-
ground, has furnished a brief progress report.
No. 1 option has been scout-bored, and 80
acres containing 2,500,000 yards—the depth
is only 19 feet —promise 14}0z., though the
number of bores put down for this result
is not stated. If check-boring confirms the
estimate, it is proposed to put on a small
dredge, since the small quantity of ground
to be turned over does not call for a big one.
On No. 2 option seven bores to 16 feet have
averaged lloz. per c. y.
# * * *
Malayan dredges showed an improved re-
turn for the first half of March, and in most
cases suffered no untoward delays. The Larut
combine’s dredges turned over 158,000 yards
for a trifle under lOoz. to the yard. Kam-
pong’s 470 hours’ run gave a nice 17oz. from
a 61,000 cubic yard turnover, while Thabaw-
leik was up to reputation with 12} tons
oxide from 18.000yds. Takuapa won 26 tons
from 65,000yd5. and Ulu Yam 131 tons from
36,000yd5. Rawang’g average from 46,000yd5.
was only a fraction under 160 z., a fine return.
Malim Nawar took only 5 tons from
33,000yd5.; in the same time Malim South’s
new dredge treated 72,000yd5. for 14 tons.
Kundaug’s 7-ton return is a trifle better
than its February run, and the yardage rate
a little higher. Ronpibon, with 12 tons
from 35,000yd5., maintains recent averages,
Kuala Kampar (digging at 52ft. 1, Kuala
Lumpur, Tongkah Compound and Tin Ben-
tong all hovered in the neighborhood of lOoz.
» t • •
Oriomo Oil, which is operating on an area
on the Gulf of Papua, within 100 miles of
Thursday Island, reports that it will de-
spatch to the field next month a 4000 ft. bor-
ing plant built in Queensland, 16,000 ft. of
12in. to sin. casing, a 35ft. launch, tractor,
motor-truck, 10 horses, wireless transmitting
and receiving sets, and various plant and
stores. Most of the stuff is Australian made,
and if energy and determination can make
the venture a success both are present.
* * * •
Malaysian Tin Lands is a Sydney venture
fathered by J. S. Richardson and D. Leslie.
The co. has been considering an option
named Tungsong in Siam, and reports that
boring on the 1200 acres has shown “favor-
able results.” The directors have arranged
with an F.M.S. engineering firm to continue
the boring, and to float a co. to take over
the option “on terms considered to be favor-
able.” Shareholders will receive full details
before long; meantime, the co. is scout-
boring two other areas and has picked up
some further options. Which suggests that
the directorate of Malaysian isn’t infatu-
ated with its original holding. Possibly the
death, some months ago, of R. Barker,' who
was Malaysian’s managing-director in the
East, has been responsible for the change
of policy.
* * * *
Sumatra Concessions, a Sydney flotation,
which acquired options over some alleged
tin areas in Sumatra, took the knock last
week, shares which, a month ago, were
bringing up to 245. going friendless at 6d.
This followed on a report from Alluvial Tin,
whose field staff had been engaged to test
the options. Alluvial Tin’s report is not final,
but the Sumatra directorate has announced
that it is “most unsatisfactory.” Two of
the directors recently returned from a trip
up that way, and spoke of having acquired
further options and of forming another co.
Such announcements are often the precursors
of the serious illness of the original show.
The whole incident is a vivid illustration of
the tendency to “bet on the blind” which is
characteristic of the Malayan tin section of
the market.
* * * *
Asam Kumbang has had another attack
of boiler trouble; this time the dredge will
be hung up until mid-April, while a boiler
of new design is being installed. Running
only 186 hours, the dredge turned over 27,000
yards for 18} tons oxide. This is at
least better than for the corresponding
period last month, when 45,000 yards went
through for 10} tons.
*~* * •
“Geo. Physical”:—
H. W. Gepp, Director of Markets and Migration,
has told the press “I am convinced the practice of
geo-physical methods of finding minerals, oil, coal
and water will be of tremendous benefit to Australia,
because I believe we have oil here.” Loud and
prolonged applause, in which the writer joins ultra-
enthusiastically. What are these new methods of
using delicate physical apparatus to locate minerals
and metals underground? There are three methods —-
electrical, magnetic and gravitational. The torsion
balance for locating mineral and oil deposits has
been used for some time and the Eotvos balance has
been employed extensively in U.S.A., South America
and Mexico. One oil co. in Texas located oil by a
torsion balance at 4000 feet. Another process uses the
seismic method by which acoustic waves produced
by an explosion in the surface soil show, by their
rate of travel, the character of the rocks through
which they have passed. According to an article
in a technical petroleum magazine as many as a
dozen hidden salt domes have been discovered recently
by these two methods in Texas and Louisiana. Two
of these domes, the Orchard and the Nash, in Texas,
are producing oil. The torsion balance and the mag-
netic methods have been fairly successful in locat-
ing metallic ore deposits and in indicating natural
gas and oil-bearing beds near Hanover and else-
where in Germany. The use of electrical machinery
is becoming fashionable in Europe, and there are
half a dozen electrical prospecting processes which
differ from one another, chiefly in instrumental
variations. The best known of these electrical
methods is the “Elbof,” of which Australia is certain
to hear a good deal very soon. The sending part
of the process sends a current of electricity into the
earth, while the receiving part takes up and registers
the indications at a point more or less distant.
Through a telephone the direction of the magnetic
force lines is indicated and, these being established,
the results are transferred to a surface map. The
maps of oil areas and ore deposits on which the
observations have been plotted show the underground
deposits in outline in quite a remarkable way. The
Australian invention, the Fraser wireless ore finder,
has not received the attention which it deserves.




you consider Quality -
you must ask tot
/orVb
Three Threes
ARDATH TOBACCO CO* LTD-. LONDON.
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Senojo” : For over a year Melbourne sub-
urbanites have suffered at the hands of a
hpdge-burner as troublesome and elusive as
a dingo. The other day Mrs. Ilawksburn-
Heights saw a man crawling under her
hedge and holding a lighted match. Blie
gave the alarm; the liead-gardener led the sub-
sequent attack across the lawn, and got in
some good work with the rake while the
intruder was still on his knees. Without
waiting for explanations the victim scaled the
fence and disappeared; but what sort of a
bill for damages the Hawksburn-Heights
household will get remains to be seen. The
suspected incendiary turns out to have been
a Water Board meter-reader.
“Sucre” : We had a Japanese houseboy at
Cairns, a quick, neat worker, and, like all his
race, almost extravagantly polite, bowing on
the slightest pretext. Ushida, he called him-
self ; beyond that we knew T nothing of him.
It was my wife’s “at home” day, and after
the Jap's deft and attentive work had won
evident admiration one of the lady visitors
was moved to express wonder where lie got
his training. “Ushida,” said the hostess,
“what you do before you come to me?" He
bowed several times to the gathering and
smiled ingratiatingly. “Me keep bad house
Thursday Island,” he replied with simple
directness, though “bad” wasn’t actually the
word he used.
* * * *
“Allocatur”: The special magistrate in
S.A., though hardly entitled to the compli-
ment, is accustomed to be called “Your
Honor” by the Bar. Some of them have
grown to expect it, which enabled a sarcastic
lawyer to get in a withering retort the other
day. A “special” with a large sense of his
own dignity was sitting with two ordinary
J’s.P. on a collision case, and counsel per-
sisted in addressing the Court as “Gentle-
men.” The pompous old beak stopped him
at last with: “Mr. Brief, I will not have you
addressing this Court as ‘gentlemen’: we are
not a jury.” “Well, sir,” drawled Brief, “I
was under the impression that at least the
two justices sitting with you were gentle-
men.” -
“Camelero” : We
were down from
Palestine on seven
days’ leave, and
while the Light
Horse corporal and
I sat in a iCairo
cafe and argued
about the tracking
abilities of Austra-
lian aborigines we
noticed a w e 11-
dressed Arab at an
adjoining table
wh o seemed in-
tensely interested
in our conversa-
tion. Presently he
rose to go, and the
Fren e li barman
crossed over and,
nodding at the de-
parting Arab, said,
“Ha, he the great
interest take in
your talk about
the Australian
tracker.” “Who is
he?” I asked.
“Why, don’t you
know ?” said the
Frenc h m a n.
“That's II ami d.
the great tracker
of the Brit is h
Secret Service in
Egypt." Later on
1 heard much more
about this quiet,
unassuming, black-
bearded man with
the deep-set, black
eyes. He was called
tiie Sherlock of
Egypt, and lie was
gifted with an un-
canny knack of
following tracks ; in
fact, he was often
employed by the
police when all
other trackers had
failed. When the
war ended I be-
lieve he received a
British decoration,
and probably lie is
still in the land of
the Phara oh s
sleuthing the cri-
minals who have
always feared him
more than anyone
else in Egypt.
“Dinkum”: “Echoe” takes “Crojack” to
task for mis-statements re the wreck of the
Quetta, and falls into some further errors.
Here are the facts. The Quetta came
to grief on an uncharted rock near
Mt. Adolphus, not far from Thursday Island,
at 1) p.m. on February 28. 1890. She had
293 people on board, of whom 158 were
saved. At dawn, blacks on a near-by island
saw wreckage, and informed the officer in
charge of the telegraph-station at Point Peak.
When the news reached Thursday Island, the
yachts Merrie England and Albatross were
at once despatched to the scene. Miss Lacey
•was picked up on the Sunday morning at
eight o’clock, as was Miss Nicklin a few
QUITE A DUD.
MAY: “Here's George coming, darling! How are matters progressing between you two?”
FAY: “Oh, rotten! Before I invited him over to the bungalow last night I fused the
lights. And would you believe it, the chump spent the whole evening mending
them !”
hours earlier. A pathetic incident was the
survival of a little girl of three, named Cope-
land. Iler mother, her father and five
brothers and sisters all perished. Bhe
was subsequently adopted by Mr. and Mrs.
Brown, who kept a store on the island where
a passenger and some Javanese struggled
ashore with her. Nearly all the survivors
were found upon adjacent islands. Several
had swum ashore and many had managed
to escape in the boats. A monument in the
shape of a church has been erected at Thurs-
day Island in memory of those who were lost.
Jf * -x- *
“Robin II.” : The Y Emma fairly earned
its reputation for caution during the war. It
was while I was in a convalescent camp in
Malta, waiting to be shipped to Blighty, that
an uncle of mine (God bless him!) sent me
a fiver. With visions of poached eggs on
toast, I took my two cobbers for supper to
the Y.M.C.A. canteen. After watching less
favored mortals giving the orders, and pay-
ing their scores with small coins—sometimes
even with postage-stamps —I stated my
requirements and tendered my fiver to the
cashier with the air of a plutocrat. This
official, after recovering himself from the
shock of seeing so much currency in one
piece, hurried away to consult a higher func-
tionary. lie returned presently with the
depressing information that they didn’t know
the current rate of exchange and so wouldn’t
smash the paper. They refused to give us
credit even on the strength of my possession
of so much wealth, and. after some futile
argument, the three of us had to go supper less
to bed. We couldn’t very well swim to
Salonika.
“Wang”: An amazing variety of articles
finds its way in the garbage-collecting carts
to the municipal incinerators. The stokers
at our local destructor keep themselves well
supplied with cutlery, hundreds of knives,
forks and spoons being picked out of the
refuse in the course of a year. Clocks in
dozens, many of them still ticking, are sal-
vaged, and parlor ornaments galore. The
sale of the bottles and clothing—the latter
often in good repair—further augments the
stokers’ wages greatly. Now and again a
frenzied call is received ,beseeching that a
search may be made for a bit of jewellery
that is thought to have gone into the refuse-
bin. The other day it was a £5O diamond
ring, and it looked a million to one against
it being retrieved. But the long-shot came
off; one of the stokers, driving a huge, three-
pronged rake into a heap of garbage, pulled
it out to find the missing article jambed
tight on one of the prongs. He is not a bit
elated about his luck, for his only reward
was the price of two drinks. Sometimes an
agitated SOS goes out for a set of false teeth.
It is no uncommon thing for the stokers
to come across stuffed household pets and
trophies of the chase, but the presumption is
that those have been jettisoned purposely,
tlie owners being tired of waging war against
silverfish and moths.
* * * *
“Oxmead": Touching that “lost sense of
proportion'’ so often noticeable when iires
are raging (B. 10/3/’27). In the early days
of Coolgardie. when the lack of water made
the smallest blaze a menace to the whole
settlement, a Bayley-street tenement took fire
soon after sunset. Hundreds of strenuous
citizens were on the scene in no time, and
having satisfied themselves that there was no
hope of saving the building, turned their
attention to checking the fire from spread-
ing. There was a hotel next door with a
wooden balcony, which the flames were
already seen to be licking at, and a call went
up for volunteers to hew down the inflam-
mable structure. Axes were procured hur-
riedly from a near-by store, and the wreck-
ers were soon surging into the pub and up
the stairs on their laudable mission. A local
medico, one of the most public-spirited men
I ever met, led the rush, full of fierce enthu-
siasm, and got to work without any loss of
time. It was not till the doctor had cut
down two ornamental pines, planted in tubs,
and was making a frenzied onslaught on a
third that somebody asked him what the
devil he thought he was doing.
* * * *
“Mat”: “Yairs,” said Bill reflectively, as
we sat yarning by the camp-fire, “I’ve seen
some funny things in me time. Onct as I was
writin’ a letter and throwin’ me arms about
in wot some' cove calls the agernies uv com-
persition, I knocked a stamp orf the table.
1 stoops down to pick it up, and the damn
thing careers acrost the floor, runs up the
wall on to the ceiling, an’ then drops ’arf
way between the ceilin’ an’ the floor. I
calls in the missus, and between us we man-
ages to kill it.” Somebody remarked that a
chap ought to knock off the drink before it
brought him to this stage. “It wasn’t that.”
said Bill simply. “Y’see, w’en the stamp fell
it stuck on the back of a spider.”
****
“S.N.R.”: Faith-healing, scoffed at or
otherwise, had little to do with the recovery
of “Tamornie’s” Kanaka from pneumonia (B.
10/3/’27). Evidently the boy had the
“crisis” typical of the disease, which, peculi-
arly enough, occurs on an odd day, usually
from the 7th to the 11th. From being at the
point of death a patient can become practi-
cally normal —though weak—in 48 hours. I
don’t doubt that no European doctor could
have done anything for the patient, but it is
equally true that not even a New Guinea
sorcerer can arrest the course of pneumonia.
THE PREFECT "LINE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The London Daily Mail says that, the new
fashions for men include a lounge suit on the lines
of those being worn by the Prince of Wales —a
single-breasted, two-button jacket, with broad lapels
that roll along.”
Find for me no furry pelt,
Loved of millionaires and actors;
Furnish for my figure svelte
(Fat it may be to detractors)
No alarming garb nor gracious
Singling me from out the throng.
But, with longing pertinacious,
These I want —they sound so spacious—
Broad lapels that roll along!
Seek for me no nifty hats,
Sei'f I never was of fashion;
Cold I am to gloves and spats ;
Ties with me were ne’er a passion.
Yet I own I find inspiring
To the fond extreme of song,
Thought of these, my fancy firing ;
Lord, I spend my days desiring
Broad lapels that roll along !
“Souls of poets, dead and gone,”
Masters of all tripping metre,
Magic phrases have ye known—-
Found ye ever line that’s feater?
FIRST STOP—EDEN.
“Go away, man—I don't know you from Adam!”
“And I can't tell you from Ere, so we're all set, ain't we?”
Souls of tailors, heaven-haunting,
Do ye feel (or am I wrong?)
E’en celestial blisses daunting
To have missed these stately, flaunting,
Broad lapels that roll along?
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


“Ming”: The tendency of newly-caught
trout to disappear in M.L. (B. 10/3/’27)
reminds me of Binks’s kingfish. It w r ciglied
in as the record for the Bay of Islands
(M.L.) that year, and Binks lobbed off to
the hotel to shout for the crowd,
leaving his catch on the wharf.
When he returned with his
retinue, the big fish w 7 as miss-
ing. Some bystanders reported
that the Maoris had taken it,
-while others maintained that
scouts from one of the accom-
modation houses had been seen
staggering home with their
prize. Binks behaved like a
lioness robbed of her cubs. He
invaded the Maori settlement
and made a systematic exami-
nation of the cottages without
success, after which wo trailed
round the boarding-houses in
turn. In none of them was
kingfisli on the menu, and the
cavalcade, consisting of sundry
Maoris, disengaged townfolk and
stray dogs, was beginning to
melt away when Binks paused.
“That’s it,” said he, sniffing
professionally, “that’s kingfish
cooking.” Thereupon, he dashed
frantically into a small estab-
lishment which received a few
select paying guests, and sought
the kitchen. His suspicions
were verified. Large slabs of
kingfish lay upon the kitchen
table, while outside the family
cat toyed with a head. The
landlady arrived in a femon-
strative mood, but the belli-
gerent attitude of Binks, to say
nothing of his motley following,
made her pause uncertainly.
Her excuses that her scouts
thought it an abandoned king-
fish were waved aside, and,
selecting a few friends, Binks
announced that we would dine
in her abode. When the time
for settlement arrived there was
renewed tension, Binks, main-
taining that he had supplied the
dinner, hotly contesting the bill.
It ended in a compromise, one
condition being that Binks
should carry off all the fish that
hadn’t been cooked. A less per-
tinacious person than Binks
would never have seen a flake
of his catch again.
* * *
“Malaise”: The Yankee pro-
hibitionist, alarmed by the num-
ber of deaths from denatured
alcohol, is substituting aldehol
for pyridine, the denaturing
substance which has proved so
deadly. Aldehol is described as
“burnt kerosene oil” and its
taste as nauseating. Still, any-
one with the nerve to try to
keep one down will run no risk
of poisoning, whatever else may
happen. It is a dreary prospect
for the American drinker, but
there is a ray of light in his
darkness. The leading chemists
and scientists of the bootlegging
wbrld have been mobilised and
set to work at the task of find-
ing a way to get the dreadful
taste out of the new 7 decoction.
They did this with pyridine, but
couldn’t eliminate the poisonous
properties. As an example of
the determination of the com-
munity to have a spot at all
costs, and as an illustration of
the blessings of prohibition, the
item has an interest of its own.
“Machete” : A quaint variant
of the “frog in the rock” story
is told in Melbourne. While
the steamer Mangola was being
overhauled in dry dock, a fair-
sized “cray” was discovered,
alive aiul kicking, in the con-
denser pump. The drunk’s vade
mecum was in a chamber about
a foot square, between the per-
forated “inlet plate” in the
ship’s skin and the suction-
valve of the pump. Tin;
holes in the plate are only big enough to
admit a lead-pencil, and the Cray’s size made
it impossible that it could have arrived by
that route, save as a very youthful infant.
Naturalists gave the stowaway’s age as at
least 12 months, so he must have had a fair
spell in the pump chamber. What he lived
and grew 7 on remains the biggest mystery
of all.
* * # «
“Feng-Shui”: Some progress in the eman-
cipation of woman is reported from Afghani-
stan. In that backward land the Afridi mar-
riage law has hitherto provided that a man
r.-r.y obtain a divorce by merely stating his
wish three times —under the circumstances
not a very exacting process. This law is
to be repealed; likewise the one which ruled
that a widow automatically became the pro-
perty of her late husband’s brother. Now
she can demand the alternative of being
sold by auction. The first case under the
new dispensation concerned the German
widow of an Afghan. Her brother-in-law
duly claimed her, but she appealed to be
dealt with under the new law. The appeal
was upheld and she duly came under the
hammer. The German consul was the highest
bidder, and the lady’s experiment in mixing
the East and West ended in a trip home at
her Government’s expense.
Referring to the Brisbane woman who,
after keeping disorderly houses, sought to be
taken back to the iChurch; Archbishop Buhig
thinks The Bulletin has not yet made it
clear that money did not enter into the
matter at all. The Brisbane paper from
which our correspondent quoted mentioned,
that a large sum of money had been proffered
to the Church. Actually, and as a later
Bulletin correspondent pointed out, no such
gift was offered; and on this point the Bris-
bane paper was completely misinformed. It
has, therefore, offered its ample apologies
to the Archbishop; and The Bulletin joins
in those apologies ungrudgingly.
“Nakhoda”: Apropos the theory that
philately is a disease and its victims not
answerable to ordinary moral standards.
When racing for a train the other day I
dropped a foreign newspaper still in its
wrapper in the middle of a crossing. Look-
ing back I saw a well-dressed elderly gent.
THE SPOILSPORT.
“The 44-hour week having been secured, there is a strong feeling among a section of trade unionists in Sydney
that piecework, with its higher pay for the more competent workmen, might now be introduced without danger
to the working class.”
MRS. GOSLOW: “Urgh! You two think if you could get together you’d both he happy, don’t you?
Well, you’ll have to get rid of me first.”
pick it up and, after glancing at it, dash off
into the crowd. Next day I found my nro-
perty in my office letter-box. The stamp, of
almost negligible value, had been neatly
removed.
* * * *
“Emel” : I once helped to engineer an arti-
ficial increase in the business of a country
post office (B. 3/3/’27). The lady whom
I sought to help was a neighboring teacher
in Vic., who also acted as postmistress. She
told me that a count of letters handled by
her office was to be made during the ensuing
month, and, as the mail there was usually
light, she feared a reduction in salary. Hit-
ting on what I thought was a brilliant
scheme, I inserted a fetching matrimonial
ad. in a Melbourne daily, stipulating that all
replies were to be directed to her post office.
She wasn’t as grateful as she might have
been, declaring that people would think she
was the advertiser, but I had the satisfac-
tion of reflecting that the batch of replies
I received, though they were barren of mat-
rimonial results, were written in a good
cause.
“Ngaboni”: The mine official instanced by
“A.H.A.” (B. 10/3/’27) is not the only Aus-
tralian who treasures a physiological souvenir
of royalty. When H.R.H. dined on the Aus-
tralia at Melbourne he spiked a finger with
a bone from a quail. The ensanguined nap-
kin was rescued from desecration at the
laundry by a relic-hunting steward and no
doubt will be handed down as an heirloom.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The champion cypher of the
war was discovered by a Canadian officer.
His division was receiving many sanguinary
proofs that the German was getting in on
’phone conversations. Owing to the use
by both sides of the super-sensitive audion
detector of wireless, it was impossible to keep
’phone conversations (which are a series of
electrical impulses) secret. Then the Can-
adian discovered that he had two Choctaw
Indians in his company. Thereafter the
movements of that company were arranged
in the Choctaw tongue, and the pair spent
the “duration” tied to wires. To the end
this plain language cypher remained invin-
cible.
**■■*■*
“J.D.0.”: I grow weary of reading that
some member of Parliament made such and
such a statement “on the floor of the House.”
If a legislator were to climb on the table, or
to hook an arm round a gas-bracket and
deliver an impassioned oration therefrom,
or to hang by his toes from the rail of the
visitors’ gallery while driving home an argu-
ment, doubtless his position might be worthy
of comment. But when he speaks his piece
in the normal attitude, why stress the fact
that he stands “on the floor,” instead of the
roof or the window-sill? To some of us
who infest the outside edge of things and
whose literature consists mainly of sheep-
dip circulars and the labels on jam-tins and
pickle-bottles, the statement that a speech
was made “in the House” seems to be quite
sufficient.
* * * *
"Senojo”: An old-stager in the Solomon
group showed me a way to cure Brown
Brother of fatalism. When Spuds, his
launch-boy, planked himself down on the
verandah and announced, “Snakis (snake)
come down along me he say soon Spuds die-
finish.” we tried to laugh him out of it. But
he refused to move or eat and grew so weak
that his prediction looked liked being realised
at any moment. All tricks of sorcery and
suggestion having failed, the boss decided,
launch-boys being hard to replace, to ignore
labor regulations and try the lash. Three
or four strokes galvanised Spuds into activ-
ity, and presently he was tearing around the
plantation with the whip snapping at his heels
and his obsession forgotten. He was forced
to eat and then given a job and kept at it.
With the whip always in sight he soon forgot
the “snakis,” and later he made no scruple
about thanking the boss for “taking whip
along that fellah devil-devil, chasem away
altogether!”
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : There is a battered telegraph-
post on the Beach-road at Sandringham
(Yic.) which has earned locally the name of
the “tribulation pole.” It is debited with
having, directly or indirectly, killed four
people and caused 130 accidents in the last
12 months. It notched 14 casualties in its
worst week. Motorists come on it suddenly,
and, in trying to avoid it, usually skid in the
sand. Its baleful power appears to be partly
psychological; lots of speedsters have hit it
in broad daylight.
* * * *
“M.G.W.” : I still retain plea-
sant memories of some of the
Jay Peas of a generation ago.
In the Speck I was called as a
witness when a Port Arthur
carrier had summoned another
for assault. The case was
heard before three local justices
of the peace in an abandoned
apple-shed. After listening to
all the evidence, the Court
solemnly fined the prosecutor —
not the defendant —ten shillings,
with seven and six costs. The
money was handed over without
demur. It was no coincidence that
I reached the local hotel direct-
ly after the three dispensers of
justice, for I had been follow-
ing them a few yards behind.
Bung was a Scotchman, and
when the three half-crowns had
melted, together with one I had
put in the crucible with a good-
humored growl about a witness
having to pay his own expenses,
he cleared his throat and winked
at me. He eulogised the ver-
dict as being 100 per cent, jus-
tice, but he darkly questioned
the wisdom of swelling the Tas-
manian treasury with the fine.
Better send it after the costs
and save all pother, was his
advice. And they did.
** * *
“Der Jong”: The savage
attack by Dutch Nationalists on
Australia in the South African
Parliament will surprise no
one who knows the old-time type
of Boer. In the days of the
South African war,, the writer,
as a mounted policeman, found
many a puzzled old Dopper at
a loss to understand why on
earth Australia was butting
into England’s quarrel, and all
explanations were futile. The
British Afrikander also develop-
ed an acute dislike to Austra-
lians towards the end of the
war, and this was also evident
among a section of the British
Army, base wallahs in particu-
lar. Military jealousy was at
the bottom of it, and bad be-
havior in the towns by some of
the last-recruited Australian
regiments gave the detractors a
-point d’appui. A manifestation
occurred after the war, when
the writer was holding down a
staff job at Pretoria. One morn-
ing a notice was posted at the
P.O. “No mail,” it read, "will
be delivered to Australians from
this post-office in future. They
are requested to call for their
letters at the Tronk.” The
notice was unofficial, of course,
but the fact that the PAI.
allowed it to remain after post-
ing led to representations that
earned him an interview with
•K. of K.”
* » *
“Virginia Lee”: Re that
touching faith in chemists (B.
3/3/’27), I know of one woman
who lias lost it. A young
apprentice undertook to remove
a wart from her little girl s
finger. He must have used a
very powerful acid, for after
the wart had disappeared the
bone beneath was found to be
affected. A specialist has since
found it necessary to amputate
the child’s finger.
“Tonne” • Bgohe-de-mer Eng-
lish (B. 10/3/’27) is such a
common medium ot communica-
tion in German New Guinea
that one may often hear it em-
ployed between Europeans at
different nationalities. I re-
member once giving a German
missionary patient a quinine
cocktail, remarking that it was
“plenty fella sour too much!” He replied
“Maski. I kai-kai apfel behind! (no
matter —I'll chew an apple afterwards.)
Many people confuse beche-de-mer with "pid-
gin,” which is true go-down Chinese. In over
four years’ residence I heard only one speci-
men of “pidgin” and that was when I routed
on my Chinese cook for squabbling with a
house-boy. He excused himself mournfully •
“Spose lie no bobblee he, me no bobblee my •
no can do!” Translated into Johnsonese this
would run: “Had this individual not
originated the disturbance, I could not pos-
sibly have participated in it, such conduct
being wholly foreign to my disposition.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Sixty-two years ago the Rohe-
wood Hotel was erected at Ballarat. I* l '
men engaged on the job indited a short mes-
sage, signed it, and, putting it in a lemonade-
bottle, buried it in the foundations. 1“
other day the old hostelry was demolish?,
and the message received by a new gener..
tion of workers. One of the signn to re-
inscribed himself “C. W. Stanbrook. J u •
He is still living in the vicinity at 7b.
THE DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The days flash past; why must I be bereft of them,
So precious 1 would stay the world and hold it in
mid-flight ?
They speed so fast, the few that still are left of
them,
And oh, I dread to think on the dull ending of
delight—
While yet the sun is shining, must we race toward
the night?
The days drag by; O God, the weary length of them,
So worthless I could wish the world a meteor
career 1
My drab prayers die, fled is the faith and strength
of them
Since lonely you have left me to my dreaming,
deal’, my dear—
And slow, so slow, in coming is the night I
wish were here.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


'SJ,
YOU. may have smoked ordinary
Cigarettes for years, but that
is no reason why you shouldn’t start
now and smoke better ones —
exactly, Kensitas.
20forl|6
50 for 3/9
100 for 7/6
Kensitas
—the better ciqarette
.T. WIN & SONS. LTD., PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l.
sou
*. I
“Topee”: Beyond doubt the old Victoria
Barracks (Sydney) guardroom, now threat-
end with demolition (B. 10/3/’27), has some
indelible associations. Thirty or more years
ago I often watched sozzled gunners leaning
against the gate o’ nights, or pulling them-
selves together so as to be able to pass the
guard without remark. On one occasion a
blithered gunner drove through with a smart
Abbot buggy and pair, and. having come to
a halt round tbe corner of the guardroom,
surrendered himself as five days a.w.l. He
couldn’t account for the buggy, and orderlies
were sent to the various police-stations to
report the matter. The owner, when located,
proved to be a good sport, who personally
interceded with the adjutant for the culprit.
A more stirring incident was when a
demented civilian rushed into the guardroom,
shot the corporal in the leg, turned out the
guard, in a literal sense, and barricaded him-
self in. An interested crowd watched with-
out, while the fire-hose was played vigorously
through a broken window; it was two hours
before the intruder was washed into the arms
of the police waiting to take him to the
Reception House.
“Geoloin”: I, too, know a husband whose
attempt to impress on his wife the danger of
carrying money carelessly had an unexpected
ending (B. 24/2/’27). He had sold a quan-
tity of furniture at an auction mart; the
lady, who was accustomed to act as treasurer,
placed the proceeds, some £l5, in her hand-
bag, hung it on her arm, and joined the
crowd listening to the auctioneer. Hubby
A PARTING SHOT.
MISTRESS: “Have you polished all the brassware?”
MAID (who has keen given a week’s notice): “Everything
except your jewellery, Ma’am.”
noticed that the bag was wide open, and,
furtively abstracting the little wad of notes,
transferred it to his coat pocket, intending
to deliver a lecture later on. On their
way home the lady discovered her loss, and
broke into lamentations. This was hubby’s
cue, but on putting his hand into his pocket
to produce the notes, he was dumbfounded
to find that someone had run the rule over
him. Naturally, he elected to remain silent,
and the lady was agreeably surprised to find
that he refrained from scolding. Later lie
confided the story to me in strict confidence.
“Your luck was right out that day, bam,
I commented sympathetically. “No, not right
out,” he corrected. “Wasn't it a bit of
luck for me that I felt for tlic notes before
I started to talk?” * #
“Camelero” : The story of the Digger who
took £5O in gold from a dead Senussi at
Mersa Matruh (Upper Egypt), and found the
body in a perfect state of preservation (B.
fl/3/’27), leaves me sceptical. I was one of
those who went treasure-seeking amongst the
slain Senussi lying in shallow graves at
Christmas Hill, and I found the atmospheric
surroundings much the same as that at Choco-
late Hill (Anzac) in August, ’l5, when 2000
dead British and Turkish troops had beep
lying unburied for a fortnight. Still, if
“Baomata’s” Digger did strike such a prize.
I trust he was luckier with it than I was
with tbe modest five sovereigns that I secured.
I lost tlie damn lot at two-up soon after we
returned to Mersa Matruh.
TO THE POINT.
CLAUDE: “You know I would go through anything for you.”
MAUDE: “How much have you got to go through, dear?”
“Pat Bushie” : Phe witness was not easy
to trip, and Costs grew testy. At last he
rapped out, “Do you expect me to believe
what you have said?” “I don’t care,”
replied the witness negligently, “so long as
his Worship does.”
* * * *
“Dor Jong” : The new South African cus-
tom, when a diamond- or gold-field has been
located and proclaimed, is to line all intend-
ing claim-applicants up, some miles away,
and start the lot on the run for the new
ground at a given signal.
Conveyances were at first
permitted, but the bike- and
motor-rider and the horse-
man scored too heavily, so
everybody must -now travel
by boot. As agents are per-
mitted to stake claims for
employers, the services of
noted “peds.” have been in
exceptional demand. The 1
latest phase, if one may be-
lieve the cable, was the
special importation by an
enterprising syndicate of
four Australian professional
runners for the Grasfontein
rush, the step being taken in
consequence of some of the
local talent refusing to
accept £10(10 offers to peg
claims. If these hurry-
scurries should become more
frequent, the sub-continent
will have a new attraction
for gentry with a turn for
speed. The writer has known
quite a number of Sydney
peds who would peg out
Hades for £lOOO.
“Trevdee”: Melbourne is
suffering from an epidemic
of mock-modesty. The head
of a business firm recently
prohibited girl employees
from wear i n g sleeveless
frocks; most clerical work-
ers are refused permission
to toil in their shirt-sleeves;
and only neck-to-knee cos-
tumes are in order on the
beaches. The craze has even
extended to the stock sale-
yards. On hot days some of
the drovers were accus-
tomed to dispense with shirts and work
in their singlets, but the fiat has gone
forth that this must cease, because women
are occasionally present. It seems only a
step to the draping of public statues.
* * * *
“Finn” : The wonders of wireless are not
yet exhausted. A middle-aged lady of my
acouaintance who, two years ago. had dull,
iron-grey hair, now displays a glossy-black
shingle. “Listening-in did that,” she said in
answer to my stare of surprise. “And did
it make Mr. Brown’s hair go black too?” I
asked, remembering his sandy-grey neck-
fringe. “Oh, Jim doesn’t care about wire-
less —he’d rather read. But since I told him
it might cure his baldness I’ve often found
him with the headphones on, and, do you
know, I believe it’s doing him quite a lot
of good.” Now, can I do any business in
wireless-sets? Warranted to banish Dad’s
baldness and Mum’s greyness, but not, until
the fashion changes, to stimulate the growth
of Sheila’s shingle!
* * * *
“N. 5. West” : The Diggers never withheld
their admiration for a liard-doer. The skipper
of the troopship Ascanius early in 1919 was
an ex-Naval man of vast tonnage and much
gold lace and ribbon, thoroughly aware of
liis own importance and dignity. Early
in the piece he fell foul of some troops, and
relations became so strained that he was fre-
quently “counted out” when he appeared on
deck. Entering Sydney Harbor, however, he
had a brush per megaphone with the pilot,
who had somehow crossed his bow, and the
solid flow of invective that emitted from the
bridge completely won over the troops, who
thoroughly enjoyed the interlude. Finally
they gave the “old man” three cheers. Like
Kipling’s Goliglitly, they reckoned he had
“swore won’erfull.”
* * * *
“Wang”: In 1579 an estimable citizen
named Samuel Willis—still alive at close on
90—was Mayor of Praliran (Vie.), and to
commemorate the occasion presented every
youngster in the municipality with a medal
bearing the inscription “Samuel Willis,
Mayor, 1879.” The other night Brand Willis,
a son of Samuel, sent his son, a boy of 12,
to buy an evening paper. The youngster duly
returned later with the sheet and a battered-
looking halfpenny in change, which he was
permitted to Keep. In the act of stowing
it amongst his marbles, he caught sight of
some unusual markings on the coin. He
polished it up and found that the alleged
currency was one of the medals that had
been handed out by his grandfather 48 years
ago.
* * * *
“Imbaga” : The discovery of a stone bowl
on the New Guinea mountain goldfield has
led to renewed theorising on the one-time
existence of a more cultured race than the
present inhabitants of New Guinea. Years
ago quite a brisk controversy raged over the
same question, when C. A. W. Monckton
tumbled on some heaps of shard and shell
near the sea in Collingwood Bay, between
Samarai and Cape Nelson. The pottery frag-
ments were better stuff than the local pro-
duct, and since the heaps were obviously
what the archaeologist calls “kitchen mid-
dens,” it was suggested that the place was
a port of call for Malay navigators who
feasted on the abundant shell-fisli of the
reefs. But other antiquaries immediately
butted in to point out that very similar pot-
tery was .made in the much more cultured
island groups to the east and south, such as
the Trobriands and some of the Louisadcs,
the inhabitants of which traded in their great
sailing canoes up and down the s.-e. coast,
of Papua long before the white man estab-
lished himself. Some special fra grants
triumphantly produced by school A were
declared to be European in origin by school
B, and probably relics of some long-forgotten
wreck.
* * * *
“Crojack” : Some of these old-time steam-
ers die hard, even after they have been con-
demned as unseaworthy. When the Pateena
was in the Picton-Wellington ferry run.
deputations waited on the Union Company's
officials more than once to suggest that she
was too old to be safe. In due time she
was retired, and after she had been stripped
of her valuable fittings it was arranged to
sink her inside Otago Heads, to lengthen
the breakwater there. Holes had been ent
in her plates and blocked with wood, so
arranged that at the knocking away of the
“toms” the seawater would rush in. Con-
trary to anticipation, however, the Pateena still
floated serenely. Thereupon the tugmaster
was directed to ram her. The tug rushed
at her, and there was a dull thud, but the
only result was to shift the tug's boiler six
inches. Not till 900 tons of water had been
, pumped into her did the Pateena give up the
! ghost.
; “Dum Spiro” : The old Wakatere, last of
I the passenger paddle-steamers of Maori-
I land, has gone the way of all her kind, and
is now one of the old hulks in Auckland
Harbor’s Rotting Row. She was built to
■ rush the miners from Auckland to Thames
during the great gold rush, and took just on
five hours for the run. And they haven’t cue
I so very much off the old paddler’s time, for the
Rangitoto, which has replaced her, although
of the latest pattern, rarely does the trip
under three hours.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: If swords are no longer
beaten into ploughshares, other implements
of warfare may be. Joe Blank, a Digger
friend of mine, took part in the offensive
of August, 1918, when Fritz was driven
back and back, the A.I.F. capturing many
field guns and other war material. Joe
Blank’s unit, the 58th Battalion, played its
part. Following his return to Australia,
Joe abandoned his former clerical job for
an outdoor life, and presently applied for and
was granted a block of virgin land in the
Malice. Meanwhile the war trophies of the
A.I.F. had been brought to Australia and
housed in the Exhibition Buildings at Mel-
bourne to become part of the Australian
War Museum. A fire took place and dam-
aged several of the captured German field-
gun limbers, making them useless for exhibi-
tion purposes. So they were sold to an agri-
cultural-implement manufacturer, who used
the wheel-rims, excellent steel, to make culti-
DAD HOPPED IN, TOO.
BEST-BOY : “I’m afraid if I don’t, go noon
your father will kick me out."
TTHE GIRL: “Oh, don’t worry! He took the
loan of your car just after you came,
and he isn’t home yet.”
vator frames. One of these cultivators .Toe
Blank purchased to use on his “returned
soldier's” farm. One of the limbers
by his unit may very well have gone into the
making of this particular farm implement;
anyhow, Joe likes to think it did.
THE CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mousing.
The night mist rises .slowly from the quays,
The last star blinks ami pales against the sky,
A tang of salty spray comes on the breeze
That brings a lonely sea-bird’s homing cry.
A sleepy watchman stirs himself and wakes,
Two drunken sailors stagger up the road,
Did down the long wet hill with screeching brakes
Comes Ah Quong with his morning market load.
Somewhere a tram moves out with warning bell,
And up a lane I hear a raucous yell—
"Milk-ol”
Evening.
hi lies of white light that hide the evening sky
Paint the street trees in shades of deeper green,
And as a taxi glides serenely by
White diamonds flash from some bejewelled queen.
A barefoot newsboy plies his noisy trade,
A stolid copper paces on his beat,
While from a darkened doorway’s kindly shade
A keen-eved prowler mooches up the street.
A picture palace starring “Girls and Wine”
Displays to waiting fans the hated sign—
“ House full!”
VICTORIA.
E. F. MURNAYE.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bad-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
sdf
sdf
The TOP-NOTCH "ScotcK
"SayWBEM MaaU' r
a
s
THE KTHONLORDCtmA*
gov. gen . of the
CDMWfINWEAffH jf,AUSTRAUA
SPECIALS
APPOINTMENT TO
Hl* excblle ncV
£sia6Cisßed 7883
3
W. Chorley
S Co. ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Breechesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES'
. TAILOR-MADES. „
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
CLIFFORD HAY, permanent head of the
Premier's Department; he is in charge
of N.B.W. arrangements for the Duke's
visit.
The melodramatic fire at Stewart Dawson’s
corner in Melbourne recalls the time when
the Scotch watch-seller from Liverpool first
took his stand where Collins and Swanston
meet. Up to that time, 40 years ago, Stewart
Dawson only just had his toe inside Aus-
tralia’s door; he had a little shop in Syd-
ney and an upstairs office alongside a chiropo-
dist’s, far down Collins-street. Occasionally
a customer clambered up the stairs, but most
of the business was done by post with coun-
try customers. Even in those days, though,
when his bank balance wasn’t what it grew
to presently, he didn’t mind spending money
to get what he wanted. When he sat down
opposite the Town Hall (it wasn’t right on
the corner to begin with) he brought a man
from Dunedin (M.L.) to do the writing on
the window, because he couldn’t see any-
thing in Melbourne that he liked so well as
this chap’s.
Last year death took a sudden toll of the
children of Count Lucien de Broel Plater;
two daughters and a son, who had spent their
lives in Parramatta, died within a week.
Now Count Louis de Plater has gone, too.
He was the third of the sons of Count
Lucien de Broel Plater, who came to Aus-
tralia and settled in Parramatta in 1838;
and he was 76 years old when he dropped
dead while attending a church service at
Harris Park. Lucien, who claimed relation-
ship to Kosciusko, was an officer in the
Russian army, but fiis refusal to fight
against his own people in Poland led to exile.
With his wife, an Englishwoman, he emi-
grated to Australia, where they brought up
10 children.
It was 35 years last Thursday since the
Shi els Government (Vic.) suspended
Speight, Ford and Greene, the three Rail-
way Commissioners, and caused almost as
much sensation as the Black Wednesday dis-
missals of Graham Berry’s Government 14
years earlier. The triumvirate was never re-
instated ; Speight was compensated and the
other two got their pensions. Speight sued
the Age for libel, and Alfred Deakin was
junior counsel for David Syme, who won.
Speight died later in Westralia, where he
had become a member of the Leg. Assembly
for a suburban constituency. State Treas-
urer Peacock is the only survivor of the Cab-
inet that outed Speight and co.
John Langdon Bonython, of Adelaide
’Tiser, who sat in the House of Reps, dur-
ing the first two Parliaments, comes of a
Cornish family steeped in politics for cen-
turies. In the reign of James 11. there was
a Charles Bonython who was M.P. for West-
minster and sergeant-at-law. A cherished
possession of his descendant is a flagon of
the. Elizabethan period, with an inscription
recording that it was used at the coronation
banquet of James I. by one of the Bonython
family—Charles, who died in 1604.
Jimmy Ashton, M.L.C., was one of the man-
agers of the conference between the N.S.W.
Houses; his speech on child endowment is
reckoned the best delivered during the
debates on that measure, and Minister
Badly’s the worst. A native of Geelong,
Ashton spent his youth in the Riverina,
where from a cub on the Hay Riverina
Grazier he became editor and part-pro-
prietor, and passed on to the ownership of
a Narrandera paper. A series of articles on
the necessity for a better system of land
tenure started an agitation which led to the
establishment of the Western Lands Commis-
sion. Ashton will be 63 in May, but he
doesn’t look his years. A barrister, he has
never practised.
“Count Drolatique”: Watching the Prime
Minister walk up Collins-street the other
morning, I was struck by the stoop of the
shoulders and the gradual progress of the
heavy feet. He begins to show the burden of
Empire in expanding contours, for Bruce,
almost aesthetic in thought and unindulgent
in other ways, is a good hand at the table.
Remembering that many a subtle negotiation
is finalised over a feed, no one will grudge
him his round of banquets in Britain;
his predecessor, chronically dyspeptic and
too deaf to hear the waiter when asked to
“try a little caviare, sir,” left a very different
impression on statesmen who do themselves
well. A stale bun was often Billy’s sole fare
at an official feast; the little fellow would
gnaw it placidly, undisturbed by the awful
orchestra of jaws champing the turkey and
trifle.
“lan C.”: In making a will disposing of
his large estate, Rupert Clarke did a practi-
cal thing in appointing two solicitors (Bob
and Henry Whiting) and a skilled account-
ant (Edgar Dye), all of William-street, Mel-
bourne, to be his executors and trustees. He
knew that lawyers and accountants would
handle the estate anyway, and thought they
might just as well have first-hand responsi-
bility and not be somebody’s deputies. That
the Vic. section of the estate (£285,000
worth) is only one big bite is suggested by
the extent of the legacies—£sooo a year
to the widow, £lOO,OOO each for two sons
(with £50,000 extra for the one who will
carry the baronetcy) and £60,000 each for
three daughters. In each instance a share
in the residue (a pretty big lump) is also
provided for. Rupert did not forget to make
provision for his sister-in-law and old em-
ployees, but nothing was said about brothers.
They no doubt got their whack when W.J.,
the first baronet, passed out 30 years ago.
The foundation of the Clarke fortune was
laid by William John Turner Clarke, who
settled in the Speck in 1840. Clarke
acquired extensive pastoral properties in
Tas., Vic., South Aus. and Maoriland. His
son, W. .1., born in Tas., became the first
baronet in 1882. The late Rupert (Rupert
Turner Havelock, to be exact) succeeded
W.J. in 1897 ; Rupert William John, as the
present baronet is called, was born in Decem-
ber, 1918.
After 44 years in Australia, William
Urquhart, sometime Comptroller of Prisons
in N.S.W., leaves shortly for a trip to his
banks and braes. The tall Scot, who has
the dignity of a Hielan’ chieftain, was gov-
ernor of Bathurst, Berrima, Parramatta, Goul-
burn and Long Bay gaols, and has seen the
change from the bad old system of long terms of
solitary confinement to the more humani-
tarian methods which aim at giving the bad
boys a chance of growing little wings of
penitence. A buttress of the Hielan’ Society,
his library of Gaelic literature is the envy
of collectors.
“Big Bill” Cattanach, chairman of the
Vic. State Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission, has left for Honolulu to represent
Australia at a Pan-Pacific conference on
education and reclamation. Afterwards he
will visit America and Europe to investigate
marketing problems, particularly as they
WM. CATTANACH, chairman of Tic. State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission.
affect the irrigation districts, and will inquire
into the possibilities of selling irrigation-grown
produce in Canada, where there is a prefer-
ence in favor of certain Australian lines and
an astounding balance of trade against this
country. For this reason alone The Bul-
letin wishes him well.
Australia’s first woman ship’s doctor
returned to Melbourne the other day. She
is Dr. Marjorie Hughes, who graduated four
years ago and, desiring to look at the out-
side . world, shipped aboard the Swedish
cargo motor-ship Yngaren 15 months since.
Her biggest job was delivering the “old
man’s” missus of a fine baby boy.
Rabbi Gedeliah Ivirsner, the latest addition
to the ministerial side of Sydney’s Jewry,
should have arrived months ago, but stayed
in England to pick up his rabbinical diploma.
Hfe is to take care of the sheep in the fold of
the Eastern Suburbs Synagogue. Owing to
the absence of kosher food on the ship which
brought him to Australia, the minister had
to endure some privation—incidentally, the
big passenger-vessels between England and
America now run a special kosher table for
the use of wealthy Jewish travellers —and
was a sick man on arrival, but his first
public appearance delighted the Chosen. He is
only a little man, but an orator, with the
power of sincerity in his method of speaking.
Probably he will not bo a rival to Rabbi
F. L. Cohen, recognised as one of Sydney’s
best after-dinner speakers, in that particular
line, but he will measure close up to his
spiritual senior in religious addresses.
Little Corntliwaite Hector Rason. Premier
of Westralia for 10 months in 1905-06, and
Agent-General for three subsequent years, is
dead in London at 68. A Zummerset man,
son of a doctor in the R.N., Rason reached
Perth in 1882, and was a member of the old
Leg. Council before responsible government
arrived. When goldmining boomed he was
on the fringe of many enterprises, but never
had any luck; in fact, he was nearly always
hard up. But he had a real talent for poli-
tics, and, becoming M.L.A. for South Mur-
chison in 1897, he served in the Leake and
James Governments, led the Opposition dur-
ing the Daglisli (Labor) Government’s term,
and conducted it to a sweeping victory at the
1905 election. Family trouble, together with
his financial embarassments, drove him back
to Britain, where he was knighted at the end
of his term as A.-G., and the Bovril people
came to his rescue with a steady job. As
soft-spoken as Harold Skimpole, he had some
of the qualities of Dick Swiveller, and many
Westralians will remember the little chap
with kindness.
Lawson’s name is again being associated
with Vic. Speakership. If there was a unani-
mous call from non-Labor, some of his friend-
think he would take the £l2OO p.a. job. Bowser
will not be a candidate, and Farthing, if
he wins the Caulfield seat, would be content
with his old post, chairman of committees
To convince Lawson that he would not again
be fooled as in 1924, it would be necessary
to have pledges given and heads counted in
the party rooms. The new House will be
keen on getting a good Speaker. The old-
fashioned courtesy of Bowser was wasted on
unruly young members last session.
George McKay, one of the founders and
directors of the famous Sunshine harvester
words, died at Sunshine (Vic.) on Saturday,
practically on the job. A brother of “H.V.,"
who predeceased him, George was principally
interested in the manufacturing side of tic
business, which he superintended for lib
years. Technical education was his hobby,
and as president of the Sunshine technical
school he did a great deal for the firm's
employees, besides working overtime during
the war for the Red Cross.
.Tim Carroll, dead in Charters Towers at
70 years, went to the big N.Q. goldfield from
his native Victoria in 1875, and never after-
wards left it, save for an occasional trip to
Townsville. He made his name as manager of
the Brilliant St. George, which he con-
trolled from its start to its closing a few
years ago. In his time the mine turned out
£1,750,000, paying £740,000 in dividends. A
fine runner himself, Carroll was a leading
promoter of pedestrian events in the days
when such cracks as Arthur Postle, Hilyaril
and many another invaded N.Q. after the big
prizes and bigger betting. A keen racing
man, cricketer and football player, he was
one of the earliest backers of Paddy Slavin
and other mighty sluggers of times past. He
was as straight as a gun-barrel in every-
thing he did, and the friend of everybody
privileged to know him.
Lloyd Chambers, the Speck’s new K.C..
was born at Cullenswood 64 years ago. The
son of an Anglican rector, he was called to
the Bar in 1886, and has been Solicitor-
General and Grand Jury of his native State
for 13 years.
A man of many aliases is Jacob Borodin,
the power behind the Cantonese. As George
Brown he was sentenced at Glasgow on
August 29, 1922, to six months’ imprison-
ment and recommended for deportation for
fostering sedition in Britain. He has been
successively, and when required, a Jugo-
slav, a Mexican and an Austrian, but he
is supposed to be a Lett wTiose real name is
Michael Grusenberg. In 1919 he helped to
engineer an upheaval in Spain, in 1920 he
entered Mexico to give the pot of trouble
a stir there, and he would have done the
same in U.S.A. if he had not been so closely
watched. He can exhort the proletariat to
arise in 14 European and Asiatic languages.
While Earl Hopetoun was Vic. Governor
he was on the best of terms with his Min-
isters and would banter them on their weak-
nesses. Becoming aware that Bryan O'Logli-
len saw 7 little of his constituents between elec-
tions, he said to the Patterson Ministry, after
an executive Council meeting, that it would
be rather a good idea for as many as possible
of the Cabincteers to accompany him in a
“What! Going out again f Suppose I said
I wanted to go, too?”
“Well, I’m not stopping you going to
proposed trip to the South-Western district.
“We could introduce Bryan to his constitu-
ents,” His Ex. added with a grin. Hopc-
toun liked Bryan, and enjoyed the netan-
ous yarn that dead men used to rise trom
their graves to vote for him.
UNCLE JIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Aye, days of old are touched with gold,
As distant hills with green;
This generation can’t behold
The things that you have seen.
And maybe we should ponder o’er
The things you say ; but, then,
The same things have been said before,
And will be said again.
We know that mates in years gone by
Till death were staunch and true.
You think to set our aims as high
Is more than we can do.
And yet, though pale is modern blood,
Somehow it seems to me
That mateship lived in Flanders mud
And on Gallipoli.
The girls you knew in days of old
Could lose the modern miss;
Of all the stories you have told
There seems most sting in this.
For one, the fairest of them all—
Her eyes, you say, were brown—
You love her still; do you recall
Just why she let you down?
The sunset had a brighter glow!
To please you we agree.
The sunrise made a braver show!
How many did you see?
High grew the grass on hill and plain,
And taller towered the tree,
And droughts ivere droughts, and rain was rain,
When you were twenty-three.
Uncle, a doubt we never hint
Of all the yarns you’ve strung
On d ays that had a golden glint,
On years when you were young.
And much I hope we fare as well
When we, as you, are grey,
And the time comes for us to tell
The tales you tell to-day.
WESTS ALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


X
\
/?
WET
m
-9
o
£
<n
g~P <VW fO p-j So> c \aAm*/ -
:rs==
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF PATRIOTISM
Patriotism is a word with a soul. Deep down its real meaning is
individually to give to the common weal of the Empire the glory of
example, the balm of understanding and the vigour of the utmost in
thought and deed. These are the true qualities of patriotism and of ,
DEWAR’S


ALWA Y S
ACCURATE
They keep time
all the time
r
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
"Right with the Sun/'
Saar
v
*8
m
The “Fx &R” Wristlet Watch for men. Thoroughly
reliable, 15-jewel lever, in silver case, with luminous
dial and unbreakable glass.
£5/5/-
UNDER
ROUGH
CONDITIONS
There is no watch so consis-
tently accurate as the “Fx &
R” Wristlet Watch. It is
constructed specially to with-
stand the rigors of wrist
wear. Where time is con-
tinually of vital importance
it is absolutely reliable, is
practically unbreakable, and
can be worn night and day
with safety.
f *-■ 1
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
EVER-READY
l TORCHES i
The Worlds Best
sdf
U°i to. .b. Tr.Um.rti I **"“ E '»>~ hTO
Writ* for llhamnal Coulopt.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
AUSTRALIA
“Wang” : Somebody had been reading an
account of a chap being caught in quicksand
and being rescued just in time. Old Bundy
chipped in. “I ’member one time I was
goin’ home to me hut. I had t’ cross over
a gully, an’ th’ water from til’ hills—it had
been rainin’ hard fer days—had brought
down a lotter clay from th’ dumps higher
up, When tli’ water had stopped runniu’
tli’ clay wus spread flat right acrosst th’
gully, an’ looked firm ernougli ter walk over.
I started across, an’ half-way over down I
went up to me waist. Some silly goats
would have got smothered ; but I got outer
it all right.” “Howd’yer manage it, Bundy?”
someone asked. “Some bloke come along
with a rope, an’ pull yer out?” “Not on
yer life, they didn't. I got meself out with-
out nobody’s help. How? Well, I used
me nut. I jist went up ter me hut, an’
got a shovel an’ dug meself out.”
A PERFECT PEACH OF A HORSE.
PUBLICAN: “Nice-lookin’ mare. Is she a good stayer?”
DAD: “Stayer? Why, she don’t care wot time she gets ’ome!”
“Stellsby”: For many years a Gippsland
cocky's wife had worn a red golfer when she did
the milking. On her last birthday the family
presented her with a new grey golfer. The
next morning when mum went to the milk-
ing-slied, Strawberry refused to enter the
bail, and the combined coaxing of the girls,
dad, Dave and the pommy failed to
lure her there. Then mum had a
brain-wave. She dashed up to the house,
changed into her old red golfer and returned
to the milking-shed. Strawberry gave her
one look of recognition, and duly took up
her position in the bail.
“G.L.H.” : The remedies for ticks given by
some correspondents in a recent issue are
crude, and a few are even dangerous. It
is inadvisable to wash a dog in any strong
chemical mixture, unless it is shortly after-
wards washed off, because it is liable to start
eczema, and this will give more trouble than
the ticks. There is only one way to remove
a tick correctly, and that is to pinch the
skin into a fold so that the tick is on top,
and run a razor along, taking a small piece
of skin with the tick. This method does
not draw blood and avoids handling the
insect, and thus impelling it to force in more
poison. I have had a dog go to sleep whilst
removing ticks in the way described.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: I am reminded by
“Werrimee” (B. 17/2/’27) of a dog’s epi-
taph on the Hollands Rivers (Vic.). A
piece of a kerosene-tin nailed to a big log
alongside the grave bore the following:—
Hear dost beside this old gum log
Ides the gastily corps of Jim Brown’s dog
The best heeler I ever set eyes on
Till thev cooked his goos with strickenin’ pyson.
YV.H.
An’ I don’t give a dam’ for the dirty cows what
done it.
* * * *
“Te W.”: The blue wren with the red
head (B. 24/2/’27) is no doubt a distinct
variety, no fewer than 20 species of wren-
warbler —as these birds are now labelled —
being recognised. At least two kinds have
some red in their color schemes, and both
are uncommon. The stranger may have been
the red-backed wren-warbler ■ (M alurus erucn-
taius). The best known and most common
of the superb warblers (their old name) is
the blue wren ( Malurus cyneus), which
hopped into notoriety when Governor Philip
landed, than which, he said, he had never
seen finer specimens. The blue-wren family
just missed segregation into a distinct order,
but it is now classed among the warblers.
“Honey-bee” : I have been keeping bees for
over 80 years, and received such a shock
when I read “Larrapinta’s” (B. 3/2/’27)
record of 1000 601 b. tins of honey being
taken in 18 days from 100 colonies that
I staggered to the nearest hive and did
some figuring. Those bees carried in two
tons of honey per day. Now it requires 1000
bees to carry one ounce of honey, and a bee
makes on an average seven trips a day.
Therefore, every colony must have contained
on an average not less than 100,000 bees.
But as some colonies are numerically twice
as large as others, the largest would run
into 200,000 bees. It takes 4000 bees gorged
with honey to weigh lib., and so we get a
swarm of bees weighing nearly half a
hundredweight! A yield of 6001 b. is possible,
but not in the time stated. Our Queensland
record is 7221 b. for a single colony, but it
w r as spread over the whole season.
“M.L.C.”: Has any sea-board Abo. picked
up lately one of Captain Simpson’s bottles?
Over 10.000 bottles have been thrown into the
sea at various points and thousands have
been returned to him. One was recently
picked up on the coast of Spain, having been
unusually slow' on its journey, taking!s4o days
to travel 600 miles. The record for speed
has so far been made by a bottle which
started its journey near Cape Frio, on the
African coast, and landed five months later
at Port Phillip Bay, averaging 48 miles a
day over some 7250 miles. Most of those that
have reached Australia have averaged from
10 to 20 miles a day. Captain Simpson was
not responsible for the bottle containing the
following message: “If this should tall into
the hands of Sandy McGregor will he kindly
get twapence on it at the . Rob Boy Arms,
Glasgow, and obleego his britlier able seaman
Douglas McGregor, now cast away on a
desert isle in the Pacific Ocean.
A PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL OPINION ABOUT WILLIAM,
POLICE: “You seen Combo Billy about, Binghi? I want him.”
BINGHI : “Oh, Combo Billy no’ good, my word. You gibit that pfella plenty rope, boss,
by cripes he plurry soon drown hisself!”
“Rorom” : The habit amongst cats of eat-
ing cockroaches (B. 24/2/’27) is one that
has long puzzled veterinarians. It is much
easier to explain the emaciation and death
caused by it. The wings and parts of the
’roach’s body are covered with a number of
tiny, hard spikes, which lodge in the tissues
of the cat’s alimentary tract, and there set
up, first, inflammation of an acute nature and,
later, ulceration, it being this which eventu-
ally causes the animal’s death. One theory
which has been advanced to account for the
fondness of puss for this fare is the attrac-
tion of a strongly salty taste which they
possess, most animals being attracted by salt.
A cure for the habit suggests itself: that of
giving the cat plenty of salt.
* * * *
“Max”: “Emel” and others are in the
dark about orchard sprays and remedies. The
effective application of scientific knowledge is
knowing what to do and when to do it.
Biologists and entomologists have solved the
main difficulties. Leaf-eating insects and
their larvae are killed by stomach poisons
deposited on the leaves or fruit they eat; i.e.,
arsenate of lead on apples, grape-leaves, and
cabbages for all caterpillars. Sucking
insects, such as aphides and coccid scales, are
killed by contact sprays, such as washing-
soda and miscible oils, which disintegrate or
burn their soft bodies. Fungus diseases are
low parasitic forms of vegetable life, and may
be destroyed by proved fungicides, such as
copper sulphate, lime, sulphur or miscible
oils. General sprays designed to do all the
work at once, such as miscible oils, are only
partially successful. For citrus-trees, the
best method of cleaning is fumigation in
tents with potassium cyanide, which kills
everything but the tree; but this method is
dangerous to the operator and requires
experience.
* * * *
“Lp North”: The pearl oyster can make
lovely other things than a grain of sand.
One I saw recently had its shell beautified
with a pearled spray of seaweed. The weed
had evidently entered whilst the oyster was
feeding. It was a beautiful spray of pearl,
even the veins in the tiny leaves being
distinctly visible. I’ve seen a miniature fish
pearled over in the same way. Unluckily
the oyster was taken when the process of
pearling the spray was only half completed,
otherwise the curio might in the future have
been of great value. Some have freak
pearled patterns where the muscle hr.s
adhered to the shell, but most of them take
the outline of delicate vases, though one
I saw was the almost perfect profile of a
woman.
"Betre Both : A hen 1 was living in the
jarrah and scrub country of s.-w. W.A. my
horse used to be fed at the side of the
house. From this spot the bush track could
be seen about a hundred yards distant, lead-
ing up to the house and the small clearing
around it. Almost every evening while being
fed. after sunset, the neddie would look down
the track and, snorting, with his neck arched
and showing manifestations of terror, pull
back until sometimes his rope broke. One
evening, when this happened, I walked for-
ward from where the horse stood to see what
he was looking at. Coming up the track
I saw a cart, in which were a man and
woman with several children. They were
being drawn by a dark horse with a blaze
on its forehead'. As my hands were covered
with axle-grease, I hurried to clean them, at
the same time telling my wife that people
were coming. Having removed the grease I
went to welcome the visitors, but found
none in sight. I then walked down the
track, but there was no trace on it of any
wheel or hoof marks. I even walked to the
main road about a quarter of a mile distant
where one could see in either direction along
the straight, flat highway for several miles,
but there was nothing in sight. Strangely
enough, the horse never again showed terror,
or gave any indication seeing things.
“L.R.” : Forty years ago the dugong was
fairly plentiful in Wide Bay (Q-) and round
about Fraser’s Island. The flesh of a young
calf is excellent eating, while the older
fish make bacon equal to pig. I used to bone
and roll the sides, then smoke them in the
ordinary way. When salted and smoked, the
dugong loses all fishy taste and smell. “Up
North’s” description of mother and baby (!>•
24/2/’27) is quite accurate. I have often
sat by one of the creeks off the bay, watching
the young mothers nursing and playing with
their babies. I believe the milk, or its
equivalent, is exuded from any part of the
breast to which the little one clings. They
come into the creeks for protection and to
feed on the long marine grass. We once
caught a mother and a very small infant in
a net. The latter had become separated from
her parent, and until released and restored to
her the mother’s distress was pathetic. She
fought and tore at the men, then seized the
infant in her fins much as a human mother
would with her arms, and made off.
* * * *
“Mars” : Motoring along a lonely road in
a country district (S.A.), I noticed a new
use to which empty kerosene- or petrol-tins
are being put. My headlights picked up in
the far distance some gleaming object which,
as I approached it, became brighter and
brighter. Slowing down, I saw it was a
petrol-tin with a rock on top to keep it in
place at: the end of a strip of newly-metalled
road waiting to be rolled. Another tin was
on duty at the other end. These danger-
signals were equally as good as lamps, and
much safer.
JUPITER PLU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jupiter Plu, yer’ve bin a flamin’ nark
Fer donkeys’ years. I've ’eard erbout the ark,
An’ dirt yer done ter Noah an’ ’is zoo,
But wot the ole bloke said an’ thought .of you
The Book don’t say—l s’pose it wouldn’t do,
Jupiter Plu.
Fer months past now yer’ve tried ter drive us out,
Be ’oldin’ back the rain. Sez you: “A drought
’TJ do the trick.” So, like er scalded cat,
Ver ’ook it ter the mountains, an’ stay pat,
I n yer far-off Olympian ’abitat;
An' ’angs yer ’at
<>n ’igh Olympus. Struth! I wish yer’d stayed;
Or that the parson bloke ’ad never prayed
Fer rain. Yer ’eard ’im, Jupe, yer cow ! Too right!
’E ast fer rain—gentle, refreshing light;
Yer sends er flood wot puts us all, be night.
In ’eadlong flight.
Me an’ me fam’ly dumb the flamin’ roof.
To see wot stock we’d saved —nigh every ’oof
Oops floatin’ by. Er pig was swimmin’ gran’ ;
An’ then, be’ind two calves, there come er man.
1 lot ’im go. ’E was, yer un’erstan’.
The Rov’rend Oann.
x.s.w.
BUTTENDERRY.


0
0
0
m
hl
s
KST. i
a
ml
"V
■■ -..
■ BH|
I I
rrrrrr
ri
i
Ira
\ mil
.
■
are used
More Miles
wHert
DUNLOP
TYRES
la :
Jill
MBI ■
1 : v
sdf
sdf


HULL,
The Natural Port for importation of
Wool to Britain’s
Great Manufacturing Towns.
Docks specially equipped with
Electrical Machinery for the
handling of large quantities.
Warehouse Acres
Holds 140,000 Bales.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are in-
vited to inquire for further information
at' the offices of Messrs BURNS,
PHILP & CO., LTD., 10 Bridge
Street, Sydney, and Branches.
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
Largest Dock-Owning Railway in the
World.
cpGEWORTH
SMOKINC M
. TOBACCO .
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNE\*
ACCURATE SHOOTING
with a
COLT .22 CAL. AUTOMATIC
PISTOL.
Perfectly balanced; fires 10 ordinary .2- •
long-rifle rim-fire cartridges as fast as you
pull the trigger for each shot. This m 0“.
proved most useful to sportsmen requiring
handy weapon of highest quality firing
standard cartridge which is both econon-
and easy to procure. Length of barrel 6j i - >
length overall 10 \ inches ; weight 28 oti *
IDEAL EUR TARGET SHOOTING AND
SMALL GAME, £8 lOs, T
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE WIIB
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IS ABSOLUTE
IMPOSSIBLE. ' , . vili .
CADET RIFLES, Cal. 297/230 Convened Mi
tary Rifles, Martini Action, 500 yank < ■=
555.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins StvMelbourn^
BETTER LATE THAN NEVER.
MOTHER: " Don't shake little Alf like that, child!"
DAUGHTER: “ ’S’alright, Mum. I just, give him his medicine and
forgot to shake the bottle!”
“Gouger”: Wild Binghi utilises sign sys-
tems to enhance the significance of his mes-
sage-stick. A favorite symbol is the leaf,
which can be used either without the stick
or in conjunction with it. In Capo York
Peninsula the majority of the gullies are
steep-banked. Like bis brothers, the ani-
mals, Binghi has his special crossing-places.
It is at such spots messages are often set.
Where a leaf is fastened to a stick its shape,
species, the direction in which it is pointing,
its size and whether it is mutilated or not,
convey to the finder a clearly-deeipherable
message. For the information of stragglers,
or the benefit of friends, when a tribe shifts
camp unexpectedly, they often draw a line
within the abandoned home and mark its
site with a stick. The end of the line
points in the direction the tribe has taken.
If a leaf be left by the stick, it conveys
further information. Should a “bushman”
wish to see a friend working on a cattle-
station, he leaves a leaf adhering to the
sliprail. The casual white man would not
THE TRADE-MARK.
“That bull's married all right, Dad, ain't lie? — he's got a ring through Ms nose.”
attach any significance to this apparently
wind-strayed leaf, but the abo. stockman
reads from it instantly the name of the man
who placed it there, and that he carries an
important message, is afraid to venture near
the whites, and will meet his brother down
by the spirit rocks at sunrise.
“Two Seas” : We have a 20-year-old pony
who hangs around the milking-shed until the
milker starts for the kitchen with the cow-
juice. Then he charges with his ears back
and his teeth bared, and if the milker has
forgotten to arm himself with a waddy he
usually puts the bucket down and runs. Then
the old battler drains the bucket in record
time. He was a two-year-old when we got
him, and has always had an intense love of
milk. He was probably reared as a poddy
and fed on the bottle.
* * * *
“R..T.R.": Why is the butcher-bird so
called? Black-and-white shrike is the correct
nam e. I have
asked bushmen and
received different
reasons. One is
that in the early
days, when the but-
cher’s shop, like the
village smithy,
stood under some
convenient tree,
this bird, being of
carnivorous habits,
w a s a constant
attendant. I fancy,
however, that the
sobriquet is not un-
connected with the
bird’s habit of kill-
ing smaller birds.
It will place its
victim in the fork
of a tree, and,
while held there
firmly, tear it
piecemeal with its
powerful bill and
devour it. When
nesting it attacks
with unbelievable
fierceness. I have
seen it dash among
a flock of jenny-
wrens, strike right
and left and kill
several in a few
seconds. In West-
ern Queensland I
saw one snap the
head clean off a
pet canary as its
lady owner was feeding it on the hotel
verandah. The shrike was gone like a streak
before the lady realised what had happened.
A lubra who was loitering near remarked:
“Dam’cheeky butcher-bird that time. Missus.”
* * # * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: Let me quote another
instance of birds out of their accustomed
area. Willis Island (Q.) is over-run by land-
rails, small birds resembling quail, and un-
known, as far as I am aware, in any other
part of Australia, they being Asiatic natives.
The mere fact that they are at Willis Island
excites no comment but for the fact that they
cannot fly. As Willis Island was uninhabited
until the establishment of a radio and
meteorological station there in 1921, and as
it is 300 miles from the nearest Queensland
coast, I'd like to know how they got there.
“Biru”: In his list of the uses and
beauties of sugar-gunis. “Larrapinta (B.
17/2/’27). omitted what I consider their
greatest charm. They are homes dc luxe for
nearly every Australian tree-building bird,
and favorite haunts of the burrowing kinds
also. Magpies love to build in sugar-gums;
probably the thick leaves and branches hide
their open nests from crows and hawks,
though Maggie rather enjoys a scrap with
them. Peewees favor these trees because of
their extra height; wagtails nest wherever
peewees are; finches and honeyeaters also
favor stlgar-gums —the saplings for choice.
Sometimes a flock of destructive green-leeks
will spoil the beauty and the honey-yield of
a tree in one day. To such destruction
rosellas lend a beak. Kingfishers rest for
hours in their scented shade, and tiny leaf-
shaped diamond-birds camouflage themselves
there all day long.
“Veronal”: Recently on the far South
Coast of N. S. Wales, the black bream,
blackfish, flathead, mullet, sundry fish-fry,
small prawns and even crabs perished whole-
sale in a small salt lake, the hills above
which were swept a few weeks before by a
busli-fire. I saw large bream and other kinds
swimming aimlessly to and fro near the
closed mouth of the lake, with their back
fins showing. Many fish had turned on their
sides, obviously in a dying state, and many
blundered ashore apparently in death agony.
The margins of the lake were littered with
fry of various species and small prawns, all
in a moribund state. A mere inrush of fresh
water would not account for this mortality,
as both black bream and mullet can exist
healthily in water almost fresh. No brown
eels, however, common in salt lakes, seem to
have suffered. These hardy creatures would
probably bury themselves in the mud and so
escape the poisoning or asphyxiation, which-
ever it was, that caused the death of the fish.
“Cudgeree”: 'due tree-frogs in the Queens-
land palm-swamp spend the, night carrying
on a kind of Morse-code conversation by ring-
ing the combinations of one, two and three
harsh croaks. Occasionally
four croaks are heard in suc-
cession. ' One night last
winter a hobo blew into a
telephone-construction camp
with a bottle of rum, and
after having shouted all
round he drew attention to
the sing-song the frogs were
having, and awakened the
sporting instincts of the
gang by offering odds on one
particular frog. They bit,
and by the time the rum had
run out the hobo had won
seven pounds by backing this
particular croaker to croak
as he predicted. Then he
left for his own camp, which
he said was a bit down the
road. The cook’s profanity
woke the camp next morn-
ing. Seeking the cause, he
pointed out that the frog
that had cleaned them out
must have been sitting on
the fence quite 200 yards
away from the edge of the
palms, and he reckoned that
the hobo had a mate up
there who did all the croak-
ing. The camp learned later on that every
railway gang for 30 miles up the line had
been cleaned out by this cute swaggie.
-X- * -14 *
“Non Nobis Solum”: Growing on fallow
in the Yorketown district (S.A.) is a patch
of poppy plants that have been flowering
through the summer months. Their blooms
are of the usual wild-poppy color, a reddish
pink, but the bushes are unlike, as they grow
up in branches. The seedpods are their most
unusual feature; they are slender and from
3 to 5 inches in length, containing hundreds
of seeds larger than those of the wild poppy.
Stock will not touch the plants. Can any-
one name them?
* * * *
“Up North”: The goanna’s paradise is on
the Barrier and Torres Strait islands where
the turtles lay their eggs. I've dug 140 eggs
from a single nest, and as perhaps a scoiv
or more turtle will lay upon one beach in a
night, it means that the local go’s have a
corner in the egg market. Missus Turtle
expends much labor and cunning in ensuring
a safe hatching for her egg fruit. After
waddling up from the deep she scratches
several dummy nests, camouflaging them to
look like the genuine article before she packs
her precious cargo deep down in a bucket-
shaped chamber in the sand. After pains-
takingly disguising this, she waddles off and
prepares a final dummy nest before tiredly
trudging back to mother sea. And the go',
for all his earth-digging habits and sense of
smell, has to work industriously to earn his
gorge. But cunning breeds cunning, and I’ve
seen goannas waiting amongst the grass-
fringed edge of a beach for a turtle to come
up and then watch the beast lay its eggs,
barely giving it time to get back to the sea
before scurrying down to unearth the deposit.
* * * *
“Country Bed.” : The sugar-gum does even
better than “Larrapinta” asserts (B.
17/2/’27). Even in the Malice, with a 10-
inch rainfall, it will grow well if periodically
watered during the first summer after plant-
ing. But as to the strength of its limbs, my
experience doesn’t agree with “Larrapinta’s.”
It is the favorite Arbor Day tree of Victorian
country schools, but, though a gale some-
times will not snap a limb, on a warm calm
day the ends of the boughs, loaded with
leaves, bend gradually earthward. The lowest
and also the largest then snaps off close to
the trunk. The tree thus grows tall, hut
its shade becomes more circumscribed the
older it gets. This can be prevented by
lopping the tree, when five or six years old,
early in August.
* * * *
“Gouger” : The Barrier and Torres Strait
seas are far richer in the romance of olden
times than we realise. The islander, the
Malay, and of recent years the Jap. when
shell fishing, have located wrecks whose
remaining timbers, preserved in shape by
coral growths, would be unrecognisable as
wreckage by any but a coral-sea diver’s
practised eye. Portuguese, Dutch, Spanish
and English vessels lie forgotten on the
floor of the sea. Dollars and doubloons,
brass culverins and ships’ bells ripped from
these resting-places would, in the hands of
experts, tell many a tale of the adventurous
dead. The colored men never boast of their
finds for fear of treasure-trove laws. They
have stripped historical wrecks of any
easily recoverable coin and been content to sell
their copper and bronze oddments to China-
men. Some coins I have handled, of silver
and bronze, are whoppers in proportion and
weight, and in shape oval, circular or square,
most of them bearing the head of a king
or emperor and still retaining the smooth-
ness worn by the fingers of centuries ago.
The lettering of Spanish and other words is
often almost as distinct as on the far-away
day they were made. Recently Jack Mc-
Nulty, of Thursday Island, came upon the
BREAKING IT GENTLY.
Her Husband's Mate (who has been warned against
giving the lady a shock): “Yer don't ’ ave ter pan
for a funeral, Alum, after all.”
THE LADY : “ Gracious , what funeral?”
THE MATE AFORESAID : “Yer husban's, Mum — ’e’s only
broke his legs.’"
ribs of a wreck with coral-encrusted chains
and a ship’s bell bearing the words “Schooner
Triumph, 1805,” and “Ship Sally. t*n
ship Sally left Sydney in 1835 and was
never heard of again. A wonderfully pre-
served relic was a long naval cutlass ot t *
eighteenth century; it was encased in a
iron scabbard, bound in many sheets
oiled paper.
HOPEFUL BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On a cart track through the mulga that we travelled
long ago,
You may hear the gravel crunching and an old horse
trotting slow ;
You may see a spring-cart loaded and an old grey
man on top,
And he'll answer, if you hail him, that he hasn’t
time to stop.
And you’ll know that with his shaker and his three-
score years and ten,
Hopefully Old Bill is going back to Rafferty’s again.
For he’s always in a hurry when he’s heading out
that way,
And each landmark brings him memories of a near-
forgotten day
When each hour held its promise and each gully
yielded gold—
That’s when Rafferty’s was humming in the roaring
days of old ;
So across the sand and gravel must his ancient
neddy scratch,
For there’s never time to loiter when Bill’s going
to The Patch.
But he won’t be in a hurry should you see him
coming back,
And he’ll share your tea and damper, and he’ll yarn
beside the track,
And he’ll tell of “indications” till his audience
agrees
That there’s something good still hidden in The
Patch at Rafferty’s.
Then he’ll do a bit of fencing or some picking up
till when
He has made enough to take him back to Rafferty’s
again.
Tn the realm of melodrama on one thing you may
depend:
That the hero will, though silly, bo triumphant in
the end.
But (he play of Life is sterner and the finish none
can tell;
Still, there’s little cause to worry if our parts we’re
playing well.
Though there are more blanks than prizes, and more
muck than pay-dirt, still
There may yet be something waiting out at Rafferty’s
for Bill.
If your bright dreams have departed, and your luck
is not too good,
And you’ve got that dismal feeling that you are
not understood,
While you sit and nurse your sorrow, or deplore
your wasted years
And the chances that slipped by you, in a voice chock-
full of tears.
While you sicken everybody that will listen to your
wheeze,
Full of hope Old Bill is going back again to
Rafferty’s.
W. A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
N
:'':C
£
y*4\
o
(-J-
-dr
£3^
31
*4
V.
•Ut
n
'ht*
SX
A, who has given instructions before leaving home for his bag
to meet him at the station, finds, when he comes to dress at the
Jones’s for their dinner and dance, that, owing to some slight
confusion as to which bag he wanted, he is faced with the alter-
natives of appearing either in the plus-fours he has just taken
off or in six complete sets of winter woollens.
What should A do?
« •
Naturally—LlGHT AN ABDULLA.
Fougasse •
ABDULLA superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


Under
Royal
Warrant
sdf
ToH.NL
Kin^
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE (
Charles Heidsied
wmmm
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
'larieslleidsieo'-
REIMS
<***
WsSES^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
A
tiu fc
mi
>4
\.®
5 ](t
Mwi
ii'ScW
MiV^
BWIS6I for
Rescrralions.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling Cabaret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
The centre of Queen s/onc/s
cf/s ft'ngu/shec/ Sociof Life
WoM
RDTSFI
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
sdf
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at ah
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in ever}
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s. Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 0780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
There are some who are saying—and there
may be truth in it—that Paderewski re-
marked with a twinkle, when he took a
jaunt through Sydney the other day, that
he had always thought Sydney was a city
of English, but evidently it is a city of
Poles. Poles there are wherever the eye turns.
White with gilded tops, and yellow with red
tops, and striped, like barbers’ poles, they run
up hill and down, and where there are not
poles there are obelisks and arches; so
industrious has the hand of loyalty been
that Macquarie-strect now resembles a grave-
yard gone a little mad. The obelisks and the
arches are the beginning ot' those acute
decorations which by the time the Royal
Visitors arrive will entirely disfigure the
best and most graceful streets of the city.
Bunting and banners, garish golds and
crimsons will strip Macquarie-strect of its
regal air—something like dressing the Venus
de Milo as a pantomime dame. Queen Vic-
toria, who lives at its head, will peer through
two great newly-sprung archways, aswoon
with the flowers in season that are to be
banked about her. At night the city, at
any rate from the harbor to the Town Hall,
will be a heaven of jewelled lights. In strings,
festoons and posies the electrics will dazzle.
They will form heraldic designs, crowns
and orbs. The Town Hall will turn on no
less than 3000 sparkles, and the G.P.O. will
be so brilliant that all its long-lost letters
will come to light. The Herald Office has
already erected a six-foot “Welcome,” but
as tliis is above the advertisers’ doorway, the
underlying cause may not be altoge/ther
Empiric.
There will be nothing of the Civic Barn
about the Town Hall next Saturday night.
Under the hands of Jeans it is to become
an old English garden which Sliakspeare
might have thought the proper setting for
his “Twelfth Night.” The balconies are to
be set about with window-boxes, from which
will spring thousands of the red rose of
Lancaster. So thickly will these grow that
they will completely screen off the balcony
from the hall below. The supporting pillars
will be wrapped about with bark, and the
effect will be that of gigantic standard rose-
trees. On the floor of the hall, between the
pillars, flat tubs with real white rose-trees
in bloom will be set. The organ pipes on
the platform will be hidden by a tall, clipped
yew hedge—really tea-tree. This hedge will
converge to the front of the stage, and in
the angles at the right and left side will be
set two fairy-story willow-trees —one a trail-
ing cerise, the other a bright red-gold. On
the floor, immediately below the platform,
the dais will be a bower of red and white
roses. The only lighting will come from a
chain of cut gems—topaz, emerald and ruby
—which will blaze down from the middle of
the hall.
A golden fire will warm the gala per-
formance at Her Majesty’s. Fred Searl has
the decorations under way, and the firm’s
gardens have cascades of golden roses, holly-
hocks, gladioli and smilax in readiness for
next Tuesday. From the middle of the
theatre will be suspended a great basket
trailing golden roses and foliage; and
from this will radiate hundreds of trails
of smilax and roses twinkling with amber
lights. The two circles will be massed with
roses, gladioli and gold and tawny zinnias;
and golden staves will stretch over the balus-
trade with hanging baskets of gold and
green. The boxes will be bordered with
growing lilies-of-the-valley, giving a window-
box effect, in which the White Rose of York
will shine with pride. A wattle border will
run above the footlights, and at each end of
the stage will be a large window-box grow-
ing white and gold roses.
There’ll be a real riot to secure tickets
for the Renown Farewell Ball, which will
be held at the Wentworth on April 11. All
the bright lads of the village are on its
committee, Clif Hay, Hugh Ward, George
Fitzpatrick and Brigadier-General Lloyd
among them. And much as it goes against
the grain to admit it, even social functions
forge ahead more swiftly and triumphantly
under the guiding hand of man. The first
meeting for the revel the other morning
crowded out the Blue room and balcony of
the Wentworth. In the chair was that good
showman, Hugh Ward, Mr. Hay being at
the old Mint studying invitation-lists—and
clouds gathering in the distance! Under
Hugh Ward’s jollying the meeting took form
and shape. Brigadier-General Lloyd came
along later, and took the chair but not the
glory from the first speaker, and the quickly-
formed and enthusiastic committee went
away knowing that officers from the Renown
are booked, as well as the State Exes. The
Royal Yorks will give their patronage, but
can’t manage their presence. The Y.A.L.
League will benefit.
Not all the pretty weddings happen in
the city churches. St. Andrew’s, at Sum-
mer Hill, rippled with excitement when Hil-
degarde Peters, of Ashfield, ruffled in white
tulle and Honiton lace to its altar to meet
Charles Donald Saxton. Canon Langford
Smith, Sherlock Holmesing that both parties
desired matrimony, blessed them and made
them one. Others participating: Bride’s
father, who gave her to the ’groom; three
maids in tulle like the pink layer of cocoa-
nut-icing, and tulle hats and muffs that
might have been made of rose-petals; Stan-
ley Utz, best man ; Oscar Peters and Geoff-
rey Saxton, male supports. Subsequent
rejoicings filled a marquee on the lawns of
Mount Joy, the bride’s home, where Mrs.
Peters was triumphant in a frock composed
of heavy white lace and black satin.
Hunter’s Hill had a wedding to itself
last week when a daughter of Sydney Mack,
K.C., and a niece of Louise, one of Austra-
lia’s first woman writers, exchanged vows in
All Saints’, at Fig-tree, with Dr. Broughton
Barry, of Parramatta. The bride, who
looked extremely pictorial, wore ivory and
gold brocade of ankle length, spreading as to
skirt, and adorned with a fichu and a deep
flounce of mellow old lace. Marjorie Mac-
lean, her attendant, wore spreading blue
taffetas topped by a large ivory lace hat.
The Warren, the Mack home, did the right
thing by the subsequent toast-drinkers.
Eileen Geddis, whose late father was at
one time an M.L.C. of Maoriland and who
hails from Napier, chose St. Mark’s, at
Darling Point, for her vow-exchange, with
Cecil Lewis, son of Padre Granville Lewis,
of England. Canon Lea was M.C. Rosy
georgettes enfolded the bride, who was given
away by brother Trevor and attended by
sister Kathleen in a. delphinium blue and
silver outfit. The reception was held at the
Cairo, in Macleay-street, where Mrs. Geddis
hostessed decoratively in black and silver.
Tootles Williamson, daughter of Austra-
lia’s famous old showman, is to become Mrs.
Wallace Horsley, of Yabtree Station, at St.
Canice’s, next Monday. Dorothy Coffee is
to he the only bridesmaid.
This attractive head belongs to Mrs. Her-
man Landon, a Sydney girl who is making
her way in America as a writer of short
stories. As
Heather Ben-
jamin she was
on the staff of
the old Stock
and Station
Journal. Go-
ing to New
York she got a
job on the De-
tective Story
Magazine, but
presently ex-
changed it for
a permanent
one in matri-
mony. Her
husband is one
o f America’s
best- sellers
among the
mystery - novel
makers, and
his books in-
clude the hair-
raising Grey Phantom series. A new book
of his, “The Forbidden Door,” lias just
reached Sydney.
The Prince Alfred Auxiliary has taken
the cause of Toe H under its wing, and
aired its desire to help this movement at a
meeting at its stronghold, Burdekin House,
last week. Mrs. C. A. Walker, Prince
Alfred’s champion organiser, shepherded the
gathering, and the Toe H’s padre explained
with great clearness not only the working of
Toe H, but its need of £lO,OOO to really
get going in N. S. Wales. A cable from the
Prince of Wales commending the work was
the afternoon’s thrill, and, many girls hav-
ing decided to raise the wind by means of
varied entertainments—that old diehard, the
Fete, to be called up first—the meeting
merged into tea and toast.
When the knightly Braddon couple were
on their travels they visited the home of
Australia’s former G.-G., -Lord Forster. It
was partly because of this recent association
that Henry Braddon was asked to preside
at the annual meeting of the women’s
hospital which was named after the very
popular vice-reine. The fifth annual meet-
ing of the Rachel Forster Hospital was held
at the Women’s Club last week, and the
big assembly room was crowded with Sydney’s
good workers and supporters of our women
doctors, whose baby this hospital is. Last year
a new wing was opened to accommodate in-
patients, and this so far is adequate, but
the out-patients are more and more each
week, and extensions are again urgent. The
committee’s objective this year is an in-
fants’ clinic and a maternity ward. The
hospital’s new president is Mrs. W. Donald-
son, who takes the place of Billy Hughes’s
dame, resigned.
The Mosman kirk, which, unlike most
tabernacles, is crowded to the doors every
Sabbath night, has just appointed the force-
ful young man
in the picture
as its organist
and choir-mas-
ter. He is
Keith Barry,
of Dee Why,
and if h e
hadn’t decided
to become a
doctor of medi-
cine, he might
easily have
been a doctor
of music. Even
the thought of
a p p ro aching
exams, in his
student days
could not alto-
gether keep
him apart from
his muse, and
for some time
he was organ-
ist at the Sydney University. lie composed
music for Commem. songs, and even for
songs of a more sentimental nature, several
of which have been published in Australia.
Two, “Jean” and “Down Baslow Way,”
have just found favor with London pub-
lishers, and have been issued by Beal, Stut-
tard; and Cary and Co. Dr. Barry, who
served three years at the war, mainly with
the Flying Corps, makes other good use of
his pen. He was one of the most prolific
contributors to Hermes, and his Red Page
articles are well known to Bulletin readers.
His spare moments are taken up with a
novel on University life, which he hopes to
publish by the end of this year. Altogether
lie sounds like another example of the Aus-
tralian national failing—idleness.
When a small boy comes to Sydney with
his mother there’s no knowing what treat’s
in store for him. In one lunch hour last
week Martin-place held as pretty a play as
Hamlet himself could have commended. The
cast wasn’t made up of strolling players,
bul of quick-stepping, personable young fire-
fighters. Brass-hatted and dazzling against
their resplendent chariots, they swung into
the City Square, and where they alighted a
magic ladder ran up 85 feet into the air.
Jack and his Beanstalk were quite eclipsed
in the small boy’s mind when a very polished
young fireman ran up to the ladder’s top,
waved a banner in triumph, and then like
quicksilver returned to earth. By the dis-
play the Sydney Fire Brigades announced
the opening of their Art Union for hospitals
and ambulances. The crowning piece of the
pageant was the casque of gold which will
go to the winner of the first prize.
Of the arranging of balls there is no end.
The charity worker, even as the ant, is stor-
ing up sweets to eat in winter hours. But
if something isn’t done the dancing season
will be frightfully unbalanced. For every
organsation seems frantic to squeeze its
roundabout into the next two months. The
idea is to catch the Renown officers coming
and going, so to speak. Already these gal-
lants have promised to throw their glitter
around the Big Brother Ball, the Show Week
Ball and the Navy League Ball. This last,
incidentally, has courageously fixed on March
28, and that is the date of the Lord Mayor’s
Ball in honor of 11.R.H. and his bride. But,
of course, shoals from the one will drift
on to the other, and towards morning the
Wentworth will probably be one of the live
spots of the village.
Even as this newspaper is preparing for
another rosy dawning, the first Beethoven
Centenary commemoration is being given by
the Conservatorium Orchestra. A feature of
the concert is the concerto in D for violin
and orchestra, with Gerald Walenn as solo-
ist. On March 30 the second of the concerts
will burst in glory on a Conservatorium audi-
ence, with Frank Hutchens as solo pianist.
Papua’s big white chief, Lieut.-Governor
Murray, passed through Sydney last week
on the way to Melbourne. His little lady
returns from England in June after a visit
to her son Terence, a Major in the British
Tanks. On the outward journey she was
nearly killed at Durban by a huge Zulu, who
rushed over her with his rickshaw and shook
her badly.
All Paddington which hadn’t gone to any
race-meeting turned out to see the Bishop of
London’s ecclesiastic finery on Saturday
afternoon. The occasion was the laying of
a foundation-stone of the new rectory which
will house Parson Stephens and his wife and
babe. The old roomy place is now the home
of Dr. Mclntosh. An unrehearsed portion
of the crowded outside performance was the
slithering of highly-respectable Paddingtoni-
ans on a grassy bank. Himself didn't actu-
ally toboggan, but lie had to mind his steps
Knight Allen Taylor’s purse made the store-
laying at present possible.
A distinguished visitor from Maoriland
has been looking over Sydney’s educational
systems. She is Miss Irvine Smith, warden
of the Women Teachers’ College within Wei
lington Uni. Particularly the work carried
on at the Infants’ Practice School, Blaek
friars, has had her attention. Last week
end a great gathering of women M.A’s and
B-A.’s invaded the Australia under the leader-
ship of Eugenie Cusack to farewell the
academic one, who leaves for her native
browse on Friday.
Supported by Edgecliff in its best attir.
by Coadjutor Bishop D’Arcy Irvine and bv
the Dean of Sydney, Mrs. George Earp has
launched a project for having a church
built at Matraville, the soldier settlement
that lies bleakly on the way to Maroubra
At present the spiritual needs of Matraville
are ministered from an old tool-shed As
this is furnished with backless forms, and
the congregation is largely made up of
wounded soldiers, the weekly service must
on occasion become a sort of mild purgatory.
With £2OO of the ultimate £OOOO in hand
the workers, led on by such enthusiasm as
Mrs. Earp’s, is arranging to have the foun-
dation-stone of a new church laid on April
25, Anzac Day.
Sister Brisbane has a busy week:
St. Patrick had his customary sunshine, with a
pleasant breeze to blow upon the emerald and gold
procession along Queen-street, where Ireland, with
flowing hair, stood on the top of the world; a new
feature in the annual pageant. Hundreds of kiddies
from local Catholic schools proved that God had
saved Ireland with reason, and there were 500
Christian Brothers’ boys to give a display of physical
exercises at the Exhibition Oval. Nudgee College
carried off the Archbishop’s Cup, L. G. Munro won
the three-quarter mile senior handicap, and was
decorated with the sash of championship by Lieut.-
Gov. William Lennon. In the evening there was the
usual concert in the Exhibition Building. Boys from
St. James’s in white, with green caps and ties, and
rows of girls from St. Anne’s were on the platform
to flank the singers, amongst whom was J. E. Baines,
who year after year uplifts his voice on the good
Saint’s day.
Charleville was not so fortunate in its day. Thirty
children at the sports became suddenly ill and the
ambulance had to work overtime carrying them to
hospital. Suspicion rests darkly upon the sand-
wiches.
At Ascot there was a bumper attendance for the
race meeting. There were many shades of green in
the flocking. Inez Rode was in jade; Mrs. N. G.
Roskruge in leaf-green; Elsie Prince, of the “Xo.
No, Nanettes,” wore a beige hat with a blue dress;
Mrs. Cecil Palmer was in ivory; Mrs. Cadell
Garrick in black; Mrs. Spence (Longreach) in ivory
with Nottingham lace; and Mrs. Glynn Connolly in
mastic. Black and rose sheathed Jean Graham:
Noela Tyrwhitt wore rose and blue; Mrs. G. A.
Carter pearl grey; and Mrs. Haymen amber with
Oriental pattern. Mrs. Isaac Moore, Mrs. Hooper
and Miss O’Shea gave tea parties.
The Lyceum Club had a tea for Misses Harker and
Jarrett, who are going to the Cold Country, in a
scheme of gum-tips and Prince o’ Wales feather:.
Zinnias, tied with cream ribbons, were handed i,
both guests by Dr. Jean White Haney.
Amidst flags and greenery the United Service
Club had a dance, Colonel Ray and Mrs. Stanle,
receiving.
For Mrs. F. Curr, Corinda, who is off to make her
home in East Africa, Mrs. George Sampson, Mrs.
Wills and Mrs. F. Robinson had a party at Rowe's.
Bowls of dahlias, puffings of tulle and a black cat
mascot, with a book of view's of Queensland, were
decorations and souvenirs.
Sunflowers and crotons were the original decora-
tions for the Authors and Artists’ shivoo, at which
selections were read from Australian authors. Pro-
fessor Stable was in the chair and Dr. F. IV.
Robinson spoke on the Australian Ex-Libris Society.
Mrs. J. H. Baring-Gould (she was Nancy Mae-
Naughton) is off to join her husband in England, and
thence back to the Malay Straits. Airs. Ridgway
gave a part}' for her at Bendles, Ascot.
The Maurice Barrys were played off by the pipers
when they left for the Cold Country. The Hartigan
girls gave them a party at Rowe’s, amongst flame-
hued dahlias set in bronze tulle.
The official opening of the Jubilee Memorial wing
of the Girls’ High School was a social function. There
was a marquee for tea, and the girls gave exhibi-
tions of tennis and eurhythmies.
To get funds for the extension of the Carmelite
Monastery Chapel, a ball was given at Auchenflower
House, where shamrocks made the principal back-
ground. Father Murphy held the glad hand and
Airs, T. J. Ryan came with the Count and Countess
di Alarzano.
The Queensland Masons had a party at their club:
president S. Willmott and Airs. Wilmott, she in pink
and metal lace, received. The new club dining
hall, which was dressed up in fuchSia and bamboo,
with masses of roses and dahlias, was formally
opened.
Owing to the building strike the new Council
Chamber in the City Hall will not be ready to
greet the Royals. Now that the builders are re
turning the Town Hall will get a chance. Its growth
has been stunted for some time past.
W. A. Russell, who bought old Jimbour House,
and Lloyd, of Werribone, have paid over £70,000 for
Bon Accord station, three miles from Dalby, whbh
has changed hands only once before.


Remodelled Jewellery
A search through the Jewel Case will probably
reveal several pieces of unwearable Jewellery:
Ancient Ornaments, Pendants, Brooches and Brace-
lets, all set with precious stones, relics of a bygone
fashion.
Hardy’s make a special feature of remodelling old-
fashioned Ornaments into the graceful modern
Jewellery so fashionable to-day. The Company s
designers will be pleased to submit designs and
estimates for converting old-style Jewellery into
modern styles.
The illustration above shows what can be accom-
plished by Hardy’s skilled Jewellers. This smart
shoulder Brooch, illustrated above, was fashioned
from an old-style Diamond Star.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
c Ho'usc oP Qxxlustvc tJeweU&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JI6-JlB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED
PASSAGES
1841 165 BRANCHES.
Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
INCLUSIVE TOUR IN EUROPE 50 Days for £BO
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting:
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Fares include
Travel, Hotel, Meals while Travelling, Transfers between Stations
and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Guides and
Experienced Conductor.
Automobile Tour de Luxe from NAPLES .... 49 days, £396
Select First-class Tours from MARSEILLES .... 71 days, £302
Select First-class Tours from NAPLES 66 days, £283
Popular Escorted Tours from MARSEILLES ... 53 days, £179
Popular Escorted Tours from NAPLES ...... 48 days, £166
Moderate Escorted Tours from LONDON 46 days, £124
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “ TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Coliins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.PfO.)*
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
An Elgin for Easter
AN Elgin Watch is a gift in exquisite taste. It
is reliable and useful, while being at the same
time a beautiful and ever-present reminder of
the friendship or love that inspired the giving.
An Elgin is the perfect Easter Gift.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
fflgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
fhi? Jr*ade Mark in the Watch Cape
u The little lamp r)
u)ith the big light
Liqht
ariihoul
qlare/
The inimlta-
hie brilliance
of the world-
famous “Con-
dor” Lamps will flood
your home with a clear,
white, glareless light
that most closely re-
sembles the light of
day.
Specify “Condor”
Lamps and “ Condor ”
Radio Valves. _
Sikilili , . /
]%///,
'!■/■///,
'l'ii I
CONDOR LAMPS (AUSTRALASIA)) LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Wellington (N.Z.).


SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1300.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.30,
10/6 ; Suppers, 10.30, 5/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors—
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. I.ate Gala Nights. Continental
mi*? ner rora 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 12/fi.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666.
Swallow* Arkus
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
SWALLOW & A SHELL’S
i
iC»:
I ID no wticm
GSM
S*M
r
v «
t*
St
ik\
+ 0
Fed Young
then you will look young. Feed
your body with Sanatogen. You
will soon notice a new glow of
health. You will feel rejuvenated.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Moonee Valley racecourse had distinc-
tion on Saturday of being favored with some
early winter upholstery. The wind blew
keen, and there was a crispness in the air
that even the bright sunlight failed to thaw.
Coats and furs topped many costumes, and
those who came forth without extra wrap-
ping supported almost to a woman the hues
known as berry. Some shades suggested
the mulberry or raspberry—diluted with
cream. Viewed on the lawn were Lud
Mayor Morell, the Mayoress and daugh-
ter Sheila; Dr. T. Walker Sinclair and Mrs.
Sinclair, the Arthur Hiskens couple, the
Glenby Outliwaites and the T. M. Burkes,
who rejoiced in an unexpected win. The
pretty course was looking its very best after
Friday’s rain.
That theatre-going folk like a rest from
sex-problem and mystery plays was shown by
the welcome given to the revival of “Daddy
Longlegs” at the King’s. Renee Kelly cast
off the blue gingham upholstery of the found-
ling for some dainty frocks of pink taffeta
and lemon georgette, and received sheaves of
gladioli in a gown of begonia-red tuniced over
black satin with some e-old stitchery. Dorothy
Fane and Phyllis Best, as the daughters of
high degree, figured in dresses that most
flappers present memorised for future refer-
ence. Of the lookers-on were Mrs. John
Tait, Mrs. Charles Wenmau and her two
small daughters, Beatrix Plenty, Nancyo
Madden, the Best lady, Mrs. T. A. Tabart,
medico Ethel Osborne and her son.
In the Allan Wilkie production of “The
Merchant of Venice” Miss Hunter-Watts
wore some fine apparel in the rOle of Portia
besides the crimson velvet legal robes of
the trial scene. She gathered at the final
curtain an armful of blooms that had a
charming background of a flowing gown of
apple-green brocade banded with gold.
Two hundred of the younger set tripped
in a merry jazz staged at Tinhaven, the
home of Mrs. John Buchan, at Kew, on
Friday niglit, when daughter Sheila, in amber
tones of georgette sprinkled with gold sequins,
was hostess. Her mother, who had rhine-
stones radiating on black chiffon velvet, saw
that everyone had a good time. Unfortu-
nately, the only really wet night Melbourne
lias had for months compelled the guests to
stay indoors —there was no meandering
around the beautiful grounds that slope
towards the Yarra at Studley Park.
The Theatre Association of Victoria is
again in harness with the view of producing
at the Playhouse on April 23 “Mrs. Partridge
Presents.” Proceeds will be divided into
many parts; the Tweddlc Baby Hospital.
Sutherland Homes, and the Minton Boys’
Home head the list of institutions looking
forward to generous support from the pub-
lic. A bridge party and hop at the Wattle
Path next Thursday afternoon will give the
profits a start.
Arthur Streeton’s show of three dozen of
liis latest works paid the artist well; on
the opening day more than £1(X)0 worth of
•canvases changed hands. The painter and
his wife were present at the Fine Arts’ Gal-
lery ; and among appreciative spectators were
the G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven, the Frank
Clarkes, Colonel and Mrs. Cass, and the
James Barrett lady—herself a clever artist;
she used to he a Gallery student.
Melbourne is spreading itself to do honor
to Bishop Wilmington Ingram, who arrives
to-day. Every minute of the prelate’s four
days’ stay is mapped out like unto a royal
visit; there are to be meetings of clergy and
of Women’s and Men’s Societies of the G.E.
and sundry services; the Bishop taking the
pulpit at St. Paul’s Cathedral on Sunday
night. A dinner at Government House, a
reception fo-night staged by the E.S.U. at
the Embassy, and a civic greeting extended
by the Lud Mayor on Friday are of the
purely worldly social functions in His Lord-
ship’s welcome.
The local “shop” will stage its commern.
week celebration from April 4 to April 9.
The U.D.C. will produce a Milne comedy,
and by way of increasing interest in the
Uni. Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall, there
will —thrilling announcement!—be a reduc-
tion in the price of tickets.
The country came to town last week for
the conference of the Farmers’ Union. The
women’s section, with Mrs. McKerrow in the
chair, discussed things in general for two
days, and stressed the necessity for many
reforms, notably better conditions for hos-
pital nurses. Premier John Allan opened
the proceedings and beamed on the delegates
in a fatherly way. But he didn’t tell the
women, as he did the men, that he’d “take
a shade of odds that Liberal johnnie- they’re
running against me loses his deposit.”
Alison Stephens looked like one of Rom-
ney’s ladies in her quaint, tight-fitting frock
of ivory satin, billowing below the waist-
line and sparkling with diamond dewdrops,
as she drifted down the aisle of St. John’s.
Toorak, on the afternoon of March 16. Tin-
long Limerick lace veil, bound with a chap
let of orange blossoms, was handed over for
the occasion by Mrs. Dick Power, and the
pretty bride carried an armful of lilies-of-
the-valley and golden orchids. The bride-
groom was Dr. Lennox Teece, of Sydney,
whose brother is secretary of the Melbourne
Hospital. Little Judy Baillieu and Vai
Stephens, the bride's tiny nephew, carried
the train—the wee maid in mauve georgette
with pink roses; the boy, an autumn study
in shades of brown. Doreen Hordern
attended in a froth of mauve georgette
trimmed with velvet petals and a large felt
hat in the same tone. Her parents were
represented at the reception by a handsome
gift of china. Mr. and Mrs. Teece intend
motoring over to the new home acquired in
Sydney on the shores of Rose Bay.
The Melbourne Music Club leads off with
the first Beethoven centenary celebration to-
morrow night at the Victorian Artists’
Society Galleries. Ei-itz Hart heads the
programme with a dissertation upon the
master, and pianist Louise Gargurevich will
contribute the Sonata in D Minor. The
M.M.C. has just come into possession of a
fine collection of music left to it by
Nellie Billings. About £4O is required to
set up and bind these works; members are
asked to forward donations to Dora Camp-
bell, 19 Cromwell-road, South Yarra.
Last week saw further progress in the
teaching of domestic arts and home crafts
with the opening of the Emily McPherson
College, towards which William McPherson
gave £25,000, and which takes 1 the place of
the quite inadequate premises in Lonsdale-
street. The college has come into being upon
the site of the old Melbourne Gaol, but to
the attractive green-and-white buildings
cling none of the old associations of a prison.
Opening day found 250 students ready to
commence the art of home-making, and par-
ticularly that of learning to feed the brute.
When the college is in full swing there will
he room for 800 girls; and the number could
be stretched to 1000 at a pinch. Shortly
there is to be an opening ceremony with
speeches and the sampling of food cooked
on the premises. The principal, Royena
Chisholm, has many brilliant schemes to
make the Emily McPherson a success.
This winsome face depicted by Dickinson
Monteath belongs to Beth Darvall, whose
dream of be-
coming a
screen cel e -
brity is in a
fair way to
f u 1 fil ment.
Betli comes
from Bris-
bane, where
her dad, Col-
onel Darvall,
was an officer
in the Com-
m o n w e altli
Forces, and
with her
mother she
spent some
years in Lon-
don when dad
was occupied
in the Big
Strife. Re-
turn in g by
way of Amer-
ica, the little Aussie was pronounced a
“type” by a picture producer who offered
to train her for the business. Such a career
then had no attractions, and was declined
with thanks. But Beth exercised a woman’s
privilege, after an experience on the stage.
For two years she has been working hard to
fit herself for screen work, and a private
screening of her first picture, “L’Environ-
ment,” is promised shortly. Advance Films,
who made the plioto-play in question, have
booked Beth for their next effort. Unlike so
many clever girls, Miss Darvall is content
to stay at home and let the pictures tell her
story to the world.
The Girl Guides’ Association got further
uplift on Thursday afternoon, when there
was a select tea-drinking at State Government
House, with a preliminary chatting at the
inaugural meeting of the State Council. Lady
Somers, as State Commissioner, presided in
uniform. It was recorded that the G.G.
movement set out in Victoria in 1920 with
three companies that' have now grown to 156
with 4000 Guides. The Association finds
itself about £2OO on the wrong side of the
ledger, even though it runs it own sales
of members’ attire and signs of rank. A
rally of new associates or some big enter-
tainment was suggested as a solution of the
financial difficulty. Miss A. M. Behrens,
deputy commissioner for the North of Eng-
land, who has been around these parts
for some time, put forth her views.
Melbourne possesses pianists who are good
soloists, but not many of them are admirable
accompanists as well. May Broderick, here
pictured b y
Broothorn, is
the happy
comb i nation,
which may be
judged at her
joint recital
with violinist
Cecil Parkes
at the Assem-
bly Hall to-
night. For the
greater part of
a year these
musicians have
been success-
fully touring
the country
districts o f
Victoria, and
finding that
popular taste
runs to classical
"p i- o grammes.
Miss Broderick
began her instruction with the Sisters of
Loretto Convent, then had some study with
Goll at the University Con., and later worked
under Benno Scherek’s direction. Her pro-
fessional partnership with Mr. Parkes is to
develop shortly into a matrimonial one.
It was an important gathering of members
of the Alliance Franqaise at the Victorian
Artists’ Society Galleries on Thursday night.
Consul Rene Turck, just returned from a
trip to France, brought tributes from the
parent body in Paris to prominent workers
in the cause here; these tokens included a
gold medal for the president, Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer, a silver medal for the vice-president,
Madame Albertine Gay—now on a holiday
tonr —and another of bronze for the trea-
surer, S. A. Watson. The evening was a
farewell to the leading lady, whose energy
and money have done much for the organ-
isation. Mrs. Jimmy, arrayed in coat and
gown all grey and silver, with pink roses
dangling over one shoulder, extended a wel-
come back to the French. Consul; and later
he, in passing over her decoration, wished
the lady au revoir with added gratitude for
her services and everyone’s regret at her
departure. With her thanks, Mrs. Jimmy,
who retires with the distinction of president
of honor for life, voiced a request that the
Alliance would- always devote a few minutes
of its social evenings to the performance of
music by French composers. The excellent
programme included songs warbled by con-
tralto Jean Hambleton; the comedy, “Le
Pacha,” by Rene Benjamin; and a pavane
gracefully stepped by two young people in
period costumes.
Grace Evans, who has sung here lately
in many engagements, is the latest recruit
to the staff of the New Conservatorium. If
she can teach as well as she can use her
beautifully-trained voice, her working hours
will soon be full.
Last July, when Frank Stogdale was medi-
tating selling his comfortable residence, be
offered the dwelling with some land (about
two acres) to the Church of England mis-
sion to the streets and lanes of Melbourne
at a very low figure. The other day Yar-
rayne estate came under the hammer; but
the owner decided to withhold the home
from the market until the end of the month,
to enable the C.E. to raise the purchase-
money of £6OOO. Seeing in this generous
offer a chance of transferring the babies
from the Brighton Home thither, and also of
providing for twice the number, good people
interested in that institution are making
efforts to gather the requisite funds, and
the cheque is now well into its second thou-
sand. Part of the scheme is to convert the
place at Brighton into a hostel for girls
who have graduated from these institutions.
The Charities Board has sanctioned a But-
ton Day—and to-day’s the day.
A matrimonial forging at St. John’s
Church of England, Toorak, on March 16,
had interest for N.S.W. landed proprietors
and some of Victoria’s Western district
people. The bride, whose Limerick lace veil
and brocaded tissue train formed background
to a gown of ivory georgette, all scintillat-
ing with pearls, diamente and gold stitchery,
was Norma S. G. Withers. Her late father
had Brung Brungle, near Hamilton, and Box
Grove, across in N.S.W.; her mother now
lives at Toorak. It was Dr. William G. D.
Upjohn, also of Toorak, who handed his
name and promised to share his worldly
goods and future fees with the lass. Taffetas,
very much in favor again, clothed the two
bridesmaids, the color being apricot, allied
with gold lace. A dance and supper at No.
9 Darling-street celebrated the union.
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence, of Billup, Cressy,
announce the engagement of their daughter
V' • ,olui Foster, son of the late Dowbriggan
Foster, Rosedale aud Fairfield. Tassy Th-
future bride came to this city intent on a
career and entered a Toorak garage, when'
she got on famously. She can handle a car
m the manner of an expert.
Lilian Roseigh, who came down from
Avon Plains on matrimony bent, got the
job fixed at Scots Church on the eveniw
of March 16. A foam of white georgette
embroidered with silver, formed the knee-
length wedding gown, and a Limerick lac
veil drawn into a cap and trimmed with
eardrops of blossom draped the aisle as a
train. Robert Roseigli gave his daughter
away. Katie McAllister, the attending
’maid, tied her ivory georgette frock with a
baby-blue sash, and a swathe of tulle to
match was worn round the head and tied
behind in floating streamers. The bride-
groom was Norman McAllister, of Marnoo.
and the Rev. R. Stewart, an old friend, earn.'
from Daylesford to tie the knot.
The Victoria League in Victoria will
shortly become a club for social intercourse,
with morning and afternoon snacks and
luncheons on the bill. Present members of
the V.L. can join the venture without entrance
fee or ballot, the annual sub. being 10s. The
lion, general secretary is Miss E. A. Spowers.
The premises are at 60 Market-street, the
Bush Book Library having been moved to
another room.
Lady Stonehaven has promised to do the
sayings for the onening of the Diamond
Jubilee Fair, engineered by Mrs. .Tim Angus
to help along the finances of the Blind
Women’s Hostel. It will be held on April
8 and 9 in the grounds of the R.V.I. for the
Blind, St. Kilda-road.
Margaret Sutherland’s fair, shorn coiffure
and a gown of powder-blue hue appeared
above the grand piano opposite Biddy Allen,
whose dark, shingled locks were accompanied
by a frock of deep lilac tone, when the two
friends gave a programme of music for two
pianos at the Assembly Hall. Both were
students at the University Conservatorium,
having won Goll scholarships; Miss Suther-
land has a gift for composition. A cheerful,
crisp, short piece titled “Burlesque” was
a promising bit of not-too-futuristic musical
thought played by the pianists which earned
the young composer due appreciation by an
audience of the musical elect of society.
Some of the feminine section wore wonder-
ful wrapping, suggestive of the Queen of Sheba
in its glory of brocaded tissue and gleam.
Nice lasses in fascinating raiment of colored
taffeta acted as ushers, and dashed up the
aisles with armfuls of garden stuff for the
performers.
Apparel of the winter is beginning to make
its appearance in shop window and show-
room. Feminine raiment, when the weather
turns chill, will assume the hues of purple,
mulberry and prune; and the sex will wan-
der round like unto an animated bruise, as
a witty lass dubs the shades. A Philistine
feature of the coming fashions is dyed fur.
Not that most furs have not always been
dipped, but the latest pelt matches the color
of the frock or top-coat it decorates or
makes hideous, according to the opinion of
shoppers. Beautiful skins are being touched
up with pinks and reds, and the injured
tones referred to. One can almost imagine
that poor bunny met a horrible end. It
wall be an over-wise animal that will recog-
nise its own skin in the hybrid fluff that
collars and cuffs the latest of covering.
From Ohatterlaide: —
It has been a busy week at the Town Hall—a
meeting of the Housewives’ Association, with Mr?.
Glencross as chief speaker; a tea-drinking, whereat
Mrs. Bruce handed the proceeds of her bridge party
to the Tubercular Soldiers’ Association; a meeting
to make plans for a jumble sale in aid of St.
Mary’s Mission of Hope, where Mrs. Bruce had Mr?.
Arthur Lewis, Mrs. Guy Makin and Miss Mann as her
lieutenants, and empanelled a list of stall-holders who
should make the show a success. Mrs. Glencross
stayed with Mrs, A. K. Goode while she was in
Adelaide.
News comes of the marriage of Norman, youngest
son of the James Halls of Norwood, to Miss Violet
Bankes, of Kingston Lacy, Dorset. He is a medico, and
has been in London putting a final polish on his
acquirements.
The Narkunda’s passengers included Miss Lizzie
Murray and the Duncan dame; and the Cecil Brays
sail in the Oronsay next month. The Dougla-
Mawsons are homeward bound on the Maunganui:
and Hilda Snow is among the Colombo pilgrims whe
have returned.
Arrangements for the ducal visit go ahead. Thf
list of receptions now includes one of ex-servic
men and their families; 52 women’s societies will
take part in the one being organised by the National
Council of Women.
A country medico, in town on his way to Englan’
via America, left his motor with his luggage, a
despatch case of cheques, letters of credit and the
rest, outside a restaurant. He came out to find the
car ransacked and the despatch case missing; ani
it took him two strenuous days chasing securities an 1
stopping payment before he finally went east.
The Elder Conservatorium launched its new year
with a students’ dance. New students number 100,
and such developments as the students’ orchestra
and the operatic class promise to boom.


A. SAUNDERS' SPECIAL VALUE
jAP
Teapot, daintily
K. Saunders’ Silver-plated
engraved, “Empire” design, 35/-
Others, 20/-, 21/-, 25/-, 30/
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, pure
Silver-plated Al quality, engraved
design, 50/-
Others, 42/-, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-
mm
A. Saunders’ Cut Glass Butter Dish,
Silver-plated Mount and Knife, 12/6
Others, 5/6. 8/6, 10/6, 15/-, 17/6
A. Saunders’ Rose Bowl, pur*
silver-plated on ebonised plynth,
907-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-,
80/-
A, Saunders’ Cut Glass Salad Bowl, Silver-
plated Mount and Servers, 507-
Others, 31/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-,
60/-
A. Saunders’ Toast Rack, Pure Silver-plated
Al Quality, 50/-
Others, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
SENT POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS
W atchmaker—J eweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Meet Competition
the Right Way
Machining Commutator End-Plate for Lighting Dynamo.
The New Herbert No. 2A Auto Lathe enables you
to do your Chuck Work more cheaply.
Fully automatic save for chucking. Robust, simple
machines, easy to set.
Made in three sizes:—
No. 2 A Maximum swing B£in.
No. 5 ~ ~ 18iin.
No. 26 ~ „ 23in.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Limited,
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
Telephones:
City 10109, 10110.
Telegrams: LATHE.
Branch Office, Melbourne.
Your Health!
1759
mm
m
am
Guinness’s Stout
am
m.
'm
4Us
m !927
The World Over
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


m
Williams saturated lather
in a stick with a non-slip holderl
Men want two things above all'others in shaving
sticks. First: the right kind of lather; and,
second: a holder in which the soap can't work
loose. Williams gives yon both. The soap
works up into a quick, rich lather that bulks
large on the face. The razor just glides
through the beaten bristles.
The holder grips the stick so that slipping is
impossible. When a reload is necessary, the
wafer of soap comes out easily and surely, and
can be placed on top of. the new reload. Buy
a stick to-day and brighten to-morrow’s shave.
Also Manufacturers of Williams Shaving
Cream in the tube with the unloseable cap.
New Red'uiced Prices:
Holder Top Shaving Stick 2/-
Reloads 1/C
Williams Shaving Cream.. 2/-
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST, LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Bfudkq,
m
trade mark
AS FINE AS FINE CHINA CAN BE
m
Bk%
f > I.u '
1
STON*
I
CHINA
pT T RE WHITE CHINA.
* White China —real white —is once again much
in vogue, and a breakfast or tea set of the famous
Shelley “Dainty” white china is a present which
is sure to please, and which could live at peace with
any surrounding. It is not expensive and includes
attractive odd things like cress dishes, covered
muffins, fruit sets, honey jars and cake stands.
Obtainable from all high-class stores and Pottery
dealers. If any difficulty, write for name of nearest
stockist to our Wholesale Representatires,
TM HEATH & CO.
/limited
252. (Plarence St.. Sydney & Commerce '/"House. £"Melbourne,
NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
asdf
n
r
By Royal Warrant to
HU Majesty King George V.
27 New Australasian Records
made on
WAKEFIELD
m
a
MOTOR OIL
February 22-23—at Maroubra Speedway by
Dick and Alan Clarke in a 14/40 VauxhaO.
14793/ Miles in 24 Hours
1000 Miles in 913 Minutes
Averaging 61.65 M.P.H. for 24 Hours.
This remarkable performance included the creating of new
times for all intermediate hour records up to 17 hours and
every 100 miles to 1100 miles. Throughout Australian motor-
ing history British-owned Vauxhalls have won many outstand-
ing triumphs on road and race-track with British-ownea
“Castrol” contributing to their success.
Most recent records,
on road and track,
in the air or afloat,
have been made on
“Castrol.”
The Duke of York’s Cars.
The fleet of Crosslev Cars which will hr
used during the Royal visit will he
lubricated with “Castrol" exclusively.
Obtainable from all Leading Garages.
C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm.
Head Office for Australasia:
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.


Footballers'—
Pass it on that there is no
nner feeling of exhilara-
“PS well being” than
alter a clean, close shave
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
•••'l*#. J. KITCHEN » SONS NTT. LTD.
C"fy
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
IE
m
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON,
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESOH’S, LTD., Redfem, Sydney.
12
U/ye
W. W. GREENER
“EMPIRE”
Hammerless Gun
Obtainable from all Retailers.
Price £2l.
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
405-7 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
b e ihg a wealthy proprietary concern,
die Hawkesbury club has no friends among those who
me on the game” in Sydney, and there is always
4 o"hng when it is given a date. However, people
vj® t „ h f ll * m . ore , of the sporting than of the business
i n C n° f . th ? turf " r , en; well Pleased with their trip
Claiendon on Saturday, for the course was a
JSP f , or ® ore e Y es > and the racing was capital,
SZs T e n e „u ere no Valicares or Pantheons
engaged. The three principal races (five events
oil, °,i sev< j?’ 3? fact ) were won by mares—the
tvow r handicap seven furlongs, by Helvetia
SV Lady /"Afford), who is turning out a
profitable spec for J. J. Garvan; the Flying Handi-
cap six furlongs by Prairie Belle (Bernard—Lady
o Lome) mid the Autumn Handicap, 11 furlongs,
,'fueen s Bow (Bowman —Queen Dowager). Hel-
'etia (7 to 2) and Prairie Belle (6 to 1) had
numerous friends, but five horses were better backed
Q u ® en s How (10 to 1), who outstayed Whizbro
™!° a P d T (5 to 1), thanks largely to
■ s, a good light boy. For most punters it was
day, but scores got square on Bootlegger
i. to 9 )> w h°. credited Kelso, the leading trainer
season’ with first prize in the Highweight
Handicap. The Buckwheat mar e Chalder, third to
Megger and _ Orient Princess, looked a bit burly
should be improved by the race.
* * * „
This Page’s early fancy for the Doncaster
danAcap 1S Vaals, who has Bst. 121 b. The son of
u ais—Galtee Queen, who has grown into a fine-
ooking horse, is engaged in the Renown Handicap,
,S n fm'kngs, at Rosehill next Saturday, with
'J ,b -—™ere is an Bst. minimum, Boaster head-
w]Hi lOst. 81b.—and if the going is
»°oa he should win or go near winning. Other
noncaster hopes in the race are Don Moon (9st.
ii kU FooPs Paradise and Grecian Orator (9st.
nil)-), Lave Dweller and Hemisphere (9st. 101 b )
heddmg Eve (9st. 61b.) and Cimon (9st. 21b.).
Most of these are also in the Holiday Handicap,
t. mrlongs, which has a 7st. 71b. minimum;
»r this Limerick may be started, but lOst lib.
seems a lot of weight for a horse built on his
™es. Chalder and Pigeon Pie (each 7st. 131 b.)
are nicely handicapped. There are a few Svdnev
mp candidates in the Duke of York Handicap, 10
mnongs but not as many as one would expect;
spaghetti (7st. 101 b.) or Kurrianna (7st. 61b.) may
succeed.
* * # *
Those punters who hurried out to Moonee
'alley on Saturday after seeing the St. Patrick’s
W procession must have wished they had finished
ne celebrations in. town, for it turned out a sticky
i J or tribe. Victorian King and Imitator
p aC j 'r monopolised the betting on the Moonee
ronds Handicap, 12 furlongs, but backers of neither
collected ; Warwickshire (20 to 1), always handy, led
into the straight, and despite a good finishing effort
nn imitator’s part, beat her by a head, with Tookarby
to l) a good third. Warwickshire (Kenilworth
--Lady Egale), on whom Wilson rode a well-judged
tace, is owned and trained by E. J. O’Dwyer, and
has among other successes, a Hopetoun Cup to his
credit, but it was a long time since he had scored,
and the public left him severely alone. The time
"as 2min. 36sec.
, Fellow’s Cyklon filly Herowinkie, in Jim Scobie’s
dable, was all the rage for the Calliope Handicap
lor two-year-olds, but she finished a long way back;
•Jimmy Wilson’s Pulkami (5 to 1) had a rather
easy win from Censatis (5 to 1) and Zanibar (11
t 0 2). Lady Yarborough (9 to 2). a great little
galloper for her inches, scored in the first division
of the Highweight Handicap, Red Sea (15 to 1)
and Waranie (7 to 4), filling the places; and
'agrant (7 to 2) took the second division with
remarkable ease from Stage Saint (7 to 2) and
Lauriston (15 to 1), breaking a long run of “outs”
for Vie. Sleigh, who rode the Valais—Beanbri
gelding. The time, lmin. 28see., was 2sec. better
than Lady Yarborough’s. One of T. M. Burke’s in
Royal Feast’s brother, King Osrie (15 to 1), just
got up in the last stride to defeat the favorite,
Chickling (2 to 1) in the Melrose Handicap, a mile.
E. J. O Dwyer, previously successful with Warwick-
shire, completed the double when Valoden (5 to 1)
captured the Plenty Handicap, six furlongs, from
Bondi (5 to 1) and Solus (5 to 1). Valoden was
ridden by Neville Percival, the Westralian horseman,
who is doing a great deal of travelling these times.
* * * *
“Warirata”: Tell “Bouragi” (B. 20/l/’27)
the Papua Turf Club is not the first to hold a
meeting in those parts. In 1912 the Port Moresby
people formed a club with William Cunningham
Bruce as president; the first meeting was held near
Sapphire Creek, Harry Gofton’s Dandy Pat won
most of the races (poor Harry sleeps in a Inlanders
field) and we settled-up in Tom McCrann’s Moresby
pub. That was a night! All Moresby was there,
and there were six fights at the same time in the
old billiard-room and on the flints before the bar
door. . And above the popping of corks and the
roars of battle even, you could hear Tom McCrann’s
outsize in laughs. We liked our settling-up decorated
with frills in those days. So take the palm from
Thomas Leslie Sefton and give it to the shade of
Harry Gofton. Certainly Sefton was a good second.
* * * *
“Retired Urger”: What is characteristi-
cally billed as the world’s greatest horserace, the
Coffroth Handicap, was run last week at Tijuana
in Mexico and won by a Canadian neddy hight
Sir Harry. Dangerous, an American prad, was
second, and a French steed, Cotlogomer, third. The
prize-money was £20,000, out of which the owners
of second and third took only £llOO and £6OO
respectively, so the Canuck stable had some spare
betting silver for the rest of the meeting. Time
for the mile and a quarter was 2min. 3 2-ssec. —•
not wonderful for a rolled dirt track, and far less
meritorious than Beauford’s Randwick record of
2min. 3jsec. on grass. Tijuana, where the race was
run, lies just across the Californian-Mexican border,
and exists chiefly for American racing, hampered
in its own territory by .State enactments and pro-
hibition. There are other big races and plenty of
betting. If France thinks it worth while to send
over candidates for the big events, what about some
Australian owner having a flutter?
* * * *
“Stedmore” : The chance of getting another
Lilypond or Molly’s Robe appealed so little to
PUTTING HIM ON LEVEL TERMS.
INFURIATED HUSBAND: “You damned fool! You nearly hit my wife just note!”
HENPECKED DITTO: “Did I? I’m sorry ; hut you can have a shot at mine.”
Queenslanders who attended the yeai’ling sales at
Brisbane that offers were few and prices wretched.
Although there were fine lots, including some by
Seremond, a consistent sire of winners, and Rivoli’s
first batch of youngsters, only 23 out of 68 submitted
changed hands for an average of not quite £146.
The top price was 500 guineas for a filly by Seremond
—Wise Bird, a full sister to Gay Galah. A chestnut
colt by Highfield—Concise, full brother to High
Syce, brought 375 guineas. The best price for a
Rivoli yearling was 309 guineas for a bay filly out
of Rose of Canning. Rivoli was a great racehorse
and is a grand-looking sire, but he is Australian-
bred, and that is reckoned a drawback nowadays.
It wasn’t so when Australian-bred horses went to
England and captured the City and Suburban three
years running, as well as the Cesarewitch and the
Ascot Gold Cup.
• # * *
“Brief”: An ever-rccurring tragedy was
seen at Epping (N.S.W.) trots recently, when
Alesia was ruled out for breaking. Many tote
backers of Amy Pronto, the second nag, had thrown
away their tickets, and on Amy being given the
race, all hands, ticket owners and otherwise, got busy
hunting the discarded briefs. I recall a similar
experience, with variations, at Brisbane years ago.
A horse called Vuleano won, with Lady Kate second.
Somehow, the “all-right” flag went up, and the tote
started paying a £9 div. on Vuleano. Suddenly
the windows were slammed down, a protest having
been entered, and Lady Kate was given the race.
She was a hot favorite, and in a minute the lawn
was full of male and female punters nosing on all
fours in the thick buffalo grass for Lady Kate
tickets. Not finding many, a mob of them inter-
viewed the stewards, tearing the pickets off the
weighing enclosure fence to use as arguments. The
club obligingly paid all Lady Kate tickets, and
announced it was waiting for the dozen or so who
had collected on Vuleano to return the cash. By
all accounts, it is still waiting.
* * * *
Making a virtue of necessity Sydney box-
ing promoters have abolished the brutal 20-rounder;
in the case of Stadiums, Ltd., the new rule will
apply to Brisbane and Melbourne also. All main
contests are to be limited to 15 rounds. This will
remove the painful spectacle of a game man who
is overmatched being bashed and banged around the
ring, needlessly as far as the result is concerned, to
become, maybe, a case for the hospital, the asylum
or the Coroner’s Court. The sport can be just as
exciting over the shorter course—except, perhaps, to
the brutal few who glory in seeing another fellow
being chopped to pieces and who gloat the more the
gorier the spectacle—and 15 can be just as decisive
as 20 rounds.
* * * *
Eddie Butcher (lOst. and Bill
Richards (9st. 131 b.) went 15 two-minute rounds at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Richards has
made long strides to the front in the past few
months, and is a heady fighter with a fine body
punch; but the gold of experience was always observ-
able in the Westralian left-hander’s work. His
skill enabled him to keep his head out of danger
and beat Bill to the punch. Richards won the
twelfth, and the thirteenth was even, Eddie’s con-
dition failing him a little. The Boulder City boy
won all the remainder by a margin ranging from
narrow to barn-door wide; but the referee was kind
to the prentice hand, and called it a draw.
* * * *
“White Horse”: A lot of sympathy is
wasted over the frugal treatment of preliminary
boxers of to-day. They can consider themselves
lucky they didn’t live in Foley’s time. I can
remember when Griffo got five bob from Larry for
four rounds; and Fitzsimmons’s reward for a win
in a main event was one pound ten. And then Bob
was robbed, while in the ring, of a set of gold studs
from the shirt he had left in the black hole called
a “dressing room.”
* * * *
Welshman Jackie Jones (9st. lOflb.) and
Stan Craig (9st. 121 b.) took a lot of punishment
stoically in their Melbourne Stadium battle on Satur-
day night. Jackie set out with the fixed intention of
stopping' his adversary, and succeeded, after many
setbacks, in the seventeenth round. Three times the
Welshman was on the floor, but each time he came
back more determinedly than ever. Stanley, who found
the Leeklander’s reach troublesome, thrilled the
crowd by rallying repeatedly when seemingly on
the point of being knocked out. He deserves another
chance.
* * * *
“M.G.”: “Yous speakin’ o’ Ponsford,”
said Old Dan, “reminds me o’ the time W. G.
Grace was ’ired by Gumleaves Valley to play in
the final of the districk comp. I was makin’
cench’ry after cench’ry fer Mopoke ’lll, an’ Gum-
leaves Valley knoo that if they didn’ get somebody
in me class they wouldn’ ’ave a ’ope o’ landin’ the
trophy. So they rings Grace in, w’iskers an’ all.
’E knocks up six ’undred an’ fifty, an’ w’en I
goes in we wants seven ’undred an’ twenny-four
to win. ’Anged if the first ball I ’it didn’ go fair
down the mouth of a goanner wot was sittin’ on
a limb watchin’ the match. The goanner ducks
into a nollow limb, an’ be the time they cuts the
tree down and gets the ball, me and me partner’s
run eight ’undred and forty. It served W.G. right,
goin’ down there an’ ringin’ ’imself in fer a
measly fifty bob. Mine’s one with a ’andle, Bill.”
* * * #
“Howzatt”: March 15 was a famous date
in Australian history, for on that day, 50 years
ago, at Melbourne began the first Test match ever
played between England and Australia. Australia
won by 45 runs. Charlie Bannerman, still on deck
in Sydney, made a wonderful 165 before he retired
hurt, being incapacitated by a fast ball from York-
shire George Ulyett. Tom Garrett and Jack Black-
ham are others of the side still above the turf.
In spite of Bannerman’s great score, Australia made
only 245 and Alfred Shaw rattled them out in the
second knock for 104. England’s scores were 196
and 108, Kendall rising to the occasion in the second
innings with 7 for 55.
* * * *
“Old Collegian”: The League game has a
firm hold on pastoral centres north and south of the
Queensland-N.S.W. border; and though the population
is small, the money is good. On the Queensland
side this year, Cunnamulla has engaged Raabe, some-
time of Ipswich, as playing coach, Charleville has
secured Heuschele and Barcaldine has bagged Fraun-
felder, the international full-back. Longreach first
negotiated with Craig, who wanted £3O a week,
then tried to get Parcells, who was bound up
with an Ipswich contract, and finally came to terms
with Knyvett. Blackall is still advertising for a
coach. At Easter there will be a competition at
Bourke, with Bourke, Brewarrina and Nyngan teams
representing the Ma State and a Cunnamulla side
keeping Queensland’s end up. The Cunnamulla lads
will travel altogether 350 miles by car, but that
is a mere trifle to Cunnamulla.
* * * *
“Swing-th’-boot”: One recognises that
there is a measure of compulsion attaching to most
football, as far as the play itself is concerned. For
instance, the ethics of the game demand that if a
winger lose his knickers when sprinting for the line
he must carry on regardless of his own or other
folks’ feelings—“duty before decency,” in fact. But
North Sydney League club, once the idol of the
Sydney barracker, is desirous of introducing the
compulsory principle into football politics. It cannot
get members, and at its annual meeting it resolved
to see what it could do “by the application of a
compulsory policy.” If the idea is to round up,
say, Scott Fell, Cecil Murphy and Dr. Arthur, with
other leading North Shore lights, and force them to
exhibit their paces in inadequate garments before
the multitude, I am in favor of it.
# * * *
“Past Grammar”: Alec Burdon, the old-
time Australian' R.U. rep., who is now a N.S.W.
League selector, put up an impassioned plea for the
hired footballer at the Glebe club’s annual meeting,
Glebe had a bad financial year, due to the fact that,
save for Frank Burge on occasions, it had no star
performer to draw the crowd; as a consequence, its
gates were poor for the most part, and the prize-
money to be divided was disappointing. Burdon
advocated the importation of a shining light or two,
geography being immaterial so long as there was
no doubt about their effulgence. The expense, he
argued, would be justified by the increased receipts ;
and he instanced the case of North Sydney, which
had acquired great fame and affluence by “import-
ing” Horder, Thompson and Blinkhorn, yet sank to
penurious depths when it let its expensive string of
performers go and fell back on local talent. The
speaker was possibly right, according to his lights,
but the bringing in of paid outsiders is a curious
way of recruiting a club based on the district system
and supposed to feed itself from its own area.
* * * *
Although the Victorians were without
Patterson, they proved too strong for South Aus. in
the inter-State lawn tennis tourney at Adelaide.
O’Hara Wood defeated G. M. Hone, whom the sodden
courts may not have suited, but went down to E. T.
Rowe, the scores being 7—5, 7—5 in the Wheat
Stater’s favor. Rowe had previously been beaten by
Wertheim, I—6, 6—2, 6 —2, the tall Victorian also
accounting for Hone, 6 —l, 6—3. In the doubles.
O’Hara Wood and Mclnnes won both their matches,
and Gumer and Turnbull pleased the crowd immensely
by overcoming Wertheim and Lum, 6 —3, 6—2.
“15-30”: Pat O’Hara Wood, who celebrated his
recovery from neuritis by winning the singles in
the autumn tennis tournament of the' M.C.C., still
strikes me as a man of international calibre, despite
the fact that he is now well into the thirties and
hasn’t been training seriously for a very long time.
His defeat of Queenslander Moon, which gave him
the title for the fourth time, was again a demonstra-
tion of the sharp-angled shooting which is such a
feature of Wood’s game. Also it was an exhibition
of the complete comfort with which a quick-thinking
veteran can outmatch a comparative junior who has
learnt the sad modern doctrine that one good wallop
is worth a ton of courteraft. With the lone and
magnificent exception of Crawford, of N. S. Wales,
who promises to develop into a cool and subtle
strategist, all the youngsters who are coming on are
mere ball-pounders who will never discover that they
have neglected a good half of the inner trickery of
tennis until they are taught the high art of place-
ment by some foreign invader. It is for that reason
that we should postpone our huzzas over the Reeds
aiid the Teagues who are now beginning to stagger
the pens of chroniclers in the Melbourne papers.
*• * * *
“Amateur Pro.” : Helen Wills is picking up
the racquet again after a long spell, following on
an operation for appendicitis. Detailing her plans
for the future, the young woman said she would
attempt the recapture of the U.S. women’s cham-
pionship; “then,” she added, “I’ll be all set for
Suzanne.” As the Lenglen is never likely to figure
again as an .amateur, even if she desires it —Wimble-
don will see to that —it must be inferred that Helen
is going to follow Tilden into the professional
ranks when, like him, she has cleaned up the
amateurs in sight. Helen has already turned down
one offer from Pyle, but a series between the French
marvel and the only woman player capable of
extending her would draw money worth thinking
about—especially' if Suzanne suffered a defeat or
two, and gave some of her occasional firework dis-
plays.
# * * *
Sydney swimmer Edna Davey collected
another State championship on Saturday. As far as
the opposition was concerned, she was in a class of
her own, but her time, 6min. 26 2-ssee., was 23sec.
slower than. Fanny Durack’s best for 440yds. Edna has
had a remarkable season ; she has won the 150yds., the
220yds., the 300yds., and the half-mile N.S.W. cham-
pionships, and the 220yds. and quarter-mile Aus-
tralian titles. In the mile N.S.W. championship, for
men, J. Kelly (Balmoral) had an easy win from
W. Grose in the slow time of 24min. 49 4-ssec.
Arne Borg’s world figures are 21min. 41 3-10 sec.
* * * *
“Purple Socks”: Not to be outdone by
the Soccer and hockey folk, the Australian baseball
authorities have invited a Japanese team composed
of university students to visit the Commonwealth
in 1928. The Japanese have been playing baseball
for many years, and the form, smartened by frequent
tours of America, is first-class.
THE BLUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Young Man, 28, tall, Cambridge Blue, wishes
meet refined Girl, with means.” —Age view mat. ad.
Xo literary crown or scientific
Garland he brings before her feet to lay.
But this should win him welcome beatific:
He represented Cambridge in his day.
I wish he were a trifle more specific,
" hat was his branch of sport he doesn’t say,
The gentleman who craves a girl with means
Or, in the Digger’s phrase, a bint with beans.
Did he, like Stanley Bruce, on Thames and Camus
Bend to the flashing oar with ardor true?
Has he the stroke whose quickening mandamus
To wallop Oxford spurred some straining crew?
That would have rendered him a bit too famous;
1 hardly feature him a rowing Blue.
A cricketer, mayhap, whose crafty slow's
Mowed wickets down ? A Rugger half ? Who knows 1
Belike he put the weight or hurled the hammer,
Or swift as lightning o’er the hundred sped
Amid the packed spectators’ stirring clamor
(The day before old London’s painted red).
Or did his golfing prowess cast the glamor
About this estimable Cantab’s head?
\t hockey or lacrosse did he excel
Above his fellow's? That one cannot tell.
He was a Blue. Here is his prized credential,
His passport to her favor, as it were—-
Refinement and some boodle are essential,
To balance his distinction, in the fair
The bare announcement has a spell potential
That ought to bring him offers and to spare.
He u’as a Cambridge Blue—no more, no less.
But nowadays they give a Blue for chess.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


You can
positively rely
on Shell Motor
Spirit to yield the
test possible return
m power miles, no
matter what make
of car you are using.
Set your carbu-
rettor once —the
uniform quality
of Shell makes
any further adjust-
ments unnecessary.
Oils
an d S£ iri t
T^lotor
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA V NEW ZEALAND
!
sr
r ')
0m
~~ _r s
iVjLT J
(1 ...
S 6
eg
9
ip
«STL
s£
&l
Ot
'i
5212
the
Kelvinator
Way
EVEN ir no ice supply is within
a hundred miles of your home,
you too may enjoy the comfort and
cooling delight that properly chilled
foods and drinks afford.
Kelvinator, installed in any refriger-
ator, makes possible perfect refrig-
eration without ice. Kelvinator
utilizes ordinary electric current to
furnish intense, dry cold many de-
grees below the temperature obtained
with ice.
With a Kelvinator, you can keep
the most perishable foods for a week
at a time. Meats become more
<Ss
* i
' !
ft'
!j p
m
U4i
a
a i
i i
tender fresh vegetables attain a
delicious crispness you can enjoy
temptingly iced drinks and delicacies
possible only through perfect
refrigeration.
For comfort and more delicious
meals, install a Kelvinator now.
"Better—
always
better "
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.
Kelvinator Showrooms: 75 William Street, Sydney.
’Phone: F 1778.
The Oldest Do mesiic S-IVefr ige ration
sdf
THE INKY WAY.
“ELK.”: Australia’s first free newspaper
was probably Biz—an advertising sheet pub-
lished daily in Toowoomba (Q.) over 30
years ago. But the Manly Daily, which
is close on a quarter of a century old, has
had the longest life of any gratis broadsheet
published in the Commonwealth to date.
For its staff the new 7 Auckland Srx
has pretty well combed the papers of the
Dominion. F. Lifting goes over from the edi
torial staff of the Auckland Star and the
chief of staff will be Cordon Stanbrook, of
the N.Z. Herald. Two Sydney sheets con-
tribute Erie Ramsden (Sun) and lan Coster
(cuardian). The new luminary heaves up
above the Maoriland horizon on March 23.
Melbourne’s Sun Bictorial’s energetic
editor, Lloyd Dumas, goes to London to tak.
charge of the Herald-Sun cable service there.
Ralph Simmonds. who watches the magazine
section of the Herald and as “The Rousp-
about” chronicles the doings “In Town an!
Out,” steps over to the Sun editorial chair.
Percy Jenkins, Herald chief of staff, takes
up “The Rouseabout’s” duties. Bouncy, tli
Sun Pic. chief of staff, switches over to
Jenkins’s possie.
“Russ”: Young Donald Thompson, of the
Melbourne Herald literary staff, the oin
authority who knows where a snake’s tail
enids and its body begins, has been nominated
by the Melbourne I University for the anthro-
pological course at Sydney University.
Thompson reckons .on completing the distance
in the eight months’ leave of absence granted
by the Herald.
“Em-quad”: The late S. D. Townsend
(familiarly known as “Sammy”) was a
genial, kindly, bustling Englishman. As edi
tor of one of the many .journals produced
from his Sydney printing establishment, tin
writer was brought into close contact with
him. He had, during the railway and tram
way strike of 1917. a very anxious time, for
among the monthlies he produced was one
devoted to the interests of loco, engine
drivers and firemen, but veteran “Bob' 1
Hollis, who had control of the journal,
brought it safely through. During the war.
Townsend paid a visit to Europe, and on hi-
return published a brochure on the “Battle-
fields of the Marne” for private circulation
only. He had a ready pen and a mastery of
clear English.
“J.L.”: A characteristically American
enterprise—although it is not entirely un-
known in Australia —is what is known in the
publishing trade as a “Mug Book.” It con-
sists of eulogistic write-ups, with portrait,
of as many local citizens as can be induced
to, pay for same, with a certain amount of
reading matter thrown in as a makeweight.
There isn’t an American State which has not
been exploited in this way. The champion
"mug book” of the century and of the world,
it seems, was published during the Florida
boom. It weighed a little more than 111 -
and represented 100,000 dollars. Everybody
in Florida before the boom burst had 200
dollars, and everybody was in the book. Eight
pounds of that volume w T as composed or
smiling realtors, undertakers, shoe merchants,
jewellers, contractors, plumbers, et al; the
other three pounds was made up of photo-
graphy and vicarious boosting.
From a Sydney evening paper:—
“British settlers in the New Hebrides are anxious!.'
awaiting the outcome of the New Hebrides Com-
mission which is to sit at Vila to consider the
question of plantation labor,” said Mr. Blank, tn-
well-known composer, who returned by the Duplex
to-day.
This sort of thing suggests all kinds of pos-
sibilities. For instance:—
Mr. W. Egbert Basham, the well-known pugik
known to a wide public as “Plugger Bill,” wl-
arrived yesterday to fill a series of boxing engage-
ments, expressed some interesting views on the altera-
tions to the Prayer-book made by the Convocatio'
of Bishops. Mr. Basham made no secret of _**•'
views that the alterations would have very & 1
reaching effects.
According to Mr. Cauliflower, the garden expc
whose holiday terminated on his return to Sydne.'
yesterday oil the S.S. Sick Bay, music in Engla'. l
is on the up-grade. ,
During his stay in England, Mr. Lambsphry, f
eminent sausage manufacturer, made a careful
of military matters. In his opinion England.
working hard for peace, will be very capable 0
facing any war that may arise.
THE POET’S COAT.
[FORT THE BULLETIN.]
I ve brought it out from the lumber-room,
Where it hung on a rusty hook ;
Its folds are frayed and dusty and stiff
As the leaves of an ancient book.
It has been a treasure for ten long years,
Shoddy and cheap and mean;
'Tvvas bought when the poet’s purse was light
And the poet’s years were lean.
The cuffs are ragged, tne collar grimed;
The elbows are threadbare worn;
The pockets hang with their mouths agape,
With the edges tattered and torn.
Its color is known as pepper-and-salt,
A ready-made kind of a sac,
And cut to a style that’s out of date
With a little slit at the back.
One lone black button hangs by a thread—
’Twas often he buttoned it tight
To cover rents in a worn-out shirt
When the wind blew cold in the night.
My mind goes back to a dull grey day
(He’d plenty of them in the past),
And he was a sick and a broken man—
It was then that he wore it last.
To the gaping pockets I slip my hand
(It was seldom they yielded cash) ;
A small bone stud and a broken nib
T-yie buried in dust and ash.
In the left-hand breast, and folded mat.
There’s a bill for a load of wood.
Ah me, though he paid us all in kind.
He’d have paid in cash if he could 1
I will hang it back on its rusty hook
In the dust of the lumber-room,
Away from the clutch of a careless hand
And the restless sweep of the broom.
And thither I’ll still repair at times
When I’m tired of men and their ways.
And dream awhile by my old mate's coat
That he wore in the olden days.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Citroen Factory Organization
is Old-world Wide-
U
A
l
as
M
>
STOCKHOL
:
r<s
»
a
6 E.P'-' lS
a
PA OS
"pRACVJIi
\
» ».
m
a
! S
m
es
/a
ZS
S
CITROEN AGENTS»
Marquette Motors Ltd.
121-131 Flinders Street, Sydney
Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.
114-122 Franklin St., Melbourne
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.
185-189 Pulteney St, Adelaide
Comet Motors Ltd.
918 Hay Street, Perth
Brisbc ne Equipment Co. Ltd.
453 Ann Street, Brisbane
Gormack & Pettigrew
Invercargill and Gore, N.Z.
Citroen Motors Ltd.
205 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
Let Public Acceptance Guide You
CITROEN is now building in almost every country in Europe in order to
cope with the phenomenal demand for “the World’s Economy Car. *
Such striking testimony to the quality of Citroen engineering, design,
and construction is considerably enhanced when you remember that Europe
is the home of the light car — that in face of the keenest competition Citroen
has been accepted by the European public as the world s most economical,
most dependable light car. And what better guide can you have than
public acceptance.
Citroen is the car that has proved its economy, comfort and dependability
under typical Australian conditions —is the car that merits your keenest
consideration because of the incredibly low cost of running it and the neg-
ligible cost of keeping it running,
Your local dealer will be pleased to give
a demonstration at any lime to suit you.
oo
J/<ru stee ’tfuMt*. "
Factory Distributors: W A. CROWLE LTD.
Crowle House
Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY-


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority*
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
in pure ripped watermarked paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. 1775). Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
mi
€
&
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Pinafore”
Criterion “Tea for Three”
Royal “Tell Me More”
St. James “The Big Parade”
Fullers’ .'.... Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
M FT.BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “They Knew What They Wanted”
Royal “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Princess Shakspearean Productions
Athenjsum “The Ghost Train”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦ ——
Whatever Paderewski plays, he plays
superbly; that his interpretation is some-
times a law unto itself merely gives it an
added interest. But that great old writer
Bach comes peculiarly into his own under
the sensitive scale-proof fingers of the su-
premely gifted Pole. Two notable examples
of the work of this restrained yet passionate
and colorful composer were heard by Sydney
at the Wednesday and Saturday concerts.
They were the Chromatic Fantasia and
Fugue in D Minor, which on Wednesday
whispered and rustled and rhapsodised to a
hall as packed and as expectant as on the
opening night, and the Bach-Liszt Prelude
and Fugue, which introduced Saturday’s pro-
gramme. One might say of these perform-
ances that the player was alternately reap-
ing the whirlwind and sowing the stars.
Beethoven’s inspired and ethereal and over-
whelming C Minor Sonata Opus 111. and
the poetry of the Moonlight Sonata from
the same pen made an irresistible appeal.
One extraordinary trick the pianist has de-
veloped. In moments of agitation he stamps
his left heel on the floor as though he were
a wmrhorse pawing the earth with fiery
hooves. Schubert, Chopin, Liszt and Pader-
ewksi composed the second half of Satur-
day night’s programme. The dashing splen-
dor of the Chopin Polonaise in A Major
must be heard to be believed, and the same
applies to the incomparable tenderness of
the Schubert Impromptu in A Flat. The
pianist’s own Cracovienne Fantastique and
A Flat Legende caught the fancy of his
listeners, and the Debussy number was as
picturesque as its name —“Reflets dans
l’eau.”
*•-!***
Much of the delicious satire of “Patience”
has lost its keen edge for a generation which
has no first-hand knowledge of the greenery-
yallery school of art or the aesthetic cults
which Oscar Wilde fostered, but the rippling
melodies which cascade through the opera
can never be out of date. Probably there
is no piece in all the G. and S. series so
full of them, although in the revival which
started at the Royal on Saturday the sweet
simplicity of a couple of numbers seems to
have been partially spoilt to give effect to
the vocal range of Strella Wilson. The part
of the village milkmaid who captivates the
hearts of the artificial posturers is remem-
bered as one of those in which Dolly Castles
excelled; Strella Wilson, though delightfully
naive and charming, is at times too self-
possessed for the shrinking country maid
indicated by the text. Charles Walenn, as
Bunthorne, displays thin legs for “a fleshly
poet,” but keeps to tradition in the matter
of the white streak in his hair, to corres-
pond with the white lock which James
McNeil Whistler affected. His success in a
part full of opportunities is not by any
means marked ; but John Ralston, as Gros-
venor, is fitted for once with a rSle which
suits both his acting and his singing. As the
sentimental Lady Jane, Winifred William-
son has to contend with the handicap of
an inadequate figure for a girtliy lady,
although that is no reason why she should
maintain such hard tones in the role of the
fleshy sentimentalist. Still, handicapped as
she is, she deserves full marks for the way
in which she makes the point in the tuneful
sigh, “There will be too much of me in the
coming by and bye.” Of the lovesick maidens
who are individually vocal, Alma O’Dea
(Lady Angela) and Lilian Crisp (Lady
Ella) do very nicely, the latter especially;
and Bernard Manning, although on the first
night he fluffed on che words of oiie of his songs
and found it difficult to keep step with the
orchestra in the quick-fire patter of his open-
ing effort, presents a creditable Colonel
Calverley. Lance Fairfax has fewer oppor-
tunities as Major Murgatroyd, and James
Hay is inclined to throatiness as Lieutenant
the Duke of Dunstable. The young man,
however, has had a good deal of trouble with
colds ; he had to drop out of “Princess Ida” on
that account, his place as Hilarion being
taken by understudy Tom Broderick, from
the Wednesday matinee onward. The Mel-
bourne young man opened very stiffly,
but loosened up later. “Patience,” with
its melody and color —from the color
point of view the “picture” at the
close of the first act is one of the best in
the G. and S. scheme of things—finishes on
Friday, and “Pinafore,” with “Trial by
Jury,” appears on Saturday night, for one
week only, the company transferring to Her
Majesty’s for the occasion.
* * * *
The change to the larger Her Majesty’s on
Saturday is an indication of what the Firm
thinks of the Gilbert and Sullivan success in
Sydney. Theatregoers are now being asked
to vote upon the pieces in the repertoire they
most desire to see revived after “Pinafore”
has run its week’s limit. “Ruddigore” is to
be kept for first production elsewhere; but
the management is so certain that “The
Mikado” will be one of those chosen for the
quick-change revivals that arrangements arc
being made for Strella Wilson to fall into the
cast. The season finishes, anyway, on April
13; the theatre is wanted on April 16 for
“Frasquita,” which will bring Marie Burke
back to her gallery-girl worshippers. A point
of interest is that this was the J.C.W. first
production in Britain.
$# * *
The warm welcome which Nellie Stewart
and “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” received both
in Sydney and Melbourne has led the J. C.
Williamson firm to make arrangements for
a further fortnight’s showing at the Criterion,
starting on April 9. That theatre, contrary
to previous announcements, will continue to
entertain audiences with “Tea for Three”
until March 31. On April 2 the company
that has been expounding “Is Zat So?” will
start with “Six-Cylinder Love,” transferring
it at the end of the first week to the Palace,
which, between next Saturday and that date
—“Hullo, Ilealo!” being due to disappear
to-morrow (Friday)—-will be occupied by the
Repertorians, who make a start with “The
Old Adam.” On Saturday “Tell Me More”
crosses to the Royal, where Gus Bluett and
his friends will dispense hilarity until further
orders. “Sunny” rays are keeping warm audi-
ences at the Empire, whither the Governor
was drawn last Monday. At the G.O.H. “The
Nervous Wreck” is providing those houses
that are very soothing to the nerves of man-
agements.
$* * *
The tale of the three bears is one of absorb-
ing interest to those who attend Wirths’
Cii’cus at the Sydney Hippodrome. These
bears are not interested in Goldilocks;
instead of playing with plates of porridge
and beds they disport themselves upon skates
and cycles. The other thrills remain as
before; the ursine performers strengthen the
animal side, which, in the rush for vaudeville,
is sometimes forgotten as the most import-
ant ingredient of a circus.
=!= *
The return of Stiffy and Mo to Fullers'
Theatre on Saturday night was hailed with
wild acclaim. There were yells to greet the
appearance of each of the re-united partners,
and the roof cracked when Mo addressed the
audience as “Yons mob,” or made a refer-
ence to the “tarts” present. The audience
was so delighted at renewing acquaintance
with its old favorites that it laughed at
everything. It is a triumph of an extraordi-
nary kind. The lions of the evening are
allowed to run through the whole pro-
gramme; of their assistants Dorothy Man-
ning for her good voice, Story and Brookes
for a strong-man act, and Bert Chadwick, a
nigger troubadour, call for most mention.
“SUNNY,” AT THE NEW EMPIRE
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Comedian Fred Heider in an eccentric dance,
and Robert Rhodes as Tom Warren.
The surprising energy Olsen and Johnson
put into their turn at the Tivoli seems to
have affected everybody on: the programme,
for the whole show joins joyfully in the
romp, which, with its quick-changing sur-
prises, keeps the audience rocking with
mirth. Les Zenga Freres have introduced
some striking dances, flavored with bur-
lesque, and Donald Stuart is a conjurer
who has arranged a rather better climax
than usual for his mystery act
“Greenhide” is an Australian film story
that for interest, romance, drama, comedy,
beauty of setting and realism, Hollywood
would find it hard to beat. It makes a fine
play, this story of a cattle-station out West,
and in it are dramatised without exaggera-
tion or heroics the poems of Outback that
we know by heart. The setting is unique,
the endless cattle-country of West Queens-
land, and there is no lack of realism, inci-
dent or humor; also there is an occasional
touch of genuine pathos. A silly city girl
comes to stay at the lonely cattle-station, and
finds in charge a manager who will stand no
nonsense from man, cattle-duffer, beast, bad
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Tom Kelly, the Irish comedian. The young-
est member of the Kwong Sing Wah
troupe of Chinese acrobats and jugglers.
man or flapper. There are no shootings, but
there are some stirring fights. It is the cattle-
duffers who provide the excitements. To see
this fine play, now at the Strand and Hoyt’s,
is to have a glimpse of the real Australia.
Bruce Gordon, a fine out-door type, and
pretty Elsie Sylvaney admirably provide the
leading parts.
% sji $ SJ:
With such a stirring title as “The Road to
Mandalay,” one expects something a bit above
the ordinary, but the picture-play now" cur-
rent in Sydney is not founded on Kipling’s
poem. Hollywood has coolly appropriated
the magic line for purposes of its own. The
play starts in a low den in Shanghai, where
Lon Chaney, its brutal one-eyed keeper,
is making money to maintain his daughter in
luxury. The girl, unaware of the relation-
ship, regards him with distaste; and in the
end kills him to save her nice young man
from, the brute, without knowing that he is
her father. This fierce melodrama is force-
fully presented by Lon Chaney and a
Chinese actor, Sojin; and the play is full
of fights. But it is a long, long way from
the road to Mandalay that Kipling sang of.
** * *
Actors have gesticulated, strutted, stamped,
stalked and posed through poor Wm. Shaks-
peare’s plays. Dennis Barry, the new Wilkie
acquisition, dances his part with rare capa-
city. Barry is the Pavlova of the troupe, and
many a weary eye wanders from the barn-
storming antics of his colleagues to linger
gratefully on his undulating form. If the
principle were generally applied to, for
example, “The Merchant of Venice,” Ellis
Lorenzo Irving w"Ould Charleston to per-
dition with the dusky Lorna Jessica Forbes;
Duke William Lockhart would open his court
to a stately minuet; John Antonio Cairns
would bare his breast for the knife to the
steps of a danse Macabre, later expressing
gratitude for his reprieve in a shimmy-shake ;
Shylock Wilkie would take his pound of
flesh to the motions of a slow and revengeful
saraband, going off later in a one-step, of
bafflled rage; Miss Portia-Watts would hesi-
tation waltz with the Princess of Aragon and
Morocco, finishing with a wedding glide into
Bassanio’s arms; and the lesser members of
the band would French tango or fox-trot
according to their several occasions. The
suggestion is offered to A. Wilkie free of
charge.
# * * •
Incidentally, the play mentioned, which is
Shakspeare’s happiest and most dramatic
comedy, was conscientiously performed in the
old-fashioned manner on Saturday at Mel-
bourne Princess. Frank Clewlow’s Gratian.i
deserves mention for its humorous exuber-
ance, Dennis Barry’s Bassanio for its senti-
mental grace and the scenery for its mission
furniture effect of simplicity with style. But
the female side of Wilkie’s entourage is now
seen to be sadly lacking in the more import-
ant theatrical virtues. The youth, fire and
fancy that should appertain to the rebellion--
Jessica were left by Lorna Forbes mainly to
the imagination. Alethea Siddons bears a
famous name, but the only things she added
to it as Nerissa were an engaging smile and
an extremely pretty face. The Portia of Miss
Hunter-Watts —well, the Portia of Miss
Hun ter-Watts is an Australian institution.
“The Seagull,” by Anton Tchekov, was a
somewhat moulting hen as presented by the
Beresford Fowler Little Art Company on
Thursday night. The play features much
crossing of love; there is a fair dash of
comedy, some tragedy seasoned with quota-
tions from Bill Shakspeare, and a whole lot
of so-called Russian temperament. It is a
fairly difficult problem for professionals to
grapple with, and naturally the amateurs
were up against it, especially on the limited
stage space of the Queen’s Hall, which
would hardly hold a double bed comfortably.
The bird was nevertheless kept admirably
on the wing by Mollie Locke’s alert presenta-
tion of the actress Madame Treplev. Sylvia
Archer did promisingly as Nina Zaretchny,
the lass whose stage aspirations ended in
disaster. Trigorin, a writer under the
spell of Madame Treplev of the flashing eye,
red hair and ready wit, was well handled
by Eric Donald at very short notice. J.
Beresford Fowler was the moody Treplev
son, and Marjorie Carr was Masha, the
maid of hard exterior whose unrequited love
of this gentleman did make her but sullen.
*!* -I* $
Although the Federal Government is said
to have refused an offer from Nellie Stewart
to sing at Canberra, Melbourne is only too
glad to listen to her, apparently. “Sweet
Nell” will continue to be of the Royal until
April Fool’s Day. The return of the Russian
Moscovitch will be celebrated at the Kang's
on Saturday with “They Knew What They
Wanted,” which is said to have won a best-
play-of-the-year prize in America, though
queer things sometimes win prizes in that
country. The totem pole ballet is drawing
students of anthropology to His Majesty’s,
and lovers of artless bush comedy are throng-
ing “Gum-tree Gullv” at the Palace to a
moderate extent. The popularity of “The
Ghost Train” at the Athenaeum has surprised
even the management, seldom guilty of the
beastly sin of pessimism. Incidentally, until
lately Laura Smithson, the little old comic
lady who falls alcoholically asleep in the
middle of the piece and remains so to the
final curtain, had the hardest role in the play.
She is now provided inconspicuously with a
mattress in the interval.
❖ * #
Renee Kelly’s farewell gift to Melbourne
was herself as Judy in that pathetic master-
piece, “Daddy Longlegs,” at the King’s. This
graceful actress has presented to this coun-
try a gallery of sentimental portraits which
have been gratefully received and will be as
promptly forgotten. The only change in th
lady’s final production was a change of house-
keepers for Hylton Daniells. Emma Temple
was the pleasant, smiling Mrs. Semple. Mos-
covitch will follow with “They Knew What
They Wanted” as soon as the flowers have
been cleared away.
** * *
Melbourne Majestic this week is showing
in silent wise two plays with which Aus-
tralian playgoers were touched via another
sense in former years. One is “The Old
Soak,” the sentimental study of a dear old
souse which J. D. O’Hara gave tears to a
few years ago; the picturisation of the
other, “Lady Windermere’s Fan,” supplies,
the long-awaited answer to the conundrum.
“What made Oscar Wilde?” Forgetting the
epigrammatic character of the original, one
can, however, enjoy this film for its vivacity
and cheer. At Hoyt’s, Lon Chaney is “On
the Road to. Mandalay,” the usual sordid
thoroughfare, crowded with seductive brown
maidens, wasters ready and waiting to be
regenerated and men with white skins but
ebon hearts.
jfc gs s’:
The round, panto, dame countenance of
Phil Smith continues to moon through
revues of his own architecture at Melbourne
Bijou and the plays or contests continue to
show more form than those of his prede-
cessors in the art, though their shapeliness
is not that of the Taj Mahal or. even of a
new Ford body. This week Smith is “On
the Wheel.” The Maclagens are exhibiting
muscle which doubtless pays its way at
present but looks as if it might be an
awkward and exacting tenant some day. Joe
Brennan is providing Anglo-Saxon comedy,
while Stompy and Stella are exponents of
the American humor which takes aim
at nothing in particular but sprays the
landscape with a stream of gags, like unto
an agitated garden hose or a machine-gun
making up for lost opportunities.
(Continued on page 36.)


mm
; I
1
ss
■■
@
MH
:...,-:V:
"- , .
818
e i\!
P /' H*
»* j
• ft I*r
IKi
111*11
**•-* : as
<s,a wSll
*
e s t 7 4 sjjsggg
raa
■B
1
ia§
WHITENS
**oflr ... :V«
„
' ■
' *#m
'
i-?.
- *'_! *'
Have you a discerning palates?
THEN you will appreciate the delicate flavour and fine
qualities of Horse NXfliisky as only a connoisseur can!
White hoh? e
"scotchWHISKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
DALGETY
& COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


'V
y •-
is
WS-
;
• *»
A Sound Musical Investment
u
The
PLAYER
PIANO
“Wurlitzer” tone will retain its full resonant beauty throughout the years, and
“Wurlitzer” performance will continue to give absolute satisfaction when ordinary
player pianos are “showing signs of wear.”
“Wurlitzer” workmanship is just as good as one of the largest piano-building
organisations in the world can make it.
Inspect the Wurlitzer before you finally decide.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Royal Player Piano Co., 21 Park Street, Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and
Cessnock; Jas. Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australasian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Myers Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltdi., Murray Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer” communicate direct with the factory representatives ,
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8- O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
Tom Kelly, an ungainly Irishman, is once
more angling for giggles at Melbourne Tivoli,
after an absence of 14 years. Some of bis
humor is so superannuated that it lias lost
the taint of over-ripeness and might almost
be called fresli again—like an egg that has
been buried 40 days—but the big broth of a
boy lias a personality which lie has no difli-
cuity in projecting across the footlights. Man-
tell’s engaging mannikins are back again,
after a foreign tour, and audiences are
demonstrating daily that love of Punch and
Judy is part of the average human’s make-up,
like liis love of beer. “The Boy from Eton
College” is a handsome and anonymous youth
who may possibly have come from that
famous seminary on the other half of the
return ticket; but lie sings prettily enough to
liave been a clioir-boy. Tlie Chinese marvels
are still marvelling, the Cansinos frisk about
as gracefully as gum saplings in the breeze,
the Athenas, living statuary, make Praxiteles
seem a tyro, and Syd. Beck, the Australian
good-humorist, provides a buffoonish inter-
lude fit to be performed before an audience
entirely composed of Governors-General.
** * *
One impression carried away from “Tlie
Men Tamers,” the film of the far North
confected by C. R. Herscliell, of Pathc
Cinemas, and projected at the Melbourne
Playhouse on a recent evening, was that
wandering over those empty acres is the
raw material for a million movie scenarios
of the future. Here are magnificent savages
sublimely unconscious of their lack of dress.
A six-foot-five Semitic-looking giant starts
up out of nothing and stares down into
a pool. A solitary launch leaves a long
wake on the bosom of a wide, empty river.
A mission appears like a tiny selvedge
on the tawny backcloth of infinity. A
white-clad sister of mercy daubs ointment
on the syphilis-scored breast of a shy daugh-
ter of the desert. A drover out of nowhere
grins momentarily at the camera and
vanishes. And after each incident the land-
scape of the North, appalling in its soli-
tude and immensity, resumes its sway.
Romance is always over the skyline. Hence
the inhabitant of Darwin goes to see the
bogus wild west confected in the studios of
Hollywood, although he has the real thing
on his doorstep. Of particular interest in
this film of Herschell’s is the appearance
of the Rev. Gribble, round whose austere
figure a movie drama of the first water is
at present being played at Wyndham (W.A.).
#% * #
On Saturday, to appropriate orchestral
accompaniment, the Pope will be crowned at
Wirths’ Olympia in Melbourne. Anybody
who has read the early history of Holly-
wood’s endeavors to get the occupant of the
Vatican to alter his determination never
to leave his palace, even in celluloid, will
realise that here is a major scoop indeed.
The film, which, bears the sealed authority of
the Great Pontiff, will he screened under the
patronage of Archbishop Mannix and will
include the pictured record of the recent
Australian pilgrimage to Rome.
* :* * *
At the Adelaide Theatre Royal “Abie’s
Irish Rose” is about to make way for Renee
Kelly and “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney.” A
breezy performance fills the Majestic Theatre
two sessions per day, the wind being raised
by F. Gayle Wyer and his Band Box
Revue company. At the Prince of
Wales’s William Anderson’s show, “Her Love
Against the World,” has given way to “Seven
Days’ Leave” and the first appearance of
Hilda Dorfington under special engagement.
At the Garden, quick-change programmes
leave audiences dizzy, Billy Maloney’s silver
stick being the one unchangeable turn.
Rupert Hazell’s “New Ideas” are of the
smartest, and Elsie Day and Colin Crane
are pleasant singers. A jungle story, “Aloma
of the South Seas,” with Gilda Grey and
Percy Marmont, is the leading film at'Won-
dergraph.
*# * *
Streeton at Melbourne:—
Arthur Streeton is the fine flower of the Australian
school. His work is infinitely polite, suave and cor-
rect. One can imagine him painting always in white
kid gloves. No unseemly struggles deface his pic-
tures, and emotion is never allowed to interfere un-
duly with the precision of his brush strokes. He
only sees whatever is before him, but that something
is always gracious and often extremely beautiful. One
thousand guineas is being asked for the biggest
canvas in his present show at the Fine Art Gallery.
The figure is a handsome one, but so is the picture,
in which a flock of sheep have kindly arranged them-
selves in harmony with a tabletop mountain in the
background, and a delicious atmosphere suffuses all.
Sydney harbor is depicted as only Streeton can
depict it. Nobody who hasn’t lived there would be-
lieve that the veil in which the city is ethereally
enveloped is composed of dust, smoke, steam and soot
in- about equal proportions.
Poverty
Point
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Still they come! Four
mummers are now on their way from
America to play in “The Cradle Snatchers,”
due at Sydney Criterion on April 23; and
there are a few on tlie Sonoma to help Judith
Anderson put on “The Green Hat” —first in
Melbourne. It is useless to protest that the
parts that some of these importations will
SAUCE FOR THE GOOSE TEAS SAUCE FOR THE GANDER.
“Reggie told me last night that you and I seemed almost masculine in our act.”
“Poof! And what did you say?”
“Oh, I returned the compliment .”
fill could not be filled locally; Australian
actors have notoriously been called upon to
take the place of foreigners who proved in-
competent in just sucli parts.
“C. Ockriey” : The latest Irene Vanbrugh
vehicle, “The Desperate Lovers,” by Alfred
Sutro, proved a desperate dud when staged
at the London Comedy Theatre. It came off
the boards after a run of 14 nights. Under
these distressful circumstances, it is doubt-
ful if the piece will form part of the Van-
brugh-Boucicault repertory on the next Aus-
tralian tour of the popular pair.
“W.”: When the Midnight Frolics Co.
was in Sydney taking its breath for a leap
across the Tasman, its leading lady con-
sulted a seeress, who, after seeing five bob,
made out a lot of misfortune waiting across
the water. The co. is now a firm believer in
occult powers. At Auckland the theatre
caught fire, and most of the wardrobe and
props, went up in smoke. At Wellington
the stuff that remained was stored in a
cellar under tlie gaff; next morning it was
found reposing in three feet of water. What
comes after fire and flood is not quite clear
to the victims, but they fear famine.
“Bill Bowyang”: A theatrical troupe
pulled up for the night on a river-bank in
N.Q. last year within a mile of a large rail-
way construction camp. In the evening the
navvies wandered across and suggested that
if the Thespians cared to give an open-air
show they would pass round the hat. Feel-
ing that the entertainment would at least
pay for benzine the manager agreed. When
the hat had gone round the manager got a
shock. A ganger handed him £4l ss. The
troupe had struck the camp on pay-day, and
it was a prohibition area.
“Hamfat”: “Rose Marie” was booked to
finish its long career in London lust Satur-
day ; it has run for two years and 4,000,000
people are reckoned to have seen the show,
which, besides the huge dividends to share-
holders, who had previously done badly, paid
salaries and expenses running to £460,000.
Royalties to the copyright holders ran to
£66,000. The Williamson firm doesn’t give
away any financial details; but half a million
people saw the show in Sydney during its
317 performances.
“Flaming Youth”: The theatrical supre-
macy of the J.C.W.-Taits is complete once
more with the solidification of the working
arrangement between the Firm and the Car-
rolls into a definite agreement. Whatever
the Fullers’ future intentions, they are eli-
minated for the time being as producers of
the higher-grade theatrical fare. An indica-
tion of the elimination is the intended stag-
ing of “Six Cylinder Love” at the Criterion
by the Tabers and Hale Norcross, a William-
son combination. Ever since the Fuller-
Ward partnership started, “Six Cylinder
Love” has been boomed as one of its impend-
ing productions.
“Curtain Raiser”: Melbourne has a good
second to “Dracula” as a horrifier in “The
Ghost Train” at the Athenaeum. At the
first performance the reaction of the audi-
ence was only moderate; but the publicity
given to the show has apparently created a
mass psychology which is favorable to the
playwright’s artifices. People go prepared to
be surprised, so to speak. I looked in at
the show again the other day, and noted
the increased tension in the audience. In
the scene where six heavy knocks, supposed
to represent the ghosts of six victims of a
railway smash, come on the door of tlie Fal
Vale station waiting-room, a woman stood
up and shrieked to the actors not to open
it. A little later another supplied a fit of
hysterics in the gallery. But the best testi-
mony to the realistic side of the play came
from the man next to me. When the ghost
train thundered through the theatre he
started to grope under the seat for his suit-
case.
“Middle Blue”: An old combination is
renewed in Walter Cornock and Jefferson
Taite now playing in “The Nervous Wreck.”
Cornock was the juvenile comedian and Taite
the character actor with a co. which lasted
for years at the old Theatre Royal, Brisbane.
Both started their careers in vaudeville,
Walter as a boy soprano and Taite as a
Christy minstrel.
“End”: When Pauline Frederick arrived
in London, to appear under E. J. Carroll’s
management, there was “a luncheon to the
press” at the Carlton. The Stage icily
objected:—
Miss Frederick’s advisers are evidently unaware
that what used to be called chicken and champagne
luncheons do not meet with the approval of respon-
sible critics here.
It isn’t done, what?
“Goldilocks” : Those wlio have read Cicely
Hamilton’s “The Old Adam” will be glad
that tlie Sydney Repertorians are making it
their next production, opening at the Palace
on Saturday. The “book” reads well, with
good character-drawing and a neat blend of
humor and pathos. War between two States
is reduced to primitive conditions by the
discovery of an electric ray, the use of which
stops all machinery in tlie battle area. As
both sides get possession of the invention,
and render each other’s guns, motors and
aeroplanes useless, they start again with
swords and agricultural implements turned
into weapons. The play ends with a clerical
dignitary, who had led the anti-war party
bestowing his benediction on the trooWT
they march out to the Front. The pan %
ahshmg-smack skipper who becomes admiral
ot tlie fleet in the changed conditions ou"
to give someone a good opportunity.
Iv.D.S. : With all the talk about makim
Australian pictures, .1 have not seen refer
?" c , e to that exceptionally well-made film
• Woman Pays, which was put together
in Adelaide about nine years ago. Some
members of a company, then playing at
Kings Theatre, were borrowed, and use!
to go out into the hills day after day in
pursuit of atmosphere,” the photographer
being anxious to get the bush at its ben
ITe succeeded. No truer picture of our
“blue and gold” days has been made. The
story was good enough—of its kiud— and
the acting all that could be desired The
film showed the Murray in flood. ' sheep-
droving, lamb-marking, cattle-mustering, real
dust, a burning hut, kangaroos, a child lost
in the ranges, a demented mother also
lost and picked up by a real swaggie, and
a dinkum parson with a sulky—all the*
true to life.
“Flaming Youth”: It is hard to think of
Ben Fuller as an angel; but his stage; start
was as a winged cherub in a Covent Garden
production of “Mefistofele.” Father John
retained, even in old age, a silvery tenor
voice which was capable of filling iu a gap
in a vaudeville programme at any time, but
burly son Ben decided years ago that the
right side of _ the theatrical business was
the business side. However, charity can do
many queer things; and Ben lias been roped
in as one of the players who, with tlw
Vagabonds, are to put on Arnold Bennett'-
“The Title” for the funds of several philan-
thropic societies.
“Canar”: Contrary to the general belief,
the successful trainer of animals for public
exhibition purposes never uses cruelty in
his instruction (B. 3/3/’27). Two experi-
enced animal-trainers, John Bernasconi, of
Wirths’, and the late Welby Cook, of the
same show, ridiculed the notion that it was
possible to train animals by cruelty. As
Cook put it, before the trainer can begin to
make an impression on the animals to be
trained he must obtain their confidence and
liking; and that he cannot do by ill-treat-
ment. Bernasconi’s method is to play with
his pupil for some weeks without attemptiug
to teach it, until he has succeeded in obtain-
ing its confidence and trust, after which the
training in earnest begins.
“Feng-Shui”: Where did producers get
their authority for equipping the bosom of
the Oriental female with a pair of glorified
cups or saucers? Whether the character
represented be Salammbo, Sappho or Yang
Kuei-fei, the same incongruous, if hygienic,
crockery is invariably in vogue. I can find
no warrant for it in the bas-reliefs of
Babylon, Egypt, Angkor-Vat and suck-lit
contemporaneous fashion-plate journals in
stone. In my experience the Oriental
actress, like most of her lay sisters, wear?
her bosom completely suppressed. Tin
fashion of the royal bedoya dancers—all
princesses—of the court of Djogjakarta.
Java, is claimed to be centuries old. The
upper garment consists of a scarf tightly
twisted round the breast; and the Malay
prima donna is similarly confined. Religion
and custom make the Asiatic male unques-
tioned master of his she, so there is little cal’
for her to make play with her dedicated
charms. The individualistic Nordic woman
is in an entirely different category. So
we find European costume for ever striving
with priestly prohibitions to reveal more and
more of the grace and beauty of the human
form, while the passive Oriental has been
engaged in mutilating and concealing it.
There is more fluid loveliness of gait and
figure to be perceived in a crowd of Sydney
typists making for the Quay than in all
the bazaars of Ispahan, Masulipatam, Kioto
or - Bombay.
Art for Art’s sake:—
Miss Winifred Guy was a teacher at a school is
Brighton (Eng.) when the idea of collecting poetere
occurred to her ; now she is touring the world wit’
a selected - thousand, and Sydney may vie-
them at the Art Gallery at Farmers. There are v
many of them that it is a confusing exhibition, .
the unpleasing trail of the cubist and futurist
seen here and there; but on the whole it is artix
as well as informative. When the world has gr:
a little more aesthetic, a board of censors will do:
less sit to prevent any but the kind of poster tie
charms the eye from going up on our hoardings.
Some Melbourne antiques :
It is the last gleams of life which catch the >:
of H. C. Lloyd, who is showing hand-painted photo-
graphs of some of Melbourne’s most famous ant
quifies at the Kodak Gallery. There is Mr. Lasler
known as “The Prophet of Footscray”; the lat
Sergeant-Major Gamble, the Crimea veteran vl
glorified with military pomp many a drab office
function; Mr. Wardley (108), ex-president of :
Bakers’ Union; and the indomitable Harry Moore,
who went up in an aeroplane at the age of 107 an
died from the shock of the experience five year-
later. The artist did well in preserving these es-
amples of Time’s sculpture. Some of them
remarkable in their strength and beauty.
W. S. GILBERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hail, fellow of incomparable wit,
Who took the sodden language of the stage
And brightened up a dull and sordid age
With artistry and humor infinite!
How apt his metre with gay fancies lit,
And cunning rhythms running down the page,
And ’neath his foolery a wisdom sage;
And how his hundred acrid humors hit!
And we, poor scribbling bards, who plagiarise
His ballads and his lyrics, quaint and smalt,
By his originality unlit,
Give honor to this motleyed jester wise,
And pay belated tribute to his art,
His lilting rhyme, his satire exquisite!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


1
itBSffSISs
as s
I
-
\
i
■mi■
IMMMN
H -Ifc
.
i
;
: :
:
i ■ M
s
18 jII
Bonra? ®
11111
warn '■•’s
■
11
HWMWi
.
;
ig g|§gg
REPUBLIC—
... most outstanding achievement
in truck engineering in a decade
Sturdier - More efficient
Better looking
CONSIDER your transport facilities —how dependable?
how economical? —and then compare with Republic s
sturdiness and operation. Republic efficiency
is no less remarkable. Frames and cross-members are as
strong as science can make them. Radiators are of new
design. Tyres are larger. Ihe springs are heavier. The
axles are oil-bathed to the very ends. Braking, gear-shifting
and steering are all designed to provide easier and more
efficient control. And, by reason of these improvements
Republic is building up an unchallengeable reputation for
economy and endurance —reasons why you should
—solve your haulage problems with
REPUBLIC
Republic has more
trucks in use than
any other exclusive
truck manufacturer
r The right
model for every
haulage need—
-1 to 5 tons capacity
Permanent service—more years on the road
and less days in the repair shop—is the secret
of most efficient transport. Republic trucks last.
Investigate Republic
advantages at your
nearest agents.
No matter what your needs in haulage may be
you can be assured of Republic’s ability to
meet these unfailingly over the years.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Way mouth Street,
Adelaide.
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck' Sales Co., Ltb
iK>5 Hay Street. Perth.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.


■V*!l
I
TW \\ 'N )*
At
X X
c
M
r*
f
s
(""■
/
LIMITED
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO
MANDATED TERRITORY OF NEW GUINEA.
THE MOST PROMISING
OILFIELD IN NEW GUINEA
Longbeach, California, during 21 months after discovery of the field, sank 252 wells, which yielded
17 Billion Gallons of Oil
worth £85,000,000 sterling.
DIRECTORS:
w
• i-s O
HN F. ROFE, Esq., Chairman, Solicitor, O’Connell Street, City.
T. DAVIS, Esq., Merchant, Sussex Street, City.
. W. H. DONALD, Medical Practitioner, Stratlifield.
CAMPBELL MACFIE, Esq.,'Chartered Secretary, Martin Place.
C. W. Pardey, Esq., Draughtsman, Water and Sewerage Board.
It. A. D. GRAY, Esq., Auctioneer, 135 Pitt Street.
T. C. DAVIS, Esq., Junior, Merchant, Strathficl'd.
m
>
.i
Ormildah Oil Co.’s Boring Plant,
Mandated Territory, New Guinea.
DO NOT DELAY
NEW ISSUE SELLING RAPIDLY!
The Reserve Issue of Shares having been over-subscribed, the Board, at the request of many unsuccessful applicants
for shares, has decided to raise the capital of the Company from £50,000 to £lOO,OOO. Of these, 10,000 shares are now
offered for subscription at par, payable ss. on application, ss. on allotment, and the balance if and when required by the
Company. The remaining 40,000 shares will be held in reserve.
The bore on the Sepik River is now down 1475 ft., through strata that virtually prove the existence of oil.
DR. H. I. JENSEN, D.Sc.,
one of the most distinguished and perhaps the most conservative and cautious of Australian geologists, believes that
Payable Oil will be encountered in
the next 500 feet.
GOOD NEWS MAY COME VERY SOON.
Superintendent-driller Mr. A. E. Crawford and bis boring party have radioed that drilling would be resumed Monday, March 27, 1927, in douole
shifts, as advised by Dr. Jensen.
The news that payable oil lias been struck may come through at any time now.
DO YOU REALISE
what the value of even 10 shares in Ormildah would be if Dr. Jensen’s prognostications are verified?
In 1911 the British Government took £2,225,000 worth of shares in Anglo-Persian, and has received already £40,000,000 in dividends
All the shares in Royal Dutch could have been bought in 1908 for £40,000. In 1911 they were worth £40,000,000. To-day none shall say their value.
A FORTUNE IN SHARES.
All good Australians should aid in this splendid work, in the sure and certain hope that if Dr. Jensen is right, there is a fortune in these shares.
If you are interested, write to or call upon the Secretary, Mr. T. J. Sparkes, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, and he will give you full particulars, including
full prospectus and Dr. Jensen’s complete report.


\
&
&
&
THE NEW 1927
“ Ixide” type XCR
DOUBLE SEPARATION
BATTERY
Embodies Special Features unique in Storage
Battery Practice. Its ability to do the job will
surprise you. Ask your dealer for particulars, or
apply direct to the distributor in your State.
The Name Guarantees the Product
There is a Type for Every Need.
Australian Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd.,
Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 308-387 Murray
Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge
(2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
fnope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


Amusements.
3IDNB Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: H.M.S. PINAFORE.
CRITERION: TEA FOR THREE.
ROYAL: TELL ME MORE.
SIDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
ST. JAMES: THE BIG PARADE.
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
R I Clv ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT
THEY KNEW WHAT THEY WANTED.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Nellie stewart in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAK-
SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
VICTORIAN SEASON:
Melbourne.—PßlNCESS THEATRE, to April 8.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 178 Castlereagh St.
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Othello,” Sydney
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
A THEN M U M THE ATR E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroli.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE GHOST TRAIN.
LAUGHABLE COMEDY WITH A THRILL.
Played by E. J. Carroll's London Comedy' Company'.
IMEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
PHIL SMITH REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
IVI FSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
England’s dainty film star,
BETTY BALFOUR,
in
THE SEA URCHIN.
It will be acknowledged to be her best produc-
tion. Telling a story that will charm everyone.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LON CHANEY in
THE ROAD TO MANDALAY.
AI.SO
THE PRINCE OF TEMPTERS,
with BEN LYON and MARY BRIAN.
Prices as usual.
yyiRTH BROS. LIMITED.
Governing Directors: Messrs. Philip & George Wirth.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THIS YEAR’S ALL NEW PROGRAMME
Bewilders the Audience with its THRILLS,
VARIETY and NOVELTY ACTS that stagger the
Imagination.
HIPPODROME, Haymarket, at 8 p.m.
Matinees Saturdays, Wednesdays and Holidays.
Missing Friends.
jV/JARY ANN HEATH (or ROSeT, who
left Nelson, New Zealand, at the end
of 1918 with the intention of going to her
daughter in Sydney or Melbourne, or anyone
knowing anything of Mrs. Heath (or Mrs.
Rose) or her daughter, is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned, who has in-
formation for the benefit of Mrs. Heath or
her next-of-kin.
hillier cheek.
Solicitor, Nelson, N.Z.
. M-ECROtT, late Katandra, communicate
undersigned, hear something to his advantage,
o. A. Ralph, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ANY person who can give any information
with reference to GEORGE AIKEN,
formerly of Dromedary, Southern Tasmania,
who is believed to have left Tasmania for
Melbourne about 50 years ago, is requested
to communicate with
Simmons, Wolfhagen, Simmons & Walch,
86 Collins Street, Hobart.
CARLYONS’BALLROOM
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
A 14 YEARS’ LEASE,
including
Plant, Furniture, Fittings,
will be offered at Auction on
Tuesday, April 5.
TERMS; £lOOO cash, £l5OO within 14 days,
balance over 10 years.
PERCY HENRY", Auctioneer,
352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
e#
S 3
i
I'/,
X
3ft
i
£
£
£
I
£
I
I
£
m
O. MEE’ATT—Father of Fortune, King of Luck-
bringers and inventor of Send Round the Hat.
N.S.W. Fire Brigades
Art Union
For the Hospitals and Ambu-
lances of the State (Sanctioned
by the Attorney-General).
hirst Prize, a Solid Gold Fireman’s Helmet
valued at £lOOO. This is a veritable Pot
of Luck, for it can be converted into
sovereigns at a moment’s notice.
AS GOOD AS GOLD FROM THE MINT.
Consult 0. Mee’att, who invented Lucky Brain
Waves from Hats. Listen to his words:
“Good luck to those who meeteth man or
woman with their Considering Cap at the
right angle. Should you meet one with a hat
brought forward to shade the eyes, it means
hasten, he is dazzled by the splendor; tilted
to the right, do not waste time dreaming;
tilted to the left, pursue your wish at once;
titled to the back of the head, a sure sign of
confidence and luck. Beware of the man who
hath no hat, for he seeketh what thou hast
got, and hath nothing to pass round for
charity.”
Other prizes: 2nd, Studebaker Six, £845;
3rd, Thornycroft Motor Lorry, £641; 4th,
Six-cylinder Nash, £595; sth, Austin Five-
seater, £395 ; 6tli, Buick Touring Car, £390 ;
7th, Essex Coach, £299; Bth, Shulz Player
Piano, £225 ; 9th, Victor Player Piano,
£212 ; and 130 other prizes valued at from
£175 to £4/10/-
TICKETS ONE SHILLING. BOOKS OF 25
FOR £l. 12 TICKETS FOR 10/-
0 FOR 5/-
Vrite to the Secretary of the
Fire Brigades Art Union,
Circular Quay Station, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Write plainly. State whether
Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
Drawing Takes Place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10.
Positively no postponement. Closing Date, July 27.
Send stamped and addressed envelope for result slip.
J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Sec.
£6666
in Prizes.
Tickets
II-
3475
Chances
for £1
PROSPECTUS
OF
New Hope Gold Mining Company
(No Liability).
{To be registered under Part 2 of the Companies Act of New South Wales.)
CAPITAL £lO,OOO
Divided into 10,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
2,000 Shares will be issued as fully paid to Johannes Heinrich, Promoter
of the Company, as stated below.
2.500 Vendors.
5.500 Shares are now being offered for public subscription on the
following terms: Payable 10/- per share on application; 10/'
per share on allotment; 2,500 of these are already taken up.
10,000
PERMANENT DIRECTOR:
A. VINCENT, Engineer, 8 Goldengrove Street, Redfern, Sydney.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
J. HEINRICH, Director, Victorian Yalwa Gold Mining Company, YalvaL
J. REICHELT, Company Director, Yalwal, New South Wales.
BANKERS:
AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED.
SOLICITOR:
HAROLD MANION, Nowra, New South Wales.
SECRETARY:
REUBEN KING, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5., Nowra, New South Wales.
AUDITORS:
(To be appointed.)
Objects.
The Company is being formed to carry on the business of -Gold Mining, and for thi-
purpose to acquire from Johannes Heinrich his option over certain Mining Leases known
as Private Lands Lease Number 1894, 25 acres, and Private Lands Lease Number
20 acres, situated in the Parish of Seymour, County of St. Vincent, both dated 29th Nay.
1925, which Leases are for twenty years.
To work and develop the three valuable reefs known as Browns, Banner and tin
Lady Belmore, at Bell’s Creek, near Bravlwood, New South Wales, and to erect a 10-neaii
battery on the Banner Mine.
Leases and Ore Reserves.
There are some 3000 tons ready for stoping. The average of 44 samples taken out
of this mine disclosed, on analysis, 2 ounces 5dw T t. per ton.
Average analysis of 39 samples taken by Alfred Vincent, Engineer, of Redfern.
Sydney, from the Banner Mine was 3 ounces 12dwt. per ton. A shaft has been sun*
oil this reef 255 feet, and two levels, one at 160 feet and another at 240 feet, the sump
15 feet lower, and at the bottom gives an assay of 8 ounces 15dwt.; both levels ha\‘
been driven along reef 180 feet east, the bottom level as well as the top showing gooi
values. The country rock is granite. Average width of reef is 12 inches.
About 200 yards west of main shaft seven samples taken eight feet apart give a' l
average of 3 ounces 4dwt. 15gr.; there is a shoot 56 feet long.
The 240-foot level samples were taken every ten feet apart; it will be seen by assa>
on plan that there are no blanks and one gave an assay of 9 ounces 4dwt. 6gr.
Assays of the bulking of 47 samples concentrates, 43 ounces lOdwt. per ton.
These leases are right on the divide of the Great Alluvial Flats, ,T em baicumbeiv ■
and Araluen, therefore these reefs must have a great future ahead, where 00.00U.U
pounds sterling of alluvial gold has already been won. .
For further information, see or write to Inspector James, Department of Nun"-
Sydney, who has been down the mine and has seen the field.
The investor can rest assured that this is a sound investment. The company v>
not be registered until £3OOO is subscribed. This will ensure completion of plant. /■,
mine will be under sound management. When plant is complete. Mr. R. C. Larsen, A '
of Mines, Bendigo, Vic., will be mines manager. He is well known to most mining m'
CUT OUT THIS COUPON AND POST NOW.
To REUBEN KING, A.F.T.A., A.A.IN., Secretary, Novora, N.S.W.
Please forward me a prospectus of the New Hope Gold Mining Company.
NAME . .
ADDRESS
Answers to Correspondents.
A T o notice (.except of a hostile character) will le
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address, must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Claude W.: In the infant class.... J.R.S.:
The article is much too long for our use; and the
fact that the verse has been published elsewhere dis-
qualifies it. .. .F.G.H.: Uneven, but very fair....
J.M.D.: Moves too heavily... .Stuart Mel).: That
parcelled dog is too old a stage property. But both
are heaved forth with regret.... J.P.McK.: Hammered
out too thin... .Dreamer: Amorphous. .. .Ellen D.:
Rather too early to repeat what was said at the lady’s
death.... Mass: Fair jingle; but the point is worn
pretty blunt. ... E.1.R.: All made so obvious....
Fulis T.: “The Wagtail’’ shan’t sing here... .Cam
D.: “Christian” drops his bundle. .. .E.T.8.P.: A
spray of trite phrases splashes over your rocks....
J.L.K.: The raindrop that “falleth when it pleas-
eth” f.aileth to refresh us... .Mistress M.: Might do
elsewhere. . . .Douglas L.: Not treated lightly enough.
. ...W.McP.: They are not stories, and they are
too discursive for pars. Not bad work, though....
Bat: For one glorious moment we thought your
pome was “The Tripe Tragedy.” Interest faded
with the discovery that the word was really “triple.”
. ...D.0.C.: “Over the Edge” is most decidedly so.
....Dan P.: Plain filth. .. .G.H.M.: You don’t know
the meaning of “infra dig.” and other words used.
Why use them?. .. .D.M.C.: Yours is, indeed, a
watery “Grave”... .8.0. L.: 0.L.!. .. .L.R.8.: Feeble.
F.E.T.: Darkness has fallen on your “Eventide”....
Ij.D.O’D. : Dialogue too reminiscent of recent plays.
.... Bernard W.: Poor stuff.... Sisera: The girl who
goes away to “hide her shame” doesn’t usually come
back, with the infant sign of it, as “Miss.” It’s
easy to pose as “Mrs.” —and wedding-rings are cheap.
....Pat: Room for some of your noble thoughts:—
Self-determination’s the right of each son of Adam
If he e’en has the horrors, or else has just had ’em ;
So say we, one and all, “To hell with the wowsers
And of wild, witless women who want to wear the
trousers,”
But let us solid stand for White Australia,
Which is, in faith, our National Regalia.
. ...A.G.M.: No inspiration in the ex-mate’s 1ie....
A.R.: No use releasing your climax in the middle of
the yarn--—the rest then drags.... G.D.P.: It’s a
dreary history... .E.L.S.: Not enough subtlety in
the telling. . . .M.L.C.: The interesting description has
nothing to do with the fairly good yarn; and the
blend spoils both. .. .Del M.: Horrible. .. .R.C.: Try
to get more body in your stuff. Your verses knock at
the door often enough, but there’s nothing to let in
when it’s opened... .Coreen N.: Decline to hail the
Yorks with such stilted remarks... .S.W.R.J.: Don’t
destroy yourself, but destroy “Before Death’s Brink.”
. ...D.5.0.: People who “might have been seen” .ire
never seen in The Bulletin .... L.A.8.: Hopelessly
ungrammatical sentences rob it of all chance. Idea
and humor are not bad....E.M.: Might have done if
we could have found out what it means —if it means
anything-. .. .P.T.A.: “Cemetery” verse cremated....
Tere: A possibility; but the number of people who
sit down in city rooms and call to others to join them
out in the woods is legion. .. .M.G.: “The Ballad of
Andy Drew” must go in:—
There lived a chap named Andy Drew
Such funny things did Andy do
He drew some pictures on the wall
Of men of note both great and small
In Tatt’s he one time drew a prize
The wealth of which drew great surprise
From Andy’s freinds, While Andrew Drew
Drew corks
From sparkling wine
And kisses sweet
From lips divine
On champagne suppers he would dine
He drew the smoke from fine cigars
And drew attention in the bars
And drew the final breath in life
When across his neck he drew a knife.
....N.S. (Darlington): Too slight an incident....
Bay W.: Very uninviting bloom. .. .F.A.H.: Didn’t get
a heart-throb out of it D.J.H.: Not intended for you.
....Jimmy P.: Too long-winded... .M.G. W.: You
“didn’t call your story anything.” We called it a
lot of things.... D.8.0’C.: The verse of your
“Dreams” has a touch of nightmare.... Edwin B.:
It’s years since we buried the corpse that had to have
its wig tacked on because there was no glue....
W.A.L.H.: “Pain” is a verse-toothache. .. .R.H.M.:
Your rhymed excursion through mum’s daily round
is dull. . . .John B.: We found none. .. .P.A.T.: “Wal-
laby” hops back. ... J.K.M.: Did you and your friends
decide to try who could 'write the worst verse?. .. .
Beat R.: Too long for interest... .J.R.G.: The drunk
story toppled morosely into the w.p.b J.8.A.:
Tour “Ode to Canberra” is as bad as most of them.
....Butcher B.: We don’t like your tripe. Give us
steak... .R.L. (Bondi): Last verse spoils it....
A.S.T.A.: A good swing; but takes up too much
space with repeated lines. .. .Linda P.A.: Words,
words. . . .W. J.W.: You were a true prophet when
you wrote “And Fancy’s dreams may end in curses
10ud”... .F.J.0.: Better qualifications will have to
be shown for your poet’s license... .Cam D.: You’ve
touched our favorite sentiment:—'
When thou seest a man degraded
Doth the thought occur to you
Beer-soaked, cool, perhaps a murderer,
He did hath a mother, too?
....Hugh G.: You need to give your writing a
spell. “Eckshotick” and “yhact” are masterpieces.
... .Ethel D.: No flame in your torch-bearing... . Jas.
W. (Townsville): Prosaic W.R.D.: The “billenth”
girl who kissed him good-bye expired, and now calls
from her grave. .. .E.F.W : You need only a fraction
of that commonplace back-fence dialogue to dress
the story.. Caesar: Not sufficient ounces to the ton in
snake humor. .. . J.S.: “Found Wanting” is very much
so.... Edward H. (Bris.) : Frankly, awful ;doggerel.
Corydon: You didn’t name it; it doesn’t deserve
a name, anyway M.R.C.: Verse goes drunk
lv. Mael (Geelong): It’s just the thing—for the
lady’s verse album Mrs. S. L.: The Ford verse
is no great shakes. .. .P.J.R.: Trite stuff... .T.0.Z.:
The tropic sunset faded out in very poor .verses....
I.es G.: Owing to faults in the meter your poetic
gas fails to illuminate.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.S.: Should make an excellent mural decoration
for a two-up school. .. .8.T.L.: Don’t want to meet
lady wearing what looks like a baseball mask....
V.M.; Suspiciously like an unsolved jig-saw puzzle. ...
A.11.G.: Depressing sketch illustrating a glum joke.
....R.C.: Perspective has met with an accident and
the figures are inky nightmares... .V.0.M.: Your
flapper has no visible means of support. .. .8.5.:
Down-at-heels art... .R.R.B.W : Not touching that
type of humor. .. .C.W.J.H.: Leason anticipated you
years ago... .R.M.T.: Among the artistic pig-rooters.
. ...G.M.A.: Weak malapropism and hopeless pencil
scribble. .. .G.D.T.: Style too slap-dash... .G.H.:
You’re a good tipster; they all went west....
H.W.T.: Insipid gags, and the drawings don’t count.
H.E.: Below par W. 8.: Cast out H.K.E.1.:
Nothing in them.


Renown JReaxma-
Extends Throughout the World.
The
§1
Products of Renown —
Rexona —The Rapid Healer—
A Medicine Chest in Itself.
Never a day passes but Rexona scores another triumph over those serious troubles of life —Sores, Bad Legs,
Piles, Eczema, Pimples, Blotches, Burns, Nasal Catarrh and Rheumatism. The dainty little triangular pot of Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, contains a combination of the most curative, antiseptic, soothing and healing properties known to
science. Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age, because it destroys the harmful germs that may be present in a sore,
pimple or any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing any contagion of the blood, and at the same time causes a new
healthy skin to grow. Rexona immediately reduces the inflammation and pain: it acts as a distinct stimulant to the
pores of the skin and sets up a healing action immediately that increases day by day. Bad leg sores that have resisted
every other treatment succumb almost immediately to its wonderful influence, while for Piles there is nothing its equal.-
Rexona Shaving Soap—
The New Triangular Stick—
Makes Possible the Perfect Shave.
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this time which will be
appreciated by men wherever beards grow.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same Oils and Essences which have made Rexona famous the
world over, and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick which is a soap
and a lotion combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving and tempers the skin against
wind and bad weather.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (Medicated) is Rexona Soap specially treated so as to produce
a thick, creamy lather, which will soften the beard and improve the skin at the same time. It is
delicately perfumed and medicated on the same principle as Rexona and not only produces a lasting
lather, but purifies and leaves the skin in perfect condition. Being an antiseptic Medicated Soap it
has a tendency to quickly heal any cut you may have the misfortune to get, and if troubled with
pimples or blotches of any kind, will daily tend to remove them.
REXONA SHAVING SOAP, the New Triangular Stick, is sold in pure aluminium containers
at 1/6.
REXONA SOAP—Superior to
All Others for the Skin and Hair
REXONA SOAP is medicated with Rexona itself, which gives it unique qualities which no other
soap possesses.
REXONA SOAP is the purest of the pure and when medicated with Rexona, as it is, it is a super-
soap for toilet use. Infants, with their tender skin, must have a particularly pure soap, one that soothes
and does not irritate, one that heals and removes chafing, and Rexona Soap is just the soap for Babies—
and Rexona Babies are known all over Australia as “Australia’s most beautiful Babies.”
Australia’s sun is severe on the skin—the winds are likewise, and people who care for themselves know
that there is nothing for the toilet so important as a pure Medicated Soap that keeps their skin in perfect
condition. The beautiful complexions of the Rexona Girls are world-famous, for Rexona Soap keeps their
skin in the pink of condition, and if there is any tendency to pimples or other defects, Rexona Soap quickly
overcomes them.
In nearly every home in Australia, Rexona, the Rapid Healer, is the Ointment that is always on
hand, kept in every household to overcome injuries to the skin, Eczema, Sores and all skin defects, and
Rexona Soap, being freely medicated with Rexona itself, is a toilet article which should be used by every
man, woman and child in Australia who wishes to keep his or her skin and hair in perfect condition.
Soap
'Cooling
‘jooihing
Healing
imnliseptic Ointmenr
/..arifies f Absolutely'*
' Heals Reliable
ii !Tl7-1J PUT i 471
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the Skin. Eczema. Sores. Gits
Burns. Bruises, Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insects,
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP’ SHELDON DRUG CP PPSVDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
pQOD
W"
Rexona,
The Rapid Healer,
1/6 and 3/-
Rexona Shaving
Soap,
The New Triangular Stick,
16.
Rexona Soap,
1/- per Tablet.
'tyUHiJlljj
IHmiiiillllllnU
II


How to Build an
yof Ideal Home c\
Plan to make your new home perma-
nently durable and artistic by build-
ing its exterior and interior walls and
ceilings with “FIBROLITE” Asbes-
tos Cement Sheets —the Fire Retard-
ant and White Ant Proof Building
Material that Improves' with Age.
Consider, too, that a “FIBROLITE” Home
will cost you actually less to build than
a weatherboard house. You will save 25
per cent, in insurance premiums. Not re-
quiring painting, the “upkeep” costs of a
“FIBROLITE" dwelling are practically nil.
Our large illustrated catalogue will give
you plans an 1 full particulars.
IVrite for Free Catalogue “B '
Cnr. York & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
A.M.P. Bldgs. Queen Street, Brisbane,
y 581-83 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
FIBROLITE
ASBESTOS - CEMENT SHEETS
A •••>*.
«u .
: a?
««
■wvm
A Clip Well Grown
may be half sold. But work half done does not hit
the mark. You want full value for the clip. And
the work of a competent salesman is essential to
produce it. That is where the advantage arises in
accepting this advice—
SEND THE WOOL TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney, or Brisbane.
Success constantly attends the firm’s efforts in
obtaining top figures for owners at the sales.
[2
Death to
Fues and
Ants /
OISCN^
V<! LATtST
i
€^dudn's
tfeb- )FOf & StMT/?
.XI^^^TOR
* Empty contents
of tin on a piece
of moistened flannel
and place on a dish
where flies, etc., are
numerous.
Kills
Flies, Fleas,
Cockroaches,
Borer, Ants,
Bedbugs, etc.
AGENTS:
IDUERDIN & SAINSBURY
BOND STRUT, MILBOURNt
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Od. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians arc cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Ollices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne. .
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know .
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
sdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*nr
Ifl
InJ
See how alive ENO is
ADD a “dash” of ENO to a glass of water,
l. and see how it springs immediately to bubbling
life. ENO’s “Fruit Salt” is so different from other
preparations —it does not require to be stirred into
activity, and there is no gritty residue nothing
nauseating —no waste.
In fact, ENO provides the most pleasant way
of eliminating waste products from the system,
removing the causes of constipation, indigestion,
Ever disorders, depression and sleeplessness.
To preserve good health, drink a glass of water
every morning sparkling with a “dash” of ENO.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited.
London. England.
Sales Agents- The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co .
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
t
♦ ♦
r A
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.
sdf
DON’T tire yourself out
driving on wet, slippery
streets or pavements. Use
Weed Tyre Chains and save
yourself cramped muscles,
strained nerves and the fa-
tigued feeling that comes from
rainy day driving without
chains.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.Q.”: The London press-agent is a
quaint antediluvian sometimes. The other
day lie cabled the information that a fear-
some implement combining the cup, saucer,
milk-jug, sugar-basin and cake-plate had
been patented and was to be called the
“plauser.” The combination cup and saucer,
serving all these purposes, has been on sale
in Australian hardware shops for years. The
“knork” and the “foon” have also long been
in use in this country. The former, includ-
ing in one piece a knife and a fork, will also
remove stones from horses’ hooves, open tins,
file chains, withdraw nails and turn screws.
The cableman should rub the cobwebs out of
his eyes.
* * * *
“Iverys” : The luck of the Niagara was well
in the other day at Auckland when a huge
quantity of fuel oil escaped from her tanks
and flowed over the harbor and foreshores,
Last session an Act was passed providing
a penalty of up to £5OO on summary con-
viction for the escape of oil within three
miles of the M.L. coast, but as the Act
does not come into force until April 1, the
Niagara received nothing more than a polite
request to stop the overflow.
* * * *
“Shed Hand” : Tarpaulin railway sidings
are fast disappearing in Groperland. These
consisted merely of a name painted on a
beyond-repair truck-cover, and might be
found anywhere along the track where the
name was held to apply. Sometimes a set-
tler, wild at having to travel so far for
his stores, would shift the siding half a
dozen miles nearer his holding, and the
train crew never knew quite where to look
for it. But generally it was an understood
thing that the sidings were to have six
monthly stops at various accepted points of
vantage, thus enabling all the locals a fair
spin.
* * * *
“Tom Ayto”: “Choco” (B. 17/2/’27)
states that “in Sydney the Greeks have a
strong hold” of the fruit business. I suspect it
would take him all his time to find a Hellene
selling fruit. It is the Italians who prac-
tically run the fruit trade. The Greeks are
content with what is almost a monopoly of
the fish trade.
* * * * *
“Nakhoda” : Melbourne’s new traffic regu-
lations prohibiting parking in the central
portion of the city during most of the day
are playing right into the hands of the big
trader. Already at least one large emporium
has provided a private parking area for its
patrons. The small sheps have neither the
HUNGRY WAITER : “I dreamed s last night, sir,
that you gave me a pound-note.”
HUNGRIER DINER: “Well, a pound’s a hit
steep for a tip. Still you may keep it.”
money nor the space, so business will pass
them by. The big city trader, for his part,
sees that if he doesn’t make a valiant effort
to hold the trade he has lately captured from
the suburbs it will inevitably go back
again.
* * * *
“R.K.D.N.”: Labor conditions in America
are not always better than those in Aus-
tralia, to judge from this advt. in a recent
exchange:—
Wanted Boy, High-school graduate, to work in
general merchandise store and learn to be a shoe-
maker. One who can help milk the cow and play
in the band preferred. Tenor singer who is a good
strike-out baseball pitcher will find this an ideal
situation.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: One of the most alarming
things I heard at the exhibition of modern
hairdressing held in Melbourne the other day
was that if women insist on wearing their
hair malelike they cannot all expect to escape
the popular male disability of baldness. Con-
stant cutting of the hair, together with the rub.
bing of the close-fitting hat, will do this foul
work to female men just as it does to male
ones. Still, nobody will see long rows of
feminine baldheads at the theatre or else-
where. The hairdressers are prepared to
supply a wig in which every hair is pulled
separately through a rubber cap, so that it
lies exactly like the living hair and can be
brushed or parted in any way. It costs only
25 guineas.
* * * «
“Tasiriki”: The cultivation of cocoa has
been carried on in the New Hebrides for
about 15 years with excellent results, a fair
quantity of the product finding its way into
Australia’s chocolates. The best-priced vari-
ety, Creola, grows well, but, unfortunately,
has been in many cases planted in proximity
to other varieties, with the result that it is
soon all hybrid. It would pay growers to
concentrate on the Creola, and devote more
attention to the curing of the product. Many
drying plants have been put in during the
past two or three years, notably a fine
Gordon rotary dryer installed by Kerr Bros.,
of Santo. At somewhere about £5O per ton
it is worth going to some trouble, as the
yield is anything up to half a ton per acre.
“Tongio West” : At the last lost-property
sale held by the Vic. Railway Department
a motor-bike side-car was sold for 505., and
100yds. of new heavy wire-netting for 30s.
A pair of wireless-masts fetched only two
bob.


Whatever Your
Skin Trouble -
IF you have any skin affection a dressing of Zam-Buk will
quickly put you right. If any trouble has already taken
root in your tissues, dislodge it by regular applications of
Zam-Buk.
Applied to broken or diseased skin Zam-Buk kills pain,
allays inflammation, reduces swelling and removes any germ
infection or poisonous matter. Zam-Buk ends the burning
irritation of eczema as surely as it makes for a regeneration
of the tissues. Zam-Bui% heals from below. It does not
merely lie on the surface of the skin like ordinary salves. The
reason is that Zam-Buk contains valuable herbal essences
which are so fine that they soak naturally through the pores,
thereby predisposing the entire skin to perfect
health. You “rub it in” and Nature does the rest.
Zam-Buk has a wide range of usefulness —from
the timely healing of a tiny scratch and sudden
sprain to relieving chronic skin ailments. So get
a box from your chemist to-day and
Jieal it with
f am-Buk
A. Handy
Box
Only Costs
1/6
V
/x
y,
f
-C
R
/
r
/jK
Si
v A
\
//
Free Zam-Buk and Zam-Buk Soap
By applying to C. E. Fulford (Aus.) Ltd.,
Sydney, you can obtain absolutely free a
sample box of Zam-Buk Balm—also a
dainty sample cake of Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap. Don't lose this chance of a free double
trial of the world's finest skin - treatment.
When writing mention 11 Bulletin" of 24j3j'27.
O/is Afaster's Voice ~
H*£±AL .MZi
l Genire
ea
rea
s
on
e
m
in
min'
m
&
m
I-; a v i
mill
te-m
**:s
SJI
wd
%
Queens HalL.
CEapels'Royal **
S f cJames's "Palace
TO
C/fit? jVefV' His Masferfr %ice FJecfr/callJecordmo
His Master’s Voice the accepted symbol
of supremacy in the Gramophone Industry
out as providing the finest examples
of the new Electrical Recording yet offered
to the public.
The Records of “The Messiah” performed
at the Royal Albert Hall, The Choir at
H.M. Chapels Royal, and Melba’s “Farewell”
at Covent Garden, are only three of the
many instances in which" His Master’s Voice”
has established its unquestioned superiority
in this wonderful new method of recording.
It is the exclusive privilege of “ His Master’s
Voice” to make records during the actual
performances of music in H.M. Chapels
Royal, Westminster Abbey, Royal Albert
Hall, Covent Garden, Queen’s Hall and
Kings way Hall.
This is a great triumph for The Gramophone
Company; and an outstanding tribute to
By appointment to H.M. The King
His Master’s Voice”
By appointment to HM. The Queen
Electrical
n
His Masters Voice
Recording
THE GRAMOPHONE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
163 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.


(uticutij
OINTMENT
The Family Friend
Nothing purer, sweeter or more
effective for eczemas, rashes, itch-
ings and irritations. Bathe with
Cuticura Soap and hot water to free
the pores of impurities and follow
with a gentle application of Cuti-
cura Ointment to soothe and heal.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
HMST* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is, 6d.
Man News
sdf
‘She “CALCUTTA”
HELMET
Light^Qool
18/6
Tosp-^
tyreej
For business and better
\Vear. Made of pure Indian
Pith. Light~cool-healthy
well Ventilated. White Drill
covered-chin strap-State size.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In_. Sjteen St., _<
Mail to Desk “S.B-”
B enger’s for
backward children,
Parents who have a child
growing too rapidly, or
weakly, or not thriving, can
be sure that extra nutrition
of a particular kind is re-
quired. A cupful of Benger’s
Food between meals and at
bed-time provides just what
is wanted.
sdf
Food
is always made with fresh new milk.
It enriches and converts the milk
into a delicious food cream, very
easy to digest.
The Benger’s Food Booklet, contain®
many useful valuable hints to mother®
with backward children, post free, from
BENGER’S FOOD. Ltd., 117. Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturer* :
BENGER'S POOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1572.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi-
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
beverage --different
Postum is one of
the Post Health
Products, which in-
clude also Grape-
Nuts, Post Toasties
(Double-thick Corn
Flakes), and Post’s
Bran Flakes.
DEMEMBER this: Coffee contains caffein,
which has no food value, but is an artificial
stimulant which deadens the normal sense of
fatigue and withdraws energy from the body’s
vital reserve. Postum, on the other hand, con-
tains no trace of any stimulant. It is made
of whole wheat and bran, roasted to bring out
the full, rich flavour. Compare these two where
you can really see results —on your dinner
table! Learn how delicious it is. Experience
the relief from drug stimulation. Then judge
for yourself! Your grocer keeps Instant Postum.
Wholesale Agents:
Lewis & Cull, 316 Pitt Street, Sydney
Rudge-W hit worth
Motorcycle
5 FINE FEATURES
ONLY FOUND ON THE
RUD6E-FOUR
FOUR OVERHEAD VALVES
for power and valve reliability
FOUR SPEEDS
for the exact gear for every road or load
RUDGE-WHITWORTH PATENT
PROPORTIONAL COUPLED BRAKES
for safety with all speeds or surfaces
INTERCHANGEABLE WHEELS
for cutting out roadside troubles
MECHANICAL LUBRICATION
for a properly “fed” engine
For full particulars write to the Agent in your territory.—
FLOWER, DAVIES and JOHNSON. 404 Murray-street, W.A.
BEHRENS THIEM CO., 3 Devon House, Chesser-street, Adelaide, ■
ROGERS BROS. PTY. LTD., 305 Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
BIDEN and ROBERTS, 150 Hay-street, Sydney, N.S.W. rree k-sW
Canada CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Queensland), Ltd., Creeh aw
Brisbane, Queensland.
J BiLYARD, 110 Elizabeth-street, Hobart, Tasmania.
CARL MANTACH, 110 Charles-st., Launceston, Tasmania.
Factory Representative: JAMES THORNELL.
Sheffield House, Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZO
THE
PLU
A.k any man you know who ui» "
uk him * he doemt think it the bat
Raror he har ever ured. Meet him
amwer, "Why, rather!"
sdf
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE •«
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN I J
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE JL M
6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
For 40 years John Hood toiled in Maori-
land, mostly as a mail contractor in train-
less areas ; and in 1897, at the age of To, lie
went back to see his native Scottish heatli
before he died. But he had 80 years to enjoy
it, for he died only the other day. For a
year or more he was reckoned Scotland’s
oldest inhabitant.
The family of Canon Cranswick, of Syd J
ncy, is strongly represented in the Church
of England clergy. His dad was a clergy-
man, his wife is a clergyman’s daughter, his
elder son is the Bishop of Gippsland, another
son is a C.M.S. missionary in India, and a
sister, who died recently, married the present
Archbishop of Melbourne.
When George V. and Mary were in Vic.
in 1901 the vice-regal honors were done by
John Madden, a home-trained Cocked Hat,
and when Edward P. arrived in 1920 Lieut.-
Gov. Irvine did the welcoming. Both came
from the Ould Sod when youths, studied law
at Melb. Uni., and in turn became C.J.
When the York pair arrive there will be
an imported Gov. (Somers) to receive them.
Though Peter Reidy quitted the S. Aus.
Labor party after the 1910 business, there
is no malice on either side. Labor nominated
Young, a railway man, to oppose Reidy in
the Victoria district at the coming election,
and asked Peter, as a sitting member, to
request leave of absence for his opponent
during the campaign. Peter grinningly com-
plied. Commissioner Webb did the rest.
Deaconess Mann, who was ordained in
Adelaide (S.A.) recently, comes of pro-
nouncedly ecclesiastical stock. She is a
grand-daughter of Archdeacon Woolaston,
who was the first Anglican to wear the
reversible collar in Jarraliland. At that
time Westralia was attached to the Adel-
aide diocese. The Deaconess’s mother was
confirmed by Bishop Short on his first trip
from S.A. to W.A.
Gem from a debate in the N.S.W. Labor
Caucus on motion by Davidson, the Whip,
that Dr. Evatt and other members who had
refused to vote for the Liquor Bill should
be censured: —
Dr. Evatt: “This memorandum bears internal evi-
dence of not having been composed by Mr. Davidson.”
Davidson: “What evidence?”
Evatt: “The fact that it is couched in coherent
English, for one thing.”
They do love one another!
Three of the men John Bowser picked out
of tlie political ruck for his short-lived Vic.
Cabinet in 1917 —McPherson, Frank Clarke
and McWliae —have been knighted, and John
himself is now among the titled. McPher-
son continued for six years in two of Law-
son’s Governments after Bowser’s had been
swept aside. McWhae also joined Lawson
and then became Agent-General for 24 years
till he got full of the job. Clarke served
under Lawson in three departments, and
when the Government reached its last legs
he switched on to the chair of the Uppah
Chambah.
“General” Frank Sutton comes into the
jumbled picture of North Chinese affairs.
He was an engineer who swashbuckled in
Mexico, dashed to England to join up when
the war started, lost an arm on Gallipoli,
and subsequently became an instructor in
bombing and mining. Asia called him after
the Armistice, and many adventures finally
found him making guns and ammunition for
General Ghang-Tso-Lin, with the aid of
iChinese mechanics trained by himself. In
between Sutton did some dare-devil fight-
ing as one of his chief’s trusted officers.
What with gifts he has received for special
services and a salary of £15,000 a year, he
is now a wealthy man.
There was joy at Taronga Park when
A. S. Le Souef, who has been director of the
Sydney Zoo since 1903, came back from a
trip to Europe; he was instantly recognised
by many of the animals. Le Souef’s father,
for whom tigers and lions used to lie against
the cage-bars to be petted, was for many
years in charge of the Melbourne Zoo. Three
sons, all born in Melbourne, are all zoo direc-
tors. Albert Sherbourne is the Sydney man ;
Ernest, who served in the war as veterinary-
officer to the 2nd Brigade, Ist Anzac Mounted
Division, has had charge of the South Perth
Gardens since 1897 ; and William H. Dudley
succeeded his father in Melbourne in 1902.
Each has written or helped to write books
on animals and birds. It is a remarkable
family record.
When the motor-car of Tom Purcell, a pas-,
toralist of the Longreacli (Q.) district, broke
down miles from anywhere he was grateful to
a pleasant-spoken young man who arrived
from nowhere and put things right in a jiffy.
The Samaritan did the job twice over, so
that the farmer would know what to do next
time he got stalled. Purcell learnt that his
saviour was Daniel J. Malone, a South Aus-
tralian who started on a farm, but developed
so strong a mechanical talent that a Sydney
firm sent him out to sell farm tractors. The
more Purcell talked to Malone the more he
liked him, and a friendship was formed that
had important results. Purcell put his money
into what has become the Purcell Engineering
Co. of Sydney, with Malone as the captain of
the industry. The firm at the present time
has £2,000,000 worth of contract on hand:
and Malone, who is now a N.S.W. M.L.C., is
on his way to America to study mechanical
developments there.
“Nikko”: Three brothers bearing the
royal name of Windsor —one of them actu-
ally Albert George—had a day out in Maori-
land recently. Taking the family car, con-
taining his wife, sister and mother, Albert
George drove his brothers to Levin, where
the pair excused themselves for a few
minutes while they blew up the railway safe.
Albert obligingly kept the engine running,
and after the explosion drove speedily to
Otaki, where the enterprising two again
descended and rifled the safe of the Dairy
Co. Still looking for excitement the family
party motored to Pahiatua, and at i a.m. a
charge of gelignite apprised the car occu-
pants that another safe had disgorged its
contents. By this time the ladies were
becoming satiated with safe-blowing and
demanded to be taken home; later the wife
informed the police that her husband wished
to confess to his share of the escapade. But
the spirit of the trio, even after arrest, was
unquenchable, and after assaulting the
warder who supplied breakfast they enjoyed
a brief period of liberty. Twelve months
each was handed out for the attempted
escape; the Supreme Court will consider the
safe-blowing excursion at a later date.


Shipping.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
.Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/- j
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/- I
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Have a New Holiday in
HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra cost in the isles of eternal
springtime. Tropical scenery, fragrant flowers,
luscious fruits. Haunting melody ’neath moon-
lit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surfboard
riding, golfing, motoring and outdoor sports
the year round. Inter-island cruises, volcanic
spectacles.
Or take a round-trip from Sydney, 8 weeks or
less, for about £lOO to £l5O all expenses,
allowing 3 to 4 weeks in Hawaii and a day
at Suva or Pago Pago. Good hotels with meals,
12/- to £3 per day. Ask steamship or travel
agency or write Hawaii Tourist Bureaus, Dept.
26, Box 241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for
beautifully-colored booklet, enclosing this adver-
tisement.
On Your Next Trip Tnoludt' Hawaii
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 . . £16,789,590
directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. K .; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-!
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge. j
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for A'.S.IE. .• VV. G. Hull.
lIFAD OFFICE. SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queenslarid: L. Avetard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rurulle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Diunix.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
I, on don Directors :
A. Donns Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agrnts throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
7m land. and at all the Chief Cities of the World. I
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and IVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undiyided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
fJreat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
rsr-
8/pittStfsydney
PfOVidSIYtSOCICty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9.000.000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two IVllnutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
I'ARIPF from JB/6 per clay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
r.nd all particulars posted on application
t 0 The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
/
THINK OP
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Outd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
TAHITI 7,900 tons, MARCH 24, for San Francisco
NIAGARA 13,415 ~ APRIL 7, for Vancouver.
MAKITRA 8,075 „ APRIL 21, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,490 ~ MAY 5, for Vancouver.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
)il fuel.
Spacious Decks,
[Jnri vailed
Cuisine.
tm
The Scenic
Routes to the
Tinted King,
(lorn, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM IN 'l' E UCHANGEABLE I’Oli RETURN
BY OTHER JUNES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
UNION STEAM SHU* CO.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO„ Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Jf\ WeeJcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain ■ S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons)
!%?,.W 11011 l ■ Sails March 29 and May 10.
fan/l'S" MATARAM (3500 tons)
nJUIvIIIUII loiaiuio. Sails April 27 and June 8.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
d
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
EXGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck’ Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WOULD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
* Nestor 14,500 tons, March 25
:|:Ceramic .. , 18,500 „ March 29
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ April 23
*TJlysses .... 15,000 „ May 6
jSuevic .... 12,500 „ May 24
*First class only. fFirst and Third class.
t"(Jabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. )
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. I
Joint
Agrents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
lilackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOB
British-India S. N. Co,, Ltd. P. & O. S. N Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire ' Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail I ine San
Francisco Service (Union S.S, Co.), Union SS Co
of New Zealand. Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker’
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine) Mel-
bourne Agents for Messngeries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd. V
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide Pm-f
Adolai do, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, ’Mary-
boiough, Bmitlaberg and Bowen. *
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
d
£6,000,000
1,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq,
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq,
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR I INF*?
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street E C 2
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji Papua kn’rt,* j
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world d
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT Foreign r-h
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world s
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting. >
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldtou
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg, and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
’Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Towns* *•■*;
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLiM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—Krom Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
Tor full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
d
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOH DA
BEHUIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDEUSON’.
l’el. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you*** troubled with the complaint, write ui and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. _ It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday ot
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly*’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


As
iimiLi
I
Li/"'
mw
■Wm'
ft
4*
WSW
i*u>
i|l|llii»illiP« i »» i !Rrf*#i-
Mm
I
y
U * *^ r ’*"- «*££ WifeW
mt
wwm
&msm
dm*
m*
Touring Car - - - £299
Coupe ------ £395
Sedan £4lO
5 Disc Wheels and
Balloon Tyres.
What “Dependable”
Really Means
To press the starter button of your car
and know that the engine will respond
almost instantly, even in the coldest
weather—to step on the brakes and find
them immediately effective—to start on
a long journey and know that you will
arrive without annoyance from mechanical
troubles—to know that your car will serve
you for years without costly overhauling.
That is Dependability as the public
applies the word to Dodge Brothers
product—a Dependability which stands
boldly out among the most important
basic elements underlying Dodge
Brothers remarkable success.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne,
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane-Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Dodge Broth e-rs
MOTOR CARS


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
are Bound to Help You.
Mr.
JACK
SINCLAIR
(from a
photo).
aW /j
M%! i t
M
“I have much pleasure in send-
ing you a testimonial for the
benefit of others who may suffer as
I did with Stone in the Bladder
and Kidney Trouble. I was ad-
vised to use Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, which I did with great suc-
cess, and have the stone passed.
It gave me a shock at the time, but
great relief, and I am only too
pleased to show that stone to any-
one or tell of the good I derived
from the use of Gin Pills. I had
to give up my trade as a baker
through my suffering, and take on
cooking, which was lighter work.
I wish you to use this testimonial
to your best advantage, also I wish
to state that I took Gin Pills
strictly by direction; I drank
plenty of water, knocked off tea
and coffee, and ate very little meat.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills arc really
a valuable medicine; I cannot
speak too highly of them.
“Wishing you every success,
“Yours very truly,
“ (Sgd.) JACK SINCLAIR,
“Baker, Balranald, N.S.W.”
Men! Look Well and Feel Well
Don't suffer the agonies of Backache, Lumbago, Run-down feeling, or Kidney
Troubles of any kind ; but remember that Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills were specially
designed to banish all these ailments. No matter how long you have suffered, how
old you are, or what you have used before, you should try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills;
they are sure to help you, as it is practically impossible to take them into the
human system without benefiting. They help you from the very first dose, banish
Backache and make your Kidneys strong and healthy once again.
r £
1U
Sheldons
BAN ISM
BACKACHE,KIDNEY. I
AND UR I NARY TR
rs
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices; 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
f.
IP
m
m m
c
162-166 PITT STREET
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE &f KING STREETS
CAS T LEREA GH S 7 REET,
NEXT THEATRE ROYAL ,
7- YDNE Y.
What a lovely
Gift!"
Deserted.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
riIHE little path goes winding on amid
the bending briar,
Where rifted hills are rosy with the
sunset’s fading fire;
But few there are that find it now, and very-
few inquire.
I know that on a day like this the river
wind is blowing
All honey-scented with the breath of blos-
somed ti-tree growing
Above the dripping lady-fern and amber
ripples flowing.
Perhaps the mist is rising now along the
valley’s pride,
Slow-trailing robes of silver like a shy and
silent bride;
My lone heart so remembers it in dreams
unsatisfied.
Past the homestead and the clearing and
the ridges dark and dun
Come the quiet pictures faintly on my
memory one by one,
When the cattle pass the sliprails at the
setting of the sun.
And an old-fashioned garden to wilderness
has grown;
The springing saplings rustle where the rosy
wreaths have blown —
The old grey Bush has taken and gathered
back her own.
Pale, milky stars a-glimmer in an after-glow
of jade,
Dew diamonds in starshine, and jaspers in
the shade,
And a bronzewing crooning softly in the
musk and myrtle glade.
But no more I’ll be dreaming, for such
fancies hurt me so,
And the years have lost their lustre and the
pulse of life beats slow
Since I swung the gate behind me for the
last time long ago.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
A Bit of Stitching.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PHEGAN took a great pride in his
school, though the academy, as he
called it, was only part of a farmer’s
barn built of slabs and shingles. Besides
instructing us in the usual syllabus of a
subsidised primary school he believed in
making useful citizens of all the pupils that
went through his hands. As most of us
lived on farms or selections and had parents
or guardians who believed in making us
useful when at home, we did not appreciate
the technical classes as much as we were
expected to. But there was one thing we
were always interested in. Phegan was a
good botanist, and he taught us the uses of
numerous wild plants that grew about the
paddock. He had a little cabinet in which
be kept all sorts of mysteries that he had
concocted from herbs. Part of the morning
drill was a health inspection, and everyone
M'lio had a sore or pimple or other complaint
was treated at Phegan’s dispensary.
He reminded me of an old-time apothecary
whom I had read about, only his methods
and medicines were more advanced. He
sometimes had a little fire burning in the
middle of the skillion, and when he sat
over it on a cold day, with a pot of leaves
and roots in front of him, a ’possum-skin
cap on his head, and dreamily smoking a
black clay pipe, he seemed to have been
dropped there from the dim age of wizards.
We liked to be taken about the paddock,
through scrub and forest, collecting plants
and fruits for him, and listening, to his dis-
sertations on their various peculiarities.
Plant study was one of the most important
subjects in the curriculum of the aborigines,
he said, and it was a natural and necessary
feature of a bush school.
That was one of our field days, but there
were other days that were not half so plea-
sant to us.
Since Paddy Midnight, the blackfellow,
had come to the farm as rouseabout, we had
dispensed with military drill, as Paddy got
all the firewood that we used to “shoulder
arms” with and carried it home. In its place
we had other instruction. The first was
sewing lessons for boys, which we found a
little embarrassing, with the big girls, under
.Mrs. Phegan, grinning at us and calling us
mollycods when the teachers were out of
hearing. Phegan’s first address on the sub-
ject did not help to smooth matters either.
“Most of you boys, when you go to work,
will have to batch and mend for yourselves,”
he said. “You won’t always have your
mothers or sisters to sew buttons on your
shirts, or patches on your trousers. That
handicraft is a necessary economy in the
bush. Time comes, no matter what you are,
when you’ve got to do a bit of stitching,
and if you learn to do it now you’ll find it
a lot easier to keep yourself in repair when
you have to paddle your own canoe.”
, Some of the boys had brought old pants
tnat wanted mending, some had various gar-
ments that wanted buttons sewn on them,
and two had material for making dinner-
hags. Curly Spencer had brought a pair of
socks to darn, whilst Peter Possum, the
blackboy, had a shirt with a sleeve torn off
it. We had reason to remember that shirt,
because of what it led to. Our attention
was directed to it at the outset by the
teacher’s action. He was a clean man, and
cleanliness was drilled into us as the next
best thing to godliness.
Phegan held the shirt up between his
thumb and finger, and looked at it with his
head slightly tilted and liis nose twitching
as if it itched.
You take this down to the swamp, Peter,”
he said scornfully. “The proper course is
to wash shirts first and mend them after-
wards.
The others were started with their sewing,
out the darning of Curly’s socks proved
troublesome. Phegan could sew, but his
darning made it hard for the girls to keep
their faces straight.
Go and get an egg,” he said at last, and
_urly made a dart for the fowlhouse. “Not
« , Phe B' aa yelled after him. “I could
nnd those eggs myself. Go down the paddock.”
Guriy hunted in the long grass for half
an hour, and eventually returned with several
in his hat. Phegan took all but one and
stowed them carefully in his desk.
“Now,” he said, “you place the egg in
the heel of the sock like that and draw the
wool over and over it till you have it com-
pletely covered.”
Curly went to his seat and worked awk-
wardly for a couple of minutes. Then he
stopped in the face of a worse dilemma.
“What’s the matter now?” asked Phegan,
noticing his look of consternation.
“Please, sir, I’ve broke the egg,” said
Curly.
“You clumsy ass!” scolded Phegan. “Go
and get a potato.”
Work proceeded quietly for a while longer
except for an occasional giggle from an in-
attentive girl. The efforts of Billy Flynn
and Johnny Cobb to spear their needles
through the eyes with a piece of thread were
remarkably amusing to her. She was so
convulsed at times that she couldn’t thread
her own -needle. Then Pliegan’s wandering
eye lit on little Jimmy Irvin, who was
trying to look busy at doing nothing.
“Why aren’t you sewing, Jimmy?” he
asked.
“Please, sir, I broke my needle,” said
Jimmy.
“You’re always breaking something,”
Phegan reproved. “It’s a wonder to me yon
don’t break your neck. Get a packing-
needle and mend bags. There’s a heap in
the •skillion with holes in them that have
been gnawed by mice.”
Jimmy obeyed him rather sulkily, but
when he began to pull the bags out from the
corner he brightened up. Mice scurred away
in all directions. Jimmy liked catching mice,
and for a few lively moments he was the
envy of his mates. Then in making a wild
grab at a fleeing rodent he knocked over a
bucket of seed-maize. The grain was soak-
ing in a mixture of tar and water for the double
purpose of making it sprout quickly and
keeping bandicoots from eating it. Jimmy
sprawled in it, and when he got up he was
a variegated picture of misery, whilst the
sewing class was happy. The boys grinned
and grimaced, and talked about his coat in
sign language.
Luckily for Jimmy, Phegan had gone out
to see what was keeping Peter Possum. The
blackboy had found an agreeable occupation,
too. He had built a twig fence in a small
inlet of the swamp, and was joyfully yard-
ing bullyfrogs when Phegan crept up behind
him.
“Is that what I sent you down here for?
Playing!”
The unexpected voice made Peter jump
spontaneously. “Please, sir, I’m waitin’ for
me shirt to dry,” lie pleaded.
“Get back to school and mend bags!” said
Phegan sternly.
Peter grabbed his shirt and ran for his life.
As Phegan turned to follow him he flushed
a wild duck from a tussock of swamp grass.
It had a wounded wing and being cut off
from the tussocks, took refuge in a hollow
log. Phegan was fond of wild duck. One
had got away from him the day before, and
lie surmised that this was the escapee. The
hollow was clean, and perceiving that it
was big enough to admit him. he took his
hat and coat off and crawled in.
The duck was crouched at the far end
of the hollow, about twelve feet from the
entrance. As he approached it the fright-
ened bird flapped wildly into his face, but
he clutched it by the neck, and was trium-
phantly backing out when he found himself
trapped. Some slivers of wood, splintered
off at the top end, stuck into his body and
held him. He had got through them easily
going up, as they pointed that way, but in
the opposite direction they impeded his pro-
gress like the ends of a trap-yard for brum-
bies. At the place where he was held his
shoulders filled the hollow, so that he could
not get his hands back to remove the obstruc-
tion. There was no alternative but to lie
there and wait till someone discovered him.
Meanwhile Curly Spencer had picked up
the corn, and Peter Possum was having
laughing fits alongside him, whilst the rest
of the boys were sewing in a go-as-you-
please manner. After a while, Mrs. Phegan
began to wonder what was keeping her hus-
band, and at last sent Henry Cobb to see
if anything had happened to him.
Henry made record time. He rushed back
in great excitement, panting for breath.
All eyes were fixed on him, and when he
spoke all mouths gaped with astonishment.
“He’s up a holler log an’ can’t get out,”
said Henry.
“Oh, my goodness!” cried Mrs. Phegan.
“How ridiculous!”
“He says to bring the crosscut saw an’
the maul an’ wedges,” continued Henry. *
At that the pupils giggled, all excepting
little Mary Irvin, who was too sympathetic to
laugh at the misfortunes of others. Mrs.
Phegan looked serious and discomfited.
“I’m surprised at you children showing
so little concern for your teacher,” she
reproved. “Hurry up and help him.”
The sewing was hastily bundled together,
the bag-mending promptly ceased, and every
one, including the girls and Mrs. Phegan,
hurried to the swamp. Johnny Cobb assumed
command of the rescue party, on the ground
that his father owned the tools. To avoid
sawing Phegan’s head off, he located the
top-end of him by tapping on the log with
an axe. Every tap knocked dust into
Phegan’s eyes, and his irascible comments
enabled Johnny to hit the spot with great
precision.
Several of the big boys could use a cross-
cut, and they took it in turns. All worked
with enthusiasm, whilst Mrs. Phegan exas-
asperated the prisoner with questions at
the other end, and the mob stood around in
happy expectation. Many of them had cut
dingoes and other wild beasts out of hollow
logs, but their learned pedagogue was a thou-
sand thrills better than a dingo. He was
better than a bunyip.
Everybody wanted to get a peep at him.
But Mrs. Phegan stood at the entrance as
if to protect him from ravening wolves. . She
had noticed that his clothes were badly torn
on the splinters he had backed against. That,
in the presence of his pupils, concerned her
more than anything, and her first thought
was to effect some repairs while the log
covered him.
“Dan’l,” she called softly up the tube,
“you want a bit of stitching.”
Dan’l treated the idiotic remark with
silent contempt.
(Continued on next page.)


%
f]k
U
m
J
tl
w
Z&& »
1 >:''“v
u
/
Fll
m
w-
ax
SgggSKsra
cs
BsaE^jassßK*
sod
ABRIDGED SPECIFICATION:
ti h.p. 4 cyl., s.v. : 66 mm. and ioo mm. — 1,368 c.c., R.A.C.
10 - s h -P-> 3-Speed Gear Box, Right Hand Control, F.W.b'.
12/28 h.p., 4 cyl., s.v. : 69 mm. and 100 mm. = 1,496 c.c., R.A.C.
Rating, 11.9 h.p., 3-Speed Gear Box, etc., as above.
llh.p CLYNO»I2/28h.p
British cars have more than their origin to recommend them
—it is their sturdy, enduring quality that has given them
supremacy in the markets of the world.
It pays the motorist to buy a picked British car, specially
designed for Overseas conditions, from the houses that are
associated with Rootes, Ltd.’s Export Organisation.
Home-coming motorists can obtain from any Rootes authorised dealer
particulars of a scheme under which they can avail themselves of a
Guaranteed Repurchase principle.
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l, ENG.
Cables : Rootesmoti, London
Codes : Bentley’s & A.B.C. (SUI Ed.)
Distributors:
Barlows Motors Fty., Ltd.,
20-28 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle and Motor Cycle Agency
(Q’land),
Cr. Creek and Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Robert Dickson & Co.,
900 Hay St., Perth, Western Australia.
Garratts Ltd.,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Reo Motor Sales, Ltd.,
96-100 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Representative for Australasia:
Harold Heath, Esq.,
Hotel Australia, Sydney .
When the log was cut through it had to ba
turned over, so the rescuers could get at the
sawn end with wedges. The opening at the
top was not big enough for the prisoner to
crawl through, which he had judged when
he sent for the tools. Punty Bingham, who
had brought a crowbar with him, drove it
under the wrong side, and a hefty lift sent
the log rolling into the swamp. A roar
came out of it like the bellow of a bull, and
the rescuers stood and looked at one another
in stunned and stupid silence.
Phegan was now on his back, holding his
head as high as he could, whilst tadpoles
and water-beetles went down the back of
his neck with the inrush of water. Pie was
not in danger of being drowned, but Mrs.
Phegan was frantic. “Such a terrible thing,
and all through a blackboy’s shirt!” was her
lament. She stood as near the end of the
log as she could, and called anxiously to
him: “Are you there, Dan’l?”
“Where the devil do you think I’d be?”
growled Dan’l.
"You’re not hurt, are you?” she persisted.
“Go home, woman,” came the rude
response, “and let the boys get me out.”
The boys decided that the log would have
to be hauled from the swamp. They couldn’t
split it in the mud and water, so they sent
for George Cobb, the farmer, who was clear-
ing logs from the plantation with a bullock
team. In the interval they stuffed some
grass in the hollow to hold Phegan’s head
up and keep his neck from aching. Sarah
Cobb said they were helping him to make
a nest, at which Maggie Spencer threatened
to choke, but Mary Irvin said that Sarah
ought to be ashamed of herself.
Mr. Cobb was a jolly sort, and the humor
of the situation appealed to him as much
as it did to his sons and daughter. He came
along with a beaming face, which even the
tragic look of Mrs. Phegan couldn’t change.
The spectacle of the lordly old schoolmaster
being stuck in a hollow log was too ludicrous
to be treated seriously, though he made a
manfuUeffort to suppress his bubbling mirth
in the lady’s presence.
“Hulloa, Phegan!” he called from thd
water’s edge. “What are you doing there?”
“Split me out!” roared Phegan.
“Split my sides.” spluttered Cobb, “if you
ain’t the dizzy limit! Whey, come her< j ,
Rattler !”
' The bullocks were backed against the log,
and as soon as the spare-chain was booked
around it, they bent to the yokes and
hauled it out, whilst Phegan groaned and
squirmed as it twisted from the swamp, and
the aquarium he had collected made lively
efforts to escape from under his clothes.
Cobb looked in.
“Are you all right?” lie asked. The only
answ’er was a grunt. “Well, hold tight,”
he enjoined. Then, with a wink to the boys,
he added, “Might as well draw the log up
to the woodheap now and split it there.
Stand up, Yellowman. Come here. Rattler!’
With the mob whooping delightedly after
it, the log ploughed through the grass and
humps, and threw back showers of dirt and
herbage over the helpless passenger. Mrs.
rhegan fluttered distressfully in the rear.
“You’ll kill him, man! You’ll kill him!’’
she wailed.
Cobb went serenely on, though his voice
broke at times in the middle of Yellow-
man’s name, and he coughed occasionally
before addressing Rattler. For all that, he
walked as if he were proud of driving bul-
locks. As the log had found its keel and
was running straight, he knew no harm
could come to Phegan provided he kept his
eyes shut. Phegan soon found it impossible
to do anything else except blow with all his
breath when some ants lobbed in. The boys
jostled for positions to look up the hollow,
and when Mrs. Phegan scolded them they
said they only wanted to see if he was all
right. A couple of the big girls flopped
down near the school, and one liid behind the
wall till the procession had passed on to the
woodheap.
“Whey! Whoa, back!” cried the driver.
The chain was thrown off, and after the
team had been drawn off a bit, he had an-
other look at the contents of the log.
“How are you getting on?” he inquired
pleasantly.
“What do you think you’re doing?” growled
Phegan.
“Keep your eyes shut,” said Cobb. “You’re
home now.”
As be set to work with maul and wedges,
Peter Possum rolled his damp shirt up
tightly and tucked it under his arm. “I
think I better get home, too,”, he said, and
left us.
The log was soon split, and when the
top had been carefully levered off, the grimy
and dishevelled inmate carefully extracted
himself from the splinters, and was helped
to his feet. He didn’t look very grateful;
he seemed annoyed at being the centre of
interest.
“Get away home, all of you !” he snapped
at the group around him, and there was a
sudden scatter.
Then Phegan shook some tadpoles from
his clothes, and, clutching the dead duck by
the neck, disappeared indoors.
E. S. SORENSON.
Yikka Takes Command.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YIKKA was a runner on battalion H.Q.
and as game as a lion. Even-tem-
pered, go-easy, cool as a cucumber —
and ugly. Ugly is an expressive word, but
it requires an adjective to help it do justice
to Yikka.
From the colonel down we all liked old
Yikka, except perhaps a few who had col-
lided with his besetting sin, the gift of the
gab. He had decided ideas on every sub-
ject, from religion and politics to war and
work; and the first indications of an argu-
ment braced him—like the rowel to a steed.
With an air of finality, he pushed his ideas
at you any time and anywhere. He cared
nothing for rank, and would as soon pass
censure on field-marshal as corporal.
He always had plenty of the needful—
more than plenty, in fact. Some said he
was a remittance man. Others knew for a
certainty that he owned a valuable area in
the Riverina; but on this subject alone Yikka
was silent. Ho became the H.Q. bank—for
withdrawals mostly-—mainly because he
never charged interest on overdrafts.
Once when I wanted to back my argument
with a bet he looked at me kindly for a
moment. “My son,,” he said, “what I would
want to bet you would make you a bankrupt
for life. Don’t do that again. Here’s
twenty francs ; consider the bet yours.”
“He talks big, don’t he?” said Blue to
me next day, “but we’ll get him off his ’orse,
me and Arch ; see if we don’t.”
The snow in early T 8 covered the stench-
laden mire of December with a beautiful
garment of white, giving back to the barren
landscape forward from Hill 63 something
akin to its original beauty. Stark stumps
were festooned with icicles ; battered breast-
works became undulating fields of white, the
ground hard and crisp. Shells splashed into
a thousand pieces on the surface of a road,
leaving barely a mark to show the point of
impact. It was cold, certainly, and trench-
digging was weary work; mud became flint,
but the eternal slush had, for the moment,
found a master.
Our battalion had taken over the forward
area two days previously, with A and B
companies in the front line, and C and D
scattered over the reserves.
Yikka was seated on top of the H.Q. pill-
box displaying to a select crowd of his
cronies the incompetence of the higher com-
mand, when the colonel came from the duck-
board track, flung his tin hat across the
room, and followed it up with his gas-mask
and glasses.
“The more we do, the more we get,” he
bellowed to the adjutant. “I’ve got a batta-
lion of two hundred and fifty instead of a
thousand. We are carrying rations and
supplying fatigues for every unit in France,
and now we are commanded to bury horses
in ground as hard as iron. I’m a soldier, not
a carcase remover; We can’t do it.”
Fritz, it seemed, had cut a string of
packhorses during the night and had killed
four of them close to D company’s 11. Q.,
and old “Fads,” our brigadier, on his rounds,
had given definite orders to the colonel for
their immediate burial. How it was to be
done was not his concern.
“Well, sir,” replied the adjutant, “I’ll
send an order to the rear companies for map
locations of all horses killed in the battalion
area, and we’ll get the divisional pioneers to-
bury them to-morrow. That’s the best we
can do.”
“Do any dum thing ygu like,” growled the
colonel. “Our men can’t do it, anyway.
This is not war at all.”
“Well, that’s a stew about nothing,” said
Yikka to bis audience. “The old boy’s lost
Us nerve. Take' him away from his text-
book and he’s floored.”
“Of course he is,” agreed Bluey. “If you
was the colonel you’d win the war.”
“P’raps you could find enough men to bury
’em overnight,” added Archie.
“Well,” said Yikka, thoughtfully survey-
ing a ’plane high overhead, “p’raps I could
if I wanted to.”
“Maybe you’d like a little bet to help you
on,” returned Blue carelessly.
“A bet!” Yikka laughed sarcastically. “Put
up six hundred francs and we'll talk busi-
ness.”
I saw- - Blue start. Six hundred francs was
a knockout, but he was as keen as mustard
on a certainty.
m? eU i he some of the others
will back me up a bit I’m yei man.”
Bluey was the poker king, and always had
a roll, but we were all on this; it was too
good to miss. Half an hour later the monp>-
was on hand Bluey had produced twi,
hundred and fifty; the rest had been bor
rowed or stolen.
Yikka seemed surprised, but covered with
an IOU winch everyone accepted, and tin
roll was handed to the Q.M.S.
“Now, where’s your plans?” we all yelled
“Plans?” queried Yikka. “I’ve «*ot no
plans. I’m not buildin’ a house.”
Ten minutes later Yikka was speeding
along the track to the rear companies witf
the adjutant’s order. The world had a rosv
hue. He stepped into D . company’s H.Q.
“Evening, sir. Cold night. Decent moo::
later on. Warm in here, though.”
The captain read the order softly: “Map
locations of all horses killed in the battalion
area.” Then the lion roared. “AVhat in tli
devil is this?”
“This is fairly important, sir,” replied
Yikka, and leaning over he whispered some-
thing to the captain.
“What!” cried that worthy. “Horses?
Are you sure?”
“The dinkum oil, sir. I got it from a bat
man on brigade.”
News travels fast among good troops, and
when Yikka reached C company the O.C.
was warming up nicely. “We’ll spike tin-
old boy’s guns,” he muttered.
Next morning, as Yikka rolled from his
blankets, Archie said, “Well, who collects,
old son?”
“What for?” yawned Yikka.
“The bet, of course, you looney!” said
Blue.
“Oh, that?” replied Yikka quietly. “I
collected that long ago.”
There was a general rush to the top of
the dug-out, and sure enough the horse-
had gone, with only a disturbance in the
snow to mark tlieir last resting-place.
“Six hundred francs —good-bye,” said
someone softly.
“Good-bye,” sang Archie; “good-bye for-
ever.”
An hour later Bluey was returning from
brigade H.Q. He walked the track sadly;
even the “Good-morning” salvoes from Fritz
broke unheeded around. He was vexed with
more serious things. Suddenly he slapped
his leg. “I’ll see old Red,” he cried. “He’s
sure to know.” Red was his first cousin,
and a fighter in the ranks of D company.
He found that lad seated on an upturned
petrol-tin, gazing vacantly into the distance.
It was the hour of the morning repast, and
a hunk of bacon and bread rested on his
knee.
Blue sat alongside him for a moment, then
started up again with a look of amazement.
“Where’s them ’orses gone? They was
there last night, Red.”
“They’ve gone, Blue—buried,” and Red
gazed at the blisters on his hands.
“Who made yer bury ’em?” said Blue
with sarcasm.
“Blue, my boy, nobody ever yet made your
aunty’s boy work, but it was better to bury
’em than eat ’em, eh?”
FREDERICK OLVER.


d
WEST! N 0 HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHOKCH, Brisbane. ntrre'r \i e WAI fiV
N.Z. Office —93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALLS.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. s A
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Ade a
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
The.
MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those: -faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or mere, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c.
It is fitted with a 2I-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes. . .. . .. „„
The running cost of an “Atco,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction, is remarkably low. Ah operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol and
oil mixture. ... . .,
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISH MOWER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
Full stocks on hand.
PRICES:—14in." cutters, £47/10/-; 16in., £57/10/-; 18in.,
£67/10/-; 22in„ £82/10/-; 24in„ £90; 30in., £110 each.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
REPRESENTATIVES: V
D. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
And 284-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
WHYSALL AND BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P.O., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” tak es your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
V '\\\ * v
;■/
M\ * A
•WWW w
mi
W
Iw
'X\
fry
MHfi
%
m
Savage Sporter
bolt action repeating
rifle round blued
barrel, American
walnut stock,
pistol grip, in-
terchangeable
magazine—six
shots, .22 cal.,
.25-20 cal.,
.32-20 cal. /j
When You Want
Results!
The expert craftsmanship built
into every Savage Hi-Power Rifle
has secured unstinted approval,
everywhere.EachHi-PowerSavage
Model is made to give highest
safety, easy handling, and years of
service. The Savage Sporter illus-
trates the unusual popularity of
Savage Rifles, the world over.
Savage Arms Corporation has developed most
of the cartridges adapted to its rifles and es-
tablished their internal and external ballistic
standards. The experienced shooter naturally
prefers to use this ammunition exclusively.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P. O. Box 966, Sydney, N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
Export Offices: 100 East42nd Street, New York, U. S. A,
Owners and Operators ofj. Stevens Arms Co. and Page-Lewis Arms Co.
I
A
Every
woman
knows
She cannot
Look her best
When out of sorts
Beauty is more
Than skin deep
It depends on
A healthy stomach
Good digestion
Pure blood
If these are wrong
Health suffers
So does beauty
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Will put you right
They bring back
The bloom of health*
I
’■? V
?||||
,
m ¥ -:• & s
• V -T>'? : -^£
v- ; ' •
Worth a Guinea a Box .
Sold In Boxes, 1/- and 2/6.
ROBINSON & CLEAVER OFFER
THEIR STANDARD QUALITIES OF IRISH
LINENS AND DAMASKS AT EXCEPTION-
ALLY REASONABLE PRICES, A FEW OF
WHICH ARE QUOTED BELOW
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over flO
Carriage Paid by
Parcels Post to
destination, or by
Steamer to port of
landing.
mM \
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSD.
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the finest in the
world.
Table Cloths, 2 yards square, from 11/3 each,
with Napkins to match, 22 x 22 inches, 12/6
per dozen.
IRISH BED LINEN.
Linen Sheets for single beds, 2x3 yards, at
33/9 per pair.
Linen Pillow Cases, 20 x 30 inches, from 2/11
each.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling, strongly recommended for hard wear,
24 inches wide, from 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, from 1/1 per yard.
Heavy Twilled Typed All Linen Kitchen Cloths,
sizes 22 x 30 inches, from 11/- per dozen.
Brown Linen Topped Bath Towels, very ab-
sorbent, good friction towel for bathers, 22 x 24
inches, from 3/6 each.
IRISH LINEN HANDKFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
per dozen.
Gentlemen’s Hemstitched Handkerchiefs, from
8/3 per dozen.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen - OST I IT A The Home of
JO lw« Jr\ w I Irish Linen
Manufacturers
NGRT
IRELAND.
Most llolbrooASays ~ 1
"Excellent with every
dish—cheese, meat, fowl
5 or fish.”
&
: %
via
£
:
Ho
rx
UCE
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and Gd.
liUncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY „e* No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
1.1.., BS27C (« Una.). Ch “ d ""’ Brd „,, Lti


fj
A
■ ‘H
t
FOR AUSTRALIAN
cvte febaatusced’ jfccffoa/uz/
THE NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS
rHE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY C?L T - D
Mead Office: 422 Little Collins St, Melbourne
LAST YEAR THE PRODUCTION of RAILS, SHAPES etc.
TOTALLED OVER 300,000 TONS.
