

-
■
.
m
'
■ • ' : £*/‘
< ‘ ■$ #</ ■
m
£ ■ ■ '
Si
SB •■ *
/■ - w 3 *
SB:
mu
m
m
SSSf
TT
'
4
<2
ms.
V
■ ~\ ' *.o* At
—i
A
Kingly Brink
with a
Kingly Title.
<S<s
V
D
d.
e nv”
Gold Label
Old Scotch Whisky
Bottled under the supervision of the
Commonwealth Customs
The Bulletin
READ “THE FALL”—THRILLING COAL-MINE STORY—Pages 44-43.
Vol. 49.—No. 2516.
Wednesday, May 2, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to "
I)YMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ’’
“All THINGS must pass,” so sages say;
Evolve, mature, and then decay.
And, yet, despite that stern decree,
“Good Goods” achieve eternity.
Whilst man shall still on earth remain,
To suffer ceaseless grief and pain,
For easing coughs and colds, be sure,
He’ll still use Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt
Learn
Story' Writing
THis Book FREE to YOU'
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne 9
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name .
My Address
•' .v •
BY APPOINTMENT
Mappm & Wehb
A 1 LTD,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVER WARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
Visitors to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of being
one of the oldest Firms of Gold and Silver-
smiths, Jewellers, etc., in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors from the
Commonwealth to call at their Showrooms
when in London.
The West End showrooms are within 5 min-
utes by taxi from the Leading Hotels; the
City Showrooms are opposite the Mansion
House, and quite near the Guildhall, St.
Paul s Cathedral, and the I ower of London.
dsf
sdf
sdf
Mappin & Webb maintain a fine selection of wrist
watches at prices ranging from £2/5/-
The one illustrated is fitted with the new Milanese
Bracelet.
Mappin&Wkhb
LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND,
158-162 Oxford St. W. 1., 172 Regent St. W. 1., 2 Queen Victoria St. E.C.4;
The Company has Branch establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Bombay.
s**
-sy
:v-
-*BU
THE WATCH
THAT NEVER
TELLS A LIE.
/A
HUDSON'S Eumenthol Jujubes
r 9^ UTION - —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured _ under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
buyin S to . be sure to get
HUDSON S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
. Sc > ld everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
m stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Go., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
a
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
A Lobe of on*
of the Luos*.
The Red Page
Art Has Slumped
Dog-days have come in the world of Aus-
tralian Art.
Leaving the matter of patronage and
markets out of the question, let us review
in a candid, clinical spirit the passing ail-
ment of this lusty youngster.
That we know our Lamberts, Streetons,
Longstaffs and Mclnneses and appreciate
them is of course understood. We do know
them, we have appreciated them for some
time; and the work of each is so stand-
ardised and characteristic that it tends now
to appear static. This is not to belittle
our giants, but to acknowledge that ihey
have “arrived.” And. having arrived, they
are not going any further on, they are not
diverging or varying. They have not only
arrived; they have settled down.
There was a time when all of these
painters (and their peers) were “fluid,” un-
certain, wondering, groping, experimenting
and making dangerous flights whither their
imagination led them—falling, stumbling
and revelling in the adventure of discov-
ering beauty and expressing it, each to the
best of his ability and in his own way.
Ihey and their achievements now speak for
themselves and we will leave them out of
the review.
What is afoot to-day? Now, we do not,
want thrills and stunts, but we expect to
find evidence of life and definite enthusi-
asms energising the younger generation of
painters. We do expect every wrong-headed
rebellion and perversity, so long as it is sin-
cere, inflaming the coming interpreters of
Australia. But we don’t find this. We find
many good little painters plodding along
conscientiously in the footsteps of those
who went before them. If picture-monger-
mg is to be successful it must have an eye
to the main chance, they are advised; those
who dream and dawdle about with half-
baked notions get left behind. When we
attend an annual exhibition of collected
paintings nowadays, we know pretty well
what we may expect to see. There will be
no shocks or surprises or new points of view.
Each artist known to us by name will show
a typical work, and from year to year some
of these conscientious craftsmen show very
little development, improvement or retro-
gression.
Strange, this, when we come to think of it,
in artists. Each individual of them has
vivid, important, soul-stirring personal ex-
periences during the twelve months that
pass between the public exhibitions of work.
Yet he quietly seeks out the same set of
trees, pleasant vistas, orthodox portrait sub-
jects and nicely arranged still-life studies
in which to express his point of view to the
world. He tells us nothing of his experi-
ences; his paintings are a thing apart.
1 his is because, with very few exceptions,
our best artists— masters of technique,
many of them—are realists, and the art they
are giving us is purely objective. They do
not put themselves into it any more than
the typist who makes a correct copy of
shorthand notes puts herself into her work.
Realism has its place;,'and no one is going
to ask a brilliant and successful realist to
attempt to change himself suddenly into an
idealist. Realism is healthy and wholesome
and very important—so far as it goes. Prac-
tically all our successful Australian painters
are realists—good, conscientious realists.
And, however brilliant, however sound,
however facile he may be, the person
who keeps on stating facts in prose
becomes after a time monotonous as a dic-
tionary; while the presumptuous one who
expresses himself, flinging opinions, telling
us his emotions and his spiritual experiences,
his fears and fancies and attitudes of
thought, may offend and irritate, but he
usually stirs us and stimulates.
We are past the time of maps and charts
of the nature of Australia. The time has
come foi the poets who love and worship
her loveliness, who know the wonder of her
tender subtleties, who see the hamadryad in
every tree and who fear the wrath of the
ISorth wind and the relentlessness of the
ov erlasting hills. It is for these to interpret
her now to a waiting world. Prose is right
enough for everyday reporting; but it is
the song ol the poet that immortalises It
was Delacroix who said that “Nature is
only a dictionary,” and that “painters who
obey their imagination hunt in their dic-
tionaries for those elements which suit
their conceptions. Then, by the most subtle
adjustments,'they transfigure them. Those
who have no imagination copy the diction-
ary. A great vice results from this, the vice
ot banality By looking and copying
they forget to feel and think.”
Perhaps if some of our painters would
stop producing their industrious realism
and, instead of holding a one-man-show
every year would pause and dream awhile,
they would find themselves painting sub-
jactively in spite of themselves and the pre-
vailing fashions.
Idealists cannot be made to appear at
command, of course. But who knows?
I ei haps many of our most successful realists
began life dreaming dreams and possessing
fertile imagination. This was steam-rolled
out of them along with “other nonsense”
during their school and art education. It
may be still there, though shrivelled and
neglected. If it were encouraged a little,
there is no knowing what poetry might even-
tuate, and it is quite likely that this poetry
would be warmly welcomed. After all,
Blamire doling and Norman Lindsay have
been appreciated by Australians as well as
by those possessing imagination abroad Is
the generation that is to follow to be lack-
lng in the individualism and subjectiveness
ol these, so widely differing, yet equally
fantastic and wayward?
HATTIE KNIGHT.
Crimes on Young Australians
11 ® ver roa d an article such as “Country
led s ‘Rhymes for Young Australians”
(R.P. 18/4/’2B) without feeling an urge to
break all the major Commandments at a
sweep. Country Ped.,” who ij; I assume,
a school-teacher, contends that “no child
is going to be led to derive a love for
poetry from such archaic stuff” as is con-
tained in the old Border ballads. On the
other hand, he argues, the Australian child
is going to grow up with an ardent love for
poetry if he is fed on a diet that includes
1 aterson’s “ Ihe Man from Snowy River”
and such lines as these :-
Again Eureka’s voices ring
From blazing bivouacs of night-
Again the rifle bullets sing
Across the palisaded height....
I hat, he holds, is the true metal—not this
sort of thing:—
I saw the new moon late yestreen
With the old moyn in her grin.
That example- of primitive imagery he
designates “Rot!” He prefers “Again
Kurcka’s voices ring from blazing bivouacs
of night a clumsy and decidedly obscure
piece of phrasing, its blare of “b’s” blasting
the ear in a way that must make anybody
who has one turn in haste to the gentle
and wistful thought, consonants and vowels
of the “new moon late yestreen with the
old moon in her arm.” “No wonder the
majority of our children leave school witi-
out. any appreciation of good literature, ar
with no appreciation of Australian liter
ture at all,” says “Country Ped.” No won
der, indeed, if their teachers insist on pu-
ting patriotism first and literary apprecia
tion nowhere.
By all mc;ms teach the Australian chi!
good Australian poetry as well; but is i;
necessary to bog him in a mire of trader
slogans ? Australia-first is splendid in indus
try, but need it be dragged blindly int
literature which, if it be worth anything
will not be locked mtq any country? Le
every one of us—-pedagogues, writer
critics—do all we can to help Australia
literature sanely; but who will argue tha
it- is sane or helpful to laud even good stub
at the expense of better? It, seems extra
ordinary to me that apparently intellectual
Australians can be quite sober and intelli
gent critics of, say, the comparative value
of American and English literature, and ye
when they come to consider their owi
country’s work on the light of other conn
tries, allow themselves to be blinded by
patriotism excellent in regard to stockings
woollen singlets, tinned-beef and bananas
but in regard to literature parochial anc
sickening.
Heaven knows I am Australian in every
sense; but this absurd “boosting,” irrespec-
tive of or wholly contrary to comparative
ment, makes me feel savagely sorry for £,
littleness of outlook which I am sure is
alien to Australia the land, Australia the
people, and Australia the spirit. That is
how 1 see this country of ours—the land,
which is old; the people, who are young-
thespmt, which is a little child. And that
child is. to be denied:—
About the dead hour o’ the night
She heard the bridles ring. .
and
This ae nighte, this ae nighte,
—Every nighte and alle,
Fire and fleet and candle-lighte.
And Christe receive thy saule.
When, thou from hence away art past
i —Every nighte and alle, ’
To Whinny-muir thou com’st at last;
And Christe receive thy saule.
If ever thou gn.vest hosen and shoon,
—Every nighte and alle,
Sit thee down and put them on:
And Christe receive thy saule.
If hosen and shoon thou ne’er gav’st nane
—Every nighte and alle,
Th ® whhßies sail prick thee to the bare bane;
And Chnste receive thy saule.
“Country Ped.” finds things of that kind
too obscure for the Australian child’s intel-
ligence; I suggest that their very obscurity
is a thing to tempt the Australian child on,
(Continued on page 5.)


it Truth in Advertising *’ ensures
absolute accuracy of every
description and illustration.
Anthony Horderns
Well-constructed Furniture
Prices are generously low for such superior quality
The “Yew” Bedroom Suite
THE “YEW” BEDROOM SUITE, in specially selected
Queensland Maple, finished in natural color or mole shades.
Wardrobe is 5 ft. 6in. wide. Two-thirds are devoted to
hanging space with hat shelf; one-third is fitted with sliding
trays and shelves. Full-length Bevelled Oval Mirror in
centre door and quartered panel in each outer door.
Dressing Table, 4ft., Oval shape, fitted with 4 drawers,
knee hole, one large and two small (reflex) Bevelled Oval
Mirrors. Pedestal Bedside Cupboard with Two
Doors en suite. Price
£7O
uranmi:nmm \
m-
The “Daphne” Sideboard
THE “‘DAPHNE” SIDEBOARD, made from specially
selected Oak, 5 ft. wide. Fitted with 2
Cabriole legs, 2 drawers projecting in centre. Well-designed
back, with full-width Bevelled Mirror.
Price
£l7/17 1-
Dining Table, in Oak. Circular Top with circular framing
and Cabriole legs. Price £9/5/
Dining Suite, comprises 2 carver and 6 dining chairs, in
Oak, which have detachable sfcat
upholstered in Brown Fabrikoid. Price
£17(10-
Jhe
Joy
3-Piece
Suite
t G3
fr%®\ ;]
I w c £§S*"ii,
hwiSM
tuu^midirwrafl
'jrfSi 7T
-v; i •
n' ci ’-4z£&. v --
S 7?
vVC^
7%s
9$
iiiuc^^ii^iii^g^un^siiiiJ^i>^ii||i
»
JH'UUII hl.O_imil
€LM
mm
~i i
A-
-r
/
THE "JOY” SUITE, as illustrated, is a three-piece Suite. Settee and two chairs,
Maple finished, Rosewood or Walnut. Full polished. Well sprung to ensure
comfort. Upholstered in fine Genoa Velvet.
Price
£27/10/-
The “Dolphin” Suite, £37/10j-
THE “DOLPHIN” SUITE is not illustrated. It is a three-piece suite, comprising
settee and two chairs finished in Jacobean color. Suite is well sprung. Uphol
stered in excellent quality Genoa Velvet. Arms of chairs have exquisitely-carved
dolphins’ heads at ends,
and grace. Price .. .
They add an atmosphere of dignity
£37/10/-
(Department First Floor. Carriage Not Paid.)
OPEN UNTIL 9 O'CLOCK EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT.
“White” Sewing Machine
SM67. —A four-drawer Auto-
matic Drophead of the straight
design, made of Polished Ameri-
can Oak. The Drawers are en-
closed in casement. Mounted on
short, neat, ribbon-type Stand,
with Ball-bearing Wheel and Pit-
man Vibrator £l2/10/-
Rotary . . £l3/10/-
Use Our “D.P.S.”
( Deposit-Purchase System)
Simply leave a small deposit,
paying the balance to suit your-
self. This added convenience en-
ables you to purchase without a
large immediate outlay. No
interest or extra charges.
Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Limited,
SYDNEY. Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.
Postal Address:


When
you buy a battery
buy POWER
For a self-starter you need a battery
which will give power generously
and continuously. Buy aP.& R.
and you get such a battery.
There are many reasons why. Here
are a few. The lead of which the
plates are cast is 99.99% pure; the
active paste is “ keyed ” permanently
into place ; inter-cell connector bars
are copper-cored ; lugs are burned-on
as well as cast-on to plates ; such
things as separators and anti-corrode
terminals have been designed ; last,
but not least, the P. & R. has a
heat-proof, crack-proof, warp-proof,
acid-proof “ Dagenite ” case, manu-
factured only by Peto & Radford.
hat more can'there be to a batterv?
PR,
PETO &. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below*
p.l
3s.
m
n
1
§
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD ,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & 00., LTD.. Adelaid
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
THE
INVINCIBLE
□
53
14/45 h.p. 6-Cyl. Tourei
EXTREME flexibility with
top gear performance of 3
to 60 m.p.h. Four-speed gear
box, right hand change, low
gear axle ratio necessitating
change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the
Britisher overseas who wants
a suitable high-class British
car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, 9£ in.
ground clearance,
special springing
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. 1 x-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
V r r«ii/fei
Full particulars from
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,LtcL,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL & SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
This year tiie bigger Bulletin won t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
For clean
and
thorough
cultivation
For perfect
sowing
and rapid
germination
' W
*42
m
'A
*W|K*!S#<
depth by a top mulch T the .‘ seed 3I ? d f . Srti!ize !j on a levelled compacted sub-surtace, covered to a uniform
w ea soil the ideal condition for rapid germination and vigorous early growth.
WILL SOW AS SHALLOW OR DEEP AS DESIRED.
tyneS ’ S j Win ? 8 r °T’ coverin § 5ft.; to 47 tynes, sowing 24 rows, covering 14ft.
ustrated Catalogue and prices with particulars of easy extended terms sent post free on request.
MANUFACTURED BY
H. V. McKAY PTY, LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS. SUNSHINE
BRANCHES:
664 ftourke-street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Distributors for Queensland: H. V. McKay (Queensland),
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. King & Murray Sts., PERTH.
Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


}
awe
J>-4
\
:
'■•■'. KHu
’:; ■
■ i
Winter suits will have easy fitting shoul-
ders; trimmer lines at the waist; trousers
that are a trifle narrower.
Two and three button jackets are still high
in favor.
Powdered grey, smoked blue, and beech
browns are good colors —all are new.
To Measure, 7gns.
DAVID JONES’
Headquarters: Castlereagh , Market & Elizabeth Sts.
Branch Men's Store: George Street, Sydney.
and that to gently assist the child m strip-
ping away what is actually a ei>
veil is the business of pedagogues, country
and otherwise. “Country Ped.s own child
proved this if he could have only seen it,
when the lad stopped reading.
And I brought a half-fou of good red gold
Out o’er the sea with me,
to ask what “half-fou” meant and how it
was pronounced. Instead of helping that
intelligent and inquiring child along ‘ Coun-
try Ped.” is convinced by the question that
the small chap must be fed at once on the
work of writers the great bulk oi whose
writings—and all of it that he quotes—is
not at all poetical.
Why be parochial about it? Why not accept
the great standing wealth of Britain s un-
paralleled literature, and thank the gods for
it? Why not be honest with the kid; why
not say to him: “Here is the greatest litera-
ture in the world —read it and understand
it, that in the fullness of time thy great-
grandchildren may do as good’ ?
But, holding to these opinions, I still
recognise and admire the underlying spirit
of “Country Ped.’s” crusading. That is
the bitter thing—that at this date a fight
must be made for the inclusion of some
Australian writing in the reading of Aus-
tralian schools. No wonder that genuine
and splendid enthusiasts, such as he, rage
blindly under a system so foul.
CELIL MANN.
The Silver Soldier
In April, 1917, the United States declared
war against Germany. In his speech to
Congress President Wilson asked of the
nation a definite pledge of “our lives and
our fortunes, everything we are and every-
thing we have,” to its prosecution. A little
more than a week later Congress provided
for supplies to be made available to the
Govehnments engaged in war with the
enemies of the States. The Act for the
establishment of credits contained the pre-
amble: “For the purpose of more effec-
tually providing for the national security
and defence, and for prosecuting the war."’
These credits having been established,
some nine billions and a half dollars were
advanced by the U.S.A. to the Allies.
The U.S.A. was thus launched into the
war. Men it had none ready to put in the
trenches; they were as yet uncalled, and,
when called out, remained to be trained.
Britain had made her army as she fought.
Whilst the “Contemptibles” of Mons and
the soldiers of France were being reaped by
the German sickle, she hastily trained the
youth of the Empire and poured them in
by the hundred thousand. The U.S.A. took
lf> months to put any effective force —borne
for the most part in British transports—on
the blood-drenched soil of France. Mean-
time the British fleet held up the warships
of Germany; she bottled up a naval power
that, had either accident or superior force
let loose, could have devastated the rich
and heavily populated but practically un-
protected Atlantic coast of the States. In
other words, being in the war, its allies
guaranteed its security until it could arm
itself as an effective unit. During those
15 months all that it could contribute to
the prosecution of its war was dollars..
Practically all the dollars advanced by
the United States to its allies, the principal
debtor being, of course, the British Empire,
were expended in the purchase of American
munitions, material and foodstuffs. The
U.S.A. lent the dollars, had them expended
within its territory and entered up the allies’
indebtedness in its ledger. At the tail-end
of the war it at last made a sacrifice of
blood; it lost 100,000 men against the
3.500,000 of the British Empire, France and
Italy; and, flushed by the magnificence of
its belated effort, claimed in many places to
have won the war.
After the war followed the repudiation
of President Wilson’s ideal of a union of
the nations to suppress war; it refused to
become a member of the League of Nations,
and presented its bill to its late allies on
account of loans advanced to prosecute the
war during the period America was at war
but unable to put a soldier in the field.
Britain offered to wipe the slate of all in-
debtedness to her—about twice the sum—if
America would do likewise. But the United
States refused, and Britain, which practi-
cally bore the financial burden of Europe,
too proud to repudiate the debt she had
incurred, prepared to meet it. But more
than the principal America must have —
interest, too. To this Britain also acceded.
She asked only one concession, time in
which to pay. That one concession
America was pleased to grant. Britain could
have time, and by the expiration of the 60-
odd years allowed she will have returned
in interest more than the original capital
debt amounted to.
Such in b , * : 'ff are the facts set out in
Honor or Do rsf —“a critical examination
of the moral obligations of America to her
former allies” with a preface by Professor
Tucker, of Melbourne, (Angus and Robert-
son). It is a compilation by an Ameri-
can, F. W. Peabody, and an Englishman,
F. E. Coe, and contrasts the condition of
the United States, since the war the richest
nation on earth, with that of her late allies,
who sacrificed so much that she might live
and out of whose sufferings America has
grown so affluent.
No doubt not a financial claim was made
that the U.S.A. was not legally entitled to
make. The whole question is -whether a
nation ought to stand on its legal rights
in-the circumstances. The reply has been
made that it is not to the United States Gov-
ernment that the billions are really owed: it
is to tens of thousands of large and small
investors. But the rejoinder is, first, that
it is not suggested that the individual in-
vestors should lose anything; and, second,
that it is the individual European taxpayers
who must carry the whole burden if the tax-
payers of the U.S.A. will not share it with
them. However, if the U.S.A. prefers to
“stand pat” there is nothing more to be
said. It is not the British national character
that is being tested; and if the leaders of
the American people prefer to be known as
hard business men, who will pay to the
uttermost farthing what is in the bond but
will not in any circumstances see anything
that is outside—well, that is for them to
decide, not us.
T.C.
The Devilish “D”
Just as the “1” of Life and Light, Love
and Laughter has its opposite in the “d” of
Death and Darkness, Despair and Desola-
tion, so the sprightly and sparkling “sp,”
mentioned by Warren Graves (R.P. 7/3/’2B)
as being so frequently used to denote a
springing up or a spreading abroad, is bal-
anced by the drab and dreary “dr” which
belongs to the dregs and the drudgery of
life. Fountains spray and sparkle, foul
water drains; laughter springs, tears drip.
Drag, drug, drop, droop, drawl, drawback,
drone, drift, drowse—all these indicate de-
lay, retrogression or hindrance to progress,
as surety as drought arrests the forces of
nature.
The idea that our language is still in-
fluenced by certain primitive sounds is a
reasonable one. It can hardly be accident
that all things dark and devilish, dreary
and desolate should have the same initial
sound. Drunkenness, dirt, disorder, degra-
dation, degeneracy, derelict; delirium, doom,
disaster, destruction; disease, death, decay,
damnation; devil—at least nine-tenths of
the “d” section in the dictionary must indi-
cate those things most calculated to drive
men to desperation or drag them to the
depths of despair. It is not hard to believe
that when great-umpteen-great-grandfather
wanted to express dread, disgust or danger
he did so with the sound which is still a
baby’s first attempt at words: “Da-da-da-
da-da-da-da-da-da/i!”
ELLAE.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the Associ-
ated Booksellers of Australia and Maori-
land:—
General Literature. —The Letters of Ger
trade Bell, by Lady Bell; The Ant People,
by Dr. H. 11. Ewers ; Page’s Life and Letters.
2 vol. (reprint) ; The Brook Kerith, by
George Moore; Robert Louis Stevenson, by
G. K. Chesterton; The Arunta, by Spencer
and Gillen; From Middle Temple to South
Seas, by M. Justice Alexander.
Bools of Literary Merit. —lron and
Smoke, by Sheila Kaye-Smith ; The Strange
Vanguard, by Arnold Bennett; The Un-
buried Dead, by Stephen McKenna.
Books for Popular Reading.— The Old
Tree Blossomed, by Ernest Raymond; The
Strange Vanguard, by Arnold Bennett;
Double, by Edgar Wallace; A Question of
Love, by F. E. Penny ; The Devil’s Mantle,
by Frank Packard; Moran Beats Back, by
Wm. McLeod Raine; The White Locust, by
E. Mills Young; Flambeau Jim, by F. Spear-
man ; The Dancing Boy, by Louis Gerald;
So Much Good, by Gilbert Frankau.
A Satchel of Books
Review of the Lower North. An amply
illustrated and well-written description of
the industries and agricultural holdings in
the lower north of South Australia. It is
issued liy the Minister of Agriculture, who
hopes by adopting the best cultural methods
and spending money on research work to
make the yield of its cereal crops the highest
per acre in the Commonwealth.
Sun Man, by Jack McLaren (Benn). If
anyone is competent to write a story with
the Australian North for background it is
the author .of “My Crowded Solitude.”
Round the story of Richard Gailey, the sun
man, one-time artist, and afterwards diver
for pearls in the tropical waters off Thurs-
day Island, McLaren weaves a story of
primitive instincts at war with the artificial
conventions and snobbish standards of
society. The psychological study is inter-
esting, but its setting still more so, and it
is probably the latter that will prove the
chief attraction of a very readable novel.
The Problem of a Northern Overseas Port.
by N. Pern (Fred W. White, Sydney) is an
essay on the advantages of Port Stephens as
a large and sheltered harbor, with, in its raw
or natural state, even greater stretches of
deep water than Sydney Harbor. Under
favorable conditions a new big town might
grow there and compete against the One Big
City monopoly. But, because conditions are
not favorable, the towns alongside so many
fine Australian harbors are dog-kennel size :
Bowen “and district,” 3000; Gladstone.
1500; Port Stephens, not quoted at all ■ Jer-
vis Bay, 300; Eden “and district,” 1050;
Portland, 2710; Albany 7, 3976; and so on.
■The Australian Press Directory (1928)
(Country Press). —The popularity the news-
paper has acquired as a sales-producer ex-
plains this well-compiled publication, which
supplies to the business man in our end of
the world, as well as to the business man
abroad who desires trade with us, informa-
tion as to the characteristic features of the
Australian States and Maoriland, the pas-
toral, agricultural, mining and other interests
within their boundaries and the newspaper
advertising facilities afforded by them. It is
not only a gazetteer, but a valuable work of
reference, giving a comprehensive view of the
resources of the Commonwealth, the
Dominion of N.Z. and the islands. An excel-
lent publication.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character} will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E. Clmp : You make tps thirsty. .. .R.J.0.:
Not enough story 11.J.P.: Ghost exorcised
A.E.M.: One too didactic; the other too tooty
R.8.R.: Middle-aged Lothario is uninteresting....
Elgar O.: The cat’s revenge is incredible... .Sam G.:
You bore us too much with the family history....
Quin: “The Return” —you guessed it! M.A.X.:
You misread the par. It wasn’t Wilkie that was
helped Alex. S.: Too much heavy talk about it.
j.H.: Lacks point H.R.H.: Not bad as far
as they go; but they don’t go as far as these columns.
....Learn: Not answered at the time because they
were reserved for another reading. The latest have
a chance S.N.R.: Thanks for letting us read the
“Gentleman Friend” story again. We thought it
went out of circulation 55 years ago. . . .P. Pan:
Try to get some new ideas and work on them....
Sanga: Ask the lady and spare us... .G.A.8.: Verse
containing report of Providence’s views on Maoriland
is best, but is too long Grace G. (San Francisco):
What you say could go into three stanzas. We pay for
everything used... .M.V.M.: Do you really think
“trees-leaves” and “sleep-lutes” rhyme?... ,L.R.W. ;
The fantastic idea is not well enough worked....
E.X.P.: Your Pegasus needs an electric-battery or
something... .R.D.C.: Very slight theme. The trick
is as old as the hills C.P.H.: “Strawberry” sent
back to the paddock... .K. 0.: Too true; but it put
up a fair fight.... Mark O.: The humor is missing.
....Philo: No gleaning from the mass of it....
Selma: The “voice of sorrow, strange and eerie”
will not be heard.... D.0.W.: You’re wasting time
with that sort of stuff. Anyway, give yourself a
chance by double-spacing your copy.... T.A.H.: Some
good points, but artificial in the main. Get out
of that “dost thou” habit. .. .P.J.C.: Pretentious
and p00r.... Curtain: Film imports last year were
36,227,000 ft., of which 34,834,000 ft. came from
U.S.A. Britain sent 1,044,000 ft.; Germany 43,000 ft.
. ...Mungari: Yes, we should say the Italian popu-
lation in Westralia was relatively greater 20 years
ago than it is to-day. There were thousands of
Italians in and about Kalgoorlie, particularly along
the woodlines —E. J. Hogan, now Premier of Vic.,
was secretary of the woodcutters’ union in those
days... .Ballerive: The incidental tragedy is. its
charm:—-
....May C.: Not interesting enough. .. .Harry P. :
Well told, hut too slight. .. .J.A.H.: Doesn’t grip.
... .N.S.J.M.: Story about Mary , daughter of
George , and something that happened in 19— gave
us the ——. . . .Poniue: Prosily t01d... .lI.M. (Sand-
gate) : Deadly dull. . . .T.T.W.: No. .. . W.H.M.: A
magazine might take it; but learn what to leave out.
. . . .R.G.Ii T. : Do you know you are a murderer?
You foully slow a good idea. .. .Will 0.: “Archetype
just failed to leap the bar... .L.E.S.: Feeble....
Memories: Had one original touch. —the spelling of
“Batcholar” Little K.: Very crude.. . .J.B. (Q.) :
You do tie yourself in knots! Ariadne: Verse-
writing' is as easy as falling off a log to you,
evidently—the product reads like falling off a log.
Norman B.: It may be true —the dull, weary
truth! T. Mac: The ideas are so fragile that it
•would be dangerous to let them break into print....
Claire: Dashed off in a burst of enthusiasm,
apparently... . E.8.L.: Poor stuff... .Clarion: Your
attempt to impress merely depressed.... Ell R.: Our
verdict? Guilty Dora M.: Well, well:—
The merry month of May is near
And all the world with Spring is glad.
You must enjoy strange seasons in Botany!....
0.R.P.: Why so morbid? In the average man’s life
there are over 20,000 days, and he occupies only
ono in dying; yet you wail “All is Death” !. ...
Peter G.: Still doesn’t suit... .Rob P.: Too long. ...
A. : Thin. .. .Wowser: “Harvest” is a dud....
Brady’s L.: Nothing in that lot C.M.8.: Your
compressed ladies’ novelette fails miserably....
B. : The story clucks round like a hen that has
just laid an egg; and we couldn’t find the egg....
Richard R.: You introduce the hero contemplating
his last half-crown; when he meets the girl he dashes
about in taxis, dines her at the Australia, and so on.
We’d like to learn how to make 2s. 6d. travel that
distance C.L.S.: We trod on the insecty item
before it got into our walls. .. .Bill T.: “You’ll find
a good joke in the story.” It came unstamped—
was that the joke? G.L.M.: “He took the Bat-
chelor of Arts degree in Medicine” is a fine, care-free
phrase. .. .C.S.B. : Interesting; but hardly a yarn.
. ...A.G.8.: Darkness fell on it. . . .L.C.M.: Repent-
ance is needed for that Pendil: Par. value only.
... .Neil S.: That yarn made another gallant effort
to get in, but failed again Richard R. : A crisper
style is required... .Fred F.: Glad to hear the young
man sold his stories Ron C.: You’re learning to
articulate Ralph D.: It may mean a lot but
“For that that is has not been not, and not shall
never be” is dashed awkward.... F.R.F.: The thief
story doesn’t convince.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.E.: The jokes get nearer to publication standard
than the drawings E.A.R.: A straphanger could
do better with a blunt pencil on a crumpled tram
ticket. .. .P.V.: Hopeless medley of scratches
W. 11.5.: A glimmer of promise; keep on studying.
E.T.: Painfully stiff... .M.E.8.: It did the
rounds of the music halls a year ag0....L.L.: A
scratchy line, lopsided figures and old jokes.... G.C.:
“Animalcannabilism” gave us a nightmare... .11. D.:
Poor. .. .C.C.: You are nowhere near the mark....
R.W.G.: No. .. . A.A.R.: A weak attempt to illustrate
a weaker pun R.A.J.: Cattle-pup gag is mouldy.
H.E.C.: Don’t care for it N.R.: Angular
ladies chewing over an ancient gag....P.H.: If you
can’t get a girl friend to pose, borrow a dressmaker’s
model. .. .R.W.: Drawing looks as if it had been
hacked out of a wood-block Tam: Among the
many groping at the bottom of the ladder... .Lizzie:
Wouldn’t take a thousand like it for a gift 0.H.:
The armchair doesn’t fit in.
After an absence of months
Upon the wide main,
Tis a pleasure, dear wife,
To be home again.
We encountered wild weather
While bound for Capetown;
’Twas a providential blessing
We never went down.
The waves leaped, and blurred
The portholes of the ship,
Which rolled like a barrel—
We’d a devilish rough trip.
At dawn on a Friday,
We dumped over Tom Lane;
Death willed he was never
To see home again.


9
A
5
i
I
XX
■
m
&
ail
1
%
mi
I
Hi i
*
a
H
1
ii
I 1
&ip :
'* rwi i
V
.1
WK
wmo :
Hi;
|||
mm
WM
■
1■:
m
> mm
■ ¥
I'
7
mm
m
■g
7f
*
m
m
S
f
■
■
■
■
■§
mim
'mm':m
'••••' ••
■Mf-
II
11
I
■'
[P [
%W&


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2516.
May 2, 1928.
COLLECTING THE TRIBUTE.
“A renewed agitation has been started in America for the cancellation of the war debts.”
UNCLE SAM: “But, say, I bought their crutches for ’em, and now they gotta pay me.”
JUSTICE: “But is it nothing that they received their wounds fighting for you?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at- the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Austualasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved _ by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for'same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E. C. 1,; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.1,;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 1,11,-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London.
E.C.3.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
, U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley Neivs Co., 701, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans Neivs Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51,1 k South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Ko'ypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S.— K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 1,1, Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Mctropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A. J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
A. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oZ;, Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 1928.
THE PASSING OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH LINE.
The Prime Minister has supplied details
of the sale of the Commonwealth Shipping
Misfortune for £1,900,000. As the loss for
1925-26 was £503,077 and for 1926-27
£595,000, and as there have been similar
losses since then, a sum not far short of the
sale price would have been saved if the
Government had sold when it half made uo
its mind to do so in 1925, instead of stand-
ing out for impossible conditions. Finally
the Bruce-Pages reduced the restrictions
to one—that the buyers should keep the
service going for at least 10 years; and even
that probably caused a heavy reduction
in the selling value. As the buyers can
hope to make a success only by putting the
ships under British articles and paying
British wages, and as the unions announce
that the result of this will be a boycott of
every ex-Commonwealth vessel and of every
other ship belonging to the same proprietary
which comes into these waters, tenders were
naturally few and far from extravagant.
They numbered three. One offered
£75,000 cash and £1,500.000 in the shares of
a company not yet existent. Another,
which offered £1,250,000, demanded that the
Commonwealth should not only take most
of the purchase price in ordinary shares but
pay the entire losses involved in each and
every hold-up which might happen in Aus-
tralian waters. With only this sort of com-
petition about, the company which tendered
at £1,900,000 and took all risks is liable
to think that, after all, it made a poor bar-
gain in its haste.
* * * *
The Prime Minister spoke firmly but
vaguely about how his Government would
deal with the situation foreshadowed by the
unions:—
“Necessary action will be taken. We may
tolerate many tilings in this country, but we
are not going to tolerate any such action as
that.. . . The Government will use whatever
power it has to prevent the will of the people
being thwarted, and if we have not sufficient
power we shall bring down any measure
necessary to give power to deal with a posi-
tion which would be a disgrace to Australia.”
All of which is pleasing to read, but too
indefinite to be satisfactory. More con-
fidence would be inspired if the Bruce-
Pages were to take a preliminary canter
by demonstrating the possession, or secur-
ing possession, of power to deal with similar
positions now. There is no lack of them;
and if the Ministry has decided to be extra-
formidable when a great British shipping
line with a peer at the head of it is in-
volved instead of a local Huddart Parker,
it is well to be in training for the event.
The crisis may come when Parliament has
just wandered into recess. It may arise in
the middle of an election campaign. It
may even be postponed till a different
Ministry is in office, and the different one
may lack the ferocity of the present com-
bination. The High Court may, with slow
deliberation, rule any hasty enactment out
of order, which is good reason why it should
be tested in advance and proved water-
tight. The High Court is a learned but
unexpected animal, and the referendum,
which may be the alternative, is unexpected
but not learned. In any case, the problem
keeps arising why loss should be incurred
and unlimited trouble risked merely to keep
seven particular ships pottering between
here and Britain when the world is so full
of ships. The course adopted resembles
the needless tying of a hog to the door-
handle of a synagogue just to see if the
Chosen Race will get so wild as to stop the
supply of loan money.
*»* * *
The decisiveness is set down in part to
high policy, but it is probably much more
due to low finance. As matters of high
policy the same proceedings would have
been in order at any time in the five years
during which the Bruce-Page Government
has steered its hesitating track across the
political sea. As the results of low-water
finance they naturally happen now. Half
a million per annum of public income and
many millions of capital were cheerfully
frittered away on a marine jest while
money was available. But a monetary
ghost has arrived with muffled tread,
and the four most populous States
are in shocking difficulties, and Federal
loan and revenue funds are both short,
and work has been suddenly suspen-
ded on various palaces at Canberra and
elsewhere, and some railway works have
gone into suspense, and the Murray Valley
water project is to be sawn off in the
middle. In fact, the Federal Government
is economising for all it is worth—in the
shipping case very late in the day and not
at all artistically.
THE PUBLIC AND ITS PENCE.
No amount of revision of the Companies
Act of N. S. Wales or any other State will
adequately protect the public from the
blandishments of the unscrupulous share
salesman unless there is either a Govern-
ment department or a committee whose
job will be to verify every statement in
every prospectus, see that ambiguities
designed to be read as facts are completely
absent, and that if any underwriting has
been done it is supported by the placing
aside of at least 50 per cent, in cash of the
amount underwritten. Probably three-
quarters of the prospectuses now issued
would then die in their second paragraph.
Half the remainder would be rejected on
investigation. But the balance would go
forth with a hall-mark that would mean
that the venture had at any rate a fair
start whatever might be its end. Finally,
whatever protection of promoters is con-
ferred by labelling a prospectus “For private
circulation only” should be definitely
abolished.
Much public and newspaper venom at
present is directed against share salesmen,
every one of whom is coming to be regarded
as a villain, especially since the introduc-
tion of the American term “go-getter.” Yet
there are honest share salesmen, though
that is a wonder when one considers their
general circumstances. Mostly these men
have failed in their previous callings. They
have no capital and their failure probably
precludes their getting salaried jobs. So
they take up share selling on commission
at a time when it is imperative to make a
sale quickly in order to pay the landlady.
Xo wonder a man is then inclined to add
frills of his own to the prospectus. Pos-
sibly the firm employing him has given him
an advance. Possibly, also, he is given a
salary of 10s. per week so that the advance
can be made ‘'against salary” instead of
“against commission,” the former being
recoverable at law and the latter not. The
remedy is to make it obligatory to pay a
salesman at least the basic wage for a fort-
night and to land him in his scene of opera-
tions free of expense to himself. Under-
writing firms and new companies would then
be much more careful of the type of man
they put on and the immediate temptation
to make a sale somehow and anyhow would
be removed. Share salesmen are necessary
unless all company flotation is to be done
through the Stock Exchange only, and that
being so Ihe "industry” should be recognised
and regulated if only in the interests of the
honest men employed in it.
But it is frequently in the later processes
that the public gets let down. A pros-
pectus may be quite in order and the pro-
position one with a good chance of success,
yet things go wrong through under-capitali-
sation, over-trading or some other palpable
error or mismanagement. The only way to
protect shareholders from loss in this way
is to increase the personal responsibility of
directors. After all, the public subscribes
on the names of the directors as much as
on anything, and the directors on their
part say, in effect, “We know all about this
business and are fully competent to run
it. 1 hat is the implied contract, yet when
it comes to the crash the board is immune
from the consequences of errors. It is
paid fees for dodging errors, and the mini-
mum penalty for an avoidable failure should
be the repayment to the company of all
such remunerations whether they have been
reinvested in shares in the company or not.
This aspect of the matter would
need to be very carefully handled, pre-
ferably by a permanent scrutinising com-
mittee elected by the shareholders at the
statutory meeting and having nothing to
do with the management. Something of
the sort is needed during at any rate the
first three or four years of a company’s
existence or until dividends are being regu-
larly paid. In new companies directors
should be made to give more frequent
accounts of their stewardship than the Act
requires of them at present by way of
annual meetings. This would be an effec-
tive way of doing so. One of the objects
of any revision of the law should be to
enable shareholders, if they wish, to keep in
more intimate contact with each other dur-
ing the early stages of a company’s life.
WTiether things are going well or badly
shareholders are entitled to be made aware
of the fact more often than once a year-
more often indeed than a company could
possibly hold general meetings.
We are told the N. S. Wales Act is being
revised, but by whom has not been made
plain. One would have thought that who-
ever has the job in hand would have invited
suggestions from the Accountancy Insti-
tutes and practising company secretaries. If
this has been done the invitation certainly
hasn’t reached my office either direct or
through the institute of which I am a
member.
A Companies’ Secretary.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gilded Age Which Isn’t Expected.
Most of the current speeches, including
that of Prime Minister-expectant Scullin',
about*the bad condition of the finances,
the need to cease from deficits, the import-
ance of economy, and all that kind of
chronic dissertation, lack definiteness. In
particular, one thing seems to be always
forgotten. Suppose Scullin became Prime
Minister, and suppose that, under his in-
spiration, there was a large Federal sur-
plus every year (this could always be
achieved if the country imported enough
and paid itself almost unlimited import
duties in paper money), and suppose,
thanks to the blessing of having Scullin,
there were six State surpluses every year
(Federal subsidies might help in this direc-
tion), and suppose the railways which
were built with money borrowed abroad at
5 per cent, commenced unaccountably to
yield a return of 7 per cent. In ‘such
blessed circumstances it might be supposed
that the country’s financial worries would
be over. Yet it doesn’t follow that Aus-
tralia might not still be struggling hard to
raise millions and millions of loan money
per annum in London and New York, and
still be paying the interest on old external
loans out of the proceeds of new ones, and
still be dismally aware (or its small think-
ing minority) that a stoppage, or even a
serious reduction, in the sale of lOU’s
would signify national insolvency.
The situation might be put right if the
country produced to the value, as a steady
thing, of some £40,000,000 more per annum.
This should be preferably manufactured
goods in order to reduce imports, that be-
ing far cheaper and easier than the struggle
to increase exports, which generally means
much more debt for “settlement” purposes
and a wholly unreliable fluctuation in
output. All the local money surpluses that
imagination can conjure up are paper, and
have no bearing on the fact that Australia's
exports, the result of hard work, should
exceed its imports by over £30,000,000 per
annum to make reasonable provision for
solvency. Even if all the improbable bless-
ings enumerated above fell from heaven,
the question of much more work and 90
per cent, less strikes would therefore still
call for the urgent attention of the Scul-
lins and others.
It would be quite possible for a million-
aire to be driven to do pick-and-shovel
work to liquidate a small debt if he lived
the double financial life that Australia
leads.
♦
Where the Loan Money Has Gone.
Queensland has kept pretty clear of the
small-settlement devices which have led
other States into an immense hole. It pro-
poses to do some showy proceedings with
its Burnett Valley lands if they can be
effected with the cheap money which the
British Government is to advance under
the Migration scheme, but on the whole it.
has moved and still moves rather cauti-
ously. A number of big stations of which
the leases have expired are being cut into
comparatively small sheep-leaseholds, but
before an applicant can go to the ballot he
has to convince the department that he is
an expert at the business, and has solid
financial resources as well. The demand is
for capitalists from whom there is a pros-
pect of collecting.
That Queensland kept remarkably clear
of the razzle of “land repurchase” and
“advances to settlers” the latest figures
(for 1926) show:—
How Each £lOO ok Loan Money Went.
Aids for Settlers. Railways. Sundries.
Queensland . . £2 18 10 £59 9 7 £B7 11 7
N. S. Wales.. 3 9 0 55 3 7 41 7 5
Tasmania .. 13 10 0 28 3 5 58 6 7
Victoria . . 20 10 10 44 17 5 34 11 9
S. Australia.. 22 1 2 34 7 10 43 11 0
Westralia ... 26 18 5 34 12 5 38 9 2
But if Queensland didn’t make a misguided
and generous ass of itself by helping inex-
perienced and incompetent Lazaruses on
to the land, it struck all the trouble it
wanted when its Red element took charge
of the railways and started to play ground
and lofty jinks with the finances in that
direction.
♦
Is This What Parliaments Are For?
It’s a far cry back to the days when the
benevolent Sam Plimsoll lifted a lone
voice in the House of Commons on behalf
of seafarers; and if the old gentleman
could revisit the glimpses of the moon he
would doubtless be considerably astonished
to see the manner in which his efforts have
been improved upon, especially in Aus-
tralia. Shipowners in these days are
bound by a network of laws, regulations
and awards, all framed to protect the sea-
men, the cooks, the stewards and the fire-
men. A ship may not leave a wharf unless
it has aboard its full complement of
workers in every department. Gratitude
for this keen solicitude for their welfare
on the part of Courts and Legislatures has
been expressed by the beneficiaries in a
. very quaint fashion. Australia has seen a
20,000-ton liner and 600 passengers held up
for eight hours while a couple of firemen
finished a jag. It has seen a ship of the
Commonwealth line tied up because the
stewards disapproved of the vessel being
used as a regatta flagship. It has seen a
whole line of steamers boycotted and inter-
state services cut out or cut in halves be-
cause the Cooks’ Union decided that the
award complement of cooks on one ship
was inadequate. It is now contemplating
the boycott of every ship of the White
Star line that comes within Australian
waters because the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, after 12 years’ brooding over the
beauties of “job control,” has decided to
sell its liners to Lord Ktlsant.
Sooner or later it will enter the mind of
some legislator to inquire why all the phil-
anthropic laws that were intended to make
the seafarers more contented with their
lot have had the opposite effect, and why
Legislatures and Courts should devote their
time not only to making them more un-
happy, but to making it more and more
possible for a handful of them—or even
one of them—to dislocate the whole ship-
ping industry.
*
A Court with Spinal Trouble.
The Marine Food-Spoilers’ Union recently
laid up the seventh ship of the Huddart-
Parker line, the last of the fleet which was
in operation when the shindy commenced.
The basis of the disturbance was a demand
that a larger number of hands should be
employed in the food department than were
provided for by custom or by any award oi
agreement, with a view to reducing unem-
ployment in that branch of industry. There
was the customary flat refusal to arbitrate,
but as union officials pay no attention to
arbitration awards except when they are
favorable the refusal had an academic inter-
est only. Having created a great deal of
additional and very real unemployment as
a protest against a small amount of alleged
unemployment, the union officials sat back
and took stock.
About the same time Arbitration Judge
Dethridge, of the Federal Court which
comprises Dethridge, Lukin and Beeby,
sat up and took notice. He issued a grave
warning as to what his Court might do if
this wilful destruction of industry con-
tinued. The result wasn’t encouraging.
Cooks’ Union officials merely threw off any
pretence of not being responsible for the
hold-up. and stated, in effect, that the Court
could do nothing which would' influence
them, though it might say a lot, and that
if it aggravated them things might become


worse instead of better. They were pre-
pared to go on even if another general
marine strike was the result.
The three-headed Court has certainly
shown that it can inflict much loss on em-
ploying concerns such as the railways and
tramways by throwing around large and
lavish decisions which are obeyed, and that
it is practically powerless to give employers
bare justice in return, for decisions which
tend that way are persistently thrown
back at its ear. It is possible to imagine a
Court which would feel so degraded at be-
ing thus despised and contemned with im-
punity that it would send in its resignation
and get out of the painful position, but,
though it is possible, it isn’t easy. And it is
possible to imagine a Prime Minister who
would be ashamed of having made such a
futile and one-sided Court and would set
about a strenuous process of repair, but
that isn’t much easier.
4
Mother’s Petrol Tax.
Winston Churchill has retrieved a re-
putation for brilliancy that had been
seriously impaired during his first two
years at the Treasury. His latest Budget
discloses a small but actual surplus and
evidences of a genuine effort to curtail de-
partmental outgoings and reduce debt.
The sensational and most debatable feature
oi' the new proposals is the imposition of a
petrol tax of 4d. a gallon, the proceeds in
1929 and thereafter to be applied to relieve
sorely-oppressecl industries, farming among
them, of the burden of local taxation.
In this, as in other proposals, such as the
Customs and excise duty on the mechanical
lighting devices that are becoming so
fashionable in Blighty, to the detriment of
the match industry, there is something of
the spirit of Canute. “Why,” asks the
Chancellor, “should we spend millions on
roads only to render the railways pre-
maturely obsolete?” So he claps a hearty
duty on petrol, in which the Government
has an interest as principal stock-holder in
the Anglo-Persian Oil Co., partly in the
interest of the railways, in which the Gov-
ernment has no financial interest at all.
Still, the purpose to which the tax is to
be put blunts criticism. Something has to
be done to lift the languishing British in-
dustries. out of their slough of despond,
and Churchill might have found a hun-
dred less popular ways of raising the wind.
What nobody seems to have realised
under the first shock of the Chancellor’s
audacity is that his proposal to make the
Government a subsidiser of local rates is
likely to imperil the much-cherished inde-
pendence of municipal bodies. When the
State pays the piper it sooner or later in-
sists upon calling the tune, and Bumble
will presently discover that the thin end
of a wedge has been inserted between him
and his time-barnacled moorings.
But it is undoubtedly a very good budget,
as testimonials from Philip Snowden and
Lloyd George give evidence. If it contained
no more than its resolute measures of debt
reduction it would deserve an enormous
cheer from Australia.
♦
Jeshurun in Egypt.
Those who know horses know that it takes
a thoroughbred to stand corn; and it is as
true of the biped as of the quadruped.
There is no more searching test of national
or individual fibre than the. sudden acquisi-
tion of prosperity and social status. The
worthy increases in value to himself and
those connected with him. The unworthy
waxes fat and kicks in bloated exuberance
as the sense of his own importance dawns
on him. Disillusionment comes in due
course, but not before the harm has been
done and the pampered one has lost what
little value to himself and his neighbors he
ever possessed.
The recent spectacle of the stall-fed
Egyptian demanding that Britain get neck
and crop out of the country, and leave it
to the native Egyptian who has never been
able to look after it, would be humorous
but for the serious issues involved. The
safeguarding of the Suez Canal is vital to
the British Empire’s existence, and the idea
of the Egyptian being able to take on the
job, as he asserts he will do if permitted, is
unthinkable. Just as unthinkable is the
abandonment of the capitulations and the
special courts which stand between the large
foreign population of Egypt and the local
inhabitant’s conception of the administra-
tion of justice. Further, as far as the
Egyptian is concerned, it would be a case
of the frying pan and the fire for him, for
the departure of the Briton would only
mean that another and probably a less in-
dulgent boss from the other side of the
Mediterranean would forthwith take his
place. As it is, the renunciation of the
treaty with Britain leaves matters where
they were after the reservations of 1922,
with Egypt in full control of its own
domestic affairs, subject to the British
supervision in certain important details
without which the Administration could not
function, and the way is still open for the
Egyptian to make the most of an excellent
bargain. If he refuses to do so, it seems
more than likely that he will lose much of
what he nov r professes to value so highly.
The bestowal of the franchise and Parlia-
mentary institutions have proved Greek
gifts in the past to peoples much more
civilised and highly developed than the
degenerate descendants of the Pharaohs.
For such a people Parliamentary insti-
tutions and all their adjuncts are a delu-
sion, and the sooner they are swept away
and a return is made to the old paternal
control the better for all concerned,
especially the Gvppos themselves.
4
Queensland Pastoral Rents.
The Queensland Government seems to see
now that it is no good eating up the
poultry-yard and expecting a further sup-
ply of eggs. Consequently, acting on the
recommendation of its Land Administra-
tion Board, it has' substantially reduced
Crown rentals on grazing selections, and
has laid down a new standard for fixing
rents. The recommendations establish a
maximum of 6d. per acre for the best sheep
land, with a sliding scale for inferior areas,
the effect being to reduce previous rentals
by as much as 44d. in parts of the
sheep-raising areas. More than that, the
reductions arc to be retrospective to the
date of commencement of the leases
affected, which run back, to 1925.
But the relief touches only grazing selec-
tions, and is intended primarily to win
over a voter whom the Government
ardently desires to grapple to its bosom.
The big holders, who carry a great part of
the State on their backs, will, apparently,
be plucked as closely as before, and, in ad-
dition, are to be driven back from the rail-
roads and main lines of communication as
soon as their leases fall in, and the land
they occupied made available for the
small-scale grazier. In theory this is ex-
cellent. But sheep and cattle raising in
Australia, and in Queensland especially, is
largely a gamble; and, as in all gambles,
it is the man with the largest resources
who comes out best at the finish, since he
can afford to carry on till the wheel runs
again in his favor. There are large areas
of Australia which will not be country for
the small man for many a day, if ever,
THE CONQUERORS.
THE WORL: “I never felt so small before in all my life!”
and to chase off these the big fellow who can
make use of them, in favor of the little
fellow who, on the experience of the past,
has very little chance of doing so with any
profit to himself and others, is a policy of
very doubtful wisdom.
♦-
Sydney’s Playgrounds.
Sydney, which is worse off for athletic
arenas than any other Australian capital,
has been doubly unfortunate in that those
in control of nearly all the best grounds
have been fatuously willing to hand part
at least of the control of them over to pro-
moters of professional sport. This is par-
ticularly the case as regards the Sydney
Cricket Ground, the only really first-class
arena in the N.S.W. metropolis. Originally
instituted for the use of amateur athletes
only, it was some years ago handed over
on a five years’ lease to the N.S.W. Rugby
League, a professional body, which has
entire control of it during the football sea-
son, though the organisation controls
several suburban grounds in the same way.
and has even obtained the right to partial
use of the Sydney Agricultural Ground.
Other football bodies. Australian Rules, the
Rugby Union and the British Association,
have been debarred from playing on the
Cricket Ground in consequence, not only
in club matches, but for international meet-
ings of such importance as games between
the Springboks or the All Blacks and the
N.S.W. Rugby Union.
The League’s lease now being on the
point of expiry, a strenuous attempt is being
made by that body to have it renewed for
a long term of years, and pressure of every
description has been exercised to induce
the trustees to consent. The first lease was
slipped through in a surreptitious fashion,
but public opinion has been so clearly
against a repetition of this sort of thing
that it is certain the matter will have to be
discussed this time in the open. Last year
the other football bodies held a conference
with the trustees in conjunction with the
Government officials under whom the trus-
tees function, and a strong protest against
the continuance of the League’s monopoly
was voiced. The result was that the trus-
tees undertook in writing to. consult the
other organisations before coming to any
decision in the matter.
Consider the status of the principal
claimants to the use of the ground. The
League, which is a professional game and
whose players and officials rank as profes-
sionals the world over, is played in N.S.W.
and Queensland, and in Maoriland in a
very small degree. In its birthplace, the
North of England, it is played only in part
of Yorkshire and Lancashire. The Aus-
tralian game is played in every State in
Australia, and is the only code gaining
general recognition in Victoria, Tasmania,
South Australia and Westralia. The Asso-
ciation code has strong representation in
all the States and in Maoriland, while else-
where it is played by peoples of every
nationality and color. The Rugby Union
rivals it in its widespread ramifications out-
side Australia, where it is played only in
N.S.W., and in Maoriland, where it is
an international institution. The fame of
the All Blacks and the Waratahs is world
wide. Yet such amateur athletes as these
and their rivals from overseas have been
for years compelled to play on second-
class Sydney grounds, while the famous
Cricket Ground is monopolised by some
petty struggle between two professional
clubs utterly unknown outside their little
local orbit. There will be a team from
Maoriland this season, one from England
in 1930, and a French side in 1931. If the
League’s present monopoly is permitted to
continue, these renowned international
sides will have to appear anywhere they
can find a foothold; and since the League
now monopolises nearly every easily acces-
sible ground in Sydney except the Univer-
sity Oval and the Show Ground, and is
said to be negotiating for a lease of the
latter, the trustees of the Cricket Ground
have a heavy responsibility upon them. No
one desires to see the League altogether
banished from the Cricket Ground, but the
time has come when that arena should be
made available for all codes of football,
especially for the international and inter-
state matches.
4
American and Australian Films.
The report of the wandering Film Com-
mission was tabled in the House of Reps,
last week, as also was the report of the film
censors on their work in 1926-27. The
censors observe that Hollywood films still
dominate the Australian market and that
their standard does not improve. On the
contrary, “there seems to be an impres-
sion abroad among most American pro-
ducers that even a serious film is not com-
plete unless one or more of the characters
are shown without their nether garments/’
And the verdict of a British critic that
the pictures reveal “a whirl of surreptitious
cocktail-drinking, graft, bad taste and vile
manners” is quoted with approval.
There is nothing so outspoken in the
remarks of the Film Commission. That
much-travelled body was plainly anxious
to avoid giving offence. However, its re-
port, if lacking in boldness, has interesting
features. Premising that Australia has all
the natural requisites for picture-produc-
tion, it recommends that the duty on
foreign films be increased from per
foot to 2d. (this has been adopted); that
tariff preference be arranged with other
parts of the Empire; that an Empire quota
of feature films be introduced—s p.c. in
the first year, 10 p.c. in the second and 15
p.c. in the third; and that prizes should be
awarded every year for Australian scen-
arios and films. The prizes suggested are
£SOOO for the best film, £2500 for the
second-best, and £ISOO for the third-best,
along with two of £SOO for scenarios, a cen-
sorship appeal board, with Professor
Wallace at the head, to decide. This
notion is rather attractive, though the
Bruce-Pages are apparently dubious; cer-
tainly, it would help to get the public
interested in Australian films. Under exist-
ing conditions it is a matter of heart-
breaking difficulty to get the public inter-
ested in anything but foreign productions.
The recommendations are not as good as
they might be, but are rather better than
they were expected to be, especially after
the chairman’s announcement at one of the
147 sittings that he didn’t see any point in
raising the tariff. Only the duty per foot
ought to be 6d. instead of 2d.
“The U.S.A. and Us.”
Dear Bulletin, — I think “Ernest Osborne,”
who contributed (18/4/’2B) an article with
the above heading, is an Australian by
birth. There are advantages about being
an Australian by adoption. The latter may
bo able to realise, through early experience,
that there are other horizons besides that
which is occupied by our bulgy neighbor
across the Pacific, and that the Yankee isn’t
necessarily sole heir to the earth and the
fullness thereof. And he may comprehend,
by comparison, that this largely barren land
hasn’t sufficient “boundless natural re-
sources” to justify a pleasure-loving race in
sitting down at ease amid a snow-drift of
pawn-tickets.
Mr. Osborne mentions that U.S. manu-
facturers “express no resentment at Aus-
tralia’s rising tariff wall,” and appears to
regard that as something for which this
country should be humbly grateful. What
right has Uncle to resent our management
of our own affairs? And what has he to
resent, seeing that he sells us goods to the
value of about 37| millions per annum,
buys in return to the value of about 13
millions, and is getting a larger and larger
mortgage on Australia’s assets and Aus-
tralia’s future?
Mr. Osborne also bids us be humble and
not “offensively disparage such sincere well-
wishers of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia.” I seem to recall a recent typical
case of an Australian girl student in the
musical line who was welcome in the U.S.
so long as she was paying fees for tuition,
but was thrown out as a prohibited imm ir
grant as soon as she was offered a teaching
billet and seemed like earning a few dol-
lars.
The U.S. people may be “sincere well-
wishers,” but history is very short of records
showing where their good wishes took the
shape of active assistance except where the
republic was itself in danger or where there
was something of the commercial and finan-
cial sort involved. Its goodwill towards
Britain has never even gone far enough to
make it bring pressure to bear on those of
its States which wilfully and wantonly de-
faulted on their debts to J. Bull —not
their share of the Confederate war debt,
which died with the Confederacy, but loans
for public works and the like. Perhaps there
is such a thing as being too proud to pay.-
Yours, etc., Bildad.
4—.
Benighted Britain.
Times have changed since the days of the
London dockers’ strike which found the
nation’s sympathy behind it. and for
long past disputes have been referred to a
committee of union workers and employers.
The strikers in the latest case to get itself
discussed acted on their own initiative, after
the manner so familiar in Australia. Their
action was instantly and roundly con-
demned by their delegates to the commit-
tee, who forthwith set to work to settle
matters. The union, in addition to repudiat-
ing the strike, gave permission to workers
of other unions or of no union at all to
fill the places of the strikers without incur-
ring the odium of being dubbed blacklegs.
The effect was immediate. The strikers
got back to work and the dispute was re-
ferred to the committee.
The notion of any Australian unions or
officials taking such action for the mere
breaking of an agreement sets the imagin-
ation reeling. But in benighted Britain the
workers and employers do not enjoy the
blessings of an arbitration system, that
diverting Aunt Sally which is set up to be
knocked down at will by parties to its in-
stitution.
“Silentio”: “X2X” (B. 11/4/ ’2B) is right
in stressing the need to tighten up the law
relating to the selling of poisons. Our local
one-man store stocks enough of them, pure
and made-up, to kill a city. He sells 10
fly-killers and numerous other preparations
for the extermination of pests, from foxes
to weeds. I have seen a tin of caustic soda,
unlabelled, sold to a boy; and you can
buy lysol from any grocer without the
slightest difficulty.


See that the measure
is filled from Sealed
Equipment.
GUARANTEED
SHELL motor OILS
m
&
SHEU.
wax
JHEU
KU.
m
“Oiliness”
Of Shell
The extra “oiliness” of Shell Oils reduces
friction to a far greater extent than other
regular grades of Motor Cylinder Oils.
The consistent use of Shell Oils and Shell
Spirit positively ensures maximum power
from your engine.
Oils
The
SHELL
Guaranteed
Motor Oils
HE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
S 481
POLITICAL
POINTS
Scullin had no opponent when the Federal
Labor leadership was decided last week, but
Theodore, who had arranged to be deputy-
leader, since the other job was beyond his
reach, was beaten by Blakeley, M.H.R. for
Darling. It was the A.W.U.’s tit-for-tat with
the plausible gentleman. Theodore, in fact,
has made a mess of things—the Reds despise
him for surrendering to them after he talked
fight for a moment during the Warringah
by-election, and the A.W.U. is disgusted with
him for leaving his old union in the lurch.
He may live it down, but Billy Hughes has
a better chance of becoming a Labor Prime
Minister than Theodore has.
The dismal report was issued last week
that every coal pit at Greta (N.S.W.) was
closed, and that the town was without visible
means of support. Many causes contributed
to the disaster, one being that seven Hud-
dart-Parker boats were neither burning nor
carrying coal, nor paying wages to men who
might be possible buyers of coal —all because
of an organised huff among some union cooks.
One result of the Liberal-Country party
squabble in South Aus. is a C.P. threat to
run a Senate ticket of its own. None of the
Cocky candidates could possibly win, but they
might prevent the Libs, from winning.
The addition of a ha’penny to the duty of
three-ha’pence a foot on Hollywood films,
which yielded about £200,000 p.a. (the
duties on U.S. tobacco leaf yield from
£2,000,000 to £2,500,000 p.a.), extorted a
piercing cry from Victor Wilson, now pre-
sident of the Motion-Picture Distributors’
Association. “It means another £44,000 a
year,” said the ex-Minister who was Bruce’s
white-haired boy, “and the ‘industry’ was
already staggering under one of the heaviest
tariff rates in the world.” Certain of the
victims of this oppression have just sunk a
million or so in three new Sydney cinema
theatres.
The potato crop in Victoria and Tasmania
has been exuberant, but when large con-
signments realised 15s. per ton in Melbourne
about Easter time the position became diffi-
cult. “Even Italian growers are leaving
their holdings,” the Age said. It is now re-
membered, in a belated sort of way, that
many things, including glucose and power
alcohol, are made in factories from the super-
fluous tuber, and that the establishment of
“secondary” industries would save some ex-
pensive importing (Australia is sometimes an
exporter and sometimes an importer of pota-
toes) and help the “primary” job. The usual
expert is bound for Holland to discover how
the people there do the trick.
The recent strike of unemployed at
Broken Hill was something unusual even for
Broken Hill. A local firm offered £5 10s.
per week (10s. advance on the local basic
wage) for a possible six months’ job, each
man to bring his own tools valued at about,
15s. It also offered to pay for the tools and
deduct the price from wages, or to pay the
regulation £5 and supply tools. But it was
told that the cast-iron minimum was £5 10s.
and tools, so negotiations fell through.
Yielding to the force of public opinion, the
Vic. Hogans have decided to resume re-
cruiting of police constables. A beginning
will be made with 60 selected in the custom-
ary way from the best material offering.
It was left to Prendergast, Chief Sec., to
make the announcement, but he delayed so
long that the news oozed out from other
quarters. Hogan promised Parliament that
he would not attempt to reinstate any muti-
neers of 1923 during the recess, and the
Easter Labor Conference declined to make a
demand on the Ministry for “immediate”
restoration. Labor knows that putting back
the ex-police would bring about Hogan's
downfall.
One of the many unions suffering from
severe internal troubles is the timber-
workers’ organisation. Saying they were
tired of being dictated to by Melbourne
officials, most of the Westralian branches
have seceded from the Federal body and
formed a State union. The revolt threatens
political disaster to Miss Holman, Labor
M.L.A. for Forrest, who has declared for
the Federals and refused to attend a con-
ference of the seceding branches last week.
She has been promised a turbulent time in
the pre-selection for Forrest, which is 95
p.c. timber-worker.
Churchill’s fourth Budget is apprehen-
sively hailed by the dear old S. M.
Herald as evidence that the British Minis-
try is “moving more closely to Protection.”
The evidence is slender. There is a heavy
tax on petrol, but that isn’t Protective, and
neither is an increase in the excise duty on
British wines; while a duty on imported
mechanical lighting devices is balanced by
an excise duty on those locally manufactured.
There is a “very small adjustment” of the
duty on cinema films from overseas parts of
the‘Empire, and the duties on sugar are re-
duced. The only unequivocal Protective pro-
posal is a 33J per cent, duty on buttons. And
even that doesn’t operate if they are attached
to clothing.
The explosion of “Bondy” Hoare’s bomb
has caused some unexpected reverberations.
Queensland coalies have discovered that since
1920 they have paid £64,200 into the funds
of the Miners’ Federation, and got back
£19,103, the balance having been collared
for N.S.W. strikes, union bossdom and Labor
propaganda. So the Bananalanders have
decided to strike against strike levies. They
have not forgotten the time when some of
them were dragged into court for refusing to
pay levies in respect of a mad N.S.W. strike
about which they were never consulted, and
which cost the Federation £165,000, as it
•engagingly admitted. Maoriland law re-
quires all union levies to be sanctioned by
a plebiscite of members, but the Bruce-Page
proposal to give federated unionists the
same right, among others, is described as “a
dastardly attack on the workers.”
Victoria has a Parliamentary standing
committee inquiring into proposals for rail-
way lines which motor competition, with its
staggering effect on the Government railway
finances, has made melancholy impossibilities.
At present the cost, in fees paid to six poli-
ticians, travelling exes, and the sec.’s salary,
is close on £3OOO a year. It has been thought-
fully suggested that if the show were con-
verted into a public works committee the
politicians could make a much longer job
of it.
The Bradford Chamber of Commerce, in
collaboration with other prominent meddlers
of Yorkshire, has protested against Aus-
tralia’s new duties on woollens, and has even
offered to send a deputation here to talk
to Bruce. It is to be hoped that that polite
person will cable a deafening “No.” All
that the Tykes can say is that, for purely
selfish reasons, they don’t want this country
to make more of its own woollens and employ
more of its own people, but to buy from
them instead. What Bruce can tell the Tykes
is that Australia has urgent need to buy at
least £40,000,000 worth less goods per annum
abroad to stop the financial drift. And as
one slab of advice deserves another 1 , he
might advise them to abandon some of their
obsolete Freetrade notions, and make up the
loss by cutting down their own importations.
The Westralian Supreme Court recently
made some severe remarks to and about
Kelly, and they were justified. Kelly was
having a jubilee, it being his 50th con-
viction. He had been found guilty of 12
different kinds of crime previous to the
jubilee one, which was wilful murder of a
police sergeant, and he had crowded 22
years and 11 months of sentences, two of
them with the indeterminate proviso added,
into about 20 years. It was held that there had
been undue and groundless haste in deciding
that the defendant had reformed and become
a shining light. The New Testament cer-
tainly recommends the damaged person, if
lie is still alive, to forgive Kelly, but it is
different when some office-holder tries to
acquire merit by forgiving Kelly for damag-
ing the community generally.
After thinking about it (or not thinking
about it) for years, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has resolved to grant a measure of
representation to the Mandated Territory of
New Guinea. A Leg. Council nominated by
the Administration and a House of Reps,
elected by residents are proposed. Details are
lacking, but it is said there will be an
improvement on the Papuan system, which
could be easily improved. Papua has an
Executive Council consisting of the principal
Government officials, including the Lieut.-
Governor, and a Leg. Council consisting of
the Executive Council and five members
nominated by the Governor-General of Aus-
tralia. The five members are permitted to
assume the title of “Hon.,” but that is the
beginning and end of them. Tweedledum,
Executive Councillor, invariably endorses the
proceedings of Tweedledee, Legislative Coun-
cillor.
The Brighton by-election has furnished
additional evidence of the contempt in which
Nationalist wirepullers are held by Vic-
torians. When the vacancy was announced
the Nat. Fed. tried to work one of its pre-
selection jokes, alleging that the Labor man
might otherwise win on a split vote. Ridi-
culing this possibility, seven Nationalists
nominated. After vainly suggesting that six
stand down, the Nat. Fed. and the Women’s
Nat. League “endorsed” five of them,
pointedly omitting Mrs. Glencross, although
she had been a Nationalist organiser for years.
In the result there was a great sympathy
vote for the lady which put her into the final
ballot with lan Macfarlan, who, if the
Fed.-Leaguers had not meddled, would have
won hands down. Finlayson, the Labor can-
didate, got only 423 S primary votes out of
18,324 polled.
The commissioners who now municipally
govern Sydney inherited so many obligations
from their noisy predecessors that the city
needs £5,000,000 of loan money this year.
It will be a fine large addition to that ex-
ternal debt which calls, as regards both prin-
cipal and interest, for payment in that sur-
plus of exports (goods or gold) which is
never forthcoming. A commendable idea
would be for the Commonwealth Statistician
to crowd one more table into his quarterly
and annual statistics and show the amount of
local-government debt in each State and the
location of the same. The doings of even
minor cities in the way of international
finance are large enough to be interesting
now.
Some idea of the tremendous amount of
illegal abortion in N. S. Wales may be judged
from the numbers of patients treated at the
Coast Hospital for the effects of such opera-
tions unskilfully performed. The average
admitted annually between 1919 and 1926
is 359, or seven a week. And the
number is growing; in 1926 the total was
620 cases. An abortion operation in the
hands of even a moderately skilled prac-
titioner is a simple thing, and if even one in
six cases goes wrong, it gives a total for
1926 of over 3700 cases, to which must be
added many in the country districts.
The Federal Government has missed the
’bus, but even a missed ’bus may be overtaken
if the pursuer runs hard enough. Revenue
is steadily falling, and a large deficit is looked
for by next June. The fall is mainly in
Customs, and amid a number of unwhole-
some conditions this should have been anti-
cipated. The receipts from import duties
have been absurdly large, because imports
have been absurdly large to the detriment of
our own industries, and the amount of ex-
ternal debt (principal and interest payable
in gold) incurred to pay for them and meet
interest and other charges lias been insane.
When it is noted that in the six years from
June, 1914, to June, 1920, covering the war
and the first period of reconstruction, ex-
ternal liabilities increased by only 132 mil-
lions, while in the six subsequent years of
peace they grew by 147 millions, the con-
clusion is that war isn’t the only dashed
foolishness in the world.
Therefore, who was ten years a State
Labor Minister and five years a State Labor
Premier and retired undefeated, has had a
very different experience in Commonwealth
politics. To his vast astonishment he was
beaten for the Herbert (Q.) seat in 1925,
and, though he mysteriously managed to
secure Dailey (N.S.W.) without a pre-
selection fight, the struggle between the
Conroy executive (now reasserting itself) 1 and
the Red gang began immediately afterwards,
and he had to swallow his own convictions
to receive the contemptuous patronage of the
Reds. Now he has failed to get a look-in
either as leader or deputy-leader of the
Federal Labor party. The billets went to
men with no Ministerial experience. Scullin
was a reject in 1913 and 1918, but got back
in 1922, and Blakeley dates from 1917.
Their choice is a reverse for the Red-flag
element, and the news that Comrade
Garden, of the N.S.W. Trades and Labor
Council, has been elected to a seat on the
executive of the Red or Gory International
in Russia isn’t calculated to make the
position any happier.
Some queer results of jobs rushed through
the law factory in Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney, are to be seen at the Central Station.
The Government has a wine bar alongside its
restaurant, but it won’t let you have Austra-
lian grape-juice with the evening meal unless
you order it before 0 p.m. Should you dine at
a hotel 200 or 300 yards away, however,
Bung will bring you any sort of stimulant
you want without your ordering it before
6 p.m.—legislation giving the trade this
privilege was passed in a hurry by the late
Labor Government. On the other hand,
tobacco can be bought on Sunday at the
Central Station until late at night, although
private retailers are compelled to shut up
shop. Of late, moreover, the Commissioners
have cut prices (this was also done for some
months in Lang’s time), with the result
that limbless soldiers in tobacco kiosks can’t
compete with them, especially as they employ
girl labor.
The distinction between industrial law and
all other sorts of law has once again been
made manifest by Chief Judge Dethridge's
treatment of an association of ships’ cooks
which has made a perfectly illegal claim
upon a shipping company and backed it up
by tying up its fleet. When the matter was
first reported to the Judge the only suitable
penalty he could think of was to cancel the
award —in other words, to repeal the law
which was being broken. He didn’t cancel
the award—only indicated that he might
think about doing so, and the threat weighed
with the cooks so heavily that they tied up
another ship. A week later the defiance of
his threat and the continued hold-up of the
company’s ships were reported to the Judge,
who announced that he would cancel the
award in a week’s time if the cooks didn’t
behave themselves. But the very next day
the cooks again refused to accept service on
ships of the line. In every other sphere,of
jurisdiction the decision of a Court is enforce-
able by all the powers of police, naval,
military and air forces. In the sphere of
arbitration, apparently, all that can be done
is to repeal any law that is too contu-
meliously disobeyed.
“Bildad”: I have an idea that S. M.
Bruce may yet be known as Sentimental
Stanley. He not only rejoiced that the ex-
Commonwealtli ships are to be retained in
the Australian trade, where it is promised
that their presence will lead to the father of
a disturbance, but dwelt affectionately 0 n the
fact that the old names are to be retained.
I suppose that comes under the heading of
sentiment.
The situation in China has become such
a confused butchery that even the Reddest
and most anti-European revolutionaries have
given up describing it as a high patriotic
movement of the Garibaldian type and a
protest against the white man’s interference.
The most condensed explanation may be that
China ceased to be a peace-loving empire and
became a republic in 1912, and that it is still
busy electing its first genuine President. At
all events the Yellow Peril is having some-
thing of a setback. A million deaths from
famine are anticipated this year in the
single province of Shan-tung, where the elec-
tion of the President is proceeding with
ferocity and has stamped all over the crops.
“Griffith Moses” : Frequent pars, about the
preference shown in so many ways for im-
ported goods came back to my mind the other
day when I was staying at a big Melbourne
hotel. My request for an Australian brandy
was met with the reply that nothing of the
sort was kept. I forgot to inquire about the
beer and the wines, but I suppose they were
imported also, likewise the soda.
The Irish Free State, it is cabled, has a
deficit of 1J millions, but for “Saorstat
Eireann” that is nothing out of the way.
Its annual imports have amounted to
£18,000,000 more than its exports, and it is
difficult to imagine that remittances from
expatriated relatives in America make up the
difference. In one recent year it even im-
ported £2.000,000 worth of bacon, which
seems contrary to all accepted ideas.
The periodical food difficulty is reported
from Russia, where the peasants (all Rus-
sian farmers appear to be “peasants”) are
charged as usual with “hoarding up grain.”
Ivan lacks agricultural enthusiasm because
of the official habit of levying grain contri-
butions and raising compulsory grain loans,
and because he .lias so little share in the
control of affairs, and because he was never
an enthusiastic person anyhow. On top of
all it is difficult to buy the things he wants
with the proceeds of his crop when he gets
proceeds. Food w T as the Red Government's
earliest difficulty, and it sticks closer than a
disreputable brother with a list of previous
convictions.
In his capable way Uncle Sam has secured
such a monopoly of the patents for boot-
making machinery that Australian manufac-
turers have to hire their apparatus from him
at a thundering rent. Ho refuses to sell. It
is highly creditable to Uncle’s intelligence
that he has contrived to make a big Aus-
tralian industry a “tied house,” and it would
be highly creditable to Australia's intelligence
if it found some way of stopping the tribute.
THE BORROWER.
[For The Bulletin.}
“Mr. Lang said the Government was inept, callous
and brutal, and that starving men, women and
children owed their desperate condition to its policy
of economy when the country was bursting with pros-
perity.”
How my heart bleeds for them! In vain I
strive
To stem this spate of bitter, scalding tears.
That these should starve, while others feast
and thrive
Upon the country’s prosperous arrears!
That these should die, perchance, and I,
alive,
Cry vainly in the wilderness (loud
cheers!)
Quite impotent! Ah, how I suffer who
Would feed them all upon an 10 U.
Men, women, children.... If to-day there
throbs
Through ev’ry word of mine a note of
pain,
’Tin only, camarados, that the sobs
That damp my speech I cannot well re-
strain,
Whene’er I think how those now in our jobs
Could borrow so much more, and yet re-
frain.
Men, women, children... .for their plight I
groan,
I, who would save them with another loan.
Such tears as these I ne’er before have wept,
Such flooding pity ne’er has swamped my
soul,
Nor with such anger have I yet been swept
At those incompetents who woli the poll;
To see them, brutal, callous and inept—
It almost robs me of my self-control —
Shunning the obvious expedient
Of raising money where the stuff is lent.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Cleo” : Some years ago our Chinese green-
grocer had his cart repainted and his jerky
patronymic supplemented with an imposing
“an,d Co.” The new addition puzzled us a
little, as he always operated loue-handfed,
and it was not explained until the other day,
when he announced his intention of return-
ing to the Flowery Land. “My glandfather
him go, too,” he added complacently. “He
must be a very old man,” observed my wife
sympathetically, Ah Fong himself being
obviously well up in years. “Him plentee
ole,” assented Fong, “him dead fortee year-
THE HE-MAN.
“That’s Eva Sye. Her first novel is to he published next week.”
“Really, how interesting! Who’s the hero?”
“Binks. He’s the publisher.”
him in cart ten year!” “Surely you don’t
mean that your cart is haunted?” put in my
better half, a trifle apprehensively. “Me
show you,” was the reply, and the pagan
went back to the cart and returned with a
lacquered box, which he proceeded to rattle
for the wife’s enlightenment. “Me pay two
pun ten,” he explained, “me hab him dug
up Avoca gole fiel!”
* * * *
“Bon Jour”: Darkey was the optimist of
the battery. One evening three of us were
returning through Ribbemont and had just
reached the cemetery corner when Fritz
opened up pretty solidly with his 5.9’5. As
we crouched under the stone wall of the
burial-ground, cursing Fritz and all his
works, Darkey’s voice broke in behind us.
“Anyhow,” he reminded us, “it’s a ruddy
convenient place to get skittled in.”
“Nota Bene”: It was in Swanston-street
one" afternoon last week, and the motorist
fwdio had just missed his man) sought m
put himself in the right by blaming his near-
victim. “You act as if the street be-
longed to you,” he grumbled. And you
drive,” retorted the pedestrian wratlifully.
“as if von owned the car. ”he re-
joinder puzzled me a little until I read yes-
terday that 90 per cent, of the motor-cars in
Victoria arc owed for on the time-payment
system. Since then I have sensed the in-
wardness of it.
* * * *
“Tariff”: There are few duties that the
police are not expected to undertake cheei-
fully nowadays, but the Adelaide force had
an entirely new obligation imposed on it the
other day. A woman with a baby met a
friend in'the street, and the pair apparently
decided to have a day out. To lessen the
mother’s responsibilities the friend took the
kiddie to the watch-house, with the tale that
it was a lost child whom she had found in
the street, and handed it over to the care
of a sympathetic policewoman. After several
hours the other woman arrived and claimed
her missing progeny, expressing her heart-
felt thanks to its temporary custodians. And
if the ladies hadn’t bragged about their ex-
ploit no one would have been any the wiser.
* * * *
“Rissala” : The statement by “4X2” (B
18/4/’2B) that there was only one recorded
instance during the war of a casualty from
the lance is very wide of the truth. There
were numerous brushes between Allenby’s
cavalry and the. Germans during the retreat
from Mons in which the weapon was freely
and effectively used, chiefly by the Germans.
To the writer’s own knowledge, the Jodhpur
Lancers and the Central Indian Horse
charged a large body of Turks at El Henn
on the Jordan in July, 1918, and “took” (as
they put it) over 90 Jackos “on the lance. ’
Three months later the same two regiments
flanked a force of 3000 Turks with several
guns on the Aleppo-Alexandretta road, and
went right through them, killing many with
the weapon which is said to have outlived
its usefulness. There were numerous smaller
affairs in which the lance was employed to
some purpose. It is still an effective weapon
under suitable conditions, which is as much
as can be said for any arm, ancient or
modern, from the latest wliippet-tank to a
well-aimed tin of Fray Bentos.
* * * *
“Larrapirita”: Touching these greenstone
meres (B. 11/4/’2B). Some years ago I was
lucky enough to find a beautiful specimen
in a M.L. farmhouse, where it was being
used as a wedge to keep the kitchen door
open. The owner cheerfully swapped it for
a tin of honey. Barring a few chips on the
front edge, caused by years of kicking under
the door, my mere has only one imperfection
—the hole in the handle where a thong
should go to fasten it to the owner’s wrist
has not been drilled completely through. It
is so hard that steel won’t mark it, and yet
it must have been ground into shape, for
greenstone can’t be chipped into form like
flint. I have been pestered with offers for it,
the highest to date being £2O.
* % *
“Moe”: The silver plate belonging to the
German cruisers Leipsic and Scharnhorst
which the Federal
Government is
about to return to
the German Admi-
ralty was first
located in this
country by Cus-
toms officers, who
noticed it in a
curio-dealer’s shop
and seized it on
the ground that no
duty had been paid
on it. The official
version is that the
plate was brought
here from the Caro-
line Islands, where
the cruisers had
left it before the
Japanese arrived,
but it is far more
likely that it was
left at Rabaul and
either formed part
of the loot sent to
Australia from
there in 1914 or
was brought down
secretly later. The
two cruisers, with
the Nuremberg,
visited Ponape just
before the start of
the war, but re-
mained there for
only a few hours.
At Rabaul they
took in stores and
landed stuff not
likely to be needed
in action prior to
proceeding on their
last voyage. There
was little chance of
smuggling anything
out of the Carolines
after the Japanese
troops had landed,
but an official in-
quiry into certain
cases of alleged
looting was held at
Rabaul soon after
the Occupa t i o n,
and it was men-
tioned that, among
other things, some valuable plate belonging
to the Germans had vanished.
* * * *
“Two Blues”: “Cast-iron disciplinarian ’
(B. 18/4/’2B) is an unfair description of
General Chauvel. No doubt the bluff camar-
aderie of Ryrie and Cox made them more
popular with their men, but under his steely
efficiency and shy reserve Chauvel was very
human. I remember a Jordan Valley stunt
when we were charged with the job of keep-
ing the mountain track open for the retire-
ment of the raiding force, and with a flank
caving in before a horde of Turks we fell
back fighting for every yard and every
minute. The raiding force got clear, and
after a bloody, harried scramble over awful
goat-tracks and another week of raiding and
fighting, we moved back from the Valley,
halted at dawn at Talaat-ed-dumm, and
dropped asleep, most of us, in our tracks. An
hour later we staggered cursing on to a
sudden “inspection” parade. Chauvel rode up
and sat silently gazing at the chopped-up
regiment; then, haltingly, he began: “You
fellows saved the show the other day. I
couldn’t let ydu go out without thanking you '
—speech failed him at this point, and salut-
ing, he rode slowly away. Few of Chauvel’s
critics stop to think that he commanded the
biggest mounted force in all modern war-
fare—British, Australian, Indian and
French cavalry—and acquitted himself bril-
liantly. If “Chmelero” was among those
NEXT MORNING.
“At the lodge last night, were you! Then what does this powder on your coat mean?”
reprimanded for “heaving bricks at Tommy
ll.T.O.'s’’ it served him fight. Water-melons
always sufficed for us.
* sS * *
“Sobk”: Joe Naughton, the Australian
“confidence man” recently laid by the heels
in Paris, was much more successful in this
country than “Cartot” sfiggests (B.
11/4/’2B). Just before he sailed from
Fremantle a few years ago Perth detectives
invaded his room at a city hotel in the
early-morning hours with a complete absence of
ceremony. They didn’t find what they were
looking for, a necklace stolen in the Bast and
suspected of being in Naughton’s possession,
but they did find under his pillow banknotes,
mostly of foreign issues, to the value
of several thousand pounds. Sleeping upon
banknotes not being an indictable offence
Joseph was, however, allowed to go his
way; possibly it was thought that Australia
would be well rid of him. Naughton was a
confidence man of some note before he ever
left these shores, and the biggest hauls that
such criminals make are seldom advertised,
simply because they come from mugs who
cut their losses without a squeal rather than
let the world know of their credulity.
* * * *
“Rob P.”: When Dad decided to sell the
farm he advertised it in a city paper and
got a reply from a retired business man who
had taken to breeding prize pigs for a
hobby and who intimated he would be along
at an early date to inspect the property.
Several days later a stranger drove up in a
motor-car. “It’s ’im,” said Dad to Bill,
“leave ’im to me.” Dad rushed the pros-
pective buyer around, but found him most
interested in the pigsty, the dairy and the
space between. To try and clinch matters
Dad reeled off a peroration he had been re-
hearsing : “She’s a dandy little farm, mister,”
he assured the visitor; “the best in th’ dis-
trict an’ pigs grow to a ’ell of a size ; it’s
the air or something. Now me fam’ly’s
married off, we’ve been takin’ it easy; but
when they was all here we used to make things
hum, I can tell y.er.” “Yes,” said the other
drily, “I’ve noticed the hum; in fact, there’s
too much of it. If you haven’t got that pig-
sty the regulation distance from the dairy
next time I come around you’ll get a sum-
mons. I’m the new dairy inspector.”
He He H= He
“Redraw”: A curious impulse is that
which leads almost everyone to address a
colored person, when seen for the first time,
in pidgin English. A full-blooded aborigine
lately applied for a divorce on the ground of
desertion. Said the presiding Judge benevo-
lently : “You tellum true what happened.”
The petitioner, who happened to be mission-
educated, replied: “I shall endeavor to give
y’r Honor the facts.” He got his decree nisi
in faultless English.
* * * *
“Malakuna” : Though I never met “Queen”
Emma, of Ralum (B. 18/4/’2B), I heard
much of her romantic life from one of her
contemporary island traders, Peter Hansen,
who died in Rabaul Hospital last year. The
title had nothing hereditary in it; it came
from the regal breadth of her possessions and
the influence she exercised over the local
natives. Numerous.stories, more or less fan-
tastic, still revolve around the lady who kept
her court in the spacious mansion at Ralum
(recently purchased by Seaforth Mackenzie
who, in 1916, was Chief Judge and Acting
Administrator of the Territory). One of the
best-known concerns a party aboard a Ger-
man naval vessel anchored off the Govern-
ment station of Herbertshohe, the old Ger-
man capital, at which “Queen” Emma was
the guest of honor, attired in as elaborate
a frock as ever came out of Sydney. Pro-
ceedings were becoming rather boisterous
when the “Queen” suggested an adjourn-
ment to her own home for a continuation
of the revels. The German officers acquiesced
and tumbled down the gangway into the
ship’s boat, expecting her to follow, but by
this time Emma had mounted the deck rail-
ing, and with a “Don’t worry about me, mein
Herren ; I’ll meet you at my house,” dived
in all her expensive attire headlong into
the sea. It was too dark for the half-soused
party to follow her course; however, they
were reassured by an occasional ironical
laugh from the swimmer. And when the
boating party presently arrived at the lighted
bungalow sure enough their hostess was there
to meet them, calm, re-dressed and entirely
unperturbed. “Come in, gentlemen,” she said
with amazing nonchalance, “Now, whar
would the Herren care to drink?”
* * * *
“Sebrof”: The recent discussion on queer
drinks impels me to a paragraph on unusual
tucker. At Wentworth (N.S.W.) I met an
old mate engaged in using up a burr-
cutting cheque. His morning meal consisted
of a sandwich, the filling being jam, chutney,
curry' powder, Worcester sauce, sugar, milk
and biscuits, all mixed to a paste. He
reckoned this served the dual purpose of a
meal and a pick-me-up.
* =s= * *
“Sea Nomad”: Few churches possess as
manv tragic relics as the Quetta Memorial
Cathedral (T. 1.). The bell that tolls daily
came from a wrecked ship; so did the ewer
at the font. The same ship’s riding light is
there and a portion of the wheel-box forms
the top of the credence in the chapel. The
compass-bowl of the Catterthun, wrecked on
the Seal Rocks, is used as a stand for the
ewer. Two benches in the nave are bits of
the Volga, which lies on a reef near Goode
Island. The Kanahooka left a lifebuoy and
a flag as its gifts of remembrance. A tablet
commemorates the Cape Melville hurricane,
when over 300 men went west. The Diggers
have endowed the church with a pair of
candlesticks used by the A.I.F. in Egypt.
* * * *
“Wawina”: Among the properties expro-
priated in (late) German New Guinea, and
recently handed back to its previous owner,
is the island of Kabakon. Twenty-three
years ago this scrap of earth was secured by
one August Englehardt to develop the cult
of the “sun-brother.” The idea was to live
as near the sun as possible, wear little or
no clothing, sleep in the open and eat only
fruits, principally the cocoanut. This was
regarded as the Tree of Life, yielding its
fruit twelve times in the year. Englehardt
lived on cocoanuts alone for 123 days.
Malaria accounted for most of his disciples,
the prophet himself passing away soon after
the Occupation.
* * * *
“Antique” : One need hardly be an expert
to distinguish between the genuine and the
fake at some of these sales of allegedly
venerable furniture (B. 18/4/’2B). At a
recent sale I attended in Melbourne there
was a bureau described in the catalogue as
“The gem of the collection. Undisputed
masterpiece, after the great artist Riesner,
of the eighteenth century.” Ignoring a “Please
do not touch” label I soon satisfied myself
that every drawer was stiff to pull out, which
struck me as curious in furniture reputed
to be over a century old. Furthermore, every
drawer, on being opened, smelt strongly of
glue and varnish, and one was reinforced by
a screw in the back. Not the slightest trace
could I find of the ordinary wear of time.
Another piece of which I took special note
was an oak cupboard scheduled as being of
great antiquity. The shelf, although it
appeared to have been skilfully battered, was
quite unworn at the sides and back, and the
hinges were brand new!
OFF THE MAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Michael Burke, M.L.A., an ex-alderman of
the Sydney Council, complained that one of the Civic
Commissioners had been seen openly talking to a
contractor. If an alderman had done such a thing
before the Council was abolished, the worst construc-
tion would immediately have been placed upon it.”
Where is the moa nowaday
Or the auk, outsize in his avian line?
Where is the old-time cabriolet?
Where is the vanished valentine?
Where is the—what did we call it? —chine
That went with turkey, a lifetime’s span
Ago, when on Christmas fare we’d dine?
And where is the Sydney alderman?
Where is the chap who knew that hay
Is only made while the sun shall shine?
Where is the wink that might once convey
“The contract’s yours if the cut be mine”?
Where are the Bumbles of auld lang sync
Across whose carcases Dickens ran
His rule? Back-numbered and none re-
pine.
And where is the Sydney alderman?
Where are the games our dads would play
And the filberts munched over beeswinged
wine?
Where is bold Harlequin to-day
And where, I ask you, is Columbine?
Where skirts, of womanhood once the
sign ?
Where the beauty patch and the flirted fan?
And—when most you need them —the
Muses Nine?
And where is the Sydney, alderman?
Envoy.
Ah ! Where is the pterodactyl, say?
And the Ten Lost Tribes? And the Aztec
clan?
The horoscope and the one-horse shay?
And where is the Sydney alderman?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


I .It.”: Hinkler had his narrowest escape
trom disaster since lie reached Australia at
F.allarat s city oval. Stories of the minute-
ness of his ’plane had so impressed the local
authorities that they decided that the oval
was a large-enough landing-place. Even
when the airman had satisfied himself it was
nothing of the sort and had risen abruptly
m a desperate and fortunately successful
attempt to clear electric wires and trees
many people still gazed placidly upwards’
convinced that the manoeuvre was part of
their bob’s worth. It was a very disgusted
Hinkler who came to earth some miles out
and it. took a good deal of coaxing to induce
him to return to the oval per car. He re-
marked tersely that his attempt to land there
was one of the greatest risks he had taken
since leaving England.
* * *
Oxmead : Cabled that in a sensational
murder trial now proceeding at the Old
1-sailey there are three women on the jury and
another among the barristers briefed for the
prosecution, which suggests that though Aus-
tralia gave a long lead to the mother coun-
try in enfranchising the sex she is far
slower in recognising woman’s equality with
man in other ways, or else that woman is
taking much longer to enforce her. logical
rights. As far as Parliamentary voting goes
woman was placed on an equal footing with
man when Federation arrived, and in some
ot the States before that; in Britain she
won t reach that position until the next elec-
tion. Yet there are now eight women mem-
bers ot the House of Commons, four of them
returned at comparatively recent by-elections.
Australia, on the other hand, has never had
more than three skirted Parliamentarians
QUITE NATURAL.
“Reggie says that ever since Maudie gave him up and started going round with his
father, all the world has seemed black.”
“I don’t wonder — it’s been a total eclipse of the son.”
all in State Houses —and now has only one.
Also, the lady barrister is still remarkably
infrequent, and the lady juror, in a capital
case anyhow, still unknown. The latter will
have to come before the sex line in civic mat-
ters can be held to have really disappeared.
In cases such as the recent Omeo murder
trial, where a husband was charged with
poisoning his wife, it is utterly illogical in
the face of recent world-wide developments
that the jury should consist of men alone.
* * * *
“Bouragi : Beatrice Grimsliaw has long
conquered the circulating libraries with pic-
tures of a Papua that never was by sea or
land, and one Richard Butler Thorne, of
Bedford, England, has been giving the Brit-
ish public a similar glimpse of New Guinea.
The gentleman claims to have returned from
the Bulolo goldfields and among other
striking figures he met there tells of a beau-
tiful girl who “proved herself handy with
her shooting irons in a land of the quick
and the dead; those not quick enough on
the draw being the dead.” Also, there was
“a lot of lawlessness at first when a lot of
toughs came over from Australia and Papua,
who thought they had only to clean up the
dust others had risked their lives to get.”
But “we soon put an end to that, for we
had our sheriffs and hanging parties.” This
amazing rubbish has been published at
length in the People, a journal with a very
large circulation in England, and readers
were doubtless touched by the story of the
dead party of men, women and children
found with “their heads pillowed on heaps
of gold, but unable for all their wealth to
obtain food or water.” They could hardly
be expected to know that the Edie Creek
rainfall is only about 300 inches in the
wet season, which lasts a bare twelve
calendar months.
* * * *
“Naklioda”: In my experience the noisiest
cities are not those where mechanised trans-
port rules. Moscow, whose few motor-
cars are in the hands of the Soviet peerage,
is, in summer at any rate, much more dis-
tracting than Sydney. The clattering up-
roar of iron-shod drosky wheels on the
cobbled pave is nerve-shattering. The same
holds good of the horse-drawn market-carts
of Florence. In Chinese cities the rattle of
the wheelbarrows is made more hideous by the
hee-liawing of their human engines. Perhaps
the quietest city of all was Singapore be-
fore the motor era. The soft pad-pad of
the pullers’ naked feet and the hiss of the
rickshaws’ pneumatic wheels provided a
pianissimo accompaniment, above which,
even in the town, you could hear the jungle
noises.
* * >|: *
“Bill Bowyang”: To reach a popular N.Q.
seaside resort motorists and others have
to pass an orchard, but the old farmer who
owns it found them poor customers. Having
failed to dispose of his lemons the cocky
recently turned them into lemon-squash and
carted the beverage to the beach, but found
little or no demand for it. Then he had re-
course to craft. The only fresh water pro-
curable by picnic parties on the beach
comes from a shallow well, and the ensuing
Saturday the farmer and his sons busily en-
gaged in putting this out of action. They
baled it dry, and partially refilled it with
sea water. Sunday was a scorcher, and
just when the thirst-tormented holiday-
makers were about to take the dry track
homewards the lemon-squash vendor appeared
and found himself rushed for his wares at.
6d. per glass. It was one of Ins most
profitable days since he went on the land.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The difficulties of regu-
lating booze even under partial Prohibition
were exemplified in a recent incident in Mel-
bourne. A police raid on the Exhibition
Gardens on a Sunday morning produced a
dozen men in a toxic condition lying on the
grass. A thirteenth, in an only semi-
poisoned state, was administering the reverse
of first aid by serving his fellow-topers with
methylated spirit in a billycan, broken down
with water from a neighboring fountain.
**' * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: As one who has
assisted to make “antique” furniture I can
assure “Explane” (B. 11/4/’2B) that such
crude devices as faking borer holes with a
charge of shot are long out of date. To ascer-
tain if borer holes are genuine the ex-
perienced collecter uses a needle and a horse-
hair ; the hole being seldom straight, the
horsehair will penetrate perhaps two inches
—the needle stops at the first bend. In
shot holes, of course, both measures show the
same depth. There is seldom any need to
fake borer holes, anyhow, for the timber for
furniture-making, collected from old buildings
all over Europe, usually has plenty of the
genuine article. The “antique” is always pat-
terned on a genuine one. Crude and un-
pointed screws are used; the nails and brads
are all square in section, and the hinges and
lock furniture are hand-made. After the
cabinetmaker has finished the polisher fills
in the borer holes with a secret preparation.
The polish, after being applied, is dulled
and spotted with acid, brass hinges and locks
are verdigrised and rusted, and after various
other tricks well known to the trade the
antique is put into a room resembling a
timber-drying kiln, where the heat shrinks up
the panelling, loosens glue joints and causes
the secret preparation in the borer holes to
melt and soak into the surrounding wood,
leaving the holes open and without any tell-
tale polish inside. Then it is shifted to a
loft where the flies and spiders are given
months to do their bit.
sj»
“Boomerang” : A tradition still lingers that
a valuable cache left by bushranger Ben
Hall in the Weddin Ranges CN.S.W.) was
unearthed by two Yankees, who were better
posted than anyone else about its exact loca-
tion. They claimed to be prospectors and
made their way to a point 25 miles
from Grenfell, where they commenced
excavations. The direction was west-
erly, and the place was known to be close
to where the bushrangers were wont to
divide their spoils. The farmer from whom
the two adventurers borrowed certain tools,
°nl'’ was resident in the district in
1920. and he informed me that the pair
mostly worked on moonlit nights, and were
six weeks in the vicinity. Weeks after they
OH VERY!
“Considers herself a most exclusive person, doesn’t she?”
“My dear, the creature even sings duets alone.”
liacl gone he accidentally came upon their
excavations, about five miles from his farm,
and found the distinct imprint of two oil
barrels or drums—just what the old bush-
rangers used to bury gold in. He was con-
vinced that the two Yanks discovered Ben’s
cache.
* * jh *
“C.Q.”: The English airman who has
introduced sky-writing to Melbourne caused
consternation in one quarter at his opening
performance, when he wrote “Hello” across
seven miles of welkin. A vagrant air cur-
rent had just dispersed the final letter when
the members of a sect which believes in the
imminent ending _of the world came out of
church. It wasn’t till some of the members
read the morning newspaper that they
realised that it wasn’t a warning from on
high.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The unwritten law is not
an exclusively European institution. The
Dusun, of British North
Borneo, a stocky race of
aborigines with Mongo-
lian facial leanings, have
always practised it—and
still do when the district
officer isffit looking. A
man and woman con-
victed of adultery are
bound together face to
face, the whole of the vil-
lage eagerly assisting. The
husband is then handed a
spear and invited to
thrust it through the
bundle lying on the
ground, the male under-
neath. Usually he makes
the execution a double
event; but he has the pri-
vilege. of stopping halfway through if he is of
a forgiving disposition.
* * . * *
“The Listening-Insect”: Three or four
years ago I waxed fantastic in The Bulle-
tin over the possibility of the remotest cocky
being able to drive his separator with power
from super wireless beams. But fact is
always overtaking fiction, and word now
comes that some experimenters in America,
using a new valve which projects a wave
length of a few inches as against the 250
yards or so which was the previous lowest,
have twisted iron and killed rats in the next
room and lighted a lamp a mile away. The
commercial uses to which the new discovery
may be turned are beyond computation; but
what of its military possibilities? Properly
developed, it should be capable of bringing
aeroplanes down, exploding ammunition
dumps and electrocuting whole armies. The
smallest nations could afford an installation.
To forestall invasion Australia would only
need to ionise the ether for a hundred miles
round the coast. Then it could send out Cus-
toms launches to tow the electrically-driven
navy of the enemy into port.
“Wang”; When I was a boy an enter-
prising person, styling himself a phrenologist
and fortune-teller, came to our hamlet and
put up at the local hotel. There, after pur-
suing his vocation for a fortnight or so with
unremunerative results, he suddenly died and,
Jus hotel bill being unpaid, the licensee sold
np the departed one’s few belongings.
Amongst these was a full-sized human skele-
t°n. which, after some not very brisk com-
petition, became the property of an old
orchardist. As the buyer was not suspected
of any particular interest in anatomy, there
was a good deal of conjecture as to what he
proposed to do with his purchase. The puzzle
was solved on the next bright moonlight
night when two women arrived at the police-
station in a condition bordering on hysterics.
The old apple-grower, who suffered a lot from
the depredations of fruit-stealers, had hung
the skeleton from the branches of a tree
near the road, and it was apparent he had
correctly estimated its possibilities as a
scarecrow. lie grumbled bitterly when public
opinion, backed by threats of legal proceed-
ings, insisted on the removal of the gruesome
object.
“i Pint”: Sydney hotelkeepers, up to last
year, were under the impression that it was
legally obligatory upon them to close their
premises on Anzac Day during the march of
ex-soldiers and the memorial service. But
on April 25, 1927, at least one George-street
hotel kept open, and a magistrate, on the
case being brought before him, discovered
that nobody has any power to order hotel
bars to be closed for any less period than a
full day. This year, while many publicans
faithfully observed an undertaking made by
the U.L.V.A. that they would close from
10.30 a.m. till 1 p.m., a few —some of them
on the line of march —carried on business
as usual. So next year, and thereafter,
they’ll all probably have to elose all day.
❖ v
“Gwy”: Re the origin of “Kanaka” (B.
11/4/’2B). I find the following footnote in
Graham Balfour’s Life of R. L. Stevenson:
“Kanaka, the Hawaiian word for a man, is
used by white men throughout the Pacific
as equivalent to native Polynesian. In Aus-
tralia and Fiji it generally means .Melanesian
or black boy.”
“Windsor”: Out at Brunswick (Vic.) on
Anzac Day afternoon a wandering horse
entered the rear door of a local hardware
and china store and clumped casually into the
front part of the shop. Entangling one of
its hoofs in a bicycle, it presently succeeded
in lassoing both forelegs in a looped rope
trailing from its neck. Subsequent plunges
smashed shelves and brought down an ava-
lanche of crockery and ironmongery. Finally
the bewildered prad trampled its way through
a riot of broken plates, cups and glassware
into the window of the shop, where it firmly
planted its forefeet amongst a display of
hardware and gazed meditatively through the
plate-glass into the street. It took two
policemen and half a dozen civilians to re-
move the destroyer from the ruins.
SYDNEY SATURNALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When plunged in the depths of despair
By a fate that seems harsh and unfair,
Don’t wreathe marigolds in the hair
Or drink over-proof rum in a pub.
But let me escort you to where
The initiates lay aside care
In the rites, esoteric and rare,
At our local Bohemian Club.
The spaghetti is past all compare,
I have seen twenty yards of it there
Suspended at once in the air
At this intellectual hub;
And a serviette soon will repair
A mishap with a cream-stuffed eclair
Should you And one bestowed in your chair
At our local Bohemian Club.
As festive and gay as the fare
Are the Quaint paper-caps that we wear
Our lightness of heart to declare
As the master orates from his tub;
No actual barrel is there,
But the style is so true one would swear
He could smell the old-style naphtha-flare
At our local Bohemian Club.
And when the last platter is bare
We wind up the hectic affair
With an orgy a Joseph to snare
Or an Anthony drive to the scrub;
Defying the Puritans’ glare,
Bar ley-sugar we merrily share
And our carnival head-dresses tear
At our local Bohemian Club.
N.S.W.
DON JUAN MULDOON.
BY THE WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yer know that Smith gal down the crick —the
little one, I mean ;
The one with yaller ’air, or brown, or some
shade in between?
Wot kinder wife d’yer think she’d make? I
jist arsk be the way.
I know she works as well as most —she milks
’er score a day.
She’s pretty ’and} 7 with the ’ook; she
a decent meal:
She makes ’er clobber all ’erself; she’s never
down at ’eel.
She ain’t too flighty as they go, although she
likes ’er fun.
Perhaps a cove could do much worse w'en
all is said an’ done.
’Er ole man seems ter take to me, ’er mum
is not too wild,
An’ I ’ave known the lot of ’em since that
gal wuz a child.
D’yer think she’d suit a chap like me? I jist
arsk be the way.
Pecos I’ve bought the bloomin’ ring—an' we’ll
be ’itched this May.
VICTORIA.
P.T. FINDLAY.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Eloor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
“Triton” Electric Copper'
The “TRITON” ELECTRIC COPPER should appeal strongly to
the woman of the better-class home, in that it helps consider-
ably to solve the domestic labor problem, and the electrical
cost is really very moderate indeed. Owing to the insulation of
the Copper, heat losses are reduced to a minimum.
Capacity of Copper, 12 Gallons. Height over all, 33 inches.
Diameter over all, 24 inches. Loading, 3000 waits. Fitted
for 2-heat switch. Finish nickel-plated.
NOTE.—-The above figures are for a Domestic Copper. Par-
ticulars of Coppers or Boilers for commercial purposes on
application.
Further particulars from the Patentees and Manufacturers —
THOS. ABBOTT & CO.,
McEWAN HOUSE, Or. Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets, MELBOURNE.
’Phone: F 4042.
Or. Wynyard and Margaret Lanes. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
11l Taranaki Street WELLINGTON, N.Z.
AGENCIES:
A. C. CLARKE, 112 Gawler Place, Adelaide. S.A.
HARRIS, SCARFE & SAN DOVER, LTD., Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
W. 11. KNIGHT & PETER BROS. PTY., LTD., Hobart an.l
Launceston, Tas,
JAMES CAMPBELL &. SONS, LTD., Creek St., Brisbane, Q’land.
t
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITENS
“Don Alhambra”: The collapse of Big Bill
Thompson, Chicago’s chaperon, reminds me
of another of that clan, but of entirely
different character. “Bobbie” Thompson has
been Mayor of Quorn (S.A.) ever since Aus-
tralia became a Commonwealth. His length
of office, now nearing 30 years, is claimed
ns a world’s record for the mayoralty. In
the seventies now, one of his self-appointed
duties is to meet every intcr-State express
that passes through Quorn and to welcome
newcomers to the town or through-passengers
of note.
A. CAMERON, Chairman of the Mel-
bourne Tramways Board.
The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in
Melbourne is full of research workers who
labor for little or no pay, scarce thanks and
scant recognition, but few of them have had
more ticklish jobs than that of Dr. Hamilton
Fairley, who lately extracted the venom from
52 Queensland death-adders at the Zoo. The
lethal worms came from a district in N.-W.
Bananaland where nobody goes out at night
without a lantern or an intention to commit
suicide. The medical side of Dr. Fairley’s
job w r ill be to try to manufacture an anti-
snakebite serum. He may be years at it.
“Stellsby”: I can’t imagine Mrs. Tom
Walsh at a reception given by Mrs. Stanley
Bruce, but her mother, Mrs. Pankhurst, was
a lionised guest at Mrs. Stanley Baldwin’s
first political at home of the British Parlia-
mentary session. It seems only yesterday
that the suffragist was doing a stretch in
Holloway Gaol.
N.S.W. Jewry loses a stout prop of or-
thodoxy with the departure of Aaron Blashki,
who is going overseas. The Torah and the
Talmud always in mind, Blashki fights hard
against breaches of the strict law, counten-
anced by many less observant Jews. Blashki’s
father established the Jewish Aid Society in
Melbourne, intended to supply needy Jews
with loans free of interest; and in Sydney
he himself launched a similar society, of
which he has been chairman since its incep-
tion. A wealthy man, he has been a liberal
donor to Jewish affairs, especially encourag-
ing Hebrew education in young Jewry.
Next week The Bulletin will print two
stories and a sketch that stand out con-
spicuously even among The Bulletin’s
new series. Katharine Susannah Prichard,
who two or three years ago won Hodder and
Stoughton’s-£lOO9 prize, lias written “White
Kid Gloves,” a gripping story of an officer
in Egypt, his amorous adventures and what
happened to him when he returned to liis old
job in Australia; and there is a beautiful
sketch, “The Garden of God,” which will
give many a Digger’s father and mother a
catch in the throat and a thrill. A draw-
ing by Norman Lindsay will also grace this
issue—May 9.
A true disciple of Paul of Tarsus is Rev.
11. M. Dauncey, who has been 42 years in
Papua as a member of the London Mis-
sionary Society, most of the long trick having
been done in the Gulf region. Now he has
been hastily ordered from the country by his
medical advisers, which practically means
the relinquishment of the work to which he
has devoted his life. One of the oldest resi-
dents of Papua in point of years spent in the
country, lie has had some strange experiences
in his time. One was the murder of Giulia-
netti, Resident Magistrate at Mekeo, by one
of his own police, who shot him as he was
sleeping; Dauncey, as the story goes, occupy-
ing another bed in the same room. Few of
his cloth are held in higher esteem in Papua,
where he has been for years a member of the
Legislative Council as the representative of
the missionary interests.
“T.P.”: A many-sided man is Captain
Wilkins, as much at home in the tropics as
he is yarding up polar bears.. When the
World thought him lost in the interior of Aus-
tralia he was roaming with a missionary
friend of mine, on Groote Island (Carpen-
taria), waiting for a friend’s boat, which
refused to appear. Up there he made an in-
tensive study of the abo., and once marched off
alone on the job. During the day lie saw
a shadow here and there, so at night he
slept with one eye open. Some blacks
stealthily gathered around, but as soon as
one was ready to strike Wilkins yelled. They
bolted, with him at their heels. He bullied
them and marched them off to the station for
a scolding in their own lingo. “Let ’em go.
They are only babies,” he said. The mission-
aries thought the world of Wilkins.
Captain C. V. Usborne, promoted to
rear-admiral in place of the lately-retired
Collard, was for a time gunnery-lieutenant
on the New Zealand. He invented the
ingenious paravane for deflecting floating
mines from a vessel’s course, a gadget that
should have earned him the thanks of many
an A.I.F. reinforcement in the closing years
of the war.
When Mrs. William Templeton passed
on at Windsor (Vic.) at 87 the other
day a link with the early settlement of the
Speck was snapped. She was a daughter
of John Barnes Godfrey, who gravitated
from the ColS Country to establish the Van
Diemen’s Land Company. Incidentally,
her husband founded the first trustee com-
pany in Australia —the Trustees’ Executors
and Agency Co. of Melbourne.
Now nearing the 90th milestone, J. C.
Phillips, of Granville (Sydney), was one of
the first squad of six telegraph boys in the
Harbor City. It wasn’t his first job ; the lure
of high wages induced him, at the mature
age of 12, to leave his position as shop-boy
find take the half-crown a week the Tele-
graph Department offered. Later he had
some adventures with gold escorts, but left
the service to become town clerk of Grafton
(N.S.W.). and subsequently became a
Northern Rivers coroner and magistrate.
“Femina”: The National Councils of
Women did not select delegates all with a
strong bias towards Labor for the proposed
Industrial Peace Conference (B. 11/4/’2B).
The list omitted Mrs. Gouchman, of Victoria,
a strong Nationalist. In the selection an
attempt v/as made to include both political
points of view, while nominating women who
might be expected to know something of
industrial conditions.
Colonel Donald Cameron, M.H.R. for
Brisbane, who some time ago announced his
intention of retiring from politics, has been
prevailed on to stand again. A chip of the
old squattocracy block, he began his sol-
diering with the 6th Queensland Imperial
Bushmen in the South African war, serving
as a lieutenant. The Big Stir, saw him leave
Queensland as a squadron leader in the sth
A.L.11. and w r ith that fine regiment he did
a lot of service about Gallipoli and Pales-
tine, rising to command the regiment. Twice
wounded on Gallip, he wears the C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., and Order of the Nile. A politician
of the sincere and solid type, he is a great
worker for the returned soldier, though, as
in all else, he doesn’t make a song about it.
Victoria’s Supreme Court Bench lost a
great lawyer and a fine man when W. J.
Schutt plumped for the leisured life 16 months
ago. After a year or so’s globe-trotting his
genial countenance has lately appeared again
round Selborne Chambers, the rabbit-warren
that Shelters Melbourne’s barristers.
After 32 years as Victoria’s Crown Prose-
cutor J. A. Gurner, K.C., is retiring. He was
admitted to the Bar 45 years ago.
E. H. Sugden, Litt.D., who left Melbourne
the other day for England, spent 13 years
compiling his “Topographical Dictionary of
the Works of Shak-
speare and his Fel-
low Dramatists.” In
that time he read
painstakingly
through more than
700 works of dif-
ferent dramatists,
noting every place
mentioned. T h i s
was the work that
secured him the
Doctor of Letters
degree. Usually the
degree is not
awarded until the
work is published,
but owing to the
war and consequent
heavy cost of print-
ing, this rule was
waived oh the
understanding that
the heavy volume
would be printed
when hostilities
ended.
J.H. SCULLIN,
the new leader
of the Federal
Labor party.
“Stellsby”: John Gale, the 97-year-old
working journalist (B. 25/4/’2B), has a close
runner-up for the Ancients’ Ilard-toil Stakes
in Thomas Ley, of Tallangatta (Vic.). Tom
has just turned 95, and, among other jobs,
finds time to be an active director of the
local butter factory, one of the biggest in the
Southern State.
April 24 was the 81st birthday of James
Grey Moseley, who appears to be the oldest
member of S. Australia’s Assembly, and cer-
tainly is one of the most vigorous and sen-
sible in debate. He is said to have been the
first to introduce wire-netted fencing on
northern pastoral holdings in the State.
Australian-born, Mrs. F. C. Blanchard,
now a leading American botanist, is at pre-
sent doing some research work in Victoria.
She is the daughter of scientist N. A. Cobb,
who was attached to the N.S.W. Agriculture
Department thirty-odd years ago.
The N.S.W. Labor movement still dis-
guises its Communistic leanings, but it hands
out its honors and forgiveness to those who
are Red enough to deserve them. J. J.
Graves, new A.L.P. president, gained his
secretaryship of the Stovemakers’ Union 14
years ago through advocating militancy, and
his union has provided a whole series of
strikes. He has always wanted an Indus-
trial Labor party, and was among the break-
aways who tried to form one. Many moder-
ates have been fired from the party and re-
main unforgiven, but he was duly pardoned.
Payne, the industrialist who opposed Evatt
in Balmain in 1925. breaking one of the
strictest rules of the A.L.P., has also found a
ready forgiveness.
Harry Moorhouse, the knight appointed by
the Colonial Office to inquire into the Malaita
outbreak of last year, and that of native
police on Guadalcanal’ a few months earlier,
is a gunner who has had a distinguished
career. With the C.O. he served in Nigeria,
Uganda and West Africa, retiring from the
army in 1908 with the rank of lieut.-colonel.
Joining up again, he served on Gallipoli in
1915, returning later to the Nigerian ser-
vice. He is a D.S.O. and an officer of the
Legion of Honor.
David Stanley Smith, the latest accession
to Maoriland’s Supreme Court Bench, hails
from Dunedin, the city that has long been
an incubator for judges and other big folk
in M.L. David is 40, son of a parson, and a
staunch upholder of the virtues of that
glorious beverage—tea. He took part in the
argument with Fritz and has been vice-
president of M.L.’s soldiers’ association.
The late Earl of Oxford and Asquith was
a barrister for 51 years, and a very success-
ful one while he practised. He was a member
of the Commons for 36 years and a Minister
for 16 years, being Prime Minister for eight
of them. He died worth about £lO,OOO, which
suggests that statesmen in J. Bull’s country
miss their opportunities. A British ex-Min-
ister of a few years’ service is entitled to a
pension if on the financial rocks, and 12
pensions may exist at once. Apparently there
is a profound reluctance to take the money,
for the last two recipients resigned their
incomes some years ago, and decided to
scratch along without.
It. I. D. Mallam, barrister and solicitor
at Darwin, moves up to the Judgeship of
the N.T., succeeding Judge Roberts, who
prefers a quiet country practice at Mount
Gambier (S.A.). Mallam learned his law in
England, and studied the local variations in
Adelaide, under Noel Webb and Paris Nesbit.
Herbert M. Hale at 33 becomes head of the
South Aus. Museum, the chair being vacant
through the death of Edgar Waite, Hale
is a recognised authority on the Crustacea
and the aquatic insects of Australia. With
Tindale, an entomologist in the Museum, he
has made sundry way-back collecting tours.
Harvey Johnston, prickly-pear expert in
N.S.W. and Q. and now Professor of Zool-
ogy at Adelaide University, has been asked
to have an eye to Adelaide Museum as honor-
ary director, a post held for many years by
Professor Stirling.
Robert B. Wilkinson, one of the pastoral
kings of Australia (his dominions spread
over both N.S.W. and Victoria), enjoyed 65
years of Australian sunshine before his death
last week. When he arrived from England
as a young man of 26 he was an enthusiastic
oarsman, and claimed to have rowed the first
outrigger on the Yarra. He was M.L.A. for
Balranald for 14 years subsequent to 1880.
John Taylor Lingen, Iv.C., who was 80
years old last Friday, started practice in
Sydney in 1880, when four Supreme Court
Judges, leading easy lives, were sufficient to
cope with all judicial matters. Lingen made
his chief line Equity, and was offered his silk
in 1893, though he declined to take it until
1918. He retired a couple of years ago.
The latest of the prominent war heads
who have fallen so thickly before the sickle
recently is General Wrangel, who, after
chaos, led the White Army against the. Reds
in Russia. A memory of that effort is the
Union de Wrangel, whose members, scattered
throughout Europe, nourish a fading hope
of yet helping to make Russia White.
It is a long time since David Livingstone
made missionary history in Africa; yet to-
day there is living in Brisbane one John
Jaffray who knew the immortal doctor well
and helped to bury his young wife close
to the Victoria Falls on the Zambesi, where
her grave is now a place of pilgrimage.
Jaffray landed in South Africa as a ship-
wrecked boy, and was one of the party which
took Livingstone’s steam launch to the Zam-
besi in parts and there assembled it. That
was in 1860. Of the hardest Scots breed,
Jaffray is 90 this year.
Lawyer Eustace Giles, who used to occupy
Yarra House, South Yarra, but lived lat-
terly in the Cold Country, left a trifle over
£lOO,OOO when he went Beyond. Most of
the pile went to his two brothers, but five
per cent, was set apart for charity. State
Treasurer Hogan will collect a few thousands
in probate that will be welcome now that a
big deficit is looming.
JUSTICE ARCHIBALD L. BLAIR, newly
appointed to the Supreme Court of
Maoriland.
“Yenton”: One of the world’s most re-
markable rn.cn is undoubtedly old John Mc-
Mahan, who, when I knew him, was living
at Kalirana West (Vic.). Well over 80
and hale and hearty, he was the head of four
generations; but his chief claim to distinc-
tion was that, although a bullocky for many
years, he had never been known to swear.
THE REVISED RECESSIONAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the No More War Conference of the Sydney
Peace Society, Mr. Piddington, Iv.C., commented on
the sanctimonious hypocrisy and militarism in British
songs and hymns like ‘Rule Britannia’ and ‘The
Recessional,’ and a resolution was carried that the
best Anzac memorial would be the abolition of com-
pulsory military training.” —Daily paper.
Our fathers put their trust of old
In fleet and fort and battle-line —
A truly awful creed to hold
If Mars to Hades you’d consign,
As we this night to do are met.
Their foolish ways let us forget.
To arm that peace be kept by force
Is svmptom of an evil heart.
They put the cart before the horse,
Ours surely is the better part:
All that they learned in blood and sweat
Let us forget, let us forget.
Let troops and navies melt away
And nothing more shall we require
To usher in a warless day.
Instructing youths to march and fire,
On new Galiipolis might set
A premium. Let them forget.
Were there no dogs of war to loose,
No Soviet could engender awe.
How impotent ’twould leave th Duco
If arms were placed without the law.
A proposition we may yet
Convert the world to, don’t forget.
Si pap,cm vis —that oft-discussed
And musty saw we here discard.
We’ll put an end to cut-and-thrust
By having nobody on guard.
To rid the earth of war abhorred
Help us forget the goose-step, Lord!
N.S.W'.
IFORD.


PIONEERS!
Pioneers in the establishment of the making of leather belting in Australia 70 vears ago—
and pioneers in every important advance in belting practice since that time.
The four Ludowici Trade-Marks
PIONEER
CHROMOL
COMBINA
PLATYPUS
are guarantees to the user of the best product obtainable.
Manufactured onlv bv'
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers Since I <B. r >B.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane ;
Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles. Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland ;
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia,
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS -COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and }
Foundries j
Alexandria, Sydnej’, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch (
Office (
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
T. & 0. Building, Brisbane, Q
The
WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance. Cos., Ltd.:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Written to
Dei-., Income. Chtims. Expenses. Oil. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. M.i.SSI 41,252 17,891 86,388
19U5.. 255,130 64,962 33,451 20,572 136,051
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84,252 2,524 373,303
1915. . 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,986 402,245
1916. . 1.191,225 676,011 82,324 6,837 426,053
1917. . 1,219,490 770,218 88,888 10,673 337,711
1918. . 1,273,685 805,623 95,304 147 372,611
1919. . 1,316,118 911,069 105,065 299,984
1920. . 1,383,575 789,720 131,286 10,245 452,318
1921 .. 1,440,577 803,018 142,092 - 435,467
1922. . 1,524,474 963,716 135,915 424,843
1923. .1,537,907 962,022 136,227 646 439,012
1924. . 1,613,375 987.807 137,112 488,396
1925. . 1,685,900 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1926. . 1,777,280 1,143,303 137,169 1,255 495,552
1927. . 1,834,631 1,240,862 138,508 1,558 453,703
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dee., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 176,406 49,398 98,681 228 28,099
1905.. 199.420 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093.
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1910.. 354,568 68,702 153,102 802 131,902
1917.. 382,807 88,527 165,190 159 128,931
1918.. 409,949 160,209 176,638 2128 70,974
1919.. 430,803 183,019 195,605 1470 50,709
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1921.. 488,369 150.210 213,639 2576 121,944
1922.. 528,760 168,502 216,804 3566 139,888
1923.. 571,676 177,315 255,621 2222 136,518
1924.. 606,121 199,899 248,667 3010 154,545
1925.. 647,779 210,802 200,590 3003 173,378
1926.. 702,441 220,950 ' 266.648 3726 211,117
1927.. 748,088 266,027 284,818 2512 194,731
Compared with the figures of, say, 1920,
many insurance offices show on the Ordinary
side much larger increases of business anil
additions to funds ;• yet the trustees—an
outside body not at all responsible for the
management—declare 1927 to have been “the
most prosperous year the co. has experi-
enced.’ - And they are probably quite right.
Prosperity so far as a life office is concerned
doesn't mean what a good many people seem
to think it means. What is it a policy-holder
needs? First, security that he will get at
least the amount of his policy. Second,
profits—that is, bonuses. No doubt other
practical considerations come in, especially
in an office with share capital. It wants
continuity also. If it were not for that it
would pay most offices to leave off taking pew
business, and simply allow existing policies
to run out.
To a great extent that is what the
Widows’ Fund and M.L.A. did when they
handed over their affairs to this office and
put up their own shutters. We may be
quite sure that the highly capable manage-
ment hasn’t been doing the job for nothing;
yet the results have been enough to make
some of the old policy-holders of those not
very progressive offices believe the days of
miracles have not passed. “The year’s distri-
buted surplus,” the A.W.F. trustees say, “if
divided as a reversionary bonus calculated on
the sum assured only (as is customary in
Australia), would equal £5 4s. lOd. p.c. on
policies of all classes.” For the year 1920,
when the compound bonus was £2 12s. 6d.
p.c., 72 p.c. of the total paid in premiums
came back in bonuses. With the compound
bonus at £3 10s., it looks as though about
95 p.c. of the premium is coming back to the
policy-holder; in other words, he is getting
his old insurance for almost nothing, and
the profits are buying for him new insurance
of an almost equal amount. This indicates
that the interests of policy-holders and office-
managers may not always be the same. The
office-manager, looking for “big business,”
may spend so mucli in getting it that bonuses
may be starved; and the policy-holder who
is inveigled into shouting hoorays when he
is told that the business has been doubled
in two or three years doesn’t always know
on which side his own bread is buttered.
That is one advantage about an office
like the M.L.C., with some share capital be-
hind it. It wants to make money, not only
at some far distant date, but now. There-
fore it can be, or ought to be, trusted to
strike a happy medium —to lay the founda-
tions for future business, but not to do it by
starving those who are entitled to rewards
in the present. And, as suggested above, the
surest way to starve them is by striving to
get new business altogether out of pro-
portion to existing business. What the right
proportion is the “Wild Cat” doesn’t know;
obviously it must vary with the age of the
concern.
But while the total amount added to funds
has been shrinking during the last three
years, that has been wholly due to the
growth of claims; fair progress has been
made in new business writing. The Ordinary
branch figures are:—
No. of New Average Amount
Policies. Assuring. Assured.
1914.. 10,619 £2,003,040 £lB9
1920.. 12,476 3,023,848 242
1921.. 11,105 3,025,926 272
1922.. 11,927 3,280,607 279
1923.. 11,430 3,265,637 286
1924.. 10,041 3,051,425 304
1925.. 10.459 3,111,194 297
1926.. 10,124 3,154.993 311
1927.. 11,341 3,499,967 309
The co. hasn’t broken its neck to reach the
now-policy figures of the post-war boom:
and both the policy-holders and the share-
holders are the gainers by it.
The shareholders are entitled to, but have
not always taken, one-fifth of the profit of
the Ordinary branch. Formerly they took
all the profit of the Industrial; but in 192 b
that branch began to issue with-profit
policies also. There is an Accident branch
too; here, naturally, the profits belong to
shareholders, who accept all the risks, though
bonuses are given to policy-holders by way of
remission of premiums. Given equal profits
the policy-holder who gets five-fifths of
them is, of course, better off than the one
who gets only four-fifths. But if the latter
policy is better looked after, then the four-
fifths may easily be greater than the five-
fifths. In this case there is no question
about either the money-saving or money-
making habits of the management. It cost
only a shade over 7 p.c. of total income to
run the Ordinary branch, and the entire
funds averaged £5 lbs. p.c. interest in the
Ordinary and £b 19s. 2d. in the. Industrial
branch. Except in one section of the Indus-
trial branch the earnings assumed now are
3 p.c.; and that leaves a fine margin for
future bonuses, bonuses being largely pro-
vided out of the difference between actual
and assumed interest earnings.
And while Ordinary policy-holders are
heartened by fine bonuses—£6o9,246 is
divided for the year, providing reversionary
bonuses (i.e., additions to policies) of from
£4 4s. to £2 10s. p.c.—they are given a com-
fortable feeling by the quality of the in-
vestments :
1926. p.c. 1927. p.c.
Public securities. £15,468,734 88.4 £15,830,504 85.3
Mortgages . . 360,862 2.1 813,775 4.4
Loans on policies 1,162,684 6.6 1,230,523 6.6
Cash, book debts, etc. 234*827 1.4 274,726 1.5
Property.. 87,086 .5 88,603 .5.
Other assets . . 173,876 1.0 329,396 1.7
£17,506,069, £18,567,527
Liabilities . . 1,485,564 1,850,966
Net assets . ..£16,020,505 £16,716,561
About four-fifths of the public securities are
Government stocks, very largely Federal; the
balance are municipal and loans to public
bodies.
In addition to the shareholders’ capital
policies are protected by a general reserve of
£IOO,OOO, an unknown amount of contingency
reserve and the reserve created by under
valuing future earnings. The shareholders,
whose share capital in the business is £200,000,
draw their exceedingly handsome profits from
their proportion on Ordinary business,
£87,400 last year; £20,000, being 10 p.c. on
capital, charged against Industrial account;
£58.600 shareholders’ profit on Industrial
business; and £24,000 profit on Accident
branch—a total of £190,000. It is 95 p.c.
on share capital; but the figure might look
a good deal less if all the reserves were dis-
closed and some of them were capitalised, as
for the better protection of policy-holders
they well might be.
* # * ❖
McDowells, Ltd., formerly McDowell and
Hughes, Ltd., which was reconstructed in
1920, eight fully-paids being given for every
five shares held, goodwill given a book value
of £16,693, and leases written up (in the table
the goodwill of this Sydney retail drapery
store has not been treated as an asset)
Towards
, Dividends Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ sj
1921*.. 5,274 8 p.e. 7 p.c. 4970 304 16,889
1922 .. 5,579 8 „ 5., 5742 . 16,552
1923 . . 11,464 8 „
£26,100 of capital written oif; goodwill
expelled and leases and other assets written
down. Reserves.
1924 . . 14,606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 5,976 9,297
1925 . . 27,760 8 „
1926 . . 2.3,668 8 „ 12* „ 18,902 4,766 31,235
1927 .. 40,127 8 „ 15 ~ 27,539 12,588 -43,823
1928 .. 48,207 8 „ 15 „ 27,681 20,526 64,349
* Eight months.
The vast increase of motor traffic in the
streets of Sydney has been worth a lot to
these, people. They are well away from
Temptation How —the procession of drapers’
shops in Pitt-street—but they are in the
post-office block, and many a woman who
finds herself in that block will turn into
McDowell’s rather than cross the traffic to
seek bargains elsewhere. But that is re-
sponsible only in part for the big rise in
profits: the other part is due (1) to keener
buying and more vigorous management and
(2) to the large spending power of the pub-
lic. No doubt there are many unemployed
in Sydney; but unemployed don't mean what
they used to. Formerly, before there were
a great many men out of work, there was,
as a rule, a series of cuts in wages. There
is nothing of that sort now. You are either
in work and getting pay that would have
astonished your grandfather or you are out
and faced with the very high cost of living.
So, though .1 p.c. of work-people may be
idle, the other 95 p.c. are still able to spend
money very freely. Whether we shall be
able to go on like that is another matter.
In the settling down it will probably be
found that present standards of pay can be
retained, but only by working a great deal
harder.
The co. started off with a very small
capital; and that is the easiest way for a
trading co. like this to show big dividends.
But it practically always means one tiling-
low rent and an uncertain tenancy. The
directors of this co. realised that, and there-
fore, being assured that the site was good,
increased their own capital, and moreover
went pretty heavily into debt, to buy it. As
a preliminary to the increase of capital the
co. had written out its goodwill and other
intangible assets and cancelled one ordinary
share in four—no great hardship to share-
holders, because the ordinaries, which ha 1
been selling at 15s. and under, immediately
moved above par; and, when early in 1925
the directors offered 88,309 ords] at 205.,
nearly 100,000 were applied for and issued.
The capital at Feb. 29 this year was £IO,OOO
in 8 p.c. prefs. and £179,204 in ords. Now,
having during the past year purchased also
the George-street leasehold occupied by the
co., a further 63,068 ords. were offered at
ss. premium and were over-applied for. As
the allotment was not made until after the
present accounts closed, this transaction does
not figure in them, and by this time some of
the items in the 1928 column of the follow-
ing table will have been reduced sub-
stantially
1925. 1920. 1927. 1928.
Mortgages .. £02,500 £02,500 £167,500
Sundry creditors £456 9,347 20,122 63,008
Freeholds, lease-
-1 nvestments'f. 0 ' fell } i77 > 422 181,358 325,393
Stock .. 68,800 • 01,114 100,216 108,472 .
Book debts .. 23,078 28,520 30,710 25,441
Cash, etc. .. 14,754 34,854 33,340 53,911
The liabilities, £230,508, consist almost
wholly of mortgages and overdraft on ac-
count of property-purchase; and they are
very substantial. Still there was £78,835
to come in from the new share issue, with
£52,538 cash in hand.
The strength of the business, at present
lies mainly in the quick turnover, shown by
the size of profits compared with stock; and
so long as that proportion or anything like
it can be maintained, the position will be
comfortable. All the same, if a co, can pay
15 p.c. with an amount equal to about
nine-tenths of its total capital and re-
serves in city property, it must be a
very successful co. indeed. The ordinary
shareholders’ trouble is that, besides the
£IO,OOO of 8 p.c. pref. capital, there must
be something like £125,000 of perhaps 64
or 7 p.c. pref. creditors; and that is liable
to leave them hungry in times of small
profits. On the other hand, if brisk business
continues long enough to allow the plaster
to be rubbed off with undistributed profits,
the shareholders’ position will be exception-
ally good. Ordinaries are worth about 375.;
there are assets worth 275. to represent them
on book values.
The Union Trustek Cos. :
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1917.. 9.735 7*p.c.= 7,500 21,887 523
1918. . 10.889 8} „ „ 8,500 24.276 604
1919.. 12.119 94 „ „ 9,500 26,895 709
1920.. 12.420 10 „ ~10.000 29,315 734
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24.315 734
1921.. 15,670 10 p.c. = 10,500 29,485 682
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,485 682
1922.. 14.020 10 p.c. = 11,000 27,505 736
1923.. 15,309 10 „ ~ 11.000 31.814 1027
1924.. 17,024 10 „ ~11,000 37,838 1047
1925.. 20.853 10 „ ~ 11,000 47.691 1047
1926.. 20,233 10 „ ..11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,706 10 ~ ..11.000 66.630 1097
Transferred to capital. £15,000 51.630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
This is the one trustee co. in Australia which
looks for dead men’s shoes over the whole
eastern half of the continent: it first moved
from Victoria into Queensland and now is
firmly established also in N. S. Wales. The
example thus set is slow in being followed;
but just as the Ballarat co. found by-and-
bye, that it must go to Melbourne, too, so
the time will come when all the big Aus-
tralian trustee offices will find themselves
taking on a more or less Federal character.
It is not merely that men’s investments are
liable to slop over one or two borders; men
themselves are not such fixtures as they
were. We lately had a trek of civil ser-
vants and some others from ) ietoria to
Canberra; and only last week it was an-
nounced that, owing to a gradual transfer
of business, Howard Smith headquarters anil
staff were being moved to Sydney. , j ll
transfer of men and estates is being added
to by bank and other mergers and amalga-
mations ; and presently the trustee co. which
finds itself hobbled to one State will t also
find itself seriously handicapped. The Union
believes so much in being right on the spot
that it has just opened a branch at Towns-
ville (N.Q.).
Partly because of the extension of opera-
tions to N. S. Wales, and partly because of
the great prosperity of the pastoral industry
in which the co. rather specialises, the
growth of business has been extraordinarily
rapid :
Commissions,
Interest, etc. Expenses.
1X95 .. .. £7,799 £4,151
l<V<n .. .. 5,927 4.8G1
1905 .. .. 8,916 5,489
1910 .. .. 11,840 7,565
1915 .. .. 17,318 9,728
1920 .. . . 37,029 24.609
1925 . . .. 80,658 59,805
1026 ... .. 81,607 61.374
1927 .. .. 86.869 66,162
1928 .. .. 92,761 72,509
Notwithstanding three modest little capitali-
sations of reserves in the past three years,
the 10 p.c. div. has left £2O 091 to lay by
as against £10,610 in the first three years
tin* 10 p.c. was paid. Still, owing to the
rapid increase of exes., net profits have been
marking time in the last three years.
Capital and other balance-sheet items have
moved as follows: —-
1915. 1920. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. £73,822 £IOO,OOO £IIO,OOO £125,000
liabilities .. 1,231 6.084 15,200 185
Premises . . 50,474 83,925 93,990 105,548
Public securities 32,732 52,668 60,912 60,641
Mortgages and
debentures.. 1,724
Cash, etc. . . 7,117 2,235 39,004 21,544
Sundry debtors
and sundries 1,660 2,305 4*,522 4,110
The capital is in £2 10s. shares, £1 ss. paid,
another ss. callable at any time and the other
£1 on liquidation. Net assets are worth
84s. Sd. per share. Shares are very tightly
held ; there have been buyers lately at 525.
—you might have got a few at 425. twelve
months ago.
*:* * *
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zeai.and Drug Cos. (Dunedin, MX.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan.. Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
& ■: .£ .£ £
1917.. 25,575 Bp,c.= 21,200 4,375 65,516
1918.. 30,329 8 „ „ 22,120 5000 3,209 68,725
1919.. 33,520 8 ~ ~ 23,917 9,603 78,328
Premiums on new shares . . 12,500 90,828
1920.. 40,768 10 p.c. = 31,493 9.275 100,103
1921.. 43,618 10 „ „ 36,412 7.206 107,309
1922.. 32,921 8 „ „ 31.828 1,093 108,402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ „ 35,997 1,103 109 505
1924.. 42,376 10 „ „ 40.000 2,376 lll’Bßl
1925.. 47.371 10 ~ „ 40,0u0 - 7,371 119,252
Premiums on new shares . . 32,500 151,752
1926.. 54,924 10 p.c. = 41,974 ) -
Staff provident fund, £SOOO ) '>9oo 159,(02.
1927.. 57.134 10 p.c. = 48,299 ) - Ifi7
Staff provident fund, £IOOO ) 107,53<
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,638 ( . ...
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ) 1,004 168,541
This is another co. that lias to thank God
for the farmer. Things in the wholesale drug
line in Maoriland were by no means bright,
and, anyhow, Maoriland is not a cheap terri-
tory for any wholesaler to work. Besides.
Kemptkorne-Prosser were met by the very keen
competition of people who seemed to know
more modern methods of trading. But, for-
tunately, the co. had a name well known
up and down the Dominion, and it had com-
mand of money; so it went into the chemical
fertiliser industry with more vigor than it
had otherwise shown for years. To-day it
has four works, at Auckland, Christchurch.
Dunedin and, latest of them, Wanganui; and
the demand for the product has grown so
rapidly that the plans for Wanganui were
altered after the job had been started to
allow of additions being made to the acid
plant. And the use of these fertilisers will
continue to grow: Australia has made only
the barest start to use them on its pastures,
9iid Maoriland isn’t much further advanced.
Provided the cos. give the users and possible
users a fair spin, the results are going to be
very far-reaching.
The opening and extension of the various
chemical works is mainly responsible for the
quick spring in these figures:—
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. .. £53,034 £36,426
1915 .. .. .67,094 43,635
1920 .. .. 139,909 100,098
1925 .. 147,344 99,985
1926 .. .. 161,320 106,500
1927 .. .. 163,725 106,612
1928 . . . . 177,159 120,533
Last year there was for a while a bit of a
scrap among the fertiliser people; but things
were presently arranged, so the current year
should show a better gross profit without a
corresponding increase in exes. And the co.
can stand it quite easily, for the net profit


DELCO-LIGHT
end your work.
at the end of the day
Plant No. 866,
watts, 52 volts,
plcte with Tudor
type battery,
850
com-
plante
MOW, in the Winter and in the
early Spring—when every
hour of daylight counts —when
your whole year’s profit de-
pends on early planting—when
you are working against time
and weather-—that’s when you
need the help of Delco-Light.
As you come to the end of the
last furrow, or the last sheep
for the day is shorn —as you
look with satisfaction on what
you have done and think of the
work yet to do —think what
it would mean to have Delco-
Light.
Water at the turn of a tap,
time-saving power for turning
grinders, separators and all
small-power machinery, electric
light at house and out-buildings
—these are the things you can
have with Delco-Light.
And later, when the days grow
longer and warmer, Frigidaire,
the electric refrigerator, safe-
guards the health of your family
by keeping foods entrusted to
its care fresh, wholesome and
tempting—hot days and nights
are made pleasant by electric
fans—and ironing is done in the
coolest room in the house.
Think of all that it means to
have Delco-Light and arrange
to have it now.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET B,
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON,
172-174 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & McLEAN PTY., LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston.
PRODUCT OF GENERAL MOTORS.


Sharks Are About!
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly’s”
object is to give the average man
such expert advice about invest-
ments (including insurance policies)
that he will not lose his money.
MAY NUMBER
READY SATURDAY.
SINCLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* -j* * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has a wide range of usefulness.
It will safely carry any kind of fluid, its non-corroding
qualities adapting it for use in mining, industrial,
hydro-electric, or irrigation projects as well as for
water and sewerage systems. It offers economy on
every point—purchase, transport, installation and
service. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry to Figtree Bridge),
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* >* * -f
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* :!s * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The construction of firebreaks and tank drains, also
the clearing of drains in and around watering places,
and from wire-netting fences, can all be effectively
and economically handled by the use of the special
graders which are made by Messrs. Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd. These machines are available in
seven different sizes, either to be hauled by tractor
or horses, the prices ranging from £45 to £105
each. There are many properties equipped with these
machines and the results obtained amply demon-
strate the necessity of having a grader available on
the station or large farm. As most people nowadays
possess motor-cars, one of these machines will also
be able to construct and maintain in perfect condition
the private road to the homestead. Full particulars
are available from the manufacturers, Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Mao-
quarie-place, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane. — Advt.
❖ ❖ * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
permanence
WHOM WILL
YOU APPOINT?
The burden of trusteeship in these modern days demands the expert knowledge
and resources of a highly-trained and highly-specialised organisation.
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LIMITED,
act as Executors, Trustees, Attorneys and Agents, and offer a sendee which foi-
peimanence, security and efficiency could not be equalled by an individual trustee,
. even were he to devote his whole time to the administration of your Estate alone.’
There is no time like the present to appoint a reliable
Executor or Trustee. Our interesting Booklet, giving
much valuable information and help on these matters,
will be forwarded free on request.
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
May’s Broadcast Fertilizer Spreader.
lw
(im/j
The Machine is attached at rear of
Vehicle and works close to the
ground.
Spreads up to 40 feet. Any
quantity up to 1 ton per acre.
Quantities regulated whilst at
work. No skill required.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
Price—£2o nett f.o.r. Melbourne; £2l nett f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor Lorry attachments.
CALL AND INSPECT.
Agents: GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Sydney.
laid by is much too small. Certainly the
directors make provision for depreciation be-
fore passing on their profit figures to us, but
with well over £400,000 in factory and
other premises, including a good deal of
plant liable to rapid decay and obsolesence,
£IOO4 is far too little to put by to cover con-
tingencies.
Balance-sheet items have moved like this;
1010. 1920. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £200,000 £367,140 £511,094 £529,639
Liabilities .. 59,442 76.650 151,917 153,476
Stock . . 149,622 188,874 258,572 279,704
Factories, etc. 103,193 140,114 431,198 435,914
Hook debts . . 53,513 105,283 153,239 142,975
Cash, etc. . . 4,373 133,976 25,692 25,123
There are 70,000 shares unissued, but there
is no word so far of doing anything with
them notwithstanding that further exten-
sions of works are in hand or authorised.
However, the issue can be only a matter ot
time, though whether it will be worth any-
thing to present shareholders is another mat-
ter. Hitherto the directors haven't given
much away.
* * >.-! *
Thirty years ago three American life
offices were vigorously, not to say frenziedlv,
pursuing business in Australia. Then came
the great inquiry into the mad rush of
American offices after big figures, and the
consequent legislation. Being hobbled, the
offices naturally turned to the fields where
new business cost least; and Australia wasn't
one of them. Of the three the Mutual Life
of New York, though it presently discon-
tinued policy-writing, maintained an Aus-
tralian office; but it has now wisely
decided to pass the policies, gradually dimin-
ishing in numbers, to the Colonial Mutual.
The funds accumulated on behalf of such
policies will be transferred to the Bank of
Australasia as trustee for the holders of the
transferred policy contracts, “and the
amounts so transferred will be invested in
Government and other securities.” The
Colonial Mutual “guarantees to allot a rate
of bonus the same as the Mutual of New
York would have allotted had such policy
contracts not been transferred.” It isn’t
much of a scheme. With no new-business
exes, to be borne, the policies should be earn-
ing profits far greater than those made by
the r office as an active institution: the
A.W.F. policies taken over by the M.L.C.
are a case in point. Still, the policy-holders
will at any rate be no worse off; and it is an
advantage to deal with an office which has
something to lose in the way of local good-
will.
The liquidators of Mount Morgan have sold
the co.’s holdings in Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Cos. and Metal Manufacturers, Ltd.,
for £600,000. The last balance-sheet showed
these shares in at cost price, Electrolytics
£144,145, Metals £175,424. Thus the price
obtained shows a surplus over cost of
£282,431, which should be a matter for re-
joicing among shareholders. In January the
liquidators sold the co.’s shares in Australian
Fertilisers for £380,000, and paid a dividend
of ss. per share on the million shares, and
another div. can be expected shortly. This
finishes the sale of the Mount’s holdings in
other cos., but the last balance-sheet dis-
closed also £109.370 in Commonwealth securi-
ties and £46,1C0 of Victorian ditto.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Roma Oil Corp. isn’t among the dawdlers;
it has continuously worked three shifts. No.
2 bore wfis started on March 28, and on
April 23 had reached 1025 feet. Allowing
for Sundays, etc., the 1025 feet was sunk in
under 21 days through country in some places
so hard that they had to use the Hughes bit.
More men are now in the employ of the co.
than ever previously. At No. 1 hole the pro-
duction of oil has risen from 10 per cent, lo
approximately 20 per cent, as a result of
improved methods introduced by head-driller
Clarence Evans on his recent return from
America, where he spent three months bring-
ing himself up to date in oil-field and pro-
duction methods.
Dear Bulletin, — -“Wild Cat” (4/4/’2B)
shows that Roma No. 2 bore is being sunk
10 chains on the dip of the Hospital Hill
dome from No. 1 bore to dodge the gas diffi-
culty met with in that bore. But will it
dodge the water difficulty? The directors
have evidently been advised that this water
is not “edge” water or they would not be
going further on the dip to strike worse
trouble. It must therefore be either “top”
water not sealed off by the casings or “bot-
tom” water not plugged out. In any case it
will have to be dealt with or it will en-
danger the flow of oil when the oil stratum is
struck in the No. 2 bore, and will flood
that stratum and ruin its productive capacity
whenever the pressure is sufficiently relieved
by the saturation of oil from that stratum.
It was the incursion of water that blocked
the flow of gas in the first three bores sunk
at Roma, as soon as the gas pressure was
sufficiently decreased to allow the water
pressure to overcome it. No broken tools
would have blocked the gas in a dry hole.
The water will give the same trouble again
if not excluded from the productive stratum
whether gas or oil is the objective.—Yours.
W. E.C.
* * * *
Oriomo Oil, whose holding lies on the
western side of the Fly River estuary in
Western Papua, has announced that a geo-
logical bore has yielded a quantity of excel-
lent oil from 175 ft. This is the first occur-
rence of actual oil on the field, though other
bores show gas. The oil is not yet present
in commercial quantity. Still, it is proved
that the field is oil bearing, and that’s a lot
to go on with.
* * * *
It was proved by the first bore drilled in
I’apua (on the Vailala River) that petroleum
is there. It was tapped only 300 feet
down, and various internal-combustion
engines were run on it. But Dr. Wade,
then superintending operations for the Com-
monwealth, thought it. wasn’t a considerable
pool, so plugged the hole and went stabbing
elsewhere, without success. The seventh
hole was lately begun at Popo, some 40
miles s.e. of Vailala. Most of the previous
bores have been frustrated by liquid mud
and big gas pressures somewhere about 1600
feet down, which cause casings to twist and
jamb. New Guinea Oil, in the locality firs!
prospected by the Anglo-Persian oil people
also failed to get their drills through this
subterranean river of mud. But Drs Rich-
ardson and Papp with a team of specially-
selected geologists drawn from Persian,
Mexican and other fields where the Angio-
Persian operated, arc now distributed about
the several districts where companies are
actually boring, and it will be simply
Papua’s rotten luck if the collective brains
and experience of this conclave fail to bring
the juice to light.
* ❖ $
At the Russo-Asiatic’s meeting in London
chairman Leslie Urquhart told them about
Ins visit to Mount Isa—-the vast ore bodies,
the solution of the metallurgical treatment
ot the ores, the ample water supply, the ex-
cellent relations with Labor unions and the
Queensland Government, etc. With regard to
finance, the Mount Isa Cos. was quite abb'
to complete a first unit of treatment plant
for 2000 tons daily, with necessary power
and mine equipment, without increasing pre-
sent capital. He estimated that, with lead
at £2O per ton, profits of £220,000 per annum
could be earned by the end of 1929, rising fi
£570,000 in 1930. If profits from the treat
ment of zinc at £26 were included, he esti
mated that a further £230,000 profit would be
earned.
* * * *
A seam at the Bluff (C.Q.) is very like
the Welsh coal used for naval purposes. The
Defence Department made an official test
with such promising results that a larger
quantity is now undergoing trial. The
new seam is close to the old Bluff seam,
having a shallower depth and tli-e same dip—-
1 to 3. The two coals, however, are quite
different and have only one point of resem-
blance—the high calorific value B.T.U. per
lb. There are no traces in the new coal of
the liquid clinker which detracts from the
efficiency of the old Bluff coal. The mine
is well served with a railway, and the coal,
if suitable, could be easily supplied to the
Australian Navy and the Singapore base.
❖ *• Us *
Queensland Mines Department says in a
P.S. to its annual report that, though a good
deal of prospecting for sapphires in new
ground was carried on last year, only one
stone of outstanding value was recovered—
E. Russell found a beautiful orange-yellow
at the blacksoil workings on Retreat Creek
It weighed 19dwt„ and was valued in the
rough at £IOO. Only one purchase was made
by the Government under the Gem Pool
scheme—344oz. of first-quality blue sap-
lib ires at £5 16s. an oz. The £2OOO was
divided amongst 150 miners. One dealer is
reputed to have sold about 2000 oz. of large
corundum to a European firm in December,
but he had not up to the time this report
was compiled furnished particulars.
# s|: jj.
Bendigo gurgled when a yield from the
White and Blue was reported,
tons for 254 oz.—nearly 13dwt. per ton.
-the ore was taken from a rise 251 ft. north of
the main shaft at the 720 ft. level. The reef
is 10ft. to 12ft. wide, highly mineralised
and shows blackjack freely. In three stopes
there is gold each end, also for the full
length right along the back. The good
values have gone overhead for th«e (full
width of the reef.
* * * *
.A. Id-raining prospectus just issued in
Adelaide—Mt. Magnet Cos.. N.L.—doesn’t
trouble to mention the consideration to be
paid to the vendors, nor how much under-
writing, brokerage, flotation and registration
expenses are likely to absorb. It does, how-
ever, hint at the possibility of some of the
persons interested in the acquisition of the
option being appointed directors, and con-
cludes with the intimation that shares will
be provisionally allotted by the secretary
(pro tern.) in such manner as he shall in
Ins discretion think fit.
* * * *
Share-pushers from the Eastern States are
said to have become a menace in Westralia.
Legislation to check their advance is urged ;
it is even suggested that it be made a penal
offence for anyone other than a member of a
recognised Stock Exchange, a bank or a
financial institution of standing to recom-
mend the purchase of bonds or scrip, though
how “a financial institution of standing” is
to be defined isn’t explained.
* * * ❖
After a rough spin Sand Queen (W.A.)
is getting on its feet. The battery lately
started on good stuff from the lower work-
ing, and developments at depth have been
cheering. Early divs. are spoken of.
Greenbushes (W.A.), which livened up a
bit last year on the strength of a better
market for tin, is feeling gloomy again. A
Government diamond drill will shortly stair
searching for payable bodies at depth.
* * * *
North Kalgurli and Oroya Links aren’t
likely to do wonders in double harness. For
years the former has depended on royalties,
which exes, practically absorbed, and the best
part of its holding has been rooted almost
from end to end by tributors. The Links
is the lessee of a numb r of what under
present conditions are worked-out shows.
# • * • * »
Backed by the State Government, Sons of
Gwalia (W.A.) is going deeper, and is at pre-
sent treating ore at a loss. -Profitable rock
is, however, counted on when developmental
work now in progress is further advanced.
Jo date Gwalia has produced several mil-
lion pounds’ worth of gold, and a lot more
is awaiting extraction.' Bearing in mind the
cost of production, however, the prospect of
shareholders getting anything more than an
occasional small div. is very slender.
*
Coolgardie (W.A.) is being further stabbeo
with the diamond drill in the hope that
some of the old shows may be raised from
the dead. Bores recently put down have
proved a strong zone of schist which is
likely ground for the occurrence of ore
lenses. It is not at all improbable that old
Coolgardie shoots will furnish a few rather
glittering returns. But it is not at all likely
that there will be anything dependable.
* * * *
“Sulphide Street”: That central power
plant for Broken Hill (B. 18/4/’2B) may
come, but it will not be erected at Port Pirie.
The thing has been worked out, and Port
Pirie is clean out of it. There is only one
place for it —Broken Hill.
* * * *
Kaindi Gold is one of several cos. formed to
work the ore bodies alleged to have been
discovered on the upper Edie in New
Guinea. F. Leahy, the co.’s field engineer,
that_ he has discovered a promising
body 25ft. wide on the Day Dawn line, which
was recently well reported on by Warden
McLean. This “apparently” 1 traverses
Ivaindi’s Nos. 1 and 4 leases, while on an
adjoining area there is another ore body
50ft. wide, which “should” enter Kaindi
No. 1, and “should” be prospected. No
samples seem to have been taken from the
above-mentioned bodies. A crosscut on
Kaindi No. 4 lease has disclosed an irregular
lode formation 6ft. wide, with “small quartz
veins of an estimated average value of £4
a ton in gold.” A further report adds that
negotiations for outside leases have delayed
development of the big lode, but that
eosteening has now commenced. A con-
tinuation of the formation has been located
lOOOft. east, and the conclusion is arrived
at that the ore body is medium-grade payable
on a large-tonnage scale. Asa curiosity of
mining literature the report has its points.
To the shareholder anxious to find out what
his show is really worth the document may
be described as reticent.
❖ * * *
Malim Nawar’s dredge paddock was
pumped dry after the dredge upset and
the plant was inspected. The machinery is
practically undamaged, but the super-
structure suffered, necessitating a 50-per-
ccnt. replacement. The directors intend to
remodel it to give it strength to overcome
the difficulties disclosed to date. These
further alterations are expected to cost a
considerable sum, which the directors pro-
pose to find pro tcm. Malcolm Newman,
after recovering from a serious illness, is
on his way to Malaya—he will confer with
the engineering staff of the Anglo-Oriental
Mining Cos., which is interested.
* * * *
Alluvial Tin has issued a special report
on the progress made in equipping some of
its many subsidiaries. Kampong Lanjut
is to_ have two bucket dredges of large
capacity. No. 1 pontoon is on the ground,
and the superstructure is being shipped.
The dredge is expected to run by the end
of this year. This dredge has 14 cubic feet
manganese buckets, and is expected to get
out from 200,000 to 250,000 yards per
month. Ilawang Concessions, next door to
Rawang, has got as far as receiving the
pontoon material for its dredge, which is also
large—2oo,ooo yards. Serendah. a grand-
child of Alluvial, having been floated by
Tanah Biji. is expecting delivery of its
electrically-driven dredge in July. The
dredge is to turn over from J 50.000 yards
to 200,000 yards monthly. Current will be
.supplied from Kawang, five miles away.
Ilawang Concessions and Serendah South
dredges will also draw their electrical sup-
plies from Ilawang. Kramat, another 1926
flotation, expects delivery of the pontoon in
June, and erection of the dredge should be
completed early in 1929. The conversion of
tin; dredge from steam to electric has
delayed delivery. This i*> another ultrap
modern dredge to handle up to 250,000
yards.
* sis * >1:
The accounts of Taiping and North Tai-
ping show a healthy state of affairs in spite
of reduced metal prices, and decreased ore
recoveries in the case of Taiping. Manage-
ment is excellent, which may explain why
Taiping, though the average was only 5.57oz.
per yard, made a profit of over 137,000 dol-
lars (Straits), from which a 10 p.c. div.
was paid. North Taiping’s average was
17.23oz., and the year’s profit 338,747 dol-
lars. Divs. totalling 20 p.c. absorbed 160,000
dollars of this, leaving 198,747 dollars. It
is proposed to pay out of this a final div. of
10 p.c. (85,000 dollars).
* =!= * *
Malay Siamese reports that the open-cast
Phin Soon return was 13.1 tons from 14,000
yards for the first half of April; average,
2.241b. as against 21b. for March. Haad Yai
dredge turned over 14,600 yards for 8 tons;
average, 1.311b. against 1.841b. for March.
Iluey Yot produced 7 tons from 13,200 yards,
slightly better than 1.271b. March figures
were 1.881b. Yardage continues low in
both these shows. The two dredges, esti-
mated at 120,000 and 130,000 yards monthly,
should by now be doing much better. Phin
Soon, of course, has yet to see its new plant
as prescribed by Engineer H. V. Scale blos-
som into reality before its status is settled.
Costs are very high under the present system.


THE LAST PRIVATE CITIZEN.
“When lately counted, there were 144,000 public servants in Australia.”


is quickly conquered
with
FORMAMINT
Throat Tablets
3/6 per bottle
cf all chemists
Genatosan
Ltd
THE NEW LEFEVER SINGLE
A NEW, RELIABLE GUN MADE BY AN OLD, REUABLE FIRM.
LEFEN/ER SINGLE BARREL LONG RANGE
FIELD AND TRAP BUN
w
85
Post Free All
Over Australia.
THE LEFEVER LONG-RANGE 12-GAUGE TRAP AND FIELD GUN.
This is the only inexpensive HAMMERLESSS Single-barrel breech-loading Shot Gun with an auto-
matic safety device such as is used on expensive double-barrel guns, and an automatic ejector which
kicks the shells cut when the gun is opened. Every Lefever single is carefully choke-bored to give the
closest, hardest long-range pattern. Every barrel is proved with an excessive load to make doubly
sure it has the necessary material and strength to be safe for ANY standard factory load. The
barrel is 32in. long. The stock has checkered full pistol-grip stock with hard rubber grip cap and
heelplate.
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE.
Va
LTD
PTY
We are the Agents.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
%aiii
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6.' Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Royal “Rookery Nook,
Criterion “The High Road ’
Palace “Whispering Wires’
Empire “Take the Air”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Girl Friend”
Kino’s “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Comedy “Our Betters”
AtiieNjEUM “Mr. What’s-His-Name”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
*
A feature of tlie opening performance of
“Rio Rita” at the Sydney St. James on
Saturday was the determination of the
audience to cheer everything the principal
lady did and extract encores for each of
her songs; to that extent the other per-
formers aud the play itself were a trifle han-
dicapped. The main ingredients of the piece
are a mystery bandit with a gang of Texas
rangers in pursuit, the Mexican General Esta-
ban (Gaston Mervale), who commands an
army of fully four, and Gladys Moncrieff, as
an alluring Mexican girl. A pale thread of
story runs through two acts, with admir-
able stage settings which are liable to be
flooded every few minutes by bevies of
dancing and. singing girls. The dressing is
remarkably elaborate and the music gen-
erally melodious ; in “Rio Rita,” Gladys Mon-
crieft’s star song, sung with the robust John
Valentine, it reaches a high level. The comedy
suiters somewhat by too much attention
being lavished on irrelevances, and Dave
Mallcn introduces some rather wheezy old
gags to pad it out; but he has a breeziness
which is likely to endear him to his audience,
and Guy Saunders is also liable to have
the glad hand extended to him. There is
a rich addition of feminine principals to the
Australian stage: Janette Gilmore, a clever
actress with a quaint touch in comedy,
makes her dancing one of the features of the
production, and Marie Paris, the solo dancer,
also scores a hit.
There is an air of unreality about “Rook-
ery Nook,” produced at the Sydney Theatre
ARANGHI LOMBARDI, the dramatic soprano who leads off the
J.C.W. Melba Grand Opera Co. in “Aida” on May 12.
Apollo Granforte is in the cast.
Royal on Saturday. Given the extraordinary
circumstances postulated in Ben Travers’s
story, it might be possible for a pyjama-clad
young lady to arrive at the home of a perfect
stranger, and for a chivalrous young man,
-with a cherished wife and a mischief-making
sister-in-law, to decide to protect her from
the tyranny of an over-bearing step-parent;
but the preposterous antics of Hastings Lynn,
as Gerald Popkiss, are much fitter for revue
than comedy or even farce. Still, there is
entertainment in the new show, although it
is rather too much watered and' padded with
cheap dialogue. The 16-year-old Sydney
girl Donalda Warne, although slightly
amateurish, gives simple appeal to the
part of the pyjamaed Rlioda; and Minnie
Raynor, as Mrs. Leverett, the “daily womani” •
Leslie Victor, as the overborne husband of
the viperish Gertrude Twine (Jane Com-
fort) ; and Cyril Vernon, as the explosive
Admiral Juddy, are the brightest spots in the
rest of the cast.
A warning screamed from the gallery to
one of the characters who approached a
danger point was a certificate to the thrill-
ing qualities of “Whispering Wires,” to
which Muriel Starr and her company turned
their attention at the Sydney Palace on
Saturday. From the moment the despotic
millionaire, Montgomery Stockbridge, is noti-
fied that a grave has been dug for him,
and right up to the revelation of the mystery
of his death and the rescue of his daughter
from a similar fate, the audience is gripped ;
the least convincing point about the chain
of events is the method by which the regular
police are kept out of the investigation of a
murder mystery. Harvey Adams takes con-
trol of affairs as Drew, of Drew’s Detective
Agency, with commendable convincingness.
Mayne Lynton represents the flinty and
doomed millionaire, whose nervousness under
the threat of death is cleverly indicated
without being admitted. Fred Coape again
makes the best use of a butler’s part; and
Ellis Irving supplies a likeable, if insuffici-
ently fiery, Captain McGill. Charles Law-
rence, as Mr. Bennett, a lawyer chosen
by an efficient money-maker, is almost
pathetic; and Robert Ginns is a quite
realistic telephone repairer whose activities
have an essential bearing on the plot. In
the part of Ann Cartwright, Muriel Starr
works hard in creating tbe atmosphere for
the mystery, but she has few emotional
opportunities.
The improved calibre of tbe Allan Wilkie
company was further evidenced in “A Mid-
summer’s Night’s Dream” at the Newtown
Majestic on Saturday. Wilkie himself is
seen to real advantage as Bottom. John
Cairns as Theseus and Alexander Martin as
Lysander supply a good pair of lovers;
Lorna Forbes (Hermia) and Marjorie Carr
(Helena) are the ladies who fight about
them in a manner
which should par-
ticularly appeal to
Newtown, where,
when it boasted a
stadium, a boxing
contest between
women was once
projected. Miss
Hunter-Watts gave
poetic understand-
ing but sometimes
too heavy a voice
to Titania. To
night “T welft h
Night” is to be
staged, and “Ham-
let” will grapple
with his distracting
problems on Satur-
day; bi-weekly
changes will be the
order for the future.
The Gonsalez com-
pany, after giving
some admirable
performances o f
Italian operas,
failed lamentably
with “Lohengrin.”
Singing throatily,
Brandisco Van-
nucci reduced the
commanding Lohen-
grin to a pathetic
figure and, in spite
of moments of feel-
ing, MargheHta
Flor’s vocal efforts
degenerated into
monotony. The
stage combats were
dramatic disasters,
Izal falling
wounded in the first
and dead in the
second before Vau-
nucci’s sword had a
chance of touching
him.
# * * ❖
Moiseiwitsch the
pictorial has con-
tinued through a
season, now past its fifth concert, to
lure large, but not record, audiences to
Sydney Town Hall. Testimony to his ever-
green charm is given by the reappearance of
the same music-lovers at every concert.
Thursday night’s special was the Chopin B
flat minor Sonata, and here Moiseiwitsch
painted vividly the emotions stirred in the
sensitive composer by sun and wind and
cavernous deeps of the sea. The audience
was submerged by the sombre waves of the
Funeral March, but it rose to an ecstasy of
applause at the close of the finale. New to
Sydney were the Meitner Fairy Tale and the
Vida Breve dance —charming and exhilarat-
ing respectively. Of his Moonlight Sonata
Beethoven wrote “To be played throughout
with the greatest delicacy.” And this is
exactly how Moiseiwitsch did serve it. Ls
Petit Ave Blanc, by Ibert, caught the fancy,
of the many, while the .Chopin and Bach
numbers were a delight to all.
The Sydney revival of “Rose Marie” was
originally designed for a fortnight only;
after a month the
management
announces deci-
sively that May 11
will see the close;
“Princess Charm-
ing’’ follows at Her
Majesty’s. Th e
Boucicault co. is
running well on
“The High Road”
at the Criterion, a
change to “The
Notorious Mrs. Ebb-
smith” will finish
the season. “Take
the Air” is going
well at the Empire ;
“Spooks” prevails
at the Grand Opera
House, and Wirths’
Circus is proclaim-
ing its last nights
at the Wentworth-
avenue location.
* # * *
Van Lowe, the
tall dancer of Em-
pire Theatre pro
ductions, is appear-
ing now at Sydney
Tivoli —an indica-
tion that another
entertainer has dis-
covered Australia
and found it good.
The “Ten Tivoli
Loonies,” back
again, have been
given glad greeting;
they are sharing
with P>ert Errol
and Florrie le
Verre the leading
place in a pro-
gramme with
plenty of sparkle in
it.
“Tulip Time in
Holland” gives Ful-
lers’ Theatre (Syd-
ney) a picturesque
title and some ex-
cellent stage settings for its new pro-
gramme. Comedian Beck is. earning well-
deserved popularity as the biggest plum m
a satisfactory pudding.
* :!: * '-!=
A Magdalene being driven away from an
imposing mansion in a chariot drawn by
zebras for a look at the Carpenter whose
preaching has deprived her of the lover she
most desires, is not the sort of. opening
any thoughtful person would associate witn
a “Life of Christ.” Spectacularly C. B. de
Mille’s “King of Kings” is magnificent, and
at times tremendously gruesome, as m the
scene of the scourging; but the mixture of the
New Testament and Marie. Corelli is rather
jarring. The production is staged at the
Prince Edward (Sydney), with the usual
gorgeousness.
* * * *
Sydney Regent is finding “Metropolis” an
immense draw.
$ * * *
It is hard to say what Somerset Maugham
is after in “Our Betters,” the play with
which the Firm saw fit to open its new
Comedy Theatre in Melbourne. None the
less, there is brilliant characterisation in
the' play—hard, bright, laconic and
straight to the point, like a newly-painted
road sign. Of this type is Lady George
Grayston, portrayed by Margaret Banner-
man. The part might have been written
for that perfectly-trained actress. Nobody
expects Ladv George Grayston to show real
feeling anywhere, and nowhere does Miss B.
allow herself to show it. Millie Wolf, Eric
Elliott and Edgar Norfolk . are the only
sentimentalists. Maidie Hope is an unscrupu-
lous low-comedy duchess without a duke. She
speaks the American accent as if an invisible
clothes-peg were mounted on her nose, and
loves Francis Lister to distraction. Francis
Lister has the ungrateful nightly task of
presenting the first male demi-mondaine to
walk the local boards. The reasons for his
attractiveness to women able to pay for his
favors are left to the imagination. James
Lindsay gives a sound portrayal of the 100-
p.c. American millionaire who pays Lady
Graystone’s bills and whose bulging vanity
and simple sensuality are somewhat too
easily satisfied with an odd pat on the cheek.
The comedy is elegantly staged and pleased
a packed house on Saturday.
* * * *
Annie Croft began losing her purse in the
train holdup on the Canadian-Pacific on
Saturday at Melbourne Royal. She is not
hard to listen to and no trouble to look
at, and her love life with Reginald Sharland,
who patronises a faultless tailor, is the meat
in the sandwich whose two sides are pro •
vided by the broad comedy of Leo Franklya
and Lorna Helms, and the equally broad
comedy of Bluett and May Beatty. Frank-
lyn gets successfully away with the part
with which George Gee made a hit in Lon-
don lately. A beauteous chorus sings about
MARIE PARIS, who shares with Gladys Moncrieff the lime-
light in “Rio Rita.”
the interruption to the time-table, and the
scenery satisfies the demand for expensive
spectacles at the usual prices. “The Girl
Friend” should walk out with large houses
for some time to come.
* * * *
Melba and dirt-cheap prices crammed the
Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday for Fritz
Hart’s symphony orchestral concert. The
great event of the evening wasn’t the classics
and near-classics mentioned on the menu,
but the spectacle of six men in shirt-sleeves
and the diva puffing to push a grand piano
on to the stage. The object of the struggle
was to enable Donna Nellie to sit down and
rattle off “Home, Sweet Home.”
* * * #
Except for the rush of gr’opera changes
at the Princess, no new shows confront the
Melbourne theatregoer this week. Frank
Neil and his comedians are still Up in
Mabel’s Room at the Palace, raptly engaged
in chasing Miss Gannon’s chemise. Mary
Dugan has been granted a new trial at the
King’s, where the nightly verdict is the same
as it was at the Royal. “Mr. What’s His
Name” still comfortably fills the Athenaeum.
His Majesty’s is preparing for “Aida” on the
12th —clearing its collective throat, so to
speak.
# * * *
The Kelso brothers are still attracting the
crowd to Melb. Tivoli, where the Crazy
Quilt revue is the magic carpet.
* * * *
In a quiet Adelaide week, the Anderson
co., at the Prince of Wales, has a monopoly
of the spoken drama. Lesley Adrienne is
the heroine, Norman Shepherd the villain
who still pursued her; but “Heaven will pro-
tect the woikin’ goil,” as they say in the
land that best understands these matters.
There is strong comic relief by Gainsford,
McGowan and Millie Carlton.
* * * *
Jack Holt is the hero of some exciting
adventures amongst Chinese dope-smugglers
at Melb. Majestic. “The Warning” is the
title of the fiction and “The Count of Ten.’
a prize-ring story, is the supporting picture.
Hoyt’s clients are flocking to “London After
Midnight,” and among the things hypnotised
by Lon Cheney is the audience’s sense of
probabilities.


s*
*• ’
vu-'
ASTOUNDING
VALUE!
Dainty Gilt
Lacquered
Eight-day Clock,
32/6
A most attractive little clock with
dependable, accurate eight-day
lever movement. It stands four
inches high, has a bold, clear dial,
snd carries a ten years’ guarantee
It is sold in a neat leatherette
travelling case.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
Such a reputation is not won overnight
M 4 W
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ . . . 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin dJ Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
dwjkJwt
Jk^Jk
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE SKIN GAME.
“Can ’Erbert come out and play chasin’s, Mrs. Jones?"
“No, he can’t — l’m going to play hidin’s with him.”
“Up North” : A tough pioneer of the North
was Christie Palmerston. One of his many
arguments with blacks occurred in the John-
stone River jungles. The ambush was well
picked. At the selected point the river nar-
rowed till the water tore through a gorge
with cliff-like walls; surroundiug it was
dense jungle. Palmerston and his two bucks,
travelling down the river, were greeted with
a shower of rocks, from the cliff tops. The
gorge rang with yells, and niggers appeared
as if by magic. Palmerston and his men
hopped over the slippery bouldsrs and pressed
against the cliff side, where a ledge deflected
the rocks thrown from above. Abos. on the
opposite bank signalled the position of the
crouching men, and attackers commenced to
climb down the cliff, swinging their arms far
out so as to drop missiles under the ledge.
Palmerston took a chance. Back over Hie
boulders he hopped into the centre of the
stream and threw up his rifle. He had won-
derful targets. Down the cliff wall were
niggers clinging far out on tree branches,
others hanging with finger-nail grips to roots
and rock crevices. Palmerston brought down
three in quick succession ; the others clam-
bered back and leaped into the jungle. The
reports rumbling in the enclosed space scared
them long -enough for Palmerston to get
through the gorge, but for a week he was
followed by spears and fusillades of rocks
wherever the river closed in.
* * * 4>
“Morob”: A diabolical contrivance is the
arrow used by natives in the Markham
River Valley, New Guinea. This weapon
has its head separate from the shaft, the
latter fitting loosely, the head being held in
place by mud or clay. Two rows of spikes
are made from fish bones. When the arrow is
fired into flesh the shaft comes away as
soon as any attempt is made to pull it out,
leaving the head imbedded. The double row
of spikes prevents the part remaining from
being pulled out or pushed through, so that,
generally, the unfortunate who has been shot
with one of these things lingers in agony for
days before death.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: The gin who refused to
utter the name of death-adder after night-
fall (B. 4/4/’2B) was subject to a super-
stition which seems to exist in the minds of
all primitive people. In the Lao country of
Siam I have been in villages where the people
scarcely dared to speak of the tiger by his
proper name, suar, after darkness had fallen,
because of their fear that the devil spirit
which rides on every tiger’s back might
hear them and, resenting it, take vengeance.
The Malays of the F.M.S. kampongs also
never use rimau for tiger after nightfall,
contending themselves with the euphemism
“he of the hairy face.”
AS BAD AS THAT.
SITTING-P ONE: “Well, the nervousest cove I ever knoo was old Bob Bolivar. ’E
useter walk down a lane backwards so ’e could see who was cornin’ behind ’im ."
“Wang” : I read “Thomas Pepper’s” par.
(B. 21/3/’2B) on burrowing snakes to Old
Dan. Dan combed his whiskers reflectively.
“Yairs,” he said, “I’m quite prepared t’
berlieve it. I never seen snakes doin’ what
this bloke sed he seen ’em doin’; but I’ve
seen somethin’ sim’lar. I was fisliin’ down
on the river one day when a coupler big
‘tigers’ comes slitherin’ down the opp’site
bank. They curls their tails around a coupler
tree roots an’ shoves their heads into the
water. I thought they was on’y havin’ a
drink till I hears a devil of a splashin’
goin’ on. Blow me if each o’ them snakes
ain’t got a big yabbie in h-ees mouth. Holdiri’
the yabbies tight they crawls along a few
feet till they comes to a part of the bank
what was clear of grass an’ bushes an’ had
soft loamy sile. Then each snake takes a
firm holt" o’ the yabbie’s hindquarters an’
points its head inter the bank. Cripes, y’
orter seen the way them yabbies dug in!
In 10 seconds they was outer sight in the
holes they’d burrowed, an’ all I cud see of
the .snakes was the tips of their tails. In
another coupler seconds the snakes had dis-
appeared.”
“Larrapinta” : “B-Gar” (B.
21/3/’2B) "wants to know what be-
comes of the .Cooper flood-waters
in Centralia. Let me relate a per-
sonal experience. On the way to
Adelaide to join the Elder expedi-
tion in ’9l I struck the Cooper in
flood at Durham Downs. Where I
had crossed without wetting my
horse’s hoofs a few weeks before, 1
found an unbroken sheet of water
60 miles wide. I skirted the flood-
waters to Innamineka, where they
were over 100 miles wide, and had
to wait several weeks before the
flood subsided enough for me to get
across. All that time this tremen-
dous flow of water was pouring
into Lake Eyre, without making
any appreciable difference to its
level. It was evaporating nearly
as fast as it came in. Water evapo-
rates in this lake at the rate of 20
feet per annum. Soakage accounts
for the disappearance of the flood-
waters when they do not reach the
lake. They only get that far when
the Barcoo and the Thompson come
down in flood at the same time.
“Bud-G.”: There are some bush horses
that can’t swim. A mob of brumbies, dis-
turbed while watering at the Elliott river
(N.Q.), attempted to rush to the other side,
a mere 100 yards. Ten were drowned, as
the ’gators soon found out.
* * *
To wind up the season:—
“Cassidy”: Can snakes jump (B.
11/4/’2S) ? I have had unfriendly arguments
with every species in Australia and never
saw one spring forward further than a foot,
and then only when a strike missed its
mark. A coiled snake can lash forward its
full length, but its tail never leaves the
ground. Tiger and copper-headed brown are
the most agile, but I have never seen either
species hurdle.
“Melos”: Only the bottled species can
spring. The others can only do something
that looks like it.
“Don Dee” : Though snakes appear to leap
they never gain more than an inch or two
over their own length.
“Colub”: A snake to be able to spring
must have two-thirds of its length on the
ground. Black, brown and tiger varieties
seldom exceed a leap of a yard, and the
others can’t manage more than from a foot
to IS inches.
“Bad Australian” : It may be possible for
snakes to spring clear of the ground, but as
a matter of fact they don’t. They would be
fools to try it on, seeing that they are in an
infinitely better position for either attack or
defence when anchored to a couple of coils
resting on the ground. The only jumping
snakes I ever heard of were the purple ones
with baleful phosphorescent eyes and waving
sea-green whiskers that inhabited the dead-
house at Cassidy’s pub on the banks of the
Black Swamp. >
“Silentio”: The only sort of snake that
can manage a really big jump is the tiger. I
saw one fly through the air from the door-
way of a hut to the edge of the verandah,
a distance of four feet, to attack a dog.
“Kuna”: Tom. Smith swears snakes can,
jump. He was out one day with a 12ft.
fishing rod, and seeing a snake sunning
itself stirred it up with his rod. Its bound
landed its head at Smith’s feet.
* * * *
“8.G.”: If Binghi can be got into the
proper mood, whip-plaiting is one of his long
suits. He can master the work after a
couple of attempts, and the whips he makes
fall correctly, which is more than can be
said for many shop-made ones. One old abo.,
on finishing a whip longer than the ordinary,
was told by his boss that it was too long to
crack. “Suppose you hangum that pfella
whip alonga fence,” the maker replied, “he
crack hisself.”
* * * *
“Mei”: Sense of smell does not always
account for a dog’s knowledge of his master’s
homecoming (B. 29/2/’2B). I knew a kan-
garoo dog whose master used to go away for
a week or two. No one in the home knew the
exact day of his return except the dog, who
would he restless all the morning, and then
take up his. post on a hill on the road and
wait till his owner’s return, sometimes as
much as seven hours later. Never once did
he wait on the hill on the wrong day.
(Continued on page 21.)
A DOUBTFUL CASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It’s this way, Bill,” ’e sez to me, “I dunno
’ow I stand
With that there gal of ole Jake Brown’s —
per’aps you’d lend a ’and.
I’ll tell you all the things I know —you’re
older at the game—
An’ I’d give all I ’ave an’ more to ’elp ’er
change ’er name. ■*
“I only see ’er once a week, an’ I can’t
make ’er out,
She smiles at ine so sweetly w’en ’er dad ain't
round about.
But I can’t get ’er on ’er own—it isn’t that
she’s shy,
For w’en I think I’m set at last I’ll ’ear
the old gal cry:
“ ‘Now, Phyllis, ’ave yer milked those cows?
They’re bellowin’ at the gate.’
And ‘Phyllis, give the ’ens a feed before it
gits too late.’
An’ ‘’Ave yer tied the poddies up?’—an’
‘Don’t forget the pigs.’
An’ blime, w’en she’s done the lot up comes
young Jimmy ’Iggs.
“I’ve got a notion, Bill,” ’e sez, “she likes me
right enough.
But wot the ole ones think o’ me —that
there’s the part that’s tough,
For w’en I stays a trifle late they starts to
chase the cat.
You’re older at the game than me—wot
would yer make o’ that?”
VICTOKIA.
P.T. FINDLAY.


<r*
if m*
n
m
m
& i
fix
m.
I
ft
m
%
i#
5®
%
N^v\^S
m
2E
'Ss
RSS
s
s*
sss
&S=
®W
m
mm
m
m
i
1
i
W
*S
HARDT'S
SJPA.RK.LIJVG


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
st#te(xphess
333
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
“Waranbini”: After a raid on bandicoots
on a moonless night, we agreed that shoot-
ing the beast was mostly a matter of chance,
there being seldom anything more siglitable
than the thuds of the retreating marauder
to aim at. But Dad who hit
more than he missed, said it needed only
A DRUG IN THE MARKET.
MINE MOST: “Look out for
that beer sponger there—
he’s a damn nuisance.”
CLIENT: “I see—a sort of
counter irritant.”
a keen sense of hearing and good judgment.
“When you hear the thud of Bandy’s hop,”
he explained, “he is well on the way with
his next stride; if you’re side on, you want
to aim about a yard in front of the thud. Of
course, there ain't no time to be fiddlin’ with
your hat; you’ve got to be smart. But
if you’re right behind him when he starts off
there’s no hurry. You aim at the noise an’
you’ve got him.”
“C. Coral”: Even in the Islands the
course of true love runs at times anything
lmt smoothly. Frequently there are paren-
tal objections when a daughter announces
that she has accepted a handkerchief or
some other article of personal adornment
from an enamored buck. Then does mother
get to work with the broad, flat mid-rib of
a cocoanut branch on her offspring's back,
pausing a while to shoo the visitor off the
doorstep and fliug his handkerchief after
him. In the olden days, if a couple signi-
fied approval of each other, the girl's brother
took a bow with a special arrow, called
“bok,” and shot it lightly into tin suitor’s
leg as an indication that everything was
right. After that neither the prospective
mother-in-law nor any other relative could
raise any objection.
* * * &
“Homfrey Beale” ; Does any Northern abo.
scribe know anything about the “white centi
pede,” alleged by bushmen to inhabit the
scrubs of Cape York Peninsula and the Gulf
country? I’ve had it described to me often
as about five inches long and of a “dirty
white” (some say creamy) color; it has no
bite or sting, but leaves a slimy trail as it
crawls across the body. Along this track
two or three days later leprOus-looking ulcers
break out that are most difficult to cure.
I’ve endeavored to locate the beastie without
success. A gin in Darwin showed me a
long white ulcer across her instep, due, she
said, to “white pfella centipede” crawling
over it; and a tin-scratcher in Herberton
once presented a scar on the back of one of
his hands which he ascribed to “one of them
white centcrpede cows.”
* * sit *
“Kooragai”: Some people like to see an in-
different rider get on a young, horse that is
likely to buck. It is good fun sitting on ton
of the yard watching somebody else get
chucked off; but it is not a wise practice for
the owner of the horse. If a colt gets rid of
his rider, he will try to repeat the trick
with others, either as soon as he is mounted
or later on when a set-to is least expected.
In his green days he should be ridden only
by a skilled horseman. If he shows an incli-
nation to buck, he can then have liis fling,
a fair and square go for supremacy; and he
very soon knows when he is mastered. But
it takes longer to convince him after he has
thrown the mug rider, and he is always
liable to play up when fresh. It happens
sometimes that an expert can’t get a buck
out of such a horse, while the same horse
will buck without any provocation when he
has a novice on his back. That is horse
sense.
* * * *
“Adamascus” : Channel-swimming abos. are
not peculiar to Westralia (B. 28/3/’2B).
Years ago the blacks living on North Keppel
Island, 14 miles off the C.Q. coast at Yep-
pOon, used regularly to swim across to the
mainland, braving sharks, which are plenti-
ful in the vicinity of the island. Traces of
the blacks’ occupation of the island still exist
in patches of wild yams.
* . * * #
“The Rumpus” : I met Tony, the other day.
lie was using a crutch and his arm was in
a sling. “I hava the luck of the China-
man,” he grinned. “I worka for the Mr.
Browna at Southern Cross. He tella me
getta the old firewood near the olda mine-
shaft, so I getta the cart and go. Horse
no gotta the right sense: he bolta like hell,
hitta the tree —banga ! I flya into the air,
THE CURE.
MRS. WIGGS: “You ought to get some eucalyptus for that cold, Mr. Raven. All you
’as to do is to pour some in a basin of boilin’ ’ot water, put a towel round your
’end, an’ then ignore it!”
liitta the next tree. Horse roll over, falla
down the mine. Him die. Cart all smash
up. Me lika this! Yes, I liava the luck of
the Chow, all right.” “But, Tony,” I tried
to correct, “a Chow’s luck is supposed to be
good.” Tony stared. “Whata the wrong
with this?” he asked. “Nota my horse,
nota my cart, and me—l getta the compen—
the compen; oh, howa you saya the good
word?”
-** * *
“Wawina”: The cement used by certain
Island tribes for joining arrow-heads to the
haft is made from the kernels of a species
of nut. These are ground on a
rough, flat piece of coral, and the
mixture is then plastered on the
joint and allowed to harden. When
dry the vegetable cement sets as
firmly as our cement. It is also
used for stopping holes in canoes.
The large war-canoes of Bougain-
ville and the Eastern Solomons,
built of planks, are made water-
tight in the same way; the planks
are laced together with cane lash-
ings, and seams and lashings are
then covered with the mixture,
which if kept from too great sun
exposure will outlast the planks.
i'fi
“Fitz” : A freshwater eel landed
near Wingliam (N.S.W.) recently
turned the scales at 421 b., and
when opened was found to contain
mullet and perch, a couple of lizards and
other cargo. It had round its mouth no fewer
than 12 fishing hooks. Presumably the 13th
settled it.
* * * *
Keith Kennedy (Los Angeles) : The
Navajos of the Painted Desert, Arizona,
produce fire with a fire drill in exactly the
same manner as the abos. of North Queens-
land. A thin stick about two feet long is
bored into a piece of wood and rapidly
twirled by rubbing between the hands. The
resultant powder smoulders and is blown
into a flame. The under piece of wood is
usually yucca, a plant common to the desert
regions of the south-west.' Fire made in this
manner is now only used for certain sacred
ceremonies and the lighting of special council
fires.
* * * *
“Kiap”: The life of the Papuan, never
strenuous, is becoming still easier. Traders
in the Gulf now have motor-lorries running
up and down the beach. A colored gentle-
man raises his hand in a lofty manner;
Lizzie stops : a few cocoanuts are placed on
board : black brother receives his payment in
trade tobacco ; the lorry proceeds for a few
yards and the operation is repeated. The
indentured laborer also, according to the
latest ration list issued by tlic Government,
will from now on live more sumptuously.
Sprouted peas, pea-flour, tomatoes, cod-
liver oil and other delicacies are to be issued
regularly.
“Pfella”: The peculiarities of “Pigcat’s”
roaring well (B. 29/2/’2B) remind me of
another curious place. About two hundred
miles inland along the Ashburton River
(W.A.) is a majestic gorge—an _ immense
gateway of layered sandstone behind which
is an amazing country of peaks and gullies.
The walls of the opening rise hundreds of
feet, and the enclosed space is just beyond
stone-tli rowing distance across the top,
although wider at the bottom. Travelling
through there is no perceptible draught or
air to be felt, nor is there any unusual sound
other than hollow echoes of your vehicle’s
movements; but climb up either side, and
heave a missile as far across as you can, and
you won’t see it strike the bottom. The
stone, after spending the force of your throw,
will curve in towards you until it shoots out
of sight beneath your feet.
=l= :j: * *
“The Welkin”: Like “Outback” (B.
11/4/’2B), I have known rabbits to take to
the water. My dog once chased two into the
Murray; and presently all I saw of the
quarry was a couple of noses disappearing
downstream. Before this I had wasted
bullets on rabbits swimming in flood waters.
“B-Gar”: He’d drunk his cheque, taken
grog for liis pack-horse and saddle, and with
a thirst that water would not satisfy stood
looking undecidedly at his sole remaining
asset, his riding horse. Shanty Kate settled
the question for him. “Gam,” she said, “jump
him over the bar, an’ walk away like a
man !” Two days afterwards she told him
the next waterliole was just a nice walk by
sundown.
“Neurone” : The popularity of the straw-
thatched shed seems to have died with the
years. Less than 15 years ago thousands
of them decked Vic.’s northern plains, and
gave a sombre note to many a homestead;
now only iron structures or clumps of gnarled
posts are left to tell the tale of change. Yet
there was no cooler spot outside the country
cellar than under the straw'-thatehed roof.
THE LITTLE RAIN MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sound is the sleep of the little rain men
While the seasons are hot and dry,
But they’re off as fast as their legs can run
r _ As the first drop falls from the sky.
They take the scent of the moistened earth
When the clouds and the mountains meet,
Then over the ridges and plains they race
With never a limp in their feet.
The busy black ants swarm up the trees
And the red ants flock to their mound;
The lizard curls ’neath a piece of bark
With his tail wound round and around;
The spider opens his window wide
And peers to the left and right,
Then he hears the tramp of the little rain
men
And hastily shuts it tight.
The plover hovers and spreads his wings,
As a dancer’s skirts may spread,
The rain men know that lie understands
By the poise of his wise little head.
His mate is crouched by a Bathurst burr
Till he calls to her loud and clear.
And she hears him say in his sharp shrill
way
That the little rain men are here.
The cattle low as they see them come
Like an army over the ground,
They skip the brambles and fallen leaves
And they take the logs at a bound.
The swallows circle and curve and skim
By the pools where the bull-frogs sleep,
I’nder and over the bridge they swoop
Where the shadows are dark and deep.
When frond and blossom are drooping low
_ And have wilted long in the heat,
The frail stems stiffen and leaves uncurl
At the sound of the little men’s feet;
The gum-trees rustle and branches sway.
And the spines of the she-oaks sigh,
And insects waken and stretch their wings
As the little rain men race by.
I do not know where the rain men go,
Or how they will hie them back;
They’re never seen whore the rain has been
And there’s not a sign of a track.
Some say they wait till the hills are green
And the mud dries up on the plain,
Or they may pass by on a wind blown liigh
Those fleet little men of the rain.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Now presenting full season’s
stocks of all that is most
admirable, reliable and cor-
rect for Winter wear.
These exclusive new goods
are as usual influenced by
that consistently low price
level which is the result of
Peapes’ no-sale policy.
Write for Peapes’ Catalogue.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney»
W ft w
2003
cw
m
METAL GATES AND FENCES
Cyclone Metal
Gates Stand the
Test for
Dependability
and Durability
Fig• 212. —Cyclone Drivweay Gate, 3ft. lOin. high.
Made to fit S/r., 9ft., 10ft., 1 lft. and 12ft. openings.
Many Designs
are Illustrated
in the Cyclone
Catalogue
POST FREE
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH STREET (0ff350 George St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne. Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
v~
■
Money
Makes
the
Skins
worth getting. It’s not
what they are, but
what they realise
which chiefly concerns
you. Top values are
what you want. See
that you get them. For highest possible prices
consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
ECONOMICS OF WHEAT GROWING.
“K.R.R.”: “Enlightened Cocky’’ (B.
28/3/’28) must be lazy. Why pay for help
to harvest 130 acres of wheat? Why try
to make wheat farming pay on 3G0 acres?
Below I give my figures for the past season
for a farm of 1000 acres valued at £4 per
acre, improvements thrown in. Four hun-
dred acres of wheat were seeded and 300
acres were harvested for wheat. The costs
were: Seed £75, super £93, wages £90, kero-
sene and oils £95, sundries and spare parts
£57, rates, taxes and insurance £64, bags and
twine £151, depreciation £185; interest on
£4000 at 7 per cent., £280; total cost, £1000.
I harvested 8760 bushels and received
£2117; surplus, £1027; and we lived rent
free and grew most of our own tucker. Trac-
tor power was used for every major farm
operation.
SEEDS AND FERTILISERS.
“G.L.D.” : “Jerso” (B. 28/4/’28) brings up
an interesting subject. The treatment of seed
by solutions of artificial fertilisers or liquid
manure has been ti ,ed and recommended by
some authorities. My experience, like that
of “Jerso,” was in every case in favor of
untreated seed.
Nature provides the germ of every seed
with stored plant-food—sufficient to enable
the germ to grow and send out rootlets to
start providing for itself. Theoretically, in-
creasing this food supply would make a
stronger seedling; but in practice it is found
that the germ is damaged without improving
the amount of plant-food stored.
Some authorities state that soaking potato
sets in solutions of nitrogenous fertilisers
would tend to increase the yield and bring
the crop to early maturity. This struck me
as having possibilities, but the only result
I obtained was a very defective germination,
due to the solution destroying the eyes of
the sets.
The effect of dry fertiliser on seed is also
an interesting study. With maize and wheat
no ill-effect is found even when the seed is
sown with the fertiliser. I get the best re-
sults with grass seeds, clovers and lucerne
when it is mixed with fertiliser and sown
through the manure-box. Spuds do best when
the fertiliser is spread along with the sets.
But let a grower sow peas, beans, broad beans,
pumpkins, melons or cucumbers with the fer-
tiliser, and he is looking for trouble. The
fertiliser causes a patchy, weak germination.
In some cases the seed merely decays. Blood
and bone is perhaps the worst offender among
the common fertilisers. To avoid trouble,
spread the fertiliser, mix with the soil or
slightly cover and then plant seed.
SEED SELECTION.
“The Welkin”: Experiments at Dookic
College (Vic.) recently proved once more the
importance of new and good-quality seed
for the farm. It was found that the power of
germination in wheat diminished rapidly.
Five-year-old seed possessed poor vitality, if
any. Seed older than that isn’t seed at all.
Three-year-old seed would germinate only
fairly well. It was found that the average
loss of yield of two-year-old seed compared
with a year-old was six bushels an acre.
A high percentage of moisture in seed has
a tendency to kill the vitality; heat has the
same effect.
New seed should be the wheat-grower’s
first consideration; he should have no use
for any over a year old. There is a seed
shortage in Vic. this season, and this prob-
ably means that a number of growers affected
will sow the old grain that has accumulated
from crops of perhaps three seasons ago.
They have to sow something; but they should
use every possible effort to get the right
thing.
A NEW PASTURAGE THEORY.
“Hatter”; It is well known that all grass-
eating animals prefer to crop where the grass
is short rather than where it is long. It is
an instinct with them, and the scientific
reason for that instinct has recently been
investigated by Prof. Wood, of Cambridge,
who has discovered that the young grass
shoots are remarkably rich in protein and
also that if pastures are kept closely grazed
’hrough the summer, the grass produced
does not deteriorate after the spring flush,
but maintains its high food value and digesti-
bility throughout the season. Protein con-
tents diminish as the grass grows, and when
long it strangles the young shoots before they
develop, so it has a double disadvantage.
To make the best of grazing land in accord-
ance with this new theory, it would be neces-
sary to provide more fencing and more
watering facilities, so that the land could be
subdivided and grazed in sections —a plan
that has been tried successfully in this and
other countries, though apparently the scien-
tific explanation of the better results was
not known by the experimenters. The mow-
ing machine should be brought into use when
the grass gets ahead of the herd, and the
pasture should be regarded as a crop. It
follows, too, that hay should be cut when
immature. What is lost in quantity will be
gained in quality. A process of pressing the
young shoots into cakes for winter use is
now the subject of English experiments.
WIMMERA RYE WITH WHEAT.
“ J.C.D.” : I am located on the Liverpool
Plains of N. S. Wales, and propose putting
in 100 acres of wheat in June, with which I
am going to sow 21b. of Wimmera rye seed
to the acre. I would like to hear of the
practical experience of any . Bulletin readers
who have sown grass seed with wheat. lam
trying to establish some fodder grasses on an
area that has been eaten out by rabbits, and
hope the rye grass will be established by the
time the wheat is cropped. Later on I will
sow subterranean clover on the same area.
FERTILISER FOR PASTURES.
“Titun”: The farmer who doesn’t use
fertiliser on his grass plots is missing a
good thing. Tests conducted by the Ballarat
Agricultural Society show that plots manured
at rate of 2cwt super, per acre yielded 1 ton
2icwt. of grass hay per acre; plots treated
with 2cwt. super, per acre the previous year,
1 ton scwt. (showing the valuable residual
effect of the phosphates). A plot left un-
treated yielded only *lO 4-scwt.
DEALING WITH DEAD CARCASES.
“Nota Bene” : Trapping is one of the best
methods of controlling the blowfly pest. If
suitable traps are placed about the home-
stead, killing yards, woolslied and camping
grounds, the difference in the number of flies
will soon be noticed.
Poisoning of blowflies and maggots would
do much in the,extermination of the pest, and
it is an excellent means of destroying dead
stock where burning is not possible. The
carcase should be cut open and slashed about,
then saturated with a solution of arsenate
of soda, 31b. to 30 gallons of water, and about
one quart of molasses. The molasses makes
the solution stick to the surface, and is an
attraction for the flies. In a few days the
carcase should be turned over and the side
that has been resting on the ground should
he saturated with the mixture. After a
short time the carcase thus treated becomes,
through the action of the arsenate, hard and
dry; and as the maggots have been destroyed,
it will not breed any more flies.
BLOWFLY DESTRUCTION.
“W.P.D.”: Following the rains, Western
Queensland is threatened with a recurrence
of the blowfly pest, which during the drought
period was not serious. Experience has
shown that the best preventive is the appli-
cation of a jet of arsenical dip under pres-
sure. Cooper’s is effective, or a home-made
dip can be prepared as follows: Boil 100
gallons of water, add 21b. soda ash, and,
while boiling, put in 71b. white arsenic and
keep boiling for 20 minutes. Be careful
that no undissolved arsenic or free soda re-
mains. The dip is applied by means of a
jet, forced through a Mn. nozzle under about
1501 b. pressure, the nozzle being held close
to the sheep. A hand-operated plant will
treat 2500 sheep a day, and with a power-
operated plant 5000 a day may be treated.
As much as possible of the work should be
done in the woolslied, in the sweating-pen.
A temporary race can bo constructed by
using the permanent partition of the sweat-
ing-pen for one side and low hurdles for the
other. The length of the race may be from
15 feet upwards, and the width 15 to 18
inches; height, on the operator’s side,
2ft. 9in, and 3ft. on the other. Corrugated-
iron sheets should be used on the operator’s
side. Besides the vat containing the dip
there should be an open tank of clean, soft
water available for mixing purposes.
When the vat is charged and the engine
started, the nozzles should be opened to let
out water in pump, pipe and hoses. When
the yellow liquid appears nozzles are shut
off until the release valve opens on the
pump. Then begin jetting. All badly blown
sheep should be picked out for special treat-
ment, and unblown sheep and those only
slightly affected put Snto the race. Do not
crutch before jetting. Jet all ewes, lambs,
weaners and rams in the crutch, over the
tail, inside the hind legs and over the heads
and necks. Keep the nozzle close to the
sheep to ensure penetration and see that each
sheep is jetted thoroughly. Sheep can be
safely and effectively trqated in this way
with any length of wool. After the unblown
or slightly blown sheep have been treated,
the badly blown sheep should be put into
the race, and a weaker solution of dip used.
Jet the affected parts and immediately after-
wards liberally sprinkle the scalded places
where the maggots have been with boracic-
acid powder. This has a soothing effect on
the wound, which is cleansed and heals
quickly. About a week later these sheep
should be again jetted with a stronger solu-
tion ; then they are generally safe from
further trouble. Less pressure should be
used for badly blown sheep to prevent irri-
tation.
Allow the jetted sheep to dry in the shade.
This is easier on the sheep, and by allowing
the dip to dry slowly it penetrates and
saturates more thoroughly. Well-jetted
sheep do not become daggy, and daggy sheep
after being jetted become clean. Thousands
of flies, settling on the wet sheep, die, and
after the work has been in operation for
some time flies disappear from the neighbor-
hood of the yards.
Poisoned baits and traps destroy millions
of flies. Dissolve lib. arsenic and Mb. wash-
ing soda in three gallons of soft water by
boiling for 15 minutes, and when the water
is off the boil add 21b. sugar. To this solu-
tion add three gallons of water to each gal-
lon of mixture*. Paint this solution on skins
and carcases with a whitewash brush. When
a sheep is killed wrap up the skin while
warm with the pluck. By noon next day
the skin and pluck will be sufficiently putrid
to attract flies. Open out the skin, leaving
the pluck in the middle, and paint thoroughly
with the solution, leaving a depression in
the centre into which the liquid will drain.
Put the skin in the shade and cover with
boughs at places where the sheep congregate,
watering-places and the yards where the
sheep are being dressed. Burn all poisoned
flies. By such systematic treatment flics
can be exterminated about yards, sheds and
small stud paddocks.
BUYING WOOL ON THE SHEEP’S
BACKS.
“Solo”: “FY7” (B. 28/3/’2B) states that
the method of buying wool on the sheep’s
back “though familiar enough in Australia
is not unusual in the U.S.A. I disagree.
It is only very rarely that any wool is bought
in Australia in this manner; but it is the
usual method of buying the domestic clip
in the States, where buyers from the big
wool merchanting firms often acquire the crop
on the sheep’s backs months before shearing
is due. It is then classed into big stacks in
the warehouses and sold to the combers and
spinners. It is not sold at auction. Some
years ago a Sydney wool man, T. Rich, en-
deavored to establish in the U.S.A. the Aus-
tralian system of auctioning wool; but
many of the growers, through ignorance of
its advantages, were hostile to the idea, and
the wool dealers were against it to a man
for very obvious reasons.
It is to be hoped for the growers’ sake
that buying wool on the sheep’s backs will
never be introduced into Australia. Our
system of auctioning wool brings the grower
the competition of every wool-using country
of the world.
SELLING WOOL IN THE COUNTRY.
“Bud-G.”: The great amount of wool sold
privately in the country to dealers and
scourers may be judged by the statement re-
cently made that, in N. S. Wales alone, no
fewer than 75,000 bales were so disposed of.
It is hard to understand why owners of such
a large amount of wool should prefer to accept
shed prices instead of taking advantage of
the world’s competition at the wool-selling
centres. The argument that, by selling at
home, growers receive their cheques straight
away, and have not to wait weeks or months
before their wool is offered by the brokers,
is unsound, because advances can always be
obtained against the wool; and the fact re-
mains that buyers in the country, or most of
them, buy to re-sell, and quote low to make
sure of their profit.
The prices paid for fleece wool may nearly
equal what would be paid for the wool at
auction, but it is from the lower sorts that
the dealer gets his profit. Here’s an in-
stance to my knowledge that happened in
Victoria a few years ago. Two neighbors ran
the same class of sheep on similar country.
One sent liis clip to auction and his top
lot of fleece brought 19d. per lb. and his
second 17M1. The other sold to a dealer in
the shed and got 18-Jd. 'for the whole of the
fleece wool. Where the local seller showed
to disadvantage, however, was in the pieces,
bellies, etc. For 15 bales the latter averaged
Did. per lb., whereas the auction seller re-
ceived 12d. for It* bales.
This was at a time when wool was not
near the figure it is quoted at to-day ; but
that does not alter the fact that open com-
petition from the world’s buyers is more pro
fitable to the growers than the conservative
prices offered by speculative dealers.
CLASSING CROSS-BRED WOOL.
“Mouton”: When proper attention is given
to breeding, selection and culling, classing
of cross-bred wool is not difficult, but when
every type and quality is found in small
cross-bred flocks, evenness in classing is prac-
tically impossible.
In classing cross-breds the main factor is
quality. Cross-bred wool is produced by
mating one of the coarse English long wools,
such as the Lincoln, with the fine-woolled
merino. Average Lincoln is of 36’s quality
and average merino is 64's. Taking an aver-
age of these two together, one might expect
cross-bred wool to be of 50’s quality. In
practice Lincoln-merino cross-bred works ( out
at about 46’s quality, and it will range
from 40's to better than s<)’s. On this
account quality must be the dominating
factor when classing such wool, but length,
color and condition must also be considered.
When large cross-bred clips are classed
the following classes could be made to
advantage:—
AA—The finest, lightest and longest fleeces, of
about 50’s quality.
A—Same quality as AA, but shorter and heavier.
BB—Medium quality, 4G’s to sU’s, light, long and
bright.
B—Same quality as 88, but heavier, shorter and
dull of color.
CC —Coarse quality 40’s to 44’s, light, long and
bright.
C—Same quality as 88, heavy in condition, dull
and short.
■ Cast Lot.—Extra heavy, dingy and cotted.
In classing a small cross-bred clip it would
never do to attempt all the above classes,
because there would not be sufficient wool to
make them. Owners of small cross-bred
flocks should do as much culling as possible.
Most sheep farmers slaughter their own mut-
ton, which provides opportunity for a certain
amount -of culling. When selecting killing
sheep, always choose one that lias an un-
desirable fleece, such as extra strong, dingy
or cotted.
If the small flock comprises 500 grown
sheep, about 12 bales of fleece wool might
be expected, and a reasonable evenness in
quality and condition in the different classes
may be obtained by classing as follows: —
A A—All the fine and medium quality fleeces of light
and medium condition and of a fair length.
A —A small line and composed of all extra heavy
dingy and short fleeces of fine and medium quality.
B—-All extra strong fleeces. This would also be
a small line, especially if the extra strong woollcd
sheep had been slaughtered for mutton.
In an average small cross-bred clip, the bulk
of the fleeces would go into the AA class,
which would, contain seven to eight bales
out of the 12. If most of the coarse wool
sheep have been culled, the A class might be
made up to four bakes to avoid a star
and the B class would be a one-bale line.
THATCHING A HAYSTACK.
“Bon Jour”: Why does “Pick” (B.
29/2/’2B) go to all that trouble to thatch a
haystack when fl or 30s. will buy a cover
of galvanised-iron ? Build the stack accord-
ing to the dimensions of the iron, level it off
on top with a slight pitch in the required
direction and place the iron on it, secured
by means of a piece of fencing-wire passed
over the top with a weight suspended from
either end. The job is done while “Pick” is
preparing his pegs.
BLUESTONE FOR WOUNDS.
“Hugh Calyptus”: Bluestone (copper
sulphate) is the basis of many remedies in
agricultural practice. A number of stock-
owners use it in lump form when treating
wounds, merely wetting the lump and rub-
bing it over the wound. This is unneces-
sarily slow and tedious and painful to a
tender wound. In addition it cannot reach
the deeper recesses of the matter. Using
liquid form is easier, quicker, more humane
and thoroughly effective. A wound will heal
in considerably less time; and the animal
will be in work earlier. My plan used over
a number of years has been to dissolve a
lump of bluestone, say, a heaped teaspoonful,
in enough hot water to fill a beer bottle.
This is painted on the wound with a soft
camel-hair brush or a piece of clean cloth,
morning and evening, after bathing the
wound in warm water and soap to remove
the dirt; nothing more need be used. The
bluestone quickly dries the surface and forms
the pus into flakes which peel off painlessly
with each washing. I have never known
flies to linger around or trouble the wounds
so treated, which is an aspect that will in-
terest many. Within a week the average
small wound should be almost healed. I
was once able to use a saddle horse over
a long journey within a fortnight, after rub-
bing a little vaseline over the tender surface
to prevent cracking the new skin. This was
(Continued on page 25.)


u
m i 2
\
Opulence
has
hit tie Place
igst-z&az
ii m 1 1
ID 2
►
in the modern conception of adornment. In both
domestic and personal appointments, simplicity is the
keynote of what is regarded as the best.
Elgin watches embody art as well as craft in their making:
beauty as well as utility has been the manufacturer’s aim.
Therefore, in wearing an Elgin, you have a double
assurance of correctness in both time and taste.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<?>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
Jhi? Jracfe Mark in the VJatch Care
m
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON &
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
CO., Sheffield,
England
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
0-
No. 1369
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
fsd
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiased
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommjended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Bmldinr?
(Next G.P.0.).
Jfcl
Whether you are a devotee of the classics or
jazz, you’ll want to know about, hear, and
own this amazing new invention!
In place of flat, formless tones, the Edisonic
brings you full, rounded, glowing, “close-
up’’ music. The pianist seems at your side.
You’ve a front-row seat at the concert. The
shuffle of dancing feet can’t drown the
vibrant, living tones. In the surging, room-
filling volume, each voice, each instrument,
each note, stands out with the precision of a
finely-cut cameo.
This entirely new “close-up’’ music may now
be enjoyed in your own home, at any time,
without even the annoyance of changing a
needle!
Demonstrations and
illustrated folder on request.
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop, 5 1 Castlereagh St. '
MELBOURNE: The .Edison Shop, 238 Collins St.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen St.
ADELAIDE: S.A. Phonograph Co., Ltd.. Gilbert
Buildings, Gilbert Place.
Metropolitan Distributors: Wertheim*.
84 Rundle St.
PERTH: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay St.
LAUNCESTON: Wills & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
HOBART: A. Paton & Sons, 136 Liverpool St.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
The astounding
Wholesale Only: THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


A lemite-Zerk Ford Set
fsd
Ford owners should equip
their cars with the Alemite-
Zerk Lubrication System.
A complete set of fittings
and compressor gun costs
only a small amount of
money and saves costly
bearings. You can easily
install the fittings yourself
in place of the grease cups.
Makes Ford lubrication
easy and positive.
A lent ite Trans m ission
Lubricant
fsd
An entirely new type of lu-
bricant for gears and trans-
mission. Reduces friction
to a minimum. Means from
1 to 1 % more miles per gal-
lon of petrol by actual test.
More pep and power, long-
er life for gears. Two-finger
gear shifting in cold weath-
er because it does not hard-
en or “channel.” Made
without fillers. Have it put
into your transmission gear
boxes every 2500 miles and
say good-bye to rear-end
troubles.
Alemite Chassis Lubricant
MSBK
Made especially for use
with the Alemite System.
Will stand up under 3000
pounds pressure. Ordinary
greases break down at 200
pounds. Resists heat up to
400 degrees Fahrenheit.
Will lubricate properly
at 30 degrees below zero.
Equally valuable for farm
implements, motor-boats,
etc. In'convenient 5-pound
tins.
Alemite Gas-co-lator
f
A device for filtering the pe-
trol as you drive. Takes
out all the water and dirt
particles that clog the car-
buretor. Removes the
cause of practically all
trouble from excessive car-
bon, oil dilution, pitted
valves, hard starting, stall-
ing. Sold on a 30-days trial.
Satisfaction, or money
cheerfully refunded.
A lemite Spring Protectors
sdf
For good looks and easy
riding. Made to fit every
model and size of motor
car springs. Snug fitting,
nickel trimmed. They keep
out mud and grit, stop
squeaks and give added
tyre mileage. Last for
years. The surest preven-
tive against broken
springs.
Alemite Penetrating Oil
ƒ
A graphite lubricant de-
signed especially for use
where extreme penetrating
qualities are essential. Un-
excelled for lubricating mo-
tor car springs. Works in
between the spring leaves
without jacking up the car.
Aperfect lubricantwherever
a light oil is needed. Dis-
solves rust, prevents cor-
rosion. Speeds up dismant-
ling work by loosening
tight bolts and nuts. Sold
in pint and gallon tins, and
1 arge drums. Can be sprayed
on with a special sprayer
equipment.
y
you should ask about lubrication
when you buy your next car
Of course you are interested in economical
driving. You want high petrol mileage, low oil
consumption, long wear from tyres —but re-
member these facts.
First, that repair shop records show that three-
fourths of the operating costs of running a car
consist of depreciation and repairs.
Second, that 80 % of these repairs could easily
be prevented by proper lubrication of chassis
bearings.
Proper lubrication means that the lubrication
system must be easy to use, for this means
that lubrication will not be neglected. It means
that the system must provide positive lubri-
cation, for this means that the lubricant will
get to the bearing, stay there and protect the
moving parts against friction and wear.
Alemite Lubrication System is
easy and Positive
If the man who is selling you a motor car tells
you it is equipped with the Alemite High Pres-
sure Lubrication System you can feel abso-
lutely safe. It is easy to use and never fails to
lubricate thoroughly.
That’s why it is in use on more than 10,000,000
motor cars today. Why 93 out of every 100
American-made cars are equipped with it at
the factories.
Use it every five hundred miles and prevent
those big repair bills —cut the cost of operating
your car from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny per mile.
Your present car can be Alemite
equipped at small cost
You’ll be surprised at the low cost of having
the Alemite System installed upon your car.
The work can be quickly done, too.
It merely means that the old-fashioned grease
or oil cups on your hard-working, dust-exposed
chassis bearings are replaced by dust-proof
Alemite fittings.
How the Alemite System works
It is simplicity itself. The handy Alemite com-
pressor gun containing the lubricant is placed
over each fitting. A twist of the wrist forces
clean, fresh lubricant entirely through the bear-
ing, forcing out the old, gritty grease at the same
time. You can do the work yourself in a few
minutes or any service man will do it for you.
If your regular service man cannot supply you
with Alemite fittings or any of the Alemite
Products shown at the left, write to any of the
distributors listed below and you will be taken
care of promptly.
THE BASSICK MANUFACTURING CO.
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
CHICAGO, U. S. A.
Australian Distributors
Bennett & Wood. Ltd. ..... 284 Pitt St., Sydney
E. A. Machin & Go., corner Elizabeth and Beckett Streets, Melbourne
Cornell, Ltd. ......... Adelaide
C. Atkins & Co. ......... Perth
Motor Supplies, Ltd. ......... Brisbane
ALEMITE
© 1927, T. B. M. Co. Res. U. S. Pat. Off
High Pressure Lubrication


-
m
How to get a
made-to-order fit.
It’s assured with this top-grade
Abbey Boot available in full and
half rfizes, each in three fittings,
narrow, medium and wide. You get
width as well as length correct.
And so the boot is easy-to-wear
from the first time on.
The upper is made of the finest
calf or kid. There’s no leather
more pliant or more comfortable.
The sole, too, is flexible despite its
hard-wearing toughness.
Medium in weight, smart, with
roomy toe, non-chafing heel and
lacing that actually arches over the
in3tep, this is a commonsense boot
for everyday wear.
Order by Post.
Specify width needed and order,
also, a supply of Abbey quick-
shining polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF - 57/6
BLACK GLACE KID - 57/6
BLACK BOX CALF - 52/6
Ask for a copy of 40 -page colored
catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St,
SYDNEY.
L7O.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Ride a Wieneke !
:v\
The Best Sad'dle
in Australia m
To- day.
Because it xp a Per-
fect Shape —tor rider
and horse. For the
Crack Rider, the
Horse - breaker, the
Stockman, the magic
stamp
A Genuine Wieneke
means a lifetime of
Comfort and Ease.
Buy this
GULF CHAMPION.
A real humdinger.
Fitted complete for
£l5/15/-
Never equalled.
Send for the Wieneke
Wonder Book, 150
pictures, post free.
JOHN WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
'-cai
*3
Don’t Neglect Pimples
Use Cuticura Now
At the first sign of pimples anoint
gently with Cuticura Ointment.
After five minutes bathe with Cuti-
cura Soap and hot water. Daily use
of Cuticura Soap and Ointment
will keep the skin clear and healthy.
Soap Is., Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S. W.”
IMF** Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GROCERS.
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, "made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
brani
BRAND
Containing about 99.96% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID —32 per cent. N»2O.
POWDERED — 98 per cent. NaOH,
SULPHURIC ACID—-1.83 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers*
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MAN UPACT UIiED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVTLLE. VICTORIA.
done each morning. Before the treatment,
was applied the animal, owing to the swollen,
suppurating fetlock, could hardly put the
affected hoof to the ground.
PUTTING THE BRIDLE ON.
“Paul C.”: Approaching the animal from
in front, holding a cheek-piece of the
bridle in each hand and jolting the bit
against the horse’s teeth, is about the worst
way. The best way is first to pass the reins
under the neck with the left hand, while
tlie right is placed over the neck and the
third and fourth fingers hooked in the end
of the reins. Then the first and second
fingers of the right hand hold the head-piece
of the bridle, while the bit is taken on the
left hand, and when it reaches the horse’s
lips the thumb is inserted at the side of
the mouth in front of where the bridle-tooth
is or will be, and the roof of the colt’s mouth
touched with the thumb-nail. lie will open
then; and the right hand pulls the bridle over
the animal’s ears.
FIRST CALVES.
“2 Chews’’: Heifers should calve at three
years for beef purposes; for dairying the
highest scoring cows, including champions of
the British Empire in both Friesinns and
Jerseys, have calved at two years. In
America the usual time to put the heifer to
the bull is when 15 months old.
“L.S.L.”: “Yufu” may find it well not to
bring his heifers in before they are three
years old (B. 2!)/2/’28), but the usual prac-
tice in Maoriland, with all breeds of dairy
cattle, is to have them calve at 28 months ;
and Maoriland dairy cows are not any the
worse for being brought in early. The point
of importance is to give the heifer a long
lactation period, so that her second calf is
not produced till at least 16 months after
the first. She will then have the best of
chances of becoming a fir St-rate milker.
BRAND YOUR TOOLS.
“P.C.” : Put your name or initials on your
iron tools ; it discourages the would-be thief.
Melt some beeswax and pour it slowly on
the side of the tool to be marked. Then
with an awl or other sharp point inscribe
your name or initials in the wax. Then
pour on to the inscription some nitric acid,
and let it stand for a few seconds. Wipe
off the wax, and the acid will have eaten
the inscription in the tool. As the acid will
burn flesh or clothing, handle it carefully.
This is better than branding the handles of
tools, for thieves readily remove these, and
replace them with others.
HAIRLESS DOGS.
"X2X”; I say don’t try the remedy of
“Adamascus” for hairless patches on dogs,
(B. 11/4/’2B). Hairh tss patches on dogs,
as on other animals, are due practically
always to the presence of some organism,
microscopic or macroscopic, which attacks
the hair-follicles, and causes the hairs to fall
out, and which, in almost every case, can be
best treated by some local application, and
not by internal dosing. Yet, because the
dog is seen eating butter just before the com-
plaint disappears, it is concluded that the
one is the cause and the other its effect.
Actually, there is no property whatever in
butter which could bring about the cure.
STUD BEES.
“Te Honi”: Some of “Jl.H.’s” steps with
bees (B. 15/2/’2B) arc firm enough, but
isn’t there something to be said about breed-
ing V i don’t advocate the pure-breds for
the ordinary apiarist, but nobody who starts
off and continues with a lot of scrub-bees
caught in a hollow tree in the bush is
likely to make much money out of them.
By acquiring a few well-bred queen bees
to start with (they are always sold with a
small nucleus swarm) the beginner has some
chance of making a success of the venture.
A good strong young Italian queen will soon
build up a decent hive, and the bees bred
by her will be sure lioney-gatherers. The
little black loafers from the bush won’t
store as much honey in a month as the same
number of Italian bees will in a week.
Keep a close watch on the color of your
bees. As soon as black stripes start to
appear on their bodies buy new queens again.
HANDLING YOUNG HORSES.
“Ted R.”: Here is a method that will
make the catching and bridling of a young
horse mere child’s-play. I have used it with
success on animals that have been declared
nntameable. Take one drachm each oil of
cloves, oil of rhodium, oil of origanum, oil of
aniseed and oil of savin, two drachms tinc-
ture of opium and one ounce spirits of lav-
ender. Put them all into a bottle and keep
closely corked. Rub a little of the mixture
on the hand and approach the horse on the
windward side, so that he can smell it. The
horse will let you come up to him without
any trouble. Rub your hand gently on
his nose, getting a little of the mixture on
it. He will then follow you around the
yard. Put a few drops on the bit of the
bridle, approach him again and gently put
the bridle on. The animal will stand per-
fectly quiet while you do this, and if then
given a little of the mixture on a lump of
sugar or a piece of apple he can be safely
led from the yard and taken for a walk
round. It will be found that when the
animal is taken back and the bridle slipped
off he will want to. follow when you leave the
yard. The performance can be repeated until
the owner wishes to saddle the animal, which
will be found to submit much more easily
than if he were handled with force.
WHITE AND YELLOW CORN.
“Hop Scrub”: “Minto” (B. 21/3/’2B) is
only partly right about the limited sale for
white corn. The chief reason why
more of it is not grown is that the
white maize is a. lower yielder than the
yellow except on poor soils, so that, even if
the manufacturers are prepared to pay an
equal price, the farmer would still be out
of pocket. There is certainly a chance for
the Australian maize-grower, but meanwhile
our plant-breeders should set to work pro-
ducing a corn that will fill the bill, not only
on the color side, but in nutritive value and
high yields,
TO PREVENT BEES SWARMING.
“B. Sting": Bees intent on swarming
always have scouts out to locate a suitable
new abode. Before starting their journey
they invariably settle outside the hive in
order to marshal their forces and make sure
that their queen is with them. This is the
time to secure them. If shaken into a
box provided with a foundation comb they
will generally abandon the idea of a trek
and cheerfully accept the accommodation, but
nevertheless they should be closely watched
for a few days. If dissatisfied with their
now quarters they will fly out again on the
first warm day, and they are then very de-
termined to leave for good. Throwing dust
or water amongst them may cause them to
settle, but if that fails the discharge of a
gun in front of them will always bring them
to a cluster. Boxed again, they should be
given a frame of brood comb taken from
another hive. W\th that in their charge they
will not again forsake the hive.
A MOUSE-PROOF HAYSTACK.
“Wrash”: To safeguard a haystack
against attacks of rats and mice, build it
upon a platform at least lift. high. Choose
the most level spot in the paddock and erect
and level off sufficient stout piles of wood,
spaced at Oft. intervals, to make a floor
somewhat larger than the intended stack
base. Over these piles, before constructing
the floor, place inverted petrol- or kerosene-
tins. Rats or mice cannot climb on tin, and
will thereby have their way to the stack
effectually barred. Finish the floor with
sawn stuff or sapling straddles, laying them
closely to prevent falling straws from afford-
ing a stairway. Keep the immediate sur-
roundings clear of long grass or the accu-
mulations of rolling duckweed and the stack
will be safe. Otherwise, the fodder in any
season is liable to be polluted and gnawed
into chaff by the rodents, and in that con-
dition even starving stock will not touch it.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Uramao”: A M.L. Stock Department
official has contrived a diminutive electric
machine for branding stock. It is made in
various styles for various purposes, such
as making or branding the face or other
parts of the body, and it does not damage
the skin in making a clear and well-defined
brand. Besides, it registers the number
of stock dealt with and can be carried in
one’s pocket.
. “B-Ga'r”: “N. 8.” (B. 4/4/’2S) takes, a
risk when lie uses a glass tube for the pur-
pose of blowing boracic acid into a horse’s
eye when suffering from temporary blindness.
A toss of the “prad’s head in the wrong direc-
tion and “N. 8.” as well as the prad will
require medical attention. A paper funnel
or the open hand is the best and safest
method of conveying the sight restorer.
“Silentio”: When fencing small paddocks
the additional cost of buying patent wire
strainers that remain on the straining post
is more than justified, as a boy can go
round a line and a few turns will keep the
wires taut. The five wires can be re-
tightened with the patent strainer whilst
you are doing one in the old fashion.
Barbed wire is just as easy when a tail of
plain wire is tied to the straining end. Bad
fences make rogues of stock and spoil the
appearance of a farm.
“M.G.”: After the morning poultry masli
is scalded add milk (either fresh or butter
milk) and mix it in thoroughly. Make up
no more mash than the birds will consume
at the meal, as any left-over food lying
in the sun will sour and may cause
diarrhoea.
“Outback”: It is surprising that many
landholders do nothing to protect the young
kurrajongs which are now growing in hun-
dreds beneath the parent trees. Stock,
sheep and horses are partial to the succu-
lent younglings, and rabbits also take their
toll. If every landlord protected, say, 20
young trees each favorable season he would
be doing a national service.
“R..T.”: To reduce the percentage of un-
fertile eggs I experimented with a system of
alternate mating. Two roosters were used
on alternate weeks with 12 hens. While
one was penned the other was kept out of
sight. The result was entirely satisfactory
and repaid the time and trouble involved.
“P.C.”: When the grindstone wears hol-
low in the centre a good way to get it level
again is to place the handle of a spade on
the ground and hold the blade against the
grindstone while it is being turned, and so
cut the high edges off it.
“Boronia”: When planting a fruit-tree set
it on a mound in the hole where it is to be
placed. This gives a downward throw to
the roots and prevents the formation of a
shallow root system which a few years later
will be hacked about during cultivation.
“Boronia”: No matter how good the
orchard, there are always some trees which
bear a stunted appearance and have no vigor.
Often this is because the tree is growing on
a hard pan or a heavy clay outcrop. If
this is the case, get an iron bar and punch
three holes about 2ft. deep and 4ft. from
the butt, at equal distance around the
tree, and explode half a plug, of gelignite
in each hole. The vigor and wood growth
in the following season' is likely to be
amazing.
“Nat. Y.”: Sheep-dip is almost as useful
to the poultry-farmer as to the grazier.
Sprayed on the walls of sheds or scattered
dry among the litter it is fatal to vermin.
The blood-sucking red mite can be dealt with
by washing the perches thoroughly with a
strong solution.
“Bud-G.”: “Eureka” (B. 2S/3/’2B)
quotes a case and from it infers that emus
are not responsible for the spread of pricklv-
pear. He also states that after the seeds
have passed through the digestive organs
of the emu there’s nothing left to germinate.
Rubbish ! If “Eureka” inspects a moderately-
old deposit of emu dung in pear country
he will prebaby find scores of pear seed-
lings. At any rate, I have often found them.
“B-Gar”: A record that speaks well for
all concerned was the shifting by rail from
Dirranbandi (S.Q.) to Fernlees (C.Q.) of
10 000 ewes with a total loss of one sheeD
Several special stock trains, each attended
by a drover, were used in the 900-mile trip


HPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 a
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
m
%
m
S
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
In these road-hog days it’s a case of the
survival of the quickest.
Certainly worry kills more people than
hard work. Quite a lot of people worry.
* *
Why should a woman who is fond of
dances complain if lier husband likes hops?
THE DOMESTIC DISTURBER.
PITT: “Sorry to keep you waiting, old chan ,
but I've just been setting a trap for
my wife.”
POTT: “Good heavens! What do you sus-
pectf”
PITT: “A mouse in the pantry.”
Marriage is a ceremony in which a man
is bound over to keep the piece for the rest
of his life.
* *
No man would object to his wife wearing
her skirts shorter if she would only wear
them longer.
❖ *
About the only tiling in TJ.S.A. that you
can’t get on the instalment plan is bootleg
grog. The bootleggers know their goods.
* ❖
Counsel for a man charged in Sydney
with abduction told the Court that the
woman really abducted the man. In fact,
it was merely a normal, everyday engagement.
* *
Now tfhat winter colds are here,
Eat less fruit and drink more beer.
If this diet docs not suit,
Drink moke beer and eat no fruit.
According to the Melbourne Herald a
community worker says her hobby is girls.
Well, she hasn’t that altogether on her own.
Rupert Bunny, the Australian artist, says
that much inferior work is being displayed
in connection with modern painting. Well,
all the girls can’t be Old Masters.
* *
From the Melbourne Herald :—
Canberra, Friday.—To-morrow a cricket team
captained by Arthur Mailey will be feted with a
dance and dinner in Canberra, dose of iodine.
Ha! —bootleg?
*
Exhibits at the recent Sydney Show in-
cluded a dress made of semi-opaque glass.
A forlorn effort, it would seem, to stay the
onward march of fashion.
Women, who crowd about the fences, are
blamed for causing the Prince of Wales to
come many nasty croppers while hunting.
After all, that is only tit for tat.
* *
“R.D.C.”: I did four years with the
A.1.F.,- and am now cockying, with an immi-
grant for help. Arguments re our respective
climates are frequent. During a recent cold
snap I shivered in his presence. t) You
never shivered like that in Blighty, he
gibed. For once 1 was ready. “No, I was
always frozen too stiff to shiver," I said.
Magistrate: “Have you any excuse to
offer for this brutal assault?”
Prisoner: “Well, I’ll put it to yer this
way, yer ’Onor. 'Gw would yer like a
bloke to come erlong an try to sell yer a
pateut drink cure?”
% ❖
After 43 years of newspaper work a Syd-
ney journalist has given up his profession
to grow onions. Tired, no doubt,_ of the
sob stories in the flapper press, lie is going
in for something with real tears in it.
* *
A magistrate stated recently that lie read
only the newspaper headings. We wish we
could boast the same amount of leisure.
A loan of 100,000,000 roubles is said to
have been over-subscribed by Russian peas-
ants. We understand that two of them
clubbed together and put in the money,
instead of buying a glass of near-vodka.
* *
Says a writer on wireless: “There are
many forms of wave motion, all of which
have amplitude, length and frequency.” And,
we would add, exactly the same (hie) effect.
* *
The trouble with our Government depart-
ments is not that they don’t pay, but that
they do pay—too many.
* *
Hold hard, Ned; lift me down and lay me in
the shade.
Old man, you’ve had your work cut out to
guide
Me even this far — henceforth, lemonade!
FAIRY TALE MCMXXVIII.
And so they were married and lived hap-
pily ever after.
* *
A youth has been discovered in Germany
with a mania for climbing house walls. Evi-
dently training to be a pedestrian.
* *
“What was there ever in Mailey’s bowl-
ing?” asks an English cricket writer. Many
a good batsman was stumped for an answer.
Dave Woopwoop, widower, was feeling
sentimental —perhaps it was the moonlight.
“Yairs,” he said. “I’m thinking of getting
married again. There’s the cows, f’instance
—they’re feelin’ the loss of the touch of a
woman’s ’and.”
The base of all troubles in some homes is
the wife’s repeated requests for tenners.
After nursing a woman before marriage
a man should not' be surprised if she sits on
him afterwards.
We learn that there is no
truth in the report that Mr.
Hughes, satisfied that he lias
changed color often enough,
is thinking of having his
name changed to Hues.
Though a very dear old
lady of our acquaintance re-
fuses staunchly to take any
interest in politics, she has
become an ardent follower of
sport. She is now most
anxious to know whether it
will be on the Parramatta
that the Theodore - Scullin
match will be decided.
“Macorna” : After a good
season a cocky had a fine
new residence erected. When
the finishing touches were
being put on, the old chap
remembered seeing Venetian
blinds on a verandah some-
where. So he approached the
carpenter. “Can you make
them palin’ blinds?” lie'asked.
The recent discovery of a milkean in an
ancient Egyptian tomb has given rise to the
alarming suggestion that it may have been
an hereditary faculty that enabled Pharaoh’s
daughter to find a prophet in water.
An optimist is a man who starts a game of
chess at the age of 90.
In an effort to raise a record sum for
charity, Aberdeen students recently raided
the town with collection-boxes. They broke
the record easily, collecting, in less than 10
hours, ninepence-lia’penny.
The article in the paper said “Mr. Bruce
has an idea”.... The old gentleman put it
down impatiently. “I always used to regard
the S. M. Herald as a reliable paper,” he
remarked regretfully.
x *
The man who insists on marrying a rich
woman evidently believes in wadded bliss.
ORGAN BONG.
My liver is dreadfully bad to-day.
( What hideous girls walk the city way !)
There’s something terribly wrong with my
kidney.
(What frumps arc abroad in this frumpish
Sydney!)
To-day — ah, my liver is feeling fine!
(Is that a girl, or a nymph divine?)
To-day — ah, fresh as the air my kidney!
(Who wouldn’t fall foi' the girls o' Sydney?)
N.s.w. Soc.
* *
ART NOTICE.
From the S. M. Herald: —
“The Minister for Education (Mr. Drummond)
yesterday opened the annual exhibition of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Journalists at the Education
Department gallery.”
The exhibition was rather monotonous, the
artistic activities of many
members of the society being
confined to drawing “Salary.”
A noticeable tendency to
overdraw was a fault shown
in most of these pictures. A
little variety was lent by
members who drew “Pro-
spectuses.” They were inclined
to over-coloring, and tin
futuristic tendency in tlieso
works was marked. “The
Spot Marked with X” was
another overworked subject.
First Motorist: “So you took a run into
the country on Sunday? How did you get
on?”
Second: “Oh, only fair—five fowls, a
couple of dogs and 15‘ ducks.”
:! *
We learn that the driver of a motor-car
which collided with a pillar-box in Sydney
recently was not drunk, but simply believed
the jiillar-box was a cleverly-disguised pedes-
trian.
* *
To help in making fittings dressmakers
will probably soon be installing step-ladders.
* *
Unless football in N.S.W. shows a vast
improvement in the meantime, the visiting
English team will have easy wins. Play has
been in progress in the State for a couple of
weeks now, and no player has yet succeeded
in biting his initials on a referee.
* *
“Macann”: As the football match pro-
gressed on the Sydney suburban ground I
heard the voice of the enthusiastic Scot get-
ting more and more excited. “Noo, mon,” it
cried, “ha’e at him, lia’e at him.... Fine,
fine.... Ah—that’s nae futball. Go for
him!” The voice kept it up with such
persistency that I looked about in the crowd
for its owner. It was not, however, until
the interval that I discovered him. There
he was—in a tree outside the ground.
A PROFESSIONAL OPINION.
DENTIST (absent-mindedly, as new baby is presented to
him): “He’ll need a complete set, Nurse.”
Judging from the many articles on health
in the papers the secret of health is still
a secret.
* *
Medical students in Japan have petitioned
the authorities to devise some way of
remedying the shortage of bodies for dissec-
tion. Persons we could send over a few
of our public ones.
“Every motorist,” says a writer in the
Sydney News, “is entitled to one pedes-
trian.” Evidently a pedestrian himself, else
why such carping limitation?
* *
“I don’t see where the sex comes uv
the girl said, listening to the sextette from
“Lucia.”
arts and crafts.
MABEL: “Was that a real
osprey Hilda had in her hat?”
MAUD: “A T o, merely a nom-de-plume."
Those days it seems to be often a girl's
pace that is her fortune.
if *
Many names should not be pronounced as
they are spelt. There’s woman, for instance.
* *
There’s this much consolation in married
life, anyway—women can’t throw straight.
* *
When a man marries he thinks there is
no one in the world like his wife —and some-
times afterwards.
* *
SOME ENTHUSIASTS.
THE GOEFER.
“Oh yes, the links were fine to-day;
The hall went like a bird.
I’ve seldom seen such brilliant play,
Hut, judging by —( What’s that you say?
The market’s badt Yes, so I’ve heard.)
Well, as I said before, the play
Was more than fair. I was in form —got
ivcll away —
Only one hole doicn at the turn!
Then fluffed a shot—
Gad! That was hot —
And landed in the rough! Eh, what ? —
Oh yes, Joe Jenkin’s form, vias fine —
(Good morning, sir—the pleasure’s mine!)
What was I on? Oh, Jenkin’s form!
Magnificent! But Lord, how droll!
I beat the blighter by a h01e!”... .etc.
THE WRITER.
“Now this is how my story goes!
Hero — he-man, big chin, long nose!
You know the sort —a hefty chap,
Who silences hard words with blows,
And loves a scrap!
I’ve got him in an island scene —
You know, palm trees, and trades, and all
that rot,
And island-girls! He has a friend,
A one-time friend, I mean,
Who gets—(l say, don’t go — that’s not the
end!)
I say, who gets him in the throes.
Until—My hat! That’s rain!
I’ll start again!
Note this is how my story goes”... .etc.
THE ENGAGED GIRL.
“My dear, you were a perfect pet
To ask me in to have some tea!
You say we’ll have a comfy chat.
You’ve heaps of things to say to me!
But listen, dear, you simply must —
I’ve been engaged now for a week!
It’s Alfred /_ He’s a perfect thrill!
My dear, if you could hear him speak —
His voice, and eyes! And much in love?
He’d get the very moon for me,
If I so much as blinked my eyes!
(Yes, yes, put sugar in my tea!)
[ You say your father’s very ill.
; Bad luck, old dear — now, Alfred’s strong!
. I’ve thanked my stars for that, you know—
r He swears he won’t wait very long.”. .. .etc.
victoria. Jane East.
SADDER STILL.
“0/ all sad words of tongue or pen ,
The saddest are these: ‘lt might have
been!’ ”
How many thousands of women and men
Have sighed assent! But from what I’ve
seen
Of life and such, it’s absurd, becos
The saddest arc these: “It darn well was/”
N.S.W.
HYRAM.


sd
§1
vv
K
U
i
m
l
-
m
k
Ui
S
Hg
■ 1
3
iH
mm
V
®i
1
W
111
Sffi
■
msm
EDGEWARE ROAD, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
*
REINFORCED WITH No. 9 B.R.C. FABRIC.
ENGINEER—E. S. ROWE, Esq., B.E.
B
Road Reinforcement's
More than ten million square yards of concrete roads
throughout the British Empire are reinforced with
B.R.C. Fabric. It has become an accepted and
standard principle of construction, and is being used
extensively and constantly in the most important road
developments in Australia.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
rrnrrnTrrrrmT.
rrrrrrnrrnrm
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
nrmrrrrfjrrrrnrr;
(inTrrrrrrrrrrrrm
racsa


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you arc invited to write to the
Service. Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Man, experienced in management and de-
velopment of large sheep and cattle proper-
ties in N. S. Wales and Q’land, seeks posi-
tion ns manager or working partner. Ex.
refs.—4379.
Farm hand, with experience of all sorts of
farm machinery, used to horses, sheep, wheat
and lucerne, wanted by farmer (Mudgec
district, N.S.W.). Award wages, and live as
one of the family.—4387.
Youth (20) wants to be a civil aviator.
Fair knowledge motors and wireless. —4371.
Married couple, young, seek farm job. Man
electrical and motor mechanic; wife good
cook. Any district in Yic. A. Fiddis.
20 Soudan-street, Malvern, S.E.4, Mel-
bourne.)
Retired bank manager, Sydney, healthy,
temperate, wants position few hours dailv.—
4306.
Two Maorilanders want job in N.S.W.
country hotel; experienced; good refs. —
4307.
Station book- and store-keeper, willing to
do outside work, knowledge of oil and elec-
tric engines, wants work; good refs.; go
anywhere.—4339.
Young farmer (Vic.) wants experience
with cattle or sheep. Available about June,
-4334.
Retired banker, many years’ experience,
desires congenial occupation, Sydney; fully
< redentialled.—4348.
Pianist (lady), used to accompanying and
transposition, desires position in picture or'
theatre orchestra, Q’land ; ex. refs. —4350.
To sell quantity of tree-grass gum ; or infor-
mation as to likely purchasers. (To Wil-
liam Leggarty, orchardist, Lisarow, N.S.W.)
To buy second-hand set “Encyclopedia
Britannica.” State price, edition and con-
dition.—4386.
By debater, newspaper and magazine
articles supporting Protection. —4384.
• To buy, Cassell’s “Theory of Social
Economics,” 2 vols, latest edition. (Direct
A M., 1 Bright-street, Marrickville, N.S.Wt)
To sell, invalid’s chair, in good order, £6.
( L'lrect to “Alabama,” 66 Lower Cliff-road,
North wood, Sydney.)
To sell, freehold cocoanut plantation,
British Solomons; 400 acres planted, 300
bearing; full particulars sent.—4318.
To sell, Ansco v.-p. camera, No. 2; cost
£5 ; 47s. 6d.—4316.
To sell, original letter of Henry Parkes,
dated Nov., 1850. —4315.
To sell, 1060 acres pastoral and arable
land, Gundagai district (N.S.W.) ; five large
dams, permanent springs, all modern im-
provements.—4313.
Copy of “The Horne Expedition into
Central Australia,” by Dr. Horne. (Reply
N. Geary, Mt. Pleasant, Dalby, Q.).
Information Sought.
/ am about to build a wireless receiver and
wish to obtain the names of a couple of
books on the subject. —4222.
“Amateur Book of Wireless Circuits,” by
Haynes, 3s.; “Your Broadcast Receiver and
How to Work it,” by P. Harris, 6d. Also
you will find some very useful information in
the “1928 Radio Guide,” Is. 6d. All obtain-
able from Amalgamated Wireless, Ltd., 47
York-street, Sydney.
(1) Ilas carbon tetrachloride been used
with satisfactory results for hots in horses?
(2) If not, what is a remedy? —4310.
(1) It has been used, but is not the best
remedy. (2) Carbon bisulphide, in gelatine
capsule form. The dose depends on weight
of horse (0 drachms for a 10001b. beast) and
is administered at 6 a.m., the horse having
fasted since noon-of the previous day. No
food or water must be given for at least
two hours after the dose is taken. The drug
is very dangerous and, if possible, should be
administered by a veterinary surgeon.
1 am turned 21 in January and am em-
ployed by my father as a station-hand. What
wages am I entitled to? Our station comes
under the award. —4204.
A son in the employment of his father is
not entitled to claim wages fixed by a State
award.
(1) How much good wheaten hay does it
1 ike to keep a sheep strong? (2) Where can
/ obtain information about feeding sheep in
drought and conserving fodder? —4187.
Cl) The hay should be fed in conjunction
with a little maize in the proportion of
about 31b. hay to 2oz. maize daily, but sheep
should not be kept long on one diet. (2)
Apply to Agricultural Dept.. Sydney, for free
pamphlet.
My 3 -year-old fox-terrier, othci'wise quite
bright and healthy, has taken to rolling in
the dirt. Is it because his skin is irritated,
and if so, what is the remedy? —4235.
If there are no other symptoms, such as
hair falling out. let him roll. It’s natural
with some terriers and removes fleas. A
pinch of sulphur in his food twice weekly
Avou’t do him any harm.
7 have been advised to use Stockholm tar
and tallow, equal parts, with a little blue-
stone, as a dressing for a horse that was
badly staked. Is Stockholm tar an accepted
rem cdy ? —4232.
It is a recognised and useful farm dress-
ing, especially for injuries to animals’ feet.
A better dressing for a staked horse would
be a mixture of iodoform 1 part, oil of euca-
lyptus 14 parts, olive oil 30 parts.
A married couple, old-age pensioners, de-
pendent on relatives for a home, propose to
secure a home of their men. How much can
he spent on a home and furniture without re-
ducing their pensions? —4005 A.
No deduction is made in respect of house
and furniture used as a permanent home by
the pensioner, and the v Act places no limit
on the value of a home. Assuming that re-
latives are going to provide the couple with
a home, there should be no question of deduc-
tion. But if the pensioners have means of
their own sufficient to buy a home and have
not disclosed the fact to the Pensions Dept,
they are liable to penalties.
(1) What is the best remedy for bottle-
jaw and stomach-worm in sheep? (2) When
is the best time to start drenching? (3 ) .Is
“Specific Drench ” procurable in Sydney? —
4184.
(1) Administer a bluestone and mustard
drench, 4oz. of each to 3 gallons of water.
Lambs receive 2oz. of the mixture and adult
sheep 4oz. Yard the sheep over-night and
give the drench on an empty Stomach. No
food or water should be allowed for at least
two hours after drenching, after which the
sheep can be put on to fresh pasture —if
possible a high, well-drained one. Drench
again in 14 days’ time. (2) On the earliest
indications that they are affected the whole
flock should be drenched. (3) Unknown to
us.
How are, worms removed from the eyes of
folds? —3921.
Ansestlietise the eye with 5 per cent,
cocaine, then lift the nictitating membrane
and drop a 5 per cent, solution of ereolin
directly into the corner of the eye under the
membrane. This will result in a slight
inflammation of the eye, but the soreness
passes away usually in 24 hours.
(1) What steps should a youth of 19 take
to become a journalist? (2) What qualifica-
tions arc necessary? (3) What salary is paid
to beginners? (4) Tlow does a newspaper
t each b eginners ? —4291.
(1) By making application to any of the
daily newspapers for a cadetship. (2) Know-
ledge of English equivalent to the standard
of the Intermediate exam, at any Australian
university and a certain degree of alertness
and intelligence. (3) First year, £2 per
week; 2nd, £3; 3rd and 4th, £4; sth, £5 ss.
(4) The employer is required to see that the
cadet is given instruction in proof-correcting
and sub-editing, and that he occasionally
accompanies senior members employed on
various branches of reporting. The cadet
also is given time to attend shorthand and
typewriting classes and university or other
approved lectures.
(1) What is the purpose of the, R. T. Hall
Sanatorium at Hazelbrook? (2) Who com-
prise the governing body? (3) How can a
patient gain admittance? (4) Arc T.B. cot
cases admitted? —42lo.
(1) It is an institution for curable con-
sumptives, ' resident in Sydney, who have
no means of their own. (2) The trustees
are 1.. A. Curtis (managing trustee) and
Judge D. G. Ferguson. (3) Application
must be made to the trustees by letter, in the
handwriting of the applicant, accompanied
by a certificate from a qualified medical
practitioner, and a testimonial fi’om some
known respectable person in Sydney. (4)
No.
(1) I want to get work in the country
(A. 8.117.) on contract, such as ringbarking,
fencing, etc., and on timber-getting. What
arc. the best districts, and the living con-
ditions? (2) How docs one get in touch with
employers? (3) What kit is necessary?—
4148.
(1) For timber-getting, Gosford district,
and on almost any river from the Manning
to the Tweed.. The Bulga, Comboyne and
Dorrigo are rich 'ror both forest and scrub
timbers. Living conditions are the same as
in any bush camp. Contract fencing work
might be picked up anywhere, but there isn't
much ring-barking nowadays. (2) Station
homesteads and sawmills are best centres for
information. (3) For timber-cutting, a
couple of axes, a crosscut saw, maul and
wedges, and a squaring axe. Regular timber-
getters have teams, and those who employ
cutters usually supply tools. For fencing,
an ordinary axe, mortising axe, adze, post-
hole spade, crowbar, long-handled shovel,
rammer, brace and bit, file, wire plug, wire
key a?/d strainer. The latter can be cut
anywhere in the bush. For ringbarking, a
light axe.
(1) 7 am a holder of N.B.W. land on C.P.
and C.P.L. Can I be compelled to erect a
“ give-and-take ” fence on a creek? (2) If I
refuse can a district surveyor be sent to re-
port at my expense? (3) Has the Land
Board power to order the district surveyor to
m'ake a report? —4l9s.
(1) You are liable only for your share of
the cost of the fence if, upon application by
your neighbor, the Land Board authorises the
erection of the fence. (2) No. (3) No.
(1) Are there any openings in Australian
engineering works for heat-treatment special-
ists? (2) Is heat-treating of tools a separate
department in Australian works, or do men
temper and case-harden for themselves? (3)
Are the opportunities likely to widen in the
next two years? —34B3.
(1) Very few. (2) Some works have a
tool department, where tools are made, tem-
pered and repaired; in others each worker
looks after his own. (3) No.
(1) 7 have a four-valve tuned-anode re-
ceiver and am experiencing difficulty in tun-
ing in the various stations with the exception
of 2FC and 3AR. The aerial coil consists of
52 turns of No. 24 D.C.C. wire wound on a
2 in. former, and the secondary of 62 turns
of siightly smaller wire wound on a spider-
web former of 2in. mean diameter. I am
unable to tune any other station even by
tapping the aerial coil. What coils should I
use in order to cover the broadcast bandf —
4217.
Tho approximate inductance of your aerial
and tuned-anode coils is 106 and 15S MHS
respectively, and these coils, when used in
conjunction with suitable tuning condensers,
will cover the broadcast band. The fact that
you are able to receive 2FC (422 metres)
and 3AR (484 metres) indicates that the
coils are not responsible for your inability
to tune in the other “A”-class stations,
whose wave-lengths lie between 353 and 395
metres. If you are at present using 0.001
M.F. condensers you will obtain better results
by replacing these with 0.0005 M.F. con-
densers and adding about 10 turns to the
aerial coil if the receiver will not tune up to
3AR. A far better plan would be to discard
your present coils and purchase a Browning-
Drake kit. These kits are obtainable from
any of the leading dealers in Sydney or
direct from tin; Metropolitan Electric Cos.,
27-29 King-street, Sydney; price, £2 2s. In
addition to this kit you will require a small
neutralising condenser, which may be pur-
chased for two or three shillings. Should
you decide upon this course of action we will
forward you the four-valve Browning-Drake
circuit, which will constitute a great improve-
ment on the old type of tuned-anode circuit.
If your aerial is directly coupled to tin l grid,
tupping the aerial coil will not affect the
tuning to any great extent.
Is there a cure for neurasthenia coupled
with claustrophobia? —39Bs.
Neurasthenia—and claustrophobia, which
is a symptom rather than disease —can be
cured only by a reputable mental specialist.
If the patient voluntarily submits to treat-
ment the chances of a cure are good.
(1) For how long docs the tide rise and
for how long does it fall? (2) Is the. time
the same all oyer the Pacific Ocean? (3)
Ifow many minutes later is the tide each
day? (4) At what, stage is the tide when
the moon rises and. when it sets?, —4278.
(1) The period is variable, averaging
about Ghr. 12min. (2) Generally speaking,
yes; but there are places which have only
one high and one low tide daily. (3) Varies
from 30 to 70 min. (4) High water may
be reached within from one to four hours
after moonrise, A similar variation also
applies to moonset. See Darwin’s “Theory
of Tides.”
I am in arrears on an order for mainten-
ance of my wife. (1) Is it necessary for her
to identify me before I can be arrested? (2)
Must the police have a search warrant,
or can they arrest me on the strength of
information that I am residing at a certain
address ? —4332.
(1) No. (2) If you have been summoned
to appear before a Court, and have neglected
to do so, a warrant for your arrest would
be issued. It would give the police ample
powers to arrest you, no matter where you
were, and they have several ways of ascer-
taining your identity.
I am 65 years old and have pyorrhea, the
gums being swollen and teeth decayed. Is
a. cure possible? —4293.
It is doubtful whether any cure can be
attempted at your age. You would be well
advised to have the affected teeth extracted,
especially in view of the swollen condition
of your gums.
How can I rid a house of silver fish? —4360.
Mix -loz. corrosive sublimate and 1 quart
of warm water and paint haunts of pests.
Edges of carpets can be painted with a tea-
spoonful of alum and a teaspoonful of borax
dissolved in a teacup of warm water; this
will prevent silverfish entering the rooms.
Spraying their haunts with kerosene and
sprinkling with pyrethrum powder are also
effective deterrents.
(1) Will Blue Mountain parrots lire in
captivity? (2) How should they be fed and
cared for? —4241.
(1) Yes. (2) They should be fed on corn-
meal and sugar, to which may be added a
drop of eucalyptus. Canary-seed should be
added in increasing quantities until the birds
are. inured to a seed diet. They will also
thrive on bread and milk and sugar, with
soft fruits for variety.
Can you supply a list of reliable works on
sheep and station management, also on wool?
—4353.
“Australian Sheep and Wool,” by A.
Ilawkesworth, 255.; “Sheep, Farm and
Station Management,” by E. H. Pearse,
215.; “Australian and New Zealand Sheep’
Farming,” by J. R. Macdonald, 155.; “Beef,
Mutton and Wool,” by W. S. Kelly, 25.;
“Sheep in New Zealand,” by W.
Perry, 55.; “The Sheep-Wool Industry of
Australasia,” by 11. B. Smith, 95.; and
“Classing the Clip,” by E. C. Cowley, 15s.
All obtainable from Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Will X-ray treatment cure acne? —3987.
It depends upon whether your complaint
was diagnosed as acne vulgaris or acne ros-
acea. Let us know, and we will advise you
further.
Brief particulars about the career of the
late Isadora Duncan, classical dancer? —
4328.
Born in San Francisco, 1880. First ap-
pearance, Daly’s Theatre, New York, at 15.
Spent some years studying dancing in Paris
and London. First London appearance, 1900.
Appeared in “The Rubaiyat”' in New York
the same year. Her visit to St. Petersburg
in 1907 had some influence on the revival of
the Russian ballet. In 1908 she appeared at
the Duke of York’s Theatre, London, in the
dances < and choruses from “Iphigenie in
Aulide,” and thereafter had a recognised
place in the stage world of Europe and
America. She revived classical dancing.
(1) What is the best way in which to sub-
mit an Australian novel to English or
American publishing houses—to individual
publishers or through an agent? ' (2) How
can I protect myself against publication
without any payment being made to me?
(3) What is the cost of protection in
England? (4) And in U.S.A.? —4321.
(1) Through an agent, such as Curtis
Brown. (2) By copyrighting the MS. in
Australia at the nearest copyright office; fee,
ss. (3) Copyright here would give you pro-
tection in England. (4) Copyright cannot
be secured in U.S.A, unless the work i s pub-
lished in that country. But no reputable
American publisher would steal your \\o
(1) My horse has itch in all Jour feet,
and the backs of the legs are a mass of
scurfy lumps. What is the matter xcntli
him? (2) What is the best treatment.
—4147.
(1) Probably a mange due to a small para-
site at the back of the pasterns and
fetlocks, but apparently there are compli-
cations, and the symptoms may be assocn
ated with the condition known as * grease.
(2) Wash affected legs with soap and water,
dry thoroughly, then rub in this lotion : U;1
of eucalyptus, 40z.; kerosene, 40z.; nsu
oil, 16oz. In three days' time repeat the
application. Again in three days wash on,
dry, and apply the following lotion once
daily: Sugar of lend. 30z.; sulphate of zinc,
30z.; water, 14 pint. Shake bottle before
use. If this treatment is not effectual, you
should consult a veterinary surgeon.
Information Supplied.
4012. —To drive a circular saw off a
motor-car engine, assuming the engine runs
at 1500 r.p.m., replace one of the rear wheels
of the car with a steel or wood split pulley
lOin. diameter, Sin. face, and on the saw'
shaft a similar split pulley 4in. diameter, 3in.
face. Connect with about 20 feet of Min.
belting. This will give about 400 r.p.m. on
the saw, which is about right for firewood-cut-
ting. If engine speed is not known, ascertain
from car agents, and adjust sizes of pulleys
accordingly.—“W.M."
4104.—F0r whitewash for outside walls,
mix lib. melted mutton fat into a kerosene-
f inful of limewash ; stir briskly.
Does Anybody Know ?
How to make home-made fly-paper?—43os.
Meaning of following place names in Tweed
River (N.SiW.) district: Tyalgum. Cliin-
derah, Tygalgali, Kynnumboon, Dulguigan,
Cougal, Tliunberrigan, Boyung Thugai and
Nullum? —3986.
How can 1 prevent weevils from getting
into rabbit skins?—437s.
Brief Answers.
K.W.: The plans should cost not more
than three to five guineas. A. Barber, 4 Bridge-street,
Greenlees and Cos., Endeavor House, Macquarie Place,
or H. P. Stacey, 0 Dalley-street., all of Sydney,
would quote you a price... . D.J.W.: Proper tools for
making linoleum pictorial blocks are difficult to ob-
tain here, and most Australian followers of the art
improvise their own. A Sydney teacher is Tliea
Proctor, 219 George-street... .E.0.F.N.: Fyvie and
Stewart, consulting engineers, 362 Coillins-street,
Melbourne.... \.G.L.: There is no breed of fowls
here known as the .Jury.... H.T.: Write to
L. Armitage, El Vietoriano, Mont Buez, F.C.C.A.
Railway; W. Mackay, La Mimosa, B.A. and P.
Railway, Buena Esperanza; W. Mackay, Quinguan,
B. A. and P. Railway, Buena Esperanza, and the
manager of La Selmira, Gualeguaychu, Entre Rios
Railway, all of Argentina... .J.A.8.H.: (1) N.S..W.
Bookstall Cos., Comer Castlereagh and Market
Streets, Sydney, can supply A. L. Gordon’s collected
verses at 2s. 6d. (2) Looking into polo question....
P.D.: It is the usual practice for a IB teacher to
wait until he receives 84 efficiency before he writes
his 1A thesis. ...Quids: No, they are too speculative.
. ...P.R.W. and C.P.: Write to Percy Marks, 5
Hunter-street, Sydney... .S.S. : Agricultural tractors
are admitted free under the British Preferential
Tariff and are dutiable at 10 per cent, ad valorem,
under the General Tariff... .Seymour C.: Very close.
... .A.T.S.: (1) Queensland or Equity may give you
the best return; the two big Sydney concerns are
very solid. (2) Yes, prospects good. ... J.T.K.: The
results of the weight-guessing competitions at the
Sydney R.A.S. were: White bullock, 8081 b. ; roan
bullock, 7651 b P.M.M.1.: Sorry; newspapers
published in N.S.W. are forbidden by law to pub-
lish information concerning sweeps conducted out-
side the State... .C.M.: No, the time-payment firm
may refuse to take delivery... .R.P..T.: “Principles
and Practice of Show Card Writing,” by L. E. Blair,
(165.) ; “Ticket and Show Card Designing,” by F. A.
Pearson (4s. 6d.) ; “Standard American Show Card
Book” (125.). Dymoek’s, Sydney... .K.F.H.: (1)
Gourock and Cos., 379 Kent-street, Sydney. (2)
Marine Industries, Ltd., Pindimar, Port Stephens,
N.S.W., and Shark Fisheries, Ltd., O’Riordan-street,
Alexandria, Sydney, are the only ones known to us.
(3) See “Catching Sharks for Profit,” by T. C.
Roughley, in the Australian Museum Magazine
(Vol. 3, No. 5, Jan.-Mar., 1928) ... .Mother: Supply
us with your name and address and we will send you
what information we have been able to gather....
J.R.: See reply to 4291 this issue. .. .C.J.M.L.: A
sample tin of A.G.L. creosote wood-preserving oil can
be secured from the Australian Gas Light Cos., Pitt-
street, Haymarket, Sydney... .E.F.: See “Brief
Answer” to P.M.M.I C.W.P.: Expect any- rise
to be very slow. But the security is pretty good.
. ...K.8.M.: (1) No; so it is not necessary to
answer the others....H.G.S.M.: Been very disap-
pointing ; but it’s a bad time, this, to sell coal
shares. .. .J.M.: When the Q’land Director of
Fruit Culture stated that “complete prevention of
fruit fly attack is not practicable,” he meant that
where fruit fly exist they are always more or less
liable to attack fruit, in spite of any method of con-
trol employed... .P.K.: Ask the office where duty
was paid for an explanation. . . .M.K.G.: Write to th-
Director, Vocational Guidance Bureau, N.S.W. Dept,
of Education... .N.G.: Baldwin Spencer’s address
is 4 Tintern-avenue, Toorak, Vic A.E.L.: Sound
enough; but bonuses will be small for a good many
years... .C.S.E.: Can’t understand your account of
it. Why not appeal to the trustees, and if they
won’t do a fair thing, stop planting?. .. .A.P.: The
best offer we can get is £157 Bs. sd. p.a. from the
National Mutual, a thoroughly good office. Sydney
address, 350 George-street. .. .C.A.L.: Lyster Onnsby.
26 Hunter-street, Sydney.... J.M.: Clipper sharpen-
ing is a job for experts. Get in touch with R. T.
Milham and Sons, Ltd., 20 Goulburn-street, Cheetham
and Son, Elizabeth-street, or C. Ward. 45 Goulburn-
street, all of Sydney... .C.H.A.: British subjects
travelling from Australia to Maoriland do not re-
quire passports or permits. A taxation clearance
certificate is also unnecessary K.M.: The weapon
was imported into Australia several years back
but proved entirely unsatisfactory and its importa-
tion was discontinued. There are no agents in
Australia... .J.A.8.H.: (1) “Rules and By-laws of
the N.S.W. Polo Association” posted. (2) “Position
and Team Play in Polo,” by W. B. Deverina, Jr., and
“As to Polo,” by W. Cameron Forbes, obtainable
through Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (3) N.S.W.
Polo Association, 56 Hunter-street, Sydney, will give
you any information required.... (Many other,
mailed.)


Dos
I Mira
enior Jine
4/
k
m
m
Custom Quality at Moderate Cost
Dodge Brothers Senior is designed to meet
the exacting demands of those who appre-
ciate fine things.
It is built in a separate plant, specially equip-
ped, for Senior production, at a cost of
just on one million pounds.
Materials used in the Senior are the best that
Dodge Brothers vast purchasing resources
can command.
And they are wrought to precision standards
usually found only in custom manufacture.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
JVinterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Broth e-rs
MOTOR CARS
F.S. 343


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne. Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
V
S '
N £
■m)
■■'T\
sN •
\ ,
c
; &S. v.,,--'
L„
„_*■ £
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
Poverty
Point
“Spokeshave”: The organisation least
likely to be affected by a ban on negroes
and other imported entertainers is Fullers’.
About 95 p.c. of the artists on its circuit
are Australian-born, and a good part of the
other fragment is of British extraction resi-
dent in this country.
“Waranbini” : Old Marvellous, the dancing
aborigine who has made countless thousands
laugh, has now a camp at Junee (N.S.W.)
hospital. He objected to going into a ward,
so was accommodated under a tree outside.
For many years he frequented shows and
appeared in towns, dancing and singing wher-
i ver he could get an audience. With bare
feet and bare bald head, his trousers rolled
up above his knees, and rattling a couple of
sticks or boomerangs, his quaint one-man
show seldom failed to draw a crowd. At
the end of each performance he grinned
broadly and ejaculated, “Marvellous!” in a
low voice of self-adulation. Marvellous is
said to be more than 100 years old, and has
an aged son at Nowra named Wondrous.
“Santander”: Athol Tier, the Australian
comedian who is so tall that a joke developed
in his duodenum is already a chestnut by
the time it reaches publicity, is favorably
mentioned for his part in “The Spider” at
the London Winter Garden. “The Spider"
is the American drama which, after a decep-
tive vaudeville prologue, breaks the news of
its presence by having a man dash down
the central aisle of the stalls and murder the
peaceful sword-swallower or pince-nez jug-
gler who is appearing at the time. During
the subsequent developments, in which the
unidentified killer disappears, the atmosphere
of tense realism is made almost unbearable
by the appearance of a cohort of cops, who
with menacing automatics prevent any of the
audience leaving until the miscreant is found.
Tier is one of the artists who spoof the
audience.
“Runa”: The first attempt at seat-selling
by auction in Auckland (M.L.) was made
some years ago in connection with a concert
company starring a youthful Australian
soprano. The citizens quickly retired from
the bidding and left the horde of obvious
speculators to snap up the tickets at in-
flated prices. When the speculators began
to look round for purchasers nobody seemed
anxious to buy and a conspiracy of non-
purchase was hatched by press and public.
As the concert date approached the holders
of the unwanted tickets became alarmed,
and announced drastic reductions in prices,
but the public looked stolidly on and made
no attempt to buy. In the end the get-rich-
quick brigade sold their stock at about the
usual price. It put an end to ticket specu-
lation in Auckland for some years.
“Goldilocks”: Allowing his pen to bolt, a
picture ad-man painted this thrilling acro-
batic picture the other day:—
“Fabien buried his face in Manon’s curls, and as
her sweetness took possession of his senses kissed
her —many times—while she pillowed his head upon
her breast and bowed hers in adorable submission.”
Still it might have been: “With his lips
pressed to hers in passionate embrace, whilst
the fires of burning love scorched his heart,
he, in his ecstasy, kissed her pink toe.”
“Au Fait”: “H.C.C.” argues (B. 18/4/’2B)
that the picture-show is too lifelike to be
allowed to give up its happy ending. On
the contrary, I think the average intelligence
is gradually improving; the sloppy, common-
place films with the inevitable love-knot and
orange blossoms is starting to give even my
stenographer a pain. The better-class film
story need not necessarily be morbid to be
arresting and unusual.
“Bill Bowyang”: When the manager of a
small vaudeville company arrived at a N.Q.
bush township recently he found that Wingy
Dick, an aged abo., was the only resident
willing to parade the streets with the bell.
Wingy’s reward was an invitation to bring
his wife and family along to the show, and
just before curtain-rise he arrived with several
young dusky adults of both sexes and about
two dozen youngsters. “All family belonga
me,” he announced cheerfully. “That be
hanged,” roared the manager. “Why, the
crowd you’ve brought will nearly fill the
hall.” “Can’t help it, boss,” grinned Wingy,
"these all family belonga me—one pfeller
wife; four pfeller uncle, three pfeller aunt,
an’ 20 pfeller piccaninny belonga all of us.”
The audience settled the dispute by threaten-
ing to demand their money back if the abos.
were not admitted, but the manager vowed
that in future he would ring the bell hint-
self before he would employ another abo. to
boost his show.
“Cauboy”: Such was the rush for the
cheap reserved seats for the Fuller-Gonsalez
operas in Melbourne that the queues began
to form at the Town Hall booking-office the
night before, and a phenomenon new to Mel-
bourne presented itself. Blowing their cold
fingers among the hundreds who kept the
long vigil were several from a messenger ser-
vice, hired by would-be ticket-buyers.
“C. 8.”: The present Melbourne season
won’t see the end of the Gilsullivan opera
company. It goes next to Perth and Adel-
aide and then to the bigger country centres.
The whole circuit of Australia and M.L. has
taken two and a half years to complete;
which suggests that it could easily be made
permanent.
“Lever de It.” : Deeds of apparent violence
and bogus homicides among the audience are
becoming ever more frequent. In a recent
London play a member of the audience got
up and deliberately shot his next-door
neighbor. The police rushed in, and it
wasn’t until the supposed criminal had been
hauled on to the stage that some of the
spectators realised that the thing was make-
believe. Criminal assaults in the middle of
the auditorium in Australian vaudeville
houses are so common that nobody takes
any notice of them. The insane business
will stop when some real murderer, in order
to ensure a safe get-away, selects a box at
a leading theatre for a genuine homicide.
ON THE TIVOLI CIRCUIT.
Florrie Le Verve in her very own dance, the
Sugarfoot Strut (patent unapplied for).
“Cauboy”; The ancient controversy as to
whether the character is in the make-up box
has been revived by Percy Hutchison’s per-
formance of M. Noblet in “Mr. What’s-His-
Name” at the Melbourne Athenaeum. Any-
thing less traditionally Parisian than this ex-
Victorian it would be hard to conceive. He
doesn’t even trouble to adorn himself with
Gallic whiskers. He is simply an ordinary
Australian barber and his conquests of his
fashionable clients have to be taken very
much for granted on personal appearance
alone. Nevertheless, you have to believe him
when he claims to have laid waste a multi-
tude of ladies’ hearts. It is a case of arti-
fice triumphing over plausibility.
“Goldilocks”: The qualities which made
Germans the best hotel waiters in the world
are coming out in the Fritz film industry.
The films are being made for a world market
in which English-speaking countries loom
large, and in two of them which touched on
the war an American and an Englishman
loomed chivalrously and almost heroically.
It is, no doubt, the old policy of anything
to oblige; but it must be said of the Ger-
man film that it does not pander in the
way that makes American films, on the aver-
age, sickly products. German pictures are
usually artistic.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : It’s strange that no
manager has taken Ernest Hutcheson back to
Australia for a tour. As a “child wonder,”
Hutcheson, under the guidance of his patron,
Rev. Dr. Torrance, of Balaclava, could fill
the Melbourne Town Hall to overflowing.
“LA FAVORITA” BY THE GONSALEZ COMPANY.
Nina Alaozino ( Leonore ) is renounced by Alessandro Rota
(Ferdinand).
For many years he has made his home in
America, where lie is in the first rank of
resident pianists and also professor at one of
the foremost colleges. He keeps in touch with
the modern spirit by making visits to Europe,
especially to the German art centres where
he had his early training. At his last recital
in Chicago lie had a rapturous welcome
from a crowded house. _
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The most interesting
theatrical fare recently is the presentation
at the old Vic. of “The Two Noble Kins-
men,” a' romantic tragedy attributed to
Shakspeare and Fletcher. It is founded on
Chaucer’s tale of “Palainon and Arcite,” an
alluring story of two princes, friends, who
fall in love with the same woman and decide
to settle their dispute by mortal combat,
from which meeting they emerge still friends,
In an Ophelia-like scene as the mad daughter
of the gaoler, Jean Forbes Robertson gave
a remarkably fine impersonation which en-
thralled the critics. Her emotional re-
straint, elf-like gestures and weird intensity
of utterance raised her part to undreamt of
significance, and she received an immense
ovation from an audience which included her
distinguished parents.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond ): Percy Grain-
ger has planned to spend the gieatei part
ot the 19-8-29 musical season in Europe, and
M e atS
phase of activity is tim direction of master
Sasses at Chka-o in which citv liis exuber-
ant personality has appealed to students and
professors of the pianoforte. Among his dis-
tinguislied colleagues conducting these master
classes at the Chicago Musical College are
Leopold Auer and Leon Sametini.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Up to the time
vaic v V., rw,™
of writing the directors of the Royal Opera,
Covent Garden, have not been able to secure
Jeritza for the forthcoming season. There
is much grumbling from the usual sub-
scribers, for the Viennese prima donna to-day
dominates the world of vocal music in a
quite unprecedented way. Jenny Lind had
Grisi, Mario and other stars to dispute her
supremacy. Patti was ruffled by the claims
of Tietjens, Nillsson, Trebelli and Sims
Reeves. When Melba was at her zenith there
were the De Reszkes, Nordica, Calve, Sem-
brich, Lames, Caruso, McCormack and
Bonci all claiming eminence. But there
is no one reckless enough to challenge
the unique standing of Jeritza. Her tall,
slender figure, fine features and masses of
natural golden hair are endowments thac
cannot be bought; and, an actress of unusual
gifts, she delights lovers of the drama even
when she borders on extravagance. A great
singer with a great voice which she can use
to perfection in six languages, and the wife
of a wealthy and titled banker, there is no
equipment for fame lacking. She began life
in very modest circumstances, and the *
chievous gaiety with which she half insoien >
accepts her present supremacy is not
out attraction for her hosts of admirers.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: “Our Betters,” which
Margaret Bannerman is to play, put the pea a
upon Somerset Maugham’s triumphs in lAin-
(lon. Some of his early plays were coin-
parative failures, although “Lady 1 1'edericK
ran 422 performances in 1907 and Airs.
Dot” for 272 in the following year At
the Globe “Our Betters” ran for 544 per-
formances. Margaret Bannerman was in it
then, and is the only member of the London
cast who will be in the Australian produc-
tion.
“L.H.P.” : Up till a comparatively recent
time it was thought that “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” could not be staged. Vestris
was tin; first to
break the legend at
Covent Garden in
1840. Australia's
initial production
of the comedy was
at the old Mel-
bourne Princess in
1863, with Joe Jef-
ferson (the great
“Kip”) as Bottom.
Sydney saw an ex-
cellent production
in 1878, with Mrs.
Scott-Siddons and
Chap 1 i n in the
leads. Then the
comedy was shelved
until Geo. Rignold’s
superb show in the
Christmas season
o f 1889-90. 11
proved as payable
as a panto., and
was frequently re-
vived. Geo. Mus-
grove’s beautiful
three-act version in
1903 and Oscar
Aselie’s four - act
edition in 1913
(both at Sydney
Royal), plus the
Wilkie efforts,
complete the stage-history here of the
“Dream.”
"Flaming Youth”: Going on to Melbourne,
Tivolians Joe and Harry Kelso revisit their
native heath, which they haven’t seen for
] 7 years. Harry was in the composing room
of the Age when the sack came to him, and
he joined up with his brother, who had gone
on the variety stage as a juggler. They
were small potatoes in their own country, so
they decided to give America a try, and, as
a result, have come back as a star turn,
“Clarence Fitz Flunkey”: According to the
official records, the King has attended only
a little over 1(50 theatrical performances
since he came to the throne (about 10 a
year), and he hasn’t the habit of going in
mufti that his father had. It seems like very
poor encouragement to the theatric arts, but
the war years were greatly responsible. His
Maj. didn’t see a single show in 1914 after
the outbreak of war; and his six war-time
appearances were all at benefit performances,
including one for the Shakspearean ter-
centenary. Nov. 14, 1928, saw him at the
Alhambra to see “The Bing Boys on Broad-
way,” and he got in six performances before
t h e end of the year.
« Cau boy”: The first impression of the
Tait-Williamson Comedy Theatre in Mel-
hourne is one of good taste. The interior
o TS&TL IS SZ
b . ecillties Wltb whlch mov h e people are mar-
rin S the urbanscape. There are a modest
3200 seats and the stage is 40 feet wide,
'Y IKb 18 laige f°r a theatre intended for
be literary drama Bevesford I owler gets
a l° n g on a platform lo byl.i. I>ut lnti-
ma°y can be overdone, and the dress circle
f ems almost overhang the stage. The
d.c. patron will see the top of the actors
,1 , f stellites will <mt vood
A‘ ’ ‘I, I ', , tne X* staintes will B et gooa
V 1 ws 0 tbe r °ofs of their mouths. They
can compare notes in the vestibule, which is
distinctly handsome.
“I. Phelps”: Ferociously industrious
George M. Cohan, who wrote “Seven Keys to
Baldpate” and “Get-Rich-Quick Walling-
ford,” in addition to producing two or three
shows during the current New York season,
got off “Whispering Friends,” “The Merry
Malones” and “The Baby Cyclone.” “Wliis-
pering Friends,” which chirped its way
into notice at the Hudson Theatre, will
probably compel him to hire another bank
to hold his winnings. In the cast is our old
verbose and blustery friend, William Harri-
gan, who immortalised the gaudy brother-in-
law in “Bought and Paid For.”
“L. de R.”: Lynch Cooper, the Jepar.t
(Vic.) sprinter who won the Stawell Gift,
has insured his legs for £lOOO. This, how-
ever, doesn’t compare with Pavlova. Her
policy when she visited Australia was
£20,000 on the ankles alone.
COWED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A lion-tamer’s wife was recently granted a decree
nisi on the ground of desertion.”
Your Fells Leo has a way
Of throwing on his facial screen
Two rows of teeth that none could say
He’d like to feel his flesh between;
But lions, when they’re caged, art' tame,
And know the hand by which they’re fed;
A missus is not quite the same—
And so the lion-tamer fled. ,
Your lion has some hefty claws
Of steel, it cannot be denied,
But heated irons will make him pause
Before he sheathes them in your hide.
But not by methods, such as those
Can man disarm a shrew lie’s wed,
Which may the inwardness disclose
Of why the lion-tamer fled.
Though ravening beasts might snarl their
hate,
He plied his craft and scorned to dread.
’Twas merely his domestic fate
From which the lion-tamer fled.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


BLACK
WHITE
'
■
■
. ,
V ; '
l ■ ." a ;
.11
' * A '< • v -
*msk fci
>
> • >- '-L
m ,*i % " mml • *p
4%.
■«
*
> %
'MiX-rm
wifi?
&fsa
. 'VV,
ITWyS
~-,r
»
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAJrANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,00u
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Fkank N. Yaiiwood; H. R. Lysaoiit, 0.8. E. ;
George J„ Si.v, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; Jambs Kei.u.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE. SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New Soutli Wales,
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and XVYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,’fi09’655
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Cleat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or int S
periods and Jransaets all other usual Banking business.
TIfB
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances
j effected on all classes ol
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furhi
ture. &c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels. Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United’' it) an Australian Institution.
V. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**■ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne
SAFE with GUYATT’Si
fds
Tlk> improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove eVery claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
'ld
V ; V ji
,f
°\a-
s*)<-.,. N \
t?f a »
<GW£Y
HAIR
WOULD
1 SPOIL
IT
#
Jffl 5 .
(»«
WALNUT
Stain
REMOVES THE GREY
Shipping, etc.
■ • a
w
M
US
to
PACIFIr
os
fMT
»
NAD
TO
UNITED STATES
& E URO PE
NIAGARA . . 13,415 tons, May 3 )
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons, May 31 ]
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
and Vancouver.
MAKURA ... 8,075 tons, May 17 (
MAUNGANUI 7,527 tons, June U )
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
f) 0 llD^6 URS ' ONs
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
. Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3 500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'• 'I
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
m
£7,494,260
5,650,000
7,494,260
£20,638,520
Dir ec lots:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Kaitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert \V. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; 0. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
517 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
“THE WOMAN S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d,
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; "at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf poits.
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and Nortli-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
I'OW NSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Marvboromrli. Mundaberg and Gladstone, and
it Townsville for outporta).
CANBERRA
ORMISTON
BOIIBALA
ORUNGAL
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Ivembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.. Kembia Big.
58 Afnrearet St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Sunshine and Flowers Now in
HAWAII
Avoid the winter cold by visiting the Islands
of Enchantment. Total cost of round trip from
Sydney in 8 weeks or less (3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii) about £lOO to £l5O. En route to
America or Europe, “stop-over” privilege costs
no more. All modern American conveniences at
good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3 per day.
Tropical scenery; fresh fruits, vegetables;
thrilling melody; golfing, motoring, outrigger
canoeing and surf-board riding; inter-island
cruises. Ask steamship or travel agent, or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full description in
colored booklet, attaching this advertisement.
NO EXTRA COST TO BREAK YOUR
JOURNEY AT
HAWAII
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
CAPE
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST. WATT. SANDERSON.
I'el. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydpey.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills k Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OItARA —-Every Saturday evening; passenger*
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WULLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD..
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co.. Ltd
Huddart ParkerLi^l
Mag'nifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.


The CCL//AHD Lir\e of Beauty
■
'.-A
“HOW SMART > but
“S' ~I /OW SMART —how marvelously it
fits” women say these things of
G/ L Gossard foundation garments because
Gossard designers are artists and stylists, and
because women who know Gossards fit them to
your figure. The fashionable clear cut figure line
of the woman who is Gossard corseted comes
not only from the superb designing of Gossard
foundations, but from the developed knowl-
edge of the corsetiere' s art. The corsetiere who
serves you, who chooses just the right garment
for your figure does so not by chance, but be-
cause she has been trained by schooled Gossard
experts. Thus the unequalled fashion attain-
ment made possible by Gossard materials,
designing, and workmanship, is brought to you
in perfect accord by the corsetiere trained in
Gossard corsetry.
Gossard Corsets
are made within the Empire
Front-lacing corsets, clasp-arounds, step-
ins, Gossard Completes and combinations,
in the new Autumn designs are waiting for your
inspection at your favourite store. Let your cor-
setiere give you a trial fitting in the garments
particularly suited to your figure needs.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd*j
114 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Type, Tripe & Co.
“0.W.W.”: Frank admission of an adver-
tiser in a Gisborne (M.L.) newspaper:
“Station cook and baker seeks employment;
no references (I put them in the fire).”
“Homfrey Beale”: Over lunch the other
day I discussed with another contributor the
Easter number article “The Men Who Make
The Bulletin.” Ilis final remark was:
“Anyhow, there’s one thing we know now,
and that’s the cows we’ve got to deal with.”
“Lao-dali”: Melbourne Herald is now
indulging in the apt headlines started by its
morning sister, the Sun Pictorial. When
an English aviator who is trying to popu-
larise sky-signwriting postponed his first
effort owing to cloudy weather, the Herald
headed it “Sky too smudged to write on.”
“Omega”: “Bill Bowyang” is unfair to
the newsagent (B. 11/4/’2B), as he may
easily convince himself by consulting Gordon
and Gotcli’s latest list of the buying and
selling prices of English and American
magazines—this firm distributes 95 per cent,
of this class of publication. I should like
him to mention any overseas magazine that
is bought for 9d. and .sold for Is. (3d. Twenty
or 25 per cent, of retail price is the usual
profit.
From an Adelaide critic:—
Lionel Lindsay holds a farewell show at Preece’s
Gallery—European water-colors this time. His pic-
tures were fairly divided, and there is a lot of new
work at least equal to that shown in the other cities.
In his favorite Spain the artist has found a hard, clear
atmosphere much like the Australian. Boldness of
attack is the main feature; no “niggling” with
color. Shadows, light or another cleverly-
conceived feature. Hans Heysen contributes a hand-
some appreciation to the catalogue: “Deeply sorry to
lose him, yet conscious that Australia’s art could
not be represented by a finer ambassador.”
“Stellsby”: When the lifer Alan Moore
was released from Pentridge the other day
the Argus gave the incident a column and
a half and followed it with a condemnatory
leading article. The Age said nothing. Its
silence may be attributed either to its un-
willingness to injure its pet Labor Ministry
in the eyes of its readers or to a forgiving
spirit on the part o| Geoffrey Syme
(Moore’s intended victim), or possibly to
both.
After over forty years of sometimes gentle
and sometimes strenuous opposition, the
Kerang New Times and the Kerang
Observer (Vic.) have amalgamated under
the name of the former. The Times was
founded in 1877 by the late George Adams.
The Observer arrived on the scene some-
where in the ’eighties, when the late W. J.
Davey, then Times editor, took some of the
staff across the street with him and started
an opposition paper. This month E. M. C.
Daley, who had acquired both papers,
merged them into one.
“F.R.”; Much of the South Sea fiction
published in the 20-cent Yankee magazines
bears evidence of being far-fetched —
written by people who never saw the islands;
but L. I*. B. Armit, of Port Moresby,
Papua, is an exception. Not long since he
won a £25 prize awarded by the Danger
Trail for the best story in one of its
issues. Armit’s yarns are of the islands that
are, and there is an absence of beautiful
dusky maidens and drunken brutal skippers.
Our old friend Albert Dorrington still
keeps the wolf from the door per means of
the Yankee fiction magazines, but I don’t
know what has happened to James Francis
Dwyer.
“Barangkali”: For illegible handwriting
among journalists (B. 4/4/’2B) my nomina-
tion would be J. W. Bradley, late of the
N.Z. Press Association, whose press messages
to Maoriland could always be relied upon
to give even the most experienced cableman
a headache. After 42 years of journalistic
work Bradley has resigned his position to
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE.
“He says I am the first girl he ever loved.
But of course I don’t believe that.”
“How sensible of you! I did.”
take up agricultural pursuits. For 10 years
he was connected with the sub-editorial staff
of the Daily Telegraph, aWI was Sydney
representative of the Melbourne Age. He
joined the N.Z. Press Association over 32
years ago, and in 1910 succeeded A. J. Fraser
as Australian manager. He is an amateur
botanist of some distinction.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London:—
The old-established business house of Shoolbreds, ill
Tottenham Court-road, which was sticking too rigidly
to the commercial methods of Queen Victoria’s early
days, has now become thoroughly modernised, and
marks the opening of the spring season by a Festival
Week. For this occasion prominent West End
actresses will act as mannequins on different days
and show the old and young how to wear their
clothes to the best advantage. Dorothy Secombe
is one of the stage favorites selected for this task,
which shows that this clever Australian comedienne
has reached the front row in popularity. Violet Van-
brugh, the elegant sister of Mrs. Dion Boucicault,
has opened a studio at Grosvenor-street, Mayfair,
where she trains mannequins and others in deport-
ment, poise, style and the art of wearing clothes
with distinction. She has always been no'ed for the
grace and bold originality of her own apparel.
“The Secret History of the Land Boom
and Banks’ Smash in Victoria” is the title of
a book written by George Meudell, of Mel-
bourne, for publication in June. The writer
was actively engaged as an accountant and
company manager and on Melbourne Stock
Exchange from 1885 to 1895.
“Garbut”: Did Steele Rudd ever sleep
twice under the same roof during his earlier
days? Every second house between Allora
and Toowoomba (Q.) has been pointed out
to me as “the house Steele Rudd used to
live in.” How he found time between re-
movals to write “On Our Selection” has me
beaten.
“Mark Suspenders”: It will cause him
only an extra curse or two, so I might as
well ask “Bill Bowyang” if he thinks he
gave his short-lived magazine any sort of a
chance. In this place, Toowoomba (Q.),
which is at least a healthy-sized town, I
never saw the publication until it had ceased
to be one. I may be a little slow, but I
am a magazine-reader, and there must have
been many more who would have taken the
mag. if it had lasted longer than a couple of
issues.
THE RIGHT MATERIAL.
“I say, he’s a bit of a rough diamond, isn’t
he?”
“Yes, that’s why I cut him!”
“The Traveller” : Unless the editors of the
Vic. Railways Magazine mix the contents
of the much-discussed rag a bit the general
public is not likely to rush it (B. 4/4/’2B).
At present it is almost entirely “eyewash”
for the officers and the department. Any
item in commendation of the railway service
or its officers is sure to go in, whatever the
source, but adverse criticism is left severely
alone. About 90 per cent, of those who use
Vic. railways have some complaints, but they
have scant hope of getting them aired in the
Magazine.
J. H. Curie, author of “The Shadow Show”
and “This World of Ours,” has been back
in Sydney and gone off to New Caledonia.
Curie, who has been probably in every coun-
try where foot of man lias trod, is still a
bachelor and reputedly a millionaire, though
he didn’t find his gold at the bottom of his
ink-well, but conventionally enough buried in
gold-mines, lie declares he loathes publicity,
which is why he publishes his books under his
own name. There’s less concealment in a
pen-name, he swears.
“V.14.R.”: Within the last 10 years five
daily newspapers have had to shut down in
Tasmania —the North-West Post (Devou-
port), Xeehan and Dundas Herald (Zee-
lian), 'World (ITobart), News (Hobart)
and, lastly, the Daily Telegraph (Laun-
ceston). This leaves only three dailies in
the Speck—the Mercury (Hobart), Ex-
aminer (Launceston) and Advocate (Bur-
nic), and a regular circulation war is on
between them. The Hobart paper is now de-
livered by motor-car at Launceston at 6 a.m.,
and the Examiner is in the Advocate’s
territory at the same time. The cost of the
hurry-up to each of the city papers is several
thousands per annum; a good many new
subs, will be required to make it pay.
Melbourne Art:—
A couple of Carlyle Jackson’s water-colors—Nos. 3
and 9—arrest the eye at the Melbourne Athenauin
long enough for evidence to be taken down in
their favor. Most of the others are easily overlooked
unless one is searching for faults of drawing and
perspective. The oils show some advance over previous
exhibitions. Clewin Harcourt, who, after a four years’
sojourn in Europe, has suspended 58 frames from the
nails provided by the New Gallery, shows a deter-
mination to make pictures at all costs. Here we
have every variety of trick forced into service—com-
position reminiscent of many masters, sensational
bits of color and the sun used as a theatrical spot-
light. Of all Mr. Harcourt’s efforts, writer prefers
No. 17, showing a misty river and a bronchial-
Idoking city, but the admirably observed foreground
is spoiled by the pictorial cloudscape. ‘‘Heartsboume
Pryors” is also worth a visit.
“H.E.D.”: According to Frederic Harri-
son’s “Life of Cromwell” (B. 18/4/’2S).
Richard Cromwell, the great-grandfather of
the Protector, was named Williams, his
father being a Welshman named Morgan Wil-
liams. The same Richard alternated the sur-
name with that of Cromwell because hit
mother was tbe sister of Thomas Cromwell,
“the Hammer of Monasteries.” Both names,
it appears, were afterwards used by the
family, often concurrently. Both are found
in Oliver Cromwell’s marriage settlement and
in the inscription above his bed when hi;
effigy was lying in state. Lord Morley, whose
“Life of Cromwell” appeared in 1900, covers
much the same ground in discussing this
matter.
"Bill Fitz”: Although all the contem-
porary playwrights were loaded with orders
to write for the 10th anniversary of the Rus-
sian Revolution, only what should have
been expected happened. Shakspeare wasn’t
ousted; in fact, he leads in the 1928 an-
nouncements, in which 40 new productions
are listed, mostly by Russian Communists,
though a few foreigners are included. Tb-
Soviet censorship seems to be easing. A Mos-
cow daily asserts that, generally speaking, the
Government-controlled theatres have dis-
sipated much of their energy and alienated
support by seeking for “advanced” dramatic
forms and are now looking for good dramat-
ists. That sounds healthy, - anyway.


You can now have
WILI.YSKMGHT
Six-Cylinder
MOTOR TRUCKS
in 1-ton 2-ton 2%-ton capacities
The present competitive age demands
that your business secure the best
equipment available for modern trans-
portation. The six-cylinder truck has
generally supplanted the four-cylinder
and now the six-cylinder patented
Knight-engined truck is rapidly gain-
ing supremacy as the most efficient,
most dependable and most economical
form of motor transport.
The big, powerful six-cylinder double-
sleeve engine of the Willys-Knight
trucks offers extreme flexibility and
uniform compression—and freedom
from troubles that take most trucks
periodically out of service. No valves
to grind, carbon never a nuisance,
positive sleeve action, dependable per-
formance— these valuable assets and
many other advantages of modern
chassis construction are assured in the
purchase of a Willys-Knight truck.
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlercagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGIIT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-126 Russell Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER AND SON,' LTD.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD.. 62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGIIT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
LONG ECONOMICAL LIFE
■
Cr
iSS
LsS^
The shortest, quickest route to the British Isles is that via
San Francisco and New York—29 days.
On the way across the Pacific, aboard a Matson Oceanic
liner, the traveller revels in the glorious beauty of the "Isles
of Enchantment”—Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii —each island group
with a distinctive allure of its own..
Then the transcontinental tour aboard palatial trains —over
the scenic Sierras and the Rocky Mountains, regions of
rugged grandeur; through gorgeous National Parks, and
onward to Chicago and New York, where skyscrapers rise in
majestic terraces.
If you are planning a trip to Britain, by all means include this tour
via the Pacific and across the United States. The fare from Sydney
to any English port by this route is £125, first-class throughout; to
England and return, £235, with choice of the Suez route for the
homeward journey if desired. Other fares: £ll2 and £92 single;
£209 and £ 176 return, according to class selected.
The illustrated travel leaflet, "Across the United States,” is free upon
request.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA
Sailing every third Saturday.
s oeiANie
CiATOON LICI I
r , 12 Bridge Street, Sydney. £ —2&
Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 Kin:
william St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane
JOHN JAMEfON
* -f ■¥■
WHISKEY
THE J.J. whiskey we sell to-day is
made in Dublin by the old and ex-
/ pensive Pot Still method—the same
method that we used in 1780. For by
no other process is it possible to
produce the same quite unusual soft-
ness and the generous full John
Jameson flavour.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
* * * *
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited, Melbourne, Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W.A.


WITH A
W. W. GREENER
GUN
“Calrossie” at Monte
Carlo scored eleven con-
secutive kills 36 yards
rise— 1 9 yards boundary.
Wholesale Representatives :
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With the Nationals not far distant, Vic-
torian racegoers are taking more interest in
the jumpers. One decidedly promising per-
former seen out at Caulfield on Saturday
is Black Allen, an All Black gelding in Jos
Carr’s stable ; he won the Khartoum Hurdle,
at eights, in taking style from Giff and Long-
lands. Another impressive customer is Tal-
pha (9 to 2), one of Ron Cameron’s strong
team, who scored easily in the Neerim
Steeple from Ancient Mariner and Lachlan.
Second and third, however, should do better
later on.
With the Doncaster winner Simeon’s Fort
withdrawn on the course, there was nothing
special about the quality of the dozen starters
for the Glen Huntly Handicap. A. T. Cres-
wiek’s mare Amarelle, with Duncan on top,
was a solid favorite at threes, Mountain
Prince (9 to 2), Buffline and Anan Louise
(7 to 1) and Sacedon (8 to 1) being also in
the market. The ancient Llanthony once
more went to the front and set up a long
lead, but ran wide at the turn, and Amarelle
and Buff line slipped through on the rails.
The pair were fighting it out at the distance,
but neither was fated to win; Lanson (25
to 1), finishing with a rattle, caught the
judge’s eye first, being half a length in front
of Taciturn (10 to 1), who came from a long
way back; Buffline was another neck away
and Amarelle fourth. Lanson, who is by
Chrysippus—Horton Queen, won the Oaks
in 1926, but has done little or nothing since.
She is engaged in the Adelaide Cup with
7st. 51b. —101 b. more than she had at
Caulfield —and is naturally to have a shot
at it.
The most thrilling finish of the afternoon
was seen in the Glenferrie Handicap for
apprentice riders, Little Coon (5 to 2), on
whom Eric Connolly plunged again, and Men-
ander (4 to 1) fighting it out all the way
down the straight. Elwood Fisher’s Limond
gelding got the verdict by a “short” half-
head ; Symbolist (20 to 1) was next. In
the last event, the Brighton Handicap, the
Eurytlimic gelding Harry Gavin (14 to 1),
successful in a division of a Maiden Plate at
Aspendale the previous Saturday, gave no-
thing else a chance, Metellus (15 to 1) and
Merrylyn (12 to 1) pursuing him unavail-
ingly. McShortodds grinned all the way
home.
* * * *
Many Melbourne and Sydney punters
have unpleasant recollections of Irish
Rhythm, who used to race in the colors of
Tye and Corteen, but the erratic customer’s
three-year-old brother Chariot, also a geld-
ing and a chestnut, is a good horse in every
sense of the word. Within the space of
nine days Chariot has won two £lOOO races,
with £lOO trophies added, for R. N. McLean
and C. A. F. Collin, for whom he is trained
by W. Foulsham. In the Albury Gold Cup
he had to put his best foot forward to beat
Valamita and Mountain Prince, but in the
Wagga Gold Cup, though raised 101 b. (to
Bst. 61b.), he won very easily trom Sailing-
Home and lieonui, and left the 10 furlongs
behind in 2min. 5 4-ssec. On each occasion
he was ridden by Daniels, who is having a
prosperous year; and his party got highly
remunerative odds —fives at Albury and fours
at Wagga. Favorite for the Wagga race
was Amounis, who won last year with lOst.
.lib., but fourth was the best he could, do
on this occasion, though he had olb. less.
* * *
William Kelso, who is on a health trip to
California, left his eldest son the third
William Kelso to become a Randwiek
identity in the last half-century—to manage
the Orville stable. The young fellow got
a No. 1 trainer’s license on Thursday, and
saddled up the winner of the first race at
Moorefield on Saturday—Lauder (7 to 1),
who carried topwcight in the Maiden
Handicap. He completed a nice double
when Spruiker (5 to 2) won the
Carlton Mile, which closed the programme,
and was kept busy acknowledging congratu-
lations afterwards. Lauder, who is by
Comedy King—Marcelle, and Spruiker (Mag-
pie—Bronze Hook) were bred by the elder
Kelso and named by his heir, who specialises
in nomenclature; they were ridden by the
stable jockey Coutts.
King William (4 to 1), a rather good sort
of a Mountain King gelding, outstayed the
opposition in the Ivogarali Stakes, wherein
Dick Wootton supplied yet another second —
Sweet Auburn (8 to 1). A bad start saw
three horses “left” in the Flying Handicap,
but Golden Grist (4 to 1) would probably
have won anyhow; Toohey had a comfort-
able ride on this
use ful chestnut,
who has been sold
to go to Queens-
-1 a n d. Prince
Colugo (4 to 1)
showed a return
'to form in th e
Moorefield Handi-
cap, and was
smartly handled by
the Westr ali a a
jockey Percival. On
the other hand, the
rider of the favor-
ite, Tressilian (3
to 1), was rather
tardy, though the
result would per-
haps have been the
same had he made
his run eaiiy in-
stead of late.
The A. J. C/s
decision to reduce
the prize-money for
the winter meetings
in June was not
unexpected, n o r
was it unjustified.
The Novice Handi-
cap has been cut
down from £5OO to
£4OO, and the First
Steeple from £750
to £5OO ; the Second
Hurdle drops from
£750 to £5OO, the
Second Nursery
from £5OO to £4OO,
the Winter Stakes
from £750 to £6OO
and the Exeter
Handicap fro m
£5OO to £4OO. In
all cases the
amounts remain
higher than eorres-
ponding prizes
given by the V.R.C
at Melbourne Cup
meetings. Reasons
for the reduction
are many. Bad
weather has hit the
club hard for a
couple of seasons,
the tote receipts
have fallen off and
taxation has been
a heavy burden. A more pernicious influence
has been the tin-hare craze. That such an
industrially useless “sport” should be per-
mitted to compete with A.J.C. meetings, to
the detriment of the horse-breeding industry,
among other things, is a reflection on the
intelligence of the Government.
'.>! * # *
For Rosehill next Saturday :
Auburn Handicap: Factor; next,
Bunkum.
Granville Stakes: Inducement; next,
Olympus. . _ .
Rosehill Handicap: Birefly; next.
Boonala.
Highweight Handicap: Sir Allan; next,
Koorathella.
* 4 *
“N. Homo”: “Eureka’s” barrier (B.
11/4/’2.S) reminds me of one used at the
Dumpling Gully Jockey Club’s annual
meeting. It consisted simply of elastic
stretched across the track, a start being
effected by the officials letting go both ends
at once. As it happened, the flag method
was resorted to after the first race. Mulli-
gan, who held one end of the elastic, let go
too soon, and his coadjutor Wholagan was
hit in the eye. It was after Wholagan had
been dragged from the remnants of Mulli-
gan that Fairguson was appointed to wield
the flag.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Johnny Sullivan (list.), the London
Irishman, was a very lucky gentleman indeed
when, at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night, he was given a decision over Tommy
Mclnnes (lOst. 91b.). The sturdy Scot goes
into the ring to fight all the time there is,
and he made things so unpleasant for Sulli-
van in the first two rbunds or so that people
began buttoning up preparatory to an early
departure. But Johnny then found himself,
and, taking the lead in the fourth round,
gave a very fine exhibition of the noble art
as taught in the Mace school. Mclnnes,
however, never allowed him a moment’s
spell, and the pace began to tell on the
scientist. He was obviously weak on the
underpinning by the eighth, and seemed dis-
tressed in the ninth. He fought on gamely,
but Tommy had regained the upper hand in
the tenth, and was hammering Sullivan’s
tender mid-section when Johnny suddenly
threw out distress signals. “Foul!” his corner
veiled, and Wallis, satisfied that a blow had
landed low, awarded him the fight. Medical
examination confirmed the diagnosis, but it
MIGHT AS WELL BACK YOUR CERTAINTY.
C ANVASSER: “Anything in the insurance line, lady? There’s so
many uncertainties in life.”
Determined Female: “Not in mine.”
CANVASSER: “’Ow about a little startin’-price flutter, then?”
was a miserable and tremendously unpopular
ending to a rattling good mill.
>:< * * *
“Kewpie”: The Wellington (M.L.) Box-
ing Association can give Australia points in
boxing control and management. Held in
the invariably crowded Town Hall, contests
are in the hands of honorary officials and
rowdyism is non-existent. The prelims., by
amateurs, are good enough to satisfy even
a Sydney Stadium crowd when the hitting
begins, and the Association is happy in the
main bouts which it arranges. Purses range
from £l5O, and the profits are drawn upon
to help the numerous country associations.
* * * *
“M.L.”: Norm. Gillespie, featherweight
champion of Australia, has been beaten on
points by Tommy Griffiths, of Dunedin, M.L.
The pair provided the best match ever staged
in Dunedin; Gillespie showed himself a great
tighter and Griffiths an elusive boxer. Ihe
Dunedin lad’s clever ducking made Gillespie
miss badly. But some of the heavy clouts sent
across by the Melbourne youth landed on
Griffiths’s body in the last two rounds and
he was thrice swept off his feet. Another
round and Gillespie would have put Tommy
to sleep. Gillespie was the heavier by about
6Mb. The purse was worth £l5O, of which
the winner got £9O.
Footbrawl
At Carlton on Saturday 35,000-odd people
roared at and barracked the Old Blues as
the scores rose or fell against the Richmond
Tigers. It was an exciting struggle, with
Geddes and Baggott shining for the Tigers
and Clover and Davie for Carlton. In the
tail end of the last quarter Davie scored
three goals in sudden rushes and there was
no time to reply : Carlton, 87 points; Rich-
mond, 66. Geelong and Melbourne drew
20,000 to Melbourne C. G., but gave a poor
exhibition. The seasiders lost chiefly through
lamentable kicking for goal, though Mel-
bourne’s wasn’t much better. Latter got
47 points and Geelong 40. Collingwood and
Fitzroy enticed 25,000 through the turn-
stiles. ' It was the Magpies’ game throughout,
and after half-time chief interest was centred
in whether Gordon Coventry or Jack Mori-
arty would kick most goals. Coventry got
nine and Moriarty seven. ’Wood ended with
102 points to ’Roy’s 67. St. Kilda put up a
great game against South Melbourne and
might have won but for faulty leadership.
Johnson, South’s forward, who promises t(
be a star, got seven goals off consecutive shots
up to half-time; then Cubbins was put on to
steady him, but the damage done couldn t
be repaired, and South won with 118 points
to St. Kilda’s 96. Footscray scared a sea-
son’s growth out of Essendon, playing a
prettily systematic game and keeping well
ahead till the last quarter. Then the Tri-
colors unaccountably eased off and the ’Dons
came with a rush and finished four points
ahead —73 to 69. North Melbourne beat
Hawthorn by 76 points to 61.
* * * *
The match between the Waratalis and
The Rest of N.S.W. at Sydney Show Ground
on Saturday was won by the returned tour-
ists, who scored 28 points to 17. A crowd
of over 12,000 saw the kick off, and was re-
warded by a game which was always inter-
esting and on many occasions rose to bril-
liance. Lawton’s absence necessitated the
moving of King from centre to the five-eighth
position. Though he handled superbly and
set his back line going with unfailing regu-
larity, he stood too far off, and gave half-
back Malcolm a lot of unnecessary trouble
getting out his passes from the scrum.
Thanks to O’Dea, The Rest’s hooker, the
tourists by no means monopolised the ball,
and this kept down their rate of scoring.
Several of the tries were got from ruck clear-
ances, however, and the facility with which
the side tossed the ball out and set out to-
gether for the goal line gave the crowd an
idea of what their game must have been
like when they were at the top of their form
in Britain. Jack Ford started many a move-
ment ; Malcolm showed splendid foi’m and
judgment in attack and defence; Towers and
Wallace did some fine things, and the
wingers, Mann and Gordon, maintained high-
class form throughout, the latter running
with great determination and scoring three
good tries. Greatorex and Arnold Tancred
were conspicuous, with Ford, in a pack that
showed rare understanding with the back
division. Ross took things easily at full
back, and was unlucky in his goal kicking.
For The Rest, Stewart kicked well, while
Lamport, behind the scrum, and five-eighth
George were always in the thick of it. Per-
haps Gibson, the University centre, was the
most useful back on the day. Louden,
Howell of Newcastle, O’Dea and Cerutti
were always conspicuous in a hard-playing
lot of forwards.
* * * *
“Nitric” : “Past Grammar” is well off his
beat in stating that Vernon Treatt repre-
sented Oxford and England (B. 25/4/’2B).
Having followed the doings of Rhodes
scholars at Oxford for the last 20 years, I
can say thaf Treatt did not even approach his
blue and was not within miles of his cap.
The only Australian to obtain a cap since
1908 was Len Brown, who captained Eng-
land. Tommy Lawton just missed in 1922.
Both are Queenslanders.
* * # *
“Gate”: Harold Horder, one of the best
wing-threequarters the N.S.W. Rugby League
has possessed, is refereeing in Brisbane,
where he now lives. The old South Sydney
crack is eminently fitted for the position. IL
has had a wide experience of the game, and is
tactful and good-tempered. Also he is mighty
handy with his “dooks,” and if the worst
comes to the worst, as it sometimes does for
referees, he can show an uncommonly useful
turn of speed, having more than once been
credited with a fraction under evens for the
100 yards.
(Continued on page 37.)
THIS !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘No ’ope,” ’e says; you know the spiel—
Right oft" its feed an’ pulled up lame,
tiawd knows I’m not the one to squeal,
The years that /’ve been at the game,
But when the money’s in y’r ’and
An’ eights an’ better to be got,
An’ this.... this.... but, you understand,
A man just can’t go gettin’ ’ot.
“No ’ope,” ’e says. “You save y’r dough.”
And I’d been waitin’ for the prad ;
But, still an’ all, ’e oughter know
An’, struth, ’e says, “Now, don’t be inad !
I’m tellin’ you it’s up to mud ;
I know the mob an’, strike me; tight,
Y’re only goin’ to come a thud,”
’E says, this... . this. . .. but ’c’s all right.
“No ’ope,” ’e says. But bear in mind
That I’m not bellyachin’, son ;
I know ’e thought ’twas only kind
To wise me up when I begun
A-eountin’ out the bunch o’ notes
That would ’ve meant a snifter day.
“It's on three legs an’ off its oats,”
’E says, this.... this.... aw, ’c’s o.k.
“No ’ope!” An’ tens a bookie yelled.
An’ me—I puts the cash down south,
An’ watches it come ’ome, ’ard ’eld,
By ’aIf a dozen lengths, its mouth
Wide open almost as me own.
But still a man can’t make a row
If ’e’s a sport; so I don’t moan
To this.... this.... stupid, flamin' cotv!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


■ '• j •„ ~ ,"
■ : 'K:- : ;
m
'% u
■■'■ r M ■■■■';
■-. »**{, w.
. x k,'->4 .1:' r • -•-•
,V*. - ,-/^- f .
*n«i
ST#
M
■«
n
fa
"visg
&
II
Jr-'*
?sss
'm, :>
Aw.
3e r -^i
fe
iv'-'
111
f$
mm
m
$ ■ v ■■ ■ .
imm r fk
m
i...
' ■■ ;
ms
'
H
■:'v
ipp
5 H-t
J®
!l
lliitti
(S',
«'!:
•ft
;@.a
s.r.r
m
.-' :-*i
hsafe
ftm
mmm
ft
«r*
si
*®3
fcr
«$&!
Mi
i&a
lii
JAW
%m
m
rsS&ii4g&
:-—~w
aSS*
m
&
EE
jr-VS
r^K'^s&SsvS
f *•
»WP,“y f r* ? < .ww^yi*
iJWj >
s&AWi
•ww
H i ;
Mi-'
*SiBiWM
>3:
.j..-
(\ *
£$
■ ■’*«
m
J»H ifi !l"' ** ' ' ,B ®HlhkZ^%
#ffr;
IS&ffW.'-.V: ;':
vi
•■ i
ik
<P^■ - •* -• -^rUij’s’'<'^^l*'
iudtfßSßBfe-«sL v>Vfci-V* /
"Sf-'M 1 ' ■■ -, ;
.••i.vW.'v;v.T,6‘V. -m':* oi.'i Vii
WW.
Isi
w
a*'
- .v
rtv?s
v •
f-
yyXiKS^
m
few
MX
Am
-sfi
ppm
'X .
IK
-
•-A-' •; up't":■.;;»*;) - ft
: -4-».-.nj,,.;.V; •v,^.Rir.-,v»;rt.^v**s;^-.
•o : *i
rjiK'
i? % s ■•’ 1 : u y/:'H ■'
41't;
’T < -,■».".. f -<•■
ilfiV
.;": ' " 'X: -V <
' - ™ w (j!.„,.-v
Si
mm
.•- W.’-l/•.>;; >•• •.••'••>'-:f.*i!Jj.-.V. -.V;
, i\
... ":• .*3T? v>:;‘: i-.' v '{-Vr* v
,; -Jl-iS'-W.. :■ -T-,:■. :•;•/,
/;•>:
•' ■ ‘
?:• «
# .
§€-J-
-•«
.fcifc*
tISiS
3H
«««
.':v ;
w..
- v :^4
•dili?
v‘
’••■XI
is
!;-/•_■ l c tf,.V'» > • ..
i
X- «
(r \
1
ti
%
%
s
(paton’)
s
Six and Seven Valve
One Dial Atwater
Kent Receivers,
£25/10/- to
£37/10/-, without
valves or equipment.
Radio speakers,
£3/15/-, £4/10/-
and £B/15/-. (New
Model E.) Complete
outfits from
£43/10/-, also
Console and Writ-
ing-desk models.
Illustrated is the
model 35 Atwater
Kent Receiver with
model E Radio
Speaker.
‘ %
e
'andiioloiqqei / tKan.
a set or Books
Think of it... a set so simple that its
one dial quickly brings in station after
station with certainty and precision.. .a
set so powerful that it easily operates
one or more Radio Speakers..a set so
perfectly controlled that it reproduces
every voice, and instrument, with un-
erring fidelity of tone ! An Atwater
Kent Radio Receiver is all this and
more. Remarkably compact in con-
struction its delightfully proportioned
cabinet can be placed anywhere . .on a
side table, writing desk or window sill.
It is even smaller than a dozen books!
Call at your nearest Atwater Kent deal-
er’s...and hear these different sets. They
will revolutionise your idea of radio.
Inserted by the Atwater Kent Manufacturing Co. of Philadel-
phia, Pa., U.B.A. Wholesale Distributors for Australia; Messrs.
A. G. HEALING, LTD. Dealers established everywhere.
&
A
0'
cP v
lit V
v
A"
A ,v
Ar
V v
Cr
\*V
y„
>' -A
V *.\\ ❖ \ V
A A >
.%*> G V
c. v jjAv' .6
it'*' v (S' A &
?V iV
-C


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
J'f'ucni i/rutencL
tyycLrvje/u.
—then let us send you a copy of "The Book of 'The Australia’,” in which
are described and illustrated some features of the Hotel of the Common-
wealth—thus enabling you to anticipate the luxurious comfort we offer.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 15/-; Luncheon or Dinner from 5/.-
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/6. *
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address: "Austraotel, Sydney.”
sdf
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
, Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
. Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addles?:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Footbrawl
The N.S.W, Rugby League took advantage
of the general cessation of work on Anzac
Day to play off its second round of grade
matches. The results saw South Sydney,
Eastern Suburbs and St. George sun un-
beaten. In the third round on Saturday
I’niversity, though stacked up against the
formidable South Sydney side, succumbed by
three points only, scores being 17 to 14
against the students. South now and then
showed up with a purple patch, but on the
day, and particularly in the forward division,
in which Mclntyre rose to representative
heights, Uni. was the better team, and with
a little luck should have won. Wearing saved
the day for the red and greens with two bril-
liant tries and four goals. Eastern Suburbs
inflicted a severe whacking on Balmain at the
latter’s home ground: 42 to 17. Busche was
again in great buckle at the Eastern scrum,
and set his backs going continuously against
the weak opposition, while Oxford con-
tributed to the Balmain tragedy with 9 goals.
A better-contested game was the meeting
between Glebe and Western Suburbs at
Wentworth Oval, the Westerners prevailing
by 15 to 10. North Sydney again upset the
calculations of the experts by beating St.
George by 9to 7. As usual where the Saints
are hotly engaged, the game developed a lot
of roughness towards the finish and the
referee risked laryngitis warning some of the
offenders.
* * # *
“Gate”: The N.S.W and Queensland
Leagues were made happy last week by the
receipt of an invitation for a team to visit
England next year. It will be the third visit
of a professional side to England from Aus-
tralia ; the first was in 1911-12 and the
second in 1921. Prior to that Baskerville's
All Blacks, which included several Aus-
tralians, had invaded the North of England.
Of the 17 tests played to date, England
has won 9 to Australia’s 7, scoring 198
points to this country’s 192.
“Billo”: Though the N.S.W. Rugby
League apparently had its own way
when it threatened to withdraw from
the Board of Control if it wasn’t
allowed to repudiate its promise and to grab
all the profits on the N.S.W. matches against
the Englishmen, the trouble is not yet over.
The reversion to the old method, as desired
by the Ma State, was hastily agreed to by
the Queenslanders lest worse should happen,
but this will have to be ratified at a meeting
of the board on May 15. The Bananalanders
may be expected to give in respecting the
N.S.W. cut of the swag, but the demand
that Ma should always nominate the chair-
man of the board will be opposed by the men
from the North. What Ma will do in that
case is hard to say, but possibly the sole
right to the big Sydney “gates” will pacify
the old girl.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The re-establishment of the
Rugby Union in Queensland is going on in
encouraging fashion. Last Saturday 84
of the secondary schools in the metropolitan
area opened with the old code, and similar
institutions in Ipswich, Toowoomba and
other large centres outside Brisbane are
following suit. A public meeting has been
called for this week; the chairman will be
Maurice Baldwin, for many years secretary
of the Rugby Union and now in a similar
position with the Q.T.C. The chief task
before the organisers will be the acquisition
of a good ground for the big games of the
future. There is room for all the codes in
Queensland, except for those who put the
gate returns before all else and so would be
delighted to see every other form of football
squeezed out, leaving all the cake for their
own consumption.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Australian Soccer
authorities will despatch a team to Java
on June 20. E. S. Lukeman has been named
manager, and will have an assistant, to be
appointed by a postal vote of the States.
Players will be allowed 10s. a day during
their absence on tour, though how this fits
in with the Amateur Federation’s rule that
the maximum allowance for amateurs shall
be ss. per day is not explained. Matches
will be played in Samarang, Sourabaya, Bat-
avia and Bandoeng.
* * * *
“Everton” : There are some quaint items in
the cabled .extracts from the press post-
mortems on the British Association Cup
final. A peculiar feature of the game was the
apparent paralysis of the Huddersfield goal-
keeper, who stood petrified after seizing the
ball, and allowed the Blackburn centre to
bunt him, ball and all, into the goal. The
same thing happened in last year’s final at
the expense of Arsenal. Many explanations
have been attempted, but that offered by the
Soccer expert of the Daily Mail is the most
intriguing. It is that the goalie was dazed
at having shaken hands with King George a
few minutes earlier.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne footballers have re-
solved to revive the Footballers’ Council,
which has been in a state of suspended anima-
tion for some years. The object of the
council is principally to look after the
player’s side of the game, a matter which the
League and the big clubs are apt to be in-
different about. Players’ representatives on
the League and Association executives are
desired, as is also the right of appeal in
case of disqualification. Another innovation
championed by the council is the institution
of retiring allowances, as well as assistance
in the event of accident or sickness. Dele-
gates from all the big Melbourne clubs
attended, and there is every evidence that tho
moribund body has been fairly galvanised
into life again.
❖ * ❖ *
“Subiaco” : What is the record score for
Australian-rules football? The West Subiac >
(W.A.) club, playing in the Junior Metro-
politan Association in Perth, defeated
Y.M.C.A. by 43 goals 20 behinds (278
points) to nil. G. Sparrow kicked 29 goals.
Each performance is claimed to be without
precedent.
Racquet and Bawl
The 73rd tennis match between N.S.W.
and Victoria was played on the Rushcuttcr
Bay courts at the week-end; the Mu Staters
triumphed by 14 rubbers to 7. The Welsh-
men won all the singles save one, O’Hara
Wood defeating Kalms. 7-5, 0-4. The Vic-
torians turned the tables in the doubles,
taking 0 to 3. Both teams were below nor-
mal strength, with the Davis Cup players
absent. This is the 37th win in the series
for N.S.W., and it means the retention of
tho Mai’s Buckley Cup, which was won last
year by the Victorians, for another yeer, since
the cup can only
be competed for in
the State of the
holders. In the
women’s matches
N.S.W. won by 6
rubbers to 4.
»!: sic
“Cut Shot”: The
Australian women
tennis players have
completed their
tour of South
Africa, and, save
for a few individual
defeats, won all
along the line. The
form of the Afri-
kander wom e n,
with the exception
of Miss Heine and
one or two others,
was well behind
that of the Austra-
lians. It is another
story with the men,
for they have been
more successfvd
against the F'rench-
men than oitr own
players prove d.
The Australian
Davis Cup team,
with IJawkes now
definitely included,
has been playing in
a n international
tou r n a ment in
Rome without
greatly impressing
the critics; Hop-
man, it is satis-
factory to note, has
rec o v ered. Wet
weather has ham-
pered match prac-
tice, and tennis
people here will
feel a bit easier to
hear that the team
has hopped the
Italian hurdle in
the Dav i s Cup
match.
* *
“Shrews bury”;
Someone has been
writing to the Syd-
ney press urging
that something be
done to overcome
official objection
to the introduc-
tion of tennis in the Great Public Schools.
The fact that the schools won’t have
anything to do with the game has long
annoyed the tennis authorities, though why
these should insist in forcing their pastime
on those who don’t want it is not clear.
The same objection is held by school authori-
ties in England, and for the same reason :
there are enough worth-while games played
now, without the introduction of others of
doubtful value. In cricket and football the
team spirit is the essential thing, and rigid
discipline is employed to enforce it, while
pluck and self-control are severely tested in
both. Tennis calls for little team spirit.
It fosters individualism to an inordinate
extent, while no particular amount of courage
is needed to indulge in the harmless pastime.
As for self-control, the less said about that
the better. The writer referred to avers that
the same stands supreme as a means of
inculcating the best sporting instincts. Well,
if swearing at partners and opponents, scowl-
ing at umpires and linesmen, and hurling
racquets to the ground in moments of childish
exasperation are among the best sporting
instincts, tennis-players may be permitted to
keep them to themselves.
The Watermen
“Blade”: All the inter-State crews and
scullers have been doing steady work on
the Nepean for the races next Saturday.
L. R. Marsh, who retained the title of Tas-
manian sculling champion by beating W.
Rowe at Hobart just before leaving for Syd-
ney, put in some days on the Parramatta,
picking up a few tips from ex-champion
George Towns. Pearce is rowing in splen-
did form. Among the eights, Westralia has
attracted great attention by the pace it
gets on the boat in spite of a somewhat un-
orthodox style. The Victorians have had
to replace yet another of the original crew,
and this has necessitated a change in the
seating. The Tasmanians are showing fine
form and are fancied by more than one good
judge, being* a very solid and even crew.
Port Adelaide, representing South Aus-
tralia, was the last crew to arrive, but as
a club crew its combination, at least, should
not suffer. The Queenslanders are a young
vigorous lot, all new to inter-State rowing.
On the form shown the result should see
Westralia still clutching the Cup, and Tas-
mania following it home. Pearce seems a
moral for the sculls.
“WEIGHT FOR AGE.”
“Swing”: One of the surprises of the
transfer of the inter-State eight-oar race to
the Nepean River at Penrith is the number
of enthusiasts who run up every day from
Sydney to view the training operations. Those
who objected to the transfer urged as a
drawback that rowing men anxious to watch
the men at work, always the most interest-
ing, part of an event of this kind, would be
unable to spare the time to visit Penrith.
Actually the place has proved even more
accessible than many sections of the Parra-
matta, closer to Sydney, while the perfect
view of the whole course from start to fin-
ish makes hunting for a good “possie” quite
unnecessary. The anticipated trouble in
getting the long racing eights up has also
been overcome. A timber lorry fitted with
a 40ft. platform was used, and the 60ft.
shells were all transferred by road without
injury.
“Feather”: Women’s fours from Queens-
land, South Aus., Victoria and N.S.W. met
in their dreadful revelry (as the poem says)
on the Parramatta last Saturday. The race
was over a strenuous half-mile course, appro-
priately enough in Hen and Chickens Bay,
mid was won by N.S.W., stroked by Miss It.
C. Goodman ; South Australia, victorious in
the five previous years, was second. As one
of the Sydney dailies put it, the winners
‘kept going over the whole distance.” Stout
lasses!
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurize”: Just at present
strange golfers and would-be golfers who
wear plus-fours are apt to be objects of sus-
picion at Sydney golf clubs where portable
property is lying handy. The reason is
the raiding of several dressing-rooms in
circumstances which indicate that the
raiders must have been disguised as golfers,
and so enabled to mix with members with-
out suspicion. A club recently invited two
detectives to be present at one of its func-
tions. Two young gentlemen in flamboyant
plus-fours who had been taken as visiting
golfers—it was an open-event day—faded
away as soon as the “demons” hove over the
horizon. Lockers have been broken open, and
cash and other oddments stolen, while the
loss of that priceless commodity the golf ball
has been extensive.
* * * *
‘Hotliam”: The final of the Australasian
foursome golf-shield tourney, played at
Cheltenham (Vic.), was won by Ivo Wliitton
and W. S. Nankivell of the Royal Melbourne
Club, from J. W. Fowler and R. B. Withers,
of the Commonwealth Club, by two up and
one. Nankivell was in great form with his
wood shots, which told to advantage on the
6535-yard course, while Whitton was spec-
tacular in all departments, his usually
variable putting being almost infallible.
Five down at the turn of the 18 holes
(44-3!)), the Commonwealth pair made a
great recovery and looked like winning,
covering the homeward eight holes in one
over four. However, Withers failed at a
five-foot putt at the 17th, which would have
made scores level if it had been sunk, and
the half gave the Melbourne pair the game.
“Caddie”: In spite of its apparent innocu-
ousness golf has a long casualty list. The
other day on Melbourne municipal links an
associate player was struck in the eye by a
ball sliced by her partner, and knocked uncon-
scious, while the eyeball was ruptured. One
of the strictest conventions of golf, and one
of the least observed, is that one must not
stand too close to or in front of a player
making his stroke. In one case you may
get a severe blow from the club at the finish
of the swing—there was a case in Sydney
last year and in the other an accident such
as happened in Melbourne is extremely likely
to occur. The unlucky associate is described
as standing in the fairway when she was
struck, which means that she was in front
ot her partner, though off the line, as the re-
terence to the slice shows. There is only
one safe place on such occasions, and that
is well to the rear, and the right rear to
make sure. A rifle bullet can give no points
< ‘VB’°lf ball when it comes to eccentricities
of flight.
jJj
Brassey”: Bobby Jones has been elected
captain of the American team to defend the
Walker Cup, a trophy played for annuallv
ladween British and American amateurs.
This year the tourney will take place in
Chicago, but, as it is not due till September,
the only Jones will have plenty of
time to defend his title of British open
champion, which lie has won twice alreadv
llie American side includes “Chick” Evans,
who won the American open as long ago
as 1916, so there is still a little veneration
tor eld in Uncle Sam’s country.
* * *
Mid Iron” : Freak golfing tours are be-
coming increasingly popular. W. C. Lyle
who used to be a professional at Moore
I ark, Sydney, is going round the world with
a golf club in the hope of outshining the
American who recently played-his way from
New lork to Hollywood. Lyle is now at
Calcutta, having whacked his way through
Canada, Japan, Indo-China, the Straits
Settlements, Siam and Burma. He must
have found some of the fairways a bit rough
but he was well treated and paid his expenses
by giving lessons. He had the King and
Queen of Siam among his pupils, and found
the Siamese and the Japanese the keenest
on the gam.e, which is the more surprising
since neither language contains any provision
for swearing. The Chinese lie found quite
indifferent, which goes to confirm the gen-
eral opinion that the Chinaman has a lot
ot common sense. The tour is to continue
through Persia Palestine—through which ha
wnl probably have to carry his own rations
—and by Europe to the United States. Ail
this for a £5O wager. The man is earning
the money. *•'
(Continued on next page.)


LIQUEUR
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
VVM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
j'Mlfm
jgyrirnflfi
■ a m
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
s
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : Malcolm Campbell, who retained
the world’s speed-car championship for
Britain by putting up 206.956 m.p.h. at
Daytona Beach a couple of months ago, did
not hold his title long. Last week Ray Keech,
an American driver, raised the record to
207.552 G m.p.h. on the same course. Keech
drove a Triplex special with three 12-cylinder
engines, so victory has gone once more to the
, big car. Both Campbell and the former holder
of the title, Major Scgrave, intend having an
early go at the new figures—probably on the
Pendine Sands. Campbell has had hard luck,
for Sir Charles Wakefield recently offered
a trophy worth £lOOO to the winner of the
record, and £lOOO a year as long as he held
the distinction. Ilis enjoyment of the £lOOO
a year has been brief.
* * * *
“Cam Shaft”: Frank Lockhart, who was
injured when his machine capsized in an
attempt on the world’s record at Daytona
Beach, has been killed while engaged in
another attempt, lie was clocked to have
done 220 m.p.h in his Stutz car on his first
mile run, but did not complete the second
according to the conditions.
* >!■• * *
“Senex”: The new speed-car record in
America recalls an attempt to make one in
the same country five-and-twenty years ago,
when the steam- and electrically-driven cars
were still challenging the internal-combustion
engines. The Baker firm, which specialised
in the electric car, built a special machine
to break all existing records in 1903. This
was driven by storage batteries and weighed
over 30001 b., being capable of doing 85 m.p.h.
The crowd rushed the track near the finish,
and Baker, jambing on his brakes, tore off
a wheel and hit the crowd sideways, injuring
a number of people. That was about the first
and last appearance of the electric car on a
speedway, and it was soon followed by the
steam-driven contraptions which challenged
its supremacy. The two types exist to-day in
the shape of small runabouts and lorries, but
have long vanished from the racing-tracks.
* * * if
“Coil”: The N.S.W. Royal Automobile
Club's second reliability test from Sydney to
(lie Avon dam ended in a victory for F. A.
Parle’s 2269 c.c. supercharged Bugatti, which
finished with the possible points, 100. S. C.
Cox’s 1496 Bugatti, with 96.52 points, was
second, and A. \V. Fairfax’s 2121 c.c. Lancia,
with 91.48 points, third. T. F. Lord’s 748
c.c. Austin sports scored a meritorious fourth
place with a total of 86.82.
if if >li -Is
“Keppel” : Touching natural speedways (B.
11,/4/’2B), Yeppoon (C.Q.) possesses one of
the finest racing beaches in Australia. Four-
teen miles long, with not a break in its
smooth surface, it stretches in a gentle curve
to Corio Creek, a favored fishing spot. The
beach at low tide is 200 yards wide and as
hard as a board.
❖ * *
“Sprocket” : A cable announced last week
that the four Australian professional cyclists
who are preparing for the Tour, de France
road-racje are disappointed to find that rein-
forcements promised when they left Aus-
tralia will not be forthcoming. They con-
sider that they will be heavily handicapped
against the large French combinations. The
team intends to take part in the Paris-to-
Brussels road-race on May 27. This covers
about 200 miles in a straight line, and will
he a mere pipe-opener for the Tour, but it
should give our men a good idea of the merits
of their opponents. It is a pity that the Aus-
tralian cycling authorities could not have
sent R. W. Lamb, at least, to reinforce the
team, especially as he was offered a place
in the* party while he was still riding as an
amateur. However, the terms of his engage-
ment as a professional with a Melbourne
promoter precluded anything of the kind.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: Doris Thompson, of Queens-
land, who specialises in breast-stroke swim-
ming, has been added to the Olympic team.
She has better claims to representation than
the other young ladies in the band, for she
has been officially clocked over the 200 metres,
which will be her main objective, in 3min.
25sec. With a good press agent, she might
have done even better. The Olympic record
is 3min. 27 3-ssec. At the Paris Olympiad
the race was won by the English Lucy
Morton in 3min. 35 l-ssec.
* * *
“Six Beat” : The tour abroad of the Aus-
tralian Olympic team is to be utilised to
secure some overseas swimming attractions
for Australia next season. Les Duff, the
manager, has been commissioned by the
A.S.A. Council to arrange for a visit from
.Tolinny Weissmuller, and, failing him, the
next best in sight overseas. Weissmuller
would be particularly welcome, for his ex-
ample might tend to an improvement in our
sprint swimmers, who have dropped far be-'
hind American and overseas standards in
the past few years. Our long-lap baths
may have something to do with our slower
times, for the Americans, swimming in short
baths, as do their European confreres,
utilise the turn to the utmost, a trick in
which most of our men are deficient in
comparison.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: The Australian Swim-
ming Council has awarded an honorarium
of £5O to Les Duff, secretary of the asso-
ciation and manager of the Australian
Olympic team, in recognition of past ser-
vices. There are some members of the Ama-
teur Athletic Federation who would regard
the acceptance of such an award as an act
of professionalism, but since each individual
body is given a fairly free hand in this re-
spect there seems no reason to worry. Still
it is odd that a paid official should be
manager of an amateur team while Dick
Eve, the Olympic diving champion, is de-
clared a professional and debarred from
joining the team because he manages a
swimming bath.
# * # *
“Spike”: Nick Winter, the Olympic hop-
step-and-jump champion, who was asked to
submit to a test performance before the
question of his inclusion in the team about
to go abroad was considered, answered all
requirements on Thursday when he covered
49ft. lin. This is 74 inches short of his own
Australasian record established in 1921, but
is far better than the 47ft. Gin. jump which
won him selection for the last Olympic team.
At the Olympiad he put up a world’s record
of 50ft. 11 3-16 in., which still stands. Ilis
only serious rival in sight is the Dutchman,
W. Peters, who won the British amateur
championship last year with 50ft. 9in.
* * * *
“Jeames”: A section of the Sydney press
is making a great to-do because the Austra-
lian Olympic team will have to travel
second-class by the Naldera, as funds will
not permit passages in the gilded saloons
of the big P. and O. liner. There is very
little difference between the two classes as
far as accommodation and cuisine go. The
social atmosphere may not be as “refined”
in the second, though neither class is ever
willing to yield supremacy in this respect to
the other. It is more than likely that the
Olympic travellers will refuse to shed tears
over their lot, but their journalistic sym-
pathisers profess to be deeply dismayed at
the prospect of Europe, Asia, Africa and
America being afforded an opportunity to
gibe at the fact that “Australian ambas-
sadors travel second-class,” as one of them
puts it. The same lament was raised when
it was announced that the Wafatahs would
do their train travelling in Britain by third-
clasSj as 85 per cent, of Britons habitually
do.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Maoriland team for Am-
sterdam will number nine only, the decision
to despatch an eight-oar crew having been
revoked and the selection cancelled. There -are
three girls—Misses Miller and Stockley, swim-
mers, and N. Wilson, a runner. I). I’. Lind-
say and L. J. Moorhouse will swim in the.
(Right) A.S.B. WALKER, ex-N.S.W.
rep., and TOM GRIFFIN, of the Wal-
labies, two of the A.S.W. Rugby Union
selectors.
men’s events, and A. E. Poi-ritt, the Rhodes
scholar, who is in England, will be the track
representative of his sex. He was a com-
petitor at the Paris Olympiad and made a
good showing. E. Morgan and A. Cleverley
will be the boxers, while S. A. Lay, Avho has
been recording some surprising figures
lately, will try for the javelin event.
* * * Or.
“P.T.F.”: The strangest cricket pitch I
ever played on (B. 11/4/’2B) was one wholly
constructed of planks. A Vic. sawmiil
boasted some ardent enthusiasts, and in
their spare time they collected left-off pieces
of timber, planed them and placed them so
closely together that there were practically
no cracks. I had—or was to have —first
strike. All I remember is a ball that came
through like a shot bail high, a blind swipe
and the umpire’s “out.” I still shudder to
think what might have happened if Jack
Gregory had been bowling.
£ # * *
“Aigburth” : Old Bobby Peel (B. 18/4/’2B).
in spite of his 72 years and undiminished
liking for the good things of this life —from
a Yorkshire point of view—is still working
for his living in a woollen mill at Morley.
The great left-hander should have done well
during his cricket career, for he finished up
with a great benefit engineered by Lord
B.C. EDWARDS, of the Mercantile Row-
ing Club, Melbourne, who will stroke
the Victorian eight in the race for the
King’s Cup on the Nepean River.
Hawke. This money, according to the rule
of the Yorkshire Club, was mostly invested
for the recipient’s benefit, the income going
to him but the principal being held in
trust. The other day Peel celebrated his
golden wedding to the usual accompaniment
of newspaper interviews. One of the most
original of characters, like his forerunner
Tom Emmett, on the cricket field, he was
very stereotyped when giving his views on
modern cricketers. He still coaches a lot,
but is of the opinion that the new genera-
tion is no dashed good and cannot be taught.
One has heard the same thing from Methu-
selah down, and succeeding generations
will hear it as long as cricket endures.
*!• ❖ %
“Hotham”: The Vic. Cricket Association
has approved of several proposals for the
Sheffield Shield season; they will be sub-
mitted to the inter-S'tate conference to be
held in Sydney later in the year. Among
them are the closing of a first innings at
any time after the first day’s play, the in-
crease of the number of points for an out-
right win from 3 to 5, and the use of
Australian-made balls if the captains of both
sides: agree. The power to close the innings
as early as possible on the second day is a
step in the right direction now the matches
have been limited to a fixed time. The
extra point will give added encouragement
to attempt a straight-out victory instead of
relying on a draw to score an extra point
or so, and should speed up the game. There
is no I'eason, either, why Australian-made
balls should not be used in the big games.
Two or three well-known brands have been
tested for some years in minor cricket in
Australia and have proved themselves equal
to the best imported.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Other countries besides
Australia occasionally find themselves per-
turbed over the amateur status. Norway,
for instance, has jettisoned one of its most-
formidable Olympic representatives in Carl
Hoff, who won the pole vault at the Chris-
tiania Olympiad in 3923 with a hoist of
13ft. 9fin. Hoff has been vaulting as well
as ever, but some slip while competing in
America caused the athletic authorities of
that country to declare him a professional.
He applied to his own athletic union for
reinstatement, but found, as others have
done, that it is easier to be rated as a
professional than to be whitewashed as an
amateur again.
“B-Gar” : Not to be outdone by the pro-
posal in England to have a tin-rat for fox-
terriers, a Townsville (N.Q.) advertiser
is inquiring for active cats and kittens.
Perhaps lie’s going to use a tin-saucer of
milk as the lure.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Let Go” '• I concur with “Taps” (B.
4/4/’2B) that the Aussie brand of typewriter
ribbon is equal to the best imported. Last
year I paid 2s. 3d. for one marked “Aus-
tralian made,” but unfortunately by the
time I wanted a new one I had mislaid the
container, and not knowing what name to
ask for, I sent for a 4s. 6d. English prepara-
tion. It certainly answers the purpose, but
why pay double for an article no better? I
wouldn’t have needed to if the Aussie ribbon
were only better advertised.
* * * +
“Ricky”: The plaiting of belts and hat-
straps from strands of kangaroo hide is be-
coming a profitable hobby with bushmen ; I
know a Queensland horsebreaker who fills in
many wet days at it. He is a master at the
art, and gets 15s. for a plain plaited belt
and perhaps 255. for one decorated with fancy
rosettes, etc., all made of the hide. The
strands used are about the width of a fine
leather boot-lace. My doctor tells me that
the ’roo also provides the medical profession
with a certain type of ligature used for
tying arteries.
s|t >K * *
“El Jebf” : Touching the rate of interest
on these “loans” from cash-order companies,
in the ease quoted by “Arith” (B. 11/4/’2B)
£2O repayable in 24 £l weekly instalments,
first payment to be made at end of first week
after loan, the rate of interest is £1 103. 3d
per cent, a iveclc. If the lender could keep
all his money out all the time on similar
terms, interest would accrue at the rate of
118 per cent, per annum. If he lent £3O re-
payable in 30 £1 weekly instalments the
interest would be only £1 Os. 7d. per cent, a
week, or 70 per cent, per annum; still he
might even things up by letting some out in
£lO loans repayable similarly over 12 weeks,
which would bring interest at £2 18s. sd. per
cent, a week, or 340 per cent, a year; or in
£5 loans over six weeks, bringing £5 9s. sd.
per cent, a week, or 1594 per cent, a year.
* * *
“S.C.M.”: Undecipherable postmarks are
not confined to Australia (B. 18/4/’2B).
When I was in England last year a firm of
football bookmakers was offering odds against
anyone picking a certain number of winning
teams in League matches, and after several
failures I correctly named eight winners. The
cheque not being forthcoming as per adver-
tisement, I wrote to know the reason and
received for reply the envelope of my letter
without a sign of a,postmark on it. In the
circumstances, it was pointed out, the firm
could not be certain my letter was posted
before the games were played. I took the
envelope to the office where it was posted
(Staines), only to be assured that all stamp-
defacing was done by machinery, and my
letter must have gone through and missed the
stamp. The miss cost me about £lB.
“Lizard Passage”: Paragraphs have been
appearing about the discovery of a rich and
“very extensive” field of pearlshell off Wal-
ker's Bay, a few miles south of Cooktown.
The beds are said to be over 10 miles long,
and covered with large and high-quality shell.
There is no information about the depth, which
is an all-important factor, for a rich bed
and deep water usually spell a heavy casualty
list, as was shown on the Darnley Island beds
long ago. If the shell is as good as reported
it will mean a lot to poor old Cooktown,
which is on its last financial legs. The only
catch in the discovery is that it was first
reported by Jap pearlers. These gentry do
not usually make anything of the kind
public until they have not only skimmed the
cream but drunk the milk.
* * * *
“Mulgo”; Sydney takes pride in its ship-
ping, but a lot of it is more like lunacy.
It. is common to see bacon and hams being
shipped from Sydney to the Richmond, the
river which supplies Sydney with a large
proportion of its hams and bacon. I saw a
coastal boat loading chaff at a Sydney wharf
for the Clarence River, while there was a
stack of chaff still on the wharf which the
same vessel had brought down from the Clar-
ence. Butter, eggs, and fruit do weird
boomerang trips, too. Shiploads of applet-
go oversea and tons of Yankee apples com*'
here. Oranges and lemons also travel both
ways, and fish similarly help to keep the
wliarfies busy. The Clarence every week
sends large consignments of splendid fresh
fish to Sydney and back to that bountiful
river go tons of tinned fish from Vancouver
* * * *
“Whaffor”; Batching in Sydney, as was
my habit in London for three years, I was
amazed when making my first grocery pur-
chases to find that butter was 2s. a pound.
In London I always bought Australian but-
ter because it cost me Is 7d. against Is. Sd.
for Danish and 2s. for English. Yet in the
country of its origin I have to pay od. more
than I did in England. Similarly, Austra-
lian apples cost me 3d. a lb. (about four
apples) in England, and in Sydney I am
asked a penny each. Can anyone tell me the
reason?


Your Tennis Needs
are faithfully supplied at
Wider choice —more exclusive
quality—infinitely lower prices!
The highest-grade Racket, a Racket for the Schoolboy or School-
girl, a distinctive Racket for the Lady Player, in truth the finest and
most extensive range of Rackets and Requisites for the Game
showing in Australia to-day is to be found at Mick Simmons.
Distinctive Rackets
Each one a leader in its respective class!
ip ifc&wmv, g„ #
ti l&&&& r 6. r 44VUY/VT.
s ?*£*«JBSBsB!^
M i'f//t'// r jj,'iiftjrjfjf/nrj9
iff MW/Mmzxm'Ma
* Ba%ar/jc/ft0968i0%;::;
/55!0»r/jo*fr/fl«*<so
„ vaYJi\n/Afrir// J 'AV'A
Y/j f AllSL4U'h7j*t™
fAtam vsa^vgi
ssisssssttg
r///«KS5rtWr
l*v/
1
The “Lee Monogram”
Model de Luxe.
PRICE 771 Q
Universally acknowledged as one of the world’s
finest Rackets. Its exclusive feature is the
patented slotted throat. This ensures absolutely
perfect balance, absorbs crashing jolts, and gives
the Lee Monogram a wonderful resiliency and
driving power. Frame is made of a double strip
of selected ash; the upper part of the frame (the
end of the bow) being inlaid with raw-hide.
Strung with highest-grade English Gut.
The '‘Lee Monogram” Frame carries a full six (6)
Months’ Guarantee.
The “Oceanic”
PRICE. . 65 -
A high-grade Racket ideally suitable for the
Lady Player. Beautifully balanced, gracefully
shaped, it imparts that “true feel” to the user.
Frame is of specially-selected English Rent Ash;
shoulders are bound with fine gut and vellum, and
the wedge reinforced with an inlay of raw-hide.
Strung with serviceable English Gut. The “Oceanic”
Frame carries a full six (6) Months Guarantee.
The “Tornadic”
price 75/-
A Racket of unusual strength and driving power.
On e-piece Frame of selected English Rent Ash,
with shoulders bound with vellum and gut;
wedge is reinforced both inside and outside with
raw-hide. A hard-hitting serviceable Racket
that is verily worthy of a champion’s skill.
Strung with first-quality English Gut. The“ Tornadic”
Frame carries a full six (6) Months’ Guarantee.
The “Haymarket”
PRICE 301-
Unquestionably the utmost value offering in
Tennis Rackets to-day. Perfect in constructional
design, beautifully balanced and finished, with
specially reinforced throat and shoulders.
Capable of honest service, it ideally serves the
Schoolboy, or Schoolgirl player.
Strung with dependable Gut.
TENNIS REPAIRS
Let only a good craftsman handle your damaged
Racket.
Remember, also. Mick Simmons’ charges are the
lowest prevailing in Sydney.
Steam-Tarred Tennis Nets
wm
nq
n-f-J
B 9
m
: :
si
IT
ss
m- ' 1 ck
Tennis Nets, with rope head
line .... 18/6, 25/-, 30/-
Tennis Nets, with drill head
band, wire head line—
-37/6, 40/-, 45/-
Tennis Nets, with heavy drill
head band, flexible wire head
line, double top—
-45/-, 50/-, 60/-, 65/-, 70/-
RACKET COVERS
Waterproof Canvas, leather
bound with handle . . 7/6
Waterproof Drill, braided
with pocket and handle, 5/9
Waterproof Material, strong
and durable 1/9
Classic Screw Net Adjuster,
heavy web, with ground fas-
tener 5/6
Acme Net Adjuster, heavy
web, with ground fastener—•
4/6
Special TENNIS SHOES
Men’s Tennis Shoes, white
canvas, with crepe rubber
soles, comfortable and ser-
viceable. Sizes 5 to 10.
Pair 8/6
Ladies’ Tennis Shoes, white
canvas, with crepe rubber
soles and strap. Sizes 2to 6.
P air 6/11
(Carriage paid on all Sporting Goods, except where specified otherwise.)
The Exacting
GOLFERS’ NEEDS
3
The New
GOLF BALLS
P.G.A. Kro-lite Halls. Approved
and adopted by the P.G.A. . . 3/g
The “Lightning” Golf Ball. Ideally
suitable for the beginner .... 2/-
GOLF BAGS
Brown or Blue Canvas, superior
leather fittings, cane supports, very
light and strong. inch . . 15/Q
Willow Hide, white green lacing, 2
canes, highly polished finish, 32/6
SERVICEABLE
GOLF SHOES
Tan Brogue Golf Shoes,
with heavy crepe rubber
soles. The perfect shoe
for the Golfer. Pair 27/6
GOLF REPAIRS
Fitting New Shaft 7 /Q
Fitting Brassies’ Heads—
... . . 12 / 6
Fitting Driver Heads—
-12/6
Fitting Iron Heads IQ/-
The Tennis and Golf Catalogues, complete in every detail, are post free on request
- Trfiefc SimhinnaTt4.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
BRANCHES,: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE AND BRISBANE.
“Australia's Largest Sports Outfitters.”


Under
Royal
Warranf
ds
To H.M.
Kin
George V
Vintnge 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Q^iifsHeidsieo^
REIMS
y.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ MumSydney.
Wire accommodation.
hotel
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/'
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
ceo/pp of Queens /an c/s
Cjfl c/'shn£u/shoc/ &oc/a/ /-/fe •
®ote\
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room, Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attaenea. JHot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
renience for the comfort of guests.
Tele prams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5'SO —10 Lines
fds
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Like so many streams that have spent the
first fury of the storm, and now, with a sob
only in their undertone, gleam and glance
their way to the sea, individual sorrow for
the Anzac is merging into a great Hood of
national pride. And as the years go on
Anzac Day will In; clothed more and more
with pageantry, till the red in the banners
will be the emblem of victory and not cry
aloud with the blood of broken hearts ; and
the green will stand for fields of fair re-
nown and not for a grassy grave in Flanders
or Gallipoli. But that time is not yet. There
are mothers and fathers, cobbers and sweet-
hearts still to feel the sword turn in their
hearts when the storm of memories bursts
all restraint.
Last week Sydney took her memories to
the Cenotaph, its incense of massed flowers
surmounted by the rising sun of gilded laurels
placed there by the returned soldiers to the
glory of those who did not return. As early
as half-past four, the hour of the Landing, a
handful of pilgrims had gathered about the
base of the Martin-place memorial. Later
in the morning thousands of Diggers, ALC.’s,
blinded soldiers, limbless soldiers, saluted
their old mates as the lines passed the dedi-
cated spot.
The morning was flawless, the sky a pol-
ished bowl of blue. Up in the Domain, a
vast amphitheatre of shining green trees, the
memorial service was read. No altar was
set, but a flag-festooned dais had been raised
towards the Art Gallery, where Place and
Power, including the Governor, in full naval
kit, and Lady de Chair, and Wing-Com-
mander Wackett representing the Governor-
General, were set apart. Bobbie Burns
paused at his plough a little beyond, turned
an eye on the assemblage, and as line after
line of soldiers fell into position you could
almost hear him thunder: “The rank is but
the guinea stamp, the man’s the gowd for a'
that.” Between the rafters of two Moreton
Bays the towers of St. Mary’s breathed a
benediction, and outside the Domain gates,
near the Mitchell Library, Shakspeare stood
at gaze content that he had whispered:
“Rosemary, that’s for remembrance!” Of
the tens of thousands who prayed into that
green and gold autumnal day, scarcely one
but wore a sprig, one of its most untiring
dispensers being a shy little Digger’s son.
Fathers who had been soldiers and mothers
who had been sweethearts in that war-
wracked long-ago brought Billjim Junior
and Billjim Junior’s sister to the Domain.
Mother brought a suitcase (there was to be
a picnic afterwards in the Gardens), and
father bought a bag of peanuts for each of
the kiddies. Very Junior Red Crossers—-
some of whom could not have been born
when the blessed Armistice arrived—looked
efficient in speckless white. Flappers in
every color of the rainbow brought mothers
or young men or both. Dennis’s Ginger Mick
was there, and a young woman in dull-red
georgette and sable fur flung a tense arm
about the neck of her small son when the
Last Post sounded, and an old and shabby
grandmother sang fervently “O God, Our
Help in Ages Past!” while the tears streamed
down her cheeks.
This University function was the great
event of the afternoon. Cohorts of B.A.’s and
M.A.’s and undergrads, and of distinguished
ones and important ones (and they aren’t
always the same) descended on the pile, and
here in the massy greyness of the Great Hall,
pierced by swords of colored light from the
high stained-glass windows, the formal hand-
ing-over took place. There was a rustle of
gowns like parchment stirred by a little
breeze as hoods and cloaks turned to the dis-
course. Archbishop Wright, in pnrple and
fine linen, and the MacCallum lady’s finely-
etched face were arresting features. Dr.
Constance D’Arcy, too, lifted a gallant little
head above her Senate gown, and Chief Jus-
tice Street was another notable. But per-
sonalities were overwhelmed and submerged
by the torrent of sombre sound that flowed
from the great bell in its dirge. The ter-
races and the park beyond the Uni. also
held their thousands, and to them Major-
General Glasgow made articulate the mean-
ing of the afternoon’s ceremonial. A com-
pany of soldiers presented arms. Again trum-
peters sounded the Last Post and Reveille.
Then the bells intoned Chopin’s Funeral
March.
Within St. Mary’s a solemn Requiem Mass
was sung, and in the afternoon the gates at
Woolloomooloo wharf were the meeting
place for countless mothers and fathers who
had said good-bye to their boys there. In
the Town Hall Dr. Mary Booth presided over
a Digger tea party with something of the
old thrill with which she had played hostess
at the Soldiers’ Club.
Eighteen slow, solemn strokes of the great
A.I.F. bell was the University carillon’s first
greeting to Sydney. Eighteen tolls with five
seconds’ silence between each. Eighteen was
the age at which youth was admitted to that
hell we spaciously refer to as the Front —the
age at which many a student turned his ear
to the boom of the gong of War and lifted
his eyes from the printed page to the vision
of splendid deeds. So youth went to the
war and sometimes he didn’t come back. In
commemoration of his sacrifice Sydney now
has the Memorial Carillon, which was handed
over by Professor MacCallum to Chancellor
ex-Chief Justice Cullen on Anzac Day.
But it's a case of tuning up your ear-
trumpets if you want to. hear the carillon
10 yards outside the Uni. grounds; and if
you’ve a very sensitive ear you wouldn’t
have wanted it at the inaugural recital.
One musician standing by the pond in the
Uni. Park on Anzac Day says he couldn’t
hear the lighter passages of the Funeral
March at all, and much of what he did hear
was under pitch. Now, this is rather hard
on the ordinary chap in the street who was
responsible for quite a lot of the money
deposited on the Uni. Memorial. It was
hoped that now and again the carillon would
put up a fight even with the city traffic
and percolate to the inner consciousness of
the money-changers, but apparently it will
not even be heard a soothing murmur over
the fever of Parramatta-road.
Professor Holme, writing in defence of
the carillon, points out that only the common
or vulgar peals or chimes bother to make
themselves heard a mile distant. A carillon is
brought up on the refined plan of being seen
rather than heard. “Only by some chance,”
says the gentle Professor, “will it be audible
at such a distance [a mile or two], and
then its effect will be only that of several big
bells making a confusion of sound, the whole
harmony not being distinguishable. Its
listeners must be undisturbed by traffic and
even by talking. The least noise will dis-
tract a listener and spoil his pleasure.”
All of which sounds as though Alma Mater
has been sold a P-U-P. Was it a sense of
irony that supplied a Barker with it?
But Alma Mater is a girl of culture.
She’ll never understand this coarse language.
Rose Merivale, had she lived when Greece
w a s young,
would prob-
ably have
been cast for
a Y e s t a l’s
part. Hers
is the ardor
which keeps
altar flames
alight and
banners flying.
She has been
secretary for
the Havilah
(C. of E.)
babies’ home
since its
found ation.
Through the
years her in-
terest has
never flagged,
and she has
the joy of
knowing that
llavilah is one of the happiest babies’ homes
in this happiest Continent.
Critical enjoyment of the Fullers’ new
production, “Rio Rita,” was drowned in the
enthusiastic determination of the St. James
audience to show Gladys Moncrieff that it
was a joy to welcome her back. Compared
with an ordinary warm welcome the recep-
tion was a hurricane alongside a southerly
blow. For over five minutes the house
demonstrated, and was not satisfied merely
with that; it wanted to cheer everything she
did. Subsequently, when the curtain fell
long after eleven, flowers poured on to the
stage, and even after a few words had been
extracted from the overcome performer, and
the theatre ushers had shooed the reluctant
lingerers from the theatre, a packed crowd
waited to give cheers as the actress emerged
from the theatre. People who carry an
enthusiasm that far deserve to have to walk
home.
One wonders what the kings ,and queens and
gentry of whom Will Shakspeare wrote would
have thought of a day when ballrooms for
the many would be more a feature of the
world that amuses itself than the ball-
room exclusive to the few. But no shade of
Ann Boleyn, or of Richard three Fs, or of
beautiful, ill-starred Mary Stuart voiced any
opinion on the matter at the English-Speak-
ing Union’s partv at which the lovers, the
statesmen and the princes and churchmen
shook off the print in which Shakspeare
clothed them, and ruffled into the Went-
worth in the velvets and brocades of their
times. All men hate fancy dress, and he
who wore the cloth of Wolsey looked as
comfortable as if forced to wear a set of
the much-advertised woollies in the sizzling
Indian summer that has been lying heavily
upon us.
The Braddon lady was impressively
handsome in amethystine velvets, while her
knight, moustacheless, but not of course
speechless, was a gallant Richard Plan-
tagenet. Joan of Arc, in her silver suit of
mail, looked reproachfully at the bard as
one who might say, “You know you didn’t
do me justice” ; and Lawrence Campbell (in
a make-up as like the statue of Will as two
peas) made a note of her complaint on his
scroll. Othello walked with his golden
Desdemona, and Queen Elizabeth, enthroned
at one end of the ballroom, held her court.
Very straight she sat, her beautiful red hair
a magnet for all eyes, tin 1 glory, of her blue
and gold brocades, stiff with pearl embroi-
deries, remindful of some brilliant bird that
Raleigh might have glimpsed in fabulous
countries. Mrs. T. Remfry wore the robes
of Queen Bess in place of Miss Plummer,
who had met with a motor accident the day
before. In the guest list were Antony and
Cleopatra, who brought their favorite danc-
ing girl Aneeslia (Lallah Mockbell) with
them. This pretty creature repeated her
success of last year, and danced through the
room like grace personified.
The Governor and Lady de Chair brought
a great party. Her Ex. wore handsome
black and silver raiment completed with a
curling white feather fan that might have
been used by Cleo. herself. Noteworthy,
too, were the diamonds in her hair.
Professor MacCallum’s learned lady struck
a reflective note in mist-grey georgettes;
American Consul Lawton’s wife wore apple-
green under black chiffon. There were a
long list of other English Speakers present;
but this Letter had time to note no more
except the striking Alathea Glasby, the
Shakspeare actress who helped to judge from
a dazzling mesh of lilac georgette.
June Baillieu and Lavender Stuart, two
of Melbourne’s smart young things who
came to Sydney for the A.J.C. Easter races,
proved too good for their rivals at the
Government House tennis tournament. This
was got up by Elaine de Chair and some
of her friends to help with the expenses of
the Irene Vanbrugh matinfie for the Havilah
babies. Irene herself, niece Prudence and
Mrs. Walter Swinson were Lady de Chair’s
guests at tea, and then Miss Vanbrugh
signed a photograph for each winner.
Will Shakspeare held a birthday party last
week under a sky as blue as that which
tented his ardent lovers of Verona —a blue
which he had known only in imagination,
but whose light and fervor he had painted
the more vividly because of his unsatisfied
desire. Laurels fell from the hands and
tongues of those lovers of the good word who
gathered at the base of the Mackennal
statue at the Domain gates. In the evening
the society refereed, at the Allora Cafe, the
much-advertised meeting between Cassius
and Brutus, and declared it a draw.
Two Melbourne girls carried off the prize
at the Government House tennis tournament
in aid of the Irene Vanbrugh matinbe for
Havilah, and they well and truly won it.
Every ounce of dash and cunning that
18-year-old Sydney is capable of was put
into the defence of the honor of N. S. Wales.
Yes, it became a matter of State pride in
the latter end; but sturdy June Baillieu
was as unshakeable as the rock of Gib-
raltar. Perhaps Lady de Chair felt some-
thing of the thunder in the air when she
led off in three cheers for Melbourne. The
Sydney girls piped up well; but, as Betty
Nuthall remarked as she drove her runabout
home at about 60 knots, “You know, mother,
it’s not the game that’s taken it out of me;
it’s the strain.”
It must be the fashion to play tennis at
Ranelagh without stockings, otherwise Pru-
dence Vanbrugh wouldn’t have appeared at
Rose Bay without hers. Or, maybe, she had
her socks on the game, and therefore couldn't
have them on the hoof, so to speak. But
really such revelations are only permitted
to the snowy of skin. Being a nut-brown
maid lias a poetic and wild-wood sound, but
a nut-brown calf could hardly be expected
to appeal even to the prodigal son.
Andy Watt, K.C., the produest father of
a quiverful of pretty daughters in Strath-
field, helped Helen up the aisle of St.
Martha’s on Thursday night to meet John
Drury, of Elizabeth Bay. The passing of
the bride and sister Patricia was accompanied
by a long drawn oooh ! The garment, of white
satin, was fashioned with a short tight bodice
and a full skirt that looked like layers of
magnolia petals. Pink was the lining thereof
(the lining is a very important part of a
wedding frock), and palely pink blew the
mist of tulle veiling that enveloped the
bride. The one maid was rose and gold,
like a Minns girl. Adrian Cowper best-
manned. Mrs. Watt, in black ring velvets
and a blaze of diamente, held court later
on at the Strathfield Town Hall, where
family friends congregated in large numbers,
all eulogistic over the decorations at tne
church and the reception. Chrysanthemums
white and feathery, and the red and gold ot
autumn were among the seasonable glories
in the floral scheme.
The lady with the sensitive face in this
May Moore picture is Mrs. Jane de Burgu.
Besides lecturing on psychology to the uni.
tutorial classes, Mrs. de Burgh interests her-
self in manv
welf ar e and
educationa 1
movements for
women. But
her chief joy
is writing the
women’s page
for the pri-
sons’ n e w s-
pap e r. This
circulates
among all
good - conduct
prisoners, aim
in the
women’s pag'
such things as
fashions, shop
windows, tli •
newest movies
and plays an 1
household in-
ventions ar e
talked about
in a simple and attractive way, so that when
at last the great gate swings open the
girl or woman may step out stocked with
the small conversational change of every
day, and ignorance may not shout aloud
of her recent seclusion. It is one of the
kindliest schemes the prisoners’ friends have
ever evolved, and Mrs. de Burgh fills the
niche of editress as happily as did poetess
Ruth Bedford, her predecessor.
Barrister T. B. Clegg, for many years one
of the State’s most cultured and philoso-
phical S.M.’s, and of lute a member of T»k
Buixktin stall’, pushed a pile of unread MS.
aside the other night to haste to son Eric’s
wedding. Eric, who is starting life, as his
father did, in the Law, married Rita Henning,
in the Pitt-strect Congregational Church, both
coming from Mosman for the event. Ivory
chiffons over the same pale-pink softness
formed the wedding garment, which was en-
riched by panels encrusted with rhinestones
and pearls. The veil, which floated away
into a foamy wash of train, was followed by
’groom’s sister Marjorie and Rita's friend
Winnie Ivellings in frOcking as delicately
pink and blue as a flight of butterflies.
Sydney’s very eligible bachelor pan
Carroll, of the well-known theatrical firm,
strolled out of St. Mary’s with a bride on
his arm last week-end. Dean Crowley had
put the acid test on the pair within the
cathedral; Muriel Treble, of Parramatta,
had piped her willingness to love and honor,
and all hands being satisfied, Dan speeded
with his best girl into the honeymoon. The
eve of the wedding was passed by both at
the first screening of “King of Kings.”
St. Mark’s blessed the deed when Richard
C. Kirby, of Cairns (Q.), handed over the
orthodox circlet to Elinor Dalrymple Hay,
daughter of the Dalrymple Hays, of Double
Bay. The bride’s white georgette, lit
with rhinestones and a foam of white tulle,
was sheplierdessed to the life-pasturage by
Sylvia Conroy in leafy golds. A small niece
of the bride spilled petals of yellow roses
out of a gold basket, herself in golden rai-
ment. Langloh Want best-manned.
Nat Buchanan, of Cronulla, son of the
Gordon Buchanans, of Glen Innes and Kil-
lara, and grandson of pioneer and explorer
Nat, was married at St. Philip’s to Mollie-
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Barton, of
Warrawee. The sweet little bride, in an
old-world frock of ivory chantilly lace and
taffeta, was attended by three sisters, who
wore period frocks of pink tulle and taffeta.
The ’groom was supported by lan Wilson,
Ken Collett and Doug. Abbott.
Ivory brocades, mellow with time, were
worn by Louie Wilson for her wedding.
The young man who met her at St. Andrew’s,
in Rose Bay, was Struan Robertson, and he
came from Vaucluse, round the corner. Tin
bride, who was armed up the aisle by father,
was followed by chums .Toan and Doreen
Baker, whose heads were bound by flowing
tulle veils —one blue, the other pink, to
match their frocks. Mrs. Andrew Wilson
saw to the smooth running of the rejoicing-
at the Golf Club.
Alfred O’Shea received nearly a cartload
of vegetation in the form of laurel wreath?
the other afternoon when he appeared a?
the naughty Duke in “Rigoletto.” His voic'
and his legs fitted the part to perfection,
but his acting did not reach the bull's-ey\
The house was an O'Shea audience, women
being loud among the applause-makers. Per-
haps it was a way of expressing disapproval
of a husband making a tenor a co-re. in
divorce proceedings. In any case, Alfred
emerged from them with an order to collect
his costs from the routed petitioner.


a
us
H'iiiiiii
'I
PI
s
Si
:ur
a
>_\ iJs /-i> -£~\ X.J;
A
*T
wwwgg^.
iflfo
.■•Mil
;::^u» Huii| imiiiiiiii'iiiil||||K <
m!H3siik?Su;:-:. 7 '
T~ yiiiw
..mli!
Tmi
i
7^fr.
111 S
m
MI M W
— __ /
*mm.
..~S9lsianaa
%ouscu\ds g(Qusffia&asu?m
'THE paramount plank in the policy of
1 General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
is the use, wherever possible, of Australian
products.
One item of which General Motors have
availed themselves from the vast resources
offered by Australia, is Tyres. Thousands of
Australian Tyres are manufactured annually
for the equipment of General Motors Cars,
thus providing employment for many Aus-
tralian workmen, and consequently enriching
the country.
General Motors (Aus.) Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne - - Sydney - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Perth
# ft i T
m\
i
m
mm§
y
/
V.
4ltT!iiuifflV
M
wv
■o
Va
Ls<s
IN
Wo
«^ r ql °


for Reliable Watches
Ea
sa
sir
£9
24,D.L.16—Catanach’s Gent’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 Jewels, Plain
Dial, £9; Luminous Dial, £9/10/-
24,D.L.10 Catanach’s
Lady’s “De Luxe” Gold
Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted
fancy dials, £o
/"'■ATANACITS “De Luxe” Watches, two of
which are illustrated below, are quite
the most popular timepieces in Melbourne.
They are excellent timekeepers, having 15
jewel movement, and are available in an
immense variety of distinctive designs.
“De Luxe” Watches are guaranteed by, and
obtainable only from, Catanach’s. Choose a
“De Luxe” and be sure of satisfaction.
(Mm
(O'fB)
CD
11
oo)tor<
Magnificent Diamond Wrist Watch, £25
This exquisite Diamond Wristlet Watch in White Gold is
showing at Catanach’s for £25.
Many other choice designs in Diamond-set Watches, some ir.
Gold, Platinum-set, others in White Gold, at prices ranging
from £l5, £lB, £2O up to £75.
Catanach’s are also showing Exquisite Diamond-set W atches,
with flexible Diamond-set Bracelets, at £O5 to £l3O.
fsd
Corner Royal Arcade and Little
Melbourne
Collins Street,
- - Victoria
W.-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
The solemn march of 52,000 men was
the great spectacle of Melbourne’s Anzac Day.
and it was not the less impressive because
most of the marchers were in civvies. The
celebration symbolises something bigger than
military pomp and pride of power. It re-
calls to a nation at peace the sacrifices that
were made to attain that peace—the devo-
tion and courage of men who were not sol-
diers till the war drums beat, and who
ceased to be soldiers, if they survived, as
soon as they returned to their homes.
Governor Somers in mufti took the salute
at the cenotaph—the temporary structure
that is raised each year on the steps of Par-
liament House, and which ere sunset comes is
always completely covered with flowers
and laurel wreaths. The army of the men
who had been soldiers passed the cenotaph
bare-headed, and battalion colors were
reverently lowered. Policemen and firemen
who had seen service wore the uniforms of
their present occupations and marched to-
gether. Disabled and invalided men from
the military hospitals rode in inotor-cars,
but the little company of the blind, most
pathetic of sufferers, marched sturdily and
confidently. Many a man was accompanied
along the line of march by a small son or
daughter, brother or sister, who trotted along
swelling with pride in the reflected glory;
and all along the route were those, young
and old, whose eyes too clearly told the
story of some loved one lost in the great
maelstrom that swept the world in 1914.
A cold wind that threatened a wet after-
noon —which, by the way, didn’t materialise
—put a damper on fine feathers at the
V.A.T.C. meeting on Saturday, and the dress-
parade was a bit monotonous, cloth, tweed
and fur coats and furs supplementing tailored
suits being the general feminine wear, while
felt hats were universal. On the lawn, among
many others, were Mrs. Claude Grice, Mrs.
T A. Tabart and her daughters Edna and
Pixie", the James Purves couple and then-
daughter Valerie, whose red felt hat was
worn with a coat and skirt of cocoa hue;
Mrs. Ernest Lloyd and her lass Molly, Dr.
and Mrs. Murray Morton, Mrs. Clive Leon-
ard, who looked smart in black and check
tweed; and Mrs. H. S. K. Ward and her
daughter-in-law, the latter protected from
the breeze by a squirrel coat.
The soft golden lights of Bibron’s shone
on fair women anti charitably minded men
the other evening, when the needs of the
Kyneton hospital provided occasion for a
dance. Dorothy Polilman, who wore flounces
of black encrusted with rhinestones, and
Margaret Nicol, who had a blue sash as
dividing-line between frills of white tulle and
a tight'bodice, were organisers and managers.
Mrs. Polilman, wearing black, Mrs. P.
Lucini, whose robe glistened with black
sequins, and some of the younger set sold
balloons and other trifles. Matron Wren
and Dr. A. B. Swain beamed approval.
Among the dancers were Mrs. J. Ross Soden,
known before her marriage as Dr. Martha
Robertson; Zillah Bateman, who is busy
with movie-making these days ; Mrs. Douglas
Stewart, gowned in powder-blue georgette
with a wrap of ermine; Madame Lambert,
sparkling in a roseate sequinned gown; Betty
Ross Clarke and Mrs. Cox, president of the
women’s section of the Royal Auto. Club.
More than two hundred friends of the
hospital eschewed manifold theatrical attrac-
tions in favor of the Saturday-night
dance and bridge party organised by the
Brighton branch of St. Vincent’s Red Cross
Auxiliary at the Australia. Mrs. R. J.
Dunlea, the president, received the faithful
in a glistening black robe, and Molly Ryan,
who shares the quill-driving with Mary
Winter, wore black chiffon frills with a
touch of flesh pink. The Hennessy lady
in black lace gown, Mr. and Mrs. I. 11. Moss,
the G. Bowchers, Mrs. Ryan, the Neil Law-
rence couple, and the vice-president, Mrs.
W. T. McCormack, were a few of those who
shuffled cards or toes to help a fine
institution.
The coming of age of Kathleen, fair-
haired younger daughter of the Archibald
Curries, of Toorak, was celebrated on Friday
night by a fancy-dress masked ball. The
debutante powdered her golden locks and
wore attire of dull blue brocade, after the
mode of Marie Antoinette panniered and
puffed, with a pale pink petticoat. Mrs.
Currie received in pale fawn satin embe]-
lislied with bead embroideries of oriental
design. The younger set revelled in the
opportunity for wearing period costumes, but
the oldsters stuck to modern styles. Mel-
bourne’s very smartest were there, and the
decorations were the last word in floral art.
The Arts and Crafts Society proved that
it was very much alive the other evening
when the annual review of its progress was
made. Though the year was reckoned a
poor one by art dealers the society came out
with a credit balance and enrolled 69 new
member's. The meeting, which was ruled over
by Mrs. Oswald Syme, discussed the arrange-
ments for a show of students’ work in July
and a big exhibition in the Town Hall m
September, and the publication of an Arts
and Crafts Magazine” was seriously con-
sidered. Tranthim Fryer’s resignation of the
presidency on health grounds after nine years
of office was the subject of many genuine
expressions of regret. A talk by Jessie
Webb about the progress of arts and crafts
throughout the ages followed the business
meeting.
The Royal Society of St. George feasted
and danced at the Rex to celebrate the birth-
day of the graceful gentleman who decorates
Mother’s gold coinage. The president, F.
T. Hickford, with his daughter, Mrs. J. liar-
bison, who was arrayed in jade green, wel-
comed the guests, who included the Dean
of Melbourne and Mrs. Aicken, Rear-Admiral
and Mrs. Napier, she in sapphire-blue, Len-
non Raws and his lady and the Felix Lloyds.
The Royal Caledonian and Welsh societies
sent along their presidents.
Christ Church, South Yarra, brought out
its very best carpet for Marjorie, only
daughter of the Charles Close couple, of St.
Kilda-road, whose bridegroom was Donald,
second son of the Walter Clarkes, of East
Malvern. The bridal gown was of ivory
georgette with a train of brocade glimpsing
pink descending from the shoulders. A flow-
ing veil of rich Honiton lace was bound to
the head with a narrow circlet of orange
buds, continued in a trail down the left
shoulder, and a shower of pink carnations
and cactus dahlias was carried. Cousin
Feo Close and Winnie Shapcott attended in
clouds of lavender georgette, a-flutter with
narrow frills, and beige felt hats.
Arrayed in ivory-velvet bouffant in cut,
over which cascaded pink tulle topped by
Limerick lace, Betty, only daughter of
Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs. Waters, of St.
Kilda-road, changed herself into Mis.
Arthur Laver at St. John’s, Toorak, on
Thursday. A quartette of ’maids looked
charming in deep pink georgette frocks and
soft green crinoline poke bonnets. No. 9
saw the after-feasting.
At the Alexandra Club one afternoon last
week Mrs. George Langridge, arrayed in
black velvet and tine lace, with felt millinery,
gathered friends around her to greet her
sister, Mrs. James Wedeles, just returned
from a long sojourn abroad. Ruddy autumn-
hued foliage and pink blossoms made a
setting for an assemblage that was mostly
clad in black. Mrs. Wedeles’s gown of ebon
hue was diversified by touches of wine
color and trimmings of petit-point em-
broidery, and Mayoress Morell chose black
silk lace and crepe de Chine. Marie Lang-
ridge’s beige pink frock and petunia felt hat
made a relieving splash of , color. A string
orchestra provided a discreet cloak for chat-
ter and the tinkle of teaspoons.
The smiling, pretty maiden with the mar-
celled coiffure is Elbe Mulligan, the Firm's
latest young Australian recruit. She has
been chosen to play lead in “Whirled into
Happiness” with the touring company which
left for Tas-
mania re-
cently. She’s
only 17, and
first saw the
bright side of
the footlights
six months ago
in “Pompa-
dour.” Con-
siderable talent
and aptitude
as a dancer
and a good
singing voice
have helped to
bring her out
of the ruck.
She got her
first big chance
as understudy
for Vera
Spaull in
“The Student
rrince,” when
illness laid Miss Spaull low. Miss Mulligan
showed so much ability that she was taken
out of the chorus and given a contract. Rus-
kin made the picture.
The Spencer lady smiled over the teacups
at. her Toorak home last week upon a com-
pany invited to burn incense at the shrine
of the Cherniavsky brothers. Among the
devotees were the tall, willowy wife of
Colonel Cass, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Streeton,
the Masson and Allen ladies, Marjorie Forbes
and Mrs. Ernest Scott.
By a quarter-past eight on Saturday even-
ing the “House Full” card was proudly
hanging on its nail in every city theatre.
Society showed a catholic impartiality to-
wards the various shows. "II Trovatore,
at the Princess, captured the fancy of Lady
Somers, whose presentation posy rested on the
balustrade of the centre d.c. Her black fur coat
with collar of shaded crimson roses was worn
over a coral-pink frock. Mrs. Davidson,
Sybil Irving and Captain Drake Brockman
accompanied her. In a box were Mayoress
Morell. daughter Sheila and Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, the last-named sporting one of the
new gold tissue coats. Next door was Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme’s party. Dr. and Mrs. Barry
Thomson and son Jack and Councillor and
Mrs. Wesley were in the opposite compart-
ments. Mussolini’s Consul-General, with
Donna Grossardi and their daughter, paid
their tribute to the genius of Verdi, and
the Maurice Patkins. Mrs. James Angus
and Mrs. Plunkett and her sons were others
who found pleasure in the troubadour and
his melodious associates.
Bendigo, city of gold and golden voices,
claims Dorothy Penfold, pictured here by
Lafayette, as one of its musical assets. The
lady is a singer and teacher of note, whose
voice is often
heard on the
concert stage
and has been
sent through
the ether by
3LO with great
success. Th e
R.0.M., Lou-
don, has put
its hall - mark
on her qualifi-
cations, an d
she has a great
many pupils.
Many will not
recognise the
shingled locks,
which were
abbreviated
for comfort
during a re-
cent sojourn in
the Malay
States as the
guest of her brother. The singer is the
daughter of Dr. Penfold, of Bendigo, who has
made his mark in the musical as well as
iu the medical world.
Somerset Maugham’s play, “Our Betters,”
introduced Melbourne playgoers to a new
theatre, described in another paragraph, and
to a new star on Saturday night. Margaret
Bannerman, a Canadian-born actress who
made her fame on London boards, is a slim,
blue-eyed blonde who # has thoroughly
mastered the art of dressing. YY hetlier in
her first-act garb of golden blue, her magni-
ficent trained gown of cloth of silver, or as
the play gets very Maughamish—in white
satin negligee under a silver-embroidered coat
of white chiffon, she is always pictorial.
Cecily Jonas, whose taste or role or some-
thing seems to require floating draperies,
looks very nice in pale grey, and equally
effective is a confection of cosmos pink
sprinkled with diamente. The amount of
autumn foliage and blooms handed from the
wings at the curtain’s fall nearly crowded
the performers off the stage. Dame Nellie
Melba, who was in a box with Elizabeth
Greene, tumbled a bouquet of crimson roses
to Miss Bannerman. The George Landales
and Mrs. Robert Knox; Lady Lawford, with
a silver tissue turban topping a mmk coat;
Mrs. Norman Falkiner, also handsomely
wrapped; Madame de Bavay and her
daughter Marie ; the Harry Creswick couple ;
Mrs. K. McClelland and Mrs. Neil Crowley
helped to swell the new star’s triumph.
Dame Nellie Melba left “Our Betters” for
a bit on Saturday night to see how Frits.
Hart was getting along with his one- and two-
shilling orchestral concert at the Town Hall.
After sizing up the house, she decided to
sing to the florins and the bobs as a reward
for the hearty way in which they had poured
themselves into the hall. A Mozart ana with
orchestra was her offering; and then a piano
was pushed on from the back and the diva
sang “Home, Sweet Home” to her own
accompaniment. She looked most attractive
in white with a glimmer of garnets and
rhinestones about the waist line, over which
she wore a crimson bridge coat. Of the
orchestral numbers a Bach fugue arranged by
Elgar, a first performance here, and the
“Tannhauser” overture were most loudly
applauded.
On Saturday night Annie Croft and a
bevy of charming flappers in fascinating
frills and picture hats made “The Girl
Friend” popular with as many people as the
Theatre Royal could hold without breaking
the law or straining the walls. There was
an especially warm welcome for May Beatty,
who is last seen by the audience in fine
black lac-e perched upon abbreviations of
white. In the first-night throng were Com-
mander and Mrs. Spicer, Surgeon Hugh
Devine and his >vife, the H. H. Smith
couple, Mr. and Mrs. Wearne and Maisic
Bennett, some Taits and Squadron-leader
Peter Drummond and Kathleen Ahearn.
The concert grand at the Assembly HaP-
was set amid tall palms and ferns t j u ,
Gargurevicli’s recital last week, i no k e d
pianist, in her glistening white tra y e d
like a snowflake that had unseasonably stray
into Fern-tree Gully. The brilliant Pjay«
found herself at the close almost overwhelin^^
with flowers and gifts. Hardened critics sat
the programme out to the last note. ,
forefront of the audience were Mis. aid
Miller, Mrs. Mansley Greer and her
Mrs. Harold Spry (whose husband was at
the second piano) for the performance , _
Glazounouv Concerto), Mrs. Come
and Madame Mortill.
The Repertory Society’s new director,
Frank Clewlow, chose a fantastic one-act plaj
translated from the Russian of Nicholas
Evreinov, and a two-act comedy, Lhe J
Shepherds,” as the bill for the second per-
formance at the Playhouse under his supei
vision. Though strict economy is now tne
watchword, staging and dressing "
quate, and a large audience, gave encourage-
ment in terms of applause and flowers. 1 rm.
Skoats, Dr. and Mrs. Apperly Dr. and Mis
J. Ramsay Webb, Mrs Fred Scarlett an«
daughter Nancy, and Mrs. Oswald Sym_
were among the first-nighters.
Architecture of the Florentine order non-
flatters the Italian and rebukes the Chinese
restaurants that huddle at. the end ot Dxhi
bition-street. The new facade belongs to
the Firm’s latest-built Comedy theatre.
It is almost a theatre intime, accommodating
only 1052 patrons. The interior walls are o.
travertine, the mottled fawn tones of which,
in some lights, suggest that the borer has
been at work. The raftered ceiling is picked
out in fanciful colors, and emerald-green
velvet borders the balustrade of boxes and
circle and is repeated in the drop curtain.
The low ceiling of the foyer is covered with
gilded designs in which interlocked rectangles
provide the principal motif, and walnut
panelling surrounds the stalls, the back wall
of which is pierced by windows with wrought-
iron grilles, through which late-comers who
have to wait for admittance can glimpse the
stage like peris at the gate of paradise.
There is a women’s boudoir, pan-elled in dull-
green brocade and beautifully furnished:
and a “cosmetic room” where repairs to the
complexion can be accomplished at the lurms
expense, a wide range of powders, puffs and
so forth being provided.
At the garden party which brought to a
close the Ruyton College jubilee celebrations
Principal Hilda Daniell received at the
hands of Mrs. Rawden Chomley a silver tea-
and-coffce service given by the Old Ruy-
tonians’ Association. There was also a token
for the principal from the present students.
The council of the Toorak Girls’ College
has commissioned Edna Walling to lay out
the grounds surrounding the new buildings
at Frankston. Miss Walling is a very
highly-trained specialist in garden-planning,
and she can be depended upon to evolve
something worthy of the very picturesque
site selected for the college.
The Women’s Hospital replenished its
linen cupboards, according to custom, by
holding a tea-party at Scott’s the other
afternoon, to which every guest brought a
donation. The president, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, with touches of petunia brightening
her navy gown, gave greeting and thanks
to an army of brown-paper-parcel-laden
friends of the institution. Albert-street and
Uni. Con. students made music, and then
there was tea and chatter.
The shutters have gone up at Numba, the
Berwick home of the G. L. Wilsons, who
have sailed away foreign countries for to
see. Their daughter Joyce, who elected to
stay in Australia, has mapped out a plan of
visits to fill in the time, starting with Aunt
Golding at her Wentworth Falls home in
N. S. Wales.
When Anna Barter arrived from America
and reached the nest at Auburn feathered by
sisters Elizabeth and Maude, who had pre-
ceded her, she found none to welcome her.
Elizabeth had gone visiting in another State,
and Maude had followed to bring her back;
so the lonely traveller sent out an SOS,
which brought Peggy McCormack post-haste
from Warrnambool to keep her company.
The death of Mrs. Thomas Blayney at
Arranajong, Grenfell, has thrown a far-scat-
tered family into mourning. One daughter,
Mrs. Charles Mitchell, is a resident of Lily-
dale; another, Mrs. H. Lobb, lives on a Sey-
mour squattage, and the two surviving sons,
Tom and Oscar, hold the Boorpola pastur-
age in a neighboring State. Mrs. Blayney
came to Australia as a child, and had lived
here for 73 years when the Reaper intervened.
Norman Simpson, who has made a name
for himself in Repertory productions here,
has joined the ranks of professional buskers.
Und"r the name of Norman Wister he has
linked up with Gregan McMahon’s new com-
pany, now in Brisbane.
The Andrew Drummonds are booked for
an oversea jaunt in which business and plea-
sure will be mingled. Mrs. Drummond has
a number of calls to make on relatives scat-
tered through her native England before re-
plenishing her wardrobe in Paris.


A. SAUNDERS’
GENT.’S PRESENTS
GO
El
,
El
ED
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Strap Watch, Gold-filled Elgin Lever,
Luminous Dial,
£7/10/-
With Plain Dial. £6 /10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent’s 9ct. Gold,
Bloodstone Signet
Ring,
Saunders’
Gold Links,
Engraved,
15/-
9ct.
.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s 10-year Gold-filled
Imperial Lever,
£2/10/-
Sterling Silver, £2/10/-
GUARANTEED.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Shield Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Links,
25/-
Heavier, £2.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Curb Albert,
£5/10/-
Lig-hter, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
ALL ORDERS BY MAIL RECEIVE OUR SPECIAL ATTENTION
AND PROMPT DESPATCH.
WE PAY POSTAGE. : : WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watclmjaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Amusements.
E- M I* I R E T H E A T R E,
& Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
An Airy Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Violet Elliott, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3, 5/6,
8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6.
Reserves:
Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city Booking Offices.
jjYDNBI'S CHIEF THEATRES
3, C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : ROSE MARIE.
ROYAL: ROOKERY NOOK.
CRITERION: THE HIGH ROAD.
PALACE : WHISPERING WIRES.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
1 * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
(FLLKKITY VAUDEVILLE
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
' * The greatest motion picture programme in the
History of the Screen.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
THE CIRCUS.
ALSO
METROPOLIS,
A U.F.A. Production.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER*
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Part I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
I C. W 1L L I A MS O N, LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL;
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE :
MARGARET BANNERMAN CO. in
OUR REITERS.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
A
I HENAi U M THEA T R E.
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
PERCY HUTCHISON
and his English Comedy Co. in a Sparkling Three-act
French Comedy,
MR. WHAT’S-HIS-NAME.
• if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Amusements.
HOST’S I) E LUXii THEATRE.
MELBOURNE.
LON CHANEY in
LONDON AFTER MIDNIGHT.
ALSO
THE GATEWAY OF THE MOON,
With DELORES DEL RIO.
|y| A.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MAY McAVOY and CONRAD NAGEL
in
SLIGHTLY USED.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
For Sale.
pHOICE EATING APPLES, 13/6 per
bushel case. Freight paid anywhere;
quality guaranteed. Apply G. PIKE, Long
View. Young, X.S.W.
Missing Friends.
WILL HECTOR HAIR write to
ARCHIE HAIR?
TIM ANDERSON, late of Atherton Table-
J land, communicate Sister, Upper Barron.
Important, Policy not paid.
HOTEL
METRO POLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club ant! Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 0/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE ... .. . . . tfd
Contains everything « woman needs it know.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Weather here lately has been simply
dreadful. All our outer suburbs have been
flooded, and our river a mighty torrent.
Motorists touring the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers had to put their cars on trucks and
themselves aboard the Brisbane-bound train.
Some made for North Queensland as being a
drier spot.
Sheila McCowan was one of last week’s
brides, her wedding with Donald Bryan
Arnott, son of Colonel and Mrs. J. M. Arnott,
of Sydney, taking place in St. John’s Cathe-
dral. The leading lady’s gown, of draped
ivory satin, had a wide band of Richelieu
embroidery the full length of the skirt. Her
veil was of Venetian point over tulle, and she
carried a sheaf of arum lilies and orchids.
Nancy McCowan and Peggy Dods attended
her in apricot mousseline, with full skirts
deeply tucked. A French flower and dia-
mente ornament decorated each tulle cap, and
their Columbine posies Avere of apricot roses
and carnations.
William Reginald, elder son of the W.
R. Tindales, of Clermont, Aved Katie Crecida,
youngest
daughter o f
the W. Dry-
nans, of Pad-
dington, Bris-
bane, at St.
John’s Cathe-
dra 1, which
had been de-
corated by the
bride’s friends
with white
flowers and
asparagus
fern. The
bridal array
was ivory
chenille mari-
ette over pink
duchesse satin,
trimmed with
clusters o f
orange blos-
soms and silver roses. A shell-pink
bridal veil was worn cap fashion, and a
shower bouquet of eucharist lilies and white
roses relieved the all-pink effect. Kathleen
Drynan and Annie Fleming attended in
Alice-blue shot taffetas with silver-lace
overdress and picture hats of blue and silver;
they held early Victorian posies of pink
Radiance roses. Jenolan cafe, prinked up
with silver vases of pink roses, was the scene
of the rejoicings.
Another wedding was that of Maurice Del-
prat to Mary Davies in St. Alban’s Memorial
chapel, Southport School. The bridal array
was of ivory mariette over shell-pink. The
cut tulle veil descended from a circlet of
orange-blossom and heather, and the bouquet
was of lotus lilies and roses. Olive Davies,
in pale blue, was bridesmaid. The Pacific,
rose decorated, saw the feasting.
Mrs. F. C. MacNisli had a party at her
home, Eskdale, Albion Heights, for Mrs. J.
O. Frith, of Toowoomba, who, with her hus-
band, is in town for the wedding of their son
to Joyce Smith. Bridge was played, and
amongst the guests were Mrs. Cecil Palmer,
Mrs. T. W. Smith (Boatman station), Mrs.
St. John Tyrwhitt, Jean Graham and Claire
Martin.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The social whirl is working up its velocity
with a crop of debutante dances, principal
among these being the one given by the Gor-
don Sunters at their home, St. Helens, for
daughter Helen. There were three marquees
for dancing, bridge and supper respectively,
and 200 sat down to turkey and champagne.
The final effort on behalf of the Free
Kindergartens, arranged by the Creveen
Junior Red Cross, was a big dance at the
Town Hall. The bevy of pretty girls re-
sponsible, with Betty Bonython as lion, sec...
scored a great success both socially and
financially.
The Avinter meeting of the Amateur Turf
Club at Cheltenham Park was favored by a
summer’s day. Many women arrived fur-
clad, not trusting the weather, and there was
a general stampede for shelter from the sun.
But they were not all like that. Mrs. A. V.
Benson, for instance, looked cool in a pale-
green and white-striped silk and a beige hat
Dr. and Mrs. W. C. Poole and Sir Edward
Sharp, on a visit in connection with the
World’s Sunday-school Association, Avere
given civic greeting, having just previously
been lunched by the Commonwealth Club.
Mayoress Bonython received, wearing a
smart frock of black silk with flared godets
of appliquSd net and a small black hat Avith
a touch of color at the side. The reception-
room was glorified by masses of roses and
sweet-peas. The Bishop of Adelaide and
Mrs. Nutter Thomas Avere there, both look-
ing much better for their trip to the Old
Dart. The Bruce lady was in a modish
silver-grey ensemble. Betty and Ada Bony-
thon fed the hungry with tea and cake.
The E.S.U.’s second bridge party in aid
of club-room funds was held at the Went-
worth, and Mrs. Mellis Napier and Mrs.
Frank Magarey, the conveners, were pleased
to see every table occupied. On the follow-
ing evening there was another rally of the
union at the Wentworth, when Prof. Russell,
of Colombia University, gave an address.
Commander and Mrs. Loudoun-Shand leave
next month for Britannia’s isle. They were
given a farewell tea at the Wentworth, at
which there were felicitations over the
engagement of Mrs. Loudoun-Shand’s sister,
Millicent Norman, of Melbourne, to a son
of Mrs. Boyer, one of the hostesses ot tne
party.
Dr. Humphrey Makin and his wife gave a
dinner party to welcome their niece, Betty
Makin, who arrived recently from England.
The guests were all of the younger set, and
the party went on afterwards to the Palais
Royal.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
On Graduation Day the Campions gave a
dinner party and afterwards took their guests
through the inconspicuous doorway into Gov-
ernment House ballroom for the graduation
dance. Her Ex. wore black mariette bro-
caded in pink and bronze, and Chancellor
Saw’s wife, black and gold chenille. The
Pro-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor came
with their wives, Mrs. Cecil Andrews in
brick-red satin de soie and Mrs. Whitfeld in
blue lace over lilac georgette. Dr. Roberta
Jull, in black and silver, Miss Sanderson and
Miss McKenzie were also members of the
v.-r. party.
Tartans and sporrans were well in the
foreground during the Hobson Bay’s visit.
A small batch of Westralian Scotch-Aussies
joined the noble 600 from other States, each
pledged to bring back from the Land o’
Scones one sturdy migrant. Park and
river were eagerly displayed to the visitors,
and Muresk College and the Swan vineyards
were inspected. A Scottish concert in Fre-
mantle Town Hall, with the Caledonian
Society’s pipe band right under the limelight,
was arranged, with welcome and farewell
speeches by Fremantle’s Mayor Gibson.
Two old families of this State were linked
when Marie, daughter of the H. L. Steeres
of Moora, came to St. Mary’s to meet Mur-
tagli, a son of the late C. Y. O’Connor. The
bridal gown was a froth of white georgette,
the train being of silver lame with a blush-
pink lining. Over all foamed a lovely Brus-
sels-lace veil. Sister Gladys, who evidently
is not superstitious, attended in almond-
green, gleaming with dewdrop beading. Other
’maids were Mollie Manning and the bride’s
cousin, Muriel Steere, in petal-pink georgette
pleatings and pink crinoline hats, swathed
in velvet ribbons.
During the week McMillan, C.J., gave his
golfing daughter Mollie into the safe keeping
of champion Reg Forbes. The bride looked
striking in beautifully hanging white ring
velvet, cut in period fashion, with long tight
sleeves and corsage and a flared skirt, above
the ankles in front and longer at the back.
A golden wedding was that of Thelma
Cairns-Hill to lan Edgar. Bride and ’maids
were all in buttercup tonings. The bride’s
train hung from the waist of her short frock,
and a golden tulle veil fluttered over all.
Yet another marriage was the early-morn-
ing tryst of Mrs. Douglas Phillips and Nor-
man Brearley. The affair was very quiet,
and only a few friends and relatives knew of
it.
We’re getting to be a very gay city. On
the night of the Graduation Ball there were
two others. Nicholson’s staff dance was
organised by clever Kitty Gillies, who looked
striking in crimson and gold. Mrs. Johu
Stoddart danced in maroon flares, the corsage
ornamented with diamente shoulder-bands,
and Mrs. Gaze was a regal figure in ocean-
green splashed with silver. Dance number
three happened at the Cottesloe home of
Claude de Bernales.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The University Union’s first dance was very
merry and bright. Frockings were unusually
smart and pretty, and their pastel and
metallic effects made a good foil for the few
all-black ensemble toilettes on view. The
decorations were of a comic character.
Firm believers in the benefits of pedes-
trianism are Mrs. Cross Keys and her son
and daughter, mainland dwellers who
decided to see as much as possible of the
Speck on foot. They tramped into Hobart
the other day after walking from Burnie to
Ulverstone, thence along the railway down
the West Coast to Zeehan and Queenstown,
visiting the Montezuma Falls and the mines.
From Strahan they walked up the banks of
the Gordon River and came south by way of
Lake St. Clair, after some terribly rough
going. They say they have thoroughly en-
joyed themselves.
This is Madame Lucy Atkins, in private
life Mrs. Frank Purchas. Singing befoi’e
Melba \v hc n
she was quite
a young girl,
sh e received
great encour-
agement from
the diva, who
eventually
tucked the
y o ungster
under a gen-
ero u s wing,
wafted her off
to England,
and subsidised
the amount
raised by en-
thusiastic Tas
manians, so
that the fledg-
-lin g could
study under
Marche si in
Paris and
Paolo Tosti in
London. Franklin Clive, a later teacher,
secured the young singer many concert
engagements in England. After her mar-
riage Madame Atkins returned to her home
town, where she is a favorite on the concert
platform and a teacher of renown.
Mrs. Theyre Weigall, who has many
friends in Hobart, farewelled a number of
them at the Imperial before returning to her
home in Melbourne. Most of our mainland
visitors, like the swallows, are getting ready
to flit to warmer climes. The Fyvie Watts,
of Sydney, Miss Stratton and the Frank
Gummows departed last week.
Enthusiastic aid was lent by the younger
set to the Industrial School Fair at May-
lands, Newtown, and £125 was raked in. It
was a glorious day, and the beautiful grounds
of Maylands looked their best. Mrs. R. C
Patterson opened the fair; of which Mrs. W.
Giblin and Mrs. O. N. Atkins were the
organisers.


LADIES OR CENTS
■JfcZJ-
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perfect fit
guaranteed, or money
refunded.
Send for patterns and
self measurement forms
IMPERIAL SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY Phone 83991
sd
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established "The 'Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
STANLEY” VACUUM
BOTTLE.
“It will not break.”
The “Stanlev” unbreakable vacuum
bottle fills the long-felt want with
motorists, travellers and station
folk who har e been brought almost
to despair with the constant break-
age expenses of the ordinary type.
The “Stanley” Flask is made of
steel and contains no breakable
parts.
50
Quart Size
With leather
57/6
Two quart size,
With leather
757-
cover,
65/-
eover,
PIKE BROTHERS,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also at Toowoomba and Town svs I b l .
THE FALL.
BY
ROGER HAMPTON.
TF mine managements were prone to con-
I sider character when engaging labor
* Screw Morris would not have got the
job. He was a recognised “bad egg.” Com-
mencing with disqualification for life as a
jockey, lie had gone from bad to worse—from
petty larceny to robbery with violence and
wife desertion —until, finally, having turned
society definitely against him, lie had re-
turned to “sponge on the old man,” as his
acquaintances put it, in the mining village
of his birth.
In their attempts to illuminate the depths
of depravity to which the prodigal had sunk,
the villagers would repeat a conversation
that had passed between him and his aged
sire. “Well, Screw,” the old man said, “one
of us has got to go—the old home won’t
keep two in idleness!” “Aw, well, I’m stop-
pin’ !” was the son’s cool reply. And he had
“stopped,” doing no work nor looking for
any; meanwhile living on what he could
extract of their old-age pensions from his
parents.
Screw was continuing to “stop” when the
coal trade boomed, a shortage of wheelers
became acute and one of the mine deputies
suggested offering him a job. “He knows a
good bit about horses,” the official urged in
support of his unique proposal, “and, admit-
ting that pit-ponies ain’t exactly horses, he
might be able to keep the trucks up to that
pair of miners in Number Twelve with one
of ’em.” Not without misgivings, the man-
ager agreed and made the offer. As it pre-
sented an alternative to further imprison-
ment, in respect of the maintenance order
his wife had against him, Screw accepted
and “made a start.”
Other wheelers in the mine described his
job as a holiday. Number Twelve was a
continuation of the main heading or “engine
road,” on which full trucks were simul-
taneously hauled out and empties hauled in,
on sets of rails running parallel, by an end-
less rope, driven from outside the mine.
Day-shift wheelers would leave a score or
so of trucks on the “empty” rails, and
Screw, on night-shift, would take these, one
at a time, sprag them and allow them to
gravitate down the incline to where his
miners were working. When they were filled
lie would hook his soiled creamy pony to them
and haul them up on the “full” or outward
rails. He had but one pair of miners to
wheel from, there Avas no double-spragging
at high speed to do, no bad turns, “flat-
sheets” or intricate “points” to negotiate,
in fact, the work was no more wheeling, in
the generally accepted sense of the term, than
turning a grindstone is engineering; which
probably accounts for Screw’s sticking to it.
Nor did the management of Lucy call for
any of his undoubted knowledge of horses.
She Avas a docile wee thing, agile as a cat.
tireless and so intelligent that, after driving
her a while, Screw Avas constrained to remark
to his miners: “’Strutli, if this mare could
only**Sprag the trucks an’ hook ’er own tail-
chain, yous blokes wouldn’t want me!” Not-
withstanding that she was in foal, Lucy
worked double shifts; and this roused her
night-shift driver’s honest indignation. “I
dunno,” he was wont to exclaim a dozen
times each shift, “yous blokes call yerselves
good unionists, and yer’d chuck a willy if
yer was asked to work a minute over the
eight hours, but yer don’t see nothink wrong
with a poor little ’orse xvorkin’ sixteen!”
But the best of jobs have their drawbacks;
and that of ScroAv’s was the nerve-strain im-
posed on him by his over-estimation of its
danger.
Of course, when several acres of the coal
—which lies like the meat of a sandwich
between the upper and lower strata—have
been replaced by a wilderness of props,
“chocks” and “baulks,” and when this tim-
ber is bent, broken and crushed, it is not
unnatural for a noxfice to conclude that wood
is a poor substitute for a coal-seam to sup-
port a “roof,” and that the place is pre-
paring to cave in suddenly. This is what
Screw had concluded.
The fact was, however, that in Number
Twelve the “tops” were stronger than the
“bottoms”; and that, instead of the former
descending—-as they logically should and
apparently were doing—the latter were being
forced, by remote lateral pressure, to crumple
and rise. This “crinkling,” though playing
the same havoc with the timber and pro-
ducing sounds even more awe-inspiring than
does the really sinister downward movement,
was, to a point, harmless and quite under
managerial control; literally, the pressure
was being deliberately employed to exert
crushing weight on the coal-seam ahead, and
so facilitate future work on it. Hence there
was no danger more than miners accept
every day as part of their calling.
It was no use telling Screw this. He
would not, or, rather, could not, believe it.
“Cut out them jokes, Dan !” he scoffed, when
that good-natured miner attempted to allay
his fear. “Yer can’t tell me rock’ll rise up
in the air like that!”
“But it’s bein’ pushed up, yer chump!”
persisted Dan with mild impatience; and
then, as Screw still murmured sceptically, he
added: “D’yer think me an’ George ’d be
so ’appy here if it was the ‘tops’ breakin’
the timber like that?”
“Aw, but yous blokes never do see the
danger till they’re carryin’ what’s left of yer
out on a stretcher!” grunted Screw, and thus
closed the argument.
So, after leaving the safety of the “engine-
road,” Screw would hold his lamp aloft, peer
apprehensively about and proceed through
the shattered timber in fear of his life. As
far as the feeble rays of his “Davey” carried
was nothing . but
yawning “gob,” in
which the unbroken
props seemed liter-
ally to tremble
with the weight
they were bearing •
and as-he trundled
a truck along he
would have a
creepy feeling that
ravenous monsters
had surrounded him
and were gnashing
their teeth prepara-
tory to devouring
him. A prop—or
several of them —
would moan, bend
and break before
his horrified eyes,
and, as he was re-
treating in. a panic,
subterranean thun-
der ahead would
freeze him in his
tracks. It appalled
him to notice that
in places where he
could walk upright
one shift the next
he had to bend
double to avoid
bumping his head
on a “roof” which,
according to reason
and the evidence of
his own eyes, was
steadily descending
to a point from
which it must fall with a rush, accelerated
by the untold weight of the mountain-range
above. Nevertheless, in spite of all this
terror, Screw stuck to the job, and, con-
sidering its circumstances, could scarcely
have given less than satisfaction to those
v/ho had been optimistic enough to regard
him as an industrial factor.
At last came a shift when not more than
twenty tons were left of the pillar on whicn
his miners were working. As this fragment
was so crushed that the coal had merely to
be shovelled into the trucks, he was kept
almost too busy to think of danger.
“Come on, Screw, me son,” roared Dan
encouragingly, “wang ’em in! There’s, a
demijohn waitin’ for us in the bushes behind
the pub—wang ’em in!” _ .. .
Without waiting to reply the wheeler
capsized the empty truck off the rails and
hooked Lucy to the full one; then, as she
started up the incline at a trot, he tipped the
empty back on the rails, pushed it into
the face and ran after the pony, catching
up in time to assist her up the steepest of
the track by pushing on the back of the
truck. When they reached the “engine-road”
the deputy was there. Having no ideas on
industrial psychology, or because class-dis-
tinctions are not tolerated underground, the
official greeted the operative as a friend and
an equal and went on to remark jocularly :
“Well, Screw, if you’re not soon dead
you’ll be wheeling in a safer place!”
“Why. wliat’s wrong?” demanded the
literal Screw in startled tones.
"I mean you’ll soon be finished in Number
Twelve, that’s all,” laughed the big. happy-
go-lucky Geordie, realising that the other had
placed quite a wrong construction on .his
remark. “What did you think I meant?”
“Thought yer meant the joint was ready
to flop in an’ squash us!” returned Screw
promptly; then, as he began to trundle a
truck down the incline: “Same as it did that
kangaroo-rat Dan found the marks of on the
rock down there!”
“Ah, but that happened when the world
was very young, Maggie,” argued the deputy
—“about two hundred million years agone!
“Now, Bob, don’t get inter statistics!”
begged Screw. “An’ for Gawd’s sake never
talk to me of death down here, either!”
They passed the big pulley-wheel at the
end of the “engine-road” and entered the
maze of splintered timber. Here Bob, who
was walking behind, emitted a startled ex-
clamation, halted and began to tap the
“roof” with a small steel bar he carried.
Closely followed by Lucy, who nudged him
affectionately with her grimy little nose as
they went, Screw took the truck on to his
miners.
“Tell yer what, Screw,” said Dan as they
reached the face, “we come away without
enough tokens. How about slippin’ out
for a few while we’re layin’ a couple of
sets of rails?”
“Goodo,” replied Screw briefly but will-
ii’frlv: and, followed by liis pony, he hastened
away.
“Hey!”
“I don’t like the looks of her, Screw!
The ‘tops’ seem to be breaking up!”
It was Dan’s voice, raised as though in
protest against a fact which had suddenly
appeared to him. Screw’s bobbing light—
all that was then visible of him—came to an
inquiring standstill, and Dan w r ent on, re-
monstratively: “Don’t take the mare out
with yer. If yer ain’t back agen we get
the rails laid I’ll wheel a few meself!”
“Was only takin’ ’er out to the headin’
to stick ’er nosebag on.” explained Screw
somewhat sheepishly. “She don’t get too
much time for feedin’.”
“I thought ’e w 7 as takin’ ’er right outside
fer company,” was Dan’s comment to his
mate; then, forgetting the matter, he went
on with his work. Screw, having found a
comfortable and comparatively safe-looking
place among the props, tethered Lucy and,
after giving her a pat and loosening her
harness, stooped before her and proffered a
big black “chew” between his extended lips.
Lucy, who shared with many pit-horses a
rather depraved taste for tobacco, took it
with dainty gentleness, and her driver con-
tinued his journey.
He was surprised to see the deputy’s light
still moving about in the “gob” close to
where he had left him. Usually that official’s
nightly visit was a brief affair. Knowing
that Dan and his mate were quite capable
of detecting any danger signals from the
"roof,” he would bowl in, perfunctorily ex-
amine the face and rest for gas, chalk
his initials and the date in a conspicuous
place, and then, if not inveigled into ex-
changing spicy anecdotes, hasten ou to other
parts of his section. Now, however, he
seemed so content to linger indefinitely in
the fearsome “gob” that Screw, who pri-
vately attributed his usual hurry to a desire
to be out of danger, began to fancy his judg-
ment might have been unduly harsh. Witn
a view to satisfying himself on this point,
he paused to call out facetiously: “What are
you hangin’ round for? Want to show
that flash lamp of yours, or are yer begin-
nin’ to like us?”
Bob lowered his gas-testing lamp from
where he was holding it against the “roof.”
and advanced through the timber to the
truck-way. Ilis face was serious for once.
“I don’t like the looks of her, Screw!" lie
exclaimed, as though the fact surprised him.
“The ‘tops’ seem to be breaking up !”
Screw listened intently for a time, then
grunted scornfully. “I dunno. She seems
to me to lie extra-quiet to-night,” he said.
“You should lm’ heard ’er about this time
last night—l thought the end of the world
was coinin’!”
“All, but that was the ‘bottoms,’ ” returned
Bob quickly; then, adopting a listening
attitude, lie invited: “You get an earful of
that!.... Get it?”
From away in the gloomy “gob” came a
faint, intermittent tinkling sound, as of table
china falling on a heap of scrap-iron.
“ ‘Tops,’ ” interpreted Bob impressively.
“And listen to this.”
With the steel bar he tapped the “roof”
above their heads. It sounded liollow r .
“Well, what about it?” demanded Screw,
as though not quite convinced, but pre-
pared to bow to the other’s experience. “Go
while the goin’s good? Will I slip in an’
tell Dan? I was goin’ out for some tokens,
but”
“Oh, well, buzz away for them.” Bob inter-
rupted off-handedly. “She mightn't come for
a week; but it’s just as well to keep an eye
on her when she starts to move like that.
She’ll come big when she does fall. I’ll
have a look at the northern side before
going to my other places, and then, later,
will come back. You hop away—Dan’ll know
how to look after himself.”
“I dunno,” grumbled Screw as he turned
to resume his twice-interrupted journey;
“she’s made a goat of me so often I’m gettiu
it inter me nut that ’er bark’s worse than
’er bite!” Yet he quickened his pace con-
siderably and added over his shoulder: "Yous
blokes don’t know everything if yer do
carry a shiny lamp with a frosty glass.
Ye’re like me—good guessers, that’s all!”
Bob’s only reply to this bit of frank criti-
cism of deputies in general, but of himself in
particular, was to hurl several lumps of coal
in the direction of the critic’s rapidly re-
ceding light.
It was well over a mile to the checkweigh-
men’s cabin at the mouth of the tunnel; but.
as few men were employed on night-shift,
and therefore the rope was not working!
Screw walked along the electrically-lighte I
“engine-road,” and was out in short time!
From a rack in the cabin he took a numb r
of small leather discs stamped with his
miners’ cavil-number, and then, having did
cided to return by the proper “travelling-
road,” proceeded on a narrow track around
the mountainside to where that tunnel lay
concealed behind a brattice-door let into a
vine-clad wall of rock.
Though not ordinarily given to noticing
such details, he had come from and was
returning to a depressing place; and the
contrast probably now drew his attention to
the fact that the scenery and night outside
were perfect. Above, innumerable stars
twinkled coldly on a bed of steel-grey; below,
house and street lights glowed warmly amid
the blackness of semi-tropical vegetation.
Salt breezes blew refreshingly on his heated
face, the murmur of waves fell musically
on ears recently attuned to raucous com-
plaints of tortured timber. The daytime roar
of the ventilation fan had been toned down
to a mournfully passionate drone that ming-
led not unpleasantly with the fainter sounds
of slumbering nature. As though to draw
his attention to the loveliness through wdiicii
it was passing, a locomotive whistled exnlt-
ingly; and Screw, with his hand on the hiss-
ing brattice-door, hesitated. Then the fine
frenzy of productive energy which had lent
speed to his movements up to this point left
him —he decided not to rush back into dan-
ger. A little searching of some well-worn
crevices around the door produced a tin con-
taining cigarettes and matches', left —in
accordance with coal-mining regulations re:
lating to explosive gas—by some toiler then
inside; so he enjoyed a hurried smoke while
comparing the beauties before him with the
gloom and ugliness of within.
Whether it be that the forces which urge
ghosts to walk are responsible, .or that the
earth then lurches slightly on its axis, the
established fact is that the majority of mine-
subsidences occur within a few 7 minutes of or


m
DM
HI
5 i!
N
to
ts
■ ■:
7kn=f,
_UD
ZJ?
SB
For full figures Model 0505
very light weight. Firmly
boned at bade only with
unbreahable rustless, spiral
steels. Finished in delicate
pink coutil. This model is
made to caress the .figure
rather than restrain it —it
smooths the lines and gives
the desired flat' back effect.
Another view of Model 0505
for full figures. Note the
cunningly placed diagonal
honing on the abdomen
support—this gives maxi-
mum, firmness with the
minimum of weight. The
double elastic inserts over,
the hips give ease arid
freedom of movement. Six
hose supporters.
Model 1211 a Wrap-Round
for slimmer figures—ideal
for sports and dancing or
every-day use. Fitted with
elastic inserts over hips
giving comfort and flexi-
bility. Finished in deli-
cate pale pink floral coutil.
Beautiful quality and work-
manship. This model affords
adequate support for the
type of figure able to wear
it. Four hose supporters.
Your Retailer —
RETAILERS who realize that corsets are not a
relic of last century—that they are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the fit and look of woman’s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys—these retailers will
stock ** Twilfst,”
“ Twi/fit ” Corsets are Good—they have exclu-
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia ;
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.,
London, England.
AGENTS:
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover. Sydney. . . . Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Melbourne. Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital
Issued Capital
Paid-up Capital
£lOO,OOO
49,161
30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
II
Cl
The Cigar of generous size and weigni.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
I
S 3
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/G (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG and AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
right on the hour of midnight. Being aware
of this, and having attached a supernatural
significance to it, Screw had always made
some excuse to be out on the “engine-road”
at twelve midnight, and as long before and
after as he decently could. This custom had
produced a definite psychological effect. As
a matter of fact, lie had, by some abstruse
process of reasoning, so far persuaded him-
self that Number Twelve would fall only at
some midnight that he felt comparatively
comfortable in it at most other periods of
each shift.
So, as lie watched the 11.30 train —the
whistle of which had caused him to hesitate
—creeping, like some great, luminous cater-
pillar, along the coast-line far below, he
soliloquised: “If Bob’s right she’ll fall at
twelve-sure! And if Dan an’ George like
slingin’ away chances they can ’ave it on
their own—l ain’t goin’ to be there till after
twelve!”
In accordance with this decision he
watched the train disappear northward, and
took the last possible puff at the purloined
fag before entering the door and strolling
leisurely along the narrow travelling-road to
where it joined the “engine-road” at a lamp-
cabin a couple of hundred yards from
Number Twelve. Here, to kill further time,
he perused the deputies’ report book and
performed the illegal experiment of extin-
guishing his lamp and re-lighting it on the
electrical appliance provided for the purpose,
but to be used only by officials or other
skilled operators. A battered alarm-clock
in the cabin alleged the time to be 12.16,
before he continued on, to discover that Dan
and George were standing idly in the heading,
under the last electric light, and near the
pulley-wheel at the entrance to Number
Twelve.
“What’s up?” demanded the time-killer
in startled tones. “Anything wrong?”
“Wliat’s up!” reiterated Dan sarcastically.
“Listen to ’er ! She’s coinin’ in !”
With starting eyes Screw inclined his head
toward the dark slit beyond the pulley-
wheel. From it came sounds suggestive of a
blinded Cyclops threshing about in his cavern
mingled with a continuous crashing, like
nothing so much as crockery, in single pieces
and in whole dinner-sets, falling from a
height upon a tiled floor.
“Me an’ George nearly got about half
an acre of ‘tops’ on us—didn’t we, George?”
continued Dan ruefully. “She started all of
a sudden ! We lost all our tools !”
George grinned cheerfully as he grunted
in confirmation of this.
“Like a wild woman slingin’ the kitchen
things about!” at last commented Screw in
a shaky attempt at humor; then, glancing
nervously around: “Think we’re all right
here?”
“Safe as in our little beds at ’ome!” re-
turned Dan confidently, and indicated the
solid ribs of coal on either side. “But I
wouldn’t like to be in yonder!”
“What time is it?” suddenly inquired
Screw with seeming irrelevance.
Dan consulted his dust-proof watch. “The
right time’s about five minutes to twelve,”
he said, “so if she’s cornin’ in proper she
oughtn’t to be long now.”
“Gripes, I wouldn’t go in there now for
a million lovely quid !” declared Screw feel-
ingly ; then, suddenly removing his fascin-
ated gaze from down the incline, he glanced
about and asked in sudden alarm: “Where’s
Lucy?”
Dan regarded him coldly and a little sus-
piciously. “Where did yer leave ’er?”
“Dan !” explained Screw in tones sharp with
apprehension. “Didn’t yer bring ’er out, Dan.”
“I never seen ’er!” snapped Dan. “You
said y.er was takin’ ’er to the headin’ to
stick ’er nose-bag on, and we”
“I left ’er like you told me to,” babbled
Screw, “an’ she must be in there now ! Me
little cobber!”
Dan was the first to recover; but Screw's
pitifully working face restrained him from
uttering the callous philosophy which
trembled on his lips, to the effect that a
pony killed was neither here nor there to a
company which allowed on its estimates for
the loss of one per week by accidents. “Aw,
well, we can’t go in there now,” lie sub-
stituted. “Listen to ’er!”
The “crockery” was falling thicker and
faster. Ominous rumbles and stifling clouds
of dust came from the “gob”; little aval-
anches of slack trickled down the ribs on
either side of them; the timber in the heading
creaked and clicked ceaselessly; the electric
lights had been reduced to mere luminous
points. Screw’s face grew positively ghastly
as he watched and listened. His eyes
assumed the distension and expression of a
sleep-walker’s. At last, in a voice strangled
and tremulous, he spoke:—
“I couldn’t leave ’er in there —she’d haunt
me. .. .she’s in foal!”
“Here, don’t be a fool, Screw!” im-
plored Dan, placing himself between the
obviously distraught Screw and the “gob.”
“Yer can’t go in there now!”
The situation even impelled George to
become a participant in the life of which he
was habitually a cheerfully amused but silent
spectator. “No, yer can’t go in there now.
Screw,” he seconded. “’Ave a bit o’ sense!”
“I’m going!” declared Screw in a low
voice, “an’ I’ll kill anyone tries to stop me !”
In ordinary circumstances the threat
would have amused the burly Dan: now it
seemed to impart an essential stiffening to his
determination. As he laid big, bony hands on
the smaller man he snapped the order to
George: “Grab them lamps—don’t let him
get hold of any of ’em.” The next moment
lie was staggering back with blood dripp ng
from his lips; and Screw, having snatched
one of th-e safety-lamps, was plunging head-
long down the incline.
“He’ll be killed! He’ll be killed!” re-
iterated Dan regardless of his own injury.
“He’ll be killed, the silly cow r !”
Impotently the two horror-stricken miners
watched the feeble light bobbing down tlm
incline until it was lost behind a dip in the
strata. Then from behind the pulley-wheel
came whirling a white sheet of lunch paper
closely followed by what looked like a swiftly
moving wall of brown fog. As the dust-laden
recoiling air struck them like something
solid, and the earth shook, came a sustained
roar as of thunder amplified a thousandfold.
This gradually trailed away to a low rumble,
then deathly silence....
When the dust cleared a little a tombstone-
white wall of sandstone showed where the
black slit of “gob” had been.
It was not necessary to tell Bob what
had happened—he knew from the ghastly
faces of the two miners. As the shock wore
away a little his expression became accusa-
tory.
“How did you come to leave him in there?”
he sharply demanded.
“We never!” retorted Dan defensively.
“He went in after Lucy—she’s under there,
too !”
Bob sagged weakly against one of the full
trucks.
“In there be damned !” he gasped at last.
“I brought Lucy out that time I left you.
She’s in the first crosscut on the right
there—she whinnied as I passed just now!”
Circumstances Alter Cases.
CRILLER was much older than she.
Still his affection was genuine, though
his mind was sorely distressed. He
didn’t dance —she did ; he didn’t surf —she
did.
She seemed to flit around him like a butter-
fly about a bumble-bee until he despaired and
sought the aid of her widowed mother. But
Ma was powerless; her fears and warnings
were laughed away by the elf.
Then came a time when she attended a
party and came home to Criller’s town house,
whore she and Mother were staying, at three
in the morning-—quite sober, quite respect-
able, but quite annoying.
Ma and Criller held a consultation.
“I have to give her up,” said Criller.
“Don’t think of it,” said Ma—and her
mind, if not her eyes, swept round the
opulent comforts of the establishment.
“All she needs is a firm hand —she wants
the hand of her father back again. He
was the only one that had any control over
her. He used to put her across his knees
and spank her. She wants a cave-man to
look after her.”
Criller agreed, but lie couldn’t see himself
in the role of cave-man, so the conference
adjourned after passing a couple of resolu-
tions unanimously.
The resolutions boded no good for the
girl, and when next she went to a theatre
party and returned home after a late supper
—quite sober, quite happy, but wholly unre-
sponsible for anything she said or did—
Criller was awaiting her with an 0.-s. scowl
on his face.
“llullo, old dear,” she said blithely.
“Why the burial look?”
“Ursula,” he said severely, rising and
taking off a broad belt, “you know that?”
She knew it. It had belonged to her
father, and was solely used in checking her
sins. But she said nothing. Wonderment
and a little panic seized her.
Criller went towards her. “You’ve driven
me to this,” he said,, catching her by the
wrists.
“What are you going to do?”
“Use a firm hand on you.”
Deliberately he set about spanking her as
if she was a small child. Her screeches were
heard by the neighbors, but he continued to
spank. She called him all the beasts she
knew and used a few words that she had
heard —-but he kept on.
“You think. .. . this.... will make....
me. .. .love. .. .you,” she sobbed. “You
think”
He released her, and she stood off, pant-
ing with rage. He was quite calm.
“You think that will make me like you?”
“No,” he said, “I don’t, but I expect it
to check you.”
“What right have you to do such a thing?”
A voice, feminine and sharp, came down
the stairs. “Urmia, how dare you speak
to your stepfather like that? He has every
right to correct you!”
EDWIN WALLER.
In Pace.
WHEN I am dead, and the clamorous
day is done,
What care shall I have for the
marching sea’s low song?
Peace shall be mine, such peace as I never
have known,
And what care shall I have that I be for ever
alone?
The rains will beat on the turf, and the
winds will cry
Wistfully at my door, and the friendly sun
Will bid me waken and rise and come forth,
but I,
Careless and undesiring, still shall lie.
Still shall I lie, and the summer’s red moon
will rise
And peer through a blue-wreatli’d dusk at
my lowly bed,
And in a miraculous radiance drown the
skies,
Worshipped no more by my once uplifted
eyes.
Still shall I lie, alone; and shall have no
care,
No longing for day, nor for lilt of bird, nor
plaint
Of storm-press’d pine, nor for poplar slim and
bare,
Nor for lilies of light, adream in storm-
wash’d air.
Still shall I lie, content. But should you sigh
One eve of ineffable peace, or should you
moan,
“Would I were dead!” then out of the
gloom your cry
Swift to my anchorage, swift to my ears
would fly.
My startled heart would leap and quiver and
yearn :
I should breathe your name as of old. with
an old desire
To touch you and comfort you: in a live
anguish turn
To find you; and find you not; and grope,
and burn.
O, I should want your hand in the night; so
small
And alone should I be, with the darkness all
about.
I should want you and cry for you; but my
tears would fall
Into perishing dust and silence. That is all
VICTORIA.
E. CAMERON.


A
a
PT4S
SB
Ora
ST? s
31
s*ri
M
Pfr"
\Z
m
HereU* wonderful Newf
for ever y Motorist /
Goodyear Tyres are now
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
and
their
PRICES ARE REDUCED
to the j’ame level «ur other Australian Made Tytej*
THE greatest news that Australian motorists have Hd
for many years is this announcement of the reduc
tion in price of Gooclyeai Pneumatic Tyres, conse-
quent upon then manufacture in Australia
Look through the annals of achievement in the rubber industry
of the world and on every important page for more than a
quarter of a century you will find record of- Goodyears
contribution to the art of tyre building the progress of
motoring.
One of the greatest contributions ever made to the progress
of motoring in Australia is contained in the Australian manu-
iacture of Goodyear Tyres and Tubes, enabling through the
saving m duty and freight, the lowering of the price of the
recognized highest quality tyre to the price of ordinary tyres.
Notwithstanding the reduction in price the Australian made
product is positively the equal in all respects of the imported
article which is renowned throughout Australia and the rest
of the world for its supreme service.
Exactly the same raw materials, the same compounds and
the same methods of workmanship are used in producing the
Australian product as in manufacturing the imported
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes.
Ask your local Goodyear Dealer for the New Reduced
Goodyear Prices
Made in Australia, Goodyear, more than ever, means Good Wear
§
ďs
CORD
• 1*
śď


A wonderful
bodu builder
is always
fresh & pure
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists 4 Stores
'S\V e
o
ill
®aaaoi
M>o
for \ou
IN MELBOURNE.
The appointments throughout this
modern residential hotel are complete,
the service and cuisine faultless, and
the central city location of the hotel
itself the acme of convenience.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
Suites on Application.
Tariff Cards Posted on Request,
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9012 (6 lines).
il6otfi§
Coilins St. Melbourne;
THE
PORT OF HULL
for reception of
Frozen Meat exported to
Great Britan;.
Cold Storage, 890,000 Cubic Feet.
Prompt Despatch in Refrigerator
Waggons to All Parts of the
Country by Express Trains of the
London and North-Eastern Railway
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway in
the World.
MISS MULDOON.
BY
JHM.ABBOTT.
WHEN the 46th Regiment went home
in 1817 it left behind in Sydney
one of the most remarkable members
of that famous and gallant corps. It was
not the C. 0., Lieutenant-Colonel Molle, nor
the Adjutant, genial and worthy Captain
Blake, nor the notorious Ensign Calder
whom the rank and file lamented, felicitated
and filled with such a quantity of strong
water that it took him a week to regain
his health. It was Private Michael Muldoon,
lately sergeant, guardian-angel and friend
and accomplice of the aforesaid Mr. Patrick
Calder, Ensign.
It has been told how Mr. Calder, at his
uncle’s demise, came into the heritage of a
line estate in Kent, together with some
thousands of pounds sterling per annum —•
on the eve of his departure on detachment
duty to Port Dalrymple in Van Diemen’s
Land. There remain some stories yet to
tell, and some that can’t be told, of the
young gentleman’s scandalous behaviour in
that far-flung outpost of the empire of
Governor Macquarie in which Michael Mul-
doon was of necessity concerned. But
lie is only mentioned in this narrative
to instance the generosity of his ill-regulated
mind in the treatment of his soldier servant.
Shortly before the 46tli was relieved Mr.
Calder was recalled from exile, and arrived
in Sydney with a lighter heart than had
been his for a tedious twelvemonth. On
the voyage from the Tamar lie received with
derision a statement of Private Muldoon’s,
to the effect that he desired to purchase liis
discharge from the regiment, marry and
settle down in Australia. But with (Mr.
(’alder’s amusement was mingled a concern
that was not wholly selfish. lie tried,
altogether unavailingly, to dissuade Muldoon
from his purpose, offering him a good posi-
tion on his estate at home if he would re-
consider the matter. Cajolery and entreaty
proving useless, he tried ridicule.
“You settle down, Mike —why, you
couldn’t! You’re nothing but a King’s bad
bargain, and ’tis not in you to be aught else.
And you married! You! Good Gad —is
there any decent woman who’d take such a
rapscallion for keepings? Good Lord, man
—there’s no one in the Settlement, barring
one or two trulls, would consider ye a
moment.”
“Faith, thin, y’r honor, there’s warn
would.”
“And who’s that, pray?”
“ ’Tis Mistress Mary Casey—her that’s
kapin’ th’ Blue Dog at Emu Ford. Tis this
time past she’s been awaitin’ me. ’Tis th’
trut’, y’r honor—may I drop dead!”
Mr. Calder opened his eyes and whistled.
He extended his hand, and wrung the Irish-
man’s vigorously.
“You lucky dog! The widow? By
George, the best little woman on the Hawkos-
bury. Well, well. You old devil!”
And so Private Michael Muldoon became
Mr. Muldoon, and went to liis pretty bride
with a dowry of £5OO, the pleasant gift of
his former master. And the regiment pre-
sented him with a four-poster double bed,
carved out of red cedar from Hunter’s River,
and much ribald and good-natured counsel
concerning the holy state of matrimony. All
of which latter, being a wise man, the bride-
groom received with equanimity and liis
captivating grin—though some of it might
have justified bloodshed.
On a summer morning, seventeen years
later, Mr. Michael Muldoon, widower, stood
outside his tavern door in the Bathurst-road
gazing up at the dark foothills of the Blue
Mountains, whilst he held serious converse
with Sergeant Jonathan Moseby of the
Mounted Police. The Blue Dog was across
the river from the more famous hostelry
which had been opened by Mr. Squire, the
brewer, whose old building still stands, close
by the eastern bridgehead.
The little wayside inn was- one of the
first licensed houses in the West (Penrith
was the Outback in ’34, and Bathurst the
Back o’ Beyond), having been established
by Mrs. Mary Casey, not long after the
opening of Captain William Cox’s new road,
in 1816. It marked the very confines of
civilisation in Australia. There was no easy
living beyond the Blue Dog. When the
traveller left it behind, on his journey west-
ward, he was plunging into the nearly un-
known. And when lie came back to the
Settlement, Muldoon’s, as it was always
spoken of, afforded him his first welcome
home. It was nothing much more than a
bush shanty—grey slabs, wattle-and-daub
and sheets of bark for roofing, with an
orchard, a horse paddock, a stockyard and
a field or two of cultivation; but it was the
most important house of entertainment be-
tween the Nepean River and Bathurst. And
Michael Muldoon always insisted that its
importance, and his own, should be accorded
a measure of respect by all who tarried there.
In 1834 the host of the Blue Dog looked
to be a man in the prime of life, although
he was fifty-five years of age. Straight,
deep-chested, lean-flanked, vigorous and alert,
he was one of those typical veterans of
“the Peninsular” whose very aspect was
some explanation of Wellington’s victories.
He could give Sergeant Moseby an easy
twenty years, but there was no doubting
which was the better man of the two.
Jonathan Moseby had no doubt at all.
“An’ th’ blaggard said that, did he, Jona-
than !”
“ ’Tis so, Mike. But ye know what a
blowhard lie is—how lie’ll brag and boast till
the cows come home. Ye’ve no reason for to
be uneasy.”
Mr. Muldoon laughed contemptuously.
“Onaisy, is it! Th’ Lord stiffen ye,
Jonathan, for y’r misjudgment. ’Tis little
of me night’s rest I’ll be losin’ over Bloody
Jack. Bloody!” He spat in the dust and
snorted. “Who give him th’ title, do ye
tell me? Bloody Jack, th’ King of th’
Mountains! He calls himself that. That
crawlin’ little animal, wid liis paycock’s
feather, an’ his long gun, an’ his big knife,
an’ all. Sure, th’ on’y time he’ll be bloody’ll
be when some lad cuts th’ head off of him
for t’ git th’ reward Gov’mint’s off’riu’ for. th’
ugly pimple. That’s all. An’ he has it in for
me for t’rowin’ him out o’ th’ Blue Dog!
’Tis pity I didn’t, thin. He was put out
gintle, wid no more than a busted nose,
an’ me toe in his pants, so he was. If
I’d rayly frown him out he’d not now be
play-actin’ up an’ down th’ river, braggin’
an’ boastin’, an’ scarin’ women an’ childer--
an’ policemen. Him ! Him for to call him-
self a bushranger! Him to say he’d twist
my tail. What more did he have to say?”
“He told them at tli’ Creek that lie was
a-goin’ for to collar a holt of your Mary.
Them was his words. Tom Scanlon says.”
Mr. Muldoon stiffened with sudden rage.
His handsome face went crimson and the
veins of his neck swelled.
“By God!” he growled— “By God!” He
came close to the Sergeant’s horse, and
laid his hand on the big bay’s wither. “Look
ye, Moseby,” he said impressively, patting
the horse’s shining shoulder gently with his
other hand. “Mark, now, what I’m sayin’.
Ye know th’ still I own over yonder in tli’
gully?” He pointed to the wooded slopes
of the mountains.
The Sergeant grinned.
“Well, I think I do, Mike. I’ve me
suspicions of it—though none of the quality
of the stuff it turns out. Are ye going to
surrender it to the police, an’ turn honest?
Ye must have a good few barrels of it, now,
agein’ in' th’ cellar.”
“I might, thin. ’Tis that I’ll be doin’ —
I swear it, be me dead wife’s sowl. I’ll
go before th’ magistrates at Windsor, an’ I’ll
jay an information agin mesilf for illicit dis-
tillin’, an’ take ye to th’ spot ye know well,
if I do not, in wan week from this, bring
into tli’ clink mesilf this same Jack Turner.
He may be alive, or he may be dead, but
I think he’ll have a little life left in him f’r
th’ hangman’s sake. I’ll bate him well for what
lie said of me daughter—an’ then I’ll put
on me Sunday clothes an’ go to see him
hanged in Sydney, an’ say tli’ Divil’s mass
for his dirty sowl. So I will!”
“Think o’ tli’ Hawkesb’ry folk, Mike.
’Twould be a sad day for ’em if ye left off
whisky-makin’,” laugjied Jonathan Moseby.
“Mark my words! Wan week from this
day, an’ it Saturday.”
* * * *
Mary Muldoon, golden-haired and lovely,
was what, in these flippant days, we should
term a flapper. A very sweet and dainty and
inspiriting flapper she would have been, too,
if encountered, four-score years later than
the period of this story, on either the Sydney
or the Melbourne Block. She would even
have done credit to Hobart, where the pretty
girls are bred. In the ’thirties she was a
very typical—maybe a little above the
average—currency lass. She w 7 as strong,
wholesome, comely and as useful as she
was ornamental. But she was what we
should term romantic, or, as her father put
put it, “full o’ th’ vapors.”
When Mr. John Turner—defaulting clerk
to a tea merchant of Mincing-lane in the City
of London, and at the present time absconder
from his lawful custody, almost crimeless
bushranger, and a very vain and silly youth
who had something of the makings of a man
in him, if such makings w*ere developed by
systematic buffeting—when Mr. Turner
descended upon the Blue Dog during the
absence of the licensee in Penrith, on the
Monday following the above-recorded con-
versation between the latter and the police-
man, he found his prey almost not unwilling
to be abducted. She protested a little, and
giggled a great deal, when the bandit pre-
sented a horse-pistol at her and commanded
that she should ride behind him to what he
called his liondy Voo.
“No harm shall befall you, lady,” said
the picturesque highwayman in his affecta-
tion of a gallantry modelled upon the reputed
deportment of the late Mr. Claude Duval —
whom one suspects of having actually been
a verminous malefactor with a greasy waist-
coat. “I swear it. ’Tis but revenge I seek.”
The absurd get-up of the King of the
Mountains appealed to Miss Muldoon. He
wore the long-tailed jacket of an officer of
H.M. 4(3th Regiment. About his waist was
a yellow silk sash, whose ends depended not
less than a foot on his left flank, and into
which were stuck two horse-pistols and an
elegantly sheathed Highlander’s dirk, Buck-
skin pantaloons, highly polished Wellington
boots, and brass spurs adorned lvis slender
extremities, His hat was a sombrero with
a curly brim, arid in its band was stuck
jauntily a brilliant peacock’s feather. He
was a thin youth, somewhat weedy, and this
striking raiment fitted him generously. He
carried a long Tower musket, and his horse’s
headstall was decorated with red and blue
ribbons. Altogether, a very striking and
grotesque figure, but, in the eyes of the girl,
the Complete Brigand. She had read of such
in Italy and on Hounslow Heath. He differed
essentially from the sordid creatures whom
she had hitherto identified as bushrangers,
lie was a Gentleman Highwayman, nothing
less—just as he said of himself. She felt
proud of her abduction. If. she felt any
apprehension, it was solely on the score of
her father. She did not feel that that for-
midable if tender-hearted person would regard
the affair in quite the same light as she did.
The Robber’s Lair, as the desperado styled
it, was high up on a bluff that looked out
over Emu Plains —a place whose sole recom-
mendations were the inspiring outlook it
afforded to a tenant who chose to imagine
himself monarch of all he surveyed and
the.sense of majesty it might be supposed to
confer upon one who claimed dominion over
the wild ranges behind it.
They came to it about noon, leading the
horse. An overhanging ledge of sandstone,
from which a long piece of the rock had
broken away and fallen in front, making a
kind of breastwork, gave the hero shelter.
Down below wound the silver ribbon of the
river, and beyond it the wide plains, mostly
wooded, but here and there diversified by
green and yellow farms, stretched away to
the dim blue haze of the summer horizon.
Great trees grew upon the (hillside, above
and below, and maidenhair fern clustered ;
about the opening. A fierce blaze of sunshine 1
beat upon the mountain, but in the cave
there was coolness, and a soothing twilight.
“Here,” said the bandit grandiloquently,
“is your future home. You will be mistress
of my fastness.”
“Yes,” she said sweetly. “Till about sun-
down. You can expect Pa then. He’ll be
back by now and he won’t lose any time.
Jimmy Piper’s a good tracker. I won’t be
here long—but thankee for bringing me,
Mister Turner.”
The cave had a wide, flat floor, and the
sandstone roof, yellow and flaky, sloped far
back until it met it in the darkness of the
interior. The brigand’s bed —a heap of rugs
and blankets —lay tossed and tumbled at one
end. With a few cooking pots and a heap
of saddlery, it comprised the furniture of
the place.
Bloody Jack leaned his long musket against
the wall and proceeded to divest himself of
the finery which Mary Muldoon found so
impressive.
“Sure,” sihe said to him persuasively, “ye
won’t be takin’ off y’r pretty clo’es? ’Tis
a fine figure ye make in them.”
Mary, like many other Australians of;
Irish parentage, had a pretty, soft,' drawling
brogue. The silly ass turned to her, flattered 1
by her interest in his appearance.
"You’re not the first one they’ve struck,
me girl. There was a lady in the Bathurst-
road, near Springwood, ’twas a fortnight ago,
told me I ’minded her of some great actor
slic’d seen at Sadlier Wells, a-playin’ Dick
Turpin. Seemed to admire me vastly, she
did. Demme, I give her back her watch an’
chain for her politefulness. Now, put y’self
about, an’ boil th’ pot. Ye’re my woman
now, an’ th’ eookin’s your job. I’m feelin’
hungry. Ye’ll find food in the box there,
at the back o’ th’ cave.”
While she made a fire near the entrance,
in the place where half-burnt sticks and
ashes indicated the kitchen of the establish-
ment, and busied herself with the prepara-
tion of a meal, her captor regarded her with
increasing interest. Women had not come
much into that young gentleman’s existence
since his arrival in the colony. One or two
of the debased and degraded creatures who
frequented the sly-grog shops on the Rocks
in Sydney he had had to do with—to the
detriment of his health —but he had hardly
spoken to, or been spoken to by, such as
his pretty captive in all the three years
of his exile from London.
She made a pretty picture as she moved
about the cool twilight of the cranny in
the rock, straying sunbeams that filtered
through the trees outside making gleams of
gold in the thick masses of her hair as she
passed through them. She was a lovely
young creature, fresh and healthy and de-
sirable, and the Cockney felt the stirrings of
desire —as indeed might better men than he
have felt them, in that quiet, lonely place
where he and she were together and alone.
With a certain unpleasant surety that she
was his, Mr. Bloody Jack Turner gloated
agreeably as he watched her in silence. Dur-
ing the meal it was only Mary who chattered,
Mr. Turner having his thoughts to think.
She did not seem to be afraid. The cur-
rency lasses of the period were not very
remarkable for their innocence, but if the
latter be freedom from sexual preoccupation,
Mary Muldoon was essentially innocent. She
had no suspicion of the possibilities that
lurked about her in the cave that summer
afternoon. To her this comic bushranger was
more amusing than awe-inspiring. She re-
garded him rather as a curious individual
than as a ravening male creature. She
had no knowledge of men in that aspect.
lie began to show off before her—just as
his neighbors the lyre-birds would dance
before their mates' —strutting about the cave
with his musket at the slope and his feath-
ered sombrero perched rakishly on the back
of his head. He preened himself like a
rooster, and his brag did not compel the
respect that the brave fowl’s crowing does.
He suddenly put down his gun, when he was
close to Mary, and seized her in his arms.
“Oh!” she gave a little scream of sur-
prise. “What are you doing? Don't!”
She struggled in his grasp, startled by his
shining eyes and sickened by his hot breath
as he devoured her face with kisses. She
was surprised, uncomprehending, annoyed—
and then, suddenly, from liis actions she re-
cognised his purpose.
Michael Muldoon had been a great boxer
and a fierce fighter with the bare knuckles.
The code of the Marquis of Queensberry or
the unprincipled principles of combat when
it was all in were equally familiar to him.
He had looked forward to the birth of his
only child in the sure hope that he would
have a boy to tutor in the noble art in
which he was so proficient. And he had
smothered his disappointment by training liis
daughter as he would have trained his son.
In her sixteenth year Mary Muldoon, in fair
fighting, was a match for almost any boy of
her age. And more than a match for Mr.
John Turner, late of Mincing-lane.
Instead of clawing at his face with her
one free hand she leaned back and uppercut
him —cleanly, forcibly and with a jarring
effect upon Mr. Turner's headpiece. He
released his hold of her.
Biff, bang, biff!
She got in three swift blows upon hi ; f ice
—the last one on the point of the jaw. And
Mr. Turner went out. Mary stared at h>n
as he lay crouched upon the rocky floor,- a
pool of blood forming slowly under his v 1 ’te
face. Her bosom rose and fell as she panted
from her exertions. And then, covering her
face with her two hands, she sank to her
knees beside him and began to cry softly.
“Oh Blessed Mary,” she murmured, “don’t
let him die!”
“He’ll not die till th’ rope’s about his
neck,” roared* her father at the entrance,
where he had arrived with Sergeant Moseby
and his blackboy Jimmy Piper, just in time
to witness the knock-out. “Glory be, Jona-
than —-did ever ye see anything nater? Take
y’r pris’ner. me lad—l’ll kape th’ still. An
th’ reward’s Mary’s. Mary, ye’re a good
girl. Ye’re, y’r father’s pride, so ye are.”
Shearing Time.
When August airs come stealing round the
eaves
Filled with the pattering of fairy feet,
White stocks beneath a white moon smell
as sweet.
And like a quivering flame are springing
leaves.
And yet the Night salutes the grasses, pale
With frost, and hears unclosing buds
complain :
“We lose all faith that summer comes
again
Tired of listening to a winter’s tale.”
Trustful a golden honeymoon to find
The birds are planning many a fairy nest
To swing in sunshine. But how fares tin
West?
Is August to the shivering sheep more kind,
Tempering the wind where the shorn fleeces
lie?. . ...
I do not like to think, when cold winds
wail,
Of those poor naked things against a rail
Asking for pity from a frosty sky!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FOREST.


A GOOD GUN
DESERVES
GOOD CARTRIDGES.
If You
Have
A Gun
you want the best
Cartridges you can
get for it. Therefore
Use Only
ELEY-
KYNOGH
Cartridges
All
British
from
Cap to
Turn-
over.
Obtainable a t
a 11 Gunsmiths
and Dealers
throufhout
Australasia.
7
\
SO
EASY
ITS
MARK LINEN
with
to
CASHS NAMES
"A FEW STITCHES AND THEY'RE ON"
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH'S NAMES are destinctive,
yet neat — fadeless and durable.
The Prices are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS.
A dual Size, Style No. 6
Write for Name Style Circular to
85 Cubitt Street t
Richmond, Melb.
J.&J. CASHES:
... J
lb.
HAVE DRY MATCHES
WET WEATHER f
It’s possible if you have
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
ď
đ
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Lta.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
d
Every Swan is ci
lifelong companion
ONCE you have selected your “Swan”
Pen —with a nib exactly suited to your
handwriting—you will have made a life-
long friend. It will ease the burden of
correspondence and be ever ready to commit
your thoughts to paper without wasting your
time or your patience.
The ladder-feed of the “Swan” Pen
ensures a steady, even flow of ink immedi-
ately the pen touches the paper.
“Swan” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Detint:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD ,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
"Swan” Pens, “Blackbird” Pens, "Swan” Ink
and “Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Use “Swan” Ink for “Swan” Pens and all Pens.
A. 5
Wear the
best
Underwear
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear for
Women, Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men and I. Hose
and Socks for Children.
TO protect your health you must wear
good underwear next the skin. But
you want the best underwear, made in
England from pure wool, by skilled British
labour. Wolsey, of course ! Wolsey Pure
Wool Underwear has won a reputation for
cleanliness, pureness and thorough good-
ness. With Wolsey on you can go from
one temperature into another without
catching cold. The fine healthy bodily-
glow which it sets up is a continual protection.
Wolsey is unshrinkable and will not lose its
shape in washing. Save yourself, save your
money—wear Look for the Wolsey
Head Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BSSMOWrW*S*W»!fi:WS
tk" VENUS
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the des gn of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blackleaa Ltgrtcs cB-9H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & tiara) 6d.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
0
A 1 '*'
yc°
ee
S
Instantly Ready firXJso
Thumb pressure empties it.
Gets clinging litter.
Makes good sweeping easy.
Costs but little—and nothing
to run.
Saves carpets.
Lasts for years.
Rubber Corners to protect furniture.
Verily a ball-bearing broom-on-wheels
with Tts own long-handled dust pans.
Play size Bissells at trifling cost.
Sold by leading merchants everywhere.
Booklet upon invitation.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dep’t—46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
lIM
...
%
HOURS
LIGHT
'LiLilll
3^
-CANDLE PO^ER
iPure Mute tig
So restful to tired
eyes, so simple, so eco-
nomical. Three hours’ light
for one penny.
Use electric light for its con-
venience, BUT for your eyes'
sake, light an Aladdin for
reading or sewing.
Chases gloom away ; floods your
home with soft white light.
Costs little and saves that cost
oyer and over again. Burns 94%
air, 6% kerosene vapour, lights
on a wick like an ordinary lamp.
Let us arrange a Free Trial through
your local Dealer. Write for par*
ticulars of this FREE OFFER.
Aladdin Industries Ltd.
852 Aladdin House.
49-53 Shepherd St., SYDNEY
An Aladdin Dealer in every town.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
4CO Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.


) b&S\
fcwd
V
i „
1
!
He/xona.
<sbap
Tor
J and
Qexaifij
II s you wish to preserve the freshness
and beauty of your complexion, you
will find there is no substitute for
Rexona Soap and water. Rexona Soap
cleanses the skin and beautifies it,
because it contains all the soothing
properties of Rexona itself.
Rexona is the greatest skin remedy of
the age, and Rexona Soap is medi-
cated with Rexona. This is what gives
it that pure., fresh, out-of-door frag-
rance that appeals to so many thou-
sands of fastidious men and women
who want, and insist on having, only
the very best and purest soap, and one
which is free of harsh alkali.
If you would have a natural com-
plexion, a clear, faultless skin which
will stand the closest inspection, you
can never obtain this quicker or more
•surely than by tire daily use of Rexona
.Soap.
Miss Naumai Hollins, a beautiful
Rexona Girl, who had the honor of
being chosen “Miss Victoria’’ in tlia
“Miss Australia 1926” contest,
writes:—“Rexona solves the soap
problem.'for those who care.’’
k
*52
cv*'
M MJ;
1/
1
I
' /fhi
:MA'7 Jr
A
m
m
o
&SZL
_ • * _ &
rttf
»
DADDY 5
HOME V
f *
.
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
UvneAt tjliiaJi
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
Clt. GEORGE AND KING STREETS:
CASTLEItEAGII STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
“Ask Aunt Primrose.”
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY CATHERINE MACLAURIN.
HAD you met Miss Rose Dibbs in the
street, and marked her tight waist,
her skirt all but sweeping the ground,
and her hat perched on the top of a high
crest of hair, you would have wondered why
so modern a journal as the Daily Budget
should have need of her services. Yet in
truth Miss Dibbs reigned as a little queen
in her particular department of that enter-
prising publication. Should “Anxious
Maiden” encourage the attentions of a
young man with small means and smaller
prospects? Was “Sweet Sixteen” wise in
accepting silk stockings from a fellow that
had hitherto confined himself to chocolates?
“Ask Aunt Primrose!” demanded the Daily
Budget on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fri-
days ; and, with an admirable seriousness,
Miss Rose Dibbs bent to the consideration
of these and similar problems.
Rose .Dibbs believed every word that
Aunt Primrose wrote. I suppose there never
was a more naturally sentimental creature,
and she had preserved her romantic outlook
on life through a career that had been far
from romantic. Her cramped emotions now
found an outlet in her work. “Though I
know hardly anyone, I am the confidante of
thousands,” she would say, and it was true.
But epistolary friends, however confiden-
tial, are a poor substitute for flesh and blood
when one is ill and alone. For the fifth
day Miss Dibbs lay neglected in the shabby
bedroom of a second-rate boarding-house at
Strathfield that had been her home for years.
It was a wet July afternoon and already
dark. The hard brilliance of incandescent
gas illuminated the sprawling pink roses on
the wall, the dull worn carpet, and the
marble-top of the washstand, that lingering
abomination of British domestic life. Miss
Dibbs, at once a pathetic and a comical
figure in her heavy night attire, her thin
grey hair twisted to the tiniest of pigtails,
bad impatiently tossed aside a pile of Aunt
Primrose’s letters. She had done her work
as usual during her illness and it had kept
her from brooding; but, to-day the need of
human companionship was strong within
her, and she turned eagerly towards the door
as a sharp rap came upon it.
A red shingled head appeared round the
corner, and Marcia Thring, the noisy young
person from upstairs, danced into the room
with her mincing gait. Many a time had
the screeching of. her cheap gramophone dis-
turbed Aunt Primrose’s most sentimental
moments. Still, even Marcia was better than
nobody to-day.
“I’d have got soaked to the skin coming
home from the office if my gentleman friend
hadn’t lent me his umbrella,” said Marcia,
busily preening herself in a pocket mirror.
“He’s Herbert Scranton, you know.”
Silently Miss Dibbs, the expert in love, re-
flected on the remarkable fact that Herbert
Scranton had maintained his proud position
in Marcia’s esteem for at least six months.
And now Marcia began talking of him in
a hurried, almost apologetic fashion.
Miss Dibbs waited for a confidence. She
was so used to hearing about other people’s
love-affairs, she who had never had any of
her own. But if Marcia had anything to
confide, she left without revealing it. In
the middle of a sentence she burst into a
laugh, and crying, “I’m a fool to think about
him,” ran out of the room. That was her
way, but Miss Dibbs felt aggrieved. To her
depression was added the thought that in
real life people didn’t think her worthy of
confidence, though half the young women in
Australia bared their souls to her in the pub-
lic press. Marcia was just like one of her
girls, she thought, and probably just as
badly in need of advice as any of them.
Strange how always her mind came back
to her girls! Yet the remembrance of them
in their thousands did not comfort her so
much as usual; and she almost sighed when
she perceived a fresh pile of letters, re-
directed from the office, upon the uninviting
supper-tray which the landlady’s pudding-
faced daughter unwillingly brought her.
How often had she read their like before,
these poor little stories, each supposing itself
unique!
But one of these letters looked different
from the rest. The handwriting was not the
usual schoolgirlish scrawl. There was a
something about it—even before she had
read it Aunt Primrose felt that this letter
had a special significance for her. She
opened it first.
“Dear Aunt Primrose,” the neat script
ran, “I feel I must tell you that I can never
be sufficiently grateful to you for your help
and advice. I was at the cross roads in my
fife and you chose the right path for me.
Perhaps you have forgotten my problem, but
it was supremely important for my happi-
ness, and you have solved it for me. I have
spoken to you as I have never spoken even
to my own dear mother”....
Miss Dibbs’s eyes filled with tears and she
could read no more. Surely life was worth
living when one earned a letter like that!
She had forgotten the poor girl’s problem,
but it didn’t matter. Nothing mattered so
long as fife was not in vain after all. Like
aU sentimental natures Miss Dibbs rose as
quickly to the heights as she had formerly
been plunged in the depths.
Lovingly and carefully she answered the
letter and placed it at the head of her
column for the next Friday. She felt that
it was proper and significant that this letter
—the proof of her success in her efforts to
help youth with its problems—should appear
on the day that she was restored to activity :
and it was on the Friday that she returned
to the office. That letter had made all the
difference to her. It looked well in print:
■die read it at intervals throughout the busy
day, and the train sang those comforting-
sentences as it dashed through the Western
Suburbs with Miss Dibbs and a hundred
others of the city’s weary workers. She
sat in her corner bv the window and reflected
that she had her niche in life.
Opposite to her two young men were talk-
’ag; on e had the Daily Budget on his knee
and Miss Dibbs could see that it was open
at Aunt Primrose’s page. What would they
say, she thought, if they knew that the
authoress of that helpful column was even
now before them? But, of course, young
men had no interest in such things.
Suddenly, during a lull at a station, the
young man with the Budget flung down the
paper and burst into a roar.
“Lord, it worked, after all!” he laughed.
Then he inquired of his companion : “Do you
ever read Aunt Primrose?”
“What, that twaddle?” said the other.
“Sometimes, as a study in human folly. Do
you suppose the girls are really in earnest?”
“Lord knows,” answered the first. “But
I’ll tell you a good joke. They all read
Aunt Primrose at home. My sister bet me
I couldn’t get her to publish a letter from
me and answer it. I’ll be richer by five bob
to-night, for here it is, answer and all.” He
began reading in a loud voice; several occu-
pants of the carriage turned to listen. "I
was at the cross roads in my life and
you”
Ilis voice was drowned as the train
started and roared into a tunnel. But Miss
Dibbs could hear no more. She sat very
still, only breathing a little heavily, and
twisting her handbag nervously. She could
not think coherently. Bound and round in
her brain went little detached, despairing
thoughts. So it had been a delusion, after
all —that letter she had prized so much.
Could men be so brutal? She had been
fooled. In place of thousands of confiding
girls there now appeared thousands of mock-
ing men playing with her!
Hers was the next station. She began to
cry as she walked along the street and
people turned to look at her... . Never mind,
they shouldn’t have the chance long! Next
morning she wouldn’t be there for anyone
to mock and f 001.... Circumstances had often
treated her cruelly, but all her life she had
believed in the kindness of people. She
had believed in her girls. But n0w....
How did one commit suicide? It seemed
so easy to die when one clung to life, and
so hard when one had nothing to live for.
She hadn’t a revolver, and she supposed that
no one would sell her any poison. But she
must find a way.
As she entered the door and saw the hall-
lamp flicker in the sudden wind she remem-
bered the gas. She had read all about how
you did it. She would stuff up all the win-
dows and put stockings under the door, and
then she would turn on the light and fire,
both. She had heard it was an easy death
after the first beginning.
Deliberately she took off her things. There
should be no haste. As she mechanically
moved about her room there flashed once
more through her mind the sentences of that
accursed letter.
She began squeezing a towel in the crack
of the window. There came a knock at the
door.
“Are you busy?” said Marcia Thring.
Was it being busy preparing to commit
suicide? Miss Dibbs wondered.
“My, you do look awful!” said Marcia,
settling herself down on the bed. “You’ve
overdone things after your illness; that’s
what it is.” She smoothed a place for Miss
Dibbs. “Come and talk to me.. I’ve heaps
to say.”
Miss Dibbs obeyed, walking in a dream,
and Marcia went on in her excited way:
“I’ve got to tell someone. I’m engaged!
I only decided this afternoon, and I feel like
telling all Sydney, but I thought I’d begin
on you. Aren’t you flattered?”
Miss Dibbs forced a smile, and the con-
ventional phrase, “Who’s the lucky man?”
escaped her lips.
“Well, I don’t think you exactly know
him, but I’ve often talked about him. He’s
Herbert Scranton, and a dear, really. But
I’ll tell you.” She drew a little nearer and
took Miss Dibbs’s arm. “I wasn’t too sure
about taking him at first. I can’t go into
it all; but there were things about him....
and I just didn’t know how to decide. I
couldn’t think tcho to ask for advice, so
guess what I did.” She pulled a piece of
newspaper from her coat pocket and un-
folded it. “Do you ever see Aunt Primrose
in the Daily Budget? Why. what’s the
matter; don’t you approve of her?” she
went on, for Miss Dibbs’s expression had be-
come very strange. “She’s great! All m.v
girl-friends read her. She has such lovely
ideas, so I decided to write to her, and here’s
her answer.” She thrust the sheet under
Miss Dibbs’s nose. “It’s so sweet.”
Miss Dibbs remembered the penning of that
letter during those depressing days in bed.
when the seal of failure seemed set on all
she had done.
“Of course she says she doesn’t want to
take the responsibility of choosing anyone’s
husband for her; but, all the same, she’s
settled my fate, because I decided to take
him just when I read it. I’m so happy.
Miss Dibbs. I feel I’m doing the best thing,
and I’m going to write to Aunt Primrose
to thank her.”
Still Miss Dibbs was silent.
“You don’t seem very pleased about it,”
said Marcia rather pettishly.
“Yes, my dear, I say nothing because I’m
so happy,” replied Miss Dibbs gravely.
Marcia ran off singing. Happiness did
not make her silent.
When the door had closed behind her Rose
Dibbs turned on the gas. But very de-
liberately she put a match to it.
Beauty Lies Slain.
Beauty lies slain by the mad Sea’s rape,
Flung on the sand. From her haunted eyes.
Shrieking in terror the storm wind flies.
It hides in the dark of the long lagoon
Shaking the reeds; and the pallid moon
Stares through the rents in a witch’s cape.
Beauty lies slain hy the mad Sea’s rape,
Flung on the sand. From her haunted eyes.
Shrieking in terror the storm wind flies.
S.A.
NINA LOWE


The great success of Zam-Buk for all skin
troubles lies in its original and valuable formula.
Zam-Buk contains certain extracts of herbal
origin, so blended as to bring out amazing heal-
ing power. Directly this refined balm is applied
it soaks into the tissues, thereby healing below
as well as on the skin s surface.
GREATEST
Zam-Buk is most soothing and a safe anti-
septic. It kills and excludes the germs of fester-
ing and blood-poison. Zam-Buk stops pain,
allays inflammation and reduces swelling. The
skin is soon rid of all pus and impurity by
Zam-Buk, which is a splendid healer for cuts,
wounds and sores of all kinds.
Zam-Buk swiftly clears the skin of rashes,
pimples, etc., and it gets at the root of obstinate
ulcers, eczema, piles, poisoned sores, scalp dis-
eases and other serious ailments for which coarse
lardy ointments and salves are quite useless.
Zam-Buk is the last word in antiseptic healing
and is aptly described as “A Surgery in a Two-
inch Box.” Of all chemists, 1/6 box or 3/6.
CONTAINS
NO LARD St NO OTHER
ANIMAL OIL OR FAT.
Gp caT
W lt l.
A /
S' '
f on
CUTS •
BRUISES BURNS
SCALDS SPRAINS PILES
PIMPLES • ECZEMA • BAD LEGS
ULCERS • RINGWORM • CHAPPED HANDS*
RASHES * SORES * INSECT BITES - CHAFINGSy
CHILBLAINS - RHEUMATISM * COLD'SORES
(//Vf<?l/ALL£D rop SPORTSMEN
&U& /T //V '
I „
30p
z
'amßukSoap
A TOIHt.
Possessing a high and defi-
nite proportion of the active
properties that have made
the Zam-Buk healing balm
so famous, Zam-Buk Soap , , , . . ._ fVI „
well merits its claim to be the most richly-medicated soap in the worio.
Its regular use soothes and clears the skin and makes it .soft and phahle.
Used as s shampoo Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap keeps the s«ilpSiemc
and healthy. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is also highly
for baby’s bath on account of its purity and refinement, in sm B it a/-
tablets, or box of three, 2/10..
Clearing the Decks.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY STEELE RUDD.
■V/’OU left tile ploughing early to canter
IL to the railway station to order a wheat
truck. You have just returned, and
it’s getting dusk. You’ve been trying New-
chum’s paces along the lane, and, warmed up.
his eyeballs are dilating and he’s looking his
noblest. “What did y’ think of her, old
horsey?” you’ll question like a big kid, pat-
ting him on the neck as you pull the bridle
off. “Wouldn’t you like to be me —wouldn’t
you, if you was a man ? Don t I know y
would!”
Only the Lord can tell whether the horse
understands or not. But as he swings round
to roll in the dust he’ll nicker as if he did.
Later, seated at table over the steak you've
fried, you’ll take Rover into your confidence.
You’ll talk to him while he sits on his tail
listening. When you fall into silence he'll
whimper and bark. “You ain’t met her
yet,” you’ll tell him, “but if you’d been with
ine this evening you would —you old scoun-
drel! I met her near th’ railway, and I’m
going to her place on Sunday. You’re not—
no matter who’s there I’m to go. And I’m
not to mind what Papa thinks. How would
you like to be me. Rover —wouldn’t you
sooner be me than th’ city dope who was
trying to mash her at the picnic, looking as
if he had just finished a term of epidemics !
Cripes, wouldn’t anyone !”
But, proud as you are of yourself, you’re
feeling shaky and nervous when Sunday ar-
rives. Being favored by Josie King will be
one thing; bracing up to go and see her
in her home when you know her old man
hasn’t a spark of approbation in his make-
up for you, and has developed a habit of
reading you like a criminal lawyer, will be
quite, another thing. Still, you’re facing it
for her. And while you’re getting ready,
fastening your collar and tie, looking at
yourself in the little mirror while your horse
is hanging up outside, you’ll be building
castles in the air, castles in comparison with
which Solomon’s mansion built with the, help
of three score and ten thousand hewing wood
for it in the mountains, and three thousand
six hundred overseeing, will be only & modest
shack. So, closing the door behind you,
you’ll approach your horse, pulling your hat
down in front, pushing it up behind to please
your fancy; then into the saddle, and off
like a despatch bearer you’ll rattle.
It’s a wonderful day, the sky pale blue,
the air clear, the hills and valleys green;
the wild flowers blooming, everything gay and
glittering; nothing dull or brown or wither-
ing, not even the old rail fences or the dead
timber. Full of secret hopes you’ll tear
along the lanes as if you had all the angels
with you.
Coming in sight of The Meadows you’ll
steady the pace and get back to earth again.
A procession of thoughts will run through
your head that will make you uncomfortable.
You’ll start asking yourself should you really
go or not? Will Josie be home? If you
don’t see her about what’ll you say to him?
Drawing nearer the farmyard you’ll hear
the windmill pumping and you’ll be getting
the most out of your eyesight.
To the left, on the wide verandah of the
home, there’ll be a host of people lounging
in squatters’ chairs and hammocks. They’re
visitors; most of them women. How in the
name of anyone can you be expected to dis-
mount and mingle that lot! Josie
must have gone mad. You don’t know the
way to the front of the house —when you
worked for old Silas years ago you never got
any further than the kitchen. And you
don’t want to go any further now.
They’re turning their heads, gawking,
wondering who you are. What are you
going to do now? Instead of Newchum
wheeling and bolting off .with you, he keeps
stepping out briskly, tossing his head, snatch-
ing the bit, showing how glad he feels. You
grind your teetli and screw' up your courage
as you open the gate and enter the yard.
A tribe of dogs rush to meet and sei-enade
y°m
Being the Sabbath, which old Silas King
is careful to see kept sacred at The Meadows
since he has become prosperous and religious,
the farm hands will be sitting about in the
shade. You’ll pass a cold nod to them;
ride on to the stable, ducking your head
under a clothes line to keep clear of a row
of uninhabited things.
Putting the horse away, you glance round
the gravelled path leading to the front
verandah. You’ll reproach yourself for being
a darn fool; and you feel that your hour
is at hand and you’ve been betrayed into
the hands of the enemy.
“Unless Pm blind, it’s Dickie Gall.”
You’ll look round and be confronted by Bill
Buck, the handyman of The Meadows. He’s
shuffling solemnly, towards you, looking as
if he was under instructions to eject you.
But when he asks, “Who is it you want to
see—Mr. King?” and informs you that the
Boss never sees anyone about business on
Sunday, you’ll start beating about the bush.
And when you’ve made yourself feel a fraud
and a liar, and Bill can’t make head or tail
of you, Josie’ll come tripping across the yard
looking like a fairy in her white silks, her
hair waving in the wind, to save you.
“Oh you did come, Richard?” She doesn’t
call you Dickie. And she’ll smile with her
eyes and lips and teeth. “I was beginning
to wonder if yoxx really would.” At that
Bill will touch his hat and make off. And
while you’re coloring up and gathering your-
self together Josie’ll give a little laugh and
invite you to the front verandah.
You go off with her like a big pet stupid
sheep being led to slaughter.
“We’ve some visitors,” she’ll tell you, look-
ing up curiously into your face, “but they’re
only Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Craig, Miss Fair-
field and her sister and two friends, and Mr.
Draper—a friend of Pa’s —and a few
others.”
“Mr. Draper?” you’ll mumble, as if the
name was poison, with the same effect that
strychnine would have on you.
“He’s talking to Pa,” and this time Josie
will touch your arm and look up at you in
such a way that, instead of tasting strychnine,
you’ll feel you’ve taken champagne. Gee!
you’re a new man in an instant. She’s in-
spired you. Instead of a sheep you’re a lion
being led to the wolves by a dove.
You’re walking firm, erect, bold; such a
feeling never came over you before. Out
of the slough of your humbleness she’s exalted
you to a pedestal of bravery. You mount
the verandah step for step with her; you’re
laughing with her; you’re taking your
hat off, smoothing your hair out of your
eyes and looking like a party leader taking
the platform. Old Silas and Draper and the
others are gaping at you. In a voice ot
gladness Josie introduces you first to one,
then to another, as “Mister Richard Gall.”
Even to Pa, who, if you had darkened the
sun and caused stars and hail to fall on the
lawn, couldn’t look more surprised, she’s
compelled to make you known. Extending
your hand to old Silas you’ll grip his limp
fist and shake it heartily, inquiring after his
health and expressing pleasure at his robust
appearance. You’ll greet the swell Draper
in the same jovial spirit, recalling that you
saw him at the school picnic. Then, display-
ing all the manners you know (you weren’t
always a lone, motherless homesteader),
you’ll bow and smile to the ladies; stoop
gracefully to restore to Mrs. Craig a book
that has fallen from her lap to the floor, and
remain standing till Josie is seated.
Putting you out of his mind, old Silas
will sulkily continue the conversation. lie’ll
address liis remarks to Draper and the ladies
—to everyone but you. You’ll listen re-
spectfully to their views, waiting an oppor-
tunity to express your own. Catching
Josie’s eye you’ll clear your throat and ob-
serve to old Silas; “Just.so, Mr. King, but
always making the man with the most money
top-dog doesn’t get the world anywhere. It
is the greatest men who should be the ser-
vants of the others.”
“What!” Old Silas will frown on you.
“Servants of the others!” Mr. Draper will
sneer, looking meaningly at everyone but
you.
“That’s what Christ was,” Josie will say
and beam on you.
“Christ! How dare you, girl!” Pa will
explode.
“I really think it’s time to go.” Mr.
Draper will rise to his feet.
“We must be moving, too,” from, the
others.
“And Gall, too,” Pa will growl towards
Josie.
Josie’s eyes will flash. “Richard is stay-
ing, Pa !” she will say.
And you’ll look sheepish while the others
disperse.
* * * #
The flush will still be in your cheeks, and
in Josie’s, too; and she’ll be holding out a
plate inviting you to a ginger-nut, when old
Silas will return. It’ll be plain what he’s
returned for. There’s no polish about Silas.
He’s blunt and proud and ignorant.
“Are you coming here to see my daughter,
Gall?” And he’ll stare at you with un-
friendly eyes.
Seeing you’re speechless, Josie will rebuke
him with, “Pa!”
“I don’t know who you are,” Silas will
say, ignoring Josie; “you worked for me
years ago at odd jobs, like lots of others,
but that didn’t make you a friend of mine,
or of my family’s. I don’t know you; or
where you are from; or anything about you.”
With the color deepening her cheek, and
her eyes flashing more and more, Josie will
look a picture. And, though you don’t feel
quite yourself, you’re not afraid. But you’re
thinking hard.
“You might fancy you don’t know me, Mr.
King,” you’ll tell him in a quiet way. “But
you knew my father once ; you worked for
him when he owned Borrodale Downs.”
“You a son of Donald Gall’s? A son of
his?”
That’s all old Silas will be able to articu-
late or even think for a second or two, for
he’ll be on the verge of emotion.
Then, calling to the others to come here,
he’ll introduce you proudly as “the son of
Donald Gall, the squatter, who took up
Borrodale Downs in the ’6o’s, and was the
first to bring Clydesdales to this country. .
And then you’ll know you’re set.
Man the Master.
Shiv’ring and gaunt you kneel; I see you
now
Wrapping your threadbare rags about your
throat,
The roof above you bending to the snow,
The wind about the tatters of your coat,
A spider weaving cobwebs in the dark
Around the sagging paper silently,
And horny beetles hiding in the bark—
These are the friends that bear you
company.
The wood you strive to kindle, wet and dank,
Smokes in your mouth and catches in your
breath;
A flame throws up your shadow, long and
lank,
And dies again, and makes you think of
death.
The empty crock is standing on the shelf;
Your haggard eyes discover through th 3
gloom
The empty flask, the bits of broken delf
And all the meagre things about the room.
Lone in the stormy night you gasp and wait,
Your chattering bones against the reeking
sod—
Man, that was made the master of his fate,
Man that was made the image of his God!
victokia.
BESSIE GRIFFIN.


...
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency-
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
(lueeuslanU Agents—.nOliMlSS « CHCBCH, Brisbane.
N. 55. Olliee —83-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Olfice—“Chancery House,” 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ET,DEB, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
RAY'D-VAC
The Mark of Superior Quality
I\
l\\l
I
m.
.
Wmm
HERE'S an electric torch that's
a dandy—dark nooks and
corners hold no secrets from you —
safety at night is always assured—
it's the Ray-O-Lite, the best you can
buy. Strong vulcanized fibre case,
corrugated for easy grip heavy
brass trimmings, nickel plated
and polished—patented lock
switch, cushioned to
prevent lamp break-
age,— these and
other advantages
are the
reasons
wily you
should use a
Ray-O-Li te.
Equipped with Ray-
O-Vac Batteries,youhavea
dependablesourceof light worth
its cost the first few nights you use it.
Write our distributor Jor. the name of
your nearest dealer.
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
Distributor:
UNITED DISTRIBUTORS, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia.
Wellington, New Zealand.
he
PLUM
RAZOR
a
m
%
V.
X
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/-
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and keDt
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; Jin. and Jin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG and AITKEN
.654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day. 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY .tap.*.,™, No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Ids.: 86276 (4 lines). Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d. Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
fM
jj&cAimb
m>
They have proved themselves to be
a preparation of merit. People show
their appreciation by continuing to
rely solely on their remarkable cura-
tive and tonic qualities. No other
medicine is taken—none is needed.
Beecham’s have been tried and are
now trusted to perform what is
claimed for them. They never fail.
Buy a box to-day.
Beecham’s Pills cleanse the
bowels, tone stomach, stimu-
late liver, remove bile & make
you conscious of the fact that
every organ of the system is
healthfully
performing
its allotted
function
Vi
''M
■ i
BALANCED FOODS FOR DOGS
With the aid of a force of chemists and bacteriologists, together with
the whole hearted co-operation of one of the great VETERINARY
Colleges, we have succeeded in developing the PERFECT DOG-
FOODS.
80% of all dog ailments are attributable to improper feeding. Meat
must form the base of all foods for dogs or other carnivora. There
is no substitute for meat as an essential food for dogs. The products
of the “HOUSE OF CHAPPEL” are MEAT foods packed in tins.
Favourably known to the veterinary profession in Great Britain and
America as:
cCEN-L-RATION
MARO-MEAT
HEMO-RATION
PUP-E-RATION
also the supreme soap for all dogs known as KEN-L-SOPE
WANTED —DISTRIBUTORS
to handle the sales of these Internationally known and
Advertised products in:
New South Wales
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia
Western Australia
Tasmania
Kindly Address All Communications to:
The Manager , CHAPPEL BROS., Inc.
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Bankers references given and required
Cable Address: CHAPPEL Rockford Codes: A. B. C.,Liebers Fifth Edition
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
0$
S 6
f
o 6 **'* 9
W' **
o<
•••** •••*; s*s»
o*' AX) 0 *


i m
>• -VI
Every possible precaution is taken
to make your Willard Battery
acid 'tight, even to testing each
finished battery with compressed
air.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
if
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane.
