

IN
i
YOUR HOME
-
■ .
m
r
m
m
■
.
You make them with the
CINE-KODAK
Imagine the thrill of filming your family, your
friends —your hobbies, sports and travels!
The Cine-Kodak is simplicity itself—actually
as easy as making ordinary snapshots. You
just sight it and press the release—that’s all.
Prices range from £lB/18/-, while your films
are processed free of charge.
You show them with the
KODASCOPE
The Kodascope is simple and dependable. It
plugs into your electrical circuit and projects
pictures you have made yourself; also a wide
choice of world-famous releases. It is the
most wonderful entertainer that ever came
into any home. Prices range from £22.
Demonstrations at any time, or write for booklet
'
Deferred payments may be arranged.
Of
Kodak Dealers
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney,
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East
“The Kodak Corner," corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street,
Street,
Rockhampton;
m, N.Z.
The Bulletin
faxrfc Hjudr (ama&s far !
VoL No. 2531.
Wednesday, August 15, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post 'as a Newspaper.


WE have an inquiry for copy of “Across
Australia,” Spencer and Gillen
A 1? condition to Fredc. Cockington,
-J Gay s Arcade, Adelaide.
yHE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
19 2 8 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.’
Love at first sight, the poet’s treasured theme,
At best, or worst, is mostly but a dream
hove at first sight to hasty marriage tends,
And oft m saddened disillusion ends,
hove at first sight is like a, summer cold,
A mil a infection easy to endure—
When winter months their dreaded ills unfold
rorget not Woods’ Great Peppermint. Cure.
—Ad vi.
sramiu
iiliki
THis BooK FREE to YOU*
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne 9 ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit nl
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
U-YS AG HT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme is
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select “The Daily Mail” as the first medium in
Queensland to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc.', please apply*to
ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone 81522.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
9 r . e published in London. Prices outside
bookseller rnust be fixed by the importing
WINTERSMOON,
BY
HUGH WALPOLE.
Dominions Edition.
“We are continually being surprised and
delighted by profundities, delicacies and
humors greater than in any of Mr. Walpole’s
former books. The story moves with accom-
plished mastery. . . The character drawing
is varied and happy.”—Country Life.
OWEN WISTER.
WHEN WEST WAS WEST
By OWEN WISTER. 7s, 6d. net.
A new volume of stories from the
pen of Owen Winter, author of
“The Virginian,” is sure of a warm
welcome from lovers of tales of
th’e adventurous life of the Western
States. As its title indicates, the
new book deals with similar scenes
and people to those so graphically
described in “The Virginian.”
A NEW NOVELIST.
THROUGH BEDS OF STONE.
A Novel, By M. L. HASKINS.
[Empire Library.
The Guardian : “An impressive and thought-
ful work, sincere and readable, and. inriden-
taJly, It is of generous measure in the way of
length. J
A SURVEY OF SOCIALISM;
Analytical, Historical and
Critical
By F. J. C. Hearnshaw, M.A., LL.D.
15 s. net.
The Guardian : “Professor Hearnshaw’s sur-
vey is undoubtedly the best history and
analysis of modern Socialism that has vet
appeared.” -
To bo Obtained from alt
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2*
If nny illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
gr
dfg
sdfg
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W, K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIO N. BERKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone XSIB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
THE MERCURY,
Tasmania’s Leading Daily
Newspaper.
ESTABLISHED 74 YEARS.
“The Illustrated
Tasmanian Mail”
(Published Wednesdays).
ESTABLISHED 51 YEARS.
No advertising campaign is
complete Without including
Tasmania s leading journals,
as both circulate extensively
over the whole of the State.
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart^
SYDnIyOFFICE:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street.
’Phone MA3161.
MELBOURNE OFFICE:
“Argus” Building, Elizabeth Street.
LONDON OFFICE:
A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
... . F ° R THE VOICEI THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL RF.MFnv w n
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancei l ; says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBFS
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrarf
they have a beneficial effect, as their antisentie
sesms sr I **£a
y^TtO
T **‘inw
ON
The Red Page
Australian Poetry
Mr. Vidler’s article on the ‘'Spirit of Aus-
tralian Poetry” (R.P. 18/7/98) is interest-
ing, but it leaves me at a loss. Just what
are “the bigger things that Australia is still
waiting for our poets to express ad-
equately”? A number of themes that are
peculiarly Australian have been used by
the Australian versifier ; I have often
thought that a certain degree of artistic
subservience is given to them, that there
is, at times, a too-conscious determination
to bring them in, willy-nilly. Th 6 poet’s
matter is the content of his mind; and
poets’ minds are seldom typical of the com-
mon, or the racial, or the “average” mind,
and it is a strange misunderstanding that
expects them to express it.
One does not suggest that Australia, and
the natural phenomena of Australia, have
not thematic potentialities; the degree to
which the native atmosphere and the native
scene influenced such undeniable poets as
Kendall and Evans would refute such a
foolish notion; but I do not understand Mr.
Vidler when he appeals for poetic recogni-
tion of themes that he neglects to define.
If, as in places he would seem to sug-
gest, he is asking the poet to regard the
growing national individuality, it seems evi-
dent that the poet will regard it and use
it as soon as it is sufficiently differentiated
and strong to impress itself upon his mind.
The Australian type” has been most dis-
tinctly developed in the further-out and the
mining districts, and it is surely evident that
it has not been overlooked; the bush
balladists have, with full artistic legitimacy,
fathered it; if we scorn the work because
it is crude, we neglect the fact that the life
is crude, and that only a poet of rugged
mind ajjd crude enjoyments can be expected'
to sympathise with it and to express it.
James Cabell could not have gone where
Bret Harte went, and could not have written
what Bret Harte wrote; but no one will
deny authenticity to each.
But what more than this does the demand
for Australian poetry, as distinct from Eng-
lish poetry, mean to Mr. Vidler? An essen-
tial break in the continuity of expression
following upon an essential break in the
continuity of temperament? Some such
thing has certainly happened in America,
but it is a moot point whether the change
has been due to a definite break in tempera-
ment or to an intrusion of new and foreign
temperamental elements. If Mr. Vidler
will think of the outstanding American men
of letters, I am sure he will notice with
surprise that a very large proportion are of
non-English antecedents. To their use of
the English idiom they bring minds of a
non-English outlook and with non-English
habits of thought. Mr. Dreiser, for example,
reads like translated German with startling
frequency.
As long as this country -retains a pre-
ponderating English strain, it is certain that
we will continue in the tradition of English
letters. A great number of peculiarities
will come, but the essentials will be con-
stant, and poetry, in particular, is based on
essentials.
, We can hope, without any undue anxiety
for; its present delay, that Australia will,
m its growth, provide an ever widening field
of material; I would be sorry to think that
any one of us hopes that that field will be
regarded as the limit of the artists’ legiti-
mate scope. Yet there is a tendencv to-
wards this limitation in Australia, and I
suppose one must regard it as one of the
natural gestures of a young nation that is
inclined to be forward because it is not yet
sure of itself. Its foolishness is apparent on
i little thought ; art is a cosmopolitan thing,
even though it springs from a little town.
It has to do with all the universe, and few
of us complain if Shakspeare writes of Rome
d i Y erona Tyre and Bohemia, rather
•han Stratford and London; nor do we com-
fiain that he turns from Denmark home to
Windsor when the mood suits him, or that
he prefers for the moment an English Inn
to a Roman Senate House. We are content
that he should be free to pour out the lar-
gesse of his mind, and none would suggest
that his mind has the limits of an English
yeoman’s.
Yet there are many to suggest that an
Australian, whose inclination and talent and
art leads him to other countries and other
P eiao ds than his own is untrue to himself
and his people. It is a deplorable heresy,
and its books should be burned.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
A Shopman and His Wares
The article entitled "The Spirit of Aus-
trahan Poetry” (R.P. 18/7/’2B) by Edward
. * idley may appeal to those who are
ignorant -of the fact that the writer and
eulogist of certain would-be poets is the
publisher of their books.
Take two of his swans. Furnley Maurice
was dubbed “a persistent poetaster” by the
Book fellow some years ago—and he per-
sists. When Vidler in 1926 published Mrs.
M. E. Pitt’s book, the Bookfbllow re-
marked : “A whole worthless book of alleged
Poems’ has been published for M. E. Pitt
m Melbourne.... When the Muse in buxom
seasons slops indiscriminately over her
stays with a lax exhibition of stale senti-
ments in vile verbiage*it is clear that the
lady should be chastened and restrained.”
1 ernard O’Dowd is a pseudo-philosophical
l liymer’ and the only thing of his that pos-
sibly will last is the sonnet “Australia,”
written long ago. “The Bush” is a mere
i° ur de , force— not poetry. All Furnley
Maurice s stuff is futile, and utterly unin-
spired. And as for Louis Lavater, let any-
one look at the mullock of his that Serle
has put into his Anthology—and wonder
what qualifications the compiler had for
his undertaking.
It is all very well for Mr. Vidler to dis-
play the putty and paste in his own shop
window, but it is going beyond legitimate
advertising to decry the diamonds that are
m the other fellows’ windows. Verse may
need that kind of pushing; poetry doesn’t.
R. CRAWFORD.
“A Charming Book”
A few weeks ago I wrote a brief Red Page
article indirectly slating, with more bitter-
ness than it was worth, a vulgar novel
called Potiphar’s Wife,” and I thought the
true meaning of my heading, “Some Exqui-
site writing,” must have been apparent to
everybody. But several have written to
the editor of The Bulletin slating me for
praising that wretched book, and through
this I am brought to agree with one who
says that if a joke be published in a paper,
even such a paper as The Bulletin, it
should be in red ink. It is merely coincidence
that I went to the pictures last night and
saw there the bold heading to a film
For Laughing Purposes Only.” The screen
art is young in years, but it is commend-
ably old in the head.
And allhhis-is why I have put'into “quotes”
the heading which stands above this appre-
ciation of Elsie Cole’s rich frook of poetry,
Children of Joy, which has just been pub-
lished by Lothian’s, Melbourne. I have
taken the phrase from a few large lines on
the jacket which for under-statement and
mappropi iateness are worth sending out to
represent Australia against the world. “A
chaiming book that will entertain and
please, they run. “Many of the poems are
attractive and worth reciting.” Well, the
book is not at all charming; it is a strange
delight. Again, poetry to me is something
essentially to be enjoyed alone; alone as I
was when I read a lot of this, in the plush
stalls of a crowded picture show, and then
afterwards in the loneliness of the boat
that goes down through the night to Manly,
with that jacket thrown overboard into the
harbor. There I wish I could throw the
books title also. “Children of Joy”!—and
it begins this way:—
Grirn spiders drape the walls with clammy erey
0 11 Watteau simpers and be-ribboned lutes.
Blur the plump Cupid’s saucy limbs away,
Festoon with grime the cornice flowers and fruits.
There is, of course, a reason for the title,
yet it seems a misfortune, for it suggests
joyousness, which is almost alien to poetry.
But that is all the Devil’s advocate in me
has to say. Mighty little it is, too. A few
misplaced lines on a jacket, with which the
poet no doubt had nothing to do,, and a
title which merely displeases me personally’
Mighty little indeed.
The book is uncommonly well produced
Firm simplicity of its blue cover and gold
lettering; excellent printing; tastefu
ai 1 angement a graceful piece of work
And the poetry. There is something of that
which true poetry suggests in the mere look
of it. 'What exquisite first lines these are!
The critic can take them at random without
a tremble. It is lute poetry (lyre poetry, but
I prefer the word “lute”); it is all lyrical-
it sings itself through the insular flesh and
the material strata that in this age of haste
and noise and bad prose and uncouth verse
smother and obliterate feeling. It is lute
poetry, and the player’s touch is never surer
than m the first lingering note. “The sad
and faithful tide has drawn far out.” “Whv
come you sighing to our leafy door?” “Mid-
utitlll hills, and the golden air.”
When we loved, between us two.” “Autumn
is queen of color in quiet change.” Those
lines, and dozens more in this book arp
poetry as they stand. But I should’ not
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising " is your protection at all times .
Anthony Horderns
are Sole Agents in N.S.W. and Queensland for
Shanks’s Lawn Mowers
20in.
cut
O
£lO5
Shanks’s “Jehu” Motor Lawn Mower
Shanks’s “Jehu” Motor Lawn Mower. For exten-
sive lawns, golf links, etc. Has a Engine
which is of the two-stroke type, air cooled, and
working by petrol. A Clutch for putting the
machine in and out of order is worked by a hand
lever, handy to the operator. A clutch is also fitted
for putting the machine out of action when it is
rolling only. The starting gear consists of hand
lever with toothed quadrant gearing, and a pinion
on engine crankshaft. Width of grass
cut by machine is 20 inches. Price
r* 1
©t X vrO
Trailer for “Jehu” Mower. Price each, £6/5/-
SfunksY Triumph’ Horse Lawn Mowers
Shanks’s “Triumph” Horse Mowers, side-wheel type. The
cutting Cylinder is of specially large diameter and strength.
It cuts grass of the coarsest kind up to nine inches long
or more, and also leaves a splendid surface. The lower
part of the Frame is hinged, allowing the Cutting Cylinder
to automatically clear inequalities of the ground. The
operator, without dismounting, can raise or lower the
hinged cutter at -./ill. All parts of the machine are of the
best description to ensure lightness and strength. Suitable
for making New Golf Courses, Recreation
Grounds, Parks, etc. Cut 36 inches. Price. .. .
3LU O
ĝ
ğ
36m.
cut
£96
ġ
Shanks’s “Wizard” Motor Mower
Shanks’s “Wizard” Motor Lawn Mower is built on
the same lines as the Jehu. Has 1 Motor,
two-stroke type, air cooled. Worked by petrol.
Rollers are driven through differential gearing. Inter-
mediate and cutter shafts fitted with ball bearing. An
efficient machine for extensive lawns, tennis courts,
etc. A special low cut is arranged when
Mower is required for golf or
bowling greens
£67/10|-
Sheep and Cattle
Ear Pliers.
Just send us the registered number
given to you by the District Stock
Inspector; your order will be executed
immeditaely. Charges are consistently
moderate at Anthony Horderns’. Send
for copy and price list of Ear Marks.
USE OUR
“D.P.S.”
You pay no
interest or
extra charge.
lOin.
85-
1%
sa
"4
;'n»>
Shanks’s Lawn Mower. The “Britisher,” with Grass
Box. The ideal machine for small lawns. This
machine is very substantial. No other cheap, side-
wheel mower possesses its qualifications. It is light,
durable and easily regulated.
Sizes ■• ■ • 1 Oin. 1 2in. 1 4in.
Price 85/- 90/- 95/-
Rabbit Traps (Lane’s 1928 Pattern).
tfttro Teeth.
AAA
V W 2& Stof^
Tongue lie
miv/m
m
wf
W ire SpringT raps. D0z.25/-
Made from the best materials, they unite lightness
with extreme strength and durability. Set in a moment,
Jaws close in a flash and the grip is secure. No
rabbit escapes, there is no “legging. All the fea-
tures that made the original Lane Wire Spring Trap
famous have been reintroduced, with the addition
of the new patents, which increase their efficiency.
Per dozen, 25/-. Cases of 12 dozen; per dozen, 22/-
Griffith’s I.X.L.
Rabbit Traps
Griffith’s I.X.L. Rab-
bit Traps, with chain
only. No pegs. Per
dozen .... 23/9
12 dozen Traps. Per
dozen .... 22/9
Trap iPegs for above.
Per dozen .. . 3/-
Carriage not paid on these
goods.
'SUB
m
W.
Aolenl St as
Flat Spring Traps. Doz. 25/-
Expressly designed to meet the needs in districts
where the flat spring trap is required—whether of
light American type or heavy English SPECIAL
type. Incorporated a rustproof spring and two new
patents; also other refinements calculated to merit
widespread approval. It is no exaggeration to say
that these Rabbit Traps are superior to any previ-
ously made. Per dozen 257-
Cases of 10 dozen. Per dozen 22/~
ģ
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


STUDEBAKER'S NEW ERSKINE SIX SEDAN
Mm
BSBS
i Hi
x
*
*****
-
was
mm
Proved by yruelliny tests ~
c Approved by public favour
J? v
NEW
IMPROVEMENTS
New custom - built bodies
bigger, roomier and more com-
fortable.
New engine increased to 43
horsepower.
40 miles an hour the day you
buy it.
62 miles an hour, later.
Oil and grease need be changed
only every 2,500 miles—after
first 1,000 miles.
Shock absorbers, amplified
action four-wheel brakes. N.w
thin-grip steering wheel of per-
fected design.
New dash, with all instruments
artis. icu lly grouped under glass.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Studebafer Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum).
J\JEVER yet has Studebaker offered its vast
public an experiment. The many improve-
ments which have been incorporated in
Studebaker’s New ERSKINE SIX Models are the
result of lengthy laboratory research and exhaus-
tive tests of speed and mechanical endurance on
Studebaker’s 800-acre Proving Ground tests
more strenuous than you could ever possibly
experience.
Studebaker’s brilliant staff of engineers has now
produced this larger, more beautiful and powerful
ERSKINE SIX at a low price and cost of upkeep
never before associated with such distinction and
performance. See and drive it yourself to-day.
Erskine Models from Commander Models from
£315 to £448 £528 to £628
Director Models from President Models from
£4lB to £568 £698 to £B6O
All new models equipped with shock absorbers, bumper bars and jour-wheel brakes.
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
VICTORIA.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA :
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.,
41-4.5 Pier Street. Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.,
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams, Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
Studebaker holds all the highest Speed and Endurance Records for fuliy equipped Stock Cars in Australia and America.
WEB4S
STUDEBJIKERi


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
g
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildin
(Next G.P.0.).
like to have them mouthed at me by any
reciter. Fancy getting them over the wire-
less, to the subtle accompaniment of a Wur-
litzer organ moaning its discords from the
station you have not quite tuned out!
Hut Elsie Cole is not a mere poet of
first lines, nor even of lines. There is
poetic content in her w— ....I almost
called it work. That it is not, unless that
dreamy lute player, of whom she is a
genuine descendant, may be classed a
worker. No; she is a player purely, a
dreamy player, with her head bent in rap-
ture to the lute; and the music of it is this:
The ebon moments cold of wing
For multitudinous blossoming
A dust of finest water-seed bestrew,
That dawn may draw from balanced buds of crystal
Tremulous flowers of dew.
That is poetry; dreamy, sensuous delight;
and the continuity of it here, the luxuriance
of it, has given me more happiness than I
have had from a book for a very long time.
It would be more critical, I suppose, to take
one of these things—“Oh the wind, oh the
wind in the rushes!”—and undo it as a child
undoes a clock, and put it together again
with much flourish of “vowel values” and
the like; but that, I think, is a game to
play with verse which has not that strange
element, that wisp of black cloud on the
moon, which is poetry.
CECIL MANN.
Adventure
In spite of the fact that all the copy-
books say so, it is nevertheless partly true
that happiness, as distinct from mere
pleasure, is independent of our environ-
ment. For we all of us live a large part of
our lives within ourselves, and our men-
tal attitude towards the world in general
is governed by that intangible something,
partly innate and partly acquired at a
fairly early age, which we call our tempera-
ment. So it is with our adventures. The
alpine climber will spend large sums and
will take still larger risks for the sake' of
the thrill which he gains by doing what
hundreds of builders’ laborers spend their
working day in performing, and which
appears to them a somewhat boring and
monotonous occupation. Only to the
select few is it granted to be pioneers of
human progress, to look in the face of
death with impunity and to enact the
scenes on which will be based the epics
of the future; but we can all of us have
the most exciting and wonderful experi-
ences at almost any time, provided that
we can gain possession of the key which
unlocks the door of the garden of romance.
Every child possesses it, but most of us
mislay it as we grow up; sometimes it
eludes our search, but those of us who
know and value it can always recapture it
from time to time. A few choice spirits
there are, of whom Samuel Pepys was the
exemplar, who have never lost ft ; but most
of us can merely envy these and must rest
content with such short loans of the magic
key as the gods choose to allow us.
The key, of course, is the wonder of the
child at the marvellous things that happen
every day about us; not the fires, floods
and famines, coronations, revolutions and
royal marriages, but the little things which
occur all day and every day, and which
we see so often that we never notice them.
And if among these little, wonderful events
something out of the common should meet
the eye, what an adventure is there for
the discoverer! When Columbus discovered
America or Galvani electricity, what did he
see but something he, personally, had not
met with before? America and electricity
were always there; it was the finding of
them that gave these great adventurers the
thrill which lesser men can never know.
I therefore rejoice whenever the magic
mood descends on me, knowing that this
will be a day on which I shall share with
the great nioneers and creative artists the
divine delight of the new and hitherto un-
known. What matter if many have found
these things before me? They are wel-
come to their pleasure, for the essential
of the experience is that it should be new
to me.
Thus by merely going on my daily round
and clinging tightly to the precious scrap
of childhood which has returned to me, I
encounter adventures by the score and
happenings that, for the time, seem to
eclipse the marvels of the Arabian Nights.
Once, on such a day, I caught a weasel
asleep. I must admit it happened in the
Zoo at Cairo and during the summer, so
that the animal could hardly be blamed
for relaxing its reputedly eternal vigilance;
but it was a triumph none the less, for
have not the sages declared that to sur-
prise the slumbers of a weasel is impos-
sible? I have often stood enthralled by
the magnificent picture of strength and
beauty presented by big horses drawing
heavy loads. The trees, even those forlorn
street-arabs that struggle for life with their
roots below the pavement and their leaves
and branches grimed with the dust and
soot that is the city’s sweat, show exqui-
site intricacies of twigs and branches that
overmatch the far-famed arabesques of the
Mosque of Omar. Who among the Blon-
dins of the circus can approach the grace-
ful ease with which the cat next door
strolls along the top of the paling fence?
Here is art that is concealed so well that
few there are who recognise it as such. Will
aviators ever be able to swoop down and
up again with the polished accuracy dis-
played by a sparrow as it retrieves a
crumb from the road and returns to its
perch on the lamp-post?
Then there are the little streams that
run along the road on wet days, starting
as little brooks hnd gathering tributaries
as they go, perfect models of the Amazons
and Niles which have made and marred
great nations, flowing through the deep val-
leys of cart-ruts and over fearsome rapids
where the pebbles make whirlpools that
draw the hapless swimming beetle to de-
struction, till thej'- hurl themselves in a
beautiful Niagara into the mighty torrent
of the gutter. There are caterpillars labori-
ously climbing blades of grass in the
garden, their ranks of legs moving rhythmi-
cally while the little creatures struggle on-
wards with a singleness of purpose which
would take a man, if he possessed it, to
almost any goal at which he chose to aim.
There is the beauty of smoke rising from
chimneys and tracing lovely arabesques
across the sky, and over all the seemingly
motionless yet ever changing pictures in
the clouds. There are young mothers with
their babies,- talking that language which
they all know by instinct, but which not
even the greatest of male philologists can
ever hope to learn—but this is a profane
essay and here is holy ground.
I hope the time will never come when I
shall be quite grown up and the last faint
echo of my childhood shall have died with-
in me. As I grow older I find that pleasure
is more difficult of attainment, and I value
my little share of happiness the more.
When the vigor of my youth has fled and
the friends I once knew are scattered, and
the time I have left is more and more in-
adequate for the fulfilment of my hopes,
it would be hard to be deprived of the
simple pleasure of the little things.
PHLEBOLITH.
“Art” in Europe
The art world of Europe is in a state of
Bedlam, and I can see no signs of a change
for the better. The critics talk mightily
about the modem movement without
troubling to find out whether it is uphill
or downhill. The walls of the exhibitions
here are covered with most extraordi-
nary performances which to the normal in-
dividual seem to be devoid of rhyme, rea-
son or tradition. The critics exhaust their
vocabulary in lauding the genius of these
eccentricities, without attempting to justify
their pictorial statements. It is actually
the bolshevising of European civilisation,
manifesting itself in painting.
To crown all, the works of these masters
—indistinguishable from those hung re-
cently in an actual exhibition by madmen
and perverts—sell for enormous prices.
This seems inexplicable judged by the
standards which governed picture buyers in
the past. But pictures to-day are sold and
bought because they represent a certain
money value, which is either rising or fall-
ing. The market is engineered by the
dealers working in conjunction with oppor-
tunist painters. When the average specu-
lator puts his money in copper shares he
does not ask himself whether the mine is
going to produce much copper or any at
all; he merely speculates on the chance of
the shares going up, when he can unload
them at a profit. So with the picture buyer.
He speaks the language of the stockbroker,
except that he talks of a “rising man” or a
“great genius,” where the broker uses less
ambiguous terms.
Modern pictures are not held in collec-
tions for long. They are bought and sold
many times over. When I arrived in Paris
the great man was Utrillo. His paintings
were sold for colossal sums and as fast as
he could turn them out. To-day his boom
has burst and now the dealers’ are raking
in another little percentage, selling his
works on commission at a slight loss to the
seller. So adept are they and so gullible
is the advertisement-led public that they
will surely find new buyers. These will
feed their snob instincts on the thought
of possessing a real Utrillo for a time, and
then they in their turn will sell off before
the complete slump arrives—if they are
lucky.
Many of these moderns did not possess
any knowledge or talent at any time, while
some began their successful careers with
both but had to sacrifice them in the
march to the goal. I know of no great
modern artist who has not been obliged to
prostitute any art that he possessed in
order to “arrive.” This bastardisation of
art is one of the triumphs of modern busi-
ness, and it is no use expecting to appear
in a modern exhibition unless one is pre-
pared to participate in the conspiracy.
All, or some of which, might be worth
the consideration of the Felton Bequest
Committee.
PARIS.
AN AUSTRALIAN ARTIST.
Wirragoona, by C. H. Robertshaw (The
Tytherleigh Press, Melb.) • Unassertive yarns,
in which the bush and its inhabitants are
allowed to tell their story without undue
interference from the author. The same set
of authentic characters reappearing in each
sketch keep up the interest. The book is
quite well turned out.
Prelude to a Rope for Mger, by L.
Steni (Cape). Myer, the Jewish proprietor
of a London cinema, discovers his mistress
in the arms of an officer of the Guards.
This preys on his mind and he strangles her.
A criminal-court story, the book has the
quality of a decadent futuristic canvas.
The author is apparently writing in a foreign
language. Like Conrad, he has an immense
gift for description, but slips on his pre-
positions and conjunctions.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently *tomped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contnbutions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
El Kay: We gave acres of space to that
discussion a few months ag0....A.C.: But even the
mosquito in its wildest song wouldn’t try to make a
rhyme of “like” and “bite”.... J.W.W.: Verse hope-
less... .L.K.J.: No covering letter need accompany
paragraphs... .Arfermo: Went out with a bang....
J.N.: It’s all there, even to the villain’s fur-lined
overcoat... .Anne A.: You don’t quite get the interest.
.. . .S.S.: It might apply to any country. . . .Frank
W.: Jazzed out... . Kooban: Glad the villain,
at least, poisoned himself.... J.M.L.: Your love song
to the bush missed the track... .K.M.: Melodramatic.
....Mills C.: AVhatever it is, it isn’t verse....
Vi. E.: A bit too crude. . . .Fred M. : Thanks; but it’s
dreadful... .G. Fit: Most of it is prose, and all of
it prosy... .Hugh G.: No cheque for your “Prodi-
gal:.”.... 8.W.: You use such tangling expressions
it is sometimes hard to follow y0u.... Klorsdon:
Trite phrases moving at a jog-trot... .M.A.8.: A
feeling crept o’er us, too—a feeling for an axe....
Caber: Knew it as a Story of Doom from its first
gloomy passages... .P.J.M.: Scrappy affair. Scrapped.
. ...L.L.T.: Advice? Write on one side of the paper
and aim at terseness.... Chas. C. (Bondi): Full of
faults.... R.S.M.: “The welkin was split in twain.”
“They split the welkin once again.” You overdo
the splits. .. .A.E.A.: “Call of the Bush” is a poor
echo. .. . A.VV.R.: The long wandering doesn’t appeal.
... .Fra. K.: Not an ounce of conviction in it....
R.L.W.: Both weak. .. . V.C.W.: Only a drab picture.
.. . . A.M.McN.: Well, who did forge the burglary or
whatever the murder was ?.... Robin H: The story
is without form and void.... Win. C.: Words, words.
.... Mac: Exclamatory and interrogative verse no
good; the other has little merit... .John II.: The
w.p.b. yawned over it... .R.J.J.: The pun-compound
is too long for use... .F.M.N.: In its present form,
merely a rambling discourse... .A.R.: Commonplace
love-story... .W.B. (St. Iv.) : To what a tripey use
you put a good situation!.... H.S.C.: Can’t get a
grain from it... . Herb. I).: You must have killed a
Chinaman yourself... .W.B. M.: Meandering stuff— j
both prose and verse... .R.S.P.: By this time the
feeble effort is a day’s march nearer home. .. .Elgar
O.: “Dream of Gerontius” is not in the same street.
. ...E.M.J.: Don’t ask us to spend another holiday
with you. Your tent life is too dull. . . .M.B.P. :
“Hope” blasted.... L.R.8.: Not so much an elegy
as a funeral... .C.A.S.: Weary length... .A.H.W.:
There’s something of a story, but the telling
is chaotic. .. .E.C.D.: Found it heavy going.
....James G.: Dreamy item went to sleep.
. ...J.M.D.: Rather nice, but a bit on the sob
side. .. .Linda C.: Nothing inspiring about your
understanding heart. .. . J.A.P.: You didn’t make the
best of it N.0.P.: No dough for “Our Daily
Bread”.... Ivan Newlegrope: A cow of a verse....
L.E. : Too talky. .. . Boon: “Optimist” did not cheer
us. . . .L.M.G.: Almost a winner. .. .G.A.P.: Y r ou put
nothing into the view....A.H. (Q.) : No satire in
your “satirical poem” ... .G.S.H.: Bowled 0ut....
C.D.: We wept with her:—
It was just a few months later I met his dear
old mater;
It hit me hard to see the poor old lady weep —
When she told me of his failing—how for years he
had been ailing,
From his childhood he would walk out in his
sleep.
....James N.: A poor 10t... .Z.V.W,: An old
’un... .L.G.G.: No plot in it Dunbar: You
overworked the small idea... .B.B.: Bathos.
....Alhambra: You headed it “Poetry”; but it’s
not Val J. A.: The old pipe has been overdrawn.
M.R.A.: Study form and scansion H.R.
(Albert Park) : The trick story has to be well done
to be more than foolish. .. .Jim D.: Bad lines spoil
it.... J.T.H.: A scrag-end of verse 0n1y... .B.M.W. :
We were not amused.... Rona: Felt a mild interest
in the lady with a flea on her neck....Jas. W.
(N.G.) : When a verse is “dashed oft” that is usually
the dashed end of it... . John S.: The sunset faded
0ut.... T.W.R.: The basis has been used before, and
it cannot stand half the length you give it.
A.S.T.A.: “Eyes” shut 0ut....M.R. : There’s an
idea in the thing, but most of your lines are prose.
....Alan II.: “Not Understood” doesn’t deserve to
be.... Ron McC.: “Half-heart hands of my attain”
is a horror J.E.S.: The effort to laugh tired us.
... .W.H.R.: The ending lacks effectiveness... .M.G.:
No spice in the seasons. .. .C.V.T.: If it’s not
American it’s a copy of the American story-method.
E.L. (Glcnelg): “Mystic” is a poor creature.
. ...G.V.H.: The one magpie hardly carries it....
D.R.P.: “The Office Boy” sacked 0.M.N.: “The
Fist” is the mailed sort —mailed back to y0u....
M.M.N. r Obsequies accordingly... .H.P.8.: It just
failed Della G.: The joke is that you
should think it 0ne.... Stella: Your fashion-
plate hero is the most frightful prig we have
destroyed this year... .Francis W.: Sorry. There are
so many things we would like to include ; the ques-
tion always is What can we leave out to make
room for it ?. .. . Mary C.: Only lack of space stops it.
N.L. (S.A.) : Why did you waste such good work
on so worn-out a theme ?... .W.H.N.: You will get
there if (1) you write the Australian language and
(2) strive after greater simplicity.... Iris H.: Don’t
like the movie-picture vamp.... John B. W.: In the
“a little nonsense” quotation the emphasis should
be on the adjective. There’s too much of yours....
Harry L.: “Pinioned and crushed on a thorny bed,”
you “vainly claw at Freedom’s gate.” Young man,
you are too acrobatic.... Bert 0.: Very rough ; and
altogether too much “rife”-ness about it... .A.J.R.:
Dackn conviction... .B.O.B.: The shot not only blew
his brains out, but blew the story out, too.
.. . .Artlover: Well, isn’t it better for promising
young artists to go on the staff than on the starve?
How’d you like to boil down unsold paintings to
make a meal? D.M.S.: It was The Tragedy of
the Sah-ha-ha!-ra to u 5.... Boris M.: Ah, here is
a human touch !
He was tender in his feelings, he was honest, he
was kind;
But his wife, she was suspicious, with a very nasty
mind ;
So he turned for consolation to a lady sweet as
honey,
Who helped him in his struggle to pay the alimony.
....Lot. R.: It looked like “Oh, sling my harp!”
so we slung it. . . .P.H.H.: That snake-bite yarn has
been told of times... .R.S.T.: “The East”
went west.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.F.G.8.: Was it done in the dark?....B. Gun:
If we printed that joke it would take us years to
live it down... . M.A.: Your cats will have to fight
it out on somebody else’s window 5i11... .F.N.:
“Innocuous” it i5....W.P.: A disappointing effort.


ĝ
'l'm// ytStem
ğf
6/,


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2531.
August! 5 l 1938.
THE CAUSE OF ALL THE TROUBLE.
“Exonerating Messrs. Theodore and Coleman subsequent to the recent inquiry into the alleged sale of Federal seats, the A.L.P. considered that the responsibility for
this and other troubles within the party rested upon Mr. Bailey.”
MOTHER: “George, my son, did you cut down that cherry-tree?”
GEORGE A.L.P. WASHINGTON, JUNIOR: Mother, I cannot tell a lie. It was that there Jack Bailey did it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia J'or the White Sian.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
Perth Office : 33 Barrack Street.
Adelaide Office: 12 Evans Buildings, James Place.
London Office: 36 Southampton Street, Stra id,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.,
TER.WE TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Austealasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short. Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for'same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —l.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in tlie .Main Hail at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. (Jordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.B.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Ilhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu.— Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz Neivs Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley Neivs Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans Neivs Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Monarch News Agency, 115 West 6th Street, Los
Angeles, Cal.; Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573
Arcade Station, Los Angeles, Cal.; and from the
Barber on Union S.S. Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail
boats.
ICoypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel; and from the Barber
on boats of K.P.M. Line.
Ceylon.— 7. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street.
Colombo; PlatC, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby,
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
A. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
%r%xzlletM.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1928.
OPENING A NEW YEAR.
For the 12 months to June 30 Australia’s
imports exceeded its exports by £6,521,390.
so it borrowed that amount abroad, in an
unfavorable market, in order to pay for
alien fluff and sundries. There was no
surplus to cover the ever-growing item de-
scribed as “annual obligations abroad for
interest and services,” which will be in the
neighborhood of £34,000,000 when the figures
are made up. So that also went into the
Public Debt, there being no other place
to put it. The added liability was thus 40 or
41 millions. All this had absolutely no re-
lationship with any public-works policy
except that the imports included some bits
of railway material and some steam rollers
and oddments purchased abroad by local-
government bodies. The “annual obliga-
tions abroad” are officially estimated as
£11,000,000 or £12,000,000 more per annum
than they were nine years ago, after the
close of the war. Naturally they are that
much less than they will be some years
hence unless an exceedingly remarkable
change sets in, and it won’t set in by its
own voluntary act.
❖
Unemployment is bad, as a matter of
course. If the community produced enough
to pay its just debts there would neces-
sarily be more work, but Australia presents
the shocking example of a country which
wanders into debt in order that it may
encourage extraneous factories and found-
ries and farms, and keep itself out of a
job. Great stress is laid on the. importance
of “getting people on the land,’ mostly to
grow wheat. The Commonwealth has had
a good harvest followed by a bad one, but
in neither case did the value of exported
wheat and flour anywhere near meet the
bill for imported textiles and ready-made
clo’ alone. It was the same in the rich
harvest year 1924-25, and it will almost
certainly be the same next year, whatever
the harvest.
* * * *
The first month of the new financial year
showed another fall in customs revenue—
the same happening which landed the
Bkuce-Page Ministry in a deep financial
gulf last year. The decline is a great deal
too much for a man who wants his budget
to come right, and a great deal too little
for one who wants the country to stop
going wrong. The first essential is to
effect a sufficient prohibition of imports to
get over the problem of a 40-million-pound
deficit in the nation’s external transactions.
Having created a record hole by this further
inroad on customs revenue, the second mat-
ter of importance is to think out methods
oi filling up the vacuum. The existing
Ministry didn’t invent the present disastrous
situation, but having inherited it and
watched it grow worse the Bruce-Page com-
bine is expected to do something with the
family spectre. It is a sign of the times
that Queensland Premier McCormack has
announced that there will be no railway-
building programme in his territory this
year. Perhaps there will be none for much
longer than that. If it were possible to
reduce the loss on the railways to a million
per annum, he says, it would be easier to
stagger along, but he apparently fears that
modest ambition may not be realised. Prob-
ably, however, there will be a loan policy all
the same, as the interest problem remains.
The transfer of the administration of a vast
area to a Greater Brisbane Council has
had_ the effect of making it a Greater Bor-
rowing Council, and has nominally relieved
the State to a corresponding extent; but
the man who puts his debts into his wife’s
name finds it a questionable benefit.
WHAT MAKES THIS CRIME WAVE?
Since the publication of the article on
“Sex Stuff and Crime,” and “Marko’s”
comment upon it, The Bulletin has
been almost snowed under with sug-
gestions for dealing with what is generally-
regarded as a terribly serious situation.
It is impossible to print one-tenth of the
matter submitted; but a few extracts are
taken from the offerings of a dozen or so
contributors, most of them leaders in some
sphere or other:—
“Richard Garwyn”: “Marko’s” belief (B.
1/8/28) that licensed houses would abolish
crimes of sexual passion is pathetic. Does
lie seriously maintain that there is difficulty
in obtaining prostitutes or that men do not
know where to look for them?
“Jacques” : “Marko’s” suggestion to run
licensed houses (B. l/8/’2B) solves half the
problem. Many men are afraid to accompany
a _ professional lady to her apartment.
Licensed houses would not only eliminate
trickery, but would also reduce the army of
V.D. sufferers, as the lady of the house
must pass a regular test. Brisbane adopted
licensed bouses years ago and has no reason
to regret it.
* * *
“J.M.F.”: The inevitable reaction against
mock-mo’desty has come and undoubtedly it
has run to excess. Sex is discussed with
almost as little reserve as fashion, and the
rights and the wrongs of . the question are
getting badly mixed up. The characters in
our sex novels are just as neurotic and men-
tally ill-conditioned as those of the prune-
and-pnsm period. Many of the writers of
these productions are women—emancipated
women I suppose they would call themselves
—but the characters they depict have the
moral sense of rabbits. They teach that
adultery is the normal condition of married
life, and gratification of sex passion the
main prepossession of human existence The
film-makers proceed on the same assump-
tions*. Our young people are the chief patrons
of this class of literature and art; and we
see the results in the papers every day.
Lex : The bridging of the gulf between
the sexes is mainly responsible for the
troubles to which previous contributors have
referred. At work and at play the female
is alongside the male, and there are few reti-
cences between them. The girls think they
know as much as the men and have nothin"
to fear. The moment comes when they are
liable to find that they have something to
fear: passions have been aroused and the
physically-weaker woman is “gone a mil-
lion”—as one of them, caught in just such
circumstances, recently described it to me.
“Ramornie” : “Marko’s” suggestion that
the indelicate (to say the least of it) cloth-
ing of young women is responsible for the
wave -of outrages might be more acceptable
if there was not simultaneously a wave of
other crimes of violence which can scarcely
be related to short skirts. Is it not much
more likely to be all due to a single cause
and that simply bad citizenship? And bad
•citizenship is little more than a disregard for
the law. Regard for the law can be procured
in two ways—either by promoting affection
for it or by inculcating fear of breaking it.
There is overwhelming evidence that the
former plan has broken down ; it is the busi-
ness of magistrates and Judges to try the
other. Parliaments are not half so much to
blame as Benches, which tfery rarely impose
the maximum penalties.
* * * *
“Gad” : The wave of sexual criminality
may be due to the suggestive condition in
which women appear in public nowadays
and to the influence of the pictures; but
both these causes are the result of some-
thing more remote —the supine attitude of
parents. All this rot about the lash is just
an outcropping of mob sentiment. There is
need for the lash, of course. But it should
be reintroduced into homes, and not into
gaol. There is no home life in 90 per cent,
of the roofed-in places of the city. That
is the trouble. The father is away at the
dogs, and mother (with her face painted,
too), is away at the “fillums”! It is com-
monly the case, when sexual outrages are
reported, that the information shows that
the victim accepted a lift in a car from a
complete stranger. It’s the girl that wants
the lash in that case. But she wants it
before these things happen. She wants it
when she’s daubing the paint on her face.
And she wants to be taken out of the office
or the factory where she' works and be taught
to do something useful in her own home.
This flooding of offices and factories under
the guise of being “independent” is under-
mining the respect that men formerly had
for women. It has nothing really to do with
their clothes. The men are much the same
as they ever were. They always pursued
the female. Let the women get back to the
places where they belong—to their own. homes
—and things will right themselves. The pre-
sent generation is in desperate straits owing
to an entire lack of home life. But what
ori earth will be. the plight of the next genera-
tion, the offspring of these painted hussies?
What prospect of a home life have tliev
got?
* * * *
“Caret,” : “Marito” would make woman
bear all the blame. With this chivalrous in-
tent, lie selects woman’s dress, and particu-
larly the short skirt, for his special con-
demnation. The short skirt is far more
comfortable, sensible and hygienic than the
trailing garment that impeded free movement
and was a real source of danger to the
wearer when alighting from a public con-
veyance. I cannot believe that, because
women have adopted this sensible fashion,
the “male of to-day is prone to think that all
women were always essentially immoral”—
indeed, the statement connotes such a degree
of masculine pruriency that any decent man
would inevitably resent it. He makes a
slight reference to the cinema, but overlooks
the fact that men as well as women act in
those scenes that are unpleasantly suggestive,
and forgets also that men direct and produce
the films. I would remind him, too, that
the many plays written “for Smut’s sweet
sake” and produced in the theatres recently
were written by men, produced and directed
by men. And what of the prostitution of
journalism? I have no personal knowledge
of a certain paper with an undesirable repu-
tation, but knowing that it was recently
successfully prosecuted for obscenity I was
sick to the soul to see two boys of 10 or
11 absorbedly poring over its pages. “It
were better for him that a millstone were
hanged about his neck, and he cast into the
sea than that he. should offend one of these
little ones.” I)espite “Marko’s” arraignment
of woman, it is incontrovertible that she has
more than sufficient grounds for her “Tu
quoque!” Yet. it is a sorry attitude, this
of mutual recrimination. Men and women
should be at one—must be at one—in the
matter of seeking a remedy. That which
M arko” suggests, and which is in essence
that the degenerates of both sexes be licensed
to herd together and work out their own
damnation, induces mental and spiritual
nausea. Eradication of the cause and not
pandering to the effect is what is required.
WHAT WOULD WAR BE LIKE NOW?
[The writer is a military officer of high rank
and very wide experience.]
For some time after the Great War the
army of Britain was busy clearing up and
sorting itself out; but in the last few
years it has been able to make experiments
and try to find out what form the fighting
in the future is likely to take. Two re-
volutionary changes have been made. First,
a mechanised force was formed and sent on
manoeuvres. There had previously been
experiments with forces that were largely
mechanised, and the chief discovery made
from the trials with them was that “the
horse must be eliminated from such
columns.” So the mechanised column, with-
out any horses, was formed. Hitherto it has
been a maxim that the winner of a battle
was the infantry; the other arms were aux-
iliary. Now a change has been made, and
the Field Service Regulations of the Army
place the tank battalion as the battle-
winner. In the Great War tanks were too
few and too inefficient to make very much
impression, but from the moment they
came on the scene it was only a question
of time for the system of elaborate trenches
protected by acres of barbed-wire to become
untenable. That time has now arrived, and
it may .be accepted that trench warfare, as
known in France, is gone for good. Barbed-
wire has nearly gone also; but, like the
horse, there is still a use foi a certain
amount of it.
. In its simplest form the tank is a man
m armor who can move in any direction
across country at a speed of certainly 15
miles an hour. He can only be stopped by a
serious obstacle such as a river, a swamp,
thick timber, a heavy armor-oiercine bullet
or a shell. Artificial obstacles must be sub-
stantially made if they are going to hold
him up. It will be extremely difficult for
artillery to get a direct hit on a tank; it is
a small target, and if under fire will be
moving rapidly and varying its direction to
dodge shells. The only safe antidote to a
tank is another tank with a gun that can
fire a shell to pierce its opponent. In
many ways tanks are like ships—so much
so that the army has gone to the navy for
advice on the best way to handle them,
the small, active fellows being equivalent to
destroyers and the larger ones to cruisers
and battleships.
With the trench line gone the fighting
zone becomes an area sprinkled with strong
points, entrenched camps and fortresses.
The infantry, artillery, etc., protected by
tanks, will manoeuvre about, in between; but
the only place where one will be safe from
raids by fast tanks and armored cars will
be in one of the entrenched camps.
Mechanised columns when halted for the
night will form “laager,” a word that brings
back memories of the South African War.
Another weapon that was just, appearing
in the Great War is smoke. To-day all
armies regard it with favor, and some hold
that it is an essential weapon in an attack
by tanks. Under cover of smoke tanks may
be able to get within 400 yards of the
enemy before they are seen, and if the
ground is favorable they can cover that
400 yards in about 60 seconds.
I have said nothing about the Air Force,
but it will be there as an adjunct. Its part
has not been forgotten. I will only say
that the men in the air found it difficult to
locate and follow the movements of the
mechanised column in enclosed country.
This was contrary to expectation, and if
future experiments confirm this the mechan-
ised army will have an unexpected advan-
tage.
To sum up, a war to-day would be a
war of movement, more like naval warfare
with its fortified harbors and its fleets going
cut to fight and coming home to refit and
repair. There would be constant raids into
back areas, wherever there was a chance of
mopping up any place of importance such
as corps headquarters or an aerodrome or a
town where there were factories turning out
war material—and most things are war
material these days. Raids would be with or
without poison gas. All this would be pretty
complicated, and everything points to the
necessity for highly-trained regular soldiers.
It is most likely that the pendulum has
begun to swing back again, and that, instead
of large masses of men who could be quickly
trained sufficiently to take their places in
the firing line, we shall see small bodies
of highly-trained men. Thus those who
write about, the requirements of modern
war must bear in mind that two revolu-
tionary changes have taken place since
1918—(1) the displacement of infantry from
pride of place by tanks, and (2) the
mechanisation of complete portions of the
army; and it is not yet known what
the effect of these will be. Also we must
forget all about the trench system, and
the rest camps in the back areas. To be
safe from high-speed raiding tanks you must
get. inside a fortified place, and it will be
easily located from the air and bombed
and searched for by long-range guns.
When we were trekking about South
Africa on half rations chasing De Wet we
did not know how well off we were.
R.H.V.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Law and the Unions.
A curious commentary on the working of
the national mind is contained in the judg-
ment of the High Cou: t on an appeal by
certain trades-union officials in Brisbane,
who had been convicted of attempting to
boycott a lighthouse steamer. The Court
lays it down that the laws of the land are
superior to the rules of any union. It
might have added that they also take pre-
cedence over the rules of an egg-laying
competition or a pak-a-pu lottery. ,
Twenty years ago, when the High Court
was, as it were, in its swaddling clothes, it
would not have dreamed of asserting so
elementary a proposition in law. But times
have changed. A new type of Labor leader
has arisen whose doctrine is that the pro-
letariat—which means the members of his
own particular branch, union or federation
—has sovereign powers, and that any inter-
ference with those powers by the Govern-
ment is an act of tyranny. Their preach-
ing, in public and in private, has been that
any Government exercises authority over
them and their followers only so long as it
panders to the latest whim of the loudest
yawpers.
Indeed, under the rules of many unions,
members who disobey the rules or the
officers, even in order to obey the law of
the land, may be fined or expelled from
membership. That is regarded as a quite
legitimate means of protecting working-
class interests and safeguarding “loyalty”
and “solidarity.” The principle might be
extended. A civilised State, democratically
governed, is a collection of people whose
rock-bottom basis of association must be
a consent to be governed by its own repre-
sentatives. If there are members of the
community who hold it as an article of
faith that democratic government is wrong
and that they must oppose it in principle
and practice, their creed may be tolerated
and they may be allowed to air their views,
but they should not be allowed to vote. If


Jones applies for membership in the Bulla-
>rolla Bowling Club, prefacing his applica-
frank *i». that to mu,
obiect in life is to bust up the club, ne
doesn’t expect— unless he is a particularly
optimistic lunatic-to find a seconder for
his nomination. The Commomvcalth and
States of Australia are less peinicketty.
They not only admit such iconoclasts to
enfranchised citizenship but allow them to
sit in the Parliaments they are striving to
overthrow.
Our Shameful Divorce Laws.
The urgent need for a uniform Federal law
on divorce has been once more demon-
strated at Melbourne, where a Judge of the
Supreme Court has found himself unable
to grant a woman’s petition lor a divoicc,
though he was satisfied that the husband
had been guilty of repeated acts of mis-
conduct-a ground for divorce under the
Victorian law. His reason for refusing to
grant the petitioner the relief she sought
was that she had not acquired a Victorian
domicile. . , .
The parties were married in South Aus-
tralia. Shortly after the marriage the
husband got a position in the Victorian
Police Force, and they crossed over to Mel-
bourne in 1925, both living there till the
date of the case. In the course of his
evidence the husband stated in effect that
when he came to Melbourne he had had no
intention of remaining, there, and the Judge
found himself constrained to hold, therefore,
that the man retained his South Australian
domicile. Consequently, as the wife s domi-
cile is the same as that of her husband,
her domicile remains South Australia also.
And for purposes of divorce, South Aus. is,
so far as Victorian Courts are concerned, a
foreign State. . . A . , ,
The position is absurd and intolerable.
It means that the wife is put to the vain
expense of this Melbourne trial, and hei
only chance of obtaining the relief that is
her right is to go to the further and greater
expense and inconvenience of bringing a
fresh suit in South Australia. And even
then she has no certainty that the S. Aus-
tralian Court will not hold that she has
acquired a Victorian domicile, and that con-
sequently they are unable to give her relief.
And so she may be tied indefinitely to a
man from whom she is entitled, morally at
all events, to be freed.
The Federal Parliament has power, under
the Constitution, to remedy this state of
affairs, and successive Governments have
promised to do so. But the matter is
shelved indefinitely in favor of unimportant
but thoroughly contentious party business.
Even if a comprehensive uniform divorce
law for the Commonwealth be beyond the
capacity of Federal legislators, surely it is
not too much to ask at least for a short
Act creating a single Australian domicile
and ridding us of the reproach of cases
like the one here cited.
-t ♦
The Ambition to Be an Alderman.
Unflagging energy is being shown in the
efforts to capture the municipal councils
of N. S. Wales for Labor at the ensuing
elections, it being apparently hoped that
the system which produced the late Sydney
City Council may be capable of doing good
work elsewhere.
Glebe, a member of the metropolitan
group, is looked upon as a promising field.
Here there' were 29 applicants for the 12
Labor nominations; the competition was
so keen, that some candidates had quite
an expensive flock of motor-cars tearing
round, and making the week-end dangerous
in the search for supporters. The count-
ing of votes and the wrangling over votes
went on all through one night, and was
still progressing at 12 o’clock next night.
Even at that solemn hour women, supposed
to be Red and some of them carrying Red
babies, stood around awaiting results.
It is all intensely mysterious, for an aider-
man receives no pay except a modest
amount when he is mayor, which may never
happen. He loses the chance of tendering
for municipal contracts. There is nothing to
prohibit him misusing his position by do-
ing favors (gratis) for his friends, but there
is little or nothing in having gratis or
honorary friends merely that they may re-
elect a man to a thankless job of honorary
toil. The alderman’s position carries neither
title, uniform, cocked hat, sword nor armor-
ial bearings, and in some places it brings
with it a minimum of respect and a maxi-
mum of suspicion. If a municipal politi-
cian owns considerable property in the
locality, he may pay himself a little in a
way which isn’t considered absolutely dis-
graceful by seeing that his streets are kept
in good repair; but some of the fiercest of
would-be aldermen hang on to a bare quali-
fication by sitting in some capacity or joint
capacity in some other people’s office. As
a means of spreading the alderman’s poli-
tical faith the job is less promising than
Sunday oratory in the parks, and as a
highway to Parliament it is far inferior to
the secretaryship of a trades union, unless
the union is an unprogressive affair like the
Hebrew Bricklayers.
A general inquiry is called for as to why
the demand for aldermanic seats is so in-
tense in certain places, and re the bearing,
if any, of the municipal franchise on the
matter.
♦
Farms Follow Factories.
Westralia’s new loan-settlement scheme is
now mentioned as likely to cost ten million
pounds instead of eight, and it will probably
expand as it goes on. In this glowing and
enlarged phase it is reckoned that 600
miles of new railway and 6000 miles of new
road will be wanted at an early date.
Prime Minister Bruce went over to West-
ralia to give the project his blessing, and
for general political purposes. He explained
that the British Government is in an emi-
gration scheme for the settlement of super-
fluous Britons in the Dominions at the rate
of one for every £75 advanced up to
£34,000,000, but that Britain doesn’t really
find the money at all. If the Commonwealth
takes advantage of the offer for the whole
or any part of a settlement project it has
to find the loans itself. The advantage
offered is that the Old Man will provide a
material part of the interest for a number
of years. This implies that if things are
to be done on anything like the scale talked
of, the Commonwealth is in for a vast jag
of loan-raising. The Prime Minister added
that when he took office he found three
land-settlement methods in working order,
and that the cost of settling a family under
them varied from £lOOO to £2500. So, unless
there is an impossible reduction of cost,
the much-advertised British offer of £75
for each member of a family looks like a
man-trap and a spring-gun.
Westralia had last year 1718 fewer em-
ployees in its factories than it had the year
before. The very latest available figures
showed the year’s imports to be about £4B
per inhabitant, which is some £2O more than
the bad Australian record. In an ordinary
year it spends the maximum of loan money
in proportion to population in providing
some sort of work for its people. If the
Prime Minister were to think out some way
of helping Westralia to develop manufac-
tures he would be much better employed
than in cheering it and Australia in general
along the muddy road to the pawnshop,
where they have been much too often
THE CHIEF
“ARRANGEMENT.”
“Mr. Theodore, campaign
organiser for the Federal Labor
party, has his. arrangeinents
well in hand."
LANDLORD THEODORE:
“Here, Sovictski, don’t
let me see you drink-
ing with Bill Australia
again! You're bitter
enemies, remember —
till after election day,”
already. In a fast-growing and well-dif-
fused industrial community, settlement
would take care of itself in a surprising
fashion with decent legislation and no cash
encouragement at all.
— 4 ♦
The Speck’s Latest Little Experiment.
Tasmania is a wonderful little atom for
making political experiments; and for that
reason it is' better worth watching than
many a fragment of land and water 10
times its size. Its latest has to do with the
payment of its few members of Parliament.
Labor, Premier Lyons fathered an in-
crease of members’ salaries a few months
before the elections. For years past the
Labor platform had declared that £5OO p.a.
was a fair thing. The old rate was £3OO,
for members of both Houses. The Oppo-
sition resisted the proposed change, so a
compromise was adopted—For the Leg.
Council: Hobart and Buckingham elector-
ates, £370; Cambridge, Derwent, Huon and
Pembroke, £420; Launceston, Macquarie,
Tamar and Westmoreland, £450; Mersey,
Russell and South Esk, £470; Gordon, £5OO.
For the Assembly: Denison (Hobart), £400;
Franklin, £450; Bass and Wilmot, £480;
Gordon, £5OO. The proposal as first put
through the Assembly was for a flat rate
of £5OO for members of that Chamber, but
the Leg. Council shied. A Joint Committee
was set up, and it ultimately agreed to recom-
mend to both Houses the differential rates
mentioned, and the Bill was squeezed
through. The sliding scale was based on the
distance between electorate and Parliament
House.
In theory there is a lot to be said for
the new scheme. From several points of
view it is advisable to encourage members
to live among their constituents—especially
if they are country constituents. But in
practice things are found not to work out
quite as they should. For example, all six
Franklin Assemblymen reside as close to
Parliament House as do the six Denison
(Hobart) members. Again, country mem-
bers who actually live at a distance bom
the seat of Government have the plea that
they are compelled to “keep two h ol * l ®®
during the session; but it is conceivable that
a metropolitan member may have to help
to keep several homes all the year round
he certainly has more calls and callers than
his country colleagues have.
Incidentally, Tas. Parliamentary salaries
are strictly nett. Members do not get even
a stamps allowance or tram fares —nothing
but the railway pass by way of perks.
+
The Increasing Importance of the
Diggers’ League.
The Returned Soldiers’ and Sailors’ League
js very much in the public eye these days.
While it may never be the force that the
G.A.R. was in the United States from the
sixties to the nineties of the last century
—unlike Grant’s veterans, its members are
not obliged to live alongside the old enemy
and counter his efforts to regain in politics
what he lost in battle—its influence is
steadily increasing, and a good thing, too.
For years after the last shot was fired
the Digger was too weary of the war and
too busy with the struggle for a crust to
bother much about the League. Now that
he has settled down he thinks more and
more of the old mate and the old battalion
and division and the great days of the
A.I.F. He knows of cases in which men
who were good soldiers are suffering un-
merited hardships because politicians have
blundered and bureaucrats are unsympath-
etic, and he has only too much reason to
believe that many others are in the same
plight. So he feels the need of supporting
the body which strives to secure a square
deal for the veterans of the A.I.F. and to
preserve its spirit and traditions; and thus
the League gains in numbers and moral
force.
The Brupages confessed the R.S.L.’s
growing power when they agreed to appoint
an independent appeals board in respect of
military pensions. Their attitude for many
months had been that there was no neces-
sity for an appeals board since Neville
Howse, the Minister of Repatriation, acted
in that capacity. The Repatriation Com-
mission’s report for 1927 shows that 58,993
pensions were reviewed during the year, 3763
were cancelled or discontinued and 2518
claims were rejected. Presumably all the
rejected applicants, most of the men in the
“cancelled” or “discontinued” category and
portion of those in the “reviewed” section
were dissatisfied. The impossibility of one
man dealing with so many thousands of
cases should have been obvious even to the
Brupages, but it wasn’t until they dis-
covered that the League would be a most
unpleasant body to quarrel with that they
gave way.
4
A Check on Tax-(lodgers.
The Americans introduced a system of
publishing the amounts of income-tax
received from wealthy citizens. They have
found it useful, and it might be useful if
it were adopted in the Commonwealth, too.
Publication of an annual return showing
the income declared and the taxes paid by
persons receiving, say, £3OOO p.a. and up-
wards would be a wholesome check on
cheats like the Abrahams. It would prob-
ably prevent tax-dodging in many cases.
The Commonwealth income-tax was im-
posed for war-debt and war-pensions pur-
poses. Australia has a right to know
whether Wealth is paying its fair share to-
wards the cost of the war and the support
of those whose lives were wrecked in it and
those whose breadwinners fell. The Abra-
hams scandal has engendered grave doubts,
and the Federal Commissioner himself con-
fesses, in presenting what he delicately
calls a list of “questionable returns,” that
the departmental machinery for the pre-
vention and detection of fraud is inadequate.
Details of income and taxes paid are already
given to the world by joint-stock companies
—honest companies, at any rate. About a
quarter of a million citizens —Government
employees—even have their salaries and
wages disclosed to all and sundry, and bear
the revelation with fortitude.
The proposed compilation would be valu-
able to members of Parliament, who, when
imposing taxes, work very much in the dark.
It might lead to a beneficial redistribution
of taxation if it showed that any particular
class—bookmakers, for example—were pay-
ing a mere trifle of the riches they extract
from the country.
♦
A Peanut Policy.
Though Papua and New Guinea are Aus-
tralian colonies, they are regarded for the
most part as alien lands, especially in the
matter of tariff duties imposed on their
products. The handicap was in some mea-
sure relieved when Australian administrators
realised that a heavy duty on copra, which
is not produced in Australia, served no good
purpose in protecting the Australian from
the competition of cheap native labor. In
spite of this and other indulgences, the
handicap was maintained against products
common to Australia and its territories.
Some of the defects of this outlook are
pointed out in a report by the Director
of Agriculture for Mandated New Guinea.
It is necessary for cocoanut planters to cul-
tivate subsidiary crops, for the double pur-
pose of keeping the ground free from weeds
and to provide themselves with a living
during the long interval between planting
and bearing. The customary crops are
maize and peanuts, both in good demand
in Australia. But both are grown in Aus-
tralia, Queensland supporting a small pea-
nut industry, while maize crops are
common to practically every State. As a
consequence, the tariff imposed by the Aus-
tralian Government on New Guinea maize
and peanuts makes their growing by New
Guinea planters profitless. This
seriously handicaps copra pro-
duction, which is of vital im-
portance to the Mandated
Territory.
The anxiety for the interests
of the Australian producer
would be more understandable
if it were less inconsistent. At
present large quantities of pea-
nuts are imported from Japan,
where they are grown under
conditions which, apparently,
render their introduction pro-
fitable, in spite of the tariff.
Also the importation of maize,
in the words of the “Official Year Book of
Australia,” has amounted to “an average
of more than 1,000,000 bushels per annum
during the past decade, the bulk of the
supplies being furnished by South Africa.”
This maize is entirely grown by native
labor, and at a rate so cheap that it also
is able to undersell the Australian product
in its own markets, tariff or no tariff. The
purchase money for these articles does not
benefit Australia, since it goes to quarters
beyond this country’s influence or juris-
diction.
If we must import cheap native-grown
produce, it would seem a great deal more
sensible to do it from our own dependencies,
from which the cash we paid would come
back to us in various ways. Under present
conditions we are putting a burden on our
own foster children while helping to support
those of other people.
4
An interesting financial item in connection
with the Queensland Government’s disas-
trous entry into the pastoral industry some
years ago was revealed in the State Assem-
bly the other day. Minister for Labor
Gledson told an inquirer that the Gov-
ernment had sold one of the State stations
in 1927 to the original vendors, Field and
Vickery, for £120,000. The Government
had purchased the run in 1919 for £156,000,
and had added to it certain grazing home-
steads, for which £5OOO had been paid in
the same year, making a total of £161,000
paid for the holding sold later for £36,000
less. And it was admitted that delivery
to the repurchaser was not to be made until
after a bangtail muster, “when seasonable
conditions permitted.” Which means that
the State will carry, the run until improved
conditions present the buyers with a few
hundred more stock than they would have
paid for had delivery been made on the
nail.
4
It may not be as certain as some Aus-
tralian papers seem to think that it does
not matter to us whether a Republican or a
Democrat is elected President of the United
States. The Democratic party is pledged
to honor Uncle’s promise to grant indepen-
dence to the Filipino. The Republicans
are likewise pledged; but President Coolidge
lately declared that the gift would be
reserved for a future date and would be
hedged about with conditions. If the Fili-
pino is given his independence he will have
to maintain an army and navy big enough
to hold it. Otherwise he will fall into the
hands of a new master, like the Formosan,
his next-door neighbor. Being very rich and
very important strategically, the Philippines
would probably cause a dust-up involving
the whole of the Pacific.


20
for
1/6
I
£.500
in Cash Prizes
State Expressettes” is a fascinating Competition with
handsome prizes for the winners. See daily papers for
full particulars of this interesting Competition. Closing
date, September 8.
Send your entries without delay.
StQTE fxPRjESS
333
CIGARETTES
777
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., London.
Sc 1 ?®!
s£o4r»,
20
for
1/6
POLITICAL
POINTS
General Glasgow*
Minister for Defence,
is in Europe, and ap-
parently i s being well
primed with all the
new ideas in mechani-
sing the army. It is
to be hoped somebody
will whisper into his
ear, or that he will
roar into his own,
that Australia isn’t
Europe, and that
methods which may be
demanded by one, with
vaslt unrailwayed and
unpeopled areas, aren’t
exactly the ones that
suit the other. And
apart from railways,
Australia’s travelling
machines, warlike and
other, must always be
untrustworthy so long
as our supplies of
motor-spirit have to
be carried across wide
oceans.
Gen. Clasgow.
Haranguing the convention of “the Queens-
land Country and Progressive National
party,” the Prime Minister said that this
country was “going to need a great deal of
borrowed money in future.” He explained
that it would be necessary to pile up new
liabilities abroad because if Australia lived
on its own splendid natural resources it
wouldn’t have any resources; in fact, “that
would be the end of private individuals get-
ting the money they want for their own
businesses.” So when private people can’t
get the money they want for tlieir own
businesses the presumption is that private
people will burst, and if they can’t get
the money except by the aid of external loans
it almost looks as if they were burst already.
The emergency has found Bruce wanting on
a large scale.
Westralian Labor has undertaken to intro-
duce a redistribuition-of-seats measure this
session. Any honest scheme of redistribu-
tion must deprive it of several pocket
boroughs, and opponents are therefore in-
sinuating that the Government is not in
earnest. The Bulletin hopes that the
Government will confound these opponents
and erase the one bad blot on its useful
record. In electoral matters, as in others,
honesty is the best policy in the long run.
It may seem otherwise in Queensland, but
even there the gross manipulation of State
electorates has been a factor in the crush-
ing defeats of Federal Labor.
If N.S.W. goes Dry and pays compensation
out of an immense loan, there will always
be the possibility that a Government like
the late Tin-Hare Ministry might make it
legally Wet again, in which case the com-
pensation would be so much loss. Maoriland
is divided into 68 licensing districts, of which
12 went Dry. A district, once Dry* can only
Wet itself by a poll at whicii three-fifths
of the votes registered are anti-Prohibition.
At last poll one of the 12 Dry districts went
Wet —the first case on record. But the
three-fifths majority proviso, or even the
whole Dry business, could be abolished by Act
of Parliament. Maoriland isn’t in the least
likely to do that, but Maoriland is not N. S.
Wales.
The Queensland Reds have another griev-
Mick Kirwan.
ance against the Mc-
Cormack Government.
Speaking at a com-
mercia] travellers'
swarry, Mick Ivirwan,
Minister for Works,
admitted that the
effect of strikes was
bad, and gave his
blessing to “the move'
ment on the part of
the workers and the
employers to come to-
gether.’’ This is re-
garded as flat repudia-
tion of “the class war,”
and the Muscovites
threaten to make it
hot for Michael at the
next election. Still, as
the offender’s majority
for Brisbane is gener-
ally in the neighbor-
hood of 1000 (there
are about 5500 elec-
tors), he has no occa-
sion to worry.
Subjection to the Trades Hall, mishand-
ling of soldier-settlement, mischievous
meddling in other departments, Police
and Railways especially, and harsh in-
terpretation of the country ’bus law
were the principal counts in McPherson’s
indictment of the Hogan Government,
delivered by way of a no-confidence motion
in Vic. Assembly. Hogan at first treated
the challenge contemptuously, declining to
adjourn the House, but after two days’ de-
bate, _ when rejection of the motion was
certain, the Labor Premier consented to an
adjournment—some members wanted to get
away for the week-end. The whole thing
was only pyrotechnics, and not brilliant at
that.
The South Aus. Railway Department has
been offered Tasmanian coal at “an esti-
mated cost” of 315., 9d. per ton (10s. 9d. p.t.
less than the price of Newcastle-Maitland
coal), this low figure being arrived at because
the island’s railways, which are also very
broke, will carry the fuel to the seaboard at
a reduced rate, and go a little broker. The
offer is tempting, but it isn’t one to be
rushed at in haste till there is more certainty
about getting the commodity across. Tas-
mania isn’t a high-wage State, and its unions
aren’t especially “militant” (in the last
quarter .of 1927 they lost only £49 in wages,
through one dispute which lasted a few
days), so it isn’t very popular in the best
Bolshevik circles.
The Russian Government is floating an-
other more-or-less-compulsory domestic “lot-
tery” loan for £50,000,000. The one bright
characteristic of the Soviet push is that it
doesn’t borrow externally—because no ex-
ternal person is fool enough to lend.
By adding to the revenue £369,000 derived
from special taxes on motorists and ear-
marked for road construction, and exclud-
ing payments for road construction from the
expenditure, Maoriland’s Finance Minister
Downie Stewart has produced a surplus of
6179,000. Morose critics protest that there
was a deficit of £190,000. The national debt
lias mounted to £251,000,000, and the annual
interest bill is getting within coo-ee of
£10,000,000, while the railways continue to
lose money—£29l,ooo last year. Nevertheless,
Downie Stewart, a cheery soul, says that
increasing prosperity should enable reduc-
tions of taxation to be made in the near
future.”
The Vic. Hogan Ministry got to work
early to make hard the way of the swindling
agent, and the House of Property expressed
its dislike of Labor Ministries in the usual
way by throwing the measure out. For
want of a worse excuse it said that the “busi-
ness fraud and tlie “estate” sham should be
dealt with separately. They are now being
oealt with separately, but possibly the luck
will be no better. In the course of debate
Attorney-General Slater mentioned an agent
who had been five different firms, one of them
a private company, at five different addresses
in about as many months.
The consequences of hasty legislation of
the philanthropic sort were illustrated in a
recent case in Melbourne under the Hogan
Government’s Moratorium Act. A travelling
agent, of Kyneton, got behind in his pay-
ments on a t.-p. motor-car and the vendor
seized it. The Court found that the Mora-
torium Act, designed to help drought-stricken
areas m the Mallee, covered the case. Kyne-
ton is 53 miles from Melbourne; the Mallee
is approximately 200.
A brighter day is dawning for some of
the Westralian outports. Geraldton is get-
ting increasing quantities of grain from the
neighboring _ wheat province and wool from
the Murchison, and now superphosphate
works estimated to cost £150,000 are to be
established there. Hitherto the manufacture
of super, lias been confined to the metropolis,
but congestion on the railways when time is
precious, combined with the growing import-
ance of the Geraldton wheat country, has
made a change of policy necessary. Esper-
anee is also experiencing a revival with the
coming of the railway which was refused it
for 30 years in the interest of Fremantle
and with the opening up of the salmon-gum
and mallee lands to the north and north-
west.
Great Kritain will have an election in
1929, and Ramsay MacDonald expresses
great hopes of success, though he seems
rather short of a programme. He blames
Baldwin and his troop for having “done
nothing towards utilising the country’s natu-
ral _ resources,” which sounds as if it was
copied from any Australian Opposition mani-
festo. But a British Government can’t float
loans abroad and build railways with the
money, for there is no demand for more rail-
ways ; and it can’t throw open the public
lands, for there are practically none to
throw. The familiar idea of promoting settle-
™®nt seems out of gear, as England and
\Yales have 649 persons per square mile
already. And the notion of encouraging local
manufactures is abhorrent to Rammy.
“Fair Renit” laws still exist in Queens-
land and N. S. Wales, though other States
have abolished them and show no desire to
have any more. The Bavin Ministry finds
it necessary to patch or do something with
the Ma State’s statute, but finds a divinely
inspired patch hard to compose. Possibly
it would be best to abolish the statute, and
devote time and thought to the manufacture
of a substitute. It might prove that there
is really no need for a substitute, which
would save much trouble.
The Westralian Government’s intimation
to the south-west group settlers that it won’t
Jimmy Mitchell.
pay them wages any
longer has started a
controversy, in the
course of which ex-
Premier Jimmy Mit-
chell has come in for
hard knock s. The
Country party’s organ
accuses Jimmy of hav-
ing launched the group
settlements wi t h o u t
consulting the execu-
tive of the party, with
which he was then
allied, of having mud-
dled the scheme into
the ground and, inci-
dentally, “ruined the
Country party”—•
although the Cockics,
it seems, have risen
from the ruins. Mit-
chell has not bothered to answer these asper-
sions. He rarely replies to his critics. If
they get too warm in the House he spreads
a newspaper—preferably a hostile news-
paper—over his beaming countenance and
goes to sleep.
Ramsay MacDonald says that when his
party comes to power over the mangled debris
of Conservatism it will resume friendly rela-
tions with Russia. But, though imitation is
the sincerest flattery, he doesn’t suggest re-
lieving the financial pressure by repudiating
Britain’s debt to the United States, as Russia
did not only in the case of that country but
the world generally. And it is doubtful if
the nation has acquired any new affection
for Sovietsky and Co. since it cast out Mac-
Donald and Lloyd George in 1924.
A report by Honorary Minister Ryan on
some of the slums of Sydney is dismal
reading. Sydney is the most populous metro-
politan area in Australia, yet it is smaller
than Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide. If
Kuring-gai is subtracted it is smaller than
Perth. So though it is pretty good in front
it has become dreadfully mixed at the back.
Thirteen years of Fair Rents have blocked
the building of houses for letting purposes,
and the bathless and breathless condition of
many homes is evidence that they date far
back. And it is no good to man or lower
animal if the statute fixes the rent for five
rooms and a kitchen at 30s. per week and
owing to the artificial scarcity of homes
the lucky tenant can sublet single rooms to
a family apiece at 255. When the law allows
the sub-tenant to be charged any exorbitant
figure, and the boss-tenant can’t be ejected,
and the place can’t be rebuilt in conse-
quence, the law seems to have done every-
thing it wasn’t intended to do.
State Opposition-leader Hill, whose heart
is bigger than his head, brought up the sub-
Lionel Hill.
ject of the unem-
ployed in the S.
Aus. Assembly be-
fore he fell ill, and
said it was the
duty of the Gov-
ernment to find
work for them. If
the principle i 3
sound it should
apply to quill-
drivers and so forth
as well as manual
laborers; it should
apply indeed to
every South Aus-
tralian who at any
time finds himself
out of a job. And
that would be
dashed bad for the
man, in the long
run, as well as the
State. Really, a lot
of unemployment,
along with other
troubles, is trace-
able to the efforts of Governments to do for
people what they ought to do for themselves.
Vic. Electricity Commission, of which
Monash is chairman, made a profit of £32,801
for 1927-28 on a revenue of £1,238,179; the
quantity of energy sold was 30 p.c. greater
than in the previous year. So at last the
concern is able to stand without any buttress-
ing. It is not the policy, Mon ash explains,
to make large. profits, but rather to give
“service at cost.”
Vic. Attorney-General Slater had to ex-
plain away a list of 57 remissions of sen-
tences and a lon& tale of remissions of fines
when the return called for by the Opposition
Mas tabled the other day. He pointed out
that in only a few cases were remissions
made without the gaol superintendent’s re-
commendation, but did not add that the initi-
ative came from outside persons, such as
politicians, whose motives might or might
not be above suspicion. Anyhow, there is
already a system for extending mercy in
suitable cases before the prisoner is jugged.
Dozens benefit by it every month. It is as
hard to get a criminal under lock and key
nowadays as it is easy to get him out.
A plentiful supply of fervor has been
aroused in Maoriland by the proposal to
put some check on the reproduction of
lunatics, semi-lunatics and sexual perverts.
The idea isn’t so new as is commonly sup-
posed. A good many of the United 'States
have authorised compulsory sterilisation
during the last 20 years for habitual crimi-
nals, as well as perverts and those uho
are a shingle, or possibly a whole roof,
short. A brief and unsatisfactory notice in
a cyclopaedia says that “the results have not
answered expectations.” Possibly there is
an objection to operating on people with
money.
When Labor-member Jackson presented
the Victorian Assembly with a bill to regu-
late cash orders he put enough into it to
show .that there was plenty of room for re-
gulation. He proposed that persons who
issue cash orders should be licensed; that
the seductive bits of paper must not be
hawked from door to door; and that they
must not be sold to. married women without
the consent of their husbands, or to girls
under 21 without the consent of their
parents. Failure to pay an instalment is
not to lead to immediate seizure of the con-
tents of the house. Some margin of time
must be allowed, and then the bailiff must
only annex, in satisfaction of the order,
such goods as were bought with it. If this
proviso ever becomes law it should be the
death-knell of the system ; the idea of being
able to take only the partly-worn bits of
clothes which weren’t worth their face value
when new is absolutely harrowing.
What is called the Luminous Egg Society
has broken out in the piece of China which
was “liberated” by the Communists. It is
an organisation of elderly peasants who have
found life so insupportable that they have
taken to brigandage. As it is the local
official custom to execute all relatives of
proved bandits, the Incandescent Hen-fruit
Club before going on active brigand ser-
vice methodically kills all its aged rela-
tives and children and burns the houses
with the bodies inside. Twenty-seven vil-
lages have been so dealt with, the report
states. These events are taking place in
the province where Comrade Borodin was
lately preaching brotherly love.
A TIME FOR EVERYTHING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The date originally selected by Mr. Bruce and
Dr. Page for the general election was November 10,
but on it being pointed out that the Victorian Spring
racing carnival would distract attention, a post-
ponement to November 17 was decided on.”
’Twas the tenth they first picked for Aus-
tralia to say
Whether Bruce and his cobbers in office
shall stay
Or the Laborite mob be handed the job
Of filling their coveted places.
But the question may easily wait for a
week;
On any old Saturday Demos can speak,
But there would be a hash if the polling
should clash
With the tail of the Flemington races.
Could partisans hang upon Theodore’s lips
While their heads were still packed with
selections and tips?
Could students of form be expected to swarm
To talk about tariffs ct alia
When the fleetness of Fiddler and Dot And
Go One
Are debated afresh as each day is begun,
And the. jock who was up on True Blue for
the Cup
Is the man of the hour in Australia?
Can policies, platforms or slogans compete
For the ear of the volatile man in the street
With the prices and deeds of exuberant
steeds.
Their pedigrees, handicaps, ages?
Will Jones be deflected or Brown be enticed
From where chances are ca/ivassed and
fancies are priced
By the sounding tirade of the Scullin bri-
gade
Or the cooing of Bruces and Pages?
Can the words that the craftiest orators wing
Make melody sweet as the noar of the ring
Or the jubilant din which foreshadows a
win
That clicks with the public’s affections?
Stand by till the Carnival’s out of the way,
With its tumult and shouting and fevered
hooray,
Till the Cup from our ken has receded, and
then —
Yes, then we can have the elections?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
A HOPELESS CASE.
“Waiter, we can’t drink this wine! I think you’d better fetch the manager.”
“Wouldn’t be any use, sir. He can’t drink it either.”
“F. Coy” : When the Yanks came into the
war in force they were mostly amateur
fighters like ourselves, but the advance-guard
consisted almost entirely of soldiers from
West Point. I met a small group of these on
a leave boat in May, 1917, just returning
apparently from a conference in France.
They sat together on the deck and loudly
aired their views about what the constitution
of the Division should be. Over and over
again one heard, “I told them this,” “I told
them that,” but never a word of what
our people had told them. What broke our
small party up was a voice raised above all
the others declaring: “And I told them
what Grant did at Gettysburg.'’ One of our
Colonels went over to the group and sug-
gested, with ironical gravity, that they should
lower their voices, as there might be a
spy or two aboard interested to hear what
Grant did at Gettysburg!
❖ $ - $ *
“Clifford Snook”: The rush for the “Jen-
nings Millions,” in which, of course, “a host of
people in Australia and Maoriland” are con-
cerned, has a more palpable basis than usual,
because Bill Jennings did apparently die intes-
tate and leave some considerable property 130
years ago, and the British courts awarded
it to people who can be traced. One lot went
to the Beauchamp family, a
member of which was a Gover-
nor of N.S.W. The Beauchamp
fortune isn’t in dispute, but the
rest of old Bill’s wealth went
to the alleged, but disputed, an-
cestor of the present Earl Howe,
and about Howe there is a row.
It is said that a lady of the
family, having lost her teon,
passed off her maid’s child as a
new-born infant of her own, and
thus diddled a relative or rela-
tives, whose descendants (many
hundreds, and probably some of
them substituted children them-
selves) are now holding meet-
ings. It is difficult to substi-
tute a child, though it has been
done, and difficult to prove sub-
stitution, especially after many
years. An example of the bogus
son appears in the lltli chapter
of the second Book of Kings.
It isn’t to be seriously supposed
that Athaliah, apparently a cap-
able female, was so bad in her
arithmetic ’that she overlooked
one of her grandsons when she
did the general massacre, and
that he was successfully con-
cealed for six years in that
modest edifice, the Temple. So
it is assumed that Jclioash was
a brummy king, and it may be
that the rightful holder of the
throne of’David is now laying
the odds at a Sydney pony meet-
ing. The Jennings millions are
vaguely estimated as between
20 and 60, but that is doubtless
based on the assumption that the
money has been accumulating at
interest ever since the days of
old Bill Jennings. Many a
Domain dosser might be worth
millions if his family had accumulated all
ite revenues at compound interest for 130
years, instead of spending them on tight
beer and loose living.
* * * *
“Lucerne Flea”: The superstitions of
childhood die hard. I was mixing resin
and treacle the other day for a dressing
on the belt of my circular saw, to prevent
it slipping on the pulleys. Two youngsters
on the way home from school saw the resin
and asked for a lump. After handing it over
I asked what they wanted it for. “To rub
on our hands so’s to break old Froggie’s
[the schoolteacher’s] cane,” was the reply.
My mind jumped back 30 years to the time
when I rubbed resin on my bands for a
similar purpose. The only effect I can
remember was that the cane hurt more than
usual. My old dad assures me that the
same specific was in vogue in , his time, and
that the cane never broke. Yet the school
kiddies of to-day still cling to the hoary
fallacy.
* * * *
“Petroff”: A fine feat of grit and heroism
stands to the credit of Newton Barton and
Frank Glazebrook off Yeppoon (Q.). With
a third man, Jack Horton, they were fishing
about a mile from Quo;n Island when a 50ft.
whale rose high out of the sea and crashed
across the launch, smashing it to pieces.
Horton received such injuries that he died
next day. Barton had his shin gashed from
knee to ankle; Glazebrook alone escaped un-
harmed. A dinghy had broken loose and
floated away from the smashed launch, and
while Glazebrook supported the desper-
ately injured Horton, Barton swam through
the shark-infested waters and retrieved it.
Horton was first “floated” into the boat,
which was then bailed by his companions
from the outside, after which Barton, with
a single oar and his belt for a rowlock,
smarted to bring the badly-leaking cr'aft
to Port Clinton, five miles distant, while
OTHERWISE ENGAGED.
ABE: “Yes, I agree with this fellow that girls’ fashions are getting a disgrace.”
JOE: “Yeah, tha’s right; the way they dress, I simply can’t look them in the face.”
Glazebrook bailed his hardest. A launch
picked them up within half a mile of the
port and brought them into Yeppoon at
night. Barton is nearly .60. \
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Vic. Health Department was
asked to settle a curious account the other
day. It was a bill from a man in Sydney
for three guineas’ worth of blood provided
by him. The creditor was a migrant from
the West Indies who responded to an appli-
cation from the department for the blood of a
malarial subject for use in the now well-
known treatment of G.P. Being affluent at
the time he refused all payment, but being
out of a job and penniless in the Harbor
City two years later, he remembered his
gratuitous service to the cause of science.
The department footed the bill.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : Touching lonely graves, there
are some rarely visited ones along the Bar-
rier Reef. Beneath a slab-marked resting-
place on Raine Island, the scene of many a
wreck, where a big coral-lime beacon was
erected in 1845, lies the wife of a Northern
trader who was developing guano and marine
industries on the lonely islet. This is pro-
bably the most northerly grave along the
Barrier. There are several isolated ones
scattered through the Torres Strait islands ;
and on the top of Albany Island, at the
head of Cape York Peninsula, are interred,
amongst others, the wife of the first doctor
who went to New Guinea. Not far off lie
the remains of two of the Kennedy expedi-
tion and of Christopher D’Oyley Aplin, a
former resident-magistrate at the old port
of Somerset. D’Oyley Aplin officiated at the
burial of Wall and Niblett, the two Kennedy
explorers mentioned, he being a passenger
on the seai’ch-brig Freak at the time; he was
laid alongside them 26 years later.
* * *
“Eromeno”: The “Rising Sun” cut into
the hillside on Salisbury Plain is not the
only memorial the Diggers left in those
parts. About three miles away on the same
ridge is a map of Australia (not omitting
the apple chip) cut out of the turf and
thrown into relief by the chalk beneath.
This map covers, nearly four acres of ground,
and whether or not the “Rising Sun” led
to litigation, this was certainly responsible
for an action-at-law by the owner against
the A.I.F. The suit was settled by the pur-
chase of the freehold out of A.I.F. Canteen
funds, and the ground was then handed over
to the Wilton (Wilts) Council as common-
age.
* * * *
“N.M.L.” : There are other railway sidings
besides Bungeworgorai with confusing names.
Warreah is midway between Prairie and Tor-
rens Creek (N.Q.). The blacks used to give
the place a sound like “warrior.” We have
corrupted it to something like “war-reah.”
A maudlin passenger once poked his head
out of a carriage window and asked the
guard why they were stopping, and where
were they. “War-rear,” the guard snapped.
“I know damn well we’re ’ere,” replied the
bottled one, “but where th’ ’ell are we?”
>£ * * *
“Pawang”: The frequency with which
drug addicts snuff out suddenly after having
successfully undergone curative treatment
can in most cases be easily explained. The
slave of morphia begins his servitude by
taking small doses, which are steadily in-
creased. With the introduction of the toxin
into his blood, anti-bodies, which attack and
smother it automatically, appear and tend
to increase in number with the size of . the
drug. When the victim betakes himself to
a hospital and submits himself for treatment
the processes reversed. The doses of morphia
are reduced and the anti-bodiesare *radu
ally demobbed, so to speak. ta f
patient is discharged apparentiy cured If
he succumbs to the habit again he 18
sure to imagine that he can stand the mid
maximum dose but he can t In the absence
of anti-bodies to oppose the p >. ,
him as surely as if he had swallowed arsenic,
* ■ '. , „ . „
“P.M.”: The most amazing and amusing
example of army medical red tape 1 ever
encountered was the case of a friend of mine,
now an “Overseas Settler.” Leaving an
English public school in 1914, lie got a com-
mission in an infantry regiment. He was
injured in bombing practice before he bad
time to get to France, and a medical board
found him unfit for further service. “What
about a light job?” he asked; “wireless, for
instance?” (I-Ie had received electrical train-
ing at school.) No :he was medically unfit
for service. He sent in an appeal to the
headquarters of his regiment. The War
Office sustained its reputation for leisure-
liness, and it was over two years before the
appellant was called before a “Retired
Officers’ Medical Board of Appeal.” The
“retired officer” marched in, when his name
was called, in the kilts and regalia of a
sergeant in a Highland regiment, sporting
the ribbons of the D.C.M., Military Medal
and Croix de Guerre.
# * * *
“Civis”: One has heard of municipal
bodies which have yearned to possess col-
lieries, but Brisbane city fathers have had
something even more suggestive of opulence
thrust upon them. This is an opal-bearing
formation recently opened up in the Coun-
cil’s quarry at Stafford, the stone from
which is used for mending Brisbane streets.
Years ago, there was a good deal of fos-
sicking for gold in the hills round the
northern capital, especially on the head-
waters of Enoggera Greek, on which stands
one of the city’s water reservoirs, but
nothing came of it beyond “colors.” Faint
traces, of gold liaye also been found within
the city boundaries, as when the founda-
tions of the present Courier buildings in
Queen-street were being dug out. Provided
the opal paving-stone holds out, Brisbane
may yet have something in common witli
the New Jerusalem.
* * * *
“Lower Fourth” : Who says that an Eng-
lish public school education unfits a boy
for the stern realities of life? Recently a
product of the system found himself in so
little request in the labor market that he
tried one of the English film studios as a
last resort. He received a request to pre-
sent himself for examination, and to his com-
plete surprise he passed triumphantly, and
got a good contract. The essentials demanded
by the examiner were that he should play
Rugger and cricket, golf, skate, ride, box,
swim, dance and drive a car. Extra marks
were given for the possession of an ample
wardrobe, . including plus-fours and-evening
dress. His military knowledge, acquired as
a member of his school 0.T.C., was the
coping-stone on his triumph.
* * * *
“Mond”: To get rid of the grime of the
trenches we were marched one winter morn-
ing to the Sailly baths. These were shower-
baths rigged up in a disused factory where
scores of the ladies of the village darned
socks and patched shirts for the combatants,
their work-room fenced off by a thick hes-
sian curtain. Our dressing-room was next
door, also behind a hessian curtain, and whilst
we were under the showers some miscreant
shifted the dressing-room notice to the door
of the renovating department. A change
from scalding hot water to icy cold was the
signal for each batch of bathers to get out
and make room for the next, and it always
meant a stampede for warm togs. Our first
dozen, in birthday attire, took the hessian
curtain in their stride, and landed right
amongst the sock-and-shirt operatives. It
was the shrieks of laughter that stopped the
rest of the crowd from bundling in. The
madam in charge reported the matter, but
we left for other parts before anybody could
be court-martialled.
OUR PET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Goanna. —In Australia, a popular name for the
iguana: the Australian lizard is from three to six
feet long, of a greenish color with black speckles
and serrated crest on the back : it is quite harmless;
children play with it.” —American dictionary.
We found him in a lignum swamp,
A young goanna green and black —
The kind with which the children romp—
A saw-like crest adorned his back;
His eyes were wistful and his ways
Affectionate. Whenever called
He nestled close with trustful gaze....
Fondly we named him Reginald.
’Twas sweet to watch how he’d behave,
For lie was full of harmless play.
When little Sam and Bill and Dave
And Liz and Fred and Tom and May
And Bob and Nell (our cherubs, these)
Upon his speckled rudder hauled,
Their fond attentions seemed to please
The simple heart of Reginald.
I’ve read of pets that people prize,
Of skunk and gnu and turtle-dove,
Of dear gazelles with limpid eyes,
And other things inspiring love;
But had you searched the whole world round
Till you were halt and bent and bald,
I doubt one beastie you had found
To wean our love from Reginald.
So mild he was, we’d not the heart
To shoo him from his toothsome feast
When home he dragged the inner part
Of sheep or bullock long deceased.
But while he made the morsels flit,
Those titbits choice that never palled,
Candor impels me to admit
No violet was Reginald !
’Twould melt the heart to see him beg,
Propped on his tail.... But soon, alas!
We could not find a single egg,
And wondered how it came to pass.
The hens went too —we found as well
Our Leghorn rooster sadly mauled;
And, though it pained, suspicion fell
Upon our winsome Reginald!
The house is quiet. From the yard
The children look with misty eyes
To where the sighing she-oaks guard
A six-foot grave upon the rise. x
There lies our pet!....
We found the tracks
Where from a hen-coop he had crawled;
And Uncle Peter with an axe
Obliterated Reginald!
MAORILANn.
RIVERINA.


“Fernie”: A well-known barrister who
acts as Crown Prosecutor in one of the south-
ern cities prides himself on his collection
of black-and-white drawings by Australasian
artists. He recently placed an order with
a Sydney agent for a comprehensive set of
Norman Lindsay etchings. On checking
the etchings by the invoice he found that
two hadn’t arrived, and discreet inquiries
raised a strong presumption that they had
been held up and confiscated by the Customs
Department. The patron of art is not at all
sure that he oughtn’t to consider himself
lucky in escaping further trouble over his
attempted importations; anyway, he hasn’t
dared to stir up sleeping dogs by directly
questioning the Customs.
* * * *
“Clievroford”: A case in Melbourne has
brought out the curious fact that mov-
able safety-zone indicators can be shifted by
the public with impunity. Four young
men in festive mood were seen by a constable
to range alongside one of these objects, jump
out and lift it into their car. When
accosted they explained that they were
■merely having a joke. Their humorous pro-
clivities led to their being locked up for the
night, but the magistrate subsequently gave
the ruling that, there being no by-law on
the subject, the offenders must be discharged.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : The wide streets of Melbourne,
which used to be the city’s boast, have
become in this motor age merely the tram-
user’s bane. The long narrow islands, faceti-
ously called safety zones, were erected to
accommodate tram patrons, but no provision
was made for getting to them. The latest
proposal is to paint two white lines from the
gutter to the platform, motors to halt on
either side of them. The pedestrian will,
theoretically, be able to sail along this chan-
nel with dignified impunity; but what about
him when the wheeled traffic gets the order
to move on again? As for the security of the
safety zones, one in Swanston-street was hit
ANOTHER STOP-WORK MEETING.
by motorists so often that a wooden beacon
was put up. This was demolished so fre-
quently that a concrete one was substituted,
and this again tempted so many sporting
drivers that it was replaced by a steel tower,
The new erection is gaudily lighted with
colored globes alow and aloft, presumably
so that no motorist need miss it. The Gov-
ernment might have prevented the present
situation by refusing to sanction electrifica-
tion of the tramways within the city proper,
but let the opportunity slip.
* * * *
“Soda”: Speaking of railway trikes (B.
8/8/’2B), I remember a N.T. economist
who, to save train fare, propelled one
of these cumbrous mechanisms from
Darwin to Katherine, 200 ugly miles,
It must have been a fearsome job,
for the time was summer, the road climbs
practically all the way, and the vehicle was
badly out of repair, the thrifty one having
pinched it from a repair shop. He was an
ex-navvy and knew the movements of the
lengthsmen, and as that stretch of country
is practically deserted, it was not difficult
for him, after three days of back-breaking
toil, to get through undetected. Then he
made the mistake of bragging about his
achievement in a Katherine grog-shanty, and
a railway official overheard him. The result
was that he was prosecuted and ordered to
cough up £2 15s. for a first-class fare and
£1 10s. for freight of the machine back to
Darwin, with the alternative of three months
in Fanny Bay.
* * * *
“F.W.F.”: I have just read an article in
a London magazine by High Commissioner
Ryrie, wherein the writer deplores that so
little is known of Australia by English
folk. Among the illustrations is a photo
of the Commonwealth Bank, Sydney, labelled
“The Bank of Australasia.” Apparently it
isn't only Dame Butt who doesn’t bother
about proof-sheets.
*** . *
"Stellsby”: It happened in the days of
a former Victorian Governor. For months
the private back road to the vice-regal sum-
mer cottage at Macedon was in a frightful
state, and despite all his Ex.’s complaints
the parsimonious Government of the day
resolutely refused to put it in repair. One
day the Governor received a confidential
communication from the Minister of Public
Works intimating that the politician was
about to set out on a jaunt to London, and
would be grateful for letters of introduction
to “a few of your Excellency’s English
friends.” The pith of the communication was
in the postscript: “I have given orders for
the Macedon Cottage back entrance to be re-
paired immediately.”
* * * *
“Mullarula”: It was in Palestine, and we
had halted for our evening meal while
moving into position for a big stuut. The
Colonel was riding past my troop just as
darkness was closing in, when someone
looked up and saw the new moon and one
star showing through a break in the clouds,
making a perfect imitation of the Turkish
emblem. “Cripcs!” he remarked. “That
don’t look too good for us. Get an eyeful
of the star and crescent?” Before any
of us could ainswer, the C.O.’s voice cut in
and proved its owner a tactful handler of
omens. “I notice it’s going down, too,” he
said drily. And it was—actually and meta-
phorically.
* * * *
“Mir°”: I never tasted peach brandy (B.
l/8/’2S), but I still retain vivid memories
of the Colonel’s blackberry wine. During
war-time that gallant <officer, long retired
with a pension and a vast fund of army
reminiscences, gave occasional send-offs to
young men who had joined up and their well-
wishers of both sexes. After the local
soprano had sung “Knitting” and the bari-
tone. “We Don’t Want bo Lose You,” etc.,
and we had all shouted “Where Are the Boys
of New Zealand To-night?” and the Colonel
had told his best-known stories, the black-
berry wine would begin to circulate for the
toasts. After the first few sips the ladies
became thoughtful, and some of the more
experienced looked hurriedly round for a
stray pot-plant as a depository. A couple
of glasses were quite sufficient to make any-
one remain seated during the royal and loyal
toasts under the impression that it was hi«
or her own health that was being drunk
After one of the Colonel’s celebrations the
local constable, galvanised by the complaints
of agitated wives, went forth in the dawn
and collected half a dozen reputable citizens
by the w-ayside. and when there was a sound
of revelry by night in the village street the
uninvited used to turn in their sleep and
it curses on the Colonel and his parties,
it was only atter one departing hero had
taken the _ wine very much to head, and in
his enthusiasm chased the_ Colonel’s daughter
r ?j in i 4 . , » ar den and kissed the Colonel’s
elderly sister, finishing up by wrecking most
ALL SET FOR LATER ON.
YOUNG PANNICAKE: “What about coming to Palm Beach fer th’ week-end?”
MRS. P.: “How can I? You know I’ve got no clothes.”
P.: “Good-oh. We’ll wait till summer.”
of the windows of the Colonel’s much-prized
glasshouses, that the old gentleman reluct-
antly admitted his brew was perhaps too
potent for this degenerate age, and substi-
tuted something milder.
* * * *
“Yetne” : Touching these pay-book entries,
the most startling green line I saw was that
debiting a Q.M.S. with fGO-odd for a lost
machine-gun. The funniest red one was in
an officer's book. A pompous brass-hat had
found some fat in a garbage-tin at a camp
in England, and seized the opportunity of
doing something to justify his official exist
enee. “Do you realise,” he bellowed, “that
every two and one-third pounds of dripping
contain sufficient nitre-glycerine propellent
for an 18-pounder shell? Is there any more
here?" poking a vicious stick at the offending
tin. “Dunno,” replied the officer. “Have a
look!” The red line followed a reprimand
delivered by a court-martial for insubordi-
nation.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Developments in the wireless
beacon will soon make the human pilot
obsolete, except in such complicated water-
ways as the Hooghly. Even in the foggiest
weather nowadays a ship can steer a safe
and straight course where the radio ray is
employed. Two beams directed from one
station are all that is required. Continuous
streams of signals pour along the route.
Where they overlap the notes are blurred,
and that is the path the master should stick
to. The moment he hears one note without
the other he knows he is off the track. Thus
navigation is more and more being trans-
ferred from the bridge to the wireless cabin.
$ t- * *
“Gwy”: There are too many worn-out
and barnacle-collecting vessels laid up around
Sydney Harbor. One of the worst offenders
is the Commonwealth Government, which has
had five or six of its war-time fleet of wooden
steamers lying in Iron Cove for five years or
more. The other day one of these, the Bir-
riwa, was found to be on fire, and the Harbor
Trust’s firefloat Pluvius had a busy half-hour
swamping the blaze. The proximity of Spec-
tacle Island powder magazine made the pro-
ceedings a bit exciting. Why not tow these
disreputable old ships through the Heads and
give the Navy a little cheap target practice?
* * , H= s?
“C. Coral”: In Texas (U.S.) they have a
mosquito-clearing scheme which might be
worth a trial in parts of Australia. Big
towers, specially designed, are erected at
certain points where the mosquito pest is
bad; these house thousands of bats, which
fly from the slat-sided windows at dusk, feast
on their natural prey and return at dawn to
sleep the day away in their darkened retreat.
A big painted sign. “Malaria-eradicating Bat
Roost,” on the front of these structures
proclaims their purpose.
* * * *
“Morita” : On the transport coming home
we had a Digger who excelled as a mimic.
His talent was mostly employed at our ex-
pense, as when the voice of the ship’s adju-
tant disturbed the operations of poker
schools, but he made amends when we called
at Cape Town. As the boat drew into the
wharf, we gathered around the gangway,
togged up ready to go ashore, when a depu-
tation of brass hats arrived with the usual
string of complaints about the behavior of
Australian troops win had left the day be-
fore. After an argument the Colonel roared
out from the bridge: “Double the guard on
scores were on their way to town before
the Colonel got near enough to the gang-
way to make the sentries understand that
the order had not come from his lips. With
half the troops already ashore, the C.O. made
an appeal to the town authorities and suc-
ceeded in getting leave for the other half.
The only thing that discounted the conces-
sion was that all the pubs were shut until
our transport left the next day.
* * * *
“Let Go” : Despite the distillery guards at
Richon. in Upper Palestine, half a dozen
Light Horsemen successfully rolled away a
large hogshead of wine, and hid it in a dry
creek. For two days and nights they drank
and slept, till the 0.0. grew curious. When
the M.P.’s rode into the open bar they found
it necessary to secure stretcher-bearers to
convey the prisoners to tlie guard tent. “I’m
not goin’ crook about the seven days,” re-
marked one of the revellers afterwards.
“What narks me is that them Jacks took
the half-empty barrel an’ sold us drinks in
the peter for a deener a pop.
* * *
“C.Q.”: A comprehensive experiment in
State Socialism is that at Yallourn in Vic.,
though John Monash would doubtless stoutly
deny the impeachment of being a socialist.
None the less, he now controls the material
destinies of 1656 individuals, including 622
men, 445 women, 282 boys and 307 girls—
a nicely-balanced population, considering that
the sole industry of the place is mining.
The 445 women do their shopping in John’s
socialistic stores, and the 589 children have
their tonsils removed by socialistic doctors,
and 329 juvenile socialists attend the State
schools, 59 of them doing higher elementary
work and 83 receiving training in one craft
or another. A feature of Yallourn is that
the 358 State-constructed houses all stand
in fenceless grounds, with the result that
when I walked round the trim settlement the
other day I saw only one untidy back yard,
while the majority of them had every avail
able square inch growing flowers or veget-
ables. Electricity is universal in the homes.
It is a clean, bright little cosmos which is in
vivid contrast to the shambling individual-
istic Gippsland towns around it.
the gangway and stop everyone from going
ashore.” Ten minutes later, while we were
still condoling with one another, we heard
the welcome voice of the C.O. again: “Stand
aside, sentries; leave is granted to all ranks
till midnight.” A mad rush followed and
WASHING UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Can yon recall, when I was courting you
In days long past and came one night to
tea,
How tactfully your parents fond withdrew
And left the washing up to you and me?
From your white hands like incense rose the
steam
Enhaloing you. As at some rite divine
I gazed and gazed, cloth-wielding, in a dream
Of happy days to come when you’d be
mine.
Now I, ’midst greasy vapor, scrape and swill
A pile of dirty dishes. You meanwhile
Attempt—most ineffectively—to still
Our infant’s outcry and to make her smile.
One prayer I breathe : that, in some future
year
Another simple swain may come to sup,
And, finding our now howling daughter dear,
May stay and help her do the washing up.
QUEENSLAND.
REMUS.
THE OLD MAN’S PLAINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Them two ! Well, take it straight from me.
They’d send yer mad.
He’s just as crazed as he can be—
And she’s as bad.
She thinks his joke’s the cream of wit.
'She says, “O Bill,
Where did yer learn that funny bit?”
I hear them still.
They must have flaming brains as light as
any blasted feather,
For he laughs first, and then she laughs,
and then they laugh together.
But me—I can’t sec any joke.
I dunno why
She ever took to such a bloke.
They make me cry.
Bill with his big mouth open wide
And his loud yell!
And Sue a-tittering by his side.
It’s terrible
To listen to them every night a-going hell
fer leather,
To hear him laugh, and hear her laugh, and
hear them laugh together.
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


To Introduce
D
/,
CORK TIPPED
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
w I N
PRIZES
IN
PRIZES
m.
1 r?
iii
?I5
tif
&
0^
oixiJ
a
? eo
OP*'
•!Rgin
You will Enjoy these Neu) Cigarettes
The sum of £lOOO will be divided in prizes in connexion with the five Test
Cricket Matches, England versus Australia, to be played between November,
1928, and March, 1929,
In connection with each Test Match prizes will be given for the corred or nearest
forecast of the result of the match as follows :
A
V
if
l
A
\^W\
1
sdfg
Coupons are placed in each tin or packet of
“ COUNTRY Life " Cigarettes, and full particulars /
of the Competition are printed thereon.
“COUNTRY Life” Cigarettes are sold by
all tobacconists and stores.
COUNTRY LIFE
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
MANUFACTURED IN YOUR OWN COUNTRY BY
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
£l4/10/-
■fl
£2O
W‘M
£2l
DIAMOND
Engagement
Rings
of latest design.
Flawless gems of good color and
fire are used in each; settings are of
pure platinum and the rings of
1 Bct. gold.
£2O.
£27/10/-
£lB/18/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
plain figures. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET. cash only.
Jfa
i
U h
J qdllons of
peht)l will take
qou to
RANELAGH
The motorist’s holiday paradise —B4
miles from Sydney by the Sou h Co; e
road —2,200 feet above sea level—the
Management—G. M. Lievain Robertson
Inclusive Tariff from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Cape family, of Sydney, has suffered
its third recent bereavement through the
death of Charles Scarvcll Cape. He had been
practising law for
nearly 40 years,
and was 63 at the
end. He was the
•nephew of the other
two; one of them,
stockbroker E. S.
Cape, died only a
week before, and
the other, A. ,T.
Cape, three months
ago. The founder
of the family opened
Australia’s fi rs t
“superior” school
in 1822, and a few
months later the
Government made
him headmaster of
the Sydney Public
School. But his son,
W.T., was a more
notable teacher
than ever the
father was.
LAVINGTON
BONYTHON,
Mayor of
Adelaide, whose
generous enter-
tainments this
winter have given
the city some-
thing else to
talk about.
Ages this year of Australian Roman
Catholic prelates, according to Johns:
Apostolic delegate Dr. Cattaneo 62, Archbishops
Kelly (Syd.) 78, Mannix (Melb.) 64, Duhig (Bris.)
57, Spence (Adel.) 68, and Clune (Perth) 64 ; and
Bishops O’Connor (Armidale) 52, Barry (Goulburn)
53, Carroll (Lismore) 63, Dwyer (Maitland) 70,
Heavey (Vicar Apostolic, Cooktown) 60, Coppo
(Vicar Apostolic Kimberley) 58, Catalan (Abbot of
New Norcia) 50, Shiel (Rockhampton) 55, Ryan
(Sale) 48, McCarthy (Sandhurst) 70, Dwyer (Wagga
Wagga) 59, and Hayden (Wilcannia) 60.
John Downer, Federal politician and earlier
Premier of South Aus., is recalled by an odd
coincidence. He married a second time, late
in life. This year A. R. Downer, son of
that marriage, goes from Tasmania to
Oxford ; and at the same time Sydney Dow-
ner, grandson of old John, goes into residence
from Adelaide.
Archbishop Hanna, of San Francisco, who
will be the preacher at the opening of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, on September 10,
is a gifted orator, and for 10 years was a
theological professor in an American semi-
nary. He hails from the Ould Sod, but re-
ceived his education in Uncle Sam’s country.
Animals have lost a notable friend through
the death of Fred-
erick Montague
Rothery, secretary
for years of the
S.P.C.A. in Syd-
ney. All animals,
but especially
horses and dogs,
were his friends,
and he had a mul-
titude of the human
variety, too. The
old man was proud
of being the grand-
son of one of Aus-
tralia’s earliest
citizens; he was
born in Bathurst
(N.S.W.) S 3 years
ago.
E. H.
MATTHEWS,
N.S.W. State
manager of the
National Bank
of Australasia,
whose wife had
the job of pre-
senting the debs,
at the Bankers’
Ball the other
evening.
T. C. Brennan, a leader of the Vic. criminal
Bar, who has just taken silk, was a sub.
on the Argus when admitted in Melbourne
21 years ago. His brother Frank, Labor
M.H.R. for Batman, and his sister Anna are
also lawyers. Just before T.C. left the
Argus his brother Will found a niche there,
and is now chief leader-writer. Harry, an-
other brother, after getting broken in at Bal-
larat, on the Melbourne Herald and Weekly
Times and the Melbourne office of Sydney
Sunday Times, also joined the Mackinnon
sheet. All the Brennans are brainy. Vic.
has reason to be grateful to the late secretary
of Strathfieldsaye shire, near Bendigo, and
his wife for rearing such a fine family.
“Galleryite”: When just-dead Will Whit-
burn was a star among the burnt-cork min-
strels at Melbourne’s old Victoria Hall 36
years ago, lie had an unrehearsed turn one
evening with Alec Peacock, now Speaker of
Vic. Assembly. It was the night following
the afternoon (March, 1892) when the
Shiels Government passed the order-in-
council suspending Speight, Forde and
Greene, the three Railway Commissioners.
Peacock and a couple of others decided to
shut out troubles by seeing the minstrels.
Whitburn was going well, and one of his
facial contortions tickled Peacock so much
that Alec exploded with that laugh of his
which any kookaburra might envy. At first
Whitburn was flattered, but when the ex-
plosions continued he came to the edge of
the stage and, pointing to Peacock, said,
“Look here, young fella, are you running
this show t’-night or am I?” After that
Alec managed to keep the brake on till the
curtain dropped. Running the show now at
the top of Bourke-street, Speacock is watch-
ing performers not nearly so good.
“Mells”: Cosmo Lang, who has attained
the rare distinction of occupying in succes-
sion the two highest positions in the Church
of England (B. 8/8/’2B), comes, curiously
enough, of Presbyterian stock; his father,
John Marshall Lang, was a notable Scottish
minister. Apparently the law was his first
choice, for he was a student at the Inner
Temple before he qualified for a curacy.
Probably he would have gone to 'the top, or
near it, in any calling where sheer intellect
counts, but he could never have risen to
such eminence elsewhere as he has done by
being able to write first “Ebor” and then
“Cantuar” after his initials.
“Veronal”: The first settler of note to
occupy most of the wide plains on which
Goulburn (N.S.W.) is built was the late
William Bradley, who ran sheep there in
the ’thirties, the only habitation being a
shepherd’s hut. Later, after the collapse of
Ben Boyd’s vast whaling and pastoral con-
cerns, Bradley acquired several large statiqns
on the Monaro (N.S.W.) plains, including
Cooldringdon and Bibbenluke, the latter being
only recently broken up into small holdings.
Touching the Goulburn of those early days,
the bodies of a couple of men, executed for
murder, hung .in chains on an eminence
known as Gallows Hill for some time before
Governor Bourke, on a visit to Goulburn,
ordered them to be taken down and buried.
Outliving her husband by 38 years, Mrs.
Walker, widow of a former Vic. Minister for
Customs, passed out the other day. It was
Duncan Gillies who, as head of the Big
Coalition, pulled W. F. Walker out of the
ruck, and made him Customs Minister in
February, 1886, and he held office for three
years. Walker’s retirement made way for
J. B. Patterson, who landed the Premier-
ship in 1893.
The wig that Alec Peacock wears is 24
years old and has ornamented four Speakers
—Frank Madden, for whom it was bought,
John Mackey, John Bowser and Oswald
Snowball.
C. 11. Melville, dead in Adelaide at 68,
long ago worked westward from S.A. as a
telegraph-operator at Eucla ion the Bight, dis-
covered a Westralian goldmine to which his
name was given, did some pearl-fishing off the
north-west coast, held a lease of Dirk Ilartog
Island, and lost an eye to an aboriginal spear.
Later he had a flourishing cafd opposite the
Supreme Court in Adelaide.
Winifred Ponder, the woman who poured
the fat in the fire by the lines she included
in what the public was given to understand
were Clara Butt’s memoirs, arrived in Dalby
(Q.) when the war was half-way through
and, having starved as a music-teacher, sue
cessfully tendered for a mail-delivery con-
tract and rode side-saddle to deliver the let-
ters. She subsequently took a job as reporter
on the Dalby Leader, now defunct. Her
adventures included a marriage which lasted
only one day and was dissolved on the peti-
tion of the husband, who cited desertion as
the ground. She was very much the English-
woman, and showed a strong war-patriotism.
Cotton-grower in Fiji, ship-chandler in
Levuka, Swedish consul and Mayor of Suva,
round-Australia cyclist—and to-day at 81
William Kopsen is still going heartily as
Vice-Consul for Sweden in Australia and
governing director of his firm of ship-
chandlers. He is a fine example of the stal-
wart Scandinavian, and the sturdiness of his
figure even to-day explains why he was able
to pedal around Australia when he was a
young man—something of a performance
when bicycles were not what they are now
and parts of .the bush were .alive with
dangers.
Maryborough (Vic.) claims a centenarian,
too, a grand old lady of 103. She is Mrs.
Helen Swan; born in Ay ton, Scotland, on
May 31, 1.825, she came to Australia in
1863. Her late husband was a Government
inspector of works.
The Faculty of Agriculture at Sydney
Uni. has done pretty well out of Rhodes
Scholarships. It sent forth A. R. Callagan,
who lately became a Doctor of Philosophy
at Oxford; E. A. Southee, now principal
of the Hawkosbury Agricultural College; and
R. N. McCulloch, still at Oxford.
Touched the level 100 lately, John Van-
stone, of Wandearah (S.A.), possibly the
sole survivor of the thousands of men from
that State who flocked over to the Victorian
gold-diggings in 1852. His chief reminiscence
is of having his bullock-team stolen at Ben-
digo.
H. J. Martin, the new president of Vic.
Returned Soldiers’ League, has the executive-
officer habit in the blood. He is hon. sec.
of the Lady Northcote Permanent Orchestra
Trust, chairman of the Vic. branch cf the
Overseas League, and honorary boss of half
a dozen charities besides. He was an origi-
nal member of the 37th Battalian and served
throughout the war, getting a severe blighty
at Messines. When he got back in 1919 he
set right away about establishing the Mal-
vern branch of the Soldiers’ League, and has
been an officer ever since.
Lachlan McKillop, the medico who repre-
sents Bananaland in connection with the
International Cancer Committee, is a sur-
geon, but he isn’t narrow-minded enough to
think that surgery must always remain the
best remedy for cancer. After a first-class
football and scholastic career at St. Stanis-
laus’ College, Bathurst, he made easy work
of his medical examinations at Sydney Uni.
Taking up practice at Blackall (Central
Q’land) he soon gained a high surgical repu-
tation, and on the Barcoo they still speak
of his work with admiration. The war
saw him as one of the medical heads at the
Enoggera Training Camp. Resuming prac-
tice in Brisbane he soon became one of
Queensland’s leading medical men.
Lemmon, Vic. Minister for Education, who
has been on the sick-list for a couple of
months, dropped into the Assembly last week
for the first time this session. He wasn’t
able to join in the send-off to Tate, the
former director, or the welcome to Hansen,
the new permanent head, but he has come
back bo face a storm raised by women’s
organisations because Julia Flynn, assistant
chief inspector of secondary schools (£650 a
year), was not allowed to apply for the chief
inspectorship (£9OO a year). In view of
the Blackburn Act of 1926, regarding
women’s qualifications for posts from which
they are not specifically barred, Miss Flynn’s
supporters resent Director Hansen’s “men
only” stipulation.
Bishop Dwyer, of Maitland, who is to be
provided with a coadjutor, is a grandson of
Michael Dwyer the Wicklow chieftain who
figured so prominently in the Irish Rebellion
of ’9B, and suffered 'transportation as a result.
Dr. Dwyer, the first Australian-born to
become an R.C. bishop, is now 70.
Kihnore (Vic.) is mourning Dick Fen-
nelly, the octogenarian sec. and engineer of
Pyalong shire. For close on 60 years Fen-
nelly was associated with municipal and
water-supply works within a radius of 20
miles of Kilmore, and was for a while a coun-
cillor. At one time he kept a string of race-
horses, and won hurdles and steeplechases.
Mrs. Maria Mullins, who was born in the
Lithgow (N.S.W.) district, and, having lived
thereabouts for 95 years, is easily the oldest
inhabitant, knitted socks for seven grandsons
who went to the war. One of them was
killed, and the lesser casualties among the
remainder were 50 per cent. The old lady
has eight surviving children of her own, all
rather elderly children now.
A. H. Wright, sec. to Vic.’s London office,
has been Acting Agent-General for over a
year now; he was given an honorarium to
supplement the head clerk’s screw. The
Hogans are not in a hurry to select a poli-
tician to succeed knight Fairbairn, who fin-
ished up at the end of June last year.
From the secretary of the Westralian
branch of the A.M.P.’s out-door representa-
tives’ association:—
Ro “the pride of the A.M.P.,” we have a man
in the Cinderella State fast overhauling the splendid
record of Mr. Loewenthal in N. S. Wales. Our
Northam District agent, V. F. Vincent, “com-
pleted” over £lOO,OOO for the six months ending
June last, and £812,000 within the last 41 years.
Has anybody in any other Australian State done
better ?
J. C. Lowry, a senior Vic. State-school in-
spector, has taken the place of C. It. Long,
former editor of the School Paper, in pre-
paring the readers for the seven grades in
the Cabbage Garden’s elementary schools.
Long was recalled, after he had retired in
the ordinary way at 65, to lay tire foundations
for the readers, and he stayed till a fortnight
after Tate’s curtain was lowered. The issue
of the readers will cost £16,000.
J. B. Merrett, of Christchurch, the father
of Maoriland’s egg-export trade, which is
assuming important dimensions, has pro-
bably done more to put the chook industry
on a commercial basis than any other man
in the Dominion. When he started business
in a very modest way in pre-war times,
China was pouring hundreds of tons of pre-
served egg- pulp
into Fernland, to
the order of cake-
makers and pastry-
cooks, with the re-
sult that the local
product didn’t bring
a payable price.
Merfett cam-
paigned against the
Chinese importa-
tions, organised the
hen - fruiters, and
started an export
trade which is now
so firmly est a b-
lished that the Gov-
ernment is able to
guarantee exporters
a minimum of 2s.
2d. a dozen. The
Coatesites cackle
over that egg, but
it was Merrett who
laid it. He now
directs the egg in-
dustry for both
Maoriland and
Australia.
H. J. MARTIN,
new Vic. State
president of
the Returned
Soldiers’
League.
P. J. Bennell, a Melbourne dentist, is
the owner of a yawl equipped with an up-to-
date dental surgery. With nurse and crew
complete, he periodically sails out of Port
Phillip and-battles down the coast to tend the
teeth of residents on the islands scattered
around Westernport.
The, Chinese Who’s-Who is not entirely
composed of bandits. The world owes to a
Chinaman, Dr. Wu Lien-teh, some of the
best work in plague prevention, and no inter-
national conference on the subject is com-
plete without him. Under different circum-
stances Wu might have been only an ordinary
Celestial, with a belief in the efficacy of
spells; but he was caught at birth in the
British settlement of Penang and got his
education at Cambridge.
TUB MISSING MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Timber May,’ a well-known member of the
Sydney underworld, died intestate leaving property
valued at £23,000. She had many aliases and is
said to have had husbands, but, there being no
claimants to the estate on that score, the Master
in Equity divided it among four brothers and a
sister.”
Ev’n her name is hidden in her
Sobriquet.
Still, there’s many an anti-sinner
Goes his way,
Many a citizen respected
O’er the Great Divide's projected
Leaving less than you collected,
Timber May.
Scant the wage of crooked dealers,
So they say.
Matching wits ’gainst ’tecs and peelers
Doesn’t pay,
They assure us who’ve essayed it
And dispassionately weighed it.
Still, it seems as if you made it,
Timber May.
Can it be if nous and vision
You display,
Firm resolve and swift decision,
Grit and stay,
There’s as sure and certain plunder
In the world we label “under”
As in higher planes? I wonder,
Timber May.
As you in your feline fashion
Stalked your prey,
Did you ne’er of tender passion
Feel the sWay?
Did you cease at last to palter
With some eager swain and falter
Your responses at the altar,
Timber May?
Queries such as these evade you
Nowaday.
Still, if any suitor made you ,
Ilis for aye,
The forgotten or abjurer
Of such tie is—nothing surer —
Three and twenty thou, the poorer,
Timber May.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


MR. BOYCE GAINS A SUPPORTER.
“Mr. Boyce, Attorney-General of N. S. Wales, is preparing a bill to regulate the go-getter, especially the land-salesman.”
Lured by one of the tribe, Jones purchases a quiet little week-end retreat.


CONFIDENCE
W*
d> c?H,.
J
m
Nil!
Ml
,\ v X
1,>7“7,..5S
ni
ir
7*
l»
L<
®3
«A
SJ*
~Y23
17
r
K
Mi
PI
I
7«>-
SBS
l
ES
71
m
u
A
STANDARD MODELS
Tourer £398
Roadster £425
4-door Sedan - - £498
MASTER MODELS
Sports Tourer - - £560
Roadster £525
Five-passenger
4-door Sedan - - £598
Buy from Your
Local Dealer.
fhough the £nd ofVourhad
lie dround the world — r
IF you own a Buick, there’s one unseen
passenger that rides with you wherever
you go. Sitting with you, at the wheel, is
CONFIDENCE!
Confidence that your Buick will perform
exactly as you want it to perform.
Confidence that it will carry you to your
destination with the same certainty as a
majestic liner or a luxurious train.
Confidence that it will always be the same
fine, trustworthy Buick. Confidence---though
you drive it for years---though you tour beyond
civilisation into out-of-the-way places of the
earth---though the end of your road lie around
the world!
“When Better Cars are Bui ft
Buick will Build Them”
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., 89-105 Exhibition St.
Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., 109-119 Phillip Street.
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street
Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., 81 Franklin Street.
Perth: E. D. Toe Motors, Ltd., 772 Hay Street.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
BUICICAI92B
M
yp
A
A
A
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.


■; v
I*" * ' * 1
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. \V. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity .
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
5““' s ;:;:::::“S
c,;«,:■«« «.»
Empihb “Mother Macree” and “Models”
Tivou Vaudeville
Regent".'. —•• • • Moving Plctures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ki\r’s •• • “When London Sleeps”
Tivoli '.’.'.V. ... Vaudeville
Matfstio’ Moving Pictures
Moving Pictures
. *
The Bulletin attended Melba’s reception
at Her Majesty’s with some misgiving,
but there was no need for it. lhe diva
knows the singing business from A to A
and the result was a personal triumph tor
her. “La Rolieme” was staged with the usual
Williamsonian splendor, and the lull-throated
chorus work in the second act (which started
the performance in this case) was a very
good hedge to hide a single voice behind.
Melba only had to sing occasionally; whilst
Rudolfo, Marcello, Musetta and the others
carolled energetically, Mimi rested her voice,
but so expertly as to give the impression
that she was mainly responsible for the com-
bined vocal magnificence. The following act
found her warmed by heartening applause
until she really did reach the heights deserving
the “Bravos!’’ She had skill enough to miss
a high note now and again without making
it noticeable, and in the death scene she
made an asset of a weakened voice. Brown-
ing Mummery, as Rudolfo, and Brownlee, as
Marcello, were in fine voice, and Elena
Danieli sang Musetta energetically, but some-
times with a disregard for the nuances of
stagecraft—which was another aid to Melba.
Autori, as Colline, made a hit of the song in
which he decides to pawn his coat. In
the Prayer Scene from “Otello” Melba
was helped by Carmen Tornani, as an Emilia
who looked as if lago had added to his sins
by giving his wife two black eyes. In the
end the house did everything it could, short
of tearing off the roof, to show its constancy
to the Queen. Although billed to appear,
a cold excused her reappearance on Satur-
day afternoon, and Scavizzi stepped into
the breach and held it artistically.
* * * *
The light, bright music of “Don Pas-
quale” enabled Toti dal Monte to spangle
KERRY KELLY, once with the Melbourne Repertory Players,
now with Margaret Bannerman, at the Sydney Criterion.
the air with captivating sounds. As the
young widow who undertakes a bogus mar-
raige with an elderly gentleman to cure him
of his matrimonial ideas, Toti sparkled
throughout, and, even in her assumed tan-
trums, shed top notes into the atmosphere.
It was Fernando Autori’s night out, too ; a
remarkably fine make-up helped him to show
the fatuity of the Don in the first act, and
his subsequent dismay; his vocal assistance,
especially in the “Son tradito” quartet, was
all that could be desired. Emilio Ghirar-
dini put a good polish upon Doctor Mala-
testa, the medical adviser, who plots the
false marriage to save his patient-friend
from the disaster of a real one, and Lomanto,
though none too enthusiastic a lover, warbled
tunefully.
* * * *
Lina Scavizzi, Angelo Minghetti and
Granforte should give a good account of
“Andrea Chenier” to-morrow (Thursday)
night. The gorgeous “Turandot” takes place
to-night and at the Saturday matinee, “But-
terfly” at to-morrow’s matinee, and “Lucia”
on Saturday night.
* * *
In “Models,” which opened at the Sydney
Empire last Friday, the notable ingredients
are Laurie Cohen, a new arrival, and the
amiable Violet Elliott, who make the most
of their opportunities as proprietor and
proprietress of a frock emporium. There is
broad comedy that has some tedious
moments ; some brightly-arranged ballets in-
clude one, “Humoreskimo,” of considerable
merit; the rest is mainly frills and Keith Con-
nelly, who sings a few soiigs without dis-
tinction before finally embracing the mil-
lionairess who, it is plain from the
start, is to be his ultimate due. The naming
of a ridiculous female detective Shirley
Holmes (Essalie Holmes) is quite the bright-
est point about that superfluous part. The
“revue,” or whatever it is, serves as a
good enough introduction to the film
“Mother Machree,” which occupies half the
programme. The Irish scenes are artistically
excellent, and full of a cheering blend _of
humor and pathos. Later, the introduction
of American money rather spoils the effect,
but there is some excellent work by Victor
McLaglen, as the Kilkenny Giant, and Ted
McNamara, as the Harpist of Wexford,
afterwards a “ward manager” in Noo Yark.
# * *
Margaret Bannerman will turn to
“Other Men’s Wives” on Saturday at
the Sydney Criterion, and the Grand
Opera House will discard bushranging
for “Sonia of the Circus.” “Rio Rita,”
in which Queenie Ashton had to re-
lieve Gladys Moncrioff for a spell whilst the
favorite lady cured a cold, is moving gaily
to new records at the St. James; Moscovitcli
is so confident of the staying power of “Tin-
Silent House” at the Royal that he is giving
a benefit matinee in aid of the starving
Jews of Eastern Europe on September 11;
and Percy Hutchinson is supplying light
entertainment at the Palace with “Mr.
What's-His-Name.” “On Our Selection” has
peeped in at the Newtown Majestic; Alfred
Gordon Kalmikofl:
is to take posses-
sion of the sub-
urban house on
August 25 with
“The Robbers.”
Allan Wilkie is
further plumbing-
suburban possibili-
ties at the Man-
resa Hall, North
Sydney, and he
goes to Manly with
“Twelfth Night” on
Monday.
* *
The Ingenues
have made a shuffle
of musical items
at Sydney Tivoli;
“Blue Heaven”
and “Sunshine”
are items that stir
the Great Heart of
that part of the
public that gets in
before the “House
Full” sign is put
up. Ambrose
Parkes and Peg
Wynn, new arriv-
als, have quickly
won popularity.
* # *
“How About
Hannah?” is being
asked by a new re-
vue company intro-
duced by Gayle
Wyer at Fullers’
Sydney theatre,
and the answer
seems to be that
Hannah is all
right. The bundle
of nonsense, which
has a bright lead-
ing woman in
Heather Jones, has
also a dashing ballet.
if. *
Mary Pickford shows to exceptional ad-
vantage in “My Best Girl,” the Sydney
Regent Theatre’s new bill. She is a fresh
little shopgirl who captures the affection
of a young assistant, but has to face trouble
when it turns out that he is the boss’s son,
and that a love affair was not the sort of
experience he was put into the shop to gain.
Milton Sills condescends to mar his manly
beauty and appear with a wound-scarred
face in “The Hawk’s Nest” at the Capitol;
but the facial defects disappear before the
hero is handed over to the right girl after a
tangle of underworld intrigues and adven-
tures. “Fangs of Destiny” goes rather
heavily at the Lyceum, and the frothy light-
ness of “The College Widow” is hardly an
atonement.
A revival of that
human ghost-story
“Outward Bound”
is being satisfac-
torily handled at
Melb. Princess. Zil-
lah Bateman once
more graces her
original role of
Ann, the halfway,
the other incom-
plete, suicide being
well enough fur
nishcd by John
B a r r y. Unlike
Peter Gawtliorno,
who represented a
hearty Anglican-
parson type of
heavenly arbitrator,
Eardley Tur n e r
conveys the impres-
sion that Bernard
Shaw has usurped
the white suit and
solar topee of the
Celestial Examiner.
Joseph Cunning-
ham carries no
weight as the
bumptious Mr.
Lingley, but F. St.
H. Jellicoe express-
es the Rev. Duke’s
mild enthusiasm
for righteousness
very well. Mrs.
Clevcden-Banks is
suitably obnoxious
in the hands of
capable Mildred
Cottell, and, at
nearly 80, Meta
Pelham gives a
vigorous lesson on
sound characteri-
sation to scores of
younger actresses
as Mrs. Midget, the
Cockney landlady
whose doubts about the after life are set
at rest when she learns that her home in
Heaven will have a reliable sink. Chai'les
Browne misses the deeper significance of
Scrubby and presents that sinister ferryman
as a plain, ordinary member of the Hades
Stewards’ Union, whom no demined soul
would have the courage not to tip.
* * *
It is easy to sneer at “When London
Sleeps,” now suffering a revival by Bilander-
son at'Melb. King’s, but many modern plays
have more incompetent first acts. Norman
Shepherd is that bitter, biting, bloody vil-
lain, Captain Rodney Haynes, with a laugh
like the noise made by a riveting machine.
Douglas Drew is David Englehart, the hero,
supplied with a face made up to resemble
the sun seen through a Centralian sand-
utormj Leslie Adrienne is the virtuous
Queenie, pride of the circus, who is lured
to Ilelliwell Mansion, where things occur
only possible in London or a diseased imagi-
nation. Darcy Kelway, as Sammy Blyth,
provides some farce, and Lucy Adair, as
Signorina Jonesio, some good acting. Phyllis
Hardinge is Hilda Corrode, the woman with
an awful past and a present habit of speak-
ing like a parody on Shakspeare.
¥ * *
In playing the Appassionata Paderewski
gave the impression that, in spite of the
wrong notes, lie brought some real emotion
to the business. In present writer’s opinion
Moiseiwitsch reverses the process. He has
played the thing so often that it no longer
has any meaning for him. He leaves one
admiring but. cold, as one feels with Heifetz.
Apparently Benno is a poet of the piano in
its lyric aspect rather than its epic, though,
as a world-famous virtuoso, he has to lead off
his programmes with some approved pro-
fundities. Anyhow, he still seems to revel
in the small songs of Chopin, Scriabine and
Moszkowski, and his playing of a lullaby by
Palmgren is so delicate that a dropped pin
would shatter th« sleep of the imagined
baby. The new colors he gets into the Tann-
hauser Overture amount almost to a fresh
revelation, and on Saturday some of the
notes in that piece appeared to acquire a
life of their own. detach themselves from
the Steinway and float round the Audi-
torium (Melbourne).
* * *
“The Mask and the Face,” by Luigi Chia-
relli, staged by the Melb. Repertory Society at
the Playhouse last week as an antidote to a
course of Ibsen, has its moments of moving
farce. Count Grazia, a perfectly egregious ass.
whom a dose of Fascist castor oil would havt
benefited, is faced with the problem ol
having to make good a boast that if his wife,
the Countess Thank-you, were evei untaiti
ful to him, he would be bound in honor to
strangle her. He gets over the dimcuity py
smuggling the lady to England and announc-
ing the due performance ot the murder lie
i s tried and acquitted and becomes a national
hero. The lady’s return in the middle ot
her funeral interferes with the general re-
AURORA RETTORE, whose delightful singing of the Shep-
herd's Song helped Tannhauser to make up his mind about
leaving Venusberg.
joinings and reunites a deserving woman
with an unestimable mate. Producer Clew-
low gave professional tonnage to the amateur
cast -with a vivacious rendering of the bump-
tious Count, and Madge Morrison was alter-
nately light and pleading as his mate. Nor-
man Atkyns made an amusing character
study of the part of Bunghi, the Italian
equivalent of the leading citizen of Woop-
Woop West. Franco Spina, a lawyer-lover,
made spasmodic and ineffective appearances
in the person of Frank Lonie. Walter Arm-
strong’s judge was better than Claud*
Thomas’s banker, who suffered from an over-
draft of self-consciousness. As various ex-
amples of loose, aristocratic women, Justine
Watson, Judy Finch and Atholl Fulford
were quite amusing in their parade of an
incredible cynicism. Arthur Davies was a
sculptor named Georges Almaire.
Melb. Tiv. has relapsed into vaudeville
sea-pie, of which Joe Termini, the incipient
Kreisler of a comic violin, and Alphonse
Berg are the principal ingredients. Berg
continues to make dresses out of next to
nothing, and to bow in rapt adoration before
his creations. The Pocahontas-like Stephanie
Deste has turned up again with her sinuous
figure and her snaky dancing, and the Famous
Quartet are four artistic and melodious
Australians.
* * *
“New Brooms” will be put away and
“White Collars” will be the wear at the
Melb. Athenaeum as from Saturday, on which
same date Miss Vanbrugh will commence
being “The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith” at
the Comedy for 12 days only. “The Patsy”
still flourishes at the Royal, and “Hit the
Deck” has hit the public fancy at His
Majesty’s. Bill Ayr continues to present one
play with 14 plots in “A Sport from Hollow
Log Fat” at the Palace.
* * *
A second look at “Princess Charming” at
Adelaide Royal confirms first impressions as
to the unusual strength of the story, wit of
the dialogue and cleverness of the acting,
especially that of Leslie Holland; and Kella-
way has never been funnier. A new heroine,
Virginia Perry, has been dropped in, with
good voice and appealing style; but Yvonne
Banvard scores more heavily still. Pictures
are unusually good: H. B. Warner in the
appealing “Sorrell and Son” at the Pav.;
Richard Dix humorously selling “Sporting
' Goods” at the York; Emil Jannings, his
powerful self at Wondergrapli; and a varied
; programme, including the Tom Katz saxo-
phone band, at the new Regent.


Not Initial Cost—But Cost Per Year of Service
Do you judge the worth of the Lelting you buy by
initial cost alone—or by its cost per year of
service? Judged by this latter standard, no greater
value is obtainable than in
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING.
Its first cost is no higher than that of other good belts.
For reliable, efficient, economical power transmission —specify “Pioneer.”
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI (a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
£\ONE£^
ri
»SH£O
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
GILT-EDGE
FOR ALL
Raybestos
sdfg
SECURITY
MOTORISTS
Brake Lining
SILVER EDGE”
“GOLD EDGE” (Heavy Duty)
Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
Dividends To
June, Profits. (10 p.c.) Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 298,149 200,000 98,149 2,097,243
1919.. 301,571 200,000 101,571 2,198,814
1920.. 348,602 245.154 103,448 2,302,262
1921.. 392,923 250,000 142,923 2,445,185
1922.. 397,885, 296,649 101,236 2,546 421
1923.. 422,068 300,000 122,068 2,668,489
1924.. 451,567 330,170 121,397 2,789,886
1925.. 480,261 349,920 130,341 2,920,227
1926.. 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,055,296
Dividends
June, Profits. (10 p.c.) Written Off. Reserves.
Bank of Victoria absorbed.
Reserves taken over, £850,000 ..£3,905,297
£ £ £ £
1927.. 556,705 401,818 50,000 4,010,184
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
The spring of £96,538 in the year’s disclosed
profit was mainly due to the absorption of
the Bank of Victoria, whose business was
taken Sr March 1927. The price was
£2,21 <,022, of which £1,478,010 was paid in
cash for return of capital and the balance
in shares for surplus assets. Although
±1,239,013 was thus and otherwise added to
Ste 1 *S rin S tlle last two years, making it
£4, <09,013, there was no difficulty in keeping
earning power on an even keel: last year’s
±050,243 net was 13.8 p.c. on average capi-
tal compared with 13.8, 13.8. 13.7, 13.6 and
14 p.c. back to 1923, when the 10 p.c. div.
called for £173,212 less.
The rapid expansion of the business over
the last decade is seen in this comparison
of capital movements :
1834 . . £30,000 1908 .. £1,500,000
1849 • • 90,000 1912 . . 1,750,000
1853 .. 200,000 1914 .. 2,000,000
1859 . . 320,000 1920 . . 2,500,000
1864 . . 400,000 1921 . . 3,000,000
1874 . . 500,000 1924 .. 3,500,000
1881 . . 600,000 1925 . . 3,500,000
1893 . . 1,000,000 1927 . . 4,710 413
. . 1,250,000 1928 . . 4,739,013
For close on a century activities were con-
fined to N. S. Wales and Queensland, but
with the absorption of its old friend the
Bank of Victoria the C.B.S. at once gained
a substantial Victorian business, with a
small but expanding connection in S. Aus.
It has thus entered upon a new era in its
development.
The fine pile of visible reserves
(£4,140,215) periodically makes the market
dream dreams. But the fact that there has
been no bonus issue for over 70 years sug-
gests that that form of gift is not favored.
Another expectation has been a lift in the
div. rate; but conditions have so changed of
late that this is very doubtful. Actually
the board lias compromised by making new
issues at par and since the scrip has always
been at a substantial premium on the market
the new shares have amounted to handsome
bonuses to shareholders.
How the amalgamation swelled the
volume of business, etc., is visible in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1926. 1927. 1928.
Notes .. .. £8,230 £14,377 £14,244
Bills . . . . 1,821,498 2,520,180 2,149,049
Deposits . . 38,539,205 51,239,268 51,824,699
Liquids .. £20,311,893 £24,262,059 £24,480,243
Advances . . 25,844,831 37,084,511 37,316,784
Premises, etc.. . 942,505 1,424,670 1,357,143
At June 30 the bank was holding £6 Is. 7d.
of the public’s money for every £1 of its
own funds as against £6 3s. 4d. and £6 3s. 2d.
in the two preceding years. So, from that
aspect, deposits and advances won’t need to
increase much before the board begins to
think about more capital. The year’s growth
in deposits was £585,431, probably more sub-
stantial than it looks because the figures were
affected by movements in Government
accounts. On the other hand, advances
moved up £232,273, and then they were only
72 p.c. of deposits compared with 72.4 p.c. in
the previous year. The margin was conser-
vative in either case.
Here is further evidence of strength :—•
1927. 1928.
Coin, bullion, Australian
notes, etc. .. ..£10,356,690 £8,806,256
Money at short call . . 1,640,000 885,000
Short-dated British Treasury
bills 1,135,000 2,795,000
Public securities .. .. 5,218,071 6,570,852
Bills receivable .. .. 5,080,847 5,041,444
Notes and bills of other
banks 831,450 375,691
At the close of last accounts depositors and
others could see 9s. of every £1 of their
money in liquids, the same proportion as in
the previous year. The early closing of the
export season helped to pile up the London
funds. Cash was drawn upon for £1,550,434,
and the holding of public securities expanded
£1,358,781, most of it probably this bank’s
share of the £10,000,000 of Commonwealth
loan which the public did not take up in
January last.
The market, satisfied that the business will
continue to expand, looks to the future and
pays £26 10s. for the £l2 10s. shares. The
immediate return at that price is only 4.7
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing is £23 Ss. sd. per share in net tan-
gibles.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net to Re- and Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. 24,857 124 p.c. = 15,625 9,232 191,147
1919.. 22,080 124 „ ~15,625 6,455 197,602
New capital, £26,000 .. .. 222,602
1920.. 25,471 12jp.c.= 18,750 6,721 229,323
New capital, £77,983 .. .. 307,306
Premiums on new shares, £27,408.. 334,714
1921.. 34,474 10 p.c. = 30,287 4,187 338,901
New capital, £127 .. .. .. 339,028
Premiums, £B5 .. .. .. 339,113
1922.. 30,562 10 p.c. = 30,305 257 339,370
1923.. 18,305 7i „ „ 22,733 334,942
Assets written up, £56,950.. .. 391,892
1924.. 35,681 10 p.c. = 30,311 5,370 397,262
From inner reserves, £BOOO .. 405,262
1925.. 39,092 10 p.c. = 30,311 8,781 414,043
1926.. 46,113 10 „ ~30,311 15,802 429,845
Premiums on shares and profit on
sale of freehold, £71,583.. 501,428
New capital, £30,640 .. .. 532,068
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,037 549,705
1928.. 42,214 10 „ ~33,375 8,839 558,544
The Mercantile Mutual celebrates its
jubilee by capitalising £22,250 (Is. per
share) of reserves, making the 445,000 £1
shares paid to 165., and offering shareholders
44,500 new £1 shares, called to 165., at a
premium of 4s. When all the money on the
new issue is in, paid capital will be £391,600
in 489,500 £1 shares paid to 165., and re-
serves (£202,544, after allowing for the
capitalisation) will benefit by £B9OO of
share premiums. The premium makes a
10 p.c. div. worth only 8 p.c. on the new
shares; but since solid insurance stock re-
turning the investor 8 p.c. is not to be had
on the market, there is a few shillings profit
on each share should holders prefer to take
it. But the probabilities are that most of
the new scrip will be held. When paid
capital reaches £391,600 shareholders will
havo put up £269,726, of which £45,376
represents share premiums, and have received
10 capital gifts totalling £152,250 over the
last 35 years. '
Until about 10 years back the manage-
ment was fastidious in the selection of its
risks, but nowadays it seeks also the milder
profits to be won from wider underwriting,
and is as vigorous as the next in the hunt
for new business. The rapid expansion of
recent years is evidenced by the fact that
paid capital was only £125,000 in 1919.
Since then the co. has more than doubled
the premium income that was the result
of 40 years of previous endeavor. Here are
the underwriting performances :
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate
1900. . £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p c
1910.. 64,515 21,656 35,078 35.1 , 56 8
1915.. 124,472 50,664 61,458 40.2 „ 49 3
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52.9 ”
1924.. 308,818 157,301 132,674 50.9 „ 42.9
1925.. 357,188 186,834 147,901 52.3 „ 414
1926.. 374,560 200,835 155,476 53.6 „ 41‘5 ”
1927.. 428,008 245,025 156,923 57.2 , 36 6
1928. . 389,950 211,676 16.0,894 54.3 „ 41.2
The drop of £38,058 in last year’s premium
income is mainly due to rebates and adjust-
ments in workers’ compensation business, and
to a more severe view of the frailty of
motor-cars —or their owners. The poorer
harvest in the wheat belt didn’t help either.
The loss experience, though more favor-
able than in the previous term, was the
second worst in the co.’s history. Results
over the last half-dozen years suggest that
the days of modest loss-rates have departed
with the extension of the co.’s risks. But
the more favorable expense rate has to be
set against that, and profits per cent, of
capital funds are the final test. Last year the
total outgo (£372,570) was £29,378 less than
in the previous term, but the drop in premium
income was £B6BO greater than that, s 0 the
underwriting profit (£17,380) shrank to 4.4
p.c. of the premium income compared with
6, 4.8, 6.2, 6.1 and 1.3 p.c. back to 1923.
Nevertheless the 4.4 p.c. was worth £992
more than 9.2 p.c. was in 1920. Interest and
rents contributed £24,835, much the same
as in the previous term; thus the year’s net
profit (£42,214) was 12.6 p.c. on average
capital compared with 15.2, 15.2, 12.9, 118
and 6 p.c. back to 1923. On the basis of
figures at June 30 shareholders’ funds will
have to earn 6.5 p.c. to pay 10 p.c. on capital
as increased by the present bonus and new
share issue; last year’s net profit was 7.6
p.c. on average funds.
Nearly two years ago the co. sold its head-
quarters freehold, Martin-place, Sydney to
the Colonial Mutual Life for £250,000. and
visible reserves benefited by over £61,000
from the deal. The Mercantile is building
itself a fine home, with plenty of letting
space, a few doors down Pitt-street. The job
is expected to be finished before May next,
but at what cost is not disclosed. Last year
£81,781 was added to the book value of free-
holds (£227,181), and £38,206 was tacked on
to the debt (£23(,262). which includes pro-
vision for unadjusted claims. Public securi-
ties (£459,474) were drawn upon for
£31,776.
The following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows, among other things, what has
happened in connection with the property
deals:—
1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £303,110 £333,750 £333,750
Liabilities . . . . 121,644 199,056 237,262
Freeholds .. . . 231,563 145,400 227,181
Mortgages . . . . 17,204 17,237 17 822
Public securities, etc... 241,611 491,250 459 474
Book debts . . .. 69,645 107,028 80,865
Casll > etc 27,077 12,533 35,153
Policy-holders, of course, are well protected.
At June 30 reserves were 51.9 p.c. and net
assets 143 p.c. of the year’s net premium
income, and there is probably a bit more
strength still hidden in freeholds; also the
new capital will further fortify the posi-
tion.
During the current term there will be a
good deal of money in the new building not
earning anything, but the co.’s outlook is
distinctly bright, and buyers offer 28s. 9d.
for the scrip, which has a net tangible back-
ing of 245. Bd., without attracting sellers.
The return at that figure is 5.7 p.c. on a 10
p.c. basis, after exercising the rights to the
new issue.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd.
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves
£ £ £ £
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = .3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 5799 9 ~ „ 4295 )
Provident Fund, £lOOO ) 604 3,190
1920.. 6363 9 p.c. = 4295 ) infiß
Provident Fund, £looo j 10 4,208
1921.. 6321 10 p.c. = 4829 j QQ „ ....
Provident Fund, £5OO ) 992 6,250
1922.. 6775 10 p.c. = 4829 ) ‘ „ ...
Provident Fund, £5OO ) 3440 6,696
Transferred to capital, £5050 . . 1,646
1923.. 7197 10 p.c. = 5365 (
Provident Fund, £541 )
1924.. 9221 10 p.c. = 63651
Written off premises, £l5OO ) 1762 4,699
Provident Fund, £594 J
1925.. 0172 10 p.c. = 5050]
Written off premises, £l5OO ) 1984 6,683
Provident Fund, £638 |
1926.. 9842 10 p.c. = 5050 ) , noQ ln>7ol>
Provident Fund, £693 ) 4099 10,782
1927.. 7913 10 p.c. = 5050 ] qnq
Provident Fund, £736 ) 212 ' 12,909
Transferred to capital, £12,625.. 284
1928.. 8492 8 p.c. = 6294 )
Provident Fund, £746 ) 1402
Last year £627,559 was added to the
trust business on the books, making the total
£7,958,795; the previous year’s increase was
£314,283. But immediate returns have not
been in keeping with those figures. During
the last couple of years drought and financial
stringency have created doubt as to the
future of values, and thus made it difficult
to realise some investments. Hence last
year’s commission and rents (£38,926) were
£495 less than in the previous term. Sub-
stantial additions were made to premises a
couple of years ago and the staff was in-
creased. This helped exes. (£30,434) along;
they took 78.2 p.c. of last year’s gross profit
compared with 79,9 p.c. and 74.5 p.c. in the
two preceding years. Then to wipe off the
overdraft (£20,000) in connection with the
new building ss. per share (£25.250) was
called in shortly after the close of accounts
in 1927, and the board, satisfied that the
future was right, capitalised £12,625 (2s.
6d. per share) of reserves, reducing the visible
accumulation to £284. All this added £37,875
to capital, making it £88,375, but actually
only £5250 of the increase was additional
working funds.
So one way and another the year’s net
earnings fell away to 10.6 p.c. on average
funds compared with 12.7. 16.6, 16.3 and
16.9 p.c. back to 1924. Although a couple
of points were clipped off the div., which
called for a shade less than three-quarters of
the year’s net earnings, the capitalisation
made the 8 p.c. worth 9.3 p.c. to old holders.
To pay 8 p.c. on capital as it at present
stands total funds at June 30 have to earn
7.8 p.c.
The trust business has grown in this
way:— :
1910 .. £2,135,244 1924 .. £6,326,019
1915 .. 3,382,095 1925 .. 6,596,698
1920 .. 4,770,752 1926 .. 7,016,953
1922 .. 5,679,335 1927 .. 7,331,236
1923 .. 6,096,957 1928 .. 7,958,795
In the past decade the amount of trusts
on the books has more than doubled. Last
year’s expansion was a record, and that
augurs well for future earnings. Trust funds
were invested £2,198,542 in Government
securities : £2,014,792, shares in public cos.;
£1.344.777, real estate; £788,991, mortgages;
£635,465 pastoral properties: other invest-
ments £976,227.
Shareholders’ funds are in this form :
1915. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £7,185 Nil £20,002 £8
Freehold and plant 28,818 £41,203 62,534 63,500
Public securities.. 20,550 21,842 21,842 21,842
Book debts and
cash .. .. 3,727 1,806 5,761 11,327
Of the total assets nearly 66 p.c. is in city-
office property, and over 22 p.c. in Govern-
ment securities; the respective proportions
were 54 p.c. and 39 p.c. in 1915.
Prospects for the current year are for a
good season over most of Queensland, and
that should help realisation of trust proper-
ties. When things improve sufficiently share-
holders can look for something better than
8 p.c. Meanwhile the market, quite satis-
fied with the co.’s prospects, offers 255.
for the scrip. The return at that price
is only 5.6 p.c. on 8 p.c. div. basis; and the
net tangible backing amounts to approxi-
mately 225. per £2 share paid to 17s. 6d.
Yellow Cabs of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards De-
Profit. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
1925*. 17,742 10 p.c. = 11,775 5967 6,942
Loss on De Luxe Assets, £3537 . . 10,479
Goodwill, £5OOO .. .. 15,479
1926.. 74,235 174 p.c. = 46,110 ( aPn
Profits capitalised, £27,506 j
General Reserves disclosed, £25,000. . 10,140
1J27.. 44,111 10 p.c. = 35,792 8319 18,459
Loss on De Luxe assets, £1269 .. 17,190
1928.. 20,580 Nil 20,580 37,770
*8 months, 17 days.
Not quite so much money was thrown about
m taxi hire last year, and there was keen
competition for the fares that were to be
had. That and overhead bit deeply^into earn-
ings again, and the year’s net results fell
away to 5.1 p.c. on average capital compared
with 12.3, 28.2 and 21.2 p.c. back to the
beginning. But £4091 of last year’s earn-
ings was taken to pay the difference between
what had been provided for taxation and the
amount of the 1927 bill. The sum put aside
for depreciation was £74,023 as against
£80,163 in 1927, and £65,178 in 1926. Before
making these provisions trading profits were
written at £98,194 last year ; £121,249, 1927 ;
£134,128, 1926. The co. then had 352 cabs
and a very much freer field than it has now;
at June 30 the cabs totalled 1 502, the same
as at the previous balance.
Extraordinarily good results were won in
1.120, but there was undue haste to hand out
sweets. In addition to a 174 p.c. cash div.
shareholders got a 10 p.c. distribution in
bonus scrip, despite the fact that £14,860 of
capital was still unrepresented by tangible
assets. With the window thus dressed the
market saw golden prosperity reflected far
into the future, and the pound shares rose
to 625. _ 6d. Naturally competition was
quickly in the field, particularly in Sydney,
where taxi-cab registrations have increased
from 684 at June 30, 1926, to 1100 at June
30 last. In Melbourne, on the other hand,
the numbers were 760 and 660 in 1926 and
1927 respectively, and it is believed that there
was a further drop in the total in the past
12 months.
This year the board wisely decided to build
UP strength, so the div. was passed; thus
£20.550 of the year’s net earnings remained
m the business, making the visible accumu-
lation £37,770 (Is. lid. per share) in excess
of the £12,000 Qf intangibles. That was after
allowing for a loss of £1269 on the last of
the fleet and book debts of the De Luxe co.
The doubtful item amongst the assets is
cabs etc. They cost £377,815 (approxi-
mately £752 each), and £200.732 of that had
been written off at June 30. Tyres, uniforms
etc., were in at valuation (£12,389) ; thus
equipped the cabs had an average book value
of £377 each. It is claimed that they are
being written off at less than half their
estimated life, 400,000 miles, which is based
on American experience. That the allow-
ance for depreciation was less last year than
in the previous term is due to the fact that
there was not enough work to keep the fleet
y employed; the total mileage run was
therefore less.
The depreciation allowance, the year’s
undistributed profits and the sale of the
Clialmers-street (Sydney) property enabled
<£oa ™ tc ,’ w iP e out the overdraft
(£34,990) and the mortgage (£10,000) as
well as strengthen the co.’s liquid resources
11ns comparison of balance-sheet figures re-
flects the improvement:—
P ~ ... 1925. 1927. 1928.
laid capital .. .. £196,896 £401,194 £401,219
Mortgage .. .. 10,000 10,000
Overdraft .. .. 34,995
Sundry creditors .. 7,249 4,377 4,381
Freehold . . 102,211 162,150 154,657
Cabs, etc. 1 [ 247,956 177,083
Garage equipment f 117,987-j 16,876 12 587
Tyres, uniforms, etc. J [ 10,605 12,398
,;; • • • • 4,126 29,568 24,051
Book debts .. .. 4,724 26,938 25,567
Cash, investments, etc... 18,648 8,901 45,283
Including stocks (£24,051) the more or less
hqmd surplus (£90,520) was £74,485 stronger
than at the previous balance. Most of the
as represented by cash
mi d Government securities
n r ‘ e i atter ’ , by the wa y> a re
m at £2.62 above face value, which doesn’t
seem to suggest that writing, down is done
m a very wholesale fashion,
tb fi 6 res P 1 1 t of the marked improvement in
the financial position was that the price of
the scrip immediately strengthened. Prio”
to the appearance of the sheet sales were


SAFEST
O F
ALL
SECURITIES
Commonwealth Loan
T'HE remarkable progress of the Loan will mean, almost
* certainly, an earlier closing than was expected. While
this would be highly satisfactory and much to be desired,
it may spell disappointment to holders of loan securities, maturing on
15th September, who have intended to convert. So much new money is
being received that holders delaying too long may find that they have been
excluded from Conversion. This would entail, undoubtedly, idle money and
loss of interest. There is only one wise course—declare at once your intention
to convert, and definitely obviate all risk of disappointment, trouble and
probable loss!
Those with money to invest —whether £lO or £lO,OO0 —and who have
not yet sought the safe and profitable medium of Commonwealth Loan
investment should read the following paragraphs:—
Issue Price,
£9Bj lOj-
Interest
5i °l°
Term, either
7 or 14 years.
a
<i
No Security is Safer! The investment is backed by
the resources of the whole of the Commonwealth.
Any amount may be subscribed from £lO
upwards. Inquire at any Bank or Money Order
Post Office for full particulars.
No State Income Tax is payable on your interest
and you can sell your investment at any time on
the Stock Exchange.
Loan Securities are authorised for the investment
of Trust Funds by Executors and Trustees.
Securities are accepted in payment of Probate.
Only 10 per cent. Deposit need be made and the
Balance paid at any time up to 14th September.
S A
The Average Annual Yield is
for the 7~year term, £slloj3°lq; for the. 14-year term, £sjBil °j t
Full Particulars from—
Banks (including Savings Banks), Money Order Post Offices, and Members of
Stock Exchanges.
EARLE PAGE,
Commonwealth Treasury, Treasurer.
CANBERRA, F.C.T.
F E S T
O F
A EE
SECURITIES,


“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR AUGUST.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
AUGUST NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or Tiie Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Low construction cost is a big economy feature of
Pioneer Wood Pipe. The line can be built at the
job, saving freight and handling charges. Joints
need no caulking and the pipe is easily tapped for
connections. There is no danger of corrosion. Full
particulars from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Head Office, Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* ❖ # *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid' and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * He
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. ■ Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
w sdfg
pOOBD&SOiy
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
A
-Swift 3t Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office : Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
marked at 145.; later 16s. 9d., spot and
forward, was paid. Then, under pressure of
sales, the figure eased to 16s. 3d. The net
tangible backing amounts to 21s. lid., but
10s. Id. of that is in cabs and equipment;
of the balance, 7s. 9d. is freehold; 4s. Id.
surplus liquids. If the other assets are worth
their book value the market, at 16s. 3d.,
prices cabs and equipment at an average
of fill each. Future profits will largely
depend upon whether the provision for de-
preciation proves to be sufficient, and with
over three and a half years’ experience a
pretty reliable estimate should now be pos-
sible.
Carroll-Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
W litten
June, Loss. / Dividends Off. Deficit.
V p r ef Orel 4? P i?
1924.. 2,955 64 p.e. 64 p.c.= 6,048 17,430
Add preliminary exes., £531 .. .. 17,961
Profit.
1925.. 13,417 64 p.c. 64 p.e. = 6,968 11,512
Reserves.
1926.. 39,831 174 „ 30 „,, 20,000 8250 69
1927.. 17,821 124 „ 16j „,, 13,333 4000 557
1928.. 20,830 124 „ 165 „ ~ 13,333 3000 5,054
This co. was formed in Sydney in 1920,
primarily to build the Prince Edward
Theatre, which commenced earning in 1924.
Since then business has shown annual im-
provement and shareholders have been well
treated. The co. had the advantage of a clean
start, there being no goodwill to weigh down
the earning power of capital, and preliminary
exes, were commendably small —£8816 in
1924, reduced to £lOOO since the close of last
accounts.
The opening of new picture theatres in
the metropolitan area last yeai 1 , two large
ones in the city, had not affected the co.’s
business to .Tune 30, and the declared net
profit (£20,830) was £3009 better than the
1927 figure. It included £5OO passed to the
taxation reserve (£6250) not thus far drawn
upon, and £2500 to the depreciation reserve
(£9000). Contributions to these accumula-
tions, some of which may be true profit, are
shown as written off in the table and are
not included with reserves in the last
column. Outgoings on refurnishings and re-
newals, which so far appear to have been
charged against revenue, have been probably
small to date, but are likely to be substantial
in the future.
Paid capital is in 80.000 prefs. and 20.000
ords. Only the prefs. are listed, and their
value as an investment lies largely in their
participating rights. They have priority as
to capita] and share in surplus assets. Also
they are entitled to a cumulative 10 p.c.;
next the ords. get 10 p.c. and the remaining
profit, whether distributed or not, belongs
60 p.c. to the prefs. and 40 p.c. to the
ords. Thus, after allowing for the £3OOO
written off. the balance of last year’s net
earnings (£17,830) was sufficient to give
15.8 p.c. to the prefs. and 25.6 p.c. to the
ords. Actually only 124 p.c. and 16| p.c.
respectively were distributed, and that left
£4497 in the business. Incidentally, the
prospectus provided for the payment of 64
p.c. on both lots of scrip during the construc-
tion period ; hence the handing out of divs.
before they were earned and the consequent
piling up of the deficit, which amounted to
£17.961 at the close of accounts in 1924.
Since then the whole of that amount has been
wiped out, £5054 of reserves have been
accumulated and the prefs. have averaged a
shade over 14 p.c. and the ords. a shade
more than 21 p.c.
The fatness of the 1926 profits was due to
a surplus of £24,619 on the sale of the
Victoria Arcade. The disposal of this
property enabled the board to reduce the
mortgage from £161,793 to £60,350, at
which latter figure it still stands. Also at
June 30 there was £6lO coming to sundry
creditors; liquids totted up to £15,013, in-
cluding £14,577 in Government securities
and cash.
The market for the prefs. is about 265.
The return at that price, after allowing for
the final div. (Is. 6d.) is 10.1 p.c. on a 124
p.c. div. basis, and last year’s net profit
(£17,850) was a little more than twice their
maximum annual requirements. The back-
ing amounts to 265. 3d. in niet tangibles,
mostly freehold and equipment. The whole
£lOO,OOO of capital is covered by net tan-
gibles of approximately 21s. per share, so
thus far the pref. rights to surplus assets
are not worth much.
The B. H. Central, owned by the Sulphide
Corp., presumably because its costs demand
decreases, has started on the installation of
an oil-driven generating plant to replace coal
and steam. Colin Frazer, chairman of South
directors and director of the Zinc Corpora-
tion, would say nothing when at the Hill
recently concerning the larger installation for
the “big three” beyond intimating that a
decision on the question of oil or steam would
be reached within six months.
* * * x
Broughton Edge’s geophysical people are
getting to work. Dr. Bieler will conduct
electrical tests in the Lake George copper-
mining district (N.S.W.), where Mr. Edge
has recently been working. Edge has
gone to Cloncurry to decide whether a
geophysical survey will be made amongst
the copper lodes there. Dr. N. B. Lewis
is at Yarram, iu Gippsland, making gravi-
metric tests with an Eotvos torsion balance.
All these experts have had much experience
in delineating sulphide ores. But we are
worse off for oil than anything, and that fact
shouldn’t be lost sight of.
*'* * *
Guinea Gold, whose leases on the Bulolo
River and Edie Creek have been optioned
by W. H. Corhonld, now in London, has
received a cable asking for an extension to
the end of the next year. The idea is to
thoroughly prospect and test the leases be-
fore forming a co. to work these and adjoin-
ing areas. It is stated that Leslie Urquhart
proposes to finance the work of prospecting
and testing, spending up to £200,000 as
developments justify, pending survey and
granting of titles.
Jjs ❖
Rockhampton thrilled when the news came
through that an option ha l been taken over
Mt. Morgan which meant the reopening of
it. Expressions of faith in the old show
were showered in the press by business men
and others. Central Queensland is to be
asked to put up £50,000 of the necessary
quarter of a million new capital; and now
the moment is imminent for Rocky and its
back country to face the acid test and back
its professions of faith.
* * * #
The omens >are that Stanhills tinfield
(N.Q.) may be in for a fall. Two com-
panies are in process of formation, and con-
siderable capital is to be spent on a 20-head
battery and all appurtenances. There are
good surface tin shows on the field, and
the shoots may go to depth; but the “Wild
Cat” protests that development work gen-
erally is largely camouflage, and is wholly
inadequate for the operations contemplated.
Instead of spending money on treatment
plant, mine development should take prece-
dence. Too many fields in Queensland have
been spoilt by reversing that order. All
shows average rather low-grade ore on the
Stanhills field, and on that account extra
caution is necessary to ensure large quanti-
ties of mill feed.
* * * *
The Minnie Moxham, near Mareeba
(N.Q.), has been no more fortunate than
her twin sister Northcote Antimony. One
fairly good crushing was got out, and it
looks as if holders then took fortune by the
forelock and passed the baby on. Whatever
the reason, funds ran short and the mine
closed down without even a decent prospect-
ing campaign. The “Wild Cat” was dubious
from the start; not because it feared any
lack of 2oz. stone, but because of the diffi-
culty of extraction and the need of a better
process than was previously employed at
the Minnie!.
# * * *
The Mother Lode at Mt. Wright, Ravens-
wood (N.Q.), closed down over a month ago.
The crushings were entirely below expecta-
tions after connection between tunnel and
winze was made in order to cut down mining
costs. In addition boiler trouble came at
the critical moment, and the co., being weak
financially, succumbed. Johnny Moran, good
mining speculator and well and widely
known in the North, was the biggest sufferer.
* * * *
The Vic. Mines Department has been drill-
ing a No. 3 borehole at Lakes Entrance for
oil and gas. No. 1 Lake Bunga hole bot-
tomed at 1100 feet, and gas, oil and water
have been running to waste for over three
years. No. 2 bore, nearer the township, also
struck oil and gas at about 1100 feet; but
water was allowed to get into the hole, so it
had to be sealed down. The new bore is
being drilled at Kalimna, opposite the Lakes
Entrance. The drill is down to 800 feet in
the same strata as that through which the
No. 2 bore was sunk; but the job is being
surrounded with an absurd amount of secrecy.
* * * *
South Aus. Oil Wells Co. has met a
calamity head-on. Sand, coming into bore-
hole No. 3, at Nelson (Vic.), has made it
impossible to recover the drilling bit and 960
feet of casing. It is bad luck, because the
hole was reaching an interesting stage. H.
S. Lyne, general manager, recommends drill-
ing No. 4 bore 240 yards south of No. 2.
This site, he says, is better geologically than
No. 3, being nearer the axis of the anticline,
and adds that it will take 4% months to go
to 1900 ft., bar accidents. Plant can go to
3000 ft. It will cost £BOO to replace the lost
pipes. It looks like reconstruction; and
that may not be altogether undesirable, be-
cause overhead has been far too high for
what is merely a prospecting concern.
* * * *
Local optimists are boosting Freney’s
future as a result of the recent discovery
of oily substance at 2000 ft. in its Westralian
bore. The co. sent a cable to Dr. Wade ask-
ing what to do next. Wade replied .advis-
ing the unwatering of the bore and if oil
didn’t flow freely to go on boring. The
board has decided to do this.
Adelaide has been offered an option on the
Crcesus South at Kalgoorlie. For years
this show was worked by the Oroya Links
and then abandoned. It was immediately
acquired by the usual local syndicate, and
the usual rich values were reported to be
showing in places which had previously been
represented as blanks. Now interested people
are whooping about prospects and the good
thing that the co. missed. And the queer
part of it is that many good things have
been missed by Kalgoorlie cos. in recent
years; and the number of mine officials who
hold interests in syndicates formed to get
hold of them is quite surprising.
* * * *
Twin Hills, one of the West’s latest and
allegedly best gold finds, l«is attracted several
of the lame, halt and impecunious among the
smaller Adelaide cos. Some are following
reefs, others are costeening or shaft sinking,
while others again are simply writing home
about their prospects. Whether the ore
bodies on the field can be relied on for a
foot ahead is still undecided.
H» H*
Jock Thomson returned to Westralia the
other day with sufficient British backing to
quarry iron ore at Yampi Sound, provided
the Japs agree to buy it on the spot. If
they do, Thomson says, they will take 150,000
tons the first year, 300,000 tons the second,
500,000 tons the third and 1,000,000 tons
per annum for a further nine or ten years
at least. It is proposed to employ white
labor to break out the ore and deliver it to
the Jap ships.
x * * *
Amongst other things, chairman Collier
told shareholders at the Lake View and Star
meeting that the co. had purchased the
Chaffers lease in 1915, believing that the
rich Golden Horseshoe lodes would probably
enter it at depth. Owing to the want of
sufficient funds and the heavy expenditure
incurred iii taking over and working the
Ivanhoe property the co. had not previously
been in a position to develop the Chaffers
lease. Arrangements had been made with
the Golden Horseshoe to extend its lower
levels into the Chaffers. The developments
encouraged the Lake View directors to believe
that some of the other rich shoots worked
in the Golden Horseshoe might ultimately
be found to extend not only into the Chaffers,
but at depth southward into the Hannans
Star section of the Lake View property. As
a result of the recent issue of new shares
the co. now has ample capital to carry out
a comprehensive development programme.
* * x x
Chairman Whitfield, of the Nortfi Kalgurli,
after a short stay at Kalgoorlie, points to
a skeleton or two in the cupboard. He says
that, although last year’s gold production
was valued at £1,269,471, only £31,500 was
paid in divs. Where then, he asks, is the
inducement for fresh capital to come in?
He declares there is none, and won’t be until
costs are reduced either by cheapening power
or gold extraction, or both. He reckons that
if the field is going to last it will have to be
worked as a 7 or 8 dwt. proposition. At pre-
sent ore of that value barely covers expenses
on some mines, and shows a substantial loss
on others.
* * * *
Rawang’s accounts for the year ended
March 31 show a net profit of £57,514, which,
with £14,029 brought forward, makes a
total of £71,543. Four Is. divs. called for
£48,000, leaving £23,543 to be carried for-
ward. Rawang is one of the few Malayan
shows combining both dredging and sluicing
plants, and the above figures relate to the
joint returns. Nothing seems to have been
written off last year for depreciation of mine
and plant—£so,ooo was thus allotted for
1927. Last years profits were exceedingly
good, but it would appear that lean times are
ahead. For the last, four months 'the sluic-
ing plant has won tlie honors for production,
having realised £5368 in profits as against
£2lOO from the dredge.
Last month’s 20 tons from the dredge and
30 tons from the sluicing plant brought in
only £1750 net. During the last three
months profits have averaged' £l5OO per
month, not sufficient to pay a dividend of 6d.
per quarter on. the 240,000 £1 shares. At
325. 6d. these shares certainly seem too
high.
* * * *
Tujoh Tin, a subsidiary of Thomo Tin,
a Melbourne prospecting and holding co., has
been added to the list. Paid capital is
£186,805 in £1 shares, 73,000 p.c. cum.
par. prefs. and 178,805 ords. Of the latter
100,000 are paid to 7s. —98,195 shares are
in reserve. The property is in the Kinta
Valley, and the selected area of 250 acres
has an average depth of 70ft., with an esti-
mated yardage value of .88lb. The balance
of the holding has been bored in three sec-
tions averaging ,951 b., .951 b. and .781 b. A
dredge with a nominal capacity of 200,000
cubic yards per month was ordered last May,
and delivery is expected within a year. The
district in which the property is situated is
notorious for its heavy clay, which makes
digging difficult and tries the dredges severely.
Tujoh promoters, however, claim that the
clay in their area is mixed with sand, and is
fairly free for dredging.
* * * *
Tinsongkhla, a Melbourne-promoted show
with a property in Southern Siam, is in-
creasing capital from the original £lBO,OOO to
£225,000. This is to be done by raising the
original 180,000 shares, of which 141,000
were issued, from 20s. to 255. The dredge,
a machine of 140,000 c.y. monthly capacity,
began digging at the beginning of July. It
is reported that 30,000 cubic yards have
been dug in 334 hours, much heavy clay
being encountered. Nothing has been said
about recoveries, but the dredge was down
35 feet, the average depth of the area, which
is estimated to go about a pound a yard.
# * * *
Pungah Tin hopes to commence produc-
tion by the end of 1929. Two steam dredges
have been ordered, each of 150,000 c.y.
capacity. The cost is £60,035 apiece; ship-
ment is to commence in October. Pungah
is a large area, and it was originally intended
to work three dredges.
* * * *
Muang Tin is not loitering. An option,
adding some 4,000,000 yards to the original
property, has been exercised, and the ground
is said to have been well proved. Ship-
ments of dredge superstructure and mach-
inery have begun.


THREE SOURCES OF PROFIT!
A well-known Actuary has estimated that this Company is
well able to earn the following profits from its three departments:
MORTGAGE DISCOUNTING, 17 PER CENT.
TRADE DISCOUNTING, 24 PER CENT.
MERCANTILE DISCOUNTING, 15 PER CENT.
* * * *
The oldest investment in the world is the mortgage loan on
real estate. It is an essential and necessary feature of modern life.
It is an investment founded on the basis of all values, on the source
of all wealth and on the first necessity of human life.
On real estate as a basis is erected the whole complex struc-
ture of our modern civilisation. And real estate is always least
affected in periods of financial and commercial depression.
* * h- *
There is no better, safer, sounder or more satisfactory invest-
ment than a mortgage security on real estate. It yields a larger
net income than any other investment qf an equal degree of safety.
* * * *
Yet, despite the admitted safety of mortgage discounting, the
Directors of National Mortgage & Discount Co., Ltd., make the
investment doubly secure by insuring EVERY transaction against
any loss that might arise from any cause.
* %■ * *
The profits derivable from this class of finance are sufficiently
large not only to permit of the payment of handsome dividends,
but also to enable the Company to build up strong reserves.
* v # *
Even if the Company employed only its own capital, it should
have no difficulty whatever in earning 15 or 16 per cent, per
annum. But by employing borrowed capital, it can produce a
return of 22 per cent. Much higher profits than this have been
earned by well-managed companies.
* * * *
But mortgage discounting is only ONE department of National
Mortgage & Discount Co., Ltd. Its Mercantile Discounting Depart-
ment is capable of yielding even better returns. There is an
enormous amount of financing effected on the security of sound
Trade Bills, Bond and Store Warrants, Bills of Lading, etc., a very
profitable branch of mercantile finance that has been largely left
to individual financiers, to whom many business firms are frequently
forced to pay exorbitant rates of interest. The Company s profits
are not governed so much by high rates charged as by a quick
turnover of its capital.
Another department of the Company’s operations is the dis-
counting of Trade Ledger Accounts, a class of profitable business
which has hardly yet been touched in Australia, but represents a
considerable proportion of the business of the large Overseas
Discounting Companies.
V V
The policy of National Mortgage & Discount Co., Ltd., is to
extend fully-secured credit facilities to a vast number of large and
small traders and the general public, whose only recourse in the
past was the private money-lender. It proposes to solve the borrow-
ing problems of the importer, wholesale and retail merchant and
manufacturer which are, to a large extent, outside the province of
the commercial banks.
* * * *
The Company offers a service which will create in the com-
munity a financial institution born of an economic necessity. At
the same time, it provides a highly commendable investment,
netting unusually high returns brought about by the pyramiding of
funds and the multiplied turnover of capital.
The Company buys nothing—sells nothing. Its capital is lent,
not spent. Its profits are made, not by excessive charges for loans,
but by assembling the collective credit of a given number of
investments, supplemented by its large capital to borrow from its
bankers at a lower rate of interest than it is receiving and to reinvest
the proceeds at a higher rate.
* * * *
National Mortgage & Discount Co., Ltd., is the only Australian
Company which has three separate sources of income and profit,
each being capable of earning a high dividend rate. Each of its
three departments will be managed by financial men who have had
vast experience in finance.
The Company, by using its capital over and over again many
times a year in hundreds of transactions, can earn profits ranging
between 20 and 40 per cent, per annum. This is the well-considered
opinion of a well-known actuary.
* * * *
The Directors have already received numerous requests fot
finance, thus supporting the claim that there is abundant business
available.
V
The number and character of those who have already applied
for shares is an unanswerable tribute to the profitable nature of the
Company’s three sources of income and the soundness of its security
NATIONAL MORTGAGE AND DISCOUNT CO. LIMITED.
(Registered under the Companies Acts, N.S.W., 1899-1918.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000.
100,000 Eight Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each
participating up to 10 per cent, offered for public sub-
scription, and payable on subscription in the same manner
as Ordinary Shares.
200,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each offered for public subscription.
500,000
payable—
-2/6 per share on application. 2/6 per share on allotment.
2/6 per share one month after allotment and the balance
as and when required in calls not exceeding one shilling
per share, at intervals of not less than one month.
200,000 Shares to be held in reserve.
DIRECTORS:
V. A. C. PARTRIDGE, Esq., F.A.1.5., Chairman and Governing Director
Australian Federal Life and General Assurance Co., Ltd., Chairman and
Managing Director, People’s Prudential Assurance Co., Ltd., Federal
Life Building, King and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
E. E. BROOKS, Esq., F.1.A.A., Director Sweet Bros, Ltd., and Sheffield Manu-
facturing and Plating Co., Ltd., 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ALBERT PARKER, Esq., Director Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
(Two other Directors may be appointed.)
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SOLICITORS:
MESSRS. DEANE, HASELHURST & HOWARD,
Ocean House, Martin Place, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
MESSRS. W. BRUCE RAINSFORD & CO.,
Incorporated Public Accountants and Auditors, 1 14a Pitt Street, Sydney.
MANAGERS AND SECRETARIES AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
MESSRS. BROOKS & DEANE,
Incorporated Public Accountants, 1 5 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ORGANISING BROKERS:
MILLER’S INVESTMENTS, LIMITED,
Executive Offices, Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
NO VENDORS’ OR PROMOTERS’ SHARES
Every Share issued by the Company will be paid for in cash,
free shares will be given to Directors, Promoters, Vendors,
anyone else.
No
nor
100,000 Option Shares are to be issued to the holders of the first
100,000 shares, entitling them to take up at par value within a
stated period further shares in the proportion of share for share.
When these are applied for no further Options will be issued.
In the opinion of the Directors, it will not be necessary to call up
more than 10/- per share, the uncalled capital being available as
security for borrowing purposes, on which the Company will make
much more profit than it could by trading entirely on its own capital.
PROSPECTUS COUPON.
To MILLER’S INVESTMENTS, LIMITED,
Organising Brokers jor National Mortgage and Discount Co., Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 2558 E.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus of above Company, without
any obligation whatever to me.
NAME
ADDRESS
S.B.


Inkpot and Palette.
Johannes C.< Andersen, the gifted Maori-
lander and an occasional Red Page con-
tributor. is to be liberally dealt with by tbe
publishing house of Ilarrap, which will
shortly give to the public a finely got up
book of “The Myths and Legends of the
Polynesians.
The latest journalistic shallop to be
launched down Sydney’s Inky Way is the
Car Drivers’ Weekly. In addition to
tlie usual features looked for by those who
go down into the roads in cars, there are
several new ones, notably a column entitled
“The Literary Motorist.”
“Van Dunk”: Though the Dutchman is
reported to be taking little interest in the
Olympic Games as such, he is evidently not
beyond turning the polyglot invasion of
Amsterdam to his financial benefit. The
Amsterdam llandelsblad has set what
must be a precedent in journalism by
publishing a daily supplement printed in at
least three foreign languages. Visitors to
the Olympiad can find in this, not only the
results of the Games, but general news.
Tbe quality of the work in
the 49th Annual Exhibition of
the Royal Art Society, hung in
the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment Gallery, strikes a good
average, but the imaginative
touch is left almost entirely to
Sid Long and John Banks. “A
Summer’s Day” shows the for-
mer artist’s ability to depict a
romance full of sunshine and
contentment. Banks is more
prone to definite decorative fan-
tasies ; his “Serenity” is one
of several charming things. A
newcomer to big canvases is
Raymond Lindsay, whose
“January 26, 1806,” struck
Dame Melba so forcibly that
she promptly became its pur-
chaser. Some of the gamins in
the foreground arc reminiscent
of Norman Lindsay’s urchins
(Ray is Norman’s second son) ;
but the grouping is excellent
and one can almost feel the
excitement which pervades the
crowd on the announcement of
Bligh’s deposition. W. A. Bow-
ring has a lively portrait of
Arundel Orchard in action, with
the delicate fingers admirably
portrayed; G. S. Watkins is
less successful with one of the
hands of his “Pandora,” who
looks like a nice girl lifting up
her face for a kiss as a return
for the jewel-case she holds in
her lap. A portrait of George
Collingridge shows Watkins to
more advantage. Lister Lister
has a number of typical can-
vases, of which “Summer” is the
.most appealing. Of Charles
Bryant’s harbor views the most
animated is “G.P.S. Regatta,
21st April, 1928.” Alfred Cof-
fey’s “Lake Illawarra from
Balsch’s Look-out” ought to
earn him a subsidy from the
people who cater for tourists at
Robertson. The best floral study
is Alesse G. Kane’s “Phlox,” a
small but delightful effect. Sal-
vana’s “The Mountain Road” is
alluring; and A. Henry Full-
wood has a massive “Mt. Cook,
N.Z.,” filled with cold air, fine
sunshine and delicately worked
reflections. Dattilo Rubbo is
best in two head studies, and
his “Silvery Light” is effective;
and A. E. Maiden has some very
attractive stills. An excellently
modelled kneeling girl done by
Charles Wheeler suggests a
shortage of towels after the bath ;
the flesh tones are so cold that
the artist should have given the
lady a wrap. In the water-
colors M. J. MacNally scores
with “Brown Trees” and “The
Big Gums,” C. Savage has some
colorful efforts, T. Freidensen
displays his usual sureness, and
Frank Lynch’s lively bronze re-
creation of “The Australian
Venus” amounts to almost an
event in the society’s history
There are a number of others,
some bright little work by G. Iv.
Townsend and a few of Eric
Langker’s and G. Lyall Trin-
dall's among the most striking.
Though the catalogue titles
for A. G. Newbury’s show of oils
at Melbourne Athenaeum sug-
gest a dental clinic, “Gums,”
“Red Gums,” “White Gums,”
“Aged Gums,” “Spreading
Gums” —every variety, in fact
except “Swollen Gums” —his
latest parade is actually more
diversified than any previous one. It in-
cludes seascapes, skyscapes, and one snap-
shot of a girl in a blue dress bending down
in a landscape of flowery beauty which sug-
gests that the painter might have become
an adept at the figure if lie had not
exiled himself amongst the trees at Eltham.
Still, even Newbury’s trees have a per-
sonal and intimate appeal and look as if
they had names and might come if they
were called.
An economist in color:
Some painters are prodigal with the color, and
make their canvases bas-reliefs in paint; but John
D. Moore, who uses water-color in broad effects,
makes his board work for him—sometimes too much.
Tlie artist, whose exhibition is hung in the Mac-
quarie Gallery, Bligh-street, Sydney, has his own curi-
ous method. Although a few of his pictures are mere
drawings with a lightly colored brush, and “Castle-
reagh-street,” if it had not been named, might have
been sold to a newspaper for a guessing competition,
others are strikingly effective, especially those that
experiment in cloud effects. “Morning at Wentworth
Falls” is a mass of confusion, and in “Summer” some
weird animals, presumably sheep, browse in the
shade of an arboreal nightmare, but “Mount Ovens
from Glanmire” is impressive, a misty phantasy,
“Seven A.M.,” has an element of poetry, a glimpse
of “North Sydney” is delightful, and a “Still Life”
in the shape of a brown jug viewed through a glass
is clever.
“Spare Sub”: Australian newspapers are
perpetually drawing attention to the ignor-
ance of Australian geography displayed by
the British and American press; the beam
in their own eye is the continual confusion
of Papua and Mandated New Guinea. Re-
cently a report by the Director of Agricul-
ture in M.N.G. was released to the Sydney
press, and every daily, including the usually
precise Herald, quoted the document as of
Papuan origin. Even the evening papers
should by this time know the difference
between a possession that came under Aus-
tralian control some 50 years ago and the
ex-German territory which was handed into
this country’s keeping under mandate, and
with a vast amount of advertisement, in
1920.
“Wigs”: The first playwright to w’ritc a
drama on an air-stunting subject is Sacha
Guitry, who has already about 30 to
his credit. Partial to surnames for his
titles (“Pasteur,” “Dubureau,” “Mozart,”
The new minister was—*
very popular
until he bought—
a motor-bike
'gave the girl from the pub
a lift—
and —-
was found' like this.
MORE CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
etc.), he calls his piece “Lindbergh.” and,
with himself in the name-part, is staging it
at the Paris Chatelet.
Kodak Ltd.’s Sydney gallery was given
over last week to a show of bromoils, mostly
in colors, from the camera and brush of F.
Vaudrey-Robinson, of Launceston. There are
some very pretty things in the collection —
the feeling for color and arrangement is that
of a J. J. Hilder, The draughtsmanship is
excellent—that’s the camera’s job—and while
it may not be the highest order of art to
color drawings made by old Sol, some of the
results obtained justify any means. Some
almost-nude studies of the female form in
monochrome are cleverly posed, but the per-
fect model is a rare bird and photography,
even when given the latitude of bromoil
printing, is a little too faithful to make such
excursions entirely pleasing.
“Santander”: Harrison Owen, who has
derived sufficient from his playwriting to
launch out as a house-owner in South Ken-
sington (Lond.), may yet achieve the dis-
tinction of having his comedy “The Happy
Husband” staged in three continents. Fol-
lowing the London success came the fashion-
able New York run, from which he was
catching £l5O a week in royalties, and there
is still a chance that the Firm will give
it an innings in Australia. Some while
back a Melbourne production was mooted;
but the leading lady chosen objected to
appear in Owen’s comedy as a dearie who
had had a cocktail too much. So “The
Happy Husband” goes to bed once more in
the J.C.W. museum until a Bernhardt can
be found with the requisite stage thirst.
Two art shows in Brisbane:—
T , „ „ . . , ~
Sir John Goodwin went several times to see Lionel
Lindsay’s exhibition of water-colors, etchings and
pastels in the Public Library rooms. Several sales
have been made of both etchings and color work, the
™ ,,m p 5“ h „ f p r,. ,rT"f popular.
“A Pannikin oi Flour, a bush study, was sold
directly the show opened, and numerous etchings will
remain in Brisbane for the good of its artistic soul.
Another picture exhibition is that of Gwen-
dolyn Grant in the Lyceum Club rooms. Mrs.
Grant has done exceedingly well in a portrait of Dr.
Cumbrae Stewart, in his scarlet robes and official
air. She is to be congratulated upon this, and upon
her “debutante,” Dorothy Webster, daughter of
George Webster, Brisbane, a maiden who inherits
father’s brains and histrionic ability. Mrs. Grant
also shows a charming glimpse of the gum-shadowed
road near Scarborough, Moreton Bay, and a character-
istic portrait of a dear old lady. Her next effort
will be an oilpainting of Mrs. M. Forrest, the
writer.
“S.T.S.” : About the oddest tiling in sight,
in the way of journalistic announcements,
is the declaration now constantly printed in
the Mail, Adelaide’s Sunday newspaper,
that it has no connection with the Mail
Newspapers Co. Naturally it had, at first;
but when the parent co. went into liquida-
tion, about 1923, a News Co., Ltd., was
foi-med to buy the Sunday paper and start
an afternoon daily News as well. The old
co. (or, technically and legally, another of
the same name) carried on, with a general-
printing business; so that, ajLthougli the
Mail is run by a limited co., letters ad-
dressed to the Mail Co., Ltd., are always
going round the wrong corner.
“Bent Pin”: Vaudevillain Horace Bent
was not born at Geelong, as several Poverty
Pointers have averred, but at Windsor
(N.S.W.), where his father, Andrew, ran a
newspaper. It was from Geelong, however,
that Horace started on his vaudeville ad-
ventures. Andrew, who was the first com-
positor in Melbourne, setting up and machin-
ing on a hand-press the sheet John Fawkner
started (the press now in the Melbourne
Museum belonged actually to Bent), subse-
quently worked on the Geelong Advertiser
for 50 years. Andrew’s father w r as the
founder of the Hobart Town Gazette, now
the Mercury, Tassy’s first newspaper, and
later he published Bent’s News in Sydney.
My facts are reliable; I happen to be a
Bent myself, and also followed the printing
business—l was for 10 years a comp, with
Syd. Day, wdien his habitat was the rear of
The Bulletin office.
“Bluenose”: Rev. R. B. S. Hammond,
chief bass-drummer for the N.S.W. Prohibi-
tion party can hold his own in the mixed
metaphor competition. In the first of his
“Personal Chats to the Public” lie says:—-
Banish from your minds the effect created up to
the present by the veritable Niagara of biased news-
paper matter that has been belching forth from the
poisoned smoke stacks of the Liquor Party’s propa-
ganda bureau.
Niagara belching from a poisoned smoke
stack should be well worth seeing.
“Coot”: Tell “L. 0.” (B.
l/8/'2S) that baby Araluen
Kendall’s grave was 1 o c a t e d
about three years ago in the
Melbourne General Cemetery by
a member of the Australian
Literature Society. She died in
1870, when the poet, as he has
himself told, was in the deepest
poverty. Last year the Litera-
ture Society succeeded in raising
enough funds to erect a neat
memorial over the grave, and it
intends each year to hold a
Kendall pilgrimage there.
Although best known for his
black-and-white work, Leason is
one of the most accomplished
painters of the realistic school
in Australia. He was once en-
gaged on a portrait of Harry
Wotton, the actor. The canvas
was mounted in a dark corner
of Leason’s studio, at the top of
a Sydney building. Leason was
cleaning his brushes when a
visitor dropped in. “Hullo,
Perce,” he said. Then he looked
over the artist’s shoulder.
“Hullo, Harry,” he added. “How
the blazes did you get here?"
The energetic Tom Roberts,
who was 72 last March but
still rambles and works vigor-
ously—he has lately been in
Tasmania on a painting tour-
sold his last big picture, “Bailed
Up,” in Sydney for £500; the
purchaser is lending it to the
N.S.W. Gallery indefinitely.
Roberts started the picture 25
years ago when he was staying
with friends in the New Eng-
land district. He met the coach-
driver concerned in the bush-
ranging incident on the spot and
the scene was re-constructed for
his benefit. The rough sketch
only became a picture this
year.
“T.P.”: Speaking of illegible
fists (B. 25/7/’2B), a worse-
writer than Hackett of the
West Australian or S.A.
Premier Kingston was Professor
C. 11. Pearson, Oxford historical
authority and Minister of Edu-
cation (Vic.) in the early ’eight-
ies. The Age employed a special
comp, to set up his stuff, which
looked like shaky shorthand.
Horace Greeley was once con-
sidered the world’s worst writer,
but when I showed an Ameri-
can, who knew Greeley’s fist
intimately, some of Pearson’s
screed he reckoned his country-
man wasn’t in the running.
“Ilamfat”: Mrs. G. M. V.
Kearney, well known to Bulle-
tin verse-readers, whose effort
was the most impressive of the
five Australian one-acters re-
cently produced at Burdekin
House, Sydney, long ago sold a
play to .Timmy Williamson him-
self and had no difficulty about
it. Only the first act was sent
at first, hut J.C-.W. promptly
asked for the rest and paid over
£5O, with an offer of royalties
to follow. The first act was all
of the play that, was left after
the fire at Her Majesty’s, which
occurred whilst “Ben Hur” was
being produced; the rest had
been handed to one of the Wil-
liamson stage managers to read
as a preliminary to production.
Mrs. Kearney found herself
unable to rewrite the balance
and wanted JjC.W. to take back
his £5O. He refused; instead, he later
handed back the first-act M.S., remarking
that it would make a good one-act play by
itself. The effort, “Tantalus,” with three
others, is now T under consideration in Lon-
don.
“R. 8.”: Apparently no one can say for
certain that Kendall ever visited Araluen (B.
l/8/’2B), but evidence in favor of the pro-
bability -will be found in “The Poet Ken-
dall,” by Mrs. Hamilton-Gray, the result of
many years’ searching of Kendall personalia.
Through the Hawden family, whose founder
lived in the district in the ’forties, it was
learned that the poet had stayed, about 1859
or ’6O. at Kiora, a few miles from Araluen,
with his brother Basil. Local gossip often
touches ou “the young Kendalls” wdio came
to Araluen in the early days of the gold
rush, but this may be as unreliable as the
story of the baby Araluen’s grave.
“Slow and steady wins the day ” —
When I try it people say
“Nothing venture nothing win,”
Or they counsel with a grin
“Always look before you leap!”
So I did; and now I weep
A t the m ocking wisdom, tossed ;
, “He who hesitates is lost.”
victoria. Dan B.


STONEWALL*
SHOES FOR MEN
Ho**»
VI
Write Desk B jar Catalogue.
“STONEWALL”
Watertight Two-Piece Boot.
Bl7—Gen. PIGSKIN, also Tan
Chrome Leather, i dec., stitched
and screwed soles. Special design,
2-piece vamp.
With Stonehide Soles, 27/6.
Postage, 1/6. Interstate, 2/8.
JACKSON'S C?
"STONEWALL’ STORES
Cnr Pith 6 Goulburn S b . s Sydney
'•Such a reputation is not won overnight ”
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d 20 for 1/6
Jtfajor Drapkin <6 Co.. London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co..""ltd.
'mrww*
1 Hjy
VO
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Blacklip” : In reply to “Claude Weston”
(B. 6/6/’2B) re the gympie-gympie, there
are many kinds in the Queensland scrub,
from the Blackall coast range northwards.
The remedy is usually handy—leaves of the
cunjeegong. Pluck these and rub well on the
affected part; or, better still, take roots, pulp
them and apply as a poultice.
si: sj: *
“Let Go”: The Proserpine (N.Q.) dis-
trict boasts a Marathon weight-carrier in
the person of an
Italian farmer. He
carried on his back
to his fai’m, 10
miles up river,
rations, mostly
potatoes, onions
and flour, weighing
2cwt. He left after
noon, and had some
of the spuds for his tea at sundown.
* * * *
“Soda” : In my travels trough copra-land
I have seen only one two-headed cocoanut
palm, and am told I shall never see another.
The monstrosity is on one of Lever’s plan-
tations on Guadalcanar, British Solomons.
The trunk is unusually thin and tall, and
forking takes place about 20 feet from the
ground; two slender branches curve outward
and upward like the limbs of a pandanus
palm to a height of about 15 feet above the
fork, terminating in identical twin heads
whose tips are dead level and 12 feet apart.
The natives give the thing a wide berth,
WELL, ONE OR THE OTHER.
“There’s old Bill again. Ain’t ’e a corker?”
“A bloomin’ un-corker if yer arsk me.”
believing that it is the day-time form of a
double-headed debil-debil who prowls about
the district at night kai-kaing belated
niggers with both sets of teeth. The tree
went unnoticed among the other palms until
more than seven years had elapsed and all,
save it, were bearing. Five years later it
bore a crop of nine extra-large nuts.
The manager, with roseate dreams of wealth
pouring in from a special breed of double-
headers, did everything but sit on those nuts
in an endeavor to get them to germinate,
This they unanimously declined to do. Though
the palm has now weathered the sou’-east
for nearly 20 seasons, not one nut has it
added to the nine.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
MRS. DAG: “Is your ’usband still able to earn ’is own livin’?”
MRS. SAG: “Yus, I think he mus’ be—I haven’t seen ’im for a fortnight.”
“Cooramin”: “Talkin’ about rifle shots,”
said Larry. “I was on a station near Bin-
gera when bush-fires swept through that
district. The boss’s hayshed caught alight,
an’ when we got there we finds the old
sheep-dog tied up alongside. You couldn’t
get nearer than 40 yards of the poor brute
for the heat; so I gets a rifle an’ aims for
the edge of the collar, which was about a
16th of an inch thick. A fellow there bet
me a pound that I’d hit the dog. ‘Right-o,’ I
says, an’ lets go. The bullet cut through the
collar as clean as a whistle —never hurt a
hair of his head. The old chap, when the
chain dropped off him, bounded tip to me
almost delirious with joy. I’ll tell you who
was there at the time” “I was one,”
said Jimmy the Nark. “An’ I remember the
boss told you to shoot the dog, an’ you
missed him.”
He . H= * H:
“Pick”: An instance of how birds prey
upon fish was given recently on the N.S.W.
South Coast when Sherringham Lake tore
its way through the sandbar and rushed out
to sea. In the shallows that remained were
myriads of young mullet and bream. At
once they were set upon by regiments of
waterfowl. Lines of pelicans, cranes, shags
and gulls diving, splashing and beating the
water traversed the lake again and again,
driving the scurrying fish into the bays and
ashore. The feasting lasted for several
days, with ever-increasing numbers of ban-
queters, until there were no fish left.
He * He • He
“Mac-Ropus” : That harmless old survivor
from the dim ages, the Tasmanian tiger, is
going the way of the emu and of Truga-
ninni’s people. In the early days his taste
for mutton made him unpopular, and for a
long time now his only habitat has been
the dense forest country in the roughest
parts of the island. As he will often return
in his wanderings along his former tracks
he can be snared, and the high prices nowa-
days given for Tasmanian furs in general
make him a rich prize. The rarity of the
old prowler makes him worth about £25
taken alive, and it looks as if the time will
come when the only living specimens of his
kind will be in foreign zoos. But more
are killed in the snares than survive.
* * i|J *
“Toki”: The methods of catching beche-
de-mer mentioned by “J.R.A.” (B. 23/5/’2B)
are not favored by fishermen in Torres
Strait, though they have been tried a number
of times. The strong tides make the manipu-
lation of the spiked weight a matter of great
difficulty, at times almost an impossibility.
Another disadvantage lies in the exposure of
Sharks seem to have a particular
anything trailed from a boat, and casual!ties
have occurred in this way. in the strait tne
fish are generally gathered from the Shoals
and reefs by native boys and gills, w ,
wearing only goggles, slip over the sude and
dive for the slug. The deep-sea varieties, the
most valuable, are obtained by special skm
the arms over the stern of the dinghy,
divers, but dress divers also occasionally
work. The beche-de-mer slug varies in
length from 4 to. 18 inches, and looks for all
the world like a dirty sausage, a dog has
trailed along the street. It is soft and
flabby, and mostly greyish in color. Among
the 12 varieties found in these waters are
the sand, lolly, teat, black, prickly, chalk,
red and deep-sea black, the last-named being
perhaps the most valuable. After, the fish
is boiled, cleaned and smoked, it is bagged
and sent to T.I. for grading and selling.
* * # *
“Dounanout” : Old Carlen sent his son Jim
and Bluey the dog into Nathalia (Vic.) with
some sheep to sell. Jim couldn’t get the
price the oid man wanted, so he let the sheep
out of the saleyards, put Bluey behind them,
and went back to the pub. Sheep and dog
arrived home all right. Old Carlen went
up to Bluey and asked, “Where’s Jim?” The
dog staggered and wobbled all over the
place and then fell over on his back. “Ah,”
grunted the old man, “that’s Jim. . Drunk
again.”
i|: * * *
“Cirrus”: If “Drover” (B. 4/7/’2B) used
mules in drought time only it is natural
that he should extol their virtues. Where
there is regular work, rough and plenty of
it, give me the mule every time, but if the
work is intermittent and light he’s the great-
est rogue under the sun. Two days’ spell
and he’ll try to make you believe he’s never
seen saddle or harness before in his life,
and he’s so obdurate about it that it will
usually take a very lively half-hour to re-
introduce hint to the gear. Mules are still
used in northern S.A., and during dry spells
they will do hard work for seven days a week
where a horse will barely survive with no
work at all. In a minority of cases I have
found mules tractable and reliable in all
circumstances, but 90 per cent, of them in-
herit the worst vices of both parents.
* * * *
“Potjostler, Jun.”: They say it can’t be
done, but on Mallina station (northern W.A.)
there is a stock mare the progeny of the
station blood-horse Trigger and a mule mare.
Her origin is impeachable, as the dam
suckled her foal from birth. The filly was
named The Freak and was raced with some
success in Roebourne. She bears unmistak-
able evidence of her origin, as her hoofs and
legs are pure mule. Her ears are not so
long as her dam’s, and the neck and the rest
of her show the sire’s strain. Attempts to
breed from The Freak have, so far, been
unsuccessful. Has any member of the Coun-
cil heard of a similar case ?
(Continued on page 25.)
CUT-OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Women!.... ’S truth, they make me
bitter!” said the station-hand to me.
“First of all they smile upon yer till yer
honeful as can be.
Then some little thing upsets ’em, an’ yer
just a flamin’ dud ;
Yer the essence of a misfit, an’ yer mon-
nikcr is mud!
“I was trackin’ Milly Woolbale —they’ve a
place along the creek—
Ev’rything was goin’ easy, useter call three
times a week.
I’d about screwed up me courage to propose
to ’er....an’ then
Comes a townie on a visit—one o’ these ’ere
polished men.
“ ’E was all dressed up in manners, like the
pitcher coves yer see—
Mind yerj, Milly didn’t shuffle, she still
cottoned on to me.
But I didn’t like ’is guiver an’ ’is ’igh-
falutin rot,
So I puts me ’ead together an’ I plans a little
plot.
“Soon me charnce comes. We goes ridin’
inter Bundjeloo one day—
Mill an’ me an’ Mag, ’er sister, an’ the
nooclium, Mister Grey.
So I gets beside the johnny. ‘Mate,’ I says,
‘I’d like ter see
If yer game to ’ave a flutter. If you are,
then foiler me !’
“Not far off there runs the bound’ry—
stiflisli sort o’ post-an’-rail.
I just grinned at Mister Noochum an’ sent
Splitthewind full sail
At the fence. ’Twas up an’ over; then I
pulled ’im up. I knoo
Old Menindie’s bound ter foller, spite o’
what the cove might do!
“Well, the old ’orse never faltered, ’e just
flew it like an ’ound,
But the noochum went ter pieces when Men-
indie left the ground!
Said good-bye ter reins an’ stirrups, turned
heels over in the air,
An’ then landed just exackly where the saddle
wasn’t there!
“Laugh? Yer should ’ave ’eard me roarin’!
’e looked silly as a goat—
Till I caught a look from Milly....an’ the
laugh died in me throat !
She knelt down beside the townie, took ’is
’ead upon ’er knee,
Asked ’im was ’e ’urt an’ —blime ! —then
she turns an’ roars at me!
“Says that I’m a cad! a waster! an’ some
more things o’ that sort.
Might ’ave killed ’im! I was jealous—
’struth, you should ’ave ’eard ’er snort!
Spit it off s er chest free, gratis—like y’d
speak a /concert pome....
Met I couldn’t think an answer —so I
turned an’ slunk off ’ome!
“Women! —Ah, don’t never trust ’em!....
They got married yesterday
Down the township—Milly Wuolbale an’
—er, Mister-flamin’-Grey!....
When it comes ter marriage-partners, mates
‘fer better or fer worse,’
Women want no sheik to rule ’em —they
want someone they can nu/rse!”
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


<!Mi
SSS3B
O'- O
<0 ~<s
<r
SOS
m
rUi/k
%
"I'li'i
\mu
£
it 1
Sg
Dunlop
has it!!!
T
: combination of the highest quality-
materials—Dunlop scientific method of
construction —and 27 years experience
making tyres in Australia for
Australian roads —is one that enables
Dunlop to build tyres that set the highest
standard for value and road performance*
Dunlop tyres on Australian roads have
proved to motorists that they possess wear resisting
qualities which ensure “THOSE EXTRA MILES.”
Judged on mileage, road-grip, comfort, depend-
ability and freedom from trouble — Dunlop Gives
Better Service; that is the reason why Dunlop
outnumbers any other make of tyre on our
roads to-day.
5000 Garages stock Dunlop!
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO OF AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Launceston and Hobart.
PLAY GOLF
for your own
sake
60°
bco
QQ9
SUE?
Q 3
□ 040
DO
0 00
for the sake of
your Golf play
DUNLOP


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY - Every article from Peapes,
for either men’s or boys’
wear, is distinguished by
the highest quality.
VALUE - - Notwithstanding the
quality of their goods,
Peapes maintain a low
average price throughout
the year.
SERVICE - Even those who cannot
shop personally at
Peapes’ enjoy the advan-
tages of a prompt and
perfect system of ful-
filling orders by mail.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
1 jj
f . '■<
/ N "—- *••-'..'1' ‘ ticr-x v^”i
v rv
N'HU-^n
n
H
Z. J WXJ “a
-s. A
i ,--^« BB8a :-' a
i m
C'
s v,—-
V
SSS :
IHJ vTx ®
‘7/s Quality Never Changes.”
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £lOO,OOO.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 1874.
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
“Clerk”: Why are there so many un-
pleasant meanings behind the native names
of well-known Victorian towns? Why
should Mildura, the home of golden oranges,
be associated with “sore eyes”? What hap-
pened locally to link l’oowong with “car-
rion” or “putrefaction,” Korumburra with
“maggots,” Minyip with “ashes, dust and
dirt.” and Goornong with (euphemistically)
manure”? Did the old-time abos. give rein
to their sense of humor when gullible whites
were endeavoring to select appropriate native
labels for settlements?
$ * * *
■ “Up Top” : N.Q. natives have an ingenious
system of trapping eels. The
traps are cylinders of plaited
lawyer-cane, about six feet
long. The centre narrows
and the eel, squeezing
through, finds himself in a
more commodious chamber,
in which he takes refuge
during the hullabaloo. A
score of traps are stretched
across a river, the mouths
facing upstream, during the
dry season, when the volume
of water has lessened con-
siderably. Connecting the
traps is a fence of brush-
wood and grass as a camou-
flage and also to ensure that
the fish cannot pass down the
river without entering the
traps. The tribe then enter
the water some miles above
and wade down, standing
shoulder to shoulder, stir-
ring up mud with their legs
and thrashing the water with
bushes. All rocks and logs
are turned over, spears are
jabbed under all ledges, and
submerged leaves and mould
are disturbed. The fish
scurry on ahead of the hunt-
ers and are finally yarded
in the traps. If the traps
are filled the abos. stand in
a dense line 30 yards back
and hurl their spears into
the terrified fish that remain.
“Piscid”: Who introduced the useless carp
into the Murray and its tributaries? Every
little stream and irrigation channel swarms
with the voracious brutes. Their only use
is to provide a change of diet for an old-
rnan cod, but they make up for that by de-
vouring the spawn of the native fish.
# H*
“Clarenza”: Touching these pictures of
square-set cattle (B. 11/7/’2B), you can
still see animals that might be posed as
models for such works of art —survivors of
old types of shorthorns which would be
well worth reviving. Cows of this type were
invariably good milkers, as well as good
doers on poor country, and there are mo
better beef cattle amongst the dairy breeds.
STILL UNDER THE SPELL.
THE OLD BORE: “Years ago I fell for a girl who made a complete fool of me.”
VICTIM: “Yes, it’s marvellous the lasting influence women have over men.”
“Gouger”: Our station colts could buck
the stuffing out of the moving-picture
bronchos. All the overseas buckjumping
contests I ever saw were only straight ahead
pigrooting, and the broncho-busters fitted
themselvlas into saddles out of which any
station kid would be ashamed to be bucked.
The unbroken station horse of our own
North and West has a dangerous habit ot
hunching his back like a. mad camel, lie
springs violently into the air and comes down
with a bone-quivering jolt right where his
IT WAS UP TO THE HORSE.
BOSS: “Think you can stay on him, Tommy?”
TOMMY: “By cripe, Boss, I stay on him all right if he stay underneath.”
tail was. He repeats. this mistiness to a
tornado of screams, variegating the perform-
ance by rearing straight up and crashing
straight over backwards. Another type
specialises in bolting for the bush and trying
to scrape his ridk\r off against trees or ience-
posts. A nasty brute to master is the one
that, after exhausting every buck in Ins
repertoire, crashes down in an effort to roII
upon his rider and is up in a flash lashing
out with his heels and snapping with Ins
teeth. Another sort of fury bucks the
tiglitest-girtlied saddle over head and fore-
legs and then chases the rider with teetli
and fore hoofs. . .
“Mundowie”: Ini the bush nearly any
kind of animal-oil seems to be reckoned a
specific for rheumatism. Along the
northern coast dugong takes first place, but
in other parts the goanna gets most votes
from old fellows afflicted with the crippling
complaint. The oil has many uses, and is
particularly valued as a lubricant for deli-
cate machinery and gun locks. When 1
lived on the Clarence River I used to pass
the hut of an old hatter on my way to town,
and nearly always he opened the
sation with “See any goannas about?” Some-
times I did see one scurrying up a tree,
and on being told so lie would hobble to
the fence for minute particulars as to its
whereabouts. But whether I saw one or not.
he’d say “I’d give a bob for a goanna.
When lie got a pad of goanna fat he melted
it in the sun. In his opinion melting it
over a fire spoilt it. “You want the raw
ile,” he told me, “not the biled.” It seemed
to do him good, too, but it wasn t advisable
to get too near him while it lasted.
* * * *
“Lew W.” • Walking in the bush in the
Maitland (N.S.W.) district, I picked up a
stone which bore a remarkable
resemblance to a shellfish. The
shape and markings of it were
much like those of a cockle, the
stone being rusty-red in color,
about the size of a walnut and
very heavy. After a further
search I discovered on the edge
of a creek a seam of petrified
shellfish six inches thick, em-
bedded in soft rock at a depth
of one foot from the surface
and six feet above water-level
in a creek. On getting home I
pounded one to pieces with a
coke-hammer. It proved to be solid stone.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Lovers of the native-
bear will be glad to learn that the Vic. Game
and Fisheries Department has taken steps
to protect this harmless little animal, which
in most parts of the Cabbage Garden is
almost extinct. Before the redgum and box
forests were ringbarked or destroyed almost
every green tree held a bear or two ; I have
counted as many as 30 on a patch of swamp-
gum having an area of about three acres.
In that locality Teddy is now as extinct as
the dodo, and the same may be said of
practically the whole of the box and redgum
country. ' A few bears still survive in the
mountainous parts of Gippsland and the
north-east, but they were never numerous in
those districts, where they seem to have
been confined to the comparatively small
white, blue and swamp-gum areas. I never
saw a bear feeding on a messmate, pepper-
mint or mountain-ash.
* * * *
“Pfella”: “Up North” (B. 4/7/’2B) on
Binghi’s belief in a hereafter reminds me
of Black Steve. Steve had been tormented
by Knobby, another North Westralian abo.
who had disturbed the sanctity of many mia-
mias, and at last he cornered his oppressor.
With Nature’s weapons they fought until
Steve delivered a smashing blow which put
the other completely in his power. It was
a time when nigger-killing by niggers passed
unnoticed by authority, but Steve let the
waster live. “What stopped you from killing
him?” I asked Steve later, having heard the
story. “Something must have stopped you.”
“Me thinkit that, too,” replied Steve ex-
citedly. “Me thinkit something tellit me no
place ready for that Knobby—no place bad
enough ready for blankard yet.”
* * * *
“Neurone”: The fox’s nose is miles sup-
erior to that of any canine no matter how
well trained. A dog can fix on cottontail’s
position when a few inches of earth inter
venes; but when it comes to locating a nest
of young ones in a big warren, where many
rabbits are moving underground, he is hope-
lessly beaten. The situation doesn’t worry
brushtail, who sinks his shaft with certainty
and never fails to meet the furless bunnies.
% * *
“Wingella”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment intends sending out a party of scien-
tists to explore Melville Island and to ascer-
tain its possibilities. These gentlemen might
save themselves a lot of trouble by getting
into touch with old Joe Cooper, “King of
Melville,” who lived for years on the island,
traversed it from one end to the other,
charted rivers, explored inland, and has
forgotten more about the place than Govern-
ment-controlled surveys could learn in 10
years.
* * * *
“L.H.H.” : The push-bike is in for a new
lease of life in south-west Q. ’Boo shooters
who have hitherto hunted on horseback now
use bicycles. As one enthusiast explained,
“When you have horses you are either buying
corn and chaff for them or walking your
legs off looking for them. Now you coyer
twice the extent of country, and as the bike
is practically noiseless you get double the
number of skins. If you strike a fence you
just lift it over and go on ; and one set of
thornproof tyres last 12 months.
THE TALES MY FATHER TELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old Dad’s grim and hoary,
For he is eighty-tliree,
Yet he can tell a story
When lie’s alone with me.
He’s always been a rover
Since, just on seventeen,
A good ship brought him over
From dour old Aberdeen.
The tales he tells are olden,
And none the worse for that;
The olden days were golden
For those at Ballarat ;
When every creek and river
Ran thick with yellow mud
And hope that burnt like fever
Surged in each digger's blood.
Through sluice and cradle gliding
Half puddled went the clay,
And there were fortunes hiding
In muck they threw away.
Fine gold went through the screening,
The purest ever mined,
Before the Chows came gleaning
The harvest left behind.
But best I like his story
Of unfenced open land,
The bush in virgin glory,
The plains and forests grand,
Tall green-leafed giants rearing
With branch and bole uncut,
But for a little clearing
Around a shepherd’s hut.
’Twas like a picture painted
In colors rich and rare,
Its. purity untainted
By vice and want and care.
The air was blossom-scented,
The hills were waving green,
And small flocks grazed contented
Where plains spread in between.
Two yarns of his outstanding
It does me good to hear,
Of his first overlanding
And when he learned to shear.
Short shrift came to the “learner,”
The “cut” was close and clean,
No boss Avas ever sterner
And few were half as mean.
My sire was keen and willing
And young and strong at heart;
He hoarded every shilling
And bought a horse and cart.
Then seldom long he tarried
At shearing shed or town,
And even when he married
He never settled down.
And he is still a rover,
Although he’s eighty-three,
Who says ere life is over
That he will cross the sea
And seek the resting places,
Somewhere by Aberdeen,
Of those whose kindly faces
Cheered him at seventeen.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Our Service Department
This page io set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By Englishman (Q’land), blacksmith, ex-
perienced in truck, engineering and palisading
iron work, also angle iron smithing, position.
Go anywhere.—sB9B.
Young woman, used to children wants
position anywhere in country, N.S.W., as
companion or care of baby or children. —
5854.
By young man (23), healthy, overseer’s
position in New Guinea, Java or the Philip-
pines.—5919.
By experienced hotel manager, position.
Has held seven licenses in N.S.W. Go any-
where.—s 922.
Connoisseur and collector of works of art,
china, antiques, etc., would like to correspond
with readers.—-589(5.
To buy second-hand copy of book con-
taining instructions for making wire-work
articles (coat-hangers, toasting forks, iron-
stands, etc.). —5667.
Whereabouts of John Moore, late of Lands
I) partment, Perth and Ivalgoorlic, before
the war. In Sydney in 1917. (To A.
Rodger, 155 Cobden-strect, South Melbourne.)
To purchase a good microscope. State
maker’s name, type of instrument and price.
—5893.
To exchange postage stamps with readers
abroad. (To Frank B. Trcatt, Tredinnock,
Young, N.S.W.)
To secure from grower small quantity of
Tigerem lucerne seeds. —5817.
To buy copy of “The Australian and New
Zealand Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book.”
—5861.
By Australian composer of several pub-
lished works, now in bad health and financial
difficulties, backer who will defray expenses
of publishing waltz. Will pay interest on
loan. —5862.
Words of humorous poem written in the
style of “Kissing Cup’s Last Race,” in
which the old mare is beaten by the foal. —
5869.
To correspond with Bulletin readers who
can supply first-hand information about Rapa
and Pitcairn islands.—sB67.
To correspond with someone employed on
boat calling at Pacific Islands, New Guinea,
etc. (To A. Motham, 168 Melbourne-street,
N. Adelaide, S.A.)
To sell Hemingway and Robertson’s
“Business Man’s Compendium,” four vols.,
cost six guineas, practically new. What
offers?—sBs9.
To sell Leura (N.S.W.) allotment 50ft. by
150 ft. Good position, £5O cash or would
take piano in exchange.—sB66.
Married man (28), Australian, wants
work, will do anything, go anywhere. City
clerical and two years’ station exp. Can
drive car.—5955.
By returned soldier, lieutenant (35), mar-
ried, inter-State lacrosse rep., fair cricketer
and golfer, three years’ managerial experi-
ence, good character, sober, employment at
end of October, any State. —5946.
By woman, with child aged nine, position
Blue Mountains or country (N.S.W.), house-
work for three months, small remuneration.
—5938.
Plans and specifications for constructing a
septic tank for a household of six.—s94l.
To exchange stamps with readers in Brit-
ish colonies.—s 943.
By inventor of safety automatic coupling
for railways and a silent gramophone needle,
capital to exploit same. Liberal share to
backer. (To M. White, c/o P. 0., Rock-
hampton, Q.)
To buy copy of “Fauns and Ladies” and
other books of verse by Jack Lindsay; also
“Poetry in Australia, 1923” (Vision Press).
—5924.
Words of “Lasca.” (To W. Aitherhead,
P. 0., Lethebnook, Proserpine, Q.)
To rent flat (Sydney) for one week, from
Ist Sept., by party of six. Must have three
bedrooms and garage. Near city preferred.—
5934.
Information Sought.
When were Acts passed in Victoria,
N.S.W. and South Australia allowing a
widower to marry his deceased wife's sister?
—5541.
Victoria, 1873; N.S. W., 1876; S.A., 1871.
At a special meeting called to revise the
rules of a howling club , new rules were
carried on a hare majority; also a motion
rescinding all old rules. TJnder the old rules
the rules could not he altered, unless by the
sanction of a two-thirds majority, hut this
teas overlooked. (1) What should the chair-
man do if the validity of the new rules is
challenged? (2) In the event of the chair-
man giving an incorrect ruling, could any
member take civil action against him? (3)
Would the new rules he vailid before being
confirmed at the next meeting. —sBlB.
(1) On the facts as stated he should re-
submit the question of the adoption of new
rules, explaining that a two-thirds majority
is necessary to adopt them. (2) Yes, but
litigation of that sort is expensive. (3)
The club is bound by the old rules until the
new ones are properly adopted. It would
depend upon what the old rules prescribed
in such a case.
What is the best way of painting a sea-
grass chair black. I did one with ordinary
black enamel and it remains sticky. —s7ll.
You shouldn’t use enamel on sea-grass.
Try a lacquer or a “mission black.”
(1) If the recipient of an invalid pension
receives gifts of money, and deposits them in
a bank, can tho pension be reduced or can-
celled f (2) What amount could such a pen-
sioner deposit in a bank without affecting
his pension ? —5827.
(1) Yes, it can be reduced by fl per
annum for every £lO of accumulated property
in excess of £5O, but not if the payments
are made by a friendly society, trades union
or other association by way of sick benefit
or old-age allowance. (2) Anything in ex-
cess of £5O will involve a reduction, and
£3lO will cancel the pension.
How do Australian bushmen cook damper?
—5Bll.
Take flour in quantity according to size
of damper required. Add baking powder,
and work into a stiff dough, well kneaded.
Flatten to 1-jin. to 2in. thick. Scrape a hole
in hot ashes, put a few coals in the bottom,
flatten, and cover with ashes. On this place
the damper, rake ashes round and over the
top, taking care that no coals touch the
dough; then top with coals, and cover the
whole with ashes. The sides should be well
covered, otherwise the damper may rise out
of them, and the edges will burn. Let it stay
for about an hour. When cooked, stand on
edge to cool. Then dust the ashes off.
How can / eradicate couch and Johnston
grasses in paths? —ss7l.
Clip off every piece of green leaf as it
appears. Persistence in this course will
clear them out in a couple of seasons. If
you don’t want to go to that trouble, you
can give the ground a one-incli coating of
common salt or soak it thoroughly with a
solution of lib. white arsenic and jib.
caustic soda to a gallon of water.
(1) In the. event of a husband dying intes-
tate, does his wife inherit all his property
under N.S.W. law? (2) If so, is she liable
for all debts owing by deceased? (3) Can
the children claim a portion of the estate?
(4) If the wife is incapable of managing the
estate for any cause, can the sons manage
it and make claim on the estate for their
services? (5) In the event of the wife being
deceased, and no will having been made by
the husband, can the children claim every-
thing ? —5918.
(1) and (3) The wife takes one-third,
the remaining two-thirds being divisible in
equal portions among the children. (2) All
debts are payable out of the estate. (4)
That is a matter the family must arrange for
itself. (5) Yes, in equal shares.
Can you give me a recipe for making fried
sippets to be served with soup? —sB24A.
Cut slices of stale bread into diamond
shapes, fry in deep boiling lard or dripping,
and when evenly browned remove and drain
on clean unprinted paper.
What is the function of “slotted wings”
in an aeroplane? —s7Bl.
The device functions automatically as the
machine approaches stalling speed when in
flight, deflecting the air over the tops of thle
wings and enabling the machine to remain
m the air at a slower speed than would
otherwise be possible.
(1) In what form is chromium obtainable
for plating? (2) How is it applied to copper,
arid what is used as a flux? (3) Where is
the metal obtainable? —49s6.
(1) A salt of chromium, usually chromic
chloride, is used. (2) It is applited electro-
lytically, using a hot 25 per cent, acid solu-
tion of chromic chloride with a current den-
sity of about 40-50 amperes per square foot.
(3) Any wholesale chemist would supply it.
(1) What salary would a Professor of
Psychology or Philosophy receive at Sydney
Cm.? _ (2) How would it compare with uni-
versities in other parts of the world? (3)
How would it com/pare with the salary of
a professor in some other subject? (4)
Does a XJni. teacher usually teach more
than one subject? If so, how many could
he teach? —s6BB.
(1) You will find details in the Uni. calen-
dar. (2) Professorships at Sydney Uni.
are on much the same footing as those of
other unis. (3) All professorships carry
the same salary. (4) It is not usual for a
professor to take more than one subject
unless it be that one subject has several
branches.
Can, Queensland maple be obtained in
England for cabinet-making purposes? —•
5589.
Yes. Parcels of maple are being shipped
at intervals.
A friend offered me two verandah blinds.
I aslced him to employ a man to take them
down. While removing the blinds the man
met with an accident (in N.S.W.). Am /
liable for medical expenses, etc.?— sB29.
No. The man was working as an inde-
pendent contractor or a s a casual worker,
and in either case would not be protected bv
the N.S.W. Act.
(1) What is the second-class fare to
Canada? (2) Can I get a return ticlcet,
so that I can return any time within 12
months? (3) Would there be much trouble
m getting a job as a lumberjack? (4) Do
I need a passport? I am over 21 years of
age and not married. (5) Is September a
good time to leave?— s732
(1) 150 10s. (2) Yes. Return ticket,
£B7, stands good for a year. (3 and 5)
Cannot say, but would recommend depar-
ture about February or March, as the lumber
business is more or less dormant in the
winter season. (4) Yes, and certificate
from a Justice of the Peace, medical practi-
tioner, minister of religion or bank manager.
In the event of prohibition being carried
in N. S. Wales, can any individual import
from a neighboring State alcoholic bever-
ages for consumption in, hi.s own home?
5699.
No. It will be unlawful to import or
manufacture alcoholic liquor or to have it
in one’s/ possession.
How can I rid a bush weatherboard, lined,
linoleum-floored shack of fleas and keen it
rid of them? —s792.
Spray the soil under and about the house
with a mixture of kerosene and kerol in
equal parts, diluted with 100 parts of water.
This will drive away fleas and destroy their
eggs. Common garden mint is also an effec-
tive banisher; bruise the leaves and strew in
cupboards, under lino, between sheets, etc.
What is the bdst manure to use for veqe-
tables? —5803.
Depends upon the variety Farmyard
manure is the most efficient base, but root
crops require potash for their development
and green crops require nitrogen to develop
the foliage. Consult “Complete Fertilisers
for the Farm and Orchard,” obtainable from
the Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane, Is.
(1) How should the surface of wood or
galvaniscd-iron be prepared for use as a
blackboard. (2) What is the ouickost
method of drying oil-paint, to facilitate
signwriting? —s747.
(1) Give the first coat of blackboard filler,
and then two coats of blackboard slating
black. Blackboard filler is supplied in paste
form, and must be reduced to brushing con-
sistency by the addition of turpentine. (2)
Pour off the oil and replace with terebine or
Japan gold size, mixing thoroughly. This
will facilitate drying, but at a sacrifice of
durability.
Do the Newcastle (N.S.W.) coals or any
of them come under the scientific denomina-
tion of “asphaltic c0a1”? —5774.
The term “asphaltic coal” is technically
incorrect. New South Wales coals are bitu-
minous in the accepted use of the term, and
yield tar suitable for asphalting.
(1) What form of land tenure exists on
Norfolk Island, how is land obtainable, and
on what terms? (2) What are the chief pro-
ducts of the island? —s72o.
There is a certain amount of land avail-
able for selection either as freehold or
Crown, lease. The former can be purchased
at from £5 to £lO per acre. Crown leases
up to 25 acres can be obtained at a small
rental for a period up to 28 years. The
lessee has the right to apply for a renewal
of the lease. Applicants for leases must have
a certain amount of agricultural experience.
(2) Coffee, maize, kumeras, ordinary kitchen-
garden vegetables, bananas, oranges, lemons,
pineapples, guavas, passionfruit, peaches,
strawberries, figs and melons.
llow can I scour a small quantity of wool
on a selection where no machinery is avail-
able? —5768.
Three 400-gallon tanks would be needed,
and each should have a false bottom, a foot
above the bottom of the tank, made of gal-
vanised-iron which should be perforated to
permit of dirt settling below the scour. No.
1 tank should be three-parts filled with water,
heated to about 125 deg. Fah. To this should
be added about 351 b. of ordinary yellow soap
and 41b. of pot. carbonate (pearl ash). Both
soap and soda should be dissolved before
being added to the water. No. 2 tank should
be made up similar to No. 1 excepting that
the temperature should be reduced to about
110 deg,, whilst the soap and soda should
be reduced to 151 b. and lib. respectively.
No. 3 tank should have the same quantity
of water, at a temperature of 100 deg., to
which 21b. of soap only should be added. The
wool should remain in each tank about three
minutes, and should be gently agitated. If
the wool is passed through an ordinary
wringer after immersion in each tank cleans-
ing and drying would be accelerated. The
pearl ash can be obtained from Elliott Bnos.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
(1) Gould a person wishing to study
optometry be apprenticed to a qualified opto-
metrist? (2) Are there any schools in
Queensland where a course could be taken?
(3) What subjects does the course com-
prise, and are there restrictions as to age?
(4) What is the fee and length of the course.
—5786.
(1) Yes, after passing the entrance ex-
amination, or producing a certificate equiva-
lent to the Junior University standard.
The term of apprenticeship is four years.
(2) (3) and (4) Copy of syllabus, qualifi-
cations, by-laws and the Opticians Act are
procurable from the Government Printer,
George-street, Brisbane. Trice, Is. Mr. Guil-
froy, 127 Queen-street, Brisbane, who for
many years has acted as coach for optometri-
cal students, could help further.
What is the value, f.o.b. Sydney, of clay
suitable for the manufacture of china, crock-
ery. etc.? —5789.
Price depends on various qualities. Sub-
mit samples to potteries for testing, and if
your material is of any use they’ll quote
you a price.
Is there a market for barytes in Sydney,
and what is the price per ton? —sS73.
Yes. First quality, 455. per ton ; second
quality, about 355. per ton, in trucks Sydney.
First quality, pure white; second quality,
nearly white. Send sample to Frank Ham-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
What is an effective method of eradicat-
ing rats? —s949.
Mixing equal parts of plaster of Paris
and rolled oats and placing in shallow
dishes round the holes has proved success-
ful in wool stores that have been overrun
by the pests.
Information Supplied.
5710.—Shells may be cleaned with spirits
of salts. Paint them with the pure acid and
let them stand for a time. Then with a
hard brush, and acid mixed with equal
quantities of water, scrub them clean. Finish
off work with clean water.—“W.R.”
5661.—1 f the wall crack is serious and
gradually widening it may be mended by
passing an iron bolt through the cracked
wall, with a nut at each end screwed up
tightly against iron plates. Then clean all
loose material out of the crevice, wet
thoroughly inside, and fill with a mixture
of 3 parts of fine sand to 1 of cement. Finish
off exterior wall with plaster to match
surface. —“Wrash.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to clear well water that is very dark.
The well is sunk in new ground.—sB7B.
Brief Answers.
F. 5.8.: Send a sample of about 21b. of
j'our wattle-bark to Jas. Hardie and Co., Ltd., and
Farmers and Graziers’ Co-op. Grain and Insurance
Co., Ltd., both of Sydney. The former buys out-
right and the latter sells on commission... .A.S.:
There are no such literary agents in Australia. If you
have an eye on the English and American markets,
try Curtis, Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, London,
W.C.2... .R.G.M.D.: Communicate with Dr. Martin,
Psychology Department, Sydney Uni 1.N.: (1)
John Russell’s second collection of short stories is
“In Dark Places,” 2s. 6d., at Dymock’s, Sydney.
(2) No, it’s an open handicap. If you can write
the sort of stuff we think our readers like, we don’t
care whether you are Rudyard Kipling or Thelma
Smith (aged six) . ... J.J.W.: Write to the Colonial
Mutual Life, 28 Elizabeth-street, or the Mercantile
Mutual Insurance Co., Ltd., 16 Martin-place—both
of Sydney... .H.D.N.: No, barring a battalion or
division lightweight champion abroad during the war.
He was an ordinary, rather clever preliminary boy at
the Sydney Stadium, where his boxing was always
clean... .H.G.S.: “Jew Suss” was a fictitious char-
acter.... D.L.: Hilaire Belloc’s address is King’s
Land, Shipley, Horsham, England... .J.P.8.: Section
152 of the Vic. Police Offences Act provides that
where the gross revenue received or derived from a
racecourse from all sources is in excess of £6OO for
any one year, the total revenue is taxable. Time
test trots are races within the meaning of the
Act and the inclusion of such events in the programme
of an annual show would constitute a race meeting,
and the gross revenue therefrom would be included
in the revenue of the course on which the meeting
in question was held. Should such revenue, from the
ordinary race club and the show, exceed £6OO, it
would be taxable, and the agricultural show com-
mittee would no doubt be called on to pay its share.
The racecourse trustees are liable for the collection
and remission of all charges... .J.P.: (1) Every
registered goat in the Shire of Booringa (Q.) must,
when in any public place, have a wooden triangle,
with sides not less than 12 inches long on the out-
side, around its neck, with the name 'and address
of the owner with the registered number and the
council’s brand impressed on such triangle. (2)
Unregistered goats may be destroyed... .G.K.C.:
Write to the Public Curator, Brisbane, giving facts,
dates and other essential information, and ask him
to explain your position... .C.E.P.: It would be
impracticable for an amateur to re-enamel iron-
ware. ’ Expensive machinery is required.... Mt. Gar-
net: You can feed your vegetables to the pigs either
whole or chopped and mixed with liquid food and
meal. They make a good f00d.... J.M.C.: There
are 1,385,341 electors on the General Roll for 1928
in the State of N.S.W H.R.1.: A Twaddell No.
3 hydrometer can be obtained from H. B. Selby and
Co., Bulletin-place, off Pitt-street, Sydney, at a cost
of 4s H.M.K.: “Co-opt” means “to choose or
elect”... .W.D.; The asphalt court is a success in
Melbourne, but they are very few and far between
in N.S.W. The court made of antbed is considered
much superior and can be laid at a cost of £3O or
£40.... J.L.F.: The Khaki Campbell ducks referred
to were the property of M. G. Leech, Trevallyn Poul-
try Farm, Sydney-road, Campbellfield, Vic.....
R. 5.8.; There is no Government publication dealing
adequately with the subject. Get E. H. Pearse’s
“Sheep Farm and Station Management”... .W.S.W.:
Secure the service of a reputable teacher, prefer-
ably of the nationality whose language you wish
to learn. There are plenty of good teachers of
French and Spanish in Melbourne... .T.L.: (1) We
prefer well-spaced typewritten copy, but no objec-
tion is taken to MS. as legibly hand-written as yours.
(2) Editor, (Bulletin, Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney.
(3) Varies; there is a minimum of 375. 6d. per col.
for short stories. (4) Stories are paid for on
acceptance. (5) As many as you like.... A.J.A.:
Spare-time jobs are poorly paid as a rule; self-
improvement pays much bigger dividends in the
long run... .H.R.W.: A land-holder who erects a
motor-ramp or “run over” on a main road or stock
route does so at his own risk, and any accident on
it renders him liable to an action for damages
P.K.: Reunion of the parties would automatically
cancel their separation agreement... .J.A.B. : The
will is valid. The money bequeathed to the men-
tally-defective daughter passes into the possession
of the Master in Lunacy, to be used for her main-
tenance. Her brothers and sisters have no liability
for her maintenance... .W.T.: .Will Andrade, Centra]
Chambers, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney, stocks a large
variety of such works. .. .S.G.W.: (1) Write Burns,
Philp, Bridge-street, or Lever Bros., Balmain. (2)
New Guinea is recommended in preference to the other
two. ...S.L.E.: Depends on what you mean by circu-
lation. For instance, the other day a copy of The
Bulletin came back to the office signed by the heads
of nine households through which it had passed in
five countries; its wanderings had occupied 10 months.
. ...H.A.W.: Your proper course would have been to
return the cheque, stating that you held the firm’s
receipt for the weight you claim. By banking the
cheque you prejudiced your case, though not to the
extent of excluding you from a claim on the basis of
the receipt... .A.M.: If there was no definite agree-
ment on the point, the rebate offered, though not
generous, is not unreasonable. Better accept it than
spend money on litigation.... M. 8.: The clause covers
“expenses of the sale including selling commission,”
and brokerage can be claimed as an expense of the
sale. Next time you make such a contract, get a
clear definition of the charges to which you are liable.
... .A.W.8.: Pronounce it to rhyme with “cheek.”
. ...A.W.A.; You could not give evidence in the
manner suggested. It would be necessary for you to
appear in person and submit to be cross-examined
on the evidence you gave. If you do not attend,
judgment may be given against you for maintenance.
. ...H.R.: Thoroughly clean underneath the mud-
guards and chassis and apply two coats of Berger’s
quick-drying chassis black... .R.H.: Only one
Englishman has occupied the Papal chair, Pope
Adrian IV. (Nicholas Breakspear), who was Pope
from 1154 to 1159. He was born before a.d. 1100 in
Hertford... .C.R.M.; The 15 vol. set of “All the Year
Round” is not worth more than about 305., being
incomplete... .5.8.: Eastway Bros., Ltd., 387 George-
street, Sydney, have promised to help you if you
write to them.... Wax: Artificial bouquets of waxed
flowers can be obtained from almost any Sydney
florist from 12s. 6d. to 305., including trimmings.
Package and carriage would cost about 4s. 6d.
extra... .E. 8.: Probably the reason why the silver
nitrate was not effective was because you made only
one application. The treatment must be repeated
after every peeling of the skin until the marks have
vanished... .Nomad: A graduate of science should
be able to obtain a position carrying a salary of
from £250 to £350 per annum at commencing as
a teacher or in some of the Government departments;
or, if he had special qualifications, he might be
absorbed into manufacture or industry. Advancement
to higher salaries depends upon the capabilities of
the individual. For a really first-class man there
are likely to be many attractive opportunities....
P.J.K.: (1) Not in demand. (2) Consult the files
of Art in Australia in the Melbourne Public Library,
also articles in the “Australian Encyclopedia’-


< /O’
u • <
*
%•
X
&s
LA
i
'
. i
\
'Seas
\
If IN
B
I\\
\
/// \
X
J?\
O
fi
&
&
Whenever Expense is the Question
Repeat orders for Graham Brothers Trucks and
Buses come most readily and in largest number
from owners who keep careful record of costs
.... Their economy of operation has been defi-
nitely demonstrated everywhere.
Owners of the six-cylinder heavy duty truck are
finding a new asset in the added earning ability
of its increased power.
See these chassis, whatever your hauling needs,
before you buy.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne,
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N. 7.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z,
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. . . New Ply m onth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, CORPORATION.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
15/8/’2B.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
sdfg
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD._.
=S~> 114- HO CASTLERE AQH ST. SYDNEY
Kg
SEND TOUR
SKINS
WINCHCOMBE
CARSON
Top
Prices*,
are the attraction. Rabbit, Fox and every
other class of skin make full values at
Winchcombe, Carson’s auctions.
Address Letters;
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
FARM PROFITS AND LIVING EXES.
“P.M.”: Every day some cocky comes
to light with figures to prove that he is not
making wages. Of course, he ought to get
more; but has lie any idea of what the cost
of living is in the cities? A witness before
the Vic. Dairying Commission the other day
complained that liis net annual income was
only £125. My opinion was that he had
nothing to complain about. The basic wage
in Victoria is £4 7s. Out of that the
married man has to pay about £2 7s. for
what the average dairyman picks up on the
farm for nothing, viz., rent 255., firewood 45.,
milk 65., vegetables and fruit 75., eggs 25.,
fares to work 3s. If the dairyman makes
£2 a week, or £lO4 p.a., and has a decent
orchard and garden and poultry yard, he is
as wel] off as the basic-wage man. A great
many dairymen are considerably better off
on the same money. They kill their own
pjgs and poultry, and live on hum and bacon
and chicken and other luxuries that the
15-bob-a-day man only dreams of. I re-
member a young fellow working fur a
farmer for 355. a week and keep. He had
hardly ever been in the city, and when he
heard of men getting over £1 a day in
Melbourne liis eyes nearly bulged out of his
head. A bush carpenter, he set sail for
Melbourne, and after getting the sack off
three building jobs and making an unsuccess-
ful attempt as a builder’s laborer, he drifted
on to dray-driving at 14s. 6d. a day. He
averaged £3 10s. a week for a year at that,
and paid 30s. board and Gd. a day tram
fares, the net result being 375. a week as
against the 355. he got on the farm. “And I
never saved a- penny,” he told me when he
came hack and got his old job again,
“though I could save £1 a week on the farm.”
bind the surface soil.
In certain undulating wheat districts of
N. S. Wales wheat farmers are becoming
alarmed at the extent to which soil erosion
is taking place as a result of heavy summer
rains. In the worst cases last summer
acres of fallow were washed down to lower
levels, leaving the subsoil bare; in others big
winding gutters, impossible to fill, have been
cut, while in the mildest cases there are
numbers of gutters that must be filled in
with scoops or home-made levellers, which is
a. long and costly business.
The prevention of this erosion, the Agricul-
tural Department says, is a most difficult
matter. It may be due, in a measure, to
the loss of organic matter in the soil, and
to a certain extent to the present-day
methods of fallow cultivation. It would cer-
tainly seem advisable to consider the incor-
poration of organic matter in the soil by
crop rotation or by stimulating the growth
of natural trefoils, etc., in the stubble and
ploughing them in. It is advisable to modify
cultivation methods somewhat—by having a
mulch on the coarse side, for example.
A contributing cause of gutters on the fal-
lows is undoubtedly the present-day practice
of using big heavy implements (tractors,
etc.) to plough and cultivate round the
paddocks, eventually ploughing out the
“corners.” This means that a considerable
area of the paddock is ploughed in the direc-
tion of the natural flow of the water, thus
providing gutters which are very soon washed
out, particularly in the deeply-worked loose
corners. Ploughing across the natural water
flow should be adopted as far as practicable
in these localities.
SORREL.
“Agricola”: When the crop is choked with
this pest, as I have often seen it in Western
Yic. in wet seasons, it is a sign of bad farm-
ing. To allow' the paddock to lie idle from
cropping does not cure the evil, though
sheep do fairly well on it. The fault is
in the soil, and digging, raking, burning, etc.,
are only palliatives and not cures.
Drainage neglect and working the land at
ill-chosen times does a lot of mischief. In
waterlogged land much depends upon the
direction of the furrows, which should go
with the slopes, or diagonally if the grade is
sharp.
The sun is a powerful enemy of Sorrel,
but the main problem is how to alter the
chemical character of the soil. Sour con-
ditions suit this acid-loving plant. As you
make the soil alkaline by using lime, it likes
it less, while clovers and other plants that
give a sweeter bite for the stock like it more.
Give even sorrel its due; it has
strong digestive powers and takes up
phosphate from refractory soil—compounds
that exist because of had soil ventilation
and shortage of available or soluble lime.
Some of our black soils are wonderfully rich
in lime, and red soils close by astonishingly
poor in it. I had heard many men curse
super, for bringing sorrel. I paid little
heed, but in 1915 on the Mornington Penin-
sula a farmer showed me a field half in a
foul state with sorrel and half in good order.
For some years past the former had received
super, and the other bone-meal. Three years
later, on Strathkellar, near Hamilton, I saw
a wire fence divide a similar state of things,
and this time it was super, versus basic-super.
Basic is made by mixing lime with super.
Better farming largely depends on better
soil study.
PASTURE GRASSES FOR POOR
SOILS.
“Practicus”: A problem difficult of solu-
tion for landowners in districts such as Gos-
ford (N.S.W.), where the soil formed by
erosion of Hawkesbnry sandstone is poor, is
to find a pasture grass which will grow
vigorously and at the same time prove palat-
able and nourishing to cattle. The writer
lias tried elephant grass and kikuyu grass
with gratifying results. The former, planted
with superphosphate and bonedust, makes
phenomenal growth—as much as two feet in
a week in hot weather. It may be grown
from cuttings, and is drought-resistant, palat-
able and nutritions. Kikuyu grass was, like
elephant grass, imported from Africa. It
forms excellent pasturage, and is in many
respects superior to paspalurn. Even in poor
sandy soil it grows well. There is no record
of kikuyu having seeded in Australia, but
it is easily grown from cuttings, and, like
elephant grass, is drought-resistant. It
should never be planted in or near an
orchard, as once having gained a footing it
is difficult to eradicate. Elephant grass and
kikuyu do well in conjunction, and both may
be cut or eaten off. There is no doubt as to
their value.
GIPPSLAND LINEN.
“France M.”: Will the term “Gippsland
linen” ever mean wluit “Irish linen” now
means? The small lots of flax grown in
Gippsland and Tasmania show that soil and
climate can produce fibre equal to the, best.
In regard to making up, the outlook has
been less hopeful. The usual dew-retting
process (for which the Irish climate was
particularly suitable) is tedious, and ill-
adapted to Australian short-hour and dear
labor conditions. Now, however, a Vic. co.
claims to have devised machinery which will
deal with raw flax quite as well as with retted.
Moreover, with this process, it is claimed,
50 per cent, of the bulk flax is available as
stock food. (This was entirely lost under
the old retting method.) It is also worth
noting that a crop of flax will stand at
least one feeding-off before being allowed to
mature. It seems probable that Grigg’s
machine may mean as much to the flax
industry as the harvester has to the wheat-
grower.
At present practically all the small
amount of Vic. fibre produced goes to a rope-
and twine-making factory at Geelong, and it
is these coarse products that farmers here
mostly think of when flax is mentioned.
Certainly we need these things, and the
farmer has no market like the home market.
But what is the value of rope and cordage
used in the community compared with that
of linens and threads?
NOSEBANDS FOR “PULLERS.”
“Anthony Gloster” : There’s nothing, like
a noseband for a puller. I had a pony mare
that was a demon to pull even on the curb,
and she was no trouble at all after I tried
a noseband on her. The band should be a
plain strap, stretched across the nose and
attached on either side to the bit rings. The
pressure should be not on the nostrils, where
it will impede the horse’s breathing, but on
the tip of the nose-bone. A strap running from
its centre up the middle of the nose to the
forehead-band will keep the noseband at
the correct position. The band should fit
easily, not too snugly ; thfe.n when the animal
begins to pull and the reins are tightened,
the bit rings are pulled back and the nose-
band pressed firmly on the point of the
nose. No horse will stand much of this, as
it is a sensitive part.
FENCING THE CREEK.
“Bon Jour”: If a shallow stream is liable
to be flooded and you must fence across it,
don’t bore those posts over which the water
is liable to come, but get dummy posts of
any light material the height that the ordi-
nary posts are out of the ground. Bore
these dummies and run the wire through
them. 'Then tie them with a piece of wire
to the ordinary posts on the down-stream
side. When the fence threatens to become
flooded, go along and undo the dummies and
throw them flat on the ground. After the
flood has subsided tie them back again.
Nine times out of ten this will save the
job 0 f sinking fresh holes and putting , the
fence back into them.
ELIMINATING EXPENSES.
“Curlew”: There is no class of primary
produce, however little the producer receives
for it, that is cheap to the consumer. It
passes through too many hands, and unfor
tunately those hands are often greedy. At
Colmna (Vic.) the pig auctioneers raised
the commission from 9d. to Is. in the £ —
the annual sales probably amount to £40,000.
The piggy men put tlieir heads together,
formed an association, and now sell by live
weight on certain days. They have erected
scales at two stations. Representatives of fac-
tories attend and purchase. Thus auctioneers’
commissions have been completely wiped out,
and the outlook is so promising that a similar
association has been formed at Gunbower.
WINDMILLS.
“Geefay”: As a great number of sheep-
men depend on the sub-artesian bore for the
summer water supply, windmill breakages,
besides being costly for repairs, are liable
to have serious results in losses of stock.
In most instances the breakage could have
been prevented. With fair treatment the
present-day mill will work for years with-
out the replacement of any important part.
When choosing a mill it should be remem-
bered that the greatest strain on the whole
structure is at the beginning and the. termina-
tion of the stroke. In this respect the short-
stroke type is at a disadvantage. Most
makes nowadays have gears and bearings
working in an oil bath and require little
attention as regards lubrication. There is
also an attachment which regulates the
speed and automatically throws the mill out
of glear in a heavy gale. Many people think
that by using a small dWivery pipe the mill
will work in a lighter wind. This is not
so. In this (Riverina) district the plant
mostly used is the 10ft. mill, 4in. bore
casing, 3in. pump and l|in. delivery pipe.
In a 100 ft. bore there are at least five
sections of pump rods which work inside the
delivery pipe. These sections are connected
by brass couplings, necessarily of greater
circumference than the rods and occupying a
large part of the inside space. Before the
water reaches the surface it has to be forced
past each of these obstructions in turn, re-
quiring considerable force. With a larger
delivery pipe the resistance is reduced.
For the pump rods some prefer Sin. gal-
vanised piping. Though this has the advan-
tage of lightness, it is weakened by cutting-
tile threads to take the coupling. A much
better rod is the solid iron 4in.; though
slightly heavier it seldom breaks.
In the modern make of pump there is
only one part that is likely to wear out
quickly—the leather bucket attached to the
plunger. This should never be used without
soaking for at least 24 hours in castor oil.
This causes the leather to swell; it should
then be, pared smoothly down to fit the
pump rather loosely, as the water will cause
further swelling. The tight bucket causes
90 per cent, of the breakages. In the event
of a broken rod, which usually occurs where
the rod is threaded, make sure that the
bucket is working in the original groove to
a fraction of an inch. This is easily done
by measuring the broken piece and lowering
the rod from the clamp on the mill to corres-
pond.
Finally, once a year go over the whole
structure w-itli a spanner and tighten every
nut.
PLUGGED OIL HOLES.
“Ilomby” : Power farmers often experience
trouble with heated bearings owing to oil-
holes refusing to take the lubricant. Fre-
quently this is due solely to the holes having
become caked, and can be remedied by the
use of a wire cleaner. Sometimes, however,
it is caused by the overheating of the bear-
ing forcing air out, and with it the applied
oil. In such case pour oil into the = hole
and instantly plug it, leaving it plugged for
five minutes. It will then be found that the
hot air from the bearing has passed through
the oil, and the oil has sunk into the bearing.
In the very few extreme cases where even
this won’t act, put mercury into the oil-hole
and let it stand for 10 minutes. The worst
case will then take the oil.
TUBERCULOSIS.
“Waipaoa”: It is often very difficult for
the farmer to diagnose the disease, and where
possible a vet. or stock inspector should be
called in, or, failing these, a meat inspector.
In remote districts it is difficult to obtain
the advice of any qualified men ; consequently
t is necessary for farmers to give the sub-
ject their close study.
Diagnosis may be quite simple or ex-
tremely difficult; when great difficulty is
experienced the tuberculin test should be
applied. If a farmer tests his own herd the
instructions must be carried out to the last
letter.
The condition of an animal is frequently
but not always a guide. Many animals in
splendid condition, and showing no signs of
the disease, are found on slaughter to be
very badly affected. In the case of an ani-
mal gradually falling off in condition, and
remaining in poor condition in spite of abun-
dance of good feed, T.B. should be sus-
pected, more especially if a cough accom-
panies the low condition. If there is a
cough, irrespective of other conditions, T.B.
should be suspected. In this latter case the
lung tissue may be affected, or the membrane
covering the ribs may be spread with tuber-
cular nodules; hence irritation and the
cough. An outstretched head may also
be an indication of the trouble. This is in
consequence of the neck glands being affected.
These glands frequently become as large as
a man’s hand, and, pressing on the windpipe
and gullet, create irritation, which causes
the animal to stretch its neck for ease. Fre-
quently also there is a cough.
Where the abdominal glands are affected
the disease is usually very far advanced.
Other indications are swellings in various
parts of the body, due to enlargement of the
lymphathic glands. These are usually, but
not always, due to T.B. Such swellings may
be found under the tongue at the angle of
the jawbone. Normally these glands are the
size of a small nut and fairly soft; when
diseased they are enlarged and hard. The
shoulder gland is- frequently affected. When
diseased there is little difficulty in observing
this enlarged gland, which is situated in
front of the shoulder-bone.
Of great importance, especially to dairy-
men, are the mammary lymphathic glands,
situated immediately above the udder. When
these glands are affected they are enlarged
and hard, and usually protrude. Should the
dairyman suspect these glands to be affected
expert advice should be obtained immedi-
ately.
WORMS IN SHEEP.
“Silky”: Two drenches recommended by
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture have
proved entirely satisfactory.
On the coast the worm is most prevalent,
and as the complete life-cycle takes three
to four weeks the drench must be adminis-
tered four or five times, with about weeks
between each drenching to completely free
a flock from worms.
Coastal drench.—White arsenic, 40z.; pow-
dered bluestone, 160 z.; commercial muriatic
acid, 120 z.; water ligal. Add the acid to
the arsenic and heat it gently to dissolve the
arsenic. Use a glass or porcelain vessel.
Dissolve the bluestone in the of water
(use an enamel bucket). When this has
been done add the acid and arsenic to the
bluestone and water, and give as follows:
6-tooth and over, 3drs.; 4-tooth and over
2idrs.; 2-tooth and over, l^drs.; lambs to
six months, to ldr. It is best to give this
with a drenching syringe instead of the old
drenching oone commonly used.
Tableland and Western drench. —Arsenic
loz. ; sodium carbonate, 2oz. Boil in lqt.
of water, pour off the clear liquid and make
up to 3gal. with water. Dose: Over 2-tooth,
2oz. ; 2-tooth, ljoz.; lambs, loz.
In both cases yard 24 hours before drench-
ing.
BREEDING CROSSBREDS.
“Mouton” : Crossbred sheep would be much
more profitable if the same attention was
given to their breeding as is bestowed on
purebred flocks. Owners of crossbreds look
upon them as an unfortunate necessity, and
would not have them if their country would
support merinos; on this account little atten-
tion is given to culling and selection, with
the result that most of their flocks are com-
posed of all sorts and shapes, and their wool
is much more uneven in quality than it need
be.
The sire is of first importance; only pure-
breds should be used, and they should be
selected to suit the ewes and the local con-
ditions. It is quite a common practice among
farmers to save their own rams. This is a
fatal practice. Ilalf-bred sires must be
avoided.
The Lincoln is the most popular sire up
to date on account of its size and the weight


A V
rr
n
y
%
Springy Sports Shoes
Light in weight, these Abbey
Sports Shoes are thickly soled
and heeled with the toughest
crepe rubber. They’re pliant
and pleasantly “springy.” They
cushion the feet over the rough-
est going, without any sense of
heaviness.
The smartly-brogued uppers
are made of brown willow calf
most comfortable of leathers
for active wear. The ankles are
low-cut and fit closely without
tight lacing. The lacing curves
to lie easily over the instep arch.
No strain or chafing with
Abbey Sports Shoes. You can
obtain the closest possible ready-
made fit besides being avail-
able in full and half-sizes, the
shoes are supplied in three fit-
tings, narrow, medium and wide.
Order by Post.
Specify width as well as size
needed. And ask, also, for a
supply of the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
Brown Willow Calf,
50/-
40-page colored catalogue post free
on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
85 SYDNEY
GET EVERY SKIN BY USING
THE QUICKEST POISON.
SAYASTRYC
STRYCHNINE
with the addition of another chemical
to make it quicker in its action.
IT IS CHEMICAL LIGHTNING.
I f&BßrrfojSOrf
DeadontheSpoti
*ie>.Wtll*ni)Wß».MYEßs ALLPORT PKOPrt'.'^^MACIBIARIEg.SyDNEy^
Post free to any part of Australia,
4/- per ounce.
GUARANTEE.
If Sayastryc does not please you better
than the best Crystal Strychnine we
will refund the 4/- for the ounce tried.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYERS’ ALLFORT PTY., LTD.,
55 MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
,JIPNX'
ZV&
u ..
'<^V
Ovi
The Beauty of Childhood
A Clear Healthy Skin
Make and keep your child’s skin
healthy by using Cuticura Soap
every-day assisted by Cuticura
Ointment when required. Nothing
purer or more effective.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
'WOF" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE-
toJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4- It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on. your
minimum quarterly balance.
margProi) litersT)a nL of 31usf ra (ia %
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
The “Cressbrook” Park or Polo Saddle
THE “CRESSBROOK” is a handsome
saddle with nice lines, and one that
looks well on a horse. It has com-
bined flap and skirt sewn directly on
to the seat, which increases the com-
fort of riding. The Pads are the popu-
lar Kemp shape, set well up almost
level with the head of saddle, and giv-
ing good security for rough riding.
The Saddle is first-class throughout in both materials
and workmanship, and is fitted with Folded Girth,
Bevelled Leathers and Solid Nickel Stirrups.
£l5/15/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH ORDER '
TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY STATION.
Write for our big Saddlery Catalogue, and if you
are interested in Polo ask for our Free Polo
Booklet, with rules and illustrations.
SOME OF OUR SPECIALTIES.
The “Winton” and “Longreach” Stock Saddles,
Texas “Cowboy” Saddles, “K’Burra” Stockwhips,
Beenie’s Patent Rugs, Trotting Goods.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gf
of its fleece; but its wool is very coarse, and
the fleece produced by the Lincoln-merino
cross is several counts lower than crossbred
wool from some of the other long-wool Eng-
lish breeds. A point in its favor is that the
wool usually yields well, and as wool is
bought on its clean yield it sells well. Other
English breeds that may be used to advantage
in some districts are the Leicester, Border
Leicester and Romney Marsh. The Leicester
is not largely used, but the Border Leicester
has many admirers, and it has outstanding
qualities which make it desirable under cer-
tain conditions. Its wool on tne average is
10 counts finer than the Lincoln, but it does
not produce nearly as much. The ram lias
a comparatively small head, and there is
not so much danger to the ewes at lambing.
The lambs mature more quickly than the
Lincoln cross, and under favorable conditions
make good freezers.
The Border Leicester crossbreds are long
in the legs, which makes them good walkers,
and they will travel well and quickly. One
of their main disadvantages is that they
are generally bad fencers. The Romney
Marsh have been bred for centuries on
marshy land, and this makes them particu-
larly well adapted to low-lying country. They
are also able to withstand worms better than
any other breed of sheep. Their wool is
fine for an English long-wool breed, and
shows more character than any of the others.
Crossbreds produced by mating Romney
Marsh rams and merino ewes cut good
fleeces of nice character. This breed could
be used to great advantage! in swampy and
wet districts.
The ewes should be large framed, even in
size and well covered with good even-quality
wool with plenty of character. They should
have had at least one lamb by a merino
ram. Three-years-old ewes are the best.
Maiden ewes should always be avoided, be-
cause lambs by the English breeds of rams
haye large heads, and there is often danger of
losing young ewes at lambing.
Culling is important; it must be remem-
bered that a coarse-woolled, very robust
sheep is being crossed with a fine-woolled
small one, and it is only to be expected that
the progeny will show great variation in
wool, shape and size; this makes culling
difficult, and if an even flock is desired the
culling must be heavy. The breeder of a
crossbred flock must endeavor to obtain uni-
formity in size and wool, and his culling
should be done with this object in view.
THE GOOD STOCK FENCE.
“N.M.L.” : What constitutes a good cattle
fence depends on the class of cattle. Roguish
old milking-cows and amorous bulls won’t
stop at anything short of a brick wall. Some
breeds also make lighter of fences than
others. Foleys, for example, will ignore a
fence which will stop Ilerefords or short-
horns. But without dealing in freak cases,
and for a mixed herd of usual quality, a
man may construct a fence to stop most of
’em. There never was an ordinary fence
constructed of wire and posts which will
have 100 per cent, efficiency.
It’s waste of time, labor and money to
make a start without barbed wire. A three-
wire fence is more than twice as good as a
two-wire, and it’s neaifly if not quite as
good as a four-wire. The three-wire’s the
one giving the best return. I have, always
found a 14-14 spacing give the best result,
the top wire three inches from the top of
the post. That puts the bottom wire
seventeen inches off the ground. Some use a
12-12, but the 14-14 covers more space, and
no two wires are far enough apart to lead
a beast to believe it can sneak between.
Two barbs and one plain is the most
economical. That’s nearly, if not quite, as
good as three barbs, and it’s several times
better than two plain and one barb. It gives
the best result for the outlay. Top wire
plain, middle and bottom barb is my rule.
Some like the bottom plain and two tops
barb, claiming that that deters cattle from
going over the top, and also, if a calf does
sn,qak under, it can come back without
trouble. But unless cattle are rushing they
never go over the top ; and if they’re rush-
ing, the fence isn’t yet made to stop ’em.
Cattle almost invariably try to go under.
So we want the barbs on the bottom wires.
If a calf does glet through he’s breaking
the rules, and he can come back the same
way. Anyway, if a plain wire is laid under-
neath so as to allow calves freedom of
passage it is teaching them bad tricks in
their early infancy.
The top wire should be bored three inches
from the top of the post. That gives plenty
of wood top—any closer induces split. Bored
with a §in. bit, the plain wire through and
the two barbs tied to the post, it’s a fence.
Running posts should be 2ft. in the ground;
corner and strainers 3ft. The length of the
panels is a matter of choice—whether it’s
timbered country or otherwise. If it’s a
sparsely timbered area, about 33ft. panels
and two droppers equally spaced isn’t a bad
idea. If it’s a good-timber country, 12ft
panels are better. Somte people go nap on
the longer panels and a liberal use of
droppers, even in timbered country. Droppers
are cheaper, they hold the wires well, and
they’re as . near perfect as it’s possible to
make ’em. But they can’t come up to the
post for utility. Roughly, the best droppers
cost about 9d. each placed on the fence and
all in order. In timbered country each post
in the line should cost about Is. 6d. The
dropper is the quicker and more economical
job; the post is the better.
BLOWFLY TRAPS.
“Tuan” : Split a petrol-tin diagonally and
nail the halves to trees near camps or sheep
yards. Put a wire round the tin to prevent it
sagging, and put in some meat and pour
arsenic over it. To counteract the disinfect-
ing power of the arsenic—it will take away
all smell from the meat—get a coffee tin.
fill it half-full of unsound meat, add a little
water, perforate the lid, and the smell will
attract the flies to the non-smelling tucker
in the petrol-tins. Stand the coffee tin upright
in the tin of poisoned bait. I use lib. of
arsenic to 20 gallons of water, and have had
excellent results, but believe lib. arsenic
to 50 gallons is enough.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
‘"Tuan”: A good and inexpensive limewash
for undressed timber: 31b. lime, l gallon
skim milk, 6oz. raw linseed oil, wliiting.
Slake the lime with the milk, add the oil,
and stir thoroughly. Then add the whiting,
strain through a tine sieve, and cover over
for a day. If coloring is required, add ochre.
“Old Timer”: For sore-teated cows, take
lib. of mutton fat and render it; pour it
into a screw-top jar; while it is hot, add lib.
boracic powder and keep stirring till it is
cool. Keep closely fastened when not in
use. If the teats are cracked use before and
after milking.
“Old Timer”: Now is the time to plant
Jerusalem artichokes. A few acres round
your breeding-pens will help the sow and
suckers. Let the mob run on them for an
hour each day and watcli the growth!
“XSA”: Although blackberry vines may be
fit for burning five days after treatment by
arsenate sulphate, better wait until the new
suckers are nicely re-establishing the
nuisance, and then apply the match. Total
eradication may be expected in that case.
“Sea Speck”: The rubbing of bluestone
over raw wounds is cruelty, and should never
be resorted to. A level teaspoonful of
powdered bluestone dissolved in a half-pint
of warm water, applied to the affected parts
with a small mop, will do the trick.
“J.W.C.”: As to what mandarins one
should plant (B. 38/7/'2B), my advice is
none. Of late years there have been so
many dry, worthless mandarins on the market
that the public lias gone right off this
•fruit. This season they have been as low
as 4s. and never better than 145., and even
at the latter price there is nothing much in
them.
“The Bat”: When using greenhide for
ropes, twist instead of plaiting. It is easier
and quicker, and the finished rope is better
to handle and lasts longer. A well made
three-strand twisted rope will hold the most
stubborn of full-grown cleanskins.
“Warepa”: A mousetrap is not always at
hand. In that case, take an ordinary tea-
cup, smear some butter or dripping inside
on the bottom. Throw a little oatmeal or
sugar on and it will stick. Now place the
cup upside down on the floor where mice
foregather. Now raise the cup and place a
penny standing up under the rim on the
opposite side to the handle. It takes a
little time to balance the cup at first, but
with a little practice you can do it with
your eyes shut. There is ample room for the
mouse to pass under the cup. Once under
it places its paws against the side to reach
the bait, and there you are.
“Cuchulain”: Keep a long stick with a
knobby end, and when you’re down the horse
paddock on an idle ride round, or fetching
up the cows, make a point of dispersing any
lumps of dung. This fertilises the ground
quickly, and is a help to the grass coming on.
“Melos”: To produce strong, healthy
tomatoes and cabbages which will be free
from blight and other scourges get some xxsed
phonograph needles, and when the plants
are a few inches above ground put a needle
midway in the stem and leave it in this
position—that is, with about the same length
showing on each side of the stem.
“N. 8.” : For ophthalmia in cows or horses,
isolate the animals (flies carry the infec-
tion), and, if possible, keep in a dark place.
Wash the eyes with a solution of boracic
acid in warm water, and three times a day
put into the eyes from five to ten drops of
a lotion made of five grains zinc sulphate,
five grains boracic acid, loz. water.
“Rustic”: In milk fever it is not neces-
sary, as so many people suppose, to strip
the cow’s udder before inflating with filtered
air. Draw a few drops of milk from each
teat, and then commence inflating. The
teats should be washed carefully, one at a
time, with disinfectant, before inserting the
tube, which should also be disinfected and
returned to the disinfectant after being used
for each teat. Tie the points of the teats
after inflation. Tape should be used for
tying. The tapes can generally be removed
in about an hour’s time.
“Tangaloli”: A powdering of dry finely
pulverised eucalyptus gum, preferably from
the apple-tree, is a quick healer of a sore on
a horse’s back.
“S.H.: Let ducks have the run of the
garden and the orchard. They don’t scratch
like fowls, but they will thoroughly clean
up slugs, aphis, slaters, codlin-moth grubs,
etc.
“Paul C.”: If calves are weaned before
they are at least eight months old, skim
milk alone is not sufficient for them. Fat
must be substituted for that in which the
milk is deficient. If raw linseed oil is added
to the calf’s milk ration, he will be as fit
to wean at five or six months as he would
be at nine months without it.
“Paul C.”: If calves show any indications
of having stomach worms they should be
given a dose of copper-sulphate (bluestone)
in water after being without food for 12
hours. Ten grains in a pint of water for a
calf eight weeks old is enough. After three
days the dose should be repeated. At all
times the calves should have free access to
rock salt.
“Paul 0.”: A cheap and lasting outdoor
paint for iron-work or outhouses on the farm
can be made by grinding up charcoal and
mixing in linseed oil with a little litharge
to act as a drier. You then have a good
black paint. If you desire a good green,
add yellow ochre and you have it.
“Blowfly”: To get a good home-made
harness dressing, mix 21b. mutton fat with
3lb. beeswax and heat over a slow fire. Add
41b. sugar, 21b. lampblack, 21b. soft soap,
indigo. For brown harness leave out the
famnblack and the indigo.
“Steve”: When skinning a fox or other
small furred animal the greatest difficulty
is usually experienced at file tail. Use a
cleft stick—an old clothes-peg answers well
enough. With knife and fingers open the
tail an inch or so from the rump, push the
peg through and draw down to the tip, and
the skin will come off easily like a sleeve.
Open it up to let the air have play, other-
wise the fur will come out.
“O. W. Wadham” : After you have given
the flock their annual wash, don’t be in a
hurry to empty the bath. Bring along any
posts or battens you have split and pack in
as many as you can. Leave them in two or
three months. The arsenic from the dip is
a wonderful preserver of wood.


WHICH DO
FOR NEW SC
A CON
“WILT” BRITAIN
(Under Liquor License.)
1 “The total number of convictions for drunkenness
in England and Wales for 1926 shows a decrease
of 7951 below the 1925 figures---a decrease of 10.6
per cent.”
(Home Office Blue-Book of Licensing Statistics, 1926.)
2 “Amongst the many striking changes indicated .... is that which has taken place
in the character and habits of the parents. Instead of the largest proportion of
cases being due to drunkenness there has been a significant decrease, particularly
noticeable in acute cases of drunkenness in which it became necessary in the interests of
the victims of the drink habit to secure their admission into State Inebriate Reformatories.
During the six years 1907-8 to 1912-13 no fewer than 192 persons were, at trie instance
of the Society, so committed, the children concerned in these cases being 664. The
number has now become negligible, and during the last year not a single case had to be
dealt with in this way.”
(Annual Report of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, 1926-7.)
3 “We have become more sober, not necessarily because we drink less, but because
we drink more rationally. The past three decades have seen a sustained raising
of the standard of life throughout all classes. As a nation we are better educated
and healthier, and make far more use of the freedom and freshness of the out-of-doors
than we used to, and our increasing sobriety is but one among many signs of increasing
civilisation. Happier than some other people, we have acquired a true temperance through
self-restraint, not a false one through Prohibition.”
(“Daily Express,” London, August 12, 1927.)
In the face of such evidence would you vote for Prohibition
On September Ist, voi
Of Prohibition BEW/
9ut wufr)(m tfU
The Liquor Trades Defence Union of N.S.W.


YOU WANT
JTH WALES ?
fRAST s
“DRY” AMERICA
(Under So-called Prohibition.)
1 ARRESTS FOR DRUNKENNESS
* IN BIG UNITED STATES CITIES, 1920-1925
City. 1921. 1925.
Boston 30,987 37,944
New York .... 6,237 12,017
Buffalo 8,347 10,174
City.
Philadelphia . .
Pittsburgh . . .
Washington . .
1921. 1925.
21,850 58,617
10,371 28,669
6,375 11,160
(These cases are typical.)
(The "World Almanac” for 1928, page 11, quotes 36 big cities in every one of which
there has been an alarming increase in drunkenness.)
2 “The undeniable increase in ]uvenile crime is directly traceable to the Prohibition
law. The poisonous liquor that the younger generation is consuming, with its
deranging effect on the brain, has, in my opinion, been the greatest of all
contributors to iuvemle crime in the last few years.
(Judge Charles Lenehan, famous Pennsylvanian Jurist, July 29, 1926.)
“Deaths from alcoholism in the United States in 1926 show an increase of 600 per cent,
over the 1920 figures, according to averages compiled by the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company, in a statement issued to 17,000,000 industrial policy-holders in U.S.A. and
Canada ' (July 23, 1926.)
3 "It is my calm and deliberate judgment, based on my experience, that THE
GREATEST SINGLE MENACE CONFRONTING THE UNITED STATES to-day is
the existence of the Prohibition law. One of the most imposing promises made by
the friends of Prohibition before the Eighteenth Amendment was that by abolishing drink
crime would be decreased to a minimum. Crime increased by such amazing proportion
that it has become the dominant consideration of most of the State and municipal
governments of the nation. Prohibition is one of the largest contributing factors.
(Judge Talley, Court of General Sessions, New York City.)
New South Wales —that would cost £8,000.000
according to FACTS
XE.
\ettom Mumajl
w-
m
Jj/jW.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
II
A.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
((brandy)'
|||||\ (StaswUfbi Ctge c j| |
111 <alt ov*A tftji (jU<?dZdM<\ ||!|| I |
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Piper’s
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
VV. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
SMOKE-OH!
Motor-hogs get most of their excitement
by accident.
¥ ¥
The query is not what next will the
modern girl be coming out in, but what will
she he coming out of.
¥ ¥
In a recent court case a man complained
that his wife would not speak to him. That
sort of man doesn’t deserve to have a wife.
¥ ¥
Disaster comes not from a man asking his
wife to believe too much, but from asking
her to believe too often.
¥ ¥
.fudging by the sandwiches served in most
restaurants the bakers have a holiday every
yesterday.
¥ ¥
The fourth Commandment, ns moderi.
youth seems to interpret it: Humor thy
father and mother.
¥ .. ¥
“The secret of longeyity,” says a Sydney
clergyman, “is to smile all the time.” In
support of which we point to some of our
revue ladies and chorus girls.
¥ ¥
The new maid paused and .stared in
amazement at the queue of six commercials
waiting their turn at the out-back pub’s bath-
room. “Lor’,” she said, “it’s funny how
all yous blokes hit on the same morning to
‘ave a bath!”
¥ ¥
A London paper states that a titled lady
who started a dressmaking business four
years ago has relinquished her interest in it
£49,000 better off. A modiste fortune, what!
MUCH MORE INTERESTING.
“He always takes her dancing, yet she doesn’t know
any of the steps.”
“No, but she knows the stairs off by heart!”
The Laddie: “Haw —what are your lowest
terms for ac-tors?”
The Out-back Pubbie: “Me lowest terms is
that they’re a lot of scalin’ blankards!”
¥ ¥
The camera doesn’t lie, but the ones to
whom you show your photo often do.
¥ ¥
All who make beds don’t have to lie in
them. They’d appreciate our feelings in the
mornings if they did.
¥ ¥
The woman who made a pound of butter
out of the cream of a joke and a cheese
from the milk of human kindness has since
washed the close of a day.
A prude may he wary and good
And know nought of moonlight and kisses,
She man shy at the boys just all that she
should —
But think of the fun that she misses!
Muse M.
¥ ¥
Many a woman allows her husband to
have her own way.
¥ ¥
A Sydney doctor says that cobwebs are
unhealthy. We always thought they looked
rather frail.
¥ ¥
We understand that flappers will be wear-
ing their legs longer this summer.
¥ ¥
“Henry Ford made the cheap car what it
is to-day.” says a motoring writer. But
why should he have all the blame?
¥ ¥
We are glad to be able to state that our
office boy, who was caught buying a packet
of Capstans the day before pay-day, did not
steal the sixpence that had been missed from
the till. He has signed an affidavit to the
effect that the coin represented his winnings
on Spearfelt.
¥ ¥
A man need not be clean-shaved to tell a
bare-faced lie.
¥ ¥
“Has she any family yet?”
“No —she is young enough to know bet-
ter.”
¥ ¥
“The same to-day, the same to-morrow,”
He groaned, and swore the world was
tame ;
“.’The same dull joy, the same dumb sorrow;
Monotony is life’s other name!”
A nd so, a sure relief to borrow,
11e... .went on ordering “The same!”
THINGS SAID.
“First single to Strapfield,” said the
Sydney citizen to the railway booking clerk.
“Three’s a crowd;” said the Fitzroy police-
man as he crept away, leaving the civilian
to the interested party.
“I’m crazy to marry you,” said the young
man, proposing.
“Do good to those that hate you,” said
the scribe in a covering letter to the editor.
“It’s over the fence,” said the gaolbird,
blaming the receiver for his predicament.
“So long,” said the man, as he hurriedly
passed his angler friend in the street.
Watts Byton Hughes.
¥ ¥
As a woman sows, a man reaps.
¥ ¥
THE INEVITABLE.
His eagle eye had noticed her. Pretty she
was. but that did not alter his purpose.
Quickly he made his way through the crowd
about him. Men jabbed
elbows in his ribs; children
clawed him; corpulent
mothers and faded spinsters
impeded his progress. The
girl never moved. She knew
what was happening—knew
what he would demand from
her, and she knew she would
make no resistance. So often
it happened, she had got past
caring. Day after day it
would happen in just the
same way. At last he was
before her, and as she raised
her eyes they did not quiver,
nor did her lips tremble.
“Fares, please,” he said
gruffly. “Two sections,” she
answered, handing him the
money.
* *
The aeroplanes on the
Perth - Adelaide service will
travel at 110 miles an hour.
It is h6ped that within a few
years, by speeding up the ser-
vice from east to west, pas-
sengers who leave Adelaide
after lunch will be landed at
Perth in time for breakfast.
m at
Honesty is an outward and visible sign
of inward fear. Some men know no fear.
¥ ¥
Australia is being flooded with American
jazz bands. Unemployed local musicians say
dam the flood.
¥ ¥
A South American condemned prisoner
escaped from gapl dressed in woman’s cloth-
ing. Well, that disguise should have been
easily seen through,
¥ ¥
It is whilst the sleeping husband is breath-
ing heavily that the wife goes through his
pants.
Melbourne Herald heading: “ ‘Girl Friend’
ends to-night.” Doubtless wife’s returning
to-morrow.
¥ ¥
“Sing a song of sixpence”
IF as once the proper thing ;
Who opens uff a pie to-day
Of half a croton must sing.
¥ ¥
The middle-aged man looking ir. the mirror
faces the bald facts.
¥ ¥
A woman laughs when she can and weeps
when she will.
THE OTHER POINT OF VIEW.
“I am sorry I ever married you.”
“Yes, and so you ought to be. You’ve
cheated some nice girl out of a good
husband.”
From the Sydney Guardian :
Elliott was riding his first race for nine years.
It was good to see him. Never before had a horse
been tickled by a jockey’s whiskers.
We’re not so sure; on some of the horses
we’ve backed they have had plenty of time
to grow ’em.
¥ ¥
Some people always profit by doctors’
advice. The doctors.
¥ ¥
Always let your wife have the last word—
if she’ll get to it quickly.
¥ ¥
Many a woman who can't makb ends meet
can make a meet for her own ends.
¥ ¥
The wages of sin are alimony.
¥ ¥
She Stoops to Conquer—her increasing
curves.
¥ ¥
S. M. Herald : “The cast of ‘Lohengrin’
was slightly hanged for the Saturday
matinee.” Well, no doubt they deserved all
they got.
THE SILENT CHUM.
We called him the silent Newchum, for
in the month he had been on the farm he
hadn’t spoken more than a dozen words.
But when he left the silence was broken—
by Dad. Chum left a note, which read :
Good-bye, insomnia. I go to Morpheus—perhaps
Bacchus. But anyway I go from insomnia never to
return. I go from the music of barking dogs and
early roosters. I leave the exhilarating experience of
working while the moonlight merges into daylight
to those that like that sort of thing. And when I
am gone I hope the flies mistake Dad for a honey
pot, and may the crows think him a hogged cow,
the dingoes a disabled lamb, the mosquitoes a
flapper’s knees; and. may the Bathurst burrs take
root in his whiskers and stop the poddy calf sucking
them.
I go, almost walking in my sleep, a habit I cul-
tivated while working on the farm during the past
month.
Yours for a good sleep, Horace.
Dad read it, then exploded, winding up with:
“There you are, that’s the worst of those
silent , you never know what they’re
thinking.”
The sheik's idea is the nearer the bone
the sweeter the meet.
¥ ¥
More fiction: “.... and so the girl went
into a mercer’s shop and asked to see a
tie. The salesman showed her one, and
she bought it without bothering him to take
down any more boxes.”
¥ ¥
A statement made before an English
gathering of artists, that there were three
first-class men in England for every two in
the next-best European country, was received
with cheers. Arty cheers, of course.
HARD COME.
Six days he labored with untiring zest;
Of brain and. brawn lie gave his honest best,
Nor thought of comfort took. He
Accomplished, minor miracles of work,
Far. ne’er a task he tried to sluice or shirk,
And, Spartan-like, forsook he
The ways of warmth and cheer and idle
play;
And so with easy conscience grabbed his
pay —
And gave it to a bookie!
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.
“I love to hear the roaring tvaves,”
She thrilled tvith ecstasy,
“The breaking spume in rocky caves.
The evcr-restlcss sea!”
“Qoodo !” he said; “I’ll fix you up —
I’ll chain the dog outside,
And all night long you’ll hear that pup,
The moaning of the tied!”
N.S.W.
DORIC.
Tell me not my wife is dumb! Her
Voice is one long wail of frets.
She’s not like a bloomin’ plumber —•
Not one darned thing she forgets!
N.S.W.
AITCHEF.
THE SCOOP.
The editor’s eyes regarded balefully the
pile of manuscripts bn the desk in front of
him—the afternoon’s rejections.
“This cursed hugging of conventional ex-
pression will kill me yet!” he muttered.
“Good plots, many of them, but all spoiled
by that confounded devotion to stereotyped
diction,” lie continued, covering his eyes
with his hands as if to shut out the plague.
A loud knocking sounded on the door.
“Come in,” the editor called, with dejec-
tion in his voice.
The door opened, and in trooped a queer-
looking. crew, the dust of centuries upon
them, the darkness of many graves in their
eyes.
The editor rose to his feet.
“Who? What?” lie gasped at last.
“You have never met 11s personally, sir,
but our names are all well known to you and
we thought we would pay you a friendly
call,” said the leading wreck, in an age-
palsied voice. “I am Dull Sickening Thud, of
whom you have often heard. My comrades,
in the order in which they stand, are Re-
venge is Sweet, Her Lovely Gaze Swept
the Street, Villain Unhand Me, The
Table Groaned”. ...
“Yes, yes, don’t bother to mention the
rest—l know them all. Come inside,” said
the editor, and lowered his eyes that they
might not betray his fierce exultation.
“Excuse me, it is draughty with that door
ajar,” he said smoothly, as the last anach-
ronism entered. Crossing swiftly lie shut it,
surreptitiously locked it and slipped the key
into his pocket.
Returning to his desk he dragged open
a drawer, and grabbing a large blue pencil,
began vigorously to sharpen it.
Instantly consternation feigned amongst
the visitors, and amid shrieks of “The blue
pencil, the blue pencil!” a unanimous rush
was made" for the door.
“It’s locked,” said the editor, as he length-
ened the point.
“Merciful Heavens, we are undone, woe is
us !’’ yelled the prisoners.
“Yes, gadzooks, and eftsoons too,” snarled
the editor. “Also the rain is falling on the
roof, and the sun is setting in the west, and
MEASURING HIM UP.
WIFE: “Doctor Jazz knows how to make
love all right.”
NASTY HUSBAND: “Hum! Sort of specialist,
eh?”
WIFE: “Oh dear, no. General practitioner!"
birds are singing in the trees, and morn
comes after dawn, and gloom is on the tomb.”
lie finished sharpening the pencil. A
few minutes later, sweating profusely, he
touched the bell, and the office boy appeared.
“Boy,” he bellowed, “remove this
carrion, and
bury it in the suicides’ plot.”
HOMFREY BKALE.


i J 1
mm
e;g;o
m
m
m
mm
mi
pj ° t
s
i
i
-2L
m
m
©&<
m
mm
*
m
HS3
■
'i.®
HI
Wi
ianms
ms
•■ m a ■>:
15
■
'msmm
o> Y o 0 0:
m
o " 0.0
His
0%
t3 T o.o f AP
A
B!a8 KwiQ
/
: :03
;
w/
' y O PTo c
■
mm
&©&< j
! :
03?
m
W
e
iSfis;
' ■
Illi
r 0
ffii
:qjh
( Xfi
■ .•■■■■
/
f, i A z°
f.y [GWCOMpS
I |
pISII
I
J
&S&3&O-Wif
©3so
iff
' C , !
■sis
■
$8
bP&C
18
< Ot)0-'( r ”
' tfEKfi
's::s
ftitesiHiSissiiSjii’iiSssi
:SS3;b
m
a r Q iTb
Iti
7
ill!!!
- >Sc
rijfcipa o
SfeSiSSe
.'y''»WM*’y‘»©’rfd')y.O.'wG^
ii®
mm I pMi
s§}s&&&%
SssS : :: ; .
o- , J
////
r
'-o.SgSd
i
f \’
■■l
S O O >oVio'Vi»
>v.o,oHciP $ |fw
® osu-^i?
:i 110T 0 _ ° 3
iiliiiipiiM
pßrn. -
I j° '
,so,<i> oio°o c, i J; r
lo6ci V T v3JW^J
h;o sfe
ifeliifOK
-AV., ' '
ointment to his MAjfsry
r "f/ci
1
m
Si.::
; ;■ s :s:--;s
r;S
S:H
o;H:o;e
FINE
SiSMSig
fttowsj
/Z£ M£
oSo-'oPo §
%
,% <i'Vo v >ig|
•aS6 0 o m P 1
i b VoC'--'
QoQ,.oic s s
S^oOb®'
>S 1 °,?o
OHO ' J .
innlM
iieor
Ifilti o-o'oVo'o P a®c
h. S.c?/OoSo^l
3k
'O-0
v.;v'i.s--si.;r- : s
m i
/■S'ii.sssSbf.sy.
dvaPp' ‘
- -.o':
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
m , J > Hl -T* ,
SaxPcQf o; ■ :V b ; iiyio';
& Zi)gst6nD Cms
JotmDewaroSons L 1!
/;■
r,soo»
*^2^^%S?S?o^©iKS**©K^i©«©:S-o;.C
m ,0-h
> "o ® c ° ? § S ''-i/y i / o P c o
Disrillers PERTH, (Scofland)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
* oTTutl under the SUPERVISION OF THE CON«ON*E“ ,h tu! ’ 1
SMg-g&i
felio"
» ;
V} o c O ° '•'' • >•
X jr <y q >j o - o^i
a °p s o -0
MeiSiii.i-.'
SigjgjSSisSSi;::
a<-! o-o 1
c<®
o
“- r- -
g 0 0 ly, J' Oi
aPti
mm
!U
15
gi
rs->
VA
sip
SiPioig
mm
«ntm | >,Olflo 0 jO t - ' ,»
;q■- . ■■ cm >j a ■ ~®?q
-m > '/> o c O ° C r i.'r V W
3 ® : «®
- y -<j:P crP" o 0 ■ "
m :
C® 3'
os©3H&
«p>:-:o;^vC
«-:©:-:-:<-c
n^.n ...
(.low
.iilliis
g&KySgfeP-bfee:-.-'.
soPo®o®n< r >s< yos'
v c o o ; o o
3ao-<0 i' ' " " Ps3?-ft
r~. 0 ~ocoo ao„o>, ®oO :
j“j- c o, rro - o o '.
OaO-O-'C'-C' . c
<s,y-o b'o°o-o o c 'bs
tod, 0 '
: miiiiiliii
Siimiiii
j o'-'xPa°' °^c
'05;0,-C
:S ; a;e;®«>®K9;cKa
THE WHISKY OF DISTINCTION
■.
o'o’pOi ,'
rSeM-:q@v:q:®P.#H
ffl ms
m


FAME!!
QN merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team in 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been in business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The cloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters I employ are “live” men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments only,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from 7
to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
‘Allenburvys
Black Currant PASTILLES
| Protect the mouth and |
tl throat against infections, J|
t allay irritating coughs
and clear the voice. JHH
Your Chemist stocks
Poverty
Point
“Pianissimo”: Toti dal Monto made the
most of her singing-lesson in “The Barber”
to show off her voice. There have been
occasions when a prirna donna has satisfied
herself with the simplest of melodies. One
was when Melba was in San Francisco. A
couple of days earlier the States had declared
war on Spain. In vain Melba tried to alter
the programme. It could not be done, and
she had to appear as Rosina before an audi-
ence composed of patriotic Yankees and
smouldering Spaniards. The atmosphere was
very tense and Melba very unhappy. When
the “singing-lesson” came along she had an
inspiration. She gave them “The Star-
spangled Banner.” It was a Melban stroke of
genius.
“Spare Sub”: One of Sydney’s musical
critics took an evening off from opera the
other night, and gave the pony writer, or per-
haps a dyed-in-the-wool Australian comp., the
chance of referring to the priestly uncle of
Cho-Cho-San in “Madame Butterfly,” as
“The Bonza.” As the context might have
told him, the Bonze was anything but a bonza
bloke—in fact, he was a fair cow and a
flaming dead nark into the bargain.
“T.P.”: To settle a discussion amongst a
group of Cornish readers of The Bulletin
in Vic. as to the reason for the extraor-
dinary arrangement of voices in the old
Cornish choirs, where sopranos sang praises
to the Looard from the back, whilst basses
thundered jubilation from the front, I wrote
Mr. Oswald Pryor, -c/o The Bulletin
asking him to quell the disturbance, claiming
him as a brawther cousin Jack. From Adel-
aide lie fixed things up. Both his parents
were Cornish, and his father a “local
praicher.” “When I was a boy,” lie wrote,
“the men always occupied the front seats
m the choir, and there was supposed to be
a principle in it. It was said the women’s
voices would come through better. But as
far as I remember it was only the shrill,
squeaky ones that did.” I would like to
add that in the ’seventies old Willum Tredin-
nick, leading basso, told me, as a nipper,
“Them theear maids, do squawk too terruble.
We meller ’em down for the glooary o’
God!”
“L. de Rideau”: A colossal memory is
easily a virtuoso’s first attribute. In a re-
cent London season pianist Moiseiwitsch,
now in Australia, played 21 concertos, each
averaging half an hour of solid playing, and
four of them new works. Competent critics
averred that he never missed a note.
“Shep”: To give the theatrical touch to
war-time concert parties female imperson-
ators were essential, and with costumes
that ran into high figures some were won-
derful successes in their awkward role. At
Charleroi, after the Armistice, we struck an
English military troupe with more up-to-
date methods. “Dick Whittington and His
Cat” was the production, the chief feature
of the advertisements, printed in English and
Belgian and pasted up all round the town,
being the announcement of a real ballet.
Three English and three Belgian girls con-
stituted the chorus, the rest of the cast being
a Tommy concert party. Where they got
the girls from we oouldn’t find out, but
they were the show. As the troops hadn’t
seen a dinkum chorus since last Blighty or
Paris leave, that show ran to crowded houses
for months, and the crowd waiting at the
stage door, in the hope of doing a line with
the stars, blocked the traffic each night.
“C. 8.”: The Firm's next musicomedy
splurge will be “The Desert Son.” P. C.
Wren’s heart-throb “Beau Geste” inspired its
romantic atmosphere and song.
“Craiscr” : After several plucky reappear-
ances m musical comedy, comedy and drama
since his railway accident Warde Morgan
has drawn back from the footlights. He is
now stage-managing for “The Patsy” at Mel-
bourne Royal.
“Mephisto”: Italians may have enjoyed
the opera (B. 25/7/’2B), but I doubt whether
the Greeks who turned up to see “The Tro-
jan Women” of Euripides, staged by the
Brisbane Classical Society, understood much
of it. It was Gilbert Murray’s exquisite
translation, and modern Greece in Queens-
land found it hard to get the hang of the
tale of the wars and loves of ancient Greece.
So the smell of fish and chips in the shilling
seats was decidedly fainter after the first act.
“Don Alhambra”: Amateur operatic com-
panies certainly can be self-supporting (B.
11/7/’2B), even when their productions are
on a liberal scale. Port Augusta A. 0.5.,
formed in April, 1927, produced “The Pirates
of Penzance” after five months’ preparation,
three performances being given in the home-
town, and two others at places near by.
Rehearsals for “The Gondoliers” commenced
in November, and performances are now pro-
ceeding. The society’s artists and producer
are local folk, and scenery, properties and
costumes were all made in Port Augusta,
The population of the town is only 3000,
but the society has a bank balance after
paying all expenses.
“Broadway”: Old readers of The Bul-
letin will remember Emma Ilowson, who
created the role of Joephine in “Pinafore”
and was born in Sydney in 1844. She died in
New York ion June 4 at the home of her
sister, Mrs. H. P. Parsons, of Brooklyn.
She had led an active life up to the last,
despite her 84 years. At the age of 22 the
deceased singer left Australia with the How-
son Opera Company, of which her father
was director. Subsequently she studied in
Italy with the elder Eamperti, and for 25
years sang in opera throughout America.
On her retirement from the stage she de-
voted herself to the teaching of singing in
New York and its environs. Her brother
Frank, who had quite a fair gift for com-
position and greater qualifications as a con-
ductor, and her brother John, who made a
name in comic opera, both predeceased her.
“GOOD NOOSE,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS.
The ’Varsity Drag—or as much of it as the
artist’s weak nerves could stand.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Dino Borgioli, who
won a wife and a fair measure of popu-
larity in Australia, has been doing moder-
ately well at Covent Garden this season. In
a recent interview he recalled his happy days
with the Williamson opera in Australia,
and naively mentioned that when Melba
selected him for the visit she did it as much
for his legs as his voice.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : George Elton, son of
Billy, so beloved of the Australian stage, has
met with good success in the provinces,
where his three-act farcical comedy
Mother s Brother has been produced. He
has already made a reputation on the Lon-
don stage, and gave evidence of consider-
able di amatic skill in the ”rags” staged by
the Green Boom Society. On the provincial
trial of his first ambitious effort as a play-
wright he has had the support of an excel-
lent 'cast.
“LA TOSCA,” AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Scarpia (Rossi Morelli ) orders police-agent Spoletta (Luigi Cilia ) to remove tenor
Minghetti for execution.
“A.8.W.”: Some superior person lias
asked the Argus, “Cannot something be
done in our broadcasting announcements? In
England,” he added, “the announcer's are
men who have received public-school and
University educations.” I don’t know
whether ours have, but Alfred Andrew of
dllZ, Frank Pearson of 3DB, and Frank
Hatherley and Maurice Dudley of 3LO would
be elocutionary ornaments to any broad-
casting station, English included. As for
their grammar, I listen to the Melbourne
announcers pretty regularly and I can’t say
that I have ever heard them make a bloomer.
The fact of the matter is there is an in-
sufferable type of Australian who delights
in deriding his own countrymen and insti-
tutions. In the majority of instances he
has lived in England for about five minutes.
The British Isles were my headquarters for
a number of years before the war, and I
feel privileged to make an unpleasant obser-
vation. It is this : For the compleat, dinkum,
downright dyed-in-the-wool snob, I commend
the . once-in-a-lifetime world-tourist. Aus-
tralia unleashes a few of them every “Eng-
lish Season.” It is a pity they return.
“Amity”: I don’t know' if the Chinese
population of Australia is deeply interested
in Italian opera, but there was no doubt
about its generous support of the German
Opera Co. when it toured Maoriland some
years ago. The Celestial colony booked seats
in a wholesale manner, and the elite of the
city often gasped to find their parties flanked
by a collection of bland and smiling Chows.
One memorable night I counted a line of 19
of them. Whether or not they understood
what Tannhauser was singing about, didn’t
they applaud !
“Cornish” : It is rumored that Gus Bluett
meditates a descent on London. If he goes
he should do well. His soused husband in
“The Girl Friend” was a perfect piece of
tomfoolery of its kind. Bluett does not depend
on eccentric make-up or slapstick comedy to
get the laughs. That is why he must be
considered the best of the present Australian
bunch of comedians. He can go even further
if he avoids certain pitfalls that seem to
lie in wait for his profession.
“Rob P.”: Girl jazz bands are having a
great run in U.S.A., and Australian audi-
ences can expect to hear much more of them.
This growing tide of female musicians is
worrying the male, species, especially since
the former have invaded the wind-instru-
ment field. Female picture-show organists, too,
have displaced qualified males, and a con-
troversy has been waxing hot as to whether
many of them hold their jobs more by sex
appeal than by musical ability. The femi-
nine invasion is more alarming to the men
in the business than either the movietone or
the vitatone.
“Cine Ma”: Australia takes more than
enough of Hollywood’s medicine, but the
yarn that, she imports twice as many feet
of celluloid from U.S.A. as Britain does
isn’t true. The mistake originates in the
fact that Britain’s figures (13,806,498 feet
last year) are for negative film, the Aus-
tralian (27,017,656 feet) for positive. The
Cold Land deprives the Zukors of a little
of their gains by doing most of her own
printing, taking any number of positives off
a single negative. It is a paying industry
which could well be started here.
Hilary Lofting: A conspiracy among the
fashionably high-brow people at a Sydney
lunch party in 1914 did its best to ignore
the fact that Ellen Terry was also present.
But the beautiful old woman’s glow and
charm were the only vitalities in the room.
She asked me not to make her laugh, because
she had been lately enamelled and feared
that her face might crack. I shall remem-
ber, too, the caress in her voice telling us
that her furs were not yet paid for, the
sumptuous chuckle that wondered if they
ever would be. Without taking the stage or
even (because of the enamel) speaking more
than was necessary, she became the only
reason for the oppressive meal. Beyond
question the greatest heroic actress of her
century, she seemed to be reminding us every
moment of the millions of torches of imagina-
tion she had lit. A stiff-faced, rather
silent old woman, she yet embodied dramatic
beauty for two generations; every slightest
movement seemed to bring this dramatic
beauty into being before our eyes.
“L. de R.”: Pianist Harold Samuel will
probably be in the 1929 virtuoso procession.
His specialty is Bach. Sydney Cole, the
Melbourne musician, gave him his first les-
sons at the London Polytechnic.
“Munga”: Re the spoiling of expensive
stage settings. I saw Sir Thomas Beecham’s
production of “II Trovatore” at Covent
Garden in 1919. The “Anvil Chorus” was
very fine, but —the blacksmith and striker
were armed with claw-hammers!
“Cauboy”: Even if the Taits are reduced
to the breadline by their losses on grand
opera, the Fullers are not deterred. After a
successful season in Maoriland the Gonsalez
brothers have been commissioned to hunt up
another drove of Italians for 1929. Prices
will be still lower—the highest Bs. as against
12s. this year.
Gerald Peachell is to succeed Joseph
Bradley as the Philharmonic Society’s con-
ductor, though he was not one of the 40
applicants. A nephew of Sir Frederick
Bridge, who was organist of Westminster
Abbey for 36 years up to the time of his
death, Peachell comes from the job of con-
ductor of the Winchester (Eng.) City
Choral Society. He is only 40.
“!• Phelps”: The English muaicomedy
industry, temporarily rattled by American
competition, is now up again and smiling,
and Australia may shortly see a piece in
which the leading man doesn’t say “Kid”
and button his face over a se-gar. The
latest English product is “Marjolaine,” a
tuneful thing based on Louis Parker’s
“Pomander Walk.” Oscar Asche is cast as
Jerome Brooke-Hoskyn, a preposterous but-
ler posing as a bogus gentleman of fashion,
and his straight acting in what must surely
be his musicomedy debut gives the show a
nip which excites applause.
“Homfrey Beale”: A Thespian of the
lesser shows of earlier days was George
Parker, now a peripatetic tinker and um-
brella-mender, and known in most parts of
the State as Billy Hughes the Second. His
affable manner and ability as a raconteur
bring him in a lot of trade that rivals miss.
Most of his footlights career was spent
with Cole’s Bohemians. At Concord one
night the co. was playing “Ben Hall,” with
Parker as Constable Scanlan. Somehow or
other the co.’s handcuffs got lost, and a
local bobby supplied a pair with strict in-
junctions not to drop them; or they’d lock
and be incapable of adjustment on the
prisoner. By the sheer cussedness of in-
animate objects Parker did drop them right
at the psychological moment, and they did
lock. Parker grabbed them from the floor,
and placing them across his prisoner’s wrists
whispered, “Smother the things up and
get off.” But the crowd tumbled, and the roar
of laughter was the best thing of the evening.
BALLADE OF BROADCLOTH and
BROADCASTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long ere upon the concert stage
I made iny personal dgbut
I used to watch the basso rage
And think, if my fond dreams came true.
That in the course of time I too
Should manfully enact the like.
A foolish hope, which now I rue:
Tostures are vain before the “mike.”
What hours I wasted to engage
In exercises to endue
My presence with demeanor sage
And splendid to the public view!
What care I took to hold a few
Choice songs in attitudes that strike!
Ah ! in those days I little knew
My audience would be the “mike.”
Deportment with the rolled-up page,
Carriage which taxes spine and thcw
No longer help to earn my wage
As in the days when ladies blew
Coy kisses to the songster who
Stood upright as a Guardsman’s pike.
Those fine, expansive chests I threw
Would all be wasted on the “mike.”
Envoy.
Prince, things are not entirely blue,
And I have bought a motor-bike
Since dress-suits I need not renew
Now I perform before the “mike.”
n.s.w.
MICHEL MOLONI.


Stiff beards need the
“VALET”
Safety Razor
A stiff beard needs a masterful razor blade. Not a blade
that will bend and give way to the bristles, but a solid
blade of rigid, tempered steel with some strength behind
it. Such a blade is the “Valet” Auto Strop.
The “ Valet ” Auto Strop Safety Razor is a joint concern
made up of blade, stropping device and strop. The
stropping device is actually built into the head of the
razor. The strop slips through the razor’s head. All
conspire together to give you a perfect shave. Ten seconds
for stropping—'ten seconds for cleaning without removal
of blade—4o or 50 perfect shaves with a single blade.
gf
No. 50 de Luxe Set. Contains
heavily silvered razor, twelve tested
“ Valet ” blades and strop of good
quality. Complete in highly polished
nickel case, with special container for
the strop.
21/-
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET,
<\eu> /.ea’and Jlgents:
Van Stavcren Bros., Ltd., Juck'an', Wellington, Christchurch.
SYDNEY.
I
A>
Shaving Cneam
'lhis is the Shaving
Cream to get the
best out of
your rayyr
Ishe SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
'
.
.
mi
■m
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested crops.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10 acres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
Ho V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane,


Doe*
your mirror say:
Overworked?
ft. /
WORRY, overwork, and the strain
of modern life have a weakening
influence on your nerves and digestion.
You must do something to counteract
these disturbing effects on your health, and
you can —with Sanatogen.
Regain your former health and energy by
taking Sanatogen, the true tonic-food.
“SANATOGEN goes to the core
of well-being, viz;., the cells, and
builds these up into a solid and
permanent fabric of health,”
writes a well'known English physician.
000
Start using it to-day
sanatogen
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
Combining rest and recreation in just the right proportion,
the health-giving sea voyage to Fiji will delight you. In less
than 5 days from Sydney you reach the island port of Suva,
and enjoy 3 full days ashore before the return voyage.
The launch excursions up the Rewa River and inside the
barrier reefs, and the visits to the plantations and quaint
thatch-roofed villages, will prove unique among your travel
experiences. Fishing for fighting sea-fish off the Fiji reefs is
a thrilling sport.
Your days aboard ship will be equally memorable. Commodious and
steady, Matson Oceanic liners are notable for excellence of cuisine
and service. Music for dancing, and novel entertainment features
enliven the voyage.
Fares: Sydney to Suva, first class single from £l7; second class
single from £i3; first class return from £3O; second class return
from £22. Available for six months. Illustrated booklets free on
request.
All Inclusive Tours to Fiji, £42. Folder on Application.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
Biß Bim®t@lflP €©.„
haatoon Line
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. D—2B
local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St.. Melbourne; 117-119 Kin?
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane
re*i
Ih*
:: V
y
....
ce
-A
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the - 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
TUB ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO.” London.
gf
HOLDS 50 % MORE INK
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy man’s pen. The
ease with which it fills and cleans itself, its readiness to write when-
ever wanted, its absolute security from leakage, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any other self-filling pen, has
gained for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street. Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
;•
I ' ’#"*
Wm
0
' ! f ,
'tiMuUv
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully i
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.


I
Dainty White China*
White China-Real White-is once again much in vogue, and
a breikfast or tea set of the famous “Shelley” Dainty White
China is a present that is sure to please, and which could
live at peace with any surroundings. It is not expensive,
and includes attractive odd things like cress dishes, covered
muffin dishes, fruit bowls, fruit saucers and honey pots.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by 'Mabel Lucie Attmll and Hilda Coivbam,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds —all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to :—T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., z}z CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelley on each piece of China
•m\ in'-
Elegant — Efficient —Exact
m
m.
/ T i HREE words which appropriately define
-*■ the craftsmanship that is ELGIN.
An ELGIN will engender your pride and
your trust alike, for rare artistry and fine
craftsmanship are welded into it.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANGEAND EFFICIENCY
jhi? Jrade Mark
in the Watch Ca?e
BAGSHAW’S
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
/ BAGS HAWS
[asthma
f POWDER
m:
ss£
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
sdg
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Manuka” : If the Speck’s Treasury figures
can be believed, there are no pawnbrokers
left in the island. Joe Glasser, of Hobart,
was the last.
* * * *
“Coot” : The Commonwealth Treasury holds
over £144,000 of matured securities owned
by absent-minded Australians. Of this
amount £0590 has awaited claimants for
nearly five years, whilst over £124,000 con-
sists of loan bonds which matured in Decem-
ber last.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Now that the question of which
town first had electric light in Australia
has been settled (B. 13/6/’2B), where was
the first electric tramway in Australia? There
was a small electric affair from Doncaster
to Box Hill (Vic.) about 1889, one of the
old residents tells me ; but it has been defunct
many years now.
=|: * * *
“The Rut” : “B-Gar’s” Marine By-Product
Co. (B. 27/6/’2B) wouldn’t brew divs. out of
crocodile leather. The reptiles are getting
smaller each year, and only a comparatively
small part or the hide along the belly is
suitable for leather. Has “B-Gar” ever
tried skinning and pegging out a croc.? I
have. There aren’t any award rates for
crocodile skinners, but I reckon it’s worth a
couple of quid a time.
* =is sit *
“Rob P.”: Tom Silsby, a Brisbane man,
lias produced a new gramophone horn of
papier mhche. It is six-feet long, but by
scientific bending can be fitted snugly into
any talking* machine. Built on the principle
that the various graduations of musical tone
require a correct air column, the new horn
reproduces • canned music with wonderful
clarity and free from wheezes and scratch-
ings. An organ builder by trade, Silsby is
putting his invention into machines of his
own manufacture.
* Sit Sit sj»
“Elgar”: Market gardeners around Mel-
bourne ploughed in most of their early and
later cauliflowers; they didn’t make enough
to pay for the seed. Now the late ones left
are bringing up to 365. a dozen. Cabages were
unsaleable two months ago; to-day they
bring from Bs. to 13s. a dozen. Along Moorab-
bin-road, between Oakleigh and Mentone, is
a patch of caulies that won’t be worth
cutting; across the road are two acres of
large, close, white beauties. There is well
over £lOOO in that little tliot —and they
belong to two Chinkies. It’s a bigger gamble
than two-up.
* sis s): *
“Clerk”: Clapp is finding a profitable
railway use for petrol at Princes-pier, Port
Melbourne. He has bought two Fords on
tractors to do all truck-shunting between
station-yard and shipside. Each tractor is
expected to do as much work with one
driver and one shunter as two horses for-
merly performed with two drivers and two
shunters. Besides, a horse can move no
more than two trucks at once, while a
tractor can shift 200 tons at a speed of
anything up to 12 miles an hour. One
drawback of the machine, however, is that
it cannot be operated on pier decking which
is not flush with the rail level.
* Hs ❖ *
“Tom Foolery” : The boom in building pic-
ture-theatres all over the Commonwealth de-
mands attention. The General Film Co. of
Australasia is making a big issue of shares
to erect a £300,000 theatre in Adelaide and
finance extensive building operations else-
where. The Weres and Baillieus have under-
written 179,250 £1 shares carrying 8 per
cent, for the same purpose, making the fully
paid capital of Hoyts Co. £2,185,746. It
is really a dreadful state of things when the
chief progress made in Australia is in con-
nection with supplying pleasure to its citi-
zens and creating shopping concerns for the
purpose of selling mostly foreign luxuries.
HER DOMINANT NOTE—THE IOU.
KIT: “Her dresses always have something outstanding
about them!”
KAT: “Yes—the bills most likely!”
“Cone”: Australia can’t complain logically
of Maoriland’s duty on macaroni (B.
25/7/’2B). The Dominion is only following
the example of the Commonwealth in looking
after local industries. The sensible reply of
an Australian manufacturer who sees himself
menaced with the loss of a good market is
to get into that market from the inside.
This was done with success lately by a
Sydney manufacturer of ice-cream cones.
His export to M.L. was so large that he was
making most of the cones consumed in that
country; but instead of gazing at his figures
with satisfaction he asked himself how long
the thing was likely to last. Wishing to be
in the right place when the Dominion should
wake up to the absurdity of supplying itself
from abroad, he booked his passage, qrmed
with estimates and arguments, and talked it
over with the M.L. equivalent of the Aus-
tralian Tariff Board. The board granted the
duty he suggested, and he now owns a
flourishing factory in Auckland. What has
happened in respect of this flimsy article
may be taken as a forecast of tariff develop-
ments in M.L.
* ❖ Jjc *
“The Invalid”: The representative of a
Melbourne land-sales firm recently visited
our town and stayed at a hotel the pro-
prietor of which enjoys a well-deserved repu-
tation for ultra-canniness. The salesman
asked Bung for a cheque for £5O drawn in
favor of his firm, in exchange for a similar
amount in notes, alleging that he wanted to
mail the money to the city. He next called
on a local storekeeper, also a keen business
man, and in the course of conversation men-
tioned casually that he’d sold a block to the
publican, producing the cheque as evidence.
The bluff worked and another cheque changed
hands. Armed with these two documents the
rest was easy, and at the end of the day
he returned to the pub with a sheaf of
cheques, on the strength of which he made
a genuine sale to the hotelkeeper.
POSSIBLY.
STOP-AT-HOME SYDNEY MAN (to returned
explorer ): “I believe the niggers up
there are very jealous of their women
folk?”
RETURNED EXPLORER: “Not at all. Why, you
can buy a wife for a plug of tobacco
or a couple of old jamlins.”
STOP-AT-HOME SYDNEY MAN: “Oh well, I
suppose a GOOD wife’s worth that!"
Randolph Bedford writes :
Bill Davis, son of “Baldy,” has done much to
forward a scheme which will make valuable the
molasses product of sugar manufacture, up to now
wasted by the million tons all over the earth. The
molasses is dehydrated and run into circular con-
tainers of 1001 b. capacity. After dehydration the
molasses sets as hard* as stone. It is an ideal sheep
food, and the sealed containers allow it to be stored
indefinitely; even when opened and left in the
paddock the atmospheric effect on it is superficial;
and there is - neither wastage nor leakage and the
food lasts until the last lick. During the 1902
drought the northern railway *©f Queensland carried
liquid molasses and sugar-cane tops sufficient to save
million of starving sheep; and with the new
economical form of dehydration and container, trans-
port becomes so easy that molasses will become a
staple sheep food.
* * * *
“B. Goode”: “Bilcon” (B. 4/7/’2B) men-
tions a sweet potato of 2641 b- It would
be considered just ordinary in the Islands.
Some years ago, when I was collecting a
little pay and a lot of malaria in the Solo-
mons, one of the heads asked me to send him
a cwt. of sweet potatoes. We packed three
into a chaff-bag—two big ones and a small
one, weight 1201 b. And they weren’t prize-
winners bj any means.
* * * *
“B. Goode”: “Cory 1\” (B. 11/7/’2B)
mentions that he discovered imitation dogs’
teeth in New Guinea in
1909. I sold thousands
of these in the Solomons
in 1903. They were a
splendid imitation, made
in Germany for a Ger-
man firm in New Britain,
and were in brisk de-<
mand until some inter-
fering missionary whis-
pered in Black Brother’s
ear. There was, at the
time, a big trade in arm-
rings made from clam
shell, and we sent two
of these to Germany as
samples for a synthetic
substitute. These were
supplied in celluloid, the
imitation being so good
that it was hard to tell
the real from the sham,
except that the genuine
article was easily broken.
We sold them in thou-
sands, until one day at
Rubiana a big buck with
15 on each arm, five
strung to each ear and
one for a nose ring, start-
ed to light a broken clay-
pipe. He lit up like
a bush-fire in full blast,
and would have been
roasted if I hadn’t dump-
ed him overboard. He
claimed compensation,
10s., which was paid, and
we gave the remainder of
the rings a watery grave.
* * * *
When the huge Waikaremoana and Ara-
puni stations in the North Island are com-
pleted next year Maoriland will have at its
disposal 186,600 h.p. of hydro-electric cur-
rent. The pioneer plant at Lake Coleridge
in the South Island has been tripled in
capacity since 1920, and another South
Island turbine station on the Waitaki River
is in course of construction. It will develop
40,000 li.p., as against Coleridge’s 86,000.
Do date £7,500,000 has been spent on har-
nessing lakes and rivers, and the eventual
capacity of hydro-electric plants, so far as
present plans go, will be about 500,000 h.p.
With such a vast reservoir of cheap power
Maoriland will have every incentive to de-
velop her manufacturing industries.


FERRODOR
ANTI-
CORROSIVE
PAINT
THE MOST SATISFACTORY WEATHERPROOF
PAINT FOR INDUSTRIAL AND DOMESTIC USE
Perfectly Protects all Iron , Steel and Woodwork from Rust and Corrosion
FERRODOR PAINT has won its place in the front rank of weather-proofing
materials. It affords absolute protection from the attacks of the weather. It successfully
resists sun and rain, salt air and chemical fumes. Its wonderful elastic properties enabje
it to expand in hot weather and contract in cold weather, so that it will not blister,
crack or peel.
FERRODOR PAINT has been used successfully on many large jobs, and has proven
beyond doubt its ability to withstand the weather, one coating in one case on record
lasting 22 years without re-painting!
FERRODOR PAINT is packed in paste form to eliminate waste —you only mix
what is required—and there are twenty colors to choose from.
Some of the jobs on which FERRODOR PAINT has been used: —
GASWORKS -------- The Gas Purifiers at Bathurst Gas-
works were painted with Ferrodor
Paint 20 years ago, and up to date
have not been repainted, nor do they
yet need repainting.
STEEL FACTORY CHIMNEYS One painting with Ferrodor Paint
has been giving every satisfaction on
a large steel chimney 1 25ft. high and
6ft. in diameter at Messrs. Tooheys,
Ltd., Brewery.
WHEAT SILOS ------- Ferrodor Paint has been used on the
huge Terminal Silos at Glebe Island.
These do not .yet need repainting.
RAILWAY WORK ----- The N.S.W. Government Railways
are large purchasers of Ferrodor
Paint for use on bridge girders, over-
head standards, etc., which are ex-
posed to the weather.
Some of the Users of FERRODOR PAINT:
N.S.W. Government Railways
N.S.W. Public Works Department
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Australian Glass Manufacturing Co.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilizers, Ltd.
Cresco Fertilizers
Mt. Lyell Chemical Co.
Cuming, Smith and Co.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Taronga Park Trust
Color Card and Full Information Sent Free on Request
WILLIAM ADAMS <T COMPANY
" LI M I T E "
SYDNEY.... 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE.. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE. . 521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE. .. . 157 Waymouth Street.
NEWCASTLE.. 17 Bolton Street.


WALTHER 22CAL.
AUTOMATIC PISTOL
with a Barrel.
Ahbbs
No license required for
this model.
Magazine holds 13 long-rifle cart-
ridges. Wonderful accurary to 1 00yds.
Ideal for mOtor-car use on rabbits,
etc., without getting out of car.
Price £7/15/-, post free.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHJLP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[3
MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST'
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
wide will
30/-
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
Mail to Desk “5.8.”
Post Free
State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Syeen Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Scarcely ever off the bit, and fencing as
cleverly as old Floater did in other days, Sir
Alogy landed the V.A.T.C. Australian
Steeple on Saturday for A. T. Creswick. He
is the fourth horse in the history of the
game at Caulfield to complete the double,
Hurdle and Steeple. He had no easy job,
for Nyangay, the best ’chaser of the year,
put up a splendid fight under his big weight,
list. 121 b.; in fact, the struggle between the
pair had the spectators excited throughout
the long journey of “about” three miles and
a half.
Sir Alogy had schooled well during the
week, and was the early favorite in the
course betting. But there was such a per-
sistent demand for Nyangay that when books
were closed it was 3 to 1 Sir Alogy and
Nyangay, Iluja (7 to 1), Epergne (8 to 1),
Clan Robert (10 to 1), Romeo and Secret
Stone (12 to 1) being the others backed —
there were 11 starters. The race resolved
itself into a duel between the two favorites
practically from the start. Except for a
stride or two, Sir Alogy was always in
front, and he hardly ever touched timber.
Nyangay, on the other hand, made a bad
jump at the back of the course, but, pulling
himself together, he got to within a length
of Sir Alogy three furlongs from home, only
to see Creswick’s gelding go away again and
turn into the straight with the race won.
Sir Alogy’s lead at the judge’s box was 2i
lengths, and his time, 6min. 59|sec., equalled
the course record established by Roisel last
year; but there were only 21 fences then,
as against 24 on Saturday. Ken Scott again
rode the dashing young horse. Clan Robert
was a fair third ; Romeo and Secret Stone
fell.
There was some likely-looking stuff in the
Chatswortli Plate for 'three-year-olds; Stal-
den, Stanza, Clarion Call and Belle Gallante
were included in the field of 25. There was
big money for Faramanch (5 to 1), by Valais
—Farinetta, and, moved away smartly by
Duncan, he led throughout, winning easily
from Heroic’s half-brother Cimbrian (14 to
1) and Dark' Dawn (15 to 1) in lmin.
42|see. The brilliant youngster’s dam raced
on the Sydney pony courses, and was very
smart.
There were seven starters in the Balaclava
Stakes, and they were all backed, Duncan’s
mount Bombard being favorite at 7 to 2.
The race provided the closest finish of the
afternoon. Spearset made the running, but
was done with at the distance, where little
Reputed King and Ataman drew away. In
a great struggle Ataman beat the pony by
half a head, Bombard being a length and a
quarter away and Spearset fourth. Ataman,
who was successful the previous Saturday in
the Malakoff Stakes, is repaying Elwood
Fisher for all that careful trainer’s attention
to him.
Punters, who had been regaining portion
of their previous Saturday’s losses, came
at Noscitur (5 to 2) in the St. Aubin
Welter and the useful fellow, who was
ridden by Cairns, got there from the
unlucky Smoke Bomb (7 to 1) and
Tragedy King (20 to 1). But Smoke Bomb
and others were interfered with, and the
stewards, deciding that Cairns had crossed
too sharply, suspended him for a month.
This will not debar him from riding at the
A..T.C. spring races, provided he behaves him-
self in the meantime.
jfc jJj # jJj
Horses from Maoriland had a day out at
Canterbury Park on Saturday. Backed from
threes to evens, Perception, a colt by im-
ported Psychology—Amyrin, proved much too
speedy for his opponents in a division of the
Three-year-old Handicap. He is a half-
brother to Bathos, and probably nothing more
than a sprinter. Ilis stable-companion, Prince
Humphrey (both are trained by J. T. Jamie-
son), should, however, be decent at a middle
distance, or even further. If the saddle had
not slipped he would almost certainly have
won the Flying Handicap outright, instead
of dead-heating with First Acre (7 to 2) ;
on the other hand, First Acre came out
when leading—the boy looked round —and let
Prince Humphrey shoot up on the rails.
The Prince closed at 5 to 4 on, and as dead-
heaters must divide nowadays, those who
backed him at that price lost on the race.
Eden Hall (9 to 4), now owned by the
Sydiley publican Trautwein, was the fourth
Maoriland horse to show up. It. was only by
a “short’’ head that he boat Fondant, who
is no wonder, in the August Handicap, but
he is not yet at the top of his form. The
lady famous in the swimming world as Fanny
Durack owns a good filly in Canberra Florin,
AT THE PIC-HIC-NIC RACES.
“What (hie) won the lasht?”
“Why, it was a walkover —only one starter, you know.”
“Sho? Could ’ave shworn it was a dead-heat.”
by Sliillinglee—Golden Shot, a pedigree that
suggests staying power. Equal favorite with
Chrylyssa at 2 to 1, Canberra Florin made
hacks'of the others in the second division of
the Tliree-year-old Handicap. She was ridden
by Pike, who was also on Colmera (5 to 4),
easy winner of the Campsie Handicap; B.
Gately, who married Miss Durack, trains
them both. Bartle. the leading jockey last
year, also rode a double.
si; $ * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Travail; next,
Glasgow.
Ilighweight Handicap: Ilabashon; next,
Quince.
Rosehill Handicap: Prime Don; next,
Eden Hall.
Carlingford Mile: Cute Bird; next, Bob
Humphrey.
Maiden Handicap: Comedy Queen; next,
Valhalla.
* * * *
Wedding Eve’s showing in Sydney prior to
her trip to Brisbane suggested that she might
win a race at the Q.T.C.’s Exhibition meet-
ing, but she had to put up with a couple ot
seconds. In the Exhibition Handicap on
Saturday she was beaten over her favorite
distance of 10 furlongs by Kitty Paddington,
who gave her 51b.; Kitty went out at 4 to
1, the Sydney mare being favorite at 6 to
4. The Queensland champion High Syce was
downed in the Denman Plate by Soulton (;>
to 1) and Killarney. He does not seem as
well as he was.
;]t :!: ❖
“Adelaide”: In S. Aus. the Government
takes 5 p.c. of the money toted. Moved by
the bitter cries of small country clubs, it
proposes a graded scale —1 per cent, if the
amount staked is under £lOOO, and 2 per
cent, if it is between £lOOO and £2OOO, full
commission being reached at either £4OOO or
£5OOO, a point yet to be decided. But the
big fish are to pay for the little ones; the
Government tax on city courses is to be 5-j
p.c. and the total levy 12J p.c.
* * * *
“8.A.R.”: Bob Morley, the crack West-
ralian jockey, rode 50 winners last season —
really a better record than that of Bartle or
Duncan, for there is comparatively little
racing in the West. The previous season,
riding for nine months only, Morley got 39
firsts; in 1925-26 he topped the Westralian
list with 42 winners. English by birth, he
lias been a jockey since 1920; lie can go to
scale at 7st. 101 b. A quiet, modest youth,
Morley has a taste for music (he plays the
violin and the piano) and is a long way
above the average at tennis.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
One round sufficed to prove that Larry
Avera, alleged to have a great American
reputation, was not in the same class as
Tommy Fairhall in the Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night. Fairhall earns an honest
crust by digging coal at Wollongong, except
when he runs up to Sydney and knocks out
some boomed importation. Mr. Avera bumped
the floor heavily in the first round. He
bumped it again in the second, and in the
third, after more bumping, was saved by
Joe Wallis’s murmur of “That’ll do!” Larry,
though game enough, was done to a turn.
Weight: lOst. each.
Finding in George Zarynoff (12st. 131 b.)
an ideal partner, “Pinkie” Gardiner (jJst.
61b.) gave of liis best to make their exhibi-
tion a success at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night; and a success it was. »o
many holds were applied and broken by botn
men, and at such speed, that to some it
seemed impossible for either to secure a de-
finite advantage. But falls must come, so
Pink took the mercurial Russian in a
crotch- and arm-hold in the third round,
and slammed him down on the mat for first
blood. George carried on at unabated speed,
and in the fifth round got a double-arm
scissors, with which Gardiner was pinned.
Thus far the showmanship had been ex-
cellent, but presently some of George’s
swallow dives and acrobatic tricks began to
look a bit overdone. Gardiner wound up
a wonderful exhibition early in the seventh
round by escaping from a cradle-hold and
ramming the Russian’s shoulders home for
the deciding fall.
Footbrawl
Many of the .30,000 people who pushed
into Collingwood’s Victoria Park on Satur-
day decided to go to the pictures at half-
time. St. Kilda’s 18, champions one week
and children the next, played so listlessly
against the Magpies that whatever chance
they had of reaching “the four” was soon
gone: ’Wood, 106 points; St. Kilda, 50. On
the Essendon ground the locals seriously
jeopardised their place in “the four.” Up
against Fitzroy, they discarded the fast, open
game they generally play, and went in for
rugged driving. That suited ’Roy, and
though it was anybody’s game all through
the Maroons finally got the verdict with 62
points to ’Don’s 53. Melbourne, minus sev-
eral injured men and also minus its usual
skilful, concerted play, indulged in an untidy
scramble with Hawthorn, and it was long
after half-time, when defeat seemed immi-
nent, that it got a move on, finishing with
88 points to Hawthorn’s 64. Carlton moved
to within reach of the fourth place by run-
ning over North Melbourne with 72 points
to 46; Geelong, with half its regular team
out through injuries, could make no show
against South Melbourne —67, points to
South’s 104; and Richmond collected 77
points to Footscray’s 54.
*
In a match disgraceful to both sides and
to the crowd and the Rugby League code,
St. George beat Balmain, 21 to 3, on Satur-
day. The tarnished Saints were superior in
every department of the game except perhaps
in bash and putting in the boot. E. Suburbs,
bracketed with St. George at the top of
the competition table, downed W. Suburbs
by 21 to 17. West did all the attacking in
the second half, but faulty handling and
lack of combination spoilt their efforts. Glebe
trounced South Sydney by 13 to 8. It was a
bit too good all through, although South’s
hope 3 were raised for a time in the second
half when Wearing got over and Kadwell
converted. University, combining well, did
what it liked with North Sydney in the
first half, scoring 12 to nil. North, fielding
a reshuffled side, played capital football in
the second part, but the stuclents, defending
stoutly, kept ahead —14 to 10.
“Swing the Boot”: The St. George-Bal-
main match provided the most disorderly
scenes in the stoushful history of the Rugby
League. The second half was pure Donny-
brook, but it was not till near the end that
the referee sent one of the many offenders
off the field. Then Carstairs, of St. George,
was kicked insensible, and had to be borne
away on a stretcher. When the game
closed, hundreds of spectators attacked Rus-
sell, of Balmain, and police constables, swing-
ing handcuffs and batons, had great difficulty
in rescuing him ; then, like Carstairs, the man
was taken to the hospital. This outbreak of
ruffianism should be another nail ip the coffin
of the professional code, which is going from
bad to worse in the matter of foul play
and ineffective control and punishment of
toughs in football togs. Union Rugby has re-
gained its old ground in marked fashion in
N.S.W., and the revival of the code in
Queensland sees the powerful Brisbane
League seriously considering the question of
returning to the amateur game. Central
Queensland and parts of northern N.S.W.
may also go back to Union Rugby. In the
meantime the trustees of the Sydney Cricket
Ground, which has long been a winter pre-
serve of the Rugby League, will have to
seriously ask themselves whether the famous
arena shall be again given over for a term of
years to an organisation which has achieved
Australian-wide notoriety from such incidents
as culminated in Saturday’s riot.
(Continued on page 41.)
“G.P.0.” : An athletic club that has done
well in Brisbane since its inception is Suomi,
wfflose members are all Finns. They excel in
field games, and their outstanding performer,
Keskinen, holds Queensland records for the
javelin- and hammer-throws and the hop-step-
and-jump. Paavola, a former clubmate of
Nurmi’s, is the best runner. This club is the
only one of its kind in Australia.
IF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Field characterises the English cricket team
for Australia as full of ‘Ifs.’ ”
If Hobbs and Sut., the pair remain,
On English fields that faced the foe,
If Larwood’s leg can stand the strain
And Tyldesley keep the status quo
Accorded the Lancastrian pro.,
Ilis doting country’s tower and cliff,
We’ll have a hard, hard row to hoe —
But it’s a comprehensive If.
If Hendren still his skill retain
And Mead the sticker, dour and slow,
Avoid the turning of the lane
Which every oldster comes to know,
If Ames and Duckworth only show
That they can pull in Struddy’s skiff,
If Freeman wickets down can mow
Here as on Kentish ovals —If!
If runs from Leyland’s bat shall rain
And Hammond’s star as brightly glow
As in their foggier domain,
If Tate and White the crease can toe
Successfully as down below,
And Chapman as insouciant biff,
Our cake may very well be dough—
It merely hangs upon the If.
If Staples and Jar dine outgrow
Admirers’ hopes, they’ll knock us stiff
And make us drubbings undergo....
But fortunately there’s an If.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


All Sydney’s Sport World is Flocking to It!
Just
3
Days
to go
1
, m
m
ml
m
r
&
w
m
Just
3
Days
to go
Definitely Concludes on Saturday, 18th August
Country Mail Orders Received on Monday, 20th August, will be executed at Sale Prices.
Remember, all Goods are SPECIALLY REDUCED for the Sale, subject to a
prevailing DISCOUNT OF 10 PER CENT, (certain proprietary lines excepted).
GUN and RIFLE
SALE OFFERS.
dfg
Continental Combined Gun and
Rifle, 12 gauge, 32
calibre. Usually pfA/f'7J£
£l4/14/-. Sale Price IIU/11/0
Stevens” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge,
3 Oin. barrels. Usually pjalaOl
£3/15/-. Sale Price
Marsons’ “The King” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 gauge, 3 Oin. barrels.
Usually £9/10/-. Sale Price %M
Marson Hammerless Gun, 1 2 gauge.
Usually £l6/16/-. pi'T/fi
Sale Price ........ £l3/5/-
American Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
16 gauge. Usually r
£7/12/6. Sale Price Xd/lljO
Darlow D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge.
Usually £9/1 7/6. P7iiQ\£L
Sale Price Xlfle/O
Continental S.B. Muzzle - Loading
Gun. Usually 32/6. 9Q/£
Sale Price fau/U
( Carriage Extra.)
Continental D.B. Muzzle-Loading
Gun. Usually 55/- 7Ti£
Sale Price Di/0
(Carriage Extra.)
Winchester Musket Rifle, 22 calibre.
Usually £5/5/-. r/xi
Sale Price dU|-
Special Snaps from the
INDOOR GAMES
SECTION.
4SL
“Tiv-Skit.” A Combination of Tivoli
and Skittles. Two Games in One.
A popular Game of Skill with old
and young. Size 30in. x
12in. Usually 17/6.
Sale Price 13/0
Compendium of Games, complete.
Usually 42/6.
Sale Price 27/B
Table Bowls. Usually 35/-
Sale Price 22/6
To secure this sensational Tennis Special early
ordering is imperative!
A GENUINE 79/6
Slazenger
“DOHERTY”
Racket for
4716
0
sasjpiyi' -V' ■ c&a?
Slazenger’s “Doherty” Racket
need not be eulogised to players, for
its playing qualities are known through-
out the Tennis World. Every model is up
to the precise standard of Slazenger crafts-
manship and guaranteed in perfect order and
conditions.
Strung with High-Grade English Gut. ( No Cash Orders)
OTHER TENNIS RACKET SPECIALS
Famous “Tornadic” Racket. Usually 757-
Sale Price 60/ -
C. 8.8. Racket, with leather grip. Usually 18/6.
Sale Price 12/6
Oxford Co.’s “Standard” English Racket.
Usually 25/-. Sale Price 20/-
Bargains from the
MERCERY SECTION.
16/6, 15/6
GOLF SHIRTS, JQ
Extra Heavy Quality Poplin
Golf Shirt. Smart colored
grounds effect. One Stiff
and One Soft Collar to
match. Usually 16/6, 15/6.
Sale Price 10/6
4/6 3/6
TIES, /// /
Silk Broad-End Ties in the
very newest designs and
colors. Usually 4/6, 3/6.
Sale Price 1/11
i
'M
15/6, 13/6 COAT SWEATERS, 9/8
All-Wool Ribbed and Brushed Wool English Coat Sweater
in Fawn and Grey. A very special offering that represents
the peak of value. Usually 15/6, 13/6. Sale Price, 9/8
(C atriage Paid on all Goods, except where specified otherwise.)
World-Famous
CRICKET BATS.
at absurd prices !
ĝ
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
BATS
Club. Usually 30/-
Sale Price 23/6
Union or Empire. Usually
32 /6. Sale Price 22/0
Autograph. Usually 437-
Sale Price .. . 357-
County Single Rubber.
Usually 32/6. Sale Price 25/6
County Double Rubber.
Usually 37/6. Sale Price 29/0
County Treble Rubber.
Usually 40/-. Sale Price 32/-
Wars o p s’ Conquerer.
Usually 42/6. Sale Price 27/6
Windett & Smith, John Bull.
Selected. Usually 357-
Sale Price 25/9
(A 7 a Cash Orders for Cricket Sale Specials.)
GOLF SALE
SPECIALS.
oo
00^
djb
-n
$0
o-*•
033
CO
Famous Spalding
“CHAMPIONSHIP”
GOLF BALL
Price
36/-
Dozen.
Regular Standard* Price,
3/6 each, 42/- dozen.
Jas. Braid Brassies and Drivers.
Usually 25/-.
Sale Price 20/-
Auchterlonie Woods and Irons.
Usually 17/6.
Sale Price . .
13/9
Telephone:
M 6311.
Mick Jlmmcnj
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
Postal Address:
Box 188,
Haymarket P.O.


H
,
am
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, tor Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
dfg
y* c cm
*GOC L
3CjnJr,
COQ
POC
—among the things
that help your game
is the
HENLEY
MESH MARKING GOLF BALL
—because of its phenomenal flight
and accuracy. Play the Henley—
you’ll get more pleasure from Golf.
Obtainable from Professionals and Sports
Dealers or from
W. T. HENLEY’S
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
83 Clarence Street, Sydney.
205 William Street, Melbourne.
59 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. |J
Footbrawl
The All Blacks won the eighteenth game
of their tour in South Africa by beating
Eastern Province, 16-3, after scores had been
3-3 at half-time. Earlier in the week they
again defeated a Border side, by 35 to 3.
The tourists have won their last eight
matches, including the second Test, off the
reel and their record is now 14 won, 3 lost
and one drawn, scoring 308 points to 117.
The third Test will be played next Saturday,
and after two games against Cape district
teams the fourth Test will end the tour on
September 1.
* * * *
“Unity”: After the match at Durban, in
which the All Blacks were beaten by the
Springboks, the Maoriland telephone de-
partment all over the Dominion put in about
the heaviest day of its career. The authori-
ties had arranged that the result should be
announced from 7 a.m., and Information
stood by and monotonously answered
“Springboks 17, All Blacks nil,” at inter-
vals of about two seconds, until the broad-
casting stations began to relieve the strain.
But what made the work so heavy was
that no patriotic Maorilander believed the
news on first hearing. Everybody rang
again to see if the disastrous information
was really true.
# * * *
The Sydney Rugby Union clubs are pro-
viding very attractive football this season.
Randwick, playing Y.M.C.A. on Saturday,
brought the crowd to its feet with some fine
combined movements in the first half; the
side won a hard and fast game by 15 (5
tries) to 10 (2 tries and 2 goals). The
Glebe-Balmain battle with Eastern Suburbs
ended in G.-B.’s favor by a bare point,
12-11. Northern Suburbs beat St. George
by 23 (5 tries and 3 goals) to 8 (a converted
try and a penalty goal). The forwards made
a hard game of it, and one player was sent
off. Another bright game at Pratten Park
saw Manly beat Western Suburbs by 19 to
18 (4 tries and 3 goals to 3 tries and 3 goals,
one a field goal by Hay). West led by two
points till just on time, when Cant brought
Manly home with a penalty goal.
* :|: * *
“Stand Off”: The form shown by the
Victorian Rugby Union team in its matches
against N.S.W! in Melbourne and Sydney
has been surprisingly high, considering that
this is the first season in which inter-State
opposition has been faced since the code was
re-established in Melbourne. The game in
Victoria was won by a strong N.S.W. team
by only a narrow margin, and in the match
against a very powerful side in Sydney the
Vies, put up a great fight. Their victory
against a Metropolitan team, by 27 to 16,
was thoroughly well deserved. Murray,
Sturtridge and Woodbury are three notable
backs, while MeDuff, Yoffa and Hill were
prominent in a forward pack which was
hardly shaded even by the N.S.W. vanguard,
save in the lineout.
# * * *
“Hooker”: The N.S.W. team which leaves
for Maoriland on Friday will lie minus 15
of the Waratah combination, but on this
season’s performances the young fellows
selected should worthily fill the places of
their more famous brethren. Westfield and
G. Croft are both fine full-backs, and the
threequarter line looks sound in scoring and
defensive qualities, with the experienced C.
H. Towers as the nucleus and a couple of
sterling ex-G.P.'S. youngsters in White and
Caldwell, while the inclusion of D. Bull,
the country player from the N.-W., will be
received with approval. Gregor George is
a brilliant and experienced five-eighth, and
Bartley, of W. Suburbs, is one of the finds
of the season for the same position. Waratah
Malcolm is captain and scrum half, with
Snell, another player from Newcastle, as his
deputy. The forwards read uncommonly
well, and have been chosen with an eye on
Maoriland conditions. They include another
country player in A. Munsie. Ten matches
will be played, the three against Maoriland
being at Wellington on September 5, Dun-
edin on September 8 (a severe test of form
this) and Christchurch on September 15.
X * * *
“Gate”: The Rugby League G.H.Q. is
plunged in gloom, for the cash takings, the
life-blood of the game, have slumped fearfully
in both N.S.W. and Queensland. No doubt
the visit of the English team has dulled the
palate of the League gourmand; all the same,
the decline in the standard of N.S.W. foot-
ball has had a lot to do with the reduced
attendances at the inter-State matches in
Brisbane and at the club games in Sydney.
Added to that, the public is getting fed-up
with continual stoush exhibitions, the pro-
moters of which are almost invariably told
by an executive afraid to alienate their ser-
vices and sympathies to be good little boys
next time. Moreover, the fate which threat-
ened the N.S.W. League when the revival
of the Union game deprived it of a great
recruiting-ground is looming in Queensland.
There the big schools have already returned
to the amateur code, and it is from the big
schools that the cream of the young players
who are to be the champions of to-morrow
come.
$ • $ ❖
“Rover”: The Australian football code
in N.S.W. lost a whole-hearted supporter
when E. W. Butler died in Sydney last
week. A Richmond (Vic.) player of note,
he came to Sydney some 36 years ago, and
was one of the founders of the national game
in his adopted State. In his time he held
practically every official position in the
N. League, including the presidency,
and was a selector of inter-State for
years, while lie was manager of the N.S.W.
team at the first Australian Rules “carni-
val” in Melbourne in 1908, and at the second
in Adelaide in 1911.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Camberwell, which at time of
writing was in the running for the premier-
ship of the Vic. Association, has two parsons
in the team. They are L. and R. Williams,
brothers and ministers of the Church of
Christ.
The Nineteenth Hole
The Australian women’s golf champion-
ship, held on the Royal Sydney course at
Rose Bay, drew a big entry from Victoria
and N.S.W., while Maoriland was also re-
presented by a very clever girl golfer, Miss
O. Kay. The sturdy Maoriland lass put
up a 77, a course record for women, in one
of the qualifying rounds, only to be defeated
in the semi-finals by the holder of the cham-
pionship, Miss Mona McLeod, 1 up. The
final between Miss McLeod and Mrs. Gate-
house, of the Royal Melbourne Club, saw
the latter win, 9 up and 8 to play; her
putting was particularly deadly. In the
course of the tournament both Vic. ladies
NO DANGER.
MR WINKERS : “Madam, it is positively DANGEROUS for you to be sitting here!”
MRS. GUPPY: “It's quite all right—I’m sitting on a newspaper.”
equalled Miss Kay’s course record. A very
sound and orthodox player, Mrs. Gatehouse
won the title in 1909 and in 1925.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: There have been many
theories to account for the fascination of
golf—that game of which it is said that it
may exhaust one's income but never one’s
adjectives. An American writer is the latest
in the field with the hypothesis that the
golfer is a germ-carrier and spreads the in-
fection wherever he goes, like “carriers” of
less-popular ailments. There is something
in it. Anyone who has noted the neophyte
who has come to scoff at an acquaintance
engaged in the ritual and remains to play
will agree with the American gentleman.
Once infected, though his future be one
long agony and mental stress, the stricken
one is doomed to go on to the end. There
is no convalescence or recovery until he
plays the Last Hole.
* * * *
“O'Sporran” : The golfer who uses anything
from a dozen to eighteen clubs, and all
badly, will be put to shame by the latest
invention. This is an iron with an adjust-
able head which can be altered in pitch so
as to permit it to be employed effectively
for any shot through the green. The wooden
clubs can still be carried for their special
purposes, as required, but there are plenty
of players who find themselves more effi-
cient with the iron clubs than with the
others, and to these the invention should
appeal, especially if they are of an econo-
mical turn of mind. What the makers and
vendors of the modern and very expensive
elaborately graded “sets” of irons will think
of the innovation is another matter.
# * * *
“Nemesis”: Golfers generally will hear
with pleasure of the conviction of a man in
Sydney on a charge of having in his son’s
custody golf-balls reasonably supposed to be
stolen. The balls were offered for sale by
n boy who said he had got them from his
father, and the latter fell in for a fine and
the usual costs. A few more prosecutions
of the sort might help to cut down the high
cost of golfing, in which the price of balls is
the principal item. Nearly every metropoli-
tan course is a happy hunting-ground for ball
thieves, and the profession is lucrative, the
price charged by the thief being usually a
bob for a 3s. pill in good condition. On
the principle that the receiver is worse than
the other chap, something might be done too
in the way of straightening up players who
habitually snap up these “bargains.”
“Brassey”: Those wooden tee-pins (B.
S/8/’2B) are sold by the package at a price
which makes the cost of each individual pin
hardly worth the trouble of working out.
Thus the average golfer does not bother to
pick up his tee, even if undamaged, but
takes a new one for the next drive off. Some,
more frugally minded, retrieve their pins,
while nearly every club has a waste-hating
soul who scours the ground in front of
the tees for discarded pins, and so never
needs to buy any. One of these triumphantly
invaded the nineteenth at his club and
announced that he had collected 36 pins. So
pleased was he that he set them up for
the mob —the drinks, not the pins, as might
be imagined—and in doing so spent enough
money to buy him a year’s supply iof the
little wooden gadgets.
The Olympiad
Australia sent at least one real champion
to Amsterdam —Bobby Pearce, the N.S.W.
sculler. His Avas a very exacting task, for
he had to row five times over the 2000-
metres distance, his opponents being the best
men in Europe, England and the U.S.A. He
beat them all decisively, establishing the
world’s record time of 7min. 14-ssec. in the
semi-final (Collett, the English sculler, whom
lie defeated by lengths, also cut many seconds
off the previous best Olympic time) ; and after
he had made a hack of Myers, the U.S. repre-
sentative in the final (time, 7min. llsec.).
the American rowing manager described him
as “the best sculler I ever saw.” Australians
who can remember Searle, Beach and Stan-
bury would hardly go to that length; but
the young man has certainly attained to
greatness in his branch of sport, as did his
father and his grandfather before him. The
pity of it is that he was not accompanied to
Amsterdam by a rowing eight, the West-
ralians for preference. Australia should
always be represented on these occasions by
the best boat of the year. Our oarsmien
are very good as a rule and (unlike, our
wrestlers and even our runners) are highly
tried.
Andrew Charlton was second in the 1500
metres to Arne Borg and second in the 400
metres (beating the Swede) to Zorilla,
the Argentinan. In the 1500 metres
the lad clipoed 4sec. off his Olympic
record of 20min. 6 3-ssec. (Borg’s time was
19min. 514-ssec.) ; in the 400 metres his
figures were smin. 3 3-ssec., Zorilla’s being
smin. 1 3-ssec. Charlton is probably a better
natural swimmer than either of his con-
querors, but he has been rarely in action
since 1924, whereas Borg has made the most
of his opportunities, with consequent im-
provement. It is pleasant to read, however,
that Charlton fell back on none of the ridi-
culous excuses made for certain other com-
petitors who went down. He modestly said
lie had been beaten by better men.
Tom Boast, the back-stroke swimmer, won
his heat in the 100 metres, but was put out
in the next round. The three girls failed
in their heats. They are nice little girls,
but their selection was merely a weak con-
cession to the flapper press. In one case the
booming was ridiculous, as the event has
pnoved. The two Maoriland girls did better,
but were not good enough to win. Maori-
land’s one victory was gained in the welter-
weight boxing, Morgan very pluckily over-
coming the handicap of a dislocated knuckle.
An interesting sequel to the Olympiad was
the athletic competition between the British
Empire and America at Stamford Bridge.
The Americans, repeating their success of
four years ago, won by 8 events to 6, but
there was very little between the teams.
Inches only separated them in the 400-yards
relay, in which Carlton took part for the
defeated combination, and two yards was the
advantage—on the British side this time —
in the four-miles relay, wherein “Tickle”
Whyte outran his American opponent in the
third stage. A victory for the Empire in the
480-yards hurdles would have made it level
pegging. The Yanks unexpectedly won by
three yards-
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian Davis Cup team, minus
Patterson, opened its American tour in the
Meadow .Club’s tournament at Southampton,
New York State. Hopman survived to the
semi-finals, when he was eliminated by .Man-
gin by 3 sets to 1. Hopman had previously
wiped out his mate, Jack Crawford, while
Ilawkes went down to Berkeley Bell, of
Texas. In partnership with Herndon
(U.S.A.) Hawkes entered the final of the
doubles, but the pair were beaten by Lott
and Doig, 19-17, 6-4, 6-4. After the team
has visited Canada it will return, reinforced
by Patterson, for the American national
championships.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The announcement that
Cochet has promised to visit Australia next
season should gladden the hearts of tennis
addicts and bring tears of joy to the eyes
of “gate”-hungry officialdom. Cochet will be
accompanied by a couple of rising young-
sters, and the team will probably. arrive
early next year, returning via India and
Egypt.
° r sH % $
“Rev. Knucklebone”: One “Hencoop” (B.
S/8/’2B) asks what is wrong with the prin-
ciple of a tennis-player deliberately throw-
ing away a point because he or she disagrees
with an umpire’s decision. Simply this,
that when a player in any game, by word or
deed, flouts the decision of the umpire, he
strikes at the very root principle of sport
as sport is understood by the British race.
He does not accept the umpire’s decision as
final; sets himself up as a court of
higher jurisdiction. Only in tennis can a
player adopt this attitude without incurring
salutary reprisal.
(Continued on next page.)


JONATHAN PARKIN
Captain, British Rugby League Team.
Sponsored by a Famous Athlete!
Messrs. Rocke, Tompsitt, & Co. Pty. Ltd., The Doncaster Hotel,
2Q2 Flinders Street, Sydney,
Melbourne, Vic. 25th July, 1928.
Dear Sirs, —I enclose an order for a further supply
of Yeaston Tablets. On reaching Australia my
team at first felt the effects of the change of climate
and their particularly strenuous programme. A
short course of Yeaston Tablets restored our per-
sonal fitness and assured complete freedom from
minor ailments throughout the team. I intend
to keep a supply for the remainder of the tour.
Yours faithfully,
British Rugby League Team Touring Australia, 1928.
&€>s*
<*tn
/^/ c p orr ecti'
*°od Ve
Oi |
Bottles of 36, 2/3
Bottles of 100, 4/9
Write for the wonderful Yeas-
ton booklet to “Yeaston"
Box 2682 EE. Q.P.O. Sydney.
Look for the letters
R OX
which are stamped
on each genuine
Yeaston Tablet.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: Another unique motor-
racing event (B. l/8/’2S) is the 24-hours
endurance race for standard types of sports
cars, held at Le Mans, France. It is a
duel to the death for many of the cars, for
the gruelling pace—loo m.p.h. on the
straight—and the turning, hour after hour,
of the sharp corners put strains on even
the best machines which are apt to leave
them with an enfeebled constitution. This
year 33 started and 19 finished. An Ameri-
can Stutz led for 20 hours, when a Bentley
overhauled it, with two Chryslers close be-
hind. In the end the race resolved itself into
a fight between the cylinders, with four
cylinders leading, eight next and two sixes
coming on. A huge crowd watched the
battle, thousands sitting up all night in the
stands or jazzing the hours away on the
lawns. The British car averaged 69.11 m.p.h.
for the 1658.64 miles.
* * * ★
“Reverse”: English ear manufacturers
have made such a success of the 7-h.p. class
selling in England round about £l2O that
some of them are considering a 5-h.p. car at
a lower price. According to such an auth-
ority as S. F. Edge, of Napier fame, an
engine could be built capable of pulling a
small four-seater saloon up to 35 m.p.h.
The car would have three-speed gear—top,
at 35, second at 20 and first at 6—climbing
the average hill on top, and able to go up
any hill with a full load on first. Running
costs would be lower, and such a car would
probably supersede the motor-cycle and side-
car with a great many people.
* !|: * :!c
“Splosh” : The Australian dirt-track motor-
cyclists in England (B. 8/8/’2B) are doing
even better than “Whizz” indicates. Two
of the men he names have not only cleaned
up most of the big events, but a pot of
money with them. Frank Arthur has pock-
eted £1304 for 75 minutes’ actual racing;
Vic Huxley’s share is £1304, earned for 67
minutes. Prize-money only, it should be em-
phasised, and there are retainers to be con-
sidered, to say nothing of wagers. Betting
is permitted at the meetings.
>!= * * *
“Whizz” : Some fine times were put up in
the flying quarter-mile test for motor-cycles
staged near Sydney by the Western Suburbs
Motor-cycle Club, three riders passing the
90-m.p,h. mark. A. Hunter, riding a T.T.
Triumph, registered 97.82 m.p.h., and G.
Walker, riding a similar machine, recorded
95.74 m.p.h. The third man, 11. Byron, on
a Sunbeam, was clocked to do 93.75 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: One of the features of
the world’s cycle trade since the war has
been the prominence gained by British motor-
cycles. They have been as successful on the
track as the road, as a list of European,
tests and competitions won during the last
year shows. Fourteen of the leading Euro-
pean cycling events went to British makes;
in addition, several of the big touring races
and one high-speed trial were won. In five
events the British machines filled the first
three places. To the foregoing must be added
the Isle of Man Tourist one of
the biggest races of its kind in Europe, and
the Australian record from Melbourne to
Sydney with a Matchless side-car outfit.
“Rat-trap”: The first of the reorganised
Australian road-cycling championships,
which are to be held in the various States
each year, was the 50 miles event, decided
at Brisbane. The winner was the Victorian
rider, C. Foster, whose 'time was 2hr. 18min.
15sec.; Queenslander W. Muir was second,
and G. Gould (N.S.W.) third. Only 72
seconds separated the first and third men.
The event was decided as an unpaced time
trial, each man riding alone and against the
watch.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: As is invariably the case,
the Olympic Games broke up in an atmo-
sphere of complaints, accusations and ill-
feeling. Favoritism, incompetence and a
dozen other shortcomings have been attri-
buted to officials and to various com-
petitors. In previous Games, charges of
foul play were brought, though nothing of
the sort seems to have happened on this
occasion. The comilty of nations which it
was supposed would be one of the results
of these meetings seems as far off as ever,
and nearly every competing nation has
joined, as usual, in the general recrimina-
tion. A decisive step taken by the Empire
representatives in London may lead to the
withdrawal of Britain and the Dominions
from future Games. At a meeting of British,
Canadian, South African and Australian
delegates to the Olympiad, the question of
holding Empire Games every four years,
starting in 1930, was practically decided,
and a committee was appointed to draw up
a scheme.
* * * *
“Crayfish” : Australia’s sad experiences in
the Olympic track, field and indoor events
have been made sadder by the campaign of
excuses started by the more vociferous sec-
tion of the Sydney press in the hope of dis-
guising the fact that our representatives
were simply not good enough. It began with
detailed chronicles of mishaps to AVatson’s
ankle, Hyde’s leg, Bolger’s shoulder, and to
some portion of another wrestler’s anatomy
which .the writer cannot recall at the
moment. Then the wrestlers, having appa-
rently recovered from their hurts, were pre-
vented from winning owing to the extraor-
dinary interpretation of the rules by the
Continental referees. After that, Charlton
caught a cold which handicapped him to
such an extent that he swam faster in the
1500 metres than he had ever swum before.
Standen, the cyclist, was basely done out
of his race by the cunning of his Dutch
adversary, who sprinted when the Australian
wasn’t expecting it; and the other cyclist.
Gray, was beaten through being- compelled
to wait in the cold for his heat. Even
Pearce had to slow down in one of his heats
because a duck and her family of flappers
had swum, across the canal in front of him.
Fortunately Pearce won his heat, or the
papers might have called a jehad against,
the Chinese roast-duck entrepreneurs of
Campbell-street. .
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The decision of the Ath-
letic Federation to forbid the doping of
athletes at the Olympiads, and even to frown
on the practice of administering alcohol to
runners, threatens a time-honored institu-
tion. Doping, of course, is comparatively
modern, but whisky played a prominent part
in the successes of many a professional
runner in the good old days of the game.
If possible they were kept off it during train-
ing, but it was no unusual thing to shoot
half a tumbler of his pet poison into a
funky ped. just before he went out to get
into the holes. Often the meal-ticket would
stipulate for ’a couple of bottles of whisky
to be added to his cut, and I have known
these to be brought on the track and held in
readiness near the tape as evidence of good'
faith. Even here, the crooked practices that
killed the old game crept in. One of the
biggest setbacks I ever got was at Ravens-
wood (Q.), when I’d laid a cert three bottles
to nix for a win. The other side got at him,
promising him a case to lose. In those
days a team’s travelling exes., board, cloth-
ing, etc., usually found by the gaffer, never
left the ped. more than a few bob when
the balance-sheet was struck, so the whisky
had a strong appeal.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Maoriland Athletic Associ-
ation, taking a leaf from the book of the
Victorian body, has asked its representative
in England, A. E. Porriitt, to invite a couple
of prominent British athletes to Maoriland
for next summer. It might be worth while
for the M.L. and Victorian authorities to
pool their efforts and bring out the one team.
A larger and more varied set of performers,
including a long-distance runner to tackle
Randolph Rose, who won the M.L. 10,000
metres the other day, would result.
* x * $
“W.G.H.”: Two games played in the
Mackay (Q.) Bowling Club’s singles cham-
pionship last year made “Rewolf’s” “record”
G. S. STURTRIDGE, the Vic. Rugby
Union five-eighth, who played brilliantly
in the inter-State matches in Sydney.
of 39 ends (B. 18/7/’2B) look cheap. P. E.
Shackelton and P. Zaglas .took 43 ends to
decide a heat, finishing 31-25. In the final
game Shackelton and F. Newton played
47 ends, with Shackelton the winner, 31-30.
On only one occasion was 2 exceeded on an
end, Shackelton scoring 3.
* * h* *
“Budge”: Bill Bailey, who has won the
Victorian amateur billiard championship at
his first attempt, is one of the best all-round
sportsmen in Victoria. For years he has
been the mainstay of the Melbourne ’Varsity
cricket team, being captain, fasit botvler and
No. 1 batsman. Three years ago he was
runner-up to Alex. Russell in the final of
the State amateur golf championship. Foot-
ball and tennis are his other games. Bailey’s
victim in the billiard final was “Sos”
Wertlieim, better known as a tennis player
—another good all-rounder, in fact.
* * * $
“Shrewsbury”: English cricket writers
have been speculating on the possibility
of R. H. Bettington, the old King’s School
and Sydney Uni. cricketer, who has had
such a successful career with Oxford and
Middlesex, playing in Australia when he
settles down here. He has been bowling
BOB MORLEY, Westralia’s leading jockey.
better than ever, and it is suggested that
he may be called on for the Tests if the
regulars are found wanting. Bettington is
a slow bowler, and in that particular this
country is pretty well fixed, with Oxenham
and Grirfimett, to name only two divergent
but effective types. It is in the fast and
medium department that our attack needs
strengthening, though if Blackie keeps his
form of last season, and young a’Beekett
comes on as he promised to do then, there
will be a first-class pair of spin bowlers to
build on. As to fast bowlers proper—well,
there isn’t one in sight among the young
entry.
* * •:< *
“Shrewsbury”: Cricket history repeated
itself in England when Leicestershire Second
forced Staffordshire to take an unwanted win
in the minor counties championship. Staf-
fordshire went for a draw, and when time
was near was 45 runs short of a win with
wickets in hand. Rudd, the Leicester
skipper, then took the ball and bowled 14
wides; next, 8 byes were allowed, and
Staffordshire, without having hit 'the ball
for some time, was presented with a win.
Thirty years or so ago the same thing was
done to prevent a follow-on in one of the
Oxford-Cambridge matches, C. M. Wells,
the Cambridge slow bowler and Rugby inter-
national, being the bowler, if memory serves.
The happening convulsed cricketing Eng-
land, and the question of the sportsmanship
of the ruse was hotly debated. The latest
affair doesn’t seem to have aroused anything
but a passing interest.
Hs . H* H* *
“Third Base’,’: The inter-State baseball
matches in Sydney have again attracted atten-
tion to the curve pitcher, and misguided indi-
viduals have been urging Australian cricketers
to cultivate the various kinds of baseball
curves —as if the swerve obsession had not
done enough harm to Australian bowling
already. The pitcher and the bowler are not to
be compared. For one thing, the baseball is
an entirely different implement from its cousin
of cricket, and much more adaptable to a
curbed flight. Again, the pitcher uses the
flick of the wrist in his throw which the
bowler is not allpwed to employ. Few good
pitchers are any use in cricket. There are
exceptions, of course; McNamee (N.S.W.)
is one, and the late Frank Laver, a good
pitcher in his baseball days, did great things
with the cricket ball for Victoria and the
Australian XI.
* * * *
“Bully Off”: Australia’s scope in inter-
Dominion sport is being gradually widened.
Football, cricket and tennis players have
exchanged visits with many lands, and even
croquet has joined the ranks of the inter-
nationals. The latest aspirant is hockey.
After the inter-State games in Melbourne
this week the Australian Hockey Associa-
tion will consider invitations to send sides
next year to Maoriland, Fiji and South
Africa. The Afrikanders are not only keen
on the game but are experts in it, having
profited by repeated visits from British
teams. There is plenty of good material
here, as the showings made against the
Indian Army side, which defeated all-comers
at the Olympaid, prove. Finance is the diffi-
culty as regards distant tours, for hockey
“gates” are not big in Australia as yet.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Tasmania’s national sport used
to be wood-chopping, and its proudest im-
plement the axe. It still produces some
hefty wielderg, but Queensland au,d the
northern parts of N.S.W. can muster more
cracks nowadays. What is reckoned the best
go ever witnessed in the Apple Land was
between Phil Halm, of North Huon, and
O. Harris, of Carnarvon, about 20 years ago.
The logs were 2ft. thick (Oft. 4in. circum-
ference) and the stake £lOO. Halm got
through first, in 3min. 3Gsec., hacking 22J
sec. off the world’s record.
* * * *
“Long Dog”: For the second time this sea-
son a coursing meeting at Kensington
(N.S.W.) has achieved notoriety by the
massacre of the lialf-starved and untrained
hares employed. According to the Herald,
many of the hares on this occasion “were
so weak that they were incapable of
reaching the escapes before they were over-
taken and killed.” Another bare “collapsed”
before it was seized, and yet another, before
the dogs were slipped, was In such a feeble
state that it was picked up by an attendant.
Plumpton coursing is as much a medium of
gambling as the tin hare, that and the col-
lection of money at the gates being the
reason for its existence. Do away with the
betting and the “sport” would disappear, as
cockfighting has done in all civilised countries
and pigeon-murdering in most; and I say
do away with the betting by all means.
Coursing nowadays serves no useful purpose,
as it did in the days when it was a legitimate
form of the chase. The breed of dog it en-
courages is of no value, except for a loath-
some variety of gambling.
* * * *
“Muzzlem”: If the ingenuity displayed
in avoiding the anti-betting regulations which
jugged the tin hare were applied to pro-
ductive industry, N.S.W. would soon wipe
out its deficit. The latest instance is a share-
promotion scheme by which any one de-
sirous of backing a pursuer of tire tin hare
buys a temporary share in the hound for
one race only. If the dog wins, the return
to the shareholder is in proportion to the
amount paid for the share or shares, the
odds working out in much the same way as
those which would have obtained in open
betting, the public making its own price.
The joke was tried at Kembla (N.S.W.) the
other day, the only drawback being that
the scheme requires a little thinking out,
and mental exertion is not popular with
the tin-hare addict. The obvious remedy for
this and other attempts to crawl round and
under the law is to amend the Gaming Act
so as to wipe out betting on coursing or
dog-racing of any description. It is long
overdue.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Vic. Rowing Association
has followed the example of Westralia and
N.S.W. in adopting the principle of a sole
selector and coach for the inter-State eight-
oar races. The choice fell on Cecil McVilly,
the famous Tasmanian sculler and oarsman,
who won the Australian champion sculls in
1910-11-14, and 'the English Diamond Sculls
at Henley in 1913. McVilly has lived in
Melbourne for the last couple of years.
* * * *
“Bumpkin” : A sport which should attract
the yachting man of average means is out-
board motor-boat racing. In U.S.A. this
type of craft has advanced enormously, and
speeds of over 30 m.p.h. have been obtained.
At this rate the light hulls almost leave the
water, and the owner has the sensation of
travelling at quite twice the speed he is
actually doing. The merit of outboard motors
is their cheapness, and one Melbourne motor
firm, anticipating a demand, will shortly be
putting on the market speedsters complete
at between £6O and £lOO.
•<= * * *
“Contact”: The Beardmore “Inflexible”
monoplane which is the latest addition to
the R.A.F. fleet is generally supposed to be
the biggest heavier-than-air machine ever
constructed. It isn’t. It’s the biggest and
heaviest monoplane, and its three Rolls-
Royce “Condor” engines develop more power
(1950 h.p.) than was ever previously packed
into a ’plane. Also its wing-spread of 163
feet constitutes a new record. But in regard
to wing area it is smaller than the Handley-
Page Vl5OO biplane, built in 1917 for war
service. This giant, engined by four 375-h.p.
Rolle-Royce motors, carried on one occasion
40 passengers and a pilot. The “Inflexible’s”
capacity is 20 passengers. Apparently it
won’t for long be the most powerful ’plane
in existence. Levine, Chamberlin’s flying
partner, is building a 6000-h.p. ’plane with
a 180 ft. wing-spread in America, and the
Caproni works in Italy have a 100-passenger
biplane of 6000 h.p. on the stocks. The
Dornier works in Germany are building a
60-passenger ’plane with 12 400-h.p. motors.


THE
FITTING
BRITISH
BRITISH
BALL4ROLLER
BEARINtf
MEANS
Bur British Bearings
*
*
•2:
o
>
SMOOTHER RUNNING
GREATER SPEEDS
LONGER LIFE and
THE ELIMINATION of
BEARING TROUBLES
TO YOUR CAR,.
<&
Exclusive Commonwealth
Agents & Distributors:
GARDNER, WAERN
& CO. PTY., LTD-,
MELBOURNE:
481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY:
225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Hunter Street West.
TASMANIAN AGENTS—
W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —
ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO., LTD.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide,
QUEENSLAND AGENTS —
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
(Automotive)
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
(Industrial)
FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, LTD.,
Perth.
GRIPPING THE ROAD* OF THE WIDE WORLD
X
a
:
W>
X
lerfect~
From Tree to Tyre
From U.S. Rubber trees on U.S. Rubber plan-
tations comes the pure rubber latex which is
unsparingly built and sprayed into U.S. ROYAL
CORDS. So you have the right rubber (and
plenty of it), in the right places. (The web
cord fabric is impregnated with rubber.)
ROYAL CORDS are built by amazing and ex-
clusive machinery, under the supervision of the
pick of the world’s tyre experts. Naturally you
get "more for your money.”
U.S.ROYAL CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
439 Kent Street, Sydney. ’Phone M 2031 (4 lines).
102 Victoria Street, Melbourne, N. 3. Cent. 9437.
11l Margaret Street, Brisbane. ’Phone 4250.
195 Flinders Street, Adelaide. ’Phone 6246.
NORTHERN DEVELOPMENT COMPANY,
Denham Street, Townsville.
Box 158 G.P.0., Townsville. Telephone 677.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth. ’Phone A 3151 (4 lines).
/i
Straight from the Sheep’s Mouth
■■
„ -“‘A.
JL 4 T*' i=l
Jr . .
w
m
I can grow the Wool all
right, but I can’t sell it.
I
That’s an Expert’s Job
. “ifti
Mine is Sold Always at Best * |Bf
Prices by
Farmers 8 Graziers’ j,"
CO-OP. C 0„ LTD.
. Mmk
1
*■ * n^mm
We Sold 130,742 Bales of Growers’ Wool in the Sydney
and Albury Markets during the 1927-28 Season —the
Largest Turnover of Any Individual Broker in New
South Wales.
m
tot
p| • £o t. ■
-Hof £'o£; • s£o|! ■
• ?■ * ? I * o
0% |o?:-|og-goS
- f..is - S: j? - s=o§ - S-c
\wam‘u-
yes*
Wall Papers
in £Beantifiir (Designs
New Season’s designs to hand from Britain and
America. Nothing like wallpaper backgrounds.
They add elegance and distinction. Suitable
wallpapers will also correct building defects—
add warmth to cold rooms—subdue over-
lighted ones, and add height or decrease it.
We are showing now, at particularly favorable
prices—
Tapestries Satin Finishes
Leathers Burlaps
Oatmeals Polychromes
Style Borders for Panelling
Call and See Us, or Write for Samples.
John Danks 8 Son Pty. Ltd.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3to 6, 4/- ; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Direct &
Intercoirimun*
icating %
Phones in
alPßedrooms
Its complete appointments
include Ladies’ Drawing Room,
Music and Writing Rooms, and
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Writing Rooms
and Lounge. Electric fires in all
bedrooms. “Scott’s” is convenient to
Railway Stations, Passenger Steam-
ship Wharves, and all
places of public interest.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARO
Telegrams and Cables:
“Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011
(10 lines)
SCOTT’S HOTEL
Collins St., Melbourne
m 5.30
sS
m
HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
Melbourne
Chatter
The Australian Steeplechase meeting at
Caulfield on Saturday attracted the usual
crowd. Society in general was not very
numerously represented, and so far as dress-
ing was concerned there seemed but little
disposition to depapt from the tailored suit
and felt hat. Here and there a stray en-
semble gown of the spring was noticed,
usually in tones of blue or fawn. Mrs. John
Winter-Irving, looking almost as young as
her daughters Mrs. Geoffrey Heath and Mrs.
Bruce Mead, who accompanied her, was there
in black coat and skirt with vest of white,
and a black felt hat. Mrs. James Grice
and her daughter-in-law Mrs. Claude Grice
were in the committee box; also Mrs. Clive
Leonard, who wore a mustard-hued velour
hat allied to a fur-collared beige coat. Mrs.
Ben Chaffey was there in navy with wander-
ing lines of cerise and bright blue ribbon.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald topped a blue-and-
white hair-striped suit with a hat heavily
embossed in gold. Madame Busing, wife of
Germany’s Consul-General, wore a beautiful
coat of the finest black caracule, with sable
collar and cuffs. Madame Kroef’s black
coat had lynx-fur additions, her toque being
a swathed affair in fawn and black. Mrs.
A. E. Dunne, of the Western District, wore
an all-sapphire blue turnout. Rear-Admiral
and Mrs. Napier, the Chauvels, Mrs. S. G.
Smithwiek, the Keith Calverts and Mrs.
O’Dell (Jrowther were in the lawn patrol.
The weather was made to order for the
Findon Harriers’ picnic-race meeting at
Moonee Valley, and the attendance exceeded
expectations. Winter is still with us, but
the sun shone warmly and tailored coats
and skirts, with fur necklets, were chosen
by most women. Most of the favorites
also ran, but it wasn’t a bad day. Mrs.
Percy Ohirnside, Mrs. George Blackwood,
and Mrs. Alan Currie were amongst the
smartly-dressed matrons who followed the
fortunes of the gee-gees, and the Club’s
Master, Hubert Miller, acted as A.D.C. to
Sol, wearing a happy and infectious smile.
The big social affair of the week was the
at-home given by Mrs. James G Purves at
No. 9 on Thursday afternoon. About 200
of Melbourne’s society womenfolk thronged
the pink and gold furnished reception rooms,
which were decorated with heaps of wattle
and ce,rise-lined native heath. A string
orchestra furnished accompaniment to the
hum of voices and clatter of teacups. The
hostess, who was aided in the hand-shaking
by her daughter Valerie, wore beneath a
fur wrap a spring model of russet-brown,
featuring pin tucks, her felt hat being of
nigger tone. The pretty maiden’s embroi-
dered and pleated frilled frock of seaweed
pink was topped by a satin coat of beige
that blended with her felt millinery. Mrs.
D. S. Rolls was a study in Chanel-red with
a gleam of gold; and her sister, Florrie
Green, chose a fascinating ensemble suit of
biscuit shade, with a largish felt hat banded
with pheasant-breast plumage. Judging from
the early season’s gowns that were on view,
those shades that are offshoots of brown
will come into favor again this summer.
Mayoress Morell favored coffee color with a
hat to blend. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald wore
black with a smart toque of swathed black
and white spotted chiffon; Mrs. R. Linton
also sported a magpie effect. The Chauvel,
Fairbairn and Grice ladies, Mrs. Norton
Grimwade, Mrs. Bowes Kelly and Mrs.
Andrew McHarg were guests.
A very successful dance organised by the
Social Club of Lucini Pty., Ltd., at the
Fitzroy Town Hall on Saturday added to
the funds of St. Vincent’s Auxiliary and the
Fitzroy Crfeche. The Mayor showed his
interest by giving the Town Hall free, and
the committee of the return civic ball of the
previous evening permitted the purple and
green decorative scheme to be again utilised.
Mrs. P. Lucini, who was ithe lion, organiser,
wore a gown of dull gold lace and georgette,
and her co-worker Mrs. T. J. McGlade, who
shared the hon. sec. work with J. Richards,
wore a frock of russet-red. The Mayoress,
Mrs. Apps, guarded the finances.
At the Music Club’s welcome to Aylmer
Buesst, president Thomas Brentnall greeted
the guest of honor; and Fritz Hart, to whose
services to music the guest paid tribute in
his reply, echoed the sentiments about
opera expressed by the visitor—he reckons
that the foreign ones ought to be done into
English when performed before English-
speaking audiences. Violet Ewart (Mrs. H.
Spry) gave proof of her talent as a solo
pianist, and Lilian Stott, accompanied by Ida
Scott, sang songs by Brahms. Accompany-
ing Mr. Buesst at the jollo were his mother,
wearing a black and gold gown beneath a
grey squirrel coat; his eldest daughter,
Ysolde, a pretty girl in cosmos mauve chiffon
flounces; and his aunt, Mrs. Montgomery
Kerr. Mrs. Fritz Hart and Basil; Mrs.
Albert Miller; Mrs. George Thirkell, wear-
ing a vivid green wrap over a brocaded
frock and silvery millinery of aviator cap
mode; Mrs. Walter Cass, a striking figure
in a draped black gown; Mrs. H. J. Robert-
son ; Merlena Llewelis, an attractive little
miss in black and white; and Mrs. Cecil
Parkes were in the throng.
Confetti fluttered around the porch of
Collins-street kirk one evening last week,
when Ruth Cleland motored from Malvern
to keep her tryst with the J. Joyces’ eldest
son, John, noted for his straight drive on
the links. The bride’s frock of tulle frills
over silver tissue was caught at the side
with streamers of orange blossom, and a
veil of hand-made lace swept the aisle. Her
sisters Heather and Beryl, with _ the bride-
groom’s sister Doris, formed a pink trio of
attendants in frocks of tucked georgette.
Ivory velvet is becoming very popular in
this city. At two fashionable knot-tjfings
last week the leading ladies’ lengthy white
tulle veils cascaded over classically-draped
gowns of the material. One of these unions
linked two well-known landed families,
Marion Macfarlane, daughter of the Into
Hugh Macfarlane, of Gippsland, exchanging
vows with Horton, younger son of the Wil-
liam Brownes, whose station home is in tin.*
Young district, N.S.W.
When the Edward Naughtons come
to this city they usually celebrate the < vent
by giving away a daughter in marriage. On
the latest occasion the donation was Kath-
leen, who was bestowed upon Harold Robert
Donelan, of Wagga. The ring was produced on
Thursday evening at sundown in St. Pat.’s
Cathedral. The bride looked as if she had
stepped out of another century in her medi
eval gown of silver and figured white lame,
the gracious folds being caught up in front
by a fall of silver lace. Her veil of tulle
flowed .over a coronet of silver. Irene Don-
elan attended, draped in floral chiffon glimp-
sing gold and a cute cap relieved with cherry
velvet. Later 35 guests—relatives and inti-
mate friends —were dined at Menzies’ amidst
a bower of golden wattle, and a huge slipper
of purple pansies and # blue irises smiled a
welcome from the table.
Mrs. Rupert Ghomley, who is passing her
lonesome days at Swan Hill till her sister
Mrs. Chapman sails from England, went
to Geelong to see the knot tied between
Janet Milne and Ronald, youngest son of
Ballarat’s late Dr. Salmon. Ivah Perry went
from this city to keep Paddie Dobie com-
pany as a bridesmaid, and Sydney yielded
Charles Lang to swell the crowd. A lovely
frock of ivory ring velvet, trained with a
veil of Honiton lace, arrayed the bride.
This is Aylmer Buesst, who left this city
IS years ago and has now returned as th;
conductor of
the British
National Opera
Co. and a pro-
fessor of Lon-
don’s R.A.M.
and Guildhall
School of
Music. He has
come home to
see his parents,
his eldest
daugh t e r.
Vsol d e, and
other relatives,
and in a few
days he goes
hack to duty,
lie received
bis first musi-
cal training
from his
mother, w T ho
passed him on
to the late
Marshall Hall. His knowledge of conducting
was gained in Leipzig.
“Outward Bound” began its third Mel
bourne season at the Princess on Saturday
when a large audience gave the nearly-all-
new cast a splendid reception. The stage at
the final curtain was stacked with flowers,
including a huge star of golden foliage for
Zillah Bateman. Miss Bateman. Joseph
Cunningham, Meta Pelham, Mildred Cottell,
Eardley Turner and Claude Carter were all
called upon for speeches. But it was a very
damp evening, and this paragraph was nearly
washed away in the torrent of tears.. Dr.
Barry Thomson and his wife proudly watched
their son John in the rsle of Henry. The
youth, who is only 19 and possesses a fine
speaking voice, plays the part well. That
wonderful old lady Meta Pelham, who is
seventy-eight and a half years old, is the Mrs.
Midget of this production, and revels in
the part. After the day’s two performances
most of the players were feeling rather tired;
not so Meta. She breezily blew into the
star’s dressing-room after the show and an-
nounced her intention of supping at the
dancing rendezvous the Ritz —and she did.
Dr. and Mrs. Terence Butler, of the Apple
Isle, were present; also Mrs. Randall (Eve
Dawnay), who had appeared as Mrs. Midget
in an English production of the piece. Mrs.
W. Mitchell, her sistei’, was with her; others
in the audience being Billy Lockwood and
Mrs. Sealy.
At five o’clock on Saturday afternoon
Benno Moiseiwitsch was among the hustlers
in the ring trying to pick a winner for the
last race of the V.A.T.C. meeting. A few
minutes after eight lie was charming a full
house at the Auditorium. Beethoven, Chopin,
Schubert, Wagner and a few of the moderns
figured in his programme, and there was a
big demand for extras. Among the attentive
listeners were Dr. and Mrs. Mark Gardner,
her gold brocade coat being a ray of bright-
ness in a rather sombrely-clad company.
Mrs. J. G. Purves and Valerie. Mrs. Rolls
and her daughters, Mrs. Furze-Morrish and
Joy Rolls, Florrie Green, the Fritz Harts,
Eileen Castles, Sheila Buchan and Dorothy
Pohlman were others who applauded.
The smile belongs to Gwen Hughes, a
sister of Dr. Marjorie Hughes, and her par-
ticular talent is cookery. She is a full-
course diploma student of the Emily Mc-
Pherson College of Domestic Economy, and
for the last 20
months h a s
been lecturing
a n d demon-
strating i n
suburbs
around the
city for the
Colonial Gas
Assoc iation.
Talks by Miss
Hughes on
domestic sub-
jects have been
regularly
broadcasted by
3AR and 3LO.
A lecturing
tour in Ban-
analand figures
in her im-
mediate pro-
gramme. A s
a member of
the Old Col-
logians’ Association of the P.L.C., the
young lady, who is pictured by Broothorn,
lias gained much praise for her amateur
mumming.
Australian compositions made up the pro-
gramme of the Musical Society’s concert at
the Assembly Hall last week. Alfred Hill’s
Maori quartet for strings was easily the
finest offering, and Bertha Jorgensen, Myrtle
Robertson, Dorothy Roxburgh and Tasma
Tiernan gave it a spirited interpretation.
Mona Mcßurney and Louis Lavater were
represented by groups of songs well sung
by Alexander Raff. Stanley Adams and
Elsie Fraser played Fritz Hart’s sonata No.
2 in D minor for violin and piano.
The Arts and Crafts Society’s banking
account was added to by a recital of compo-
sitions for two pianos organised by Annie
Cocks. Five well advanced students—Mar-
jorie Kaye, Helen Speeding. Tliirza Wetten-
hall, Georgiana Moore and Edna Ambler —
attended to the two keyboards, and Marjorie
Schmitt, an auburn-haired flapper who is
a hope of the Uni. Con. as a violinist, played
with remarkable skill the Mozart-Kreisler
Rondo and the Greig Sonata in G, Mar-
jorie Kaye being accompanist. A good
house showed approval of the young people’s
efforts.
Irene Vanbrugh, wearing a black ensemble
suit with relief of fawn and a black felt
hat, the front of which was traced in a
feather pattern with steel and brass nail-
heads, launched George C. Benson’s show of
water-colors at the New Gallery last week.
Mrs. Benson, whose navy blue cos-
tume was allied to a scarlet felt hat, handed
the actress a bunch of violets and sweet-peas.
Mr. and Mrs. 11. Dale, Mrs. Knight, the
Stanley Smiths, Arthur Hordern and actor
Reginald Wykeham were among the first
admirers of Mr. Benson’s charming land-
scapes.
A little story attaches to the concert to
be given at St. Kilda Town Hall to-morrow
night for the relief of the unemployed.
Some time ago a certain man found himself
destitute, though a substantial sum of money
was due to him. Help was given him as a
matter of unemployment relief. Lately he
came into his own, and lie showed his grati-
tude by engineering this concert. He has
enlisted Dame Nellie Melba’s sympathies,
and the diva sent from Sydney one of her
typical messages: “I don’t know that I won’t
sing at it.”
Melbourne’s countryside and suburbs look
very beautiful these days. Everywhere there
is wattle agrowing and ablowing—it’s par-
ticularly fine this year. Within a few miles
of the city the native heath is showing its
whites and pinks.
The A. P. Shiers have reached home after
a visit to the Pacific Islands. She is pro-
fessionally known as pianist Rita Hope, and
he is one of the members of the Phosphate
Commission. At Nauru they met Adminis-
trator Newman, who is taking his exile cheer-
fully. His daughter Dulcie keeps the Resi-
dency filled with relays of friends from the
home city.
Captain Billy Malcolm evidently put the
question to Mary Mann as soon as she
stepped off the gangway in London. She
left the Laurenny squattage at Caramut a
few weeks ago to join another girl in a
European tour, and now Mrs. S. F. Mann is
receiving congratulations from Western Dis-
trict neighbors on the engagement. When the
young man turned up his job on Governor
Somers’s staff to rejoin his regiment, the
Welsh Guards, last April, there was a wave
of regret through the younger set, for they
regarded him kindly. He is a son of Mrs.
Thomas Sopwith, whose second husband’s
name is well known in the aeroplane world.
Mrs. Hayden Starke, now amongst the
outward bound, paid the penalty of popu-
larity by attending an endless round of com-
plimentary luncheons and teas. Madame
Marcel Crivelli had a gathering in her honor
at Arron, and Mrs. Arthur Morris, just re-
turned from Colombo with her doctor, in
renewed health, was the last hostess of a
long list. Mrs. Starke’s first' objective is
Paris, where her daughter Monica, who
accompanies her, is to complete her educa-
tion.
Dulcie Ilindle and Doris Miles were taken
away by the Maloja to spend their hard-
earned cash in foreign lands. Not so many
years back this successful pair were on the
teaching staff of Swinburne College. They
soon found that pedagogy offers small oppor-
tunities for making a fortune, and decided
to start a home-made cake-shop at Sandring-
ham. Soon their cookies became famous,
and at the end of three years they received
such tempting offei’s for their business that
they sold out, and the lump sum, added to a
comfortable trading balance, is financing
their world tour.
Pat Hackett, a frequent visitor to this
city with her mother, the Moulden lady, has
scored a success in London by passing the
law exam, in criminal procedure. Though
a debutante she is shunning social life and
working hard for next year’s finals. It is not
her intention to practise law in England, but
when duly qualified she will return, home and
enter the Adelaide firm of which her stepdad,
Frank Moulden, is head. Miss Hackett
is Westralian born, but was transplanted
when her mother re-married, and is still
under 21.
When Sunbury’s Dr. Faulkner passed out,
his daughter Marcia determined to try a
change of scene, and for some years has
been living in England, but a desire to see
her homeland and familiar faces has brought
her back on a visit to her aunt, Miss Webb,
at Brighton, where several tea-drinkings
have, celebrated the wanderer’s return.
Ivy Shilling, who in pre-war days was a
dancing partner of Fred Leslie, unobtrusively
returned from U.S.A. last week to have a
peep at her homeland. She looks very pros-
perous. but is still slender of frame and
attractive of face. During her years abroad
she made some very profitable investments,
and is now content to sit back with a care-
free expression.
A delegation is getting itself ready over-
sea to visit Australia on behalf of the Order
of St. John of Jerusalem. At its head is Sir
John Hewett, an Anglo-Indian, who numbers
among liis three titles to knighthood the
senior degree of Knight of Justice of the
Order. The delegation will inquire into the
w r ell-being of the St. John Ambulance
Brigade in this continent, and its peregrina-
tions will be punctuated by social welcomes
by branches of the organisation.
Mamie Ridgway, after the excitements of
life in Rome, Cannes and Paris, has reached
London, where she found an abundance of
theatrical fare. After a saunter through Ire-
land and Scotland she will have a look at
Egypt before climbing the Narkunda’s gang-
way, but she will be home for Christmas.
Allen, youngest son of the late J. Mel-
ville, a one-time Malvern resident, has met
his matrimonial fate in Bananaland. The
girl who flashes his sparkler is Trixie, eldest
daughter of the T. A. Richardsons, of Black-
all.
“A.G.M.” from London :—-
Judges in London have been unusually frank during
the past month. In a divorce suit the other day in
which the Earl of Erroll was the co-respondent, the
presiding Judge described the noble lord’s conduct
as disgraceful and the noble lord himself as a “bad
blackguard.” Lord Erroll is a brother-in-law of
Colonel Rupert Ryan, son of the late Dr. Charlie
Ryan, of Melbourne. Rupert Ryan met his bride in
Germany while serving with the English army of
occupation, her father, the then Earl of Erroll, who
died early this year, being British High Commissioner
at Coblenz. The “bad blackguard” is Hereditary
Lord High Constable of Scotland, the highest heredi-
tary distinction in Britain after those of the Royal
Family.


BMUMMOMD
* m «
Sim ocj
■r*xfvnrfnrr-.<: wv«rfT»
! .M-V
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (30 DIAMONDS) £26-5
w*
fi ■tit**
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (26 DIAMONDS) £.30
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (.36 DIAMQNDS) £3O
Never has the firm been able to offer
such a large and varied range of Wristlet
Watches. The selection ‘includes many-
new and distinctive designs, and it can be
confidently stated that nothing, of finer
quality and value can be obtained anywhere
in the Commonwealth. Mail inquiries
receive prompt attention. Fully-illustrated
Catalogue post free to any address.
WM BMUMMOMD fi: CO
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
A. SAUNDERS’
QUALITY” JEWELLERY.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster,
set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
5 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£7/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Single Diamond, Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
£7/10/-
WE GIVE A WRITTEN GUARANTEE
WITH EVERY WATCH SOLD.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wjistband,
£lO.
18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
/SJC33 O 5
pa
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9et. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£3/10/-
WRITE FOR RING BOOK with Size
Card, it’s FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£l5
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
ISct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O
Diamonds, set
Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
•05-81 S GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Andante
a tempo
rtf. «
m
9
P
pdolct
’•A
i
£
tl
• -
'TO
>3
u
%
su
\\?
odui»i o
motto sostenuto
mm
< „ .....
i * *
m
m
; 3
M
•••"•> -SCS*
# 'l should like to have you listen to
my phonograph—the New Edison—
in side-by-side comparison with any
other phonograph.”
yoon.
The only Phonograph in
the world which has dared
to make this test !
Ladies and Gentlemen—
Will you please close your eyes.
Every member of the vast audience complied. On the stage, the
artiste standing beside the Edisonic was singing perfectly, thrillingly.
Suddenly, without warning, the artiste ceased singing and the
Edisonic continued alone. NOT ONE PERSON IN THE HALL
KNEW THAT THE SINGER WAS SILENT.
This is not fiction it is actual jact. When you have heard the
wonderful Edisonic for yourself, you will realise that it could not be
otherwise. You get 'close-up music from the Edisonic.
Edison has been striving all his life to perfect the phonograph to
the point where it is impossible to distinguish between re-created
music and the original music. He has succeeded. Go and hear the
Edisonic at the nearest music dealer’s. Compare it with the best
of all other reproducing machines Try it with all types of music.
And be prepared for a musical revelation)
pfie GLstcunding*
THOS. A. EDISON, LTD.,
364 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop,
51 Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE: The Edison
Shop, 238 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling
and Co., Ltd., 86-88
Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: S. A. Phono-
graph Co., Ltd., Gilbert
Buildings, Gilbert Place.
Wertheims, 84 Rundle
treet.
PERTH : Phonographs, Ltd.,
671 Hay Street,
LAUNCEISTON: Wills and
Co. Pty., Ltd., 7
Quadrant.
HOBART: A. Paton & Son,
136 Liverpool Street.
OR YOUR NEAREST
EDISON DEALER.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ĝ
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
ğ
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
'^arleslleidsiecK
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
17.
A BANK ACCOUNT
gives you power and safety. Apart from its positive stimulation
of the sense of Thrift, a Bank Account simplifies your operations
and widens their scope. In or out of business hours, it facilitates
your transactions and surrounds all your dealings with dignity,
impressive on your clients and associates.
A Cheque Account is a record of payments, practically a
Book-keeping System in itself.
Additionally it introduces, to your service, the innumerable
banking advantages and facilities that a modern banking institution
provides.
Commonwealth lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
o2i
7hP cen/re of Queens/onc/s
' d/s/inguisf>ed Soc/o/ Life.
motel
CoRDTCT
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
auacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
renience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Teleph jne. Central 5780 —10 Liner
ġ
WOMAN'S
LETTER
At any rate, Melba didn’t sing ’em muck
last week when she came back to Sydney
audiences in three acts of beloved “Bo-
hfeme” and one of “Otello.” Looking won-
derful and singing like a girl, she had the
great audience (it was larger even than
that which crowded to the first night of
“Turandot”) in a simmer of enthusiasm
from the first crystal notes of the Addio,
wherein Mimi bids farewell to Rodolfo. How
beautiful is Melba’s voice in this aria! Even
with the sigh of autumn in its notes it still
excels the high summer of most of the
world’s songbirds. Two other Australians
shared the applause with the Dame. Brown-
ing Mummery, as the lover Rodolfo, and
John Brownlee, as Marcello, sang and acted
in the most heart-captivating manner. But
it was in the Willow Song from “Otello”
that Melba’s supreme triumph was achieved.
She sang the Ave Maria with which this
is rounded off like some sweet-voiced choir
boy. Sexless and spiritual the voice seemed
to cleave a shining path to Heaven’s gates.
Sydney of three generations crowded the
house, and later on as many of them as
possible were in the dressing-room. Lady
de Chair emitted green and silver radiance
from her seat in the circle. Beside her sat
Elaine, and official-secretary Budge was in
the group. Melba’s old friends John Long-
staff and Tommy Cochran were in the audi-
ence. In the management’s box were Dal
Monte, Zinetti. Scavizzi and Lombardi; Con-
ductor Fugazzola and Toti’s young man
Lomanto squeezed into the box, too. In the
opposite box sat Judge and Mrs. Ileydoii.
Spencer Brunton (lie’s an opera addict)
sat in his customary seat, and beside him
Mrs. Sep Levy. Mrs. Tom Rolin was one
of the night’s handsome matrons, and John
Brownlee’s sister basked in reflected glory.
Margaret Bannerman, in a wonderful Chinese
coat, had rushed from “Sexes and Sevens”
to say “Hooray!” to Melba in the dressing-
room. And here the flowers heaped up and
spilling over spoke a little of the pride we
must feel in our indomitable prima donna.
There need he no secret about her age. She
was 67 in May last.
. If you were very lucky last week you were
bidden to an inspection of the flying boats:
Elaine de Chair constantly sponsored small
groups of visitors. Sydney’s gilt-edged got
red noses and chilled toes waiting about the
Man-o’-war Steps for their turn to clamber
from the row-boat and vault over the side of
the big flying fish and descend into its
tummy. And when you got there you had a
time limit like Jonah, though his was more
than half an hour. Only four could go aboard
at a time, and, unless you happened to be
taken by the police launch, you were rowed
across by a young stalwart who must have got
a bit fed up' with curious ladies after his
sixth trip.
Keen young flying officers, their uniform
having more grey in it than our own Air
Force’s, gave a steadying hand as their
visitors topped the side, slid on to the driving
seat, and thence to the floor of the metal
cylinder which is parlor, bedroom and bath.
The beds are cunning little canvas stretchers
which, when not in use, hug a wall. The
kitchen is a little oil-stove in a box holder;
beneath this is the store cupboard, and on
each side of it a tiny water tank. Like
every other part of the big flying-fish it is
made of duraluminium ; lock, stock and barrel,
the craft weighs only seven and a half tons.
Into long racks against what may be termed
the roof of the cylinder are tucked innumer-
able bottles and flat boxes, the cook’s pantry
and the parlormaid’s in one. The rubber
dinghies that seem to laugh like a wide-
mouthed cod when in action on the water
are deflated and insignificantly rolled up
when their job is done. The cushions on the
drivers’ seats have linen covers, and a relay
of these had been duly sent to be laundered
while the airmen were in Sydney. There are
two big manholes, like portholes, towards the
tail, and through these the two men who are
not driving can take a survey of the world
of sea and sky. There’s a narrow side-bench
running the length of the craft, and there’s
a flat little desk and one or two unobtrusive
stools fitted with thick rubber cushions.
The crews during this voyage have not.
slept on board when there was a hotel handy,
though one officer and a rating are always
on duty. All the flying has been done by
day. But if the take-off is timed for early
in the morning, like last Saturday’s then
everybody, from Commander Look-out-Brown-
Look-out downward, sleeps aboard. In
wartime the boats carry four guns and
enough bombs to sink a navy. Each has a
crew of two officers and three men.
The Court shoe had just begun to think
it had all its own way, having practically
eliminated the strap, when the sandal shoe
made a fresh bid for favor —in the most
delicate kids and satins for evening wear.
One pair at the new shows last week was a
bronze satin, with the edges of the straps
and the heel of opalescent kid in _ copper
tones. Another pair were of cameo-pink kid,
absolutely without sides, the rather wide
straps of plain gold kid. For day wear a pair
of black suede with decorative toe-bands and
heels of snake-skin won favor.
Ostrich-skin is being used to decorate
glacg leather, and ostrich feather, clipped
and dyed, appears on the gauntlets of deli-
cate kid gloves. One very Italian pair were
of pale-pink kid, with the feather ruffling
their short gauntlets. Another pair, in beige
doeskin, had deep reversed gauntlets, that
came almost to the knuckles, of sapphire-
blue kid thickly embroidered in silver—a
gay pair such as Mary of Scots might have
brought from France to that cold dour land
in the North Sea.
Net is among the transient sweets _ for
evening frocks of the picturesque variety.
One frock attached to a small silver bodice
had a voluminous skirt of pale-green net,
layers and layers of it dotted with silver
spots; this also wore a bustle sash of green
edged and worked with silver. Net hankies,
too, are to be a feminine accessory for the
summer. These are made of large squares
of net, bordered with chiffon. When you get
two parcels, a purse, a bunch of flowers and
a box of chocolates in your hands, you tie
the kerchief around one arm just above the
wrist. Scarves, too, are back with us. The
best of these are in dots or Roman stripes
mixed with plain flat crepe. Knotted around
the throat and then allowed to flutter in long
ends, or brought around the shoulder fichu-
wise and fastened with a flower, they give
an expensive air to quite a plain little frock.
Hats are really larger, but trimming is
of the subdued or tailor-made. If your mil-
linery taste runs to flowers, remember one
bloom per hat is the ration of the best
houses.
If the season can be said to have any
favorite color it is green in all its lighter
tones. But if you are in doubt stick to
beige or navy, or a combination of the two.
They are the “correct” tones for all day frocks.
Herewith Harold Watch, whose good work
with the Repertory Society is remembered
by Sydney audiences. Last May Mr. Watch
produced “Merrie England” at the Conserva-
torium as a
preliminary to
his task of
building up a
permanent
comic - opera
company i n
Sydney. The
produ c t i o n s
will be chiefly
the Savoy
group ar-
r a n g e m ents
have been
made with J.
C. Williamson
to handle Gil-
bert and Sulli-
van’s “Grand
Duke” (never
yet presented
in Sydney)
and “Utopia,”
as well as Sul-
livan’s “Rose of Persia.” The venture will
be known as the Metropolitan Comic Opera
Co., and the large number who, while bored
with musical comedy, are not equal to grand-
opera heights should be grateful to the pro-
moter. Subscriptions for the next three pro-
ductions are invited at the modest rate of
£2 for two front stalls or £1 for two back
stalls. Address: Box 2816 n G.P.0., Sydney.
The other night the currency lass who on
ordinary week-days flies about the banking
chambers in an atmosphere of high finance,
slipped into silver lamg and gold tissue on
sheeny satin and velvet and danced gaily
at the Bankers’ Ball with her general
manager of the future. The shekels from
the crowded night at the Moore Park pally
go to help Prince Alfred to carry on. All the
city banks join in this flutter for Charity,
and the committee was representative. Sir
Dudley went early, chaperoned by Major
and Mrs. Longfield Lloyd, but Lady de Chair
and Elaine came on only after they had
heard the last notes of Dame Nellie. Three
sugar-plum debs., all white and silver, dropped
a curtsey to vice-royalty—Daphne Blyton,
Louise Walder and Lyrian Spaull, their
names being murmured by Mrs. E. H. Mat-
thews. Dr. and Mrs. Cecil Purser repre-
sented Prince Alfred’s, the lady’s burgundy
georgettes being lit by silver sequins. . Mrs.
C. Walker, the hospital’s organising secre-
tary, wore the smile of delight and faintly-
blushing georgettes splashed with diameute.
Mrs. P. Kearns’s froeking was of mixed old-
gold and lace, and Mrs. E. Riddle mingled
rose and silver with good effect. Of the
banks that formed parties was the Yoko-
hama Specie Bank, Some of the ladies in
this group, notably Mrs. Y. Ivurata, wife of
the cashier, wore the picturesque national
costume.
Violets and stocks and the fresh glad
faces of daffodils smiled from low bowls on
the table where Sam Hordern sat at the Old
S.vdneians’ dance last v 7 eck. S’Sam is the
union’s new president, and his lady, in black
georgettes enriched by ermine wraps, and
daughter Audrey, in frilled black lace, the
popular w T ear with the young at the moment,
helped him do the honors. About this table
gathered the usual company of other-school
representatives, and a pleasing fancy was to
set before each fair guest a posy in which
the colors of her partner’s school blended.
Colonel Bruxner, representing Armidale,
brought Mrs. Bruxner in a cherry-and-gold
outfit. Newington and King’s, Rivervicw and
Sydney High, Scots. Shore and St. Aloysius
sent envoys, and Ilyne Gibsons —he w-as
secretary—entertained one of the night’s gay
groups.
All the golf cups on the A. W. Russells’
sideboard didn’t come to the male head of
the house. A
few belong to
Mrs. Russell.
Since the
women’s orgy
of golf that
has raged over
the Rose Bay
links this past
fortnight, the
Mel bourne
lady will add
still another
to the family
collection. She
carried off the
Rose Bay Cup
with two
strokes to
spare from the
former Aus-
tralian cham-
pion, Mo n a
Macleod, of
Victoria.
A whirlwind marriage instead of a two
years’ trip to foreign parts was the fate
of Dorothy Pockley the other week. Dorothy
(she’s one of the Roma Downs clan, of
Queensland) was all packed up and ready to
go with her family when Jack Coleman,
general manager of the nine Leo Watson
holdings, persuaded her to stay in Australia
as his wife. The wedding was so quiet the
pair might be said to have tiptoed into
matrimony; only the Leo Watsons and the
Philip Bushells were at the transfer. But
the Bushells didn’t give the tea —the Pock-
leys and the medical Oscar Diethelms (Mrs.
Diethelm is Jack’s sister) had a family tea-
drinking at Farmer’s.
What more appropriate address for a
bride than Kissing Point-road? It is where
Sydney Moreton Newman, of Melbourne, met,
saw and was conquered by Struan Cordeaux
Dobbie, of Turramurra. The result was a
carpet flowing like a stream of rose-red
wine down the front steps of St. James’s, and
a beflowered aisle down which a white-and-
silver bride floated. Choir boys sang their
sweetest as the white chiffons and fluffy net
train of the principal lady were guarded
to the altar, the ’groom and Padre R. Cameron
by Marion Loxton and cousin Norali Cor-
deaux. The first ’maided in palest pink, and
the second in apple-green chiffons, their
felt hats being in the same soft tones. John
Horne best-manned, and Jeffrey Martin was
second support. The reception followed at
the Ambassadors, where the bride’s mother
hostessed in black Spanish lace cloaked in
black embossed velvets. Mrs. C. M. New r-
man. who came from Melbourne for her son’s
wedding, was a harmony in soft greys.
Of wide interest out west was the wedding
at Moyne, Canowindra, of Evelyn Mary
Newell, of Bandon, Forbes, and Roy Allan
Waters, of Munna Munna, Coonamble. Both
are very popular, and if good wishes and
beautiful presents are an augury, their path
through life should be as soft as baby moss.
Mother and the girl who is to be married
after next shearing were down from the
station last week buying spring wear. Mother
had bought Margot two imported models for
Randwick, two hats for tennis and one,
a knock-about rag for golf, at five, and
a half guineas. The girl’s eyes went roving
and lighted on a shady straw with a scurf
drooping over the brim. Its ticket read
15 guineas. “Must have that little fellow 7 ,
mother darling!” she gurgled. “No, pet!
You don’t need any more hats. You have
two for the races, one for the garden party,
a tennis hat and the golf hat. You realiy
can’t want that.” “Oh mother darling, it's
so sw r eet, almost poetic!” she gurgled. “But
what can you want it for?” Girlie thought.
Then she got a brain-wave. “But, mother,
I do want it. It's just the thing to wear
when I help Fred with the burning-off !”
After that act of “Bohfeme” in which
Melba showed that age has not staled the
marvels of her voice there came such thun-
derous recalls that even the hardened Dame
was obviously intoxicated by the enthusiasm
of her admirers. Which explains what fol-
lowed. The applause for the last recall
having died, and the lights gone up, Toti
dal Monte was observed in one of the boxes,
and a ripple of greeting rose to another
cascade of handclapping. Back went the
curtains on the stage again, and, with her
stage partners obviously hastily gathered
about her, Melba appeared to make another
bow. There, was a laugh at that; but it
was quite an understandable mistake.
Jeritza, who created the part of Turandot
at the Metropolitan Opera House in New
York, wore a train entirely composed of pea-
cock’s feathers. It was 2Uft. long and every
feather was set with a diamond. Her finger-
nails were inches long, and on each she wore
a jewelled and filigreed gold guard. Roland
Foster’s lecture on the new opera smoothed
out its complexities for lirst-nighters who had
listened to his summary of music and book.
Without his aid the sweeping fury of the
Princess as she willy-willies down the jade
steps would have been unintelligible to this
Letter.
Where did the Diggers go after the Armis-
tice? The Bulletin, which has already
heard from London, Kuala Lumpur
(F.M.S.), N’York and Buenos Ayres,
blushed a deeper pink than ever the other
day at the letter it received from some who
are now business men in Calcutta. Fifteen
had foregathered to honor Anzac Day at a
dinner held in l’elitis. This first commemo-
ration proved so successful that they decided
to let their old friend, “the link between us
and Australia” know all about it. N. F.
Bremner, D. 5.0., in war-days captain of
the 47tli Engineers, now sub-manager of
David Sassoon, Ltd., leading shippers of
jute goods, is a sort of G.H.Q., around whom
that night were E. N. Webb, D. 5.0., M.C.,
Major of the 7th Engineers, now BovingsV
manager for India (they are hydro engi-
neers) ; Shackcls (sgt.), of the 58th Bat-
talion, who runs a group of hotels for
Spences, Ltd.; Dr. P. A. Mapleston, D. 5.0.,
Major A.M.C., hookworm expert at the Tro-
pical School of Medicine; and A. L. Coulson,
once air-mechanic, R.A.F.C., now geologist
w T ith the Indian Museum.
A bit further down were ex-sergeant J. Bart-
lett, a partner in H. V. Biggs and Co., ana-
lysts, who, after a tour with the infantry, did
valuable work in the poison-gas section of
Munitions Department. Lieut. A. L.
Mclntyre, of the 12th Engineers, is now in
charge of the Cleveland Bridge and Bolt
Co.’s big contract with Calcutta Water and
Sewerage Board. B. Bragg and H. L. Jack-
son, both M.C.’s, the first a loot of the 32nd
Battalion, the second a loot of the 2nd Div.
Sigs., are managers of the Queensland and
the London and Lancashire insurance cos.,
and, incidentally, play good cricket with Ben-
gal’s premier clubs. G. Pulham, G.P.0., and
F. L. Upfill, sgt. of Engineers, both Maori-
landers, are with the Metropolitan Vickers
and N.Z. Insurance. Bill Murrell, lieutenant
2nd Pioneers, is a P.W.D. engineer in Chota
Nagpur, and has charge of thousands of
miles of roads; and A. Richardson, engi-
neer-commander R.A.N., is second-in-charge
of Babcock and Wilcox. Capt. K. Stronach,
M.C., of the 4tli Battalion, is a jute expert
with George Henderson’s. J. W. McDonald,
M.C., of the 37th Battalion, handles Harri-
son’s business, and he and Bremner are per-
haps better known to Australian cornsack
merchants than anyone else in the trade.
That honorable company the Mons Fellow-
ship kept the outbreak of the war on August
4, 1914, in memory by an anniversary gather-
ing at the Railway Institute, which should
have been twice its size to accommodate the
crowd that was eager to get in. A good many
of those who helped to make Britain’s “con-
temptible little army” glorious are broken in
health or fortune or both; to help them is
the main objective of the fellowship. The
“Mons” picture was shown with patriotic
songs sandwiched between the reels; that
remarkable picture should be seen by many
more than have yet had a sight of it.
A music-lover who has been missed from
the ranks of opera first-nighters is Mrs.
Toohey, of St. Monica’s, Elizabeth Bay.
During the last J. C. Williamson grand-
opera season she was a constant attendant,
and her beautifully-dressed white head, fine
diamonds and luscious furs did much to cheer
the dress-circle. Matinees this season art-
all the doctor will hear of, but at “Lohen-
grin” the other afternoon the veteran concert-
goer was heard dissecting the performance
with vigor and discrimination.
Sydney is to have another Magic Notes
Ball. Even as last year, it is to be an
offering from the Columbia Gramophone
(Australia), Ltd., and the music trade to the
Hospital Saturday Fund. Tickets, a modest
12s. 6d.; at the Palais, September 10; and
a handsome fur coat among the prizes to
be striven for.


JUST PUBLISHED.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition of
The Greatest Book Ever Offered to the Public!
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH-CENTURY BOOK
OF SECRET
RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES
Contains over 10,000 practical processes, recipes and formulas, especially prepared
for daily use in the home and place of business; it includes thousands of heretofore
unpublished secret methods needed every day in the _ city home, as well as on
the farm, in the workshop and factory. The book is in one large volume, is
beautifully printed in clear type.
10,000
Trade Secrets
Practical Recipes
Chemical Processes
Scientific Formulas
HOW TO MAKE EVERYTHING
For the Home, the Factory and Workshop.
Antiseptics, Waterproofing, Lubricants, Rust Preventatives, Dyes, Filters, Cleaning
Preparations, Enamelling, Beverages, Inks, Adhesives, Polishes, Disinfectants,
Flavorings, Cosmetics, Ceramics, etc., etc.; how to make fly-paper; to color flowers
artificially; to estimate weight of ice by measurement; to make materials fireproof;
to work with metals —aluminium, brass, etc.; to make anything and everything from
A to Z.
THIS IS THE BOOK
Everyone who seeks PRACTICAL ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE
and guidance in his everyday work MUST HAVE at his command.
It is a money-maker and a money-saver; it appeals to the young as well as to the
old. Great business enterprises owe their success to the manufacture or sale of
simple inventions or compounds, usually the result of an experiment at home.
Profit by the knowledge that has made others successful. GET THIS BOOK
TO-DAY. Everybody should have a copy for ready reference.
Price 20/-; Postage 1/- extra.
Every Manufacturer —Workshop—Factory
—Laboratory—Office and Home Worker
will find priceless formulas in this wonderful book —formulas which men have
spent a lifetime of toil to perfect. Nothing like it has ever been offered before.
Every formula can be depended upon. It is. a priceless book of information which
everyone should possess. One formula alone will more than pay you for the expense
the whole book. It tells many trade secrets which hitherto have been impossible
to obtain.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS praises
g
The Famous Money-Saving Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS, BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA
ĝ
Costs 2/' 8 Saves £’s
To save much money by making a
family supply of the best cough and
influenza remedy, order from your
chemist or store a 2/- bottle of con-
centrated Heenzo. By adding the
Heenzo to sweetened water, you
will have a supply EQUAL to eight
ordinary-sized bottles (about £l’s
worth) of the best ready-made-up
remedies for chest and throat ail-
ments. You will be delighted with
the speedy way HEENZO soothes
sore throats, eases the chest, and
banishes coughs and colds.
Mr. Raymond Ellis, the eminent
English Operatic Baritone, from the
British National Opera Co., is one of
the many famous singers who have expressed their appreciation of Heenzo
as a remedy for ailments of the chest and throat
Mr. Raymond Ellis writes: “I feel 1 must join the many singers who have
placed on record their appreciation of Heenzo as a remedy for coughs
and colds. lam convinced that money could not buy a speedier, more
economical or more efficient remedy for soothing sore throats, easing the
chest, and banishing coughs and colds.”
v
STo
'B7
The Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Company, Limited.
The Fiftieth Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders was held at the
Company’s Head Office, Martin-place, on Thursday, 9th August.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance-sheet for the financial
year ended 30th June, 1928, the Chairman said:—
I desire to repeat the Directors’ congratulations upon the distinguished
position your Company occupies among the leading Australian Insurance Offices.
The founders of the Mercantile Mutual 50 years ago, although far-seeing, had
probably no conception of its possible growth and developments. The first year’s
operations disclosed a premium income of £9s§l, and produced a surplus of
£2509, the result being achieved after payment of all preliminary establishment
and other charges. Each Annual Report has shown steady progress; the peak
was reached last year, but although the figures now submitted disclose a
fluctuation in premiums, a larger volume of business has actually been trans-
acted. The reduced income, compared with last year, is due to rebates granted
and adjustments made in Workers’ Compensation premiums and to reduced
limits held on Motor Car Risks; other causes have also contributed to a con-
traction in the income. Besides the drought, which seriously affected agriculture
in this and other States, with the exception of Western Australia, the inter-State
shipping hold-up led to depression in coal-mining and many other industries.
Those conditions have happily changed; the outlook at present is satisfactory,
and the general position throughout Australia is in marked contrast to the con-
ditions experienced during the greater part of the financial year just closed.
Consequently we can look hopefully upon the future.
Under such circumstances the Directors feel justified in celebrating the Com-
pany’s Jubilee in a practical manner by recommending the capitalisation of
£22,250, being portion of the sum at credit of the Contingent Account.
THE INCREASE OF THE CAPITAL by the issue of 44,500 shares of £1
each in the proportion of one share for every ten now held is also proposed. The
new shares will be offered at a premium of 4/- per share.
THE RESERVE FUND has been increased to the substantial sum of
£200,000 by the transfer of £lO,OOO from the Contingent Fund; the latter will be
added to by the premium received from the new shares.
TAXATION, including rates and compulsory contributions to fire brigades,
total £28,481 10s. 10d., being more than 7 per cent, of the net premium, income:
that added burden, with increased fixed charges on a lessened income, has affected
the percentage of general expenditure. The condition is temporary, and should be
improved, particularly when the New Head Office Building is ready for occu-
pation.
THE NEW HEAD OFFICE BUiLDING: You have had an opportunity
this morning of seeing the progress made in the erection and completion of the
new Head Office Building at 117 Pitt Street, and you will have recognised the
abundant space that will be available for the transaction of the business. The
plans have been designed to provide increased facilities for our clients and for
improved conditions for the staff, whose requirements have been carefully studied.
These considerations offer opportunities for greater efficiency and economy. The
space available for letting will be provided with the most modern conveniences,
including three rapid elevators. The special features offered in such a central
position in the city have already attracted many desirable tenants who appre-
ciate an office with equipments up to date. Contracts have been settled for a
considerable portion of the space not required for our own use. The contractors
expect to give possession early next year; until then an increasing proportion of
our funds will continue unproductive.
BRANCH OFFICES: At our last Annual General Meeting you were
informed that it had been found necessary to acquire property at Adelaide and
Hobart for office accommodation. Alterations necessary for our requirements
have been completed, and possession has been taken. The sites selected are in
each case quite suitable for the conduct of our business, and should prove satis-
factory investments; apart from that, the possession of our own Freehold in
other States gives added confidence, and is beneficial to the development of the
business.
THE LATE MR. A. E. JAQUES: It is with profound regret that I refer to
the death of the late Mr. Jaques, who was a Director for more than 16 years and
Chairman for nearly 12 years. He gave valued assistance to the Company
throughout the period of his office. The Board desire to place on record their
appreciation of his special services. The vacancy created by Mr. Jaques’s death
has been filled by the appointment of Mr. J. Hunter Stephenson as a Director.
MANAGING DIRECTOR: You will be asked to consider, and if thought
fit, pass a resolution to permit the appointment of a Managing Director, the
intention, being to confer the appointment upon the Manager, who has been the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer from the date of its foundation.
IN CONCLUSION, I desire to remind Shareholders of the advantage of
supporting their own Company; many do, but I hope all will co-operate in placing
. their business here. Our slogan is, “Insure Australian Property with an Aus-
tralian Insurance Company.” I might add, “If you believe in Australia, support
its Industries and Institutions.” Finally, I take the opportunity to express
thanks to the Staff at Head Office and Branches, and to the Agents for their
loyal attention to their duties. Some of our Agents have been associated with
us for many years, and never lose an opportunity of furthering the Company’s
interests
KELSO KING, Manager.
Head Office: 16 Martin Place, Sydney.


NEW VICTORIES
for the
Perfected
Whippet
h
c
&
The Whippet with its proven
superiority in Economy, Performance,
Quality and Stamina is daily outdistancing
its previous great sales records
Public confidence in
the quality and unusual value of
this car is based on its superlative
performance in the hands of more
than 200,000 owners who have found
it supreme in power, speed, econ-
omy and stamina. Every mail brings
the story of the new Whippet tri-
umphs not only in this country, but
in every part of the world.
Modern The Whippet is still far
ahead of all other light cars in its
modern features of construction and
equipment. No other car of its class
offers all that the Whippet offers.
Silent timing chain —For quiet en-
gine operation, as on expensive cars.
Force-feed lubrication -—The effi-
cient type of oiling system found
on highest priced cars.
Petrol tank in rear Safely away
from the engine and electricalwiring.
Oversize balloon tyres For ex-
tra mileage and added comfort.
Snubbers <— Another reason why
the Whippet is the easiest riding
light car on the road.
Roominess— Unique body and dash
construction provide ample leg
room for tall passengers.
Speed— ss miles per hour easily, and
many owners report 65. A specially
prepared stock Whippet set up a
speed record of 71.6 miles per hour
in a 50-mile run on the Rockingham
Speedway, U. S. A. The Whippet’s
low centre of gravity keeps the car
safely hugging the road—accelerates
5 to 30 miles per hour in 11.5 seconds.
Whatever your resources you
should see what this car offers in
motor values. Drive it. You will be
delighted with it.
Adjustable steering 'post— Easily
adjusted for the convenience of any
driver of any size or stature.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Eo G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS-OVER LAND FINE MOTOR CARS


i*/*
m.
Naples
APLES, beautifully situated at
the foot of a circle of hills on
the north side of the Bay of Naples,
is a most interesting city. There are
fine castles to be seen and many
other interesting features, including
the world-famous aquarium.
Within easy access of the city are
Mount Vesuvius, .Pompeii, Sorento
and the attractive island of Capri
which is a particularly favorite re-
sort of both residents and visitors.
Naples is one of the ports of call of
Orient Liners on their way to England.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
MARY PICKFORD in
VICTOR McLAGLEN in
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
"MY BEST GIRL’
“HANGMAN’S HOUSE’
UMPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.15 and 8.
MONSTER DOUBLE BILL,
The Fox Motion Picture,
MOTHER MACHREE.
And the Tabloid Musical Comedy,
MODELS.
Prices 1/6 to 4/6.
Reserves: MAIOOO, and all leading booking offices.
CJYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: OTHER MEN’S WIVES
(Commencing next Saturday).
PALACE:
MR. WHAT’S-HIS-NAME.
WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in Plays of SHAKSPEARE.
SUBURBAN TOUR: North Sydney Manresa Hall,
finishing, FRIDAY, AUGUST 17.
Mosman Town Hall, Aug. 18 to 25.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batvn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: HIT THE DECK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
THE HIGH ROAD.
[RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
ATHEN7EUM theatre,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, AUGUST 18.
E. J. CARROLL presents
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
WHITE COLLARS.
Three acts of delicious comedy—with a laugh
in every line.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
CIRCUS ROOKIES,
With KARL DANE and GEORGE K. ARTHUR.
ALSO
LOVE HUNGRY.
With LOIS MORAN and LAWRENCE GRAY.
fyJAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CLAIRE WINDSOR in
The Master Picture,
FASHION MADNESS.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
f Beyond anHMVPortable
on buy furniture /
Specialising in H.M.V Portables,
£l2 cash or terms arranged
TheTALKERIES
477Q.V.Buildings/ OppositeLou/tsi
X
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
■yHE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses ... and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
It was a pity that the official opening day
of one of the best National Shows Brisbane
has seen should have been marred by rain
and bleakness. Mud underfoot, grey skies
overhead and an unseasonably low tempera-
ture reduced what ought to have been a
record attendance. But still it was a big
crowd that was entertained by the council.
The Governor-General, the State Governor
and Lady Goodwin, Priminister and Mrs.
Bruce, Mrs. Campbell and Miss Hine-Hay-
cock were in the v.-r. party. Lady Good-
win wore a wine-hued marocain coat oyer
raisin-toned mariette, with hat en suite.
Mrs. V. S. Corrie, president Ernest Baynes’s
daughter, helped him with the functions,
wearing navy with capeline, trimmed with
French flowers. Mrs. Bruce was in black,
trimmed with ermine, and a black velour
cloche; Miss Hine-Haycock’s printed ninon
was worn with a golden-brown straw hat;
Mrs. Campbell had dove-grey erffpe de Chine
wfith a saxe-blue coat, trimmed with squirrel
and grey felt cloche; Mrs. J. L. Woolcock
was in golden brown, with brown fox furs
and beige cloche; Mrs. J. W. Blair chose
mastic and beige; Mrs. Spencer Browne was
also in mastic; Mrs. J. A. Bain was in
black, with touches of Oriental embroideries;
and Mrs. Reading’s navy marocain was worn
with a black satin coat.
The United Service had its dance under
vice-regal patronage in the Trocadero. Flags
and greenery tittivated the hall and amber
and ruby lights looked through an arch of
palms at the entrance. The Governor-
General, Sir John and Lady Goodwin, the
Priministerial Bruces, Miss Hine-Haycock,
Chief Justice Blair and his wife and the
Mayor and Mayoress were present. There
were 10 debs., amongst them Leila Langberg,
ex-Judge Chubb’s granddaughter, in an early
Victorian frock of white taffetas, and Audrey
Herring in white crepe satin with full pea-
cock skirt. Mrs. T. R. Beamish presented
the buds. Lady Goodwin wore black Spanish
lace over white georgette, Mrs. Bruce was in
flesh-pink mariette, Mrs. Beamish in black
mariette, and Miss Hine-Haycock in orchid
mauve.
The Nudgee College Ball was held in South
Brisbane City Hall. From a centre sun-
burst radiated a canopy of streamers, and
the lights had blue shades with deep white
fringes, giving the illusion of crystal chan-
deliers. Gum tips and fairy lights were on
the walls. Lord Stonehaven, Sir John and
Lady Goodwin and Miss Hine-Haycock were
there. Judge Macrossan and his wife, aided
by the committee, did the welcoming. Lady
Goodwin received a shower bouquet of Ice-
land poppies and Mrs. Jolly a posy of pink
camellias. Lady Goodwin wore aquamarine
blue, Miss Hine-Haycock chose beige mariette
and silver, Mrs. Macrossan’« black ring
velvet had borders of silver, Mrs. Jolly was
in rose pink, and Mrs. T. J. Ryan wore
orchid mauve and silver.
St. Andrew’s kirk saw the wedding of L.
G. Berrett, son of the W. J. Berretts of
Sydney, to Lilian Cavaye, daughter of the
R. B. Cavayes of Kingaroy. The bride was
in ivory mariette embossed in silver, the
’maids, Misses J. and D. Cavaye and E.
Spencer, being gowned in maize cyclamen
and blue-shot taffetas. They carried posies
of sweet-peas.
Our Uni. has a new lecturer in history
and economics, and, as this smile will testify,
she’s proof against the gloom that sur-
rounds the
dismal science.
Her name is
Marjorie Hop-
kins, a Corn-
stalk by
birth —she was
born at Bom-
bala—b u t a
B a nanalander
by adoption.
Glennie Mem-
orial School,
T o o w oomba,
gave her an
education that
paved the way
for graduation,
and after a
brief experi-
ence as a pri-
mary school
teacher at
Newtown s.h e
took a place
on the staff of Toowoomba’s High School
and Technical College. At the Uni. she fills
the gap left by the departure of V. A. C.
Melbourne, who goes to Adelaide Uni.
A. E. Allison, of the Queensland National
Bank at Clifton, squired daughter Isabel
Margaret up the aisle of the Church of the
Holy Name when she went to change her
name to Mrs. John Francis Dunkley. The
party to the other half of the lease in per-
petuity is Dr. Francis Dunkley, of Quilpie,
one time of St. Arnaud (Vic.). A peacock
train set in a wide border of silver lace was
a feature of the bride’s picture frock of ivory
taffetas, which were furthermore bespattered
with white velvet anemones. Bride’s sister
Mossie attended to the etceteras in souffle
like pinks and silvers. The new Mrs. Dunk-
ley (Sister Allie) was a very popular member
of the A.T.N.A., having received her train-
ing at Warwick General Hospital (Q.).
Lord Stonehaven and Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
went to the Ascot races and had afternoon
tea amid red roses on the committee-room
verandah.
Sir .John and Lady Gjoodwin gaVe a
dance at Government House, amongst the
guests being Count and Countess di San
Marzano, Major and Mrs. Bell, Mr. and
Mrs. John Flower, Dorothy Hawthorn, Mary
Macgregor, Una Bell, Jean White, Kathleen
St. John, Richard Macgregor, Arthur Palmer,
Keith Travis and I. G. Trotter.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The most successful and attractive dance
of the season was the fancy-dress affair held
at the Imperial. There were decorations
of Cootamundra wattle and massed almond
blossoms with large Pierrette and Pierrot
dolls lounging in the niches of the walls.
The supper tables were gay with massed
fruits, japonica and holly. The judges of
the best costume were James Counsel, him-
self a terrifying Malayan, Lt.-Col. Cox Taylor,
and the two secretaries (Joyce Walker,
as a Persian lady, and M. Davern, as an
eighteenth century Venetian lady). The choice
fell upon Margaret O’Grady, who appeared
as a pirate, with boots emblazoned with
skull and crossbones and a scarlet handker-
chief knotted round her head; Molly Eady,
who was Mary Queen of Scots; Captain
Stoyles, a bold buccaneer ; and Alan Stump,
who exploited the “back to front” idea.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady were at
the Roman Catholic Ball at the City Hall,
in aid of the schools of St. Mary’s and St.
Patrick’s parishes. There was a fairly good
crowd, and the decorations and lighting
were v.ery effective, flood-lights of various
colors being turned on at intervals. The
O’Grady was met by a guard of honor com-
posed of Boy Scouts.
Mrs. D. Young and a small committee,
with Margaret Miller as secretary and Rupert
Lyons as treasurer, engineered a success-
ful little dance in aid of the sick soldiers
and their dependants at the Continental.
Numerous people brought parties, the supper
was largely home made, Mrs. Duncan (pro-
prietress of the Continental) met the com-
mittee in every possible way, and the orches-
tra charged only a nominal fee, so that there
was a good sum to hand in to the deserving
object.
Hugh, son of the Edwin Websters, of
Graystanes, Sandy Bay, here shown in a
Vandyck study, is a young Tasmanian who
has given a
wonderful
account of him-
self at Mel-
bourne Uni.,
and who goes
to Cambridge
this month
seeking fresh
worlds to con
quer. After
gaining his de-
gree of B.Sc.
at our own
Uni. lie went
on to Mel-
bourne, where
he took his
Master of Sci-
ence degree
with first-class
honors, and
carried off the
1851 exhibi-
tion scholar-
ship for science research. This is the second
time this scholarship has come our way,
F. P. Bowden having won it in 1920.
Tasmanians in London write of the won-
derful summer they are having, the sun
having condescended to shine for at least
part of the day for some weeks. Mrs. Darcy
Addison, one of our delegates at the meet-
ings of the Victoria League, gave a party
at Kensington Palace Mansions, and numer-
ous Tasmanians gathered at her invitation,
among the throng being Mrs. Chas. Davies,
the Alan Walkers and Miss Hook, Alfred
Ashbolt and his lady, and Prince and
Princess Melikoff.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
# Adelaide.
The coldest night we have had this winter
brought a crop of dances. At Ivooyonga the
golfers gave the second of the series of
house dances that are being organised for
the winter. In the Masonic Hall budding
and blossomed lawyers banded together to
provide hospitality, and Walter Stuart and
his wife were official host and hostess. At
Woodlands the assembly-room became again
a ballroom as in the Richard Smiths’ days.
Hostesses there were the school’s old pupils
with Miss Gillam and their secretary, Helen
Wimble, to do the honors. Guests included
Bishop and Mrs. Thomas, the Simpson New-
lands and other members of the council.
In the Masonic Hall, all gay with futurist
posters and riotously colored balloons, a
committee of the School of Arts and Crafts
entertained; the dancers were masked and
most of them in fancy dress. A black-bodied
butterfly with huge blue-green wings, a most
convincing Jackdaw of Rheims, and a Gav-
otte d la Pavlova were among the most
effective dresses.
The Coro dance was at the Masonic Hall,
too, attended by the choral class of old
pupils from a dozen girls’ schools that does
excellent work under the baton of John
Dempster and once a year, en masse, deserts
singing for dancing.
Bridge continues to hold its own as one of
the easiest ways of money-raising. The
party organised at the Town Hall by Mrs.
J. H. Finlayson and a committee brought in
£l4O for the Babies’ Home at Walkerville.
Few charities deserve it more.
There is rejoicing at Norton’s Summit at
the vice-regal decision to go to Marble Hill
for the summer. It is a delightful old house
in one of the picked spots of the hills, but
it has fallen out of favor in recent years,
and this will be the first time it has been
used since the Weigall regime. This week
the Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven have
been to Iron Nob and Whyalla with the
Walter Duncans and Essington Lewis, and
to Victor Harbor, where they opened the
Scouts’ and Girl Guides’ halls, given by
C. W. Bowman.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was at the Alliance
Frangaise to see “La Poudre aux Yeaux, - ’
an excellently presented comedy produced
by Miss W. Barrett.


Four BooKs as a Bonus
The Bulletins £l7OO Prize Serials begin September 5
The judges report that their work is now nearly complete and that the
prizes in the first Competition will be
Announced in “The Bulletin” of August 22.
This will enable the first chapters to be published on September 5. The
£5OO First Prize Story will be printed in large instalments. In addition to all
the ordinary features of “The Bulletin” at least Four Great Novels will be
published during the next 12 months.
“The Bulletin,” by offering liberal prizes and rewards, is determined to
secure for its readers the best that Australian writers can supply, and readers
will get these great prize stories in addition to the ordinary news and art contents.
SPECIAL TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
The price per copy will be sixpence as hitherto; but for 24/- paid in advance
you will receive (posted to any address in Australasia) twelve months’ copies of
“The Bulletin” with all the ordinary contents and four serial novels, including
the three prize-winners.
Order through your newsagent, or direct from— ,
Head Office 214 George Street, Sydney.
BRANCH OFFICES:
VICTORIA. .114-120 Flinders Street, Melbourne S. AUS . . Evans BTd’gs, James Place, Adelaide
QUEENSLAND. . 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane WESTRALIA 33 Barrack Street, Perth
LONDON 36 Southampton Street, Strand
If you become a subscriber, you will be sure of not missing an instalment of any
of these prize stories.
THE NOVEL COMPETITION.
A Review of the Entries.
The Plan of Judging Followed.
[Mr. T. B. Clegg, the writer of this article, is the
president of the judges who have been considering
the stories submitted in The Bulletin's Great Prize
Story Competition.]
The number of novels received was 542,
but of these two had been posted after the
closing date, and consequently were re-
turned unopened. The novels were listed
in the order of receipt and each ,placed in
a cardboard cover to secure it from injury
by dust or in handling. When the work
of examination began a record of each novel
was made—somewhat similar to a ledger
account—against which its number was
placed and a copy kept of the notes made
by the readers through whose hands it had
passed, showing their approval or other-
wise of its contents. In every case, no
matter how poor the work might be, the
novel had to be reported on unfavorably
by two readers before being finally rejected.
If one reader rejected the novel and another
approved of it, the MS. was passed on to
a third reader, and so on till a further re-
jection threw it out or it survived the
ordeal of the remaining judges; in the
latter case it was put aside for further con-
sideration. By this system of sifting, few
novels remained for final adjudication.
The greater number of novels was re-
ceived from the Australian States, Federal
Territory and the Dominion of New Zea-
land; Maoriland forwarding not only a
generous contribution numerically, but one
which had great merit. Others came from
the South Pacific Islands, Papua, Java,
Rhodesia, the U.S.A., Italy, the Homeland
and elsewhere—a tribute to the interest
shown in this competition by the Australian-
born abroad.
Typewritten manuscripts far exceeded
those written by hand, but with few excep-
tions the latter were quite legible, and in
only one instance was the sin of writing on
both sides of the paper committed.
A notable feature in the competition was
the great number of women who contri-
buted novels, particularly upon sex ques-
tions.
The fact that no restriction had been
placed upon the location or style of their
works so appealed to writers that an im-
mense area of country and centuries of
time were covered by them. In time they
ranged from the days of Xerxes to a future
Australian period when time-marriages will
be the law. In territorial space they touched
the United Kingdom, and the Free State
of Ireland, South Africa and India, China,
Abyssinia, Egypt, Honolulu, ’Frisco and
Alaska. One adventurer penetrated Central
Australia, and found there, in an under-
ground river, records of a lost civilisation;
whilst another with a marked American
trick of expression took a wonderful air
boat to Mars. Still, the atmosphere in
which most of the novels moved was
Australian in the Australia of to-day.
There were half a dozen distinctly
historical novels. Two dealt with the
day of the Persian conquests, one
with Britain at the time of the Roman
occupation, and two were seventeenth-century
subject novels, one in France and the other
in Genoa. They were quite good of their
kind—though truly in one the juvenile
Romans did address pater familias as “Dad”
Another, quite interesting, was an effort to
reproduce in romantic form the person-
ality and times of Shakspeare. There were
three stories of convict days built on the
design of “His Natural Life.” In each in-
stance an innocent man was condemned to
transportation. Two of the three were poor,
but the other, which had a rather pictur-
esque account of the Governor Bligh period,
was not without merit.
There were half a dozen or more novels
in which strikes and industrial unrest were
the essential materials, the love interest
being thrown in like a scrap of meat to the
cat. One anti-Bolshevik novelist painted
in vermilion the day of a great uprising of
“the Reds,” and told the joyful news of
how “a little child fired a beacon that lit
up the whole world and dealt the death
blow to Bolshevism.” Good news, de-
spite the mixed metaphor! The detec-
tive story was well represented by
at least a dozen writers. The analo-
gous mystery story was also well repre-
sented, and two fantastic yarns told respec-
tively how a young scientist discovered a
metal by means of which he was able to
become invisible, and how nightly a young
girl was metamorphosed into an owl. Bush-
ranging of the old order found a place in
a few of the stories; and one
author exploited a modern equivalent in
the aeroplane bushranger. Well over a
dozen novels were dialogue discussions on
political, ethical, religious, social and scien-
tific questions, in one being an excellent
caricature of a well-known N.S.W. states-
man. A botanist who discovered the secret
of producing a scarlet wattle was the hero
of another. Studies in Karma, reincarnation
and occultism were the themes of one little
group of writers, and the religious and pro-
fane aspects of marriage furnished material
for another and a larger group. The stage
had several volumes devoted to it, and Art
and Bohemia had a considerable following.
A schoolmaster told the story of an Aus-
tralian pedagogue, and a fairy story
fluttered in.
In fact, practically all types of fictional
matter were fairly represented—except one,
and that was humor. Humorous incidents
were not infrequently scattered through the
volumes, but only one avowed humorist
presented himself. This writer stated his
aim to be that of “adding another humorous
story to Australian literature but one differ-
ing in type to anything that has preceded
it.” It certainly differed. The only other
and genuinely humorous effort was, by rea-
son of the scarcity of that blessed quality
in Australian literature, included in the list
of commended works. There were at least
half a dozen war stories and many inci-
dental references in other works to that
period. Out of this group the one distinct-
ively best, a quite good piece of work, has
been commended.
Having disposed .of these numerically
minor classes, there remained the three
principal groups of stories that made up the
bulk of the 540 volumes. These were
stories of bush and station life, stories of the
South Pacific Islands, of Papua and of the
Far North of Australia, and stories of colonial
experience and the early days. The bush
station life and wheat-field stories furnished
the most typically Australian type of char-
acter, and from them were drawn some of
the best efforts in the competition; the
Islands and Papua were also prolific of
good fiction. The “colonial experience”
and “old times” group were interesting not
as novels, but as personal and historical
records.
•When these various groups had been
segregated there remained a body of sex,
love and passion novels—the hot cakes of
the market-stall. Among these were some
of genuine literary value; whilst others
were extremely crude. In the rear of the
brilliantly colored novels of passion and
cocktails came a modest group of old-
fashioned love stories, closing the proces-
sion.
T. B. CLEGG.
What the Competition Secretary
Noticed.
[The writer is Mr. W. E. Fitz Henry, who through-
out has been the member of the staff set aside for
service as secretary of the Competition.]
Fifteen minutes after The Bulletin
office had opened on the morning of the
first announcement of its Prize Novel
Competition, it received a visit from a
reader desiring fuller particulars. From then
on the stairs that led to the Editorial
floor have been worn visibly by thousands
who came to make inquiries upon some
vexed question or other. Every mail since
August of last year has contained its quota
from correspondents who wanted informa-
tion and guidance; the telephone was also
largely utilised as a means of approach,
and no week passed without its imperatively
worded reply-paid telegrams and cable-
grams.
There was a mere trickle of callers at the
commencement; but as the months went
by the trickle converted itself into a stream.
They asked questions on an amazing range
of subjects. One, for example, desired a
summary of the American Income-tax law
as it affected the pocket of the Australian
author whose work was published there.
Then there was the aesthetic young lady
who wanted to be shown a book of type
faces, so that she could select the size and
style in which her novel would be set up
after it had been printed as a prize-winning
serial in The Bulletin. Assured of suc-
cess as she was, she was not half as confi-
dent as a retired public servant, who stated
his intention of devoting one-tenth of the
prize to the purchase of Bulletins con-
taining his story, for distribution among his
friends. It was all a wonderful testimony
to that national Australian characteristic
—faith in one’s ability to “land the bacon,”
as exemplified by our army of punters and
Tattersall-sweep entrants.
The only despondent one was an elderly
lady who tripped on the way to deposit her
entry. It was a bad omen, she told the
messenger who assisted her, and she had
half a mind not to enter the competition.
She did, however, and now her belief in
omens will probably never be shaken.
I do not yet know whether more entries
were received from women than men, but
I should say that the former predominated.
I base that upon the enormous number of
the “opposite sex” that were to be seen
handing over manuscripts. Ladies from
every walk of life entered. You were bailed
up one moment by a pretty young Miss
bearing a bundle done up in mauve tissue
and bound with a red silken cord, and the
next confronted by an anxious grandmother
who slopped unbound prologues and epi-
logues over your desk. One dowager, who
appeared to be en route to Government
House, mounted the stairs like the Queen
of Sheba visiting Solomon. A retainer, in
a chauffeur’s olive-green uniform, carried
her precious effort.
A clergyman and tramdriver arrived
almost simultaneously on the closing day.
Strange to say, the former had produced a
detective story and the latter a psycho-
logical study. A genuine swaggie turned
up; he had written his novel on the track,
he said, with a log for a desk and a bottle
of rum for inspiration.
The entries that arrived by mail—a
special van had to be employed on the two
closing days—were not all prosaic-looking
brown-paper parcels. A few came encased
in stout wooden frames; one was stitched
up in waterproof sheeting; another was
fitted into a home-made galvanised-iron
receptacle; one from Central Queensland
had for an inner covering a piece oi saddle-
cloth. Two had come in by air-mail. Most
of their owners had taken the sensible pre-
caution of providing them with stout
covers; some had even gone to the ex-
pense of ornate bindings with the titles
in gold lettering. But there were foolish
ones who neither gave their works bindings
nor went to the trouble of fastening the
loose pages together.
The task of those who have to handle the
1929 entries will be lightened if competi-
tors will
(1) Type their MS., if possible (double-
spaced and with ample margins); if not
possible to type, write clearly.
(2) Number the pages consecutively.
(3) Bind the work, if possible, in a strong,
stiff cover. If that is not possible, secure
it in some way so that it will remain intact.
(4) Print the title and nom de plume
in bold lettering on the outside cover.
(5) Pack the MS. flat when despatching.
(6) Send in your entries early.


PUTS STOMACH RIGHT
BUT NO HARMFUL ANTI-ACIDS
Many who suffer after eating feel forced to
take something like soda bi-carbonate or
bismuthated magnesia to stop the excess
acid. They know this gives only temporary
relief. What they do not know is that such
alkalies usually leave a residue in the
stomach to retard digestion further. By
taking anti-acids the occasional stomach
sufferer may become a pronounced dyspep-
tic ! The right thing to do is to get some
Para-Pepsin from the chemist and take
three tablets during meals or when in pain.
Para-Pepsin corrects acidity and the cause
of acidity; it ensures proper digestion; pre-
vents distress, or stops it naturally if it has
started. Para-Pepsin forms no habit; leaves
no bad effects; is as good for a mild
stomach-ache as for long-standing dyspepsia.
It costs but a trifle at the chemist’s; is
pleasant to take; convenient; breath-purify-
ing, and absolutely safe. Try it!
LIQUEUR
ft
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clearly Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS, LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
| the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Anstruther's Spear
by SEYMOUR COSTELLOE
AS I look from
my chair
across the
acres that have for
so 'long been my
care I see past the
cropping stock and
the creek that meanders away from the home-
stead to the years that stretch far behind
them. They were years of hardship and toil,
of danger and excitement, and I know now
that my youth, or the arduous occupations
that employed me, dulled my wits so that in
iittle of what went on did I read any signifi-
cance. But now as I muse and ponder, in
many things that passed me by I see that
which makes me start. But it is fascinating,
this, and I allow my memory full range of
those old pioneering days.
* * * *
Pushing out across the unlimited miles of
the vast continent in which my brother and
I had cast our lot, having forsaken the cir-
cumscribed life of Merry England for one
more pregnant with adventure and more
promising as to fortune, myself, a mere
stripling of eighteen, and my brother,
some seven years my senior, had found the
way fraught with difficulties which, had it not
been for the ripe experience of the stock-
men whom we had employed, we would have
found quite insurmountable.
Among these men was one Anstruther,
who, in the long days of drov ng and our
final settlement on the area ovi r which our
cattle were to wander, proved himself an in-
valuable albeit a taciturn assistant.
It is with Anstruther that my thoughts
have been occupied to-day, among his deeds
that my memory wanders. As each action
of that silent man raises itself for review,
I gasp at my tardy understanding.
As I have remarked, a taciturn man, even
morose.; and despite the fact that, through
our long acquaintance and finally our inti-
mate friendship, neither did he openly blas-
pheme nor in other ways plainly defy the laws
of God, I fear that he was not fully invested
with grace. I have come to this conclusion
across a distance of time when memory has
endowed my thoughts with a clarity which
was absent during the jumbled days of early
colonisation. For I see now that Anstruther
was consumed with a mighty desire for re-
venge ; and of its origin and its consum-
mation I will tell you.
Within our first six months of settlement
we had with prodigious labor erected our
home, which, although we were passing proud
of cur efforts, was little more than a shanty
constructed of logs, the chinks, of which there
were many, plastered with mud. For the
rest there still remained two tents in which
some of the men slept, and, a little distant
from the domestic quarters, a rough cattle-
yard that served us in our work. We had
also penetrated some distance into the dense
mallee scrub which surrounded us, and it
was here that Anstruther’s knowledge stood
us in good stead. His bush sense was
uncanny, and in his uncommunicative man-
ner he would lead us far into the density of
the tangled scrub and then, while we hesi-
tated quite witless as to direction, he would
unerringly pilot us back to the welcome little
clearing of our homestead. No matter how
dark the night he could unerringly turn to
any point of the compass we might ask for.
During this time we had become very
friendly with the natives, who were in great
numbers about us, although they proved use-
less as assistants, refusing to comprehend or
misunderstanding our requests until w r e at
last gave up all idea of enlisting their help.
In the seventh month the two tents dis-
appeared, to be replaced by a large divided
room against the existing structure.. This
we built of planks split from the solid
timber, and a neat, comfortable dormitory
it made.
Daily as we worked the natives would
cluster about us, their numbers increasing
until sometimes as many as thirty would
squat about the door of the house, grin-
ning and chattering, or sitting silently in
wait for the scraps of damper or the odd
bowl of broth that we gave them. Conspicu-
ous among them was one whom we had named
Goliath, for he towered above his fellows;
his physical perfection was magnificent, and
his features, though aboriginal, were finely
wrought.
Between this fellow and Anstruther a
friendship began to grow, and soon to see
the pair of them in conversation for quite
long periods was common; for the stock-
man, amongst his vast and varied bush lore,
had a good knowledge of the native tongue.
When I remarked to Anstruther one day
that he must indeed deem this native a
worthy fellow, his reply war; characteristic.
“The man has intelligence, John/’ lie
said —for we had dropped the cumbersome
formality of surnames —“but I have never
fully trusted a nigger yet, and I pray that
1 never shall.”
Ilis answer somewhat surprised me at the
time; but I was soon to learn how much
his professed suspicions of the aboriginals
were deserved.
Shortly after we had established our claim
to Malice Plains, as we called our holding,
there had come to settle at some fifteen miles
distance a James Hardy, he being followed
by Robert O’Faydcn; so that within a year
our little community had grown from two
lone pioneers to a group mutually deter-
mined to wrest from the colony some of the
riches that it held.
It was from Robert O’Fayden that wo
first got news of the crime that was to in-
crease to a frightful menace, necessitating
stern measures and salutary punishment of
the blacks before a stay was called to their
ruinous ways. The mutilated carcase of a
bullock was found, and in it a 'spear undoubt-
edly cast by a native.
We ourselves suffered next; and, though
we taxed the group that still visited us with
the deed, they professed innocence with such
surprise that we allowed our suspicions to
wander from those dull natives at our door
to some unknown and vicious tribe which we
“Anstruther rode into our midst bloodstained and fainting; speared by the blacks. In
his hand he clasped the wooden shaft that had impaled him.”
guessed had but lately discovered the succu-
lent quality of our herd’s flesh.
Said Anstruther, “Maybe they did not
kill the beasts, but I greatly fear we have
given succor to a nest of vipers.” And from
this time he would ride away alone, his
mission unexplained and his object hidden.
After the events just related this spearing
of the cattle became fast and furious, and
hardly a day passed without some news of
further depredations. The number of natives
about our homestead decreased, and for
Goliath to visit us was rare. Also they ate
with less voracity the food which we gave
them. We of course noticed this, and our
suspicions once more gravitated toward
them.
Some eight of our cattle had by now been
killed and the solitary rides of Anstruther
had become more frequent, his words more
scanty and his mien more forbidding.
Then came the second sensational happen-
ing. Anstruther rode into our midst blood-
stained and fainting; speared by the blacks.
In his hand he clasped the wooden shaft
that had impaled him. Death was alarm-
ingly close. For days he lay babbling in
delirium—always of Goliath; always of the
spear from which he refused to be parted.
Even as he had fallen from his horse I had
tried to wrest it from his grasp, but the in-
coherent growl and tenacious grip had
warned me that some mysterious value was
attached to the spear that Anstruther held.
We laid him to bed and in our clumsy
way tended him throughout his illness. The
natives had deserted us completely now,
though we learnt from Hardy that they still
frequented the outer portions of his home-
stead. As well for them perhaps that they
had left us, for with Anstruther lying abed
from their murderous hands, no native had
been safe in our midst!
The killing of cattle continued, and hopes
held out for protection from the police
were quickly quashed with the news that
the authorities could offer us no immediate
relief; their time was fully occupied by
the lawlessness of the goldfields and maraud-
ing bushrangers, who at this time were
plying their nefarious trade along the inland
roads.
At last convalescence came to Anstru-
ther, and little by little lie related the
happenings of the day that lie had received
the treacherous spear between his shoulders.
“I came upon ’em in a little clearing,”
he said, “with a beast cornered and spears
ready to strike. I took in the scene at a
glance, and with spurs ripping at the flanks
of my horse I charged the niggers. As the
lash of my whip cut across the face of the
nearest man, I made ready to cast myself
upon him. But farther I never got, for in
my back I felt the red-hot pain of the spear
that struck me, and as I reeled and fell I
saw quite clearly the dog that did it —it was
Goliath, and I will die satisfied if I see
that nigger just once again.”
For a time the business of our bush life
progressed quietly enough, and from a mere
shaveling I developed under its influence
into broad-chested and confident manhood.
Sporadic killings occurred, and we continued
our petitions for police action. In this we
were supported by our neighbors, who of
course had also suffered at the hands of the
natives.
From the outset we had formed the cus-
tom of a full observance of the Sabbath,
and on that day we would gather and one or
other of us would read the service. Together
we would offer up our praise and thanks.
Occasionally we would ride to our neigh-
bors’ for this purpose, and it was on return
from one such visit that we learned from
Anstruther, who had volunteered to remain
in charge of the homestead, of the last and
most wanton crime of the aboriginals.
Riding a mile or so from the house, intent
on overlooking a number of our finest cattle
that we had, with much careful choosing of
pasture, brought to a ripe condition of "fat-
ness, he had come upon six of their number
speared and dead; and, disappearing into
the close-pressing bush, the perpetrators ot
the vile crime.
With clenched teeth and rumbling voice
he swore to the presence of Goliatli, and
named another with whom we were familar.
“That cursed nigger again !” he said. “I
see the time draws nigh when I shall return
the spear he gave me.”
Next day he rode away, with Melbourne
his destination, and on liis lips a pledge to
return with sufficient police to administer
reprisals to the natives who bade fair to
ruin us.
Towards the conclusion of the fifth week
Anstruther returned, alone. We cried out
at this, full of apprehension, for three
more of our most prized beasts had fallen
to the spears of the natives. Our fears
were soon allayed, however; and as we
plied Anstruther with our excited questions,
the triumph of his manner increased, and
into his eyes crept a look of satisfaction
that I had seen before on occasions when
he had mentioned his intended punishment
of the natives; more especially had I
noticed it when once I had found him hand-
ling his treasured spear.
From his narrative it appeared that he
had, after infinite trouble, secured the sym-
pathy of the police, who in answer to lus
entreaties had allotted to our relief two
highly trusted officers. These men, giving
themselves over to his guidance, had divested
themselves of their uniforms and put on the
less conspicuous clothes of stockmen. In this
guise they had ridden to within striking dis-
tance of our property, and had there parted
company with Anstruther, for, as he ex-
plained, were any connection established
between ourselves and the two strangers,
however harmless in appearance, the blacks
would instantly take fright and the scheme
for the capture of the guilty ones, which
Anstruther had so carefully planned, would
be heavily discounted.
After parting with their guide the
troopers had proceeded on their way to
Hardy’s, and there, upon the jubilant
squatter learning of their mission, they had
met with nothing but kindness and hearty
promises of assistance. These proved not
empty words, moreover. While the officers
occupied themselves with their assumed voca-
tion, Mr. Hardy broadcasted an invitation
among the natives to a distribution of to-
bacco and cakes that he promised would take
place three days hence.
On the appointed day some twenty or
thirty natives presented themselves chatter-
ing and calling the praises
of the big-feller boss.
Among them towered
Goliatli.
The natives eyed the
strangers with some sus-
picion at first, but soon
their interest was diverted
to the growing pile of
cakes that the cook
tossed from his oven.
Quietly Hardy pointed
out to Trenton and
Baines the natives named
by Anstruther, and then
led the excited group to the
railed fence of the stock-
yard, lining them up and
commanding them to
await the arrival of the
supply of gifts. Six of
the stockmen, among
them the troopers, formed
a queue to receive from
the cook a pile of cakes,
and in pairs they advanced
to the waiting natives,
followed by Mr. Hardy
and the cook.
Slowly working their
way down the row of
grasping hands, the waiters doled out the
cakes and blocks of villainous looking
tobacco, till Baines, supported by a stock-
man, paused before one of the natives
pointed out by Mr. Hardy. Meanwhile
Trenton and a companion had almost reached
the corner of the fence, where, ill at ease,
stood the giant Goliath. Significantly
Trenton glanced toward Baines, who, in-
stantly dropping the platter from his grasp,
sprang upon the startled native before him.
Simultaneously Trenton fell upon Goliath
and from behind came the report of re-
volvers discharged harmlessly into the air by
Hardy and the cook.
The crash of the firearms served their
purpose, for immediately began a scatter
for safety, leaving only the black held
securely by Baines, and Goliath struggling
in the grasp of Trenton. At that moment,
as the nearest stockman leaped to his assist-
ance, the trooper, great as was his bulk,
was heaved bodily into the air, and the
mighty Goliath arose, evaded with mar-
vellous agility the man that hurled himself
at him, and at a speed almost incredible
followed in the wake of his fast disappearing
companions.
With all possible speed several of the
(Continued on page 53.)


W. JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
UN DU BA
wnenffiiii
HE
NTER ST
SYDNEY
W. JNO. BAKER TRIPLE-
CRUSH EMASCULATOR.
A well-made first-class nickel-plated
instrument, combining the blunt cut
and the crushing block. Its simplicity
and thorough effectiveness in operat-
ing commends it to both the novice
and expert.
Price 50/- Post Free.
If
wmm.
The W. Jno. Baker
New Improved
Lamb Clam.
No. 435.
The position of the
blade enables the
user to complete
the operation
without moving
his grip on the
Clam, the result
being a cleaner
job, quicker heal-
ing, and saving
time; about Bin.
over all. Black
wood handle grip,
Brass Guard;
width across jaw,
I fin. 10/6 each.
Post Free.
PlB.
PROFESSIONAL
SECATEURS,
Double edged,
with rubber-cov-
ered handles;
used by gardeners
and nurserymen
for quick and
easy work. Made
in Germany.
Length over all,
Bin., 18/6; 9in.,
21/- each.
Post Free.
W. Jno. Baker
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
ADDING MACHINES
The wonderful “Addac” weighs less than 71b.
Anyone can operate; just pull down the dial.
Splendid for calculating. Suits the pocket,
too. £l6/10/-, on terms. Discount for cash.
Written Guarantee. Capacity with farthings,
£lO,OOO. Send for booklet.
ADDAC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND ST., SYDNEY. ’Phone 82279.
“THE AGE.”
Established 185Jt.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
The Age is a publication whose policy has
always been a consistent advocacy for the
development of Australian Industries—both pri-
mary and secondary.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE,”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and help-
ful, and its columns contain all the latest
happenings in the world having a genuine
news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free with-
in the Commonwealth.
THE AGE FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at principal
advertising agencies throughout the Common-
wealth, or from—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Just Published ALBERT'S
DANCE PROGRAMME
FOLIO
mmuxam^
DANCE PROGRAMME
EDLIu
%!»!?
MUOO^U"
i-tf?
$
we
24/-
WORTH OF
DANCE MUSIC
FOR
2/-
The Greatest Collection of Dance
Music Ever Issued.
3 FOXTROTS, 3 WALTZES, 1 STOMP
Including
“ROSE MARIE,” “ALABAMA
STOMP,” "RUSSIAN LULLABY,”
“ME AND MY SHADOW,” etc.
Perfectly Arranged. Clearly Printed.
Full Music Size.
You owe it to yourself and your friends
to have a copy of this wonderful
new folio.
Price 2/-; Posted Anywhere 2/2.
Send 2/2 now for your copy to —
J. ALBERT & SON, 139 King Street, Sydney.
Also at 294-98 Little Collins St., Melbourne; 2-4 Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.
LYMAN
sdgsdfg
SIGHTS
for practically
every gun made
Ideal Shell Expanding Cham-
ber allows bullet to be
seated friction-tight. Price
12/6 each.
Ideal Muzzle Ilesizer brings
mouth of ease back to about
original size. Price 6/6 ea.
Ideal Tool No. 4. Popular Tool, complete
in itself for O.F. Cartridges, such as
.25-20,:.32-20', .38-40, .38 S.&W. Special
.44-40. Casts standard bullet. Without
double adjust. Chamber. Price 32/6 ea.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for
literature to our exclusive representatives :
Your Favorite Cartridge Reloaded at small cost
with Ideal Reloading Tools.
Enjoy frequent shooting with reloaded ammuni-
tion. Accuracy equal to factory-loaded ammunition.
Best results from Ideal Tools, standard with re-
loaders for 35 years. Send for new Ideal Handbook
of instructions, tables and complete description of
the line. Mailed on receipt of
2/6 »»ch, or Free Folder.
No. 6 Tool. For Reloading C.F. Cart-
ridges such as .25-35, .32-40, .30-30,
.38-55, etc. With double adj. chamber.
Casts standard bullet. Price 37/6 ea.
Ideal No. 5 Powder
Measure. Measures all
powders accurately.
Price £2/5/- each.
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
TtfE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP. West Street, Middlefield, Conn. U.S.A.
MNGERS
FOOD and
How to use ft.
for INFANTS
INVALIDS
and iheAGED.
r
Food
Is illness in
the house I
It so, send to-day for a copy
oi Benger’s Booklet, post free.
This will help you with the
problem of giving the patient a
change of food.
Among the contents are recipes
for the preparation, with Benger's
Food, of dainty dishes which
relieve the monotony of plain milk
diet, so trying to invalids.
Benger’s Booklet is so full of
interest that even if you have no
invalid in the house you should
send for a copy and keep it safely.
Benger’s Food is not only very
highly nutritious, but gives relief
from the distress and nervous
debility caused by indigestion.
Benger's Food is sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Invalid Recipes in booklet,
post free from Benger’s Food, Ltd., 350, George St., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers : —Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
A. 267 .
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO , , _ Directors:
I,s»ed Capital 49,161 w . 0 . JTSSL* Ea, .
Paid-up Capital 30,234 R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will cuote you price for the original.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In Picture and Story.
"THE, AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Real
Cream
in this
Tomato
Soup
HEINZ Cream of
Tomato Soup is made
from rich dairy cream and
big, luscious, vine-ripened
tomatoes skilfully sea-
soned and cooked as only
Heinz knows how. No soup
has a finer flavour none
more nourishing. Try it and
see.
Heinz Cream of Celery
and Heinz Cream of Green
Pea Soups, equally delight-
ful —are also made with real
cream.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Can.
one of the
Varieties
HEINZ
CREAM OF
TOMATO SOUP
1495
EXCLUSIVE GEMS
OF RARE DISTINCTION.
UNIQUE PLATINUM SETTINGS.
PERCY MARKS,
Vice-Regal Jeweller and Lavidary,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Featuring Engagement Rings.
Thrilling Health
Through Yeast!
Half-Sick, Tired, Weak People Find That
Truly “Yeast is Life.”
Probably no scientific discovery has caused
such attention as that of the importance
of vitamines in our food. Research has
shown that much of the prevalent ill-health,
“half-health,” pain and weakness is due to
the lack of these vital elements. Many
leading health specialists recommend jmast,
which is especially rich in energy- and
health-giving vitamines. Good Jesuits have
been obtained by plain yeast, but in no
case do the results compare to those
obtained from Cream of Yeast, which is the
super-active yeast, made more valuable by
combination with other valuable medicinal
agents. Men and women who have tried
Cream of Yeast report a startling quick
return to thrilling health and vigor—head-
aches, indigestion, nervousness, depression,
tired feeling gone in a few minutes; sal-
low complexions enlivened to healthy glow-
ing color; pimples and blackheads cleared
—all in quick time! Many who were once
forced to rely on Aspirins to keep going
now find Cream of Yeast not only far
superior, but actually cheaper, results con-
sidered. Chemists say the wonderful effi-
cacy of Cream of Yeast, with its surpris-
ingly small cost, is converting thousands.


hat gives
the finishing
touch to your whole
appearance.
Battersby hats have
that unobtrusive
smartness which
distinguishes the
well - dressed man
the world over.
Every Battersby is
British throughout,
made of fur in our
own factory at
Stockport.
dfo
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD &Y
THE BEST
HATTERS
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further particulars , write —
SYDNEY:
BOX 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
BOX 763.
i EVERY WOMAN
HER OWN
BEAUTY SPECIALIST
In these days, when every intelligent
woman realises the importance of an
attractive personal appearance, there is a
great demand for some simple aids to
beauty which are within the means of all.
The professional beauty specialists, with
their fabulous prices and long treatments,
are obviously impracticable for all but
the wealthiest. Moreover, it is a fact that
equally good results can be obtained by
the wise use of a few simple materials
easily obtainable at most good chemists. It
is proposed, therefore, in this article, to
point out the average deficiencies which
mar a woman’s beauty, and to suggest
some practical remedies.
IS SOAP INJURIOUS?
The skin demands first attention. The
foundation of a good complexion is perfect
cleanliness. This, however, is too often
only obtained by ruining the skin with
alkaline soaps and hard water. Soap is
really injurious to most skins, and if soap
is used on the face it should be a pure,
non-alkaline kind such as Pilenta. The
ideal method of freeing the complexion
from waste matter, dead cuticle and dirt
is to smear it with pure mereolised wax
before going to bed, sponging the face in
the morning with warm water.
A COMMON DISFIGUREMENT
About 75 per cent, of the women one
meets suffer from disfiguring blackheads.
These are caused by enlarged pores which
become clogged with dirt and waste matter.
To get rid of blackheads, the safest and
quickest method is to damp them thor-
oughly with warm water in which a tablet
of stymol has been dissolved. When the
face is dried the blackheads will come
right off on the towel without any pain
or forcing. In order to prevent them form-
ing again the face needs an occasional
astringent bath to keep the. pores from
getting over large. Always keep a few
stymol tablets handy, for an occasional
sparkling face-bath of stymol water is the
best prevention for this ugly affliction.
EVEN WORSE
is the sight, alas! too common, of a woman
with an unsightly growth of down on her
face. Yet many of these spend a good deal
of time frying to eliminate the offending
hairs. Electrolysis and shaving have both
proved unsatisfactory, as well as painful.
There is, however, one remedy which has a
great deal to recommend it. II pure, pow-
dered pheminol is applied directly to the
superfluous hair, the latter can be removed
after a few minutes without the slightest
difficulty.
BEAUTIFUL IN THE RIGHT
PLACE
If superfluous hair is unsightly, the lack
of hair in the right place is a serious
defect. The most beautiful eyes lose half
their charm if the lashes are thin and pale,
while beautiful lashes and brows give a
peculiar charm to even the plainest face. In
feeding the eyelashes it is essential to
choose a preparation that is absolutely
harmless. The best thing known for this
purpose is pure mennaline, which is easy
to obtain from your chemist. About every
other night a trifle should be rubbed into
the roots of the eyelashes and eyebrows.
If this treatment is continued, the lashes
will not only grow thick and long, but they
will tend to become darker in color.
ARE YOU TOO FAT?
It must be generally admitted that the
prettiest face loses half its charm if its
owner has a clumsy figure. Superfluous
flesh is, however, much easier to reduce
than most people imagine. It is wonderful
what a difference is made by taking a few
clynol berries after each meal. These little
berries are quite pleasant to take, and
they are absolutely harmless. They have,
however, a wonderful power of reducing
superfluous fat. Over-stout people will do
well to remember that excessive fatness is
not only unbecoming but really dangerous.
This very simple but homely remedy
deserves a trial.
ONALITE FOR TIRED FEET.
Buy from your chemist.—Advt.
men made for their tethered mounts and
were immediately in pursuit of the blacks.
Goliath still remained some distance in the
rear, but as the thunder of the hoofs warned
him of his danger his pace became des-
perate. Quickly the distance between pur-
suers and pursued lessened, but almost as
rapidly did the harbor of the mallee draw
closer to the flying Goliath; and when the
beat of the stockmen’s chase must have been
thrashing at his ear-drums, he flung him-
self among the welcoming trunks, where
the passage of a beast was impossible and
the bushcraft of the stockman valueless
against that of the aboriginal.
Disappointed, the men returned to the
homestead empty-handed; and, despite the
fact that Trenton and Baines vainly tried
to console themselves with their one captive,
they were deeply chagrined.
All was now preparation for a departure
before nightfall, for everyone was conscious
of a gloomy conviction that the natives would
not remain silent while one of their number
lay in captivity; and to reach Mallee Plains
and so outstrip them was the object of the
troopers. They were informed of the futility
of the plan, however, for with the horses
their way lay by a circuitous route which
discounted their chance of beating the abo-
riginals in a race for our homestead.
The weight, of the warnings of Hardy and
his men was soon manifest, for hardly had
half the distance been traversed when dart-
ing black figures were perceived among the
close-pressing undergrowth, to be followed
by a spear flung from its cover. Luckily
the aim proved faulty; nevertheless the
shaft bore a portentous message. Desper-
ately the little posse pushed on, with vicious
thorns tearing at their sides and branches
flaying their faces. Into the setting sun
they rode, their panting, lathering steeds
infected with the menacing fear of the dark-
ening woods; spurred on by the shrill cries
that now broke out behind them; dashing
across little eerie clearings to plunge once
more into the gloom of the heavy scrub.
At last, exhausted, Trenton and Baines
flung themselves and their prisoner to the
ground, and in quickly uttered phrases told
us of the danger that was advancing rapidly
upon us.
We lost no time in making our prepara-
tions, for we had long feared just such an
event and against it we had taken pre-
cautions. Retiring at once to the interior
of our house, we drew to. the middle of the
main room a table on which to lay our fire-
arms, and soon we had a threatening array
spread loaded before us. From the loopholes we
had cut in the walls we took the covers, and
it was now we regretted having neglected to
fortify. the latelyi-clonsitructed addition to
our building in like manner. This omission
Anstruther offered to repair; and taking
with him tools and leading the subdued
native, he disappeared within. Proceeding
to the furthermost portion of the long room,
which was filled by roughly hewn but ser-
viceable beds, Anstruther secured his
prisoner. From then on the sound of his
work upon the walls mingled with the other
noises of our preparation.
None too soon were we finished our own
duties, and even then Anstruther had made
little headway with his loopholes; as 1
shifted the light to cast about for some
forgotten detail, the first spear thudded
against the logs. Instantly we sprang to our
appointed openings, and the thunder of our
concerted discharge filled the air, the acrid
smoke burnt our nostrils and our peering
eyes blinked and wept with its effect. Dimly
only could we discern the moving figures in
the swiftly falling light, and much of our
ball, I fear, harmlessly met the ground. This
waste of shot we could not avoid, for our
chance of victory lay in the vigor of our
defence, and we believed that the noise of our
firearms would play a large part in the
repulse. At the table, Joe Thatcher, the
youngest of our men, was" employed with the
reloading of the weapons. Beside me An-
struther silently and deftly worked his piece.
A score of minutes passed thus, all of us
rapidly sighting and firing, until my eyes
grew strained with the constant peering
and my shoulder ached. Then night closed
down and with it the storm of flying spears
ceased. We believed that until daylight we
would enjoy a peace; nevertheless we set a
watch of half our’force. Anstruther, That-
cher, Baines and myself, who were to take
the second watch, retired to snatch what
sleep we could.
With the curtain of darkness still upon
me, I opened reluctant eyes at the call of the
oft-coming watch, and together the half-
awakened four of us made for the inner
rooms to keep our vigil till dawn should
bring opportunity for the further hos-
tilities of the blacks. Our watch was'not
kept all in quietness, for from the back of
the long dormitory dull sounds continually
came to us.
What is the meaning of those sounds?”
.1 asked of Anstruther.
The black devils mean to give us a hot
time with the dawn,” he replied; and in
his voice there was a joyous note as though
he, at least, would welcome the fray. “You
can hear them stacking their spears ” he
whispered presently.
>So that was it; and we, while they brought
the weapons for our undoing, remained im-
potent, for our assailants were taking
advantage of the unfortified portion of our
stronghold.
The activities of the natives continued,
and with each passing minute it seemed to
me that Anstruther gained in restlessness,
till at last he arose and went to his bunk.
Returning, he brought the spear. Grimly
he laid it across his knees, and I expected
him to fall into that dark mood in which I
had previously surprised him. I was con-
scious of some mysterious strain under w r hich
he labored. The cause of it, though, I could
not divine.
For a space my attention was diverted from
Anstruther, and upon returning to my former
position I perceived that he had gone. This
caused me no wonder. Each of us, under
the tension, was wont to stroll uneasily
about; it was only his continued absence
and the urge of further diversion that
prompted me to search him out. Having
passed the row of beds wherein the sleepers
lay. with the black prisoner’s cubicle
before me I paused, for from therein came
muffled voices. I moved nearer. Came the
click of more spears being cast upon those
already stacked, the rumbling voice of a
native raised somewhat above safety pitch,
and then, with my ear glued against the
partition, I caught the voice of Anstruther,
low and menacing, speaking in the native
tongue.
To say I was astounded is to say too
little. What business could Anstruther have
with the captive? I was unable to answer
my own question ; I simply stood confounded.
Then as anothe.r voice became audible and
Anstruther’s ceased I came to life. Perhaps
the stockman needed me, and without lack
of modesty I say that it is not I that .tarries
when such is the case. Accordingly I felt
my way along the partition, my eyes now
more accustomed to the blackness.
At the doorless entrance I stood a moment,
and slowly the scene before me impressed
itself upon my consciousness. Anstruther,
with spear upraised, bent above the terror-
stricken native, who was uttering aloud the
words that the merciless man whispered to
him. I heard, too, the shifting, ever so slowly,
of one of the wall-planks. I could almost
interpret Anstruther’s words as he threat-
ened and bullied the prostrate black beneath
him —words that were to attract and ensnare
his enemy. I stood transfixed, for I knew
that before me was being carried out a plan
of vengeance.
The scratching and pulling of the plank
continued, till at last, against the surround-
ing blackness of the wall, appeared a strip
not quite so black. Slowly it increased, and
Anstruther altered his position. From bend-
ing he rose to crouch; from crouch to a
straight-backed stance; and above his head
hung, poised in steady hand, the spear.
More quickly now the opening, grew', and as
my eyes swelled large the gap w r as filled, and
fully filled, and I knew that Goliath blocked
the void!
In awful fascination my eyes held
the two figures. The native peering
hesitantly, the white braced in readi-
ness for his deadly thrust. And it
came—arm shot forward, helped by body
almost thrown from tiptoe, and the shaft
buried itself in the powerful torso of Goliath.
Gropingly the native staggered into the
deeper gloom, fighting blindly for respite that
would allow him to close with the unknown
enemy. But, checked by the swift-flying
bolt of death, and uttering horrible guttural
sounds, he sprawled at the feet of his slayer.
In the semi-darkness Anstruther looked
down upon the carcase. Then quietly, so low
that I scarce caught the words, he said, “Your
spear, Goliath. You may keep it. My debt
is discharged.’' And with not a word to. me
he left the room.
We quite easily repulsed the natives soon
after dawn, and from the lack of spirit that
characterised their fighting we knew they
had lost their leader.
An Old Garden.
What ; witchery lies in lavender borderings,
In lilac hedges and deep shadowy trees
To shake the heart with song, until it sings
And sings for ever of the joy of these?
Often unconsciously we hold the keys
That do unlock the secrets of the deep
Mysterious places of the earth, and keep
A fear perhaps that holds us to our knees.
I love to feel that some proud happy thought
Gained by the mind in contact with these
things
Is passed along into the coming race,
Or told or sung in other lands and caught
By some sad heart and held, to whom it
brings
Peace and the tranquil beauty of this place.
VICTOKIA.
JOAN HARVEY.
The Forest.
There’s a forest, green and old,
Mystical and hard to find.
Where in youth you often strolled,
And where you may wander now
If you’re young in heart and mind.
When a boy’s mood is your mood,
Journeying to that forest fair,
Legend says that Robin Hood
And his merry robber-folk
Will be glad to greet you there.
There your heart shall lightsome dance,
Like each wind-blown leaf that stirs
In the forest’s bright expanse,
As you join the company
Of those jolly foresters.
Care you’ll banish, grief you’ll ban
As you spend a golden while
Jesting with Maid Marian,
Or with Robin and his men
Singing in some leafy aisle.
While, noon-high, upon the scene
t Lavish light the sun downpours,
Never on this earth, I ween,
Has there been or shall there be,
Holidaying like to yours.
Mating with those forest men
t For a little, blithe and free,
You shall be a citizen
Of a city,_ where, abides
All that's fair in ancientry.
With the gusto born of youth,
When you tire of song and tale,
jJry ot tongue and keen of tooth
least you shall on venison,
Drink you shall of foaming ale.
Since that forest, green and old,
m?ant f°r world-wise men
H .voud stroll there, as you strolled
Long ago, you must become
Young of heart and mind again.
When in moments, brief and rare
m I? lons L * ure an d dreams entrance
-Lo that forest straightway fare
Seeking ’neath its leafiness
Robin Hood and Old Romance.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


APPEARA^q.
/
Buy the Same
Old Patterns ,
Year after \fear/
MAKE YOUR SELECTION
IN ANY GOOD STORE
FROM THE
290
NEW PATTERNS
dsfg
4ii
Jooncfs
Fancg Half Hose
IN THREE DISTINCT STYLES
FANCY COTTON
SILK & COTTON
WOOL & SILK
Made in Australia by
Geo. A. Bond & Co. Ltd.


fleaduinamoment
always have
sdfg
inthehome
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
oFall Chemists & Stores
O'
SQ
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering’ Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
SS3ltf3h/WVH
~0007700,,
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector.-They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4 & £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
262 Queen Street, Meibourne; & Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
You'll Be Sorry.
BY CHARLES BLAKE.
DUNCAN McKEYESTIE was an excep-
tionally terrible old man, a byword in
Port Lyttelton, where terrible old men
were numerous and where, in the days when
more windjammers than steamers lined the
wharves, people weren’t squeamish. He was
a drunken, bullying, lying, grasping old
scoundrel, generous to nobody but himself.
Henrietta McKevestie, his second wife, was
a fitting mate, a vindictive virago who vented
her spite for what she suffered at the hands
of her spouse upon anyone who gave the
slightest scope for the exercise of her evil
imagination and scandal-mongering tongue.
But her principal butt was her stepdaughter
Jessie —McKevestie’s first wife had survived
only live years of his company—whom she
hated witli positively hellish intensity. Dun-
can, a retired master-mariner, at that stage
in his cups when he got as nearly cordial
as lie ever could be, would say in the pre-
sence of both women: “Eh, Jessie dearie, ye’r
the spit an’ livin’ image o’ ye’r deid mither.
A bonny body she was, an’ wae’s me when I
look at th’ dommed foxy-faced auld fish-wife
I’ve takken’ up wi’ in ma auld age.” Not a
tactful remark, nor one calculated to promote
domestic harmony.
Jessie deserves a paragraph to herself. She
is the heroine —a rather equivocal heroine, as
you shall see—of one of the port’s most
cherished legends. At the time she would
be about 24; not beautiful, but tall and
straight and slim and wholesome-looking.
Where she got the strength to withstand the
persecutions and indignities put upon her
by that dreadful old couple, who can say?
Probably she inherited, along with her
mother’s physical characteristics, some streak
of the toughness of her fierce old seafaring
sire. She had a gift of silence that annoyed
her father and stepmother more than the
most violent invective could have done. If she
knew that, she showed no sign of gratifica-
tion. She went her way quietly and uncom-
plainingly, and if she had purposes of her
own she kept them to herself.
Where old Duncan got the money to
finance his almost continuous spree was a
mystery to many. As a matter of fact, he
had a small pension from the line he had
served almost all liis seafaring life—-and
served very faithfully, too, to give the devil
his due—and the rest was earned by Jessie
as a seamstress at Cope’s, at that time the
one big drapery emporium of the town.
So you will see that there was a sound
economic reason for the fearful passion that
convulsed old Captain McKevestie when
young Nils Larsen, first mate of the Nor-
wegian barque Skoda, asked for permission
to marry Jessie. He came at ten on a
bright summer’s morning, long after Jessie
had gone to work. Old Duncan, who was
suffering grievously the penalty of his over-
night potations, met his visitor at the front
door, and there a brief and acrimonious
interview took place.
Larsen, a tall, dark Scandinavian, who
had had a fair education and spoke good
English, was well thought of in his pro-
fession and a good man in every respect.
He had met Jessie at St. Katherine’s, the
Anglican church, where she sang in the
choir. When the Census came round old
McKevestie used to put himself and his wife
down as Presbyterians, but that was as near
the kirk as either of them ever got, and
it was a matter of supreme indifference to
him what religious exercises Jessie indulged
in. Choir practice, church sendee and daily
walks to and from work were her only out-
ings, poor girl, and old Duncan had shrewdly
estimated that at that rate she couldn’t be
carrying on with young men. Never having
been a chorister, he didn’t know much about
choirs, or he might not have been so com-
placent. Now Larsen's proposal dropped out
of a clear sky, and the old man was in-
furiated. lie had been duped and made a
fool of by his meek-seeming daughter.
Ilis first wild impulse as he stood there
blinking at Larsen and the sunlight was to
hurl himself upon the young fellow and
throw him out of the gate, but he noted the
steely blue of the Scandinavian’s eye and
his seventy-five inches of brawn and sinew.
He had met that sort before. So he took
another tack. “I’m sure, Mr. Larrsen,” he
said drily, “that ye’r offer of mairriage tae
ma dotter is verra complimentary tae tli’
lassie. But it’s ma duty as her feyther tae
inforrm ye that ye’d be makkin’ a verra bad
barrgain.”
“And just exactly what do you mean by
that?” queried Larsen hotly.
“Aweel, if ya want it onny mair plainly,
she's no’ a good lassie. She’s been rinnin’
free in th r streets, ye ken, pickin’ up with
this a one an’ that a one. Though she’s
ma dotter, Mr. Larrsen. I do assure ye that
she’s juist naething mair nor less than
The dash doesn’t represent wlmt McKeves-
tie said. It represents where a muscular hand
was slapped across his mouth. “I don’t
want to hear any more from you, Captain
McKevestie,” thundered the big man, tower-
ing over the other with clenched fists. “If
you weren’t an old whisky-soaked wreck I’d
tear out your lying tongue and throw it to
the dogs. A dirty hound like you that would
defame his own daughter isn’t fit to live.
Good-day to you, sir!” lie strode through
the gate white-faced, with blazing eyes, leav-
ing old Duncan purple with suppressed
wrath. Never in all his fifty years of sea-
faring and shore-boozing had any man—or
woman, either —dared to speak to him like
that. Mrs. McKevestie found him mutter-
ing explosively to himself. “What did ye
tell him, Duncan?” she asked timorously.
Duncan pulled himself together. “I told
him,” lie said, “tae tak’ his dirrty Scandy
hoofs off ma doormat an’ tae gang tae Hell.
An’ lie’s gane. Wliaur to, I dinna ken. Tae
“ ‘Haud ye’r foul tongue, Hellcat,’ he roared. ‘This is ma hoose, an’ here ma dotter
shall bide.’”
Hell maybe. I hope so.” And he relapsed
into furious meditation.
He had been downfaced and told off by a
mere brat of a squarehead mate. Well, he’d
take it out on someone. He’d take it out
on Jessie. By God, he would! “Henny,”
he l-oared, “bring me th’ stoek-whup that
arvivpr Don left in th’ wash-house. When
that trollop cames hame to denner I’ll
thrash this dommed nonsense oot o’ her.”
Henrietta was away some time. When
she returned he asked angrily, “Whaur’s th’
whup, wumman?”
“I’ve juist been burrnin’ it in th’ copper
fire,” she said sullenly, a faint sneer on her
hard face. “D’ye mind the last time ye lifted
hand tae her?”
“Ooai.”
“Weel. dinna be a fule. She said, ye’ll
mind, ‘Ye’ll be sorry,’ an’ you ken an’ I
ken that when she speaks like that she has
a wee bittie up her sleeve. This is no a
maitter for whuppin’. She’s a wumman
grown an’ can march oot o’ this hoose onny
day she’s a mind tae, an’ nane wud blame
her.” ..
"That’s riebt,” roared Duncan, purpling
again, “tak’ her pairt, ye cantankerous auld
deeil. Since when hae ye got so fond o th
ungrateful, deceitful, lecin’ little .
“Listen, Duncan,” said his wife quietly,
“here’s sax shillin’. Gae ye’r ways oot th
hoose and leave me deal wi’ Jessie. I keu
fine boo tae break her pride an mak her
obedient tae her guid parents. A look of
malevolent cunning was in the old green
eyes.
Duncan blustered and Duncan raved, but
at last he went his ways, and when Jessie
came home for the noonday meal, expecting
earthquakes and eruptions, she met only Mrs.
McKevestie, in an especially smooth and con-
ciliatory mood.
“Nils Larsen cam’ tae see ye’r feyther th
morrn,” the old woman purred.
“Yes?”
“He spoored tae marry ye, but ye’r feyther
told th’ black-liairted wretch a few things
he’d heard aboot him doon the quay, an’ he
slunk away wi’ his tail between his legs.
Ma certes, he couldn’t get awa’ quick
enough.”
“Yes?”
“Yes?” mimicked Mrs. McKevestie, losing
her temper. “It is ‘yes,’ an’ what’s mair ma
fine madam, if there’s onny mair o’ these
cairryin’s-on wi’ dirty, drunken sailormen
I’ll put a spoke in ye’r wheel. I’ll tell all
I ken aboot ye’r junketings in such a wey
that ye’r pious, respectable friends at St.
Katherine’s won’t want tae sit next ye!”
“And what can you say about me?” asked
Jessie quietly.
“F’r ane thing, it’s weel kent ye’ve been
meetin’ this dirrty low Larsen on th’ sly
when ye pretendit tae be at th’ church,
’an nae doot ye met itliers th’ same wey. It’s
a maitter I’ll inforrm mysel’ aboot.
“I did not,” said Jessie stoutly. “I met
him at the church.”
“Ay, maybe; maybe no’. But if ye did ye
walked hame wi’ him in the muneliclit, kis-
sin’ an’ cuddlin’ an’ squeezin’, and tli’ pro-
eeediu’s were nae at all churchlike, I’ll go
bail. An’ for why did ye no tell ye’r feyther
an’ mither aboot it, if naething was wrang?
Will ye answer me that noo?”
By this time Mrs. McKcvestie’s voice was
very loud and piercing, and she had moved
to the back doorstep, her favorite stance for
such outpourings.
“As for my mother,” said Jessie sadly,
“she’s dead.” And then, more loudly, as
her temper, too, began to rise after long
repression. “As for my father, you know
what he is. He drove me to it. And let me
tell you this, Henrietta McKevestie, you
evil-minded old woman, if you say one word
about me you’ll be sorry!” With that she
brushed the older woman aside and was
round the house and out of the gate before
Mrs. McKevestie could think of a fitting
retort.
Jessie did not go back to work that day.
Her doings in the afternoon belong to
another part of this story.
After that, for a time, things went on
much as usual in the McKevestie house-
hold. Larsen sailed away in the Skoda a
fortnight later. Jessie said nothing and
seemed to have something on her mind, and
the McKevesties were satisfied that their
plots had been successful and that the lovers
had been parted for good and all. So secure
were they in this belief that Jessie’s attend-
ance at choir practice five nights a week,
with a shopping excursion on Saturday night
and church and late service on Sunday even-
ings, aroused no open protest. The Mc-
Kevesties didn’t want to drive Jessie too
hard.
But two months later Jessie came home
one day looking tired and ill, and announced
to the McKevestie couple that she had re-
signed her position with Cope and Co.
They gaped at her open-mouthed?
“W-why?” stuttered old Duncan.
“Because, father,” said Jessie in a very
small voice, “I’m —I’m going to have a baby.”
Great veins like whipcords rose on Dun-
can’s temples. He restrained himself with
a terrible effort. Mrs. McKevestie broke into
a gloating chuckle. “Ho, ho ! my fine lady !”
she chortled. “Sac that’s what’s come o’
it all, is it? Weel, ye’ll hae nae baby here,
ye dirty trollop! Oot o’ this hoose ye gang,
bag an’ baggage this verra niclit, ye”
Old Duncan cut in upon the tirade. “Haud
ye’r foul tongue, Hellcat,” he roared. “This
is ma hoose, an’ here ma dotter shall bide.
Wliaur else cud sin; gae?”
“Thank you, father,” said Jessie, giving
him a grateful look.
“Dinna thank me ye barked her
father. “There’s a way tae mak’ ye pay
ye’r boord and mak’ up for what ye’re no’
bringin’ from ye’r worrk. Wha is th’ fey-
ther o’ th’ bastard? Tell me this instant!”
“It's no use asking me that, father,” said
Jessie desperately. “I’m not going to tell
you. Turn me out if you like. I’ll—l’ll
find somewhere to go, but I’m not going to
tell you anything about my affairs.”
“It’s yon dirrty square-
head Larrsen !” shouted Mc-
Ivevestie with conviction.
“Father, you musn’t”
McKevestie caught her
quickly. “Of course not,”
he said blandly, “an’ even if
it were, we’ll never see tli’
mon mair. Nae use tae sue
him, I’m thinkin’!” And
then his great list smote the
table. “I’ve got it,” he
chuckled: “Wally Sinclair!”
“Oh, no, father! You
know it couldn’t be. Why,
he’s”
“Ooai. I ken exactly what
ye’ll say. Choir-master, re-
specktit ship-chandler, an
marriet tae boot. That only
mak's it all the wanr, Gie me ma bunnet
an’ baits, Henny, an’ I’ll awa doon tae th'
coorthoose an’ swear a complaint agen’ him.”
“You'll be sorry,” said Jessie faintly, and
then swooned. By the time she came to
under Mrs. McKcvestie’s none-too-gentle
ministrations, McKevestie had sworn bis
information. And that night poor Walter
Sinclair and bis wife gazed in horror at a
blue paper calling upon Walter to make
provision for bis unborn illegitimate child
by Jessica Grant McKevestie. And all the
town knew it. McKevestie saw to that.
Sinclair went round to see McKevestie late
that night. Duncan met his protestations
with a derisive leer. “Save it all for th’
magistrate, Wally,” he said. “I’ve got th’
dates an’ a’, an’ can prove plenty of oppor-
tunity.”
Cold beads of perspiration stood out on
Walter Sinclair’s forehead. He had seen
Jessie home, half a dozen times. The Mc-
Kevesties lived in a lonely part, and the
town was a rough one. But, thank God! he
had told his wife, and she didn’t believe a
word of this charge against him.
But McKevestie had more to say. “Ma
dotter’s wurrd is guid enow for me, Wally,”
he said. “She swore on the guid buik ye
were tli’ feyther, an’ she disna’ lee tae her
auld daddie.”
“I did no such thing,” said Jessie, break-
ing into the room, her face scarlet. “Don’t
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
tHOustralian bank
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £ 5,000,000
capital P; aid I p and Reserves .. .. £3.369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928 .. £18,623,453
Directors ; Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
h rank N. \ait wo on; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
, TlN ._ Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD Oh MCE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches arid Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325' Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PER'IH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Faihbaikn, Alfred Shepherd, James Turk.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Comer GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
317 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529 988
Preference Shares .. .. ” j 875 000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. ’574’197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609 655
GRANTS DRAFTS oil Australia, New
Ureiii Britain and Ireland, and^other^placea
RECEIVES DEPOSITS at interest
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business*
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGES TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET I
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve liability of shareholders
.. £2,000,000
.. 1,250,000
.. £1,250,000’
.. 970,000
£2,220,000
1,250,000
AT ~ , £3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
Lonuon Office: 11 I.EADENHALL STREET, E.c!
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and' cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians’* are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the horn'
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Recognized as the
standard of the world
for over a quarter of a cen-
tury, WEED TYRE CHAINS
are the preference of motor-
ists everywhere. They grip
and hold; assure positive
traction; and protect car and
occupants from the dangers
of skidding.
Always insist upon WEED
Chains. Order them
from your dealer
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1506
Shipping, etc.
From
Sydney to Vancouver .
Via
Suva and Honolulu
Like the multi-colored stream-
ers of farewell, days aboard
a Union Company Steamer are
gay and ever varied.
Between Ports of many
Pleasures strung lightly across
the Pacific, travellers enjoy the
refreshment of adventure,
peace and comfort.
Visit Pacific isles by the
CA NA D/A N-A US TRA LA Si A N
LINE
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney;
William Street, Melbourne.
w
'"KUPIII
mm
ill
m//
mum
Attractive Trips of from to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation and
Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and bookearlyfor a most interesting Holiday
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides,
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney by the
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) & “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
ss
i
>3k
&
©URNIS,PHI!ISLP &CO).. Lm
SYDNEY & BRANCH) OFFICES,
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL .. ..
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY .. ..
sdfg
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop. Esq.
Robert L. Faithful], Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors. S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken. Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
n 7 StrSe 1 Sydney ' London Office—2o Threadoeedle Street. E.C 2
J r .?; nch -f and , A i enCle^ l P theAustralianStates > Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Parma'
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and Ixmdon. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cal.le remittances made to. and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world S
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1884.
r A PIT AT »^VrT H T?i? !SED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4 739 012 10 ft
RESERVE FUND 4 075 000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 10 2
£13,553,025 0 0
*
GEORGEJ. Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.;
OMLN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J, R. DRY HURST.
■ HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street. E.C.3.
Sd&SbS O FSdSd < fe^ d ’ A ew Sout j? Wal « and Victoria; at Adelaide, South Australia;
nbcira, tedeial Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
oa nn „ Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
AFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOB MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackav,,
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bri
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.,
58 Margaret St,
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
BRISBANE,™ BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONOBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHAEEIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
HuddartParkerl'Ai
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER L!MIT23,
Go linsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A3HO 3H±
NIVXS
IfINIYM
S3AOIM3H
A
•iO.
o\v
av
«1N
a«
v\i*
3 sS
w-
MS?*
a\>
ijVV
«a\
3^
o'*
V
\
r xi
TO<flS
qtmiom
smvH
amis*
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals e ith every subject of
interest to women.
i.
Dependable /
pRAIG &AITKEN
■Wholesale Distributor
■ Sydney N.5.W.


MISS KATHRYN REECE, a
beautiful Rexona GirL, who
starred in “Princess Charming
at Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney,
writes: “I have
been using Rexona
Soap since my
arrival in Aus-
tralia. and I
think it is sim-
ply lovely foi
the skin and
hair.”
Hexona
Soap
~j'or JbaWi
/ and
Qexiutij
rrrrr>W lt
OSM& m
& ** K
1
**v
TO
m
Say it with Hillierk/
rosted tJie day they are made
zdife famous
Red Sox oP
6hocola.teS
HULIER'S
ADDRESS -
CHOCOLATES
162166 Pitt Street
S Vt) N E Y"*
PR.ICES
3/ 5/6. 6/; 10/. 12/6.
20/ &nc L 30/
believe a word lie says, Mr. Sinclair. I
never accused you by word or look.”
‘‘l believe you, Jessie, my poor girl,” said
Sinclair sadly. “But who is the father?
This is a terrible thing for me. You can say
the word to clear me. Tell me and your
father who the man is.”
“I can’t do it. Mr. Sinclair,” faltered
Jessie. “I—l gave a promise and I can’t
break it. But it wasn’t you and I’ll never
say it was you, if they kill me for it.”
“Verra affectin’ an’ dramatic,” broke in
old MeKevestie’s sneering voice. “But ye’ll
no shield ye’r paramour that gait, ma lass.
Tell a’ that tae tli’ magistrate wi’ all Lyttel-
ton lookin’ on. Does Mistress Sinclair
tak’ it sair, Wally? There’ll be divorrce tae
come, I’m thin kin’. An’ you a ehoir-
maister an’ all, an’ that looked up tae!
It's a wicked wurrld, my maisters.”
There was nothing more to be done or said,
and Sinclair wont away an angry and
bewildered man.
Came the day the case was set down
for hearing. The court was crowded, as old
Duncan had predicted, but instead of a
magistrate three justices sat, all men of
standing in the port, and all intensely in-
terested in what by now had assumed to
that small community the dimensions of a
cause cclcbrc.
Duncan, who sat at the solicitors’ table
to enjoy the fruits of his malice and avarice,
had hired the services of Timothy Todd, one
of his boon companions, a nasty-tongued,
nasty-minded little shyster who had several
times narrowly escaped being struck off the
roll.
“Call Jessica Grant McKevestie,” bawled
the Clerk. Jessie entered the box very pale
and frightened looking, but steadfast of eye.
The whole court held its breath when Todd
addressed her.
“Now, Miss McKevestie, you have sworn
to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing
but the truth. Who is the father of your
unborn child?”
No answer.
The question was repeated.
The answer came very softly. “I cannot
tell you.”
“That means you refuse to tell. You can’t
treat this Court like that, Miss McKevestie.
There’s such a thing as contempt.”
“I meant—oh I cannot tell you !”
“Oho! So there were so many that you
can’t be certain?”
“It’s not true —but believe anything you
like, only don’t ask me to tell you his name,”
answered Jessie wearily.
"But. it isn’t what I like. Other people’s
reputations are at stake in this matter. Is
Walter Sinclair, the defendant, the man?”
“No. Certainly not.”
“Can you be sure of that?” Todd was
leering now. This was a juicy case.
“Yes. I am perfectly sure.”
“He wasn’t one of your er —clients?”
Jessie went very white. The senior jus-
tice, old Thomas Parr, the Mayor, inter-
posed briskly. “That’s a very improper
insinuation to make, Mr. Todd, and even
if you could support it it wouldn’t help
your case in the slightest. My fellow jus-
tices are agreed with me that your case lias
tailed entirely. If there’s nb more evi-
dence” .
There was a flurry at the back of the
court and Jessie was astonished to see Mrs.
Thompson, a next-door neighbor of the
McKevesties, and Mrs. Nalson, next-door
neighbor on the other side, bustling for-
ward.
“Your Worships,” said Mrs. Thompson,
performing what she imagined to be a
curtsey, “me an’ Mrs. Nalson ’ere which
lives nex’ door to the McKevesties *as him-
portant hevidence.”
“All right,” said Parr good-humoredly—•
lie knew nothing about the law —“get into
the box and we’ll hear what you have to
say.”
While the oath was being administered
iodd and Sinclair’s lawyer were both speak-
,at oncc iff excited protest, and the
Clerk was brandishing a book under Parr’s
nose. But Mrs. Thompson didn’t care and
Parr and the other justices didn’t care much
either.
Mrs. Thompson could speak four hundred
words a minute, and she started the second
she had kissed the book. Her voice cut
through the babel like a sword. She had
heard what McKevestie said to Larsen, and
repeated it word for word. She had also
heard Jessie’s remark to Mrs. McKevestie
later that day: “You know what father
is; he drove me to it.”
Mrs. Nalsen had heard it all, too, and
could corroborate every word.
By this time Parr had been made to
understand the utter inadmissibility of such
evidence, and Mrs. Thompson was hustled
unceremoniously out of the box, But the
court buzzed with the great scandal.
The justices dismissed the case and
walked down to the British to discuss it.
What became of Jessie after she left the
court was not known till later. She was
seen no more for months and never returned
to her father’s house.
Late on the night of the court hearing a
howling mob surrounded McKevestie’is
cottage. The old man, who, whatever his
other faults, was no coward, went out to face
a hundred angry men. Walter Sinclair was
their spokesman. “Look here, McKevestie,”
lie said, “there’s limits to what this town
can stand. An old scoundrel like you, who
will drive his daughter out to walk the
streets to pay for your guzzling— a good
sweett, honest, respectable girl too—can't
live here. We’re going to duck you in the
harbor now, and we’ll repeat the dose daily
till you clear out. Up with him, men.”
The mob closed in.. Struggling and curs-
ing McKevestie was carried down the wind-
ing street to the nearest wharf. There a
rope was found and his obese body was
lowered three times into the water. Police
men who had seen the procession had found
urgent business in other parts of the town.
They weren’t cowards, but what happened
to McKevestie was none of their business in
present circumstances.
Old Duncan was hauled up to lie like a
huge gasping fish on the wharf-deck, and his
assailants dispersed and went their ways.
He staggered home panting and blasphem-
ing, leaving a watery trail behind him.
A few days later the Rev. Theophilus
Cabell, vicar of St. Katherine’s, who had
been absent from the port during the sen-
sational happenings above recorded, re-
turned. He was a very busy man for some
days afterwards, holding mysterious confer-
ences with all sorts of people in all sorts
of places. The result of his labors came to
light a little later. Whenever the case of
Jessie McKevestie came up for discussion in
bar-room, union shed, ship’s hold, club-room
or church parlor, there was always some-
one whose word counted with even the most
ribald to arise and say: “There’s not a
word of truth in the story about Jessie
being a bad girl. She was properly married
to the father of her child, and had good
reasons for refusing to say who he was. I
can’t say any more just now because I’ve
promised not to.’’
The whole mystery was cleared up with
the return of Nils Larsen, now Captain
Larsen, master of the full-rigged new ship
Svboda. His return coincided almost to a
day with the birth, at the vicarage, of
Jessie’s little boy. Mrs. Cabell, who knew
the whole story, had taken Jessie in on the
day of the court proceedings, and for
reasons which appeared to her and the vicar
good and sufficient they had taken care
that her presence in the vicarage was not
divulged.
It appeared that on the afternoon of
Larsen’s visit to McKevestie the Nor-
wegian and Jessie had gone to the vicarage,
seen the Rev. Theophilus and announced their
intention of getting married. They gave
him several good reasons why the marriage
should be kept secret for a while. In the
first place, Larsen, as a mate, could not
take his bride away with him. On his next
trip out, in nine or ten months, he had been
promised command of one of his line’s best
clippers, and then he could take his wife
back to Norway, where he had made a home
for her. As Larsen bluntly put it. if she
were going to be a mother it wouldn’t be
good for her to stand the sort of life the
vindictive McKevesties would lead her for
daring to marry. Another reason was that
the line Larsen worked for didn’t allow its
officers to marry till they took a command.
McKevestie knew that, and would certainly
be delighted to put a spoke in Larsen’s wheel
and stop his promotion—perhaps get him
the sack. The Rev. Theophilus, who knew
the McKevesties, agreed to do his best for the
couple, and he married them three days later,
having meanwhile put old Rill Wykeham,
the Registrar, under a bond of silence.
When Jessie’s condition became known to
her the vicar urged her to set aside her
promise to her husband and tell the Mc-
Kevesties, but the girl was too loyal to her
man to do that. Of the charge against Sin-
clair the Rev. Theophilus knew nothing till
everything was over, and he then did his best
to stop the voice of scandal, as has been
recorded.
That he had absolutely succeeded, and
instilled into the not-very-impressible folk
of the port a warm admiration for Jessie’s
heroism, was proved by the huge attendance
at the farewell social to the Larsens when,
after a stay of six weeks, the time came for
the Svboda to sail. The Colonial Hall was
crowded to the doors. Mayor Parr was
chairman, and he covered himself with glory.
His opening words were: “You’ll be sorry.”
Then came a long pause while the crowd,
every member of which was in on the .joke,
roared itself hoarse. Parr waited till it was
over and then went on blandly, “to lose
our good friends here”....
When the Tanks Are Full.
The yellow footprints of sun
Dapple the distant rise,
And half a rainbow is spun
Iu the dip where the green gloom lies.
Rolling and heavy and near
Like grey stuffed pillows of wool,
The menacing clouds appear;
But the tanks are happy and full.
Great drops crash on the roof,
Tinkle to finer rain,
Pause as if asking proof
That we sought for their aid again;
Swiftly the cloud-banks glide
Under their master’s rule;
Up there walk the winds in pride,
Here is calm, and the tanks are full.
Vintage of spume-draped seas,
Nectar of mist distilled,
Water of life and ease
In a heedless bounty spilled;
Framed in the broken cloud,
Heaven is a deep blue pool.
And the song of the birds is loud;
Earth shines and the tanks are full.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Gone West.
Beyond the mountains gone,
Passed west, he takes
The road that no man’s on
Who ever wakes;
Beyond the burst of light
That we know here,
Within the heart of night
They disappear.
All who with him there tread
Have had their day ;
The life that here they led
Is passed away;
Each old familiar touch.
Each friendly tone—
It matters now not much
Where they are gone.
Kindly or sour-eyed.
On, on they tramp
Ever until they bide
In the old camp.
Life’s swag then down, Death’s load
Too from them east,
There in the ghosts’ abode
They rest at last.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


NEXT WEEK
The Rich Man of Brazier Street
Another of Margaret Fane and
Hilary Lofting's delightfully human
tales of “the ’Loo,” as the inhabit-
ants affectionately call Woolloo-
mooloo. You will love Mary and
old Marty.
George.
An Abbott story of the convict
days at the Coal River (Newcastle),
full of color and humor.
AND OTHERS.
‘■Every Picture
Zells
£ , if 1 ' 11
S for y
w
■Ji:
i -
fyMCr-
/
1
KEEP DOAN S IN THE HOUSE!
PROMPT TREATMENT PREVENTS KIDNEY COMPLAINT
gACKACHE, urinary disorders, puffiness about the
eyes, swollen ankles, rheumatic twinges and dizzb
ness are early signs of kidney trouble. Never neglect
such warnings! Rheumatism, stone, dropsy or incurable
stages of kidney disease may result. Keep a bottle of
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills always in the house.
Doan’s Pills are not only curative in their effect—they are also a preventive kidney medicine. Even
when well you should take an occasional course of Doan’s to fortify the kidneys.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. S. Schrowder, 29 Thomas Street, Balmain, Sydney,
says: “I can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as a
perfect cure for all kidney ailments. This remedy cured me
some time ago of severe pains in my back and side, also head-
aches and giddiness. I was really far from well, but Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills made a different woman of me, six
bottles driving the pain out of my back, banishing the head-
aches, and restoring me to good health. Considering how ill
I was, it is wonderful that Doan’s Pills cured me so quickly.”
Seventeen years later Mrs. Schrowder says: “I have the
greatest faith in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me of kidney trouble seventeen years ago, and I am still well.
I always keep this medicine in the house now, and take a few
doses from time to time just as a preventive against any
return of my old complaint.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. Lewis Williams, 602 Botany Road, Botany, Sydney,
says: “I was a great sufferer with my back and the pain was
at times so bad that I had to leave my work and go home. I
was bent almost double and could not stand up straight with-
out increased suffering. I used various preparations, but only
got slight relief. Reading* of cures effected by Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, I decided to try them. One bottle eased
the pain and the second l completed my cure. This did not
happen yesterday, but about two years ago, and I have had no
sign of backache all that time, so it is not mere temporary
relief, but a perfect cure.yT am always advising my friends to
use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and am\ glad to have an
opportunity to publicly j recommend them.”
Fourteen years later Mrs. Williams says: “My husband
is still well and has been Tree of backache since Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured# him sixteen years ago.”
sdfg
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
The Crime.
A CAPITALLY-TOLD STORY OF A MYSTERY, BY V. C. WRIGHT.
THERE were three of us in the commercial
room of the country hotel. It was
morning, the thermometer something
like 10 on the grass and the air bitterly cold.
The miserable fire in the grate only partly
relieved tli’e chilliness.
The door opened, a man in uniform enter-
ing. It was Davis, the local sergeant, one
of the most agreeable of my casual acquaint-
ances. Like most policemen he was a very
friendly man, who found it easy to smile
and was not over-ofticious in the discharge of
his normal duties.
“Hullo, Sergeant!” said little Dick Vine,
who travelled with mercery. “Didn’t expect
to see you so early in the morning. Going
to have one with us ?”
“Must be his conscience,” remarked Gray,
the third man.
Davis drew himself up and looked at us
without smiling. He was a big man, as
powerful as a wrestler, with a broad, red
face and a thick neck. It was evident that
something serious had happened.
“I am sorry, gentlemen,” he said, “but
this is no time for joking. A man has been
murdered.”
“Eh?”
Davis’s eyes covered the three of us with
a searching glance. His bearing was un-
friendly. In a moment he had become the
typical police officer, hard and officious, aloof
from every consideration of sentiment.
“What is it, Sergeant?”'! asked.
“A quarter of an hour ago,” said Davis,
“the housemaid found Ellis dead in his
room. His head was smashed. The
place was like a slaughter-house. Obvi-
ously there had been a struggle. Ellis
was probably struck as he lay in bed,
because the pillow is stained with blood.
Wasn’t killed, though. He got out and
must have closed with his assailant. They
fought, but Ellis was hit again. The mail
must have got into a frenzy. He struck
Ellis so hard while he was on the floor that
even the ceiling is splashed with blood.”
The news shocked us. Davis’s reconstruc-
tion of the crime was so simple and yet so
tense. Only the night before Ellis had been
m the commercial-room with us. Davis had
been there, too. We had been a cheery
party, the night passing pleasantly before a
roaring fire, interspersed with many nips of
rum.
“God! That is rotten,” said Vine. “Poor
old Torn! I can’t believe it.’
He is dead, all the same,” Davis said in
las even voice.
There was something in the way he spoke
which awakened me to the seriousness of
the position. With sudden insight I saw
that Davis had us under suspicion.
1 bit. hang it all, Davis,” I said, “you
don’t think one of us did it, do you?”
His glance did not waver. It was definitely
accusing.
I don’t know for certain, but I am afraid
one of you did. Excluding servants, there
are only five lodgers in this place. The other
two are women who could not possibly have
done it.”
He paused, then went on.
“Last night there were five of us in this
room. Ellis was the first to leave. He
said he had to pack his samples to catch the
early train. There was a poker in the
grate. One of you three”—Davis spoke very
deliberately—"came downstairs after lights
were out and got that poker. It was that
man who killed Ellis.”
“But couldn’t it have been someone else?”
Vine exclaimed.
“No, I don’t think it was. For this
reason. Do you remember Ellis picking up
that poker last night and saying that it was
heavy enough to kill an elephant?” He did
not wait for our affirmation. “Do you re-
member Ellis saying after that, ‘What an
ideal thing to kill a man with’?”
“Yes, lie did,” Gray broke in-—belligerently,
I thought. "But what does that prove?”
"A good deal. All of you knew that
Ellis was carrying over £lOO in cash which
Marks had refused to put in liis safe. That
money is missing this morning, and Ellis
was killed with the poker! Clearly what
happened was this. One of you three had
made up his mind to kill Ellis for his money
‘An ideal thing to kill a man with,’ Ellif
said, and at once the suggestion rooted it-
self in that man’s mind. I want to know
who that man Avas,” Davis said. “Here is
the poker. Which of you used it?”
With quick movement he removed a towel
from an object he was carrying, and we saw,
horrible with blood, the weapon with which
Ellis had been killed. “Come on. Who used
this poker?” Davis said again.
We stared at the thing with very mixed
feelings. Vine’s eyes had horror in them;
but Gray, always a stolid man, did not
change countenance. For myself I had the
unpleasant conviction that I was in the
company of a murderer. Everything was so
circumstantial and so dramatic. If Davis’s
conclusions were correct, either Gray or Vine
had killed Ellis. I did not like to speculate
as to which was the more likely to have
done so. Vine and Ellis were very friendly,
in that effusive way one notices among travel-
lers. As far as I could see, there had
been no ill-feeling between Gray and Ellis,
nor, for that matter, had there been much
cordiality.
It was plain that Davis was staking on
forcing a confession from the murderer.
“Vine,” he said, “did you go into Ellis's
room after lights were out last night?”
“Yes,” said Vine, “I did.”
Vine’s face was quite ashen, whether from
shock or guilt I could not tell. His eyes were
fixed on the poker, and he gazed at it as if
mesmerised.
“Did you go downstairs first?” Davis
asked.
“I didn’t. No. I didn’t.”
“Are you sure you didn’t?”
“Yes, I am.”
Vine looked behind as if to make sure there
was no obstacle. He sat on the sofa, or
rather fell into it, and although it was a
raw morning beads of perspiration stood out
on his forehead.
“I couldn’t sleep,” he said jerkily. “Don’t
know why. Usually I sleep like a log. 1
went to his room and opened the door think-
ing lie might be up and could give me some
whisky to make me sleep. I called out, but
got no answer. The room was terribly dark
and the passage light was out. Then 1 went
away. Somehow I felt I didn’t want to stay
any longer.”
“What time was that?” Davis snapped.
“About half-past one.”
“Half-past one! He was probably dead
then.”
“Must have been,”. Vine said in his
strangled voice. “There was blood on my
shoes this morning. I wondered how it got
there?”
Davis glanced at us gravely.
“I am afraid, Mr. Vine, I will have to
put you under arrest.” He stooped and
snapped a handcuff on Vine’s left wrist.
“This is not usual; but I don’t think I should
take any risks.”
Gray and I looked at each other with
astonishment. The affair had nonplussed me,
and I was quite unable to adjust my thoughts
to the swift turns in the drama which had
developed. Vine stared at the handcuffs
with the stupidity of a man who does not
realise wlmt has happened.
“Come on, Vine,” Davis snapped at him
mercilessly. “It looks pretty bad for you.
Better say what happened. It helps in the
end.”
I turned to Gray, who was leaning against
the table. He was a man of medium height,
with a barrier of reserve it was difficult to
surmount.
“What do you think?” I said in a low
voice. “He couldn’t have done it!”
Gray _ did not reply, but lie said after a
moment’s pause: “There is blood on his
shoes all right.”
He was correct. Vine was wearing black
shoes, and when we looked we saw several
spots of blood on the leather of the uppers.
“You were wearing those shoes when you
went into Ellis’s room last night?” Davis
asked.
Vine nodded.
Davis’s quick glance at us indicated very
plainly that his mind was made up. He
walked to the table where there was pen
and ink. He said, drawing towards him some
paper: “I have never heard of a stronger
circumstantial case. Do you want to make
a statement, Vine?”
“I won’t,” said Vine, pulling himself
together. “I’m not guilty. I never touched
Ellis. Y'ou would hang me between you. I
want to see a lawyer.”
He said this in quick sentences, his dis-
tress so evident that his attempts at com-
posure, physically at least, were a failure.
As he crossed his knees in an attitude of
pitiful irresolution we saw that the sole of
his left shoe was discolored. There was a
large patch near the toe which made it
evident that lie must have stepped into a
pool of blood.
Something fell away from the sole and
fell on the carpet.
Davis picked it up and held it between
his fingers for our inspection. “A piece of
cloth,” he announced. “Evidently torn away
from the murderer’s coat during the struggle.
Ellis w r as in his pyjamas.”
Gray and I examined the cloth, which had
clearly been wrenched away from a suit.
The color was blue, and it was of coarse
texture. It was bloodstained.
I saw Davis look up and his glance met
Gray’s. Revelation had come to them at the
same moment. For fully five seconds they
stared at each other like antagonists.
Gray looked startled and it seemed to me
there was fear in his eyes as the great bulk
of Davis grew more threatening. He was
undaunted, however, and, shooting out his
hand, he wrenched the cloth away from the
other’s grasp.
Davis’s eyes blazed as he sprang after
Gray. “Give me that,” lie shouted passion-
ately.
Gray stood his ground, though he was
frightened.
“This piece of cloth was torn from a police
uniform! What were you doing in Ellis’s
room last night, Sergeant?”
Davis's face went very red, then white.
His bluster dropped from him for one moment
of stark revelation, but with a visible effort
he composed himself.
“I wasn’t there. I want that cloth.”
“Here it is,” Gray said, reluctantly hand-
ing it to him. “But you killed Ellis, Ser-
geant.”
An Answer for a Lad'y.
Love is but a guest of summer,
Like the birds that go in May;
Rich September’s latest comer,
First of all to flee away.
When the winds of April mutter,
Summer’s faded garlands rend,
You will find that Love is but a
Poor, fair-weather friend.
S. A.
D. P. MCGULRE.


• '
m
!
tmr*
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHURCH, Brisbane. mMCnDb IVBCT u r wmr
N.Z. Ollice—l)3-107 r'eatherston Street, Welling ton. LUWuUKD WfcoT, N. S. WALES
Victorian Ollice—"Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EI.DEU, SMITH & CO., LTD,, Adelaide. 8 A
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
■ *
Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
THE
“QUEENSLANDER’'
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST
PICTURE WEEKLY.
Everyone interested in the Queen
State of the Commonwealth shoulc
make a habit of seeing the “Queens-
lander” regularly.
Pictures and news items from every
corner of the State, as well as fea-
tures for every member of the family
are included.
Free specimen copy and subscription
form on application to
The Brisbane News*
paper Co., Ltd,
Publishers of the
“BRISBANE COURIER,”
“SPORTS REFEREE,”
Courier” Building, Queen Street,
Brisbane,
Or
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
ROBT. D. FISHER,
Colonial Mutual Chambers,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
z
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street* Sydney.
r*
FULL OF
VIM
NO
UR
Good-Bye
Rheumatism
N° More- Backache, Swollen 3 dints, or Weak, Tired Feeling!
The cause of backache and rheumatic aches
and pains is uric acid. Drive the uric
poisons from the system and yoh are fit
and well at once. To do this the one sure,
safe way is to take Harrison’s Pills, the
signed remedy of a London doctor. No
matter how many things have failed you,
a few doses of Harrison’s Pills will make
a marked improvement, cle/arly showing
their wonderful power of restoring youth to
ageing men and women. One user says:
“Never known such quick relief. They
soothe all the pain away and leave you en-
tirely rejuvenated. Since taking them 1
have jelt years younger” Remember:
there’s nothing to equal this remedy for
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica,, aches and
pains, swollen joints, or bladder- and urin-
ary disorders. If YOU want to feel 10 to
20 years younger quickly, just get a package
of Harrison’s Pills from your chemist-
three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. Money back
if not pleased with the very first bottle.
Harrison’s
Backache
& Bladder
Pills
Remove the
CAUSE
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin** takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
... . _ (Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor,
incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners
Delightjul 25- minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
- - RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
x*s
A
H*-;) /
& *
YOU wilt look like
yourself again
if you take
care to keep your liver active
anti digestion in good order.
„ To do this you need Beecham’s
rills. they are an excellent remedy for Constipation and diges-
tive disorders and remove the most frequent cause of sickness,
headache, languor and debility.
Sold In boxes
1/- & 2/6.
PM>
PERFORMANCE
Exceptional performance
under trying conditions has
proved conclusively that
dependability and economy
are built-in features of all
Kermath Engines. That
is why over 70% of all lead-
ing boat-builders use Ker-
math-Kermath is supreme.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W.
Kermath Manufacturing
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
sdfg
NARINE ENGINES
sdfg
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
PLUM
126
R
m
POST
FREE
6
t/l
if
H Aj
of>
K
0°
e
s e«
v
6)’
••; s w'j
tf^e' 9 au 4


//
*
2 1 "■ £»
II
%
'
1
&
\
ii
pm
i
Hr,’?,}
ut
5=^
1
3X*a
Wl
/A
Vi
'
%
. V ■ y ■ ■>*■ : ■, . V‘ yY\, ' ■ '/“ ’■ 3 v
.
$£•
: /'f; • a
0 i
. R* *
o
■
v?ith cAlakh fioxcs
;> Get FREE hook qf~ Model?-FoGuporis-Tio entry jee-l'h labels'
During the long winter evenings
boys and girls will be glad of this
new and fascinating Brymay game
to occupy their play-hours. All
you need are a few empty Bryant
and May match boxes, some pieces
of colored paper, and a little paste.
You can then make a wonderful
assortment of real working toys—
Baby’s Push-carts, Doll’s Furni-
ture, Tram Cars,' Trains, and a
score of others.
Full instructions for making thirty
model toys are contained in the
Brymay Game Book, which costs
you nothing.
Write for a copy—we will post it
to you FREE and POST FREE,
together with details of the com-
petition, in which we offer Cash
Prizes for the best and most
original models of toys made with
Bryant and May match boxes.
fb in Prizes for Best
Original Models
The Competition is for children of all
ages, and for the Most Original Models
sent in by boys and girls we will award
Cash Prizes as follows:
FIRST PRIZE £2O
SECOND PRIZE - - - - £lO
THIRD PRIZE £5
FOURTH PRIZE - - - - £3
FIFTH PRIZE £2
And Ten Prizes oif £1 each.
BRYANT & MAY, LTD.,
Toymaking Competition,
CHURCH STREET, RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
-V i
\. *
SS 1 -
ur-
BRYANT & HAYS
(AUSTRALIAN |
HATCHES
t*cr
-5^
-9*
