

N
s»r
§llS8s?!:“
»«V>
o
w,
-ft!
Ba®
A&
I; v'S
/£;
V
m
(ivm
t\eo?e
Ai
a
THE CORK-LESS
BOTTLE
There is no cork in the "White Horse
Whisky bottle. Just unscrew the airtight
cap. And there’s your whisky —soft and
mellowed hy age- Incomparable bottle.
Incomparable whisky.
White Horse
* Whisky
No' corkscrew required!
4^'
The Bulltin
Juat -jv'l/CL idbcie/uS cveyu**0
Vol. 49.—N0. 2520.
Wednesday, May 30, 1928.
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’T'HE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If we each had our own way through life,
And could get all the good things we see,
If we lived without sickness and strife,
“What a wonderful world it would be.”
If we never knew pain or caught cold,
Or had vile, hacking coughs to endure,
We would never feel sad or grow old,
Or need Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT.
Learn
Story Writing
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please sepd, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for .Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
t ■. 5 ~,.5 3 S,jk •■{
!.•!!»=,»»». B.l*o <*«7J
ii
T-tinS-Pslm
535=501;
1
•I-
-(L iUy.v !
II
l! *. i’.?'
For full figures Model 0505
very light weight. Firmly
honed at bach only with
unbreakable rustlessj spiral
steels. Finished in delicate
pink coutil. This model is
made to caress the figure
rather than restrain it—it
smooths the lines and gives
the desired flat hack effect.
Another view of Model 0505
for full figures. Note the
cunningly placed diagonal
boning on the abdomen
support—this gives maxi-
mum firmness with the
minimum of weight. The
double elastic inserts over
the hips give, ease and
freedom of movement. Six
hose supporters.
Model 1211 a Wrap-Round
for slimmer figures—ideal
for sports and dancing or
every-day use. Fitted with
elastic inserts over hips
giving comfort and flexi-
bility. Finished in deli-
cate pale pink floral coutil.
Beautiful quality and work-
manship. This model affords
adequate support- for the
type of figure able to wear
it. Four hose supporters.
Your Retailer —
RETAILERS who realize that corsets are not a
relic of last century-— that they are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the fit and look of woman’s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys —these retailers will
stock “Twi/m.”
tf Twilfit ” Corsets are Good*—they have exclu-
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia;
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.,
London, England.
AGENTS:
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover.
Melbourne. Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney.... Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
The Canberra Building & Investment
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital . 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woo tiger, Esq. ; S. J. Goulston,
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Baq.;
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on applieatioa
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think op
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 41 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi*
cide and Antiseptic known. Beins' destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states:—“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
terici dally as is creosote.”
1/6.a Tin.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
a
c.
D.
The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
The Lobe of on*
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis and Influenza,
The Red Page
One Month to Go!
The first of The Bulletin’s Prize Novel
Competitions will close on June 30. At
the time of writing just on a hundred entries
have been received, and manuscripts are
arriving now at the average rate of three
a day. As the work of carefully reading
two or three hundred full-size novels and
making the necessary notes is a prodigious
one, competitors are invited to send in their
MS. as early as they can, so that the results
may be announced with the least possible
delay.
The prizes in this first competition are:
First, £500; second, £125; third, £75. The
serial publication of the winning novels will
commence in The Bulletin immediately
after the judges have completed their task.
Every competitor must attach to his MS.
a norri de plume, and with the MS. must
be sent a sealed envelope containing the
nom de plume and the real name and
address of the writer. A correspondent asks
whether the real name of the author need
be divulged. Not to the public; but the
Editor of The Bulletin must know it in
order that he may certify to the judges that
the author is. not a member of the staff of
The Bulletin or Woman’s Mirror, who
are barred from the competition. Another
intending competitor asks whether a post-
office address will be sufficient. It will be
sufficient if it will enable the judges to make
the necessary inquiries as to whether the
person has the necessary qualifications; he
must be a person either born in Australia,
Maoriland or the South Pacific Islands or
bona fide resident therein.
The court of judges has been completed,
and all of them are now at work—Mr. T.
B. Clegg, barrister-at-law, principal reviewer
for The Bulletin; Mr. T. W. Heney, late
editor of the S. M. Herald; Mr. George
Macaness, lecturer in English Literature at
the Sydney Training College for Teachers,
and the N.S.W. Education Department’s
high authority on Australian literature;
Mr. D. H. Souter, the artist and critic; and
Mr. Cecil Mann, a member of the staff of
The Bulletin and a well-known Red Page
contributor.
Competitors will facilitate the work of
judging if they will see that their folios are
numbered correctly and forwarded flat—
not rolled. The rolled MS., especially if
not securely fastened together, has a bad
habit of getting mixed.
The sealed envelopes will not be opened
until the judges have completed their work.
Wilkins
It was in my office in Cairo, when the
war was over, that he got a cable announc-
ing his captaincy. A grin of pleasure
overspread his rather immobile face,
and he seemed to repent of it in-
stantly as an exhibition of a kind of
weakness. All the same, he quickly fol-
lowed with an invitation to Groppi’s—that
lounging rendezvous of the A.I.F. in Cairo
—where we sat under the umbrageous
acacias for an hour holding a sort of
solemn .celebration.
And it was up at Stanthorpe, in South-
ern Queensland, where I was one morning
five years ago harnessing up the orchard
horse to drive to town, that I heard a deep-
throated greeting behind me. I spun round,
for I had heard no one approach. There
stood a huge hatless figure in sandshoes,
wearing the most astounding beard I have
ever seen outside the pictures of the High
Priests in Jewish history; it had that
curled, combed and anointed appearance
which such Rabbinical pictures convey.
And it had simultaneously the aspect of a
beard that did not belong to him—a sort
of property effect. A curious combination.
But this man was a stranger to me—until
he smiled. Then I knew it was Wilkins. I
did not drive to Stanthorpe that morning.
He had come to Australia to make his col-
lection of fauna for. the British Natural
History Museum. Although he had come
to Stanthorpe at my suggestion, and I was
to that exent expecting him, I did not
recognise him; which is a high tribute,
I think, to the success of his facial disguise.
I was trying to interest him, for the pur-
poses of his collection, in the unique fauna
of this Granite Tableland—notably in the
wombat and the lyre-bird, which still in-
habit the ranges of the border. He was
interested. He said he would establish
a collecting station here when he got back
from the North. I got a letter months after,
in that curiously unformed handwriting
that was his, dated from the Gulf country,
in which he said that the northern expedi-
tion had been prolonged so far beyond
his expectation that he had already been
forced to decline the leadership of one Polar
expedition, and that he had no mind, by
delaying to miss another: so he
was for England "as soon as he could clean
up.
It is the Polar world which, for some
occult reason, draws Wilkins like a lode-
star. So much so that I always look on
that natural-history expedition of his into
tropical Australia as a kind of lapse. He
began his adventures as a member of a
South Polar expedition. And he has made
since then I don’t know how many ex-
cursions into those, or other, frozen regions.
He has just crossed the North Pole by
air. And when he was in Stanthorpe years
ago he said the dream of his life was to
lead an Antarctic expedition of survey for
the establishment_ of meteorological sta-
tions, with a view to long-distance weather
forecasting for the Southern Hemisphere.
He felt that thus the agricultural indus-
tries might acquire more stability, that
the life of the man on the land would, in
consequence, be not quite such a precarious
gamble. I don’t know whether this project
still looms as large in the brain of Wilkins.
I hope so. And I hope that the cabled
announcement that his next attack will be
on the Antarctic is an earnest of that.
Wilkins has little small-talk. But he
can, if given a lead, talk endlessly about
his experiences in the Polar world. He
used to come out to our house in North
London after the war. I well remem-
ber that at one dinner-party there some-
one had the temerity to ask Wilkins, after
the soup, a leading question about the
Eskimos. The dinner, as dinner, was
wasted. The food, it is true, got eaten, after
a fashion. But I doubt if Wilkins took
much of a hand in it. He had lived with
the Eskimos as one of them for some
months. And he talked of this experience
for two hours, amongst the wreckage of the
food, with a sustained and alluring
eloquence which dulled the palates of the
guests and made even his hostess forget
that the dishevelled dining-room was not
perhaps the place for prolonged after--
dinner dissertation.
Though never boorish, he could not abide
the social dilettantism of Shepheard’s Hotel
and the demands in small-talk and persi-
flage which that hostelry made upon its
guests. The less serious-minded of us, whilst
in Cairo, seldom omitted to attend, if only
as spectators, at the great weekly function
of the Saturday-night, dance at Shepheard’s.
It was the Mecca of all the frisky sub-
alterns (and of the desiccated colonels, too),
as well as of all the soldiers’ wives and of
the English official colony, and of the
beautiful French and Levantine women of
that cosmopolitan war-time city. We wou,ld
have missed the Mooski rather than that
weekly pageant. When Wilkins got back
from Gallipoli with Bean after their post-
war survey of the battlefields, he stayed at
Shepheard’s. I begged him on the Saturday
evening to come down and watch the
dancing. He came. But after half an hour
he began to champ politely at the bit.
After .an hour he could bear it no longer.
“Come to my room and talk,” he said.
And there, over refreshment, we talked (he
talked, rather) till long after the dancers
had dispersed. And I will say that I never
enjoyed a Saturday evening at Shepheard’s
so much as that, which is saying much.
But Wilkins is married since then. He
may have become more tolerant of the
flippant social gesture.
HECTOR DINNING.
The Emden
On November 9, 1914, the German
cruiser Emden was destroyed at the Cocos-
Keeling Islands by the Australian Sydney,
and Emden (Herbert Jenkins) tells us exactly
what happened—according to Prince Franz
Joseph Hohenzollern. His book traverses
all the history of the cruiser that matters
from the time of her departure from
Tsipg-tau, Germany’s square mile of China,
to the holocaust brought about by the guns
of H.M.A.S. Sydney.
One can hardly believe that Von Muller,
who had the sea-instinct developed to a
degree, and who was a gentleman in the
accepted meaning of the word, would have
approved or endorsed this semi-swashbuck-
ling book. But Franz has not allowed him-
self to be handicapped by any regard for
accuracy. Prince or no prince, he shows
himself essentially a Prussian, especially
when he claims that the Emden did not
surrender because “one can only surrender
with weapons'” of which the German cruiser
had none left. The phrase is somewhat
cryptic, but usually a warship which dis-
plays white flags and sends a man aloft to
haul down her ensign is deemed to have
surrendered. The absence of effective
weapons may point to the necessity for
such surrender, but it makes the fact none
thp less effective. The Emden is not to be
blamed for her misfortune; she had no
(Continued on page 5.)


** Truth in Advertising ” is your assurance of satisfaction.
sf
Anthony Horderns
Tailored-to-Measure Suits
from the finest woven
materials offered at this
Economy Price
Ofe
Have your next suit correctly cut in a
quality that makes the style endure. Select
from Indigo Serge, Tweeds and Worsteds
in newest shades at Anthony Horderns’.
Send for patterns —post free on request.
You will appreciate the reliable quality,
weight and warmth of these sturdy
fabrics. Careful supervision at each stage of
tailoring assures you of perfect fit, which
allows unrestricted freedom of movement
an excellent finish —and a distinctive style,
embodying your personal style preferences.
Outstanding value for such style and
quality. Price £7/17/6
{Dept. Ground Floor—We pay carriage)
YOU PAY NO INTEREST
USE OUR DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM
We are Sole Agents in N.S.W. for “Summit
Collars
Shape 60.—A smart l®in
style, certain to be
favoured. Sizes 142 to
19. Each .. . 1/6
I^3
Shape 85.—A neat
style, 2lin deep at
points. Sizes 14 to 19.
Each 1/6
Shape 27.—Available
in either If or 2in
height. Sizes 14 to 19.
Each 1/6
Ye
Half dozen
“Summit” Collars are made from
special collar cloth, woven from a
long staple yarn of best Egyptian
cotton. py e p a y carr l a g e j
RTTYJ
Shape 40. Popular
2in collar, as shown
Sizes 15 to 182. Price,
each 1/6
Shape 63. —Smart, nar-
row style, 1 Jin deep.
Sizes 14J to 19in.
Each 1/6
Shape 88. —As illustrated,
2iin deep at points. Sizes
14 to 19in. A smart
shape. Each 1/6
sdf
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
Phone Number:
M 2401 (40 lines).


DETAILS
of the New
HUDSON
ESSEX
Models
Newness begins at the
very front, in higher radi-
ators on both Hudson and
Essex an effect that is
further heightened by
vertical radiator shutters.
Lamps are of Colonial de-
sign, and are of the para-
beam type. Saddle
lamps of the same type
are mounted on the cowl
by means of a crossing
nickeled band. Mud
guards are of new design,
full-crowned and beaded
along the edge.
All bodies are lacquered
in duo-tones, and carry a
moulding all the way
around, and along the
cowl and hood to the
radiator.
The front pillars are trim
and narrow. In standard
models the visor is the
military type.
All Essex models are
larger and roomier than
ever before.
The instrument board is
finished in a polished
ebony. Set into this back-
ground is the grouping
of instruments, including
the ammeter, oil and fuel
gauges, speedometer, and
motometer, all indirectly
lighted.
The handsome new steer-
ing wheel has a steel core
surrounded by ebony-
black hard rubber and
carries horn button.
Hudson custom - built
bodies are the Landau
Saloon and the 7-Seater
Saloon. In both of them
the front body pillars are
notably slender. The
windscreen frames are
nickeled, so that the
fronts of both these cars
are quite distinctive and
striking.
Four-wheel brakes are,
of course, standard in
both Hudson and Essex.
ESSEX
Are Showing
cJ^ew
Jnodt II
New-different—strikingly smart—tomorrow’s
car today—say those who have seen the new
models now on display by Hudson - Essex
dealers. Ride in one—sink deep into the luxuri-
ous form-fitting seats—notice the additional leg-
room, the elegant and tasteful appointments.
Then get behind the wheel to drive. Grasp the
new style ebony finish steering wheel, the same
as those used on far more costly cars. Look out
over the long, graceful, higher bonnet, higher
because of the new modern type radiator. Feel
the smooth rush of irresistible power that quick-
ly brings you from standing start to high speed
with amazing ease.
A demonstration awaits you at the nearest
Hudson and Essex dealer—without obligating
you in the least.
NEW ESSEX PRICES WITH FIVE-TYRE EQUIPMENT:
Essex Tourer, Australian Body £265
„ Roadster, Australian Body .... 265
„ Coach, Imported Body 345
„ Coupe (Rumble Seat), Imp. Body 360
„ Sedan, Australian Body 340
» Sedan, Imported Body 365
DISTRIBUTORS;
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS,
LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


&
Men's
COAT SWEATERS
Every man knows that Sydney’s best range of Coat
Sweaters and Pullovers is in the Two Men’s Stores
of David Jones’. And it stands to reason that here,
where stocks are greatest, values must be keener than
elsewhere. In the showing are included all-wool Coat
Sweaters, in plain colors, from .. .. 15/6
Men’s Coat Sweater in bright Jacquard design as illus-
trated at left, 32/6. All-wool Jacquard Coat Sweater
as illustrated at right. Price, each .. ..45/-
You can get them at the New Store , Castlereagh ,
Market and Elizabeth Streets or Branch Mens
Store , opposite G.P.O.
DAVID JONES’
chance of making a better show, and the show
she did make was all that the most exact-
ing patriot could desire. Franz Joseph does
not show up well when he tries to quibble
over this point, in view of the fact that his
ship put up a gallant fight against heavy
The author also says, when describing
the end of the action, “the beloved
Emden, shot to pieces and with her engines
stopped, was run aground by her captain.”
A ship with her engines not working cannot
be run aground. She can only drift there.
Captain Glossop says she “grounded at
11.20 a.m.” After that the Sydney went
off in pursuit of a suspicious merchant
ship, and then returned to find the Emden’s
colors still hoisted. This would have en-
titled him to open fire again immediately,
and it was not till after an endeavor to
ascertain by international code and by
Morse whether the Emden had or had not
surrendered, and after having been assured
by German officers from the merchantman
that Von Muller would never haul down his
colors, that fire was re-opened and the Ger-
man ensign forced down. Franz slurs oyer
all this by stating that Von Muller replied
to the Sydney’s international flag signal,
“Do you surrender?” by signalling in Morse
“No signal books,” all the codes having
been destroyed. Captain Glossop’s account
distinctly says that he signalled once by
flags and twice in Morse and received no
reply. As Glossop had no need to varnish
his account of a very successful action,
whereas Franz Joseph shows an evident
desire to excuse the Emden’s defeat, I think
(ve may accept the British version as cor-
rect.
Historically Franz Joseph’s book—he was
an officer in the Emden, by the way—is
valueless, and one would rather accept Von
Muller’s summary when he said in reply to
congratulations by the Sydney’s officers on
his gallant fight, “Thank you very much
for saying that, but I was not satisfied; we
should have done better. You were very
lucky in shooting away my voice-pipes in
the beginning.”
But I suppose German princes have to
make money somehow nowadays.
BLUE WATER.
A Good Australian’s Book
Jonathan Cape has added Max Murray’s
The World’s Back Doors to his masterpiece
of publishing and good taste, “The
Travellers’ Library,” and the book would
k®/e been notable if it had been written
by Masefield. Its author’s style is in-
deed curiously like Masefield’s—perhaps
the resemblance is a little too clear —but
his simplicity seems purer. He gets the
same effect from merely saying that a
man swears that Masefield gets from a
string of salted oaths. He has not Mase-
field’s breadth, however, nor Masefield’s red-
blooded enthusiasms, and he suffers by being
colder; but probably he gains by being more
accurate; enthusiasts are extravagants the
world over. “The World’s Back Doors”
goes on my shelf beside “Gallipoli.”
Murray, a young journalist, started out
from Australia with 5s. and worked his
way round the world by sea and land. He
has beaten his observations of that trip
into a narrative that flows straight on,
like a run of Pitman “m’s,” and takes you
with it. Then, when you are thinking that
you will be carried on like this for hours,
it suddenly stops and leaves you satis-
fied that you could not have gone any
further because the tale has been told. It
is not a travel book; Murray leaves out
all the things of which travel books are
made: he is interested only in people and
in places in their relation to people. For
the time he is a manual worker, and the
people he observes are limited to that class.
Apparently he met no one more intellec-
tual than a ship’s skipper, and that con-
siderably narrows the range of his book.
But within that range he saw clearly and
acutely. He describes working beside a
negro laborer in New Orleans, and you
glimpse the whole horde of negro laborers
on that waterfront. His ships are all
fo’c’s’le, but they remain ships. He has
covered a canvas with individual and unre-
lated groups, and when the last are set up
the canvas has become a close-knit pano-
rama.
The last group added are Australian,
viewed by an Australian—an Australian
in the grand sense; more in love with his
country than proud of it. His last two
chapters, in which he sees England and his
own country, read carefully and aright in
Britain, should do more towards encourag-
ing good immigration than 20,000 acres of
advertising whitewash. He makes the re-
turn voyage in an immigrant ship, proud of
the courage of his fellow-travellers and
clear-headed and sane regarding their pro-
spect. He puts it straight and simply:—
I wanted to tell them of the place to which they
were going. They had seen the Australia of Wembley
and of Australia House. The pictures had not been
intentionally dishonest, but they were miniature.
Australia has 3,000,000 square miles. The places
these people had seen in pictures were far apart,
and between them were empty spaces to which
they would go, and be absorbed like water into the
sand. They would be bewildered and discouraged.
They would be looking for landmarks and there
would be none. They would all at once discover
that in their closed lives at home they had been
leaning on each other. They would discover how
hard it was to stand utterly alone They were
beginning their adventure in the wrong spirit. Truly
enough there was success waiting for them, and at
worst there was health and a good living; but these
would not he handed out to them by the Govern-
ment. The life of these people had been simple.
It consisted in receiving that to which they had been
born. Now they were to become hunters after the
supply.... It was going to be better for them be-
cause it was going to be better for their children.
In England the same thoughts were in his
mind:—
When I saw England I could understand why
Englishmen stayed at home. England is the most
beautiful, lovable land in the world. There is an
empire to be modelled on the same plan. To them
it is a question of “Why should we leave all this?’’
To me it is a question of why should a man with
a 1,000,000-acre farm grow his vegetables in window
boxes ? That is what we are doing. Australia is
empty, and in London I saw little children pinched
and sunless and poverty-stricken and wretched. Pro-
gress with them will never be real till it is won
towards the sunlight. What does it matter if the
population of England is reduced by half, so long as
that spirit of its population is still undivided? Every
extra Englishman in Australia makes Australia better,
and every one in England makes its existence more
difficult. Every Englishman in Australia will make
England happier.
There is nothing flamboyant about that;
it is downright good English that de-
serves to be read carefully by British and
Australians.
But it is not as propaganda that I
admire this book. I admire it more than
anything else for its simplicity. In that
it has grandeur. It soars up out of the
commonplace, the everyday stringing to-
gether of words. I admire it because it is
the work of an Australian, but more be-
cause it is the work of one who loves
Australia and is not self-conscious about
his love. We have need of our Max Mur-
rays; of writers who can look at Australia
as a taken-for-granted part of the world;
who are happy to love it in a grand and
noble way.
CECIL MANN.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the Associa-
ted Booksellers of Australia and Maoriland
as a guide to fiction of merit: —
General Literature.- —Count Luckner, the
Sea Devil, by Lowell Thomas; Mother India,
by Katherine Mayo; The Greville Diary,
edited by P. W. Wilson ; The Impatience of
a Parson, by H. R. L. Sheppard; Napoleon,
by Emil Ludwig; Bismarck, by Emil Lud-
wig ; Father India, by Iyer; What Can a
Man Believe? by Bruce Barton; The Open
Road, by R. H. Croll; Conquistador, by
Philip Guedalla.
Books of Literary Merit. —The Babyons,
by Clemence Dane; The Key of Life, by
Francis Brett Young.
Books for Popular Reading. —Poor Gentle-
man, by Ian Hay; The Twister, by Edgar
Wallace; Winds of Chance, by Silas K.
Hocking; Caste, by Cosmo Hamilton: The
Danger Line, by Joan Sutherland ; The Baby-
ons, by Clemence Dane; The Key of Life,
by Francis Brett Young; A Girl of the
Islands, by J. M. Walsh; The Silent House,
by John G. Brandon; Adam and Eve, by
John Erskine; Wm. Cook, Antique Dealer,
by R. Keverne; Patrol, by Philip Mac-
Donald ; The Astounding Crime of Torring-
ton Road, by Wm. Gillette.
A Satchel of Books
Exercise and the Will, by Harold Dearden
(Ileinemann). A book of physical exercises
“scientifically designed to increase the will
power of the individual and not merely to
increase the bulk of his muscles.” To hold
the body under perfect control so that any
movement required shall be performed with
the least possible wastage of material and
respond to a concentrated effort of will is
the object aimed at by these exercises. The
idea is attractive.
The Opinions of Anatole France, by
Nicholas Segur (John Lane). The trans-
lation is by J. Lewis May, who in an intro
ductory note suggests that the author lays
a little too much stress on France’s pes-
simism. The opinions are expressed on a
wide range of subjects, including the war,
the cinema, socialism, and the lure of
spiritualism. On war he comments: “There
was a time when there was something noble
about war,, something gracious, as of a
magnanimous and chivalrous pastime....
Civilisation and the progress of science have
turned it into a massacre of blind earth-
worms, who engage in mutual slaughter
without ever seeing their adversary.”
Letters of Queen Victoria; 1879-1885
(John Murray). The third volume of
selections from the Queen’s correspondence
and journal. To make the letters of the
sovereign intelligible it has been necessary to
include a large body of the correspondence of
her statesmen, and the two together make up
an interesting human document. Early in
the period covered Lord Beaconsfield’s term
of office came to a close, and in 1880 Mr.
Gladstone formed his second Ministry. Dis-
raeli had been ever-mindful of the fact that
his sovereign was a woman, and cynically,
pandered to her feminine weaknesses. His
letters to her abound in fulsome flattery:
“It is always gratifying to be remembered,
but to be remembered by his beloved sover-
eign, in her hour of relaxation, might well
touch his heart.” Gladstone had a fear-
some time in forming a Ministry that would
at all meet with the approval of his Royal
mistress. Some of his recommendations were
characteristic. For example, he commended
Mundella to Victoria on the ground that “he
was a very religious man, was much for re-
ligious education, and had never said any-
thing offensive.” Sir Charles Dilke was
presented for pardon on the ground that some
of his republican utterances had been the
result of youthful folly, and the Queen only
consented to his inclusion in the Ministry
on the stipulation that he “would not be
brought into any contact with me.” She feared
that “government was becoming very radical”
and Gladstone had to soothe her fears by the
assurance that “these people generally be-
came very moderate when they were in office.”
Eventually the way was cleared and the
Liberal leader entered on what was to be a
momentous term of power with a lady on
the throne who showed that within' her
sphere of influence she could liag as well as
any other woman in the realm. Meantime
the House of Commons became still more
radical and the Irish party more aggressive
till the Queen “hopes it may be possible to
shut up Davitt.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.V.8.: The juice of it could go into a
dozen lines.... Mars and author of “Ben Tambo”:
Send name and address with now de plume in a
sealed envelope... .Lux: You ask a flat surface to do
the impossible... .Glamis: We hesitated, and it was
105 t... .8.W.P.: Pleasant to listen to, but so empty.
....Novel: (1) and (2) See Red Page. (3) Yes.
. ...E.S.: “The Old Log Fence” encloses only the
ghost of an idea... .W.J.W.: “Bush Fire” has merit,
but “Nature’s Harmony” is an echo of bygone
verse fashions.... A. Moth: Will consult the judges,
and if it’s possible one or other of them may do it.
... .Unnamurra: Our authority is the “Encyclopedia
Britannica”.... Kogarah: And then what would they
have to laugh at?.. ..J.8.8. (and others): Thanks.
We suppose we ought to send him to ga01....
H.G.G.: Good; but the public has had a full issue
of that... .C.A.8.: Much obliged. We hope 50....
Cobra: Surveying instruments would be necessary
to find the point —.T.G.H.: Cry-sigh-die; weary-
bleary-dreary ; room-gloom-tomb ; sears-loveless years-
tears. What a dirge!.... Bettor Sanis: Well, you’re
loyal to your kink, anyway Robt. W.: Found no
good in “Goodness”.. .M.R.0.; The verdict of your
beers was against you. .. .Roy G.: “Oh, why did my
fair Lily die?” Line nine probably solves the dark
mystery: “My verses I would read to her”....
L.O. J.: Slipped on the doorstep, so to speak....
Martyn W.: Moss-grown old situation Y. 8.: Not
verse; calamity... .A. E.W.: Our literary traffic cop
barred its way....E.E.: “Oh, Austral West, thy
deserts yon!” is unique in its way Roger H.:
Its point is so blunt that we sat on it Colin
McK.: The lady who offered a penny for your
thoughts was a spendthrift... .Oneyer: “The Little
Tree” supplied a lot of wood Cam H.: Story re-
mains unchristened; it’s not the sort of thing that
calls for a christening... .W.R.V.: Your remark
that the poet “ever strives to scale the height” is
not quite right. Sometimes he tries to scale the
milkman L.H.H.: The good point is missed....
J.A.H.: Don’t like the finish. .. .Philip L.: An idea;
but you haven’t made the girl read right... .George
F.: Lost in the telling... .A.H.W.: Might suit the
Sunday at Home R.G.L.: Terrible R.L.P.:
Nothing in it.... Alex. M.: Why the stilted intro-
duction? By itself, the yarn might stand
R.L.W.: The one with the best chance stubbed its
feet on its rhyme 3 P. Macd (Wellington) : Well
told, but nothing happens. A.H.T.: Can’t allow
the memories to haunt our columns... .Finn:
Finished... .D.M.G.: “Roads” run on to print; the
rest get bogged... .Will W.: Don’t want your
family history done in verse.... J.A.W.: Overused
idea J.W.R.: It’s rough spade-work.... Jill Me.:
Not quite... .Patsy: Feeble H.L.H.: Like the
horse, the verse was spavined .Maori: Runs to
112 lines—hard lines... .Shamrock: What’s it in-
tended to be—a scenario?... .Marjorie S.: Almost...
T. 5.8.: So many have seen Paradise in Bessie’s
(and Nellie’s and Ethel’s) eyes Roy G. W.: The
long-distance curse fails to interest us. It would
take too long to give detailed advice—let the dead
past bury its deed... .E.C.H.: No ray of hope in
your lighthouse... .J.J.J.: There’s pathos in it:— ~
Farewell to thee! A long farewell!
I love thee not no more!
For would you care, I wonder, Nell,
If weltered I in gore?
You who became his lawful spouse
Who held the mortgage on my house.
. ...T.8.: You didn’t give it a name. We don't
blame y0u.... Philo: “Outside” stays there... .Tee-
pee: Why the resurrection?... .D. 8.5.: You muse
have a queer ear to pit “wings of the morning”
against “wild seas churning”.... Billet: There's
nothing so beautiful about weeping as you seem to
think... .G.R.S.: Moran told you, did he? Well, you
got a poor story off Pat... .A. 5.8.; Commonplace....
S. : Poetical analysis of ladies’ underclothing has
been referred to the Religious Editor... .R.M.8.:
The ray is not fish for our net.... Mary C.: A
series of jerks such as that is only justified by
thought, originally expressed... .Coolgardie: Not a
speck in it... .Ulrick: So the flung boot missed the
wife and hit the parrot. That’s not a joke—it’s a
tragedy... .A.C.G.C.D.: The trouble is that you’ve
been unduly impressed with “The Prisoner’s Song.”
G.L.Y.: Given to the office-boy to read after he
has finished “Bill the Butcher-boy’s Revenge”....
F.H. (Clifton H.): Dull G.A.W.: You ask “Which
is the best ?” It is harder to say which is the worst
J.P.S.: The Chow failed for a place... .Migo J.: The
truth that is duller than fiction is no use to us in
story form... .British Born: Runs to 200 lines !....
Chris C.: Not enough in it.... Grace E. A. G.: Like
some sort of a color-puzzle.... Megan S.: Reads like
the commencement of something really good.. .C.H.K.:
M.L. may not have two-class hostelries, but it has its
graded pubs.. . . Kester B.: Barely told tragedy....
T. : The British Workman likes that kind of
yarn; we don’t... .C.G.R.J.: Awkward... .Irene E.
P.: Thought too slight... .W.H.R.: “Pork” is very
lean... .AV.E.S.: Remarks about the violet’s “eyes
of blue” astonish u5....Z.W.: Not a very bright
discussion of an over-discussed business.... Daphne
E. G.: Some quality in it, spoilt by nebulous lines
like the 12th and 16th. Try again.... Dave D.:
You can’t unfurl that banner in these pages....
0.W.W.: Re “Dawn.” Sunset came rapidly
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.L.: We would have liked the lady better if you
hadn’t let her out of the b0x.... J.R.S.: We ask
for live persons and you give us mummies... .L.R.8.:
The ladies’ legs are as graceful as telegraph poles.
. ...C.H.H.: Doubtful which pair is the worse drawn.
. ...J.C.: A communist Sunday-school pupil in a
rage couldn’t better it....R.8.: You may succeed
if you don’t make your work so jumbled
L.J.M.C.: Little Willie’s gone to rest... .E.R.A.:
Whatever made you think that we would want it?
C.C.C.: Infantile peneillings L.H.: Untidy
and uninspired .P. 8.: The joke didn’t win a
smile... .D.A.K.: N 0... .C.W.M.: No humor, no
merit.


MW k
asm
111!! ;
p
£H«
i
p~.
*
Mi
J 1 1!
k s jß§>; . •
■
SMMMggp:
'WmMmrnmm
irWBmBImM
mgm
$A:h .'■ S: <-r
£T",;' : '
:
JM
■
ri
■■ pium
mm
n
1
; i
\
mm i
■
-
, 7
r. ■■■■ ■
~-;:i
■
■■Hllll
"ISP
p»


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2520.
May 30, 1928.
HOW AUSTRALIA PREPARES.
“White Australia is the focal point where the forces from East and West confront each other most sharply and irreeoncilably. It is the logical storm centre where
the hurricane winds of a race war would begin to blow.”-Lothrop Stoddard, American historian and publicist. and ir r eeoncilably. it is the logical storm centre where


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White .Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Pnion, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Pouted to any address in Acstralasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 is.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Bditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing icith Australian subjects
mid not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol MS.
To Amateurs in lllack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin originu l
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,'
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be rc-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdor-
Street, London, E.C.\); and IK. Dawson and Sons
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar , 58 Gracechurch Street, London.
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Newi
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley;. and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 4% n d Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co.. Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World Newt
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles. Cal. ;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Kgyft. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Ilang Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang. S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
CeylON.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street, Fort Colombo:
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Furl
Colombo.
P'i’iiA. —Whitten Bros.. Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva: Ilar.ry Gardiner, Mctropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji ;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 4°z. , Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
ffie'Z&xzlleZzm,.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 1928.
THE CHEAP-NIGGER OBSESSION.
Under cover of the proposal that the
Federal Government take over a slice of
Northern Westralia—the matter is to be
debated in the Westralian Parliament next
month—the periodical suggestion that the
new owners should import cheap colored
labor to do the hard work of opening up
the newly acquired area and its neighbor,
the Northern Territory, has again been put
forward. The latest sponsor of the calam-
itous idea is one Angelo, a Westralian
M.L.A., whose obsessions do not end with
the familiar one that colored labor is cheap.
His notion is that, after the allegedly in-
expensive laborer has done the “bullock-
ing” work of laying down railways and
building harbors, he is to be repatriated,
leaving all his good works behind him. So
the white overlords would eventually have
to get down to work themselves, and take
on the stiff job of maintenance, thus doing
the bullocking themselves in the long run,
even if they managed to dodge it in the
beginning.
Another flaw in the crystal in which Angelo
sees such beautiful visions is the matter of
repatriation. Many thousands of colored
gentlemen would be on the pay-sheet, and, as
with all their kind, they would multiply like
a series of mechanical calculators, and the
opportunity to do so could hardly be denied
them lest worse befall. During their bul-
locking activities, it would be necessary to
confine the imported persons within the
area to which they have been allotted, since
even Angelo and his supporters would hesi-
tate to say that a steady infiltration of the
white South by those who had tired of
bullocking was desirable. This would en-
tail the maintenance of a large and expen-
sive white patrol, while another small
army of European overseers and police
would be needed to keep the alien
hordes in order and at work. The final re-
patriation of the visitor would also be a
tough and expensive job; and in spite of
all endeavor numbers would remain to
merge with the general population and re-
main a discolored problem. Something like
this has been the unhappy experience of
South and East Africa and even little Fiji,
to quote but a few instances. In all these
cases the importation was to be only tem-
porary. In every instance the importees
got beyond the control of their importers
and have come to be a serious economic,
political and social menace.
* * * *
The most farcical of Angelo’s ideals is
his proposal to import for coolie work large
numbers of native soldiers who have been
discharged from the Indian army, it being
alleged that these are “turned adrift” after
service. Nothing could be further from the
facts. The Indian soldier is not recruited
from the coolie classes, but from the sons
of the soil, in the most literal sense of the
phrase, and especially from those of
warrior races. Mohammedan, Rajput, Sikh
or Dogra, they are all men with a good
conceit of themselves, and, in the case of
Moslem, Hindu and Sikh alike, the bar-
riers of religion and caste are unscaleable.
Most of these men retire to their com-
munal village life on their pension. Others,
like the Sikhs, find employment outside
India in various police forces, while others,
like the Sikhs again, turn to trades or trad-
ing in other lands. To all an offer of the
despised coolie work would come as a
deadly insult. Angelo’s notion that these
ex-soldiers would be useful for the defence
of Australia is as pathetically wrong-
headed. Supposing that an imported
Indian military contingent did good service
in the defence of Australia—what then?
Would this country be willing to kick these
men back to their own country again when
the need for their aid was ended? That
would be a difficult thing 'for any decent-
minded community to do. Given that
postulate, where does the segregation and
repatriation scheme of Angelo and his fol-
lowers come in?
* * * *
The Australian people can work out their
own salvation in the undeveloped North if
they will only shake off the political miasma
which is not only checking present progress,
but has undone the decent measure accom-
plished in the past. A vital beginning is the
completion of the direct South-North rail-
way, the studied neglect of which has been
one of the outstanding scandals of Federal
politics. It is only one of the many neces-
sary steps for the development of the North
of Australia, but it is the most essential
and the most urgent, the foundation on
which all that should follow must be built.
It is to people of the shortsighted type of
Angelo that the delay of this all-important
development is due. Ignoring plighted word
and undertaking they have for years past
refrained from setting their hands to the
promised task, and when questioned as to
the reason for the delay, and the lament-
able consequences thereof, they lift up their
voices and plead to be allowed to call the
cheap nigger from overseas to help them
out of the mess that their own apathy and
worse has landed them in.
McCORMACK IN THE SADDLE.
Queensland Premier McCormack had a
strenuous experience at Townsville as a
delegate to the State Labor Convention.
The proceedings lasted five days, and for
most of the time he had to meet and com-
bat efforts to Bolshevise the party and
secure his own political scalp. From Mer-
thyr came a demand for “the immediate
establishment of a Labor Research and In-
formation Bureau” like the one in Sydney,
which gets copious “information” from Mos-
cow, and whose secretary, Comrade Ryan,
was, in his own words, “delegated by the
Australian Council of Trade-unions to
attend the Pan-Pacific Trade-union Secre-
tariat at Shanghai,” the other delegates
being “three Filipinos, two Chinese, a
Japanese, an American and a Russian.” Mer-
thyr having failed, Brisbane moved for
the establishment of “a Supreme Economic
Council to govern and control all indus-
tries,” another Moscow contrivance, name
and all. “That means the abolition of the
Parliamentary system,” said Forgan
Smith; and the convention was not pre-
pared to scrap the Parliamentary system.
Then the Federated Storemen proposed
that the “present methods be deleted” and
that the party take over the whole Mos-
cow programme. This also was defeated,
although with 81 delegates voting the noes
were only 15 to the good.
* * * *
On these and other propositions designed
to give Moscow control of the A.L.P. and
its conferences, McCormack spoke out boldly
and well. He said there was no room in
Australia, with its government by the
people, for supreme economic councils, nor
could nationalisation of industry do as
much for the workers as co-operative enter-
prise, which would go a long way towards
solving the problems of Australian industry.
The question of capital, he insisted could be
got over—-“capital can be found for races, tin
hares and ‘liberty fairs.’” Nor did the Pre-
mier weaken when the Reds tackled him on
the score of his refusal to accept Soviet
control of the Government railways. The
convention was asked to declare that “the
locking out of the railwaymen” and “the
imposition of a pledge on them before they
were allowed to resume work” constituted
“a direct violation of working-class and
Labor principles,” and that the party’s
central executive should have prevented it.
McCormack’s reply was a blunt statement
that “the authority of the Q.C.E. did not
extend to giving instructions to the Govern-
ment in the railway dispute or controlling,
its administrative affairs.” A few well-chosen
words about the pass to which surrender to
the Moscow gang has brought Lang’s
party in N. S. Wales completed the rout of
the Reds.
* * * *
Behind McCormack stands the A.W.U.,
which at the end of May last year had
54,000 members (roughly two-fifths of the
total number of unionists) and funds
amounting to £107,500 in Queensland alone.
As the Townsville debates indicate, it is
the sanest, as well as the strongest, force in
Queensland Labor politics; and it is making
its influence felt in other quarters also.
Witness the election of Blakeley to the
deputy-leadership of the Federal party and
the easy triumph of Jack Barnes in the
Vic. pre-selection for the Senate. Even in
N. S. Wales the organisation is picking up
a bit, though its State president, Bailey,
was expelled from the party for life for
alleged complicity in ballot frauds. There
has been a revulsion of feeling in Bailey’s
favor; could the charges be heard again,
men would not be so ready to believe
Bailey guilty on the word of his enemies,
who claim to have “cleaned up the move-
ment” while choosing to be deaf and blind
to what went on at the Sydney Town Haul,
nor so willing to accept Theodore as a final
Court of Appeal. With all its faults, the
A.W.U. does produce the impression that
it is Australian in feeling, thought and
action. This cannot be said of Labor unions
which blindly follow bitter newcomers with
the gift of the gab.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Small Sister’s Election.
Wretched weather and the absence of any-
thing save a few poorly-paid portfolios for
the contending parties to fight about prob-
ably account for the extreme dulness of
Tasmania’s general election, which comes
to a head to-day. Premier Lyons’s policy-
speech meeting in Hobart Town Hall was
only “well attended,” and no other meeting
in the Island appears to have attracted
more than 150 electors, including the local
policeman and the caretaker and the latter’s
dog.
There has been little attempt on the part
of the Opposition candidates ■to really
criticise the Labor Government’s financial,
administrative or developmental policy,
firstly because nearly all of them have ex-
pressed warm and grateful approval of that
policy at some time or other, and secondly
because it requires a brilliant controversi-
alist to make any sort of headway against
a Government that, after taking command
by request of its distraught predecessor, got
the lopsided ship on to an even keel, fed
the crew and unemployed passengers with a
full ration of public works, reduced the
weight of the shackles on soldier and other
settlers by £250,000, captured three succes-
sive surpluses, reduced taxation all round,
and made port with the inherited floating
deficit of £850,000 less by £300,000 than it was
when the voyage commenced. These things
take some belittling, and there doesn’t
appear to be, on the Opposition side, any
critic big enough for the task. Some of
Treasurer Lyons’s opponents have tried to
impress the caretaker and Stumpy by
gravely pointing out that if Mr. Lyons
had not received a special Commonwealth
grant of £378,000 last year he could not
have reduced taxation and shown a surplus.
At that the audience duly stamps some of
its feet. When a Labor man comes along
next night and mentions that the obtaining
of the grant had always been regarded by
Mr. Lyons as his first objective, and really
the essential part of his task, the- audience
says “Hear, hear” with its other feet.
This all serves to indicate that if the
Lyons Government fails to win back to
office it may not be because of the badness
or goodness of its policy and performances,
but because its candidates are unable to
drag as many party followers to the polling
booths in Denison (Hobart) as their oppo-
nents. Denison is reckoned the pivotal
centre in the contest for the Treasury
benches. The other four divisions, rrank-
lin, Wilmot, Bass and Darwin, are practi-
cally certain to return three of each side. Lt
Labor can hold its fourth Labor seat m the
capital, Mr. Lyons will be again Premier;
if it can’t, he won’t.
Why Tasmania doesn’t try Elective Min-
istries passes understanding.
—
Is State Prohibition Legal?
“Fitzwilliam” : One aspect of the forth-
coming liquor referendum does not appear
to have been considered —the validity of
Sec. 57 of the N.S.W. Act, which provides
that while no licenses exist in the State it
shall be unlawful for any person to have in
his possession or to import or to manu-
facture or sell alcoholic liquor of any
description. Now in Foggitt Jones s case
(though overruled by Duncan v. Queens-
land, this was afterwards restored to all its
pristine splendor by W. and A. McArthur,
Ltd., v. Queensland) the High Court held
that the State of N. S. Wales could not
prevent the export of stock from that State
to another State, and that the Act which
purported to prevent it was an interference
with inter-State trade and commerce, and
that was the end of that Act.
There is no difference in principle between
an Act which forbids export to another
State and one which forbids imports; and
what is New South Wales going to do
about it?
Another point is that while the State Act
forbids the manufacture of liquor, the
Commonwealth license issued under the
Excise Act expressly licenses the holder to
do so. On the whole, lam inclined to think
that, once the High Court gets its teeth
well into the Liquor (Amendment) Act
1919, what is left of it will be hardly notice-
able.
The position would then appear to be, if
no-license is carried, that every person,
firm, company or office-cat in N. S. Wales
interested in the manufacture or sale of
liquor is to be compensated at fancy rates.
With the proceeds he, they, she or it can
hop over the border, and commence to
manufacture liquor in large quantities, and
export it, to New South Wales. And so
long as the High Court runs true to form,
the State can’t prevent them. It is going
to be an expensive reform.
— : — *
Caught with the Goods.
The announcement that a tank of the
deadly and forbidden phdsgene gas had
exploded in Hamburg, with serious conse-
quences to many of the inhabitants, has
surprised no one w r ho has followed the long
and tortuous story of Germany’s studied
evasion of the disarmament clauses of the
treaty of Versailles. The treaty permits the
manufacture of 24 tons of phosgene annu-
ally, but the factory from which the gas
was released is not included in the list of
those licensed to make the stuff. The Allied
Disarmament Commission, as its periodical
reports showed, was continually coming on
attempts to evade the treaty. Though it
discovered and destroyed large quantities
of war munitions and weapons which had
not been reported, the chances are that it
missed many more. The Hamburg incident
is illuminating in this respect.
What the Germans really intended to do
with the forbidden gas is not clear, even to
the Germans themselves, apparently. The
statement that it was for use in the dye
industry will hardly hold water, since the
extent of the danger zone in Hamburg,
and the numerous casualties, make it clear
that it was stored in much greater quantity
than was necessary for this, apart from the
fact that the factory was not supposed to be
making it. Another of the numerous ex-
planations forthcoming is that the stuff was
intended for Russia, where the Government
professes rabidly anti-militaristic ideals
Still another excuse is that it was manu-
factured for America, which is ■ busy just
now trying to get the world to renounce
war. The last two explanations have at
least an element of sardonic humor which
is too often lacking in German mentality.
Better Juries Wanted.
A recent case in Queensland shows how
a higher Court may find itself compelled to
perpetuate and vindicate what, in its opin-
ion, is a wrong decision given by a lower
Court. The matter was a “society” divorce,
and the verdict was arrived at by a jury.
Appeal was made to the Full Court, the
proceedings constituting a record for length.
The Court’s decision was that, while it dis-
agreed with the finding of the jury, yet
that finding must stand, since it was not
impossible for the jury to arrive at such a
decision upon the evidence. Giving a
reserved judgment, Webb, J., said:—-
“Based on the evidence, the finding is
startling, and this Court unanimously dis-
sents from it, although on the authorities it
holds the finding must stand.”
A week or two ago The Bulletin re-
ferred to a N.S.W. case in which Justice
Ferguson set out the principles which he
thought should govern a Judge in assessing
the punishment for a crime. Though the
Judge might think the jury was wrong,
he must accept its verdict—say, of man-
slaughter as against murder—and fix the
sentence accordingly. Moreover, he must
accept that view of the evidence on which
alone it could have come to that verdict,


though it might not be his own view at all.
Our jury system is a noble institution,
but, like every human institution, it has its
defects. It is stupid to make a fetich of it.
Granted that it is better that 20 guilty men
should escape than that one innocent man
should be convicted; but it is still better
that the 20 guilty men should not escape.
It would be a terribly dangerous thing to
allow a Judge to override a jury, but
obviously there is something wanting when
a Full Court of Judges, trained in weighing
evidence, unanimously decides that a jury’s
verdict was startlingly wrong, and yet can-
not do a thing beyond expressing that
opinion. It may be that the simplest
remedy lies in somehow securing better
jurymen.
■ ♦
Should Policemen Be Armed.
“P.M.: “R.G.LI.T.” (B. 9/5/’2B) sug-
gests that we disarm the police, and points
out that they are not armed in England.
Yes, and only this month two criminals
were sentenced to death there for shooting
an unarmed policeman; and they were
motor thieves, too. The thief is out to
make money, and he will carry offensive
weapons to help him in his job. If not a
revolver, it is a razor or a beer bottle or a
bag of shot. Would “R.G.” go a step further
and disarm bank-tellers? If they can carry
revolvers, why not policemen?
An experience of mine on the troopship
coming home is interesting. I was Corporal
of the Guard, and was warned to watch one
beauty, a more or less professional criminal
who was coming back to serve a sentence
for assaulting and robbing an old French
woman. I had him up on deck for a
half-hour’s exercise, and he wanted to go
down to see someone in the engine-room. I
told him it was against orders, and he began
to argue the point. He said he was
well going, and made a swing at my jaw.
I dodged, produced a revolver, and told him
if he wasn’t in his cell in 60 seconds I
would let daylight through him. He was
there and locked up in about six seconds. I
related my experience to the n.c.o. who
took over from me next morning. He had
more faith in human nature than I had: he
left the revolver in the locker down in the
guard-room. Our friend knocked him down
the companion ladder, broke his skull, and
disappeared. He was caught getting ashore
disguised as a fireman at Capetown, but
not before he had broken a man’s arm with
an iron bar.
4
Compulsory Wheat Pools.
Dear Bulletin, —“G.S.W.”(B. 16/5/’2B) has
missed the salient point in his enthusiasm
for Compulsory Pooling in Queensland.
That State does not produce sufficient wheat
for its own requirements, save in an excep-
tional season. It is, therefore, easy for the
Pool to fix a price equivalent to that rul-
ing in N.S.W., plus freight to Brisbane from
that State, thus returning the Queensland
grower a higher price than his brother-
farmer obtains in the other States. That,
however, does not mean that Compulsory
Pooling is right, nor that it will assure
higher returns than are attainable on a
free and competitive market in those States
that produce a large export surplus. Far
from it.
The N.S.W. bungle of Compulsory Pool-
ing is not an isolated instance. The 1916-
17 Compulsory Pool in South Aus. in-
volved its participants in a loss of over
£2,000,000, which nearly ruined hundreds
of growers. Those losses are still the sub-
ject of litigation. An action was also
commenced against the S.A. Government
for the recovery of about £400,000 alleged
to be lost through negligence in the 1917-
18 pool. Not one of the six Compulsory
Pools has yet been wound up. Apart from
the alleged losses some Pools are over-
paid, while others are said to be in credit
—which credit is being absorbed by a staff.
But the most instructive feature in con-
nection with pooling is where the volun-
tary system is in competition with the
open market. As a grower I have averaged
from 2d. to 7d. per bushel more for my
wheat than the Pool has paid its sup-
porters since the compulsory anathema was
abandoned. My experience is not singu-
lar. Last year the wheat merchants had
their books audited by public accountants
for the 1924-25 and 1925-26 seasons, with
the following net results:—
Voluntary Pool. Open Market. In favor of
Paid. Paid. Open Market.
1924- 5/3.19 per bus. 5/9.5 6.32 d.
1925- 5/6.25 ~ ~ 5/9.67 3.42 d.
Moreover, the open market price was on
a cash basis, which is worth Id. per bushel
more than the Pool’s t.-p. system.
A return to Compulsory Pooling? Never!
S. Australian growers would refuse to pawn
their right to dispose of their own wheat
in their own way. We have had our les-
son.—Yours, etc., Yeoman.
4
Three Circumstances in a Boat.
Three related circumstances chanced to be
published on the same day recently. They
dovetailed together, so to speak.
(1) Assistant-Treasurer Stevens, of
N.S.W., expounded the proposed financial
agreement by which the Commonwealth
and the States are to become a harmonious
borrowing and (it is hoped) repaying
whole. It is a good plan so far as it goes,
and it goes almost as far as a purely
finance measure can. A fixed Federal sub-
sidy of over 7|- millions per annum is to
be divided among the States, and they are
to receive 5 per cent, interest on the value
of the properties they transferred to the
Commonwealth instead of the old All
the State debts which existed at June,
1927, are to carry a sinking fund of 7s. 6d.
per £lOO per annum, the Commonwealth
providing 2s. 6d. and the States ss. All
subsequent debts are to carry a sinking
fund of 10s. per £lOO per annum, the Com-
monwealth and the States paying half
each. It is assumed that the people will
assent to the necessary constitutional
amendment by referendum. The agree-
ment has so much to recommend it that it
is difficult to imagine them doing other-
wise; still, monumental stupidity must
always be allowed for. The Acting-
Treasurer painted a glowing picture of
financial resurrection, and said that the
N.S.W. Government intended to spend 12
to 14 millions on “developmental works”
in the next two years.
(2) It transpired in another column that
the Sydney City Commissioners want five
millions of loan money this year—the sum
mentioned in connection with a possible
loan in New York. If events like this hap-
pen often they are calculated to disturb
the foreign money market, and burst up
the dream of having only one loan-raising
authority, and the vision of the advan-
tages thereof. And there is always the
sporting chance that N.S.W. may carry
Prohibition next September, and a bill of
10 millions or so for compensation come in
sight.
(3) Simultaneously some incomplete but
very valuable trade figures were issued. For
c10 months the imports of N.S.W. and Vi-
TYRANNY.
“Some unionists have complained of the ‘tyrannical attitude’ of the shipowners, who say that the
only acceptable settlement of the shipping trouble is one which will prevent future dislocations.”
THE BAD BOY : “I don’t mind admitting it was wrong to break the window, but
you’re a brutal tyrant iƒ you want to take my shanghai ƒrom me.”
toria exceeded the exports by over
£21,000,000, so tne year’s prospects for the
whole Commonwealth look bleak enough.
Unless that deficit can be turned into a
very big surplus of exports, not a penny of
interest or sinking fund will reach London
or New York from here; wherefore the
Loan Council will have to continue breath-
less foreign borrowing quite irrespective
of “developmental works.”
4 -
Wheat or Wool?
N.S.W. Chief-Secretary Bruntnell has
announced that his party is out to enlarge
the State’s production of wheat. Increased
advances are to be made available, both
to established settlers under the Rural In-
dustries scheme and to a further batch of
prospective settlers under Section 64 of the
Savings Bank Act.
Westralia, in spite of record crops and
ever increasing yields, sees the position in
a different light, and a far-reaching change,
or rather a liberalisation of the present land
policy, is under consideration. The small
pastoralist is to be put on the same footing
as the small agriculturist; advances will be
made for the conversion of cattle country
into sheep stations, and the co-ordination of
Imperial and Federal immigration policies
is promised to this end.
Land-seekers would welcome a like
opportunity in N. S. Wales. The Western
division is ripe for such a development, in
which Private Enterprise is already giving
a lead. The Broken Hill railway and the
efficient administration of the Dingo
Destruction Act are two inducements, and
the sound position of the wool market pro-
vides the promise of substantial reward.
4
The North Australian Commission.
From The Bulletin’s oldest correspondent
at Darwin:—
On the return of the North Australian
Commissioners to Darwin they were inter -
viewed by the local Town Council, and
were asked to get in touch with the Minister
in reference to providing a water-supply
commensurate with the needs of the town.
In reply, the Chairman of the Commission,
Mr. Horsburgh, though expressing himself
as in favor of the project, and though ad-
mitting that it was one of the matters that
lie had brought before the Minister during
his visit to Canberra, informed the asto-
nished Council that the Minister would take
little or no notice of any recommendations
that the Commission made. He advised
the councillors to get in touch with the
Minister themselves, as that gentleman would
take more notice of them than of the Com-
missioners. Naturally the whole of North
Australia is asking why so futile a Com-
mission was ever appointed.
One quarter of the money that has been
wasted on this absurdity could have pro-
vided North Australia with several much-
needed services; it could have built some of
the roads that are urgently needed; it could
have settled folk on the land, where they
desire to go; it could have helped in pro-
viding work for the unemployed, who are
living how they can, dependent, some of
them, on the charity of the Chinese for
the food they eat; it would have helped to
provide Darwin with the water-supply that
it so badly needs—the town is dependent on
old wells "dug ever so many years ago, and
they never have been so low at the end of
a wet season as they are now.
North Australia to-day is a sink for
money-wasting commissions like this one,
which, at the expiration of almost two years
in office, frankly admits that it is useless
and helpless.
We were better off under South Australian
rule than we are to-day under the Common-
wealth. Money was not wasted then over
extravagant frills, but far more solid work
was done. We would rejoice, whole-heart-
edly, did South Australia take us back, for
there might then be a chance of our pros-
pering once more.
“Death, in the Wire.”
“Query”: May I congratulate “General
Practitioner” on his excellent article
headed “Death in the Wire” (B. 25/4/’2B),
dealing with the treatment of patients
suffering from electric shock? On only one
point do we differ. He says: “On return of
consciousness, he (the patient) may have
warm drinks, tea, coffee, or a little alcohol”
From personal experience, I believe the
giving of warm drinks is dangerous. The
muscles of the throat are contracted, and
it is possible that administration of a liquid
may have the effect of drowning the patient.
4
Blue Eyes or Brown?
“L.C.M.”: As “Gregor” says (B. 16/5/’2B),
the Australian grows darker almost per-
ceptibly. That is, the city-dwelling Aus-
tralian; for I am willing to wager that
Gregor’s figures are taken from a city or
suburban school. Statistics compiled from
the medical cards of the N.S.W. Education
Department are interesting. They show
that city children have for the most part
dark eyes and hair; that in the larger
country towns the percentage of brunette
types decreases, but is still considerable;
while in smaller towns and in remote rural
districts the percentage of blue-eyed, fair-
haired children rises as high as 90 per cent.
The brown-eyed type is, in Mendelian
parlance, the dominant one; the fair type
the recessive. That is, if a dark individual
and a fair one mate, their descendants will
include three dark individuals to one fair
one. Thus, where a varied population is
multiplying rapidly, as in our cities, the
brunette types tend to outnumber the
blonde ones. In country towns, and especi-
ally in remote rural districts, the population
is less varied and the blonde type is pre-
served, sometimes further weakened by
generations of inter-marriage, but some-
times splendidly virile.
An inquiring person who explored the
portrait galleries of London states that
the men who won fame as pioneers, sailors,
soldiers, adventurers, are almost all blue-
eyed; the more urban celebrities—law-
givers, writers, reformers and so on— are 90
per cent, brown-eyed. The blue-eyed, fair-
haired type, like its viking ancestors, makes
for the sea and the open spaces; the brown-
eyed, dark-haired Latin type clings to the
cities and the civilisation beloved of its
remote Roman ancestry. These are but
generalisations, but they are suggestive.
And the moral? It looks as if the habit
of living in cities tends to increase auto-
matically and rapidly. The sooner we
decide to apply money, energy and hard
thinking to our decentralisation problem
the better.
4
The Usury of the Landshark.
An anti-usury law is expected of the Vic.
Parliament on the lines of that which lately
came into operation in Britain. Every year
in the North-Western or Mallee districts
of Victoria thousands of pounds, the
savings which thrifty, hard - working
men have invested in farming pro-
perties in the hope of building up homes
for their families, pass into the pockets of
unscrupulous rogues. The fluctuating values
of land in the newer Mallee districts are
conducive to their depredations. Their
methods vary. The most practised is to
iind a prospective buyer who requires finan-
cial assistance, and give him possession of
a farm. Unless he has a great run of luck
to start with, he sooner or later almost
invariably defaults. Since he purchased
the property, its value, partly as a result
of his labors, lias advanced by, say, 10
shillings or a pound an acre. The shark,
under threats, extracts the victim’s last
penny, and turns him out to make way for
a second victim, on whom he proceeds to
repeat the process, with variations, at the
increased price per acre. When he has made
several thousands out of a single farm he
is satisfied to let it pass into the hands of
a buyer who is in a position to pay for it.
Until then he wants the man who cannot
pay, and he welcomes a dry season as a
means of aggravating the position and
making his victims sure.
Glowery, member for Ouyen in the Vic.
Assembly, represents the district in which
land-sharking is most prevalent. It is
up to him to deliver a blow that will rid
the electorate of this scourge. Support will
come to him from every part of the House.
■ ♦
Why must Queensland Diggers certified
T.B. wait months in coastal areas (notori-
ously bad for T.B. cases) whilst correspon-
dence proceeds between Brisbane and Mel-
bourne, and the latter issues a pass to Dalby
or Stanthorpe, whither the Digger may not
proceed except by permit? Many cases of
hardship might be quoted; here is one. A
Digger, shot through the lung in 1916,
double pleuro-pneumonia following while
on light duty in England, was invalided as
C 3. The first pension of 15s. was reduced
to 10s.; then, on some vigorous kicking, it
was increased to £l. This being insufficient,
work had to be sought; result, haemorrhage
in the lung. This Digger is still in Bris-
bane, still on a pound a week, and still
living—to our disgrace—partly on charity.
♦
“4X2”: “RG.LI.T.” (B. 9/5/’2B) says
police should not be armed, and I agree—
except in very special circumstances. The
police in England are unarmed and always
were. So were the Royal Irish Constabulary
until 1920, when the number of police
murdered decreased as their ability to hit
back increased. Armed police are a remedy
for wholesale lawlessness. Unarmed police
are a prevention of that condition in an
ordinary civilised country. So insistent on
this point are the London authorities that
a written report detailing the why and
wherefore must be rendered by any con-
stable drawing his baton while on duty.
The Sydney heads might do worse than
give disarmament a trial, but as a safeguard
they should send two constables instead
of one in the hoodlum districts.
♦
The Papuan Government has reported that
a wild tale of the slaying of 500 natives
in an inter-tribal battle is 98 per cent,
fiction. The yarn was brought to Sydney
bj r a couple of boat-builders employed for
a while in Papua by a beach mission, and
in spite of its improbability was swallowed
hook, line and sinker by the local journals,
which were short of divorce cases at the
time. The officially reported facts are that
10 were killed in a fight between the natives
of Doriome and Goaribiri, the latter the
sociable hamlet that ate missionary
James Chalmers in the long ago. The
offenders have been duly arrested and dealt
with. Papua has suffered much from loose-
tongued irresponsibles. The most obvious
nonsense about it is eagerly broadcast in
the press, entailing inquiries, and throwing
much extra work on officials who have no
difficulty in finding a full day’s work in
the ordinary course of their duties.


1,000 Mile Race, Brescia—Rome—Brescia
First place and fastest time were
secured by a 1500 c.c. Alfa Romeo
Car using SHELL Spirit and Oil.
In addition to the winner, Second,
Third, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh and
Tenth places in the 1500 c.c. class
were obtained on
SHELL
MOTOR OILS
AND
SPIRIT
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
5509
POLITICAL
POINTS
The most effective contribution to the
debate on the Federal Arbitration Act
Amendment was that of Earle Page, who
has developed a capacity for making fight-
ing speeches. He argued that the bill was
necessary to restore democratic control of
unions now run by a privileged caste. The
sea cooks have not had a ballot on their
strike, though their rules call for one. The
union entrance fee has been raised from £2
to £lO, and the annual subscription from
15s. to 255., while officers have been appointed
and dismissed, all without the prescribed
reference to the rank and file. And in the
present state of the law nothing can be done.
Maoriland’s industrial peace conference,
after discussing the arbitration system in
a conciliatory spirit for weeks, found it
could not agree upon any recommendations.
There seems to have been an earnest endea-
vor to reach agreement, but the parties split
.on an unsuspected rock. The employers,
arguing that it is impossible to make arbi-
tration compulsory, wanted to take the com-
pulsory principle out of the Act. The
workers’ representatives said there must be
some finality to disputes, and compulsion
Avas essential. Evidently there is no room
in Maoriland for Australia’s win-tie-or-
wrangle brand of union leader, let alone our
noble Johansons and Tudehopes.
When the Tote Bill was thrown out by
Vic. Leg. Council, Premier Hogan undertook
to make the measure an issue at the Dreary
House elections this year. There are no
signs of his having done so yet, although
the poll for the 10 contested seats will be
taken on Saturday. Labor made sure of its
own three seats —those held by Ministers
Jones and Williams and Kiernan, in the
metropolitan area —but made no bid for any
others. Supporters of the machine should
note that McGregor (Gippsland), Richardson
(South-Western), Harris (North-Eastern),
Tyner (South-Eastern) and Angliss (South-
ern) voted against the bill and thereby de-
prived their State of £200,000 or £300,000
p.a. of sorely-needed revenue.
Addressing a Women’s National League
conference in Melbourne, Prime Minister
Bruce made the rather remarkable statement,
apropos the Abrahams case, that “under the
Commonwealth law there is no power to put
persons ivlio sign false income-tax returns in
gaol.” He didn’t say whether the law would
be altered or not. For that matter, has the
Commonwealth any gaol to put these or any
other offenders in? The Constitution says
that they can be put in a State gaol and
the State must keep them there, but when
the experiment was made a Westralian Gov-
ernment let them out.
Since the war nearly every Australian
Labor Parliamentarian who has seconded the
vote of thanks to the returning-officer has
been beaten by a Country-party man. Jim
Hickey, honorary Minister in the Westralian
Leg. Council, is the latest to suffer the ex-
perience, and Premier Collier is struggling
with the appointment of a successor. Really
Chief Sec. Drew could do without an assist-
ant, but it is a Westralian tradition that
there should be two Ministers in the Upper
House, though the S. Aus. Labor Ministry
got along with one, and Lyons, of Tasmania,
managed tolerably well with an unpaid man
who didn’t even belong to the A.L.P.
The N.S.W. Minister for Justice was
lately bailed up by a deputation which asked
that three questions should be submitted at
the drink referendum on September 1: Con-
tinuance, Reform and Prohibition. The second
would be a silly variation unless the nature
of the reform was specified. If it was car-
ried in the baldest shape a new Government
might interpret it as an instruction to re-
duce the price of liquor. However, Minister
Lee said that if Prohibition is defeated the
Bavinshaw Cabinet will get busy at reform.
So apparently the Cabinet, or one member
thereof, regards Prohibition as a possibility,
and that makes it more interesting to know
if it has planned any ways and means of
meeting the compensation bill.
Crawford Vaughan, sometime Premier of
the greatest wine-producing State south of
the line, recently announced that “France,
the largest wine-producer and wine-drinking
nation in the world, is the only important
country where the death-rate outstrips the
birth-rate.” He also quoted an alleged
French doctor who is said to have remarked
“that alcoholic poisoning is responsible for
depopulation, rendering our men incapable
of producing healthy children.” France cer-
tainly lost population during the war, but
the surplus of births over deaths was
159,790 in 1920, and 117,023 in 1921. And
there has been a very substantial surplus
every year since.
Victoria’s Hogan Government heaved a
sigh of relief when it learned that the wheat-
growers had turned down a compulsory pool.
Redeeming an election promise of a referen-
dum, the Government sent out 19,000 ballot
papers to farmers cultivating 20 acres or
over. Only 11,375 bothered to vote; of these,
5923 declared against compulsion and 5430
for it, there being 22 informal votes. The
Hogans will thankfully bow to the verdict.
The theory of B. S. B. Stevens, N.S.W.
Assistant Treasurer, that national accounts
should be presented intelligibly in balance-
sheet form, has a lot to recommend it, though
the result might not be so soothing to “in-
vestors abroad” as Bertram Sydney Barns-
dale seems to suppose. The balance-sheet
notion was tried in Maoriland a few years
ago. Investors and others found it useful,
but it afforded opponents of the Government
so much ammunition that it was dropped for
a system of accounting that made compari-
sons with the past difficult.
Premier Hogan has been seeing Deputy-
Premier Buttenshaw about an extension of
the railway from Orbost (Vic.) to Bombala
or Twofold Bay (N.S.W.), with a view to
completing another link between Sydney and
Melbourne. Th.e difficulty is that Twofold
Bay is one of the 17 good harbors of Aus-
tralia, and a good harbor isn’t a thing to be
encouraged away from the present bloated
capitals. Bad as finances are money is
being found for scrappy lines to Moon’s
Siding and Boggabilla, but for a fine neglec-
ted port where a city might grow it is hard
to get a bean.
There will be some interesting remarks at
the Sydney Trades Hall when the A.L.P.
returning-officer’s report on the Senate selec-
tion ballot is considered. Most of the bal-
lot-papers received have been rejected owing
to “irregularities.” The poll, as restricted,
is headed by P. V. Stokes, Labor Lud Mayor
of Sydney during the exciting period now
being reviewed by a Royal Commission.
No. 2 is W. G. Mahony, Theodore’s prede-
cessor as M.H.R. for Dailey, who will
presently be examined by another Royal
Commission touching the allegation of Lam-
bert. MH.R., his colleague for six years, that
£BOOO was waiting for anyone who would
provide Theodore with a seat. No. 3 is
Donald Grant, of I.W.W. notoriety. It
will be a remarkable team if it starts.
There is this to be said for the A.L.P. in
N. S. Wales —its brand of humbug is not
so sickening as the Nat. Federation brand.
When Joe Cook was thought to be after the
party nomination for Martin, York-street’s
favorite newspapers demanded the selection
of a Young Man, the party being in dire
need of New Blood. And for once a young
man teas selected—by 49 to 47 in a con-
stituency with nearly 60,000 electors! But
the successful candidate was Graham Prat-
ten, a good Protectionist like his late uncle,
and the man he beat was W. A. Holman,
low-tariffist and Nat. Fed. pet; so presently
there were shouts that Holman should be
run as well as Pratten, there having been
“irregularities in the ballot.” Meanwhile the
same old mob of sitting members has been
“endorsed” for other seats. The young men
of “Nationalism” will never get a fair spin
until they unite against the pre-selection
swindle.
Latest available figures for a complete
year showed that the Commonwealth bought
from the United Kingdom goods worth
£65,840,055, and the U.K. bought from it
goods worth £61,547,790, which was a balance
of over £4,000,000 in J. Bull’s favor. His
own figures for last year showed a much
larger trade balance (£8,381,000) in J. Bull’s
favor, and revealed this country as the best
customer the Old Man has got in propor-
tion to population. Out of 20 places enume-
rated only four were good customers in the
same sense, and Australia ranked high among
them. Yet in unenlightened circles the idea
that Australia shuts its parent out is quite
incurable.
Victoria has a court of industrial appeals
which Lemmon, the Minister for Labor,
wants to abolish. He proposes instead a sort
of super-wages board, with an umpire and
two representatives each from the Chamber
of Manufactures and the Trades Hall
Council, an employer and employee from the
particular trade affected to be added for the
time being. The appeals court was set up
to appease Conservatism for the loss of the
seven-tenths majority provision for wages
boards inserted by the Irvine Government,
and has never been much in favor.
Another of the financial devices of the
old Sydney City Council has come to light.
When a property was resumed the Council
naturally took possession, though payment
might hang fire for a long time. In the
interval the Council paid interest on the pur-
chase price and charged the same to loans,
and collected rents from the property and
spent them as ordinary revenue. If sufficient
streets had been resumed on these simple
principles, a half-year’s rents might have
been large enough to provide a decent for-
tune for all concerned, in addition to the
price of a ticket for parts unknown.
Lothrop Stoddard has brightened the U.S.
press with an article on what will happen
“when the Pacific storm winds begin to
blow,” and has given the assurance that
If the war storm breaks over Australia, America
can never stand by and see her overwhelmed by
Asia. Our Pacific coast would leap to arms at the
sound of the first shots.
It is pleasant language, but it recalls some-
thing that General Pershing said in 1924: —
What was the situation in 1917? We had no
plan, no preparation, no artillery, no transportation,
no ships; in fact, nothing. If it had not been that
the Allies were able to hold the lines for 15 months
after we had entered, the war might well have been
lost.
The disturbance was three years old in 1917.
A nation which is so slow in taking the
most elementary precautions might not
“leap” in time to do Australia much good-
Maoriland has been paying pretty heavily
for its “vigorous migration policy.” Many
of the immigrants, after a taste of rural life,
drifted to the towns, and each winter, for
years past, there has been a great deal of
unemployment. In the financial year ended
March last the Government spent close on
half a million on relief works, and munici-
palities also laid out substantial sums.
Assisted immigration has been stopped; in
fact, the migration regulations have been
tightened up to an extent paralleled only in
the U.S.A.
The opponents of the reduction of the
bounty on Australian wines made it clear,
when the enabling measure was before the
Federal Parliament, that it would have a
serious effect on the flourishing trade with
Britain, with the usual repercussion on this
side. This view has just been endorsed by
Cuthbert Burgoyne. member of a firm which
has had much to do with the establishment
of the Australian wine trade in Britain. He
says the reduction will give South African
wines a great advantage, besides upsetting
the foundations on which the trade has been
built up. Worse still will be the disorgani-
sation of production in Australia.
As the Lang Act for suppressing the drug
traffic in N. S. Wales isn’t doing its job,
the Bavin Ministry is considering an amend-
ment to make the penalty for possession of
narcotics gaol instead of a fine. This is
good; for, though it is easy to get agents
to sell dope on the promise of payment of
their fines, it will be harder to secure them
when there is cold-jug ahead. And it is the
petty agent upon whom the traffic mostly
depends. But something in the way of
provision for the addict must be made, too.
It is simple enough to pass a law telling
those who are addicted to narcotics that they
must stop; but, unfortunately, drug-addiction
is a disease which must be treated by
physicians just like any other.
One possibility is that the Chinese
Southerners, in return for being given a
clear run to Peking; have offered to hand
over rich Manchuria to the Mikado. This
has been frequently suggested as the price
of Jap assistance to the struggling National-
ists. The troubles of collection, though,
might keep the Rising Sun statesmen busy
for a generation.
Macfarlan, new member for Brighton
(Vic.), did not take long to put on the
prophet’s robes. He has told his consti-
tuency that there is a prospect of. non-Labor
unity and that the Labor Ministry must
mind itself or it will disappear. The only
hope of shifting the Hogans is to lure the
Dunstan four to the Opposition side and
leave the 28 Laborites high and dry. Even
then Hogan might be able to put up a good
case for dissolution on the ground that the
House isn’t his, as the Allancocks were in
charge of affairs when it was chosen. Bent
and Lawson got appeals to the people tor
flimsier reasons.
The workers of Australia are cursed with
leaders who think that a few stock phrases
cau take the place of thought. Here, for
instance, is Buckland, of the A.W.U., who
says “it is known the world over that the
higher the wages the greater the prosperity
of the country.” And it’s true —with one
qualification. The wages must be earned. So
it simply comes to this: that the harder
men work the greater the prosperity of the
country. Which isn’t a bit what these
gabblers have been saying lately.
The Vic. Government is alleged to be con-
templating further group settlements in the
hilly country south of Morwell and Traral-
gon, Gippsland. Dairying is to be the
trump card. The Vic. Government had better
think again. Much of this conntry . has
been abandoned before, and will certainly,
if tried for dairying, be abandoned again.
But it is just about the finest forest country
in the world, and replanted—of course the
firestick has been at work —would be a
source of national wealth instead of a sink
for national lOU’s.
One of the demi-gods of American Big
Business, Charles Schwab, the steel, mag-
nate, is now advocating the cancellation of
the war debts. He has no sympathy, he
declares, with the collecting of these debts
from men who stood for the preservation
of civilisation and mankind. Schwab is
one of the mainstays of the Republican
party, who are keener than their rivals, the
Democrats, in the pursuit of the last penny.
So his attitude is not likely to bring about
any change in policy, though it may serve
to remind outsiders that Americans are not
all the same.
A Washington (U.S.A.) paper has an-
nounced that it can keep silent no longer,
and that when any Representative or
Senator who is known to be an advocate
of Prohibition appears in the legislative
halls tight the fact will be published. Anti-
Prohibitionist members may be tight there
with impunity, and Prohibitionist members
may be tight elsewhere with impunity, and
non-members, whether “dry” or “wet,” may
be tight anywhere with impunity; but there
is a point where the Daily News reckons
that forbearance ceases to be a virtue.
It transpired during the course of the
Federal Rep. wrangle over the Arbitration
Amendment Bill that most' of the terrible
penalties mentioned have been in force for
the last 24 years. Indeed the new measure
tones down some of them. . Formerly an
individual convicted of causing or counsel-
ling a strike or a lock-out could be fined
£1000; now the fine for an individual is
reduced to £5O, and the £lOOO penalty'
applies only to an organisation. But what
the public will want to know is whether
the new laws have cut off all the alibis and
excuses that made the old law inoperative, or
whether industrial law is to remain a farce.
A bright spot in last week’s debate on the
Pan-Pacific Trade-Union Congress . was
Senator Barnes’s unsolicited testimonial to
Jock Garden. ‘The Labor party has been
trying to get rid of him for 10 years!” he
declared. When asked to explain why, if
that were the case, Garden had been made
secretary of the N.S.W. Trades and Labor
Council, the Senator could only say darkly
that many strange things are done in that
State.
The motor-’bus club, which is seeking to
keep banned routes running in Melbourne
suburbs, received a setback lately. A
vehicle capsized in a collision, and 19 out
of 25 contributing members were more or
less seriously injured. None of the sufferers
can claim on the Government or a private
company; and a family might easily lose its
sole support without prospect of com-
pensation.
Lemmon, Vic. Minister for Education, who
asked for its views, has been advised by
the Council of Education that there is no
necessity for a board to control the depart-
ment, and that a general overhaul of the
system of instruction is not required. If
there was a board, it remarked, the chair-
man would have to be the driving force, so
there might just as well be a director, as
there has been during the past 26 years.
But the real question is whether the next
director will be as game as Tate has been;
also, will he know how to get the public
on his side and then compel Governments
and Parliament to improve things when
needed? In that line Tate has been a
genius. Still, there’s no reason to believe
that the race of giants ended with him.
HIS TROUBLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A bitter attack on Mr. Wliiddon, Income-tax Com-
missioner, was made by the Prime Minister.”
The shorn sheep shivers, tempered winds
despite,
Or saws of such phenomena that tell;
And now and then, mayhap, when falls the
night
On tablelands with blasts that nip and bite,
The shearer turns his collar up as well.
The galled jade winces—or at least it did —
And from the saddle or the collar
flinched.
And, fittingly enough, I’ll bet a quid,
Although his corns and chilblains were well
hid,
The saddler sometimes had a shoe that
pinched.
Attila and Alaric were long ago
Accounted scourges none could dodge or
stem;
They worked a dickens of a lot of woe,
Yet all the time ironic Fate, you know,
Held something raw in store for both of
them.
And we —well, passing hard we deem our lot
When stern inquisitors investigate
Our earnings—mediocre, like as not —
Dun us for money that we haven’t got
Or fines inflict whene’er returns are late.
Kings, Mussolinis, Premiers, earth’s elect,
Their crosses have, the same as I or you.
When next your cheque for income-tax is
checked,
’Twill make you kindlier if you reflect
That even Whiddon has his troubles, too!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Cleo” : Since the enforcement of the Vic-
torian Health Department regulation which
requires bread-carters to wear white overalls
and to pick up their wares with a three-
pronged fork, we have been agreeably sur-
ANY. PORT IN A STORM.
“You’re the nicest girl in the joint, Anna”
“My name isn’t Anna.”
“Don’t interrupt — Onna-m goin’ to take you over to the bar
an’ buy you the best cocktail they make.”
prised to receive our issue of the staff of
life an hour or two earlier than hitherto,
When paying the account last week the wife
took the opportunity of congratulating the
carter upon his increased efficiency. He
grinned and explained the why of it in
broad Yorkshire. “It’s arl tliroo th’ bread-
fark Mussus. Oi deant need t’ prod tIT
meare vvi’ it now—oi just woives it at ’ev,
and b’goom, she do go loik e bloizes!”
’ , ... ...
“P.M.” : Speaking of Diggers, reputed
killed in action, who have turned up in unex-
pected places (B. 9/5/’2B). I served in an
A.I.F. platoon from which two men were
reported missing after a heavy bombardment
—blown to pieces, we all assumed. The
end of the story came to me from the platoon
sergeant, who was travelling on a tram in
Dublin towards the end of 1919, when one of
the missing men came along to collect his
fare. He addressed him by his name, but
the resurrected Digger flatly refused to
answer to it. declaring he was. conductor
So-and-so. “Well, look here,” said the ser-
geant, “tell me one thing and I won’t give
the game away. Do you know what hap-
pened to Private Blank?” mentioning the
missing man’s mate. “Sure, but mum’s the
word,” said the conductor with a wink.
“Hop off and catch the next car behind us.
He’s drivin’ it.” And he was, too!
“Adelaide”: G. R. Laffer, Speaker of S.A.
Assembly, has been looking up the generally
forgotten powers vested in his Chair. Some
of the unemployed lately interrupted the
House by loud appeals from the Gallery
for attention to their case, and the sitting
had to be adjourned. There was also
“language the like of which had never been
heard in this Chamber.” Laffer, after due
consideration, declines either to close the
gallery or to have policemen to guard it.
Parliament will take the law into its own
hands, he says. And there won’t be any police-
court proceedings either. “The powers
vested in me as Speaker will be exercised.
Offenders will be arrested and committed
to gaol for whatever term may be de-
termined.”
jj: *
“Kuna” : That £5-note habit on tramcars
(B. 23/5/’2B) once became so prevalent in
Auckland (M.L.) that the conductors were
armed with small receipt-slips which
they would, present to the tenderer of the
note with the intimation that head office
would settle the matter of change. It soon
stopped the practice. In dealing with the
one-pound and 10-shilling notes a different
scheme w r as adopted. The conductor would
solemnly accept the paper, and remark that
change would be forthcoming anon, after
which he would tussle with a locker on the
back of the tram and produce what appeared
to be an armful of candles securely rolled in
brown paper. Opening one roll he would
extract tuppence, and then hand the lot to
the astounded passenger. I still cherish
the memory of one .enraged dame standing on
the corner in her festive rags, her arms full
of paper-wrapped coppers and her voice
breathing maledictions on the tramway
system and all connected with it.
* * St! *
“Cooramin”: I have known punters who
occasionally picked winners in their dreams,
but the most lucrative vision I ever heard
of came the way of a Victorian family a
few years ago. Robert Athorn, a farmer at
Swan Hill, had the faculty of dreaming
about the disasters that were going to hap-
pen to him. Finally it was revealed to him
while he slumbered that he was going to have
an accident with a horse, and the mishap
duly came off. Then he dreamed that his next
accident would be fatal, and saw himself in
his coffin. Having faith in dreams from past
experience, he set about putting his affairs
in order and making provision for his wife
and family. He took out an accident policy
for £2OOO with one company, and insured in
two other reputable companies for £lOOO
each. A few weeks after he had completed
these transactions and made his will he and
his son were carting posts in the mallec,
when he fell off the shaft of the waggon.
The wheel passed over his body and he died
in the district hospital the following day.
“Ven”: Touch-
ing the repatria-
tion of Chinese
bones (B. 2/5/’2B),
I know a station
manager who was
interviewed by a
polished an d
urbane Eurasian
requesting to be
allowed to remove,
for export, the re-
mains of three
Chinamen who, he
averred, had died
at different times
on the station.
The manager was
busy but quit e
ready to oblige, and
referred his visitor
to one or two of
the old hands for
information regard-
ing the position of
the graves. Two
were located easily
and the bones re-
moved ; the third
Chinaman, accord-
ing to oral tradi-
tion, had been
buried beneath
what was now a
tennis court. The
resurrectioni s t
asked for authority
t o excavate ; the
manager demurred
a little. However,
the visitor under-
taking to make
good all damage,
he. finally consen-
ted, and the third
set of bones, after
a little prospecting,
was hit upon and
removed. A. few
days later a con-
tractor arrived
from Sydney with two or three workmen,
and fell to on the tennis court, leaving it
as good as new.
“Lao-dah”: This is a materialistic age.
A Melbourne swain sued his ex-fiancee for
the return of presents covering a courtship of
two years. In the list of articles demanded
were an electric iron, an adaptor, a suitcase,
a set of scales and weights, and a travelling-
trunk. The only item with a sentimental
touch about it was a Canberra florin, and
it transpired that the lady had spent that!
“Runa” : Recent cases make it clear that
the present N.S.W. law, while not prevent-
ing a parent, from leaving the bulk of his
money to the most deserving ones of his
family, can be invoked to secure a pittance
for the least deserving. It seems a step in
the right direction. There was a well-known
M.L. case where a man, incensed by the
opposition of his grown-up family to his
second marriage, tied up his fortune until
the coming-of-age of his infant daughter,
with the result that the first family experi-
enced considerable hardship, one of them
becoming a charge on a benevolent institu-
tion. Numbers of grandchildren were denied
educational advantages they should have
had and several of the family died without
ever receiving a penny of their- father’s
money If the law is amended on the lines
of recent N S W. legislation, hardships like
this cannot occur. The new method will
rob the novelist of many an appealing situa-
tion No longer will the noble-minded but
misunderstood hero be east into a chill
world without a penny by a relentless
parent There is sure to be somebody will-
SPEAKING WIT HOUT PREJUDICE—
“If I were you, Madam, I’d go in for brass vases. They only get dinted when they
are dusted off.”
ing to back his chances and take his appeal
to court. By the way, the man responsible
for the reform in N. S. Wales was Arthur
Griffith. Being a man of ideas, the Labor
party naturally kicked him out.
“O. Kay”: The tests employed to deter-
mine the sobriety or otherwise of a regula-
tion-breaking motorist continue to rest with
the police surgeon. At Kus,sell-street, _ Mel-
bourne, the other night a suspect who indig-
nantly denied alcoholic excess was required
to (1) walk up a flight of stairs unaided
by the railing; (2) touch his toes with the
minimum of genuflexion; (3) pick up the
head of a safety-match; (4) maintain his
balance with eyes closed; and (5) walk a
chalk line. He scored so few marks, accord-
ing to the examiner, that the magistrate
awarded him 14 days.
* * * *
“C.G.D.”; A sick man called at the local
doctor’s house in our little country town. The
practitioner was out, and his maid, a simple
kindly soul, asked what was the trouble.
“Dunno,” said the patient, “but I’ve had a
raging headache for a week.” Mary Ann
looked sympathetic and pondered. “Well,”
she said at last, “there’s some things like
headache powders in the surgery and you
can have one if you like ; Doctor mightn’t
be back for hours.” “Give us one, then,”
exclaimed the sufferer. “I’ll take anything
to get rid of this head.” The powder having
been duly produced and swallowed, the
patient went home to bed. The headache
had disappeared when he awoke —three
days later.
“Wundaroo”: Buried treasure (B.
2/5/’2B) ? Some years back a pioneer selec-
tor who lived at Guthalungra, near Towns-
ville (Q.), is confidently believed to have
buried a large sum of money on his property,
and it is still waiting to be found. His dying
request was that he be buried under a certain
tree about a mile from the homestead, and
the district is convinced that the treasure
is concealed near this spot. An eccentric
character named Lawrence, who died at
Bowen 12 years back, had a habit of placing
his savings in treacle-tins and concealing
them somewhere about his property. He
passed away without revealing the where-
abouts of his hidden hoard, and despite some
occasional blind stabbing it remains where he
left it.
“Herodot” : Are there any portable belong-
ings in existence or out of it that absent-
minded people will not leave behind them in
trams or trains or ferry-boats? Not long ago
the item “Ashes (in urn), one,” figured on
an inventory of unclaimed property to be
auctioned by the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment, though I cannot say whether there
was a bid. On another occasion a brass ves-
sel containing ashes, and bearing on the out-
side a label which showed that the contents
had come but recently from the Crematorium
at the Necropolis (Sydney), was picked up
by a porter in a returning funeral train, and
went to the lost parcels office, where its
owner recovered it next day.
* * * *
“Pas Encore”: The girl on the ferry
thought it impertinence, or worse, when the
man sitting next to her remarked that she
was wearing a very fine string of pearls.
She ignored him, after one freezing glance.
But at Manly wharf he again approached
and said with perfect respectfulness; “I
know what I’m talking about. Those pearls
are far too valuable for you to be wearing
without a safety-chain. I’m an expert.
Madam, and I advise you to treat them less
casually.” The wearer asked her fianc6 that
evening whether he’d been running to wild
extravagances. He stdmitted having paid
30s. for a string of French pearls; she
told him her experience and asked him to go
back to the jeweller. That gentleman wel-
corned him with open arms and convinced
him that he had been given a £250 string
in mistake. “Bring the lady in,” he said in
an access of gratitude, “and she shall have
a present from the firm.” Of course the
buyer wasn’t legally entitled to the pearls,
The Law dealing with such transactions
lays it down that both parties must clearly
understand the contract, and in cases like
this the jeweller by no means contracts to
give the buyer a £250 string for 30s. But
the buyer, having paid cash, could have got
away with it if he had been less honest.
“Triple Bob”: The Sydney University
carillon may gladden the hearts of highbrow
musicians, but it is going to be a genuine
disappointment to the crowds of people who
thought its melodies would be audible over
a wide urban and suburban range. Actually,
its carrying power is of the faintest. On
Empire Day the lunch hour saw a few
scores attracted to the Uni. grounds by the
prospect of some recognisable tunes; it was
curious to watch them edging closer and
closer to the tower during the performance;
even a few hundred yards away on the wind-
ward side the tinkle seemed a singularly
small mouse to show for the mountain of
money spent and controversy waged. Among
other apprehensions expressed a year or two
ago was one that the Uni. tower wasn’t
strong enough to stand against the rever-
berant volume of sound the bells would make,
but it won’t be necessary to put any extra
insurance on the structure.
*** * %
“Bad Australian”: I, too. can recall a
bridegroom who returned a totally unexpected
response to the “Wilt thou take this woman?”
query. When Maudie agreed to take
Jimmy Ah Quong, the storekeeper at Penny-
weight, for better or for worse, Jimmy sug-
gested that the knot should be tied at the
local registrar’s office, but Maudie insisted on
the marriage being solemnised in church bv
a fully-qualified pilot and with all possible
frill and publicity. Came the day when the
happy couple lined up before the parson, and
everything went according to schedule until
the “Wilt thou?” passage was reached. The
query obviously staggered Quong, but he
pulled himself together and inquired with
some asperity: “Hey, w’at you tork abou’?
By cli, whaffor I come heah?” The parson
and the congregation (or some of them) were
highly scandalised at the untoward turn of
affairs, but explanations followed, the Voice
breathed o’er Eden as it should, and Jimmy
and liis bride lit out for home and connubial
felicity amid the encouraging remarks of the
assembled multitude.
* * * *
“Ula” : Nervous bridegrooms (B. 16/5/’2B) ?
VY as present at the wedding of a pal, a
well-mannered young man, in a Melbourne
suburban church recently. When the minis-
ter came to the interrogation “Wilt thou
take this woman, etc?” the ’groom politely
answered “Thanks!”
Avril”; Maoriland had a dream city
which is almost as forgotten as WestraliaA
Australind (B. 16/5/’2B). In the early days
a slnptul of enthusiasts arrived to found a
colony on the shores of the Manukau Har-
bor, bringing with them in addition to all
the goods they could carry maps and full
plans for the building of the city of Corn-
wallis Ihe little group of migrants began
their task on the rugged Manukau shores
! n great heart, but five miles across the
isthmus Auckland was already in being, and
its challenge was too much for Cornwallis,
tor it possessed a harbor with no treacherous
bar and abundant safe anchorage. So those
who had coine to found a rival city gradually
drifted to Auckland, and the carefully pre-
p a red plans and maps passed into the hands
of collectors. The wreck of H.M.S. Ornheus
on the, bar finally extinguished Manukau’s
chances of ever becoming a busy port.
LONG DESCENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“At the Central Police Court, Sydney, Carmen de
Vere was fined £5 for assaulting a police constable
by kicking him in the pit of the stomach. The
defendant admitted having had four bottles of lager.
The magistrate said that it was a tragedy.’’
Lady Carmen Vere de Vere,
You made the pace a trifle warm;
Withal a quaint reversal here
Was of your old ancestral form.
You bear the name of that proud dame
Who broke, for sport, the hearts of yeomen ;
But was it ladylike to kick
A constable in the abdomen?
Your namesake of Victorian times,
A tuneful laureate relates,
Within her park had branching limes
And sculptured lions at her gates.
On birth and rank for love she’d bank,
Which he regarded as improper,
But ’twasn’t limejuice prompted you
To put the shoe into a copper.
You may inherit all her charms,
The sweet, proud eyes with languor lit,
And Norman blood and coats-of-arms
And other vague ancestral kit.
Each in your day and in your way
Could raise a devil of a racket,
But Lady Clara never stooped
To tearing a policeman’s jacket.
Lady Clara Vere de Vere,
For all the blame upon you placed,
Repose of manners, ’twould appear,
Bespoke your cult and stamped your caste.
That same repose may still —who knows? —
Assist your line to keep its stock up,
But little came your namesake’s way
L T ntil they dumped her in the lock-up.
Lady Carmen Vere de Vere,
You put strange memories in my head :
It must be fully twenty year
Since that so poignant poem I read.
A “long descent.” in any event,
To trimming Johns, from vamping yeomen !
A tragedy, of course, but which?
The beer, the kick-—or the cognomen?
X.S.AV.
T. THE R.


“Stellsby” : A niece of mine, who is quali-
fying for her Dip. Ed. (she has collected her
8.A.), and her sister, who is at the Teachers’
Training College, both complained to me
the other day that a female pundit was
wasting their time by endeavoring to teach
them “voice production.” The younger girl
summed up the situation thus: “Uncle, if
I must say ‘wliae’ for ‘why’ and ‘bai’ for
‘by’ it’s going to be a fair cow when I
face my first class of critical Australian
kids.”
* * * :j!
“Gregor”: Standing for nearly half an
hour on the Sydney G.P.O. steps recently,
I noticed that hardly a hat was raised
among the passing crowds as a tribute to
the Cenotaph. In London and Paris nine
out of ten of those who pass the national
memorials to the dead make some slight
obeisance to them. Even in New York and
the great American cities, it is the custom
to salute or raise the hat, and many women
will bow. We Australians pride ourselves
on our dislike of outward flummeries, but
it is a question whether such a quality can-
not be carried too far. In any case, the
Cenotaph should never have been placed at
such a spot. The ideal situation would
have been a quiet thoroughfare like Mac-
quarie-street, or at the entrance to the
Botanical Gardens.
* * * *
“Gil M.”: I remember Canberra chiefly
for the mile journey I made from the Hotel
Wellington to the Hotel Kurrajong to get
a^ packet of cigarettes, though why the Hotel
Kurrajong can sell cigarettes and the Hotel
Wellington can’t remains a mystery. Occa-
sionally the pressmen at Canberra write
THE EXPLANATION.
“This season people are choosing fabrics to suit their personalities.”
“Oh, now I know why so many girls are wearing snake-skin shoes.”
the truth about Canberra, but it is never
printed. Every other citizen of the Federal
Capital is a bootlegger, and the Canberra
railway station js often stacked with con-
signments of liquor, not even labelled
tomato sauce. The comedy of drinking
after six o’clock in Queanbeyan is magnifi-
cent. Mt. Stromblo—with an observatory
and about five inhabitants —is just beyond
the prescribed mileage for a bona fide
“traveller.” Entering “Quong” from Cooma
I signed my name in the back parlor of a
crowded hotel underneath those of 35 resi-
dents of Mt. Stromblo, including “S. M.
Bruce,” “Dr. Earle Page” and other cele-
brities, who, needless to say, were merely
K ing humorously impersonated.
:]: * * *
“Garbut”: The conversion to sobriety of
Brother Hatch was the achievement of which
our little band of Salvationists was proudest,
and the testimonies of the saved sinner were
the popular features of the Saturday night
meetings in front of Flynn’s pub. Conse-
quently, great was the consternation when
it was learned that the star convert had
backslidden. Despite strenuous prayer and
much throwing out of the lifeline, the
deserter spent several days in Flynn’s bar,
but at last he finished his spree and there
came a Saturday night which found the
lost sheep once more arrayed in his red
jersey and back in the fold. The reclaimed
one’s testimony was eagerly awaited and
presently he hopped into the centre of the
ring as cocky as ever. “Well, friends and
comrades,” he commenced, “I thank God that
I backslided.” Then he made a dramatic
pause during which the rescuers looked a
trifle anxiously at each other. “But, friends
and comrades,” pursued the orator, “I thank
Him still more that I front-slided again.”
The burst of applause was deafening.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Queer drinks? I once knew
a man who mixed beer and whisky. He ex-
plained his taste this way: “If I drink beer
I’m full before I’m drunk. Whisky makes
me drunk before I’m full. Shandied they
make a dead-heat of it.”
:Jc ❖ ❖ ❖
“Dale Court”: Apropos the quaint re-
lationships often resulting from second mar-
riages (B. 9/s’/28), I know a Victorian
town where a grandfather and grandson
married two sisters. The fact of the elder
bridegroom becoming a brother-in-law to his
own grandson, and his wife being step-grand-
mother to her own sister, and the grand-
son slipping in as a step-grandchild to his
sister-in-law never seemed to worry any
of the parties.
■** * * .
“Spadger”: During the ’27 drought an
owner put a line of full-woolled merino
hoggets on an agent’s books. A buyer in-
spected, but jibbed at the price. A month
later thunderstorms watered the buyer’s run
and lie wired the owner: “Will take your
hoggets off shears.” The answering telegram
ran : “Too late, the Lord has taken them
in the wool.”
* * * S[!
“Spadassin”: There is some grim interest
for Australian fencing enthusiasts in the
account of the accidental slaying of a fencer
in the Belgian championship. The button
came off the tip of his opponent’s foil un-
noticed, and a fierce lunge saw him run
through the body. A lost button is always
a dangerous possibility in the knightly art,
and it isn’t that the point of the foil is
needle-tipped either. A thrust with the full
power and timing of lunge and body behind
it is a very forceful thing, as anyone who
has been prodded amidships with a buttoned
foil, even while wearing a heavy plastron,
can certify. It is quite possible for a good
swordsman to kill a man with an ordinary
umbrella —indeed it has been done more than
once, by accident or design. In this case,
the foil went through a heavy-padded leather
plastron and six inches into the unfortunate
fencer’s chest.
* X- *
“Topee”: The “jury fowl” is a breed of
poultry quite unknown to fanciers, but it
once .enjoyed a reputation of its own in Syd-
ney. It was a small-framed bird, noted for
the toughness of its flesh and the resiliency
of its bones, which acquired its name from
its regular appearance at the half-crown
poultry dinner contracted for by the Sheriff’s
department for the sustenance of locked-up
jurymen at Darlinghurst courthouse. On
the last occasion when I encountered it, over
30 years ago, a drumstick slipped from under
the foreman’s blade and, rebounding from
the floor, nearly broke the nose of a tipstaff
who had been sent by his Honor to inquire
as to our comfort. Towards the end of last
century any markedly unmasticable bird
became widely known as a “jury fowl” to
diners at hotels and restaurants, but though
the species survives the old name seems to
have gone out of vogue.
* * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: As a lawyer I am natu-
rally interested in the reported discovery of
three ancient wills in the secret drawer of
an old bureau in a Fitzroy (Melbourne)
shop, but the tale, as printed by the dailies,
is full of improbabilities. The documents
are said to date from the days of (1) Henry
11., (2) Cromwell and (3) George 111., and
to bo written either in Latin or quaint old
English characters. Writing was not neces-
sary for a will in the time of Henry 11., and
it was not until the reign of Henry VIII.
that a man was allowed to make a will dis-
posing of real estate. A will of the time of
Cromwell is, of course, a possibility, but if
it is in Latin I should sniff at it, and if it
is “in quaint old English characters” I
should hold my nose. The use of the latter
died out in England soon after printing was
invented. The use of Latin in deeds and
wills was discontinued long before the time
of Cromwell, though it still survived in
Court documents and pleadings until the
middle of the eighteenth century. A Latin
will of the time of George 111. is so unlikely
as to be almost impossible. It is finally
AUTUMN FASHIONS.
FLAPPER: “I would like to try on that vieux-rose frock in the window.”
SALRS LAFY : “I'm sorry, that’s a lamp-shade. But we could copy it for you.”
alleged that the wealthy grazier who pur-
cliased these interesting documents intends
to refrain from disclosing the name of the
English family involved, “as it is possible
that the wills may have some effect on per-
sons now living.” Of course, wills of the
dates mentioned could have no possible legal
consequences at the present day.
* ■
‘Gregor”: There is one sure way by
which the genuine Malay kris may be de-
tented from the article manufactured in
Birmingham for the tourist trade (B.
0/5/’2B). The native metal is hardened and
tempered by continual beating out on ah
anvil, being reheated scores of times, while
the metal used in the imitation is rolled in
a mill. The marks of the hammering can be
distinguished all over the surface of the
real thing, while the surface of the brummy
fake is perfectly smooth.
* * * *
“Neurone” : The idea that the retina of
the eye stores images
like a photographic
plate (B. 16/5/'2B)
belongs to th-e dark
ages of science, and
should have died with
them. Every neurolo-
gist knows that the
specialised portions of
nerve cells (neurones)
which constitute the
retina are not per-
manently altered by
light stimuli acting
on them. What the
retina does is to hand
on the stimuli re-
reived, in the form of
nerve impulses, to the
brain cortex. Only in
the brain cortex are
the impressions regis-
tered and stored. It
is this simple fact that
explains why it is
possible for us to
visualise scenes that
have impressed us in
past years. Even if
permanent i mpres-
sions were made on
the retina, the pro-
found changes which
take place in rigor
mortis would so alter
them that they could in no sense represent
an image pictured in life.
* * * *
“Shep” : The phosgene gas which recently
exploded in Hamburg with disastrous re-
sults was probably the most deadly weapon
of its kind used by the Germans in France.
The later invention known as “mustard” gas
was more extensively used and hence caused
more casualties, but in this case a man had
a fighting chance. He knew what was wrong
with him a few hours after getting the gas,
and prompt medical attention saved thou-
sands of lives. Often with phosgene gas a
man would not know he had been affected
until he collapsed over 12 hours later. The
Germans relied on a favorable wind to send
phosgene over in cloud form, and we were
told they wore extremely wary of using it.
In low country it would hang about for a
whole, day or two, and a slight variation in
the wind might blow it back over the Ger-
man trenches.
* , * * *
“Avoncliff”: Not since the war has the
House of .Commons been so shaken to its
foundations, it would seem, as over the
recent drama in real life which began by an
eminent economist taking a girl for a walk
in Hyde Park and now develops into a Royal
Commission to investigate certain grave
charges against the police force. There is
something in the unsavory business that re-
calls the once-famous but now long-forgotten
"Cass case,” which caused so much commo-
tion in the -early ’eighties.. A perfectly, re-
spectable young woman, going home at mgnt
through a West-End street, was definitely
charged by a police constable with soliciting.
Subsequently inquiries made it perfectly
clear that she had been the victim of what
was either a hideous mistake or a piece ot
almost incredible bungling, but not before the
public indignation had been fanned to blaz-
ing point over the outrage. Several police
paid the penalty before the echoes of the
Cass case died away, and there looks at least
a strong probability of history repeating
itself oil the present occasion. Proud as the
average Londoner may be of his police force,
he never overlooks the possibility of indi-
vidual members being fallible, or something
worse, where the liberty of the subject, and
more especially the feminine one, is con-
cerned.
* * =i= *
“Tee Essbie” : At Glenbrook (N.S.W.) on
May 12 was unveiled a stone erected to
mark the spot where Blaxland, Wentworth
and Lawson camped on May 12, 1813,
the second day of their famous expedition.
After the ceremony I went home and re-
freshed my memory by reading some of
the early-day history of Australia. During
my researches I came on the following pas-
sage in a letter written to England by Gover-
nor King : “I cannot help thinking that per-
severing in crossing these mountains, which
are confused and barren assemblages of
rocks and mountains, with impassable
chasms between, would be as chimerical as
useless.... As far as respects the extension
of agriculture beyond the range of mountains,
that is an idea that must be given up.” King
wrote thus in 1805, after the failure of Cay-
ley to cross the Blue Mountains.
“Merris”: Mixed metaphors? Speaking
on the Arbitration Bill, according to the
report in my daily, ex-Prime Minister
Hughes declared: “There was a time when
the employers had power and used it tyran-
nically. The unionist fathers had eaten
sour grapes, and had set their children’s
teeth on edge, and now the boot was on the
other leg.”
* * * *
“Rob P.”: The noise of spasmodic shoot-
ing recently caused a crowd to collect in
a Brisbane suburb, and the sight that met
their eyes set excited citizens speculating
whether a conflict between gangsters was in
progress or a cop was giving battle to a
desperado. On the roof of a private garage
was a man in blue uniform and cap armed
with a stick and a revolver. The stick was
used to dislodge the tiles, while the revol-
ver sent occasional bullets through the holes.
Presently it transpired that the uniformed
one was a chauffeur and that he was merely
•engaged in a snake hunt. The venomous
reptile had made its home in the roof, and
was eluding its assailant by dodging into
crevices between tiles and rafters. The
struggle lasted quite half an hour, and much
of the roof had been dislodged before the
wriggler was despatched.
❖ ❖ ifc *
“Ula”: Touching on common Australian
phrases (B. 9/5/’2B), how or whence came
‘No good to Gundy”? And did Australia’s
wild white man inspire the coining of
“Buckley’s chance” ?
* * * *
“Shem”: A country teacher had been
attempting to instil some practical civics
into his class, the local hospital being, as
usual, sorely in need of funds, and the school,
also as usual, having been asked to assist-
But, the pedagogue told his charges, “you
are not really helping if you get mum or dad
to give you sixpence. Why not try to earn
your contribution in some way? You boys
should be able to get something by trapping
rabbits. I’ve six traps and I’ll lend them
to the boy who shows himself the best
worker every week.” The idea caught on
and the first beneficiary was a bright little
chap who lived near the teacher. The
latter obligingly showed him how to set the
traps, and all worked according to schedule
until the morning disclosed the first catch
for the hospital. It consisted of a black
Orpington and a household cat, both be-
longing to the trap-lender!
THE SIMPLE CINEMA SOUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“Adolphe Menjou (film star on a visit to England)
informed reporters: ‘lt is the fireside, carpet slippers
and a domestic cat. for me now. That’s my ideal.’
He is living in the millionaire’s suite in a West End
hotel.”
No more for me the fierce white lights that
blaze
Upon the hapless picture-mime’s estate;
The public clamor and the public gaze
Grow loathsome to me, Now with soul
elate
I seek for plainer, more ingenuous ways
Far from the haunts of the sophisticate.
How I shall welcome in my safe retreat
The simple life of some imperial suite!
Too long aweary I have trod the maze
Of worldliness, and its elaborate
Conventions far too long have filled my days
And nights with splendors I would now
abate;
Too long the gilded caravanserais
Of Hollywood have held me from my fate,
Which is to be (so long as ends will meet)
Domestic in a homely West End suite.
Dot others dull and foolish voices raise
To worship Mammon in his halls ornate;
Far from the madding crowd my fancy plays
About a spot where lowlier comforts wait.
Unto this fond ideal my longing strays—
A humble fireside and a home sedate,
And slippers, and a cat, that wait to greet
Me in my modest million-dollar suite.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Jiake the whole family warm this Winter
*
m
A
'JtjP
-Y
r
;
/
pi
\
j
:U
<3 1,1
Maid
U
Southern
UttED
M
FLEECY
o
WOOL
V/OOL*
1 COTTON VESTS II V£s7^
? 211 l *?frovt7'
p.r' 0 „ < yeN e Y5-\ bftoTf " 7'\iSHortstewK SWjk a
36 7T;
p^<
VESTS
£
EV/
.0
t>o
'4
4*^J
\ror?t7h
c ° .
■^v3 e ' U>«9
\ ■ t - k/v\
/«>
*
V,
/ " //
r rtleeues
w
f o
>
*T‘
r/ Q§
tJP‘
£
*5
3
<6
°J. V-
O'
y
V
»
0^
v 3
1>
X
WOND E K
Tru Size Unaerwear
IN EVERY CONCEIVABLE STYLE
AND SIZE FOR MOTHER, FATHER
AND THE KIDDIES.
Jiaveail (qo
„.ed «" d fr “
Xf—
Heavyweight, Fleecy Lined
COTTON ATHLETICS
P7hetj have the Warmth of Wool
Vi
-3
CALL IN AT YOUR FAVORITE STORE
AND SEE THE RANGE!


FAR AHEAD
or competition
Drive a Chrysler to Prove a Chrysler
Only by taking a demonstra-
tion can /ou understand
Chrysler superiority.
Only by riding in a Chrysler
-whether “52,” “62,” “72” or
100 h. p. Imperial “80”—can
you realise how much the im-
provements and refinements
initiated for its cars of higher
price and passed on through
Standardised Quality to its
cars of lesser price mean in
unparalleled comfort, ease
and safety.
Only by taking the wheel
yourself and driving in the
manner you are wont to drive
and over accustomed roads
can you appreciate just how
different is extra-
ordinary power, dash, alert-
ness in traffic, smoothness at
all speeds*
You will then learn for your-
self that Chrysler is superior
not only to those cars sell-
ing at the same price, but that
it surpasses even the perform-
ance of cars costing far more
than the Chrysler*
8
*
1
8
I
1
m
K
*
?#•
K
8?
K
»
K
a
52 * 62 * 72 * Imperial 80”
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rod da Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street. Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


A NEW WAR COMMENCES.
“The Prohibitionists in N.S.W. opened their campaign last week.”
THE BOY: “I wonder if it’s worth while. Whichever wins I know I’ll have to pay.”


THE
GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
£l7OO
PRIZE COMPETITION
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., having succeeded in establishing the short story in
Australia, is now out to produce the great Australian novel.
To this end it offers £l7OO in prizes spread over three years.
The first competition will close on June 30, 1 928.
First Prize - - - - £5OO
Second Prize- - - - £125
Third Prize - - ■ - £75
The winners will retain all rights except those of first serial publication in Australia
and Maoriland.
Serial Publication of the £5OO
Prize Story will commence
in “ The Bulletin ” in August.
THE GREATEST LITERARY EVENT IN AUSTRALIAN JOURNALISM
The Competition is open to all persons born in Australia, New Zealand or the
islands of the South Pacific, and to persons bona fide resident therein.
PENDING THE PUBLICATION OF THE PRIZE NOVELS “THE BULLETIN”
WILL PRINT A SERIES OF THE GREATEST SHORT STORIES YET
PRODUCED IN AUSTRALIA.
JUNE 6:
“Mr. Appleyard Gets a Job.”
A gripping story by Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting.
“Sergeant O’Hell.”
One of J. H. M. Abbott’s most picturesque stories
of Early Australia.
JUNE 13:
“The Totem.”
By Alys Brown, who is producing the best New
Guinea stories ever written.
“Pawns and Diamonds.”
By L. Vansittart. A fascinating story in the
quaintest setting.
JUNE 20:
“No Flowers,”
By Robert Frank. A story overflowing with
human interest.
An Officer of the Law.”
In which J. H. M. Abbott introduces you to the only
likeable hangman Botany Bay ever had.
In addition to these illustrated stories “The Bulletin” will contain all those features
which have made it known the world over.
Obtainable from all newsagents and bookstalls; or direct from The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George Street, S}'dney; 1 14 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
For 24/- in advance The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., will send you, post free, 52
numbers containing this new series of short stories and the three prize stories in
the Great Australian Novel Competition.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above ;he City Traffic.
A Floor Especial y Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 10/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/.
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
A
m
In small homes where hot-water service is required- only
for bathroom, kitchen, sink and for wash troughs, the
“Triton” Modified Central Heating System can be economi-
cally applied by installing one heater and. connecting up
the second room by pipe line. This reduces installation
cost, yet affords the same advantage of quick, hygienic, safe
and economical hot-water service as with the Complete
“Triton” Central Hot-water System.
Our two years’ guarantee against electrical
failure applies equally to the Modified System.
Full Particulars and Prices from
Thos, Abbott & Co.,
McEwan House, Elisabeth Street, Melbourne
Tel, V 1,01,2; Cr, Wynyard and Margaret Lanes,
Sydney; 111 Taranaki Street, Wellington, N Z •
Agencies; A. C. Clarke, 112 Oawler Place, Adel-
aide; Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd Perth •
W. H. Knight and Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart
and Launceston; James Campbell and Sons Ltd
Creek Street, Brisbane. ’ ’’
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Billing Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
K
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
JUDGE SCHOLES (N.S.W.), given a Royal
Commission to inquire into charges
made by Bill Lambert, M.H.R., that he
was offered £8000 to give up his West
Sydney seat to Theodore, ex-Premier
of Queensland.
Some June birthdays :
H. C. Mott (Albury Boroer Mail), 57, on Ist;
W. B. Propsting (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.), 67, on
4th; Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 59, and Mrs.
-Eneas Gunn (“We of the Never Never”), on sth ;
Senator Major-Gen. Glasgow (Minister for Defence),
52, W. M. Marks (M.H.R. for Wentworth), 53, D. S.
Jackson (Speck’s M.H.R.), 39, Arthur H. Adams, 56,
and B. J. McKenna (Q, Under Sec. for Public In-
struction), 58, on 6th; Bishop Gilbert White (late
of Willochra), 69, R'ev. Dr. Prescott (Newington
Coll.), 71, S. L. Gardner (M.H.R. for Robertson),
44, and Brig.-Gen. Owen P. Phillips, 46, on 9th ;
Vic.’s ex-Treasurer Alec Peacock, 67, on 11th ; Sena-
tor Tom Givens (Q.), 64, J. Lane Mullins, M.L.C.,
71, and naturalist S. W. Jackson (Belltrees), 55,’
on 12th ; G. H. Ivnibbs, 70, and Rear-Admiral Napier
(Naval Board), 51, on 13th; J. H. Prowse, M.H.R.
(W.A.), 57, on L6th; Bishop D’Arcy-Irvine (Sydney’s
Coadjutor-Archbishop), 66, on 17th; Bishop Barry
(Goulburn), 53, Vic. ex-Senator Best, 72, Prank Tate
(Vic.’s retiring Director of Education), 65, and T.
L. Axford, V.C., 33, on 18th; Vie. Senator Brig.-
Gen. Elliott, 50, and Dr. J. H. Cumpston (Director-
General of Federal Quarantine), 48. on 19th; Major-
Gen. Walter Coxen, 58, and Prof. Cleland (Adel.),
50, on 22nd; H. R. Harper (Vic. State Electricity
Commission), 57, on 23rd; S. Aus. Minister Geo. F.
Jenkins, 50, on 24th; Frank Moulden (Adelaide's
former Gaud Mayor), 52, and T. J. Roseby (Sydney
Board of Water Supply), 62, on 25th; General John
Monash, 63, on 27th; Dr. S. S. Cameron (Vic.
Director of Agriculture), 62, on 29th; Prof. Hudson
Beare, of Edin. (first S. Aus. Scholar), 69, on 30th.
Four of the six Australian State Premiers
—McCormack (Q.). Hogan (Vic.), Butler
(S. Aus.) and Lyons (Speck)—direct the
Government of the State in which they were
born. Collier (W.A.), 55, the oldest of the
group, was born in Victoria. Bavin (Ma
State), 54, is a native of Maoriland. McCor-
mack and Lyons were horn in 1879. and
Butler and Hogan are 43. Prime Minister
Bruce was born in Melbourne 45 years ago.
Thirty years last week since Slangdon
Bonython, who owns Adel. Advertiser, was
knighted. He is nearly 80 and the oldest
Australian knight living in Australia. Hart-
ley Williams, nearly 84 (retired Vic. Judge),
and Westby Pereival, 74, a Tasmanian who
resides in England, received the bauble in
1894. Bonython, recorded in “Johns” as “a
public benefactor,” founded the Law Chair
at Adelaide Uni., and has made other gener-
ous gifts to the State.
Most members of the A.I.F. know the
sfory of Henri Hermene Tovell. Henri lost
his father in the Flanders firing-line. His
mother was killed in a bombing raid.
Wounded himself, he escaped from a French
military hospital and became a wanderer
about the battle area. A French flying
squadron picked him up, and then he drifted
into the Australian Fourth Battalion. He
was seven, and the Fourth made a mascot of
him. In 1919 they carried him across to
Blighty in a bran-bag. It was Premier
Ryan, of Queensland, who got him into Aus-
tralia, where he was adopted by. Sergeant
Tovell, of Brisbane. But Henri still hank-
ered after the Army, and at 21 he was on
the point of being taken on the strength
of the R.A.A.F'. when a taxi closed his
account in Melbourne.
At time of writing, Carl Schneider, the
Xavier (Melbourne) boy whose chance in
cricket was given him when he moved to
Adelaide, is seriously ill. For two seasons
he has been one of S.A.’s leading batsmen,
and his selection for the M.L. tour looked like
being a step to the highest honors. Since
returning, he has been down with heart
trouble, and it is not likely that the cricket
field will see him again.
Passed on in Melbourne last Friday at
8(1 William Henry Fitchett, Rev. and Dr.,
who produced that remarkably popular book,
“Deeds that Won the Empire.” Already
more than 218,500 copies of the “Deeds”
have been sold, and it is still being bought.
“Fights for the Flag” sold 123,000 copies,
too; and while he conducted the Australian
Review of Reviews it was a journal of
standing and influence. He wrote 29 books
altogether, and, apart from his literary side,
was a Methodist minister of note. He
founded the Methodist Ladies’ College at
Hawthorn (Melb.), and was its principal for
47 years. Fitchett was 11 years old when,
his parents brought him and his brothers to
Australia; the.brothers being Dean Fitchett,
for 50 years vicar of All Saints’, Dunedin
(M.L.), who retired the other day at 93;
Dr. Fred Fitchett, one time Maoriland’s
Attorney-General and later Public Trustee;
and Rev. Frank Fitchett. The many-sided
man had a turn at daily journalism, too, and
edited the Telegraph, a last-century rival
of Age and Argus. In private life he was
strikingly simple-minded, much given to good
deeds and poor jokes.
Last Saturday was the centenary of the
death of John Oxley, R.N., whose exploring
work extended over 11 years and who was
Surveyor-General when, in 1817, he pushed
over the tracks of Blaxland and others to
explore the Lachlan, which had been dis-
covered by Evans. From that point onward
his life was a series of exploring adventures
in the course of which he surveyed the Mac-
quarie, the Castlereagh, the big inland plains
and the North Coast. On one of his northern
sea trips he entered Moreton Bay and the
river he called the Brisbane.
The Methodist Church has just lost its
doyen with the -death in South Australia of
the Rev. Thomas Piper. The old man, 93
when he died, came to Australia as a min-
ister G 8 years ago. Judge Piper, of S.A.,
is one of his sons.
Major A. J. Boyd, man of many parts and
fine personality, passed over in Sydney last
week at 86. Born in Paris, he came to
Australia, after a spell at sea, in 1860, and
became one of the early sugar-planters of
the Northern State. From that he passed
into the Education Department, and later
conducted a school of his own which turned
out many first-class men. A ripe scholar
and an exceptional linguist, he also broke
into journalism; he edited the Queensland
Agricultural Journal from 1897 till he
retired in 1921. He was a keen volunteer
soldier in pre-Federation days, and held his
majority in the old Queensland Garrison
Artillery.
Gone west in Sydney at 64, A. B. Heron,
one of the good N. Bananaland breed: he
was a chemist at Bowen for 40 years, and
sat in the mayoral chair there a couple of
times. Colonel A. R. Heron, who com-
manded the 41st Battalion, is a son.
Mark Shea, who coached to victory the
crew of Xavier College, Kew (Vic.), in the
head-of-the-Yarra race, is a wealthy Mel-
bourne merchant who has no kiddies of his
own. He is not even an old boy; formerly
he was a student of the Christian Brothers.
DR. FITCHETT, who died in Melbourne
last week.
Maoriland’s new Director of Education, T.
B. Strong, is a Londoner whose parents
migrated to the Shivery Isles when he was
very small, and he has spent nearly all his
57 years in the Dominion. After graduating
at Otago Uni. in arts and science, he became
a high-school teacher, and climbed through
the grades of inspector, senior inspector and
chief inspector to his present lofty roost,
lie lately completed an entirely new syllabus
for the primary schools, the keynote of which
is simplicity and a large amount of freedom
for teachers.
Ivor McGillivray, who has just had an
88th birthday, was one of the earliest Labor
politicians in S.A., and had a safe seat for
Port Adelaide for 25 years from ’93: As a
youth of 19 he left his ship at Melbourne
to join in the Bendigo rush, and he did a
lot of gold-digging also in Maoriland.
“Ajay”: A fair number of oldish Aus-
tralians will remember, for culinary reasons,
George Wyldie, who has turned his last
loaf at Derby (W.A.). George, one of
the best-known old hands of the Georgina
and Diamantina and of Chari eville (Q.), was
a cook, and his hand-outs were famous for
their generous size.
J. G. Barrett, ex-Senator, ex-M.L.A.
(Vic.) and ex-sec. of Trades Hall Council,
Melbourne, has handed in his checks. Almost
forgotten as a Labor force and as a legis-
lator, he was in evidence until the last as a
cold-tea champion. A fine tribute to him was
paid by Barr, chairman of the Licensing
Court, who said that his fairness was never
outrun by his zeal.
Riverina lost one of its pioneers the other
day when Robert Bliss Wilkinson passed on
at Hay, nine years off the century. Heading
south from the Cold Land in the ’fifties,
Wilkinson was a pastoralist for a while, am!
then partner in a stock and station business
of Hay, which had a branch in Sydney. He
went into the State Assembly for Balranald
in 1880 and stayed there for 14 years, his
best work being connected with the Land Act
of 1884.
Though G. J. Blackmore, superintendent
since 1910 of the Christchurch (M.L.) sana-
torium for consumptives, is one of the
world’s leading authorities on the treat-
ment of tuberculosis, the M.L. Health De-
partment has been either apathetic or
definitely hostile to his proposals for the last
18 years. The fact that the institution lie
controls has attracted by its fame patients
from far and wide has been used, with quite
fantastical injustice, as proof that efforts
to cure T.B. only spread and multiply the
disease. At long last a Royal Commission
has been set up to inquire into the whole
subject. After lie lias given evidence befo.e
it, Blackmore, who was born and bred in
the Shivery Isles, will retire; he has no
faith in commissions.
One of Victoria’s oldest J’s.P. passed out
recently when John McMahon died at North-
cote, aged 91, He arrived in the southern
State 87 years ago, and was one of Gipps-
land’s earliest and most successful graziers.
Hilda Abbott, aged 10, daughter of Abbott,
M.H.R., received distinguished attention
when she broke her arm at a Canberra pic-
nic. Earle Page and Neville Howse, both
inedicoes, joined in putting it to rights.
H. Alan Currie, at his first try for Parlia-
ment, got a walkover for the Nelson pro-
vince of Vic. Upper Chamber. He belongs
to the squattocracy, and has one of the
stately homes of his order.
Major Alan Currie’s unopposed return to
Vic. Upper House was no fluke, but was
the- result of skilful campaigning carried
on with the expert advice of old Parlia-
mentary hands. He succeeds the highly
respectable but unimportant Beggs.
Dead in Adelaide at 67, John Labatt,
who spent his life as an engineer with the
S.A. Government. He had a large hand in
the Outer Harbor of Adelaide, and when a
Harbor Board was established in 1914 he
was appointed one of its three members, and
deputy chairman.
Bishop Gore Browne, of Kimberley and
Kuruman (S’Africa), who died lately, was
a native of Maoriland. His dad Avas Colonel
Sir Thomas G. 8., Governor of M.L. 1855-61,
the boy seeing the light in Auckland in 1859.
Ordained in 1882, lie donned the gaiters and
shovel hat in 1912.
Zues A. Merfield, assistant astronomer to
the Commonwealth Government, boarded a
German-bound steamer in Melbourne the
other day. He is going to look into astrono-
mical affairs abroad, and will study the
making of modern microscopes at the Zeiss
factory. A clever scientist, Zues is son to C.
J. Merfield, Australia’s astronomer-in-cliief.
“Coot”: Thomas Peel Dunhill, the Mel-
bourne medico who has been appointed sur-
geon to the King’s household (B. 23/5/’2B),
practised as a chemist in a Melbourne suburb
before tackling a medical course. His only
brother, John, qualified as a dentist, and
then also became a medico, but he died soon
after obtaining his degree. John was so
liightly thought of at Queen’s College, Mel-
bourne University, that a tablet to his
memory was put on the wall of the class-
room.
Tom Hunt, proprietor of Kilmore (Vic.)
Free Press, who is over 80, still attends
shire council meetings for his paper. Fifty-
four years ago he was elected to V*-.
Assembly. He continued there until 1892,
and then, after a spell of years outside,
he had another innings of nearly six years till
the end of 1908. What harmed him was joining
the reconstructed Bent Government as Lands
Minister when it was on its last legs. Only
eight members who sat in the Assembly with
him are now in that House.
George Bennet, bushman and sportsman
of South Aus., has died on the track, as his
father and grandfather did before him.
They perished of
thirst when lost
t o gethe r in
18S8; he went
out suddenly
about 200 miles
from Oodna-
da 11 a, while
shifting a mob
of cattle. He
was a fine rider,
and bred many
a good horse,
the string of
races in which
his colors fin-
ished first in-
cluding a City
Handicap and a
Port Cup.
CRAW FORD VAUGHAN, Director of the
N.S.W. Prohibition Referendum Cam-
paign on behalf of the Drys.
“Vicar': Alec McCallum, Westralia’s
Minister for Works, who is at present abroad,
doesn't exactly shine in debate, although a
very earnest and vehement upholder of his
end of the waddy. Alec got beyond the
bounds on several occasions during his first
term, and at last Tommy Walker had to
intervene from' the Speaker's chair. “The
lion, member must confine himself to the
subject,” said the sepulchral Tommy. Alec
waved his hands across at the Opposition.
“They,” he cried—“they talk about this, and
they talk about that, but when I want to
say .anything the Speaker confines me !” The
roar that followed woke up the House’s
soundest snorers.
DAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Don’t take no notice of pore old Dan,
Fer the old bloke ain’t wot ’e ortcr be;
The things ’e’ll tell yer would trick a man
Who don’t know Danny as well as me.
They tricked me once; but I know ’im now,
An’ I watch ’im close when ’e gits these
spells,
Fer ’e ain’t been right in ’is ’ead, somehow,
Since ’is boys was killed at the Dar-
danelles.
Two outlaws they was, them two. My oath !
But Danny would always take their part;
An' it broke ’im up when ’e lost them both,
An’ I reckon it damn near broke ’is ’eart.
But ’e gits on the nerves of a feller when
’E sits there broodin’ fer ’arf the night,
Seein’ things, maybe. God knows! An’ then
’E’ll turn an’ ’e’ll tell yer, “Men shouldn’t
fight.”
A bloke don’t like to be ’ard on Dan,
But often I feel as I’d like to chip;
But I make allowances fer a man
Wot’s dropped ’is bundle an’ lost ’is grip.
So I don’t say nothin’; I let im go,
Seein’ the way that ’e is—but still
’E’s makin’ a bloomer, fer us blokes know
Men always fought an’ they always will.
’E ain’t so old if yer go by years,
An’ it’s long enough since ’is boys went
west,
An’ e’ could, if ’e’d give up ’is mad ideers,
Be ’oldin’ ’is end up good as the best.
It’s time them things was forgotten now,
An’ it’s time ’e was cuttin’ out them crook
spells.
But Danny—’e’s gorn to the pack somehow
Since ’is boys was knocked at the Dar-
danelles.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Workers’ Compensation.
BEFORE YOU RENEW YOUR POLICY
LET US QUOTE YOU!
SAME OR BETTER SERVICE FOR LESS MONEY IS
A BUSINESS PROPOSITION .
SAVE ON OVERHEAD—OUR LOW PREMIUMS HELP YOU TO DO SO.
WE SPECIALISE IN
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION!
COVER NOTES ISSUED TO INQUIRERS IMMEDIATELY, IF REQUIRED.
LIFE, FIRE, ACCIDENT, PLATE-GLASS, MOTOR-CAR
AND ALL BRANCHES OF INSURANCE.
The Community General Assurance Co., Ltd.,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telegrams; “COMMUNITY,” SYDNEY. ’Phone (2 lines): 8W6562, 8W6586.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ?
Foundries 1
Alexandria, Pvdnev, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Berth. W.A.
Branch l
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank: —
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (8 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919* 145,099 78.789 10,000 56,310 1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,015
(9£ p.c.)
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1.376.625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares, £163,164. . 1,539,789
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares, £14,739. . 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,67 S 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares, £191,823. . 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares, £167,529.. 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 568.254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2,644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
*Six months.
Early in the term shareholders were
offered 50,000 £lO shares (fully paid) at a
premium of £4 and 100,000 £8 shares (£5
paid) at a premium of £2 each. That made
paid capital £5,000,000 and brought in
£411,577 of premiums, which with £02,815 of
surplus earnings lifted reserves to £3,148,495.
The premium means that with dividends at
10 p.c. the round million of fresh capital is
costing only a whisper over 7 p.c. The
National can afford that well enough; the
£640,401 netted for the 12 months to March
31 was 7.9 p.c. on average capital and
reserves combined, and the haul had been 8.8
p.c. in the previous term. Gross profits
(£1548,480) improved £104,151, hut exes.
(£908,079) took £45,396 of the increase. This
comparison shows the progress of the figures:
Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1921.. £2,000,000 £1,376,625 £862,102 £525,491
1922.. 2,661,125 1,661,907 953,758 603,590
1923.. 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1924.. 3,225,000 2,148,342 1,199,282 701,113
1925 . 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321.419 782,587
1926.. 4,000,000 2,532,958 1,370,195 801.940
1927.. 4,000,000 2,644,603 1,444,329 862,684
1928.. 5,000,000 3,148,495 1,548,480 908,079
Thus the net result was 12.8 p.c. on the
average capital employed compared with
14.5, 14.2 and 13.4 in the three preceding
years. Shareholders, however, have nothing
to feel concerned about there; in each of the
last four years more than sufficient was
earned to pay 10 p.c. on capital as it now
stands.
Moreover, the chief cause of the drop in
earning power was the heavy increase in low
interest-bearing securities. Of the £4,530,474
added to liquids during the 12 months no
less than £3,566,166 represents additional
holdings in Government stocks, etc.:—
1927. 1928.
Bullion, cash, etc. . . . . £5,698,750 £6,421,243
Government securities, etc. .. 2,896,383 6,462,549
Bills 2,683,653 2,965,286
Due from other banks . . 262,963 222,481
Duty stamps . . . . . . 31,722 32,386
London and Australian figures are not sepa-
rated in the published sheet, but it may be
taken for granted that most of the increase
is represented by Commonwealth securities.
One factor in producing these figures was
that nearly £10,500,000 of the recent Com-
monwealth 51 p.c. Conversion loan was left
on the hands of the underwriters —the Asso-
ciated Banks —and the National, of course,
had to shoulder its share of the burden.
Other movements which had an influence
upon liquids and earnings were a reduction
of £1,935,560 in advances, an increase of
£1.029,790 in interest-bearing deposits (and
probably the management is more pleased
with that feature than with any other in
the sheet), and a growth of £237,572 in
current accounts. Under the circumstances
12.8 p.c. on capital was highly satisfactory.
At March 31 liabilities to the public totalled
£37,223,561. Of that amount liquids repre-
sented Bs. Bd. in the £ compared with 6s. sd.
a year earlier; thus nearly 11 million more
was held within easy reach than is usually
considered necessary.
Although last year’s returns from wheat
were a trifle disappointing, except in West-
ralia, the income from wool exceeded expec-
tations. One way and another exports of
Australian merchandise for the nine months
to March 31 were over £8,000,000 more than
for the corresponding period of the previous
year. This welcome movement and general
prosperity show up in an increase of £281,633
m bills, etc., in transit (£2,965,286) and in
the very favorable growth in deposits. The
decrease in advances may also be partly
attributed to general prosperity; more
largely, though, it is likely to be due to a
very wise withdrawal of finance from time-
payment and other such traders :
1920. 1927. 1928.
Notes .. .. £49,809 £48,013 £47,957
Bills, etc. . . 962,908 1,764,392 1,655,525
Free deposits . . 11,926,167 13,709,560 13,947,132
Fixed deposits . . 11,472,035 20,543,157 21,572,947
Liquid assets . . 13,194,160 11,573,470 16,103,944
Advances .. 13,903,139 30,158,054 28,222,494
Premises, etc. . . 643,636 1,178,202 1,295,618
The £21,119,617 of the public’s money not
held liquid was protected by advances and
premises with a written-down value of
£29,518,112.
For every £1 of its own funds the bank
was holding only £4 11s. sd. of the public’s
money at March 31 compared with £5 Bs. 6d.
at the close of the 1927 accounts. Thus it is
in an exceptionally strong position to further
extend its connections. That and the energy
and vision of those in control is a pretty
good assurance of continued progress. Dur-
ing the year the co. built itself an attractive
headquarters in Melbourne, and £117,416 was
added to the book value of premises, which
have been visibly written down £360.000 since
the Colonial Bank was absorbed. Apart
from that there is no doubt at all that liberal
provision has been made inside for contin-
gencies.
The market, impressed by the bank’s re-
markable expansion over the past decade,
values the £lO paid shares at £lB 65., and
the £5 paids at £9 ss. After allowing for the
div. the return at those prices is 5.5 p.c. and
5.6 p.c. respectively.
Home Recreations, Ltd., formerly
Ileiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Deficit
t Dividends , Reduce (Good-
Mar., Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Deficit, will).
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 13.470 6 p.c.=3370 10 p.c.— 6.000 4100 45,944
Goodwill items added, £65 .. 46,008
1920.. 22.432 6 p.c.=3430 20 p.c.=12,000 7002 39,007
Reconstructed Cos.
All reserves capitalised and £IO,OOO added to
goodwill £70,157
1921.. 16,365 5p.c.=8872 8 p.c.= 5865 ( „ Q
Reconstruction exes, written off, £1316) ° “ b ’
Added to goodwill items, £1133 70,968
1922.. 21.289 8 p.c.=9657 8 p.c.= 5,935 5697 65.271
1923.. 23.334 8 „ ~9820 8 ~ „ 5,935 7579 57,692
Added to goodwill items, £5238 62,930
1924.. 27.732 8 p.c.=13,582 8 p.c.= 6,810 7340 55,590
1925.. 8,826 8 „„ 16,000 Nil 62,764
Added to goodwill items, £2436 . . 65,200
1926.. 8,771 4p.e.= 8,000 Nil 771 64,429
1927.. 28.112 8 ~,, 16,000 Nil 12,112 52,317
Loss.
1928.-43,037 Nil Nil 95,354
Balance-sheets prepared before and after
a light supper of Epsom salts might be en-
tirely different documents ; and it is therefore
never safe to take much notice of a single
balance-sheet unless you know far more
about the circumstances than the printer’s
ink is likely to tell you. In this case, as the
directors report, “during the year Mr. Alfred
Charles Sherwood, managing director, asked
to be relieved... .and no appointment has
yet been made to fill his place.” That looks
like a split somewhere, and probably a
greatly altered basis of accounting—say, of
providing for contingencies. “During the
year,” the report says in another place, “it
has been found necessary to close many
accounts that threatened to become a loss
if continued, and on the recommendation of
the auditors substantial inner reserves
have been made in respect of any head-office
book debts about which doubt was enter-
tained.” That probably contains a good
deal of the explanation of the large differ-
ence between the results disclosed this year
and last.
The major trouble seems to have arisen
over the “no-deposit” sales-system, applied
chiefly to talking machines and player pianos.
Judged on early results this plan looked
fine, and some gilded figures were written.
Over a year ago, though, the board, not feel-
ing quite comfortable about it, called in in-
vestigating accountants to overhaul the t.p.
book debts. Asa consequence provision was
at once made for contingencies; but in the
opinion of the board that provision was not
sufficient, and much of what looked like
profit at March 31, 1927, has turned out to be
either bad or doubtful debts. No less than
£IB,OOB was written off under that head in
the past 12 months.
The no-deposit plan was heaved overboard
in February last—it had been discarded a
year earlier in connection with the sale of
player pianos. Such a sudden slump in sales
followed that gross profits fell from £127,111
in 1927 to £78.205 at the close of last
accounts. Including the amount written off.
referred to above, and £6584 put by for
taxation, the cost of handling last year's
reduced business was £120,161 as against
£99,699 in the previous term. Thus a loss
of £41,956 showed up, which, with £IOBO
added to goodwill, etc., makes the £43,037
shown in the table. That piled up the iutan-
gibles to a total of £95,354; which means
that, unless the board’s newest advisers have
misconceived the position, there is only
froth to represent the whole of the ordinary
capital and £10,197 of the £200,000 put up
by pref. holders. Further, there was £24,000
in accrued divs. coming to the prefs. when
the books were last ruled off. The ords.
have not had a bite for the last four years.
Anew and attractive department, home-made
furniture, has been added to the business,
and the turnover in the billiard section is
said to be improving. Nevertheless the co.
will be fortunate if it manages to pull
through without reconstruction.
Here is the position as it is disclosed in
the books:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £285,157 £285,157 £285,157 £285,157
Liabilities . . 129,271 134,642 223,898 219,753
Freeholds and
leaseholds, etc. 76,066 61,591 73,977 74,130
Plant, etc. . . 24,467 8,421 14,250 15,168
Stocks . . 93,857 86,797 101,468 80,773
Book debts . . 139,719 177,111 234,713 214,185
Shares in other
cos., etc. . . 26,075 25,512 25,525 25,540
Odds and ends 7,348 6,694 6,804 6,404
At March 31 the prefs., which carry a
cumulative 8 p.c. p.a. and have priority as
to capital, could see 19s. in net tangibles,
mostly freehold, plant, etc., to cover each
£1 of their capital plus 2s. sd. div. On the
market buyers of the prefs. were recently
offering 65., with sellers standing off at Bs.
The last reported sale of the ords. was 7s. 6d.
in March. The next sale will ptobably be at
four or five shillings, at which they may be
worth looking at.
❖ * sj: *
The Commonwealth Wool and Produce
Cos., Ltd. (Sydney), for 27 years known as
the Co-operative, which had to change its
name because of the N.S.W. Co-operation,
Community Settlement and Credit Act.
1924: •
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. . Clients, serves, serves.
1919.. 12,106 7 p.c. = 2800 7,264 2042 41,948
Provident Fund, £SOOO .. .. 36,948
1920.. 8,868 7 p.c. = 2800 6,252 36,764
Provident Fund, £IOOO .. .. 35,794
1921.. 3,559 Nil 3,336 £223 35,987
Reserves capitalised, £9210 .. .. 26,777
Pref. Orel.
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1922.. 12,003 1509 3679 5,470 ) 9Aa
Provident Fund, £914 .. 5
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 ( „q 9A ,
Provident Fund, £3047 .. $ 6086 ' >3 ’-' )4
1924.. 21.275 3004 3756 10,149 ) 909 R
Provident Fund, £2140 .. (
1925.. 22,828 3425 5085 8,610 1 oq oca
Provident Fund, £1262 .. f 4446 39 ’ 966
1926.. 26.986 3425 7665 6,798 ) 47
Provident Fund, £1513 . . J J ’
All Shares.
1927. . 28,186 8 p.c = 14,000 7874 J. 4671 52 222
Provident Fund,. £1641 .. j
1928. . 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 ) 4Q4S 170
Provident Fund, £1791 . . ( ’
Including a small unexplained addition to tlis
provident fund, the year’s gross profit
(£128,811) was practically unchanged; it
was a cut of £IOOO-odd in exes, that was re-
sponsible for the visible improvement, of
£1043 in net earnings (£29,229). Certainly
the clip was lighter—Sydney sales for the
nine months to March 31 were 1,003,899
bales compared with 1,138,727 for the corres-
ponding period of the previous year—but as
against that the average price of Australian
fleece over the same period was £25 6s. lid.
and £22 9s. 7d. per bale respectively. Also,
the rebates to clients, mostly shareholders, of
20 p.c. of the commission on the sale of
wool and 10 p.c. of that on livestock and
produce, was £8490 last year compared with
£7874 in the 1927 term. So the probabilities
are that the board could have written slightly
bigger figures if it had wanted to. However,
there was no need; the 8 p.c. div. was a com-
fortable matter, as it has been for several
years past.
The £29,229 netted last year, after allow-
ing for the bonus to clients, was 11.8 p.c. on
average capital compared with 11.6, 14, 33.4
and 13.2 p.c. back to 1924, when wool fetched
record prices. But when considering the
earning power it should be remembered that
the average capital at work in 1924 was
only £84,500, whereas it was £170,000 last
year, and it isn’t always as easy to earn a
high rate on an old £50,000 and anew
£50,000 as it was on the old £50.000. The
co.’s new money has gone into many little
things. In the 1925 term a stock resting,
feeding and sales depot at Dubbo was
bought; also a block of land at Wallangarra,
on the Queensland border. In the following
year 256 acres was added at Dubbo and
various improvements made. Early in the
1927 term the erection of the co.’s big wool
store at Pyrmont was completed, and the old
premises improved. Last year the co. bought
a one-third interest in Lane and Fuller,
Ltd., a stock and station agency business
with a strong connection in the west of N. 8.
Wales, but at what price has not been stated.
Also anew insurance agency was added to
the list of activities.
Here is the expansion of the last four
years looked at from another angle:—
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital. . . . £93,871 £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Inabilities . . 169,790 263,941 296,399 207,241
Buildings, etc. . 211.635 237,389 260,266 261,954
Stocks . . . . 2,170 5,207 3,076 5,204
Book debts . . 90,553 ]
Cash and public ) 273,012 294,591 209,056
securities . . 15,753 J
Practically all the wool received during the
year was sold, so the call from clients for
accommodation was not so loud: thus book
debts (£208,673), including an unspecified
amount of investments, were £55,440 lighter.
This enabled the management to lop £89,158
off the debt (£207,241), which includes pro-
vision for taxation, etc. Nevertheless liabili-
ties were still heavy; the item represents
17s. lOd. at risk in the business for every
£1 owned by shareholders at March 31 com-
pared with 265. a year earlier.
The co.’s turnover in station-supply lines
is steadily expanding. Reserves, however,
are none too substantial, but another good
year is in sight and prospects bright for 8
p.c. On the market the scrip is at 225.; the
return at that figure is 7.8 p.c., after allow-
ing for the div. on an 8 p.c. basis. The
backing is 255. lOd. in net tangibles.
jjc * s»<
Gibson and Howes, Ltd., which grows
and crushes sugar at Bundaberg (Q.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 48,747 20 p.c. = 42,000 6,747 25,088
1922.. 50,196 20 „ ~ 42,000 8,196 33,284
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. 3,284
1923.. 28,353 8 p.c. = 19,200 9,153 12,437
1924.. 56,669 12 ~ „ 28,800 27,869 40,306
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 . . 306
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 „ „ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 „ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
A year ago one of the directors, 11. J.
llowcs, issued a minority report to the
effect that his co-directors had been unduly
pessimistic as to the co.’s prospects and that
the public, therefore, had been misled into
taking too gloomy a view of the position.
On this occasion Mr. Howes himself signs
the report, which contains no suggestion that
the position is understated. The prime cause
of the drop in profits in 1926, when 67,807
tons of cane was put through the rollers,
was a crushing over 30 p.c. lighter than in
the previous year. The report does not say
what last year’s crushing was, but at the
beginning of the term the estimate was
113,000 tons, approximately equal to the
1925 figures, and the net result is a thousand
pounds or so better than it was in that year.
The base price of raws last year was £2l
Is. per ton, but when the final figures go
up the price is expected to approximate
£2l 12s. lOd. as against £24 10s. lOd. and
£l9 10s. per ton in 1926 and 1925 respec-
tively. Incidentally, in addition to its mill
earnings the co. must gather some nice re-
turns from the growing side of the business,
in which connection it owns Bingera plan-
tation, comprising some 8000 acres on the
Burnett River. If the year’s profits were
calculated on the base price, then the current
term’s results have got a flying start.
Earnings have been in and out according
to seasons and prices. The £36,020 netted
last year was 12.2 p.c. on average funds
(capital and reserves combined) compared
with 7.5, 12.2, 21.3 and 11.4 p.c. back to
1923. Shareholders, who were handed an
extra 2 p.c. (£5600) last year, have shared
in the more than average prosperity. Apart
from everything else, the £70,000 of bonus
scrip handed out since 1922 makes the 10 p.c.
div. equal to 131 p.c. to old holders. On the
other hand the £20,370 of visible reserves is
not much of a prop for the £280,000 of
capital. There is, in addition, £34,792
(£7962 added during the year) put by to
cover depreciation on fixed assets, including
shares, etc., with a book value of £255,612.
If that were the only provision it would be
inadequate. Fear on that score, however,
was dispelled half a dozen years ago when the
Government valuator assessed the factory and
plant alone at £223,000 —they then stood in
the booksy including the plantation l and
other freeholds, at only £162,031. Further,
the large earning power of visible funds en-
courages the suspicion that not everything
is visible.
Here is the position as the books show
it with comparisons back to 1921:
1921. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. .. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities .. .. 16,205 10,826 18,594
Freeholds, machinery,
plant, etc. . . .'. 162,031 248,418 255,612
Stocks 30,851 56,590 63,545
Government securities.. 16.000 15,910 15,910
Debtors, cash, etc. . . 65,211 17,488 32,690
The financial position, as usual, was snug.
During the year the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£93,551), in chiding stocks (£63,545),
was further strengthened by £14,389. Over
the last six years surplus profits (£72,511).
and more, have gone into chief earning
assets, freehold, plant, etc. (£255,612),
which has increased £93,581. Considerable


(This is only a preliminary notice for the information of the public, and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe for shares; and applications
for shares will only be received on the footing of the full prospectus and in the form issued therewith.)
Australian Iron &, Steel Limited
(To be registered under the Companies Act, N.S.W., 1899.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Issue of £1,000,000 in 1,000,000 Tk per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, of which there are now offered for public subscription,
on the terms and conditions set out in the prospectus, 675,000 shares with, in addition, any shares not allotted out of 325,000 shares being
offered to the holders of “A,” “B” and “C” Preference Shares in Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited.
CAPITAL: —Authorised: £5,000,000. Issued: £3,100,000.
Divided into—
-2,100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each . . . . . . . . . . . . £2,100,000
1,000,000 7g- per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each . . . . . . . . 1,000,000
Total . . . . £3,100,000
The issued ordinary capital of £2,100,000 will be held by the following Companies or their shareholders:—
Hoskins Iron & Steel Company, Limited. . £1,000,000 Howard Smith, Limited . . . . . . £400,000
Dorman Long & Company, Limited .. 600,000 Baldwins, Limited .. .. .. .. 100,000
DIRECTORS:
CECIL HAROLD HOSKINS (Chairman),
(Chairman, Hoskins Iron & Steel Company, Limited.)
SIR ARTHUR JOHN DORMAN, Bt., K.B.E.
(Chairman, Dorman Long & Co., Limited, Middlesbrough, England.)
LAWRENCE ENNIS, 0.8. E.
(Director, Dorman Long & Co., Limited, Sydney.)
ARTHUR SIDNEY HOSKINS
(Director, Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, Sydney.)
SIR W. CHARLES WRIGHT, Bt., K.8.E., C.B.
(Chairman, Baldwins, Limited, London.)
HARRY BELLINGHAM HOWARD-SMITH
(Chairman Howard Smith, Limited, Melbourne.)
EDWIN HAROLD FLACK
(Director, Howard Smith, Limited, Melbourne.)
ARNOLD STANLEY TAYLOR
(Chairman, Southern Portland Cement, Limited, Sydney.)
(One Director to be Appointed.)
MANAGING DIRECTORS:
CECIL HAROLD HOSKINS. ARTHUR SIDNEY HOSKINS.
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
SOLICITORS:
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY, 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CERTIFYING ACCOUNTANTS FOR THIS ISSUE:
FLACK & FLACK, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney; 128 William Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR:
W. S. PHILIP, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney; 128 William Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
R. J. BURNS, Kembla Building, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
J. B. WERE & SON, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne
(who have underwritten the whole of the Preference Shares now being issued, with
the exception of 25,000 reserved for and at the request of the holders of “A” and
“B” Preference Shares in Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited).
BROKERS:
SYDNEY Clarence Degenhardt & Co., 105 Pitt Street.
Philip Pring & Docker, Cor. Pitt and Hunter Streets.
MELBOURNE. . J. B. Were & Son, 349 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE . . . Gavin F. Gardner & Co., I 8 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE .... Henry Monteith & Co., 334 Queen Street.
Charlton Elliott & Sons, 356 Queen Street.
HOBART Smithies & Langford, 82 Collins Street.
LAUNCESTON. W. G. Baird, 94 Cameron Street.
PERTH A. G. Bird, 20 Howard Street.
WELLINGTON. S. R. Hornabrook, 26 Johnston Street.
AUCKLAND . . Frater Bros., 1 13 Queen Street.
CHRISTCHURCH R. Hill Fisher & Son, 134 Hereford Street.
DUNEDIN .... Fenwick & Reeves, High Street.
IMPORTANT MERGER OF LARGE INTERESTS.
Australian Iron & Steel, Limited, represents a merger of the iron and steel manufacturing business
of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, and the structural steel engineeing and fabricating business
in Australia (excepting the Sydney Harbor Bridge contract) of Dorman Long & Co. Ltd., England.
In addition, Baldwins, Limited, the large iron and steel manufacturers, England, and Howard, Smith,
Limited, the well-known shipowners and colliery proprietors, etc., are becoming associated with the new
company and acquiring a substantial interest in it by means of ordinary shares.
AUSTRALIAN STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
The Hoskins family have been instrumental in building up a large and profitable business , during'
the last 50 years, and at the present day Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, has a very high
reputation as one of the leading iron and steel manufacturers in Australia.
LEADING STRUCTURAL STEEL ENGINEERS.
Dorman Long & Co., Ltd., also is well known in Australia, not only through its Sydney Harbor
Bridge contract, but through other work of bridge .construction and large structural steel engineering and
fabricating works carried out in many of the largo buildings erected in recent years.
GREAT BENEFITS FROM COMBINATION.
The combination of these two businesses means greatly increased strength. The bulk of the steel
for the structural and fabricating business which would otherwise be imported from the works in
England of Dorman Long & Co., Ltd., will, on completion of the new works at Port Kembla, be supplied
by Australian Iron and Steel, Limited.
PRESENT MANAGEMENT WILL CONTINUE.
Messrs. Cecil H. and A. S. Hoskins, who have for 20 years been actively associated with, and in
recent years have managed, Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, will be managing directors of the
new company. Mr. L. Ennis, a director of Dorman Long & Company, Limited, who is in charge of the
Company’s operations in Australia, will also be a director of Australian Iron and Steel, Limited. The
whole of the personnel, technical staff, etc., of both companies will be transferred to the new Company
and there will be neither break in the continuity of operations, nor loss of efficiency and business.
CARRYING ON ESTABLISHED PROFITABLE BUSINESSES.
Australian Iron & Steel, Limited, will, therefore, have the inestimable advantage of entering into
full operation in all existing departments of its business right at its inception. It will start with
established and profitable trade connections, with the active support and material assistance of two of
Britain’s foiemost steel manufacturers, and with experienced sales organisation and shipping facilities.
It will have at its disposal the results of years of practical experience and research and the services
of trained and thoroughly equipped technical staffs.
PORT KEMBLA—AN IDEAL SITE.
The iron and steel making operations of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, have hitherto
been carried on at Lithgow, 98 miles inland from Sydney. The great expansion of the business has
rendered this location unsuitable, and a site eminently suited for the purposes of the business has been
secured at Port Kembla, on the coast, 56 miles south of Sydney, where a large area of land has been
bought. The property has direct rail connection at two points with the New South Wales railway system
and its own direct rail connection with the Company’s deep-water wharf in Port Kembla, situated within
half a mile of the works property.
This site is only 84 miles by rail from the Company’s collieries and coke works at Wongawilli, and
is conveniently situated for receiving the necessary iron ore by rail or sea and supplies of limestone from
Marulan, where the new company will own practically inexhaustible deposits of high-grade limestone.
The Company is acquiring enormous deposits of iron ore in New South Wales, Tasmania and Western
Australia. The Company’s leases in the last mentioned State at Cockatoo Island, Yampi Sound, contain
one of the richest known iron ore deposits in the world and are sufficient to supply the Company’s
requirements for generations.
Port Kembla is ideally situated as regards the low cost of assembly of the raw materials for the
manufacture of iron and steel and as a centre from which to distribute the new Company’s products
throughout Australia.
MODERN BLAST FURNACE, STEEL PLANT AND ROLLING MILLS.
A most modern blast furnace, with a nominal capacity of 200,000 tons of pig iron per annum, and
fully equipped with all the most up-to-date appliances, is being installed at Port Kembla and is expected
to commence production of pig iron next month. This pig iron, together with steel scrap, will be con-
verted into ingot steel in thoroughly up-to-date basic open hearth steel furnaces.
Large steel rolling mills of the most modern type, suited to production for the Australian markets,
are being purchased from Baldwins, Limited, at a cost of £168,000 and will be installed at Port Kembla.
The Directors of Baldwins, Limited, are showing their confidence in the new Company by taking £lOO,OOO
of the purchase price in fully-paid £1 ordinary shares.
CERTIFICATE OF THE ACCOUNTANTS.
The certificate of Messrs. Flack & Flack is as follows:—-
42 Bridge Street, Sydney, 10th May, 1928.
Messrs. J. B. Were & Son. 349 Collins Street, Melboufne, Victoria.
Dear Sirs, —We have examined the Books and Accounts of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited,
and Dorman Long & Company, Limited, in connection with the transfer of assets to Australian Iron and
Steel, Limited, in consideration of the issue of fully paid £1 shares in terms of Agreements being entered
into between the respective parties.
After having made full allowance for Depreciation, we hereby certify that the values of the Net
Tangible Assets to be transferred in terms of the said Agreements are as under:—
Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited .. .. .. .. £1,814,389
Dorman Long & Company, Limited .. .. .. .. 103,600
£1,917,989
Dorman Long & Company, Limited (Stocks and Work ir. progress) 295,536
£2,213,525
We have satisfied ourselves that the above values are sound.
We further certify that the Combined Net Annual Profits of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company,
Limited, and the Australian business of Dorman Long & Company, Limited (excluding the Sydney Harbor
Bridge contract) during the three latest fiscal years of the respective Companies, after allocating
Income Taxes to the years in which the respective profits were earned were as follows:
Fiscal year ended in 1925 . . . . . . . . . . £85,617 9 8
„ „ „ „ 1926 134,810 17 2
„ „ „ „ 1927 167,996 14 3
The figures showing an annual average:—-
For the latest 3 years of. . . . . . . . . . £129,475 0 0
„ „ „ 2 „ , . 151,403 0 0
In arriving at the above Profits we have excluded both interest Received and Paid, and the net
amount of such interest represents additional earnings which for the three vears totalled £6603/17/8,
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) FLACK & FLACK, Public Accountants.
VALUE OF NET TANGIBLE ASSETS EXCEEDS AMOUNT OF SHARE CONSIDERATION.
The certificate of Messrs. Flack & Flack shows that the net tangible assets being acquired from
Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, and Dorman Long & Co., Limited, are valued at £1,917,989, in
consideration for which 1,875,000 fully-paid ordinary shares are being issued. There is thus a surplus
of net tangible assets valued at £42,989 as an initial reserve for the purpose of meeting flotation
charges, etc.
SECURITY FOR PREFERENCE CAPITAL.
When all the capital now being issued is fully paid, there will be net tangible assets of over £3
as security for each £1 of preference capital.
SECURITY FOR THE PREFERENCE DIVIDEND.
The average combined net profits for the last, two vears of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited,
and the Australian business (as now- being acquired) of Dorman Long & Co., Ltd., amounted to £151,403
per annum.
Taking this figure as a basis and adding' savings in freight on coke and pig iron alone, which are
absolutely assured by having the blast furnace at Port Kembla instead of at Lithgow, and deducting
taxation on the amount of these savings, the minimum annual net profits of Australian Iron and Steel,
Limited, should be approximately £213,758, or more than two and three-quarter times the amount of
the annual dividend charge on the preference capital.
This estimate of minimum annual net profit of £213,758 does not take into account the substantial
additional profit to be derived by the much lower cost of production of pig iron in the modem blast
furnace at Port Kembla, as compared with the Lithgow plant.
The profits that will result from the expenditure of the new capital now being raised will considerably
augment the net earnings.
When the steelworks commence production at Port Kembla, in about two years’ time, a much wider
range of products and greatly increased quantities will be manufactured than is now possible from the
existing piant, and the cost of manufacture will be considerably reduced on all products, thus enabling
still further profits to be earned.
POSSIBILITIES OF EXPANSION OF BUSINESS.
The importations into Australia during 1925>-26 and 1926-27 of the iron and steel products to be
manufactured from its inception by the new Company amounted to 132,281 and 137,082 tons respectively.
The sales of similar products by Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, in the same years amounted
to 120,592 and 129,987 tons respectively, so that the new Company, merely by replacing importations,
can develop a business more than double that of the Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited.
PURPOSES FOR. WHICH NEW CAPITAL IS REQUIRED.
The preference and ordinary capital now being raised is required for the erection and equipment of
modern steel works and rolling mills at Pore Kembla for the manufacture of steel rails, structural steel,
steel bars and sections; together with general machine shops and additional power house units, inclusive
of the erection of the steel rolling mills being purchased from Baldwins, Ltd.; and the installation of the
first units of a De Lavaud Centrifugally Spun Cast Iron Pipe plant (sole patent rights for Australia for
which process are being taken over by the new Company) ; and to provide the additional working capital
necessary for a considerably increased production.
RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OE' THE PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
The preference shares entitle the holders thereof—
(a) To receive out of the profits of the Company a. fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the
rate of £7 TOs. per cent, per annum on the capital for the time being paid up thereon and —
(b) The rights in the event of a winding up of the Company to repayment of capital and
arrears of dividend (whether earned or declared or not) up to the date of such repayment
in priority to the ordinary shares.
The shares confer no further right to participate in the profits or assets of the Company and wil 1
not confer on the holders thereof the right to vote either in person or by proxy at any General Meeting
of the Company, unless such meeting is convented for the purpose of reducing the capital, or winding up,
or sanctioning the sale of the undertaking, or unless the proposition to be submitted to the meeting
directly affects the rights and privileges of such holders, or unless the dividends of the Preference Shares
are, at the date of the meeting, in arrears for more than three calendar months.
The rights and privileges attaching to the preference shares will only be alterable by agreement
made between the Company and some person acting on behalf of the holders of these shares and provided
that such agreement is ratified by the holders of at least three-fourths in nominal value of these shares or
is confirmed by an extraordinary resolution of the holders at a separate General Meeting.
The number of Preference Shares of the present issue is less than one-half of
the number of Ordinary Shares now being issued, and the Company will undertake
not to issue any additional number of Preference Shares unless it shall have pre-
viously issued at least double that additional number of Ordinary Shares.
Dividends will be payable half-yearly on the Ist May and the Ist November in each year. Thje
first dividend will be due and payable on the Ist November, 1928, and the amounts of the dividends
due on that date and on Ist May, 1929, will be adjusted according to the dates of payments of amounts
payable under applications for shares. The dividend due Ist November, 1928, on shares allotted to
holders of “A,” “B” and “C” preference shares in Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, in respect
of their present holdings, will be calculated and paid as from the Ist May, 1928.
Dividends will be paid free of exchange in Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide. Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart and Launceston.
A Branch Register of the Company will be opened in Melbourne.
PAYMENT OF APPLICATION AND ALLOTMENT MONEY.
Payment for the shares now offered for public subscription shall be made as follows:
2/6 per share on application.
2/6 ~ ~ „ allotment.
5/- ~ „ „ the Ist August, 1928.
5/- ~ „ ~ the Ist' November, 1928.
5/- ~ „ ~ the Ist. May, 1929.
Subscribers shall have the right to pay for their shares in' full on allotment, or to pay in full all
outstanding instalments on any due date for the payment of an instalment.
Subscription lists will be opened on Tuesday, the 22nd May, 1928, and will be closed simultaneously
at all centres at noon on Wednesday, the 6th June, 1928.
Allotment notices will be issued as soon as practicable after the closing of the subscription lists.
There will be no priority of application, and, in the event of the issue being over-subscribed, a
pro rata allotment will be made, but the Directors reserve the right to dispose of fractions! in such
manner as they deem fit. All applicants will receive allotment in full up to 100 shares, provided suffici-
ent shares are available.
In ease a less number of shares is allotted than is applied for, the excess of the application money
will be applied in or towards payment of the amount payable on allotment and the balance (if any)
will be returned to the applicant in full.
If no allotment is made the application money will be refunded in full.
Application and allotment money and all instalments will be accepted free of exchange in Canberra
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart and Launceston
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
o. Copies of the piospectus, with application forms, may be obtained from members of any recognised
Stock Exchange, or from the Company’s Solicitors or Bankers.
Applications for preference shares may be made through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange
or direct to any of the Brokers whose names appear in this abridged Prospectus, or to the Canberra
branch of the Bank of Australasia.
Brokerage of 4d. per share will be limited to members of recognised Stock Exchanges and such
brokerage will be paid on all allotments m respect of which the application bears the stamp of a
member of a recognised Stock Exchange
Pitt
Applications may also be lodged at the office of Mr. A. G. Noble, A.C.P.A., 302 Dalton House 115
Street, Sydney. ’
LISTING THE PREFERENCE SHARES ON THE STOCK EXCHANGES.
. c ,A Ppl ! ca ,V° 1 1 ? Wlll be A “ ad .® in due course to have the preference shares listed on the Stock Exchanges
of Sydney Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Launceston, Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch
and Dunecim.
The Underwriters, J. B. Were & Son, 349 Collins
Street, Melbourne, have exercised their option
preference
shareholders of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited.
AGREEMENTS.
agieements material to this issue may be inspected at the office of the Company's


Know Anything Good?
Thirty-odd Companies’
Accounts Dissected.
Prospectuses Examined by Experts.
WHATS BEST TO BUY?
Practical Help for the Investor.
“The ‘Wild Cat* Monthly” for June,
still further improved, will be pub-
lished on SATURDAY, JUNE 2.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -t- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
& * * *
Here is a good record for Pioneer Wood Pipe, as
reported by a landowner. He says: “I have had, and
am still getting, the best of service from wood pipe.
I placed one line, of about a mile, from a well to
convey water to various paddocks some seven years
ago—the water was of the most mineralised class—-
and have had no trouble whatever. I have moved the
line at various times to other sites, and have always
found the pipes in perfect order and very convenient
to disconnect and reconnect.” Full particulars from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Hoad.
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
• —Advt.
❖ # #
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.-— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.hson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
The construction of firebreaks and tank drains, also
the clearing of drains in and around watering places,
and from wire-netting fences, can all be effectively
and economically handled by the use of the special
graders which are made by Messrs. Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd. These machines are available in
seven different sizes, either to be hauled by tractor
or horses, the prices ranging from £45 to £105
each. There are many properties equipped with these
machines and the results obtained amply demon-
strate the necessity of having a grader available on
the station or large farm. As most people nowadays
possess motor-cars, one of these machines will also
be able to construct and maintain in perfect condition
the private road to the homestead. Full particulars
are available from the manufacturers, Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
PROTECT WHAT YOU HAVE EARNED!
The wise man, who has the welfare of his wife and children at heart and
who wishes to protect what he has acquired during a lifetime of work,
appoints as his Trustee or Executor the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
TRUSTEES - - EXECUTORS - - ATTORNEYS - - AGENTS
This Company has had over 40 years’ experience in the administration of all
classes of Estates, and during that time no loss has been suffered by any
client.
And here is the reason: Unlike an individual, the Company never dies—
constant and expert attention is given to your affairs until the term of trustee-
ship expires. Further, the whole of the Company’s Capital and Assets, over
one million pounds, is available to protect your interests.
Thera is no time like the present. Arrange, an
interview now or write for our interesting Booklet,
sent post free on request. It explains the many
advantages you derive by appointing this Company
to administer your Estate.
J. W. Baknf.s, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
May’s Broadcast Fertilizer Spreader.
nil?
'll//:/,
The Machine is attached at rear of
Vehicle and works close to the
ground.
Spreads up to 40 feet. Any
quantity up to 1 ton per acre.
Quantities regulated whilst at
work. No skill required.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
Price—£2o nett f.o.r. Melbourne; £2l nett f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor Lorry attachments.
CALL AND INSPECT.
Agents; GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Sydney.
expenditure is being made upon the mill,
and crushing capacity and the quality of
the output are expected to benefit. The
outlook for the current season is one of
bigger tonnages; but in the circumstances
of this trade in Australia, with its limited
market, that is not always an advantage.
The market, which offered 21s. for the
scrip a year ago, now pays 245. 6d. After
allowing for the final div. and bonus (Is.),
the return at that figure is 81 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The net tangibles cover
21s 7d., apart from the depreciation reserve.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Manna Hill Gold (N.S.W.), like many
another mining concern these days, is need-
ing money, and an appeal has lately been
made to shareholders to consent to the rais-
ing of this. They agreed to the issue of 200
£5 debentures, with currency of up to two
years, bearing interest at 10 p.c. The money
will go towards battery replacement, im-
provement of water supply and other plant
expenditure.
❖ ❖ * ❖
The Altona brown-coal mine, only nine
miles from the Melbourne G.P.0., has at
last attracted the attention of the Vic.
Mines Department, which is sinking a num-
ber of bores to prove extent and contents.
A shaft will also be sunk away from the old
workings. This seems to be a needless ex-
pense, because the history of Altona’ is
easily available to the Department or the
Electricity Commission. It has never been
clearly explained why Yallourn, 90 miles
from Melbourne, was preferred to Altona.
At any rate, Altona ought to be developed
as a stand-by. This- suggestion is empha-
sised by the fact that the Electricity Com-
mission proposes to spend £250,000 upon
buying German dredges to scoop up the Yal-
lourn coal instead of mining it, because
of the excessive moisture —up to 60 p.c.
:j: ❖
The fourth half-yearly report of Guinea
Gold can claim to show something done. The
accounts for the second year’s work, which
closed February 29, exhibit a profit of
£3266, derived from 32220 z. gold, together
with earnings from the air service up to the
transfer of the latter to the subsidiary,
Guinea Airways, at the end of last year.
Interest from funds on deposit brought the
earnings to £6655, and from this all charges
for administration in Adelaide and Rabaui
have been deducted. With the balance of pre-
liminary exes, written off, a net credit of
£2769 is left. To this is added £167 brought
forward from last year, making £2936 to be
carried forward. Issued capital on Feb.
29 was £50,000, and reserves from premiums
cn share issues stand at £17,787. Creditors
were owed £I7BO, while field assets are
rated at £35,463, these last including de-
velopment costs as well as the more familiar
ssets- —leasehold property, improvements,
etc. Other assets quoted are plant and
machinery, £2128, and stores and livestock,
£BO7, a total of £38,400. Shares in New
Guinea Airways amount to £IO,IOO. Gold
in hand and transit is valued at £3481; cash
on deposit and on hand, £9696. Sundry
debtors owe £10,825, of which the cos. asso-
ciated in the Guinea Gold group acknowledge
£8512.
Production is to continue on the Koranga
and Kaili areas, and it is hoped that suf-
ficient development can be accomplished on
the lode areas in Edie Creek to give Guinea
Gold an idea of what its own holdings there
are likely to be worth. The most important
item in the report is the announcement that
Placer Development has taken up the options
known as Guinea Gold South, Central and
North. These are on the Bulolo River,
below its junction with Edie Creek, and were
originally acquired from Guinea Gold under
an option by Territory Investments, who
sent Tom Horton to report. Territories did
not exercise the option, finding the flotation
of a working company inadvisable in the
state of the market. If Placer Development
takes up the option, Guinea Gold is to re-
ceive £50,000 in cash (£2OOO of that has
been paid for the option) and 10 per cent,
of the shares in any company or companies
formed to work the leases. A similar cut
is to be given to the vendors of shares in
any undertaking formed by Placer Develop-
ment for developing the properties, such as
a liydro-electrie scheme. A condition prece-
dent to all that is that a practicable trans-
port road be. made from the coast into the
mountains, since without it the bringing of
machinery up to the fields will be impossible.
It is stated that the Administration is now
conducting preliminary surveys. Another
item m that “well-known London interests”
are thinking of acquiring the Day Dawn and
other lode leases on the upper Edie, where
Guinea Gold holds some areas. The indi-
vidual behind this move is said to be W. 11.
Corbould, and the price for the option
over the leases is supposed to be £25,000,
of which £12.500 has already been paid, with
£30,000 to be spent in development, the
option-holder to have half the shares ifi the
co. It has also been stated that, some
little time ago, Territory Investments were
offered two-thirds of these Day Dawn hold-
ings for £11,500, but on Horton’s advice de-
clined.
sj: * H« *
Guinea Airways’ new Junker monoplane
during a recent week made 12 trips back
and forward from the coast to Bulolo, and
carried 20,6661 b. of cargo and eight passen-
gers, each journey taking 40 minutes, as
opposed to seven days if the journey is
undertaken on foot. The average load car-
ried by the ’plane was 18001 b., and the.
transport of machinery parts seems now pos-
sible. Hitherto conditions have imposed the
employment of the most primitive appliances.
sj: :Jc sj: *S«
An Adelaide Stock Exchange crowd re-
cently tried to option Boulder No. l’s old cast-
off and an adjoining lease at Boulder Block,
but the Boulder Perseverance, which holds
a quarter interest in the shows, stood in the
way. Both leases are shaping well in shallow
ground, and have a good chance of getting
the whole of the Perseverance-South Kal-
gurli lode at depth. In the hands of a
no liability co. weakly financed, they still
would be likely to prove a failure. Capital
and plenty of it is needed.
sjs sjc sj: sj{
Gt. Boulder (W.A.) made a profit last
year of roughly £30,000, and now has, at
100,000 tons, about a third more ore reserves
than it had 12 months ago. Latterly a lot
of low-grade ore with occasional small
patches of rich stuff has been opened up at
depth, and with other finds this has helped
to swell the ore reserves. Results from
work now in hand are expected to increase
them a good deal more. South Kalgurli
(W.A.) has just issued another estimate of
ore reserves which shows the tonnage to be
a little more and the average from Sd. to Is.
less than six months ago. These figures- place
the mine about 2\ years ahead of the mill.
“Probable ore” puts the mine 12 months
further ahead still. The bottom level, at
1900 ft., contains nothing to blow about, but
hopes are entertained that the shoot from
which the co. has managed to obtain good
returns for years will reappear in deeper
ground.
* * * *
Wiluna co. (W.A.) is designing a treat-
ment plant of 40,000 tons per month
capacity for extracting gold from its
southern or main ore deposits. Meanwhile
these gold carriers are being opened up and
appear to be lengthening at depth. Already
£250,000 has gone in development, metallur-
gical research, experimental treatment, etc.,
and before the mine reaches the producing
stage nearly £1,000,000 will have been spent.
The co. was very fortunate in getting the
powerful Consolidated Goldfields of South
Africa to take a substantial interest in its
venture. This concern has a paid-up capital
of £4,500,000, and has a big say in British
and South African mining investment.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
Lake View and Star’s market valuation
has soared on the strength of one of Golden
Horseshoe’s main shoots dipping into its
ground at depth and the possibility of others
doing likewise. The rise is rather dizzying;
but boosters of the stock argue that, as
millions sterling have been extracted by
the Horseshoe from the shoot which has
just passed into the Lake View holding,
millions more may be got from it. The mar-
ket may therefore go higher before bears
muster sufficient courage to make an attack.
An early amalgamation of the Lake View and
Horseshoe. is spoken of, and, in the interests
of economic mining and shareholders of both
cos., the sooner the better.
❖ jj: :j: *
Experts have gone to inspect Hill 60 at
Mt. Magnet (W.A.) —a show recently
optioned by a hurriedly formed Adelaide no
liability co. and immediately offered by it to
a London crowd for £30,000 and a fifth
interest. The workings are shallow, and
the shoot comparatively short, and there are
either no ore reserves or very little. More-
over, the . graves of the Chum and St.
George mines, on apparently the same ore
channel, are next door. In the circumstances,
the people interested had better not go far
without close investigation.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Poona emerald field (W.A.) has lately
been given a share of lease-peggers’ attention.
There is a world’s shortage of the green
gems, and Poona is reckoned to have a
chance in depth of supplying the shortage.
So far one London co., mining on primitive
lines, has obtained a few thousand carats of
rough stories and sold a few cut gems at
prices ranging from Bs. to £l6 a carat. Two
other cos., one London and the other Aus-
tralian, have . lately obtained stuff of better
value, and if geologist Woodward’s .pre-
diction regarding the field proves correct
they may do even better. Tin is also being
mined at Poona with London capital, and
promises to give fair returns.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Golden Horseshoe is about to try anew
process for treating low-grade ores without
roasting and concentration. The congratu-
lations which have followed the announce-
ment might well have been held over until
at least the process was explained.
* * ¥ *
“Spare Towkay” (Kuala Lumpur,
F.M.S.) : Business is very sick here, follow-
ing on the collapse of rubber and the drop
in tin. The former has fallen in six
months from Is. 7d. to 9d. and less. The
Chinese, who are the outstanding speculators
here, suffered most by the rubber drop, and
millions of dollars have been lost in Kuala
Lumpur and Penang. Shares.in the rubber
cos. have, of course, gone with the rubber
market. Also the tin slump has been fol-
lowed by a freeze in scrip. London and
New York metal-buyers here are not at all
anxious to place orders at spot even, and for
the first time for years show a disinclination
to buy forward. The F.M.S. practice is for
the smelters to buy the oxide from the mines
for cash and to sell the smelted tin promptly
to the agents, also for cash, at a fixed price
determined daily. Most of the agents in the
past have been accustomed to buy three
months ahead on these terms. Now they are
very chary of doing so. The result is that
the tin share-market in the East is well
overbought, just as it is to-day in Australia,
and it is equally true of both places that
brokers are “carrying” a lot of shares for
their clients, with the result that the market
is largely a false one. Things will not adjust
themselves to a proper basis until weak
shareholders have pulled out. There is room
for another 20 p.c. drop in most tin-share
prices yet to bring them level with real
values. In Malaya at the moment the suc-
cessful flotation of a tin co. is a practical
impossibility. Many of the shows that were
floated a couple of years ago on a ,601 b. to
the yard estimate are in for an anxious time.
At the best they will need all that good
management and low costs can do for them.
* * 4: *
C. H. Kerry, chairman of Takuapa Valley
Tin, passed into the shadows at the week-
end ; but before he went he scattered some
good news for shareholders in tin-dredg.ng
cos. in Siam. For a long time, he told the
annual meeting of his company, the Siamese
mining ordinances have proved a considerable
inconvenience, and so has the matter of
surface rights, which have been a great
help to title-holders in screwing the last
penny out of option buyers. The matter was
brought to the notice of the Prince of Siam
when he recently visited Sydney, and on his
recommendation big changes in the laws are
to be made. One of the most irritating
features of the old system has been the
intrusion of concessionaires, who have
acquired options over mining areas for specu-
lative purposes only. These men make no
attempt to prospect or prove the areas, but
wait for a bidder who can be stung. The
new ordinances will compel middlemen to
either prospect their holdings or forfeit their
title, while applicants- for exclusive prospect-
ing licenses will be required to furnish proof
of their ability to develop the land, an inno-
vation which should put some hurry-up into
a few cos. that could be mentioned but
needn’t be —there have lately been signs of
life among some of them.
* * * ¥
The Pitt-street dogs were barking last
week that the recent Alluvial Tin amalga-
mation of Malim Nawar South, Kuala Kam-
par and Tanjong Tualong (Kuala Kampar
Tin Fields) is to be followed by another com-
bination of companies floated under Allu-
vial’s banner. The cos. mentioned are
Rawang, Rawang Concessions and, possibly,
Serendah and Serendah South, the two lat-
ter being offshoots of Alluvial’s offshoot,
Tanah Biji. Shares are to be issued in de-
nominations of 10s., this being the favorite
figure for tin shares on the London market,
for it is in London that it is hoped to place
most of the holding ultimately, the same
pious aspiration being supposed to attach
to the Kuala Kampar Tin Fields scrip,
also a 10s. denominate.
* * * *
Alluvial Tin shareholders need not be sur-
prised if the finalisation of the deal in the
Kinta Valley properties between Alluvial
and the London option holders is delayed a
bit. Alluvial has been paid £50,000 as a
deposit, and the rest of the cash payment of
£750,000 w r as to be completed by the end of
June. The flotation of the London co. has
not, however, been an Overwhelming success,
and it is possible that finalisation of the
matter will have to be hung up awhile. By
all accounts money for tin is as tight in
London, just now as it is in Sydney or
Penang.
For the first half of May Takuapa got
16 tons from 65.000 yards as against 27.5
tons from 115,000 yards in April.
Forty hours were lost through sand choking
the discharge, while recovery was affected
by barren sand washed into the paddock
while the dredge was stopped. The trouble
will soon cease. Tin Bentong’s 12.55 tons
recovery from 40,100 yards is not up to
the April average of .861 b. Kuala Lumpur’s
dredges are both short on the half month’s
figures. No. 1 recovered 9.5 tons from 24,000
yards (April, 25 tons from 65,000 yards),
and No 2 turned over 29,000 yards for 11
yards (April, 25 tons from 65,000 yards),
Tongkah Compound did well with the Setul
dredge, 91,200 yards for 39.75 tons, though
half the time was worked outside the selected
area. In April, 132,920 yards yielded 47.65
tons, so the half month’s figures are much
improved. The Mantin dredge, digging
wholly outside the selected areas, recovered
13.5 tons from 110,937 yards. April’s re-
turn was 30.9 tons from 169,314 yards.
Malay Siamese holdings all showed im-
proved averages for the first half of the
month, though the turnover was smaller.
Phin Soon recovered 15 tons from 16,400
yards, as compared with 31.4 tons from
34,600 yards in April. Haad Yai’s figures
were 11 tons from 16,000 yards (April,
26.5 tons from 42,000 yards), and Huey
Yot’s 7.5 tons from 14,000 yards (April, 16.3
tons from 35,400 yards). For reasons not
explained the dredges in the last two shows
worked only about half time.
❖ ❖ * ❖
Among other Malayan tin shows, Bundi
recovered 70 tons from 152,000 yards, both
Bundi and Cheneh dredges contributing. The
April average was 1.101b., against 1.201b.
for March. No costs are published. One
hundred and forty hours were lost replacing
dredge equipment. Takuapa recovered
tons from 115,000 yards, a drop in values
from March, when 22 tons were won from
80,000 yards; the average was .661b., as
against ,571b. for April. Here again no
costs are given.


S 8
SSgSi
I
itV.t.-N
&Z** 3
z
/
itu
ua
HARDYS
WINES
f.w,v.».v.v.v.
li
m
°f
i
T INTAR A
m
mm®
m
m
S.V.\V,V.
n
.Vv-’v
m
m
' m
m
■
m
wAsß*
saw
S
ksss?
A\V~
'vr
Wirt
■ ■■■-■
tßHttp
■
‘S?SS&«v»2SSK*
•.v.W/.v.v.vvAVvv.-
■
SBS
gsgiKg
■ ■
V.W.V.V.
wivrt
mb
v.v.v.Wrt
K»-tT4-V
■
'"v’vlvMv'
W' T
= fmmzMsiX
m ' mfkm
k,v.
vMa
<a>
in
aft!#
...■'• .
v*Se
tr
V • V .< v -X
§8
nvf[jcvm aB Hi 11 i ,-,, sSsnnfi«iß*ManS£«nßß s= " B . (t r (Cf fTO
& tu rcA
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world’s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


lUNE NUMBER READY SATURDAY
AERATED BREAD CO., LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
AUSTRALIAN IRON & STEEL, LTD.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
BON MARCHE, LTD.
BALANCE-SHEETS REVIEWED:
CANADA INVESTMENTS & FINANCE CO., LTD.
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT CO., LTD.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO., LTD.
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO.
THE FREEHOLD ASSETS CO., LTD.
GARRATT’S, LTD.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, PATTINSON & CO., LTD.
GIBSON & HOWES.
HOME RECREATIONS, LTD.
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD.
SUN NEWSPAPERS, LTD.
WEST’S, LTD.
YOUNGHUSBAND, LTD.
4 \tta -v/T a -VTXT- ArpOT?T?a
THE STORY OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS.
STOCKS THAT ARE GOOD BUYING.
IS THE WHOLESALE HOUSE DOOMED?
PROSPECTUSES DISSECTED BY EXPERTS.
FINGERPOST FOR INVESTORS—No Man Who Buys or Sells Shares Can
Afford to Miss This.
LATEST ABOUT MT. ISA AND MALAYAN TIN.
Single Copy 2/-, or 22/6 a year post free from The Bulletin Office, Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane.
Aeroplane - Expert ence-Biulds
Plant/
i
k
***»
mx
sss
»
HOME LIGHTING
AND POWER PLANT
4c.
\
% O
%% '
w Mr /
v% *
C>
q£»- dr s o
«Vu
X v o
0/ 4
a
4>
. X
V '
't'
\
c ßy" CAppointment
Co H M THE KING
BOULTON &. PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng,
WHEN you know that one of the world’s largest aeroplane
makers also builds an electric light and power plant, you
know that it must be something different—vastly superior. You
expect that it will be built with the same precision and care
that are exercised in aircraft manufacture. And when you
examine Electolite, you’re not disappointed!
All the experience gained in building about six thousand aero-
planes during the past twelve years, and of manufacturing
numbers of Electolite plants for the British War Office for
arduous war-time service, is incorporated in Electolite.
It is the strongest, simplest, longest-lasting plant ever offered in
Australia. It supplies ample power not only for lighting, but
also for operating an electric iron, vacuum cleaner, refrigerator,
milking machine, separator, churn and many other labor-saving
devices both in the home and on the farm.
And, above all, it is low in price, and so economical that many
users claim it to cost less than city electricity. Let us send you
literature giving complete details, without obligation on your part.
GENEROUS TERMS MAKE PURCHASING EASY
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 683.
154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney: 3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
Box D 147 G.P.0., Perth. Box 1139 P G.P.0., Brisbane.
Resident Factory Representative : R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney.


Heavy, Hall-marked
Solid Silver
CIGARETTE
CASE, 26 1-
Fine finish, compact, neat design and good
capacity recommend this case to the criti-
cal. It holds a double row of cigarettes
and measures 3i by 2j- inches.
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
■~*r
HHHR - 1
P»!
■pi
lil
"Such a reputation is not won overnight 9f
4PJIL
4.1.111 k.
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d » . . ♦ 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <3 Co.. London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co..'LtdL
yy' yyy y
*
Y©
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
CALCULATIONS.
I wonder if
I can.
she will.
“E.V.S.”: It’s no wonder that opium
played Old Harry with the abo. Tobacco in-
haled in the same way would upset the
stomach of an ostrich. In all Western
Queensland the same method was followed,
The pipe bowl was a penny ink bottle—the
old glazed earthenware kind—in the neck of
which was inserted a hollow reed to act
as pipe stem. Through the side <*f the bowl
was drilled a small hole, over which the opium
was spread with a heated wire. A tin slush-
lamp fed by usually rancid fat, with a glass
bottle-neck inverted over it, gave the heat
for cooking. The distance from the smoker s
mouth to the lamp flame was usually not more
than nine inches, so along with the drug
Black Brother inhaled hot, ungodly gases.
The abos. called the stuff “moki,” and whites
dealt in it as well as Chinese. One ancient
camp cook must have made a small fortune
as a retail dealer. Adulterating the opium
with tea and flour he could get three tins
out of two. For sixpence he gave as much
of the compound as would cover a shilling.
* * * *
“Pandanus” : My experience does not coin -
cide with that of “Carisbrook Jun.” (B.
14/3/’2B) as to the absence of polygamy m
Australian tribes. On Cape York
Peninsula, where I put in 12
years, I found that in every tribe,
without exception, when a girl
reached the marrying age she was
taken by one of the old men, most
of whom had two wives and some
four. This in spite of the fact
that there were bucks aged from
20 to 25 years in each camp. In
most cases these young men lived in
a large gunyah. In only one in-
stance have I known a girl of mar-
riageable age remaining unwed for
any length of time. Her brother,
an ex-police boy, practically ruled
the tribe for about four years, and
refused to allow anyone to marry
her. He had a small whaleboat —
kept carefully hidden when I hap-
pened to be around —in which he
and the girl used to visit passing
luggers, where he would trade her
services for tobacco and bully beef.
This discovery resulted in my exer-
cising summary jurisdiction. He got the
hiding of Ms life; I married her to one of
the tribe and burned the boat.
* * * *
“Baomata”: On the Rowley Shoals, off
the north-west coast of Westralia, clams of
from five to six feet diameter are common
(I>. 15/2/’2B). The Koepang beche-de-mer
fishers who frequent the reefs go in terror
of the giant molluscs, which lie embedded
in the coral, wide open, the tightly stretched,
tough skin across the mouth indistinguish-
able from the surrounding reef. Let any
living thing touch this skin and the shell
snaps shut like a spring trap. There is
little hope for the unfortunate caught in
its maw, for the shells weigh half a ton or
more, and are so deeply embedded that no-
thing short of dynamite will shift one
whilst the reefs are uncovered. The beche-
de-mer fishers carry stout sticks and care-
fully prod wherever they intend setting
foot. Occasional carelessness, however, finds
its victims, and in Koepang (Dutch Timor)
to-day are several of these minus a limb,
who have survived the crude operation
necessary to free them. Giant eels,
six to seven feet long and as thick as
a man’s thigh, abound on the reefs, and are
considered a great delicacy by the fisher-
men. They are nasty customers to tackle,
and put up a great fight when speared. In
a struggle with one of these I saw a man
slip and fall into the gaping jaws of a giant
clam. He was a small man, the shell a
big one, and he disappeared. All efforts to
open the shell were unsuccessful and there
he remained.
* * * *
“Bon Jour”: Panting and gasping, I
staggered up to the bullockies’ camp, and
dropped down by their fire. “Ullo ! wot’s
this?” exclaimed old Rangie: “yer.
though yer in a ’urry.” “You said it,” I
panted. “Old Finnigan’s black bull has been
after me; and I ran for four miles before
I gave him the slip.” Rangie looked at
his mate and then spat meditatively into the
fire. Then he started, “Ye want ter be like
young Jim Mitchell; ye don’t want to run
from a bull.” “And what does Jim do?” “I
remember when ’e was caught be Murphy’s
big Ayrshire bull in the middle of ’is 200-
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
BINKS: “Are you in a position to support a family?”
SUITOR: “Well, sir, it depends. How many are there in your family?”
acre paddick, Jim didn’t run. No; ’e
just turned round with ’is back ter the
bull, and kep’ judgin’ ’is distance, steppin’
a little to one side and the other; and,
when the bull put ’is ’ead down an’ rushed
’im, an’ ’orn went each side uv ’im; and Jim
just sat down on th’ bull’s ’ead and ’eld an
’orn in each ’and. Yus, ’e ’ad a good ride
round that paddick, but ’e nearly got shot
orf once when ’e was lightin’ ’is pipe.”
“But how did he get away in the end?” I
asked in amazement. “Oh, easy! ’E just
steered th’ bull up to> the fence by dropping
a leg over one or the other eye. And, o’
course, yer know ’ow them bulls switch
their taiis? Well, Jim just grabbed the tail
with both ’ands as it come around, let
’isself go orf uv ’is seat, and was ’oisted
right over the fence, and lobbed on to ’is
feet on the other side.”
* * *
“B-Gar”: “There’s money to be made
runnin’ brumbies, if you’re awake,” said
Long Tom. “Me an’ me mate made a cheque
quick an’ lively, after we woke up ter the
dodge. We runs ’bout a hundred head out on
the Mulligan, an’ takes ’em inter Cliarle-
vdlle fer sale. They didn’t bring too much,
but we was satisfied, an’ after a week in
the burg we starts out fer more. But spare
me days afore we get ter ther camp nearly
all them ’orses we sold is back ’ome again.
The mugs what bought ’em never bothered
ter cross brand ’em, an’ after a couple er
days in the strange country they jest hopped
ther fences. In less than a week we’d got
pretty well ther same mob again. We sold
those prads in Longreach this time, an’ as
they ought ter be ’ome again now, we’re out
fer them, but this time we’ll ’ave ter find
another market. Those mugs might wake
up!”
* * '!* *
“Sucker”: About 20 years back an old
gin named Possum died in giving birth to a
half-caste daughter at Idamerc (W.Q.). On
the station at the time there were no goats,
no cows in milk, no arrowroot or cornflour
in the store, no rice and no condensed milk.
Yet that piccaninny lived. There was a
cattle-bitch which had just whelped a litter
of pups. The pups were killed and the
young Possum put in their place. By the time
the bitch had gone off milk some of the
gins had brought on a flow. They did it by
lying face downwards and laving their bare
breasts with the hot sand. Anyway, the
little Possum lived and is now herself the
mother of several.
❖ -i* ❖
“Dai R.”: “Gouger’s” remarks about
Binghi’s tracking faculties (B. 21/3/’2B)
remind me of a very smart performance by
a half-civilised black on Killarney station,
near Narrabri (N.S.W.). The manager’s
wife had brought three black Orpington hens
and a rooster (prize birds) from Sydney.
There were no fowl-houses or yards on the
homestead premises then, and the birds went
bush, the country round about being
almost impenetrable scrub, with outcrops of
bare rock. Occasionally one of the hens re-
turned to the homestead to feed, but
could not be caught. On a day following
one of these visits the buck came to the
station to report dingo ravages on an out-
post, and the manager’s wife mentioned her
trouble to him. “Me bin track ’em you
gibbit plenty ’bacca,” he said. He was
promised the guerdon if he succeeded. lie
started off, and I (15 and adventurous)
went with him. Tiny twigs displaced and
dead leaves cracked led him on. On the
bare rock he was guided by pea-size pebbles
out of position, and in the scrub by inden-
tations in the grass and herbage. Then he
came upon a leg-feather on a bramble. He
found the birds over half a mile away,
caught the four, and brought them home.
* * * *
“D. J.H.”: One of the queerest characters
I ever met was an islander from Noumea
employed by a French family at Minto
(N.S.W.). He made his own axe-handles,
generally from a bit of spotted gum or oak,
the only tools he used being two or three
bits of bottle glass. He always filed the
sharp edge off a new axe and was a most
patient wood-chopper, spending hours at an
old, twisty log or stump until he had it all
cut up. Though air old man, he would tell
you he was 18, that apparently being the
only number he knew. He loved to draw
pictures of sailing-boats. The walls of his
room, which he kept closely locked, were
covered with dozens of such drawings in
colored crayons which the children gave him,
and they weren’t at all badly done. If dis-
inclined for work, the old chap would get
behind a tree, so as not to be seen from
the house, and sleep for hours standing up.
* * * *
“Malakuna”: In parts of New Guinea
there is a quaint rule prescribing conduct to
a father-in-law. My “boy” Raka told me
that if he marries (as he evidently intends
to do) the daughter of one Golbu he Will
not be permitted to communicate in any way
with his pa-in-law or to eat that gentleman’s
food. If Golbu calls, Raka’s parents and
his wife may converse with him, but Raka
himself must keep out of the way. But when
Golbu has become decrepit and helpless it
will be permissible for Raka to throw him
a lump of taro or pig occasionally.
* * * *
“Drover” : Many bullocks pick out mates,
and a bullock going on to night camp will,
if he loses his cobber, walk round until he
finds him. There must be something under-
stood, too, between a whole mob of travel-
ling cattle, for, no matter how tired and
footsore they may be, a few will always take
their turn at standing up, on guard as it
were. Anyone ever noticed a mob of a
few hundred all lying down?
(Continued on page 25 A
CASEY’S PUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
From where we’re camped to Casey’s pub
—an’ it’s a rotten track —
Is every inch of seven miles, an’ longer
cornin’ back.
An’ though it’s ’ard on the old mare, an’
makes us awful late,
We’re patronisin’ Casey now —for Casey
keeps a slate.
It’s three miles to Macpherson’s pub, a
good road all the way.
’ls beer, or what we’ve ’ad of it, ’as always
been O.K.
But as old Jim ’ere says to me, an’ as I
say to Joe,
It’s where a feller’s name is good a feller
’as to go.
An ’ard old man Macpherson is. “A blanky
coot like ’im
Ought never let be kept a pub,” so Joe
tells me an’ Jim.
“ ’E’ll soon be losin’ all ’is trade, you see
now if I’m wrong,
A bloke what turns a man down flat don’t
last too blanky long.”
A fine old chap Dan Casey is. ’ls genial
“Good-night, boys !”
Restores the faith in fellowship a man like
Mac. destroys.
An’ if ’is beer is not as strong as old Mac-
pherson’s is
Our name is good at Casey’s pub—so Casey
gets our biz.
An’ when at times ’e asks us, as ’e joins us
in a drink,
“An’ ’ow’s the contract goin’, boys, an’ will
she pay, d’ye think?”
An’ looks a little anxious like, Joe’s confi-
dent “You bet!”
Allays his doubt an’ so our name is good
at Casey’s yet.
It’s seven miles to Casey’s pub an’ only
three to Mac.’s,
But on the road to Casey’s you will find
the old mare’s tracks.
“For where a feller’s name is good, an’ while
it’s good,” says Joe,
“It’s only just plain commonsense that’s
where ’e ’as to go.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


GRANDSTAND, WILLIAMSTOWN RACECOURSE.
ARCHITECT . . . Albion H. Walkley, Esq., F.R.V.I.A.
BUILDERS Messrs. Weavell & Keast.
Reinforced throughout on the B.R.C. System.
Concrete Reinforcement
The outstanding characteristic of B.R.C. Fabric is the great
safety it embodies wherever applied—-a characteristic that
comes of the ease with which it can be accurately placed in
position by the ordinary workman. B.R.C. Concrete
Reinforcements are suitable for all types of structures.
rrrrmrrrnTrrrr,
rrrrrrmrrm
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
ujinjjjjjujjjjjjii
TiUtijljjujjjjjjj
sdf


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
“Pandanus”: I was after two Red Island
hoys who had cut out a lugger full of stores a
couple of days previously, and I had
anchored in a small creek just before day-
light and raided the Red Island camp without
any luck. I had waited all day with the boat
hidden in the creek and was just setting
out at dusk to go to the Seven River tribe
at the Jardine when Jimmy Matauri, the
Red Island mamoose, came up and told me
he thought my birds might be camped with
a crowd of McDonnell boys on a small
EITHER WOULD DO.
MODERN PAPUAN MISSUS; “I’m bored to death. I wish there was
a club for women here.”
HER HUSBAND: “So do I. Or a tomahawk. I wouldn’t care
which.”
creek about half-way to the Jardine. I said
I would go there and have a look-in on
my way. Jimmy said, “Them McDonnell
boy proper myall, boss; you look out s’pose
you go there, might them pfeller tchuek ’im
spear. I think more better wo pfeller
come too.” So Jimmy and his satellites
came along. There were 20 of them, each
with a shot-gun and a knife, and with my-
self and my crew we made 26 guns,
knives and one service revolver. Shortly
before daylight we landed at the mouth oi
the creek, and in single file stole quietly
along a sandy track to where the camp was,
a cluster of about 30 bark gunyahs. We
surrounded the camp, the arrangement being
(hat as soon as it was light enough to see,
Jimmy was to coo-ee and wake the camp,
and then we were to be guided by what
happened. Jimmy gave a lung-splitting
coo-ee, and after a few seconds got a very
feeble response from the camp, and out of
one of the nearest gunyahs crawled a feeble
old man, naked and unashamed. He stood
up and 25 guns covered him while a bit of
yabber went on, and then every gun was
lowered. The poor old blighter was blind
and had been left in the camp for a couple
of days while the others were away hunting.
I felt a very small dog that morning.
* * * *
“R.G.W.” : The Maori tangi is not always
as solemn as would befit the occasion. The
other day a big rangitira in the neighbor-
hood passed beyond Reinga, and it was de-
cided that the tangi should be of unusually
magnificent proportions. Fatted calves were
killed, kumaras roasted, and countless
plump pigeons slain to provide the feast;
and on the appointed day lamentations were
in full swing, when suddenly, in the midst
of a particularly violent expression of grief.
Hiri, another old identity, overcome perhaps
by the unaccustomed exercise on top of a
superfluity of good things, had a seizure and
fell dead. “Py korry,” said Henare, tell-
ing me the harrowing tale with a long face,
“him t’ pore old feller all right. His death
cast a gloom over t’ whole proceedings !”
:Jc $ *
“Ex-Loco”: The Council is invited to hold
an indignation meeting. Some of the elders
of the tribe have been singing the praises of
Australian-grown axe- and hammer-handles
for 40 years, and at this late stage the Vic.
Railway Dept, says they’re all wrong. Reply-
ing to a plea for use of Australian hammer-
handles put up—-and more power to it! —by
the loco-drivers’ union, the department says
they are “entirely unsuitable owing to the
brittle nature of the wood and its liability
to fracture and splinter.” It asserts that
American hickory is not only suitable but a
lot cheaper. Now, then, what are the facts?
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: “I see that bushies are
preferred to townies for the police force,”
remarked Dad Slocum. “An’ so they ought
to be,” he went on.
“especially if
they’ve got to catch
rogues in the coun-
try parts. When
the Kellys were
out, I remember,
friends an’ sym-
pathisers were
often talkin’ with
smoke to the bush-
rangers while the
police were talkin’
to them. There was
‘Supplejack,’ for
instance. When he
saw police about it
would remind him
that he had some
burnin’ off to dc.
He might light a
good many fires an’
light ’em all over
the paddock, but it
would be done in a
way that would
throw only the
right number of
smoke columns
above the trees to
convey the message.
If only one column
was required it was
easily done by burn-
in’ out an imagi-
nary dingo or a
nest of native cats
that wasn’t there.
An’ many a signal
went out of the
chimney, too, while
Mrs. Supplejack
was makin’ the ser-
geant a cup of tea.
'That’s very smoky
wood you’re usin’,
Mr s. Supplejack ?’
he said to her once.
‘Yes,’ she says, ‘we
have some bacon
handin’ in the
chimney that we
want to smoke.’
Same time she was
savin’ Kelly’s bacon.”
* * 4s
“Claude Weston”: For cheapness of
structure and durability it would be hard
to beat the bridges built by the natives of
New Guinea. The builders have a tech-
nique which utilises to the limit their
resources. They have neither nails, iron
SHE KNEW, OH SHE KNEW!
MR. FITZBUSKER (looking for lodgings ) : “I presume, Madam, you know the special
terms most places have for the theatrical profession.”
MRS. BONES. “Oh yes, I know them all right; but I hope I'm too much of a lady to
repeat them.”
nor true wood, but are forced to rely en-
tirely upon bamboos for the structural parts,
and upon a rope of their own manufacture
for effecting junctions. This rope is made
of fibre from palms which are very plenti-
ful in the island. It resists effectively the
decaying action of the damp tropical climate
and lasts for many years without signs of
rotting. The average width of the bridges
is about four feet, and the bamboo columns
on either side of the stream are of remark-
able strength and elasticity. These columns
are built of bamboos tied with rope and
firmly pressed together by forcing wedges
between the roping and bamboos.
* * * *
“Up Top”: In the jungles, during the wet
season, leeches are a menace. Though for
50ft. around the camp the ground be scraped
bare of dank vegetation, and even though a
man’s bunk be built high, leeches are still
liable to find him by night. The baby ones,
mere cottony wisps, are the most feared.
They enter the nostrils and the ears and
generally secure a firm hold before their
host becomes aware of their feasting. Even
if they can be pulled out with pincers, it is
dangerous, as the mouth of the leech has got
a firm grip on the tender membrane and
tears some away as it is pulled out, leaving
a running sore. If the thing can be seen
at all, a heated needle end applied to its
stern will cause it to quickly loosen its
hold.
“Atherton”: Recently a cobher of mine
cycling home after a bush dance ran over
what looked like a stick. Next second, man,
bicycle and snake were playing at somer-
saults. On moonlight nights snakes like to
take a siesta in the soft dust of a white
road. An overloaded citizen of Cooktown
was staggering home afoot when one of these
sleepers, suddenly aroused, crawled around
his leg. The drunken gentleman calmly got
a death grip on its neck and zig-zagged on
with the thing coiled round his arm. It
was the heated argument in the kitchen that
brought wifey in to investigate. Ilubby
was doing his best to induce a frightened
snake to enter a bottle by pouring boiling
water on its tail. His idea was that if he
could only cork up this fantod he would
know for a certainty in the morning whether
others of the species he occasionally saw
were dinkum.
“Penacre”: Where has “laH.H.” seen
anthills which lean towards the west (B.
18/4/’2B) ? I have seen thousands of them,
and have not yet discovered any, with the
exception of those built against the trunk
of a tree, with any pronounced lean in
one direction. The “magnetic” anthills of
the Northern Territory are invariably built
facing north and south, and they have no
lean. Anyhow, all the directions in the
world won’t stop an inexperienced bushman
from becoming lost in flat country. It is
the man who doesn’t worry about the trail
who returns home on time. I know, because
I was hopelessly bushed once half a mile
from the station through attempting to
follow instructions.
* * * *
“G.E.8.” : In our Maoriland household is
a mattress made from the fleeces of pet
lambs after they had grown up. This bed
is nearly 40 years old. . Every few years the
wool is taken out, washed well in warm suds
and spread out to dry. Then it is teased by
hand —a long job—and returned like a moun-
tain to its ticking. It shows a loss of bulk
after washing, but in a week it gets back to
its normal size.
* * * *
“Pfella” : War paint is a great factor in
winning Binghi’s tribal battles. In the
days when North-Westralian niggers were
always arguing boundary matters with
spears, a pioneer squatter felt that the tribe
nearest his run deserved some moral backing.
So he sent to Perth for a case of as-
sorted paints, and these he presented to
a natives’ council of old wise-heads. At once
the fighting bucks made ready for blood-
letting. Grievances, old and new, were dug
up, and war declared on the nearest
neighbors. Battle after battle was won
solely on the strength of the terrifying effect
of the colors displayed.
* * 4> ' *
“Tew”: The mild-mannered sugar-ant,
which delights in digging nesting holes in
garden paths and flower beds, has his econ-
omic uses. One night I observed a company
of these ants entering a disused room.
Presently they began to emerge—each ant
carrying a dead blowfly to add to the winter
store of food. The floor of this room was
just then strewn with insects, and the sugar-
ants had smelt them out.
MARRIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Chill blows the dreary western wind,
A dismal dirge it’s humming;
High swirls the dust along the road
Where once I’d watch her coming;
The lanes are strewn with withered leaves
That storm and squall have carried;
Bleak winter fast is closing in
Since our own Jeannie’s married.
Grey are the days that come and go,
With mournful memories clinging;
My heart hangs heavy as a stone
Whene’er the school bell’s ringing.
I miss her most at sunset time,
When shadows long are reaching,
As children from the school pass by—-
The school where she was teaching.
The flowers have shed their summer blooms
As if they, too, were grieving;
The poplars donned a russet garb
The day that she was leaving.
Aye! quick the seasons come and go—
I would that they’d have tarried.
Month in, month out, ’twas ever spring
Before our Jeannie married.
No more at night come youth and maid
With happy, smiling faces,
But round our hearth o’ winter nights
Old fogeys take their places.
We hear no merry quip and shaft,
Well met or gaily parried:
Gone is the music and the song
Since our own Jeannie married.
God bless them both; I love the boy,
I’m, glad she chose no other,
And blame him not for claiming her,
Just as I claimed her mother.
Aye, quickly have the seasons flown,
Nor good nor bad have tarried ;
It only seems a year or so
Since she and I were married.
N.S.W.
JIM GBAHAME.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on onlv one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Young man (21), of good education,
seeks job on station, had 12 months’ experi-
ence with sheep. Good refs. Go any State.
—4730.
Young man, well educated and reliable,
wants position anywhere N.S.W.. as hotel
useful or similar. 325. 6d. and keep.—47so.
Englishman, scholar (50), seeks position,
tutor, secretary or book-keeper, town or
country. (“Clericus,” c/o. T. A. Thorley.
Summerland Mansions, St. Kilda, Vic.)
Englishman wants job as station book-
or store-keeper. Good refs. —4713.
Accountant, Sydney, wants part time
work auditing, writing accounts, handling
books or balance-sheets, or preparing income-
tax returns. —4705.
Young man wants job, Sydney, driving
’bus, car or lorry. Refs. —4706.
Young Englishman (26), formerly wool
student at Bradford Tech. Coll., wants job
with broker or buyer or on sheep station,
anywhere in Australia, Maoriland or South
Africa.—47l2.
Hobart man, 20 years’ experience with
motor-cars and machinery; understands
finance; good organiser; wants position in
N. S. Wales, Sydney preferred. Refs.—47o3.
Draper, 11 years’ experience, window-
dresser, salesman, stock-keeper, buyer and
manager, at present in South Africa, wants
job in Australian country drapery, with view
to buying interest.—4sBl.
Two experienced rabbiters, with 1-ton truck
and full outfit, desire engagement, N.S.W.
station, award rates and skins. —4791.
Man with N.S.W. and Q’land experience
wants management medium-sized sheep pro-
perty. Keep books. Bank and other rets.
Strictly sober.—4Bo3.
Young man, Sydney, good athlete, seeks
dangerous mission carrying compensating
remuneration.—4 Boo.
Young'couple (husband civil servant) de-
sire three weeks’ accommodation, end of
June, iu country home, N.S.W. Away from
coast. State terms and particulars.—47ss.
Englishman, well educated, wants position
on N.S.W. station as tutor or book-keeper.
Can teach piano.—4764.
. Italian (40), single, naturalised, 14 years
in Australia, speaks English and Italian well,
used to hard work, can keep books, handy
with tools and used to horses, wants job in
or near Sydney.—47B6.
English public-school boy (19), recent
arrival, keen on all sports and fond of litera-
ture, desires to correspond with people of
same age, both sexes. (To J. A. B. Harris-
son, Willah, via Red Cliffs, Vic.)
Young man (26), Uni. matric., English
honors, wants job as proofreader or other
ty r? 11 n ews P a Per; go anywhere in
N.S.W., £4 10s. a week. —4782.
To . buy “The Crock of Gold” and “The
Demi-Gods, ’ by James Stephens; “Lonelv-
Lands,” by Francis Birtles; “My Odyssey,'’
by Jack McLaren. To sell, Norman Lind-
say s ‘ Pen Drawings,” in ex. order.—4776.
To buy copy of Lone Hand, Nov., 1908.
—47 SO.
Novels, short-stories and articles to type
by experienced typist (journalist out of
work). —4707.
Amateur woodworker wants to buy wood-
veneer papers, wood inlay transfers, inlays
and stock carvings for use in making trays
and cigarette boxes.—467l.
Two city men owning large flat at Manly
would like bachelor or married couple to
join them in housekeeping on per capita
basis. (To Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney.)
To sell furnished house, Epping, Sydney,
4 rooms, kitchen and sleeping-out verandahs,
e. 1., garden and fruit trees.—4722.
To sell block, 60ft. frontage, at Ettalong
(N.S.W.), on main ’bus route, close to
beach, £150; £1 weekly, no deposit, no
interest. (To C. Young, 24 St. Marks-road,
Randwick, Sydney.)
To sell “Isle of San,” by Leon Gellrrt,
Lysistrata,” by Jack Lindsay, “Creative
Effort,” by Norman Lindsay, special Norman
Lindsay number of Akt in Australia and
Dante’s Inferno,” illustrated by Dore.
—4677.
To buy “Turf Men and Memories,” pub-
lished Melbourne, 1912. —4747.
To buy “Adventures of Dunsterforce. ’
by Maj.-Gen. Jj. C. Dunstervillc, new or
second-hand.—474o.
To buy copy of “Fleet-street to Downing-
street, by Kennedy Jones. (To George
Groom, Tasma, Parliament-place, Melb.)
To buy both issues of Bill Bowyang’s
Magazine, original numbers of war-time
Aussie, and early numbers of Federal
Capital Pioneer, Australian Museum
Magazine and Canberra Times. (Direct
t° T Korong, Birdwood-avenue Lane Cove,
N.S.W.)
To buy for cash, walnut orchard close to
big town N.S.W., Q’land or Vic. State
number of trees and average net return.—
4758.
To exchange selective one-valve radio set,
will receive inter-State stations on ’phones,
xor a Crossley 2-valve set. (To E Roberts 5
Egan-street, Richmond E 7, Vic.)
To buy Stanley Gibbons’s “Handbook of
S.A. Stamps.” (To J. L. Borthwick, Crystal
Brook, S.A.)
Po sell quantity magazines and paper-
covered novels, all different. List sent. (To
M. Weiss, P. 0., Indooroopilly, Q.)
Information Sought.
I am exporting some honey to England.
By the Customs regulations it must contain
over 60 p.c. of sugar. Can I obtain the
sugar bonus on this sugar, and if not, why
not? —4399.
No. The sugar is a natural content of the
honey, and as no Australian cane sugar is
added exporters are not entitled to the re-
bate.
What can be done to strengthen the bach
springs of a 1925 Overland 4- cylinder car?
Would inverting the springs be helpful?—
4502.
The springs may require resetting, or
they may require strengthening with an
extra leaf. They may be worn to such an
extent that the spring eye is pressing hard
up against the brake housing, a condition
which, in time, may break the differential
housing. If the last-named is the trouble,
remove the near-side rear spring from the
chassis; have the end of the spring heated
up and the spring-eye rolled back 4in.
(1) What are the award rates for jack-
eroos in Queensland? (2) Are they the same
loth for sheep- and cattle-stations? (3)
At ichat age can a boy start as a jackeroo?
(4) How long must he serve in that capa-
city? (5) What prospects arc there of pro-
motion? —4508.
(1) and (2) Sheep-stations: Ist year,
30s. ; 2nd, 405.; 3rd, 535. per week. Cattle-
stations : Ist, 255. 6d.; 2nd, 355. 6d.; 3rd, 455.
6d. (3) Any age. (4) Three years. (5)
After three years the pay is 70s. a week
on sheep-stations and 60s. a week on cattle
chances. A healthy, strong, intelligent lad
has a good chance of climbing to a job as
station manager.
I have a■ five-valve broadcast receiver
which will Cine down to 200 metres. I leant
to pick up short-wave stations around 32
metres. Would a short-wave adaptor be
satisfactory, or would, you recommend a
short-wave receiver ? —4640.
The Colmovox short-wave adaptor, obtain-
able from Colville-Moore, 10 Rowe-street,
Sydney, will be satisfactory and very much
cheaper than a 3-valve short-wave outfit.
Price, complete with coils, £7 10s. As the
broadcast receiver batteries and valves are
employed in conjunction with this adaptor,
no other apparatus need be purchased.
fl) What charge is made for a course of
instruction by the Marconi School of Wire-
less, Sydney? (2) Must the fees be paid in
advance? (3) Are there any other such
schools in Sydney? (4) Do yon know of any
amateur on the North Sydney side who
would be willing to give practical instruction
for a small fee? —4605.
(1) and (2) £45 cash, or £5O terms. (3)
We do not know of any. (4) No. Advise
you to join a radio club.
Is there any method by which my sight
can be restored so that / can read without
glasses? —4s93.
No, unless the sight loss is due to a tran-
sient disease that will respond to treatment.
What is a cure for dermatitis V—4568.
First find the cause, if possible, and eradi-
cate it. Keep the affected part away from
soap and water, cleansing with olive oil
instead. On no account use boracic or any
irritating ointment.
I have a slight hump on my back and
want ' to get rid of it. Can you suggest
exercises? —4s2l.
I irstly, cultivate an erect and correct
posture. Walk with the head erect, and
throw the shoulders well back till such a
gait becomes second nature. Get a light
pair of dumb-bells and exercise with them
vigorously morning and evening in such a
way that each movement braces back the
shoulders and throws forward the chest.
Does the N.S.W. Government make■ ad-
vances to share farmers to fallow land for
next season’s crops? If so, how much per
acre, and how is the money advanced? —4s22
Yes, to approved applicants. The allow-
ances do not exceed ss. per acre. The
money is paid to the applicants’ creditors
tor purposes connected with the work of
fallowing. Apply to the Rural Industries
Branch, Sydney.
I have a mica show. How can I find out
the value of the mineral? What are the
prospects ? —4573.
o sample to Frank Ilambridge.
22 Bridge-street, Sydney. Unless von have
a very good deposit, not far from rail, you
will find it very hard to compete with the
Indian producers, who turn out valuable
sheet mica, from which the grinding grade
is secured as a by-product.
Is the Starr-Bowkett Twentieth Century
Building and Investment Society reliable, and
is any liability for losses incurred by an
ordinary shareholder?— 4312.
ci name Building and Investment
Society—-suggests that its rules have been
varied from those of the ordinary Starr
Bowkett building societies, which do not corn-
template investments and which, if managed
by honest and capable directors, are excel-
lent institutions. We cannot advise further
without a book of the rules.
Is there a market for lavender in N. 8.
Wales, and how would one set about grow-
ing it on a commercial scale? —44sB.
The lavender from which scent is derived,
Lavandula vera officinalis, requires a fairly
rich soil and seems to thrive best in the
cooler districts. It is very doubtful if it
would pay to grow in N. S. Wales—you
couldn t hope to compete with the labor
conditions in France, Italy, Bulgaria and
Britain, which provide most of the world’s
commercial lavender.
I have a gramophone with the old-type
goose-neck tone-arm and mica diaphragm,
and cannot get satisfactory results with elec-
trical recordings. What is the remedy?
(1) Should' I purchase a modern type of
gramophone, or would it he hotter to equip
my present machine with a “pick-up” and
put the sound waves through my valve set?
(2) It is advised on record covers that the
motor should he allowed to run while wind-
ing. Won’t this injure the spring? —45G4.
(1) Fit a Paillard tone-arm. If your
gramophone has a good sound chamber you
will get better results than by using a
“pick-up.” If you did use a “pick-up” you
would have to change your tone-arm just
the same. (2) Winding a motor while
running is not harmful.
I have given my neighbor notice of my
intention to erect a 6 ft. paling fence. lie
says a sft. fence would do. (1) Am I en-
titled to proceed with erection of a Aft.
fence and to recover half the cost from my
neighbor? (2) How long must I wait after
serving notice before erecting the fence? —-
4655.
(1) No. Assuming the properties to be
in N. S. Wales, your neighbor has a right to
have the matter referred to the arbitration
of two persons mutually chosen, and if they
cannot agree, then to an umpire appointed by
the parties, and his decision will be final.
(2) Six months, after which your neighbor
must comply with your request or give
reasonable excuse for not doing so.
What is the name of a brown crab found
in the mangrove swamps of Central Q'land,
coast? The largest are about two inches
across, and they have a small claw and a very
large one, the large one being red and held
across the face. —4634.
The Beckoning or Fiddler crab, of the
genus XJca. Only the males possess the en-
larged and ornamented claw, which is often
larger than the body of the crab itself.
(1 ) lloio can one secure a position as town
or shire clerk in N.S.W.? (2) What are the
prospects in the profession at present? (3)
Where can one obtain the necessary text-
books or a course of instruction ?, —4733.
(1) You must have a certificate, obtained
by the passing of an examination, and the
production of proof as to good character.
(2) There is a shortage of certificated men,
and a person who passes the examination
should not have much difficulty in securing
appointment. (3) The books comprise a
number of Acts, and the book-keeping sys-
tem of councils, as prescribed by the Ordi-
nances, must be studied. Instruction can be
obtained from the Local Government iCoach-
ing College, 229 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
(1) Would a competent Morse operator
have much difficulty in becoming a wireless
operator? (2) Is the profession over-
crowded? (3) If the course of study is car-
ried out at the Marconi School, Sydney,
would a position be guaranteed? (4) What
is the salary for a wireless operator? (5)
What is the fee for such course? —4665.
(1) Depends on whether you read Morse
by sounder or buzzer. As buzzer Morse is
used on ships it will take you. a few months
to become proficient if you are used to
sounder reading. We assume also that you
possess a slight knowledge of electricity, in
which case you should have no difficulty in
passing the P.M.G. examination. (2) Tim
demand for marine operators varies from
time to time, according to the number of
ships in commission. (3) No. (4) It com-
mences at £l4 per month, the maximum
being £22 per month. (5) £45 cash or £5O
terms.
Information Supplied.
3906.—There is a legend that the
Governor of South Carolina required the
return of a fugitive slave. The Governor
of North Carolina had reasons for not grant-
ing the request, but didn’t want to give
offence. At a banquet at which both Gover-
nors were present, the Governor of South
Carolina made a speech demanding the return
of the slave and ended with, “What do you
say?” The Governor of North Carolina
replied, “It’s a long time between drinks.”
The saying has also been attributed to Judge
Aedanus Burke. —“N. 8.”
4726.—T0 make plum-wine, gather fruit
when ripe and dry, put into wooden tub,
bruise well with wooden masher and cover
with boiling water. Cover tub with cloth
and leave for three weeks. Strain off liquor,
and for every gallon add 31b. sugar. Stir
well together, and leave for 10 days in a
tub to ferment. Then add loz. isinglass
(dissolved in a little of the liquor) and
ilb. raisins to every 9gal. Bottle in about
six months. Improves with keeping. A little
whisky or brandy may be added before
bottling.—“B.”
4432.—Ring the trees all round, Cutting
downwards and wedging the axe outwards.
In the collar thus formed pour a strong solu-
tion of arsenic. The poison will travel
through the sap down into the roots and
prevent suckers from sprouting when the
tree is dead.—“Yufu.”
4444.—T0 clean blankets that have been
fly-blown, spread them out in the hot sun.
The heat will settle any live maggots and
destroy unhatched eggs. Afterwards wash
in cold water. —“B-Gar.”
»Brief Answers.
Arbor: You will be too old to make a
recovery if you make a mistake. Therefore you can’t
take risks; and there are large risks in all these
forestry schemes E.A.K.: (1) Don’t expect an
early rise to 275. (2) Sec no reason for selling.
(3) Can’t see anything better H.J.8.: (1) Curtis
Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, Lon-
don, W.C.2. (2) Commonwealth Copyright Office,
Customs House, Brisbane. ... R. A. H.: Write to the
Repatriation Commission, Chalmers-street, Sydney,
for the proper forms N. 8.: (1) The cheapest third-
class fare is by P. and O. (Cape service) line, £2l.
(2) Every passenger must have a passport. (3)
Melbourne to Durban, 24 days ; Adelaide to Durban,
21 days; Fremantle to Durban, 14 days C.A.:
According to the “Commonwealth Year Book” 143
persons per 100,000 died in 1923 from all forms of
tuberculosis. The latest figures available show that
in 1926 the ratio had decreased to 59 per 100,000. .
L.J.S.: Try Mitsubishi Trading Co., 16-2o’ Bridge'
street, Sydney, or. Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Sirius House,
Macquarie-place, Sydney... .Curious: (X) Sidney
Kidman was bom May 9, 1857. (2) We are looking
it up. ...G.8.: (1) The Australian and New Zealand
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book, 2s. (id. (2) Get
in touch with any of the three leading repertory
societies in Sydney... .S.W.: The Tahiti-Greyeliffe
collision occurred on November 3, 1927. The Bris-
bane mail train was wrecked near Aberdeen (N.S.WL)
on June 10, 1926, and the North-West express was
wrecked on the Murella incline on September 13,
1926.. . .E.M.M.G. : He should make a fresh will.
The first wife is named specifically in the original
will. .. . It.S.T. : “Rose Marie” opened at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on May 21, 1926, and “White
Cargo” at the Theatre Royal on February 20, 1926.
.... F.D.: Palnut lock washers can be got from
Scruttons, Ltd., 161 Clarence-street, Sydney....
Hilt: Lunacy is not a ground for divorce in N. S.
Wales. .. .F.8.J.F.D.: Your best course would be to
place a copy of the sale contract in the hands of a
solicitor for advice as to whether you would have
any grounds for action. We do not furnish the names
of solicitors. .. .W.D.: Drought has made rabbits very
scarce in the Hillston district. Warialda and
Inverell districts appear to be the most likely places
this season... .H. 8.: See reply to IV.D., also
article, “Trapping Bunny,” on Land page (B.
9/5/’2B) .. . . J.W.8.: The “Jessamy Bride” was the
nickname bestowed by Oliver Goldsmith upon Mary
Harneck, afterwards Mrs. Gwynn. Jessamy is old
English for jasmine. (2) A woman need not be
married to be called a “bride.” Thus the
term is applied to a woman about to be
married A.F.L.: (1) You could most con-
veniently get it through Lloyd’s Register at
Auckland. (2) £l2 12s. for companies and
public institutions, £6 6s. for private indi-
viduals. (3) There are two Journals of Com-
merce published in Australia, one a weekly trade
review, by G. W. Wamsley, 56 William-street, Mel-
bourne, and the other, the official organ of the Bris-
bane Chamber of Commerce, a monthly, by Besley
and Pike, Alfred-street, Valley, Brisbane, Q
L'.F.D.: “The Rivals” was written by It. Brinsley
Sheridan.... Anon: The nearest we can get to it is
Saychedonus, another name for Esarhaddon (meaning
“Assur has given a brother”),, an Assyrian king, son
of Sennacherib. Pronounced Sar-ked-o-nus. . ..
A.G.M.: It is some time since we heard
from him. His last address was care of
the Australian Trade Commissioner, Cunard Build-
ing, 25 Broadway, New York.... Reynolds:
(1) and (2) Her husband would have no claim
against either bank account or policy. (3) If she
marries she should make a fresh will. . . .F.M.M.:
(1) Scenery belonging to the leading Sydney theat-
rical firms is in continual use, being painted over
when new scenes are wanted. (2) They do not rent
or sell scenery to amateurs. (3) Prices cannot be deter-
mined until exact requirements are known. (4) Sug-
gest you get in touch with either Harry Whaite, 18
Comber-street, Paddington, or the Clints, scenic
artists, care Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd., corner King
and Elizabeth streets, both of Sydney... .F.A.M.:
Flight, weekly, 6d., published at 36 Great Queen-
street, W.C.2. ; Am, monthly, Is., Rolls House Pub-
lishing Co., 2 Bream’s Buildings, Chancery-lane,
E.C.4, both of London. Gordon and Gotch could
get them for you. . .M.S.: A copy of Robert Southey’s
poems printed in 1797 by N. Biggs was recently sold
in London at auction for 175.; another of the same
edition was sold for 9s J.R.8.: Your chances of
working a passage are practically nil... .T.P.8.:
(1) The Malayan tin companies are always pleased to
hear from men who can get things done, preferably
certificated enginedrivers. Dredge experience is not
required, as the Malayan dredges are altogether differ-
ent from those used here. (2) Try F. G. Pratten, 26
Jamieson-street; Wm. Tarleton, 107 Pitt-street; or
A. W. Freeman, Challis House, Martin-place—all of
Sydney. A full list of companies operating in
Malaya will be found in “Guide to Eastern Tin
Stocks,” issued by Philip Pring and Docker, Q. N.
Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter streets, Sydney.
(3) Plantation overseers are generally engaged in
London and practically no Australians are employed
'in the rubber industry F.C.8.: (1) Mashman
Bros., Pottery Works, Parramatta-road, Auburn,
Sydney. (2) Robert G. Nall, Ltd., Reservoir-street,
Sydney. .. .8.J.R.: Australian General Electric Co.,
Ltd., 93 Clarence-street, Sydney.... T.P. A.: No pass-
ports are required if you don’t travel beyond
Thursday Island, nor, if it is purely a pleasure cruise,
will you need a clearance. If you intend to go on
to the Dutch East Indies, apply to the Customs for
passports. A customs clearance could be obtained
from the Sub-Collector, Thursday Island... .K.M.M.:
There is a limited demand for magnesite in Australia.
Local ore (96 p.c. MgCO3) is available at £2 15s.
per ton, delivered Sydney. The biggest users are the
steel works, who have their own deposits. It is also
used in making Epsom salts and cement. Apply to
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.... H. S.:
Pit carrots and parsnips rather than store them
in a cask. The roots will keep crisper.. . ..J.8.:
The 1707 penny has no numismatic value. There
are many in circulation. .. M.C.: Was a well known
painter in N.S.W. His Work has much merit, but
he produced so much that prices have suffered. From
three to seven guineas at auction A.A.F.: (1)
In N.S.W. general shearing starts between the middle
and the end of July and is carried on until about
the end of November. (2) Under the Federal
Pastoral Award out of every six shearers engaged
one pen must be reserved for a learner, so there
are plenty of opportunities. (3) The Graziers’ Co-
operative Shearing Co., Ltd., 23-25 Macquarie-place.
and R. A. Rooney and Co., 8 Spring-street—both of
Sydney.... N.C.: (1) Alice Herbin et Cie, 10 Rue
Royale; Susanne, 56 Faubourg Poissonniere; and L.
Verpillot, 34 Rue Halle—all of Paris. (2) Duty
varies according to dresses and material; 80 per cent.
should cover all charges P.N.: (1) There is no
N.S.W. au'ard prescribing rates of pay for assistants
to a shearers’ cook. It is usual for the cook to engage
assistants and pay them out of his own pocket, accord-
ing to his own idea of the value of their services. (2)
Write Director, State Labor Exchange, Sydney. ...
V.M.: “Chinese Art,” by R. L. Hobson, published by
Ernest Benn (305.). Any bookseller would order, it
for you... .M.A.H.: H. A. Schlichting, senior, 67
Erin-street, West Richmond, Vic R.0.M.: The
aboriginal names for “water rat” are “moonkingdan”
and “moonum” G.C.: “Garrawilla” is probably
a variation of “garrualla,” meaning noise; “booloola”
means kangaroo; “myalla” means “no.” Cannot
trace any equivalent for “werilto” F.M.D.: (1)
Leading dealers state that snake skins are unsaleable
at present. (2) Twelve months ago 6ft. to Bft.
carpet-snake skins were readily sold at £1 to 30s.
each. (3) Soaking in common salt and water is
all that is necessary to keep them in a decent selling
condition, but skins more than three months old
are nearly always rejected E. 8.8.: (1) The Ford-
son has a 10-20 h.p. engine, 10 h.p. at the draw
and 20 h.p. on the pulley. (2) Kerosene consumption
is 1 gall, in 47 minutes in heavy soil under full
load. (3) Cannot lay our hands on any tables of
comparison. . . .W.M.K.: Any leading timber merchant
or fibro-cement manufacturer could probably let you
have a booklet with designs, specifications and con-
structional details.


o
'f-
fit
1
Ilf
Sfow aft*
mr\
!#
m
m
m
m
\Vs
«?KW
L4^‘
Vy
im,
m
?F
m
urn
■m
m
fa
WJmmft
m,
3\>
m
KSt,’
}k?s>
&3
a?
xaa
V£s'i»
m
LJ
i
Q
N.
it!
5$
l
vW
JMf
-7?
Vti
P!^
V *.vV. V * ,
W’
?g
M*]
[£?,&&.wffivMv ( r
drt?rW‘-''<7 —*“ a —
v. ,: ;!
V» «
z*\
i >/ *'*
\
m
*Ol
zggil
sc-?*
mm
4mM
%
xf.z*
ii
ifi&ilfeife
/* < fc.*vti «•% *• V *2'
v'F 4 ;V
's££>?
I
1
g*
few
■• 5a
1 -,X : ;
V-•-'•:'■■
>f?J
.-> S§KPw-,
il—^
sgWwWKa
piSpSis!
4f
DW
P?<y°
C- )
,vN
° a °«
ty j
py/i
WS
Hi
yosgjis
■rnwm
m,
O’rf v
cf°l .
«*/■'
'll/
<-w.
*ff l X
m.
1 1 ‘
&
WM
? - W-l^
PJ
:.;>r
?.ct
4 4:4iM'44
IlliißrM^
jpNi&Si
wss^fe^s
2> > fJUj
)$.
S-.e.FLETT.
X**
lll.L
r u
mm
w
Ae\
M'' i ®*\fld' ,eS god^'^'V o '
V C te"eW c^ C V^ ed S«-
\tV
£C v.\a, CtN** 11 e C otl '
C fv oW^.ueUt e :
fiov.«
*\OtV . oi re O lt
w°' to^«,jpd.
fo“I ‘ c e" tU , .„\ves
&tV L
C®^
tYvVs**’
Let
c etv 1
jVete
a*A
At
6 »«f ; e |, Soe^ eC ' £49 . :
u °tce ■ ' u s^“ kcr
pRI t * 4 j ■• *° ■
One dial sweeps the air
as a searchlight sweeps Ike shy
“t ill X) give you the Station you want as you want to hear it”
1 ... that is the aim of Atwater Kent... an aim which, in
its fulfilment, has resulted in the establishment of the
world’s largest radio factory.
Here, under ideal conditions, are produced those amazingly
efficient one dial sets that have brought the delights of per-
fect radio reception into more than one million homes.
One dial! Just picture the ease of operation this means to
you ! There are no secondary devices to manipulate. The
fingers of one hand, in conjunction with one simple radio
component, quickly bring you station after station with
clarity and truthfulness. Every sound comes to you without
the slightest deviation from the original.
Don’t experiment with inferior, more complicated sets.
Choose an Atwater Kent “One Dial,” and enjoy to the full
the remarkably varied entertainment Radio offers you to day.
Inserted by the Atwater Kent Manufacturing Co., Pennsylvania
U.S.A. on behalf of Australian A.K. Radio Dealers. Australian
wholesale Distributors : A. G. Healing Ltd. Dealers Everywhere.
tPATONI
ASK YOUR RADIO DEALER. TO SHOW YOU NEW MODELS BY ATWATER. KENT-
" miiimmmiiiiim " lMlMll ————————■— ■
FOR LATEST FREE LITERATURE ON ATTWATER KENT RADIO WRITE
27 HYDE STREET, ADELAIDE; 208-10
TO A. G. HEALING, LTD., 167-173 FRANKLIN
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
STREET, MELBOURNE;


PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Peapes are displaying all
that is newest and best in
Men’s and Boys’ Overcoats,
Sweaters, Motor Scarves
and Gloves. Although the
styles are distinguished and
the qualities exceptional,
prices are, as usual, main-
tained at that low price-level
made possible by Peapes’
no-sales policy.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
a
W * V#
2004
METAL GATES AND FENCES
Cyclone Metal
Gates Stand the
Test for
Dependability
and Durability
asdf
Many Designs
are Illustrated
in the Cyclone
Catalogue
POST i REE
Fig. 118. —Cyclone "S.C.” Paddock Qate, 3ft. I Oin. high.
Made to fit 10ft., lift, and 12ft. openings.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH STREET (Off 3SO Gtorgc St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne. Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
as
Send Your
Wool
to
Winchcombe
Carson
*
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Founded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
by Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St., Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently resuit from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
THE MAN
ON THE BAND'S
PAGE
DRILLING.
“H.L.G.”; Drilling is the most important
operation in connection with the growing of
the wheat crop, or, for that matter, any crop.
It consists of placing the seed and super,
together in the ground in a position that en-
ables the former to germinate evenly and
quickly.
A surprising amount of bad drilling is
seen. When it is considered that one space
missed in, say, 15 means one bag of wheat
in 15 less, it will be realised that a little
care in drilling will be amply repaid.
The first essential to good drilling is
straight driving. The last wheel-mark
affords a definite track for a horse to walk
in, and, with a little patience for the first
day or so, no difficulty should be experienced
in driving straight.
The next essential is that all runs are
woi-king freely, both with seed and super.
A frequent cause of stoppages in the run-
ning is the blocking up of the passage in
the hoes. This is caused by the super, cak-
ing on the inside of the hoes, and leaving only
a very narrow opening, which will be blocked
by a sudden rush of seed and super. Much
of this trouble can be obviated if the tubes
which carry the seed and super, are allowed
to work through the hoes when they are
lifted up and let down at the turning. Un-
fortunately not all hoes are wide enough to
allow the tubes to pass through them. In
these cases constant vigilance is necessary.
Blockages are sometimes caused by straws
and other foreign matter in the grain, which
prevent the grain moving down through the
tubes. All seed should be thoroughly
cleaned before sowing. The lid of the grain-
box should always be kept shut when sow-
ing to px-event stones and clods being thrown
in by the wheels. The stones are apt to
lodge in the grain runs, and so prevent the
little wheels which feed the grain from
receiving any grain. If every run is sowing
as it should, there will be a small indenta-
tion in the pile of grain in the box for each
run, and the grain will subside evenly along
the whole length of the box. Thus the effect
of any obstruction can quickly be noticed.
In the super, box the action of the stars
which feed the super, causes the super, to
be moved along the box, mostly from right to
left. Thus, while there may be a sufficient
quantity in the box, it will be collected at
one end, and the stars at the other end may
be running empty. Most makers of drills
pi-oduce several sizes of stars for feeding the
super. As a rule, farmers prefer the smaller
sizes, because they feed the super. moi*e re-
gularly. A small star driven quickly will
ensure an even stream of super., wliile a
large star, which must be driven slowly,
will bring round a lot of super., and then
for a second or so there will be ixone fed.
This tends to make the crop patchy. For
the same reason, the sowing of wheat
through the oat runs is ixot desirable, al-
though it is favored by most farmers who
use the dry method of pickling wheat.
Stoppages with the drill betweeix the ends
of each round should be avoided, as the seed
will not reach the ground for nearly a yard
after the drill starts again. When a stop is
unavoidable a handful of grain should be
scattered just in front of where the hoes
stopped.
The drill should be well protected from
rain at all times, and the manure section
should be thoroughly cleaned out several
times each season. This will save break-
ages, and will enable the amount of super,
to be sowix to be more accurately judged.
All set-screws, keys, etc., in connection with
the drive Should be carefully watched for
signs of slipping. The pawls in the wheels
should be inspected at least once a season.
A frequent source of trouble is the clutch
which throws the drive out of geai*. This
is mostly connected with the lever which
lifts and lowers the hoes. As a rule, this
lever merely disengages the clutch, and it
is left to a spring to re-engage it when the
lever is reset. This spring frequently be-
comes rusty and weak, and .will not push
the clutch back, with the result that the
drive is not connected to the wheels of the
drill. Thfel spring should be oiled occa-
sionally, and tightened when necessary.
The farmer who attends to hisi drill care-
fully, and keeps in mind that “a crop well
sown is half grown,” will find himself amply
repaid at harvest time.
LAMPAS AND HORSES’ TEETH.
“Bill O’C.”: I’m glad to see “Nota
Bene’s” par. (B. 9/5/’2B) denouncing the
barbarous practice of searing horses’ palates
as a “cure” for lampas. Searing ranks
with ignorant atrocities like blowing pow-
dered glass into the eyes as a cure for “eye
disease,” cutting off dogs’ ears as a remedy
for poisoning, and slitting birds’ tongues for
something else.
A word respecting the teeth of aged
horses may be in season. I had a pair of
aged ponies which developed sore mouths
with obvious suffering. Incredible as it
may seem, a practising vet. diagnosed
lampas and scored their palates freely with
a villainous implement like an outsize
roller spur on a long handle. It only made
the mouths sorer than before. A better
qualified man examined them and found pro-
jecting ragged points of molar teeth which,
cutting into the gums and cheeks, had
formed ulcers and led the poor beasts to
roll hard food like chaff under their palates
instead of chewing. Hence, naturally, sore
mouths. He broke off the tooth projections,
filed the molars down with a hollow rasp,
lanced the ulcers and all was soon well.
The amateur may find some difficulty in
doing these thing without the appropriate
instruments, but a long-handled pair ;of
pliers is better than nothing. Pull the
horse’s tongue out to prevent biting, and with
the other hand search for the ragged teeth
and get the pliers to work. Give the prad
moist food until the mouth is normal again.
PIGS AND CEREALS.
“Hatter”: Some interesting experiments
are at present being carried out in Maori-
land, which is doing its utmost to foster an
export trade in pork, to determine how much
per bushel various cereals return when fed
to pigs. Assuming the selling price of pork
to be 6d. per lb., very satisfactory figures
resulted. Tests were made in feeding on
cereals alone, cereals and skim milk, and
cereals and meat meal, the last combination
proving the most profitable. Barley alone
returned 4s. 6d. per bushel; barley and skim
milk ss. (milk reckoned at 2d. per gallon) ;
barley and meat meal worked out at ss. 9d.
for the barley. Oats, in a well-balanced
ration, returned 3s. 3d. per bushel, and though
the tests with wheat are not yet complete,
the earnings ar.e expected to reach 6s. 9d.
If the price of pork can be stabilised at
6d., and if the feeding is carried out care-
fully, it is evident from these figures that
pig-raising is a profitable undertaking. Prac-
tical men know that pigs must not at any
time be allowed to lose condition, and one
test demonstrated this most conclusively. A
pen that was underfed for three months ate
5681 b. of barley, potatoes and meat-meal to
reach the required weight of 1001 b., whereas
only 4681 b. of the same mixture was re-
quired when the pigs were well fed from
birth. In this case improper feeding easily
wiped out all the profit.
To capture the English market, however,
it is not enough to supply good pork; it is
also absolutely essential to ascertain the
weights most in favor, and to standardise
consignments. The large stores are rigid
on one point, viz., that all their sides of
bacon must be as similar as peas in a pod,'
so that their cutters can tell at a glance
exactly how their stocks are. The Danes,
more or less shepherded by Government con-
trol, recognise this fact even more than the
English farmers; and attention to details
of this nature accounts largely for their
successful trading.
HANDLING A YOUNG HORSE.
“Bad Australian”: About 30 years ago I
was persuaded to try an alleged liorse-taming
dope similar to that recommended by “Ted
H.” (B. 2/5/’2B). In the mixture I used
the spirits of lavender was omitted and oil
of cumin substituted for opium. Although
some of the animals experimented on ap-
peared to be slightly affected by the smell,
none of them were sufficiently influenced
to allow me to handle them in any way.
The experiment with the antiquated formula
is interesting in its way, but the actual
handling of the animal is what the practical
horseman wants to hear about. Unfor-
tunately, “Ted H.” doesn’t enlighten him on
the point.
There is no need to use either dope or
the choking-down rope on a colt. Put him
in a circular yard about 30 feet in diameter,
and take a long, light pole and stand in the
centre of the yard. The colt will bear away
from you until the fence stops him; then
bring the pole up behind him, and over his
rump. This will start him off around the
yard at a good stiff pace. Keep following
him with the pole, and, when he shows signs
of flagging, touch him gently from time to
time until he becomes accustomed to the
feel of the pole on his body and legs. Now
turn him by bringing the pole forward over
his head and down level with his nose.
Start him moving and repeat the perform-
ance on the off-side. After about ten
minutes of this treatment it should be an
easy matter to slip a halter over his head.
If lie is still inclined to shrink from the
touch, tie a handkerchief to the end of the
pole, and give him a few more turns around
the yard, flicking him occasionally with the
handkerchief until lie bears the touch with-
out flinching.
Teach him to lead by putting a steady
strain on the halter, slacking off promptly
when he pulls back, and renewing the strain
when the rope slackens. If he proves stub-
born, take a convenient length of plough-
line, make a loop at one end, and slip
it over his head and back to his shoulders;
then bring the running end of the rope along
his off-side, around under the tail and up
over the loins. After taking a couple of
turns around the line on the opposite side,
pass the loose end through the collar-loop.
Then, with the halter in one hand and the
light line in the other, pull steadily on the
halter. If that does not move him, a smart
jerk on the crupper-line will bring him up
with a bound. Repeat until he responds to
the lightest pull on the halter. Any horse
taught to lead in this way can be led, or tied
up, with a strand of bagging-twine.
A colt should always be taught to lift his
feet and stand thorough handling from
head to heel on both sides before mouthing.
Too many horses are touchy about the legs
and “strange” on the off-side. The old-
fashioned method of driving a young horse
in long lines after the first mouthing is still
useful, as it gives the breaker an exact idea
of the state of the horse’s mouth before
mounting him for the first time.
RED POLLS.
“W.P.D.”; There is nothing better as a
dual-purpose breed of cattle than the Red
Poll. They are equally satisfactory as pro-
ducers of beef or butter-fat. The origin of
the breed, centuries ago, was the merging
of two East-Anglican breeds, the horned
dark red Norfolk, famous for beef, and the
light red or creamy polled Suffolk, equally
famous for heavy milk production. The Red
Poll should be more popular in Australia.
The cows, under fair conditions, will give
from 900 to 1000 gallons of milk a year,
with butter-fat production exceeding four
per cent. Their milk can be made into butter
at the rate of one pound from 15 pints of
milk. They are long livers, and produce
up to 1000 gallons with the twentieth calf.
They give more milk per head for the feed
they consume than any other breed. Red
Polls will live and thrive under conditions
which would be fatal to many breeds. They
are hardy, can stand extremes of temperature,
and are suited to any soil and any climate.
The cows are prolific, and the calves mature
early. The breed is a favorite with the most
captious of butchers because of the prime
quality of the beef and the very small pro-
portion of waste.
Red Poll bulls are of great value for cross-
ing purposes. In England, where the breed
is very popular, there is a great demand for
store cattle, the product of the Red Poll
cross. Red Poll bulls mated with Shorthorns
or Ayrshires have been particularly success-
ful. They are remarkably docile, and, when
taught to lead young, will follow like a dog.
Their hornlessness is an important factor
in railway transportation, and also plays a
prominent part in the economics of dairying.
With the increase in cost of hired labor the
expense of stall-feeding dairy cows has be-
come almost prohibitive, and yet hand-feed-
ing must bo carried out if butter yield is to
be maintained or increased. With horned
cattle, animals must be stalled and fed
separately, whereas when hornless they may
be fed with less labor in open sheds, yards
or paddocks. Besides, there is not the but-
ting and ripping of one another which is
such a common sight in cowyards where
horned cattle are brought together. Mr.
E. J. McConnel, of Marshlands, Wondai, and
Messrs. Archer, of Gracemere, have estab-
lished Red Poll herds in Queensland and
are well satisfied with results.
WATER FOR DAIRY COWS.
Although tainted drinking water can, and
does, impart certain flavors to cream, it rarely
happens that such flavors cause the cream
to be graded second quality, the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department advises. Whatever
flavor the water may impart it does not be-
come worse as rhe cream is kept, but some-
times gradually disappears. In any case, it
can usually be partially or wholly removed
by the ordinary treatment at the factory.
Bacterial flavors gradually become worse
and worse as the cream is kept, but absorbed
flavors imparted by water do not. Where cows
wade in muddy pools or waterlioles, it is the
contamination they carry out on their legs,
flanks, tails and udders which causes trouble
later on. This is one of the commonest causes
of ropy milk or cream. The bacteria respon-
sible find their way into the bucket during
milking, and from there into other utenvJs
or separator parts, where they may exist for
some considerable time, unless proper pre-
cautions are taken. The boiling-water treat-
ment will kill the bacteria responsible tor
ropy cream.
SORE SHOULDERS
“Tamornie”: “Joe S.” (B. 25/4/’2B)
offers a sore-shoulder lotion for horses. He
gives the quantities as sulphate of zinc,
loz.; siugar of lead, 1 quart. This is the
formula I have used for the past 20 years:
Sugar of lead, loz.; zinc sulphate, 30z.;
water, 4 pints. There you have half a gallon
of the best farm lotion, not only for sore
shoulders, but for any other sore or wound.
The cost of the abovte quantity here
(Northern Victoria) is Is. 9d. The wound
or sore should, be washed with warm water
and soap, dried off, and then dabbed with
the lotion, which must be kept well shaken
while using.
BURN THE OLD GRASS.
“Bosso” : There are innumerable remedies
for worms in sheep, and every sheep-owner
has his pet recipe; but prevention is better
than cure, and one of the best means of com-
bating tlae worm and all other pests and
parasites is to burn the grass shortly before
the spring sets in. Burning the old grass
destroys the germs of disease and improves
and sweetens the grass. For this reason the
practice should be carried out regularly when
conditions are favorable. I used to do it every
year, and was never troubled by worms.
Unfortunately, in these days of heavy stock-
ing, graziers have seldom any grass to burn,
and so the paddocks never get a chance to
recover, and remain ’’sheep sick.”
Lambing ewes on burnt country have a
better flow of milk, and the new feed is prac-
tically free from the worms with which the
young lambs are so liable to be infested.
Burning their eggs is better and cheapqr than
treating the worms.
COUNTRY WOOL-BUYING
Dear Bulletin, —“Bud-G.’s” (B. 2/5/’2B)
remarks are typical of the arguments
advanced against private selling
While country buying during recent
months I have had the 75,000 chimerical
bales supposed to have been bought in the
country last season constantly quoted to me;
and the contention of the broking firms is
that, if buying on such a scale continues,
the whole selling organisation of the wool
trade will be disrupted.
Even supposing the figure quoted to be
correct, at least two-thirds of this wool is
offered on the sale floors either before or
after reclassing, and so the selling organisa-
tion is only affected as regards a quantity
of 25,000 bales, or 1 p.c. of the total produc-
tion. It is absurd to suggest that this 1 p.c.
—or 10 p.c. either —is going to disrupt the
whole of our selling arrangements.
The arguments for selling on the ground
are:—
(1) Spot cash, instead of a wait of months for
returns. Of course, a grower can get an advance,
for which he has the privilege of paying interest,
and which, in any case, only represents two-thirds of
a conservative valuation of the wool.
(2) The buyer takes the risk of the market; and
when prices are high, wool is well sold —as many
a grower has had good reason to know.
(3) The broker’s high charges are cut out. These
vary slightly in different States, but roughly repre-
sent 3 p.c. and id. per lb. on clips of the size
which are usually sold in the country, in addition
to freight and interest on advance. Thus broking
charges alone, with wool at or near present prices,
come to over Id. per lb.; and if “Bud-G.’s” horrible
instance be examined with all these factors borne
in mind, it will be seen that the man who sold on the
ground probably did rather better than his neighbor.
The “open competition” of the saleroom is
another popular myth. It is pretty well
known that at wool auctions, as at most
other auctions, buyers “get their heads to-
gether.” Of course, the broking firms employ
valuers to protect clips to some extent; but
since it costs a broker considerably more to
“pass” wool than to sell it, there is a strong
inducement to sell at the best price obtain-
able in the absence of a fixed reserve by the
grower—and every grower knows how the
brokers discountenance fixed reserves, and
especially those growers who are financially
tied to brokers.
The buying of wool, like the buying of
sheep, is not an exact science; and my ex-
perience is that more dear wools are bought
in the country than at auction. When I
go to a grower and make him an offer for
his wool, 1 must offer him a figure pretty
close to the true market value; for the
reason that, should he refuse my offer and
(Continued on page 31.)


m
a
mm
m
U
H
1 m
HH
■
Hi
:
m
11
H
Piano notes like this
on
!2r23Ea»
ggaeapg
The astounding
£dtaonic
THE LATEST INVENTION OF THOMAS A. EDISON
pUREST piano tone, silvery
treble and rhythmic bass —a
sparkling realism and naturalness
never before attained by a phono-
graph—that is what awaits you in
the astounding Edisonic.
Already impartial tests have de-
monstrated Mr. Edison’s invention
to be a remarkable advance in
acoustic science—already amazing
popularity and interest have come
to the New Edisonic.
In your home there is a place for
this gifted musician—it is waiting
to give your family happier hours
than they have dreamt of. See it
and hear it for yourself—or write
for illustrated folder.
Catalogues and Demonstrations at
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop, 5 1 Castlereagh St.
MELBOURNE: The Edison Shop, 238 Collins St.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen St.
ADELAIDE: S.A. Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert
Buildings, Gilbert Place.
Metropolitan Distributors:
Wertheims, 84 Rundle St.
PERTH: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay St.
LAUNCESTON: Wills & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
HOBART: A. Paton & Sons, 136 Liverpool St.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
Wholesale only: THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL & SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
For clean
and
thorough
cultivation
m
For perfect
sowing
and rapid
germination
One of the reasons for the success of the “Suntyne” is that it sows the seed and fertilizer on a levelled compacted sub-surface, covered to a uniform
depth by a top mulch of well pulverised soil—the ideal condition for rapid germination and vigorous early growth.
WILL SOW AS SHALLOW OR DEEP AS DESIRED.
Sizes —from 17 tynes, sowing 8 rows, covering sft.; to 47 tynes, sowing 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Illustrated Catalogue and prices with particulars of easy extended terms sent post free on request.
MANUFACTURED BY
R V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke-street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Distributors for Queensland: H. V. McKay (Queensland),
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. King & Murray Sts., PERTH.
Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


5 f c
s:S:
msk
Willard
«
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery. A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry. It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
m
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane.


hr
■
A
rC- -b,-
i
Closer ankle fit
Because this Abbey shoe has low-
cut sides that fit snugly without hin-
dering the natural movement of the
foot. There’s no bulging and no
need to tightly lace the shoe.
Comfort is still further increased
by the arching of the upper where
it laces over the instep. There’s a
curve here that fits the foot natur-
ally.
The toe is squared, flat and
roomy.
Order by Post.
Three u)idths per size.
Impossible to get your measure
more exactly with ready-made
shoes. Every half-size is available
in narrow, medium and wide fit-
tings. And the shoe is supplied in
four different leathers—guaranteed
to be the best obtainable. Ask for a
supply of the correct Abbey Polish
(6d. per tin), with your order.
Tan Willow or Glace Kid 52/6
Black Box Calf 50/-
Patenf Leather 60/-
40 -Page Colored Catalogue
Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
L 74 SYDNEY
GROCERS.
THE ‘‘EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
Meet Jack Wieneke!
and glad to meet
you too !
In 1880 I made the
first Genuine
Wieneke and issued
a standing challenge
to ride any outlaw in my own
saddle— l rode many, but was
never thrown. You can ride
anything on 4 legs in a Wieneke.
MY BOOK OF 150 PICTURES IS FREE
TO ALL “BULLETIN” READERS.
Send for your copy TO-DAY.
Waiting to hear from you,
Yours, always working,
JACK WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT 432 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
kL)
(Kh
sic
o' '//,
Cuticura Talcum Best
For Everyday Use
Because of its purity, combined
with antiseptic properties which
help to allay excessive perspiration.
It imparts to the skin a delicate
and refreshing fragrance.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.T owns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
IW Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
ltegd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
m GOUROCK
itwiswoßK T mn
IiXI'IIIU'CO. JLilLf.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
W&W26.
Australian
IH
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANI
A-Z.) BRAND
Containing aboiit 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association El
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
The Cigar of generous size
Supreme in flavor and
and weight
aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
Hi
a
il
Hi
3
ass
I
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
send to auction, thereby obtaining an appreci-
ably greater net return, I am not going to
do business with him next year, and will be
unlikely to do any with his neighbors. At
auction I get a large percentage of lots at
less than the limit I am prepared to go to.
In country buying I have only one bid, and
that must’ be “well up.”
The Graziers’ Association and the Wool-
brokers’ Association see eye to eye on this
country-buying question, thanks to the fact
that the leading lights among the graziers
are financially and otherwise closely inter-
ested in the broking companies. The attitude
of the brokers themselves is thoroughly com-
prehensible, since their pockets and their
prestige are both endangered, and the real
incidence of their charges is emphasised.
They would, of course, regard an absolute
monopoly for themselves as the most desir-
able thing in the world, but their actions
already show too many of the symptoms
common to the railways and post-office
monopolies—“ Pay our charges, wait our time
and look pleasant.”—Yours, etc., Gamma.
OIJR WOOL CLIP.
V inchcombe-Carson’s summing up of this
country’s wool activities during the 1927-28
season is assuring to everyone who realises
the truth of the old saying that the sheep
carries Australia on its back. There was
a decrease in number and weight of bales
of about 8 per cent. Nevertheless, in fine-
ness of quality the clip easily surpassed
that shorn in the record production year
of 192 G-27. Gross returns will probably
equal the £67,000,000 of that year, but the
heavy extra expenses due to drought will
have cut down the net return to the
growers. Buying exceeded all expectations.
French and German support was keen, but
the Japanese demand and their determi-
nation to go to long prices to get what they
wanted was the surprise of the sales. York-
shire maintained its heavy support, while
Italy and Russia were both good customers,
the latter having most of its purchases
scoured in this country and shipped in
grades, ready to go straight into manufac-
ture on reaching Russia, a method which
has done a lot of good to the wool scourers.
America was less conspicuous; home pro-
duction is increasing in both quantity and
quality. Though bad seasons in the States
may_ revive the American demand a
dominating buying movement from America
does not seem probable. Values generally
were from 10 to 15 p.c. higher than last
season. Choice superfine merinos showed
slightly lower than before, but fine cross-
breds were particularly in demand. The
advantage of moderate prices was the lesson
learned during th e past three years, for the
record figures, of 1924-25 curbed consump-
tion. There is no sign under present con-
ditions that the danger line of over-produc-
tion has been neared. No excessive stocks
have been accumulated abroad, and wool
was utilised because its price was moderate.
The outlook is more promising than ever,
for there is no likelihood of the staple
falling in value, while consumption the
world over is showing a strong tendency to
increase.
THE PRINCIPLES OF PRUNING.
“Malice Stump”; “Hop Scrub” advises
(B. 9/5/’2B) growers to prune lightly to
encourage. growth. My experience is that
light pruning encourages heavy cropping or
fruit setting, which stunts growth. To prune
heavily cuts out most bearing wood, or, if
m nonbearing wood, reduces the leaf buds,
and. so increases their vigor. Pruning of
• l l ' I t .^ es and srape vines ought to vary
with differences in the soil; but a safe gene-
ral rule is to balance growth with produc-
tion. The object of pruning js to obtain an
average crop of first-quality fruit, to keep
the tree in symmetrical form, and facilitate
cultivation. Apricots are usually easy, as
they form fruit spurs of short length on the
main limbs,. but most varieties of peaches
merely require thinning, as often the only
trait buds are on the extreme tips of twigs,
and pruning these removes all fruit wood.
\ ines are pruned according to their vigor,
and natural habits. While some varieties
truit no matter how badly treated, others
must have correct treatment and pruning
or they remain practically barren. Thus,
some varieties are trellised, while others ar»
grown as bushes. The best treatise I know
on this subject is Professor Perkins’s “Vine
Pruning, Its Theory and Practice.”
EARLY MATURITY.
Jack Point”: Early maturity of pullets
is a quality which can be fixed by careful
breeding and selection in exactly the same
manner as heavy laying can be. Take a
hundred chicks hatched together. Some seem
to S° away from their fellows at once,
whilst some are always backward. The
feeding has a lot to do with it; shy, nervous
birds will be ousted at feed time and not
their * air share. Ample space should,
therefore, be provided, so that no undue
crowding takes place.
The early-maturing pullets should be
isolated at, say, three months old, and
marked with a distinguishing leg-band.
Other things being equal, these birds should
be given preference as breeders, and their
progeny will inherit the quick-growing
factor. In three or four generations a
wonderful improvement will be noticed in
the growing capabilities of the chicks.
It should be thoroughly understood, how-
ever. that early maturity does not mean
merely early laying. A pullet will often
lay when she is a mere weed, and this sort
will generally be found unprofitable, being
a case of the reproductive organs getting
ahead of bodily growth. This is also noticed
m cockerels, which often grow large combs
and wattles and annoy the hens while they
are still mere babies. They are invariably
wasters, and should be marketed.
The early-maturing pullet is one that
makes rapid and uniform growth, and com-
mences laying just as soon as she is big
enough and has stored up sufficient reserve
vitality to settle down and lay her fair
complement of full-weight eggs. No hard-
and-fast rules can be laid down as to when
a pullet should commence to lay. Although
it is generally allowed that light breeds lay
before heavy, it is frequently found that
the heavy birds will lay at an age
which used to be considered early for
the light breeds. With a good early-
maturing strain, the age of the com-
mencement of laying depends entirely upon
the poultry-keeper.
FINDING THE RABBIT-TRAPS.
“Don Lee”: Walk round your traps at
sundown, take out any rabbits that may be
caught, and reset these traps and any others
that may have been disturbed by birds or
goannas. Resetting doesn't mean pulling the
trap up and digging another set. Place the
trap back in the same hole and cover it up as
before.
Back to camp, and make yourself com-
fortable for an hour or two’s reading. Don’t
go to sleep. Allow the traps two hours'
darkness in which to fill up. In winter
months this means an eight-o’clock round.
Light your lantern and turn the wick up
so that it smokes. When the globe has
blackened, remove it, and clean the bottom
half; leave the top half black.
Secure a chaff-bag free from holes; see
that you have some matches in your pocket
in case the lantern goes out, and then make
tracks for your landmark. You’ll find
the first trap without difficulty. There’li
probably be a rabbit in it, and he’ll be tear-
ing round like a .Catherine-wheel! Don’t
grab those long ears. They look tempting;
but, if you grip them, the hind legs will
come up suddenly, and the sharp claws will
cut your wrist to the bone. Remember that
blood poisoning is the trapper's greatest
risk, so place your foot on the chain of the
trap, and hold it still while you remove
the rabbit. With the left hand take him
firmly by the loins, case the spring of the
trap with the toe of your boot, free the leg
from the jaws, grip the head with the right
hand, and crack the neck with a sharp
pull.
Place the lantern on the edge of the set.
go down on your knees, sieve the dirt, and
reset the trap. The top of the lantern-
globe, being black, will prevent the glare
from dazzling your eyes while your face
is close to it, and you’ll never suffer
from “trapper's blindness.”
To find the next trap, stand square be-
hind your mark, and look straight ahead.
Walk forward, and don’t hurry. Don’t
keep your eyes glued to the ground at your
feet. If you do you cannot walk straight.
Watch the ground about five paces ahead,
and slightly to the right, as the swing of
the lantern will cause you to bear slightly
to the left. Get it firmly into your mind
that the trouble with most trappers who can-
not find their traps is that they don’t walk
far enough. There’s a wonderful difference
between 40 paces in daylight and the same
distance at night. Keep on walking, and
tell yourself that you’re sure to find that
trap and you will. Reset, and continue
on your line until the bag on your shoulder
gets heavy. Don’t overload yourself; five
or six pairs are quite heavy enough. (I
once saw a trapper who, with 37 pairs
slung over his shoulders in split Chaff-
bags, stooped down and reset a trap,
then continued on his “line” without
removing the load. That trapper was a
strong man. He was also a fool, and five
months later was in the hospital, a physical
wreck.) Carry them a few yards from your
traps and skin them ; then continue on your
way. If you’re in snake country, and find
a wriggler jambed in a trap, don’t put the
lantern down and go feeling about in the
grass for a stick. You might find his cobber
instead. Besides, a trap cannot be depended
upon to hold that writhing streak; and, if
he gets loose before you are quite prepared,
he won’t hesitate to charge, and he’s quicker
than you in the dark. Leave him there till
daylight, when you can see what you’re
doing.
Go on your way, then, taking out, and
skinning, until you reach the end. An ex-
perienced trapper will run 50 traps in an
hour. You’re not experienced, so it will
probably take you three. Don’t be dis-
couraged ; the best of trappers, when they
first commenced, were just as awkward as
you. When you finish your round go t)
bed. Don’t attempt the second run until
you have gained sufficient skill and quick-
ness to enable you to run those 50 traps
in less than two hours. If you want to
last at the game you must have sufficient
sleep, so see that you are in bed before
midnight.
Get a dog—any sort of mong. will do,
provided he has a nose and a liking for
rabbits. You may be a trap or two short
in the morning, if foxes or sheep are about,
and they are too expensive to lose. With
a few hours’ coaching that tyke will find
them for you.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“The Welkin”: Clay soils which present
difficulties in drainage are especially bene-
fited by gypsum. Application need only be
made once in four years, and the mineral
should be allowed to work its way through
the soil —as it will do gradually—from the
surface. A spreader will do the job well.
About 2cwt. to the acre is a fair thing.
It is cheap, too—in Vic. anyhow. I’ve
bought it for 15s. per ton.
“Let Go”: Large clips are invariably
branded with the name of the station, and
farmers should do likewise. From past
experience buyers know how the clip has
been prepared for market, and how it pans
out at the mills or at the top-makers;
they also, as a rule, have more confidence in
bidding for a clip that bears a station or
farm brand than one with initials.
“Pullet”: To ensure a minimum of loss
in rearing young ducks, keep them away
from pools of water until they are at least
two weeks old.
“Cola”: Lucerne and rye-grass can be
sown witli wheat in N.S.W. They come
along after the wheat, take different foods
from the soil, and do not detract from the
success of the main crop. At harvest time
these feed-crops are not tall enough to cause
trouble. A good mixture is 31b. grass-
seed and 21b. lucerne-seed to the acre, the
seed to be drilled in with the wheat. Of
course, this plan of grass-sowing will not
be favored by any but owners of mixed
farms. However, every farm should be a
mixed one, be it ever so small, if the best
paying results are wanted.


Quality CUated tAa d&nwnd
Quality 'Tnaimiaufta tAe Sale
Army Club
10 for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
s*2
&
CORK TIPPED
DMOKE-OH!
Man gets but little hear below.
Railway slogan : More waste, less speed.
The boss who has a car often likes to give
his typist a fair spin.
In the Show of Life, what appeals most
to women are tin' ring events.
; lf the cap fits a man may wear it. If
it’s in the fashion a woman must.
Inspector: “What is a moral?”
Bright Boy : “Stardust for th’ Flyin’, Sir.”
l * *
“And this is my stud-farm!'’ he said, with
pride,
To the maiden from overseas.
“You must think me simple,” the maid
replied,
‘ To believe studs arc growing on trees!”
TICKETED.
“Don’t you think she seems reserved lately?”
“ Very reserved. I wonder who for.”
Melbourne Age headings to a par.
describing an. attempt to broadcast to
London; “A Melbourne programme; recep-
tion in heart of Melbourne.” We under-
stand that nobody was listening in London,
so the waves all turned round and came
back again.
Business slogan of to-day: Let us then be
up and doing. .. .somebody.
“Wliy do dark people seldom get influ-
enza?” asks the Argus. Probably for the
same reason that fair people seldom get it.
Fatuous Friend: “Hello, have you hurt
your foot?”
Tired Patient: “No, my head. But while
L was walking a few minutes ago the band-
age slipped down.”
# :'i
The fact that a weuding ceremony was
recently celebrated in an aeroplane 2000 ft.
up in the air seems clear proof that aviation
has not yet been freed of all its perils.
Unemployed Milkman: "Still outer work?”
Brother ditto : “Yairs! ’Aven't turned a
tap fer three months.”
The Bachelor: “What do you do with all
your old clothes —those too far gone to wear
with respect to yourself?”
The Married: “I wear 'em.”
* *
Aa Dave told it : “1 goes t’ tlv quack.
First thing V sez, ‘Well, what’s tlv matter
with you?’ Oanya beat it? Wanted me t’
give ’im th’ tip!”
Judging by conversations overheard on
the telephone, most women regard the ’phone
wire as a clothes-line.
A wife always thinks her husband’s friend-
ship for a man-about-town should be
scotched. So does the husband.
A cable states
that at a recent
party in London
all the guests at-
tended dressed in
silk pyjamas. Tin?
explanation, no
doubt, is that it
was an exception-
ally cold night.
“Every worth-
while thing in life
is costly,” says a
newspaper writer
Agreed; but why
complain about it
when you have to
pay just as much
for lemonade?
“Throughout a
recent performance
in one of Sydney’s
theatres,” com-
plains a writer in
the News, “a
woman applauded,
much to the annoy-
ance of all in her
vici n i t y.” W e
understand that
the poor woman
was deaf and blind.
A wedding in the
N.S.W. Outback
has been twice post-
poned owing to
floods preventing-
the bridegroom
from getting to
the church. And
yet there are selfish
sceptics who will
not join in prayers
for rain.
* *
“What a nrettv
situation!” says a
character in a re-
cent American
play. “In Aus-
tralia you would
put a bullet through
me. Here —under the canopy of civilisation
—you sentence me to death.” When will
these playwrights learn that Australia is
still a barbarous country which does not use
bullets, but only bows and arrows?
❖
A visiting artist states that there is much
that is striking in Australian art. We antici-
pate that he will make a similar pronounce-
ment on Australian industry.
This truth at school was drilled in us;
It spurred us on, and it ran thus:
“Above all things ’tis well to know,
Great oaks from little acorns grow.”
Now, years behind, as up and down
Hard pavements ’we limp through the town
Where oaks grow not, we knoiv with woe
Great aches from little toe-corns grow.
N.S.W. Q. 11.
According to Sydney Sun, when a bar-
rister in a recent Sydney trial said, “Well,
your Honor, we’re all married men,” the
Court laughed. We’ve always thought the
NOT BUILT FOR IT.
TOM: “Good old Fred! I’ve never known him guilty of
a mean action.”
JOE: “No, I couldn’t imagine him stooping to anything
low.”
law courts harbored a distorted sense of
humor.
Uncle Henpeck: “You boys of to-day want
too much money. Do you know what I was
getting when 1 married your aunt?”
The Nephew: “No ; and I’ll bet you didn’t,
either!”
* *
“Mummy, how did you come to marry
papa?”
“My dear child, is that beginning to
astonish you, too?”
After a few years’ experience of city girls’
dresses, we are forced to the conclusion that
if they keep moving in their present direc-
tion the only thing that will keep our young
men in the country will be television.
“He lost his money by placing reliance in
unscrupulous partners,” says the Sydney
News, ‘‘and is now in indignant circum-
stances.” We don’t blame him.
We learn that since a game of golf was
recently played in the dark at Mosman
(Sydney) Mr. Bruce has been urgently re-
quested by the Golf Link Courting League
to prohibit the proposed wearing of luminous
plus-fours and spats.
Experts who examined forged notes found
in Melbourne, stated that they were “almost
equal to anything that could be turned out
by the Federal Government.” The alleged
forgers, we understand, have protested that
this is adding insult to injury.
* *
As so many stories come to the screen with
any title but their own, so long as it is a
sure ‘'box-office draw,” the following list is
offered to any perdoocer who happens to
have run out of inspiration:—
Taming of the Shrew: “Unwilling Wives.”
Othello: “Desdemona’s Dilemma.”
Antony and Cleopatra: “Egyptian
Nights.”
King Henry VIII.: “Too Many Wives.”
Macbeth: “The Duncan Affair.”
The Book of Esther: “Esther Sees It
Through.”
Jack and the Beanstalk: “Going Up.”
In connection with the new Y IC - Omni
bus Act, the police say that in their experi-
ence the average weight of 16 passengers is
a ton. Evidently prima donnas patronise the
railways.
* *
We are authoritatively informed that
rival claims for the world’s non-stop dancing
records are now being advanced by a
young man who hit his thumb with a hammer
and an older one who asserts that liis wife
has led him a nice dance for 25 years.
FATHER FIXES THE FUSE.
“No need to get a man in—l’ll do it.
Where’s the steps? That’s
right. Now hold them firm!
You are holding ’em? Want
a man to break his neck?
They ain’t near enough. Now
hold them! Yes. I know the
third step’s broke. O —oow
—that's right. Now gimme
the screwdriver. Don't leave
go of the steps. Well, get
Billy then! Billy! Billy!!
Billy!!! Took you long
enough to come. Get me the
screwdriver. Where is it?
You ought to know —you
had it last! Ain’t seen it?
Why don’t you teach the
kids not to tell lies? You
ain’t lioldin’ them steps firm.
Now steady, Mum; I’ve got
to use both hands to this.
No, keep it. I don’t want
the flamin’ thing yet! Hold
the damn screwdriver handy.
Ugh—ugh—that’s got it.
llumph—nearly pulled the
flamin’ cord down. Rotten —
that’s what it is. Rotten
with age. Didn’t nut a new
cord in in the first place.
That’s what comes of gettin’
an electrician in every time
the light goes bung. Screw-
driver ! Quick! ! Think a
man’s going to balance him-
self here all night? Huh—
no good. Too big. Hotter
use me penknife. Now hold
them steps, woman ! D’see
me knife? It ain’t in me
coat pocket. Wonder where
I put it. II —ere it is. Now
we shan't be long. Tight—l should say it was
in tight. Ugh ! What are you looking at me
for? Look at them steps. Yes, you was look-
ing at me. That’s out! Where the devil’s
it gone to? It ain't in me hand. Collar be
damned ! It ain’t a stud. I heard it drop.
It’s on the floor. Look about you. Don't
leave go of them steps. You women have
got sense. Can’t you see it? I tell you I
heard it drop. ’Spose I’ll have to get down
and find it myself. Ugh, now hold them
QUITE ALL RIGHT.
THE ARTIST: “This is Medusa. Her hair was
a mass of vipers, you know.”
HIS WIFE: “Oh, I’m so glad; I was afraid
you’d been drinking again.”
steady. One —er, two —er ! Pulled the
whole thing down? I never! It broke
itself. The cord’s rotten, I tell you. Yes,
and by the looks of things the plaster
too. Well I’m blowed if that screw’ ain’t
caught in me sleeve.”
Billy Deliney.
A LOST LAUGH,
“Lore loughs at the locksmith,” so they s lid
In the days when our grandpapas were bred;
They listened then to Mu Grundy's groans,
But now each flapper a latchkey owns
And there’s nothing doing for chaperones.
T wonder —and am 1 the only one? —
Whether after all it wasn't more fun
To steal one's kisses beneath the rose,
Or under a circa inspect parent’s nose,
Or in any perilous way one chose?
lit must hare made a whale of a thrill
I’or bold bad Jack and languishing .Jill.)
“Lore laughs at the locksmith,” so they said
In days not so modern and go-ahead;
But now what’s to laugh at? The lock-
smith’s dead!
N.S.W.
HYRAM.
DAD’S LAMENT.
“An inconsiderate hlolce ’e was,
That city cliap!” said Dad,
“ ’E flattered up the missus,
An’ she eloped with him, the cad!
An’ now she's traipsin’ round with ’im,
All dressed up flash in silk. . . .
Blast ’em, they might ha.’ waited
Till I got someone else ter milk!”
N.s.w.
DORIC,
TAILOR-MADE.
When she disdainfully declined
His suit, lie vowed to die,
As lovers have times out of mind.
When she disdainfully declined,
He swore she must he color-hlind);
And yet, to make her huy,
When she disdainfully declined,
His suit he voiced to dye.
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.


BLACK
WHITE
m
m
1
m
m
4
a
■
mm
2
»s
.
* i
-
r
■
; '
* M
"•>
gjyji
■
■ >
m
-« - :<
■
>•••< -
r
« •
mma
1
Fllli® C- 1 M
-u
Hi
*
rj
l«
!
■
B
5... 1
■i
iXi
" JrS
OK
K . H
: *€•:
: .: ....
& *>■»*«►»* *•<»**
■^«wjswwM ^ >''»w%wBsw»«w^
/ * ~Ql
/v
4 /
',t»*r*rxj
S|
Ns
IM
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.- F E
Loxton, Esq.
General Manager— M. (j. lIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne Svdney and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also' representation
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
limit- offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulia Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
v-
\ J
\
■”N v ,.„
383
>v
V--
'
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Poverty
point
"Cash Deferred”: The time-payment
system has at last invaded the theatre box-
office. The London Lyceum, the home of
Henry Irving and Ellen Terry in their
prime, is trying the experiment. Just how
it is worked is not explained, but presum-
ably it runs on the “lay by” system, which
means that you would pay full value before
getting your tickets.
“Cine Ma”: Considering the great clatter
which was made against the Nurse Cavell
film, the German Government displays an
iron cheek in endeavoring to force on Allied
countries the new Ufa film, “The World
War as Seen through German Spectacles.”
Said goggles offer no obstacle to the vision
when the guilt of France and Russia are in
question, but become perfectly opaque when
the Teutonic share in bringing about the
world scrimmage is up for discussion. Aus-
tralian Boyd Cable was employed to recon-
struct the scenes dealing with Britain’s
share.
“Dappertutto” : The resources of the Firm
may be gauged from the fact that just on
£40,000 was spent on preliminary expenses
for the grand-opera season, which will run
six weeks each in Melbourne and Sydney, with
a month spread over the other capitals. The
cost of bringing a grand-opera organisation
to the Commonwealth can be well appre-
hended from the fact that Toti dal Monte
alone will lift something between £lO,OOO and
£12,000 as her share of the gate for 50
guaranteed appearances over the four months.
This is the biggest individual contract ever
made for a grand-opera star in this country,
though Toti herself doesn’t consider it of any
great moment; she is to get 2000 dollars
for every evening she opens her mouth in
Chicago. The Chicago engagement follows
closely on the Australian tour.
“Santander” : Complaint having been made
about the shortage of English musical com-
edies, Edgar Wallace seized some of the time
he was kept waiting for his shaving water
one morning lately and sketched out a li-
bretto. lir the next interval of leisure (dur-
ing a taxi ride in London) he knocked out
the first act, and a few days after the second
act was in shape and two hacks had been
engaged to furnish lyrics and music. Under
the title of “The Yellow Mask” it is proving
a winner, but it has already been forgotten
by its author, who has two more thrillers
under way. Everything that Wallace touches
turns to cash; but apparently he is not
satisfied with the size of his income. Any-
how, he saw a vacancy yawning for a
manageress in a London theatre the other
day, and found that Mrs. Wallace fitted the
cavity nicely.
“L.H.P.”: The seldom-acted “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” which Wilkie is putting
on in Sydney, was first seen in Australia at
the Theatre Royal, Ballarat, in 1864. Last
year the Birmingham (Eng.) Repertory
Society produced it in modern dress. Helena,
one of the most noteworthy of the Bard’s
heroines, was Eton-cropped, and, like the
rest of the ladies, wore short frocks and pre-
sented a generous amount of silk hose.
There were men in evening togs, flannels
and military uniforms.
“Goldilocks” : The return of John Brown-
lee is one of the most interesting circum-
stances of the Williamson-Melba opera. In
the very little time since the Geelong singer
left Australia he has become a recognised
front-ranker. After his present engagement
he is signed on for two years in Paris
opera.
“O. Blin”: Passed along, Lincoln Plainer,
the actor with the queue of chins who played
the police captain in the first Australian
edition of “Within the Law.” That role was
Lincoln’s one specialty in the Commonwealth,
but the curious physiological effect of a
character submerged in masses of tissue used
to stir one or two critics to adverse comment.
The late Edmund Fisher, of The Bulletin,
dubbed Lincoln “the Bantock of melodrama.”
“Trevdee”: It takes an out of the ordi-
nary wireless set to reproduce a pianoforte
item clearly, but the notes from violins, steel
guitars, xylophones, mandolins and saxo-
phones can be heard very distinctly from any
sort of home-made appliance. Contralto
voices take the air better than sopranos, yet
tenors are generally more pleasing to the
ear than bassos. One thing which I have
yet to hear over the air successfully is the
high-pitched note of a shrill whistle.
“Rigalt” : Curious that the Ibsen centenary
has been allowed to pass without any recog-
nition in Australia. In London “A Doll's
House,” “An Enemy of the People,”
“Ghosts,” and “The Wild Duck” were all
produced during the centenary week; “The
Vikings of Helgeland” was produced in Hull,
“Ghosts” in Liverpool and “Rosmersholme”
in Birmingham. One would have thought
that somebody interested in the higher
drama would have seen to the matter here.
“T.P.”: Having been a regular playgoer
since the ’seventies, and therefore reared on
free programmes, I gnash my gums at part-
ing with sixpence for a collection of advts.
with the bill of fare casually stuck in. But
the other night at the tip-top show run in
Melbourne Town Hall by Bobbie Pearce
and his brother Diggers, last century was
knocked into a cocked hat, for the sprat
brought not only a readable booklet, with
programme conspicuously placed, but also
the music and words of a song with violin
and ’cello obbligatos, illustrated and pub-
lished at two shillings. All that for sixpence!
The crowd, used to being skinned by modern
entrepreneurs, gasped and bought.
“THE NOTORIOUS MRS. EBBSMITH,”
AT THE SYDNEY CRITERION.
The Duke of St. Olphert’s (Dion Bouci-
cault) visits the Rev. Amos Winter-
field (Norman McKinnel).
“Meridian”: I once witnessed a Chinese
play in which all the actors were Celestials.
There was no scenery, the deficiency being
supplied by a Prologue, who stood up from
time to time, interrupting what courtesy
suggests was the story, to explaifi the
environment, still-life, etc. All spoke in
Knglish. The part I liked best was when
the Forlorn Swain was addressing the dis-
embodied Spirit of his Love. She was in
Heaven ; that is, suspended precariously on
a platform over the stage. He announced
his intention of climbing up to her Divine
Presence. He climbed the mountain (table
with two stools on top) and discovered
himself still a considerable distance from
her. “You can hear me; let me see your
ears,” he said. She explained that, being
a spirit, she had no ears. “But you can
speak. At least allow me the sight of your
incomparable mouth,” he begged. She gave
him the same answer as regards her mouth.
He then introduced a decidedly Occidental
touch, asking to see her legs. “I have no
legs,” she wailed. He then turned a horri-
fied face to the audience and exclaimed,
“No legs in Heaven!” And to the poor
spirit: “It was an august oversight. When
next you come bring your illustrious body
with you,” Most of the audience were
Chinese, and I was apparently the only
person present who found anything in the
play to laugh at.
GRAND OPERA, AT HIS MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Conductor Bavagnoli controls the storm.
“Fair P.” : “L.H.P.,” who stated recently
that Dunedin does not support theatricals
as it used to, ought to come over here and
inspect the goods that are offered. When
a rare good show, such as the Gilbert and
Sullivan co., holds the boards, packed
houses result, but at one show recently
many who went out at the interval stayed
out. One big theatrical organisation leaves
its best choristers and principals in Aus-
tralia, on the principle, apparently, that
anything is good enough for Maorilanders.
“P.H.”: Williamson’s announcement that
doors will be hermetically sealed throughout
every act will be received with relief by all
to whom an opera is more than a social
outing. More welcome is the decision that
the artists must not acknowledge their
reception on entering or applause at the
end of an aria. Nothing ever distressed me
more than the habit of the Fuller people of
breaking the continuity of the story by deep
bows to the audience and to each other.
“Bill O’C.”: What is there funny about
mere obesity paraded' ion stage and screen?
Half the Hollywooden “screaming comedies”
rely largely on the clumsy antics of hyper-
adipose monstrosities, apparently salvaged
from circus sideshows. The era of blubber
humor began, I fancy, with the unlamented
Arbuckle, who had at least a talent for
comedy behind his fat; hut latterly there
has been a steady exploitation of the grossly
overfed of both sexes with nothing to recom-
mend them but their excess tonnage, and.
worst of all, we are inflicted with bloated
children —their faces and Climbs looking as
though distended by a bicycle pump. Yet we
used to regard obesity, especially in the
young, as a physical affliction and an un-
pleasant spectacle, calling for sympathy and
concealment as well as clothing would allow.
“Cine Ma”; Although this country has not
made the progress it should have in screen
drama it can lay claim to having one of the
oldest and most continuous celluloid news-
papers in the world. The Australasian
Gazette is over 17 years old and has just
reached its 900th issue.
“Spokeshave”: No stranger metamor-
phosis could be imagined than that of John
Brownlee, of the Williamson-Melba opera
company. As the half-naked Amonasro,
King of Ethiopia, in “Aida,” the young
baritone follows the Italian tradition as
to the manner born. Five years ago he was
a Sunday-school worker in Geelong.
“Cine Ma” : While Melbourne and Sydney
are debating ways and means of providing
themselv-es with permanent orchestras their
musicians are drifting into the film palaces.
Henry Penn is the latest recruit. A first-
class musician, he has resigned from the
staff of the N. S. Wales Conservatorium to
conduct at the Victory Theatre, St. Kilda.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : George Cohan’s
farce “Baby Cyclone” had a highly success-
ful premiere at the Lyric Theatre on April
10, and stage favorites dear to the Australian
public had a conspicuous share in the roaring
triumph. So much laughter has not been
heard in London for many a day, and on
several occasions it drowned the dialogue
completely. The main theme of the play is
a satire on the present-day craze tor dogs,
and three Pekinese specimens are m the east.
One, Baby Cyclone, is taken away by its
owner at the end of the first act before it
can drink a saucer of milk brought on tor
its refreshment. The theatre cat is so placed
in the wings that it can see the tempting-
beverage, and quite naturally walks on to
consume Baby Cyclone’s supper after care-
fully surveying the audience. Joseph Coyne,
who plays masculine lead, had a great wel-
come. Kathleen O’Regan, who toured Aus-
tralia with the Irish Players, is the feminine
star, and made a wonderful hit.
“C. 8.”: The Firm has engaged Jack
Hylton’s band for an Australian season.
Hylton plays jazz and the near-classics, and
is reckoned to be the biggest musical draw
in London.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Nora d'Argel, who
lived for years in Sydney as Nora Long, has
joined up with the Old Vic. operatic section,
her first allotment being the part of Nedda
in “Pag'liacci.” The high range of her voice,
with its dramatic ring, and the vitality of
her acting, make the selection a good one.
“Craiscr”: Trim little Reita Nugent, the
Australian who danced her gymnastic way
into favor in several musicomedy extrava-
ganzas in this country, is making a similar
Lit in Europe. After tickling the fancy of
the Continental baldheads, she crossed to
Lunnon, where the critics exhausted their
supply of adjectives over her performance
in “Oh, Kay,” and the now-running “So
This Is Love” at His Majesty’s.
“Cine Ma”: Quebec is going the whole
hog; it proposes to prohibit the attendance
at picture shows of all children under 16.
This drastic measure, of course, has fetched
a howl from the populace, but most of the
complaints come from the mothers and
fathers who, unable to get their offspring
minded at home, drag them to the cinema
because they themselves want to watch the
doings of Flossie Fewgarments in “Sex
Secrets.” There are good juvenile pictures,
and it is a pity the Quebec kid won’t be
allowed to see them; but the other seems the
only way out until Hollywood is cleaner.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : In spite of
the splendid advertisement which the film
“Dawn” received through its condemnation
by the Foreign Secretary and the lengthy
discussions in the English press, it is not
likely to have any record run. Many con-
noisseurs regard the film as a dud, in which
neither Edith Cavell nor Sybil Thorndike
preserve their respective haloes. Miss Thorn-
dike manages to make the heroic nurse
appear something of a tragic poseur, instead
of the simple, humane soul she was; it must
be assumed that the script imposed limita-
tions on the actress’s acknowledged gifts. It
may be remembered that Pauline Frederick,
after a preliminary canter in the part of
Edith Cavell, withdrew from the piece. Per-
haps she discovered the weakness which has
apparently cramped Miss Thorndike.
“Cine Ma”: My impression is that, as
soon as the import tax on American films
has produced an Australian school of act-
ing, an export tax will have to be clapped
on actors. Up to date every screen artist
who has made a name in other countries
has been bought up by Hollywood and
promptly ruined —artistically.. The slinky
Pola Negri and the sainted Valentino are
old examples, and. the German Jannings
is the latest. In his own country not only
was Jannings a brilliant and unconven-
tional actor, but the plays he figured in
were reasonably intelligent. His first pic-
ture since Hollywood acquired him is “The
Way of All Flesh,” and fulfils the gloomiest
expectations. The first few acts are charm-
ing, delightful, full of dramatic ingenuity.
The last part is one long orgy of harrowing
sentimentality. I saw it without music, but
even then the women powdered and the
men blew their noses furiously Any theatre
which does it to music will have to lay in
storm-water guttering.
“C. 8.”: I see some small hope for the
future of Italian grand opera on the his-
trionic side in the person of John Brownlee,
the Victorian. His Amonasro, King of
Ethiopia (“Aida”), had an athletic ease and
grace of deportment absent from the melodra-
matic strutting of his Italian confr&res. An
individuality which deserves to be given more
play struggled beneath the stereotyped ges-
ticulation of his European training. If any-
body wants to realise how stereotyped the
Italian convention has become he should
shut his ears to the singing and watch the
actors. In a few moments the characters will
fade from his mind and he will get an im-
pression of a row of apparently crazy para-
lytics being galvanised into action periodi-
cally by some joker armed with an electric
battery.
BALLADE OF BUMPTIOUS
BEAUCHAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
No, laddie, frankly I confess
The tour brought no financial gain
Despite my personal success—
But let us sit while I explain.
As you well know, I am not vain,
Though I admit I made a hit,
But Beauchamp’s boasts inflicted pain—
He was the rock on which we split.
Notices in the minor press
He flaunted broadcast on the train,
Giving to strangers his address,
Gesticulating might and main.
(Thanks, laddie. Yes, the same again.)
I really loathe to speak of it,
But Beauchamp proved a noxious bane —
lie was the rock on which we split.
A company cannot progress
If upstart youths aspire to reign
Who still obeyed the governess
When I appeared at Drury-lane.
True artists, laddie, are not fain
To mock another’s lack of wit,
But though from comment I refrain,
He was the rock on which we split.
Envoy.
Laddie, while I should hardly deign
To recognise the beardless chit,
Still less to murmur or complain,
He was the rock on which we split.
N.S.W.
BTSOM AUBERE.


can easily escape
80% of these repair bills
Alemite-Zerk Ford Set
asdf
Ford owners should equip
their cars with the Alemite-
Zerk Lubrication System- A
complete set ot fittings and
compressor gun costs only a
small amount of money and
saves costly bearings. You can
easily install the fittings your-
self in place of the grease cups.
Makes Ford lubrication easy
and positive.
Alemite Transmission
Lubricant
asdf
An entirely new type of lubri-
cant for gears and transmis-
sion. Reduces friction to a
minimum. Means from i to
1 % more miles per gallon of
petrol by actual test. More
pep and power, longer life for
gears. Two-finger gear shift-
ing in cold weather because it
does not harden or “channel.”
Made without fillers. Have it
put into your transmission
gear boxes every 2500 miles
and say good-bye to rear-end
troubles.
Alemite Chassis Lubricant
AWHITP
Made especially for use with
the Alemite System. Willstand
upunder3ooo pounds pressure.
Ordinary greases break down
at 200 pounds. Resists heat up
to 400 degrees Fahrenheit.
Will lubricate properly at 30
degrees below zero. Equally
valuable tor farm implements,
motor-boats, etc. In conve-
nient 5-pound tins.
Alemite Gas-co-lator
sdf
A device for filtering the petrol
as you drive. Takes out all
the water and dirt particles
that clog the carburetor. Re-
moves the cause of practically
all trouble from excessive car-
bon. oil dilution, pitted valves,
hard starting, stalling. Sold on
a 30-days trial. Satisfaction, or
money cheerfully refunded.
Alemite Spring Protectors
sdf
For good looks and easy rid-
ing. Made to fit every model
and size of motor car springs.
Snug fitting, nickel trimmed.
They keep out mud and grit,
stop squeaks and give added
tyre mileage. I.ast for years.
The surest preventive against
broken springs.
Alemite Penetrating Oil
sdf
A graphite lubricant designed
especially for use where ex-
treme penetrating qualities
are essential. Unexcelled for
lubricating motor car springs.
Works in between the sprirjg
leaves without jacking up the
car. A perfect lubricant wher-
ever alight oil is needed. Dis-
solves rust, prevents corrosion.
Speeds up dismantling work
by loosening tight bolts and
nuts. Sold in pint and gallon
tins, and large drums. Can be
sprayed on with a special
sprayer equipment.
Australian Distributors
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd.
284 Pitt Street
Sydney
E. A. MACHIN & CO.
Corner Elizabeth and Beckett Streets
Melbourne
CORNELL, Ltd.
Adelaide
C. ATKINS & CO.
Perth
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd.
Brisbane
REPAIR BILL
j'T*. /)/
«~J;
4Uw-
n
*9
Iota! Rep air Cost; £40.0.0 1
Read how Alemite Lubrication will prevent
costly repairs to your car
80% of repair bills have oeen traced to one
cause which you can now eliminate and at the
same time reduce the operating cost of your
car anywhere from a half-penny to a penny
half-penny a mile.
This cause is faulty lubrication of the dust-
exposed, hard working chassis bearings, and
faulty lubrication can come from an inefficient
system just as easily as from neglect.
Alemite Lubrication Easy
and Positive
This is why the Alemite High Pressure Lubri-
cation System is in use today on more than
10,000,000 motor cars. Why 93 out of every
100 American-made cars are equipped with it
before they leave the factories.
The Alemite System is easy to use. All the
chassis bearings on a car can be lubricated in
a few minutes. And it means positive lubri-
cation. You always know that the lubricant
gets to the spot every time and stays there.
A small sum will equip your car
with Alemite
If your car is already equipped with the Ale-
mite System, use it every 500 miles. Lubricate
-the bearings yourself or have your service
man do the work for you.
And if your car is not so equipped you can
have the System installed for a very small
amount of money. It merely means placing a
small, dust-proof Alemite fitting on each bear-
ing in place of the old-fashioned grease or oil cup.
How the System Works
The operation of the Alemite System is sim-
plicity itself. The handy Alemite compressor
gun containing the lubricant is attached to
the fitting on each bearing in turn. A twist of
the wrist forces clean, fresh lubricant en-
tirely through the bearing. Old, gritty grease
is forced out at the same time. That’s all there
is to it.
If your regular service man cannot supply you
with Alemite fittings or any of the other Ale-
mite Products shown at the left, write to any
of the distributors listed.
THE BASSICK MANUFACTURING CO.
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
CHICAGO, U. S. A.
ALEMITE
1927, T. B. M. Co.
High Pressure Lubrication
P.eg U, S. Pat. Off.


&
<*>
4
v>2
P
<PT
J
V
S
/
A BOY’S FESTERED KNEE.
“My little boy fell and cut his knee terribly.
Although I tried almost every tiling, the sore
remained in fearful condition. A friend advised
Zam-Buk. This balm caused the healing to pro-
gress rapidly and soon put the child right again.”
Mrs. E. Bean, 68 Halifax Street, Adelaide.
BURNS AND SCALDS.
“Through upsetting the
kettle, my hand and wrist
were badly scalded. Big
blisters formed and broke,
leaving a mass of painful, raw
flesh. Za.ni-Buk took out all
‘heat’ and pain; it caused
inflammation to subside and
new tissue to grow. Zam-Buk
healed without leaving a trace
of the injuries.”—Mrs. F.
Phillips, Cecil Cottage,
Logan Road, S.E. Brisbane.
POISONED WOUNDS.
“I knocked my ankle against
an. iron fender. Dye from my
stocking got into the sore
place, causing serious inflam-
mation and ulceration. I was
laid up for weeks in awful
pain. However, Zam-Buk
proved most soothing. It
drew out all corruption,
allayed inflammation and
soon healed the wound.” —
Mrs. R. Palmer, 139 Crown
Street, Darlinghuvst, Sydney.
cafety first
T Prompt Use Op Z AM-BUM jf
| Averts Blood-Poison J
“\JINETY-NINE per cent, of cases of
septic poisoning arise through neglect
of trifling cuts and scratches, says a big
works manager.
Whether for accidents at home or at work Zam-Buk
is the ideal safety-first healer. Prompt application of a
little Zam-Buk to any cut, scratch, burn or abrasion, pre-
vents poisonous germs from infecting broken tissues.
Zam-Buk is the safety-first healer because it acts on the skin
in three ways. It at once soothes and allays inflammation and
swelling. It relieves pain and checks bleeding almost immediately.
Secondly, Zam-Buk is a splendid antiseptic; it kills and excludes
disease germs and averts or checks blood-poison. Finally, Zam-Buk
heals swiftly and naturally by promoting growth of new, healthy
skin.
If the sore place be blistered and inflamed (as in a burn or
scald), spread Zam-Buk on a piece of lint or clean rag.
Zam-Buk owes its exceptional healing virtues to its rare
herbal character, its refinement and its absolute freedom from the
animal fats and mineral drugs found in ordinary ointments and
salves.
Be sure and keep a box of this safety-first healer always
handy.
'am -Bali
Obtainable of chemists everywhere, 1/6 box or 3/6
family size. Zam-Buk-Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet.
cc
A SURGERY IN A TWO-INCH BOX.”
SpN&Soti;
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully !
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
sdf
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiased
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
J 69 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinr
(Next G.P.0.).


V.
When your friend is complimented on his socks and
says that they are "Merino-Knit,” do you say "That’s
just what I wear ? ” If you do, you are wearing the best
in quality, colour and design. "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters are just as pleasing and satisfactory
as " Merino-Knit ” Men’s Hose.
MERINO-KNIT
HALF HOSE & GOLF HOSE
jgpgSsefcbeo.
~1T —r
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose and Golf
Hose are made of Pure Australian
Merino Wool entirely, or, in the
lighter weight Half Hose, of Merino
and the best English Artificial
Silk. The colours are carefully
chosen to tone with present-
day fashions for men.
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose is
made io fit snugly round the
ankles and firmly on the legs,
ensuring the acme of comfort
and smartness.
Ask for “ Merino-Knit"
Garments Stocked by
all good Mercers.
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLING WOOD, VIC.
rr
'Almas fit
L/
WMi
&
Mi
mb.
mmmm
U iiiiLLL'A
mt
'///MM
rnmm
fSS
sd
The sapling
symbolizes every-
body's child. All
parents desire
their children to
grow strong and
sturdy as the oak,
to weather the
storms as well as
enjoy the sunshine of life.
Children who do not grow
strong from the start require
special feeding, no matter how
good the daily food. The best
special food is Benger’s Food, and
every child who is weakly or
backward, shooting up too rapidly
or failing to make normal growth,
should be given Benger’s extra
to the ordinary meals.
A cup of Benger’s Food between
meals and just before bed-time
has transformed many weakly in-
fants. To-day, thousands of robust
men and women, fathers and
mothers themselves, are evidence
of the benefits derived from Ben-
ger’s in their growing period.
Adult men and women, in
indisposition, sickness or in health,
can always benefit by Benger’s
Food.
Benger’s is not expensive. Made
with all milk it costs about 6d.
per pint —two dishes—including
the price of the fresh milk. Some
children like the food flavoured
with a piece of chocolate for a
change.
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation — “THE LANCET.”
Parents interested in this advertisement are invited to read the
more detailed information given in Benger’s Booklet. A copy will
be sent post free on application.
t
Food
for Infants,
Invalids wm* Aged.
trade Mark
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD.,
Sole Proprietors
350, GEORGE STREET,
Benger’s Food, Ltd., England.
SYDNEY.
A 274
Type, Tripe & Co.
“Knib”: C. E. Sayers, who is leaving
Melbourne Age for Sydney Sun, relin-
quishes the job of general president of the
A.J.A. For three years op thereabouts
Sayers has been State political and depart-
mental man for the Syme sheet, and has
found time between whiles to write a serial
for the Woman’s Mirror and short stories
for other publications.
Little Theodore Fink, head of the Mel-
bourne Herald proprietary, has presented
the southern city with two busts of heroic
size which he acquired in Rome on a recent
European jaunt. They are 150-year old
replicas of classic works, and will grace
the Alexandra Gardens. Before law and
journalism caught him, Fink aspired to be
an artist, and still waxes reminiscent at
picture-show openings about the early days
of Streeton, Conder and Tom Roberts.
Charlie Taylor, an Inky Wayfarer of the
first-class who has had experience in most of
the capital cities of the Commonwealth, has
opened a school of practical journalism in
SO OF COURSE IT WOULD.
“But, damn it all, camp stew oughtn’t to
affect a big ƒellow like you.”
“Ah, but yer see, Doc., I eat more oƒ it
than the others.”
Melbourne. Taylor was once approached by
a man who had ideas of starting a new
paper. Also he had decided notions of
economy, and suggested how it would be
possible to use huge quantities of reprint.
“You’re not looking for an editor,” Taylor
replied, as he reached for his hat-—“you
want a paperhanger!”
“W.R.F.” (Lond.) : A couple of lines in
the S. M. Herald was all the obituary notice
I saw, some months ago, accorded to J. C.
Maccartie. a many-sided journalist, also the
author of quite a dozen books, including
“Making His Pile” and “The Darleys of
Dingo Dingo.” He founded the Australian
Cordial Maker and Brewer, and was editor
for a period of the Australian Brewers’
Journal, now Brewing and Wine Trade
Journal. Maccartie belonged to an old
Cork family; he had sold out his interest
in the family holdings at Carignavar and
applied most of the proceeds to farming at
Lismore (N.S.W.) with limited success.
“Shep”: The article on Henry Lawson,
wherein mention is made of “The Fire at
Ross’s Farm” (B. 16/5/’2B), reminds me
of times when I heard this piece in unusual
circumstances. At a rest-camp in France,
where a Canadian concert party was giving
an entertainment to a mixed audience, one
of the “stars” announced that he would
recite a special favorite of his, an Aus-
tralian piece, and proceeded with “The Fire
at Ross’s Farm.” It made the few Diggers
there smell the burning gum-forest. I
heard it again at “Yarra Bank,” on the
Somme, in one of the huge dug-outs taken
over from Fritz, the entertainer on that occa-
sion being one of a party of bombers who
were to raid a German trench a couple of
hours later.
“Carel”: Cabled that Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch and two other Englishmen of letters
are preparing a brighter and more readable
Bible in which, amongst other things, the
present system of chapters and verses will
be dispensed with and improved upon.
Actually this system is not nearly so old
as most people assume. For convenience of
reference, the Vulgate was first “chaptered” in
the thirteenth century by Cardinal Hugo de
Santo Caro, and Rabbi Mordecai. Nathan,
two centuries later, similarly divided the
Hebrew text. At the same period the pre-
sent arrangement into verses was intro-
duced by Athias, a Jew of Amsterdam,
in an edition that is esteemed for its com-
bination of beauty and correctness. At an
earlier date similar work had been carried
out with the New Testament, but by whom
is a matter of conjecture. The first English
translation to adopt the plan was the
“Breeches Bible,” so called because of its
version of the latter part of Genesis iii, 7:
“They sewed fig-leaves together and made
themselves breeches.”
“Boro-Belle”: The new heading for Ink
and Paint items reminds me of an indiscre-
tion of my youthful days when I was the
“night literary staff” of a N.Q. daily. As the
comps, always referred to social doings as
tripe items, one evening I flippantly wrote
“Add Tripe Items” over a slip announcing
that Mrs. Big Bugge would not be “at home ’
during the summer months. The proof
arrived with the frivolous heading in big-
caps., but I postponed the alteration until
the revise should arrive. Unfortunately,
the fire-bell sounded at this point, and some
hours later, after writing a vivid account of
how half the local Chinatown had gone up
in smoke, I went home to bed without wait-
ing for last proofs, final revises or anything
else. Consequently, our daily duly appeared
next morning with “Add Tripe Items” in
bold type above various items chronicling
the doings of the local smart set, to the
huge delight of the great majority of our
subscribers. I expected nothing less than the
sack, but, forjtunately for me, the editor —
the late Tom Cliataway, sometime Senator —
was a sport, and contented himself with a
stern lecture on my deplorable levity.
“C.Q.”: Cameron, of Melbourne Tram-
ways Board, and the Herald newspaper
have their wigs on the green on the sub-
ject of traffic noises. Owing to the growing
fury of a half-deafened populace, Cameron
began a series of investigations with a
radio amplifier, tending to prove that if
his electric trams were hellish, private offen-
ders were hellisher. Before he had gone
far, however, the Herald broke in with a
private research plant, assisted by profes-
sors from the University, its investigations
being purely a hunting down of Cameron’s
trams. The portable detector, costing £3OO,
was placed in hospitals which had com-
plained that the trams destroyed the sleep
of patients, in city offices whose tenants had
allegedly been driven elsewhere by the same
offenders, and in suburban parlors. In
every case the trams swung the needle round
to the limit of its calibration, according to
the evening journal. Cameron’s latest re-
tort is not lacking in pawky humor. “One
of the recent traffic noise-graphs shows,”
lie remarks, “that the overtowering peak in
the curve traced by the recorder was caused
by the noise made by boys selling news-
papers.”
“Adelaide” : Evan and Geoff Kyffin Thomas
have not been gaoled for contempt of Court
by the Adelaide Register, as counsel for
an arrested man asked that they should be.
S.A. Full Court, after hearing the applica-
tion, laid down the principle : ,
The public are entitled to have a legitimate
curiosity as to such matters as the violent or sudden
death or disappearance of a citizen, breaking into a
house, theft of property, or any other crime; and
it is, in our opinion, lawful for any person to
publish information as to the bare facts relating
to such a matter.
At the same time the casual remark that a
certain arrest had probably “cleaned up”
many recent robberies was held to have “a
real danger of substantial prejudice” to a
fair trial of the arrested one, but, said the
Court, “we must absolve the defendants of
any wrongful intention, and we are not dis-
posed to penalise them more than may be
necessary to secure respect for the Law.”
Judgment against defendants, with costs —
but no other penalty.
“Coot”: The word “anabranch” is an
Australian coinage. Its first appearance
is in the “Journal of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society,” in 1834, where Colonel
Jackson wrote: “Such branches of a river
as after separation reunite I would term
anastomosing branches ; or, if a term might
be coined, ana-branches.” In the society’s
journal of 1847 appears an amusing misuse
of the new word. Describing Sturt’s ex-
ploration of the interior of Australia, a
writer states: “Capt. Sturt proposed sending
in advance to ascertain the state of the Ana
branch of the Darling discovered by Mr.
Eyre on a recent expedition.” The mistake
is several times repeated, and in the index
one finds “Ana, a branch of the Darling.”
“Larrapinta”: Most of the fast-vanishing
sailing-boats come to S. Aus. for cargoes.
The Australian wheat run is the last hope
of the windjammer. The Chile nitrate trade
is languishing now that Germany has learnt
how to procure nitrogen from the air, and
the guano trade has ceased to be profitable.
And even the wheat charters at the S. Aus.
ANOTHER GUESS COMING.
RICH INVSLID: “The doctor says there’s no
reason why I shouldn’t live to be a
hundred.”
ROOR NEPHEW: “Oh, ISN'T there?”
outports leave little profit after high harbor
dues and loading-charges have been deducted.
Scandinavian ships are kept in commission,
however, because under Finnish law no navi-
gation apprentice can secure his mate's or
master’s ticket without having served his
time in sail, and the premiums paid for
training help to reduce the cost of running
the ships. These apprentices learn in a
hard school, but they are sure of a job when
their time is up. The annual race between
the faster ships has more behind it than
mere rivalry, for the ships which make a
fast passage out and back can be docked and
re-fitted in time to secure a cargo of Baltic
deal, which avoids the loss caused by run-
ning out to Australia in ballast. Several
ships are on their last voyages, among them
the Garthpool, the sole remaining square-
rigged windjammer flying the Red Ensign. In
a few more years the windjammer will be
no more than a memory, but the chances are
that the last of the world’s square-rigged
ships on her last voyage will go around Oape
Stiff with Australian wheat under her
hatches, probably lifted from Port Lincoln.


‘TS
Vrv
\
S
A
v
S
N
o
\w
J
£
*
a
i
JPCSSfC*^-^
Comfort I
The interiors of Dodge Brothers
new Four are masterpieces of body
engineering.
Compact, yet with all the roomi-
ness of a limousine. Plenty of head-
room. Generous leg space.
Wide, deep seats and springs of extraordin-
ary length also contribute to the complete
comfort of passengers.
Powered by Dodge Brothers new motor-
famous for exceptional quiet and freedom
from vibration this latest Dodge is win-
ning enthusiastic friends in every part of
Australia.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
□□dee* Brothers
MOTOR CARS
F.F. 916
80/5 /’29.


WITH A
W. W. GREENER
GUN
“Calrossie” at Monte
Carlo scored eleven con-
secutive kills 36 yards
rise— 1 9 yards boundary.
Wholesale Representatives'.
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Don't wish for the Best—get it.
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S "SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[t.
USHER'S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence o( Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesr:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Hughie Cairns, who is riding over hurdles
again, was on a good winner at Moonee
Valley on Saturday in The Ringer (St.
Anton—Superfleece), who cleared away from
his field in the Federal Hurdle Rfice and
broke a course record by running the two
miles in 3min. 38 [sec. He was'second favor-
ite at fives; Sandhurst, a 3-to-l favorite,
was a fair third, Broadblade (7 to 1) being
the runner-up. Fiscus, who was fancied
for this race, and for th-e Grand National
as well, fell, broke a leg and had to be
destroyed. The Ringer has lOst. 61b. in the
National; Broadbladb’s weight is lOst. 51b.,
arid Sandhurst’s lOst. 81b. On Saturday
they had lOst. 71b., list. lib. and list. 81b.
respectively, so The Ringer has caught it hot
fer his runaway win. And he is not exactly
bred like a three-miler.
Many an ex-hunter has done well over the
Flemington timber, and Chaumont looks like
adding his name to the number. He gave
a sterling exhibition of fencing in the Com-
monwealth Steeplechase and outstayed
Ancient Mariner (3 to 1) in the run home;
Derision was a good third. Chaumont, who
is by Divine Comedy, son of Comedy King,
but of Affliction, started at fours. From 9st.
111 b. on Saturday he goes up to lOst. 31b.
in the Grand National Steeplechase; Ancient
Mariner comes down from lOst. 121 b. to
lOst. 71b., and Derision from lOst. 81b. to
lOst. lib. The only thing against Chaumont
is that he is a hard puller.
S. W. Biggins came to light with another
winner froih N.S.W. in Dartmoor, who will
be remembered for a meritorious victory over
a distance at Warwick Farm. He proved
a class too good for the lot he met in the
Ilighweight Handicap, and went out at tens.
Dartmoor’s triumph and that of Sere (50
to 1) in a division of the Piccaninny Handi-
cap enabled the odds-yellers to show a good
profit on the day, especially as there was not
much money for Miss Disraeli (7 to 2),
winner of the principal handicap, for which
there w r ere only five starters.
* :i= * :!:
Fortune found backers’ address at Moore-
field on Saturday, after a lengthy period of
adversity for them. Coybeau’s victory (at
9 to 4) in the Hurdles gave punters their
first leg-up. A rank outsider, Honest Jack
(20 to 1), passed the judge’s box first, but
just when McShortodds was conjuring up
visions of goldfish for tea a protest for
interference was lodged by the Coybeau
party, and the Ivingsguard gelding was placed
second. Then Firefly (5 to 2) won the
Ivogarah Stakes; Magnetic (5 to 1) took out
the first division of the Maiden Juvenile Han-
dicap ; Pinnate (5 to 2) made a procession
of the second division; and Padicol (6 to 4;
annexed the Flying Handicap. The bagmen
had a breather when Sofia (6 to 1) strolled
home in the Moorefield Handicap, but Gipsy
King’s first in the Carlton Welter Mile (at
threes) made them disgorge once more.
The younger William Kelso, who lias
been remarkably successful during his brief
experience as a licensed trainer, was ex-
pected to saddle up two or three more win-
ners at Moorefield, but luck was against him
on Saturday. Lauder flattered followers of
the stable until within a few strides of the
post in the Ivogarah Stakes; Firefly, who
had come from a long way back, beat him
by a “short” head. Although Firefly once
went close to winning a Summer Cup, he
was still a maiden performer until Satur-
day. J. Baker, who rode the little Beragoon
horse, won the Moorefield Handicap on
Sofia, but the race did not provide much in
the way of excitement. Sofia was on the bit
all the way, and settled Cliilo (7 to 1), the
second horse, by two lengths and a half. It
was an entire reversal of form, as the Octo-
ber mare had received a severe drubbing
from Four Socks in the Menangle Park Hun-
dred on the previous Tuesday. Flinders,
another of Kelso’s, was favorite, but.the in-
and-out nag ran badly. Spruikeri, also
from the Orville stable, ran much more
honestly in the Carlton Welter; Gipsy King,
however, was a bit too good at the weights.
* * * *
The Newcastle Cup provided an. exciting
finish. It looked to be anybody’s race when
four or five horses were fighting it out at
the distance, but Dion (7 to 1), who had
previously encountered a deal of trouble,
came through the' middle of the field and,
vigorously ridden by Clarton, landed the
Cup by a short head from Bonaventure.
Bagpipes was a head away, and Edgardo
ALL IN THE GAME.
THE BARRACKER: “Who TOOK all those free kicks this afternoon?”
THE COT CASE: “Me!”
fourth. Lord Banner, co-favorite with Dion,
ran disappointingly, although it was thought
that the sticky nature of the going would
suit him. He was a long way back in the
early stages of the journey, and finished
sixth. There was a heavy plunge on last
year’s winner, Horton Gag, but though
prominent most of the way he faded into
fifth place. Dion’s Newcastle Cup is the most
important win that has been registereidi
by J. A. Murdoch, M.L.C., since he took up
racing. It has been an eventful year for
the chairman of the Civic Reform League,
who stands for straightgoing in sport as
well as municipal politics.
* >:= * *
For Canterbury Park next Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Social Success; next,
Beelgalx.
Canterbury Handicap: Hinchinbrook;
next, Flinders.
High weight Handicap: Sir Allan or
Gounod; next, Prometheus.
Ashbury Handicap: Sir Allan or All
Home; next, Sunny Empire.
For Randwick on Monday—it will be
the first day of the A.J.C. Winter Meeting;
Novice Handicap: Lauder; next, Sweet
Auburn.
A. J.C. Hurdles: Grosvenor; next, Coy •
beau.
June Stakes Colmera ; next, Kapuya.
First Steeplechase: Prince Arim; next,
Minterhe.
Ellesmere Handicap: Firefly; next, Boon-
ala.
* * * *
The Cause (Bachelor’s Pex-sse —Uproar),
who showed pretty good form in Sydney a
season or two ago, had an easy task in the
Brisbane Thousand at Albion Park on
Saturday. Going out favorite at fives, he
won by a stteet from Chippewa (10 to 1)
and Prairie Belle (7 to 1), who has to do
a lot of racing for her oats. Before the
race stewards and detectives searched the
jockeys for concealed batteries and the like,
but found nothing.
R. E. H. Hope, S.A.J.C. committeeman,
has a faithful old slave in Biskra, who has
now credited him with £4642 in stakes.
Hitherto unlucky in big races, Biskra
made no mistake in the City Handicap at
Victoria Park (S.A.) on Saturday ; con-
ceding lumps of weight to 18 opponents, he
came home “on his own” from Mentellini
and Amant in lmin. 27sec. for the seven fur-
longs. His div. for £1 was £3 Bs.; Mentel-
lini’s was £4 12s. Mentellini lias been won-
derfully consistent in City Handicaps; his
record is two firsts, a second and a third.
Hope’s other slick sprinter, the two-year-old
Merab, had an even easier win in the Adel-
aide Stakes, and cut out the seven furlongs
in lmin. 28sec., though he carried lOst. 21b.
Dempsey rode both. Fourth Hand, son of
Tetratema —Queen’s Double, gave Lord
Somers his first Australian success in the
Parkside Stakes, Benoni, Affirm and co.
being no use to him at w T .f.a. Though per-
haps not a Night Patrol, he is a good horse.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Once in England and once in Sydney
Stadium has Johnny Sullivan got the de-
cision in a fight with Tommy Mclnnes. On
Saturday night the pair met at the Stadium
again, before quite a good attendance, and
at the end of a gruelling fight the referee’s
hand fell on the son of Caledonia stern and
wild. Thomas well earned the award. Sulli-
van, who came in at list. 3ilb., was 71b.
heavier than the nuggety Scot, and he also
had the advantage in reach; yet for the
most part he wms content to remain on the
defensive. When forced to fight in spasms,
he scored the cleaner hits, but he was invari-
ably the first to break ground. His per-
formance suggested a shortage of hard work,
and a consequent internal softness, whereas
the Scot appeared fit to the hour. The last
round was sensational, Sullivan, realising
that lie was behind on points, making a
furious effort to out his man; but Mclnnes
took everything like the plucked ’un he is
and traded punches with a right good will.
The verdict was popular.
* * * =;■
“Bullet” Meyers (12st. Oilb.) and Bill
Meeske (13st. lib.) provided an interesting
wrestling match at Melbourne on Saturday
night. The Bullet specialises in the short-
arm scissors, and he clamped it on Bill
jnany times, but the Australian’s great
strength always enabled him to break free.
William went close to scoring towards the
end of the second round with a double
leg hold and dump, followed by an arm
bar; the Oregon man, however, managed
to keep one shoulder clear until the bell.
After, repeated attempts to score with his
favorite hatch, Meeske brought his man over
with the hold in the third and scored first
fall in 2min. 25sec. Bullet became unpopu-
lar by slipping through the ropes whenever
he appeared to be in trouble, and once he
put William none too gently over the top
strand. A jab with the knee hurt Bill, and
he capitulated in the sixth round to a body
scissors and arm bar. He looked a wmebe-
goiie figure in his corner during the interval,
and shortly after the commencement of the
seventh was pinned with a head scissors
and body press.
Footbrawl .*
The meeting of Carlton and South Mel-
bourne drew a crowd of 25,000 to the ground
by the Albert Park Lake on Saturday. It
was anybody’s game till the timekeepers
reached for the bell; then Clover pulled
down a sky-scraper and booted it through,
and the points were Carlton’s —85 to South’s
82. Melbourne, still undefeated and sea-
soned to narrow escapes, found itself kept
busy against St. Kilda, and scores were level
with but four minutes to go. The Saints
played round the wing with a certainty that
spelt victory, but Streeter and the resusci-
tated Coy stalled them off, Taylor shot the
ball on to Wittman and again to Johnson,
and tlie two goals settled the issue: Mel-
bourne, 86 points; St. K., 74. Richmond
went out to Essendon expecting a win, and
would have got it but for two things—the
’Dons were too fast and the Tigers couldn't
kick straight. Consequently ’Don’s 10 goals
8 behinds were 7 points better than Rich-
mond’s 7 goals 19 behinds. Fitzroy visited
Geelong, reaped its sixth defeat and achieved
a record that it would gladly forget—2 goals
27 behinds to Geelong’s 19 goals 8 behinds,
or 39 to 122. Collingwood ran all over
North Melbourne, finishing with 84 to 45:
and Footscray smotherd Hawthorn, 124 to 45.
* * * Sic
“S.T.”: A goal kicked from a “mark”
taken distinctly after the final bell had
sounded has decided an Adelaide match,
North v. Sturt. As it happened, North was
exactly six points behind, and the game
became a tie. Sturt, whose own ground it
was, took the result in a sporting spirit,
merely promising to move the bell from the
press-room—where the central umpire
couldn’t hear it—to the touch-line in future.
The result left Port Adelaide the only un-
beaten side, and on Saturday it defeated
North Adelaide in an exciting match, while
Sturt was downed by West Adelaide.
:1c * ‘ * *
The first inter-State Soccer match of the
season was played at Sydney on Saturday
by teahis representing Victoria and N.S.W.,
the lads from Yarraville winning by 3 goals
to 2. The game was the first of a series to
decide the custody of a cup presented by the
British Soccer authorities; Victoria will now’
have to meet the winner of the Queensland
Tasmania match. The Victorians have fine
players in Semple, Souter, Baker and O’Con-
nor. Cameron, Thompson and Coolhan were
the best of the home side.
* ❖ * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League resumed its
competition fixtfires on Saturday after a
two weeks’ interregnum caused by the visit
of the Queenslanders. . There was a huge
crowd at the Cricket Ground to see the meet-
ing of Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney,
and it was amply rewarded,, for there has not
been a more exciting club match for years.
East won by 9 points (3 tries) to 7 (a
try and 2 goals), and the scores just about
indicate its superiority on the day. Hardy
played the gaine of his life at centre, both in
attack and defence, and Busch and Byrne
also did sterling work in the back division,
while Brown’s hooking was an important
factor, and Harris was always prominent
in ruck and loose. The Southern centres
were not equal to the opposition, though M.
O’Connor, at the scrum, lost little by com-
parison with Busch. The loser’s forwards
were well led by Treweeke, Root and Cavan-
ough, Balmain had its hopes dashed again at
Birchgrove, where • Western Suburbs beat
the Tigers by 24 to 19; Redmond scored 3
tries for the winners. North Sydney headed
Newtown by 17 to 10, after the Blues had
gained a half-time lead of 10 to nil; and
Glebe was no match for St. George at Arn-
cliffe, the Saints winning, by 24 to nil.
(f Continued on page 41.)
PRECEPT AND EXAMPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Joe told me all about it. Strike !
Y’ would ’ve thought to ’ear ’is stuff
That Randwick never saw the like,
That Limerick was up to snuff
And Winalot a mangy tike.
'E knew its breedin’ off by ’eart
And swore its dam could stay a week,
And then its sire (that’s Apple-Cart)
’E said was just a blazin’ streak
Out of the barrier at the start.
Joe told me ’ow they tried it out
Last week, and swallers weren’t no use;
And ’ow they spread the news about
It wasn’t ready, runnin’ loose,
Gone in the wfind and up the spout.
’E ran the rule over the rest;
The favorite was in the bag,
And all the others—why, the best
Was goats. Ah, struth ! To ’ear ’is mag,
The money’s in the old oak chest!
Joe knew the kid that ’ad the ride,
And ’ow ’e’d got ’is cobbers in
To put up fifty on the side,
And ’ow ’e said the colt could win
By seconds if its legs was tied.
Well, I can stand it! It got beat —-
And not by one or two or ten ;
Third-last it run, as if its feet
Was lumiJs of lead. A broody hen
Could gallop faster ’cross a street!
But still, although I’d done me dough,
I don’t go crook—not yet a while;
’Twas when I said to poor old Joe,
“You must ’ve done a flamin’ pile,”
And ’e says, “What? Me backed it? No-o-o!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Dominate the Entire
Sporting Goods Field
In every instance the highest standard
of quality is consistent with the
lowest possible price.
I
m.
Dependable
SHOT GUNS
No. 4—HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.
Top lever, bar action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke, rebound-
ing locks, X bolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol grip, walnut stock,
guaranteed all smokeless powder; weight,
about 71b
Carriage paid.
No. B—CERT. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12 or 20 G.
32 in. steel barrels, choke, Greener bolt (Anson
and Deeley action)
Carriage paid.
No. 16—THE CERT. D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.
Top lever, 30in. steel barrels, left choke, extension rib, rebound-
ing locks, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight,
about 71b
With X bolt, £3/15/-. Carriage paid.
No. 3—BROWNING AUTOMATIC SHOT GUN, 12G.
Slide grip, steel barrels, take-down system; maga-
zine holds five cartridges; weight, about Bilb.
Carriage paid.
£ll/17/6
£6/15/-
£3/3/-
£B/8 1-
■m
Wm
mmm
m
Single-Barrel
SHOT GUNS
No. I—HARRINGTON & RICHARDSON’S 5.8.8. L. GUN,
12 or 16 G.
Top action, automatic self-ejecting, steel barrel, solid, case-
hardened, pistol-grip, walnut stock; weight, about 6^lb.
32in. Barrel
34in. Barrel
36in. Barrel
Carriage paid.
No. 4—CONTINENTAL 5.8.8. L. BICYCLE FOLDING GUN.
410 bore, 30in. .steel barrels, side lever, walnut stock;
length over all, 45in.; weight, about
Carriage paid.
No. I—AMERICAN S.B. BREECH-LOADING GUN, 410 G.
Top lever, Siemen’s steel barrel, 28in. solid, case-
hardened rebounding lock; weight, about 4|lb
Carriage paid.
No. B—STEVENS’ RIVERSIDE OR IVOR JOHNSON 5.8.8. L.
AUTOMATIC EJECTOR GUN, 12G.
Decarbonised rolled steel, 32in. barrel, case-hardened frame,
top lever, rebounding lock, pistol grip, walnut stock;
weight, about 6£lb
Carriage paid.
50/-
57/6
60/-
50/-
50/-
501-
WORLD-FAMOUS SPORTING RIFLES
GUN & RIFLE REPAIRS
A jully-qualifled armorer handles
your damaged Gun or Rifle.
Charges are the lowest 'prevailing
in Sydney.
No. 15 WINCHESTER SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE, 1904 MODEL, for 22 short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; 21 in, heavy round
steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder
rear sight; plain front sight; length of
rifle over all, 3 7 Jin.; weight, about 41b,
Postage: N.S.W., 1/9; Other States, 3/2.
No. 35—BROWNING “TROMBONE” HAM-
MERLESS REPEATING RIFLE, 22in. round
steel barrel; handles 22 short, long or long-
rifle cartridges; screw rear and open front
sights; length over all, 39 inches;
weight, 4§lb.
Carriage paid.
40/-
70/-
asdfasdf
No. 15
WINCHESTER
1904 MODEL.
No. 2—THE MAINE SPECIAL BOLT-
ACTION RIFLE, 22 cal., take-down, with
safety bolt. For short, long, or long-rifle
cartridges; 2 1 in. round barrel;
weight, about 3 fib
Postage, 1/6; Other States, 2/8.
No. 4—BAYARD BOLT-ACTION RIFLE,
22 cal., for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Take-down, with safety-bolt;
20in. round barrel; weight, about 3flb.
Postage, 1/6; Other States, 2/8.
25 /•
22 -
THE SHOOTING CATALOGUE
A complete, profusely-illustrated
price list of Mick Simmons’ com-
prehensive stocks which embrace
the foremost English, American and
Continental Manufacturers of Fire-
arms. Copy is post free on request.
No. ! I—STEVENS’ “FAVORITE” RIFLE,
22, 25 or 32 cal., R.F., round 24in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
take-down action, open front and
sporting rear sights; weight, 4^lb..
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/2.
No. 37—SAVAGE SPORTER REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 23A, 22 cal., 23in. round
barrel; handles short, long, or long-
rifle cartridges; weight, 61b
Carriage paid.
40/-
926
Universally ' adjudged by experts and
famous players as one of the world’s finest
Tennis Rackets.
“LEE MONOGRAM” Racket
Model de Luxe.
PRICE . .
Its real exclusive, feature is the patented,
slotted throat. This ensures absolutely per-
fect balance, absorbs crashing jolts, and
gives the “Lee Monogram” a wonderful re-
siliency and driving power.
Strung with highest-grade English Gut.
The “Lee Monogram” Frame carries a full six
(6) months' Guarantee.
77/6
Every Club a beautiful example of the
Club-maker s art.
PM
“WILL CORRY” Autograph
Matched Woods and Graded
Irons.
Scientifically-treated shafts, hand - forged
irons, specially-prepared leather grips.
MATCHED WOODS 25/-
RUSTLESS GRADED IRONS 257-
SPECIAL GRADED IRONS. . 207-
Leading Country and City Football Clubi
have acclaimed the new improved
IMPROVED
m
■
The Wonder RUGBY BALL
of 1928.
An improvement on the original design of the
famous footballer, li. H. {Dally) Messenger,
and of the finest materials and craftsmanshin.
EVERY BALL FULLY GUARANTEED'.
PRICE .... 22/6
(Carriage paid on all Sporting Goods except where specified otherwise.)
O
1C
immonsfrd,
Headquarters: 720 HaymarKet, Sydney,
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE.
*• Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters**


Queensland
Insurance Ce.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
y?9ftoioQ<oj>
aq o\ioGVdr\^
—the memories of a stay at
“The Australia” —the splendor
of its appointments, the gay
crowds, the brilliant social life,
the many unexpected comforts
and pleasures
Tariff: Single Room, with
Breakfast,. from 155.; Double
Room, with Breakfast, from
28s. Rate card on application.
Cable, Telegraphic and Wireless Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Capital Paid-up, £1(22,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up-—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
Footbrawl
“Billy the Goose”: Well ’ere we are agin—
in Brisbin this time. Y’see, I gotta ’int—
nuthin’ erfishul o’ course—that me orga-
nisin’ abilities might be needed by the Rugby
League ’eads ’ere ter combat the reaksliun-
try move in favor o’ the Rugby Union, a
silvertail mob wot’s talkin’ o’ prattin’ inter
the game agin. This mob’s one o’ the sort
that’s agin a bloke makin’ a bit o’ gonce
outer sport, though they take money at the
gates, all the same. That’s w’ere the sting
comes in fer the League. Th’ ideer uv er-
nuther push cuttin’ inter the gates ’as got
the League windy, an’ I don’t blame ’em.
Wot’s amachure footballers any’ow but a
lotta blacklegs, takin’ away gate-money
from ’ardworkin’ perfeshunals wot wants it
all! W’y, they’ll be interducin’ amachure
guns nex’, an’ then w’ere’d me an me mates
be? Speaking f’r the union, I’m ere ter
say we’re b’hind the Rugby League ter th’
lars’ double’eader. Solidarity f’r ever!
* . * * *
“Old Q.”: The shadow of the reviving
Rugby Union continues to lie heavily on the
spirits of the Rugby League in Queensland.
The action of the Australian League authori-
ties in suddenly depriving Brisbane of one
of its matches against the English team
and bestowing it upon Toowoomba is breed-
ing something very like mutiny. Last week
a dark threat was published in the press—it
purported to come from the Brisbane
League—to the effect that unless the match
was restored to it the bitter injustice might
drive the metropolitan body into the arms of
the Rugby Union. It is probably only a
despairing bluff, but the change of tone is
illuminating. A year or so ago such a
suggestion would have been hailed as blas-
phemy.
“Inverleith”: The Scottish Rugby Union
has always been an ungracious animal
with a fondness for putting both feet in
the trough. It has quarrelled with all the
other British Rugby Unions at one time or
another, while its attitude towards Austra-
lian a,nd Maoriland players has more than
once verged on the insolent. Replying to
criticism levelled at it in connection with its
treatment of “colonial” teams, it says that
when the original All Blacks and the first
South Africans invaded Britain, Scotland
made it a proviso that they should visit the
Land o’ Cakes at their own risk, Scotland
handing them the gates. The result stag-
gered the Scottish Union, the visitors getting
away with bags o’ bawbees. So Scotland,
“realising that such an action would result
in the tourists returning with cash,” resolved
that “future tourists must be guests, and
that the profits should not be divided with
them.” Canny lads!
if if ip if
“Fair Do”: It was with satisfaction that
those of the Sydney sporting public who
are not sealed to the Rugby League learned
of the terms on which the Cricket Ground
trustees are prepared to renew the lease of
the big arena to the professional football
body. Instead of giving the League a
monopoly of the ground for the winter, as
in the past, a proviso is made for the reser-
vation of dates for other codes of football,
while ground admission charges are to be
fixed by the trustees, and the number of
League season and complimentary tickets
limited. It is high time a change was
brought about, and though the matter has
not yet been finalised, it would seem that the
League has no other choice than to submit
to the trustees’ terms. They are easy
enough, in all conscience, considering the
circumstances.
* * * *
“Graball”; “Bunce” (B. 23/5/’2B) falls
mto a grievous error when he writes that
the N.S.W. Rugby League, having made
made sure of the lion’s share of the “gates”
during the Englishmen’s visit, was satis-
fied to let the matter of the appointment of
a N.S.W. chairman and vice-chairman for
the League Board of Control go without
protest. The League has let the question
slide till the Britons are safely off the
premises; it is then to insist that the
officials in question shall always be N.S W
nominees. Failing that, as the League dele-
gates made plain at a meeting last week,
N.S.W. will withdraw from the board. This
will be a repudiation of the agreement made
with Queensland when the board was con-
stituted, but repudiation is becoming fash-
ionable in the control of professional foot-
ball.
Racquet and Bawl
The French hardcourts championships have
provided another disappointment for those
who hoped that the Australian players
would be suited by the conditions. Craw-
ford and Hopman, after opening encourag-
ingly in the earlier rounds, faded out of the
picture, only Patterson and Hawkes surviv-
ing to the quarter-finals of the men’s doubles
They were defeated by Cochet and de Buza-
let, after a five-sets go in which the game
swung in the balance on several occasions,
the deciding set going to 12-1,0. Hopman
was eliminated in the first round of the
singles, but there was a gleam of hope in the
mixed doubles, in which Ilawkes and
Miss Boyd won into the semi-finals, until
the pair met Hunter arid Miss Wills. Eng-
lish and French players fought out the semi-
finals of the women’s doubles, Eileen Ben-
nett and her partner succeeding in the final
against a French pair.
* * * *
“Leonta”: A dollar to a doughnut that
“Shrewsbury” (B. 2/5/’2S) has never
played fixture tennis or sat through an inter-
state match. Any writer who asserts that
no courage is needed to battle through a
hard game, with match points against one,
is talking through his hat. As regards self-
control, it is impossible to be in a temper
and on one’s game at the same time. Granted
that there are one or two of our leading
players who show lamentable flashes of feel-
ing' on the court, they are completely
outnumbered by others who don’t. The
frequent fights which distinguish football
are lacking in tennis. If one cannot beat
one’s opponent on the court, it isn’t allowable
to take it out of his hide. Anyway, 30-
odd nations have seen fit to adopt the game
of “doubtful value” as their international
sport, so maybe there’s something in it,
after all.
* if * *
“J.H.” (Lond.) : Wallis Myers throws a
new light on the autocratic action of the
Lawn Tennis Association in intimating to
overseas competitors entering for Wimbledon
that they are forbidden, under threat of
disqualification, to contribute any comments
on the meeting to the daily or weekly papers
of their own countries. I had occasion to
ring up Sabelli (sec. of the L.T.A.) last
THE HAZARD.
JACK: “Why do you address your husband as ‘Bunker’ ?”
JILL: “Because he’s always in the way.”
year, when the L.T.A. passed a similar reso-
lution, and he was careful to say that natur-
ally the rule could not apply to overseas
players. Myers says that, in view of the
close association of the L.T.A. with the
International Federation, it might be assumed
that the anti-journalistic attitude taken up
by the British Council had been approved
by the Federation. Actually, the British pro-
posal to make authorship a penal offence by
the I.F. rules was rejected at the general
meeting of the Federation at Paris in 1927,
and it was not even discussed at this year’s
meeting held in Paris on March 16. Under
the circumstances, it is cool cheek of the
L.T.A. to say to players like Tilden, Lacoste,
Helen Wills and Gerald Patterson that they
will not be allowed to play at Wimbledon if
they fulfil newspaper contracts with other
countries.
The Watermen
“Glenelg”: The last big rowing event of
the season is due for decision on June 2,
when University eights will race at Mannum
(S.A.). All six States will be represented;
the Queenslanders will use the Mannum
club’s eight, a new craft, built by George
Towns. The Westralians, who won last year
in N.S.W., are the popular fancy, for, like
the Westralian inter-State crew, they have
been boated together for months and have
been in constant training.
* * * *
“Torpid.”: Something of a novelty in row-
ing races as far as Australia is concerned
is likely to be seen in Adelaide shortly.
This is the introduction of “bumping” races,
which, while familar enough to followers
of Oxford and Cambridge rowing, have not
yet been attempted in Australia. Dr. Id. S.
Newland, president of the Adelaide Uni-
versity Boat Clnb, has given a cup to St.
Mark’s College for competition in bumping
races to be rowed on the Torrens. An
attempt was made some time ago to arrange
similar events between the Adelaide rowing
clubs, but it fizzled out for want of support.
The idea was originally evolved to permit
the many college crews to compete on the
narrow waters of the Cam and the Isis,
where there is no room for crews side by
side. The competing boats start at a fixed
distance one behind the other, and when an
overtaking boat is able to touch the after
quarter of the one in front with her bow,
the touched one is “bumped” and the pair
change places on the next night, the races
lasting a week. This type of rowing calls for
highly skilled coxwainship and first-class
discipline in the crews.
Up if * *
“Dingus” : Sydney oarsmen in training to-
day would be unpleasantly surprised had they
to undergo the strenuous preparation im-
posed by coaches in the ’eighties. For the big
events the coach insisted, on having his crew
living in a “mess” under almost monastic
discipline. In addition to the daily practice
rows they would have an hour or so at
skipping, gymnastics or “floor walk.” As
a variant, perhaps twice a week, they would
do a 30-mile walk at racing pace, a
favorite stroll being from Balmain across
Ryde or Gladesville bridges, thence down
to North Sydney. Senior oarsmen of those
days were considerably older, on the average,
than the champions of to-day, and many
sported luxuriant ziffs. The modern carvel-
built racing boats are much lighter, narrower
and shorter than the comparatively clumsy
string-test, olir ker-built craft of the ’eighties,
so comparisons of times done over the same
courses by the crews afford a poor basis
for comparing the respective methods of
then and now.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. Royal Automo-
bile Club’s first golf tournament, held at
Kensington last week, was remarkable for
one performance. This was the round of
170 by H. Y. Russell, who had never held
a golf club in his hand before. His worst
hole took 16, but he won a ball from a
friend who wagered that he couldn’t go
round under 200. It was a remarkable per-
formance for a mug, and even the fact that
a one time State champion, C). 11. O’Brien,
was able to win the scratch round with 77
did not detract from its lustre.
* =l= : i= =!=
“Hoylake” : The professional golf tourna-
ment at Leeds, in which Australia’s Rufus
Stewart was engaged, was won by C. A.
Whitcombe, one of three golfing brothers
who all bulk big in the game. C.A. won
th.e event in 1926 and also annexed the
Northern professional championship last
year, with a score of 280, the lowest ever
returned in a British championship under
modern conditions. Stewart, after a good
beginning, did not reproduce the form which
he showed in the open championship.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : It is not only the minor
golf courses of Queensland that are tended
and barbered by enthusiastic members (B.
25/4/’2B). The Royal Queensland Club’s
course at the Hamilton, on the lower reaches
of the Brisbane River, is now being attended
to in the same fashion. The course itself
is all right, but the general ensemble, so to
speak, is disfigured by a considerable growth
of bush, which has thickened up with the
recent heavy rains. A group of members has
now sworn to abate this drawback, and by
this time is probably puffing and hacking in
unaccustomed energy to induce the landscape
to take on a less arboreal tone. Can’t we
start something of the kind on the Royal.
Sydney and Australian courses? Whatever
happened to the courses themselves, a good
many members would benefit by a little axe
or pick-and-shovel work. The same applies
to Manly and half a dozen other golf clubs
full of members in need of exercise.
❖ ❖ % sj*
“Hotham”: Melbourne golfers of the less
affluent type got a severe shock when the
Brighton Council decided to prohibit the
playing of Sunday golf on the municipal
links. Players were confident that an old
Act of James 11. permitted the game on the
Sawbath, but this was overruled by the
Crown Law authorities, to whom the council
submitted the case. It is a fool of a de-
cision, for golf is a seemly and decent gam.e
as long as one is out of earshot of a player,
and it will hit hardest the people who are
least able to obtain relief. The municipal
links give recreation on Sundays to hundreds
who have no other day in the week to spare
for it, and these will now be deprived of
their weekly game. On the other hand, the
well-to-do type of golfer will continue to
get as much golf as lie wants on week
days and Sundays alike at his private club,,
with ne’er a nark to say him nay;
* Up :|: *
“Claypan”: Queensland golfers are essen-
tially practical philanthropists. Some time
ago the Toowoomba Club’s professional,
Quarton, broke his leg badly. In addition
to the arrangements made on his behalf by
his own club, his brother professionals have
been playing exhibition matches for the in-
jured man’s benefit. The latest pair to do so
were Stafford and Spence, of Brisbane, who
played a series of exhibition games on the
Toowoomba course, which was lent by the
club, gate money being charged to watch
two of Queensland’s crack professionals
going through their paces.
“Bulging Eyes”: “Ah,” said Antonio; “I
t’ought you da golfa ven I seea da plus-four.
Ida golfa, too! Yen I starta da golf I taka
da lesson from da profesh. Soon I getta
da good. I enter for da competish. You
see da tree over da fence? I hitta da ball
’oondred da feefty, two ’oondred yard. Da
ball he hitta da tree. Ye look everyvhera,
no finda. I look upa da tree—ah ! I see
da ball; he sticka da branch. I too fatta
to climb. I senda da cad. He taka da
steek, go up, hitta da ball. Da ball fall
down. Ve go on; I doa da round verra
good—’oondred. I have-a-me tventy da
start. I vin, meester. ’Nother man, he
say, ‘Dis fella cadda, he knocka da ball
from da tree. Not a fair.’ I losa da game.
I gotta da wild—l no more playa da golf,
but I lika dees game. Nex’ time I playa
da, foursome. I playa da verra well —my
Part an’ myself ve twoa da up. I hitta da
ball verra nice heet. I seea da ball fall.
V_e go up. I putta my bag on da groun*
vhere ve seea da ball fall. I look, ve alia
da looka—can’t finda. All a da say—‘You
go playa da other ball.’ I playa da other
ball. I come da back. I lifta da bag an’
da dam ball, lie stop right unda da bag.
I picka da ball an’ da bag an’ da steek an’
I taka heem home. Da bag he stop in da
house—l play da beeliard now. Dere I no
more can losa da ball.”
(Continued on next page.)


&Tct/n&
IIQUUU 8
1 'V//P I.
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
' Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm oj Scotch Whisky Distillers.
imb bjb rr»ii
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
asdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
-ar and Cycle
“Exhaust”: That rocket-driven German
motor-car (B. 25/4/’2B) was given a trial
spin at Berlin last week and worked well
up to specifications. The thing hopped off
from the starting line with a bang like
a Big Bertha, and was cutting out 125
m.p.k. 40 seconds after the start Inventor
Opel says he is building another which is
to do 205 m.p.h. It hardly seems worth the
trouble. The account of the test refers to
the volumes of flame and smoke pouring out
behind the scooting gadget, and that would
hardly fit in with modern traffic require-
ments. Whether the motive power can be
renewed or maintained over an indefinite
period is not stated, nor are other parti-
culars which might be interesting.
x x * *
“Coil”: The motor-racing season in
. Europe is now in full swing. One of the
earliest of the big events was the Italian
Grand Prix, over a 1000-mile course. The
competitors, 100 in number, started from
Brescia, crossed the Apennines, and returned
by way of Florence, Rome and Ancona. The
winner was the well-known professional
driver Campari, who averaged close on 52
m.p.h. in a 15 c.c. Alfa Romeo.
if X * *
“Buzz”: The batch of Australian motor-
cycle riders who left for England a couple
of months ago have not been long in giving
Eiglish crowds a taste of their quality. They
played a leading part in the inaugural meet-
ings at the White City and Crystal Palace
tracks, and the daring riding provided the
big attendances with plenty of excitement.
Jack Bishop, holder of the White City gold
helmet, crashed and lost his crown to Frank
Arthur. Billy Lamont had an argument
with the fence, but man and machine sur-
vived sufficiently to carry on and win the
race. At the Crystal Palace a match be-
tween Blakeborough, of England, and Schlam,
a Westralian, had a peculiar ending. Blake-
borough had to pull out, owing to engine
trouble, while Schlam’s machine also turned
it in in the last lap. Nothing daunted, he
completed the course on foot, wheeling his
jigger, to an accompaniment of cheering.
So far there have been no casualties among
the spectators, but, judging by Australian
experience, their turn will come.
X * » *
T. D. Scott, dead in Sydney recently, was
a prominent figure in Australian cycling in
the palmy days of the sport. He was one
of the original promoters of the Warrnam-
bool-to-Melbourne road race, still one of the
biggest events of its kind in the world.
Coming to Sydney, he became a member of
a syndicate associated with the great cycling
boom of the 1890’s when Major Taylor,
Floyd MacFarland, Ellegaard, Lawson, Rutt
and others were brought to this country.
Later he was concerned in the promotion of
the Sydney Thousand meetings from 1903
to 1906, and it was he who introduced motor-
paced cycling events to Sydney audiences.
* * * X
“Fitzcray”: Victoria’s League of Wheel-
men, which is the body governing profes-
sional cycling in that State, has had a good
year from all points of view. The cash
game is very strong in Victoria, and has
resulted in the production of such undoubted
champions as Hubert Opperman and others
able to claim equality with the world’s best.
A feature of the League’s work which is
particularly commendable is the strong atten-
tion paid to road racing, which is of far
greater benefit to the community generally
than the work on the tracks. Races have
ranged in distance from 10 to 686 miles, and
an event of the latter type is not one to en-
courage weaklings.
Miscellaneous
“Brammall Lane”: The death of Roy Kil-
ner has given the resurrectionists of old-
time cricket yarns a chance to tag to his
memory a story that, really began with Tom
Emmett, also of Yorkshire, of whom it used
to be said that he feared neither man nor
devil nor IV. G. Grace. Tom was speaking
of the bitter rivalry between Lancashire and
Yorkshire, when someone asked if the tradi-
tional feeling between the two was real.
“When we goas deown. t’Owd Trafford,”
he replied, “we saays ‘G’ daay’ t’ first moar-
nin’. Aafter ’thou, the deavil a woard doos
we saay fower three daays boot joost ‘Hoo’s
thaat tha?’ ”
* v * *
“Yufu”: Talking about strange cricket
pitches (B. 2/5/’2B). Some young fellows
of the Orara Valley (N.S.W.) set to work
to improve their dirt pitch. They dug it
out to a depth of a foot all over and filled
in the trench with a mixture of green cow
dung, sawdust and the nearest approach to
day soil they coidd find, in equal parts.
For three days they kept a moderate fire
burning on top of their concrete, and the
result was a pitch that looked like baked
clay, was hard as cement and, until the
heavy autumn rains fell, never showed a
crack.
* *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W.C.A.’s fixed
idea that Sydney alone matters in the cricket
scheme of things has extorted a protest from
the country, and not for the first time, either.
The other w Cameron( MLA ’ for the
Upper Hunter, seized the opportunity of a
cricket function at W. Maitland to emphasise
the governing body’s neglect of the ■ game
outside the County of Cumberland. He
P"^ v la iX repreaeatation ° f
country intei ests on the association execu
t lv . e > until this was done, he said, financial
for country clubs would be impossible
t? obtain, all the money available m that
direction being handed to metropolitan clubs,
The association has referred the allegations to
a committee tor investigation and report, but
niight have spared itself the trouble, for the
charges are tru-e. The replacement of some
of the metropolitan club delegates by country
representatives would certainly improve the
quality of cricket management in N.S.W.
* * *
Sydney defeated the other competing
’Varsities in the inter-Uni. athletic meeting
in Sydney last week with seven wins and
seven seconds it scored 22 points to 16 by
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide having
2 points each. A new Australasian record
was established for the high jump, and a
new State record for the mile medley relay,
while seven University records were wiped
out. In recording 6ft. 3Un. for the high
jump, E. IVI. Davidson, of Melbourne, beat
his own figures in the last Australasian
championships by lrjin., and topped the
’Varsity record of V. R. Harbison by 3|in.
Selected for the Olympic Games he was
unable to go. He would have had more than
a sporting chance at Amsterdam, for his
Sydney jump is only 2Un. below the Olympic
reC ord. The 19-year-old all-rounder also ran
second in the 100 and 220 events, which were
won by R . C _ Sinith of Sydney, in 10 3-ssec.
and 22 2-ssec. respectively. R. G. Harrison,
0 £ Queensland, reduced the half-mile record
t(> lmilK 60sec.. and L. Nichterlein, of Mel-
bourne also put up new figures for the mile
d • ’ OQ o k
* °* * ...
GaffeF’: & reminiscent.fiavc,
for obtaining money 'under false pretences.
It wag the old gtol ./ of a good ma a running
j n Rle lian)C 0 f a third-rater and being haudi-
capped on the latter’s papers; in this case
the ped. collected £65 by his win before the
stewards took a tumble. He was a Maori-
]ander, and he had, every reason to hope thar
uo one who kuew llim in iMaoriland would
spot Mm in victoria. This was done, how-
ever, and his portion was nine months in the
calaboose, with suspension of the term con-
ditionally on his returning the wages of
sprint iu instalments. It was a common
thin g in the glorious past for a ped. of parts
wbo had outstayed his welcome in the South
to hie him to North Queensland, where tha
mo ney was good and the stewards not too
suspicious. The usual practice was to buv
the papers of some tenth-class Sydney runner
and assume his name. One such individual
made a great killing some 30 years ago. He
grew a beard on his way north, and attracted
great attention by reason of his luxuriant
S. II, DONNELLY, president of the N.S.W.
Australian National Football League.
He played, the game in Tasmania.
ziff. most of the runners of those days con-
fining themselves religiously to a moustache.
He had just completed his job when somi
nark from the South spotted him, but he
got out of Charters Towers two jumps ahead
of the enraged populace. After that no
bearded entrants were accepted at any price
by the Northerners.
X * : ! : *
“Mat”: It is interesting to note how the
robot is intruding itself into many sports
actual and so-called. In addition to the tin
hare, the mechanical bowler, the ditto tennis
server and a skeleton-like gadget contrived
in America to illustrate the compleat golf
swing, another has just been tested on an
Adelaide bowling green. The contrivance,
which is something between a sluice-box
and a coal-chute in appearance, is for test-
ing bowls on the green itself. When the
button is pressed, the bowl is rolled down
the chute and takes the green with mathe-
matical precision, coming to rest on the
same spot, again and again, until the
machine is readjusted. It seems to have
great possibilities. To many bowlers the
great drawback to the game is the necessity
WARNE SMITH, captain of the Mel-
bourne F.C., and one of the most ver-
satile footballers in Victoria.
for playing it in the intervals of rest and
refreshment. With this apparatus and
an electrical controlling device, players
could sit in the club-house all day long and
let their machines do the donkey work for
them out in the blazing sun, or on the
sodden green, as the case may be.
* * x *
“Splash”: Australian professional swim-
mers who fancy themselves over Marathon
distances are invited to consider a couple of
events, for women and men respectively, to
be held at Vancouver on August 29 and
September 5. The weaker sex will be asked
to swim 10 miles and the other sort 15.
The International Swimmers’ Association —
whatever and wherever it may be —has
agreed that the events shall rank as world’s
championships, while prize fmoney is to
total £lO,OOO. The last events of the sort
were held in Lake Ontario, in Eastern
Canada, and all the candidates but a couple
were so frozen with the icy lake water that
they could not complete the swim. In this
regard it is well to remember that Canadian
water temperatures, both fresh and salt, and
even in mid-summer, are calculated to make
an ice-cream sundae seem boiling by com-
parison.
* # ;!i *
“Splash”: I am surprised that the Sydney
flapper press took so little notice of a world’s
record put up by one of the girls. This was
Myrtle Huddlestone, who broke the world’s
swimming endurance record for all-comers
at Chicago by floating round for 50hr. lOmin.
15 4-ssec. It seems a pity they didn’t let
her cut out the odd fifth of a second. The
previous best was 46 hours by Otto Kem-
rnerich, of Germany. I forgot to mention
that Myrtle is married, the mother of a
family, and 30 years of age, which possibly
accounts for her swim passing unacclaimed
by the Sydney kindergarten propagandists.
“Te Anu” : As to the ex-Australian golf
professional who has been touring Eastern
Asia giving the heathen in their blindness
lessons in golf (B. 2/5/’2B), it should be
noted that Englishmen have been teaching
Asiatics every form of sport for generations,
and the mixing of every creed and color at
the games has done more to break down the
barriers of caste than all the pacificatory
speeches. For a long time the Dutch looked
askance at the idea of meeting their brown
subjects on the football field for fear that
in the event of a defeat to a white team, the
prestige of the foreign Government would
come tumbling to the ground. Not long ago,
however, I saw a Soccer match in Batavia
between .Javanese and Hollanders in which
the slighter indigenes ran rings around their
white opponents and nobody thought any-
thing of it. After Rajah Brooke made head-
hunting unhealthy, the Sarawak Dyaks took
to Soccer like ducks to water. I saw a
crowd of youngsters playing once. Not be-
ing able to afford a ball, they had helped
themselves to a skull from the once-sacred
village headliouse.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Spero”: The aerial bagman has arrived,
one of Melbourne’s radio warehouses having
bought an aeroplane for the us-e of the
firm’s traveller. Every purchaser during
May of a particular make of wireless set is
to have a free flight in th-e ’plane.
* *
“B-Gar”: The good results given by pul-
verised coral as a fertiliser have encouraged
others to follow the lead of the Bannard
Island (N.Q.) experimenter, and plants are
being erected on many of the islands along
the North Q’land coast. There is a brisk
demand from cane-cockies for the powder.
* * * *
“Clerk”: The other day Clapp carried
the heaviest single parcel ever handled on
the Vic. railways. It was a huge stator
and went to the Electricity Commission at
Yallourn on the department’s special 60-ton
truck, 13QB. Its weight was 48 tons
dead, and no motor company displayed any
anxiety to beat Clapp for the job. Previous
to this, the weightiest one-piece article
trucked in Victoria had been a 40-ton lift,
also for Yallourn, built by Thompson’s at
Castlemaine.
>1! * *
“Hufßn-Gufiin”: The Australian Post
Office uses the cancellation-of-stamps machine
to warn those sending letters to the U.S.
that deficient postage incurs double pay-
ment for tire addressee. I find myself wish-
ing that Uncle’s postal authorities would
reciprocate, for I often receive trade cir-
culars from America insufficiently stamped.
As a contrast, trade mail matter from
England is invariably postage paid in full.
* =i= * *
“Bill Bowyang”: Yankee tinned tomatoes
may always be seen on Bowen (N.Q.)
grocers’ shelves, while every year tons of
the ripe fruit go to waste in the surrounding
district. Small quantities have before now
been pulped and forwarded to southern
manufacturers of jams and sauces, but no
market could be found for the pulp. I
would suggest it be sent to U.S.A., so that
we can buy it back again in canned form.
* ' =;• * *
“E.S.” : Pegstitch enlightened me. When-
ever a case was opened, so he said, the
boss would mark some of the goods at
15s. 6d., some 19s. 6d. and so on up to
375. Gd.—extra specials. “But he paid one
price for the lot,” said Pegstitch. “An’ we
sold more at 225. 6d. than at the cheaper
rate. We ’ad some for a good while at
16s. 6d. Couldn’t sell ’em. So they were
‘marked down’ from 255. to 19s. lid., an’
bargain-hunters bought the lot. Sale-time
was a great joke, when 12s. 6d. boots werj
reduced to 14s. lid. When I want boots
now I get them just after the ‘sale at
startling reductions’ is over.”
**: sjs :J:
“P.M.”: The closing of the Veterinary
School at the Melbourne University marks
yet another stage in the march of the
petrol engine. Blacksmiths, saddlers and
others can usually find a job suitable to
their trade. I know an enterprising young
blacksmith who has turned liis attention to
body building; he is doing a good trade
selling motor-trucks to farmers to replace
the horse-waggons his father once built for
them,. But the poor old vet. can hardly
adapt himself to changing circumstances so
readily.
* * != *
“Unity”: Maoriland has been looking with
keen interest into her butter and cheese ex-
ports, which help so largely to bring the
balance of trade out in the Dominion’s favor.
The United Kingdom is still the biggest cus-
tomer; Canada, with a demand increased
fourfold as a result of the new policy of
shipping abroad practically all the big coun-
try’s butter and buying to tide over the
winter months, comes next, with Australia
third and IJ.S.A. fourth. But what is par-
ticularly interesting the Maoriland butter-
men is the advance of China as a buyer, and
the tapping of two entirely new markets cf
great promise in South Africa and Panama.
China is apparently the only patron of Maori-
land cheese in the East, but there again is
a market with unlimited possibilities.
❖ ❖ jjc
“Adamascus” : The railway department in
a Queensland town required an 18in. type-
writer for some special work and hired one
from a local supply shop for 7s. 6d. per
week. At the end of 18 months a reminder
was sent along that the typewriter had
not been returned and that £27 was owing
for hire. The machine was then sent back
with a cheque. The agent had previously
offered to sell it for £l2.
“Ledraw”: Hams and bacon probably go
to the Richmond from Sydney (B. 2/5/’2B)
simply because purchases from local fact-
ories have to be made for cash, which is not
always convenient for the local storekeeper.


and is still
a year ahead
First in the field to offer 4-wheel brakes, greater
economy, low center of gravity and increased
roominess. Over 110,000 sales the first year
set the record for new-car popularity .
Modern —The first light car to offer 4-wheel brakes as
national standard equipment.
Maximum Economy —Proved by the recent State-wide test
amongst Queensland Whippet private owners establishing an
economy record average of 54.15 miles per gallon.
Higher Speed —You can do 55 miles an hour in a Whippet.
The low gravity centre keeps the car safely hugging the road.
Quick Pick-up —Fastest of any car of its size and weight;
5 to 30 miles an hour in 1 3 seconds.
Balloon Tyres —For extra mileage and added comfort.
Snubbers —Another reason why the Whippet is the easiest-
riding light car on the road.
Adjustable Steering Post —Easily fitted to any driver of any
size or stature.
Force-feed Lubrication —The oiling system you find on the
highest-priced automobiles.
Roominess —Plenty of leg room for tall people in the front
seat.
Full-vision Body —Narrow front pillars on the enclosed bodies
enable you to see clearly on all sides.
COMFORT.
The unique body and dash con-
struction of the Whippet shown
below provides several more
inches of leg room for the front-
seat passengers, greatly increas
ing comfort.
13
ft
4/fm
x
'.“V
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE
E, G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART*


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CMAMPACNC
'iailcsllddsieo^
Reims
OM
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
PELLISSOiM
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian AsrentB—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Cable Address —
“Mum,” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
-tb)
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
<S3r 7hp cen/ne of Queen s /onc/s
of/sfengutshoc/ Soc/o/ Life.
*
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Liner
AWOMANS
LETTER
Kayer
TWIN
HEEL
SILIC HOSIER[?]
Marry in haste or be taxed at leisure is
a cry that has brought another problem
into the “superfluous woman’s” life. One
Alexander Sloan McKenzie (may the smell
of a herring be his only food in tlie here-
after !) has put forward a plan to tax all
spinsters over 21. (Bachelors, too; but
they can speak for themselves.) This tax
is not to remain stationary, but is to ad-
vance with each year of unmarriage. Flow
little Sandy knows of woman and her wants !
With every year of unmarriage a woman
needs at least two more hats to support her
efforts to attract the male bird. Therefore
the more Sandy taxes her to drive her into
the ring, the more lie handicaps her in her
race for it. And, anyway, the proposed
measure should have provision saying that
if Lizzie or ’Melia can pi’ove three refusals
to her bona ikle offers of marriage, then
the tax hound shall be called off for ever.
Isn’t it bad enough to be a female
thwarted of the permanent right to choose
a man’s ties and pick his pockets or to 101 l
at ease knowing that whether you weigh
eight stone or nineteen your husband can’t
sack you from your job—knowing that
you’re a permanent fixture and lie a per-
manent provider—isn’t that enough without
having to pay for the privilege of working
your own passage through life ?
There is rejoicing on the part of the press-
women over the news that State Governor
de Chair and his lady may be asked to stay
a further 12 months. Sir Dudley’s term
expires at the end of this year, and if the
Home Office is agreeable it will mean putting
off the day when the sisters of the pen must
made the acquaintance of a new Governor
and his lady, their aides, heirs and assigns,
learning what to side-step and whether they
take their humor neat or diluted. Lady de
Chair has, from the day of her arrival, been
a great friend of the presswomen of Sydney,
and under her smiling rule parties at Gov-
ernment House have become pleasant func-
tions in the social writer’s calendar.
The Irene Vanbrugh matinee for IFavilah,
the babies’ home at Wahroonga, was
society’s diversion in an otherwise blank
week. The North Shore line felt that it
was deeply concerned, and should to a
woman give Miss Vanbrugh and organiser
Mrs. Walter Swinson a lift to their glitter-
ing objective of £lOOO. And not only the
North Shore liners had Mrs. Swinson netted,
but young and old from Government House
to the outermost edge of Vaucluse. Genuine
love of her task and artlessly artful pub-
licity were the lines played by this fisher of
men, and the result turned Her Majesty’s
into a sort of herring-barrel..
But the perfume was different. To begin
with, the vestibule, shadowy and dull enough
on ordinary days, bloomed like a garden
wanton of its sweets., Two lorries had been
needed to carry the tawny chrysanthemums,
the v'olets and the winter roses from the
North Shore gardens to the stalls, where
society buds, in sprigged dimity frocks from
Barrie’s “Quality-street” and gaily ribanded
daughters of sunny Italy, made keen middle-
men. Elaine de Chair, very bonny in spread-
ing silver and blue brocades of the Pompa-
dour period, a coy curl escaping from her
powdered, wig, sold programmes to her
august parents and to the lesser nobility
even to the fifth degree. Up and down the
circle _ stairway Bella Napoli and Miss
“Quality-street” drove their trays just as
persistently as Kitty Malone, of Dublin,
drove her wheelbarrow through wide streets
and narrow.
Mrs. Swinson emerged victorious from a
black-and-beige outfit of commendable cut.
Mrs. David Maughan expertly shepherded
her flock of programme-sellers. Mrs. Rennie
and Mrs. Burke supervised the fleet of foot
who trafficked in sweets ; and Mrs. Salenger
looked after the flower brigands. About the
theatre happy bluebirds chased away the
black bats of care. The circle and boxes and
pillars were dressed up in trails of silver
leaves, and masses of pink and blue hydran-
gea blazed everywhere. The Governor and
his lady, attended by that gentlest of secre-
taries, Brigadier-General Anderson, sat in
the circle, and with them came the just-
returned and ever-beauteous Mrs. George
Viyers, her black dress many-buttoned ; Allan
Wilkie, and his Frediswyde, looking not so
fragile as of yore; the Chief Justice’s alert
wife and Mrs. Royce.
The play was “Belinda,” and Irene Van-
brugh in the name part wore two frocks that
simply must be noticed. The first was a
rest gown in which the average woman
could never rest for taking care not to crush
it. This was in faintest lilac georgette, with
panels of silver lame, the wide wing-sleeves
edged with sable and drifting off into pen-
dant silver tassels of great weight and
lustre. A walking frock in pale-pink georg-
ette had the neatest little bolero and was
longer by an inch and a half at the back than
the front. Niece Prudence, in the golden
dress she wears in the first act of “The
High Road,” made an attractive curtain-
raiser, and recited “Come to Me, O Ye
Children.” At the final curtain little Joan
Sterling Levis and Isohelle Turner danced
on to the stage and from a great golden
basket brought to Miss Vanbrugh’s feet
spray after spray of the blue and pink
hydrangea with which it was covered.
Finally the basket flew r open and out stepped
a tiny girl all smiles and dimples.
Maude Royden, the little woman with the
golden voice and the amazing sense of
word-values, is at this very moment being
welcomed to Sydney, and to-day (Wednes-
day) there will be a citizens’ lunch in her
honor. An afternoon reception is dated for
June 5 at the Y.W.C.A. The lectures com-
mence to-morrow at the Conservatorium—
all calling the world to beat its swords into
carving-knives and its chariots of war into
family ’buses.
The Queensland Women’s hurrah for
Hinkler resounded through David Jones’s
last week. The party was housed, not in
the unending restaurant which really looks
from the lift as boundless as the Darling-
Downs, but in one of the reception-rooms
which you reach by way of the end gallery,
above the general room. The entrance is
clothed in dull-blue curtains, and at the far
end is a tiny stage, above which on this
afternoon a fussy aeroplane was champing
at the bit. On every table the fires of
autumn blazed a glowing trail, and from
the middle of each nest of maple leaves rose
a vase that held a golden chrysanthemum.
The color scheme was reflected again from
the yellow sapphires in the presentation
wristlet and brooches, which were carried
proudly to every table by Mrs. F. G. Theo-
dore. The Queensland Government had
given the stones, whose prisoned fires leaped
and darted from the pretty trinkets, and P.
J. Nally, the northern State’s representative,
and the only man except Hinkler at the
party, stood by as proud of them as if they
were his own invention. The Hinklers came
late—perhaps as well, because the piano
was only put into position just ahead of their
arrival. The airman, looking more than
ever like a mascot, had the trying experience
of sitting at close range while an attractive
girl from Bundaberg hailed him in the “Hello,
Hinkler” song. Flashlight photographs, pre-
sentations, speeches in which over and over
came reference to his feat—as though he’d
won a walking tour —and then the clear-cut
speech of the modest man, as meticulous in
his diction as in his mechanics.
Mrs. Percy Stacy, of Warromean. of
whomDayne makes the little picture alongside,
is the new president of the important Single-
ton branch of the Country Women’s Associa-
tion. M r s.
Stacy, born in
the country,
has lived
always in the
Singleton dis-
trict. Nobody
knows better
than she how
the pleasures
of the life out
back go hand
in hand with
privations,
particularly
f o r the small
farmer’s wife;
and any
scheme for
adding to the
convenien c e
an d comfort
of the women
a n d kiddies
who come into
Singleton from the surrounding districts en-
lists her energetic sponsoring. The town
lately acquired a G.W.A. rest-room, which
owes much to her forethought; and now
the establishment of a baby health centre is
her ambition.
So quietly that St. Mark's felt it was done
under an anaesthetic. Dr. Joseph Foreman,
the retired Macquarie-street surgeon, and
Winifred Hay wore linked in matrimony at
the old Darling Point address. Jarvie Hood,
the ’groom’s old knighted colleague, sponsored
the bride, who was at one time a principal
of Clarmore private hospital, and afterwards
did fine war work.
And the rams leaped even as the moun-
tains, and the lambs skipped even as the
little hills. How truly the Psalmist described
the scene on the Narkunda when half (or
so) of Sydney danced for the benefit of the
Sydney Hospital. The ball was named the
Golden Fleece because the wool firms of
Sydney were spreading it to soften the feet
of pain. Little golden lambs (even the spring
lamb these sophisticated days is served with
peroxide) stood at gaze on the supper tables;
but instead of the lush meadows they craved
they were faced by a pasturage of golden
chrysanthemums. The night was one of
cold, business-like rain—it slapped on the
bunting like the sharp click of innumerable
typewriters; but the decks of the P. and
O. liner were warm with golden flowers and
golden lights. Elaine de Chair, who wore a
spreading frock in which rosy velvet and
tulle and silver lace were built on the Lanvin
model, was given a basket of red roses and
a little lamb to browse thereon. Captain
Collyer and the W. A. Mackays, the D. G.
Donalds (lie’s the hospital’s secretary) and
Mrs. Norman Bladen were the reception
committee who saw that all things worked
together for good; and the hospital’s Matron
Kellett, a wonderful advertisement for the
institution, bloomed above dawn-like pinks.
Is there a home in this State where some
bit of work from the Arts and Crafters is
not treasured? Pictured herewith is Miss
Jessie Newman, who for 14 years was the
secretary of
their institu-
tion. For 14
years she em-
bodied for the
buying public
the numberless
hammerers in
bronze and sil-
ver, the paint-
ers on china
and silk, the
modellers in
wax and clay
and beaters of
gold who in
dozens of coun-
try homes and
in countless
city eyries
bend with
patient skill
over the crafts
whose tools
can never be
other than the steady hand, the sensitive eye
and the flame for beauty burning in the
secret grey cells. Miss Newman still repre-
sents the craftswomen of this State, but no
longer as secretary of the Arts and Crafts
Society. She is now in Angel-place, where
she displays the work of any who desire
shop-room from her. Her only demand is
that the work be up to her high standard of
beauty. Alan Rowe made the picture.
Usually when a mayor is unmarried or a
widower, he nominates his nearest feminine
relation as mayoress ; but as the Mayor of
Armidale, whose wife died recently, has no
immediate feminine connections in the dis-
trict. he was called upon to name someone
outside the family circle—an event almost
unique, Miss Marion C. Blaxland, who.
incidentally, is a great-grand-daughter of
the Gregory Blaxland who helped to make
Australian history, was the choice. She has
been concerned in many local public activi-
ties, but, the Mayor being a returned soldier
himself, it was a remembrance of her war
work which had most to do with her selec-
tion.
Bert Hinkler, whom theatrical manage-
ments are delighting to honor, kept the
large audience that greeted the opening of
“Top Hole” waiting, beguiled by turns by
Fred Bluett and others. He had probably
been told that Empire first nights were ex-
tended functions, and that he had no occa-
sion to hurry; but this one upset the tradi-
tion. When he arrived the task of presenting
his laurel-wreath proved too much for little
Audrey Lewis, who finished her speech in
tears on the bosom of Mrs. Lowe. And Bert
himself, for once, spoke rather shyly.
An item of the performance that appealed
to patrons was the appearance of the Lowe
mother and son in the play. They were
mother and son also in the cast of charac-
ters, and Van Lowe’s “Why, Mother!” was
a signal for sympathetic applause that
lasted for minutes. The young man came
here under a six months’ contract for
“Tweekie,” and his mother, who has had a
long stage life, decided to take a holiday and
follow him. The consequence has been the
dual engagement. The audience provided
some more appreciation when Van Lowe,
at the end of the proceedings, announced
that they like Australia so well that it is to
be their home in future. It should be rather
easy for imported mummers to like Aus-
tralia.
This Letter met the Rudd familv at the
Opera House on Saturday night. How ex-
citing it was to sit in' the crowded hot
theatre and meet the old characters! How
real they are; simple, fun-loving, hot-tem-
pered Dad, easy-going Mum, the coltish
Frank and Bill, and the two bush girls,
Peggy and Daisy! Exciting too to see Steele
Rudd looking down from a box, to hear
that great house, full not of bored hyper-
critical theatre-goers but of human material
such as his own characters are made, or,
cheer and clap him as he made his little
speech—“thirty-five years a w r riter, and
have never written anything that was not
Australian and not clean.” Let those who
will laugh; Steele Rudd’s bush family is
a fine creation. And, by way of coincidence,
they tell me the newest story about Dad and
Mum is tucked into this current Bulletin.
The dance for the Limbless Soldiers drew
a full hand of celebrities to Dungowan in
Manly. Bert Hinkler, his wife, mother and
sister, Captain Lancaster and Mrs. Keith
Miller, not to speak of Mr. Keith Miller,
turned up to the junketing and were im-
pressively given the freedom of the beaches
by Mayor A. T. Iveirle. After that they
joined the party hostessed by Mrs. Iveirle,
who was the president of the ball. The
airman’s wife flashed mauve and silver
opalescence as might some exotic fish in
tropic waters. The sparkling Mrs. Keith
Miller wore spreading black moires. Mrs.
Hinkler, senior, stuck to placid beige, while
her daughter footed it in a mixture of
blonde lace and georgette.
There’s a pretty bit of shop dressing in
David Jones’s that attracts the attention of
every woman, from the flapper to the mother
of ten. In the middle of the centre aisle
on the ground floor is a wickerwork cot.
This is lined apparently with silken down,
a warm nest for the baby that is being
neatly dropped into it by a stork flying low
under the rafters. The sight brought to
memory a queer bit of decoration at a wed-
ding this Letter attended. Orange blossom
almost completely covered the bride’s table,
and on each side of the standard which
sustained a wedding bell stood a meditative
stork. When somebody exclaimed, a haughty
explanation that the birds were brolgas
(and that’s the native stork, anyway) was
supposed to close the matter. But it did
look as though the professional decorator
had got his wedding and christening proper-
ties mixed.
Cobwebby lace and seed pearls, over which
flowed a rare Limerick-lace veil, were chief
ingredients in the thistledown raiment in
which Aileen Bear, of Lindfield, whispered
her vows to Llewellyn Leigh Watkins, of
Armadale, Victoria. St. Philip’s, on Church
Hill, bloomed like a pink and white posy for
the occasion, the decorations being the work
of the bride’s chums in the Roseville Musical
Society. Two tiny trainbearers, Margaret
and Pamela Roscoe, were dressed exactly as
the bride, only their veils were of tulle and
caught with silver roses instead of orange
buds. Violet Ross and Valerie Millar were
the grown-up maids, and they brought the
warm glow of apricot velvets and yellow
roses into the picture. Congratulations were
washed down at the Waldorf, Mrs. Bear
doing the honors in black georgettes weighted
with steel grey beads.
When she entered the Great Synagogue
last week on marriage intent, Celia Marks’s
bridal finery looked like the beaten-up white
of egg frosted with powdered sugar, but was
really an artful mixture of white tulle and
silver lace fashioned in the flounces of the
’thirties. The young man who awaited this
sweetness from Woollahra was Dr. Keith
Davis, of Bondi. Bride’s sister, Mrs. R. G.
Browne, brought mignonette green velvets
splashed with silver and pink embroideries
to the wedding group, and two small pages
in white satin wore millinery in the style
favored by Napoleon. After Rabbi Cohen
had duly recorded the vows, the anchovies of
rejoicing were partaken of at the Ambassa-
dors by literally hundreds of friends, and
hero Mrs. Marks’s frock of ink-black velvet
traced in gold won the notice it deserved.
On Friday, at St. James’s, Lois Greene, of
Elizabeth Bay, will become Mrs. Richard
Macartliur Onslow. Mary Cordeaux, of
Bowral, Rosalind Macartliur Onslow and
Anne Greene are cast as ’maids.
Mrs. H. T. Beresford, of Clover Hill, Sut-
ton Forest, has been invited to be one of
the vice-presidents of the Extra Chukka ball
as a compliment to the Indian Army players
who will be present. Her son, Licut.-Colonel
George da la Poer Beresford, one of India’s
most noted players, ..arrives in Sydney on
May 17 on a visit to his parents. Colonel
Beresford was a jackeroo with the late Mr.
F'oster Rutledge, father of Colonel Tom Rut-
ledge, of Bungendore, the well-known polo
player, so his training started early. He also
had the distinction, later on, of passing
through Sandhurst the top of his year. Last
year Colonel Beresford took charge of the
Indian Army’s team ponies in New York,
squiring them first to Aldershot and then
across the Atlantic.
The Unitarian Church in Liverpooi-street,
facing Hyde Park, for years a cultural centre
of Sydney, is still to stand against tno in-
vasion of big buildings which already dwarf
its towers; its members, at a special meet-
ing, rejected an offer of £60,000 for the site.
The affection exists in spite of a rather
tragic 60 years’ history.


A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS
MOUNTED IN PURE
PLATINUM AND
18ct. GOLD.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
King,
£5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinuin-
set, 18ct. Gold
King,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Fancy Plati-
num-set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Hexagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ All-
Diamonds and Plati-
num Wedding Ring,
£25, £3O, £35,
£4O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set 18ct.
White Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover,
Set Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Four
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped. Platinuin-
fcoL, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Five
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18et. Gold
Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds and Sap-
phire, Set Platinum.
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18et.
Gold Ring,
£35.
A. Saunders’ Dia
mond Button
Cluster, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
King,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Two
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set 1 Set. Gold
King,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Two
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
Bet, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum
get, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£65.
A. Saunders’ Dia
monds and Emer-
alds, Sec Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£25.
ALL ORDERS EY MAIL Receive
Our Special and Prompt Attention.
RING BOOK with SIZE CARD
forwarded free on request.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite RaUway Station), SYDNEY.
■■■■■l
Chocolate^
11 1 do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address fn Australia.
ClneSt fHiiUA
162-66 PITT STREET.
S' *
raft
BRANCUES:
CR. GEORGE A O KING
STREETS; f
CASTEEREAGH STREET j
(Next Theatre Royal); }
GEORGE STREET g
(Next Regent Theatre).
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our
confectionery in colors.
€b
HH
.
Plant No. 128(1, 32 volts, 1230
watts, engine 2-i h.p., suitable
for driving pumps, chaff cutters
and other machinery.
QKcre are more
DELCO LIGHT plants
in use. than all others
combinetlJ
QNLY a few years ago electric lignt and
power on the farm were practically
unknown. Then came Delco-Light—bringing
a new contentment, a new freedom—bringing
modern conveniences to the farm home.
Soon Delco-Light was known everywhere.
Soon it was being recommended by users in
almost every commumtv. And now, to-day,
though many makes of electric plants have
been placed on the market, Delco-Light s
position in the farm electric field is stronger
than ever before. There are more Delco-Light
plants i.i use than all other makes combined.
The outstanding leadership that has been won
and held by Delco-Light has an important
meaning to every farmer. It means that such
an overwhelming preference could be the
result of but one thing—value—value that is
represented by proven ability to furnish
dependable light and power at the lowest
possible cost.
If you are not yet acquainted with Delco-
Light advantages and Delco-Light value, ask
the nearest dealer for all the facts and a
complete demonstration. Or, if you prefer,
mail the coupon for full details to-day to your
nearest distributor.
‘Please send me {Booklet giving full
particulars of ‘Delco-Light .
NAME
ADDRESS
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of Genera / Motors


South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
v ji; W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
THE CHEESE FOR EPICURES
Kraft Cheese is uniform and consistent in quality and
flavor. It is wrapped in tinfoil and is not exposed to
the impurities of the air and the dangers of continuous
handling.
And it is free from rind. There is no waste whatever.
All of it is eaten.
KRAFT CHEESE IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold by weight or
in ilb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
cHIPS
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Ply., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
n
«r
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.in. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
Melbourne
Chatter
Though the weather was somewhat gloomy
and damp on Saturday, it was hardly cold
enough for occupants of the new stand at
Moonee Valley to appreciate fully the very
efficient heating system that lias been in-
stalled. The .course is at present a symphony
of green lawns and golden trees. A threat-
ening sky was responsible for a mixed array
of feminine attire—fur coats, sports suits,
and coats and skirts. The Merson Coopers
were accompanied by-English visitors, Mr.
and Mrs. Harold Morton, and Mrs. Cooper’s
sister, Miss Shaw. Mrs. Morton and Miss
Shaw were clad alike in beige colored tailored
suits, with red fox furs and cosy felt
hats. Mrs. Ben Cliaffey chose a taking
sports costume of dark grey with facings
of bright blue and a velour hat of the same
shade; and Mrs. Robert Landal-e featured
one of the new raincoats with a small check
in harmonies of red and tawny tones that
matched her coat and skirt, topped by crim-
son felt millinery. The Cussen lady and
Miss Moore, Judge Starke, the Rogers Thom-
sons and daughter Kathleen, Lorna Hiskens,
Lt.-Commander Rhodes and his life-partner,
whose black satin frock was topped by a
short coat of kolinsky fur; Mrs. W. E.
B. Macleod, and Mrs. Charlie Jamieson of
Bananaland were on the lawn.
When the Windsor puts out its crimson
carpet it means that there’s going to be
either a wedding or a vice-regal personage
inside. On Thursday night the portent sym-
bolised the attendance of Lord and Lady
Somers, accompanied by the Davidsons, at
a dinner given by what used to be called the
Royal Colonial Institute, but which in future
will be known as the Royal Empire Society.
The private dining-room was decorated with
flags, flowers and red, white and blue
streamers. Her Ex.’s cloak of dull-gold
tissue covered a lapis lazuli georgette gown.
Besides the Governor, the speakers of the
evening were the president, medical-knight
James Barrett, Irvine, C.J., and Lee Neil.
Rear-Admiral Napier was there with his
slim, dark-haired wife, who had a splash of
golden sequins upon her geranium-red frock,
and General Chauvel was accompanied by
his youthful-looking lady, whose coral-pink
robe had scintillation of bead tracery. The
flying branch of the services was represented
by Air-Commodore Williams, with Mrs. Wil
liams in black georgette. Cara Barrett’s
attire blended platinum with delphinium-
blue. Vice-president E. E. Keep, James
Elder and his lady Mrs. Lee Neil, the Arthur
Barracloughs and the Masson lady were
others who rallied to the support of the
Imperial sentiment.
The pink of the huntsman made a bright
splash on the Woolert countryside on Friday,
when the Findon Harriers had their first
meet of the season. The cavalcade, which
included many women, some enjoying their
first outing with the hounds, was led by
Findon’s veteran M.F.H., Hubert Miller,
who has occupied the position for nearly
40 years. Mrs. E. T. Embling and daughter
Lorna, Gordon Landale and Major-General
Johnston and Gwen were some of the
seasoned enemies of Reynard who answered
the call of the horn.
The cable-trams added their quota to a
general show of bunting on Empire Day,
sporting tiny flags fore and aft, and the
school children were regaled with patriotic
speeches, but the anniversai-y of good Queen
Vic.’s birthday has been dropped from the
category of public holidays. However, a very
fine show of Empire-made goods in the shop
windows throughout the week has proved a
practical means of reminding us all that
there is an Empire; that we belong to it,
and that there’s nothing on earth it cannot
produce or make.
“La .Tosca,” at His Majesty’s on Satur-
day, reintroduced us to Lina Scavizzi in the
name role. It was a slighter lady than the
one we remembered who swept the smoke-
blue velvet draperies of her Empire robe
over the church floor. She later made en-
trance holding against an ermine-collared
cerise velvet cloak a feathered fan, also
cerise, her long-trained high-waisted gown
having gold traceries. There was the usual
last-curtain shower of flowers and laurel
wreaths. The Miller lady, Mrs. Albert,
Miller and Hubert Miller, Mrs. Reggie
Ellery, the Whitings, Bernard Heinze and
Mrs. T. A. Tabart were in the d.c.
“Mignon” at the Princess on Saturday
evening didn’t give Margherita Flor much
chance to flutter gay feathers. A grass-
green bodice kept company with a black
fringed skirt and provided a subdued theme
for her gipsy dress. The blonde singer’s
brightness was dimmed by a dark make-up.
Olga Poletti, as Felina, was the best dresser
of the show in rust satin trimmed with
motifs and fringe of yellow, flowing over
hooped hips. A gown of silver brocade,
worn with a conical headdress and veil, must
have taken enough material to dress nine
modern flappers. In a suit of rainbow hues,
little Matilda Pfrimmer made a pleasing,
if very petite, young nobleman. Ben Fuller’s
lady, swathed in ermine, occupied a box.
With her was Maria Henkina, in attire of
leaf-green festooned with blossom. At the
back of her golden head a wide leaf fan
spread into space. A flock of girls were
jammed into the neighboring box under the
supervision of “Aunty” May Quinnell.
Francis Barkman, wrapped in a shawl of
many colors ; Rosita Sylvestri of the classic
head; the Weedon lady, Mrs. Malcolm
Roberts, and musician Allen Bindley were
in the audience.
Toti dal Monte, warbling like a lark after
a summer shower, was the star at His
Majesty’s on Thursday night, when the woes
of “Lucia di Lammermoor” received the
sympathetic attention of a crowded house.
The songster’s wedding-robe of silvery white
satin supported embroidery of pearl, with a
Russian head-dress of jewelled lace, and
more lovely filmy lace trailed to the ground.
For the Mad scene dal Monte dressed in
soft pink that dripped froths of lace from
angel sleeves and cascaded for yards over
the stage. A harp of blossoms was part of
her guerdon. The new consul for Italy,
Cavalier Carosi, Mrs. Merson Cooper, Mrs.
Charlie Campbell, Mrs. Edward Bates and
her daughter Mary, just back from Maori-
land, and surgeon Hugh Devine and his
wife were among those who applauded the
Italian version of Scott’s famous romance.
Dame Nellie Melba deserted grand opera
on Wednesday night to listen to the Uni-
versity Symphony Orchestra at the Town
Hall. Bernard I-leinze conducted, and the
opening number, Cliausson’s Symphony in
P> flat, was put on because the diva likes it,
the rest being Wagner, with an interlude
in which ’cellist Gwen Prockter played
the Boellmann “Variations Symplioniques.”
There was a nearly full house, Melba
and her party occupying the centre
d.c. The Dame’s chinchilla coat covered a
white frock, and there was just a subdued
glimmer about her coiffure. Mrs. Phinias
Smuts, of Capetown, John Lemmone, the
Masson lady, medical knight James Barrett,
Mrs. Herbert Brookes and Signorina Danielli
were included in the party. A few others of
the Italian company also sampled the way
we make music in Melbourne.
Dorothy Bradshaw, elder daughter of Mrs.
A. L. Bradshaw, St. Kilda, pictured here
by Ruskin, was one of last week’s brides.
Slie is a graduate of our Uni, and was a
member of the
staff of St.
Michael’s C. of
E. Girls’ Gram-
mar School.
She exchanged
vows with
William Ben-
son. of West-
garth, in tin.
school chapel.
Clad in ivory
georgette and
tulle additions,
she was at-
tended by her
sister, Mrs. R.
Sholl, wife of
barrister
Sholl, one of
our Rhode s
Scholars, as
matron- of-
honor. The
cake was sliced at the Lyceum Club rooms.
Barrie’s fantas?' “Dear Brutus” drew a
full house to the King’s on Saturday night,
and the Gregan McMahon co. got plenty of
appreciation and flowers. Meta Pelham, who
is close on SO, made appearance in an old-
time gown of purple silk with fichu and lace
cuffs. Prof. Archibald Strong, of Adelaide,
Dr. J. A. Gilruth and his wife, painter
Harold Herbert, Mrs. Hallenstein and her
daughter Margaret, pretty Phyllis Holmes
Hunt and Cora Spowers were first-nighters.
Dame Nellie Melba gave grand opera an-
other miss on Saturday night, and went to the
new Comedy Theatre to see Margaret Ban-
nerman in “Diplomacy.” The audience was
headed by Lady Somers, who covered a blue
gown with a peacock-blue and gold brocade
wrap. With her were the Chauvel lady in
a glimmering pink frock, Mrs. Davidson and
Major Drake-Brockman. The diva wore an
elaborate wrap of ermine and gold lace upon
her white gown. In her box were Mrs.
George Armstrong, Signorina Danielli,
Major Plenty and Tommy Cochran. Mrs.
Grenbery Outhwaite and the Felix Lloyds
were in the stalls. On the stage the lead-
ing lady’s lace-veiled wedding gown of white
satin unadorned, with a long train gathered
to the waist-line, was much admired. Cecily
Jonas featured on a flame-red and gold lace
dress a scarf that wandered from a diamond
buckle down a sleeve, and eventually de-
cided to be a train.
The lately-appointed director of the Mel-
bourne Repertory Society, Frank D. Clew-
low, looks out
of this window.
He has already
begun to make
liistor y by
showing a pro-
fit for his first
p r o d actions,
which were
put on after
a very brief
period of re-
hearsal. II i s
first contact
with m u ru-
ining was as
stage manager
of the ’Varsity
Club of Bir-
mingham, and
he was so suc-
cessful that he
abandoned a
science course
in favor of the
footlights. His first professional engage-
ment was with a Shakspearean stock com-
pany that included “Trilby" and “Ticket
o’ Leave” in its repertoire by way of variety.
He was appointed assistant stage manager
almost at once. The repertory movement
then claimed his services, and lie was with
the Birmingham Society for five years under
the management of John Drinkwater, whose
“Abraham Lincoln” play was given its
first performance by the society. The Glas-
gow National Theatre Society also had Mr.
Clewlow’s assistance for some years. Ilis
only Australian stage experience before his
present engagement was as a member of
Allan Wilkie’s company.
The Repertory Society took over the Play-
house for another four nights last week. In
the bill were Granville Barker’s translation
of “Dr. Knock,” by Jules Romanis, with
Strindberg’s “The Stronger” as a curtain-
raiser. As the Romani play is set in a very
small country town, there were no glad rags
on view. In the preceding piece Mrs. George
Bell and Ruby May, the silent player who
confines herself to expressive glances and
shrugs, were wrapped in top-coats and furs,
with felt millinery. Mrs. T. W. White,
whose colonel was business manager of the
show, Mrs. Alfred Deakin, Philadelphia
Robertson, of the Red Cross Society, the
M. M. Phillips couple, Dr. and Mrs. Ramsay
Webb and Helton Daniell were in the first-
night audience
Confetti drifted over Collins-street pave-
ment outside the Independent Church as
thick as leaves in Fitzroy Gardens when a
couple of enthusiastic golfers decided to
make a permanent double. They were Lilian
Margaret, third daughter of the H. W.
Tompkinses, of Heyington-place, Toorak, and
John William, son of Mrs. J. M. Finlayson,
of Kew, whose late husband practised law
in this city. As the bride’s family has
recently returned from Europe, the dressing
had a strong Parisian flavor. Draperies
edged with silver swathed the slender bride,
and a train: of tulle was garnished with
orange blossom. As maids sisters Sheila and
Bonnie wore three-tiered skirts of apple-
green georgette attached to close-fitting
bodices of ring velvet, with wide felt hats
to match. Mrs. Tompkins received later
at the Toorak home.
Dr. Marjorie Hughes, who last year
crossed the ocean as ship’s doctor in a
Swedish vessel and made a success of the
job, has undertaken the matrimonial adven-
ture. At St. Mary’s, Caulfield, Canon Lang-
ley pronounced her one with Maurice Henry
Belz, lecturer in mathematics at our Uni.,
and a son of the W. Belzes, of Sydney. Tim
bride, second daughter of the Oliver Hughes
couple, of Elsternwick, faced the altar in
subdued pink. A faint blush glowed
through a cloud of ivory ninbn and gold
lace, and the long train of silk net was also
softly tinted. Sisters Gwen and Kathleen
and Ida Scott were pink ’maids in frilled
frocks of tulle and satin. The Kooyong
Club House was decorated in pink for the
reception.
At St. Philip’s Churcli, on the Thompson
squattage, Dr. and Mrs. Palmer Henzell’s
eldest son, Frederick Arthur, and Violet
Emma, third daughter of the James John-
ston couple, of Eldon, Redcliffe, were the
principals in a matching ceremony conducted
by Canon Garland and the bridegroom’s
uncle, the Rev, H. T. Molesworth. The
bride, standing under a bell of pink and
white roses, wore a silver chrysanthemum
on the side of a shimmering white gown con-
fined by a crystal girdle. A Brussels-lace
veil, lent by her sister, Mrs. F. M. Strad-
ford, draped the train, and orange blossoms
appeared here and there. Mrs. Roy John-
ston was matron of honor in a blue and silver
ensemble, and two small nieces, \ ida Collins
and Betty Stradford, framed in pink, were
trainbearers.
Aimee, eldest daughter of the Edward
Shaekells, of Toorak, has given her promise
to Robert Lindsay, youngest son of the
Robert H. Wilkins couple, of South Yarra.
The prospective bride is at present touring
Europe with her mother and sisters.
Two of last year’s ’grads., brought
together by a love of learning, have learned
to love, and an engagement has resulted.
He is Dr. Stirling Eddie, a resident at
Caulfield Convalescent Hospital. She is
Margaret, daughter of the Radford Wilsons,
of Manly, Sydney, but, like her fiance, she
gained her sheepskin at Melbourne Uni.
Sheila Irwin is exhibiting a sparkler re-
cently placed on her finger by the Charles
Taits’ only son, Geoffrey Ivan. Miss Irwin
is a grand-daughter of the wife of the late
Chief Justice Way, of Adelaide, on her
mother’s side—the Chief Justice married a
widow in his old age—and her father. Dr.
Henry Irwin, hangs out a brass-plate in
Kalgoorlie.
A hundred guests had tea with Ben Fuller
so that they might become acquainted with
principals of the Gonsalez Grand Opera Co.,
now in their last weeks at the Princess
Theatre. Musical and elocutionary entertain-
ment for the party was supplied by Walter
Kirby, Edith Harrliy, Molly Mackay and Mar-
garet Kerr, and silver baskets of pink carna-
tions and mauve blossoms titivated the tables.
The Fuller lady had pink and gold embroidery
upon a pale blue gown, and wore harmonis-
ing milljnery ; daughter Joan made another
blue note in georgette and velvet of forget-
me-not hue, and daughter Fay sported briar
rose pink taffeta, topped by a dull green hat.
The Weedon lady, in black; Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, Premier Hogan’s wife, Amy and
Eileen Castles and the Hennessy lady were
among those who rubbed shoulders with the
singers from afar.
Though Mrs. Smuts, of Capetown—she is
an Adelaide-born singer with a European
reputation and her husband is a relative
of the one-time Priminister of the S’African
Union —was unable during her stay in Mel-
bourne to appear on the concert stage, she
didn’t get away withont having to sing.
Albert-street Con. enticed her into its
clutches and didn’t let her go until its
fledgling song-birds had been given a tast' 1
of her quality. She has a suave mezzo-
soprano voice, an engaging personality and
a vivid sense of the dramatic, and has been
called “the British Elena Gerhardt.” Ger-
hardt holds in Europe a niche all her own
as an interpreter who sings songs more
beautifully than, e>‘ven the composers—as
they have admitted —had deemed possible.
Mrs., Smuts chose some Italian lyrics, old
and new, excerpts from Richard Strauss and
Schubert, and songs by modern British
composers.
Inez Hutchison, whose talent and industry
have buili up a steady demand for her
artistic lampshades, is particularly please!
with her latent commission. The quaintly-
shaped shades if pale lemon hue that cover
the lights of His Majesty’s Theatre were
fashioned by her at Dame Nellie Melba’s
request, and are the finishing touch to a
very effective interior.
A dainty substitute for the shoulder posy
comes in the form of a silken or metal lace
butterfly. smart little foreigner who
sported at a dance the other evening a red
and gold marked insect perched lightly upon
the shoulder of a sparkling mauve frock
said it was the latest Parisian conceit, and
had been posted to her by a friend in the
gay city.
Olga Poletti, one of the Gonsalez sopranos,
is booked for only a brief exile in Australia.
She flashes an impressive engagement circlet,
and at the end of winter she will return to
Milan to marry.
The Austral Salon bagged a whole galaxy
of stars the other afternoon, when it spread
tea for members of the Williamson and
Gonsalez grand-opera companies. Ben Fuller
and his lady, she with a lapis-luzuli blue
and gold embroidered frock beneath a
squirrel coat, were included in the invitation.
Tenor Browning Mummery and his wife
received a special welcome home after
several years’ absence, and Margherita Flor,
who wore a cream lace gown beneath a
green coat, topped by a black felt hat, was
very warmly greeted. She has made a great
impression here. Posies were given to the
feminine guests, and of course there was
music, Walter Kirby heading a bevy of per-
formers. Among Salonites present were Mrs.
Thomas Baker, president; Mrs. Quinnell.
hon. sec; Mrs. J. L. Stein, Mrs. J. N.
McNicol and Alice Richardson.
Our younger set take their bumps cheer-
fully. Mollie Nicholls, whose car struck
a milk-waggon one evening last week, is
flitting gaily through the social whirl with
a stitched head.


■**TF
<£y
i
Queen Awe Step*
Where can 1 buy beautiful china ?
In the shop that sells Shelley China, is the answer. A
Shelley Tea Set has the rare purity of colour that made
Staffordshire china world-famous. The Shelley Cups
of beautiful form—light,- thin, elegant, strong—are a
pleasure to use; and every hostess loves a Shelley set for
the modest splendour that it imparts to Afternoon Tea.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cow ha in,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds— all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — 7. W.
%■ CO., LTD, z } z CLARENCE STREET . SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of China
Amusements.
CT M I’ I II E THE A T II B.
& Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russell
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
IJD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
PRINCESS CHARMING.
ROYAL: THE MAN UPSTAIRS.
CRITERION: THARK.
PALACE: THE LAST WARNING.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■* SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
Presents
WINGS
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE,
With CLARA BOW, RICHARD ARLEN and
CHARLES, ROGERS.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
| C. WILL lAM S O N, LTD.
MELROURXE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MARGARET BANNERMAN CO. in
DIPLOMACY.
KING’S THEATRE: DEAR BRUTUS.
A T II E N M U M T II E A T R E.
H MELROURXE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON
In the Hilarious Three-act Comedy,
THE LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
HO Y T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
* 1 MELBOURNE,
JOHN GILBERT in
TWELVE MILES OUT.
Ai.so
COME TO MY HOUSE,
with OLIVE BORDEN.
gy| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
RIN-TIN-TIN
IN THE MASTER PICTURE,
JAWS OF STEEL
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
Missing Friends.
THOMAS MCLAUGHLIN formerly of
Cowies Creek, near Geelong (brother
of William McLaughlin and the late Daniel
Edward McLaughlin), or anyone knowing
his address is requested to communicate
with PHILIP R. FRASER, Solicitor, Yarra-
street, Geelong.
Professional.
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LTD.
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LIMITED,
' lias one vacancy for a Qualified Forest
Technician in its forest operations in Queens-
land. Three years’ practical applied experi-
ence in forest surveying and general field
operations essential. Candidates must have
demonstrated organising capacity and ability
to get things done. Preference given to
applicants under 32 years and single. Salary
£5OO, rising to £6OO by two equal annual
increments.
There are two vacancies for Junior Trained
Foresters. Preference to candidates under
25 and single. Salary £350, rising to £450
by two equal annual increments..
Applications close June 20. 5,1
l. macintosh ellis,
Director of Forests,
Queensland Forests, Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 2022NN, Sydney.
<sR
m
W
A GOOD GUN DESERVES
A GOOD CARTRIDGE.
Be Sure You Use Only
ALL-BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
ELEY &
KYNOCH
Proved by the Most Experienced
Shooters to be the Best.
All British
from Cap to
Turnover.
Obtainable at All
Gunsmiths
and Dealers
Throughout
Australasia.
NOBED
Missing Friends.
TIM ANDERSON, late of Atherton Table-
J land, communicate Sister, Upper Barron.
Important, Policy not paid. v
JWfIRRIE AEICE WHITE. Come back.
I am heartbroken. A.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's [?]otel
BRISBANE
The centre of Queenslands
Dislmguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin brought home some
eggs of the cactablastus caterpillar on re-
turning from his Longreach tour, and intends
to watch the creatures battling with a
clump of prickly-pear in Government House
grounds. The Governor has seen and ad-
mired Gladstone’s harbor, descended a sap-
phire-mine and inspected the canefields at
Bundaberg. At Longreach Lady Goodwin
christened the fifth Quantas aeroplane, which
will, among other uses, make medical atten-
tion available over a 300-mile radius.
The Goodwins travelled all night and
arrived from the North at daybreak, but in
the afternoon they were off to Ascot races,
taking with them IJine Haycock,‘the English
girl who is their guest. Lady Goodwin wore
black crepe satin, with an ivory straw hat
and raven’s-wing; Miss Haycock was in
black and white, over ivory, with black hat;
Mrs. (Campbell’s grey flannel tailor-made was
worn with a navy hat; Mrs. Stanley Chap-
man also had a grey frock over which she
wore a navy coat, with collar and cuffs of
grey fur; and Mrs. Whittingham’s mastic
was covered by a beige cloth coat, with
collar, cuffs and facings of Belgian hare.
Blair, C.J., gave himself a birthday party
at Lennon’s, where Mrs. Blair helped him
entertain, guests at dinner in a setting of
pink roses.
Nellie Bramley has been thrilling us with
‘'The Creaking Chair,” and moves to the
Theatre Royal before the onslaught of
the Vanbrugli-Boucicault season at His
Majesty’s. She opens in the Royal (which
is being cleansed from top to toe and wllere
a jazz orchestra is being installed) with
“Fair and Warmer,” which sounds like a
pleasant antidote to this cold, damp weather.
It's five years since she played there.
Auchenflower bowlers did themselves
proud when they renewed their attentions
to Kitty. Flags and pennons decked the
lawns, and palms, roses, gerberas and sacred
bamboo embowered the club-house, where
tea was spread. Mrs. Powell, the president’s
wife, received in rosewmod crepe de Chine,
with rose-hued velour coat and black hat.
A Townsville wedding of interest to a
wide circle was that of Jack Woolrych,
elder son of a one-time northern tennis cham-
pion, to Mary, elder daughter of the J. J.
Fannings. The bride was dressed in ivory
French-pleated chiffon, the skirt of fine
Chantilly lace mounted on satin, Her veil
of Brussels lace, mounted on tulle, was lent
by Mrs. Atkins, of Antrim station. Two Mar-
garets, sisters of bride and bridegroom re-
spectively, were bridesmaids in frocks of but-
tercup ring velvet. Small hats of gold tissue,
with brilliant buckles, were worn, and bou-
quets of shaded chrysanthemums and dahlias
were carried.
For the Clayfield Convent funds Mrs.
0 Mara and Mrs. A. M. Tynan got up a
dance at the Bellevue, which was decked
out in chrysanthemums. Mrs. O’Mara was
in pink embroidered with crystal and sequins
under a cloak of green and red ring velvet.
Mrs. Tynan wore black jetted net with a
gr-een-and-gold lame coat. Judge Webb and
his wife, Dr. and Mrs. McDonald, the T. C.
Beirnes and the Brooke-Kellys were in
the throng.
TASMANIA.
, Hobart.
Three bright young Tasmanians have
scored acadenic successes abroad.
1 ■ P. Bowden won a Rockefeller Fellow-
ship (Cambridge) for scientific research;
Roland Wilson, 1924 Rhodes scholar, added
to his distinctions a Fellowship in economics,
tenable at Chicago Uni.; and A. T. Gurr
gained the prize for the best essay on
"The Power of the League of Nations,” open
to students all the world over.
Dorothy Lane, here pictured, really be-
longs to a
Maoril an d
family, but
her recently-
publi s h e d
novel, “The
Temple of the
Cray,” has a
Tas man ian
setting, and
as she is a
Lindisfarne
resident, we
claim her to be
one of us. She
has written,
tales and
sketches almost
all her life,
and her work
is known to
readers of
The Bulle-
tin. Her novel
has had a good reception at the hands of
English reviewers.
The American musical comedy co. which
the Firm has sent over is drawing fairly
good houses at the Theatre Royal, though
the pieces, “Whirled into Happiness” and
"Tip Toes,” are of the frothiest description.
Miss Gaggin, our District Commissioner
of Girl Guides, who left Tassy on a trip to
England, Italy and Greece in March last,
has been chosen to represent Australia at
the World Camp of G.G.’s in Hungary.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady attended
the second concert held by the Gramophone
Society, but weakened before the end of
a too-long programme and left half-way
through a classical item, necessitating the
insertion of “God Save” in the middle of a
Beethoven quartette.
The Uni. keeps things going in the matter
of dances during the winter. The second
hop was .even better attended and more suc-
cessful than the first of the season, and the
decorations were infinitely more artistic. The
prevailing fancy for i’ed showed in the frock-
ings with very bright effect.
The members of the Art Society had a
social evening at their rooms to congratulate
painters whose efforts had been accepted for
the Royal Academy and Paris Salon shows.
Isobel Oldham and J. Connor were there to
receive laurels, but Mabel Hookey is in
England at present. Tasmanian-born artists
who achieved the honor of exhibits at the
Royal Academy in earlier years were Charles
Ritchie, of Launceston ; Lily Allport, W. C.
Piguenit and Arthur Burgess.
Dainty little Margaret, second daughter of
the Ross-Reynoldses, of Ellerslie, announces
her engagement to Captain R, H. Words-
worth, of the Duke of Connaught’s Own
Lancers, now stationed in India. The pro-
spective bridegroom is in Hobart on leave,-and
the pair are being extensively entertained.
WE STRALI A.
Perth.
Miss K. M. Wilson, pictured here by
Bardwell Clarke, has come from Ayrshire,
Scotland, to improve the efficiency of the
brown owls,
tawny owls
an d brownie
packs of Aus-
tralia’s Girl
Guide organi-
sation. For 10
years she has
devoted her
energies to the
movement, and
wears a blue
cord on her
hat, signifying
that she is
fully oualified
to train Guid-
ers. After six
months spent
here she will
sojourn in the
Speck for
three months.
She has done
similar work
in Scotland and Ireland, and last year camped
in Switzerland with 300 Guiders, represent-
ing between them 22 nations.
Kathleen Walsh gave a farewell bridge
afternoon for her Kindergarten College pal
Eileen Learmontli, who left by the Katoomba
for her new home in Melbourne. Miss Lear-
month wore mottled blue and grey, Miss
Walsh tomato-tinted crepe georgette, and
sister Alice shell-pink. Mrs. Fred Curran
was in a green jersey suit, and Mrs. Tigli,
on holiday from Kellerberrin, wore navy
piped in white. Mrs. John Barrett, in
mushroom-pink, won the prize for best score.
Egg-beaters and pudding-basins were
brought to Doris Good’s home at Mt. Lawley
for Thelma Peploe, who starts housekeeping
as Mrs. Clem Orr at the end of June. Molly
Taylor, Deborah Clarkson, Mrs. Ron Old-
ham and Mrs. Lez Good were among gift-
bringers, and Jessie McGregor recited.
All the North-West mourns the passing of
Mrs. John Withnell, at the age of 87. She
was the first white woman to settle in the
northern part of the State, when at the age
of 39 she accompanied her husband to Sher-
lock station, Roebourne. Her son Harding
was the first white child born in that then
wild and inhospitable territory. It was owing
to her fortitude and womanly sympathy that
her husband and many another pioneer stuck
to the country through heart-breaking hard-
ships. To the women and their babies she
was a ministering angel, and many a sturdy
present-day pastoralist admits that he owes
his life to her care and skill. Black Brother
and Sister were given tlie'benefit of her medi-
cine-cliest, and never was livestock on Sher-
lock stolen or killed by abos. in her day.
She was a great-hearted and noble woman,
and the seven sons and three daughters who
survive her have reason to be proud of her
memory.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Our new Governor and his lady are being
elected patron and president of so many
societies and associations they are getting
bewildered. Lady llore-Ruthven declares she
has never known a city so full of good works.
Charity balls, at which the v.-r. couple have
promised to be present, are being organised
in all directions, one in aid of Toe H being
first on the list.
Shortly after the arrival of the new Vice-
Regents, Government House Grounds were
invaded by girl guides and brownies, who
welcomed Lady Hore-Ruthven as their chief.
Most of them had been there before. Guiding
was Lady Bridges’s pet stunt and the only
activity for which she organised a dance.
The flock of debs, this year is a particu-
larly large one. Five more slipped into the
social swim last week when the Robert Hom-
burgs, of Medindie, gyve a dance to bring
out their third daughter, Beryl. Miss Ham-
burg wore pale pink net with frilled skirt,
and she had Claire Sinclair, Patricia Goode,
Brenda Hill and Phyllis Vaughan to keep
her company. The last two mentioned gave
a dinner prior to the dance, the daughter of
their hostess being one of the guests.
The settlers’ welcome committee of the
Victoria League has sent out invitations for
a tea at the Zoo to-day, at which Lady Hore-
Ruthven will be present. This is an annual
reunion for the hundreds of English girls
who have been brought to S.A. Friendships
made on shipboard are renewed and experi-
ences exchanged.
If Mayoress Bonython had not been born
in another sphere, she could have been a
snake charmer. At Snake Park the other
afternoon serpents of every kind allowed her
to handle them, winding round her neck
and hat without attempting to bite.
The Adelaide Rowing Club and the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Association are organising
dances which are looked forward to with
pleasure. The men are always very generous
and thorough when it comes to entertaining.


PROHIBITION
MUST FAIL
BECAUSE IT
If UTTERLY
“Prohibition is in direct
opposition to nil the
laws of human nature.
The British in particu-
lar will never tolerate
the dictation of faddists
in matters of food and
drink. Prohibition can
effect nothing except
REVOLT.”
—The President of Col-
umbia University.
!in
16 the, ofinatouA, eiunuj.
'lempoumce €i>e>L
Prohibition professes to have certain
ends; in practice it promptly and
naturally defeats ALL those ends. It
cries aloud for temperance —and
promptly brings in the worst forms
of intemperance ever known. It
preaches increased prosperity—-and
brings only increased taxation, and
increased crime. It proclaims the
desire for an orderly community—
then introduces graft, disruption and
a contempt for law!
Such a cause will not win the vote
of thinking men, no matter whether
they take liquor or not. The ques-
tion is NOT one of “to drink or not
to drink.” The whole future of legis-
lation hangs on your decision. Are
you prepared to hand over to the
State your age-long right to exercise
conscience, intelligence, and good-
breeding in matters affecting your
private and personal habits?
A vote for Prohibition is an admission that the
manhood of Australia is so feeble that we must
be tied to the apron-strings of professional
moralists!
UWiu cLeeb fWulxiic>rb -fiaue t©'
at tke, point the cum ?
w
S^®“
Because it is “bad law.” Because it is a law which
can never win or hold the respect of the people.
Because no man who breaks the Prohibition law
can ever convince himself that he is a CRIMINAL.
Can you imagine yourself helping to place the yoke
of - ._w on the neck of your own State?
VOTE MO
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
Invited, and Subscriptions for Membe ship will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
Profactum Lip Salve for cracked lips
your chemist has it. —Advt.
Violet Blue Eyes.
By “PHLOX.”
I WAS a wallflower again last night,
mother.”
“Most unfortunate, my dear, mo3 t
unfortunate. I can’t think who you take
after; certainly not after me. Anyway, we
must try and marry you off.” •
“Suppose I don’t want to marry V”
“I’m not going to suppose anything of the
sort.”
“But if no man asks me; ’
“Then, you’ve got to do your part, am,
see that he does.”
“That I’ll never do.”
“Then you'd better go into a nunnery.”
“No, mother; that wouldn’t suit ; me. I’m
too fond of the joys of the world.
“What about going to the Islands as a
missionary?” m
“And run the chance of being eaten?”
“Whatever you do in this world, my dear,
you have to take your chance.”
“Anyway, mine’s not going to be in the
Cannibal Islands.”
“By tile way Millicent, what arc you
wearing for the dance on Tuesday?”
“I’m not going to the dance.”
“Not going! Why?”
“I overheard that horrid Talbot girl say
to Bessie Myers that my skin was blotchy
and my hair like rats’ tails.
“How very rude of her.”
“Rude! I call it beastly. Anyway, I
have a grain of comfort. .Tack Summers
says that I have lovely violet-blue eyes.
“Of course, you have.”
Instead of going to the dance Millicent
had .Tones drive her to the home of Mrs.
Douglas—a friend of whom she was very
fond.
“I’m delighted to see you, dear,” was Mrs.
Douglas’s greeting; “but I understood you
to say that you were going to a dance to-
night.” _ .
“I was, but —er —well, I’m tired of being
a wallflower.”
“I’m sorry, dear. Did you enjoy that book
I lent you?”
“I did, indeed; especially where Trine
says that you can usually be what you . make
up your mind to be. Now, I want to be
beautiful. Do you think if I desire beauty
long enough, and earnestly enough, it will
ever come to me?”
“It will, dear, if, as well as desiring, you
take practical means of assisting nature.”
“I would love to. I wonder if you would
be kind enough to advise me.”
“In the first place you need a good cream
that will nourish, and at the same time re-
move the discoloration from your skin.
“I did use a cream, and that horrid hair
you see on my face is the result.”
“So many creams do grow hair on the
face; but have you ever tried mercolized
wax?”
“No • I’ve heard of it. I thought, how-
ever, that it, too, might favor the growth
of hairs.”
“Not at all. dear. I've used it for quite
a long time. You’ve heard of Frenchwomen
going into retirement during;Lent, and hav-
ing the skin of their and necks re-
moved by a painful process.”
“Yes; I’ve read about it.”
“Well, mercolized wax has the same effect
without causing any pain or inconvenience.
At night, before retiring, you simply wash
your fuc*6 in warm water, using’ a good
soap—l always use Pilenta Soap—then
apply the wax to your face and neck.
Wash it off in the morning, and before
powdering rub ill a little of the mercolized
wax, which is obtainable from most good
chemists. Instead of ordinary powder I
always use cleminite, which gives that soft
velvety bloom to the complexion.
“For those blackheads on your nose and
chin stymol tablets are the best cure. Drop
a tablet in a tumbler of hot water, and when
the fizzing lias subsided bathe the face with
the liquid. After drying you will find that
the blackheads have come out on the towel.
“For the hairs on your face there’s
nothing better than powdered pheminol,
which removes the hairs without disfiguring
the skin.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Mrs.
Douglas.”
“Now, for your hair. The first thing to
be done is to shampoo it with stallax !”
“Yes, I’ve written that down. But I don’t
suppose you know of anything that will
keep my hair in curl?”
“Yes, I do —something, in fact, that will
make it curl.”
“How marvellous!”
“It’s a perfectly simple preparation called
silmerine, which you can get at the chemist’s
and you apply on retiring at night. Brush
your 'hair out in the morning, when it will
be beautifully wavy, and any short pieces
curly.”
“Oh, how lovely that will be ! You can’t
think what a load you’ve taken off my mind.
Now if you would only prescribe something
for my red hands. I’m so ashamed of them.'
“I can, dear, give you a prescription that
I’ve tried myself with the best results. Ada
bicrolium jelly to your list of wants from
the chemist. This pleasant non-greasy sub-
stance quickly blanches the hands, removes
tan, clears out the dirt which soap cannot
reach, and makes the skin soft, white and
smooth.”
“How clever of you, Mrs. Douglas, to
know all these things.”
“I’ve just found them out by degrees.”
“Oh, there’s Jones for me. Good-night,
Mrs. Douglas; I don’t know how to thank
you.”
“Don’t, dear; but consistently use what
I have told you. When you have improved
your skin and hair you will be quite beauti-
ful, and should make many conquests with
those pretty violet-blue eyes.”


dsf
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. \V. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £1,990,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN. Secretary. - GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heii Majesty's “Princess Charming”
Royal “The Man Upstairs”
Criterion “Thark”
Palace “The Last Warning”
Empire “Top Hole”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Opera
Royal “The Girl Friend”
King’s “Dear Brutus”
Comedy “Diplomacy”
Atiiknjsum “The Laughing Optimist”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
A great reception was given to “The
Rudd Family” at the Sydney Grand Opera
House on Saturday. It has less farce than
“On Our Selection” but more genuine
comedy, and a stronger plot. Tom Dickson
(Edmund Duggan) has a brother, Sam, who
makes his pile, out of which he provided
the money which enables Eileen Dickson
(Leslie Adrienne) to fill the rdle of dra-
matic heroine. Knowledge of this brings
Walter Grand (Norman Shepherd) on the
scene with the villainous intention of marry-
ing the heiress before the old chap shall
show up, when by all the laws of melo-
drama she rightly belongs to Reg Winchester
(Jack Galway). His mistake lies in not
completely killing Uncle Sam (Jack Mc-
Gowan ) when she arrives unexpectedly ; with
the result that Sam is able, recovering con-
sciousness, to free Winchester from the
charge of attempted murder and to distri-
bute happiness and cheques on all sides —
except the villain’s. Tom Sutterby (said
to be a real young buslimau who has been
told to go on and just act naturally) as
Frank, Marie D’Alton as Mrs. Dickson and
Lucy Adair and Mary Anderson as. Mrs.
Shepherd and daughter Daisy shine brightly.
Edmund Duggan is a likeable old coekie
of irascible habit.
Ben Travers’s “Thark” made its appear-
ance at the Sydney Royal last Saturday, but
will shift over to the Criterion at the end
of this week to admit Leon Gordon and
“The Man Upstairs.” In “Thark” Travers
tangles his plot and his characters more than
usual ; the best fun is in the third act, which is
MURIEL STARR, first introduced to Australian audiences in
1913, whose five months’ season at the Sydney Palace has
been so successful that it has been extended.
a satire upon mystery plays. Hastings Lynn,
as Ronald Gamble, works hard to speed up
a dialogue that tends to drag in places.
Leslie Victor is a timid butler, Willa Lynd-
berg a bright serving-maid, Minnie Rayner
a substantial prop of the comedy as a
middle-aged vulgarian, and Jane Comfort an
ostentatiously eycglassed Lady Benbow. Beth
Mackey makes a pleasing impression in an
ingenwe part, but Helene Simon gives the
fur-robed shopgirl a trifle too much vulgai
stridency.
A’ v '1 ;
Muriel Starr and Co. have introduced a
new bundle of thrills to the Sydney Palace
in “The Warning.” Lights go out amidst
a series of bangs, and actors essential to the
performance disappear with the utmost mys-
tery. Even the elements take a hand and
the wind howls in the background like a
crowd of actors’ ghosts in search of a
treasury. Most mystery plays rob emotional
actresses of a chance to be emotional except
in shrieks, but Muriel Starr gets a full sob-
value out of her part. Zara Clinton, Mayne
Lynton and Harvey Adams are the others
most prominent in the cast, _ with Ellis
Irving effective as Richard Quaile.
* * * *
Melodrama spiced with music and ballets
was introduced to Sydney Empire last Wednes-
day, in “Top Hole.” Bob Corcoran, a young
man with the overdraft habit, is turned out
of doors by his stern papa and warned not
to return until he can repay the 1000 dollars
Dad has shelled out to square the bank;
so he goes to California and becomes pro-
fessional at the Top Hole Golf Club, where
the duties appear to consist almost entirely
of making love to Betty Willoughby (Audrey
Lewis). Keith Connolly, as Irving Naitli,
a rival for the lady’s affections, plans to
accuse him of robbery ; but the villainy only
results in the happiness of the people who
deserve it. There are some spirited ballets
and a likeable song sung by Renee Dixon, as
Maureen, “There’s Music in an Irish Song.”
Humor is provided by Fred Bluett as a
henpecked husband, and Violet Elliott as
his wife.
The Antony of Allan Wilkie at Newtown
Majestic last Wednesday took his love-
making rather heavily, but the eventual
despair and wrath of the fallen general was
portrayed in a fine dramatic spirit, and there
was some intense acting by Miss Hunter-
Watts, as Cleopatra. As Othello, on
Saturday night, Wilkie missed some of the
fire. Dennis Barry was an excellent Cassio,
and Alexander Marsh a moderately success-
ful lago. Miss Hunter-Watts was a
graceful but rather too oppressed Dcsde-
mona. A more satisfying representation was
the Emilia of Lorna Forbes. After a brief
revival of “Henry VIII.” “Macbeth” will
walk his gory path on Saturday.
The Vanbrugli-
Boucicault co., after
staging “Belinda”
last Wednesday,
said good-bye on
Saturday. “The
Arcadians,” revived
by an amateur com-
pany to help the
Picton Lakes T.B.
Settlement, has
possession of Syd-
ney Cri. until Fri-
day night. “Prin-
cess Charming,” at
Her Majesty’s, and
“Rio Rita,” at the
St. James, remain
the bnly unchanged
Sydney shows.
The Kelsos’ Crazy
Quilt Revue, includ-
tlie mannerly lions,
is back at Sydney
Tivoli. Mardo and
Wynn, passable co-
ni pd inns with a
thick Yankee accent
in which to drown
some of their gags,
are newcomers.
Claudia Alba, the
strong woman, re-
mains to remind
husbands that they
might be worse off.
George Wallace,
as an American
Wild West bad man,
herds the usual
medley of jokes in
a new riot of non-
sense and firearms
entitled “At the
Cross Roads” at
Fullers’, Sydney.
Marie Nyman, who
does well as the vil-
lage beauty, also
scores in a sketch
in which George Wallace is her henpecked
husband. The Hawaiians are as popular as
ever.
“Twelve Miles Out ” throws some busi-
nesslike light on the processes of liquor-
smuggling in the U.S.; the thrills come with
the death of a handsome smuggler-captain
and the tears of the bereaved heroine.
“Passion Island,” a story of Corsican ven-
detta, is linked with this at Hoyt’s De Luxe
(Sydney). “Wings” is drawing packed houses
to the Regent. The Capitol is occupied by
“The Cohens and the Kellys in Paris,” a
film crowded with vaudeville humors.
“Ladies’ Night,” at the Lyceum, lias some
good acting and fresh gaiety. The end of
“The King of Kings” approaches at the
Prince Edward, and the days of “The One
Woman” at the Crystal Palace are also
numbered.
In the large soft person of Ettore Ccsa-
bianchi, the swan
ferry of the
Scheldt landed a
Lohengrin suffer-
ing from a cold on
Henry the Fow-
ler’s wharf at His
Majesty’s, M e 1-
bourne, last week.
In Hina Spani the
hero was met hy a
small cube of bil-
lowing draperies
which was physi-
cally too Germanic
even for Wagner-
ian requirements.
Nevertheless, her
Elsa steadily grew
on the affection as
much for a simple
sincerity of manner
as for a sweet son-
ority in the sing-
ing. Despite its
faults, this early
specimen of Wag-
ner is more genu-
inely grand than
any of the Italians.
The music is a vol-
uptuous orgy, from
the first bars of the
magical prelude
to the closing
swan-song; and
gaunt, inexhaust-
ible Bavagnoli and
his augme n t e d
orchestra did it
justice. Zinetti
was an admirably
tortuous Ortrucl.
This paper’s graph
of present com-
pany’s male noises
places Rossi Mor-
elli’s rich baritone
close to the highest.
He was Duke Fred-
erick.
* «
At the second
performanc e
Lohengrin was
transferred to Francesco Merli. What the
knight lost in inches he made up in dramatic
and vocal weight, and the evening was a
shining triumph.
“Lucia,” revived by the Williamson-Melbas
for the benefit of a packed house, was the
same old prima donna’s holiday, accompanied
by the usual butchery. Toti was the woman
in. the case. In “Lucia” some of the
slaughter is done offstage, the audience being
fobbed off with a broadcast of the event by
chief-announcer Raymond Bidebent. By
way of compensation, however, the madness
of Lucia is performed in full view.
Much of Donizetti’s music is painfully
conventional and some of it is rum-ti-tum,
but there are passages of power and
of beauty here and there. Luigi Cilia, as
Lord Arthur Bucklaw, was the only mem-
ber of the clans who looked genuine Scotch,
though his tartan was pantomimic. E. de
Miiro Lomanto, as Sir Edgar Ravenswood,
added nothing to his reputation. His
tenor always sounds as if it were at its last
gasp, and his trick of wriggling when in a
passion suggests a cocktail-shaker in a fit.
Nevertheless, the applause which followed
his demise was hearty enough to make an
encore not out of place. Angelo Pilotto
made a first appearance as Lord Henry
Ashton and gave a good edition of the
scoundrel, bound in good acting and lettered
with a golden voice.
At Melbourne Princess last week, as a
change from grand opera, the Gonsalezes
staged grand farce. The lightness and humor
of Auber’s “Fra Diavolo” were not as far
out of the reach of the co. as might have
been expected. The little Pfrimmer signorina
supplied _ a delightful rendci'ing in the flesh
and spirit of the susceptible Lady Rockburn,
who is ready to forget her marriage vows
after five bars of Fra Diavolo’s singing; and
Alfieri made that untimely bandit all that
could be desired by a pretty lady saddled
with a low-comedy husband. Poletti was a
cheerful feature as Zerlina, though her imi-
tation of a train approaching a level cross-
ing is apt to give opera-going motorists an
attack of nerves; and Tamburini, as a ser-
geant of carabinieri, was a wooden soldier,
in command of a platoon made of the same
material. The orchestra revelled in the
sprightly tunes.
“Diplomacy,” revived at Melb. Comedy on
Saturday, presents the Miss M. Bannerman
co. in a slightly better light. Miss Margaret
has an opportunity in the third act of throw-
ing some high emotion off her beautiful
chest, and she rises to the occasion; other-
wise, if the truth be told, she lacks appeal,
except of the sartorial variety exemplified in
the statement at the hack end of the pro-
MAY COLLINS, who opens as Leon Gordon’s new leading lady
in “The Man Upstairs” at the Sydney Royal next Saturday.
gramme that she “is always dressed on and
off the stage by Lenief, 374 Rue St. Honore,
Paris.” Francis Lister, as the young diplo-
mat who leaves vital secret documents lying
about in attache cases, is a capable juvenile,
and Geoffrey Millard .provides him with an in-
credibly tall brother, who does not dwarf
memories of Julius Knight, however. The
venerable Sardou piece was inspired by the
Russian menace to India, and the Bolsheviks
have kindly brought it up to date again.
It is good, sound melodrama, equipped with
a couple of genuinely thrilling acts.
The Gregau McMahons, who commenced
at Melb. King’s by harping on “Getting
Married,” changed their tune to Barrie’s
“Dear Brutus” on Saturday, and the whimsi-
cal idea of reshuffling married couples in a
magic wood instead of in a bishop’s drawing-
room pleased a moderate audience. The
youngest and venerablest members of the
squad deserve special mention. Little Pearl
Appleton was a clever little fairy, and the
Mrs. Coade of Meta Pelham was splendid.
Miss Pelham proudly claims to be the oldest
practising actress in Australia, and this
paper isn’t sure that she’s not one of the
best.
A first-in-Australia run given to “The
Crooked Billet” at Adelaide Royal shows
Dion Titheradge writing what London calls
a “thick-ear” drama. The sole scene is the
parlor of an English country inn; upstairs
an international gang holds captive the local
squire, whose blood, dripping through the
ceiling, provides one of the play’s sticky
moments. There is no mystery after the
first minutes, just a straight fight between
Leon Gordon and a smiling doctor who
directs the powers of Evil. Each is on top
in turn; the two most improbably sit and
drink, and brag against each other. The
rest is all revolvers, and screams “off,” and
drugged liquor, and shouts on a blacked-out
stage, and & son’s throat about to be slit
in his father’s presence. (Hysterical protests
from the audience.) Leon Gordon and Lewin
have nearly all the chances.


The Prize.
It was a, misty morning-tide,
Tobago on our lee,
Our great ship nosing like a shark
For prey along the sea,
With seven score of robber-men
To make her company.
Our long-toms, for’ard, polished shone;
Though reckless and obscene.
We kept her like a man-o’-war
Our fighting hours between ;
With all tophamper taut and trim.
And brass and AvoodAVork clean.
Now, as the sun rose, bloody-red,
His banner of the day,
Our lookout sighted far ahead.
A tops’l faint and grey,
And gave liis joyous tidings out
That roused us Avherc we lay.
Like bloodhounds on the trail we growled
Our answering delight,
As, storming up, we peered and stared
In hopeful appetite—
A devil’s pack, unleashed in sooth.
To greet the morning light!
Black Sambo’s itching fingers felt
A cruel edge to try,
Then knelt upon the deck and prayed
For wind to God on high ;
But Jean of Santos, grinning, fired
His pistols at the sky.
Then on the poop above avc heard
Our dark commander’s yell:
“Down, braggart Avolves, doAvn to your
posts!
Ye may not boast and swell
One half so loud by set of sun.
With half your souls in Hell!”
With sullen curse we baekAvard rolled
Unto our tasks again,
While, splurting out like musket balls,
liis orders came amain,
As mile by mile, and hour by hour,
lie marked our creeping gain.
So fell the night. A ripe moon lit
The sleeping Carribecs,
And splotched the shadows, leper-white,
Beneath the cocoa-trees.
Black Sambo crouched Avith slobbering lips,
A cutlass ’tween his knees.
But Jean of Santos, to and fro.
Unquiet, crept and peered
With bloodshot eyes the live-long night.
Betimes he laughed and leered.
Or rubbed his thighs, or softly stroked
His trimly-pointed beard.
THE NEW LANGUAGE.
FATHER: “Who is that fool making such a din with his
motor-horn outside our gate?”
MAUD: “Oh, that’s Horace! Sixteen honks mean 'I
love you—come for a spin.’ ”
’Twas ten forenoon we got his range,
And Avith a frantic shout
We chorused to the sounding crash
That sent the roundsliot out;
For avc had marked our nearing prize
And held nor fear nor doubt.
It was a well-found merchantman,
And, robber though I be,
I do confess, and- that Avith pride,
No stouter man than he
Who fought, foredoomed, a losing fight
From ten forenoon till three!
We shot his mainmast overside.
We shot his hull to Hell;
And when, long-lengtli, with steel and fire,
Upon his decks we fell.
They paid us back in death and wounds.
And grimly strove and well.
I saw our captain, who had sailed
With bold Bartolomew,
Who round the Islands and the Main
A hundred combats knew,
Sink down upon their slippery planks
With gasping lungs run through.
I saw Black Sambo’s hands reach out
To grasp the trader’s rail;
I saw a Swinging blade come down—-
A red. repelling flail—
That threshed him to the waiting sharks;
I heard his whimpered wail.
As. slipping from her splintered sides,
His evil days Avere done.
God knoAvs it Avas a wondrous fight!
And noAv the years are gone
1 sometimes Avish, slow-dying here,
The Bristol man had won.
For when at last Ave bore them doAvn
And hurled them overboard.
Though lavish loot our hands had wqn,
A great, a goodly hoard,
’Twas Jean of Santos that I saw—
Be merciful, O Lord!
An English lass, an English Avife,
Who loved her good man —yea,
And she forsooth must sail Avith him
For far Campeche Bay.
She knew not Avhat the seas might hold.
Nor cared, but had her way!
Aye, Jean of Santos, though I lie
In rags hard-dying here,
I Avould not sell my chance for yours
To live a thousand year,
Who meet my fate all unabsolved
With scanty hope or cheer.
**’ * $
I knifed him in Samana Bay.
_ Of all the deaths I’ve done,
I’ve hoped that God might pardon yet
My evil deeds for one.
I sometime wish, to ease my soul,
The Bristol ship had Avon!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Henry Galahad.
HENRY PURKISS lived in a “modern
bungalow replete with every conveni-
ence” in a respectable street of an
eminently respectable suburb on the North
Shore line. Henry was addicted to respecta-
bility; it was a habit; indeed, it was
probably instinct.
There was a mousey look about Henry—an
indefinable something which told other people
they could jostle him with impunity in the
race through life. Only his eyes were
different. They were dark brown, with a
romantic, wistful, soft expression. When ho
was a young man he had dreams, romantic
dreams. They slept in his eyes; but one
day they peeped out, saw his mouth and chin,
and fled, for, as you know, dreams are am-
bitious. Another reason was that the dreams
grew tired of looking at his wife. They
felt discouraged. Henry had been taken by
his wife for better or worse. Her grandfather
had been Somebody in England, and she
never recovered from it, nor could she ever
quite get over the feeling that Henry was for
worse. Henry was inclined to agree with
her. so they got on rather well together.
They bought the bungalow on easy pay-
ments. It was built of brick with a red-
tiled roof, and similar houses stretched down
each side of the street. Strangers used to
wonder how the people who lived in
the street ever found their own homes. Henry
knew. The other people in the street knew,
too, because their sub-conscious minds
counted the steps from the corner where
they caught the tram to the front gates
And anyway the houses were numbered.
But Henry knew in a way that was dif-
ferent, that thrilled him every time he came
home. You see all the
houses had been built by a
speculator who even contrac-
ted with a florist to supply
plants to each one. The
florist had done his duty with
a great sense of his respon-
sibility, and every house had
been allotted a palm, tAvo
rose-trees and a staghorn.
They were planted in the
sam-e place in every yard,
and the florist felt with satis-
faction that the tenants
would not be jealous of one
another. Henry, however, in
a frenzy of romanticism,
bought another palm. The
second palm meant home for
him. It made him feel plea-
santly superior when he
passed the solitary sentinels
of the other houses. When
he asked someone to tea for
the first time, he would say:
“It’s the house AA'ith the two
palms in front, you know.”
And that made him happy.
A job in the telegraph
operating-room at the G.P.O.
enabled Henry to keep his
palms. His Avife was a
good manager. They had
tAvo joints a week, cream
every second Sunday, and on
Saturdays they would take
the children to Coogec to
play on the beach. Henry
was always glad to reach home because
the sand got in his shoes and his nose
peeled in the sun. They had a banking
account-and a piano on time payment. That
was ostensibly for the eldest girl, but Henry
knew, and Henry’s Avife knew, that it was
really for Henry’s Avife’s grandfather. It
seemed to be necessary.
His habits Avere very regular. He caught
the same tram to the wharf every day, made
the same remarks to the same people, caught
the same boat and tram home each night.
On Sundays he mowed the laA\m, and then
in the afternoon he Avould take his pipe
and newspaper and sit in a chair under
the second palm. He did that for twenty
years.
Y'ou say, “Oh I’ve met Henry before,”
but this Henry Avas different. He had an
adventure, and this story is about the adven-
ture. All the remarks I have made about
him just go to show how strange it Avas that
he should ever have an adventure.
Twenty years of regular respectability
left Henry colorless. His emotions Avere
dead. Not exactly dead, but somnolent,
dulled Avith the anaesthetic of a passionless
marriage. He had reached the limit of liis
Avage-earniiig capacity. If lie thought of
the future at all it was of that time when
he would retire on pension and be able to
Avaec more successful warfare against the
grubs that ate his lettuces.
It was at this period of liis life that he
had liis adventure.
His working hours lay betAveen three
o’clock in the afternoon and eleven o’clock
at night. At half-past six lie would take his
brown-paper packet of sandwiches from liis
battered old bag and munch them without
enthusiasm. Then lie would go back to Avork.
To-night he didn’t feel like work, somehow.
He felt queer.' After he had been working
for half an hour the room began to haze and
rock, he drooped forward over his clicking
key and, for the first time in his life, Henry
fainted. It didn’t last long, but the super-
intendent told him to go home. Once out-
side in the open air, however, he felt better,
so he stood on the corner of Martin-place
and hesitated. He didn’t want to go home
because his Avife would be annoyed. She
Avas annoyed at anything that broke the well-
ordered routine of the household. So he
Avandered sloAvly along Pitt-street looking at
the lights in the shop windows.
He Avas inspecting a display of tobacco
and pipes when a painted lady hailed him in
endearing terms. Henry tAvisted round,
startled and uncomprehending; then, blush-
ing and with averted eyes, he hurried up the
street. When next he paused to draw breath
and dared to look
about him he found
himself outside a
theatre gay AA'ith lights
and women’s lovely
gpwns. He stood for
a time on the pave-
ment and Avatched the
laughing folk step
from their cars to the
f o y e r—splashes of
blue and golden hair,
white throats and
soft laughter. He
liked the young
couples best. He
smiled at them appro-
vingly. They seemed
to be so much in love
with each other, so
young, eating their
slice of cake with
such brave gusto.
When next he be-
came conscious of him-
self as Henry I’ur-
kiss he was holding-
in his hand a ticket of
admission to the
theatre. True, it was
only a gallery ticket,
so his sub-conscious
had functioned for the
salvation of his peace
of mind. Nevertheless,
it Avas a ticket, and
Henry was inclined to
be a little dismayed.
Then he felt a
pleasant thrill of excitement. For Henry had
never been in a theatre. The local cinema had
been sufficient to remove him from actuality
to the realms of romance. Sufficient for him
to see the hero swoop from the skies in an
aeroplane and pick the heroine from the
crater of an about-to-be-active volcano!
He found his seat and looked down at the
mysterious drop-curtain. The curtain rose,
the players wandered on and spoke. Then
the leading lady appeared, she whose name
was splashed above the streets in the electric
lights of fame. “Ah !” breathed everyone.
Henry gazed. His neighbor thrust a pair
of opera-glasses into his limp hands. He
looked through the glasses for five minutes,
and when liis neighbor tore them from his
grasp again he forgot to say thank you. He
just stared and stared.
When her lover held her in his arms for
the last time, and took the last passionate
kiss from her trembling mouth, and when
the curtain fell, and rose and fell again for
the last time, Henry rose too and stumbled
into the street —stumbled home dazed and
glowing. He went like one in a trance, and
the dreams came back to his eyes. Even his
Avife could not dismay them noAv.
In the days that folloAved Henry lived in
dreams. He carried a picture of the woman
in his heart —sleek black hair pouring into
a shimmering pool at the nape of the neck,
eyes of misery, mouth of passion, and the
vague suggestion of Atalanta beneath the
brocaded folds of her gown. It is difficult to
describe the effect her memory had on Henry.
She represented all that he had never knoAAm
and all that he had once craved. The beauty,
the glamor, romance and the mystery of life,
the loveliness and laughter and the color.
All the wonder of woman personified,
enshrined, yet warm and gloAving.
Henry Avould have been shocked if anyone
had suggested that he was in love. He Avor-
sliipped her, but wfltli a passionless Avorship.
To him the Avoman Avas just the incarnation
DELIGHTED TO OBLIGE.
MAID (to persistent wooer) : “My mistress
wisbes to know if it is possible for you
to leave her alone for just ONE day.”
PERSISTENT PERCY: “Why, certainly. About
how much will she want?”
of his boyish dreams, and, being just that,
her memory led him to a land where flowers
bloomed and love danced laughing down the
scented pathways.
He never had another chance to go to
the theatre, but in some obscure way he
learned of the existence of an institution
called the stage-door. EA-ery night alter
vital, palpitating youth of the woman seemed
to radiate Henry, Standing-in-the-shadows
Henry, and bathe his limbs in a riot of
that lie hurried from Avork and Availed on
the pavement to see her come. Then the
ecstasy. He never tried to get closer to her
than that. If she had looked at him his
heart Avould have burst. When she had
gone he would go home, his febrile imagi-
nation drugging him with warm, exotic
fantasies. During- the day he could dream of
her, too, because his work had become auto-
matic, performed unconsciously.
Every night he AA'ould be torn with rapture
A DIFFERENT MATTER.
MRS PORT MORESBY “I don’t trust our new house-boy a bit.”
MR P. M.: “But you can’t go by appearances with these
coves.”
MRS P. M.: “I'm not; I'm going by disappearances.”
to see the silk-hatted escort hand her to the
limousine. It was all so right, so won-
derful. He could have desired nothing more
as lie stood, choking with admiration, on
the muddied pavement. Henry was inno-
cent, and the frequency with which her
escort changed puzzled him a good deal. He
did not know what prurient-minded people
said about her jewels and her limousines. He
did not know that what the prurient-minded
people said was true, as it so often is. And
if lie had been told he would still have
refused to believe. Henry was like that.
One night a rosebud, shattered by her
loveliness, dropped from her breast. When
she had gone Henry darted forward, picked
the flower up, crushed it in his hand and
ran down the street like a man possessed,
his heart pounding at the thought that some-
one might try to tear his treasure from him.
The perfume of the careless flower sent him
into a delirium of ecstasy, so powerful that
liis trembling limbs would scarcely support
him. He lived on its fragrance for a week,
and when its fragrance had gone he buried
it beneath the second palm so that none
other might gaze upon it.
An evening came that closed the wonder-
ful adventure. She came. The little
Pekinese dog she would carry in her arms
leapt to the ground and, bar kin,g play-
fully, danced across the road, inviting pur-
suit. A tram thundered down the street.
The woman screamed.
A little mousey man with a drooping
moustache detached himself from the
shadows and darted towards the dog.
The tram thundered on.
A man standing on the pavement picked
up the frightened Peke and handed it to
its mistress.
“How dreadful!” said the woman to her
silk hat. “Let’s go.”
The morbid crowd that gathered round
the tram marvelled at the rapture on the
face of a mousey little man as they lifted
him into the ambulance. It was more than
rapture, a transcending glory.
And the dreams? Oh! this time the
dreams were happy to go with Henry.
PETER GLAD.
There Was an Old Miner.
There was an old miner, lie lived by a river
(Away, away, far away),
Striving in vain, that the earth' should de-
liver
Its treasures from gravel and clay.
He delved for red gold in a little green
valley,
Where thrushes and currawangs herald the
spring.
The scrubs by the river, the trees where they
rally
Are filled with gay noise as they sing.
Ring
Loud with the songs that they sing.
But once by the river his old windlass,
creaking,
Groaning and turning with never a stay,
Sang the mad song of the gold he was seeking
“Away, away, far away,
You’re certain to strike it some day.”
There was an old miner, he lived by a river
(Away, away, far away),
But soundly he sleeps where the long rushes
quiver
And silver-grey willow wands sway.
Still lies the dish as it fell from his lingers.
Pouring its wealth in a prodigal stream.
A shaft of warm sunlight at eventide linger <,
And sets all the valley a-gleam,
Dream
Gold in the rushes a-gleam.
But a boisterous wind from the hillside
comes flying,
Bending the reeds, and in mischievous play
Stirs the lone windlass, till softly it's sighing
“Away, away, far away
Did you / enow what you carried that day?”
S.A.
ERIC LOWE.


NEW SCANDINAVIAN
M.C.M. BELTING
FOR SALE CHEAP.
Comprising—
2in. Single
2 a in. „
4in. n
4im. Stout
sin. f>
6in. f>
Sin.' ~
103 ft.
10ft.
205 ft.
177 ft.
413 ft.
100 ft.
36ft.
per ft. -/7
per ft. -/9
per ft. 1/4
per ft. 1/11
per ft. 2/3
per ft. 2/9
We are disposing of the above stocks
to make room for incoming stocks
of BRITISH GOODRICH “HIGH-
TEST” BELTING, for which we have
been appointed Sole Agents.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian
Agency, Ltd.,
226-28 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
fORMAMINT
The Germ-killing Throat tablet*
Of all Chemists— 3/6 per bottle.
Occidental Mine
Machinery for Sale
COMPRISING—
Babcock Boilers, 1426 and 2690 sq.
ft. heating surface.
Winding Engine, 16in. Cylinders.
Beilis Morcom Cross Compound Air
Compressor, 2500 cubic ft.
Two Beilis Morcom Generating Sets.
Four Rockbreakers.
Six Tube Mills.
Twenty Head Stamper Batteries.
Quantity of other Plant.
WRITE FOR FULL DETAILS.
Goodall & Co., Ltd.,
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-305 Kent Street, Sydney.
\
w n
\ * V n t£
Vs o A *&. 9> t>* y\
. <2s , <0 01 —
-i Jr ■? Q»- V* J, <<"3
v\t
\ \\- *..%
THE MARRIAGE
CONTRACT.
By HAROLD MERCER.
WHEN Ratoffski called in to see
Levinstein with his son, very smart
and looking really fine in Lis new
clothes, with the scarfpin shining in the tie
he had put on for the first time, Levinstein
knew from the way in which he plunged
into a religious argument that it wasn’t to
discuss religion that he had come. They
liked one another, these old men, both staunch
in their Judaism; but, after all, the habit
of disguising thought, coming down through
centuries and developed strongly in most
Jews, could not be overcome easily even in
respect to the dearest friend. Levinstein
smiled as he reflected that Ratoffski prob-
ably had some secret which he would by and
bye reveal, casually and cautiously; and,
with his habit of judging all things by the
light the Talmud threw upon it, he quoted
in his heart: “Your friend has a friend; and
his friend also has a friend. Beware!”
Having much of the same make-up, Levin-
stein argued the theological point, finding
the splitting of doctrinal hairs enjoyable in
itself, and perfectly satisfied to let Ratoffski
unburden himself in his own time, whilst
Mrs. Solomon removed the white cover and
the candlesticks which had graced the table
for the just-passed Sabbath. Of course they
should have been removed before, the sun
having long set; but, Levinstein reflected,
Ratoffski must have been very eager to come
so early, for he was one of the strictest of
Jews, who would not use any vehicle while
the Sabbath lasted.
Young Ratoffski bore the conversation less
patiently. He was plainly restless, and,
when occasionally dragged indulgently into
the conversation, gave his opinion shortly
and with indifference. But it was his
alacrity in springing to his feet that dis-
turbed the engrossed old men, who turned to
see him greeting with eagerness the hand-
some girl, who, radiant in the finery which
all womanhood wears for carnival, had sw;ept
into the room.
“I’m going, Daddy,” she said, leaving the
young man and sweeping over to her father.
“Wish me to enjov myself.”
“You will enjoy yourself, I know, Racliie,”
said the old man, in a voice that was good
wishes in itself.
“And where is it you go, young lady?”
asked Ratoffski jocularly. “Is it to the
Barmitzvah party with the Solomons? Ah,
a fine boy the young Moss Solomon—-the
way he recited his portion showed the mark
of the scholar! We also go to the Solomons -;
and if you are going there, why should not
Issie go with you at once, and escort.you?”
“Yes,” said Issie, stepping eagerly for-
ward ; but she turned to meet him with a
happy though apologetic laugh.
“I’d be glad,” she said, “only I’m not
going to the Solomons —not till to-morrow.
To-night I am going to a private dance —a
big dance. The Agsley Sanderses —you’ve
heard of them?”
There was just a shade of pride in her
voice as she mentioned the name, and a shade
of disapproval in the tone of Ratoffski as
lie said: “Christian friends?”
“Somebody is going to call for me, and
I think I hear the car now,” she said.
“Good-night, dear Daddy; good-night, Mr.
Ratoffski.”
“I will go out with you, anyway,” said
Issie, as she turned towards him. “And
then,” he added to his father, “I will go
on to the Ratners and pick you up at the
Solomons.”
“Don’t you go marrying a Goy, young
lady,” called Ratoffski.
“Oh, that’s different!” she smiled back at
him. “To enjoy oneself with one’s friends
is one thing, but I know what father wants.
And I’m a Jewish girl, Mr. Ratoffski.”
“Well spoken!” The young people having
vanished on the last words of the girl’s
speech, it was just a general ejaculation
of approbation. “She is a fine girl, Rachel
is, Levinstein —a fine girl. She will make a
good wife, eh?”
“Not for a long time yet, I hope,” said
Levinstein, a trifle wistfully. “She is the
only one I have with me now—the image of
her dear mother, who died for her.”
“It seems but yesterday she was a school-
girl,” said Ratoffski. “To-day she is. a
young woman —to-morrow she will be a wife.
She will, whether you will or not.
It would be best if you made plans
for her.”
“There is time,” said Levin-
stein, reluctantly. “I will look
round in good time.”
“You will no doubt give her a
good portion,” said Ratoffski, with
a casualness that was almost an
emphasis.
“So-so,” said Levinstein, _ all Iris caution
awakened. “My daughter will not, of course,
go to her husband a beggar.”
“It is a mistake, this mixing with the
Goyim,” said Itatoffski.
Levinstein almost laughed; for the eager-
ness of the young man, his aspect of dis-
appointment when he learnt that Rachel
was going where he could not attend her,
had given him the key to Ratoffski’s visit.
And now, with the worst but usually humor-
ous characteristic of the Jewish nature, he
was bargaining. Levinstein knew, for in-
stance, that the reference to his daughter’s
friends was a veiled depreciation—a hint
that her associates might have weakened her
Judaism and therefore her value as a Jewish
wife, for which reason a higher marriage
portion should be given with her; there was
even a suggestion that she might marry a
Christian, which would cause her father to
pay almost anything if it would prevent
such a calamity.
Levinstein picked up the challenge. “We
are citizens of this country, and not all its
citizens are Jews,” lie said. “They are our
fellow-citizens and friends; we can keep our
religion while we are friendly to them. My
daughter, in her music studies, has met some
of them, and they like her, and she likes
them. Am I to keep her from the enjoy-
ment of social pleasures that are better than
I can give her? Is her religion to be made
a thing that robs her of innocent pleasure.
“‘Ah Rachie, Rachie!’ he cried....‘To lose you, whose mother’s death made you
dearest of all!’ ”
or is it not a thing that should add to the
pleasure and fulness of life?”
“But it is dangerous,” Ratoffski persisted.
“Youth is impulsive and hot, and the Jewish
young people should meet together if we
want to stop the sort of marriages we
regret. It is dangerous. How old is she?
—twenty? Her mother was your wife be-
fore that age; mine married at sixteen. It
is dangerous, I say.”
“I would trust Rachie anywhere,” said
Levinstein. “She is my favorite, my dearest;
and because she knows it would break my
heart to marry the Goyim. she would
marry no one but a Jew. She knows my
heart; when she marries I shall live near,
and to her children I shall teach the Torah,
and give them their Hebrew, and open for
them the Talmud. She may never have been
told this; but she knows it. And would she
who loves me well disappoint me
Probably because he recognised that it was
useless to shake the father’s belief in his
daughter’s worth, or make him fear any
weakness, Ratoffski came to the point;
would it not be best for her to become en-
gaged? His son liked her; he would learn
to love her (and Levinstein laughed again
inwardly as he remembered the young man’s
eagerness) ; he was good looking, well
mannered, clever, a good young man.
“He is not making much money, said
Levinstein, the inevitable bargaining spirit,
falling on him, too.
“What better?” cried Ratoffski. He
qualified for his dentistry brilliantly; he is
bound to make his way. And what better
than that the two make success together, so
that their lives belong to one another?
So, with some fencing, the matter was
brought finally to an agreement, subject only
to the happiness of Rachel in the arrange-
ment, with the amount of her endowment
duly fixed by a father who, in his pride, was
more generous than Ratoffski expected.
“As for Issie,” admitted Ratoffski. now
there was no need for disguise, “he 'S
mad for her. He worships the ground she
walks upon. And madly lie says to me:
‘There is only one other girl—and slm is a
Christian. If I cannot have Rachel it will
be madness to me, and I may marry the
Christian.’ Think of it, Levinstein! My
only son—and he might marry a Christian,
in whose house I could not cat for fear of
trefah, whose children would not be Jews!
Ah, my dear good friend, my thanks are all
yours!”
“Well, he is a very fine boy—a good Jew.
I am satisfied,” said Levinstein.
“And she is a splendor amongst women,”
cried Ratoffski enthusiastically.
The splendor amongst women, which was
something of the term that Issie’s thought
applied to her as he stepped beside her into
the garden, had given the bridegroom whom
the elders had planned for her short shrift
that night. Turning to him on the verandah,
her outstretched arm had pointed to the
motor-car purring before the gate, from
which an occupant had just alighted.
“You see they have come for me,” she
cried, “so I’ll just run down to them. I’m
sorry to leave you so abruptly, Issie; but I
may see you to-morrow, at Solomons.
“You will see me there, Rachie,” he said
earnestly, clasping her hand. And then she
went whirling away, greeting with gladness
the man who met her at the gate, and was
gone from his sight in the whir of the
starting motor. Hurt at losing her, still
more hurt at her failure to introduce him
to her friends, he walked down the garden
path, and out into the street, a chaos of
dark thoughts swamping over the bright
hopefulness which had been his when lie had
come that evening. A passing taxi gave
him a sudden thought, and he leapt aboard.
“Follow- that car!” he cried, pointing to the
tail-lights now far ahead.
He did not know why he did it. Telling
himself that his act was caddish, he several
times was on the point of checking the cab,
getting out, and dismissing it; but, still
battling with such resolves, he reached the
big house, a blaze of light from ground
floor to upper storeys, and with its balconies
and gardens hung with festoons of gay
lanterns, around which the big, luxurious
cars buzzed like monstrous, precious flies.
, Two hours —three hours—later he was
still walking round the scene of revelry, a
gloomy shadow lurking on the edge of its
circle of light.
The house, set in its grounds, came close
to the street on the front and one of the.
sides, the ballroom was an annexe on the
garden side. Laughter, the ripple of band
music, the lisp-lisp of innumerable talking
voices, occasional merry cries, and the scrap-
ing of feet, and occasionally a clink of
billiard balls —it came to him in waves.
He saw figures pass before lighted windows;
once or twice, with a heart that leapt, he
saw Rachie pass, always happy and laugh-
ing ; sometimes his passion flamed because a
man was with her and was graced with her
smile. He was not grudging Rachel her hap-
piness—he tried to assure himself that he
was glad of her enjoyment—but grudging
the happiness lie did not share.
All the time he wanted to go, and several
times walked away, but always returned,
torturing himself. Then he became alarmed.
The Apsley-Sanderses were known for the
“freedom” of their parties—rather prided
themselves upon it. This night uproarious-
ness developed early: it seemed to Issie’s
eyes that an orgy was developing.
He wanted to get Rachel away from it.
Suppose he called, asked for Miss Levin-
stein, and explained that he had been asked
to see her home—a family friend? But he
did not know how to do it; he did not know
what would happen if he did. Perhaps he
would be thrust I’ight into the ribald throng,
and liis mission would create. ridicule —
would draw unpleasant attention to Rachel,
too. She might even be annoyed herself.
He felt strangely unable to do anything.
Of course to Rachel it appeared different.
She noticed the growing wildness, but
she had grown gradually towards it, and it
seemed natural. The Intoxication of en-
joyment was beating through every vein of
her. It might have cheered the man who
was nursing his misery in the shadows out-
side to know that she thought of him now
and then, regretting that he was not there
to enjoy it all. Poor Issie! It a
shame to have left him so abruptly. She
liked Issie, who had been a boyhood friend,
and it hurt her to think he might have been
hurt. For her young heart had long ago
given him a closer relation than the old
people would have expected: she knew that
of all the Jewish boys of her acquaintance
he was the one she was most likely to marry
-—some time in the future.
But that night she felt guilty; she had
been anxious to get rid of him. There was
young Flowers —she liked him, and his
attentions flattered her; she knew her de-
light at his coming had exceeded any feel-
ing of regret at leaving Issie. Of course,
there was no thought of ever marrying
Flowers; but he charmed her. And to-
night he was specially attentive. The flat-
tering of it was even a greater intoxication
than all the other pleasures of the evening.
He came smiling to her, when she had
just finished a dance, at the time when the
music and laughter of the night seemed
swimming in her veins, and drew her away
with a suggestion of refreshments. They
were standing in a deserted part of the
house, by an open window through which
they could look out on the stars, when he
offered wine to her, chaffing her reluctance.
As she took it he drank with her.
“May we always be as happy as we arc
to-night—together!” he said.
And then suddenly he took her in his
arms and kissed her.
“Oh, why did you do that!”: she cried,
pushing him from her.
“You are not really angry?” he asked,
his attitude between penitence and laughter.
There was a cry and a scuffle in the
garden, which disturbed the situation. They
moved away, still together in spite of her
reproof, which scarcely seemed real to her;
and she heard him extract the information
from a passing man-servant that an intruder
had been discovered in the garden, and
secured.
“But I think you are still angry with
me,” she heard him saying. “It is only
fair you let me explain myself—you are
(Continued on page 53.)


Double-sleeve
motor power
In each cylinder of the famous Falcon-Knight engine two
sleeves glide up and down in a film of oil. These sleeves aro
directly connected to the crankshaft and give positive con-
trol to the movement of gases into and out of the cylinders.
Their action cannot develop irregularities. The sleeves’
action always synchronizes perfectly with the engine’s speed.
There are no springs or valves to get out of order.
Falcon-Knight double-sleeve-valve performance means a
smooth, active flow of power that surpasses ordinary six-cylin-
der performance just as the average six surpasses the four.
Select one of the several popular body styles. Drive it.
You will be delighted with it.
Falcon-Kuiaht
THE WORLD'S FINEST TYPE OFC^vIOTOR
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-26 Russell Street, Melbourne.
KNIGHT MOTORS (Q’LD), LTD., Q.T. C. Building, Petrie’s Bight, Queen
Street, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD., 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


Mt. Cook Is Calling!
/ ; f,
On Mount Sebastopol, near Mount Cook Hermitage.
The Southern Alps of New Zealand, where the
Hermitage stands, offer unrivalled snowfields for
winter sports, reaching from the door of this modern,
fully equipped hotel away into the silent places
where the great peaks soar. A revelation in Romance.
Dry, Sunny Days. Never Too Cold. Roaring Fires and Jolly Parties at Night.
SPECIAL WINTER TOUR FROM SYDNEY, covering All Fares
and Hotel Expenses for 26 Days, for £6O.
Write for Booklets.
MOUNT COOK MOTOR CO., TIMARU, N.Z.
Sydney Agents:
C. AICKIN & SONS, 255 a George Street, near the Union Company’s Offices.
AND ALL TOURIST BOOKING OFFICES.
PROHIBITION in N.S.W.
WOULD COST MILLIONS
PROHIBITION enriches the bootlegger; REGULA-
TION enriches the Government.
PROHIBITION can never prohibit; but REGULA-
TION can control.
PROHIBITION endangers public health; but
REGULATION protects it; under Prohibition there can
be no guarantee of the purity of the liquors sold; but
under REGULATION they can be tested at every stage
of manufacture.
. ... S
PROHIBITION weakens self-control; REGULA-
TION encourages moderation.
PROHIBITION means bad liquor drunk in secret
by sneaks and hypocrites; REGULATION means good
liquor used in the light of day by self-respecing men.
PROHIBITION awakens resentment; but reason-
able REGULATION appeals to commonsense.
WILL YOB SPEND A LITTLE
TO SAVE A LOT?
THE CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM
ASSOCIATION is out to fight Prohibition, believing in modera-
tion, commonsense and reform of the drink traffic. It stands as a
moderate medium between the extreme Prohibitionists and extreme
liquor partisans.
MONEY IS URGENTLY NEEDED, and the Association
appeals to all reasonable men and women to help swell the funds,
as the fight against Prohibition will be long and costly. It is of
national importance that an intelligent vote should be recorded
cn the momentous question.
PROHIBITION WILL MEAN
IMMENSE TAXATION
TWENTY MILLION POUNDS will need to be found for
compensation, and many millions more every year would have to
be spent in the payment of an army of Prohibition agents in order
to enforce the system, and it would never be enforced.
IN ADDITION, the Commonwealth would have to make
up in extra taxation the £4,618,000 collected annually in Customs
and Excise, and the State an amount of nearly £500,000 obtained
from licensing fees and other charges.
CONTRIBUTIONS small or large may be forwarded to the
CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
Belmont Building, 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
G. R. W. McDONALD, Chairman.
H. B. JAMIESON, Hon. Treasurer.
P. H. COATES, Hon. Secretary.
the last girl in the world I would hurt or
insult in any way.”
With some little idea that she had con-
sented to listen to his explanation, she found
herself on a small balcony with him; and
then, instead of talking, his arms were
passionately around her, holding her tightly
whilst she struggled, and his warm kisses
were raining on her lips and cheeks. And
unbelievingly she found herself listening to
what he was saying with less feeling of in-
sult in her heart than she showed.
“But what does it matter!” lie breathed
passionately. “We can be married to-
morrow. We love one another, and every
sense I have is aching for you.”
Her resistance seemed to swoon away.
The night seemed a gorgeous dream, with
nothing of reality beyond it; and this was
the natural ending of it.
* * $ *
But it was a bitter task that was Rachel’s
next day. Perhaps she had reason to con-
sider herself fortunate; at any rate,
Flowers was ready, even eager, to marry
her. And his mother and sister, who had
always been kind to her, would no doubt
welcome her. Yet to break the news to her
father that she was going to marry a Chris-
tian was so terrible to her that it seemed
comparatively easy to tell him why it was
necessary. She had been mad, carried away
by the intoxication of the night, had for-
gotten everything; but now, was it not the
only way out—to marry Flowers?
She had not exaggerated the effect it
would have on her father. He seemed a
broken man, with all the faith and happi-
ness swept out of his soul. And yet he was
uot bitter against her.
“Ah, Rachie, liachie!” lie cried, “I
would rather have had it that you had lain
dead upon your dear mother’s breast. Ah,
to lose you, whose mother’s death made you
the dearest of all!”
It was so he motined for long; but when
Ratoffski came, puzzled, in response to a
telephone request, he was grey and grave,
but calm. It was Ratoffski who was broken
when he learnt that the marriage contract
must be considered at an end.
“But you know what it means!” he
groaned. “I have told you, my son —my
only son! —will marry a Goy unless he can
have Rachel. And you promised! You
made your covenant! My son loves Rachie
with a great love. Because she was not
with him last night lie did not appear at
the Solomons, and he returned home this
morning looking pale and haggard and un-
kempt. He had been grieving all night be-
cause lie feared she did not love him. And
when I told him that it was all right—she
was to be his —he looked for a moment with
a face of such joy, and then suddenly cried,
“She does not love me!” and rushed from
the room to hide his tears. It will mean
madness to him —your broken promise.”
His reproaches went on until they earned
an explanation which made him scornful.
“To marry a Goy! The daughter of
you, whose grandfather was a Rabbi, and
who pride yourself on your Judaism!
Against your will? Why, then, has obedi-
ence in children ceased in Judaism?
Do you curse her and throw her off? No!
Her children you will have at your knee,
knowing that the children whose mother is
a Jewess may still be received as Jews. But
what of me? —and you have many children;
I have but one! Will my son’s children, if
he marries a Christian, be Jews? Can I
teach them Jewishness? And, again, what
is a promise to you?”
“I will tell you, then,” said Levinstein,
calmly, “because I feel I have wronged you
—unwittingly. Only swear what I tell you
is only between you and me.”
“j swear,” he said, and Levinstein, winc-
j n g ( tj le story. “And my daughter does
no t’ eve h love this man,” lie added, feelingly,
was just a madness, for which I was to
blame. It was Issie about whom she
thought. ‘Poor Issie!’ she said, thinking
0 f his disappointment.”
Ratoffski was suddenly calm . and col-
lected, and a twinkle of cunning was in his
e y es .
"Well, why don’t she marry Issie?” he
“Who will be the wiser?”
“Would Issie marry her?” asked Levin-
stein, eagerly.
“You ought to make the portion more,”
sa i,j Ratoffski. "Five hundred more. There
is no reason for Issie to know.” ..
“But Rachie says he would have to know
before she would marry him,” insisted Levin-
stein. “ghe is right, too.”
“Well,” said Ratoffski, “supposing we tell
i ss j e about it and he says he will still
ma rry her, will that satisfy you?”
Levinstein nodded. •
“Will you leave it all to me? I will
telephone him.”
Ratoffski was so far calmed that lie dis-
cussed apropos matters from the Talmud
w hilst they waited. There was the High
p r j e st’s daughter who had brought upon
R erse lf the penalty of death, because offences,
forgiven in women of less exalted parentage,
were an a bomination in the child of the
p r ji es thood. Wish as the judges might to
aC q U R ber, the case seemed hopeless until
] earnec | man a pportioned to her defence
called her father to witness. “Is this your
daughter?” he asked; and the High Priest
ga j d “Yes.” “I know it is your belief that
j g your daughter,” he said, “but on what
proof can you g Wear it? » Then the Chief
Priest admitted that the accused possibly
m jgbt not be his daughter; and, on the
jj e brew rule that if any doubt exists the
benefit must be given the accused, the girl
w jj o might not have owned priestly parentage
wag aC q U itted. “No man can say who are
his children; I shall be content to have
j ew j s b children who will call me grand-
faßier,” he said, piously. “Your undertaking
is to let mc quest ion,” he added hurriedly,
ag Iggie , g t was hearcL
T , , , , T • ki ,
. H may have seemed to Issie that two grave
judges fronted lnm, both perturbed, but both
prepared to judge him. He himself was
calm and had overcome the condition which
J ad disturbed Ins father, who now motioned
I)im t 0 a seat -
Issie, ray boy, he said, your father-
m-law wanted to say something to you.
which he has promised to let me say. What
would you say if you were told that Rachel
had been m the arms of a Christian and
wmuld not come to you chaste?’
“Say? I would say that it w r as a damned
lie!” said Issie, definitely.
“But that is not quite”——began Levin-
stein, when Ratoffski’s swaying hand re-
strained him.
“Suppose her father wanted to say rub
bish like that to you?” he said.
“I’d say,” said Issie, firmly and rising—
I’d say that I’m satisfied with Rachie just
as she is, and I don’t want to listen to any-
thing about her. Also that as I hear her
outside I’m going to her now, so you’ll
excuse me!”
As he strode out the old men looked at
one another, a sly grin on Ratoffski’s face,
Outside the door Issie held Rachel in his
arms.
The Trooper Calls.
A TRUE-TO-LIFE LITTLE BUSH STORY BY Z. V. WEBB.
A RED-HAIRED youngster first obser-
ved the approach of the representa-
tive of the law. Like a kangaroo
that thumps warning to its mates, he yelled
“Here’s Muldoon,” and made for the tall
timber at the end of the paddock. Billy
knew why the trooper had come. There
was that warm afternoon in late autumn
when it had seemed a sin for a healthy
boy to be droning lessons in the school-
room when he might be enjoying the
pleasures of the bush. Billy had been for-
given by his mother when lie had produced
a hat-full of mushrooms gathered while his
mind should have been on the Nature-study
lesson at school. But now retribution was
overtaking him. Muldoon was on his track.
Well, the trooper should have a run for his
money.
Dad Egan left his dinner at Billy’s cry,
and feverishly drew tacks from the ’possum
skins nailed to the outside wall. Those
’possums had caused Dad much annoyance
until a couple of shots had ended them. But,
nuisances or not, the penalty for killing pro-
tected animals, Dad knew, was a tough one.
“You keep the trooper talking while I
get these skins out of the way, Mum,” said
the man of the house in a croaky whisper.
“I wonder who put me away. P’raps that
swaggie that called last week was a p’lice
spy.”
“It’s the wireless,” moaned Mrs. Egan.
“I know it’s the wireless. I told yer ter
get the license before y’ put it up. Ter
think we only got it last night an’ the
trooper ter be on us to-day ! Y’ won’t ever
listen ter me. It’ll be a fine, I know.”
“Ain’t I got trouble enough without you
growlin’?” Dad snapped, as he struggled
to release the skins which had been too
firmly nailed to the wall.
Pausing for a moment, “Where’s Steve?”
Mum asked.
There was a shuffle inside the kitchen as
Steve pushed back his chair. Nothing ever
ruffled Steve. He had calmly finished his
dinner while the rest of the family gave
themselves over to the excitement of pre-
paring for the impending inspection.
Steve slouched to the door, his big hand
wiping his mouth. “Wha’ cher want?” he
drawled.
“Here!” Dad briskly called in an endeavor
to implant some life into Steve’s movement*.
“Get on yer bike an’ hurry into the town-
ship an’ take out a wireless license. Get
back as quick as yer can. Try to get away
without Muldoon seein’ yer.”
Steve scratched his head. “Yairs.” he
meditated. “An’ who’s goin’ ter look after
me dogs? Only one’s licensed.”
Dad pondered for a moment. “Get Billy
ter take them inter the bush,” he advised.
“Where is he?”
“I think he’s gone,” Mum answered. “He’s
frightened.” *
“Yer’d better take tli’ dogs with you,
then,” Dad told Steve. “Leave one, or it’ll
look funny. You chain up Nigger. Mum,
while Steve gets his bike out.”
Keeping the house between him and the
approaching horseman, the eldest Egan
rode off, three happy mongrels escorting
him, while one miserable hound tied to a
kennel wailed his disappointment at being
left behind.
Lizzie Egan changed into a clean frock
and ran a comb through her unruly locks.
Trooper Muldoon had asked her for a
dance at the Hospital Ball, and, as she
had been engaged at the time, having-
promised the Lancers to Bert Smith, she had
been pleased to observe that the officer had
merely looked on. But after that she’d had
three with him.
The sliprails fell with a clatter, and Mrs.
Egan knotted her apron as she advanced
to meet the trooper, while her husband
ran to the stable to hide the skins beneath
the chaff.
“Good-day, Mrs. Egan,” hailed the
officer. “Nice day, isn’t it?”
“Er—yes,” came the stammered reply.
“I—l’ve just called to make up the jury
list,” said the trooper, looking- around as
though he missed something.
“Oh, it’s the jury!” beamed Mrs. Egan.
“Come in and have a cup of tea. We’re
just havin’ dinner. Liz —zie.”
“Funny!” Mum said afterwards. “He
went off ’thout saying another word about
the jury.”
Grey Eyes.
Grey eyes has Geraldine, mysterious, bright;
In their soft depth I seem to look upon
Pools of clear water in a forest night
When all the stars are wan
And all the cloudy trees are sweet like hair
That swathes with ebon waves a forehead
pale.
Ah, world of strange enchanted shadows,
where
Sings a lone nightingale!
I fain would walk with her to hear its note,
To win her trust, to serve her as a queen.
But she dreams on contented; chill, remote,
Grey eyes lias Geraldine.
VICTORIA.
D. CROZIER.


FAULTLESS
FOOTWEAR
MEN’S and WOMEN’S
BOOTS and SHOES
Obtainable at all leading stores
throughout Australia. Agencies in
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Sydney.
If any difficulty in procuring, com-
municate with Head Offices,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
*SBBBli
People
of Class


Children
enjou
sad
it makes them
iVelland strong
In 4 sizes
oFall Chemists & Stores
MELBOURNE
FOR THE BUSINESS MAN
“Scott’s” suits the business man because it is the most cen-
trally situated hotel in Melbourne—in Collins Street West-
near Hail way Stations, Steamship Wharves, Warehouses and
Offices, because the service is unimpeachable, and because the
hotel is equipped with every convenience that the business
man appreciates. Direct and intercommunicating telephones
and hot and cold water service in each bedroom.
Inclusive Tariff by day and Bed & Breakfast Rate.
Telegrams, “Scotts,” Melbourne. ’Phone: Cent. 9012(6 lines)
WHITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE : : YORK
HARROGATE, EDINBURGH
and other
Beautiful Cathedral Cities.
These are on the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
The track of the “Flying Scotsman.”
SHORTEST AND QUICKEST
between
LONDON AND SCOTLAND.
Illustrated Booklets describing' Resorts on
the L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on
application to Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches ;
or in London at the L.N.E.R. West End
Offices, 71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly,
W.l.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
Tour England and Scotland
by L.N.E.R.
DAD FALLS SICK.
By STEELE RUDD.
DAD was often temporarily disabled —a
fall from a horse, a sharp axe, or a
scrub tick would put him out of
action; but only once could Mother remem-
ber having put him to bed and nursed him.
Though he wasn’t expected to live, accord-
ing to Mrs. Maloney, who had wakes and
dead men on the brain, no one ever really
knew the nature of Dad’s complaint. Mrs.
Anderson, who had had a lot of experience
with Anderson, reckoned it was an inward
trouble, while Mrs. Maloney diagnosed it as
kidneys. Dave, after regarding Dad anxiously
from the bedroom door, fancied he was
contracting Old Uncle’s complaint, “in-
formation of the lungs.” Mother her-
self had great faith in his will-power and
iron constitution, and was sure Dad merely
required keeping in bed and nursing care-
fully for a while. It was the only way to
cure him.
Nearly half a day was spent convincing
Dad that he was ill; the other half went in
inducing him to remove his trousers and get
right ihto bed. When at last he gave in
and got right down to it, groaning and
stiffening his limbs, his tangled hair and
whiskers gracing the pillow, and Mother
smoothing the clothes and tucking his feet
in. Dad was an imposing-looking patient.
Few hospitals, now matter how big, could
boast of one so picturesque.
A sensitive invalid he was, though, and
when we would collect at the door of the sick-
room, staring in sympathy on his hard, hairy
face, and thinking it might be the last time
we would see him alive, he’d get fidgety.
He seemed to think we looked upon him as
a last surviving wild animal and had come
to watch him die.
Old Uncle was more downcast than any
of us. It was hard for him to take his
eyes off Dad. It meant a lot to Old Uncle
if anything serious happened to his
brother. Dad was everything to him—his
hope, his bread and butter. So
about sundown of the second day,
when Dad was in bed, Uncle stole
reverently to the door to see how
he was getting on. Dad, after a
long day, was lying gazing at the
Scripture-text that Sarah had
pasted on the wall, and wondering
how the farm work was going on
outside and if they were milking
the cows dry. After a while a
lump came into Uncle’s throat that
affected his asthma —he always has
asthma; he couldn’t live without
it. Not having heard his footstep
Dad got a start. Suddenly throw-
ing off the bedclothing he raised
himself on his elbow and started
shouting: “To—to” But be-
before he could get out what he
wanted to say lie was forced to
hang over the bed and cough harder
than Uncle. They were coughing to-
gether. “To—to” Dad. still strug-
gling to express himself, lifted liis head while
big tears ran out of his eyes. Then his
voice came with a rush as he roared “To
hell out of here!” Then, exhausted, Dad
fell back limp on the bed.
“Hello ! _ Hello !” Maloney, paying a sick
call on his way home from the railway
station, entered wonderingly. “This ain’t
the way to nurse a sick man, Uncle. Pwhat
are ye doing to him?”
Unable to help himself, Old Uncle was
still doubled up in the throes of his malady.
Maloney, in the centre of the room, looked
despairingly from one to the other.
“Take him away, Maloney! Take him
away!” Dad pleaded hoarsely, throwing his
hairy arms all over the bed. ‘‘And bury him,!”
“Oh, my gracious! Whatever is the mat-
ter?” And Mother came into the room with
a lamp in her hand. All her hopes were
shattered; her nursing and care wasted.
There was the patient quivering and shaking
on the bed.
Uncle, supporting himself against the bed-
post, made further effort to subdue him-
self.
“And he was such a lot better only a
little while ago,” Mother grieved, turning to
“I thought I would find him dozing.”
“Uncle coming in a-tiptoe gave him a
start, I suppose, Mrs. Rudd,” Maloney sug-
gested. “And when ye’re
sick and low in mind,
and someone glides into
a room when ’tis getting
dark, it works a delusion
on you”
Uncle continued to
wheeze and Dad to tremble.
“On the farm one evening, when I wasn’t
feeling myself, and lying thinking what
would happen to the lot of th’m if any-
thing went wrong with me before a doctor
could come, do y’ know I jumped right out
of bed on t’ th’ floor and was flinging me
hands up to stop a black bull from coming
into the room?”
“A Hack bull?” Mother repeated, eyeing
Maloney suspiciously.
“A bull?” Dave grinned.
Joe, with a jews’ harp in hand, squeezed
in behind Dave, and stood gaping ex-
pectantly.
“ ’Twasn’t a bull, of course,” Maloney
admitted. “ ’Twas a cat, a white cat, but
in the state of my mind it gave me a start.”
“You’re a liar, Maloney,” Dad said, turn-
ing his face away.
Maloney, knowing the other was ill, made
no protest.
Then Mother smoothed the bed-clothes
again and Dad grew calmer.
“Now, I’m going to bring you a little
chicken soup, Father,” she said coaxingly;
“some I made from the young rooster Mrs.
Maloney sent over for you”—looking grate-
fully at Maloney—“and while I’m getting
it Mister Maloney and the boys will tell you
all that’s been going on round about during
the day.”
“That’ll be all right, Mother, that’ll be all
right,” and Dad turned over again and faced
the company agreeably. “I know it will be
pretty good when Mrs. Maloney sent it,”
he added.
“Dad, raising himself to his elbow again, noisily buried his whiskers in the soup.”
“You’re feeling better, are y’, Murdoch?”
Uncle, having recovered, inquired of Dad.
Dad, having forgotten the other was still
in the room, lifted liis head in surprise
again. “I will if ye don’t start me cough-
ing,” he grumbled.
Uncle made repeated efforts at self-control,
but a tendency to wheeze again seized him.
( “Dammit,, man!” Maloney protested,
“can’t ye see ’tis the fear of catching that
grave-yarder of yours that’s prostratin’
him ?”
“It gives him infection,” Dave explained
to Uncle.
“It’s looking after yourself you should
be,” Maloney added; “go and take some of
your herb mixture”; and while Joe held open
the door Old Uncle, starting to cough
violently again, passed out to the kitchen.
“Stop that, can’t y’?” Dave hinted to Joe
when the other, becoming restless, struck
a few notes on the jew’s-harp. “Dad don’t
want to hear that thing.”
Joe continued toying with the harp.
Then Maloney shook his head. ** ’Twill
rasp on his ears and upset him again if ye
play it,” he counselled.
“I w-w-wasn’t going to p-p-play it,” Joe
lied. “But D-Dad used to like to hear it.”
Dad tossed a hairy arm out of the blan-
ket. “So long as he don’t stutter in it,”
lie consented, “I won’t mind.”
“Oh, I won’t s-s-stutter in it, D-Dad,”
and Joe, passing the harp across his ready
lips, began an overture.
“Cripes!” Dave regarded Joe sceptically.
Mother returned laden with chicken soup
and slices of fresh bread.
“Well, now,” she enthused, “see can you
eat a little of this for me, Father?”
“If he only can take a sup of it, ’twill
do him the world of good,” Maloney testified,
“Brit hold on, Rudd, and let me help you
to it,” and, rising, ho posed as a hospital
warder to Dad. “That’s right, Mister
Maloney,” Mother approved, smilingly.
But Dad spurned the assistance. “Dam-
mit,” lie growled, “do you think a man’s a
poddy-calf, and can’t feed himself!”
“Not on yer life, Rudd,” and Maloney
desisting, laughed apologetically, while Dad,
raising himself to liis elbow again, noisily
buried his whiskei*s in the soup.
Mother watched with approving eyes;
Maloney and Dave exchanged smiles; Joe
played a soft accompaniment.
“Now, could you take a little of the chick-
en itself, Father? A wing or one of the
legs wouldn’t hurt you. And a nice cup
,of tea after would do you good and make
you sleep.”
Dad made no answer. He didn’t seem to
think one was necessary. But Maloney as-
sured Mother that a leg would do Dad even
more good than the soup itself.
“See there’s no feathers on it then,” Dad
stipulated as Mother went out.
“Feathers themselves is nothing,” Maloney
reckoned; “but when ye get the leg of a
rooster with the spurs on it stuck half-way
down yer gizzard”
Joe, who had imagination, spluttered
through the jew’s-harp.
“There!” Dad burst out. “What did I
tell you about stutterin’ into that dam’
thing?”
“I w-w-wasn’t as-stutterin’, Dad,” Joe
pleaded; “I was 1-1-laughin’ at M-Mister
M-Maloney.”
“Well, who wants y’ to laugh at anyone?
It you want to play— play! If you don’t, go
and hang th’ darn thing up!”
Dad went on with the soup.
“I wonder would you like to try a leg of it
yourself, Mr. Maloney?” Mother, returning
with the poultry, said hospitably. “It will
be a while yet before you get home to your
own tea.” The face of the other beamed.
So did Dave’s.
“Now, I wonder would a leg of it spile me
appetite?” Maloney pondered, scratching his
head.
“What did you say?” Dad asked.
Maloney wondered again.
Dad reached for the dish and put his
hand on it. “You never can tell, there might
be spurs on it, Maloney,” he said.
“ ’Twas very thoughtful of Mrs. Maloney
to send it over this morning,” Mother said,
regarding Maloney with gratitude in her eye.
“An’ just when we hadn’t got anything
grown enough to kill in' our own yard, too,”
she added.
“She have alwez got numbers of them com-
ing on over there. However she do it tli’
Lord only knows,” Maloney, still eyeing Dad,
said absent-mindedly.
“I meant to tell you,” Dave remembered
as a matter of duty, “that when Mrs.
Maloney gave me the chicken to bring over
she said to tell you you owed her three bob
on it.”
Dad suddenly stopped eating. “What?”
he said, scrutinising Dave.
Mother looked interrogatingly at the lat-
ter, then at Maloney. But Maloney had
turned his eyes to the cat, mounted inquisi-
tively on the window-sill.
“I thought she sent it for a present,” Dad
remarked.
“I th-thought so, too,” Mother mumbled
nervously.
“No—three bob!” Dave corrected, shaking
his head, and eyeing Maloney. The latter’s
interest in the cat didn’t abate.
Dad suddenly shoved the chicken from
him, leaned back on the bed, and started
coughing; Maloney took his eyes off the cat;
Joe eased up on the jew’s-harp; Mother and
Dave regarded the patient with concern.
“Is it too rich, or don’t it agree with you,
Rudd?” Maloney asked, with sympathy in
his eye.
“It couldn’t agree more with an Oil
King,” Dad answered coldly. “But it ain’t
chicken,” he concluded —“it’s goanna or
kangaroo-rat.”
“ ‘Twas one of her fancy Langshans that
she paid a guinea for,” Maloney said. “You
don’t insinuate she would deceive you,
Rudd?”
“No one is insinuating, Maloney,” replied
Dad, spi*eading his whiskers and arms over
the bed; “but do you call that rat-claw on
the floor there the spur of a rooster?”
Maloney scanned the remnants; so did
Dave and Joe.
“It m-m-might have been a ch-chicken
once!” Joe suggested.
“Yes,” Dad grunted—“when all of us
was monkeys!”
And Maloney, thinking it was time to go,
rose, and hoped Dad would get on all right,
and spend a comfortable night.
The Prisoner.
Hopes thrown down like shining delf,
Shattered, scattered on Fate’s w T ay,
Seeking freedom from myself
Into town I went to-day.
Out of tune and out of touch
With bright Joy, I walked apart;
For my mood with clam-like clutch
Gripped and held me, mind and heart.
Windows stored with fabrics gay,
Gold and silver, gaud and gem,
These I saw upon my way—
Little time had I for them.
All that yesterday seemed good,
Rich with rare appeal to be,
Dulled and commoned by my mood
Was of slight account to me.
Love-of-life had taken wings,
Earth the weeds of mourning wore;
And upon the face of things
Beauty, somehow, shone no more.
As I wandered here and there
Heedless of what might befall,
Urged by Want and crazed by Care
Seemed the townsfolk, one and all.
Lips, unlit by smiles I met,
Eyes wherein no joyance gleamed,
All athirst to gain and get,
Gluttonous of gold they seemed.
Mile and mile through town I walked
Brooding o’er my blackened lot,
While around me gossips talked
Much of what concerned me not.
Then with shining hopes thrown down,
Shattered all, like broken delf, ;
Home at night I turped from town
Still the prisoner of Myself.
n.s.w.
RODERIO QUINN.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Siikldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New Soutii Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
TIP Oll Australia, New
JJ 1\ ill 1 J Zealand, Fiji, Samoa.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or , "*S
periods and Iransacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
lINITCn insurance
Ulll I E.U COMPANY Ltd.
GRANTS
ESTABLISHED 1862.
MEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances on all classes Ul
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture.&c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
i Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” la an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne-.
$0
u, m
.v.
mm
mm
HOURS
LIGHT
trtn
POtfER
w ure Mite light
So restful to tired
eyes, so simple, so eco-
nomical. Three hours’ light
for one penny.
Use electric light for its
venience, BUT for your eyes’
sake, light an Aladdin for
reading or sewing.
Chases gloom away ; floods your
home with soft white light.
Costs little and saves that cost
over and over again. Burns 94%
air, 6% kerosene vapour, lights
on a wick like an ordinary lamp.
Let us arrange a Free Trial through
your local Dealer. Write for par'
ticular* of thu FREE OFFER.
Aladdin Industries Ltd.
852 Aladdin House,
49-53 Shepherd St., SYDNEY
An Aladdin Dealer in every town.
Shipping, etc.
Welcome to Hawaii!
Swiftly and steadily the mighty
Canadian-Australasian Liners carry
Australians away from Winter s
chill into the radiant warmth of
Hawaiian shores.
Washed by Sparkling Surf
and sun, curtained by deep-jronded
palms, and wreathed with gorgeous
blossoms, Hawaii lies, a vivid spot
on the vast Pacific, welcoming
travellers from every land.
Visit Pacific Isles!
The Niagara leaves Sydney on
June 28 the Aorangi on
July 26.
Return Excursions (from Sydney)
First Saloon £75
Second Saloon . . £55
For particulars and literature write:—•
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY,
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
NNyMbi
t
1
W
U
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(r
■
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
♦Anchises ... 10,000 tons, June 4
fSuevic 12,500 „ June 20
♦Ascanius .. . 10,000 „ July 23
tDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Sept. 11
* Nestor, 15,000 „ Oct. 8
.... 18,500 „ Oct. 16
♦Ulysses .... 15,000 ~ Nov. 12
tThemistocles 11,500 „ Nov. 27
♦First class only. tFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
l'o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALIIANALD .
BARRABOOL .
BALLARAT ..
BARADINE ..
BENDIGO ..
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Pel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Huddart Parker LsHSitv
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDABT PARKER LIMITED
ColllneStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
'.yyy
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President,.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRRCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, eic.
Sunshine and Flowers Now in
HAWAII
Avoid the winter cold by visiting the Islands
of Enchantment, Total cost of round trip from
Sydney in 8 weeks or less (3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii) about £lOO to £l5O. En route to
America or Europe, “stop-over” privilege costs
no more. All modern American conveniences at
good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3 per day.
Tropical scenery ; fresh fruits, vegetables,
thrilling melody ; golfing, motoring, outrigger
canoeing and surf-board riding; inter-island
cruises. Ask steamship or travel agent, or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.SAV., for full description in
colored’ booklet, attaching this advertisement.
NO EXTRA COST TO BREAK YOUR
JOURNEY AT
HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OR AKA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
clue Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WO.OLONGBAB —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., I/FD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co.. Ltd.
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
ďfsdf
asdf
sdf
The strong
of Hi
Watch
Precision
St*
WOUILB
smn.
IT#
\
\e>
vVe
>5,0
SW
v>
\S»
c .
CO®
\\ey
Cl ol
«*>v
> A c
WALNUT
STA.IM
REMOVES THE GREY
c> 6


yipls / fiKgep §ldn
i •« i & 7 \*&
*%<pvely andf/resli bu *
©Usingf ©nly J}gxonk §oap
The beauty of a fine, clear, healthy skin is more important than any one feature the face
may possess. If a girl enjoys a good complexion she cannot fail to look attractive, no matter
what other charms she may lack. It is a case of complexion first, and all other attractions
afterwards. It is not difficult to obtain a clear and satin-like skin.
Rough, ugly skin indicates neglect—but with the daily use of Rexona Soap and Rexona
Ointment to heal any breaks and sores, all complexions and skin
troubles are soon ended.
When you see a girl with a clear, rosy complexion you may
not be far wrong in hazarding a guess that she is a Rexona Girl
and is a constant user of Rexona Soap. The complexion of the
Rexona Girl gives her an air of distinction,
and distinguishes her from other gills who
do not use Rexona Soap and who do not
take the same great care of their skin.
Miss BETTY REA, a
beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes; “I always use
Rexona Soap, and have
never found anything to
equal it for the skin and
asdf
sdf
Helena
Soap
.VS"
sjfc
vm.
m
m
a.c>£^
SIAViW* 0
i
1-
Ahead of its time
AHEAD of its time in all things but Time!
Such is the Elgin. For reliable service,
durable strength, and intrinsic beauty of design
the Elgin is the world’s foremost achievement
in watch-making.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
c%lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
in the Watch Care
/hi? Mark
p
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, I/O).,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
No. 1369
How Uncle Aubrey Went to London
A COMPLETE STORY BY PATRICIA O'RANE.
THIS is what happened to my Uncle
Aubrey in the days before the traveller
by wireless was received in London by
the present smooth and gradual process and
re-created in his entirety, in those days he
was, as it were, reassembled in bits.
He was born in the year 1900 and was
about nineteen when the Smith brothers flew
from England to Australia in the weird
thing that is now in the Museum, and he
remembers all the others who followed, and
still smacks his knee when he tells of Bert
Hinkler, who did it in sixteen days or some-
thing like that.
“ There was an achievement!” he cries.
"Think of it! England to Australia in six:-
teen days!”
And then one of us pipes up : “But, Uncle,
you did it yourself in four hours!” And
then we wait for the outburst.
* * * *
He was married in 1930 to our Aunt
Isabel, and in 1942 she flew to England for
a trip. He was to join her at the end of
the winter, but business affairs suddenly
made it desirable that he should get over
there as. fast as possible. He had made his
preparations and booked his passage in the
Valkyrie, one of the finest and fastest
’planes in the service; but he was a shrewd
business man, and the knowledge that there
was a quicker way pricked and bothered him.
Our father, who was ten years younger and
much more adaptable, voiced his thought for
him:
“Terribly slow journey, you know. Ten
days. Why not slip over by wireless ? They’re
all doing it now.”
Poor Uncle Aubrey! It was like black
magic to him. He had queer ideas about
its being wrong—“irreligious” or something
such —to transmute one’s human flesh and
blood into wave-lengths. He made all sorts
of odd objections.
“Is it modest?” he would say. Because,
of course, in those early days, they didn’t
send you clothes and all—you went au
naturel and bought a suit at the other end,
and if you wanted to you had your luggage
sent on by ’plane.
And when we objected that wave-lengths
were totally invisible he would only growl
and make another objection, such as: “Sup-
posing one went astray?” or “And what of
the Soul?”
However, he walked down one bright
morning, much as a martyr might have
walked to the stake, to the office of the
Amalgamated Wireless Travels (Human
Dept.), and had himself transmitted to the
other side.
I’ve been across, of course, many times
in the last five years ; but the business was
in its infancy in Uncle Aubrey’s day, and
from liis account things seem to have been
really rather precarious and uncomfortable.
To begin with, apparently they froze or
sembfroze them before dematerialising
them, instead of passing the wave-
lengths through prepared ice as they do now.
Uncle Aubrey didn’t like it one bit, sitting
there, poor dear, in the nude, being frozen.
And they gave them some sort of an
anaesthetic, too, instead of the Low Noce,
which just vibrates you peacefully into a
perfectly heavenly unconsciousness. Most
horrible of all, though, must have been the
inaccurate tuning-in of the mind’s wave-
length with that of the body. It was not
until they realised that they must make a
different combination of sense-records for
every person that they achieved the perfect
smoothness and unity between mind and
body that makes the trip a delight now.
Uncle Aubrey declares that they simply
made a rough estimate of his mental wave-
length and adapted it to his body’s just
sufficiently to keep it tagging along. Con-
sequently his one impression of the whole
performance is discord, and jagged edges,
and ghastly fatigue. And, to crown all,
when he was (to use his own disgusted
phrase) “emptied out in London” and re-
assembled at the receiving station, the post-
poned effects of the anaesthetic took hold of
him and he was hideously ill.
He had an odd feeling that the ground
was too far away. He took a step, lurched,
but was nearer to it—took another step and
soared away again. They had thrown a
wrap about him, and then the sickness had
claimed all his attention. Now, however,
he began to feel uneasily that there was
something wrong—queer—as if he hardly
knew how to walk —as if he had become sud-
denly lop-sided. He sat down for a moment,
still feeling breathless and rather weak, and
the dressing-gown he was wearing parted,
slipped aside a little, over a bare knee.
He regarded the knee fixedly 7, with a kind
of hostile, suspicious attention. It was
not his knee. No ! Uncle Aubrey was well
acquainted with his knees, and from what
transpired later devoted to them, though
that may seem incredible. His knees, he
knew, were round and softly covered, lightly
sprinkled with fairish, reddish hairs, and
just a very little bit bandy. This knee was
large and bony and bare —an unfriendly,
truculent, disconcerting knee—and Uncle
Aubrey hated it at sight. Pallid with ap-
prehension he drew aside his dressing-
his gown.
Ah, that was his knee —the left one! He
patted it as if finding an old and trusted
friend. Then, as his eye fell upon the
stranger, beside it, he was filled suddenly
with righteous fury. He bellowed through
the open door of his little cubicle:
“Hi! You! Somebody! Come here —
come here at once!”
The bored official appeared. Uncle
Aubrey by now was spluttering and pouting
out his chest.
This is an outrage!” he boomed.
“Do you hear me? An —an outrageous—
er—outrage. It is an offence against my
dignity; it is—er—a misappropriation of
personal property. I will write to The
Bulletin.”
“Wot’s the row?”
Magnificently Uncle Aubrey swept aside
his gown.
. “This,” he said vith simple grandeur—
“this is the row. And a hell of a row it
will be, my good man, if it is not promptly
remedied.” , , . , ,
The official stared, scratched his head,
sighed and spoke at last placatingly.
“It ’appens, sir, now and agin. Owever,
things can be set right; the other gent, wot s
odd will be cornin’ through in a few moments
—Vs probably on the next floor now-—-and
then we’ll ’ave it adjusted for you. Er—
which,” he stared again, dubiously, is
your hown, sir?”
Uncle Aubrey indicated his rightful limb.
“This one, of course,” he said testily.
“Can’t you see that it fits —it goes—with
the rest of me?”
“Ah,” said the man gloomily, “you never
can tell. I see some misfits in this place,
I can tell you. I’ve seen some splendid
fellers turned out —lookin’ all just perfick
but are they satisfied ? No! Back they
come all in a sweat for their own squinty
eyes, and their own bald ’eads, and their
own ongbongpong. And a chap come in
wantin’ ’is own pug nose back when ’e
could ha’ got away with a fine ’ooked one —
and they tell me that over in the ladies’
department”
His confidences were interrupted by
another official, who thrust a red, harassed
face round the door.
“’Erbert! You got an odd ’ere?. Legs?”
He sighed with relief and mopped his sweat-
ing forehead. “Trot ’im along to the trans-
mitting-room, for Gawd’s sake —the other
bloke’s there, liftin’ the roof off!”
He disappeared and Uncle Aubrey was
beckoned by ’Erbert to follow. He did so,
soaring and dipping, holding on to the wall
of the passage.
He was a good little man, and the
language that he heard as he rocked into
the transmitting-room made the hairs on
the back of his neck bristle. The other
“odd” was standing well up on his own leg,
dangling, disdainfully, Uncle Aubrey’s foot
a good two inches above the ground, and he
was swearing busily. He was a talk well-
preserved man of about sixty—a Colonel
who had served ir. some preposterous war or
other, and he had lined up three clerks and
five mechanics to be sworn at. They stood
and quivered. Uncle Aubrey, for a moment,
quivered too.
“ and you dare,” thundered the
Colonel, “to attach to me—to me —a dumpy,
podgy, gingery, inadequate and totally un-
desirable object such” —he swung Uncle
Aubrey’s leg forward violently—“as this!
You disfigure me with a”
“Sir!” barked Uncle Aubrey, hot in de-
fence of his own. “That leg is mine!”
The Colonel pivoted on his own heel to
observe the interrupter. He bowed ironic-
ally, holding on to the edge of the table.
“I regret,” he replied with savage polite-
ness, “the misfortune which caused me to
be burdened with it. It shall be restored
to you.” He glared suddenly. “Ah! You
have mine!”
Bitterly Uncle' Aubrey replied: “I have,
sir! To my sorrow lam afflicted with your
scraggy, skinny, hairy, cumbersome clothes-
prop. Had I known the dangers—l may
say the horrors—of this unchristian pro-
ceeding”—
’Erbert, anxious and soothing, inter-
vened. He addressed the Colonel.
“Look ’ere, sir, we’re goin’ to be rushed
presently, but if we ’urry we can put you both
through and reassemble your wave-lengths
all over again. It’s the only way.”
Grim and breathing hate at each other
Uncle Aubrey and the Colonel floated out
once more into-space.
When Uncle Aubrey came round again in
his little cubicle he had both the Colonel’s
legs! He gave a yell of anguish and a very
worried ’Erbert confronted him.
“It’s been a naccident, sir,” ’Erbert ex-
plained apologetically. “I thought we could
run you both through before the week-end
rush for Paris started; but the Colonel got
caught and he’s been taken up by M4l at
Paris. And, of course, the legs being wrong
again w 7 as just a naccident.”
“Accident!” shouted Uncle Aubrey,
stretching the Colonel’s legs out. before him
in disgust—“what are you going to do
about it? Can’t they send him back from
Paris at once?”
“Not till to-morrow they can’t, sir. You
see the transformers are workin’ full time
and only those who ’as booked ’as a chance
on a Frid’y night.”
Uncle Aubrey cried in despair: “I have
important, most pressingly important, busi-
ness”—
’Erbert soothed: “Well, sir, between
you and me, why not go and attend
to it? After all, it is a pair you got now,
and you might as well use them. I dare-
say,” he added tactlessly, “the Colonel’s
makin’ the best of yours over there.”
“Can I go out in public,” demanded
Uncle Aubrey, “with—er—in—on these
abominations? Can I—good God, I ask
you!—can I go to my wife with another
man’s legs?”
“I dunno why not, sir,” ’Erbert asserted
phlegmatically. “Many women likes a
change.”
But Uncle Aubrey would not do it. I
think, on the whole, he was wise. His
round little body must have looked quaint
perched up on the Colonel’s uncompromis-
ing military legs. He dozed uneasily all
night; and in the morning, when the Colonel,
haggard, weary, breathing fire and slaughter,
was picked up again in London, he almost
-wept with delight to see his own dear legs
again. The Colonel gazed hungrily, too,
at his, and then they both eyed ’Erbert
malevolently.
“Let there be.no mistake,” Uncle Aubrey
thundered as they were led once more into
the transmitting-room—“let there be no mis-
take this time!” And “Heaven help you,
Herbert,” growled the Colonel, “if there
is!”
There wasn’t; and Uncle Aubrey’s busi-
ness turned out most satisfactorily. But
he and Aunt Isabel came home in the good,
safe, old-fashioned way, by ’plane.


NEXT WEEK.
“Mr. Appleyard Gets a Job.”
The gripping story of an in-
mate of an Old Men’s Home
who has a wonderful day-
dream, and of what he did to
make the dream come true.
By Margaret Fane
and Hilary Lofting.
“Sergeant Q’Hell ”
One of the best of J. H. M.
Abbott’s tales of the Macquarie
days.
AND THREE OTHERS.
THE
n
□
24/45 h.p. 6-Cyl. Tourer
EXTREME flexibility with
top gear performance of 3
to 60 m.p.h. Four-speed gear
box, right hand change, low
gear axle ratio necessitating
change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the
Britisher overseas who wants
a suitable high-class British
car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, 9 1 in.
ground clearance,
special springing
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
Full particulars from
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd.,
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
Uhe hand that holds
the" VENUS"
plans the World
jgjlgF Ihe first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharjl
W detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H cd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
&
Wolsey
will protect
you
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear for
Women, Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half Hose
for Men and i Hose
and Socks for Children.
IF you want to be well, wear Wolsey,
the finest unshrinkable wool under-
wear. It is made in Leicester, Eng-
land, by skilled British labour. It
is pure, comfortable, and will protect
your health no matter how the tem-
perature varies. Buy one garment
and wear it to-day, and notice how
much warmer you are, how much
better fitted to battle against
chilis. Look for the Wolsey Head
Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
C.F.H.
Simple Peters.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY FURNLEY MAURICE.
BUT Mrs. Holtson always did take too
much back-talk from her boys,” I said.
“It never troubled her,” Mabel re-
plied ; “she was always so confident of her
ability to deal with events when they arose.’
‘‘So many events are talk, especially back-
talk" I began.
‘‘Oh, don’t start that!” and her brows
puckered impatiently. “The old lady has
had a hard fight to bring all those big boys to
manhood.”
“She’s always looking for fight” I
began again, but couldn't get on with it.
“That’s only one of the absurd, obvious
and inappropriate things you will persist
in saying.”
So I had to soften it away by explaining
that I wasn’t pressing the metaphor too far.
“Adrian is quite a nice boy,” my wife
went on, “but, like the others, a little
uncouth toward his mother.”
“Perhaps we can forgive that,” I adven-
tured ; “he has a young wife and a baby,
and his mother is living with them.”
“Possibly the situation has its perils,” my
wife replied, somewhat reluctant.
Young Adrian came in soon after and
told us all about it in such tones that Mabel
contrived to keep a polite and interested
complexion toward him while she softly
closed all the available doors and windows.
“Mother’s got me fair in the brisket!”
cried the irate son. “Mompey was well be-
hind in his contributions, and I have be n :i
writing to him for months about it. I ex-
plained what a rough spin Mother was get-
ting with nothing to depend on but her old-
age pension and the small allowance I make
her. The beggar never answered till I got
fierce and called him names, and then he
suddenly came to light with twenty-five
quid.”
“How splendid!” said my wife.
“Splendid, be hanged!” cried the boy. “Do
you know what she wants to do with it?”
Of course we knew quite well, because Mr;.
Holtston had told my wife only an hour be-
fore; but, being well brought-up, we denied
all knowledge of it.
“She wants to get a divorce!”
“Rather an expensive whim,” I said.
“I should think it was!” cried Adrian.
“She knows she’s a fine-looking woman ; she
knows she carries her age remarkably well;
she fancies herself. That’s wliat’s the matter.
She’s got the knack of dressing. When she
goes down for her
pension anyone
would think she
was a widow with
a few terraces of
houses. She hasn’t
seen the old man
for twelve years,
and it’s a moral
he’ll never trouble
her again; but now
at sixty-eight she
wants her freedom,
as she calls it, and
she’s willing to do
in twenty-five or
thirty quid in cold
blood to get it.”
“Amazing!” we
both breathed.
“If she’s going to
come these silly
capers she’ll have
to find somewhere
else to live. I
won’t stand it!” he
added with spiteful
emphasis. “She’s as hard as nails about it,
too. I tell her what I think, and she just
sits and snorts.”
“Snorts?” I said. “What malevolence!”
“Yes, you can almost see the flames com-
ing out of her nostrils. She says she’s reared
four heavyweight sons and been chained up
to a house for over fifty years with a waster
of a husband under her wing, and now she
demands freedom!”
“It’s probably only a passing whim,”
said my wife. “She seems to be quite happy
as she is.”
“She’s too happy; happier than she’s ever
been in her life, and it’s making her roman-
tic. What’s she want freedom for? She’s
got too much time on her hands now—more
than she knows what to do with. She
fancies herself, that’s what’s the matter.”
When Adrian had blown off all his steam
and departed, I asked my wife the full
strength of it.
“It’s Mr. Peters,” she said. “She met
him here one afternoon by accident, and
again at the post office, where they were
both collecting their pensions. She says
he’s a nice old chap, so different from the
men she’s been used to, but badly needs
someone to look after him !”
I let the unreproducable tone of sardonic
roguery pass and fell to thinking of Peters.
Poor old Peters! My admiration for Mrs.
Holtson is unbounded, but I love old Peters.
He was at the Royal in ’7l, before the
fire, and never lost a day’s work by it either.
Music and memories shake through him like
windblown bird-songs through a forest of
withered trees. He is full of old and quaint
stories which he tells wearily in a faded
voice. He never bothers about worldly
things. “Everything in the world is quite
useless,” he says plaintively; “nothing mat-
ters.” Tottering about from friend to friend
and home to home, he dislikes being asked
whence he has come or where he is going,
even though he breaks in upon your first
slumbers or sets out wandering into the
early morning hours. He has an evasiveness
of manner that forbids prying into his wan-
derings. Occasionally, when my wife is not
present, he has told me his amorous adven-
tures with a sweet and candid humor. He
must have been a bit of a stunner in his
time, and, evidently, even now the frayed
rags of his sex charm must be blowing about
him: and Mrs. Holtson. with her fagged
romanticism, was anxious to repair them.
But that’s cruel.
I remember the times when old Peters
would announce his arrival by a nervous tap
at my door. Quiet eyes peer into my room,
and he stands looking up at me through his
bushy eyebrows, for he stoops considerably.
“May I come in and play over my new
gavotte?” he inquires. “It is very soft and
delicate. I am certain it will not disturb
the children.” And when I tell him how arlad
we are to have the privilege, he has the
faculty to understand that it is something
more than a mere mannerly remark. After
daintily disturbing the silence for a while
he shuffles away into the night again, hum-
ming a fragment of melody from some old
opera he has forgotten the name of—they
played it just before the Royal was burned
down, after the Ilistori season,
Like an old ruined castle, he is crammed
with memories he is unaware of, and his
manner has all the quiet urbanity of simple
°ld music. He does not need to tell Ins remi-
niscences—he is them. And he feels too old
now to be disturbed about anything. His
sobriety is not above suspicion, but lm is
what miglit be called a perfect drinker,
Afraid of the regular life old age lias allotted
bim ’ he contrives to drink just enough to
keep himself continually hovering slightly
above its level, so that he never really touches
it: - 0116 wet lli S llt , as he was leaving, we
offered him an umbrella. “No, thanks,” he
said, “I don’t know how to use it. and I’m
sure to leave in a pub -” But Ms simplicity
is not his only charm, for one cannot help
suspecting, at times, that he is not so old
llor S uileles s as he appears,
I never did think he needed anyone to look
aß:er him I least of all Mrs. Holtson with
lier overwhelming and magnificent instinct
f° r mothering. An admirable woman cer-
tainly; 110 °ne could deny that. But
it wasn’t quite fair to her to stalk the old
chap so ruthlessly—she did everything rutli-
lessly. She and her boys had been neigh-
hors of ours for fifteen years, and there
were grounds for my misgivings,
“Rubbish!” said my wife. “It might be
the best thing that could happen.”
“Quite likely,” I said, “but there’s an
even chance it mightn’t be.”
So the matter was left to Mrs. Holtson’s
all-too-capable hands; it was the sort of
thing she was used to and enjoyed. Lots
of things had been left in Mrs. Holtson’s
hands during her li&time, and very few of
them had suffered thereby-—but I feared for
poof old Peters.
About ten evenings after Adrian’s indig-
nant outburst the mother and son came
around to us again.
“The romance seems to have punctured,”
said the son uncouthly, but with a leavening
humor.
The way the old lady took her son’s gibe
was admirable.
Her mouth quivered
at the corners in
the beginnings of a
smile, her brows
made a faint
attempt to gather
in a scowl of re-
proof, and her nos-
trils quivered in
preparation of the
: “snort” that Adrian
had before referred
to. She was, some-
how, regally kitten-
ish as she sat there
ready to confess de-
feat in an enter-
prise that had in-
terested her pas-
sionately, but
which others, she
knew, considered
foolish.
“He’s a dear old
fellow,” she said
gently. “I sounded
him, but it’s impossible.”
“I didn’t think he was a marrying man,”
I added fatuously. (The adverb is my
wife’s.)
“On the contrary” began Mrs. Holt-
son so emphatically that her erectness
wavered. Then, with a genuine tenderness,
as she nervously picked at a thread in th?
lap of her dress, she murmured bashfully,
“His wife is still alive —she is in an asylum.”
Mabel saw it coming.
“Hush!” she said frantically as she
stumbled toward Adrian, and almost put her
hand over his mouth. But she was too
late; before she got there Adrian had said
with savage joy:
“That’s where you ought to be!”
After the four of us had struggled breath-
lessly to the surface of the ocean of mixed
climaxes, my wife and I supplied the neces-
sary reproofs and sympathy. Neither was
accepted with much grace; in fact, they
were made to appear quite unnecessary.
“Adrian is a good boy,” she smiled ap-
provingly on her son, “dutiful and affec-
tionate.”
She always contrived to give one the idea
that she, in spite of everything, only dealt
in first-class commodities.
“You never told me Mr. Peters was mar-
ried,” Mabel said in an injured tone after
the visitors had gone.
“He isn’t,” I said with that emphasis
which only a complete knowledge could
supply.
“Oh, the old”
“Be careful now!” I interrupted, and
raised an eloquent hand like a traffic con-
stable intercepting a torrent of motor-cars.
I am aware that unscrupulousness is not
a thing to be admired, yet my affection for
old Peters has a touch of admiration in it
now.
The Past.
As ringbarked trees blanch in the icy air
When autumn’s o’er,
The past is a reaped field that will not bear
Aught any more.
Garnered for food, alas! by those who rise
Not here again ;
The grain, long gathered—turned to dust,
too —lies
Beyond our ken.
Yet Sappho’s songs endure, and iHomer
sings,
Even as of old,
Of life itself and the undying things
That we behold.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


asdf
a
WESTINGHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
- CONCORD WEST. N. S’ WALES
Queensland agents—« CHDKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—B3-107 Featherston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House.” 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EIiDEIt, SMITH & CO., ETO., Adelaide, S.A.
RAY'D‘Vac
The Mark of Superior Quality
RADIO
BATTERIES
“A”
“B”
“C”
m
Usadiow
*OLTS ONiCt*;
A"®
S 3
Longer Life
Their Longer Life is due to their
patented construction, whichin-
sulates the cells from each other
and provides for possible ex-
pansion of the electrolyte.
No hot pitch is poured
into the batteries, and
thereby many hours'
service are added.
Better Reception
Ray-O-Vac batteries give un-
distorted tone, because of their
low internal resistance which
is only from 1/3 to 1/6 of
that found in other batter-
ies. And because of their
greater staying power,
the cost of radio upkeep
is greatly lessened.
Write our distributor jor the name of your nearest dealer.
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle .. •• 21/- *’
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; gin. and gin,
. Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Prtcif Wap
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15, a.in. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and
luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon^ Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at3 P . m .fr<m, No. 6 JETTY. CIRCULAR QUAY
Seis.: 86276 (4 line.). Chlldren ‘ 6d »ydney Ferries, Ltd.
To secure sound Health
and to be free from
SICK HEMjKCHt
.BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
INDIGESTION
%
asdf
Every Swan is cl
lifelong companion
ONCE you have selected your “Swan”
Pen —with a nib exactly suited to your
handwriting—you will have made a life-
long friend. It will ease the burden of
correspondence and be ever ready to commit
your thoughts to paper without wasting your
time or your patience.
The ladder-feed of the “Swan” Pen
ensures a steady, even flow of ink immedi-
ately the pen touches the paper.
“Swan” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, “Swan” Ink
and “ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Use "Swan” Ink for “Swan” Pens and all Pena.
... .
o°^
AG® ..- "
S f<..--;;.,--
u
(V
’’ * , Y® e
* ftOr . # ••• «v^V’
4‘ 3- 0 ,
**•
#*’ .*
.* v
.• • *‘$ e Y *o*


beauty and
Power that
leave you
spellbound
100 horse power.
40 m.p.h. the day you
buy it.
80 miles an hour, later.
After first 1000 miles
oil and grease changes
necessary only at 2,500
miles intervals.
Full-vision steel body;
low centre of gravity.
Amplified-action four-
wheel brakes which
multiply the pedal pres-
sure 3 \ times*.
A modern thin-grip
self - centring steering
wheel of advanced de-
sign which doubles your
ability to handle the car.
131 inch wheel-base but
turns easily in a narrow
street. No finer riding
car at any price.
All new models equip-
ped with shock absorb-
ers and four - wheel
brakes.
I
%
rv
mjl
mmmh).
m
mm
mi
pun 1
STU DE BAKER'S
NEW
PRESIDENT
i
Teaaing the motor mode in style, performance, lu xui y of appoint-
ment and completeness of equipment, Studebaker’s New
PRESIDENT Straight Eight is indisputably THE car of 1928.
Judge the New President beside any car ever built at any price.
Impressive in its distinctive beauty it is worthy of Studebaker’s
reputation for high quality—-a value leader, too, at
its exceptionally low price.
President Models from £665 to £875
Commander Models from £560 to £650
Director Models from £378 to £570.
Erskine Models from £298 to £448.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
i 6 MuaeMKer corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
.
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
* Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street.
for fully equipped
Cars in Australia
/;‘-V t; j ''• ' ■■
Endurance Records
and America.
v A'.; 1 ; ."A i
WMBB7
