

JOHNNIE
WAbKER
Born 1820 ~ Still going Strong
/ SIILL
\mu
€!om
001 H.
com
com.
com
min
term.
i STILL
/ stm
00! ft
cor $
SpSCO
2fi
,4fe€
A mn
AM 1020 STILL 001 NO STRfc
i'Rfl 1020 STILL 00!HO STR&
CRN 1020 STILL 00!HO STROI
/ORN 1820 STILL COiNC STRONG
BORN 1820 STILL 00!HO STftONj
BORN 1820 STILL 00!HO STRONG
BORN 1820 STILL 00!HO STRON<3
lORN 1820 STILL 001 HO STRONG
lORN IB2C
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
STILL
STILL 00! to
STILL CL
STROM
STROM
m
b
ON
lORN 1820 still ©c
lORN 1820
IRN 1820 STILL CO
lORN 1820 ST! Li
RN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN
BORN
JORN
iORN
lORN I „
)ORN 111 > IMTJiP —
ioRN stron
)orn stron
)ORN STRON
)ORN lB2o\>fU. COINS STRONG
iORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
lORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
lORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
30RN 182© STILL GOING STROI
iORN 1820. STILL GOING STRONG
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STR
[TORN 1820 STILL COIN© STRONG
CORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
BORN 182© STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING. MB
ORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
lORN 1820
IRN 1820
1820
LC
J*tw»-**
5 **
uirMEST exhibition
■"*&*«** riM
This label
guarantees
positive purity
and maturity.
Bottled only by ourselves
in Bond under Customs
supervision.
It's easy to see why
“JOHNNIE WALKER”
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
r
77
The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2506.
READ “THE TOKEN,” PAGE 47—SPLENDID.
Wednesday, February 22, 1928.
price 6d.
•Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
<553
CSS
Be a proud
possessor
of a
LOEWE
Look for the LOEWE
Mark
(L&C°)
p'OR 70 years Loewe pipes
- L have remained London’s best
briars. There is no secret about
the reputation they have won in
the Mother Country of being
“ the best pipe of all.” This
reputation has been built of
honest endeavour to maintain
the Loewe achievement of
pipe perfection. Smoke a
Loewe Briar and you will
immediately appreciate what
this means.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect.
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
skilled London craftsmen.
The Bulletin
« 7k«»
Simplex
Medium*
ONE OF THE MANY*
LOEIVE SHAPES
( AU LOEWE
shapes
2 Y-
SILVER
MOUNTED
UfXc»l
£TS|
'NE, BOX 555, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE
fejNY—a
□
Q 6
24/45 h.p. 6-Cyl. Tourer
Extreme flexibility with
top gear performance of 3
to 60 m.p.h. Four-speed gear
box, right hand change, low
gear axle ratio necessitating
change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the
Britisher overseas who wants
a suitable high-class British
car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, 9 J in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. I x-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
The Bulletin
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin —bagger and better.
Rpitn
5^
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
MUSTDSE KILIS FLIES
The Red Page
Sadness and the Sun
In Writing of Thomas Hardy, Nettie
Palmer touched on an Australian charac-
teristic which Hardy’s'vision had penetrated
in “Jude the Obscure.” She postulates
Hardy’s method of arriving at the “sad-
ness of a colonial.” I like to think that
Hardy, either by conscious or unconscious
reasoning (and Art is mostly the latter),
realised that a land of almost continual
sunshine and brilliant atmosphere would
be responsible.
The Australian is supposed to be of un-
daunted cheerfulness. Undaunted he is,
but not so cheerful. As an unskilled
laborer, mainly in the bush, and as a pri-
vate in the A.1.F., I have found the gloom
behind our racial cheerfulness, or what,
through The Bulletin, has oome to be
known as the casualness of the Australian.
Our climate causes this huge indifference.
The English variable climate gives to life
there the delight of change without up-
heaval. Here any marked climatic change
means catastrophe. The country mind sees
this and accepts it without expression, which,
to me, is the great bravery of knowledge.
The same thing was shown at the war,
where the. same sadness was behind the
spirit of something like indifference. It
was just the acceptance of enormous odds,
aware of penalties, which sadness of heart
alone sees worth the effort to fight, since
sadness is the spirit of knowledge.
Without touching Australia it is only
necessary to look over the historic field of
the Old World to see that the natives of
the sun are gloomy. In Greece tragic ex-
pression was made perfect; in Israel the
God of Hosts was like Mars; in Spain the
Inquisition was a cradle of torture; Italy
can exhibit centuries splashed with blood.
And so on to the equatorial region where
the mind is darkest, and indifference at its
greatest where life is concerned.
Education has put a restraint on indi-
vidual murders, but the same conflict goes
on in the mind. It is much easier to start
a revolution in Darwin than in Hobart.
The brain is more fertile and all fertility
is sad in essence. The rapidity of growth
and decay makes it sad. Here where things
grow old in a generation, with the inevi-
tability of life and death pressing on one,
how can we escape the sorrow of it!
That is why the whimsical falls flat in
Australia. Our sense of things is as stern
as our sun. A delicate play of ideas is just
as foreign as a flexible tone in our speech.
Lightness of spirit seems to be confined
to the temperate zones. There the charming
extraneous legends of Christ arose. As
the four Gospels tell the life of Christ in
the spirit of Greek art, rising to a mighty
climax, the milder climates have satisfied
their environment by adding spiritually
useless folk-tales to rob it of its stark sub-
limity.
It was in Italy Dante traced the horror of
Hell in words beyond forgetting. Milton
in England thunders his “Paradise Lost”
after the lightning of Dante’s vision. He
overwhelms, but does not thrill one with
the piercing sadness of Dante.
Sadness, as I understand it, is not misery
of spirit. It is a clear knowledge of the
forces against one and keeping on with the
game. This sentiment is unconsciously
understood all through Australia and is
unconsciously displayed by nearly all small
settlers.
MICHAEL LYNE.
The Golfer in Art
Not since the tar-off day when the Fathers
of the Church argued as to the number of
angels who could dance on the point of a
needle has there raged such a controversy
as that surrounding the origins of golf. In
A Golfer’s Gallery (Country Life, Lon-
don), Bernard Darwin, in a humorous but
guarded introduction to a beautiful volume
of colored reproductions of pictures of
golfers, most of them by old-time painters,
approaches the question with some diffi-
dence. Being an Englishman, however, he
is inclined to take the credit, or it may be
the blame, for his native land. He even
quotes the records of the Blackheath, a
mushroom growth of 200 years or so, as
proof that it was the first of all golf clubs.
This is a grievous error, and not to be left
uncontradicted. Long before the successful
invasion of England by the Scots under
James VI. and 1., an invasion which intro-
duced, among other amenities, the game to
the Southron, golf was played by all classes
and both sexes throughout Lowland Scot-
land. But the Scottish golfer was no crabbed
recluse. He played communal golf; the
Scottish towns and hamlets were the first
to display the idea of municipal links. On
these the burgesses played free of charge,
though a fee was extracted from strangers,
There was no clubhouse, but there was
generally an inn adjacent where the charac-
teristic golfing ritual of playing one’s game
over again could be observed. If the inn
was not convenient, the players carried the
necessary adjuncts to the game with them,
or employed their servants to do so, as
some of the pictures in this volume show,
with great clarity. The Scottish golf records
of that day were not kept in club minutes
or proceedings but in the statutes of the
realm, which forbade the game as being an
incentive to cursing. In this resp'"t, though
the old statutes are in abeyance, ,olf seems
to have retained the reputation it enjoyed
in the days of David the Lion, or of James
of the Fiery Face, who was passionately
addicted to the game. Other records may
be found in the records of the Bailies’ and
Provosts’ courts, while one of John Knox’s
fulminations against Queen Mary deaiis
with the iniquity of golf on Stirling links
on the Sabbath.
But the protagonist of England as the
home of golf is not greatly impressed with his
own argument. He thus offers, as an alter-
native, the suggestion that golf may have
originated in Holland, and he cites many
pictures and drawings showing golfing scenes
in Holland. Most of the large pictures
show the game being played on the frozen
meadows of the Dutch winter. One fine
painting, “A Frost Scene,” by Adrisen Van
de Velde, shows two kilted golfers preparing
to tee off, thus proving the Scottish con-
tention that the steady immigration into
Holland of Scottish adventurers, students
and refugees, before and during the Thirty
Years War and later during the persecu-
tions of the Covenanters, was really respon-
sible for the appearance of the game in
Holland, and for its establishment there.
How firm this was is seen by the fact that
12 of the 18 pictures in this desirable book
are painted by prominent masters of the
Dutch school, including Jan Steen, Cuyp,
and Peter de Hooch. Steen’s contribution
is the world-famous interior, “St. Nicholas
Day,” wherein a little boy is depicted as
overjoyed at the gift of a very modern-
looking mid-iron, while another youth sheds
tears of envy at his good luck. A quaintly
delightful portrait is “A Girl with a Golf
Club,” the starched and beruffled child
holding a club of a kind that cannot be
seen even in the most futurist modern
golfer’s bag, while she also clutches a very
obese ball in the other pudgy fist. “A
Young Dutch Golfer,” by Cuyp, is another
portrait Of an “Associate” that is full of life
and color. The little girl addresses her ball
in very orthodox style; but she has com-
mitted the unforgivable sin of keeping her
eye on the camera, so to speak, and not
on the ball, a habit that has proved fatal
to many a “gallery” player in our own day.
Yet neither of these can compare in beauty
with Wybrand de Geest’s lovely golden-
haired girl, with a marvellously pleated ruff
that makes one wonder how she ever man-
aged to keep her head down while address-
ing the ball, and a stomacher and farthin-
gale even more unsuited to the demands of
the game.
The remainder of the plates are present-
ments of prominent English and Scottish
golfers, all comparatively modern compared
with De Geest’s beauty of 1650 or the earlier
girl of 1595. Outstanding is the portrait of
Mr. John Taylor, captain of the Honorable
Company of the Edinburgh Golfers, by Sir
John Watson Gordon, rival of the great Rae-
burn. A man of parts is Mr. Taylor, evi-
dently, for he goes golfing in white silk
stockings and patent pumps and wearing a
white top hat that might arouse the envy
of the chairman of the A.J.C. In another
painting, Mr. William Innes goes bravely
in a scarlet coat with gold epaulets. He is
crowned with ahyery wide black felt hat, and
he is followed; by a caddy bearing an amaz-
ing assortment of clubs supplemented by a
large black bottle.
This book should be in the possession
of every golf club, even if it has to be chained
to the table or distributed in frames round
the walls. Its artistic merits, apart from, the
special interest of its subject, make it a
delight.
THE McHAGGIS.
Without Honor in His Own Country
One of the most attractive writers on
literary subjects that Australia has ever
known, A. G. Stephens, always suffered as
a critic, in my opinion, from being too much
of a critic. He has broke# a long silence
by contributing to a Maoriland journal a
couple of columns of' analytical chatter about
Adam Lindsay Gordon and Hemy Lawson.
Evidently he has a very poor opinion of
both poets, but he is especially severe on
Lawson. “Brains sodden with alcoholic
liquor”... .“utterly careless whom he de-
famed in revenge for imaginary wrongs”
. \ .“an imbalanced mind”... .“incapable of
controlling his distracted thoughts or their
issue in disordered conduct”... .“unhappy
mind and dismal writings” “so busy with
the weeds that he rarely reaches true Aus-
tralian soil,” and so on and so on.
X never saw Lawson in the flesh, but I
have heard from those who did of the
unhappy details of his earthly pilgrimage.
Why they should be raked into a critical
estimate of the value of his work is a little
obscure. Stephens’s main complaint against
Lawson is that he failed to lay due emphasis
on “the beauty, the fertility, the peaceful
homeliness, the grace and refinement of
Australia.” But how, in the names of all the
gods, could Lawson write of the things he
didn’t and couldn’t see? It’s like asking
Dante to break fc-th into “Bab Ballads”
or quarrelling with Gilbert because he didn’t
do something on the lines of the “Inferno.”
The oyster doesn’t go in for pearl produc-
tion unless there’s something the matter
with it, and to reprove a poet because he
isn’t a respectable umbrella-carrying citizen,
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising.”
Anthony Horderns
“Where Men are better served”
—s
mm*
IgPf:
V
8
i'.'i
£ lip
Tailored-to-Measure Perfectly
Made-to-measure Suits. Individually styled—authentically cut, and
neatly finished by Anthony Horderns’ expert tailors. Available in
high-grade Australian and English Plain and Fancy Worsteds in
newest weaves. Fawn, Blue, Grey, Brown and Fancy shades. Also
available in Navy Serge, guaranteed Indigo Dye Serge. Although
moderately priced, quality and value are paramount. Self-measure-
~ ment forms and patterns post free on request . . . . . £7/17/6
(Tailoring, Ground Floor; Carriage Paid)
Anthony Hordern
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
'Phone Number
DU2401 (40 lines)


By
.esc
o
MT
A
mil
jjjj
C)
<s
r\
<lho
Director
Duplex
Tourer
F.O.R.
Sydney.
N
<5
o
o
r FHE New Studebaker Director Duplex offers advan-
tages and conveniences found in no other open car.
In a few seconds, it can be changed from an open to
a closed car—or vice versa—without leaving your
seat or disturbing the passengers. Roller side
enclosures concealed in the steel ribbed upper
structure can be easily lowered or raised to effect
the transformation.
Below its distinctive low-swung body lies the sturdy
Studebaker chassis built to stand hundreds of thou-
sands of miles of hard going. Proof of this lies in
the list of 1,009 owners who have driven their
Studebakers 100,000 to 500,000 miles.
The quiet Studebaker L-head engine with its
tremendous reserve power assures abundant power
for hills, speed for the open road and amazing
agility in city traffic.
Open Cars from £378 Closed Cars from £468
See the Erskine Six, built by Studebaker nogo
—the first really fine quality small car
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY
Australian and New Zea J and Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES s - ' -
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Limited, Sydney
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors. Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
WMB77
§


Eft
fr fl>J
Si
IS®
Tm
(' ii 1
im
k
m
VW
Tm
TTI
m
The TWO MEN’S SHOPS
oj DAVID JONES’
AT THE NEW STORE: A “Store within a Store.”
All one spacious floor for Man’s convenience, where undisturbed
he can select from the largest variety of quality wearing apparel
ever assembled in one Store. Then too, for his services, an expert
barber, a manicurist and “the boy in blue” for Shoe Shines.
Will you come and see this Shop for yourself ?
AT THE OLD STORE : Those to whom this location
is more convenient will find here duplicate stocks of all the high
class Men’s wear which is available in our New Store. Same high
qualities, same variety, same prices. Another Store exclusive
to Man !
DAVID JONES’
New Store : Castlereagh , Market & Elizabeth Streets.
Branch Men's Shop : Opposite G.P.O.
writing for respectable umbrella-carrying
citizens, savors of the unreasonable. Lawson
was the poet of rough uncouth men and un-
fortunate women, of the down-and-outers
that civilisation manufactures in such
prodigious numbers. That he could extract
so much gentleness and pity, so much
kindly humor and philosophic fortitude out
of his sordid environment—surely that is
an achievement that deserves a little praise;
even a little forbearance?
Stephens rails at Lawson as a “bad adver-
tisement for Australia,” because, forsooth,
he wrote of life as he found it. It is an
unfair charge. It would be as reasonable
to reproach Kipling with having shown that
Indian society isn’t, morally at all events,
much more impeccable than that of Darling-
hurst, Woolloomooloo and Surry Hills. Mr.
Stephens’s indictment of Kipling, if I
remember rightly, was that he was an in-
veterate thief of other men’s ideas. That,
at least, is a charge that can’t be laid at
the door of poor Lawson.
The judgment of posterity, I think, will
place Lawson not much below Robert Burns,
with whom the Australian had many things
in common. The personal derelictions of
the amorous and thirsty Scot have been
long forgotten, and he is not regarded by
any Scot of my acquaintance as a bad
advertisement for his native land. Let us
forget Lawson’s trespasses and cherish his
achievements. There is little else in Aus-
tralian literature so well worth cherishing.
A. D. W.
The Marionette Poet
“We are sending this letter as from a
subterranean dungeon,” wrote a group of
Russian writers in a piteous appeal to the
writers of the world. “At great risk we are
writing it; it will be carried across the
border at the risk of life.” Is it nothing,
they ask, to the outer world that the litera-
ture of a great country is being stifled?
“The idealism so characteristic of Russian
literature is considered a crime. Our classics
that have an idealistic tendency are elimi-
nated from public libraries.” Modern
writers even suspected of idealism are treated
as enemies and destroyers of the Bolshevik
social system.
The extraordinary lengths to which Russia
is carrying its doctrines of materialism can
be gleaned from The Mind and Face of
Bolshevism (Putnam), an examination of
cultural life in Soviet Russia, translated
from the German text of Rene Fiilop Miller,
one section of which, dealing with “the
mechanising of poetry,” expands and illu-
strates the plaint of this group of Russian
writers that idealism under the rule of the
Communist is sentenced to death. Boh
shevism is out to kill the soul of man not
only in religion but in art and literature.
The Bolshevist holds, says this writer, that
“a poem is nothing but a mere conjunction
of sounds, a painting, merely a mechanical
combination of flecks of color.” To admit
that there is such a thing as genius, or the
existence of individual qualities which differ-
entiate a man or group of men from their
fellow citizens, would be a denial of Com-
munism. It therefore became necessary to
reduce all humanity to pure terms of
materialism. This was done under a gro-
tesque camouflage of science. “Russian
physiologists, by innumerable experiments
on dogs and other animals, showed that
every apparently independent and direct
expression of the intelligence, is a motor
reflex, a reaction to a nerve stiinuhis. From
the behavior of a dog which had acid
dropped into its mouth in various attendant
circumstances, they drew a number of con-
clusions about the connection between ex-
ternal irritations and their alleged ‘soul
reactions,’ and finally arrived at the posi-
tion that every spiritual act, however spon-
taneous, is nothing but the effect of a sense
stimulus, and will occur every time in the
same way in the same conditions with an
exactness which may be calculated before-
hand.” Thus genius, talent and intuitions
were explained on purely mechanical lines.
The poet was no longer born but made such
by the application of appropriate stimuli.
To the Bolshevik metaphysicians this purely
physiological evidence of acid and the dog
solved the whole mystery of the poet and
the artist. On this crazy foundation arose
a group of “imagists” or mechanists of
verse.
The writer of the brochure, one Sher-
shen’evich, in which this lucid description
of Soviet poetry is contained under the
title of “Twice Two Are Five,” declares:
“I am firmly convinced that a book ought
to be readable backwards as successfully
as the other way round, just as a picture of
lakulov or Erdmann (revolutionary painters)
may be hung upside down without any loss.”
One would think that madness could not
go much further. But it does. The view
v that the art of speech is nothing
but the “word-chemistry of the scientifically
enlightened proletariat.... In order to
advance this curious science in a fitting way,
a special ‘laboratory’ is to be founded where,
under the direction of trustworthy ‘word
chemists,’ a number of experiments in the
manufacture of new words, rhythms and
forms are to be carried out. This laboratory
lor synthetic word-chemistry is then to be
recognised by the Government as a higher
proletarian educational institute.” In what
is known as the “Briusov Institute” poetry
is separated into its parts, analysed and
re ormed, and it is claimed that by this
process it loses all kind of mysterious magic
—a sort of purgation of any trace of the
disreputable element of “soul. Hence-
forth, in Soviet Russia, “the art of poetry
is to be a subject in the elementary schools,
as drawing used to be; the children will
be taught all the knacks and tricks, the
mastery of which formerly brought unde-
served fame to a handful of selected in-
dividuals.” .
The'author of this deeply interesting book,
which lays bare the psychology of Bol-
shevism, gathered her material in Russia at
first hand. She thus concludes her descrip-
tion of the mechanising of poetry: This
is in truth the great achievement of revo-
lutionary thought; that the connection
between art and conditioned reflexes, be-
tween Don Quixote and the excretion of
spittle in a dog, has been definitely fixed,
and that poetry has been defined as the
mechanical combination of sounds and tones
according to a chemical formula.”
T.B. C.
A Cluster of Singers
Though the title, Poetry in Australasia,
may be questioned on the ground that this
annual lumping together of the monthly
issues of the Spinner is by no means repre-
sentative of Australian verse-effort, this
latest, biliously-bound volume from Vidler
(Melbourne) contains better verse from a
wider range- of writers than several antho-
logies and similar collections that have been
granted covers. Mostly lyrical, the music
and the thought of the bulk of its contents
are genuinely Australian, though there is
a general striving to use as many words as
possible without saying anything, which
seems to be characteristic of most verse
written nowadays. The assortment also
includes some doggerel stanzas that pain
the ear and literally haunt the memory,
and there is a sprinkling of those sweep-
ingly enthusiastic lines that step over the
border between poetry and absurdity.
The volume is the third binding of the
little Melbourne verse-magazine, and is
illustrated with photos of five of the 71
contributors —Jessie Mackay, Sydney Jeph-
cott, J. Shaw Neilson, Ruth M. Bedford
and Myra Morris, this last a fine-faced
young iady who is responsible for several
pleasing items that do not measure up to
her capabilities. Still, here as elsewhere,
her note is rich and colorful; excellent
matter—for those who like their verse
varied—to mingle with the lilt, the sparkle
and the laughter of Llywelyn Lucas’s true, if
occasionally jagged, lyrics. Among other
familiar names represented are Zora Cross,
Mary Gilmore, Jessie Mackay, Dora Wilcox,
Lola Gornall, Elsie Cole, Dorothea Mac-
kellar, E. M. England, M. B. Paton, A. B.
Crowther and D. L. Waraker, of what are
called the fair sex; and Furnley Maurice,
Alan D. Mickle, Louis Lavater, Geoffrey
Cumine, R. A. Broinowski (editor) and E.
A. Vidler, One example—half of Shaw
Neilson’s remarks to a lodging-house
canary:—
You dance into Heaven, 0 rude one! —and higher
and higher
You mock at the craven who eats not his fill o’
the fire.
Free men we are not; we cannot come out of the
fear ;
Call the dead! Let the dead inarch in your merri-
ment there!
Soldier you are, and good neighbor; you come not
to cry
Of any dull ache in the body or doubt in the sky.
In you are all the good jigs of old Irishmen out
for a day,
Little one ! close to the Maker you whistle away.
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
Knowledge Box, by T. a’Beckett. The
author, out of 50 years’ experience in and
about matters concerning the law, has com-
piled a handbook whose object is to supply
useful general information to business men
and the public with regard to matters of
practice.
Coolali Valley, by C. Brunsdon Flbtcher
(Cornstalk Co.). “I came back,” the editor
of the S. M. Herald says, “from Coolah
Creek with this fact well hammered in—
that not the least of the movements upon
drought will come with making better roads
at a score of strategic points, so that relief
country may be easily reached, and the cost
of feeding starving sheep be reduced to a
minimum.” The problem of drought is,
however, only one of the many aspects dealt
with in this book informative of a com-
paratively little-known area of pastoral
country in N. S. Wales. Its original dis-
covery by Allan Cunningham is. briefly out-
lined and the text is illustrated by maps,
etc.
Animals’ Friends Pamphlets, by Ernest
Bell. The author and publisher, who is
editor of the Animals’ Friend, deals in
these two numbers of a series with “the
proper relationship between men and the
other animals” and “superiority in the lower
animals.”
The Mastery of Nervousness, by R. S.
Carroll (Cornstalk Co.). An Australian
edition of a work by the Medical Director
of “Highland Hospital,” North Carolina
(U.S.A.). “Can I become master of my
nerves?” The author declares you can.
The multiplying demands of modern life
are, he says, coming too fast; we must
hasten to adjust ourselves to them. He
outlines this process of adjustment.
A Knight oj ' Carolina, by A. M. Barnes
(Penn Publishing Co.). It is only on rare
occasions that the American novelist remem-
bers that his country has a historical back-
ground beyond the days of the prairie pioneer
and the broncho-buster. Mr. Barnes re-
calls the fact, and places the scene of
an interesting bit of fiction in the province
of Carolina in the early part of the seven-
teenth century.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications tnsuflicienUy
Name and, address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.A.S.: Not enough meat in it for The B.
....Bert B.: But you merely set a nigger up to
knock him down again... .H.S.T.: This cursed lack
of space.... J.F.M.: Takes too long to get there....
Inbad: You “betook yourself to a certain salubrious
suburb which shall be nameless.’’ It’s full of such
silly echoes.... Sigma: Make your plans first. You
no more know what you’re going to do with your
characters when you start than Bruce knows what
he’s going to do with his Arbitration 8i11.... M.
Jayess: Very du11... .Iv.H.McC.: “Dust” is too dry
altogether. ...A.8.: Rough verse... .Paul C.: The
morning-after screed nearly gave us a headache....
G.A.8.: Not good enough.... Mabel W.: Comic-song
stuff.... Musette M.: No, no, Musette !... .0.A.T.:
No sting in the bee verse... .R.G.: Not enough sub-
stance. .. .Bomber: Too rocky.. . .F.E.H.: From your
“Penitence” :
I thought that I should rule,
And, angered when you spoke,
I thrashed you something cruel
And twice your head I broke;
But I am very sorry, dear,
And sober now; and that was Beer.
We hope the lady was refreshed. Perhaps, however,
she did not like beer... .J.W.W.: Trying to sell verse
“by the yard” is an unfortunate adventure. It’s a
front-gate article... .Crocadog: “Half-forgotten musics
but just exist” is a remarkable spasm.... Paul H.:
You reach out for ideas you fail to clutch... .J.M.:
You’ve got to go a long way in thought and in
condensation before you win... .D.M.Y.: It’s cut off
in your youth....W. Pen: Hard lines on u 5.... J.
All: Verse in which you say all you say you will
not say fails... .Fred D.: “Woodcutter” is lost in
a forest of woodenness... .A.L.G.: Can’t you see the
awkwardness of lines like “Far-flung by Wind’s
amazing hand”'?... .Eileen: The conversation of the
bee will not hum in these columns... .C.8.H.: Too
many barks in the doggerel W.E.8.: Verses show
promise; but those overused “paths” will have to be
followed some distance yet... .Paul C.: Didactic....
Russell K.: Your poetical frenzy says angels would
desert Heaven for Tasmania. But Tassie loses
population all the same... .Chas. H.: The “lag” verse
lags... .M.R.E.8.; Poor little sonnets.... G.R.M.:
“I soared to regions high.” You crashed to the
w.p.b H.L.P.: Pale sentimentality... .Bungo:
The refrain, “Never chip the old man when he’s
emptying the bottle,” was the only thing that
pleased. .. .D.F.A.: Almost anything can be said if
it is clever enough; that doesn’t make dirt clever-
ness.... J. Salt: Belay, lad; you can’t rhyme “rig-
ging” with “salt spray flinging”.... Ron C.: The
metre is uneven for one thing; and both should be
shorter. And you can’t say that a man “went and
done” a thing—not even if you do want a rhyme
for “one”... .L.P.A.: “Sea Hunger” struck a lee-
shore.. ..L.P.F.: Somewhat crude.... Reg N.: Verse
about the killing is simply murder... .R.F.T.: After
reading “Suez,” we know why men go mad in the
Red Sea... .C.E.K.: You made us blush furiously;
but the verse is hopeless.. . .Edwin W.: The insect
hopped out... .R'ussaustra: The burglar who made
his entry “with a swift and graceful movement” is
a novelty... .J.M.N.: The three verses have good
matter but the conclusions are weak.... W.M. (Ather-
ton) : It reads more like a catechism than a story.
You can’t tell a yarn by question and answer
Anon: It couldn’t have been a very ancient ghost
that sang “Sweet Rose Marie” —unless it had got into
the way of haunting theatres... .8.F.: It needed a
finish, so we finished it.... Alstruse: A rough jumble
of words A.C.W.: Too slight Wal G.: Has
jagged ends..,. J.R.R.: You can’t wed single verbs
to plural nouns—that kills “Musterers” Hilda D.:
You might improve “Fate”... .R.C.H.: Too stark to
be interesting... .H.0.P.: We contemplated the end
whilst yet afar off, so to speak... .J.H.S.: Trite
sentiments; poor vSrse... .5.8.: “Homeward” is
travelling that way.... Nina L.: Vague... .D.F.8.:
Ponderously constructed... .H.D.: Not enough punch.
.. . . Bellerive: Your “Zoological Fable” should find
room, even if we had to leave out the whisky advt..
Said a rat to his pal, “You know our rule;
We might have been caught, you blibbering fool.
Twice you did sneeze, which aroused the cat —
A savage old Tom' by the name of Pat.
He’d tore us to pieces, he’s merciless and grim.
’Twas a stroke of luck I noticed him.”
“Ah well,” said his pal, “I was loyal to you
In taking a risk when bad with the ’flu.”
E.J.O.: Very roughly told; and the gripping
terror doesn’t grip anywhere.... Duboycee: Good;
but tho lady’s idea of “dieting” is incredible
N.S.M.: Not enough story Gran: Verse about trees
that “their lonely sentinel keep” is out of plumb....
Roscoe: That “ ” habit gives the tales a dotty
effect. The verses are horrible examples Jolar:
Greek to us. Not good English anyway Fanuel:
Sorrowfully declined M.P.: A sincere attempt; no-
thing more J.A.F.F.: Incoherent L.P.F. : The
young man may do all that, but the one who buys
her cocktails will probably win... .R.W.K.: “Para-
dise” would be improved with rhyme Jul. S.:
You have the story, but it needs to be better told.
Marie H.: “Echo” fades out Song Bird: You
suddenly woke up and poured out at us a joyous
song about spring. And it is now about autumn.
. ...G.A.S.: Pleased at your whole-souled conviction
that you can rhyme “penchant” with “men chant.”
L.McM.: The article is too breathless, although
we sympathise with the view. But how’s it to be
done?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.L.8.: Rather like your bookplates, but have a
go at something else.... .T.V.: Your friends were poor
tipsters.. . .S.F.: Your wharf-laborers would pass for
high-school pupils 1.. .N.0.C.: Land salesman chased
off the premises. .. .L.R.R.B. : Nothing interesting
there... .K.M.G.: No use for sketches perpetrated
on a typewriter.... C.M.S.: Joke passes all under-
standing, and drawing about as bad as any drawing
could be F. 0.: Keep on —in the insurance busi-
ness. .. .5.A.8.: Even our Service Department couldn’t
tell us what it was all about.... M.F.: You can’t
draw wheelbarrows, let alone human beings. .. .A.T.:
Fairies and colored studies of flowers not in our
line. T.P.J.: Not within a mile of acceptance.—
P.M.G.: “Gins, Gin and Jim-Jams” declined
H.R.: Didn’t wait to listen to what the “voice above”
had to say; the “voice below” was enough....
H.E.D.: Draw ’em plumper.


fm
1
’■
k
J
k
U
|n
■
■
m
a
k
71


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2506.
February 22, 1928.
THE MOTHS AND THE FLAME.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly.
12 months, £ 1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved __ by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no w ill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.1,; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.1,;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 1,11,-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Newt
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 51,11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S.— K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 1,1, Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Mctropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London .—Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
A. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper)Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
100 z.,. Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to lOoz., lid. ; each
additional !,oz.. Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1928.
YEARNING AFTER THE MIGRANT.
N. S. Wales has not yet joined in the
agreement, which was fixed up between the
Commonwealth and Britain in 1925, where-
by the latter is to supply to such States as
will accept them cheap loans with migrants
attached. Still the parlor door is open, and
rumor has it that the misguided insect is
on the doorstep and headed towards the
interior. The proposition, if all the States
join in, is that the Old Man in London is
to advance £34,000,000 spread over 10 years,
the interest to be only 2 per cent, per annum
for the first five years, a trifle more for a
few years after that, and the inevitable in-
crease later on. Each £75 of loan is to
have a British migrant attached, and, as the
Federal Statistician puts the case, he is to
be “received into and satisfactorily settled
in the State concerned”—the one that col-
lected the £75 loan. The money is to be
spent on those “developmental works” which
are a prevailing disease of the country, but
something is also said in a vague way about
providing farms.
* * * #
The problems involved in this transaction
might be simplified if spread out in a neat
row. Two of the questions that arise are
as follows:
Is it wise policy to accept £75, not as a
gift, but as a mere*loan, the interest going
out of the country so that it can’t be taxed,
principal and interest both payable to out-
side people in tangible wealth (i.e., in excess
of exports over imports), and with the re-
sponsibility to look after a human being in-
definitely? It looks a lot for £75.
Or would it .be better to borrow the £75
here, in our own paper money, and pay the
interest here, even if it is 5J or 6 per cent.,
in paper money, and proceed to take a fair
amount of that interest back in the form of
taxation, and some day repay the loan in
paper money? Then there would be no
specific human being to be dry-nursed as an
anomalous attachment to the transaction, and
the whole business would be free of the worry
of finding that favorable trade balance which
Australia hasn’t lately been able to discover,
perhaps because it does insufficient work.
These are aspects of the borrowing side of
the problem; but there are other aspects.
N. S. Wales doesn’t want new settlers so
badly as to make it worth while going into
debt for them. In fact, it hardly wants them
at all until it learns to do something more
with them than plant them in Sydney to
be run over by motor-cars; or something
better than chase off sheep, which really
pa} 7 , and put men on wheat or cow farms
that are so small, and so remote from a
market and from ports, that the principal
net return is far too often a crop of misery.
Seven of the 48 United States are less
densely peopled than N. S. Wales and 14
less densely than Victoria, so there is no-
thing much amiss with these two except the
crazy ambition to put the entire popula-
tion of each into one city. In the north,
north-west and centre of Australia a settle-
ment policy is badly needed, but it is
weird and utterly unreasonable that Vic-
toria, with almost the same density of popu-
lation as old historical States like Texas,
Florida and California, should have latelv
pawned its future for £32,000,000 to put
settlers on to land which frequently wasn’t
available and which they couldn’t have
worked properly if it had been available.
; i ; -*!: :Jc *
As matters stand there are two deep-
rooted objections to all these settlement de-
vices. One is that they mostly involve
further pawning of the future, and the
future is hardly visible above the mortgage
already. The other is that they are mostly
tangled up with “development” schemes
which grow a jungle crop of working ex-
penses, but seem consistently unable to
develop one self-supporting town big
enough to be worth putting on the map.
The imperative demand is for two things
which are to a great extent the same thing:
(1) the production of more wares that are
saleable within the Commonwealth, and
what those wares are can be ascertained by
looking up the list and quantities of foreign
goods imported into Australia and pre-
sumably in demand and sold here; and (2)
the stoppage of foreign borrowing except
strictly for purposes of repaying old loans
for which in our folly we have not provided
any sinking fund. So long as there are
foreign loans so long will foreign goods be
shovelled into this country, because foreign
loans never arrive in any other way; and
so long as foreign goods are shovelled into
this country so long will there be idle
people here, and so long also will there be
a struggle to push unsuitable people on to
farm jobs.
* * * *
If Australia can do anything to relieve
the over-population of England, of course
it should be done. But that is quite a
different thing from going into debt to do it.
JOHN AND SAM, IMPERIALISTS.
In more than one quarter American
imperialism in the Philippines has been
compared lately with British imperialism
in India, to the detriment of Britain.
Though I am not an ardent admirer of all
aspects of British imperialism, to me this
comparison seems rather foolish.
The Philippines contain 300 million fewer
people than India, and approximately 209
fewer races and languages. The Filipino is
ethnologically mostly a Malay, and there-
fore partakes largely of the character of an
Australian high-school boy. That is to say,
he is a more or less gentlemanly savage,
sporting in his habits, with an intelligible
code of morals, and therefore pretty man-
ageable. Most of him had also been turned
into some sort of a Christian long before
Uncle Sam arrived. His pagan part is of
no political importance, while the Moham-
medan portion is mainly concentrated in
one area, and when it becomes homicidal
vents its religious frenzy on the white
official rather than on its fellow country-
man. The American imperialist only had
one considerable town to clean up and
make decent. The inhabitants were com-
paratively rational and it was easy to con-
vince them that the anopheles mosquito
was their enemy. The country is tropical
and non-desert and therefore not liable to
recurrent droughts and famines, and pesti-
lences are rare. It is broken up into thou-
sands of small islands, and therefore a ruler
equipped with command of the sea can
keep it in order economically.
India, on the other hand, contains some
70 million fanatical Mohammedans faced
with 200 million equally fanatical devotees
of Kali. It has some scores of semi-
independent native potentates who are
only prevented from mopping up the
civilised portion of the peninsula by the
presence of the white man. So little is the
Indian aware of his nationality that he
hasn’t even a word for “Indian.” Unlike
the Filipino, who has some inklings of
democracy, the Indian never is, and never
can be, capable of even understanding the
meaning of the word. The Indian legisla-
tor who professes to speak for his fellow-
countrymen may be a Brahmin who, far
from kissing babies during election time,
regards himself as ceremonially polluted if
his constituents of a lower caste approach
within 200 yards of him. The wife of the
Filipino is so much his helpmate that she
conducts most of the family business. The
Hindu husband is his better half’s god on
earth, and when the British raj forbade the
burning of his widows in 1829 he took his
sad case to the Privy Council in England.
The Hindu pays more taxes to the Brah-
min than he does to the British Govern-
ment, and if he rises in his wrath and slays
the unofficial tax-collector he is condemned
to be reborn as an insect in ordure, and
in his next human incarnation will be blind
for more than five times as many years
as there are hairs on the sacred cow. He
can expiate his crime by feeding 40,000
Brahmins.
The Filipino has no religious objection
to being compulsorily educated, so the
Americans have made him more or less
learned. The orthodox Hindu denies educa-
tion to 121 million women and 60 million
untouchables. Even Australia would not
have become 99 p.c. literate without the
assistance of the school-marm. Over 26
million women in India are unable to be-
come school-marms because Hinduism
credits widows with the evil eye. And the
unmarried female teacher is virtually un-
known because girls are married in baby-
hood and it is a sin not to have children
immediately after puberty.
The Indian is also harder to make and
keep sweet and clean than the Filipino,
because he believes in the sacredness of
life, even when it takes the form of the
bed bug. All who know Manila are aware
of the brilliant success of the Americans
in improving the maternal and infantile
death-rate. Religion in India prescribes
that the midwife should be an out-caste.
In consequence half the children of Bengal
die before the age of eight and only a
quarter of the population reaches 40. The
Moslemised Filipino washes daily for reli-
gious reasons. The equally religious Hindu
has a penchant for drinking holy water
composed largely of town sewage.
The aim of American imperialism, which
is to find fresh markets for American Big
Business, is no different from the aim of
any other imperialism, though the methods
may be slightly different. The idea of
offering the head of a white royal family
as the father of brown India may be some-
what humorous; but to present the crea-
ture of a party machine like Coolidge as
the ruler of the Filipino is equally comic.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Redistribution of Seats.
Before the Commonwealth Government
goes to the country electoral boundaries
will need to be altered in five of the six
States. And the thing will have to be
attended to early in the session if it is to
be well done, or done at all—politicians
endangered by boundary alterations will
move heaven and earth to hold up the
necessary legislation if given half a chance.
The job should really have been tackled
before the last general election. On that
occasion Tasmania was the only State with
a democratic distribution of House of Reps,
seats. Four of the five constituencies had
23,000-odd electors each, and in the fifth
there were 21,751. No important move-
ments of population having been reported
since November, 1925, Speck electorates will
require no readjustments.
All the other States exhibited glaring
anomalies in 1925. In Queensland' Bris-
bane could scrape up only 42,879 electors,
whereas there were 51,739 in remote Her-
bert and 48,982 in remoter Capricornia.
Kennedy had 33,277 merely, and Maranoa
33,795. Kalgoorlie and Swan adjoin in
Westralia, but Kalgoorlie’s electoral popu-
lation was 29,568 and Swan’s 44,155. Grey
and Angas are S. Aus. country electorates;
Grey contained 35,441 qualified people and
Angas 44,830. And Melbourne, with 46,556
electors, showed out badly alongside Henty
(64,723), Batman (59,971), Kooyong
(58,598) and Balaclava (54,048), which are
groups of its suburbs; while the Prime
Minister’s own Flinders (57,566) was grossly
over-peopled, in an electoral sense, com-
pared with other country electorates, such
as Ballarat (39,491), Wannon (40,181), Ben-
digo (40,250), Indi (40,398) and Echuca
(42,107).
And there were some very horrible ex-
amples in N. S. Wales. Barton had 54,438
electors, and Cook, which is next door,
42,055. South Sydney mustered 51,478, East
Sydney 41,746 and West Sydney 39,212. In
Parramatta there were 51,114, as against
38.408 in Cowper, 39,609 in Macquarie and
39,726 in Gwydir. Leaving tens and hun-
dreds out. there were seven constituencies
with 50,000 or more and 14 electorates with
42,000 or fewer. And though periodical
returns are not published, the position has
very probably grown worse since 1925. At
all events, a considerable amount of build-
ing has gone on in Barton, Reid (54,341),
North Sydney (51,548), South Sydney
(51,478) and Wentworth (50,364), which are
expanding residential districts, and com-
paratively little in West Sydney, Cook or
Dailey (42,329), which are industrial dis-
tricts, while there was a relatively small
increase of population in places like Gwydir
and Macquarie.
The Vic. Hogans and the N.S.W. Bavin-
shaws have promised to bring in State re-
distribution schemes based on the division
of the Federal electorates into three, but
they can’t do so while the Federal elec-
torates are so outrageously lopsided. This
may not appeal to the Bruce-Pages as an
argument for expedition, but the reduction
of members and the saving in administra-
tive expenditure involved would appeal to
the State electors. And they are Common-
wealth electors as well.
♦
The Grudge Against Australian
Industry.
The Prime Minister is a half-hearted
apostle of Protection and Australian manu-
facturing industry. Sometimes, in fact, he
forgets to be an apostle at all. He has a
habit of girding at the man who employs
Australian white labor at high wages for
short hours, and in such a grudging mood
he spoke to an audience at the Constitu-
tional Club:—
“There are employers cloaking their own
inefficiency and the inefficiency of their
plant with sycophantic phrases in regard to
patriotic Protection.... An idle or inefficient
machine is a much greater national menace
than an idle or inefficient worker.”
And it might be added that there are people
who cloak their desire to keep Australian
markets for the foreigner with sycophantic,
or acrobatic, or corybantic (one adjective
is as fitting as another) phrases about the
alleged shortcomings of a much more useful
and deserving class than their own.
The value of plant and machinery used
in Australian factories was £31,599,209 in
1911; it was £50,792,305 in 1918; and in 1926
it was £112,278,150. In a mere eight years
the manufacturers laid in about £62,000,000
worth of new additional plant, as well as
an unknown and unspecified amount of new
plant to replace old and scrapped appliances.
As they are not likely to have gone search-
ing for inefficient goods on which to waste
their money, this represents a tremendous
and sustained effort to be well equipped and
up-to-date, while the importer trudges along
in the old groove and talks selfish old
twaddle. He certainly doesn’t invent a com-
pletely new way of importing every few
years; he doesn’t even invent a completely
new form of invoice at frequent intervals.
It was because of the importer and the
curse attached to him that Australia bor-
rowed 42 millions abroad in 1921-22; 51
millions in 1923-24; 40 millions in 1925-26.
and smaller sums in between. Imports were
these amounts in excess of what the country
could pay for with its own means, and the
importer was the man who made his profit
out of the calamity. He is the cause of
unemployment on a huge scale. The desire
to give more and more encouragement to
the deserving manufacturer arises from the
necessity for doing without a very great
proportion of imports and importers.
It is a strange one-eyed doctrine that “an
idle or inefficient machine is a much greater
national menace than an idle or inefficient
worker.” A machine which is idle because
of too many imports loses the interest on
its value, but it doesn’t involve a bill for
food and clothes, and it has no family to be
maintained out of charity, and it isn’t be-
guiled to drink or crime. The human being
who is idle because the importer employs
people abroad instead of letting him have
a job may, on the other hand, become a
menace and a loss in many directions. He
may even murder a softgoodsman in a large
way of business, and thus create a blank
among the works of God, which is always
a thing to be avoided when possible.
♦
In a Little Country Town.
“Ces”: The other day in a Northern Vic.
town I listened to a local dignitary holding
forth on the reasons for the exodus of
country lads and lasses to the city. There
were two State Cabinet Ministers present.
The municipal dignitary suggested that the
Government should introduce legislation to
stop the drift. Goodness knows what form
that legislation would take. Country towns
are not attractive to young people because
they are not made attractive. There are the
pictures, of course, but they are invariably
shown in a dingy hall, ill lighted, and to
the accompaniment of music from a cracked
piano or a jangling pianola. In addition,
there are the corners of streets (unlighted)
and a billiard saloon for the bucks, in this
particular town, besides the pictures, a dance
is held now and then in the shire hall.
There is no library, nor any effort to
establish one. No attempt has ever been
made to take advantage of the University
extension movement, though lectures are
given free to any town that wants them;
there are no clubs for young people; there
is no community spirit. The young men
get their athletics in the billiard saloon;
their mental training from the sporting
results and the pictures of pretty ladies,
three-parts naked, in the flapper press.
These conditions are not peculiar to the
place in which the municipal gentleman de-
manded legislation “to stop the drift.” They
are typical of many other country towns in


Australia. Is it any wonder young people
leave and don’t come back? But legislation
is no remedy. Infinitely better results could
be got by tackling the question with
the community club as the basis, this club
providing social, literary, debating, athletic
and other enjoyments of which the young
dwellers in the little towns are now deprived.
Asquith.
The news of ex-Prime Minister Asquith’s
death caused obituary-writers to write
elaborate dissertations concerning his mem-
orable decision of 1914, when Britain’s
choice lay between “security and wealth
without honor or the risking of everything.”
It may have looked like that to some
people at the time, but the idea is terribly
out of date now, though it is still harped
upon at intervals.
The alternative to going in was a rush
victory for the Hun, the annexation or
indefinite occupation of the Pas de Calais,
a border department of only 2600 square
miles but one of the strategic positions of
the world in these days, with Hun guns
commanding the Straits of Dover. Add Big
Berthas commanding London (that type of
lady was suspected even then), and a lunatic
with a swelled head the size of an elephant
behind all this apparatus. It was Hobson’s
choice even if Hobson wasn’t fully recog-
nised till later.
And the United States faced the same
problem later on. The possibilities in its
nightmare included a conquered Europe, the
madman with the elephantine head con-
trolling the Atlantic with his navies
(stolen and otherwise), his possible capture
of Canada among the spoils of victory, his
influence over the vast Hun-and-sundry
population of the States themselves, and a
suspicion that the U.S. army wasn’t much
more ready than that of China for sudden
single-handed war on a heroic scale.
Victims of circumstance were pretty com-
mon in those days. Asquith was one no
less than Woodrow Wilson, to whom in
some respects he bore a strange resemblance.
*
Dragging Unionism in the Dirt.
The outcry as to cargo-pillaging in Aus-
tralian ports grew slightly louder the other
day. The S. M. Herald went so far as to
publish a comparison between pillage losses
in Chino-Japanese ports and the leading
ports of Australia; it was issued some
months ago by a European association of
shipowners, chambers of commerce and in-
surance cos., and was, at that time, quoted
and commented on by The Bulletin. It
showed that the four leading ports of this
country have a record for pillaging that
none of those on the China coast can
approach.
Reasons are not far to seek. One is that,
while Asiatic coolie or European docker is
invariably imprisoned like any other thief
who betrays his trust, the Australian offender
caught redhanded is almost as invariably
fined, the fine being paid by his friends and
comrades. The Asiatic waterfront employer
will not take on a convicted thief. In
Australia the employer has to take him,
or risk the penalty of a holdup by his
union. This sentiment works even against
the courts; the whole coal trade of N. S.
Wales was held up when a Newcastle coal
lumper was convicted of stealing a length
of rope on a ship he was helping to work,
and his union struck till he should be
liberated. Again, in Asia the work is
carried on under strict supervision. In Aus-
tralia any attempt at such a thing has been
received with the fiercest resentment.
It is a matter for the courts and the
unions concerned to remedy. The first
should remember that breaking into and
stealing cargo is no more to be indulged
than breaking into a safe and stealing its
contents. The second might reflect that in
the eyes of the mercantile world they and
their members appear as more dishonest
than the coolie scum of Shanghai or Kobe,
which is not a flattering reputation to have
acquired. And matters are made to look
worse, too, by the fact that the coolie is
an ill-paid wretch who has some shadow of
excuse for pilfering.
+
Wasted Gold.
One of the numerous Brierleys who are
connected with accounts and audits in Aus-
tralia—he is president of one of the also-
numerous societies of auditors and account-
ants—has come home with the news that it
is merely silly to keep 30 millions of gold
eating its head off. We could get five or six
per cent, interest for it if we sent it to New
York and lent it to somebody; yet here we
are keeping it in strong-rooms where
nobody ever even sees it.
It does look silly and it ought to be
silly; but it isn’t silly. The trouble is that
we have borrowed about a thousand million
pounds, a great deal of it from overseas
lenders, and we have promised to pay that
money back in gold. Of course we might
export wool and wheat and other products,
and, selling them abroad, raise gold for the
repayments. But unfortunately there are
such things as droughts, and they have a
nasty habit of disregarding lOU’s, p.n.’s and
mortgages falling due. Also, even in
moderately good seasons, we haven’t been
sending away enough wool and wheat, etc.,
to pay our current bills, let alone provide
for any repayments. Thus far it hasn’t mat-
tered a great deal because we have paid
Smith by borrowing from Brown ; but
there is always liable to be a time when
Brown won’t lend. And then, if we had
none of the gold which we have promised
to pay in, where should we be?
It looks a lot of interest to waste, no
doubt; but we have to consider also what
we are saving. You can always get the
p.n. renewed if it doesn’t matter to you
two beans whether it is renewed or not; but
get yourself in the position where renewal
is indispensable, and things are very differ-
ent —up goes the rate one or two or three
per cent, not for one year, but perhaps
for 20 years. The other day one of the very
well-known Austral-Asiatic tin companies—■
a concern which has made handsome profits
and will make them again—had a bill
for equipment falling due. For one reason
and another, but chiefly because the pro-
perty is in an Asiatic jungle, the co. could
not induce any bank to make an advance.
Its directors were as heavily loaded as they
cared to be. There was no time to raise
fresh capital. The money was wanted
immediately—they had not expected it to
be wanted so soon. Actually that very sol-
vent and profitable concern had to go into
the city and offer 10 p.c. for the use of
money for one month—at the rate of 120
p.c. per annum!
No, gold kept in a strong-room is not
always wasted.
4
The Teaching Industry.
“Wealsman”: The State High Schools at
Hobart, Launceston, Devonport and Burnie
are slowly but surely overcoming their
initial difficulties and establishing them-
selves in public favor by sheer force of
examination results. The just-published
pass-lists for the year again show very
plainly that, age for age, examinees from
the State High Schools are scholastically
CHUCKED OUT.
“At the Metropolitan Conference of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. it was decided that hotelkeepers belonging
to the Licensed Victuallers’ Association should be excluded from membership.”
BUNG: “You wait! Next time you bring round the hat I’ll pour sour beer in it.”
well ahead of those from private secondary
schools. Of course, ability to pass examina-
tions is not everything, and it may be
claimed that first-class private secondary
schools are able to give certain physical,
mental and moral benefits not readily
obtainable at the State schools. But even
this claim is somewhat discounted by recent
happenings. In connection with the Rhodes
scholarship, none of the candidates offering
in Tasmania for 1927 were considered by the
local selectors worthy of the award, though
practically all the alleged “possibles”
were trained in private secondary schools.
There were many protests, of course, and
the local selection committee was called
pretty well everything but a wise body.
But the selectors stuck to the view that
there was nothing offering which looked like
filling the bill. No reasons were publicly
given, but it seemed to be pretty generally
assumed that all the candidates were turned
down because they lacked some essential
qualification, s.uch' as efficiency in some
branch of sport. Others (among them the
present writer) incline to the opinion that
the candidates failed to measure up to the
“attributes of leadership” clause of Cecil
Rhodes’s will. But whatever the reasons
actuating the selection committee, there
is no Tasmanian Rhodes scholar for 1927.
Which is a poor sort of advertisement for
Small Sister’s educational system, and re-
flects no glory on the private secondary
schools which have hitherto specialised in
Rhodes scholarships and from whose desks
has graduated every Rhodes man, bar two
or three, since the scholarship was initiated
in 1904.
One supposes that in Tasmania, as in all
the other States, it will be a good while be-
fore the private-enterprise colleges go out
of business altogether. But it seems certain
that the passing of all but the most gener-
ously endowed (mostly denominational) is
within measurable distance. Only a few
are paying their way. Many are chronically
hard up and find it increasingly difficult to
maintain an efficient staff and proper equip-
ment. There is a growing recognition by
employers of the fact that the highly-
trained staffs of the well-equipped State
High Schools, working on picked and tested
raw material (every State High School and
Technical School youngster has earned his
place), are better able to deliver satisfactory
goods in the knickerbocker stage than any
private schoolmaster, however brilliant and
worthy. In the contests for the half-dozen
higher prizes and University scholarships
the State-trained entrants averaged nearly
two years younger than their privately-
schooled competitors^
The Roast Beef of Old England.
Those interested in beef-raising for export
have just felt a rare ray of sunshine. Accord-
ing to the cable, a gentleman described as a
leading member of the British Farmers’
Club, and who may therefore be presumed
to know something of his subject, told the
club’s annual meeting that imported beef
was now generally taken by the British
housekeeper in preference to the British-
grown commodity, in spite of the fact that
the higher price of the latter argued a
superior quality. The explanation, he said,
lay in the fact that the imported meat had
been kept from three weeks to three months
after killing, was much
more tender and delicate
in flavor than the British-
grown article, and was
generally from better
quality animals than
those sold to the butchers
in Britain.
The British farmer’s
statement may be taken
as one of those half-
truths that the most con-
scientious of speakers let
fall occasionally. The
long storage of the im-
ported meat, provided
proper treatment is
accorded it after landing,
probably makes it
superior as to tenderness,
while the large amount of
hand-feeding practised by
British growers, particu-
larly on root crops or oil-
cake foods, tends to
strongly affect the flavor
of the local product, as
compared with that of
good beef fattened on
natural pastures and
under natural conditions.
The Queensland Gem Monopoly.
The latest fading of a dream is the dire
failure of the Queensland Government to
monopolise the buying and selling of
Northern gems, the mining of which was
an important industry a few years ago.
Private buyers were banned on the plea
that they were fleecing the gem diggers, a,nd
an elaborate system of State gem-buying
and selling was instituted, the State paying
a price fixed by an expert and marketing
through a London agent, extra profits to be
returned to the gem miners.
Things began well, as they always do in
such cases, the State buying wholesale. But
the sales refused to come up to the pur-
chases, stocks piled up and buying shrank
till the amount spent in purchases in a
year was £l5. There was such a fuss over
this that a buyer was hastily sent to the
field about Christmas time with £2OOO to
spend; but even the miners regarded it as
unemployment relief. Nevertheless, Mini-
ster for Mines Jones said the situation had
greatly improved, and he shortly expected
the £50,000 worth in London to go off like
hot cakes. The other day, as nothing had
happened, the miners, who most of them
have been eking out a living by selling an
occasional stone to a private buyer, sent
Premier McCormack a petition asking him
for Heaven’s sake to drop the monopoly and
permit the private professional buyer to
come along again with real money. Mc-
Cormack has taken it badly. He has refused
to abolish his monopoly, and has protested
that unstable European finances prevent
the gems being absorbed, even at a reduced
price—which doesn’t sound like even a
second-cousin to the story told by the
Minister for Mines last October.
The only persons who seem to be satisfied
with the situation are the illicit buyers, who
are making their own prices, and don’t seem
in the least concerned about Europe’s
financial stringency.
+
Trouble in the Islands.
The Methodist Mission can claim to have
been the first civilising agent, outside an
occasional man-of-war, in the Fijis and
Tonga, and though it had a hard fight to
gain the upper hand, it got it so effectually
that the Mission was at times more power-
ful than the official Government, in whose
councils it has always been deep. With the
arrival of the Hindu coolie, a change came
over the scene. He soon grew into a disturb-
ing factor, refused to be converted, and,
generally, set a very undesirable example to
the very likeable Fijian, who, alas, was not
always able to refrain from following in
his bad steps.
But even worse was to come; for about
1920 the Hindu started a mission of his own
to convert the heathen in Fiji, and imported
a gentleman who at once started to make
things merry in the way of beating up
converts and preaching sedition. His prompt
deportation relieved a situation that might
have been most unpleasant, and the white
man and better-class Indian were glad to
see the last of him. But of late new mis-
sionaries have arrived from Hind, and the
old trouble has been revived. Monster
meetings have been held and petitions pre-
sented demanding the discharge of the new-
est Indian propagandist, who had been
appointed teacher at a Hindu school sub-
sidised by Government; and in general
things are much the same as they were
before the serious rioting in 1920.
Matters may quieten down; meanwhile,
let us again raise our hallelujahs that here
in Australia we have no large and growing
imported-color problem to 'threaten our
peace of mind.
♦
Another View of T.P.
America set the world a pace in selling
goods ahead of income. To keep factories
going at high pressure when normal trade
did not warrant it, people were persuaded
to mortgage the future; leading financiers
approved of the principle, one reason being
that a man with a big load of debt was not
going to jeopardise his job. But what was
good for America is not always good for
Australia. One of the “show districts” in
the Commonwealth for cash orders, etc., is
the Northern (N.S.W.) coalfield, and there
are few places where inducements to buy
on future earnings have been more enticing.
One’s first feeling is of pleasure at the signs
of prosperity, but this is shattered when one
sees that for 22 pits the average for last
year was 162 days. Making all allowances
for “good places,” there are still many who
are on shift work, many who have poor
“cavils,” and it is obvious that a large pro-
portion of the people are in debt far beyond
their depth.
But, granted that, does this have the
effect that the financiers of the U.S.A. con-
templated? Not here! Where men are
well organised, as they are in Australia
and are not in U.S.A., they let the other
man do the worrying about the balance due.
The Hebburn pits are just out over “con-
ditions” and 1500 have stopped work and
more are ready to follow their example.
And so the boomerang comes back. Had
the trading community refused to encour-
age debt, the men would have been anxious
not to get behind, and they would have been
less inclined to stop work on slight occa-
sions; but when they are so far behind—
well, what does it matter?
4
“Bildad” : The death of Earl Haig has revived
the question whether the Great War pro-
duced any military genius. I should say it
turned out four about whom there was no
doubt, because they were high up in the
limelight and visible to all eyes. It probably
evolved 24 more, but if a military genius
is put on point duty to regulate traffic
at a busy crossing he can’t display himself.
The four were Allenby, Foch, Mackensen
and Misitcii, and the Serb was the greatest
of the four. He fought the first of the big
European battles, and won it against vast
odds. He carried the war into Austrian
territory, and pursued it there till the empire
was tired of seeing him. Though out of
reach of help, except such as Montenegro
could afford, the flag, which was the size
of a child’s pocket-handkerchief, was kept
flying for a year. And when Serbia was
hemmed in by Austrians, Germans and
Bulgarians, its general put up a final wild-cat
scrap which lasted two more months, and
then broke through and went into foreign
parts, with the remnants of an army, a
vast caravan of refugees, and the flag, which
was still intact. Fob a State with a popu-
lation of under three millions, it was a per-
formance. .
“Bumpkin” : Bad films aren’t the only
things Uncle is sending us which we could
well do without. A disquieting number of
old windjammers have lately tottered into
Australian ports and been left to rot. The
method appears to be to engage a crew for
the final voyage of the tubs and then leave
the men to find their way back as best
they can. It is a sordid ending to the
great era of sail and a shabby injustice
to the tars who are seeing it out to the
finish.


The Day You Buy SHELL MOTOR OIL
r,:"'
r
$O%
your car receives a new lease of life.
Motorists everywhere are changing over to Shell Motor
Oils—proving for themselves in every way that Shell
Oils have given motor lubrication a new meaning.
Motor SHELL oils
Quaranteed from Sealed Equipment
POLITICAL
POINTS
Apart from the loss of life, the rains and
floods that have sodden almost every part
of Eastern Australia will do far more good
than harm. But that won’t be any immedi-
ate consolation to the Governments—espe-
cially the Government of N. S. Wales —
which will have to spend a good many tens
of thousands in repairing damaged bridges
and breached railway, lines. In all the his-
tory of the N.S.W. railway department there
was never a time when so many washaways
were simultaneously calling for attention.
Eight serious ones were in hand at the
same moment; the previous record was three,
counting, of course, one or more breaches
of the same line as a single breach. But
the western country of both Queensland and
N. S. Wales has had just the soaking that
it wanted, and S. Australia wears a smile
at last.
Labor has been beaten in the last three
Federal elections for Brisbane, and in the
municipal elections for Greater Brisbane,
also held under adult suffrage, it has been
routed on two occasions—the second was
on Saturday. Yet Brisbane has returned a
preponderance of State Labor members at
every appeal to the people—the quick and
the dead —since 1915. It is one of the stand-
ing mysteries of Australian politics.
McPherson, former Vic. Treasurer, who is
supposed to lead the State Opposition, an-
nounces that the 19 Nationalists in the
Assembly are willing to join with the other
17 non-Laborites in the House to secure
unity against “the common enemy.” But on
the . day Barkis was thus proclaiming his
willingness the Country Progs, were coquet-
ting with the Hogans about compulsory
wheat pooling. If Mac could only “secure
unity” among the 31 he “leads” there would
be a better chance of tempting Dunstan,
Glowrey, Cleary and Allnutt from the Min-
isterial corner. As it is, the 32 on the left
of the Speaker comprise three sections sub-
divided into about six. Labor has two or
three sub-sections, too, but only in Caucus.
A straw shows how the wind blows. If
there were any real chance of consolidating
the Vic. Opposition groups during the recess
and challenging Labor on the re-assembly of
Parliament, Dick Linton, Nat. M.L.A. for
Boroondara, would not have gone on a visit
to the Cold Land for several months.
During his recent tour Minister Pratten
secured promises that British and foreign
manufacturers would invest five millions in
establishing factories here. A harbinger
whose firm makes cottons, woollens, linens,
etc., has arrived. Australia pays away about
five millions per half-year for imported
cottons and linens alone, so there is room
for the new firm.
The S. Aus. Country party has had a
queer history. In 1924 it was on friendly
terms with Labor,.so much so that Labor sup-
porters were commanded to vote for Me-.
Intosh, leader of the State Cockies, and a
running mate in their electorate. A year or
so later the group had enterd into an agree-
ment with the Nationalists (or Liberals, as
they call themselves in South Aus.) ; by
virtue of this a Cocky Senator was elected,
along with two Libs., and Mclntosh entered
the Butler Ministry after the defeat of
State Labor. But efforts to arrive at “closer
union,” as provided for in the agree-
ment, have ended in a definite split, for
which each organisation blames the other.
The immediate result is that Mclntosh and
two other Cocky Assemblymen have left the
Agrarians, while the latter threaten to run
a Senate ticket of their own.
The N.S.W. “Metropolitan Provincial”
Labor Conference —these conferences grow
like blackberries —has decided that young-
sters of 18 should have a vote in State and
national affairs. The conference might try
raising the school-age first. In the United
States it is common for education to be
compulsory up to 16, and in at least three
States, including New York, it is compulsory
till 18.
Vic. Labor’s plan of campaign for the
Commonwealth elections provides for making
every possible use of Stewart and his Coun-
try Progs. As in 1925, the Labor vote will
go to Stewart in Wimmera, and the A.L.P.
is. prepared to support Country Prog, can-
didates in other electorates in which it has
no chance itseli—Echuca, for instance. For
consideration it will expect Country Prog,
votes, first or second, against Gibson in
Corangamite, Hurry in Bendigo and Rodgers
in Wannon. Each party to the proposed
cordial understanding is prepared to over-
look the other’s views on the fiscal question.
Most of Westralia’s Labor Ministers have
availed themselves of the privilege of taking
up land; Troy, the Minister of Agriculture,
is locally famous for getting 30-bushel wheat
crops in country that was thrown open at
10s. an acre or thereabouts. Now Premier
Collier has bought an improved farm, of 1130
acres, at £4 7s. 6d. an acre. The Bulletin
welcomes him to the ranks of wage-payers,
and hopes lie will be as successful as Troy
has been. Also, it trusts that the lessons
they are learning will be passed on to Eastern
Labor members who go to Perth (as several
have done lately) for good counsel.
The Sugar Council (Q.), faced with the
likelihood of the biggest crop on record and
further heavy crops after that, has decided
that growers must fallow 25 p.c. of their
cane area each year. The trouble is that
the more surplus sugar there is for export
the lower the average price is, so the coun-
cil’s policy is to keep the surplus down. And
that isn’t easy seeing that many growers,
mostly Italians, bought at absurdly high
prices and are planting every acre they can
in order to get the farm clear. The next
yell will be for an export bonus. But
before anything of that sort is granted in
any industry it ought to be ascertained
whether the Australian worker therein is
doing a fair thing.
The Murray-port League in S.A. has
pressed the Government to get the subject
discussed at the current Canberra conference
of engineers. The main trouble is with the
shifting sandy mouth, Meanwhile Victoria
and N.S.W. are taking so much river water
that S.A. fears its lakes, just inside the
mouth, may be ruined by salt water unless
effective barrages are constructed to keep it
out. Even as far up as Murray Bridge the
railways have had trouble with water for
their engines. Premier Butler said candidly
that, though S.A. makes far more use of the
river for navigation and carriage than does
any other State, the present trade may not
justify the expenditure on a new port.
The A.W.U. scored over its loving “com-
rades” of the Miners’ Federation last week,
when the Federal A.L.P. decided to inter-
vene once more in the interminable N. S.
Wales Labor wrangle. There is to be
another “unity conference,” if the thing can
be arranged without bloodshed; meanwhile
the present N.S.W. Labor executive’s long
list of suspensions and expulsions will not
be recognised. The palace revolution of
1927 made the Miners’ Federation the pre-
dominant N.S.W. political union, but its
ascendancy has been weakened, if not de-
stroyed, by the events of the past few
months, beginning with the rout of the Lang
Government and ending with the Stockton
Borehole revelations.
If the Easter conference of the N. S.
Wales A.L.P. ratifies a decision of the metro-
politan provincial conference last week,
Laborites who keep pubs will have to leave
the Licensed Victuallers’ Association or get
out of “the movement.” The resolution
affects O’Sullivan, M.L.A. for Woollahra,
Mahony, sometime M.H.R. for Dailey (he
bought into a pub after he handed over his
seat to Theodore), Holdsworth, late M.L.A.
for Sydney, and numerous Labor aldermen,
present and past. O’Sullivan turned on free
beer for the multitude after his election.
Presumably some of the petty tyrants who
voted for giving him the choice of “scab-
bing” on his union or being expelled drank
his beer.
The affairs of the South African Labor
party have reached a crisis owing to the
National Labor Council, which aims at the
socialisation of industry and all that sort
of thing, insisting on taking control of the
Parliamentary machine and dictating its
policy. Ten of the Labor members in the
Union Parliament are supporting Creswell,
the leader, and seven follow the Council.
Creswell, who has been Minister of Defence
for three years, is an Australian. He must
fancy himself sometimes in dear old New
South Wales.
Britain’s Baldwin party continues to lose
by-elections—to Lloyd Georgians, for the
most part. Lancaster, the seat vacated by
Australia’s peppery old acquaintance Gerald
Strickland, is the latest to turn Liberal,
though the winner failed by thousands to
poll half the aggregate votes. The preferen-
tial system of voting would have averted
most of the losses, and the Government’s
neglect to introduce it is rather amazing.
Of course N.S.W. railway and tramway
men don’t like being sacked, but they might
dislike it less if they didn’t suspect that the
axe falls only in the lower grades. Just when
notice was given to several hundred laborers,
etc., the list of the officials and salaries
of the Railway and Tramway Institute was
published, said institute being a side-line of
the Commissioners. The top salary was
£763; no less than 57 officers draw £18,046
p.a., and that does not include honorariums.
The Bavinshaws must use the axe evenly if
they don’t want to be charged with bias in
their economy campaign.
The Melbourne Uni. begins the academic
year by raising the fees two guineas per
subject per annum, making a total advance
of three guineas within four years. Prob-
ably the Council can see no other way out
of financial difficulties, but it is going the
wrong way to widen the opportunities for
higher education. The root cause of much
of the Uni.’s troubles is centralisation, which
means general unwieldiness. The only de-
centralisation the Melbourne University
practises is to credit passes secured by
students of the various technical schools as
equal to the passes obtained at its own
examinations in certain science subjects;
and even that concession ceases this year.
N. S. Wales has found one fairly cheerful
spot on its horizon. The year to June 30,
1927, ended with 30 more factories than the
State possessed 12 months previously, and
there were 9068 more workers in them, and
the workers collected £3,516,396 more wages.
The value of the year’s output was
£179,282,044, which was an improvement of
£9,298,898. This was arrived at without loans
or land resumptions, and without the build-
ing of money-losing railways and works to
“open up new country.” And the home market
still offers very wide scope for the extension
of factory industry. All that is required is
a liberal repression of imports, especially
superfluous ones, and especially those from
countries which are poor customers for our
goods, and so can be offended with impunity.
When the Federated Boilermakers left
off work at the Government dockyard (Walsh
Island, N.S.W.) and threw 2000 men out it
was as a protest against the receipt of extra
wages. That species of strike is fairly
common in Australia. The State dockyard
had a contract to supply six steel carriages
per week for the State railways, which
seems State-socialistic enough. It was unable
to keep up the pace, so it advertised for
more well-paid union workers. They couldn’t
be found; unemployed are said to be in
droves, but through a long policy of restrict-
ing apprenticeship these aren’t tradesmen.
Then the management offered a bonus (extra
pay for extra work), and the strike followed,
extra pay being “against the rules of the
union.” Nobody explained why it was
against the rules of the union. This sort
of row generally leads in the long run to
something being imported. The rules of the
union don’t provide against piecework or
even “scab” goods, provided they are
imported.
Queensland is building 54 miles of rail-
way to Mount Isa so that the Russo-
Asiatic Go. may make a start on its huge
low-grade mining proposition. The State is
also providing a water supply for the town
that is to be. And if Mount Isa meets the
common fate Queensland will have one more
dead-end railway finishing at a dead mine,
and not a farthing in a sinking fund to pay
off the loan it was built with.
The open war between the A.W.U. and
the Trades and Labor Council will embitter
the fight for the Labor nomination in West
Sydney, which would have been strenuous
in any case. Bill Lambert, once an A.W.U.
organiser and later Lud Mayor of Sydney,
has held the seat since September, 1921.
Ilis pre-selectipn opponent this time is
Beasley, president of the T. and L. C., who
is as talkative as William is taciturn. The
indications are that Bill will be beaten, but
in the result there may be two Labor candi-
dates for West Sydney.
At its Easter conference in Melb. Vic.
Labor will discuss the redistribution of
Assembly seats again. Two years ago its
idea was to have 20 constituencies, each re-
turning three members, with proportional
voting. That scheme was abandoned for
60 single-seated constituencies, 30 in Mel-
bourne and 30 in the country. A one-vote-
one-value policy, with a small margin above
or below the quota, may now be decided
upon.
An air of haste and scramble pervaded the
final resolution of the Labor Conference
which sat recently at Sydney Trades Hall.
As reported:—
To solve the problem of unemployment it was
decided to advocate closer settlement of suitable lands
within the 20-inch rainfall belt and within 20 miles
of a railway, co-operation under State supervision,
industrial insurance and pensions, and industrial
farms for training in agricultural and horticultural
pursuits.
It was a postscripty way of dealing with
an overwhelming subject.
The Hogans propose to save £9OO a year
by not appointing a successor to Harry
Allan as Vic. Under-Sec. of Lands.
Applications were called and scheduled, and
then it was decided that a rearrangement of
duties would meet the needs of this very
costly department. If the Rural Bank Bill
is passed next session in some form, as
seems likely, the new institution will take
over some of the financial work now done
for soldier settlers by the Closer Settlement
Board, and the Secretary of Lands
(Mclver), who is also Director of Settle-
ment, will have more time for general ad-
ministrative work. The new chief clerk
will be more directly in command of the
staff than the late Jimmy Butler was.
Says Scullin, deputy-leader of the Federal
Labor party:—
There is more unemployment in Australia to-day
than I have ever known at this time of the year,
and many families are bordering on starvation. This
ia largely due to the unsound finance of the Ministry,
which has weakened the credit of Australia. I do
not believe that there should be absolutely no bor-
rowing, but it should be for reproductive works and
nothing else.
Good old half-and-half! The Voice of Labor
says that its opponents have borrowed too
mficli overseas, and damaged Australia’s
credit, which, presumably, is wanted in an
undamaged state so that the country may
borrow a lot more. At the same time he
believes in loans, provided the money is in-
vested in reproductive works. That gives him
a wide margin, for most works are reproduc-
tive, though many produce darned little. Also
the voice of Labor doesn’t say how works
which are productive of paper here would
provide gold to meet liabilities abroad. A
Scullinni politician with a programme would
be a blessed event. Even a fool-programme
would be better than none.
Convinced that there is some justification
for complaints that sparks from engines
cause grass- and bush-fires. Tunnecliffe, Vic.
Minister for Railways, has promised legis-
lation providing for a compensation scheme,
funds to be derived, perhaps, from a slight
increase in the land-tax. Tunnecliffe is cyni-
cal about the efficacy of so-called spark-
arresters. Two hundred inventors, he says,
claim that their devices are perfect, but
sparks still escape.
Attorney-General Latham recommends
Victoria “to regard the unification of railway
gauges as urgent,” and to get busy at
standardising its system while the Federal
Government’s offer to bear one-fifth of the
cost holds good. It would, he says, make
communication between Melbourne and
Canberra easier, and would attract a lot of
N.S.W. trade to Melbourne. But better
communication with Canberra isn’t a matter
of breathless haste, and a good deal of the
extra freight to be drawn from southern
N.S.W. would be of the bulky low-priced
sort. Moreover, it would be desperately
expensive for Victoria to find its four-fifths
of the money just now, and the Common-
wealth, which is hanging up its own public
works, might fail as regards its fifth. The
matter of real urgency is for the Common-
wealth to finish its own railway construction
job in the Territory, even if it is a 3ft. 6in.
freak.
Though “Bondy” Hoare, president of the
Northern Coal Miners’ Stopwork Federation,
accepted £d. per ton on output to keep the
Stockton Borehole mine free of stoppages
and thus help Australian industry along a
trifle, it has been declared almost passion-
ately that he didn’t deliver the goods—that
he was not guilty of the wickedness of
helping Australian industry and assisting the
miners to earn steady wages. In this con-
nection the railways report the number of
tons hauled from the Borehole colliery thus
(year to June, 30) :
1921.. 133,758 1925.. 130,136
1922.. 106,718 1926.. 52,539
1923.. 131,700 1927.. 185,859
1924.. 173,229
The best year on the list was the one in
which Mr. Hoare was paid to provide con-
tinuous work, and the subsequent half-year,
when he was also paid, is said to have shown
excellent results likewise. Stanford Merthyr
was the only other mine which exhibited
anything like a similar expansion in 1927.
From these figures some people might con-
clude that Mr. Hoare was quietly and
honestly carrying out his contract when
something happened to stampede him into
taking up an entirely new attitude.
JERKIN'S CHARITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In Sydney alone £1,750,000 is raised yearly for
charities, etc. The Chief Secretary, having certain
information as to the cost of raising some of this
money, will recommend a tightening up of the law.”
Old Jenkin’s heir had come of age,
And for a treat was due ;
So there and then the family sage,
As carnivals were all the rage,
Conceived the notion that he’d stage
A grand “relief” shivoo.
He spent his little surplus cash
In working up the scheme;
He got the social rags to splash
Encomiums about the trash
He called his charitable dash—
The abos. were its theme.
Some willing helpers gathered in
The coin from all around,
And ticket-sellers made a din
Among the workers’ kith and kin,
Expanding Jenkin’s cheerful grin
With every added pound.
A great success was Jenkin’s treat —
That is, to Jenkin’s hive.
They did so grand that little meat
Was left for black or brown to eat;
Receipts were ninety-six pounds neat,
Expenses ninety-five.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Pipards”: “Borom” vaguely refers to
“a note in one of Trevelyan’s books” to sup-
port his utterly erroneous statement that
the right of a peer of England to be hanged
with a silken cord is a myth. I don’t know
what Trevelyan or what book he refers to,
but in such an easily accessible and standard
work of reference as “Whitaker’s Peerage”
(latest edition) he will find the various
privileges of peers set forth concisely.
“Lastly,” says this authority, “among the
privileges of the noble order—availed of by
the eighth Lord Stourton, and again by the
fourth Earl Ferres—if a peer is sentenced
to be hanged, he has the consolation of
swinging by a silken cord.” That the right
hasn’t been claimed within living memory
doesn’t make it a myth; presumably nobody
has been qualified to claim it.
* * * *
“The Duster” : Our town owns a budding
genius who will surely startle the world of
fiction in the years to come. He’s a dinkum
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR.
“Oh lovely! Aphrodite, isn’t it?”
“There’ll be a row ij it is. The blighter sold it to me for alabaster."
boy, and during the recent heat-wave he
took French leave from school to wallow in
the local swimming-pool. Back at school he
handed his teacher (a sporting chap) the
following note: —
Dear Sir, —Please excuse my son Jack for being
absent yesterday. His Father attended a “Smoke
Social’’ the previous night and his rheumatism was
bad all day, and as he was too cranky for me to
manage I kept Jack at home. You’ll understand. —
Yours, etc., Mrs.
But a characteristic peculiarity in a certain
letter formation, despite the perfumed sta-
tionery and the womanish scrawl, led to
inquiry, and the lad subsequently admitted
that he had faked the note.
* :i: * *■
“Windsor”: There is something infinitely
pathetic about a dog story from Mildura
(Vic.). Seven years ago two grape-pickers
camped near the local brick-kilns with their
dog. When the grape season was over they
struck camp, leaving their dog behind them.
Mystified by its masters’ departure, the
deserted dog settled down to ®T^ ait L
return. Patiently and hopefully it Has
waited ever since, leaving its post only at
night-time, when it scraped for food a *- t ‘‘ e 7
town council’s rubbish depot. Attempts by
the local people to befriend the dog wer.
unsuccessful. At the approach of strangers
it invariably ran away. And now its n art-
less seven-year vigil has been ended by
death. Wasn’t it a Frenchwoman who said
that the more she saw of men the more sue
admired dogs? , *
* * *
“Cuchulain”: An ambulance aeroplane,
taking a patient from Hay (N.S.W.) to
Melbourne, was attacked by a huge eagle-
hawk. The bird swooped down as the plane
was landing, but was caught and killed in
the wing skids. It is strange what a bird
or animal will attempt if it thinks its o\\n
element is being invaded. To the attacker
the ’plane presumably represented an im-
mense bird —nothing more. Similarly when
I was motoring the other day a frilly lizard,
sunbaking in the middle of the road, rushed
to meet me with all frills up and mouth ex-
panded to devour the giant lizard he saw
approaching. I managed to pass over him in
safety. „
“Two Seas” : Apropos these early airmen,
there is in Chard (Somerset) cemetery a
memorial erected to John Stringfellow (L»
8/2/’2B) as the assistant of W. S. Henson,
also of Somerset. The inscription sets forth
that Stringfellow was the “inventor ot the
first engine-driven aeroplane which flew
1848 to 1868.” A still earlier attempt to
fly is commemorated by a tablet built into
the wall of the tower of St. Mary’s Church
at Shrewsbury (Salop). A quaint inscrip-
tion outlines his story thus: —
Let this small monument record the name
Of Cadman, and to future time proclaim
How, by an attempt to fly from this high spire
Across the Sabrine stream, he did acquire
His fatal end. ’Twas not for want of skill
Or courage to perform his task he fell.
No, no, a faulty cord being drawn too tight
Hurried his soul on high to take her flight,
Which bid the body here beneath good-mght.
Feb. 2nd 1739. Aged 28.
If any Yankee attempted to fly before Cad-
man “acquired his fatal end” there doesn’t
appear to be any record of it.
* * * *
“Murkali”: One of the first aims of the
Anti Motor-hog League should be to secure
a traffic regulation making it compulsory for
the motorist who sounds the horn to reduce
his speed simultaneously. The present
practice is to honk a warning and leave the
rest to the agility of the unfortunate pedes-
trian. An interlocking apparatus by which
the sounding of the horn would automati-
cally cut off the petrol supply would save a
lot of inquests.
-J. sjs * *
“Ethanesal”: One hot Saturday night not
so long ago I was called to a shanty on the
outskirts of our village to dispel the reptilian
illusions of a -sturdy inebriate. He was
attended by a brother in alcohol who stood
by to satisfy my needs. An injection being
indicated I sought for something to sterilise
my syringe. “Have you any methylated spirits
in the place?” “No.” “Any brandy?” “No.”
“Any spirits of any sort?” “No, but I got
some port wine round the back if you’d like
a drink of that.”
* * * *
“Caldwell”: The mystery and magic of
ships? The tanker Scala Shell, in port at
Sydney, is 26 years old, and has had some
incidents in her life on the high seas.
Originally the German four-masted barque
Urania, she was seized during the war by
the British Admiralty and renamed Speed-
onia. Under that name she made various
trips between America and Australia laden
with case oil. In 1920, between the Straits
Settlements and South Africa, she caught
afire and was abandoned. Salvaged by a
Portuguese vessel, she was towed into Beira
and then to Rotterdam, to be converted into
a tanker, and re-named Scala Shell. The
visit to Sydney is the first under that name,
but mention the Speedonia to the old boys
that are wont to congregate at places like
the Royal Exchange and outside the ship-
ping boards of the Post Office, and they will
know what you are talking about. ine
company has 70 ships, each of which carries
in a glass case a shell bearing its name.
This is said to be in memory of the founder
of the company, the late Lord Bearstead,
who once sold shells in London.
* * * *
“Malabar”: Thursday Island has been re-
ceiving additions to its population withm
RIGHT—LEFT.
LITTLE SISTER: “Mabel says she doesn’t believe in skirts too short. I think she’s right,
don’t you?”
BIG SISTER: “Oh yes, and I think she’ll probably be left, too.”
the last few months in the shape of stow-
aways, most of whom get on to the Asia-
bound ships down the coast and find their
adventurous careers summarily cut short by
being tossed off on to our wharf. Darwin
is the goal of most of them. As there is
only a limited outlet for labor on the island
the marooned travellers find their lot a hard
one, although the place is wonderfully hospi-
table —even to broken-down strangers. And
this explains why some of the colored com-
munity have white men doing the chores
for their wives in return for a feed. An
odd commentary on White Australia!
* * * *
Chris”: Was listening to the English
station SSW, situated at Chelmsford, and had
also the broadcast receiver operating a loud
speaker in the same room tuned to the wave-
length of one of the local stations. The
English station then played a gramophone
record “The Barcarole,” and at precisely
the same moment it began the same record
began to come over from the local station.
When one thinks of the many thousands of
miles separating the two stations, it was
at least remarkable.
* * * *
“Clerk”: A thief more considerate than
most visited a Lonsdale-street (Melb.) cafe
the other night. Before leaving he pinned
a note on the table: “Dear Sir, —Pardon me
for this abrupt and fruitless intrusion. Am
slightly compensated by a good meal at
your expense. P.S. —Please don’t put so
much cinnamon in the beehe-de-mer.”
* * * *
“Country Ped.” Half-buried in the mud
opposite the Echuca wharf (Vic.) lies a
portion of the hull, gradually rotting away,
of the first steamer to navigate the Murray.
This was the Lady Augusta, a side-wheel
paddle-steamer of 90 tons, built in Sydney
to the order of Captain Francis Cadell.
Towing a barge put together on Lake Alex-
andria, and carrying a number of members
of Parliament as passengers, the Lady
Augusta left Goolwa on Aug. 25, 1853, and
journeyed as far as Swan Hill in three
weeks. Captain Cadell, getting into finan-
cial difficulties, abandoned the river for
pearl-fishing; he lost his life on one of
the islands near New Guinea in 1871.
For many years afterwards his pioneer l
steamer followed the windings of the Murray,
the Darling and the Murrumbidgee until,
worn out, she was run ashore and deserted.
* * * *
“Verri”: The mail-car that met us out-
side a small Waikato (M.L.) railway station
was held together with all manner of strange
devices, including string, flax and pieces of
wire. After the first horrified inspection we
interviewed the driver, who said our des-
tination was seven miles way, and he had
to pick up three other passengers along the
road, and there were seats for five only, so
we had better get in and settle down. One of
the other passengers was an enormous Maori,
who considerately elected to stand on the
running-board, thereby making the car sag
dangerously on his side. Five bags of mail
matter occupied the hood. Butcher's meat, a
sack of potatoes and a tin of biscuits filled
in the crevices between the passengers. We
did the first mile without the car rattling
to bits, as it threatened to do, but had two-
breakdowns on the second, and came to a
full-stop on the third. The driver explained
that an important part was missing, prob-
ably dropped on the road; and we all got
out to assist in the search. On the section
I patrolled there was nothing but dust,
leaves and a loop of dirty tape attached to a
safety-pin. I gave up the hunt. A tew
moments later a joyous shout went up that
the missing item was found. It was the
loop of tape and the safety-pin.
* * * *
“Nikko”: Goats are goats these days in
Sydney. The people next door had owned one
for years, and for various reasons it was un-
popular in the neighborhood. But with the
advent of goat-racing it became a creature
with possibilities, and the family began to
groom it and olfcr it carrots instead of
thistles. One day last week two red-faced
men came and looked it over with profes-
sional keenness. Half an hour later the
neighborhood was intrigued to see the animal
being pushed into a motor-car and driven
off with every indication of respect. I
haven’t the remotest doubt that it is now in
training, and has forgotten its diet of thistles
and days of abuse.
* * * *
“Pfella”: The last time I was in Banana-
land I attended the dance given at a sugar
mill at the close of the crushing season.
Musicians had been bi’ought from Rockhamp-
ton, and they opened the proceedings with a
number which I thought rather alluring;
but few couples responded. This aroused
my curiosity, but I could get no satisfactory
explanation until I heard a great cheer from
the hall entrance. Then there was escorted
in a beaming greybeard, hugging a concer-
tina under his arm. The Rockhampton
music-makers stopped playing and stared at
the apparition. The ancient extended his
instrument and commenced. Straightway the
floor was crowded with waltzers; and
Whiskers—eyes shut, head thrown back,
right foot beating time—kept them at it until
it pleased him to stop and acknowledge that
there were other players. In engaging the
Rockhampton party the committee had
thought to be up to date, but the cold recep-
tion extended to its paid musicians prompted
it to send post-haste for the old boy, who
had played the district’s dance music for
years.
* * * *
“John Quill”: The boss was a chap who
believed in doing things properly. If there
was a “knack” or a “wrinkle” in performing
any operation, he knew about it, did the Boss.
One day he walked into the firm’s packing-
room and observed a youth struggling with
the boards’Of a big case. He sized the situa-
tion 'up in a flash —the lad simply didn’t
know how to nail a case up securely and
expeditiously. With a “That’s not the way
to nail cases. This is how it’s done. Watch
me!’’ he grabbed the boy’s hammer and
set into the job. Then he straightened
himself up, rubbing his hands with satisfac-
tion. “There you are, my lad,” lie said.
“There’s nothing wrong with that case now,
is there ?*’ “No, there’s nothin’ wrong with
it,” replied the kid. “Only it’s empty!”
* * * *
“John Quill”: When the police raided a
Sydney cafe one recent evening and charged
several vanloads of diners with being on
premises where “spirituous and fermented
liquors” were sold after hours, a very well-
known Sydney journalist narrowly escaped
being roped in with the mob. Overhearing
a whispered warning, he left while the
affable Chuck was inspecting the kitchen.
But the point I wish to make is that there
is something wrong with a law which leaves
perfectly unoffending citizens liable to be
bundled into Black Maria, charged and (pos-
sibly) locked up for the night. Highly re-
putable people, like myself, paragons of all the
virtues, often drop into such cafes with the
sole object of supplying the inner man. One
of these days the coarse, hairy arm of the
law will nab a pious bishop, a Cabinet Min-
ister or the Religious Editor of The Bul-
letin. Then there’ll be hell to pay.
BALLADE OF INNER RESERVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whenever life looks most forlorn
And every friend liis heart has steeled
To treat my overtures with scorn
So that all founts of gain seem sealed,
My thankful song has often pealed
In grateful and majestic chants
If, after search, I find concealed
Odd coppers in discarded pants.
How often, on a Monday morn,
My landlady, her voice congealed
As hard as icebergs off the Horn,
Has vowed the Law’s dread scourge to
wield
And drive me forth from byre and bield —
Her eyes like very adamants !
With frantic hope I seek my shield
Of shillings left in cast-off pants.
The ox who trod the garnered corn
Was never muzzled, and no field
Was ever quite so closely shorn
That gleaners could achieve no yield:
So my perplexities are healed
When sometimes after tedious bants
Through days unmoneyed and unmealed,
I find stray coins in worn-out pants.
Envoy.
Prince, ministering ravens wheeled
To bring Elijah heavenly grants,
And I find sustenance revealed
By ransacking my ancient pants.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDGON.


Flagwagger”: Few soldiers wasted words
in their correspondence; there used to be a
stock story of a Digger who wrote from
Anzac, “Dear Bill, —This war is a .
Joe.” But I recently read a letter written by
a military trainee in camp at Seymour to his
mother at Melbourne, which beat Joe’s
record for brevity. It ran: “Dear Mum-
Tucker good. John.” Anything more con-
cise than that seems impossible.
* * * *
“J.E.” : In Field-Marshal Haig’s obituary
(B. 8/2/’2B) the Black Prince is mentioned
as a military genius. The Black Prince won
two outstanding battles, Poictiers and
Navarette, and as a boy had a hand at Crecy.
These victories were due to the fact that
Englishmen had (or acquired from the Nor-
mans) a genius for the use of the long bow,
and other nations failed to develop that
capacity. A long series of English successes
against the Scots (Alnwick, Northallerton,
Dunbar, Falkirk, Halidon, Neville's Cross,
Nesbit Moor, Homildon, right on to Flodden)
showed that a very mixed lot of commanders
could win battles under these conditions.
The Black Prince had remarkably good luck
in the selection of opponents until he ran
against Du Guesclin. When he died there
was very little left of the English conquests
in France. The list of Britain’s military
geniuses should include Alfred the Great,
Athelstan, Robert Bruce, Marlborough and
Wellington. Other candidates are Harold
11. (he lost only one battle, and it was lost
after he was dead; the long bow counted
him out), William Wallace, Cromwell
(though I don’t think he ever met an
opponent who amounted to much), Roberts
and perhaps Allenby—if Allenby’s campaign
in Palestine and Syria didn’t show genius it
revealed a colorable imitation. And I sup-
pose there are some more.
THE ARTLESS DARLING!
GRANNY: “Oh, I wouldn’t slide down the stairs like that, darling!”
DARLING: “Show us how you’d slide down, Nannie.”
“Sancho” ; “The long line of troops surged
forward irresistibly, their bayonets smeared
and bloody, held grimly and menacingly.”
The novel, a recent publication, lies before
me. Isn’t it about time this foolishness
ceased? During four years with the 54th
Battalion I never saw a single bayonet
“smeared and bloody” nor any of those
organised charges beloved of war-fictionists.
And our dear old friend the Ghurkha, his
teeth set firmly in the haft of an 18-inch
scimitar, charging a shortly-to-be-headless
platoon of Huns, is another “smeared and
bloody” falsehood. These things may have
happened on other fronts; they didn’t in
France.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: The first woman to make a
parachute descent from a balloon in Aus-
tralia was Miss Valerie Van Tassell; I saw
her in action at Newcastle in February,
1890. The inflation of the balloon took over
two hours, the primitive operation being
accomplished by the burning of wood and
gasoline to provide the hot air in the pit
over which the mouth of the balloon was
stretched. The covering was frequently
scorched, and handkerchiefs were borrowed
to stitch over the holes. It was nearly dark
when the lady ascended, seated on a trapeze
bar under the parachute. When the balloon
was merely a dot the crowd became wildly
excited, and there were threats to kill the
man with the gun if he didn’t immediately
fire the signal for the girl to cut loose. In
the end the parachute descended steadily,
after a sheer drop of 400 feet before it
opened, and the iron-nerved lady stood up
on the bar and performed various trapeze
stunts. After showing in Melbourne she
went to India, where she was dashed to
death when giving a performance in Cal-
cutta.
jfc ifc jfc
“Coot” : When, 55 years ago, E. W. Cole
opened his first Book Arcade in Melbourne
he issued a number of medals on which was
inscribed “Six easy-writing pens and two
good pencils for this medal at Cole’s Book
Arcade, Melbourne. Estab. 1873.” One
of these was handed in recently by a Queens-
land visitor to Melbourne, and honored.
Many years ago the late Carr Boyd found
two of the medals among the Central Aus-
tralian blacks, said tokens being used as safe-
conduct passes by the tribe’s messengers.
❖ s?: *
“Wiremu” : “Hinemoa” (B. 25/l/’2B) con-
fuses “pa,” a Maori fort or stronghold, with
the “kaianga” or village. The pa was
usually situated on an easily defended knoll
near to the village, and thither Henare and
his tribe retreated when danger threatened.
Water was usually kept in reservoirs in
the form of pits, the sides of which were
puddled with clay. In the account of Cook’s
first voyage, published by Thomas Beckett
in London in 1771, appears an account of
one of these forts at Queen Charlotte Sound.
“Thither,” the passage runs, “they all re-
treat upon an alarm, always keeping in
readiness a sufficient quantity of water in
reservoirs.” I have noticed some of these
pits still holding water on the site of old
pas abandoned over 100 years ago. Henare
also grew a gourd called hue, which he
shaped as it grew to form a water vessel,
and old Maoris have informed me that num-
bers of these were filled with water and
stored in the pa ready in cases of emergency.
❖ SjC
“S.T.S.”: A more romantic or less con-
venient spot for a funeral could hardly
be imagined than Dryburgh Abbey, where
Haig has been interred. It is a group of
ruins in a garden beside the Tweed, four
or five miles from the much better known
Melrose Abbey and a little further from
the old home of Walter Scott, whose favorite
look-out, Bemersyde, is still shown on the
hills above Dryburgh. But whereas Melrose,
like Jedburgh, is right on the roadside,
Dryburgh is on the way to nowhere. You
can drop down to it a mile or more from
the main road, but there is only a foot-bridge
across the river. To drive to it means a long
way round by a bridge, a poor road along
the heights, and a steep drop to a dead end
at the Abbey gate. Scott’s tomb is the one
thing that has kept it in the public eye.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Any miner who
knew Moonta and Kadina (S.A.) in their
heyday _ would hardly recognise the old town-
ships since the mines closed down five years
ago. A salvage co. purchased the poppets
and buildings and demolished them, re-sawmg
the big timbers to building sizes. The jjbp-
pets contained some fine sticks—the ■ legs
were of Oregon, 96 feet long by 18 inches
square. The timber, when sawn, was
as sound as when it was erected 40 years
ago. I armers bought most of it for shed-
and house-building, but some of it is travel-
ling further than that. A lot of short stuff
lias gone around the world as dunnage in
the holds of wheat ships. One piece of
oregon should be rounding the Horn this
month as the fore-royal yard of a wind-
jammer.
* * * *
“Sebrof”: Further to these improvised den-
tures ; a mason whom I met near Rock-
bank (Vic.) had a set of his own manufac-
ture. The plate portion was of pewter and
the tusks were little white pebbles It
was purely a utility contrivance, being only
worn at tucker time.
* * * *
“R. 8.” : Missionaries from Pitcairn Island
have invaded Australia and Maoriland (B
l/2/’2B), though not in any quantity. Tlmv
are Seventh Day Adventists, a quiet, indus-
trious lot of vegetarians with a fondness for
outlying fields to till. One is Rosalind
Amelia Young, a native-born Pitcairner who
has written a book about her people and is
now married to Pastor David Neild, of Auck-
land. The pair spent some years on Pit-
cairn and look in at Sydney periodically.
And on Norfolk Island are Melville Adams
and his wife who, with a long experience of
Pitcairn, run the local chapel. Originally the
“Bounty” community, under G. H. Nobbs,
was strictly Anglican ; but when they moved
to Norfolk the proselytisers got to work, and
Nobbs, old and deaf, watched half his flock
stray into the other paddock.
* * *
“Jan Bull”: Look out for counterfeit
florins! They are not easily picked. The
most popular brand—l struck three of them
in one day—is a replica of the 1916 Syd-
ney Mint issue, with a crowned George on
the face and the kangaroo and emu on the
WHEN McTAVISH MADE A SPLASH.
“I don’t think your husband’s as mean as you fancy he is.”
“What makes you think so—I can’t get a penny out of him.”
Well, I heard two stories told last night at his expense."
back. The cleverness of the forgery is
undoubted. The coin rings true, is well
milled, and the designs on both sides are
clear-cut. The .only defect is in color and
thickness. The duds are a dull slaty grey,
and just a tiny shade thinner than the real
article. But they aren’t made of lead, and
can t be bent in the fingers, though, as a
test with a knife will show, the metal is
much softer than the 92.5 per cent, silver
coin of the Commonwealth. J. Bull’s silver
coins are now only one-half silver, but they
are exactly the same color as the Australian
mintage.
* * * *
S.T.S.”: South Australia adds another
run to its score for Culture. The Institutes’
Association in Adelaide sends books out to
each of the nearly 300 institutes in the
State. _ Lately there was a bad case of
pilfering” (as marine theft is curiously
named) on a coastal steamer between Yorke
Peninsula and the city. Cargo was broached,
but the only thing stolen was a dozen books!
* * * !jt
“N.D.”: The Melbourne police are de-
servedly proud of their motor-patrol arm. A
new addition to the fleet was cruising in the
vicinity of Russell-street in the middle of the
city the other day when it picked up a wire-
less report that somebody had been heard
prowling about inside the club-house of a
Box Hill bowling-green. It got there in
seven minutes, in time to catch the undesir-
able climbing over the fence. The distance
is nine miles, through the most congested
portions of the suburbs.
* * * *
“S.M.”: That par. about the affairs of the
Roumanian royalty reminds me that 25 years
ago the adjacent kingdom of Serbia also had
family troubles. It was alleged that the
King’s wife was older than he; that when
he married her she had been the widow of
a disreputable character; that she had been
in the Rahab business in the Serbian
capital; that she had been the King’s
mistress before being his wife; and that
some of her relatives, who developed swelled
head and began to butt into public affairs,
were unbearable. So a ..new dynasty was
invited to the throne, or rather an old one
was recalled. The dethroned crowd made no
trouble, having been disposed of in the messy
Balkans fashion.
* * * *
“Count Drolatique” : A far more dangerous
undertaking than that of swimming across
Sydney’s sliark-infested harbor would be to
negotiate the narrow strip of blue between
Queenscliff and Point Nepean at the entrance
to Port Phillip. The ebb, with a pace of
eight knots and sometimes more, runs
through the Rip like a race, and I have seen
large steamers, while frying to make the
entrance, have their heads turned in towards
Point Lonsdale by the pressure of the out-
ward tide. Some years ago a Lascar jumped
off an outward-bound mail steamer when
she was just off Queenscliff. His intention
was obviously to swim ashore, a distance of
not more than a mile, but the ebb was at
its peak and he was never seen again.
* * * *
“Gwelph”; At Bairnsdale (Vic.) a man
from one of the neighboring townships
breasted the counter of the telegraph office
requesting the assistance of the counter clerk
in sending an important message. The clerk
was told that there had been a very recent
increase in the family of Mr. Bush, and it
was desired to inform a Melbourne friend of
the event. Mr. Bush had never sent a wire
in his life, and the wording and cheapest
way of doing same were things he greatly
desired to know. The obliging clerk su<*-
gested: “Lizzie a son this morning all weir”
“Right-o,” said Mr. B.—“let ’er go at that’”
In about 20 minutes B. was back at the
office. “Mister, have yer sent my message
yet?” he inquired. “Not yet,” said the
clerk. “Well, can I alter that bit at the
end about being well? Ye see, I haven’t been
too good meself lately”
“H-P-”: Have the tide and the worm both
turned? A * Warrnambool (Vic.) there is
'*** «*““ “ se<l * <*•*
* * * *
((rri ,
Duster”: A mere toddler of three
recan Gy showed that Australian initiative
begins early. He was in a local store with
d js sister, and the proprietor, a lover of
bids, tried to draw him out of his shell,
“My word, that’s a nice little boy you’ve
Spt there—will you sell him?” he said. The
girl, entering into the joke, said she would.
“But are you sure he’s a good boy?” asked
McSandy, patting the youngster’s head. “Oh
he’s a little angel,” the girl replied. Then
the kid thought it was time to take a hand,
“Mister, I’m not. I’m—l’m a real little
mongrel,” he sobbed,
* * * *
“Kirk”: I noticed in a recent Launceston
paper that a newly wedded couple would
res ide at Seaweed, Hagley (Tas ). This
struck me as a curious moniker for a house,
so I inquired how it came to collect this
name. It turned out that the original owner
and builder (Mr. W. Wright) was keenly
interested in coursing and possessed a grey-
hound called Seaweed, which was successful
in annexing sufficient stakes to build the
home.
* * * *
“Au Fait”: The residents of some of
England’s holiday resorts have unsuccessfully
petitioned the Government to cease all broad-
casting for a month to give the weatlier a
chance to resume normal working. The
illusion persists that the dissemination of
electricity into the atmosphere causes rain,
but it remains an illusion. More than one
ambitious genius has tried to invent a rain-
making apparatus that would work by co-
alescing the water of a cloud with a charge
of electricity—a fortune waiting in Australia
for a successful man. The trouble is that
the charging properties of one flash of natu-
ral lightning are about 50,000 times that of
all our broadcast sparks for years,
A BOB TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
' slu 'f club member has offered himself
a ? a husband to the girl drawing the winning ticket
at the Leap-year Ball at the Bondi Casino.”
*alk up! Walk up, and take a chance,
You dappers who can spare a shilling;
or here are prospects to enhance
„ r f f y° u are wedding-wise and willing.
Who 11 wave good-bye to single bliss
And leave that life not worth a sob,
And take a chance that none should miss—
A brand-new husband for a bob!
Who’ll take a chance—fair, fat or lean—
Uor *^°h n or Angus, Dave or Dennis?
A husband for a modest “deen”!
A husband for a dozen pennies!
Ignore the cynics who will say
That marriage is a lot of rot.
Truth, it’s a lottery. You pay
And win a prize—or you may not.
So pass your cash—’tis bargain day.
Upon the beach there struts Apollo,
The prize that whisks the fear away
That spinsterhood is yours to follow!
A sun-tanned god with pompous air,
Who may be Billjim, Tom or Rob—
A man to fill the vacant stair--
And all it costs is one plain bob!
And this thing’s sure, sweet maiden fair,
Yours is the prize if luck is willing:
Others in vain will angle where
You’ll make good use of that spare shilling.
And as through life you jointly go
Without a joy or ne’er a sob—
How comforting ’twill be to know
That all he cost you was a bob!
N.S.W.
EDWIN WALLER.
JUST AS FATHER SAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was setting out to test
My youthful hands with Fortune’s dice,
My father, with paternal zest,
Gave me at parting sound advice.
“Now save your cash, my son,” he stressed.
“You’ll find its friendship warm and true
Should Winter come with rage possessed
To shriek, and snarl, and storm at you.”
I sallied forth and followed out
The dad’s advice in every way,
Until I think I had about
Three hundred quidlets stowed away.
Quite proudly I wrote home to dad
And all my banking news conveyed;
I felt, I scrawled, as though I had
The basis of a fortune laid.
He soon replied: “I’m glad to see
Your balance has begun to soar....
Keep at it, son, and figures three
Will be converted into four.”
“Into four figures !” Verily
My father’s words in memory sticks:
For very soon mv hundreds three
Became 4/17/6.
VICTORIA.
JIM McCARTER.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive TarifE from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
V nfe
!!,!!!'
//// /
AAV
IiWIWj
E|ji|
tlluflUmrm
Consisfenh in ExcellencefSince 1575
ill l II II H |
Very (Old
HOLLAND CIN
A SK for Bols Very Old Holland
A Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private >
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiess:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereafch Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lancelot Stirling, president of. S.A. Leg.
Council, is also a
kind of perpetual
president of the
State’s Agricul-
tural Society. At
the recent annual
meeting he was
made a life-mem-
ber. A. E. Hamil-
ton is again chair-
man of the execu-
tive, and It. H.
Crawford (presi-
dent 1913 to 1918)
takes the new posi-
tion of treasurer.
The society has
gone ahead im-
mensely since leav-
ing the Jubilee
o‘val and building
its own showground
at Wayville, where
it encourages cycle-
racing also. It had
a 200,000 crowd at
the September
Show, and a profit
balance of £7OOO
on the year’s work-
ing.
LAVINGTON
BONYTHON,
Mayor of Adelaide
once more.
Congratulations have been showered on
the Rev. P. J. Murdoch, of Camberwell kirk,
Vic., on completing 50 years as a Scotcliby-
terian meenister. He has been Moderator-
General for Australia and Moderator for
Vic., which is the nearest the Kirk gets to
making a man an Archbishop and a Primate.
Son Keith has been for six years and a
half managing editor of Melbourne Herald
and associated papers.
Macßobertson, of Fitzroy, the man who
found Australia’s sweet tooth, is an inveter-
ate traveller. His latest peregrination will
take in as much of the Commonwealth as
can be covered in five months and two six-
ton six-wheel Ivarrier trucks, plus a motor-
car and aeroplane. The flying unit is a
450-h.p. De Havilland, now on its way from
the Cold Land. The listening ear of the
nation will be assailed nightly with a broad-
cast description from the caravan of the
day’s achievements. Adelaide, Kalgoorlie,
Perth, Broome, Darwin, Camooweal, Bris-
bane, Sydney and Canberra are places that
will be visited.
r N. Kirk, who made no bones about
having paid “Bondy” Hoare, the Northern
(Newcastle) Miners’ president id. per ton
for keeping peace at the Stockton Borehole
Colliery, is one of the oldest officers of the
Broken Hill Prop.: he has been the big co. s
Sydney agent for over 30 years. The Bioken
Hill Prop, is the Borehole’s chief customer,
in fact, it is hard to say where one co.
begins and the other leaves off—-Mr. Kirk,
besides being Sydney agent lor the R.H.i ~
is a director of the Borehole and also its
selling agent. r
The departure of Archbishop Knetes is
not going to heal all the breaches in the
Greek community of Sydney. Knetes struck
trouble directly he arrived in Australia.
Pausing in Adelaide on his way through, a
place where he was being entertained was
raided for after-hours liquor selling. it
appeared that the proprietor was charging
his compatriots for the liquor they con-
sumed, and that implicated Knetes, as one
of those present, in an offence. It was not
the Archbishop’s fault, but some of his Syd-
ney congregants were displeased. It was
his definite alliance with one of two
factions in Sydney, however, that really
started war. As a result there are now two
Greek churches in Sydney.
Death, which has been playing havoc
among big war figures lately, has closed
upon Herbert Henry Asquith, the Prime
Minister upon whom fell the responsibility
of entering Britain in the world upheaval.
A brilliant lawyer, who had no wealth to
help him up, Asquith loomed large m British
politics for 40 years. It was considered
rather a dangerous precedent when, as a
young man of not yet 40,” he was made
Home Secretary in the last Gladstone
Administration. He was Campbell-Banner-
man’s lieutenant in the Liberal victory ot
1905, and succeeded him as Prime Minister
in 1908, his Cabinet lasting until 1916. A
wonderfully lucid speaker, his main fault
was a tendency to listen too well to others.
His inability to restrain the frank effusions
of his second wife, Margot, was the _last nail
in his political coffin. He was 77 when
death moved the closure,
“Martingale” : Re “Alastor’s” par. on Rev.
Morgan-Jones (B. 25/l/’2B). Another top-
notch linguist is the Count de Tournouer,
B.Litt. (Sorb.), and Brisbane Agriculture
Department librarian, who can tell good
yarns in a dozen languages. He is an Aussie
of 25 years’ vintage (including three with the
A.I.F. and 10 on the land). A genial soul,
his hobbies are helping Diggers and Russian
refugees on to jobs and writing pars, for
The Bulletin. Two brothers who went
west, with their dad, in the war, and two who
are well-known north-western station mana-
gers, souvenired among them five French
honors and decorations. Another Brisbane
linguist is Lieut. George Zuckschweerdt,
0.M., B.A. (Cantab.), now a yellow-cab taxi-
driver, and a Professor of Maths, and lan-
guages in Petrograd before the Sovietisation
process. He served with the Imperial and
White Russian, Czecho-Slovak and Chinese
armies before becoming Aussiefied.
After J. F. W. Payne, of South Yarra. set
aside the income from £33,000 for the Mel-
bourne Children’s Hospital, the applause was
still echoing when the news was broadcast of
his sudden death. He belonged to a family
that settled in Vic. when the State was in
its swaddling clothes.
David McKee Wright was as versatile
outside writing as in it. He collected jewels,
coins and postage stamps, was an authority
on china, and grew roses and pansies that
carried off prizes at flower shows. Only a
few weeks back he turned his attention to
prize game-poultry; and a couple of years
ago he built himself a house unaided.
“Mapee”: When W. N. Gillies, who
passed on the other day, was first elected
to the Bananaland Assembly in 1912, his
opponents thought that instead of going to
Parliament lie should go to gaol. Although
he had lived most of his life near the border,
his actual residence in Queensland fell short
by a day or two of the 12 months require!
of a candidate. After the election 3ns
opponents had him prosecuted criminally for
making a false declaration. The case was
tried in Ilerberton, T. J. Ryan going up
from Brisbane for the defence. The Court
decided that there was no criminal intent,
and the case was dismissed. Had a petition
to unseat him on a simple irregularity been
presented the result might have been dif-
ferent. , „ . „ ,
At a meeting of Labor leaders in a Sydney
hostelry, the death of a prominent laborite
was mentioned. “He left two kiddies,” said
one of the party. “Put me down for half a
guinea,” said Bill Carey promptly. Actually
the fund had not been suggested, but that
started it. Carey was never a rich man, and
his response to all such appeals kept him
poorer than he might have been. His recent
death left a young family without a bread-
winner, and now his Parliamentary friends
ar6 doing for him what he was always ready
to do for others. In spite of the color of
his politics, it is Nationalist members of both
the Council and Assembly who are most
prominent in raising the fund.
W. G. Ivens, Litt.D. of the Maoriland
and Melbourne Universities, is heading for
London to have his grammar and dictionary
of the Pacific Isles published. He was with
the Melanesian Mission in the Solomons for
many years; and was a superintendent of an
abo. mission in N.Q. Several books on
native languages carry his name.
Dr. DARNELL SMITH, chief of the
Sydney Botanic Gardens, who formerly
did great work for fanners as an officer
of the Agricultural Department (he was
the man who worked out the “dry
pickling” now generally used for seed
wheat).
F. O’Neil, 0.0. criminal-law branch of
the Crown solicitor’s office, Melbourne, has
scored half a century not out in the public
service. He doesn’t intend to retire until
next year, when he will be 65.
The Protectionism of Customs Minister
Pratten is inherent in that sober little man.
His father, who. was a grocer and store-
keeper in the neighborhood of Bristol, was
a determined disciple of Joe Chamberlain.
While that parent was instilling into him
the doctrines that have meant much. to Aus-
tralia, his musical mother was tying him
up to the piano and organ, and even at this
stage, when he has little leisure for prac-
tice. he is more than passable on either
instrument.
Irvine will complete 10 years as C.J. of
Victoria on April 10, and will be 70 on
July 6. Twenty-four years ago he relin-
quished the Premiership of Vic., after hold-
ing the job for 20 months and having a very
strenuous time. A little later he entered
Federal politics and was Bruce’s predecessor
in Flinders. When the war broke out he
was Attorney-General under Joe Cook.
Though George Fuller passed his 67th
milestone on January 22, just about the
time he put in his resignation as member
for Wollondilly to take up the N.S.W. Agent-
Generalship, he is still a young-looking man.
Born at Iviama, he was educated at the
local public school until he went to the
Universitv. At 28 he was elected M.L.A.
for Iviama. Out of politics for seven years,
the coming of Federation lured him back, and
he was M.H.R. for Illawarra for 13 years,
acting as Minister for Home Affairs for a
year. His defeat Federally brought him
back to State politics, and he has represented
Wollondilly since 1915. in all but the first
12 months and the last 2\ years as a
Minister, Premier or leader of the Opposi-
tion. He became a barrister in 1884, but
has not practised law.
Unless his luck changes after this page
goes to press, airman Bert Hinkler should
be in Australia on Thursday. He has already
made the Ross Smith and Alan Cobham
flights look long and toilsome —Paref’s, with
his patched machine, was, of course, more
a wild adventure than a test flight—and
his schedule exactitude makes a regular air-
run between England and Australia look
much more probable. In his light ’plane
Hinkler reached Karachi on the eighth
day. went to Calcutta (1670 miles) in two
hops (both Ross Smith and Cobham made
five of it) and reached Singapore in another
three, cutting out two of his scheduled
stopping places. That left him with three
hops for Darwin, according to schedule. The
Australian flier will be received with loud
cheers in any case, but the applause should
be thunderous if he makes the trip in 16
days.
“D.M.E.”: The recent passing in Australia
of Sidney Wade, D.C.M., a Maoriland
artilleryman and a good Digger, recalls his
grand horse Silver. Issued from the re-
mount depot at Havre in May, 1916, Silver
was a rogue as a gun-horse, but under the
care of old Sid became a gentleman. No
matter what the road or shelling was like
our rations, per Cape-cart, with Sid and Sil-
ver, never failed to arrive. It was for
splendid work at Messines in 1917 that Sid
got his D.C.M. When last seen by this
writer Silver was drawing stores from the
Cologne railway station, after having been
in action right through the war. The R.S.A.
Deague (Australia) saw that Wade did not
die unnoticed, and thereby earned every
N.Z.F.A. Digger’s thanks.
Amnullah Khan, Amir, or, as he is styled
outside his own hornets’-nest of a kingdom,
King of Afghanistan, has met with an inter-
esting accident during his tour of Europe.
At Brussels something happened to him, and
the official bulletin said that he had cut
himself so severely while shaving that he had
to enter a hospital, abandoning his tour
meanwhile. It is most unusual for an
Asiatic of any rank at all to shave himself,
though the Amir may be modernised enough
to attempt it. There are many outside
Afghanistan who disapprove of him.
Frank Clarke, president of Vic. Leg. Coun-
cil, who is heading for the Old Dart, is
fond of the simple life. After Scotch and
Trinity (Melb.) and Oxford had done with
him, he married and bought a patch of
ground at Port Fairy. There he dug spuds
with vast enthusiasm. An imperfect leg has
always thwarted an ambition to ride to
hounds, but he used to train a few ’chasers,
including the big-timber heavyweight Icon.
His irrigation holding in the Goulburn Val-
ley used to be one of the show-places of that
region.
Arthur Robinson, ex-Vic. Attorney-Gen-
eral, who has left for a trip to Europe, got
almost everything he wanted in politics—
first a seat in the Assembly, then one in
the Reps., and finally the law portfolio and
leadership of the Upper Chamber, with a
K.C.M.G. thrown in. That the lion of the
Young Victorian Patriotic League of the
’nineties, who wanted to shake up or smash
things, should wind up as an “ardent con-
stitutionalist” and member of Melb. Club,
bored with politics, is quite in the natural
order of things. He is midway between 50
and 60.
Captain Andrew Shewan, one of the old
clipper masters, has passed out at Ealing
(Eng.) at 78. He was of those who put up
records when there was no Suez Canal; his
performances included bringing the Norman
Court to Sydney in S 9 days. Captain Wood-
get, of Cutty Sark fame, has passed the 89th
mark and lives at King’s Lynn.
William Stuart, one of the two appointed
to the Sydney Water Board in succession
to the aldermen
who represented the
departed council,
has been a master
builder for 40
years. He is one
of the Stuart firm
that has put up
several of Sydney’s
latest big buildings,
including the
Herald structure,
and is lifting
storeys high in
Melbourne and
Brisbane also. The
other new member,
A. E. Rudder, be-
longs to a big
carrying firm, and
is a director of
many companies.
The fees involved
don’t exceed £2OO
per annum.
INNES
RANDOLPH,
Australasian
managing director
of General Motors,
who left last week
to see Uncle Sam
again for a few
minutes.
Alurdo Mclvell, member of a well-known
N.S.W. tribe, cast up again in Sydney the
other day on furlough, after a few years of
rubber in Malaya. In pre-war days he grew
cocoanuts in the Solomons. Among other
incidents in his career were the South Afri-
can war and the Big Go, in which last he
Served with the 12th L.H. and the Camel
Corps, on Gallipoli and in Sinai and. Pal-
estine, where he became Major. He has a
somewhat lofty outlook on life, but .only
because, like many of his family, he is in
the vicinity of seven feet high.
ASQUITIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No more touching tribute was paid to the late
Lord Oxford in the House of Commons than the
simple statement that in all his Parliamentary life
he ‘never maligned a foe or deserted a friend.’ ”
He might have lived with those whose names
are writ
On Britain’s roster of her deathless great
For this alone: that where her greatest sit
He spared nor gifts nor patience infinite
In service to the State.
Men might have said : “lie made the people’s
cause
His own and bent a crowded life thereto.
He let no odds deter or give him pause.
Here was a tribune soul who passed the
laws
That made old dreams come true.”
He might have lived as one who took the
clays
Of clearest thought and made them sculp-
tured speech,
Master of crystal sentence, vibrant phrase
And lambent words to light the upward ways
That few but he could reach.
And that were telling title, cogent claim,
Beyond the mortal honors that lie wore,
To give him entry to the Hall of Fame
And leave the race another cherished name.
Yet there was something more.
Who else, through forty years of storm and
stress
And faction, record such as this could
show ?
Never, through act of his, a friend the less:
Never a word of scorn or bitterness
Or malice for a foe!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
PIONEER/lyr
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Henson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoe)’, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons. Tiinpson Street. Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co.. Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and } Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean. Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office ( T. k O. Building, Brisbane. Q
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.: —
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves
£ £ £ £
1918.. 367,869 25 p.c. = 262,500 76,969 362,083
1919.. 319,232 15 „ „ 157,500 86,807 437,007
1920.. 6,559 Nil 2,685 439,881
1921.. 32,926 Pref. 5p.c.=30,000 2,917 430,890
1922.. 87,241 { } 4 ' 408 440 ’ 222
All Shares.
1923.. 215,163 15 p.c.= 167,500 50,000 447,885
Reserve disclosed, £100,000.. 547,885
1924.. 84,142 Nil 183,942 448,085
1925.. 116,698 j 7 - P-£= 4 5,000 j 65 600 454j153
1926. .187,683 10 p.c- = 1051,000 60,000 476,866
1927.. 99,665 { HP-C.=45,000 J 23,181 508,350
Nearly double the tonnage of crudes was
raised at Broken Hill and output at Cockle
Creek substantially increased, yet sales
(£1,049,895) turned in £19,245 less than in
the previous year. The slump in metal
prices was chiefly responsible. Averages
for the 12 months to Sept. 30 were lead,
£26 9s. lid.; zinc, £3O ss. 7d.; silver, 2s.
3d.; and to this co. that represented a drop
of £6 for lead, £4 for spelter and sd. for
silver. Then the English coal strike closed
down the zinc works at Seaton Carew for
the first five months of the term, costs were
heavier, and between the lot working profit
(£140,345) shrank £123,430. That was
after £35,318 had been put by for amortisa-
tion, and £14,781 more was spent on develop-
ment at Cockle Creek and charged to earn-
ings. The latter amount, together with
£B4OO sent to the contingency reserves
(£74,000), is shown as written off in the
table. The object of the contingency re-
serve was to meet the cost of re-opening
the Central mine at B.IL, but the £49,916
so spent last year was charged direct to
p. and 1., and the expenditure on account
of the fire is now definitely at an end.
The ords. were, passed over for the third
time in the last five years, although enough
was earned to pay them 7 p.c. after handing
7i p.c. to the prefs. and allowing for the
£23,181 written off. The board has always
been conservative in its treatment of profits.
The fire, which cost the co. £900,000,
£450,000 of it money spent and the balance
profit lost, seriously depleted the liquid
resources, and the industrial side of the
business, which is developing rapidly, is
calling for a lot of money these days. Ex-
penditure in that direction is really a pro-
vision against the inevitable day when the
mine will cease to earn divs. At the pre-
sent rate of extraction (= 120,000 tons p.a.)
under 10 years’ work remains in the
1,146,251 tons ore measured at the Central.
That is apart from 217,800 tons available
at the Junction mine, which was bought,
after the fire, for £75,000. The ore from
there costs more to mine and handle, and is
poorer than that from the Central; produc-
tion there ceased in Sept, last, when lead
dropped to £2l 14s. 4d. Operations, how-
ever, were continuous during the period
covered by the accounts and 37,788 tons
crudes were raised, or 1210 tons less than
in the previous year. At the Central the
workings were dewatered to the 1400 ft.
level and the reopening of the southern
section proceeded. This enabled 87,527 tons
ore to be won compared with 43,875 tons
in 1926, and over a third of it came from
the 600 ft. level. All told, 125,103 tons ore
and 20,407 tons dump slimes were put
through the mill at a cost of £l4 2s. 9d.
per ton for lead concentrates and £1 9s. 9d.
for zinc concentrates. The corresponding
figures for the previous year were £l2 12s.
and £1 10s. lOd. respectively. The smaller
proportion of dump slimes to ore treated
was responsible for the increased cost of the
lead concentrates.
Here is a comparison of milling results
and assay values of concentrates: —
Readies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc,
j 1,175,676 oz. 17,790 tons. 2617 tons.
1923.. | 43.7 oz. 66.1 p.c. 9.7 p.c.
( 196,451 oz. 2,949 tons. 484 tons.
1924 ( 41.1 oz. 61.7 p.c. 10.1 p.c.
... ( 425,743 oz. 5.836 tons. 1303 tons.
1925 ) 41.4 oz. 56.8 p.c. 12.7 p.c.
( 890,984 oz. 12.518 tons. 2501 tons.
1926 ) 42.5 oz. 59.7 p.c. 11.9 p.c.
f 1,104,758 oz. 15,903 tons. 2,653 tons.
1927 l 43.7 oz. 62.9 p.c. 10.5 p.c.
Zinc.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
„„ f 338,494 oz. 1,915 tons. 16,417 tons.
1923 | 10.0 oz. 5.7 p.c. 48.7 p.c.
l 54,275 oz. 336 tons. 1,936 tons.
1924 ( 12.4 oz. 7.7 p.c. 44.4 p.c.
( 113.946 oz. 806 tons. 5,500 tons.
1925 ) 10.0 oz. 7.1 p.c. 48.5 p.c.
l 217,059 oz. 1,577 tons. 11,535 tons.
192 fa ( 9.2 oz. 6.7 p.c. 49 p.c.
, J 268,419 oz. 1,920 tons 14.677 tons.
1927 ( 9.0 oz. 6.4 p.c. 49 p.c.
The year’s recoveries were 90.6 p.c. silver;
89.7 p.c. lead ; 92.4 p.c. zinc—practically the
same as in the previous year.
Next is a record of the progress at Cockle
Creek, where a great amount has been in-
vested and super., sulphuric acid and cement
are turned out (the present book value of
these plants is £398,492) :
Cement
Sulp. Acid, Superphosphates, Clinker,
tons. tons. tons.
1923 .. 11,968 17,186 -
1924 . . 13,560 19,192
1925 .. 15,822 29,074 4,505
1926 .. 18,333 34,833 24,328
1927 . . 20,770 33,879* 42,884
*High grade.
There was an all-round increase in produc-
tion, and the management found no difficulty
in disposing of the output. The 33,879 tons
of high-grade super, is equal to 37,673 tons
standard quality. Seasons have favored sales,
and as farmers are becoming educated in the
use of fertilisers, much of the business won
should stick. The plant has a capacity of
40,000 tons p.a. A third contact-acid plant
was put into commission in May last, and
a fourth plant has since been installed in
order to meet the demand. With the com-
pletion of the second unit of the cement
plant in March last output in that depart-
ment was increased by over 76 p.c. The full
capacity of the existing plant is 100,000
tons p.a. When all the cement concerns
that have recently come into existence are at
work, there will probably be a temporary set-
back in the industry owing to over-produc-
tion. Sulphide Corp., however, is better
equipped than most for any struggle that
may follow. The wise course will, of course,
be to combine forces in a campaign to ex-
tend the uses of the product.
Work was resumed at Seaton Carew in
Dec., 1926, and production has since been
speeded up. The most important develop-
ment at the English end was the purchase
of a 92 p.c. interest —which figures in the
books at a modest £5126 —in Nantymwyn
Mines, Ltd., a lead-zinc property in Wales.
The idea is to ensure a supply of ore at
Seaton Carew when the Board of Trade con-
tract expires in 1930. At-least £50,000 will
have to be spent on the Welsh property to
bring it to the production stage, and treat-
ment works will probably be .erected within
the next financial year.
Liabilities (£503,276) still include large
reserves held against taxation claims. The
drop of £27,193 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£488,228) is mainly the result of
the payment of the 1926 div.: —
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liquid assets 1,387,570 906,686 1,034,948 991,503
Liabilities .. 551,922 513,889 519,527 503,275
Surplus .. £835,648 £392,797 £515.421 £488,228
Capital assets stand in the books at
£1,189,123, of which £526,786 represents
mines and plant at Broken Hill. Whether
the million-odd tons of ore measured up there
and the plant dependent upon that ore are
worth that much depends upon the future
course of metal prices, and what that will
be it is not possible to say. Not much notice,
therefore, need be taken of the so-called
reserves in the table.
At the moment the brightest spot in the
co.’s outlook is the industrial side, and that
makes the scrip worth consideration. Paid
capital is £1,050,000 in 600,000 £1 prefs. and
a like number of 15s. ords. The market,
doubtful of the metal position, pays only
12s. 6d. for the. ords., but offers 365. for the
10 p.c. non-cum. prefs. They advance with
the ords. beyond that rate.
* * * *
Automobile Finance Co. of Australia,
Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 244 Nil 244 4,964
Added preliminary exes., £7594.. 12,558
1925*. 2,679 Nil 2679 9,879
Forfeited shares, £lO .. .. 9,869
Pref. Ord.
1926.. 14,565 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 9,746 4819 5,050
Reserves.
1927.. 19,651 8 „ 8 „ „ 13,131 6520 1,470
*l3 months.
More than enough was earned to pay 10
p.c. to the ords. after satisfying the prefs.,
but the icing on the cake was not as thick
last year as it was in 1926, so the board cut
the final div. to 3 p.c., which, with an
interim 5 p.c., made 8 p.c. for the year. In
its last term the co. paid out £1764 in com-
missions to get business, which suggests that
the field is becoming rather crowded. Also
the £19,651 netted was approximately 12 p.c.
on average capital compared with p.c.
in the previous year, and exes, then included
£2722 brokerage on new shares. The gross
profit claimed by the accounts for the last
term was £53,870, including £18,563 interest
accrued but not earned. Exes, were propor-
tionately less; disregarding the accrued
interest, they ate only 44.3 p.c. of the gross
profit (£35,307) compared with 44.7 p.c. in
1926. However, the ratio of gross earnings
to average capital was only 214 p.c., as
against approximately 264 p.c. in the previ-
ous year. All this might mean that the co.
has cut the rate, or is more carefully
selecting its risks. On the other hand,
£33,159 of new capital was got in during
the year, making the amount paid up at
Dec. 31 £l6B 495 in 24,700 prefs. and 1500
ords., all fully paid to £l, and 284,590 ords.
paid to 10s. That enabled the board.to clip
£11,834 off the overdraft, reducing it to
£68,236. Also, in the last half of the term,
a further £12,498 was paid on the 25.000
£1 shares held in the subsidiary, thus making
them fully paid.
The pup, General Investments and Dis-
counts Pty., Ltd., was formed in 1926 to
finance time-payment purchases, other than
automobile. At June 30 last its paid capital
was £12,502, and £1649 (= 13.1 p.c.) was
netted for the 12 months to that date; no
intangibles figure in its sheet, and the liquid
surplus was £16,637, including £3240 inter-
est accrued but not earned. Apparently no
divs. were paid up to the time the parent’s
books were ruled off at Dec. jftl. The balance
of the new capital and the year’s surplus
earning were used to finance customers.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the parent’s position :-
took iqofi 1997
Paid capital .. .. £79,741 £135,414 £168,573
Overdraft 9,521 80,070 68,230
Sundry creditors.. .. 1,406 7,738 7,259
Plant, fittings, etc. .. 946 900 1,343
Shares in other cos. .. 12,501 25,000
Book debts . . .. 89,133 229,814 245,879
Investments, etc. .. 10 1,557 1,538
Apart from shares in other cos. the liquid
surplus (£171,922) was £28,359 stronger.
After allowing £2OOO for doubtful debts, all
but £l3ll of the £245,879 on the books is
represented by hire-purchase agreements.
These are mortgages on future incomes, and
in most cases the debt has been incurred to
buy a wasting and non-productive luxury
asset. The danger lies in the extent to which
credit is likely to become inflated by an over-
extension of facilities to buy recklessly, and
thus incur crushing obligations. To escape
loss will call for very careful management.
The position will look more comfortable
when capital has better support from re-
serves, which are now only £1470 in excess
of the intangibles (£5000). The latter have
been steadily written down from £12,802 over
the last three years.
The net tangible backing for the 8 p.c.
cum. prefs., which have priority as to
capital and dividend, but do not further
participate, is £6 17s. Bd., and last year’s
net profit was nearly 10 times their annual
requirements. The cover for the ords. was
10s. 2d. in net tangibles, and the market
values them at Bs. 6d. The return at that
figure is 9.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and
Hydraulic Lifts, Ltd., which, from 1889
to 1925 was known as Sydney and Subur-
ban Hydraulic Power Co., Ltd.
Written To Rc- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Oil. serves, serves.
& £ £ £ £
1918.. 11,129 6 p.c. = 6,750 4379 33,956
1919.. 10,698 6 „ „ 6,750 3948 37,904
Profit from sale of assets .. 4183 42,087
1920.. 10,504 74p.c.= 8,438 2066 44,153
1921.. 11,854 74 „ „ 8,470 3384 47,537
1922.. 11,905 7j „ „ 9,298 2607 50,144
1923.. 10.415 8 „ „ 9,600 815 50.959
1924.. 9,492 7 „ „ 8,400 1092 52,051
1925.. 9,623 7$ „ „ 9,000 623 52,674
1926.. 9,864 8 „ „ 9,600 264 52,938
1927.. 11,749 8 „ „ 9,600 —t 2149 55,087
A little over a year ago the co. widened its
field by adding to its activities the supply
and installation of electric lifts. Results
were the best recorded in the last five years;
net earnings (£11,749) sprang £lBB5, reach-
ing 9.8 p.c. on capital, compared with 8.3,
8, 7.8 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1923, not a very
attractive showing considering that the
£120,000 of capital had substantial assist-
ance from alleged reserves of £55,078 at
Dec. 31 —all, of course, used in the business.
For the past decade and more the electric
has been pushing the hydraulic passenger-
lift further and further into the background,
and until last year the co.’s outlook was
without promise. Even now there is no
indication that anything very fat will be
won. One difficulty has been to prevent
exes, outpacing the growth in revenue.
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1895. . £20.950 £14,399 1923. . £43,791 £31,876
1905.. 23,902 10,562 1924.. 41,158 30 666
1915.. 24,074 13,898 1925.. 42,715 31,592
1920.. 36,441.25,088 1926.. 47,279 35,915
1922.. 52,636 39,231 1927.. 56,986 43,237
A pleasing feature of last year’s figures
was that exes, consumed a slightly smaller
proportion of the revenue, 74.2 p.c. compared
with 75.9 p.c. in 1926. In 1910 the pro-
portion was only 46.7 p.c. Working costs
have increased enormously since then; and
repairs and maintenance are hefty items
these days. The whole position is largely
governed by the amount called for under the
latter heads. The co.’s interests are still
predominantly hydraulic, and competition
on the electrical side is very keen; but
there is no visible reason why the co. should
not be able to win its fair share of new
business. Thus far the new work has been
handled by the existing plant, and in the
absence of price-cutting, and provided costs
can be kept in hand, the 8 p.c. to share-
holders is a good deal less precarious than
it was.
This comparison of liquids and liabilities
also suggests that business was a bit
brisker: —
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
More or less liquid
assets (inc. stock) £28,745 £27,188 £25,780 £29,243
Liabilities... .. 13,125 13,699 13,547 16,270
Surplus .. £15,620 £13,489 £12,233 £12,973
The final div. (£4800) and £2OOO put by
for taxation reduces that surplus to £6173,
which is a trifle better than the correspond-
ing figure for 1926. Plant, mains, etc., are
in at £132,882; freehold, £34,943; leasehold,
£1149. Thus the scrip has a net asset
backing of 295., of which, however, 225. is
in plant, mains, etc. The market, which is
still doubtful of the position, offers 18s.,
cum 94d. final div. After allowing for the
latter the return at that price is 9.2 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
The Australian Stock Breeders’ Co.,
Ltd., which took over the pastoral interests
of the Queensland Meat Export and Agency
Co. in 1916:
To Re- lle-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. 33,003 10 p.c. = 21,833 11,170 15,099
1919.. 18,423 8 „ „ 17,466 957 16,056
1920.. 15,494 6 „ „ 13,100 2,394 18,450
Loss.
1921.. 4,889 Nil 13,561
1922.. 6,053 Nil 7,508
Deficit.
1923.. 15,718 Nil 8,210
Profit. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
1924.. 17,687 8 p.c. = 6,355* Nil 11,332 3,122
1925.. 9,029 8 ~ „ 7,920 Nil 1,109 4,231
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 29,152 Nil Nil 24.921
1927.. 31,370 Nil Nil 56,291
* Two years.
Only for two out of the past seven years
has the balance been on the right side. Since
1920 losses have totalled £87,182 and profits
£26,716. and that covers the period since
the British imperial meat-purchase contract
expired and the bottom fell out of the local
cattle market. Meantime S. America cap-
tured and holds the British and Continental
trade with chilled beef. During the three
years to 1923 cattle prices slumped so
badly that, though large sales were made,
losses instead of profits showed up; costs
could not be reduced, and there was little
prospect of a better market. Wool, which
was selling at highly profitable prices, offered
a way out, so in 1923 the management con-
verted Tarbrax, a property bought in
1918 to fatten cattle from the Gulf runs,
to sheep. At the same time Springfield, a
holding near the N. S. Wales border, was
bought as a bullock-fattening depot in order
to tap the southern markets. Although
rather late, the change-over, to finance which
8 p.c. cum. prefs. (£107,249 at Nov. 30)
were issued, promised to be a profitable one.
In the next two years £12,441 more than
the prefs. called for was netted. Unfortu-
nately the promised recovery was cut shor
by drought in 1926, when a loss of £29,152
was registered, followed by another loss of
£31,370 last year. That was because the
drought continued and affected the sales of
wool and livestock; and agistment and hand-
feeding costs piled up the outgo. Recent
rains have relieved the position and im-
proved the outlook. The stock routes should
soon be open, thus enabling cattle from the
Gulf runs to once more be transferred to
the south. But the co. has a lot of leeway
to make up.
The financial position, of course, suffered,
but balance-sheet groupings obscure the
view:—
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. £269,659 £320,696 £325,579 £325,579
Creditors .. 140,464 98,706 89,951 129,580
Property, plant
and live stock 392,794 422,713 383,919 391,949
Stores.. .. 2,958 3,533 2,972 2,673
Debtors and cash 5,307 3,717 4,246
The £39,629 added to the debt during the
year was practically all lost. Much cer-
tainly depends upon the figure at which
livestock has been written into the books,
and it is not visible because the item is
lumped with freehold, leasehold and plant
at £391,949 (up £BO3O during the 12
months). The p. and 1. debit amounts to
£56,291, and at the end of the current term


because
of its remarkable value. Everything
that one expects in a car and at a
price that makes one wonder how
such a perfect machine can be pro-
duced for the figure. A careful study
of Overseas conditions has enabled
the manufacturers to turn out a
really remarkable motor vehicle
which functions perfectly.
SEE THE BRITISH MADE
STANDARD FIRST.
tandard
is the best Standard
ever produced
¥
5*
$
3^
V
S
S'
m
h
ft
X.
■N
E
k*
N..
y
‘v/i
/
£
l£
rW
') : < : i;Si ! -
,>>•:';
Ur
v*3
m
■fir
Pi
tyzA/
% E'
cs
y
ft
m
la
V.
a
p
i
I
1
i
I
J
i
l
-Jw.
m
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD., COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Messrs. Harris & Dwyer
Motors, Ltd.,
918 Hay Street, Perth.
Cars of England, Ltd.,
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Messrs. Davies Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
The Olympia Motors Pty., Ltd.,
150-58 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Johnstone & Wilmot
Pty., Ltd., Devonport.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.,
Hobart.


GOOD INSURANCE
Is More Important than
a Good Investment.
Your policy may be worthless to
Your family.
The February number of
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly”
deals with this and a score of
other important items.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
We stock -f- GF Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Urisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Will It Pay? —“There are many fortunes lying
dormant in the shape of valuable ideas carried
from year to year in the minds of men who lack the
courage or enterprise to bring them forth to the
would.” Extract from pamphlet “Inventions,” giv-
ing inforihation on patents, obtainable free, on
application, from H. H. Rayward, Me.E., Patent
Attorney, Sirius House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is a true economy investment
considered from every point. It is low in first cost,
saves on handling transport and installation, and
throughout its long service it incurs practically no
upkeep, being non-corroding and safe from frost,
electrolysis or “bad soil.” Get full particulars. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. (Ferry to Figtree), and at Foots-
cray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling, Ditch-
ing, Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline, Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place,
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 Edward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide.
—Advt.
* ❖ He *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
18§3), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs oi an. crosses of
lifts and .other machinery. Mercantile iyiiilual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
TheCommonwealthPostmaster-GeneralSanctions
the Discontinuance of Postage Stamps on Letters
AND
HAS APPROVED OF
THE “NEOPOST”
meter mailing machine
A simple device enabling Business Houses to FRANK, DATE and
POST MARK their own letters.
A unique advertising feature is also embodied in the “NEOPOST.”
“NEOPOST” YOUR LETTERS.
Writ. or 'Phone for a demonstration to
“NEOPOST” (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
McKinney house, 10 O’Connell street, Sydney.
’Phone 83511.
As Showing the Popularity of the
“CURVILINEAR” in South Africa
•_=^3ssfe
=8:
iHt
Our Bulawayo Agents assure us that, although all well-known concentrators are
represented there, the only Tables sold in Rhodesia for quite a long time are
‘Curvilinears.
Our Agents have just cabled us for another shipment to Durban.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD •) Patentees and Manufacturers,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
the prefs. will call for approximately
£30,000. That is nearly double the profit
won in 1924, when wool prices broke all
previous records. On the cattle side—and
it is still the largest one—prospects are not
encouraging; but given good seasons there
are few industries which can recover so
quickly as sheep-raising. There is, how-
ever, one fly in the ointment: with wool
still at a very profitable figure, cheap sheep
are a memory; hence restocking is expen-
sive.
On the market buyers offer 12s. for the
pound prefs. and sellers stand off at 13s. 6d.
At the middle price the return is 1(3.8 p.c.
after allowing for the accrued div. to date.
The net tangible backing is 50s. 2d.
* * * *
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.
(Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 17,979 10 p.c. = 16,511 1,468 57,357
1910.. 24,367 10 ~,,16,511 7,856 65,213
1920.. 13,876 10 „ „ 16.696 62,393
1921.. 15,352 8 ~,,15,543 62,202
1922 . 19,816 .8 ~ „ 17,730 2,086 64,288
1923.. 20,382 8 ~ „ 20,309 73 64,361
1924.. 15,460 6 „ „ 15,233 227 64,588
1925.. 19,348 7 ~ „ 19,303 45 64,633
1926.. 24,254 8 ~,,22,567 1,687 66,320
1927.. 9,594 3 „„ 8,463 1,131 67,451
Easily the poorest result since the co. re-
covered from the big drought in 1902. It
represents a meagre 3.4 p.c. on capital com-
pared with an average of about 74 p.c. over
the four preceding years. Sales of milk, ice
and bread increased ; in fact, the board makes
no complaint against turnover in any depart-
ment, and enough was earned in the first half
of the term to pay an interim 3 p.c.; but “the
result of trading during the latter half of
the year was extremely disappointing,”' and
after a little hesitation the board wisely
decided not to dip into savings in order to
pay a final div. The wisdom becomes appar-
ent when it is remembered that the net
addition to reserves over the past eight years
is only £2238.
For last year’s extremely poor showing the
board blames increased costs of one kind and
another. To begin with, there was the
N. S. Wales Family Endowment Act, which
came into operation last July; the annual
bill threatened to tot up to about half the
average not profit of the previous four years;
but payments were suspended at the end of
Oct. Other handicaps, however, remained.
Wages increased, working conditions were
affected by awards, and the price of coal and
other commodities the co. uses went up. All
this would not matter so much if the in-
creased cost was passed on, but competition
in all the co.’s lines is so keen that margins
are cut fine. What attracts attention in this
case is that the drop in profits has; followed
the installation of butter- and milk-handling
plant, which is declared to be “the
finest of its kind in the world.” But counter-
acting any advantage there the co. has had
to pay Is. 4d. a gallon for milk over the
last half of the term compared with Is. 2d.
a gallon in the corresponding part of the
previous year. And when millions of gallons
are handled 2d. a gallon runs into big figures.
Also price-cutting in the cold-storage
trade has left little profit, and the meat-
export trade is not what it used to be either
However, the hatchet was buried in Novem-
ber, and storage rates have been revised.
Towards the close of the term the board
got in £lOO,OOO in 7 p.c. first mortgage
debentures, redeemable in 1934. The secu-
rity is the co.’s Darling Harbor freehold,
recently valued at £247.000. The money was
used mostly Jo lighten the floating debt. No
less than £55,988, including a mortgage of
£27,500, was knocked off the amount com-
ing to creditors (£59,082), and the overdraft
(£10,225) was reduced by £14,260. The
balance of the money was employed in
general extension of the business. The
movements are visible in this comparison:—
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Debentures .. £lOO,OOO
Other liabilities £99,768 £81,740 £139,585 69,337
Property 1 f 224,848 227,925
Plant y 304,430 326,769 j 106,590 110,248
Rolling stock J ( 37,254 46,064
Stock .. 35,749 34,012 47,730 48,601
Cash and
investments 29,289 21,314 21,393 16,389
Book debts 58,718 57,547 68,776 75,551
Plant is reported to be in good repair, but
the actual provision for depreciation is not
disclosed.
. Since the close of accounts the co.’s posi-
tion has improved considerably. The
market, however, notes that there are de-
bentures in front of shareholders, that divs.
have averaged a shade under 7 p.c. since
1920, that earnings have been irregular, and
offers only 12s. for the pound shares; sellers
stand off at 15s. The net tangible backing
amounts to 245. 9d., but the dubious charac-
ter of some of the assets must not be lost
sight of.
* * * *
Both ihanagers and unions at Broken Hill
are taking a long time to say what they
really mean. A. R. Speck, vice-president of
the Industrial Council, at the conference
on February 10 said he had understood
Emery to say the companies could not depart
from their log, and that being the case he
could see no use in continuing negotiations.
Emery promptly replied that he did not say
that, but this: “The fullest consideration
has been given to the claims in the logs
served upon us by the several unions, and
it will probably not surprise you to learn
that in the existing circumstances the com-
panies are unable to accede to any of your
requests or even to entertain for a moment
any changes in wage rates or working con-
ditions that would have the effect of im-
posing heavier burdens upon the industry
at the present time.” This was the message
he hammered in at that and the succeeding
conference on February 13. Proceedings
have been adjourned until February 27, the
managers meantime to acquaint the directors
that the unions will not accept any altera-
tion of existing conditions, that being the
way the union delegates diplomatically con-
veyed the intimation that they are prepared
to carry on as they are. That puts the
industrial situation right, and the recent
rains have given an assurance that there will
be no stoppage on account of water shortage
this year.
* * * #
The Great Northern Blue Metal Co., Ltd.,
with a nominal capital of £200,000 in £1
shares, is offering 100,000 of them on easy
terms; 35,000 fully-paids and £2500 cash go
to the vendor for the right to work basalt
deposits on about 541 acres 11 miles from
Brooklyn (Hawkesbury River), on the main
Northern line, and for a purchase and other
options and licenses, details of which are not
published. No dividends are payable on the
vendor’s scrip until 10 p.c. has been handed
out on the rest of the capital. Another
50,000 shares are reserved under a par
option to original subscribers, and the balance
(15,000) shares is in cold store. The Gov-
ernment Geologist says over 6,000..000 cubic
yards of metal could be won from the deposit
above creek level, and the N.S.W. Public
Works Department’s tests show that the
quality is right. Also the rock is naturally
broken into spawls, and that should help
costs. Engineer F. Oakden figures cost of
plant, including 11 miles of light railway with
punts and other facilities for water trans-
port, and preliminary exes., etc., at £76,500.
The prospectus allows a little more for safety
and says total outlay should not exceed
£95,000. Sales of 100,000 tons of metal p.a.
are expected to return £71.250, exes, are
put at £52,650, leaving £18,600 net, equal to
14.4 p.c. on £150,000. An important feature
on the selling side is freights. The rail
cost from the quarry to Alexandria, is put
down at ss. sid.,' which is less than the
railage from Kiama or Medway to Alexan-
dria. On the board are men who should
know the business.
* * * $
Lakes Entrance Development Co., Gipps-
land (Vic.), resumed boring on February 10,
after a delay of nearly six months, during
which water seems to have assumed full con-
trol of the well. At 1236 feet the drill
entered a new formation, and 8 feet of
core was raised, in which some oil occurred
that appeared to be heavier than the oil
obtained at 1210 feet. Last week State
Geologist Baragwanath got two quarts of
crude oil in liquid form from No. 2 bore.
This has revived interest in oil prospecting
in Victoria.
Ht jfc *
Roma Oil Corporation proposes to increase
its nominal capital from £5O 000 to £lOO,OOO,
though the new shares will not be issued
until the money is needed. The present
drilling plant has been leased from the
Lander Co., but recent developments have
made it necessary for the Roma Co. to buy
new plant and equipment, including chiefly
a casing-head machine for absorbing petrol
from the gas. Development to Nov. 30 cost
£24,049, of which £6860 was advanced by
the Commonwealth Government. This advance
must be refunded out of the first profits,
Fred Timbury (Roma director) and Clar-
ence Evans (head driller), wbo recently
went to America to buy plant, etc., and to
have a look at wells at Calgary, Canada,
are expected back early next month.
* * * *
An indication of the present condition of
the market in Eastern tin scrip is seen in
the announcement that a number of forfeited
shares in Malayan cos. are to be sold by
auction in Melbourne on February 28. The
cos. concerned are Eastern Tin, Tujoh Tin,
Thomo Tin, Peninsula Tin and Rangeng Tin.
All are Melbourne flotations, Eastern and
Thomo Tin are out of the Palfrcyman stable,
and Peninsula has Ambrose Pratt for its
chairman. These three are prospecting and
promotion cos., while Tujoh is to work a
property acquired in 1926 —when it is ready.
All the above shows were registered in 1926,
but beyond acquiring options here and there
nothing very much seems to have been done
by any of them, which may, perhaps, account
for the indifference displayed by the forfeit-
ing shareholders.
Austral Malay returns for the first half
of February were erratic compared with the
January figures. For instance, Asam, a good
worker, has nicked only .661 b. to the cubic
yard, compared with the January average of
,981 b. The turnover, however, was an
improved 54,000 yards. Kampong Ivamunt-
ing also dropped in value, returning only
.641 b. from 67,000 yards of stuff put through.
The digging ratio is about the same as last
month’s, but the January average was ,751 b.
TJlu Yam stood by this co.’s good name fairly
well, and panned out ,721 b. to the yard from
50,000 yards as compared with the January
figures of ,621 b. from 77,000 yards. Thabaw-
leik, always a solid producer, did well with
25 tons from 44,000 yards, which measures
up to 1.371 b. to the yard. January’s aver-
age was 1.051 b.
***:!:
Malay Siamese is followed with a good deal
of interest just now, when the two dredges
on the co.’s propositions, Ilaad Yai and
Huey Yot, are getting busy. The fortnight’s
returns since February 1 show that Haad Yai
has averaged .891 b. per c.y. on the small
turnover of 16,000 yards. However, early
running is always hampered by the neces-
sity for dredge adjustments and a dozen
other things that are outside ordinary calcu-
lations. The boring estimates are far above
this, but nothing can be seriously judged yet,
save that the co.’s ground is much deeper
than the original measuring indicated. At
the same time, it is quite impossible to get
absolute values until a big turnover shows
what the dredge can do, and what the tin
content really amounts to. Huey Yot, another
Malay Siamese pup, is a new hand as a pro-
ducer. As in the case of Haad Yai, not
much has been done yet in the way of serious
output, but the pair should be giving the
public the strength of themselves in a couple
of months. For the first half of February
the show turned over 13,400 yards for nine
tons. The average recovery, bordering on
l|lb., must be considered satisfactory; but
judgment will have to be postponed till thp
digging gets up to capacity—l2o,ooo yards
per month. Phin Soon, the opemcast mine of
the same parent, has dropped its figures.
Working 316 hours, which is practically half
time compared with that of a dredge show,
nine tons were returned from 18,000 c.y., an
average of 1.511 b.
* * *
The Alluvial Tin group show some in-
creased yardages for the first half of Febru-j
ary, which is a good thing in view of me
drop in metal price, but average content has
not always increased, too. Rawang produced
10 tons from 62,000 yards, or about .38ib
p.c. The January figure was .571 b.; but the
monthly yardage should be greater, and now
that the sluicing section is busy again the
return for February should pan out satis-
factorily. Malim Nawar’s seven tons from
35,000 yards is a trifle better, and further
improvement is probable. The averages were
,451 b. and .481 b. respectively. Malim Nawar
South also had a big dig for the fortnight,
getting out 95,000 yards for 15 tons. The
average, .381 b., needs to improve in the run
home if it is to measure up to January’s
.661 b. Kundang did well, returning 15
tons from 50,000 yards, an average of .721 b.
per yard, as compared with ,631 b. last month.
Kuala Kampar also had a big turnover,
103,000 yards returning 15 tons of tin oxide,
a trifle better than ..541b., compared with
,351 b. for January. Tanjong Tualong was
another to realise that salvation lies in hard
work, and dug 105.000 yards for 15 tons,
averaging over .531 b. as against .631 b. for
Jaunary. Jelapang dug 43.000 yards for
nine tons as against January’s 104,000 yards
for 21 tons. The Larut dredges took 38
tons from 160,000 yards, whereas in Janu-
ary they turned over 323,000 yards for 94
tons, averaging ,681 b. The February average
was .571 b.
* * * *
“M.E.” : A number of theories have been
put forward to account for the slump in
tin prices, but that advanced by Alfred
Ashbolt at the recent annual meeting of
Tongkah Harbor is a simple one, and pro-
bably a shrewd estimate of the true condi-
tions info the bargain. Statistically, tin
should be much higher; stocks in hand
have rarely been lower. According to the
chairman of Tongkah Harbor, considerable
quantities of Chinese-produced tin, which had
hitherto been locally consumed, have filtered
through to American and European markets
and thus temporarily filled the shortage of
supply there. The reason for this has been
the falling-off in manufacturing by Chinese,
due to the disturbed conditions of the coun-
try. China turned out 8000 tons of tin in
1925, so the throwing of even a portion of
this on the open market would certainly have
an effect upon prices.
❖ * * *
Guinea Gold’s .latest report indicates that
in future gold production will much more
than meet exes., including all overhead
charges. The directors have accordingly de-
cided that no further capital expenditure
will be necessary as far as the present, out-
look goes. E. B. Jensen, who is in charge of
field operations, is satisfied that the gold
is there, and that profitable extraction on a
large scale will be tße rule for years to
come. He lias suggested new and more effici-
ent methods of recovery than those at first
undertaken, before local conditions and ex-
perience suggested new ideas. The aero-
plane service has proved a valuable asset
in every way, so much so that it was
resolved some time ago to add another
machine. A report has been received from
Lieut. Mustai'd, who is the chief pilot of
New Guinea Airways, Guinea Gold’s sub-
sidiary, to the effect that he has bought a
Junker all-metal ’plane in Europe in which
he carried 28711 b. to a height of 16,000 ft.
This machine can give four times the ser-
vice of the one first used on the Bulolo.
* * * *
Hampton Gold Mining Areas, Ltd. (W.A.),
issued its periodical report in London the
other day. Once the old Hampton Uruguay,
it stood as a venerable relic of the Kalgoorlie
boom until the Hampton Plains flutter gave
it its second wind, and, incidentally, pro-
vided an opening for a profitable recon-
struction for those who slid out before the
crash came. Latterly the co.’s chief source
of income has been in grazing fees and
lease rents from a large slice of Hampton
Plains, but that has not been sufficient to
pay Federal and State land-taxes.
* * * *
Some digging is still being done around
the remains of Bayley’s Reward, Coolgardie
(W.A.). One lot of stone, which was dug
out near the old Gockshot workings, was
recently put through the local State battery
for a fair return. Close to where this was
got some payable crushings were taken out
a few years'back. There are still some spots
near Bayley’s worth attention, but capital
doesn’t seem to have the inclination or the
pluck to try them.


Old Mother Hubbard^^p^
Went to the cupboard,
The T.P. dogs howled for their bone.
When they’d all had their share,
The cupboard was bare,
So the grocer and baker had none.
MADAME HUBBE-BARDE.
“Representatives of Adelaide houses trading in domestic necessities expressed opinion that the great depression in trade was due to so many people having to
pay instalments on time-payment cars, piano-players, jewellery and such-like goods.”


Cable, Wireless
and Telegraphic
Address:
“ Austraotel,
Sydney.”
-aj
11
Ui t.
w
m
TWefcto be
cftytaotterv/
—the memories of a stay at “The
Australia” the splendor of its
appointments, the gay crowds and
brilliant social life, the many unex-
pected comforts and pleasures . . .
Yet a notable moderation of tariff
reigns throughout, as our rate-card
indicates. Please write jor it.
T'^ustralia
Capital Paid-up, £ i 22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “All the King’s Horses”
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
£ ala ce “The Goldfish”
Empire “The Film Girl”
Tivol ! Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Student Prince”
King's “Thark”
Royal “The Terror”
Athen.'Eum Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
“The Goldfish,” which opened at Sydney
Palace Theatre on Saturday night, lacks the
subtlety required to make a play of this
type even reasonably good. This is partly
the fault of the actors, but there are gaps
between the plot and convincingness which
even the most adroit acting would hardly
bridge. Prompted by the Mephistophelean
urgings of a Polish teacher of deportment,
Jenny Jones, once a shop-girl in a "bargain
basement,” rises through several divorces
and marriages from her first matrimonial
alliance with a cabaret singer (who “pulls
down 35 dollars per”) to the exalted posi-
tion of widow of a millionaire and the pro-
spective bride of an impoverished British
duke. In the height of this glory, and on
the eve of meeting a dignitary .vaguely re-
ferred to as “the Prince,” the lady suddenly
decides that she will be far happier in the
simple role of Jenny and the arms of her
first husband, now a successful business man.
And he takes her back into them con-
tentedly—rather shop-soiled, one would say,
after her many adventures in matrimony.
* * * *
The usually efficient Harvey Adams fails
to realise the possibilities of the part of
the Polish master of deportment, Count
Stanislaus Nevski, a part supplied with a
delightful commentary on taste and manners.
Something more than a rather ponderous
foreign accent and stiffly polished manners
should go to make up the character; and
Adams fails to suggest fhe magnetically
compelling force which might have explained
the Count’s ascendancy. On the other hand,
Muriel Starr, as Jenny, succeeds in making
the progression of the shop-girl from her
original crudity, through a stage of mere
vulgar affectation, to a certain degree of
culture seem natural and convincing, although
the Act 1 interview between the young lady
in a pyjama-suit and a male stranger re-
mains beyond belief. Ellis Irving carries
throbs in his throat throughout the piece to
show that he is the really sincere lover and
husband, Jim Weatherby; Charles Lawrence
gives a rather crude presentation of the
well-to-do but vulgar second husband; and
Mayne Lynton portrays the third spouse,
whose death makes Jenny a millionairess.
The worst crudity in the play is the pic-
ture of the Duke of Middlesex; Rutland
Beckett, while “speaking to the book,” being
seemingly unable to realise that even a diike
is seldom a blatant vulgarian. Mrs. Van
Lowe gives a capital sketch of a negress
houseworker; and Bertha Ballenger does
well as Amelia Pingslcy, the lady who went
to Coney Island looking for a husband but
found only a trouser-button.
“Mercenary Mary” is to have a very brief
reign at the St. James, Sydney; on Satur-
day week (March 3) Elsie Prince and
Jimmy Godden will say their farewells in
this piece, and the theatre will close its doors
for a week in order to prepare for the recep-
tion of Grand At the Criterion, the
success of “All the King’s Horses” has over-
come the Boucicault partiality for short
seasons; the play continues for another week
at least. “The Film Girl,” at the Empire, is
saying its good-bye after the fashion of an
infatuated lover. The Royal is kept too
busy with “The Trial of Mary Dugan” for
any alteration to be contemplated at present.
“The Girl Friend” is to fade out at Her
Majesty’s before Easter to let “Rose Marie”
return for a revival. After that the melo-
dious story of the Canadian backwoods will
be shelved at last; the company that has been
playing it is to present the long-promised
“Prince Charming.” “Up in Mabel’s Room”
keeps the Grand Opera House well patron-
ised.
* 5k * *
A remarkable ball of electricity, mental
and physical, is Ann Suter, who has arrived
to infuse an unusual amount of zip into
Sydney Tivoli programme. “The Girl from
Dixie” is a vaudeville storm who sweeps the
audience off its feet, in a manner of speak-
ing, using an elastic face, with a pair of
most expressive legs to provide a turn that,
whether it is vulgar or not, is certainly
stimulating. With the return of Tom Katz’s
Saxophone Band, which was greeted with
sounds as if the theatre was falling down,
and the presence of Escapologist Murray, the
programme is strong enough to make even the
dancing Di Gatanos a merely subsidiary
turn. The plain magic of Murray’s perform-
ance is relieved by the unintentional humor
of the self-conscious citizens who file on to
the stage to see that the escape merchant is
properly chained and placed under lock and
key. Some of them have evidently come
determined to elucidate the Murray mystery;
their baffled looks as they retire are calcu-
lated to amuse the most exacting audience.
* # * $
Jim Gerald has revived an old dish in his
“For the Division, 1914-] S,” this week's
bill at Fullers’ Theatre, Sydney. There
are some new jests to replace others that
showed signs of being dusty or moth-eaten,
and some capital songs and dances. A mul-
titude will be glad to see Gerald again
with the old Digger quips in which nobody
scores better.
$ * * $
“The Term of His Natural Life” provided
the Sydney .Crystal Palace with one of its
most successful seasons. The house put on
another Australian film in “The Romance of
Runnibede” last Saturday. Steele Rudd’s
story has been got into good shape by Eva
Novak and her assistants, with necessary
help from a number of Tjona fide abos.; it lias
a breezy plot, and the fight in the bush
between the blacks and two white men is
dramatically pictured. Hoyt’s Theatre has
plunged into mystery with “The Lodger,”
which contains an unusual percentage of
thrill; at the Lyceum Clyde Cook and Louise
Fazenda throw such tireless activity into
“Simple Sis” that the poverty of much of
the humor is overlooked. Zane Gray’s
story “Nevada” is being screened at c‘in
same house.
* * $ *
A bunch of art shows:—
A judicious use of the pruning knife has made the
exhibition of the Australian Art Society a much im-
proved show this year. It is essentially a show of
painters with a watchful eye on the market—artists
don’t starve nowadays or risk starvation by putting
in time upon gallery pictures—but it is full of fresh-
ness and buoyancy. The most considerable contri-
butions are ly A. Marriott Woodhouse, whose “The
Vanity Box” is a pleasing composition, showing the
light playing through the slats of a Venetian blind
upon a nicely dressed lady who is apparently decorat-
ing her face with the usual materials. The whole
subject is delicately and delightfully treated. The
same artist is responsible for two of the few portraits
that really matter—a lady who is in red on one
occasion and in a black coat on another. A. E.
Macdonald’s lively and pleasing “Isabel” is an-
other of the delectable few. On the other hand
several of the portraits approach the libel action
limit. Frank Hewett’s canvases have a youthful fresh-
ness and “The Pink Cloud” is a gem ; Tom Garrett,
using his board rather daringly for effects, gets
them in a number of exhibits. His imaginative treat-
ment alone is refreshing; in “The Tunnel, Otford,”
he catches, not the magnificent view that may be
“THE TERROR,” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Eileen Sparks, as Mary Redmayne, seeing
spooks; Ashton Jarry, as Cotton, the
butler, who supplies most of the comic
relief.
obtained coming away from his subject, but the
cut rock and the dark hole of the tunnel itself,
so that you half expect to see the train rushing out.
Woodward Smith gets a vibrant vigor into his
“Long Reef” but strikes some prosaic subjects in
various studies of back yards and fences, although
“Lighting Up Time” is effective; R. H. Millard,
suffering spasms of impressionism, scores with “Bal-
moral,” and William Oates gets iri some well-painted
distances and mass foreground effects in several can-
vases—“ The Hawkesbury River from Vermont” and
“Burragorang Valley” dispute first place in his offer-
ing. A. J. Fischer does fairly well with some
big bush pictures; Andrew Park has a pleasing
“Landscape” ; the warm tints of sunset show nicely
in H. C. Hadley’s “The Harmony of Eve”; and A.
E. Maiden, albeit with some garishness, has pro-
duced several rich still-life studies. After Tom
Garrett, H. W. Cotton and J. A. Crisp score best
in a well-filled water-color section. Among lesser
lights H. B. Williams, Elaine Coghlan, G. W. L.
Hirst (who revels in very green glades), W. J. Dow-
man and John F. Baird stand out most prominently.
In a mixed exhibition of English and Australian
artists at the Hordern gallery, a vivid canvas by
Tom Roberts, “Bushranging,” priced at 500 guineas,
has financial pride of place; the horse stands
“ALL THE KING’S HORSES,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Irene Vanbrugh, as Wilfred’s wife, and Dion
Boucicault, as Wilfred’s brother-in-law.
panting by the water at the foot of the rocks against
which the bushranger has thrown himself to reply
to the fire of the, police from the background of
bush. But a delightful ‘‘Morning Light,”, by Pen-
leigh Boyd, is a picture' that would be outstanding
in any collection. Another arresting piece of work
is the “Lady with Guitar” of G. Bellei, in which the
shapely fingers seem actually strumming the strings
as the lady, half leaning towards her audience,
laughs out of the canvas. A conscientiously-drawn
“Top of Mount Wellington, Tasmania,” by W. G.
Piguenit; a fresh “To the Surf,” by James It. Jack-
son ; and Buekmaster’s golden-lighted “The Ola
Hay Shed” are particularly noticeable in a collec-
tion including pictures by Will Ashton, W. B.
Mclnnes, H. Tebbett, Hilder, Harold Herbert, Lucy
Kemp Welch, Yuna King (whose “Fair Spring-
time” is lushly delightful), Streeton, A. McClin-
tock, W. T. Gibson, T.' Geddes, Norman Lindsay,
John Shirlow and a multitude of others. Alto-
gether, a show of unusual interest.
\ v i&W the Au st ra Wan Fine Art Gallery Howard Jose-
lMd '’'lias been exhibiting the results o# his travels
in'England, It is nice and unpretentious work in
water-color, but occasionally lacks balance in the
composition. “A Surrey Landscape” and a local
picture, “Grey Day, Snowy River,” are the best of
the collection.
* * *
At Melbourne King’s on Saturday “A
Cuckoo in the Nest” will be followed by
“Thark,” another giggle from ’the indus-
trious pen of Ben Travers. At the Royal
“The Terror” continues to be performed to
the accompaniment of an uproar of explana-
tions and apologies from Mr. Moscovitcli in
the press. The traffic at the box office,
however, supplies all the explanation re-
quired by reasonable people. James Liddy
will carry on for the present as “The Student
Prince” at His Majesty’s, but “Ruddigore”
is somewhere in the neighborhood judging
by the thickening of propaganda. “Chang,”
the elephantine rover, , continues to push
over two villages per diem round at the
Athenaeum.
*.* * *
Humphrey Bishop’s Musical Comedy Co.
has come to St. Kilda (Melb.) and the Cairo
at a time when the avoidance of the--city
theatres has almost reached the dimensions of
a national epidemic. The crow’ds that go down
to listen to the sad sea waves soon tire
of that occupation, and a fair proportion of
them find their way into Bishop’s entertain-
ing show. The owner is a fine musician him-
self ; his brother, Walter Kingsley, has a
large presence and an engaging baritone,
and Thelma Trott has a pleasing way of
singing old numbers whose vogue, apparently,
will never die. The combination is quite
equal to tackling operatic excerpts from
“Tannhauser” as well as musicomedy bur-
lesques. Arthur Hemsley, as a country
porter who believes that city people ■ are
stupid because he has heard that the popu-
lation of London is very dense, is a clevei
character comedian who does not depend
entirely on chestnuts for his daily susten-
ance ; and George Ross is a confidential
clown whose popularity makes him nearly a
fixture on the stage. Bishop’s is really an
extra neat and competent beach show with-
out the sand-flies and the necessity for com-
ing in out of the rain.
* * * *
On a Musical Outrage in Melbourne:—
Last week St. Kilda Palais, the cinema haunt with
the outer aspect of a cathedral and the inner look of a
sultan’s seraglio, flung a bomb, in the face of musical
Melbourne by putting on for the first time in Aus-
tralia George Gershwin’s now famous “Rhapsody in
Blue.” Harry Jacobs conducted, M. Raymond Lam-
bert was at the piano and Harvey Ball’s Virginians
provided the orchestra. Behind them a fountain of
pink water emerged from an emerald bowl and a
red sun with puce and crimson rays cast a green
light on the performers and a yellow one on some
stalactites. All the solemnist critics hastened to the
bloody scene and duly pronounced the performance an
atrocity. 'Music, they remarked, was being murdered
in her bed and Art was being dragged into the
gutter. Also Beethoven and Wagner were being
defiled. But what did the piece claim to be? It
called itself an attempt to portray the history of
jazz from’ its genesis in the jungle to its apotheosis
as . the haunting syncopated rhythm to which the
world is at present dancing, and it certainly made
good its claim. The smooth, greasy tones of the
saxophone prepared the floor, the tubas bleated
pathetically of unsatisfied desire, the trombones
boomed like an outsize in sucking doves and the
cornet wailed its melancholy invitation to the dance.
The snakeskin shoes of the girl next door started
tapping and she grabbed the arm of her boy. She
was aching to go sliding down the aisle on those
waves of unctuous sound. Present writer may be
wrong, but “Rhapsody in Blue” struck him as an
excellent description of the modern dance. Beethoven
wrote the greatest dance piece in existence, but no
twentieth century human could keep up to the
bacchanalian frenzy of the Seventh Symphony for
an evening and turn up at the office next day. Mil-
lions, on the other hand, can waddle up and down
for hours in time to Gershwin’s music—a young man
in. Geelong recently did it for 100. Jazz isn’t the
wild aphrodisiac the parsons think it. It has its
function, just like the Solemn Mass in D. Work-
exhausted flappers love it. Tired business men cry
for it. And George Gershwin knows how to pro-
vide it.
* * * *
Sonny Clay’s black cargo of colored people
are held up by floods, and the Melbourne
Tivoli programme remained unaltered on
Saturday.
* * * *
Current pictures include “For Heaven’s
Sake,” a wild whirl by Harold Lloyd at
Hoyt’s (Melbourne). At the Majestic Louise
Fazenda and Australian Clyde Cook may be
viewed in “Simple Sis.”
* * * :!:
The first of the season
The first shy debutant of Melbourne art shows is
Robert Campbell’s at the Sedon Galleries. Campbell
is a young man who appears to be bound some-
where. (His immediate destination is a London art
school, to which he is about to work his passage per
a Swedish steamer.) Like most beginners he has
been seduced by the jade Color, and tone is apt in
consequence to be neglected. His largest canvas is
also his best. It depicts the low rays of the morning
sun streaming across a hillside, and there is subtlety
in the handling of the finer values. A multitude of
pencil-wash drawings show keen perspective, but are
a trifle too monotonously higlikeyed.
* * * *
Things theatrical in Adelaide are dis-
tinctly brisk for midsummer. Frank
Bradley’s co. has been giving a mixed bag
of plays, varying from the farcical “Sport of
Kings” to the gruesome “Last Warning.”
This last is notable for the use made by the
actors of a stage-box and other front parts
of the house, but it remains a mixture of
crude thrills which the explanations never
really explain ; beside it The Bat” or “The
Cat and the Canary” would have the logic
of Euclid. Bradley, with a restrained
style, scores heavily whether grave or gay,
and Walter Cornock shows real artistry in
making the lightest line stand out. The
ladies are less impressive. A Gilbert and
Sullivan season is just starting at the Royal.
Nellie Bramley did so well at that house
that she moved on to the Prince of Wales,
turning easily from the alcoholic humor of
“Fair and Warmer” to the bedroom-door
drama “Bought and Paid For.” In pictures
the York contrasts Bartlilemess in football
with Jackie Coogan playing on the bugle
and on the heart-strings of maternal affec-
tion—an impressive film this. The Pav.
has a curious “Seventh Heaven” —the old
sordid play idealised, even to the treacly
point. Douglas Maclean is really funny at
Wondergraph, unlawfully borrowing the
“soft cushions” of a sultan; and West’s is
truly French (though not in the Gilbertian
sense) in “A Man’s Past,” the romance of a
surgeon-convict. Also Adelaide musical
artists have got together to give a benefit
concert to those fine servants of the cause
of opera, Filippini and wife.


SYDNEY,
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching. Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.'
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
Ll
DISTINCTIVE
WEDDING
GIFTS
We specialise in providing the
widest possible choice of interest-
ing and appropriate wedding
gifts, reasonably priced.
Illustrated is Cocktail Shaker very heavily silver-
plated on hard white metal. Price, 30/-
Cut Glass Cocktail Glasses , 7/6' each.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES.
LTD.
CASH ONLY.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Distinguished since 1866 for
the highest quality at com-
petitive prices in all the
goods they. sell, Peapes add
to the service of their goods,
the service of a well-trained
staff of assistants, who give
personal and courteous atten-
tion to every customer and
prompt and thorough atten-
tion to his orders by mail.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydneyo
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
TO BE QUITE HONEST.
“And what are you trying to dispose of, poor man? "
“A thirst, Madam.”
“W.W.”: The commercial traveller stopped
at the orchard of an old Irishwoman in the
apple land of Tassie to buy some of her fruit.
“I want some of your very fine apples—the
best you have,” he said. “Shure an it s the
pick of them I’ll be givin’ ye,” the lady re-
plied. “Haven’t I a son a commercial
traveller himself.” “Is that so?” said the
bagman. “What line does lie travel for -
softgoods, hardware, or what?” “Shure an
he travels a stallion,” was the reply.
* * * *
“M.L.”: Apparently “Max” is right when
he says it is not the sparrow but the de-
struction of native trees that is driving away
our indigenous birds (B. 19/1/’2S). In
Maoriland we used to have paroquets and
kakas in hundreds around our doors, but
with the destruction of the broadleaf, bocacco
and other trees these beautiful native birds
vanished. Paroquets and kakas must have
hollow trees to get into at night; for here
if they have to roost on a branch they are
frozen stiff in winter.
* * * *
“Ess”: At the foot of a long steep hill
in the Pine River country (Q.), I noticed.
a quantity of huge slabs of
pine and half-split logs.
They marked the end of
some timber-getters’ moun-
tain skidway. The logs, cut
on top of the hill, were rolled
to the bottom in the same
way as they were rolled into
a river for rafting. Gaining
momentum with every revo-
lution, they travelled at a
tremendous rate, bounding
high in the air with a loud
booming sound on striking a
root or stump. Occasionally
a log, hitting a solid obstacle
at the bottom with terrific
force, was burst from end to
end. At other places logs
were skidded down steep
tracks, each one being
barked at the top of the
skid, then launched end-on
straight out of its green skin. That was
called shooting the logs. With the slippery
wet sap on them they shot down with light-
ning speed.
* * * *
“Larrapinta” : Compared with that of other
primitive races, most of Binghi’s crafts-
manship is poor. His stone tomahawks and
wooden clubs are clumsy affairs. In one
respect only does he excel. Some of the
tribes in North Westralia make spearheads
of flint, chalcedony or bottle glass which, for
symmetry and evenness, beat anything turned
out by other uncivilised communities. I
saw a native craftsman at work in the Kim-
berley years ago. He took a glass bottle,
stuck it neck downwards in the sand, and
struck the edge of the bottom a sharp blow
with a heavy round pebble. A large flake
of glass fell into the sand. The abo. picked
this up, examined it carefully, and held it
on the palm of his left hand with two fingers
thereof. He then took up a piece of bone
with a blunt point, placed the point where
he wished to break a chip off, put his left
hand on his knee, and gave the bone a
MERELY WANTS MANICURING.
BUYER: “I thought you said it was level?”
LAND-AGENT : “So it is. All you have to do is to get rid of a few of these hummocks
and boulders, and you’ll find it’s perfectly level underneath.”
sudden push with his right hand, detaching a
tiny chip. The work was very slow, for
after each chip had been detached the work-
man deliberated before he broke off another.
Finally the spearhead was completed, with
a point like a needle and evenly-serrated
edges, ready to be fastened to the spear-
shaft with twine and spinifex gum.
* :1s ' * *
“Mako”: Although Maoriland is not sub-
ject to dust storms there was one of far-
reaching dimensions during the Tarawera
eruption of the ’eighties. When the side of
the mountain blew out the whole countryside
was covered inches deep with a layer of fine
dark-red volcanic dust, which extended to
the coast and plunged the little port of
Tauranga into semi-darkness for three days.
Two hundred miles out at sea vessels found
one morning a red sun looking over a red
sea, while their decks, spars and rigging were
outlined in terra-cotta ash. One sailing
ship journeyed as far as London before the
explanation of the phenomenon was found.
For years afterwards the dust was sold in
souvenir form in small hour-glasses. You
could time the boiling of an egg by the
dust of Tarawera.
* * * *
“Mundawie”: At Glen Innes (N.S.W.) a
retired shearers’ cook keeps a queer sort of
lodging house, which basks under the invit-
ing name of The Travellers’ Rest. An
ancient dwelling-house was fitted up with
rough bunks like a shearers’ hut of other
days, with one big fireplace and dining-room.
Travellers looking for work are taken in for
a small fee, but they have to provide their
own blankets and cook for themselves. They
are also expected to wash the utensils, which
belong to the proprietor. The chief benefit
to the travellers, especially strangers in the
district, is that the place is a sort of labor
bureau; and, by meeting others there from
all parts of the country, they get informa-
tion about the tracks and what is going on
in different parts. Lonesome wanderers also
make acquaintances and pick up mates.
Visitors who doss under trees and come there
for information only are discouraged.
* * * *
“Gouger” : A weird incident, supported by
the testimony of over 40 men, occurred
recently on the tiny moonlit beach at
Somerset Bay (N.Q.). Four island trochus-
shelling luggers lay anchored. Their crews
rowed ashore to dance. The red cliff-like
hills rise abruptly from the beach, and
historical Somerset House with its old-time
cannon frowns above. The beach is a strip
of white sand, 300 yards long, crescent-
shaped and with timbered hills flanking it
to the water’s edge. Palms, interspersed
with scented trees, fringe the beach, and
over all shine the stars. The islanders, in
their formation of fours, swayed to the
rhythm of the dance and sang a peculiarly
sweet song. A sudden hush, an abrupt
Silencing of the thump of feet, and a dark
figure walked arrogantly up the beach.
He advanced noiselessly with an easy but
indefinably weird action. The islanders
drew back step for step as the figure
advanced. He quickened his pace, and the
islanders, their eyes like doorknobs, stepped
back faster. Suddenly one wailed “Jar-
dine.” Instantly they broke and rushed to
the water, regardless of alligators and
sharks. A dozen men, apparently too
paralysed to run, still gave way before the
figure. One whispered “You Christian
man; you stop him; you no fright; you
Christ man!” But the deacon made a rush
for a dinghy. The others followed, and
they all got aboard their luggers. The
majority hustled below, but a few brave
ones still crouched on the deck and watched
the figure advancing to the beach. It
turned, walked back the length of the sand
and finally disappeared by the little tree-
lined plot that marks the grave of the
J ardines.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: “Tilburina T.’s” par.
(B. 25/l/’2S) recalls an abo. royalty I
met in South Queensland when a boy. She
was a woman but answered to the title
of “King Toby.” From her wrinkled neck
was suspended a crescent-shaped metal plate,
inscribed with her rank and the territory
over which she ruled. Though the weather
was not cold, her shrunken shoulders were
protected by a much-worn and many-colored
woollen shawl, and her thin shanks encased
in black-and-white ringed stockings, through
which her bare, pancake-like feet protruded.
I particularly remember her, as she was the
first and only female nigger “king” I ever
met, and she tried to sool her favorite dog
—a weedy mongrel nearly destitute of hair
—on to me when I teased her and offered
her a dry crust of bread from my school-
bag instead of the penny she wanted.
* * * *
“Mei” : It is incorrect to say (“M.W.H.,”
B. 19/l/’2B) that the myall in its earlier
years is a delicate ground runner. That
description fits the goat-head creeper or
the sensitive plant, both common in myall
country. What may have caused the mistake
is that the myall, iike all the acacia family,
has in its infancy a pinnate leaf not unlike
that of the sensitive creeper or the goat-head,
but this changes after a while into the undi-
vided leaf of the parent tree.
* * * *
“Ryde”: “Jigger’s” crested warbler (B.
29/12/’27) found in the Sydney Uni. grounds
is probably the Indian bul-bul, now quite
common. He is a subject for acrid comment
among suburban cockies, as he commits the
heinous offence of consuming such fruit as
the local kids allow to ripen. Pie is a bright
and breezy character despite his sins.
(Continued on page 21.)
MICROBE’S SHANTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the world was ours to play with in the
happy carefree days
Ere we saw a need for caution, or the error
of our ways,
When the meeting with a cobber set the
barrel running free,
Micky Microbe kept the shanty on the road
to Youanme.
There the Warden stopped his sulky, and the
parson on liis bike
Always dropped in for a moment—just to
see what things were like.
But I doubt he told his bishop of amenities
that he
Gould obtain at Microbe’s shanty on the
road to Youanme.
But the shanty long has vanished, for the
killjoys raised a howl,
And Authority was troubled and the sleuths
came on the prowl,
So that in the end right-thinking people
won a victoree,
And the Law was vindicated on the road to
Youanme.
It’s a far cry now to Microbe’s, it’s a long
road and a dry
We have travelled since the days when life
was full of promise nigh.
Now no more to cheer and comfort come
the visions we could see
When old Microbe kept the shanty on the
road to Youanme.
On the tracks that call the wanderer, where
we may not go again,
There shall flourish other shanties, but they’ll
be for other men,
But till mateship is a byword we will keep
a memory
Of the hours we spent at Microbe’s on the
road to Youanme.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


What is the reason behind it all?—Why are break-downs so frequent?—
replacements so often needed?—overhaulage charges so heavy? There
must be something radically wrong —and there is!
Until your transport system is built up around a dependable truck,
heavy overhead must be expected. Until you establish a Republic
fleet there is a risk of dissatisfaction. Republic is the ideal truck
for haulage duty. Sturdy, economical, dependable, speedy and
long-lived—it ensures you much more work at much less
cost. Its ability to give a little more than you expect will
win your admiration, and its trouble-free operation will
put more money in your pocket. Write immediately
for free literature, purchase details, etc. They will
be forwarded by return mail.
1
□
r
l
a
/
k
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co. Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Cnr. Elizabeth and Therry Street*,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle Sc Motor Agency
(Q’land.) Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
C2>
■in
*
m
g
Ttn
fP
}H
A
i
VST
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors Ltd.,
€9 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co. Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
W. A. Crowle Ltd.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
OR7


Make
the
Stock
X e full market
SO S- T5 The Z Can do
ha’vo tv? Ut they must
mark nece ssary assistance to reach that
Consign your Cattle, Sheep and Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
me b us h Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
Prii Bcertai 8 certain 1 r * der ? eir sale . at hi S hest Powible
tent, Winchcomhp® n rgCtl< ;’ ex P? nenced . and compe-
cncombe, Carson s work as salesmen is con-
sistently forceful.
53
m
*Such a reputation is not won overnight”
■■
kAAiM
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ . ♦ * 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <$ Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
iAAAAAi
Y©
Play Safe with
RU PTURE
Serious develop-
ments are in-
evitable if
Rupture i s
neglected.
Have sure
support with
comfort and
freedom b y
OINVCft
wearing
Denyer’s Elastic Truss. Has a patent water-
pad. All sizes.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
Write to-day for Free Rupture Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Directly opposite Hunter Street.)
PROOF.
"I hope you’re sinking those posts deep as I told you. Where’s your mate?”
"He had to knock off. He got giddy looking down the holes.”
: Strange the number of
superstitions among natives on one side of
v ?. that agree in all respects with the
euets of natives living on the other side.
sniVr e ,T cry , New Guinea village has its “tree
who are reasoning beings haunting
m ain trees. To destroy one of these trees
means that the spirits will quickly take
revenge on the offender himself or his crops.
In India and Africa also this belief is largely
prevalent. In northern Australia the abo.
who trusts you will earnestly swear that
sometimes at night his tribesmen see the
faces of their forefathers smiling down at
them from among the branches of the trees.
The African sorcerer and his methods are
strangely akin to the dreaded witchman and
his spells in New Guinea, Torres Strait and
among the Australian tribes. Also many of
their more important legends are similar.
For instance, all have a record of a great
flood in which the only ones to escape were
a canoe-load of men, women and animals.
* * * *
“F.F.N,”: Like “Whist.” (B. l/2/’2B),
I’ve never seen flying-foxes hanging in
festoons and suspended one from another.
But old bushmen have assured me that when
camping-space is limited the squealers will
use each other for resting supports, hanging
down in strings of half a dozen. To one
like myself, who has seen millions of the
creatures in camp year after year, the yarn
has too much the appearance of a fairy tale
to find acceptance, and I should require to
see the “foxy” festoons before being convinced.
The only time I’ve seen one fruit-bat hang-
ing to another was when a mother took her
baby out for a nocturnal jaunt.
“Royalty” : Let “Whist” go to Einasleigh
(N.Q.) and he will see flying-foxes not only
hanging in festoons of six and seven but in
suspension-bridges of up to 15 swung between
trees. They do not use any branch or vine
to sustain them. The problem of how the
top one is able to carry the weight of the
rest is solved by the lightness of the indi-
vidual bat.
❖ * :Jc *
“W.J.T.”: The lake-dwellers of Papua,
mentioned by “Bihai” (B. l/2/’2B), have a
novel method of fattening pigs. As their
houses are built over the water they are
unable to allow the porkers to roam the vil-
lage streets, so they suspend them in a cane
basket from the roof with the legs protruding.
❖ * * ❖
“Mick Anic”: Alongside my office-door an
ordinary black spider has utilised two ’phone
extension wires for its mod. fur. flat. After
weaving between the wires it suspended the
usual circular-shaped web to about five feet
from the ground; a single thread was then
continued to within nine inches of the sur-
face. On the end of this thread was fastened
a stone slightly larger than a pigeon’s egg,
which acts as an anchor against the breeze.
The means used by the builder to lift such
a weight so high off the ground is a mystery
to me.
WOULDN’T BOTHER THE POOR MAN WHILE SHE WAS SICK.
“’Are you seen the doctor ’t all, Missus Trezona?”
“No, m’ dear, but if I do live till mornin’, an’ all’s well, I’m goin’ send for ’im after I
tidy up place a bit.”
“Te W.”: I recently struck a small cluster
of the small stingless native bee clinging
to the top spray of a hawthorn bush. Most
of the bees flew into space when the spray
was slightly shaken, but next day all had
returned, plus others, and in about three
days there were enough to form a swarm
(always comparatively small) of the abori-
ginal honey-makers. These bees built a
scant comb, which is sometimes located in
a rock cleft. On other occasions I have
found clusters of them clinging to rushes and
tall dock plants on the banks of Monaro
(N.S.W.) rivers.
“E.V.S.”: I doubt “Toonooba” (B.
l/2/’2B) when he credits the spines of
the stone-fish ( Syancia horridas ) with
death-dealing qualities. No authentic case
of death from such wounds has been re-
corded. The death of Dr. Wassail (Thurs-
day Island) was attributed to this cause,
but Wassail himself regarded the injury as
due to coral laceration. Incidentally, Dr.
Duhig, of Brisbane, is endeavoring to investi-
gate the poison, but sufficient live specimens
of the fish cannot be obtained. As the nature
of the poison is unknown, no antidote can
be given. Binghi relied oh immersion of
the part affected in running water.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The Gaili girls may be
prettily tattooed (“Lagani-Namo,” B.
19/1/’2S), but so are the flappers of the
Western Division, and for better reasons.
Many of the tribes there make the daughter
the father’s pedigree-book and diary. When
dad comes home from a raid proudly dis-
playing a brace of dripping heads he tattoos
a new design upon his daughter’s back or
thighs; this design assures the handing-dowm
of the tale to his descendants. Any hair-
raising exploit that may come the way of
the old man is recorded on his daughter’s
hide. If she happens to be a baby, the
mother is responsible for seeing that the
design is impressed indelibly. Due to the
ingredients used, this often means days of
agony for the child, but when she reaches
the flapper stage her most proudly displayed
adornment is. dad’s history upon her body.
* ❖ Jj: ;jc
“Up North”: N.Q. housewives hang
tough meat under a branch of the pawpaw
tree to make it tender. The natives in
Torres Strait also often hang their chickens
and turtle meat under these trees, and after-
wards cook the tender flesh in banana leaves
spiced with wild ginger and shredded cocoa-
nut. But in parts of the North the paw-
paw tree is not allowed near the house, there
being a supposition that if young children
play continually under this tree they become
sickly. This does not accord . with my ex-
perience. I’ve known many youngsters
play under pawpaws arid come to no harm.
On the other hand, a doctor of my acquaint-
ance cut down the pawpaws about his house
because he shared the belief that there is
something queer about them.
❖ * * ?Jc
“Pick’’: The sheath caterpillar—a brown-
complexioned chap with a tortoise-like head
and a body encased in web armored with
sticks or stalks of grass—has a most interest-
ing method of progression. His protective
covering counterfeits a dried tuft of grass
and loads a severe burden on the climber,
whose 3in. body cannot be projected further
than a quarter of an inch from its sheath.
He overcomes the difficulty of pulling him-
self perpendicularly over smooth surfaces by
cutting steps as he advances. With his horny
frontispiece he can cut a tiny groove into
any substance. Pressing his proboscis into
the cranny so made, he levers his body up-
ward until able to hook his claws therein.
Then he stretches his neck onward to its
full length, saws out another step and pro-
ceeds upward.
* * * *
“The Ringer”: A hard-headed customer
is the Australian abo. At Anthony’s Lagoon
(N.T.) there is living a black named Cardo
who some years ago was shot in the back of
the head with a .38 calibre revolver. The
bullet just flattened out on his skull, knock-
ing him unconscious. An operation to recover
the lead was performed by the local store-
keeper, who hacked it out with a penknife.
Now Cardo wears it as a charm around his
neck and is the envy of his fellows in the
tribe.
* * * *
“A.W.L.”: When “Toonooba” says (B.
25/l/’2B) that the Torres Strait islanders
used the helmet-shell as a cooking pot
he is misinformed. The shell which was
used for that purpose, and is still used out
Murray and Darnley way, is the “cymbium”
or bailer shell. In _ pre-civilisation days the
native used it to bail out his canoe, and now
every dinghy in Torres Strait carries one
for the same purpose. The helmet-shell or
giant “cassis” is found in quantities around
Stephen Island only, and, with a hole bored
in the top, is sometimes used as a conch-
shell, though the natives prefer the “triton”
or trumpet-shell for that purpose.
* * * *
“E.C.H.” : Whilst motoring about the Mur-
chison (W.A.) we met an abo. and asked
him the distance from our destination.
“Cripes. boss!” said Jacky, “you walk um
plurry far, horse and cart not so far, motor-
car plurry quick, telephone ting-a-ling—you
there.” The distance was 60-odd miles, as
subsequently shown on our speedometer.
COW TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re stringing slowly to the yard, Sweet
Briar, Belle and Flo,
First Blossom, Roan and Strawberry—along
the track they go.
The sun is dipping towards the hill, and in
its golden beams
The house lies hushed and all the land is
sweet with quiet dreams.
A thrush lilts out its happy song, the notes
ring loud and clear. ...
And then a raucous voice breaks in—“ The
bloomin’ cows are ’ere.”
Cow time, cow time!
Ready with the pails!
Yard up, yard up!
Watch the blessed bails!
Swish! swish! swish! swish!
Milk and mud and tails!
The sounds of evening echo out, the twilight
shadows fall;
Below the gully in the hill the nesting mag-
pies call.
A jackass laughs upon a bough; his rich,
full-throated mirth
Floats out upon the golden air to bless a
thankful earth.
The first star flaunts its mellow flame along
the eastern blue....
“Come, get a move on, can’t yer there? —
there’s fifteen more to do!”
The sheep have flocked beneath the trees, the
distant hills are dim,
And in the south amid the haze the stars of
evening swim.
The creek goes murmuring to the fern its
simple age-old tale,
The shades of night the sun’s last beams re-
lentlessly assail,
And beaten back their banners sink, like
ragged things of silk....
I trudge towards the quiet house and all I
see is milk.
White milk, white milk!
Pails and pails and pails!
Old cows, young cows!
Ropes and posts and bails!
Red sides, ivhite sides!
Mud and slush and tails!
VICTOKIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
tests of e.p.f. fertiliser.
“T.C.D.”: R. Wiese, south-eastern repre-
sentative on the advisory board of the S.A.
Agricultural Bureau, conducted some experi-
mental plots last year on his farm between
Bordertown and Mundalla in conjunction
with the district agricultural instructor
(E. S. Alcock). On June 12 he sowed a plot
of Huff’s Imperial wheat with 1301 b. of
superphosphate (45 per cent. S.A. standard)
to the acre, and stripped 40bush. 261 b. an
acre from it. Next to this plot, on the same
date, using the same quantity and variety of
seed, he sowed a plot dressed with 381 b. of
E.P.F. to the acre. The yield was 33bush.
571 b. an acre. A farmer near Keith (S.A.)
who sowed part of his crop with 45 per cent,
super., and part with E.P.F., the cost per
acre for fertiliser being the same in each
case, states that there was no appreciable
difference between the yields of the two sec-
tions. He is doubtful, however, if the part
sown with E.P.F. will give as good stubble
feed as that sown with super.
WHEAT-GROWING AT GOULBURN.
“James B.”: “Ekib” (B. 22/12/’27) says
hitherto all attempts to grow wheat in
Goulburn district have failed. But 60 years
ago wheat was largely grown in that dis-
trict, and the average yield was much higher
than in the best wheat districts of to-day.
The individual areas were small, but almost
every farmer grew enough for his family's
needs. I have often seen 40 bushels per acre
produced, and this under the crudest form of
culture and with very primitive ways of har-
vesting. There were then only two kinds of
wheat grown, a white and a red wheat.
The flour from both produced bread superior
to anything to be had to-day.
At the time mentioned, and for some
years after, Goulburn had three large flour-
mills, and there were a dozen others within
50 miles. With the improved varieties cf
wheat and scientific culture, the district
should be a very prolific yielder of high-
class wheat, though the formation of the
country does not lend itself to growing in
large areas.
HIGH PRICES OF WHEAT LAND.
“Singer”: Just what is the value of Wim-
mera wheat land? When it could be bought
for a few shillings an acre it was considered
by many to be useless, and therefore dear at
the price. When it moved up to £5 an acre
in sympathy with increasing yields, pessi-
mists were alarmed. When it reached three
times that figure they were literally horri-
fied. In spite of them it continued to soar.
Soon farms were changing hands at £25 an
acre, and not long after at £3O. By this
time even the optimists were becoming con-
cerned. However, there remained a few
exceptions. One of them recently purchased
Wilfred Smith’s farm of 890 acres, near
Horsham, for the record price of £32 an acre.
The question everyone now asks is, “Can it
go any higher?” Can any Bulletin reader
produce figures to show that even nominal
interest on the capital invested at that price
can be made from growing wheat? He can
base his calculations on a 14-bag-to-the-
acre yield.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT CROP.
“Buck”: Westralian wheat belt was kindly
treated by the weather last season, and a
record crop of 35,0000,000 bushels is esti-
mated. Rainfall was ample everywhere, and
in some of the new districts pioneers were
rewarded by a more than normal amount of
moisture, contributing to high yields. The
railways are shifting the wheat at the rate
of 300,000 bags a week, and Fremantle has
visions of being the premier wheat-exporting
port of the Commonwealth.
WHEAT VARIETIES TESTED.
“Mayo”: This year on the Southern Table-
land of N.S.W. Waratah, Purple Straw,
Canberra and Federation 'ware sown on
adjoining areas and under equal conditions
as to fertiliser, cultivation, etc. The season
was dry while the wheat was growing, but
good rains fell as it was coming in ear. All
varieties showed a shortening of the head,
each ear bearing sev.eral dummy grains at
the base. Waratah yielded the best return
by far, and Federation next. The Purple
Straw produced plenty of stem and flag with
little grain of a fine sample. Canberra gave
the poorest return of all.
CONCENTRATED FERTILISERS.
“G. 8.”: The concentrated fertilisers over
which “Toiler” and “Tritici” wrangle (B.
25/l/’2B) do not seem to have been over-
successful In this district (Western yic.).
But is there any reason why the ordinary
supers, should not be considerably reduced
in bulk? It isn’t the “make-up” that im-
proves the yield of the wheat crop, and if
the usual amount of vital stuff could be put
into about half the bulk it would mean a
great saving in handling, freight, storage,
bagging, etc. Modern drills are all built to
distribute the smaller quantities evenly and
well.
FISH BONES FOR COWS.
“The Welkin” : In Denmark bones taken
from raw fish are crushed to powder, allowed
to dry and cake, and used as fodder for cows,
mixed, of course, with grasses and other fare.
Danish experience is that cows fed on such
food produce not only better quality milk
but yield a larger supply than those fed upon
ordinary fare. Cow-cockies with tests in
view might give the food a trial.
THE DAIRY FACTORY “OVER-RUN.”
“Paul C.”: Some farmers, even among
those who have been supplying cream to
factories for years, don’t know what is
meant by “over-run.” And it is a thing
they ought to know all about. Over-run
represents the difference between the weight
of butter-fat supplied by dairymen and the
weight of butter the factory makes from
that butter-fat. The amount of this over-
run varies in different factories, according
to the skill and experience of the manager.
It mav also vary slightly in the same factory
by reason of the difference of temperature
in churning, but, as a general average, for
every 1001 b. of butter-fat supplied the
factory makes 117-2 lb. of butter. The extra
weight is made up of water, mainly, with
salt, preservative, curd matter and milk
sugar. Some factories turn out a “drier”
butter than others, but usually there is 131
to 14 per cent, of water in N. S. Wales
butter.
For every 1001 b. of butter-fat supplied
by tho dairy-farmer he should be paid
for at least llOllb. of butter. It may be
asked why 11711 b. should not be paid for.
The reason is that factory managers allow
1 per cent, for reduction of weight in transit.
Where there is a careless or inefficient
manager in charge of a factory a percentage
of the over-run may be lost in the butter-
milk. To save his bacon, so to speak, the
manager may give the supplier a lower test,
or he may hand him out short weight, or
he may class his cream at a lower grade
than it merits. This is rare nowadays; but
when the dairyman has a sound reason to
suspect it, he should change his factory.
In order to have a check on the factory,
as well as for his own information in con-
nection with the value of each cow in his
herd, the dairyman should have his own
Badcock cream and milk-testing machine.
INTENSIVE GRAZING.
“Tahune”: Recent researches have shown
that the leaf of a grass is more nutritious
than the stem, and, further, that a rapidly-
growing leaf carries higher nutritive quali-
ties than older growth. A method of making
the greatest use of the growing leaf has been
developed in detail in Germany, and is now
being followed closely in Maoriland. It is
chiefly applied to dairy-farming, but is of
equal value to sheepmen. The scheme is
that of intermittent grazing. Small pad-
docks of about five acres, or even less, are
turned up, heavily manured, and sown with
grass. When the growth has reached about
two hands in height a herd is put to graze
it off. As the paddocks are coming on in
rotation the stock is moved after 10- or 14-
day periods from one enclosure to another.
It is claimed that extraordinary amounts of
milk can be produced by this method, and that
an extremely high ctandard of excellence is
maintained by the sward. It is asserted also
that in exceptionally good growing seasons it
is necessary, when the stock cannot fully
cope with the crop, to.supplement their effort
with the mower, using the surplus for silage
or hay. Rainfall would naturally be a big
factor in production under these conditions.
CORAL AS A FERTILISER.
: The attempt of an Innisfail
(N.Q.) resident to put pulverised coral on
the market as a fertiliser for cane crops is
not the first time that the lime qualities of
coral have been tried. Years ago burnt coral
was used, and proved of benefit to gi owing
crops, but for some reason the coral burners
turned the job in. Although the work was
hard the demand was encouraging and the
price paid meant good wages. As experi-
ments both with burnt and pulverised coral
have proved beneficial to cane crops, a pay-
able industry may be opened in North Q.
There’s plenty of raw material available, and
its cheapness may induce farmers to give it
a trial.
POTATO DISEASES.
“Ekib”: Many potato-growers have never
heard of virus diseases, - but most of them
have wondered what affected their potato
plants when the latter turned yellow, dwarfed
and eventually died, off, while the tubers
under the plants have been small and, in
most cases, ill-shapen. Virus diseases arc
the most common of any that affect potatoes
and explain to a very great extent the low
yields returned. There is only one method
of absolutely getting rid of virus, and that
is to destroy the plants as they grow. This
is called “rogueing,” and means that the
tubers must be dug and completely destroyed.
There is absolutely no chance of eliminating
affected tubers after they are dug. Infection
may be spread by juice-sucking insects, and
it is impossible to produce or maintain dis-
ease-free plants by growing healthy stock
in paddocks adjacent to those which contain
diseased plants. Tubers from infected plants
produce diseased progeny, and farmers, there-
fore, cannot rely on seed selection alone. The
most common of the virus diseases are
mosaic, leaf roll, spindle tuber and curly
dwarf. Mosaic is so called because of the
mottled foliage it produces, and is recognised
on the foliage by light- and dark-green
patches, with more or less vaguely-defined
outlines. In mild mosaic slight dwarfing, dis-
tinct mottling, wrinkling and some ruffling
of the leaves are characteristic symptoms.
Leaf roll is distinguished by the upward roll-
ing of the leaves, so that the mid-rib remains
at the middle of the trough thus formed.
Spindle tuber is so called because of the
spindle-shaped tubers it produces. The malady
is commonly designated by growers as “run-
ning out,” “running long,” “off shape,” or
“poor shape.” Characteristics are more or
less spindling and upright stalks, smaller
and slightly darker green leaves than on
healthy plants, and the tubers, instead of
being flat oblong, as in healthy plants, are
spindle-shaped and with more conspicuous
eyes than is normal.
PIGS AND THEIR MALADIES.
“Paul C.”: To get rid of lice in pigs, dip
the infected animals in a mixture made as
follows: Dissolve lib. soap in Sgals. boiling
water. Add 2gals. kerosene well stirred or
worked with a spray-pump or syringe till it
is thoroughly emulsified. To this lOgals. of
emulsion add 90gals. of soft water. The pigs
should be dipped three times at intervals of
seven days. After each dipping the pigs
should be housed, for if they are allowed to
go in the sun after dipping it will result
in scald. The sty should be thoroughly
sprayed with a 5 per cent, solution of dis-
infectant to destroy any lice that may infest
the woodwork. A 2 per cent, solution of
lysol makes an effective dip.
When parasitic worms infest the stomach
and intestines of pigs, sulphate of iron mixed
in the food will bring about expulsion of the
worms, but if the worms are in the kidney
fat they cannot be reached by this means,
and paralysis is likely to ensue. The best
preventive of parasitic worms is cleanli-
ness in the piggery. Arrange the feeding-
troughs so that the pigs cannot get their
feet into the food by fastening a pole on the
feeding side of the trough just high enough
for the pigs, according to their size, to
get their heads under. This prevents filth
containing eggs of the parasitic worms from
getting into the food.
MAORILAND’S EXPORT PORK
SUBSIDY.
“Tamworth”: The advantages of pig-
raising, particularly in connection with the
dairying industry, are well understood in
Maoriland, and the Government is taking a
hand to encourage the development of an
export trade. Freight charges are the big
handicap, so from February 1 last to October
31 next exporters of pork will get a refund
of id. per lb. on all carcases between 601 b.
and 1801 b. sent to Britain. The concession
is an experimental one, and it will be re-
viewed next season in light of results.
SCHOOL PIG AND POULTRY CLUBS.
“Quander”: Q. Education Department has
poultry clubs for its primary school kiddies.
Pure-bred fowls are supplied at a moderate
price by the Agricultural College, and each
young fancier has to build a coop, feed the
chooks and keep a record of egg production.
The response of the schools for 1927 was
good, and this year should see the clubs in
full swing.
The pig clubs of the same department now
offer as prizes pure-bred pedigreed pigs of
the Berkshire, Tamworth or Poland China
breeds, and the innovation is proving very
popular.
POULTRY IN THE ORCHARD.
“Silentio”: An orchardist in the Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) district has tried poultry-
farming as a side-line and finds it very profit-
able. He has 60 acres under cultivation, and
runs over 1000 nens spread over about 30 acres.
He employs a man to attend to them solely.
The birds are housed in large sheds, and the
grain is fed in hoppers, which are filled up
once a week, the daily wet mash and water
being taken out by horse and cart each morn-
ing. The birds roam where they will, and the
houses are cleaned out and the droppings
immediately scattered around the trees. Eggs
are collected twice daily, and the broodies each
night. The owner says he clears on an aver-
age from ss. to 10s. per hen each year, over
and above all expenses, but declares that he
would not mind running them at a loss,
because they would be well worth ss. a hen
for the good they do in supplying manure,
keeping down weeds, keeping the soil loose
under the trees, and killing so many insects,
grubs, larvae and butterflies. He runs heavy
breeds, and says the loss in fruit is practi-
cally nil.
FEATHER-PICKING IN FOWLS.
“Jack Point”: Feather-picking amongst
hens is often nothing more than the bad
habit of one or two birds which is copied
by others. It may also be due to dearth
of protein in the ration or the lack of green
feed. Provided that plenty of green feed
is available, and that the mash contains about
10 per cent, of protein (meat meal, blood
meal, etc.), any feather .picking amongst the
flock will probably be traceable to one or
two birds which have got the habit. The only
thing to do is to watch closely, and as soon
as the culprits arc discovered separate their
heads from their bodies. This will usually
not be a matter of much regret, because it
will most likely be found that the bird is a
dud —the good layers are too busy scratching
around for food to find time to pull out
their own feathers.
RESTORING HUMUS TO IRRIGATED
SOIL.
“Yabbie”: One of the problems of agri-
culture is the maintenance of the humus con-
tent of soils. Especially is this so under irri-
gation, where clean cultivation and a
scorching sun burn out the humus at an
alarming rate. Artificial fertilisers won’t
help a soil severely depleted of- vegetable
matter. Under Murray and ’Bidgee irriga-
tion conditions almost every green manure
crop has been tried with varying success.
These crops may be divided into summer,
winter, biennial and perennial plants.
Naturally legumes are most favored owing to
their quality of fixing air-gathered nitrogen
in the soil. Of the summer crops, it has been
proved that black cowpea is easily the most
prolific on the ’Bidgee areas. Other varieties
of cowpea, soya bean s velvet bean, dolichos
bean and berscem clover have given inferior
results or have turned out complete failures.
Of the winter crops, the tick bean and field
pea are most profitable and for many reasons
are to be preferred to any summer green
manure crop in orchard or vineyard, as
most of their growth may be expected to be
made from natural rainfall and they don’t
interfere with the harvesting of summer
fruits.
Lucerne is an excellent green manure
crop, but is difficult to get rid of and is better
suited for renovating old land which would
otherwise remain unproductive for a long
period. Bokhara clover (Melilotus alba)
a biennial, is perhaps the best of all, since
not only will it provide a large mass of green
stuff to be turned under, but its strong
roots penetrate even better and faster than
lucerne and certainly leave a larger and
deeper root mass than any other green
manure crop. The seed bed should be treated
as for lucerne, and no little skill is required
to obtain a satisfactory germination.. The
land should receive a heavy dressing of
gypsum, preferably not less than two tons
per acre, and the seed should be broadcast
in every alternate row of orchard in the
autumn. At least four deep irrigation fur-
rows should be ploughed out immediately the
crop is sown. These may be used until the crop
is ploughed under 12 months later. Once
the plant is established it requires no atten-
tion other than the provision of an adequate
supply fliof moisture, though the best results
are obtained if the crop is mowed three or
four times during the summer months. The
resultant hay may be used for stock if
desired, otherwise it may be left to rot on
the surface.
The earliest practice on the ’Bidgee area
with Bokhara clover was one of sowing the
entire orchard right up to the butts of the
trees, with the idea of leaving the crop for
two years. This was found too severe a
practice and some temporary damage was
(Continued on page 25.)


1928 B. S. A/s offer
greatest value for money
All BS A
o <»
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. de Luxe Model.
Choose your 1928 motor-cycle from the extensive B.S.A. range and
you’ll get the greatest value for your money, plus consistent reliability.
1928 B.S.A.’s offer the greatest motor-cycle value. They embody every
modern feature, including internal expanding brakes; mechanical and
grease gun lubrication; shock absorbers; large size Dunlop W.O. cord
tyres, medium pressure; Terry spring seat saddle, etc. A special carburetter
with air cleaner can be fitted as an extra on all models except the 1.74 h.p.
It is standard on the 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. model.
The 1928 B.S.A. range offers the greatest choice. There are 13 models
in 7 engine capacities, from 1.74-h.p. lightweight to 9.86-h.p. twin cylinder*
including three O.H.V. models.
All B.S.A. motor-cycles have an unequalled reputation for reliability—a
reputation built and maintained by repeated successes in competitions all
over the world (trade and amateur), and by their performances in the
hands of everyday riders.
Lead the way on a B*S*A
Prices from £57/10/-
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. 1
Q’LANDI
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- f/zvl/i y bros. motor cycles
PTYLTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.— J. N. TAYLOR & CO', LTD',
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide .
WEST AUS. —MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth .
TASMANIA— s/m king pty.,
63 Brisbane Street,
LTD.,
Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia,
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


The
Dagenite case and
what It clothes
The “ works ’* of a P. & R. Accumu-
lator are well worth protecting. That
is why we invented and patented
Dagenite in which to case the P. & R.
Dagenite is black. It looks like
ebonite. But it is fire-proof, acid-
proof, almost unbreakable even under
jolts which would reduce ebonite to
splinters. It does not warp, or split,
or crack with age. It is the ideal
case for the ideal battery.
The P. & R. battery deserved the
Dagenite case. The Dagenite case
deserved the P. & R. battery.
Together they form the battery with
the longest working life.
R~R
PETO &- RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
/7>c beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below.
P. 6
Jr s
m
m
w
a
£
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
M elbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
Remember those who
answered the
CALL!
A
A
/*v
K
dav
A ppEAL
For Diggers and Their
Dependants Help is
Needed.
There is a Pleasant Way
to Render it—
Come to the Carnival
in Martin Place.
Spend Joyously and
Bring Joy to Others.
All profits from Soldiers' Day
Appeal go direct to the
United Returned Soldiers’
Fund.
Soldiers Day
2Q "Feb.
Btuf a Button
THE OUT STANDING
MERITS OF A
GREAT PENCIL
&
n
W'i
3 '
Ferfeccion is the attribute common to all
ViUN US PENCILS; each one is as good and
true to grade as the world’s largest
makers of quality pencils can achieve.
ENUS
PENCILS
17 Blacklead Degrees and Super Copying (Med-
ium & Hard) 5:1. each; 4/ per dozen. Venus
Copying 4d. each - 3 9 per dozen.
“ it’s the lead inside
MAKES THE VENUS GLIDE”
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know’. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
NO TOE-CAP
a pliant, light shoe!
Made of soft tan or black
calf, roomy, easy-to-wear, with
sides low-cut for comfort—
built on a specially-moulded
Abbey last. A shoe that’s
ideally restful for tired feet.
Prevents foot troubles
Because it is so flexible and
because every normal foot can
be suited for width as well as
length. Needless to cramp the
toes —full and half-sizes are
available, each in three fittings,
narrow, medium and wide.
Order by Post
Specify the width needed
and ask, also, for a supply of
the correct Abbey Polish (fid.
per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF - 38/6
BLACK BOX CALF - 36/6
Write for a copy of the AO-page cata-
logue of the principal Abbey styles of
men’s and women’s footwear.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
L6O . SYDNEY
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin —bigger and better.
Enrich and beautify your home bv installing Wunderlich
Art Metal Ceilings in every room. Choose tasteful designs
from the hundreds available —prices are reasonable and the
fixing is both simple and inexpensive. Moreover, the
finished work remains permanently free from blemish—-
proof against fire and vermin
WUNDERLICH LTD.,
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney.
Write to-day for free
Catalogue, M. 27
Inspect the popular Wunderlich
designs stocked by your local
supplier of building materials.
yj —
5%
Zi-idZ
SHi ■
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZO]
'THE
PLU
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED and kept in
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
Ask any man vou know who use* m PLUM—-
ask him if he doesn't thmk it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer. “Why, rather!"
12/6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.


Walker-Welford 1095
t SPRING COIL SHEEP PENCE
. —. &
MM
Red-fag
m
m
/»ss4 Cyclone Holds 7l
CYCLONE FENCES GATE COP"!)
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH ST. (off 350 George St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne
Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide
Only Perfect Sheep 6 )encc
Cyclone Spring Coil Sheep Fence of 5 lines
(26 ins.) with a barbed wire addqd on top,
is 41 ins. high. The tie wires are uniformly
12ins. apart, and the "kink” effectively
prevents the upright wires slipping. The
fence is supplied in 5-chain foils.
Prices from £l9/10/- per Mile
Use Cvclone Spring Coil Sheep Fence,
10 |ine (42 ins.), II line (49 ins.), or 12
line (58 ins.), for Cattle and
Cyclone Fencing Catalogue Free
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
W. JNO. BAKER
DAGGING SHEAR, in
SHEATH, to carry on
saddle.
No. I—sin. Shear in
Sheath, 11/6.
Postage, 9d.
No. 2 —6 in. Shear in
Sheath, 12/6.
Postage, 9d.
No. 4—7iin. Full-Size
Shear and Sheath,
13/6.
Postage, 9d.
SHEARS ONLY.
sin. Dagging Shears,
5/9 ea.; Postage. 6d.
33/- per half doz. ;
Postage, 1/6.
6in. Lamb Shears,
6/3 ea. ; Postage, 6d.
37/- per half doz.;
Postage, 1/6.
The W. JNO. BAKER
NEW IMPROVED
LAMB CLAM, No. 435.
The position of the
blade enables the user
to complete the opera-
tion without moving
his grip on the Clam.
The result being a
cleaner job, quicker
healing and saving
time; about 8 inches
overall. Black wood
handle grip, Brass
Guard ; width across
Jaw lfin., 10/6 each.
Post free.
W. JNO, BAKER TALLY COUNTS, for
tallying sheep; to count 1 to 999, 21/- each;
to count Ito 9999, 27 / 0 { each.
Postage, 6d.
W. JNO. BAKER,
THE HOUSE OF STEEL,
3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
w
0
eMa K£S
Easy
It (does away with the drudgery and
dust of a broom and is handier, quicker
and better than any other kind of
cleaning device for the everyday and
many-times-a-day sweeping of carpeta
and rugs.
Thumb pressure empties it.
Gets clinging litter.
Instantly ready for use.
Saves carpets.
Lasts for years.
Costs but little, and nothing to run.
Has rubber corner cushions.
Verily, a ball-bearing broom-on wheels
with its own long-handled dust pans.
Play-size Bissells at trifling cost.
Sold by leading merchants everywhere.
Booklet upon invitation.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dep’t—46 West Broadway
New York,N. Y.,U. S. A.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
HOTEL
METRQPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured , separately by the
day from 0/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
done to certain orchards, though their sub-
sequent productivity has in most cases been
astounding. The practice of sowing alternate
rows of Bokhara clover every year is to be
preferred and can be recommended to all
irrigation orchardists.
MITCHELL-GRASS HAY.
“Yabbie”: “Eromeno” (B. l/2/’2B) ha 3
something to learn about Alitchell-grass
hay. Cutting and stacking has not “always
proved a failure” in the very district lie
mentions. In 1913, when grass was plenti-
ful, a 300-ton stack was made on Bexley,
a well-known station near Longreacli. just
above flood-mark near a more or less per-
manent hold in the Thompson. In the dry
time of 1915 that stack was chaffed and fed
to sheep for weeks. A power-driven chaff-
cutter was used, which cut the hay into
needle-like sections about an inch long.
This was fed to the sheep in long troughs
made of woolpacks, and a small quantity of
molasses was added. On a few mouthfuls
of this and a good drink each day those sheep
battled along; till the stack cut out.
On the same station three thoroughbred
stallions permanently stabled at the home-
stead were fed all the year round on Mitchell-
grass hay as their bulk ration and were
always in perfect condition. Horses were
trained for and won local races chiefly on
Alitchell-grass hay and ordinary oaten chaff.
"Eromeno’s” stack alongside which 40 head
of cattle died must have had something
wrong with it, or the cattle must have died
from other causes. Even oaten- or lucerne-
hay stacks may be useless if not properly
cured. It will pay Western Q, sheepmen to
make a regillar practice of stacking Mitchell
grass in good seasons.
WASTED WOOL.
“B-Gar”: Thousands of pounds are lost to
Australia every year through farmers and
station-owners neglecting the collection of
dead wool. In drought time especially, when
sheep, die in thousands, the value of the wool
that is left to rot in the paddocks must be
enormous. Some station-owners have found
it a payable proposition to employ men to
collect the wool from the carcases, giving
them 2d. a lb., which pays, as dead wool
has sold up to Is. a lb. Dead wool can be
collected any time; it is not necessary to
wait until shearing-time, but as soon as a
carcase is found take a note of the spot
and have the wool bagged. If there is
sufficient wool gathered to make a bale or
bales, bale it; if not, ■ send it away in bags,
taking care to make some attempt at sorting
the. wool. The gathering of dead wool
checks the blowfly trouble.
DROUGHT RESTOCKING.
“GG6”; The Queensland Government has
decided to extend the restocking rebate on
railage for a further three months. The con-
cession is one that might have been extended
still further. The 25 per cent, rebate was
very little use to men trying to buy sheep
from the South during the six months just
past. The N.S.W. stockholders were not
anxious, for many reasons, to let their sheep
go lightly, for in addition to the greatly-
improved outlook in their own State, there
was a strong buying demand from Queens-
land sheep-breeders right along the border,
where conditions had been fairly decent dur-
ing the drought that devastated the central
and n.-w. districts. There was little hope
of the breeders in the latter sections getting
sheep at anything like a profitable price,
and the rebate was practically useless. The
20 per cent, rebate granted for railage on
sheep proceeding to and from agistment
country was abolished from January 31.
That means that many men who have sent
their sheep to relief country to keep them
alive will have to rail them back at full
rates. Many of these flocks will have to
remain on their agistment until their own
country has improved enough to permit
their return, and these, at least, will bene-
fit by the extension of the restbeking rebate,
even if they/ have been done out of the rail-
age concession. The catch in it seems to be
that the agistment railage rebate was easily
recoverable. The restocking comeback doesn't
look so good, because of the difliculty in
getting the sheep to restock with.
SORTING LAMBS’ WOOL.
“B-Gar”: The classing of lambs’ wool
differs from that of grown sheep, and it is
necessary to cover the rolling tables with
cloths, in order to prevent the shorter stapled
lambs’ wool from falling through the spaces
of the tables. The pickers-up will need a
piece of board in egch hand to pick up the
shorn fleeces to carry them to the tables.
(One fleece only should be picked up at a
time.) The classer will know how many
sorts are required, and will instruct the
piece-pickers accordingly. Except in large
clips, in which a super lot may be made,
two sorts will be ample—A.A. and A. lambs.
The former will take the longest, brightest
and finest wool, and what is left will go to
make the seconds, ■ minus the bellies, pieces,
locks and stains, which will be baled sepa-
rately. All burry and seedy wools will be
kept apart. In crossbred clips, the spinning
quality—that is, the fineness of the wool —
will have to be taken into account.
HIGH-GRADE WOOL.
“FY7”: Dr. N. W. Kater, one of Aus-
tralia’s leading authorities on sheep-breed-
ing, although he is very much in favor of
subdivision of great estates, wherever they
may be, was constrained recently to remark
that “wholesale subdivision has tended to
decrease the quality of the wool, owing to
the breaking up of the many large flocks
necessarily involved.” He thinks, though,
that this will be counterbalanced by the
gradual improvement of the well-known and
established flocks at present in existence. It
is a pious hope, but what is going to happen
when the country on which these flocks
are running is subdivided in its turn? No
small holder can possibly afford to breed the
fine-wool merino. The time is near at hand
when the production of fine merino wool in
Australia will be a thing of the past. Even
in .Queensland the signal has been given
by the Government, which has decided that
grazing leases on or near the railway lines
will not be renewed on expiry—the country
is to be subdivided for the small farmer, who
must necessarily breed a utility sheep. For
the fine merino, if he is to continue, there
soon will be only one place where it will
be possible for him to produce the class of
wool which has made Australia famous.
That is the Barclay Tableland, in the North-
ern Territory, and that, with perhaps a
limited area of Westralia, may remain the
last stronghold of Australia’s tine-wool pro-
duction.
RAMS FOR QUEENSLAND.
“B-Gar”: It has been proved that the ideal
rams for the hot Queensland climate are
the robust, plain bodied, heavy cutting rams
of S. Australia. The wool of these rams,
generally a common 60’s, shows plenty of
character, it is of good staple and body, and
the rams mate well with the fine-woolled
ewes of the northern State. Warm climates
have a tendency to make wool fine, and the
progeny of this cross, ranging from super
60’s to 64’s, seems to bring out all the good
characteristics of the rams. It is mainly
owing to the introduction of these rams that
wrinkly sheep are dying out, and that is
good, tor wrinkles were one of the causes of
the blowfly trouble.
SOUTH AFRICA AND FINE WOOL.
“Din Kum” : Who is helping South Africa
to be a competitor in fine wools? It is the
people who sell stud merino rams and ewes to
the South Africans, and who, when anyone
tries to point out the folly of such a course,
say that climatic and other conditions prevent
South Africa from ever becoming a serious
rival of Australia.
Anyone who has lived in South Africa and
kept his eyes open knows perfectly well that
the Union is yearly becoming a stronger com-
petitor. But it is hard to convince Aus-
tralian sheepmen that that is the case. One
grazier told me quite solemnly that South
Africa could never be a big wool-producing
country because of the ravages of Wild beasts,
especially lions, among the flocks. He was
told this, he said, by a young Afrikander who
had come to N. S. Wales to learn the sheep
business. But in the district from whiea
this young gehtleman came lions and even
jackals are almost unknown. I lived in
that district for years and never heard of
losses from wild animals. In districts in
S’Africa where merino wool is grown destruc-
tive wild animals are very rare, and not
nearly so troublesome as our own dingo.
It is time the people of Australia awoke to
the fact that South Africa is going to be a
big rival. She lias the advantages of very
cheap labor, and much lower freights, being
not much more than half the distance Aus-
tralia is from the English and Continental
markets.
CULTIVATING MUSHROOMS.
“Silentio”: Mushrooms are not hard to
grow, and give a continuous return for very
little labor. A cellar is the best place for
making a mushroom bed, but a shed with
plenty of ventilation will answer the purpose,
and many a decent crop liv.s been grown in a
sheltered corner against a fence. The spawn
is sold in bricks by seedsmen and the cost is
very little. For the beds, horse manure is
best—the fresher the better—and a little
good soil. The beds should be about 3ft. wide
and any length, and built up from two to
four feet. When the beds begin to heat up
they require pulling to pieces, well mixing up
and remaking. In about a week, if the beds
are not too hot, the spawn can be planted.
A brick will be sufficient for a bed with an
area of 6 sq. ft. The best plan is to set the
spawn in rows, with a covering of about one
to two inches, and when the white stalks
of varying thickness appear add a half-inch
top-dressing of good loamy soil or sand. The
first growths appear about 14 days after plant-
ing, but the age of the spawn may affect this,
and the germination period may stretch out
to three or even four weeks. The beds
should be lightly watered, and the tempera-
ture kept at about 60 degrees. When the
beds are well made the cropping should last
for two or three months, and production can
be maintained through the year by renewing
the beds. On no account use the old bed
material, but get entirely fresh manure and
soil. In cutting never pull the mushroom.
Always cut cleanly with a knife. Cultivated
mushrooms are always clean, and if attrac-
tively packed—preferably in strawberry pun-
nets —command a ready sale.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Silentio”: If drinking vessels made out
of kerosene tine are given a light coat of
hot tar inside they can be kept clean more
easily and will last longer. If the part which
touches the ground is treated the same way,
and a little sand thrown on while hot, it
prevents rust. Buckets made for ordinary
farm use can be treated the same way, but
should not be placed on the fire.
“Wandi”: The simplest way of applying
moisture to tomato plants is to make a shal-
low, dish-like hole near the roots, and put in
a thick covering of stable manure, which
should contain at least 50 per cent, of straw.
When the hole is filled with water the
moisture goes direct to the roots and carries
a certain amount of manure with it, whilst
the straw keeps the ground from drying. If
the roots are mulched all round the liquid
in the hole will keep the surface continually
moist. I have found this an excellent method
with melon vines, especially if the latter are-
planted on a raised surface, a couple of
inches above the general level of the ground,
and the watering hole made on the flat
surface.
“Paul C.”: To cure a horse of the habit
of jumping fences, put a pair of hobbles
on him, buckled tightly above the knees. Put
a surcingle on him, but do not buckle extra
tightly. On his hind legs put another pair
of hobbles, but the chain may be left half
as long again as the front one. Now buckle
a strap to the centre link of the front hobble
chain, bring it up between the front legs and
through the surcingle, and then back and
down to fasten to the centre of the hind
hobble chain. This strap should run freely
through the surcingle as the animal walks,
and should be just long enough to allow full
freedom for the horse to step as far as the
front hobbles will let him. Now, if he tries
to spring his front legs are pulled down and
his bottom jaw gets a jolt on the fence.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed w a termarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
l'*-.
€r
u
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
With Marie Stopes mum’s not the word.
A man is as old as he feels, but never
quite so important.
An advocate of motoring asserts that it
opens up a new life. That’s often true
enough.
* *
It mightn’t be such a bad idea if before
opening up a practice doctors had a little
more practice in opening up.
“Oscar Asche,” a cdble states', “is a direc-
tor of a tin-hare company.” Those who re-
member Mr. Asche should be pleased to learn
that he does not intend to take part in the
actual racing.
❖ sg«
The Boss: “I suppose you work long hours
in that place, Jacky?”
Jacky: “No, not long hours, Boss, but
plurry lot of ’em.”
Marry early if you wish to‘ live long, is
the advice of a London physician. A trouble
is that many who do so have no desire to
live long.
THE TOO-UPPISHNESS OF SOME FOLKS.
“Well, Mrs. Sinks, how do you like your new neighbor?”
“Oh, she’s all right, you know. But she’s ’aughty, and
if there’s one thing I can’t stand it’s ’aught!”
In days of yore a maiden oft
Would set her cap at a lover trim;
But now, since skirts have soared aloft,
’Tis her kneecap she sets at him,
* *
It is said that history repeats itself.
Well, in the Stone Age women got about in
bearskins.
* *
Some girls are simply dyeing to be blondes.
* *
Some people can say what they think and
still be silent.
A politician is anyone who can make two
facts grow where there was only one lie
before.
sis *
The only time in a woman’s life when she
thinks of dress is between the cradle and the
grave.
sis Sis
A writer states that in the last 50 years
there has been very little change in men’s
clothes. Their wives see to that.
* *
There’s many a good kiss lost for the
asking.
A girl delights in stockings that
Arc fine and silk and sheer,
But oft a pair of s’ox upholds
Most that her heart finds ■ dear.
s{: % % y
Having a wife in every port seems a
good reason for seamen remaining at sea.
When a doctor makes a mistake there are
.usually grave results. ,/ '
* *
While experiments are- being made to
improve methods of removing ladies', super-
fluous hairs it might be a good idea to evolve
one for removing superfluous tin-liares.
V *
“If you want to find the real Brotherhood
of Man,” says a newspaper writer, “go seek
it in a gang of crooks.” These newspapers
are always wrong. Everyone knows there’s
no great friendship at the Stock Exchange.
* *
The proposal to send a trial shipment of
onions from Australia to Norway won’t help
to bring these two countries closer together.
The modern bridegroom hasn’t much
excuse for not seeing what he’s marrying.
v
“What.” the Sydney Sun asks its readers,
is the principal port of South Australia?”
The same, we should say. as of every other
port of the Commonwealth—import.
When twins arrived, she said, “My dear ,
Send Dad a message. ‘All is weil.’ ”
He sent it. feeling full of cheer
And laughing sallies: “All is,fyfill.”
And Dad. of course, knew twiii,s:’were here
When he received it: “All is hell!
The re'cent announcement that the popula-
tion of Australia has lately increased appre-
ciably will probably convince motorists of
the folly of not doing their hunting in
packs.
A Sydney dispensing
chemist has written two popu-
lar song successes. That ought
to move the B.M.A. to have
doctors’ handwriting im-
proved a bit.
* * ,
.“Top Rail” : I hadn’t seen
Bill since I drank with him
for a few years at the war
till I struck him in the street
the other day. “Hullo,” I
said, “you’re looking pretty
fit on it.” “Yairs,” said Bill,
‘l’ve been havin’ a bit of a
holiday at Katooinba.” “They
tell me that's a pretty good
place for a holiday,” I re-
marked. “Not bad,” Bill
agreed ; “but you waste a hell
of a lot of time there in the
mornin’s. The pubs don’t
open till five-past six.”
* *
“Where are the lovely,
well-dressed women of 35
years ago?” sighs a Mel-
bourne business man. They
are the flappers of to-day.
* s’;
A cable states that tele-
vision makes possible sitting
at home and seeing and hear-
ing an opera. It is probably
because he was too gentle to
think of anything like this
that the Kaiser is where he
is to-day.
“Out here in the Bush we never get even
a poor book to read,” pleads a subscriber
in a Sydney daily. Critics in the city com-
plain that they never get any other sort.
* *
A man at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) holds
down 15 different jobs. A recent immigrant
farm-worker writes to say that if this chap
wants something to do ih his spare time he
can let him have 45 of his jobs and not miss
them.
* *
“I never give up,” the great man cried,
And nobody present believed he lied,
For it was plain in his speech and mien
That the place he came from was Aberdeen.
Marriage wouldn’t be so bad if it were
any good.
THE VICIOUS CIRCLE.
She made it plain a man she held
A nuisance and a bore; "
And yet, by vanity compelled,
She made it plain a man she held.
And he, poor wretch, though clearly quelled,
Discovered her—the more
She made it plain a man she held —
A nuisance and a bore!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.
THE GHOST OF MOTED GRANGE.
It was a Dark Dreery night in which the
Wind moned ; dismally like a lost Sole.
Douglas Daring’s knock at the Dark Door
produced Nothing but Earie Echoes and the
Cries of Disturbed Bats.
Then, suddenly, arose a Blood-Curdeling
Scream, the sound of rushing steps and an-
other Howl as of Angwish. Again All was
Still.
Douglas was Undismaied. He was deter-
mined to Unwravel the Mystry that sur-
rounded this Gloomy House. He had no
Faith in the Sinister David Dabbly who, by
the Will of her Father, had been left the
Gardian of the Girl he Loved.
Breaking in a window, he made his way
into the Gloomy Intereor, which seemed full
THE LUCK OF SOME KIDS.
CLAUDE: “I wish I had half that Kelly kid’s luck. His
mother’s too short-sighted to see whether he’s
washed his neck—and his father’s a cripple.”
of dreadful whisprings and the Patter of
Soft Feet. His Torch flashed right and
left; then he walked quickly to a Door
under which he saw the gleam of a light.
He threw it open swiftly. Amased, he
stared, for the whole place was flooded with
darkness. He-switched on the electric light.
There was Nothing There!
While he was making an inspection he
gave a shout of surprize. He had seen some-
thing on the Writing-table which caused him
to seize the Bloting Pad, and folding it Up
put it in liis pocket.
There was a click and the Light Went
Out.
Before our Hero could Recover the floor
Gave way under him and he Felt Himself
Hurtling Through Space.
But Douglas was .a Man of Resorse. He
knew immediately that the
one way to save himself was
to make his fall as light as
possible; so, as he went
down, he kept jumping up-
wards in _ the Air. This
gave him time to
see By the Light of his
Torch, an Apperchure in the
dark wall. He just caught
the rim of it in Time. As
he Drew himself to Safty he
Heard the rush of Waters
below him.
Douglas Made his way
along a valted passige Caw-
tiously. He did not flash
His Torch; there were
Powers Abroad intent to do
him injury. He saw a pale
light ahead and made for it.
For a Moment His Blood
nearly Frose in his Viens.
In the room he reached a
garstly light showed him a
ghostly Figgure in White
Crouched in a Chair and
groning Hollerly.
For only one moment did
Our Hero Pause. The next
moment he made a spring
towards the Apperition.
“Ha, ha, ha!” laughed
David Dabbly, as he leaned
back in his chair and
addressed the handsome
though sinnister face of his
son Cecil and the two villanous friends.
“Little did the fool know when he came to
Solve the Mystry of the Haunted House
who made the Mystry ! Now he lias Gone
to His Death and the Underground Stream
will sweep him away.”
“Ha, ha! He who laughs Last laughs
Best,” said Cecil.
“Yes; he who laughs last laughs best!”
cried a spectral voice.
It seemed to come from the Lips of the
picture over the Mantelpiece. Turning Pale,
the villains sprang' to their feet. The picture
suddenly slid away and they found them-
selves starihg at a pair of revolvers, one in
each hand.
Our Hero stept down into the room, only
to be followed by two policemen.
“I know the Mystry of this House now,”
said Our Hero sternly. “David Dabbly,
what would you say if I charged you with
the Murder of Sir Salisbury Scuppers?”
"I did not Murder him!”
screamed the cowardly Retch,
Trembling in Every Limb.
“The Body you swore to be
that of Sir Salisbury was
found floating in the Mote
with tlie face Battered. Then
you forjed a Will leaving
everything to You, and His
Daughter in your Power,”
said Our Hero.
“That proves nothing!”
blustered Dabbly.
“But if the Real Will is
produced it will,” said Our
Hero. “Here it is, hidden
down in the Side of. the Well
to escape the hands of
Thieves like you.”
He. waved the paper before
them; then he produced the
bloting-paper from his pocket,
and, taking it to a mirror,
held it, opened, before it.
“There is the Blotting-
Paper Impress of the false
will. You forced Sir Salis-
bury to forje his own will.”
“But I did not kill him!
I did not kill him!” pleaded
the guilty Retch.
“No!” cried Our Hero.
“You stole a dead body and
Cast it in the Mote, thinking
it would be taken for Sir
Salisbury. Overdome by
shame at having forjed his
own Will, Sir Salisbury fell
into your plan by going into
serclusion. You emptied
everybody out of the Grange,
leaving only your victim \
demented here; and his
Mones helped you to pass the
-Tale that the Place was Haunted, to keep
people away, while you took possession of
”'V„ Salisbury’s estate under the Forjed
Will. .
’’You are under arrest,” said the leading
policeman, as, with his assistent, he claped
tlie handcuffs on the wrists of the trembling
Ketches, “and may God have mercy on your
Soles!”
“Here is the Victim of Yore Crule Vil-
hny' cried Our Hero, as he put a chair for-
ward and helped a strange figgure, clad in a
descent from the Secret Pannel.
i lie Ghost of Moted Grange!”
“Well, I’m jiggered!” said the Honest
Policeman. “It’s Sir Salisbury Scuppers!
But why did he not leave the place and seek
help'/”
OVERCOMING OBSTACLES.
“Hullo, what are you doing?” ,
“I unshed to consult this book, but I had the misfortune
to open it upside down.”
“They took all his Trowsis,” explained
Our Hero.
The Judge, when the trial came on, said
that As Sir Salisbury acted under juress in
forging his own Will, David Dabbly would
be sentenced to Perpetual Imprisonment for
Life. And, with Douglas Daring as its mas-
ter, ■ for he married Doris Scuppers, The
Grange became once more the scene of
Happy Gayiety.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


8
\
D
vf*
!\\\\\
s,,
S
NvV
vv\ 1
&
n
£SMUI
& Ffl NF9
\ ■ \
// &
)
9 /
X
/iill'iC!
» iLSU ir
fe
ir p
Ui.m
l®H
wi
(SI
-r ■ ■■ ■
u i-n •
tin
«■ ■ ■■ '■
General THdors Purchases of Australian Products^
Tlbre titan, €2.500.000 Annually
A PART from furnishing in
I~\ its five great Australian
assembly plants direct employ-
ment for more than 2000
Australians, General Motors
makes other and very consider-
able contributions to Australian
prosperity and progress.
Purchases made annually in Aus-
tralia total over £2,500,000.
General Motors purchases 99.7
oer cent, of its tyre requirements
rom Australian manufacturers,
while 93 per cent, of the bodies
for General Motors cars are built
in Australia.
To meet the large requirements
which these figures imply, num-
bers of Australian suppliers are
extending their factories, and
thus also increasing employment
and prosperity. Moreover, all
the experience and knowledge
of the General Motors Technical
Department is freely at the dis-
posal of these suppliers in aiding
them to improve and perfect
their products.
This is a part of General Motors
contribution to Australian
development.
Let Australians judge its value.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY.,
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE
LTD.
PERTH


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Respectable woman with girl able to do
light housework wants situation as working
housekeeper, widower’s or bachelor’s home
preferred ; 18 months last place.—346l.
Man (20), book-keeper’s certificate, able
drive and repair cars and trucks, know-
ledge windmills and oil engines, desires
position as book-keeper, mechanic or drover,
Q’land or N.5.W.—3455.
Pianoforte repairer, experienced, reliable,
wants work anywhere in N.S.W., Yic. or
Q.—3432.
Engine-driver, married, wants job. Can
erect machinery, do all repairs to any class
of road-making machinery, steam-rollers,
sawmills, etc., ex. refs.—3439.
Mine manager, 20 years one co., also
enginedriver, used to Tropics, wants position
in North Australia, Malay States, New
Guinea or New Caledonia; good refs. —3441.
French ex-soldier wants job as chauf-
feur, tractor driver, ploughman, gardener or
farmhand. Abstainer. (Direct to J. Ticat,
Pontivy, Indooroopilly, Q.)
Man (21) seeks situation on sheep-station
in N.S.W.; has had English experience.—
3477.
To exchange for bicycle, a one-valve
Elroy wireless set with aerial, ’phones, etc.,
no batteries. —3457.
To let, furnished or unfurnished, S-roomed
house, Fairy Bower-road, Manly; back and
front balconies overlooking ocean and harbor,
large garage, e. 1., gas copper, bath-heater,
etc.—3473.
To buy a copy of “The Days of My Life,”
by Rider Haggard. (Direct to Mrs. M. IT.
Rowe, 53 Outram-street, West Perth, W.A.)
To buy 10 pairs of runner ducks about
six weeks old. —3496.
To buy, second-hand, “Count de Gram-
mont’s Reminiscences.” (Direct to R.E.T.,
101 Russell-street, Gisborne, M.L.)
To sell one of the best sugar-farms in
Mackay, averaging 2000 tons per year.
(Direct to E. Moule Gargett, Mackay.)
To sell 10 fully-paid fl shares in the
Producers’ Distributing Society, Ltd., £5.
—3428.
American youth would like to correspond
with young Australians. (Direct to Thomas
Wheatley, jun., 2136 Terwilliger-road,
Tulsa, Oklahoma, TJ.S.A.)
Whereabouts of George Chalmers, baker,
worked many years ago in Queensland. Old
Queensland friend asks.—3443.
Information Sought.
(1) Can knock-knees he cured hy physical
exercises? (2) What is meant hy the term
“to cross leys tailor-fashion” ? —3360.
(11 No physical exercises are likely to
cure knock-knees except in so far as exercises
improve general health and carriage of
the body. Knock-knees are a bony deformity,
and if the sufferer is out of his teens and
his bones are hardened it will take a good
deal more than exercises to straighten them.
(2) It means sitting on the floor or table
with one’s legs crossed in front.
Can marks caused hy pimples he removed
with a silver nitrate solution? —3373.
Do not advise you to try it. The best
purifier of the skin is surfing and sun-baking.
If this has no effect on your pimple marks,
consult a skin specialist.
(1) I am 65, and suffer from rupture on
the right side. Is correction hy operation
painful? (2) Is the benefit derived per-
manent? (3) Are the effects of the opera-
tion felt for some time afterwards or is
relief at once apparent? —3369.
(1) No. It is performed under an anaes-
thetic. (2) Yes. (3) Relief is felt as soon
as the patient leaves hospital. If your doc-
tor advises it, undergo the operation as soon
as possible.
7 am 19, educated to Q.C. standard, and
am desirous of taking up nursing in either a
children’s hospital or nursing home. How
would you advise me to go about it? What
examinations would I have to pass? What
are the wages, conditions, etc.? —3252.
Persons who wish to commence training
as nurses, if not holding an intermediate,
domestic science or higher certificate of the
N.S.W. Education Dept., are required to
pass the examination arranged by the Nurses’
Registration Board. These examinations arc
held during the first week of February, May.
August and November, and applications, ac-
companied by the fee of 55., must be lodged
with tlii- Registrar, Nurses’ Registration
Board, 93 Macquarie-street, Sydney, one
month previously. Copies of previous ex-
amination papers may be obtained from the
Government Printing Office, Phillip-street,
Sydney; price, 6d. each, plus postage. Infor-
mation m regard to salary, etc., may be
obtained from the matron of the hospital at
which the candidate wishes to train.
In building a cement house near the sea-
side would it he advisable to use sea water
instead of fresh ivaicr for mixing and sea-
water-washed sand instead of dry rain-
washed sand? (2) Where can hooks on the
subject of building cement houses he
obtained. —3431.
(1) Concrete mixed with sea water is
not noticeably weakened, but there is the
danger of a white afflorescenco repeatedly
appearing on the wall and some risk of con
tinned dampness. It is therefore better to
use fresh water. For the same reason it is
aa£ar to use dry raiu-washed sand than
sand constantly wetted with sea water.
(2) A book on building a small house with
concrete blocks might be obtainable from
Dymocks or Angus and Robertson or from
the makers of concrete-block machines.
What are the names of the most common
species of wild geese and ducks in Aus-
tralia?—34s3.
Aquatic birds belonging to the order
Anscriformcs are represented in Australia
by IS species. The best-known Australian
geese are the Cape Barren goose, the
magpie goose, the pygmy goose or goose-teal,
and the maned goose or wood duck, which
is : as its alternative names imply, inter-
mediate between geese and ducks. Of the
ducks the commonest—and most sought
after by sportsmen—is the black duck.
Others are the two species of teal, the
blue wing or shoveller, the mountain duck or
sheldrake, the hard-head or white-eyed
duck, the freckled duck, the pink-eared
duck and the musk duck.
/ teas complainant and Crown witness in
a 'theft case at Toowoomba (Q.). I have
received mg Supreme Court expenses, hut,
the Police Court will not pay. Am I en-
titled to Police Court expenses?- —-3416.
You have no legal claim against the police
for any further expenses.
I have a dining-room suite upholstered in
American leather. The surface gets sticky
and adheres. to clothes. Is there any method
of my treating it to take the stickiness away ?
—3449.
Take 3oz. beeswax, loz. white wax, loz.
curd soap, 1 pint turpentine and 1 pint
boiled water. Mix all together, adding the
water when cold, shake the mixture fre-
quently in the bottle, and do not use it for
48 hours after it is made. Apply with a
piece of flannel, the leather being polished
with a duster and then with an old silk
rubber. Another cure is to mix well
together two eggeups each of methylated
spirits, raw linseed oil aud vinegar; shake
well and apply with a soft brush.
How many times has Ponsford scored a
hundred or over in Test cricket? —346o.
Twice, 110 and 128. Both made in Aus-
tralia against Gilligan’s XI. In England
his best Test score was 23.
Are there any fine toilet soaps that may
he made with a major component of mutton?
Recipe desired. —339s.
Mutton fat collected in the kitchen is only
useful for making curd soap or rough house-
hold soap, formed by adding caustic or
potash lye. It is practically impossible to
make good toilet soap from mutton fat. The
value of the labor involved in the long
process and the cost of perfume are out
of all proportion to the poor result which
an amateur might achieve. The best toilet
soaps are made from vegetable oils, and
they are' so cheap and economical that
nothing is gained by attempting to imitate
them with inferior materials.
(1) Can an A merican he brought hack
the U.S.A. to face a criminal charge.
Ihe alleged crime was committed in Aus-
tralia. (2) If so, could he he hanged here in
the event of his heing found guilty and sen-
tenced to death? (3) Can two persons he
tried for one crime? (4) Could a case he
held up indefinitely to obtain necessary evi-
dence?— 3438.
The U.S.A. Extradition Treaty purports
to apply to "all persons,” which would
appear to include the subjects of both of
the parties to the compact. The actual
meaning to be attached to the words is,
however, a matter of legal interpretation
of the treaty as a whole. (2) Yes. (3)
Yes, if both are charged with participating
in it, or if one man is charged with a crime
and acquitted another may be charged
with the same crime and tried for it. (4)
It. is contrary to the spirit of British law
that justice should be indefinitely delayed.
(1) What steps would he necessary for me
to take up agriculture science as a profes-
sion? (2) What prospects are there for it
m the future? —3397.
(1) Make inquiries at the Agricultural
bcliool, Melbourne Uni., Carlton. The
course occupies four years, part of which
period is spent on the State Research Farm
at Wernbee. The average cost for tuition
tees, etc., is at present about £25 per
annum. (2) In Vic. at the present time
the Minister for Agriculture has power to
a P graduate . s in Agricultural Science
ot Melbourne Uni. to probationary positions
in the Department of Agriculture. The
minimum salary on entry is £3OO per annum,
and it is the practice to grant increments of
up to ±5O per annum at the end of each of the
nrst two years to those whose work justi-
fies promotion. Thereafter the graduates,
it their progress warrants it, are absorbed
into tne stall of the department at salaries
ranging up to £BOO per annum. With the
ever-increasing. employment of scientifically-
trained men in all branches of industry
there are numerous openings for Uni
graduates in Agriculture in various walks
cii a P ar !- from State departments gradu-
ates nil positions in many institutions and
industries.
are the intentions of Motor Parking
Stations, Ltd., Sydney? — 3347
The property has been sold,' and on com-
pletion of the deal the co. will go into liquid-
ation and the cash distributed. Pref share-
holders should get 20s. in the £.
(D To whom should I write to ascertain
the value of a_ N.S.W. intestate estate? (2)
What fee is charged for information? 3474
(1) Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court,’
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. Fee depends on
value of estate but is. usually a matter of
a few shillings.
Information Supplied.
3105. —Tomatoes can be preserved by stew-
ing them in a weak syrup of sugar and water.
Allow tomatoes to become soft but not
broken. Then transfer whole to jars, adding
weak brandy equal in quantity to the syrup.
Tomatoes can be partly pickled by immersing
them in a boiling solution of equal parts
vinegar and water. Then jar up and seal.
The best way of preserving is to slice the
tomatoes and thoroughly sun-bake. When
immersed in water they recover to a great
extent their fresh flavor. —“R.R.”
3133. —To make a light wine at home,
bruise 201 b. grapes with the hands, remove
stems and cover with 3gal. boiling water.
Stir well with wooden spoon and cover with
a cloth. Leave in wooden or earthen vessel
for a few days, when bubbles will begin to
form. Then strain, pressing out all the
juice. Add 201 b. sugar and let stand a week.
Then strain again, bottle and seal. Keep in
a dark cupboard for six months or longer.—
“Homo.”
2932.—Here’s how to make an incinerator
that Avill burn moist refuse as well as dry
stuff: Perforate the bottom of a 40gal. drum
with 4in. holes. Start in centre and work
in circles to avoid rupture. Make a 9 x 3
door on the side near the bottom for cleans-
ing, and a 4in. circular vent on the opposite
side, half-way up. Fit a stove pipe to this
if possible. With a sharp, thin chisel cut
top off about 2in. down. Hammered out,
this will make a snug lid to exclude flies
and vermin'. Procure 4 pieces of -iin. water-
pipe and a four-way union. This" will form
a cross when assembled, the IST. and S. points
to turn easily inside the drum, the E. and
W. points to protrude on either side through
two lin. holes 12in. from top of drum. Make
a circular plate of iron (ship’s tank will do)
to fit on the cross and with enough clear-
ance to turn easily. Fasten this securely
with U bolts. Fit an elbow to one of the
pivots and a piece of pipe to this to hang
straight down. This mil keep the plate
level. Dump all moist refuse on top of plate.
The fire underneath will dry it. Set up on
four bricks.
3021. —The lowest and also the ruling rate
at Orbost for maize-picking is 7d. per three-
bushel bag, maize to be husked and bagged.
The picking season begins about May 1 and
lasts about eight weeks. At Bruthen, 42
miles nearer to Melbourne, the ruling rate
for picking is Bd. per three-bushel bag, and
the season lasts about four weeks.—“ Maize
Picker.”
3285.—Thin sheet galvanised-iron makes
an effective wall lining, easily erected and
white-ant prbof. The sheets are Gft. by 3ft.,
and can be painted with oil or cold-water
paint or papered. They are nailed to joists
with clout tacks, and if the joints are cov-
ered with a batten the effect is quite sightly.
As a lining it lets through no more heat
than plaster, compo or wall-boards.
3218. —To make three gallons of malt beer,
take three cups of hops, three tablespoon-
fuls of Cornwell’s .extract of malt. 31b. brown
sugar. Put the hops in u muslin bag and
boil separately for 20min. or half an hour
in a kerosene-tin three-quarters full of water.
Strain, and when nearly cool, add the malt
and sugar, stirring well. Pour into a three-
gallon keg and fill right up with cold water,
leaving the bung hole open for working. No
yeast is required. As froth oozes out, keep
filling the keg up. Let it work for two or
three days. Then add a little burnt sugar
for coloring. Cork down tightly for, say, a
week (the longer the better), anil then bottle.
Ihe beer should remain in the bottles for a
month at least.
3281.—T0 cement a galvanised-iron tank,
first punch small holes in pairs half an inch
apart at intervals in every sixth corrugate.
Through these insert staples of soft wire
~ 2 in. long. Hive the staples two or three
twists on the inside and use them for sup-
porting a complete lining of l|in. meshed-
wire netting, which should stand out lin.
from the inner surface of the tank. Mix
fine river sand with cement 3 to 1 and with
it smoothly plaster the inside until the wire-
netting has a half-inch covering. Finish at
the bottom with a 3in. layer.—“ Bill R.”
3266.— : T0 fix an axehead so that it will
hang on in all weathers, first thoroughly dry
out your handle either on stone in strong sun-
light or on the top of the stove, then shave it-
down until the axe nestles snugly down on
the shoulder. Make two saw cuts for
wedges. Saw off the protruding ends, and
drive in wedges of seasoned hard-
wood. A. little oil poured into the cut
before wedging will help to keep water from
saturating the wood. If you have your
handle perfectly dry before you mount the
axe, the wood will never shrink.—“Yufu.”
3148. —The man who wants to erect a
dairy with mud can do> so in; two ways. One is
by making large sun-dried bricks of the mud
mixed with straw, and using plain mud for
mortar when building. This is called the
adobe method. In the other method, called
pis 4. moist soil is rammed into board moulds
to form bricks, which are laid on top of
each other without mortar. A little tallow
mixed with the soil checks erosion.—
“Mulyan.”
3008.—One of the districts where king
parrots come in droves when the crops are
in seed is the N.S.W. South Coast. The
birds may be caught with strong horse-hair
snares. In the centre of the crop erect a
small dead tree with long, slender branches.
Twist strands of horse-hair, leaving an inch-
wide running loop at the end. Arrange
several of these along the upper sides of
the topmast branches so that in alighting the
parrots will get their feet snared. They
will not breed in captivity.—“W.R.”
3243.—--To make a cask of honey mead, put
i lb. of honey into. gallons of cold water
and break two eggs into the mixture. Boil
for half an hour and then add herbs—a little
thyme for preference—with a quarter ounce
each of cloves, mace and bruised ginger.
Boil for 15 minutes longer, occasion allv
skimming and stirring; then pour out to cool
and when lukewarm add two tablespoonfuls
ot yeast spread on wholemeal bread. After
allowing it to ferment for a day, cask the
mead, but leave the cask open until fer-
mentation ceases. A bottle of wine may be
added before the bung is fixed in, but this
is not essential. After being cashed for
six mofiths the mead is ready for use. —
“Elizabeth Dee.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to clean sheep’s trotters. —3445.
How to destroy wombats, using cyanide?
What is the best bait and how should one
lay it?—33BS.
How can one find one’s way by observ-
ing the stars when lost in the bush? —3454.
The best way of trapping wild ducks and
approaching them for shooting.—34s3.
Is there a Sydney agency for the Ferro
marihe engine?—2B6B.
How to poison and trap dingoes in heavily
timbered, well watered country?—3466.
Brief Answers.
W. 8.: The German Verge N.S.W.
Returned Soldiers’ Repatriation Trust is not now
paying maternity bonuses. .. .lt.C.: The subjects in
which you have secured passes suggest that you are
suitable for some commercial calling, but unless such
a calling is likely to provide you with work in
which you would be interested, you would be ill
advised to take it. Communicate with the Vocational
Guidance Bureau, Department of Education, Sydney,
from which advice can be obtained. .. .C.V.R.:
There are two routes to the Caroline Islands. The
first is via Japan, changing at Yokohama, where two
companies make 10 voyages per annum. Fares from
Yokohama to Palao are: First-class, £l4; second,
£10; third, £7. Distance from Yokohama to
Palao is 1725 miles, and the whole journey, including
the stage from Sydney to Yokohama, takes 20 to
25 days. The second route is by way of Rabaul, from
where Japanese steamers run to Ponapo, a distance of
945 miles. .. .R.J.: Ten pounds of unshelled almonds
per tree would be a fair average yield... .M. 8.:
Communicate with the Langridge School of Physical
Culture, Denison House, 380 George-street, Sydney.
. . . .Ibex: Communicate direct with the Commissioner
of Taxation, Warwick Buildings, Hamilton-street,
Sydney. The information you require is not of
a nature whicli the Commissioner would disclose
except privately to yourself... .J.L.D.: Hansard
is the name invariably applied to official reports of
the proceedings and debates in Parliament;
Hansard was the name of the originator of such
reports. The Commonwealth and State Parliaments
all issue Hansards. They are obtainable from
the various Government Printers. The cost
is about 2s. 6d. per session, or 2d. per
number. (2) Among the political papers in
N.S.W. are the Australian Worker, the Labor
Daily and the National Review' ... .F. A.: Write,
Ormildah Oil Co., 19 O’Connell-street, Sydney;
Orimo Oil Co., 350 George-street, Sydney; Burns,
Philp and Co., Bridge-street, Sydney; Anglo-Pewian
Oil Co., Dalgety and Co., Sydney ; and Home and
Territories Department, Sydney. But why not try
some of the Roma propositions, nearer home?....
E.A.C.: Leading Sydney steamship companies inform
us that there is no prospect of your being able to
work your way to San Francisco. In the first place
it is presumed you are not a unionist; further, crews
are signed on for the round trip only ; and, finally,
there is a big waiting list of unemployed seamen
on every co.’s books. .. .H.L.: Queensland Local Gov-
ernment authorities can impound unregistered goats
on a Sunday... .Owen R.: (1) If it was merely a
proposal, you can withdraw unless you expressly
waived your right. (2) You merely ask us whether
it is sound. Yes... .Doubtful: Depends upon what
you call “good.” If you mean “without considerable
risks,” n0....E.1.: Can find no mention of Isgar
Downs in any of the postal or pastoral directories.
Why not write to the journal in which mention of
it was made?. .. . J.W.: Write to Dr. E. P. Thurs-
ton, Nannup, W.A V.R.T.: Music, elocution, sing-
ing, dancing, etc., can be learned from many good
teachers in Melbourne. Conjuring, card tricks and
various other entertaining accomplishments can be
picked up from a mass of literature on such subjects
to be found in any big bookseller’s shop... .A.J.M.N.:
(1) “Asbestos,” by A. L. Summers, obtainable from
Dvmocks, 428 George-street, Sydney. Price 4s. 4d.
(post free). (2) Asbestos Slate and Sheet Manu-
facturing Co., Ltd., la Wynyard-street; Royle and
Co., 5-9 Bond-street; and the Standard Asbestos Co.,
99 Sussex-street, all of Sydney, may be able to help.
. ...T.H.C.: If the bill of sale was the only
security you gave for the debt, your liability is
limited to the items enumerated, and the lender’s
only remedy in law is to seize the one article re-
maining. Discontinue payments and let lender take
action... .H.M.M.: (1) Shareholders need not be
primary producers. (2) Caftnot trace a buyer; but
the head office says that if you will send in a
request it may be able to help you ... .1.W.D.: No,
don’t. Stick to the very safe lines until things are
more settled in Australia... .A.H.C.: See last week’s
“Wild Cat” Column.... Raluana: (1) New Britain
is about 400 miles long with a greatest breadth of
about 60 miles. (2) New Ireland is over 200 miles
in length; its width averages under 20 miles, except
in the extreme south, where the island is 50 miles
across. (3) New Hanover is 40 miles long with a
greatest breadth of about 20 miles. (4) Great Britain
has an area of 88,745 square miles, Victoria 87,884
sq. miles. (5) The volcanic mounts at
the back of Rabaul are Mother, North Daughter,
South Daughter and Old Crater; the islands
in Blanche Bay are Vulcan and Matupi... .G.R.:
Cabarita (by the -water), Iluka (near the sea),
Toongabbie (place near the water), Banyandah
(home on the water), Yallway and Wolumba (large
waterhole), Woorabinda (camp at a deep water-
hole). See also “List of N.S.W. Aboriginal Place
Names and Their Meanings,” by W. W. Thorpe
(Tost and Rohu, Martin-place, Sydney, price 6d.).
....E.M. (Auckland): (1) No. (2) Can’t hear of
a sale. (3) Very doubtful G.J.G.: (1) Gloomy.
(2) No, they will go lower J.W.C.: It is the
practice of the P.M.G.’s Department to authorise
persons in certain cases to assist postmasters at non-
official post offices, but it is suggested that you
furnish the necessary particulars direct to the P.M.G.’s
Department concerning any suspected irregularity, so
that suitable action may be taken... .W.G.: Depends
upon what the 15s. was. If part of it w T as allotment
money, w r e doubt whether you would be entitled to
any interest on the original ss. If, however, the os.
was the total payable per share up to and including
allotment, you are entitled to dividend on the amount
paid.... Frank A. I^.: Most of the blocks in the
estate have been sold—-we suspect to buyers, like
yourself, who have never seen the land and will have
to wait for returns. Sales of this kind defeat their
own ends, as the land is in the hands of “dead”
holders who do nothing to develop it. Neighboring
land, more favorably situated, could be pui-chased for
less than you paid (Many others mailed.)


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
A
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travelled Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers’ Tour to Europe.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen. Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Builelir.r'
(Next G.P.0.).
Chocolate^
“I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address fn Australia.
PetteSt Hilli&i
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
OR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGII STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Sent! Tor Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our con-
fectionery In colors.
§
Ml
f'
M
n
mmmm
■atamfiti
mmwm
\Y/HEN you go to Europe by the "All Red" route you
journey over the world-famed Canadian Pacific Rail-
way—linking the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Every
comfort is at hand—drawing rooms —inviting berths and
lounges—library—open-top observation cars —excellent
food, and an ever-present C.P.R. official, whose chief
desire is to make your journey delightfully pleasant.
The Canadian Pacific Railway carries you through a veritable dreamland
—majestic Rocky Mountains —-golden prairies—picturesque cities—and
miles of magic scenery, which makes the five days’ trip all too short.
Learn more of the Canadian Pacific Railway by writing for free illustrated
literature and particulars to any office, Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., any Tourist
Booking Agency, or J. Sciater, Traffic Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY, Union House, 247 George Street
Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC.
PH IT SPANS THE WORLD |ffF
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
Wmrnm
timm
; .V:fc*
:.v.
Uss
C?
■'•:•■-i:
Healthy and full of joy
WHY should not you enjoy life to
the full, when it is possible to
be healthy and energetic —by taking
Sanatogen ?
Blood, body and nerves will soon gain new
strength and vitality, because Sanatogen
contains exactly those elements —phos-
phorus and albumin—which build up
lasting health in all the body cells.
Thousands of Physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing—why should
you not, at least , give it a fair trial ?
qt?
Get a tin at your Chemist's,
At all
Chemists
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food *
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
from 3/9
per tin


EVER-READY
TORCHES 4
The Worlds Best
S
mm
Lwk fat ilm Tnteakl
V'rilf fm fffctfMirf fuff a
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gi. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
Xf ' x ;
A
A
< J v
N-J
>v
! r
K
V,..
wmm \ i
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
MAN
The Bulletin
NEWS
Ai
‘‘Stronghold
Work Shirt
One of the strongest Work
Shirts made. The material is
we 11^wears
well. Made with oceans »o£
room in hody and
Armpits. Shades Plain Blue
with or Black
Stripe. 411 Sizes.
10/6
3 for 30/-
Write Desk
S.B.
PIKE - BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street,
Poverty
Point
“E.”: A production of “Macbeth” in!
modern di’ess and with up-to-date furnish-
ings has fallen flat in London, though Eric
Maturin played the name part dressed in
a khaki uniform, a brass hat and a revolver.
The play looked as if all the genius had gone
out of it. It is difficult to imagine that three
modern witches doing incantations on a
modern heath could be convincing. The
idea suggests a modernised New Testament,
with Paul ringing up the Ephesians on the
telephone.
“Wang”: At a show in my boyhood town-
ship there was a boxing tent. The
boxers w.ere two hard-faced men and a
harder-faced female, with arms on her the
size of shins of beef. The promoter
harangued the crowd, and invited someone
to put ’em on -with the lady. Big Donellan,
slightly blithered, accepted, and stepped into
the ring. The lady could use the mits all
right, and gave Dan some hefty clips. In
one exchange she got all over him, and in try-
ing to escape punishment he draped himself
affectionately about her and hung on tight.
Then the spectators got something for their
money. A shriek rose from the outskirts
of the crowd, and Dan’s missus, a hefty
lady and hard as nails, tore into the ring.
She grabbed Dan, hurled him out of the
way and proceeded to give the boxing lady
her attention. For five minutes the battle
raged ; then a badly-battered boxing lady was
carted out for attention and repairs, while
Mrs. Dan, still seeing red, rushed out looking
for Dan. Her prowmss so impressed the
booth-owner that he offered her a permanent
job, but she stridently declared she wouldn’t
be seen in the same paddock as the othjr
shameless faggot.
“Goldilocks”: A film dog has been men-
tioned in divorce proceedings at Los Angeles.
Its owner gets 50 dollars a week on a con-
tract for the dog’s services in films, and
that is his only income. He was ordered to
pay 20 dollars a week of the canine’s
earnings as alimony to his wife.
“Bardie” : Touching the comments of “San-
tander” on the meagre salaries formerly paid
to operatic and dramatic stars (B. 8/2/’2B),
Nellie Stewart in her book, “My Life’s
Story,” mentions that when she was prima
donna for the Firm and played principal
panto, boys and girls, as well as having
a repertoire of over 30 comic operas, she
never drew more than £l5 per week salary.
Her biggest salary up to the publication of
the book was £5O a week, which she got as
“boy” at Drury Lane. In drama she drew
£7O a week for “Zaza.” Union Theatres
paid her £5O a week for 12 weeks to speak
a brief prologue twice a day for their picture
“Over the Hill” at Sydney Globe a few
years back. For her recent revival of
“Sweet Nell” it is alleged that she drew 1200
weekly as well as a fat percentage of the
gross takings.
“Schnorrer”: The Jews of America and
England have risen in vigorous protest
against the film “The King of Kings,”
because they consider it unfairly fastens the
blame of the Crucifixion upon the Jews and
lampoons their leaders of the day. They
have coined the name for it “The Lie of
Lies.” Incidentally, the discussion has re-
vealed that Cecil de Mille, the producer, is
partly Jewish, his mother having been an
English Jewess of the name of Samuels.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : J. W, (Jack) Wilson,
a music-hall star known in Australia 30
years ago, has died in Fulham hospital. The
fortune he made in Australia was Ijst in a
wheat gamble in New York; then he made
money in speculation and lost that. He
differed a trifle from those artists who adopt
foreign names— his real name was Muscante.
“Melburn”: The iron hand of Mussolini
has at last been felt in Australia. The
Melba-Williamson grand opera season, which
was to have begun in March, will not happen
now till May. The Duce has commanded
Toti dal Monte and other of tli° principals
to perform before him at the opening of a
new teatro in Rome.
“!St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : The latest
waltz song to make a hit over here is “Why
Did You Say?” by William Neill. Neill is
a blind Scotsman just out of his teens and
a bachelor of music of the Edinburgh Uni-
versity.
A MYSTERY TO HER.
THE ARTIST : “I once saved up two hundred pounds without pinching my self.”
THE MODEL: “Without pinching yourself! Then however did you know you were
awake?”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Robert Loraine, who
holds the opinion that the public likes a play
with a bite in it, is giving them at the Apollo
what he calls a dish of herbs—“ The Dance of
Death,” by the mad dramatist Strindberg.
The plot turns on the bitterness of a married
pair who win through to happiness. There
are mily three principal characters and two
subsidiary ones.
“Cauboy” : “False Shame,” the Ufa movie
tract on venereal disease, is a brilliant piece
of popular scientific propaganda, but, to my
mind, it has one defect. The consequences
of a quarter of an hour’s delirious folly in
their youth are duly visited upon several of
the characters ; but the only moral drawn is
continence. If Prophylaxis had been intro-
duced as a subsidiary hero the film’s dramatic
quality might have been impaired, but its
value for creating an eventually hygienic
nation would have been considerably in-
creased.
“I. Phelps”: It is almost certain that w y e
shall see with Margaret Bannerman in “Our
Betters” the veteran James Lindsay, who
for the job of an apoplectic colonel or one
of the Captain Ginger blend has both the
build and the temperament. Lindsay first
came to the Commonwealth more than 20
years ago to tour with Nellie Stewart in
“Sweet Nell” and “The Student Prince’s”
theatrical parent, “Old Heidelberg.” He
returned again under the banner of Meynell
and Gunn, when the repertoire included such
engaging voice trials as “The Midnight
Wedding” and “Her Love Against the
World.”
“Hamfat”: A sample of the stuff to give
the troops of women is the line in “The
Eternal Magdalene”: “A girl who has made
one mistake is good enough for any man;
if she has not she is too good for him!”
It brings, naturally, a thunder of approval
from feminine hands, salted by the ribald
guffaws of a few of the male auditors. As a
bit of pure “guff” it is fit to go into memory
with the old one about “The man who lays
his hand upon a woman, except in the way
of kindness,” and that beauty from the old
“Flight for Life,” in which the soubrette,
moderately disguised as a cabin boy, repul-
ses a tribe of pidgin-English-speaking niggers
with, “Know that one white man can beat
20 black men any day!”
“Cyrano” (Lond.) : Fortune has certainly
smiled in London on Harry I. Cohen, who
was for years a manager for the Firm
around Australia and his native heath,
Maoriland. Just over two years ago Harry
had to borrow a pound to pay the fare to
London of the Bath bootmaker, Arthur
Ridley, in order to discuss the possibilities
of “The Ghost Train,” which had been
turned down by several managers in the
West End. The success of “The Ghost
Train” is now history. But Ridley has
doubled the trick with “The Wrecker.” G.
£d who played the name part in
Bulldog Drummond” in Aussie, is juvenile
in this show, and Clyde Meynell, who was
once a J.C.W. director, keeps an eye on the
front of the house.
“Cyrano” (Bond.) : London has turned
quite Grand Guignol in its theatrical tastes
these days; mysteries and murders are the
themes of the majority of the West End’s
theatrical bill o’ fare. “Crime,” “The Spider,”
“The Wrecker,” “The Silent House,” “Maria
Marten” and “Dracula” are but a few of
the dramas meeting with success. Now Billy
Hargreaves, writer of “Burlington Bertie
from Bow” and ex-husband of Ella Shields,
has introduced the dismal into vaudeville. lie
is presenting John Ellis, the famous hang-
man, in a scaffold act, which, apart from a
maudlin speech about the hangman’s life,
includes the hanging of a man on the stage.
And most of us had thought the blood-and-
thunder days had gone for ever!
“Flaming Youth”: Londoners are now
using “Righto!” “Goodo!” and “Bonzer!”
as if they were part of their language. Jack
Kirby, who has made the biggest comedy
success of recent years there, introduced
the good Australian words in “Oh, Kay!"
which has had a long run without showing
signs of losing popularity. London thought
so well of them that it adopted them.
“Hamfat”: The advance agent had not
given satisfaction, and, having failed to stir
him with innumerable letters, the company’s
manager decided to wire. “Awful thing hap-
pened,” the telegram read. “Met man here
who knew show was coming, after your
efforts to keep it secret. This means you are
failure. You’re sacked.”
“Iloyclia”: The sweet, wilting heroine of
melodrama has apparently wilted right away.
In New York at present there are three plays
running in which the lady, having wandered
to the edge of the sinful cauldron and
tumbled in, is visited with retribution. In
“Spellbound” she is hanged, and in
“Coquette” and “Hidden” she ends her
miseries with suicide.
“Hamfat”: Lance Vane is shortly to leave
the stage for a commercial job, which leaves
only Jim Gerald on the boards of the three
sons of old-time actor S. A. Fitzgerald—the
other died at the war. Lance was a pre-
sentable juvenile in straight drama in his
younger days, when drama was popular;
but he never really fitted into anything else,
and was heavy for brother Jim’s broad-
comedy productions. A stage romance pre-
ceded the change. When Phyllis du Barrj
joined the Gerald co. her widowed mothei
went along to look after her; Lance Yant
has provided Phyllis with a stepfather.
“C. 8.” : The best criticism of the mystery-
play vogue came from an unexpected quarter
the other night—the gallery at Melbourne
Palace. For the umiJteenth time an actor
had leant off the stage and rushed up the
aisle, screaming “Spooks! Spooks!” As soon
as the tumult had subsided into silence a
voice filtered harshly down from the upper
air. “Rats!” was all it said.
“G.T.”: Seated at one of Melbourne’s
“thrilling” entertainments the other night a
young girl was prepared to be “thrilled to
death.” But white hands coming from
nowhere and snatching at nothing left her
cold. It was only when something uncanny
commenced to crawl up her leg that her
much-appreciated screams reached the pro-
ducer’s ears. He may have taken them a 3 a
compliment to his supernatural atmosphere;
again, he may have seen the drop-kick admin-
istered to the theatre cat.
“Gloat” : There was some warmth of color
in a few of London’s sex plays last year.
“Fanatics,” the story of a young woman who
does a trial trip with a lad before she
signals for a parson, ran 10 months. “Poti-
phar’s Wife,” in which the heroine, in pink-
silk pyjamas, tried to seduce her husband’s
chauffeur, ran five. In the “Garden of Eden”
Tallulah Banks, whose reputation should
have saved her from doing such “tripe,”
achieved a “considerable success,” thanks to
a scene in which she tears off her wedding
dress—and, of course, in these days she could
go very little further —and shies it at her
prospective husband’s head. It is all very
modern, no doubt, but still I sigh some-
times for the good old days when George
Rignold and some of his imitators gave us
really clean and healthy plays. I’m not sure
I wouldn’t rather see Edmund Holloway play
ing Gabbett in “The Term of His Natural”
than a decadent demoiselle trying to vamp
the Old Man’s chauffeur. Nobody can say
that Gabbett didn’t give us the red meat.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : “The Adding
Machine,” being produced at the Court under
knight Barry Jackson’s management, is a
Futurist play by Elmer Rice. The Stage
Society produced it at a Sunday performance
a couple of years ago, when a score of high-
brows gave it their blessing, but the critics
jeered. The hero, Mr. Zero, sitting at a
desk for a quarter of a century, gets the
figures into his blood. He is superseded,
murders his boss, is executed and reappears
in the Elysian Fields, where he meets the
girl clerk of his desk days, and the pair
dance a cachucha in happy reunion. One
of the scenes was a graveyard preluded by
meowing of cats.
“L.H.P.”: Harry Overton, a well-known
'actor in his time, passed on recently at the
Coast Hospital, Sydney, at 70. His real
name was Waters, and along with Walter
Baker and Jimmy Ryan he helped to found
the Actors’ Union. In his time he played
with Bland Holt, Willoughby-Ward, the
Firm, Rignold and Dampier. He made a
hit as Gabbett in “For the Term of His
Natural Life.”
“L.H.P.”: What a wonder is Edwin
Lester, now playing at Sydney Theatre Royal!
I recall him first as a competent principal
in the company his father, Edwin Kelly, ran
at the old King-street (Sydney) Opera House
in 1881. He made an excellent Gaspard in
“Les Cloches” with pa as the Marquis. He
exploited his versatility even then by playing
well during the opera season such widely-
varied roles as the comedy Don Bolero in
“Girofle-Girofla” and the tenor Pomponnet in
“Madame Angot.” In 1885 he toured M.L.
with Majeroni and Wilson’s opera co..
scoring as Schacabic in Luxcombe Searelle’s
made-in-Australia opera of “Bobadil.” Anon
he dropped into drama, with occasional
lapses into pantomime, but always furnishing
polished specimens of his craft.
A HIT AT LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was an actor, with his bride,
That sought a world in tune
With all the ecstasy and pride
Of his first honeymoon.
They motored to a far hotel,
A ling’ring shoe attached,
So none but understood too well
That they were newly matched.
Verandah, lounge and spacious lmll
Soon filled with quizzing stares,
A fate you oft may see befall
Forlorn, fresh-mated pairs.
From up and down, from ev’ry side
They came, a morbid throng,
To look upon another bride,
Another man gone wi'ong;
From office, dining-room and lift
The idle staff peeped in,
The passing slowed, that had been swift,
A better view to win.
Then like another Eve, on whom
Falls the self-conscious taint.
The lady scuttled to her room,
All blushing, shamed and faint.
The bridegroom’s features, too, were flushed;
He gazed upon the jam,
Then to the desk he madly rushed
To send a telegram ;
And with a city friend’s address
His bxisy pen made play,
And this lie wrote: “Show a success—
Just turning them away!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Doi
MTy EKL
Senior fine
(f- iV
Ilf
K
s
\
a
WM
131
B
m
¥
>2
&
r
l
FT
Hr
Quality
at Moderate Cost
Quality distinguishes every particular of Senior con-
struction and equipment.
In the rugged frame, in the sturdy axles and steering
gear —in the heavy fenders there is conclusive
evidence of the quality of construction which features
all Dodge Brothers Motor Cars.
In the body—all panels are padded completely with
felt —creating greater interior quiet—a comfort here-
tofore considered by only the most exclusive of custom
body builders.
In the motor —the cooling system —oiling system —
brake equipment —there are basic merits that make
this car unrivaled and unapproached —fundamentals
of value in this Senior that surpass any other motor
car in this price class.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth .


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,00"
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,180
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors; Sir Mark Sheldon. K.8.E., Chairman .
Frank N. Yarwood; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. :
George J. Sly. LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rot
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY' (Corner George and Kirn
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Falrbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and Nov
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
preference Shares .. . # .. 1 875 000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. ’374’197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
Great Britain AT,, Zealand, Fiji. Sdmoa.
Gieat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS at interest
periods and Iransacts all other usual Banking business*
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
8 7 H p e i?fs°t f , f sjdney Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2 887 200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to ’
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and
to succeed —
hoping if you wish
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C°u.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
4
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
of y (°hi R ar M^ U r^ Ur i d Wr J- e at once ,or full particular.
M^ der " In yention. Light, cool and com
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
agents: GUYATT & CO., EBT . 1858 .
DEPT B
Surgical Instrument ’ and Truss-Makers,
207 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYDNEY.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. "The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly'’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most,
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Shipping, etc
IP
Sr (
*
\h
:'t%:
',\l
TATES
EUROPE
BBnßfißia
across ffie racific
mdJVcrttiAmerica
TRAVEL BY THE
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN LINE
TO VANCOUVER
(via Auckland, Suva and Honolulu),
Or by the
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(via Wellington, Rarotonga and Tahiti).
Through bookings to and from Canada, United States and Europe
with the choice of any railway route across the American Continent
and of any steamship line across the Atlantic.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
(r
J
I
fjollD^fe URS,ONs
» ’ JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea s.s. montoro.
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
The Bulletin
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Director»:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; General Manager: OSCAR LINES
Mead Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C 2
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand jk'iji p., r ' ~
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world ° US
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR ”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and othei
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldtor
and North-West Ports).
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAWAII
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. It costs no extra passage
money to stop off in Hawaii. Quaint tearooms
and gardens; all American conveniences, good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day; apart-
ments and furnished cottages. Entire cost Syd-
ney to Honolulu and return (two or three
weeks in Hawaii) and a day at Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO. Unique vacation; complete
change in land of music and sunshine, tropical
coloring, fruits and flowers. Balmy climate,
golfing, tramping, outrigger canoeing, surf-board
riding, outdoor sports. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic wonderlands. Ask nearest travel agency
or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241-B, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully
colored booklet, enclosing this advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A. combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tßunic 12,500 tons, Feb. 21
tDemosthenes 11,500
tMedic 12,000
♦Nestor 15,000
JCeramic. . . . 18,500
fThemistocles 11,500
♦Ulysses .... 15,000
fEuripides. . . 15,000
*Anchises . . . 10,000
JSuevic 12,500
♦First class only, fFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Feb. 28
March 6
March 20
March 20
March 27
April 13
April 21
June 4
June 26
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agent?
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BAI.RANALD . 13,100
BAUHABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BGNALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Toll 3.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS —GTT.CHRTST, WATT. SANDERSON,
l'el. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co„ Ltd..-Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WULLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return,
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single,
£4
£7/5/-
£3/15/-
£3/8/-
NOTtTH COAST' S. N. CO., LTD..
Passengers’ Booking Office;
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co.. Ltd.
Huddart Parkerly^'
lViaglllfl3-"»t
Fast Pass-ngor
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and r>se versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Stroet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.


SSS 3
FOR MEN
Look for Name on Sole
The Panhard—
One of many new styles
embodying valuable
improvements in shoe
construction.
The specially treated
innersoles grain split
right off and strongly re-
inforced with lloz.British
duck—prevents burning
of the foot, and stops
that spreading in wear.
This is only one of the
features built right into
these Shoes features
which are only brought
home after they have
been worn.
Made in a variety of fine leath-
ers, including our 1928 Mahog-
any Calf, and no\v obtainable
from all " Marshall ” dealers.
If yours is unable to supply, he
can obtain from us immediately.
M any Styles from
3 2/6
POIISH-PRESWI
aT a /"with A \
'Si
300 Shines in
every Jar for-lfe
Also in Tubes and
Bottles Foi*--l 3
MS 1 34
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
.mssinj; J 1 menus.
\X/ILLIAAI GEORGE McDAID, also
vv known as GEORGE McDAID, Rabbit
Trapper, formerly of Phillip Street, New-
town, but latterly of Bathurst, New South
Wales, or anyone knowing of his whereabouts
is requested kindly to communicate with the
Public Trustee, Box 7, G.P.0., Sydney.
GRIFFITH (Comp.). Your pal in Syd-
noy looking for you,
I^IRKWOOD.- —Will James Andrew Kirk-
wood please communicate with Thomas
Dick, Dalmuir, Scotland, as he would like to
hear from him?
Mick Simmons
are the Largest Dis-
tributors of Fire-
aims in Australia!
World-Famous
The Bulletin
Sporting Rifles
No. 15—WINCHESTER SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE, 1904 MODEL, for 22 short, long
or long-rifle cartridges; 2 1 in. heavy round
steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
ladder rear sight, plain front sight;
length of rifle over all, 3 7^in.; Af\/
weight, about 41b m
Postage: N.S.W., 1/6; Other States, 3/2.
No. 17 WINCHESTER REPEATING
RIFLE, 1906 MODEL, 22cal„ 16 shot,
20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights, slide action;
magazine holds 1 5 short, 12 long, or 1 1
long-rifle cartridges;
weight, about ...'.. £4'lo/‘"
Carriage Paid.
No. 35—BROWNING “TROMBONE”
HAMMERLESS REPEATING RIFLE,
22in. round steel barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cartridges; screw rear
and open front sights; length over rjr\ /
all, 39 inches; weight, 4|db
Carriage Paid.
No. 11 STEVENS’ “FAVORITE”
RIFLE, 22, 25 or 32 calibres, R.F., or 22
W.R.F., round 24in. barrel, case-h ard-
ened frame, solid breech block, take-
down action, open front and ...
sporting rear sights; weight, 44/"
Postage: N.S.W., 1/9; Other States, 3/2.
THE SHOOTING CATALOGUE AND
GUIDE.
A complete price list of Mick Simmons’
comprehensive stocks, which embrace the
foremost English, American and Continental
Manufacturers of Firearms.
Copy post free.'
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney,
and at Brisbane,
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”
THE INKY WAY.
“Coot”: Like The Bulletin (B. 8/2/’2B)
the Melbourne Argus has had a pub named
after it —in Elizabeth-street, not far from the
paper’s new premises.
“Winifred”: The Daily Telegraph Hotel,
Bundarra (N.S.W.) attests the bygone fame
of a Sydney newspaper. The town declined,
also the pub, before the newspaper did. But
the name of the latter is still preserved,
somewhat depressively, on the de-licensed
inn.
“Gad”: In Martin-place (Sydney) the
other day I saw a walking-stick made
entirely of old Bulletin covert. It was
composed of thousands (maybe millions) of
red pieces of paper, cut round in the shape
and size of a shilling, and compressed on
top of one another. The edges had been
varnished, and the top was a silver knob;
it looked for all the wolld like an ordinary
stick. I was told it was the work of a
former Bulletin storeman.
“8.H.”: I for one am glad The Bulle-
tin, instead of crowding its serious verse
into a column (or lately sometimes two
columns), is scattering these contributions
over the five more strictly literary pages
at the end of the paper. When one man’s
verse was divided only by a stroke from
another’s of a totally different character,
I confess I could get the varying atmo-
spheres only with great difficulty. The new
system of giving approximately equal space,
but scattering the contributions over the
pages, seems to me to offer every writer a
better chance of being judged on his merits.
“S.M.” : A paper is known hy the corres-
pondents it keeps. In a controversy it is
known by the correspondent for whom it
keeps the last word.
“Nottus”: The following ad. yells its
own story. The Brisbane Courier made it
public last week :
Wanted.- —Reporter, must be good paragraphist, and
shorthand, no derelicts or drunks need apply. Write,
stating wages. References indispensable. Apply
Flinders Chronicle, Hughenden, Queensland.
“Penn” : It may be a new feat for a lady
journalist to board a ship in mid-bay at Mel-
bourne (B. 8/2/’2B), but many a Sydney
press-woman has scrambled up a swaying
ladder in Watson’s Bay to secure stories
from travellers on incoming ships. The rope-
ladder is not always used; most big ships
put down a gangway for doctor and Customs
officers and other visitors. Women are not
allowed on the Customs launch, but news-
papers sometimes send down their own
launches, and never has there been difficulty
over a press-woman boarding a ship in the
harbor.
There were until recently 18 daily papers
big enough to wield an influence in London,
and four of them called themselves Liberal,
to show that they kept the old Cobden ban-
ner glued to the mast in all its purity. A
pair of the Liberal organs have just amalga-
mated, and it is probable that the surviving
three will suffice,
“Mildred”: One of the oldest country
newspapers in S. Aus. is the Areas Express,
founded in 1877 by Joseph Hancock. In
18S8 William Hancock, brother of the
founder, assumed the ownership and manage-
ment, and has held it for 40 years. He has
just parted with the ownership of the paper
to L. M. Judell, of the Jamestown Review",
while retaining the editorial chair.
“Gad”: The Bulletin must be read atten-
tively by someone in the land of the mid-
night sun. The Norges Handels Og
Sjifartstedende (Oslo, 16/12/’27) repro-
duces one of Souter’s illustrated jokes.
NO CAUSE FOR SWELLED HEAD.
MAXIE: “I hate to tell you, dear, but your
husband flirted outrageously with me at
the dance'.”
MARIE: “Oh the poor treasure! He really
can’t help it. He’d flirt with anything.”
The well-known black cat, vampish female,
and partner all look a little out of setting
over this sort of thing:—
Bare jeg -kunde fas ind i mit bode, hvad der fik mig
til at kjape den nye vognen?
Tror du ikke, det bar autosuggestion ?
The joke is about a motor-car, but apparently
there is nothing in Norwegian to give the
idea of auto-suggestion.
“O. McKay M.”: The passing of West-
minster Gazette will be a jar to both Lib-
eralism and journalism. Although its adver-
tisements had perceptibly fallen off since the
change-over from evening to morning publi-
cation three or four years back, nobody
expected that the end would come so soon.
The fusion is a feather in the cap of Daily
News managing-editor Tom Clarke, who
w°nt to the Cocoa press from the Melbourne
i iFUAT.n two years ago. The only Australian
to go down in the W.G.’s staff will be the
Labor correspondent Nobby Clark, once of
the Speck. But the paper’s end, like the de-
cease of the Daily Graphic some 15 months
ago, will be a calamity in Fleet-street. Peace
to its ashes; its hospitable columns featured
my first London “splash,” and once (happy
day!) it paid me a fiver for a two-stick
story.
“Bosso”: “The Australian and N.Z.
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book” is cheap at
the price, but I presume that the information
afforded as to how editors deal with free-
lances’ copy was supplied by the editors
themselves. Last June I submitted two
yarns to an editor who, according to this
handbook, “makes it a point to report on all
MS. within six days of receipt, and to re-
turn all unavailable MS. when return post-
age is provided.” But though I enclosed
stamps with my MS. I am still awaiting its
A CLEAN BILL—ALMOST.
P A: “Was Jack drunk when he came home
last night?”
DAUGHTER: “I didn’t notice anything—
except that he asked for a mirror to
see who he was!”
return, and none of my inquiries has elicited
a reply. To another paper that promises
the free-lance a square deal I sent a brief
outline of an exclusive political story hnd
received an immediate request to write it up.
I did so, 13 months ago, and although I am
assured that it has been passed for print
every time I inquire about it, I have not re-
ceived any payment. The “Year Book”
invites suggestions. Well, here’s mine: Let
it ask the free-lances themselves how the
various editors’ professions square with their
practice.
“Kali Pani”: James Mudie (B. 25/l/’2S)
was lucky beyond his deserts if he sustained
no worse violence than a horsewhipping in
Sydney’s early days. His belief was that as
the convicts had been transported as a
punishment it was the duty of the officials,
of whom he was one, to see that they got it.
Mudie’s place, called by its owner “Castle
Forbes” —it was actually a group of miser-
able tenements far from any township—was
the scene of a revolt of his assigned servants
against his treatment. Six of these were
subsequently hanged. Yet it is probable that
there was much to be said for them, for as
the result of a subsequent official inquiry
into Mudie’s methods he was deprived of his
office of magistrate. His previous trade in
England had been that of a caster of medals.
“Ess”: Dinny Boon, the forty-thousandth
last-surviving veteran of Eureka, had lived
in a tent on the fringe of Ballarat longer
than he could rememher. I think he was
bom there. He had never struck a big
patch in all his gold-hunting career, but he
still had hopes. “What would you do if
you struck it rich?” I asked him. Dinny
reflected, looking at the weather-blackened
old caboose he called home, and which bore
the name of Killarney for the guidance of
the baker’s cart. Then his face lit up with
the treat he visioned. “I’d buy a grand new
tent,” he said.
Irvine, who is fast approaching threescore
and ten, completes a as Vic. Chief
Justice on April 10. He still looks fit, and
it’s not easy to believe that it is nearly 34
years since he first went into the Assembly to
represent Lowan. The brown hair and the
neat moustache have vanished, but the
chiselled features are still there. His dignity
is no development of recent years. He
always had that.
“G.F.” : Sydney’s first restaurant was thus
advertised in the Gazette in 1803: —
New Eating House, victuals dressed in the English
way, at the House on the Rocks, near the new
windmill. Rosetta Stabler, proprietor.
“J. 8.”: “Crawl Stroke’s” theory (B.
l/2/’2B) that Freshwater beach (Sydney)
is now unsafe because of human settlement
won’t hold water. I was there long before
it became a popular resort, and can vouch
for there being undertows on many occa-
sions. The only reason there were fewer
rescues was that there were so few swim-
mers to get into trouble. Freshwater’s claim
to be regarded as a safe beach lies in the
fact that it shelves out gently for some dis-
tance.
“Knib”: Passing through a Vic. town
the other day I noted that one citizen,
according to his shingle, carries on as an
undertaker and a life-insurance agent. How
he reconciles his two callings still puzzles me.
“Clerk”.: This, talk of the “Americanisa
tion of the Victorian railways” seems to be
a little overdone. ■ Records of Clapp’s shop-
ping show that he bought £3,379,546-worth
of railway material last year. Of that total
only 17 per cent, was imported stuff. And
tfen-se-enteenths of that was of British manu-
facture, less than six-seventeenths being
Yankee made.


/
p\
Eyes on the Ball!
“Awalce early—an anxious glance at the weather Glorious
—To-day’s the day for a bit of exercise —Stretch luxuriously
—Haven’t missed my ENO all the week—Feel fine —Going
to show them how those shots sh mid be played.”
This feeling of well-being can
always be maintained by fol-
lowing the pleasant, health-
giving practice o f taking
ENO’s “Fruit Salt” first thing
every morning. ENO will at
all times, and in every climate
help maintain the perfect
functional activity of the
bodily organs. Being free
from sugar, flavouring mat-
ter, and purgative mineral
salts, its regular use has no
drawbacks. In fact, EN O
assists Nature without
supplanting her methods
and can always be safely
taken by both young or old.
Prepared only by
J.C.ENO, Limited.
London, England.
Sales Agents: The Brlftsh
Harold F. Ritchie &. Co.,
Ltd.. Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
IN
TWO SIZES
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
|THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.’
Exquisite
Beauty
of
Design
The Bulletin
To the world-acknowledged accuracy of
Elgin watches is wedded exquisite beauty
of design. An Elgin is an investment you
will never regret—an investment in good
taste, authentic design, unhurried crafts-
manship—and one that will pay divi-
dends of unerring service.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
gin
TH£ WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
*pu? 'Jrade Mark
m
in the Watch Cape
©
©
BELL*
Perry Bells are
Heard in every
country vn- l^ e
World where the
cycle is in use.
They are hand'
some, well-
finished, strong,
having a loud
musical tone that
gives ample
warning of the
cyclist’s ap-
proach. Made in
various sixes and
styles,. tKere «
one suitable for
every purs* and
purpose.
KS
FREE
WHEEU
The Perry Free
Wheel is perhaps
the most popular
free wheel ever
made—and it has
been fitted to
cycles since the
very earliest
days of the indus-
try. The Perry
Free Wheel en-
sures smooth
running and
wears as long as
the cycle itself.
It is, of course,
at its best with
the Perry Chain.
iH
IOFCHAjNffIMIJ
WAIN*
, P . err y Roller
Cha, ns are made
{ °\ both cycles
a "d motorcycles,
an d ar e subjected
to stringent tests
and a very heavy
{"***"* strain
before despatch.
Ihe Per ry Chain
is ideal with the
f er ry Free
Wheel, although
U . , can be used
Wlt b advantage
w ith any other
make.
FACTOR? REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN«ARNOLD
•4 ft *4 fa A *4
Thousands now enjoy a
better way
of shaving
For a heavy beard in par-
ticular this new home shave
is helpful. First build a big
rich lather with Williams
Shaving Cream. Williams
lather saturates each hair
with moisture after lifting
the beard’s water-resisting
oil film. The beard then
offers little resistance to your
razor. The soothing effect
of Williams lather leaves the
face amazingly comfortable.
The Consummation of a
Perfect Shave,
After the shave apply a few
drops of Aqua Velva, the
new scientific preparation for
after shaving—Aqua Velva
conserves the skin’s natural
moisture —keeps it all day just
as velvety smooth as it is left
by Williams lather.
This new method takes no
more time than the old, yet
the result in lasting face
comfort is remarkable.
Williams Shaving Cream costs 2/-
per tube. Williams Holder Top
Shaving Stick 2/-, and re-loads with
the threaded metal ring, which fits
easily in the old holder, 1 /6,
Send 3d. to Frazer &
Best, Ltd., Dept. 5.8.1,
Box 26 2 1 G.P.0.,
Sydney, for samples of
Williams Shaving
Cream and Aqua
Velva, the new after-
shaving liquid.
Williams
Shaving Cream


Firearms Sent C.O.D.
The Latest Bolt-Action
Magazine 22Cal. Rifles
THE WINCHESTER, Model 56, 22 Taper
Barrel, Magazine holds 5 long-rifle cartridges.
Price £5.
Model 57, same specifications, Folding Back
and Lyman Peep Sights, £(j/12//6. Both
post free. 10-shot magazine, 7/6 extra.
With Stainless Steel Barrels, £7/5/. and
£B/5/-
A Life Saver is the Snake-bite Lancet
Outfit, 1/2 post free.
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.I.F.)>
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms.
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. [2
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Although the conditions were unpromis-
ing, the V.A.T.C. decided to go on with the
programme at Caulfield on Saturday. The
decision was justified by the going, which
was remarkably good in the circumstances,
but at the end of the day most punters
were damp and dejected, as well as poorer
in pocket. Their troubles began when King
of Revelry (12 to 1), who had failed dis-
mally at Williamstown, downed Scarlet’s
son Stalden (5 to 4) in the Federal Stakes,
and they were “chasing it” for the rest of
the afternoon, with “it” always .well ahead.
The Oakleigh Plate lived up to its repu-
tation of being a trap for the punting
brotherhood. Euston’s early two-year-old
form was good-—he was first in the Mari-
byrnong Trial and the Debutant Stakes and
second in the Maribyrnong Plate —but he
had done nothing since, and there was no
encouragement to support him for Saturday’s
event. So he was one of the outsiders of
the party—so to 1 in a field of 21. Yet
he was one of the first to leave the barrier,
was first into the straight and first home,
nor did he ever look like getting beaten
after they had gone a couple of furlongs.
Lady Yarborough (20 to 1) was second for
most of. the way, but Margaux (8 to 1)
got up in time to share that position with
the smaller mare; the pair were a length
behind Euston. Baringhup (6 to 1) and
Donace (33 to 1) also broke even for
fourth, Sans Culotte (12 to 1), Adjong (25
to 1) and Chrystal (33 to 1) being next,
but Whitta, whom weight of Sydney money
had made favorite at fives, was never in
the hunt. Euston, who is by Cooltrim —
Royal Fairy, is trained by F. Godby for
A. J. Levin, and was ridden by D. Webb,
a youngster from Sydney. He cut out the
5| furlongs in lmin. Bisec.
The Bond Cup provided a very exciting
finish, of which Spearset (4 to 1), who is
consistency itself these days—it wasn’t
always so—got the best. When half the
journey had been traversed the brother to
Spearer went to the front, but Epilogue
(10 to 3) and Mountain Prince (12 to 1)
tackled him in the straight, and the three
struggled past the judge’s box locked together,
as it seemed from the press stand. The
official awai-ded it to Spearset by half a
head, with the other two dividing second
place. Mountain Prince struck trouble wiien
making his run, but a good horse won, and
a good horseman—Jones —was on him.
Diamond Plume and Mars, both well backed,
were the nearest to the place-getters, and
Frilford did pretty well, but Kentle failed
t© repeat his Canterbury Park form, and
Naos was always last. The mile and a half
took 2min. 38sec.
In Black Duchess’s two seasons on the
Sydney turf the public has grown accustomed
to seeing her well back in the early part of
a race, the idea being that “she mustn’t
be bustled.” Duncan, engaged to ride the
black filly in the St. George Stakes, deter-
mined to see what bustling would do. He
rushed her to the front in the first furlong,
and the changed tactics answered admirably,
for Magpie’s daughter made it a one-horse
race; she beat Sailing Home (9 to 2) by
three lengths and Quintus (6 to 1) by an-
other length and a half, leaving the nine
furlongs behind in lmin. 55£sec. Amounis
(11 to 8 on) was third most of the way, but
faded into fourth place, four lengths behind
the ancient Quintus —either the going
bothered him or he has grown cunning. It
was Black Duchess’s first victory at w.f.a.,
and a very meritorious victory at that. She
went out at 6 to 1.
By this time the track was cut up a good
deal, and as often happens in these cases,
the remaining races —divisions of the Salis-
bury Welter—were processions. Myarin
(6 to 1) headed one and Amooroob (7 to 1)
the other. Amooroob is a gelded son of
Ivingsburgh, the Melbourne Cup winner; he
was ridden by Wilson, King of Revelry’s
jockey.
For the second day:—
Alma Stakes: Stalden.
Woodcliffe Handicap: Mountain Prince;
next, An an Louise.
Futurity Stakes: Avant Courier.
Stanley Plate: Black Duchess.
Hawksburn Handicap: Whitta.
* * * *
Believing that the state of the track at
Roseliill on Saturday would suit Royal Sun
—-it was on the heavy side —backers made
that son of Sunstar, the 1911 Epsom Derby
THE MIND-READER.
SECOND: “Now, Jacky, ’op right in and keep at ’im. This goat thinks you’re goin’ to
quit!”
JACKY: “Him no goat. Him plurry mind-reader, that pheller.”
winner, a 5-to-2 favorite for the 10-furlong
handicap, in which lie had nine opponents.
The English horse looked better than at any
previous stage of his Australian career, and
the handicapper had not been hard on him;
but, though third into the straight, he could
not, or would not, come on. Perhaps he has
grown tricky, being a stallion in liis seventh
year. Spaghetti (8 to 1), who likes Rose-
hill, won all the way, Magdaff (7 to 1) and
Frances Cyllene (10 to 1) being in the
places. Magdaff momentarily looked like
overtaking the leader, but was a length to
the bad at tile finish. This Magpie gelding
is an unlucky beggar.
McCarten, who had the mount on Royal
Sun, compensated his followers by riding a
double —Kinbally (9 to 4) in the Nursery
Handicap and Cumerlong (9 to 2) in a
division of the Welter. Kinbally is a very
promising sort by Mountain King—Lais; if
he winters well he may come into prominence
for the Derby. Cumerlong beat nothing out
of the ordinary except Piastoon, who, eon-
sidering that he was very big and there-
fore unbacked, ran an interesting fourth.
The betting on the second division of the
Welter was 2 to 1 Giggle, 9 to 4 Somnolent
and 3 to 1 Goldbeater (it was 12 to 1 bar
three) and they finished in that order, it
being Giggle’s first success for 18 months.
Tooliey rode this daughter of Absurd, and
he also got a win out of Cadenza (6 to 1) in
the Dundas Handicap. Six to 1 was a good
price about this Valais mare considering her
second to Honan in the Moorefield Gold Cup
on the previous Saturday, but Boss Poppy
(9 to 4), Beaucaire and Vidian (5 to 1)
were preferred to her. Violian did best of
the three, finishing just behind the third
horse, Greenie (Chrystal Tray was second),
but lie obviously prefers six furlongs to seven,
the Dundas distance.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Glenfield Handicap: Violian; next, Less
Noise.
Intermediate Handicap: Chrystal Tray.
February Handicap: Woolita; next, Lucy
Thrice.
Minto Handicap: Reonui; next, Bacagi.
* * * *
The new handicapper to the S.A. Jockey
Club and the Adelaide Racing Club is Clem
Hill, the old left-hand batsman whom most
good judges would include in the best XI
the world has produced. H. F. Wilkinson,
whose resignation (to go to the Straits
Settlements Racing Association at Singa-
pore) made the vacancy, was imported from
Westralia only about a year ago; he occu-
pied important racing positions there. W.
C. Hughes was the chief Adelaide handi-
capper for many years before Wilkinson
came. Clem Hill has been one of the three
S.A. stipendiary stewards ever since those
posts were created. He got the new appoint-
ment in face of competition from a big crowd
of applicants.
* * * $
“Spike”: Bob Skelton (B. 25/3/’2B) lias
never shown any aversion to the limelight
being cast on his coups. On a Sunday,
years ago, when the sailing fraternity made
the foreshores of Rushcutter Bay resemble
a Monte Carlo in miniature, Skelton, out for
a drive with a party of ladies, stopped his
car, excused himself, and hurried over to
a roulette game. “How much is in the bank?”
he inquired. “Ninety-four quid,” came the
answer, hesitatingly. “Well,” said Robert,
“I’ll have a hundred on the evens. That’ll
be laying you six quid for the turnout—
we’re tired of cards at home.” A few
moments afterwards he walked back to the
car, his pockets bulging with notes, and a
roulette wheel and paraphernalia held firmly
under an arm.
* * * *
“Eromeno”: A Diggers’ race meeting in
Richmond (N.Q.) was enlivened by the
efforts of a signpainter who was a bit of a
wag. The committee-room door bore the
legend “G.H.Q.: Staff.” The weighing-in-
room was adorned with the letters
“P.M.0.” and the notice “Troops will
parade ready for inspection.” The secre-
tary’s office was assigned to “Adjutant,”
the bookies’ stands were “Bombing Sec-
tion,” and parts of the grandstand were
reserved for V.A.D.’s, W.A.A.C.’s and
W.R.E.N.’s. But the highest flight was on
the tote door: “G.H.Q.: Paymaster. Troops
will fall in and keep quiet.”
* * * *
“Ellerslie”: The Maorilander does not, as
a rule, give fancy prices for thoroughbred
yearlings, though plenty of top-notchers pass
through liis hands. The record price for a
yearling in the Dominion was booked when a
youngster by Limond out of Homage, an
Absurd mare, was bought by G. D. Green-
wood, of Biplane and Gloaming celebrity,
for 2500 guineas. Biplane and Gloaming
cost 625 guineas between them. Biplane
won £13,596 in the Greenwood colors, and
was sold for 3000 guineas; Gloaming won
£43,100 before he was retired. If the new
acquisition earns in the same proportion to
his cost price as his famous predecessors,
Greenwood and Mason will have to add a
railway-truck to their outfit to carry home
their winnings.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
There is no doubt about Johnny Sullivan
the Irish middleweight, being a fine fighter,
but he grew horribly disgusted at the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night when, after using
every trick in his kit to stop the aggressive-
ness of Lachie McDonald, the lad from
Hawkes Bay, Maoriland, he still found the
grim nugget coming at him. Sullivan got
the verdict, and deserved it, but he was pain-
fully aware he’d been in a fight. He not only
“jabbed the features off” Lachie but landed
scores of rights to chin, jaw and ribs, but
the heaviest cannonade failed to disturb his
opponent’s equanimity. Mac bored in and
walloped away as if he hadn’t noticed the
Irishman’s blows, and dozens of his own
hooks, smashes and crosses got home. Sulli-
van has one bad habit—in the close-in work
he chops at the face and head with the heel
of his left hand. It was one of those foul
blows that, in the third round, split McDon-
ald’s right eyebrow, an injury that bled
in every successive session. It was a very
fine contest, thoroughly enjoyed by the large
crowd. Weights: Sullivan, list. 4Jlb.; Mc-
Donald. list. lib.
❖ # 5jC
Bob Miller, lightweight champion of Ire-
land, had to strike his flag to Maorilander
Reg Trowern at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night. Trowern was too strenu-
ous and too rugged for the Irishman,
although Bob never once shirked his job.
Racquet and Bawl
In the second match between France and
Australia, at Sydney, Patterson and Craw-
ford were beaten in straight sets by Borotra
and Brugnon respectively. In the doubles,
however, Hopman and Crawford defeated
Borotra and Boussus in a tliree-sets match,
Hopman doing most of the work. Rain pre-
vented any play on Friday and Saturday.
Officialdom had insured the show against
rain on both days, and its visible anxiety
was the only bright item in the lives of the
few shivering enthusiasts who waited, hoping
against hope. But in spite of careful count-
ing of the drops, the requisite 15 points
failed to arrive between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.
on either day; so £l5O in premiums, as well
as two days’ prospective takings, went west.
H* ❖ * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: I am afraid the
N. tennis heads are in for a few sleep-
less nights. News has come through from
London that there are 14,500 applications
already for 3300 seats at Wimbledon —and
the seats cost £4 4s. each. Think of the
good money being turned away in that dis-
graceful fashion!
(Continued on page 37.)
“Stuart” : Adelaide Uni.’s rowing club will
this year control the inter-’Varsity race; it
is to be rowed at Mannum on the Murray
River, headquarters of a famous club. Crews
from all the States are expected to compete,
though Queensland may be an absentee.
The race is to take place on June 2, and the
prospect of getting together a crew to beat
the Westralians, who won hands down on the
Nepean River (N.S.W.) last year, is exer-
cising the Adelaide selectors.
* * * *
“Spike”: England has an unusual candi-
date for the Olympic hurdle events in F. R.
Gaby, who is 33 years old—a rare age for
a track athlete. Gaby has cleaned up all the
opposition in Britain, and has also scored
heavily against athletes from America and
the Continent. He has broken losec. for
120 yards over hurdles —done it more than
once, in fact. The Olympic record for the
110 metres hurdles, which is as near as
never mind to 120 yards, is losec. England
will also field such fliers as Lowe and Stal-
lard, so it should be able to make a bold bid
against the Americans and Germans for the
track events.
ROUGH STUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve done some crook things in me day
With ’orses; well, say what y’ like,
It’s ride to orders all the way
With any struggling kid, and, strike,
’E might as well turn in the game
If ’e gets squeamish over it.
Orders are orders—all the same,
It ’urts to take some on the bit.
And I’m no righteous ’oly Joe
That’s got a naggin’ conscience up;
I’ve reefed ’em in and let ’em go,
And chanced the odds, in Purse and Gup.
I’ve ridden jumpers to a fall —
And that takes guts ! —when orders come ;
Aw, yes, I’m tough—but, still and all,
It ’urts to take an ’old on some.
I’m not so windy of the stipes,
I’m ’andy an’ ’ve ’ad the luck;
I’ve run some raw ones, too, but cripes !
A “benefit’s” the worst I’ve struck.
I’ve ’eard the silly punters ’owl,
But that don’t make me want to quit;
And still I’m chuckin’ in the tow’l—
It ’urts to take some on the bit.
There’s crocks ’ll loaf along with you
And they don’t count, but take the sort
Of good-plucked colt that’s pulled you
through,
When any odds was lookin’ short.
And strangle ’im right from the start,
And, when y’re gotter let ’im go,
Just watch ’im break ’is flamin’ ’cart
Tryin’ to catch ’em—l dunno!
I've done some crook things in me day
And never cried me eyes out yet,
And I’m not chuckin’ dough away.
But some things—well, I can’t forget;
A’ d one’s a gon.e-to-glory prad.
That dropped, because ’e wouldn’t quit
lien robbed of ev’ry chance ’c ’ad—
It ’urts to take some on the bit.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


“Ah! But they’re Comfortable!”
The Bulletin
He always Wore a nine, till he
tried a J. H. Sharwood Wide eight
The Bulletin
M AYBE you, too, have a wide
foot, and to secure the width
wear a shoe at least a full size too
big. Try one of the J. H. Sharwood
wide lasts such as the “Oregon” or
“Bespoke” shown above. There’s
a whole range of varied shapes from
which to choose. Simply remember
the name of the last and the size,
and you’ll be assured of the same
satisfaction always.
No matter how stout your foot may
be—there’s a J. H. Sharwood shape
to fit it.
Every woman knows that J. H.
Sharwood Shoes are without an
equal. The same fine qualities are
built into the men’s. They are of
dignified design and will usually
wear as long as two pairs of other
makes.
The salesman who offers some other
brand alleged to be ’ just as good’’
has his own interests at heart —not
yours. Decline substitutes, and look
for the name on every pair.
OBTAIN ABLE
LEADING STORES
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
The Bulletin
Made in HALF-
SIZES - - MEN’S
and WOMEN’S
BOOTS & SHOES
jfaultkss JFrrntlmar.
Any difficulty in procuring will be overcome by getting into touch with the J. H. Sharwood Service Bureau,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.


1 &
W% I
till
WURUIZER PLAYER PIANO
offers you all that is best in piano construction.
Clear, true singing quality of tone and fine resonance, excellence of workmanship and materials, fault-
less mechanical precision and permanence of quality are features of every model made by the famous
house of “Wurlitzer.” Get a demonstration from any of the following—
Principal “Wurlitzer” Agents:—
NEW SOUTH WALES: Factory Representatives—Parker, Blau and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE: M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australian Implement arid House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: J. H. Wilson & Co. Pty., Ltd., 203 Charles Street, Launceston: Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzercommunicate direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
“Non-Official Writer” : I note with thank-
fulness that the gate receipts at the recent
Australian championships amounted to
£5016. This must have delighted the officials,
who were no doubt sorely worried at the
losses likely to be entailed by their insistence
on trifling admission charges. It is estimated
that there should be a net balance of £2500,
which means that over 50 per cent, of the
takings went in expenses—pretty lively for a
game played by amateurs, and barely enough
of them to make up a Rugby Union football
team at that. Expenditure in proportion
to revenue has always been oddly heavy in
Australian tennis. Possibly a good deal goes
in the repair of bitten courts, as described
in your issue of Feb. 15.
* * * *
“Amateur Urger” : I thought I was a fairly
useful sort when it came to jamming the
sideshows with the mitt-merchants and the
Tattooed Lady in the old N.Q. days, but the
crowd running the Australian tennis cham-
pionships in Sydney would be liome-and-
dried before 1 could have hoped to turn into
the straight. Being a bit financial after a
little bite in Market-street, I thought I’d
Have a look at the French players. Tried the
nod first, as a brother showman, and got the
glassy eye. I spotted a yap in one of the
funny capers, saying “I have a limited num-
ber of chairs at 15s. available each day of
the championships—3os. the final day.” Of
course, I came at it, the bint insisting on
having a screw at Borotra, and booked up.
What do I find? Three days later the seats
are down to ten, five and half a dollar, plus
tax. The Tattooed Lady lived too soon.
* * * *
“15-30”: The only distressed member of
the French tennis team in Australia is the
baby of the party, Boussus. Boussus won a
number of doubles in Germany and France,
where a capacity for pretty ground strokes
is not hampered by a cruel service; but here
he has met Patterson and Ilopman, and their
felonious method of sending down sizzling
serves on his backhand has left the boy in a
parlous state. Boussus ranks fifth among
the French, which means that only Borotra
and Brugnon lie between the stripling and
the stars. Neither Borotra nor Brugnon
is comparable to either Tilden or Johnston
when I saw them in their prime eight or
nine years ago, and both are, at least, two
grades below Norman Brookes, the most
finished stroke-merchant I ever saw. What
makes these Gauls so formidable to us is
their strength on the backhand, in which
Australian tennis is deplorably weak.
* * * *
“15-30”: The Australian match against
Italy (B. 15/2/’2B) will probably be played
on hard courts in Rome, where De Morpurgo
is the reigning idol. When in serious train-
ing, and with his large fund of elation duly
throttled down, he can be a nightmare to the
best. Last year he hammered Lacoste hard
in the Davis Cup tie with France, and he and
Stefani knocked out Borotra and Coehet in
the doubles. If Stefani appears again he
will be a curio to Crawford and Hopman.
All the trouble he produces comes off the
forehand. He will frequently take a back-
hand with a double-handed grip—the last
resource of pat-ballers in church competi-
tions, but never exhibited in the higher levels
of the game.
* * * *
“Casus Belli” : A serious diplomatic situa-
tion has arisen between the tennis authori-
ties in N.S.W. and Victoria owing to the
lawlessness of clubs infesting the marches
of the border. The inhabitants of Cobram,
which is on the Vic. side of the Murray,
have protested to their governing body that
Berrigan, a community on the N.S.W. side,
is holding a rival tournament to the despite
of the Cobrammers, and contrary to the law
in that case made and provided by Victoria.
The Victorian foreign office of the local
L.T.A. has forwarded a communique to the
N.S.W. ditto, praying an easement of the
tort and suggesting that an international
tennis boundary with mutual rights of pit
and gallows be established, so that the ban-
ditti on either side can be fittingly dealt with
as occasion demands. So far, the N.S.W.
association is maintaining that masterly
policy of inactivity which has won it so
many laurels.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Victoria has discovered another
promising golfer in 20-year-old Keith Home,
of the Riversdale club and Melbourne Uni.
Home made a good beginning for the season
at the Sorrento meeting. He scored a fine
64 in the morning, a tendency to slice caus-
ing him to miss E. G. Schlapp’s record for
the course of 62. In the afternoon he went
off for a bit, but recovered in time to get
round in 73, beating A. W. Jackson, a plus-
four man, by a stroke.
HS
“Divot Digger”: Tamworth (N.S.W.) is
pluming itself on its 18-hole golf course,
the only one in the Ma State north of
Newcastle, and the finest outside the Sydney
area, its admirers claim. The Easter
tournament will include that most instruc-
tive item for mug golfers, a professional
championship.
* * * *
Referring to the fund raised to send Rufus
Stewart to Britain, the committee of the
lvooyonga Golf Club (S.A.) writes to say
that, all going well, Stewart will depart by
the steamer Cathay on March 1. Also: —
The response of Kooyonga for subscriptions from
South Australians has been so successful that the
guarantors should not be called upon to make up
any deficiency. In order that the venture might be
truly Australian, the committee has written secre-
taries of golf clubs and professionals in other States.
In any case, Stewart goes as the Australian golf
open champion, sent by Australia and not by any
particular State.
A very sporting attitude on the part of the
South Australian club.
* * * *
“Crowball”: A pro. with whom liis more
famous brethren will have to reckon is Dick
Carr, the Queensland youngster who is pro-
fessional at Sandgate, the watering-place
course near Brisbane. Carr, who won the
open championship of Queensland in 1926
and has since gone steadily on from suc-
cess to success, is unknown in the southern
States, where nobody living north of the
Tweed River ever gets publicity unless he
comes to Sydney or Melbourne. Like many
of the leading professionals, he began as a
caddie, and then worked as an offsider under
Mick Stafford at Yecrongpilly. At present
there is no one in the North to extend him,
though such well-known N.S.W. professionals
as Stafford and Spence, to mention no others,
arc located*' in Queensland. lie wiil figure
in the Queensland open championship in July,
and will be a competitor for the Australian
title at Rose Bay next September.
A SHORT APPROACH.
MR. MUGOLFER: “Shut up, woman! You’ll drive me mad!”
MRS. MUGOLFER: “That wouldn’t be a drive—it ’d be a putt.”
“Southport” : The ethics of sport are much
the same in all games, though, of course, they
are not universally observed. There has
been a lot of talk in Melbourne over a
“joke” played by a golfer on an opponent
who was a stranger to the course. At one
difficult hole the home man loudly asked
his caddie for a mashie at the second shot.
He took a full iron instead, and landed on-
the green with a strong shot. His opponent,
following the example set him, as he
thought, by one who knew the course, used
his mashie and found himself short. The
first player openly “blew” about his action
and claimed that his “tactics” had won the
match. No doubt they did, but they placed
him in the same category as the pugilist who
put a horseshoe in his glove “for luck” and
the wicket-keeper who makes a habit of
“chatting” the batsman.
* * * *
“Ploughman”: The notion of inviting some
of the leading British or American golfers
to tour this country has occurred to a few
enthusiasts in N.S.VV.; and it is a very good
notion indeed. The golf population of Aus-
tralia numbers many thousands —it is esti-
mated that N.S.W. alone supports over
10,000 —and a small levy by all the Aus-
tralian clubs would supply more than enough
cash to bring over a team of four from
America —that country is suggested because
it is so handy. An amateur side is suggested
for a beginning. When the track has been
blazed the question of facing the fees of
some of the topnotch professionals could be
considered, with some basis of experience to
work on. Such a visit would certainly raise
golfing standards here, and perhaps cal!
attention to the fact that not nearly enough
provision is being made in Australia for
cheap golf by those whose duty it is to pro-
vide recreation areas for ratepayers and their
young.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: Someone has writ-
ten in an agonised vein to one of the Sydney
dailies asking for legal advice on a point
of golf. Flaying at a country club where
there is a local rule that if a green is under
repair—being returfed, for instance —the
ball may be lifted, if dropped again and
not “placed,” he found himself in a quandary.
He lifted the ball, dropped it, and saw the
thing run into the hole, the green having a
slope. If the ball had run off the green
altogether it would have had to be played
from its lie, however disadvantageous that
might have been. The question arose as to
whether the man who dropped the ball was
entitled to the hole, or, if not, what position
he was in. At the risk of having my judg-
ment reversed by St. Andrews in 1938. if
they are working fast, I should say that
golf being a game where the ball must be
propelled into the hole by the agency of a
club, the dropper of the ball was certainly not
entitled to the hole. I have known an
opponent on the green kick the ball in with
his foot, instead of taking a half-inch putt,
and then get annoyed because the hole was
claimed by his opponent. The latter was well
within his rights. If that sort of thing were
permitted, the game would sink to the level
of Soccer football, or even croquet, in which,
I believe, they put the boot in quite a lot.
Still, when in doubt in such cases, always
adopt the most asinine interpretation of the
rule that occurs to you. The chances are 6
to 4 on that the rules committee will agree
with your opinion, unless it manages to think
up a more futile one itself.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip” : The English press is down-
hearted over the comparative failure of the
cricket team in South Africa, and is wonder-
ing gloomily what is going to happen in
Australia. The general conclusion seems to
be that the side had few batsmen who know
how to play fast bowling, and few bowlers
who realise that length and spin are ' the
two essentials of the art. It is good reading
on this side. At the end of the Sheffield
Shield season this country has several very
promising speed merchants, while the ten-
dency to cultivate length and spin, as opposed
to freak stunts, has been strongly marked.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian Cricket Asso-
ciation administered a snub to its well-
beloved cousins of N.S.W. when hearing the
report of the manager of the Victorian team
which visited Sydney and Brisbane for the
closing Sheffield Shield matches. The re-
port criticised the manner in which the
match in Sydney had been drawn out on the
last day by the tactics of the N.S.W. skipper,
who put all and sundry on to bowl and re-
duced the game to a farce. That attitude is
quite right, but the Cabbage Gardeners
should have remembered that Woodfull did
the same thing the previous evening. Both
the Vic. and N.S.W. bodies would have
raised themselves in public estimation if they
had reprimanded the offenders and informed
them that practices of the kind would not
be tolerated in the future. As it is, each
has done nothing but growl at the other’s
sins, conveniently forgetting its own.
$ * $ #
“Old Q.”: Queensland has a pleasant habit
of recognising the feats of its cricketers by
presentations in cash or kind. Ron Oxen-
liam has been the latest to benefit; before
his departure for Maoriland with the Aus-
tralian team he was handed the usual wallet
of notes, together with a gift of plate,
for his noteworthy performances in the
Sheffield Shield teams. Time was when
similar practical appreciation was extended
to players in other States. Now about the
only reward they get, save in very excep-
tional cases, outside their amateur “allow-
ances” is plenty of press adulation while
their luck is in. Oxenham, by the way, is
the second Queensland-born cricketer to find
a place in an official Australian XI. The
other was Hornibrook.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Some months ago a Bulletin
writer mentioned that a cricket team from
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, was to visit
Colombo during the Christmas holidays, and
play matches against local schools and teams.
Details of the first game against a combined
Colombo team, which won on the first
innings, reveal a remarkable double per-
formance by a youngster called Hill-Smith,
who, if he keeps on in the way he is going,
should be a welcome addition to future
South Aus. elevens. In the two innings
played by the combined team the lad got
10 wickets for 114; he took 4 for 7, including
the hat trick, in the second innings. In
the school’s only knock Hill-Smith scored 53
in a style which the chronicler says is remi-
niscent of Clem Hill—he is a left-hander.
The fielding of the St. Peter’s boys is said to
have eclipsed anything ever seen in Colombo,
where Australian elevens have given exhi-
bitions.
Footbrawl
“Scout”: Queensland has dealt another
felon blow at the poor old Ma State, hav-
ing seduced away the N.S.W. captain and
five-eighth, “Smacker” Blair. Blair, though
a veteran, played very fine football last year,
while as a captain he is in the first class. He
goes to Longreach to coach the local men;
the “inducement offered,” as the League
press likes to put it, is £l5 per week with
free board for 20 weeks, or, if “a suitable
job” can be found, £l2 a week and free bed
and scran. Young man, don’t go on the land
or learn a trade. Be diligent at League or
Australian football, and be rewarded with
plums like “Smacker’s.”
* * * *
“Hotham”: Even Melbourne crowds must
play second fiddle to some of the gatherings
assembled to see the American game. There
were 113,000 at a match—it was played in
Chicago—between two University teams,
Notre Dame and Southern California, and
no one seems to have machine-gunned the
referee, either. And a crowd of 75,000 saw
the Army beat the Navy at the New York
Polo Grounds —so called because every game
but polo is played there.
sfc sfc * *
“Everton”: Betting on football is a fairly
common practice in Australia, but it has to
be done “under the lap.” In Britain, and
especially in England, the Tommies operate
openly on the results of the big Soccer
matches, and, in a lesser degree, on the
Rugby League games; all the leading
bookmakers issue cards with the prices
offered at the beginning of the season. “T’
Coop,” which is open to all sorts and con-
ditions of clubs, is the favorite bettting
medium, and some of the prices offered are
pretty sporting. Peterborough was quoted
at 10,000 to 1. The Corinthians, most
famous of amateur Soccer clubs, were in
demand at 66 to 1.
(Continued on page 38.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the CafS de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
ilttlES
mm
T«Tiii a i or imriniffir
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Bnrsl ary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
“Trembler”: Russell Taylor, one of the
two N.S.W. motorists who went to Maori-
land recently to compete in the annual races
on Muriwai Beach, was well rewarded, for
he captured the Light Car Cup with his
eight-cylinder Bugatti. The course was a
trying one, the cars having to turn at each
end and pass through a shallow creek on
each lap. This race has now been carried
off twice by N.S.w. cars; Hope Bartlett’s
four-cylinder Brescia Bugatti won it last
year.
* * :» *
“Ilenery”: While Australia has been
hearing a lot about the points of the new
Ford, information as to prices lias been as
easy to get as stuffing for a feather pillow
from a frog farm. The following, however,
are the prices in America, f.o.b. Detroit:
roadster, 355 dollars; phaffon, 395; Tudor
sedan, 495; coupg, 495; sport coupfi with
rumble seat, 550; Fordor sedan, 570.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Even the Sydney-to-Mel-
bourne speed record will be reduced to in-
significance by a point-to-point dash now
being engineered by the Rand Daily Mail
and the Jo’burg Sunday Times. This is
the establishment of a speed record for
motor-cars from Cairo to Capetown. The
car to be used, a Standard Chrysler 72
sedan, wall leave Capetown in April or May
to survey the route for the real sprint from
Cairo. This is expected to start in August,
so that the Central African wet season may
be avoided. On reaching Cairo on the out-
ward trip, the car will be shipped to Brin-
disi, and driven across Europe to London.
* * * :|:
“Stock Model”: The perpetration of speed
and endurance records for trade purposes
has been agreeably varied by a brake test
recently made in America to emphasise the
acceleration capacity and brake efficiency of
the Whippet car. The test was made over a
run of 50 miles at full speed, with 50 stops
included in the journey. In spite of the
stops, the travelling speed averaged 50 m.p.h.
Running at 66 m.p.h., the car came to a halt
in six seconds, and the average time for
acceleration from stop to 60 inp.h. was 20
seconds. What tyres, brakes and chassis
were like at the finish was not stated, but
the test was not, of course, concerned with
that aspect.
* * *
“Tin Liz”: The motor-car has been put
to a curious use by R. T. Lee, winner of the
Diamond Sculls. Lee lives some distance
from the Thames, but keeps liis racing shell
and sculls at home instead.of at a boathouse.
He has the top of his car fitted with a cradle,
and on this carries the light craft to wher-
eyer he wants to take the water, as well as
his kit and other training equipment. The
result looks rather bizarre, but has so far
proved satisfactory from all points of view.
* * si: sjc
“Sprocket” : Goulburn, home of many fine
cyclists, recently challenged all-comers of the
lilywhite persuasion to come along and wrest
the Gale challenge shield from the local
cracks. The shield was presented for team
contests, which include individual, pursuit
and teams scratch races; Goulburn won it
from Northcote (Vic.). On this occasion
the challengers, a combined team of Sydney
amateurs, were downed by 18 points to 4,
* * :|c *
“Grabe”: Les Einseidel, first emergency
for the Tour de France team, belongs" to a
sporting family. His father was a good
lightweight jockey, and a grand-uncle, Fred
Einseidel, rode Banker to victory in the
V.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase of 1867
—in later life he acted as clerk of the
course at Flemington and Caulfield. Les
upholds the family tradition for gameness.
He finished fourth in the Dunlop Grand Prix
after a number of spills.
Miscellaneous
“Drap”: Consecutive “heads” in two-up?
Behind the line on the Somme I watched a
big “school” in progress. Two Yanks divided
possession of the kip, and between them they
headed ’em 27 times in succession. They
broke another record—for 440 yards this
time —when the Diggers woke up and pur-
sued them to their base.
* * * *
“Ferrochie” : That par. about the Lascar’s
interest in quail-fighting (B. 8/2/’2S) re-
minds me of the Chinaman’s love for a go
between crickets. He feeds these insects on
special diets of mosquitoes, lotus-seeds, rice
mixed with cucumbers, and boiled chestnuts,
and divides them into heavy-, middle- and
light-weight classes. In China’s more peace-
ful days owners of champions have been
known to travel from Canton to Pekin to
jsit their crickets against other chirpers, and
it was nothing unusual for 100,000 dollars
to be wagered on a contest.
* * * *
“Acme”: “F.V.” (B. 8/2/’2S) asserts
that I was wrong in saying that certain
ice-skating times dispelled the popular illu-
sion that the ice-skater was faster than the
pedestrian. If he reads the paragraph again
lie will see that I referred solely to the
figures put up in the Fen skating competi-
tions in England, as compared with amateur
pedestrian times, and refrained from drag-
ging in references to the professional skaters
who follow the game in Europe and North
America. By the way, the world’s record
for the 500 metres is 44sec. dead. It was
established, not in “Norway, Sweden, Fin-
land or Russia,” but in the United States.
❖ ❖ 'A-
“Stretcher”: Once more the N.S.W. row-
ing authorities have had to confess their
inability to get together an eight-oar crew
for Maoriland. The excuse given is that
the King’s Cup race prevents the State
selecting its best men for the trip to the
Dominion, but that seems a rather feeble
way of regarding the matter. A first-class
crew should be available outside the inter-
state eight, especially in a season when half
a dozen of the State’s leading oarsmen are
standing down from the King’s Cup selec-
tion owing to a difference of opinion with
the ruling body. A visit to Maoriland is
long overdue, the Fernlanders having sent
several crews to Australia during the past
few years: and the high quality of rowing
on the other side of the Tasman might do
something to improve the general standard
of the sport in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Nedlands” : As owners of the two biggest
yachts on the Swan River, Burnside, J.
(Genesta), and Keenan, K.C. and sometime
Attorney-General (Nadina), have for the
last 10 years been giving Perth yachtsmen
the expectation of a mighty duel. Curiously
enough, though both skippers always ex-
pressed the greatest confidence of victory
and. as the story went, formulated many a
secret plan of action, they somehow omitted
to bring the matter to an issue. A recent
Sunday found Genesta beating home to
Claremont and Nadina bearing down on her
before a good sea-breeze. Something of the
sort had happened without incident many
times before, so little notice was taken of the
activity aboard Nadina as she passed to lee.
A second later, however, she put about, and
as her great sails filled and swept her up in
the wake of Genesta river folk realised that
without a word of warning the great race
was on. In 30 minutes Nadina had sailed
a complete circle round her rival.
* * :!: *
“Fitzcray”: What a wonderful swimmer
Frank Beaurepaire is! When he won the
race for the 440 yards State title the other
day in Melbourne he annexed his S6th Vic-
torian championship. It is 21 years since
“Bogey” entered the ranks of the champions.
Counting in performances overseas, the ever-
green has won 203 championships. It is
a record that no other Australian has
approached.
ELLIOT GILES, skipper of the yacht
Utiekah III., which has completed a
cruise of 8200 miles from Melbourne to
the South Seas and back.
“Splasclimann”: The Victorian swimming
championships gave Froelich, the German
all-rounder, a chance of showing his quality
in the backstroke style, in which he excels.
At Melbourne City Baths he beat Torn
Boast, the Queenslander, over the 100, which
lie covered in 67 2-ssec., the fastest swim of
its kind ever recorded in this country,
though Weismuller is credited with 63 2-ssee.
The Australian champion was second in
68 2-ssec. A couple of days later the pair
met again in a similar event; this time the
Queenslander won by half a yard in 68
l-ssec. Thereby Tom made his selection
for the Olympiad almost a. certainty.
“Bumpkin” : It is not surprising that an
attempt bv a Maoriland swimmer to cross
Cook Strait failed. The 15-mile passage
between the North and South Islands is
the sport of one of the fiercest currents
known to mariners. It is something of an
achievement at times to negotiate it in a
well-found yacht. On one occasion I spent
a pleasant 17 hours in a yawl in the Tera-
wliitit Rip. It was a dead calm, but the
sea was the tallest for its length I have
ever seen. Then we missed the tide at
Queen Charlotte Sound, and six hours went
in beating up and down across the entrance.
There was a rock on each side of the channel
which we just made 45 times without getting
T. J. MILES, the Bundaberg ( Q.) sprinter,
who has had a remarkable run of
success in Melbourne.
to windward of them. That is to say, we
sailed approximately 60 miles without get-
ting an inch ahead. Any swimmer might
fail under such conditions.
* * * *
“Richmond” : The so-called world’s cham-
pionship meeting for professional runners,
held at Melbourne Motordrome, was a
triumph for T. J. Miles, the Bundaberg (Q.)
sprinter. In four successive sprint events
he defeated the hitherto invincible Tim
Banner, who ran second on three occasions,
and ex-amateur L. C. Parker. Miles’s
time for the 75 was 7 9-16 sec.; Arthur
Postle, another Queenslander, did it in
7 l-ssec. In the 130 Miles recorded 12 5-Bsec.;
Donaldson’s contribution to the record-book
was 12sec. dead. The 220 took Miles
21 3-ssec. to cover; Donaldson’s best was
21 1-lOsec. The 100 occupied 9 7-Bsec. In
effect, the Bundaberg lad, if not quite in the
Donaldson-Postle class as yet, is the best
professional sprinter seen in this country
since the great pair retired from the game.
❖ * %
“Sprocket”: The Maoriland bowlers who
landed in Sydney last week are embarking on
one of the most extensive tours ever tackled
by bowlers and their womenfolk. The team
will be away for nine months; after Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland and Wales have been
exhausted, it will visit Canada and Cali-
fornia. The last Dominion bowlers to go
abroad invaded Scotland in 1921, when they
made a very good showing against the Cale-
donians, who rank high in the bowls ivorld.
A Scottish expert wrote of them that their
drawing powers were great (he was refer-
ring to bowls, and not to bottles), and that
the “strokes” of the third men and skips
were “decidedly clean and effective.” So there
must have been one or two Charlie Macart-
neys among them.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Pot-the-White” : Though there is no fall-
ing off in the popularity of billiards as a
pastime, the professionals in England find
that the public won’t flock to watch their
matches as it used to do. For this the pros,
themselves are responsible, their wearisome
one-shot breaks having a good deal to do
with it. Then there is the custom of playing
big games in sessions of so many points. A
fast player with his eye in, and the balls
running sweetly, will close up the show in
half an hour or so, which is no good to a
spectator who has paid half a guinea for his
seat. Stevenson and Inman, who are now
in, or near, the “has-been” class, and are
perhaps feeling the pinch, have attempted
a remedy in the shape of a match extending
over a fortnight, with the fixed daily quota
of points abolished. Each “session” lasts
an hour and three-quarters, and the players
go for the highest possible score attainable
in the time. At the end of the last exhibi-
tion, the man with the biggest tally takes
the match. The innovation should liven up
the game as played by some of the safety-
first exponents, and a good many people
would welcome its introduction to cricket,
which is also suffering from the “slows.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Teller”: Australian note-forgers are at
work again, with the result that a number of
fair imitations of the 10s. note are in circula-
tion. The counterfeit is slightly smaller than
the genuine article, and in the cases so far dis-
covered the numbers (purporting to be of
an A/10 series) end in the combination
.80195. The words “half-sovereign” red
printed in block lettering at the top and
sides of the forged note are indistinct, and
the printing generally has the somewhat
blurred appearance characteristic of most
forged notes.
**„ * *
“Jack Bee” : Noticed a novel pocket-kni p e
in a Warwick (Q.) tobacconist’s window
the other day. It was the shape of a
woman’s leg, and the inscription on the side
read: “In commemoration of opening of
Federal Parliament House, Canberra, by the
Duke of York, May, 1927.” On the blade
were the three words “Made in Germany.”
* * * *
“McLeura” : “Ahab Muldoon” (B. 8/2/’2B)
needn’t grow a beard while lie hesitates
between buying the Canadian-made (but
Yankee controlled) safety-razor blade and
that of German manufacture. There is the
English blade, turned out by a Sheffield firm,
as cheap as either and of tiner quality.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Ilumc pipes are used for
various humble purposes all over Australia,
but you have to go to Studley Park-road,
Ivew, to realise their aesthetic possibilities.
The proprietor has let his gardener loose on
a vacant allotment opposite his private resi-
dence, and here you may see the straight-
forward tube of concrete converted into
graceful fences, avenues of Japanese torii,
elegant bridges crossing lily-ponds and ships’
turrets bristling with bowchasers. Gera-
niums abandon their usual habit and grow
into trees to escape from a long tunnel, and
cinerarias bloom prolifically out of holes
punched in sections laid on the ground.
Some of the effects are charming.
* * * *
“Ferrum”: The Brisbane Water Board
has some employees who were old hands
when the Silverton Tramway Co.’s men (B.
8/2/’2B) were just starting on their career.
G. Johnston drew his first pay in 1879, and
has nearly 49 years’ service to his credit;
then follow W. L. F. Wright and G. Hard-
ing, 43 years. The late J. Neilsen, who died
in harness in 1925, joined the staff in 1875
and had 50 years and four months to his
credit.
* * * *
“Circumvented” : In 1928 I had the same
difficulty with my hay harvest as "Man o’
Kent” (B. 25/l/’2B). Not being prepared
to engage help owing to insurance and
union laws and regulations, I arranged with
an applicant for employment. I sold him
half my crop on terms. Subsequently I
bought his interest in the harvest at the rate
of 15s. per day for the time he had been
with me. Thus, instead of being employer
and employee, we became buyer and seller.
He went away with a substantial cheque and
everyone was satisfied.
* * * *
“Up Top” : There are mountains of ribbon
stone in Cape York Peninsula, much of it
beautifully marked. The stuff would look
well made into ornaments. The potch and
color relegated to the dumps of opal-fields
could also be utilised; every vanity-bag in
Australia could be ringed with polished
beads of this rejected opal. Similarly there
ought to be a market for the discarded sap-
phires of the Anakie district. You never hear
of the Japs throwing back into the sea the
“seed” pearls they win in Australian waters.
Those pearls deemed worthless by us go to
Japan in thousands to ornament the dainty
knick-knacks for which tourists give big
prices.
* * # *
“Ces”: There were 27,000 acres of land
under vines in the Rutherglen (Vic.) district
40 years ago. In 1889 appeared the dreaded
phylloxera, and all the vines were destroyed.
The growers showed pluck, and with no
other Government assistance than phylloxera-
resisting vines propagated at the Rutherglen
viticultural station, set to work to recon-
dition their vineyards. To-day there are over
8000 acres under vines. The Sutherland
Smith family settled on the Murray as wine-
growers 65 years ago. They hung on despite
the disease, and to-day the third generation
has over 500 acres, and cellars with a capa-
city of half a million gallons. The Bur-
goyne property at Mt. Ophir is over 50 years
old and has the largest cellars in the State.
Rutherglen is becoming noted in England for
the quality of its port. In a short while the
main channel from the Hume reservoir will
run through the thriving little town, and
then will come the day of intense irrigation
culture.


t <liidoi'33allei'ics ave iuskilW inlict'c
C M Mnß$ wlFfflrieng?
1
s
It’ll
i
Ji
“
7/i,e Largest Battery in the Commonwealth.
Installed at Castlereagh Street Sub-Station of
the Sydney Municipal Council.
\S>
: • " < »<, *
- ...
■
■ H
..jzjysa&Efk
,1/am Battery Room Beam Station, Ballam, U„
Vic. {Photo, by Darge.)
Vf>
1
TV
SSL
slSr P
lISEa
8
5%
?ylil
This is a further instance where
Tudor Batteries are selected
by engineers in every part of
the world where absolute reli-
ability is essential.
Tudor Batteries are made in
England.
Tudor Batteries for Country Home
and Farm Lighting Plants are de-
signed and built upon exactly the
same engineering principles as the
largest and most important batteries
for services of public utility and de-
fence. In addition to this, Tudor
Country House Batteries embody all
the latest improvements that have
been specially designed for the con-
venience of country users, including
complete sealing of cells, individual
plate, support, etc.
Australasian Office:
The Tudor Accumulator Co
Ltd. (London),
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied
exclusively with
DELCO- LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. W. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston.
And with
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclu-
sive type of TUDOR BATTERY is sup-
plied, specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants,
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE
MADE IN ENGLAND.
tutor Accumulators


Under
/Royal
Kin£
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
11 1 v 'l ¥ • 1 ♦
CHAMPAGNE
'laiieslfeidsieoC
Heims
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“MumSydney.
Wire accommodation.
HCMEL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
7hp centre of QueopS/onc/s
Cy/> c//shnpu/sh€>c/ Soc/o/ Life.
Ifcnnom
Wok I
CoRDTSR
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Liner
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETIE
GLOVES
A very frenzy of weeping has rent the
skies. Floods of tears washing through the
tree-tops, pouring down their trunks, rush
together and form cascades that leap down
mountain and hillside till every creek and
river, swollen beyond its limits, has burst
its banks and flooded the surrounding flat
lands. From Tweed Heads to Albury the
waters of ruin are greedily sucking away
the fat profits that the early good falls pro-
mised to farmer and grazier, and despoiling
hundreds of homes in scores of country
towns. In the Northern Rivers district
Grafton is under water, its pleasant, tree-
lined streets like so many arms of the
usually placid Clarence. Here in Sydney
during the week-end the townspeople, spoiled
of their usual Saturday afternoon, swam
and dived and sailed races. But the back
country wasn’t indulging in water sports;
the share-cocky and his wife spent a bleak
week-end, their occupations set to the tune
of a mental-arithmetic lesson that invari-
ably ended in a minus. The Hawkesbury,
which generally ambles, a good-natured, full-
breasted matron, nourishing a countryside
of little farms, has turned a sly, distorted
face to her children, and, now a very vam-
pire, would take more than she has ever
given. The whole State has suffered, and
as this Letter puts on her pink raincoat more
ominous notes of warning are sounded.
Passengers and mails on the Sydney-MeL
bourne line began to suffer as far back a&
Thursday night; the permanent way was
then already under water at a dozen points,
chiefly around Cootamundra and Junee. Many
of the washaways were so serious that a
train which left Melbourne at five o’clock on
Thursday did not reach Sydney till between
ten and eleven on Sunday. Sunday’s trains
from both ends were cancelled, and many of
Friday’s and Saturday’s travellers were still
marooned on Monday morning.
Under the thick grey clouds that have
wrapped Sydney in a stifling blanket of
moisture. Woman has alternated between her
bathing-suit and the new winter models that
are being shown in the shops alongside end-
of-the-season flop hats. Mink threatens to
be the popular makebelieve this coming
winter, and women who would have moaned
at the sight of a kitchen stove slipped
in and out of the satin-lined luxuries with
dogged perseverance. But one of the most
humorous sights was the sunburned plump
face exaggerated by the tight-fitting skull
felts that are the decree of Paris and Lon-
don. Of course, they are absurd in our
climate. They afford no protection from the
sun glare, and even in midwinter Sydney sun
can be very merry and bright. However, the
little models will be on every head, appar-
ently, in a week or two. Some of the simple
things range between five and nine guineas,
and a few are given away at 20. A well-
groomed exquisite at one of the shows was
heard in a very bored voice counting her
glories to a shabby sister. “And Peter said,
‘Have whatever you want,’ but I only took
the mink coat and the ermine stole. Yes,”
—this to the shop-assistant—'“l’ll have the
two veloui’s at nine guineas.” “Ah,” said
the listener sweetly, “all Peter can give you
now is a climate to wear them in.”
Evening dresses are creeping downwards,
and the waistline, day and evening, is creep-
ing up. Longer hair, too, is worn by the
•smartest women. The shingle seems doomed;
and with , the growing ends ornate shingle
caps in gold or silver are quite a feature
for evening wear. “Embroideries every-
where,” said a fashionable dressmaker the
other day, “even on our jumper fronts.”
Washing corduroy has swung back to favor
for the jumper-suit, which is still with us.
This Letter saw a new thing in smart
gloves the other day. They were of the
gauntlet type in beige suede. Five panels
in dark green and red decorated the gaunt-
lets. With them were worn a dark green
stockinet suit and a dull red hat —not the
too obvious skull cap, but round as to crown
and softly upturned as to brim.
The wedding of the week rippled through
St. Mary’s on a wave of frangipanni, rich
lace and gemmed kirtles that might have
graced the vow-exchange of young Montagu
and Capulet. Italy of the Middle Ages in-
spired the wedding frock of soft white satin,
the bodice of which was cut with a deep
square neck, and had wrist-long Juliet
sleeves. The sweeping frock was caught
with a jewelled girdle and wore on its right
side lilies of the valley worked in rhine-
stone and silver. The wearer was Mollie
Morrissey, third daughter of the late John
Morrissey, of Harben Vale, Maud ford, and
from the folds of her Limerick lace and tulle
veils she exchanged the usual promises with
Fergus Manus Shannon, of Tamworth. A
crystal cross on a platinum and pearl chain
added a further touch of the Middle Ages
to the bride’s equipment, which was rounded
off by a trailing bouquet of frangipanni.
The three bridesmaids, Iletta and Babe
Morrissey and Nell Shannon, wore their old-
rose chiffons high as to waist and with the
new loose boleros. Under these deep sashes
ended in large flowing hip bows—a style
plainly inspired by the Balkan States. An-
other last-moment feature of the frocking
was the shoulder capes of chiffon. The hats
were of felt, but softly drooped and banded
in velvet. Looped like the figure of an old
Greek vase by a long garland of frangipanni,
the three presented a new idea in wedding
processions. It all looked like a symbol of
the League of Nations. Lionel Jaques best-
manned, and Charles Shannon and Pat Mor-
rissey were billed as supports of the groom.
PadreS Ford (Murrurundi) and Callender
(Tamworth) tied the knot, and Mrs. Morris-
sey had a warm welcome waiting at the
Australia for the wedding guests.
City Coroner Fletcher had a festive job
for a change the other night, when lie saw
daughter Eileen up the aisle of St. Augus-
tine’s at Neutral Bay. The pretty girl's
raiment was radiant and snowy white. Mech-
lin lace and tucked georgette formed the
1830 period frock and the souffle train.
Rose tulle and taffetas were cunningly
mingled in the spreading Early Victorian
frocks of the two bridesmaids who stood by
the bride while Roy Mayne Pegler, of
Queensland and Mosman, bestowed on her
his worldly goods. Bei-Uia Flatau (related,
by the way, to the clever Dorothy whose
“Yellow English” was one of the hits among
wartime novels) sang while the lease-in-
perpetuity was being signed, and thereafter
sealed by Padre Houston. The Warringah
Hall echoed to the nuptial saxophone.
A cable from S’Africa last week reported
that Mel Steffer, only son of the Australian
manufacturing chemist who makes Rexona
and too many other things to remember,
had duly claimed his Valentine on February
14. Her name was Veronique Gale, and she
won’t feel lonely when she comes this way,
for her father, calling into Sydney 20-odd
years ago, picked out his bride from a large
family of Australian girls.
This is Blanche Satchel, of Sydney, now
one of the show girls in New York’s
Ziegfeld Fol-
lies. While
Blanche was
very wee Min-
ni e Everett
taught her to
dance, and
proved a usc-
ful friend
when her pupil
assailed
Broadway.
Artists seek
the young
Austral ian
as a model,
too; and she
has a vogue
as a manne-
quin. One of
the most
famous of
Yankee por-
traitists, How-
ard Christie,
lias painted her. She lives with her mother
in New York.
Marjorie Chave Collisson, who is back
in Sydney after an absence of years, must
have been pleased with the roll-up to her
first talk on Maude Iloyden, the famous
woman preacher from the City Temple in
London. Miss Hoyden, who will be here in
June, is described by her envoy as a frail
little woman who has adopted a baby
daughter—a lame and delicate woman with a
discerning eye for a Paris frock and a
taste for motoring. Paraphrasing the wit-
ness in “Mary Dugan,” who says to the
Crown Prosecutor, “Heavens, Mr. Attorney,
you surely don’t expect a girl to drive to
Hell in a^ wheelbarrow!” Miss Royden might
say: “Why should you expect a modern
preacher to drive you to Heaven in a donkey-
cart !” But, seriously, Miss Hoyden is a
speaker to be listened to. Rer voice is said
to be alternately like the cooing of doves
and terrible as an army with banners, and
she speaks on every subject in Christendom.
The Woman’s Movement is her particular
gospel, and even as the sowers of old with
the mustard-seed, so the Federation of
Women Voters is pledged to help the visitor
scatter the good word. To this end a wel-
come committee .lias been formed, on which
is -at least one representative from every
woman’s society in the State. Miss Chave
Collisson, who has been the guest of the
Albert Littlejohns, is a graduate of Sydney
Uni., and was holder of the Fraser Scholar-
ship. The Australian tour serves as an ex-
tension of the work of the British Common-
wealth League.
Herewith a picture of Miss E. Mackintosh,
the first welfare officer for Women Teachers
appointed by N. S. Wales. Eleven years ago
she began the work of meeting and looking
after the newly arrived girl-teacher from the
country; and trying, mostly through her
brother, who is a bank manager with a lot of
country-town service, to see that the young
town teacher,
taking over her
'first country
school, carried
with her the
addr e s s of
some home
where she
could be a pay-
ing guest. For
11 years the
unselfish sub-
ject of this
p li o t o g r aph
was, volun-
tarily and for
love, the little
sister of the
new teacher in
Sydney and
the Outback.
With the years
the work has
grown, and
nowthedepart-
ment, recognising the value of such service,
has relieved Miss Mackintosh from teaching,
and established her in the offices in Bridge-
street. There she is as a beacon alike to the
youngster from Wombat Gully and the bril-
liant exchange teacher from England. And
her heartening and trust-inspiring smile could
turn even the Central Railway on a wet day
into a place of cheerfulness and grace.
Ruth Beale is back at her post and doing
good work for Barnardo girls and boys.
For nearly 12 months she has been travelling
in America and England. The Rockies and
the St. Lawrence; Rome and Milan and
Paris; snow-capped heights and glittering
glaciers of Switzerland; London, wet but
interesting, and embodying for Ruth the real
reason of her journey, the work of the
Barnardo institution—these make up the
gripping scenario of the Sydney woman’s
travels. In London old-friend Lute Drum-
mond has made a niche for herself coaching
students for opera and acting as accom-
panist for “auditions.” Roy Agnew is among
the composers whose output is sought by
publishers, and to finish a new 7 work which
is Australian in its nature Roy is coming
back to his homeland about the middle of
the year. After that he faces America.
Sydney’s sympathy goes out to padre A.
H. Garnsey, of St. Paul’s, whose son John
Anthony, just 21, was found dead in a garage
at Balranald last week. The boy was found
sitting in a single-seater motor-car in which
he was motoring to Mildura.
David McKee Wright, son of poet David
who was buried early this month at Emu
Plains, came over to Sydney last week from
Nelson, in Maoriland. He is very like, but
more robust than, his sensitiv.e-faced father,
who he tells came originally from his beloved
Ireland in search of health. The dry inland
air of Otago cured the threatened lung
trouble, and it was here David wrote his
first books of verse, “Wisps of Tussock”
and “Station Ballads.” David the younger
is on the staff of the Child Welfare Depart-
ment.
The eighth floor of David Jones’s this
week looks as if all the furniture of France’s
chateau country had been emptied into it.
Boulle cabinets of all the different Louis
periods bend chattily to one another.
Tapestry suites, the chairs fashioned in a
time and for a nation that apparently had
something substantial to sit upon, squat in
rubicund comfort on ankle-deep pile.
Tapestries filled with color and nymphs and
bits of history stare with amazingly fresh
complexions and unruffled brows from the
walls. An enormous oak chest, thick and
solid, depicts in carved panels the Life of
Christ. In the candelabra amethyst and
topaz lustres cunningly simulate small
bunches of grapes or just drop a colored
stream of light among their crystal fellows.
Dining-room sets in the Spanish style, of
Cordova leather; Elizabethan chests; clocks
—tall clocks, short clocks, gold clocks;
etchings and prints; and a picture of ladies
disporting in a pool, their remarkably
nourished limbs apparently unable to
struggle into a bathing suit —these are a few
of the treasures that meet the gaze of the
traveller down the aisles of time.
A writing-desk made from the wood of
the lemon-tree looks like a yellow-lacquered
piece, and gives a hint for unusual bedroom
furnishings to the woman with a purse as
long as her imaginings. The cupboards ex-
erted a horrible fascination on this Letter.
So high and deep and massive they are
that the story of the little mediaeval bride
who hid in one in jest and was only found
when she was a mouldering skeleton seemed
for the first time feasible. One of these
cupboards on its high back has innumerable
kings placing crowns on the heads of innu-
merable queens. Another, a reproduction of
an original in the castle of the Duke of Bur-
goyne and Dijon, has panels in high relief
depicting Truth, Justice and Plenty.
The collection, which the owner claims
took £20,000 to land, was on show last week
for the benefit of the Women’s Hospital in
Crown-street, and the opening thereof
brought forth Henry Braddon, who is one
of the hospital’s brass-hats, in one of his
witty and diplomatic speeches. Listening
to him and making counter-speeches in ex-
cellent English were the owner, Jules Ratz-
kowski, and his son-in-law, Julian Adda.
With them were their wives, both in black,
the latter very striking in lace and a wide
soft black felt. Among the lookers-on were
Civic Commissioner Fleming’s lady, the
Waley and Vicars ladies, the Justice Sly
couple, Mrs. Hill Osborne, very pic-
turesque and cool in beige foulard, sculptor
Theo Cowan and many enthusiasts in the
cause of the popular hospital.
Mrs. Bovill, who was the popular Kath-
leen Osborne, youngest daughter of the late
Oeorge Osborne and sister to D’Arcy, is
back in Sydney after years of absence in
England. Her husband, who was in the
Navy when they married, left the sea, and
for a long time their place in Surrey was the
county home that harbored a regular pro-
cession of Australian week-enders. It was
there Ruth Macarthur met, got engaged to
and finally married her hunting Englishman.
Mr. and Mrs. Bovill are back in Australia
for good and have dug themselves into a
home at Point Piper.
Perhaps it is with their minds on the good
old saying about the early bird catching the
worm that the leading spirits of the Country
Women’s Association have already planned
the annual ball. The worms are really the
butterflies of Race Week, and wing-spread-
ing arrangements will be made at the Ambas-
sadors on April 11. Mrs. Matt Sawyer and
Miss A. Fitzpatrick are giving the
arrangements a good push-off, the treasury
will be kept by Miss Warby and Mrs. Frank
Wisdom, and Charley Morgan Jones will
assist as scribe. The joy-spreader will be
known as the Easter Ball.
Dr. Allan Canny, the brilliant Sydney
Grammar boy who swept up every prize that
offered throughout his medical course, was an
outward passenger by the last P. and 0.
The first on the list, he was of course seized
upon as a junior by Sydney Hospital, but
he soon found out that his tastes were not
for that more or less rough-and-ready class
of work. At present his inclination is all
towards research. He will, at any rate,
spend a year or two in Europe in that
pursuit.
“Though shalt not run” is the command-
ment the heart gives to many a man who
has reached middle-age; forgetfulness of it
led to the death of musician Herbert Goff,
who rushed to catch a train at Turramurra
and was carried off it, dead, at Cliatswood.
Goff was a well-known musical instructor
in Melbourne, where he was born, before he
went to Perth as organist and choirmaster
at Trinity Church, taking later the position
of organist at St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
Perth. Health reasons brought him east;
and he was choirmaster at St. Margaret’s,
Turramurra, when the moment of forget-
fulness came.
The long-drawn-out boosting of immature
girl swimmers, some of them mere children,
has been carried to such an extent in Sydney
that it has become impossible to take up
a Sunday paper without hearing all about
another’s world’s championette—with pic-
ture, of course. Swimming is a splendid
exercise for all and sundry, but the hound-
ing of babes and sucklings into long and
exhausting races is a dangerous absurdity.
The chorus of adulation was dulled a little
by the defeat of the Sydney child repre-
sentatives in the N.S.W. women’s champion-
ships last week by the two Maorilanders.
In both of the events won by the visitors, the
100 yards and 440 yards championships, two
children of 13 and 14 respectively were
allowed to start, the events being swum on
the same afternoon. And the poor little
things had gone through the same perform-
ance five days before!
Voronoff has no probable patient in Mrs.
Sarah Musgrave, who, being in her 98th
year, climbed an apple-tree the other day
to get a better eyeful of the Lambing Flat
riot scenes that were being re-enacted for
the film “The Birth of White Australia.”
The lady, who was the first white child to be
born in the South-West, wrote a book a year
or so ago around the pioneers of that dis-
trict.
A very spry flapper of Young
To an old apple-tree neatly clung
While she scribbled her tale —
Ninety-eight summers hale
Since the bells for her coming were rung.


JjAßgr BRQTHER^tZII
MOTOR LUNCHEON CASES
<em
5!
/A
m
B 1 3 01.
Ideal for Picnicking, Travelling and Motoring, this particularly fine
Luncheon Case is made Suit-case style from specially-selected
leather. It is fitted for six persons and contains the following
articles:—
6 stainless knives; forks, teaspoons, enamel plates,
china cups and saucers, 2 aluminium tumblers,
aluminium salt and pepper boxes, wicker-covered
bottle, two 2-pint Thermos flasks and 2 metal food
containers. Size 25 x 15x7.
£l6.
Smaller Motor Luncheon Cases from £B/10/-
Five per cent, discount allowed lor Cash..
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
oP&clusivcVewtUey
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
m-i!8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
w
mm**-?
&T J
if
lII®
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully !
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.
Chosen as best of all Lighting Plants
by the British Armv
O
HOME UCHTINC PLANT
HEN the British Government wanted an electric
plant for War service, it had to pass harder tests
for fitness than any soldier.
No skimped or flimsy type of plant would do-
it had to be solid, strong, efficient and reliable to the high-
est degree, and able to stand the terrific strain of war
conditions. And from hundreds of makes the Govern-
ment chose Eledtolite—surelv the finest recommendation
that any plant could have!
Ele&olite is built for long, long service—longer than any other plant
can give. It is also built for economical service, and hundreds of users
claim it to cost less than city electricity. It supplies ample power
not only for lighting, but also for operating an electric iron, vacuum
cleaner, kettle, chaffcutter, separator, and many other appliances.
Let Eledtolite make life more pleasant in your home—write for
literature giving full particulars.
Qenerous Terms Make Purchasing Easy
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders St., Melb.; 3 Sydney St., Sydney; 3 Gilbert PI., Adelaide
Box D 147, G.P.0., Perth Box 1139 P, G.P.0., Brisbane
Factory Representative : R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(By'' CAppointment
BOULTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
o
% A/ o^
K.
v 3r
% <%> <*
V9r o
<&. <s» o
% °o
°>X o;
■% 4>
X X
•, \ V X


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—•
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
&
For Cakes
For Puddings
insist on Swallow and ArielVs
Raisins. Stemmed, seeded,
cleaned and ready for use. You
cannot buy better. Your grocer
does not sell better.
Swaltou) tPCUielbs
SEEDED'
RAlilNi
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
P[?] Contro9l 800 fpr [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Chill and wet were the V.A.T.C. races at
Caulfield on Saturday, with a breeze that
scattered raindrops at intervals over the
front-seaters, even to the vice-regal box. Still,
the attendance was quite fair. Lady Stone-
haven wore a black coat collared with Hima-
laya fox, topped by a petunia-pink felt hat;
her sister, Lady Hilda Keith Falconer, who
is a tall edition of her Ex., was also black-
coated, with black millinery. The club’s
guests at lunch included the Bruces, Com-
mander and Mrs. Graham Browne and the
E. M. Pearces. Tiger-lilies and cactus-
dahlias formed the table adornment.
Winter coats, macintoshes, fur coats and
tailored suits were the only feminine wear,
with felt hats. The brightest bit of scenery
was the bed of varied-hued phlox that ran
along the full straight as a border attached
to an emerald-green carpet, for the con-
tinuous moisture put the heath in top form.
The Claude Grice couple, Mrs. T. A. Tabart,
Mrs. 11. S. K. Ward and her daughter-in-
law Mrs. Harold Ward, just back from a
European honeymoon, Mrs. A. V. Kewney,
the Rogers Thomsons and the W. P. Meins
were of those who favored the first day of
this Autumn meeting. Others to fill the eye
were Mrs. John Gildea, of Burenda station,
Bananaland, the John Winter Irvings, Mrs.
Norman Falkiner, Phyllis Holmes Hunt,
Lorna Embling and Mrs. Beau Fairbairn.
A regular invasion of swimming maidens
from the sister States and Maoriland came
this way last week for the purpose of col-
lecting championship honors. A welcoming
tea was given them at the Rex; it was
hostessed by Mrs. W. Marston, president of
the Victorian Ladies’ Amateur Swimming
Association, Posies accentuated the greet-
ing to the chaperons, Mrs. Chambers
(N.S.W.), Mrs. H. Millar (M.L.) and Miss
Brunniclt (Q.).
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, who is still in Florence,
writes that she and her husband mean to
stay there another two months, so fascinated
are they with everything, including the won-
derful drives about Tuscany. They plan to
move on to Greece and then to Constanti-
nople.
The Alexandra Club wore floral dressing
of pink and blue, mainly belladonna lilies
and delphiniums, for a tea-brewing jointly
hostessed by Mrs. Robert Power and Mrs.
Norman Baylcs, both bound for Europe. Tlic-
function was rendered a step or two more
exclusive by the presence of the Countess
of Ivintore, whose covering was light-brown
georgette and lace with harmonising mil-
linery, and her daughter, Lady Hilda Keith
Falconer, in a navy crepe-de-Chine frock,
topped by a fawn felt hat.
An atmosphere of charm invaded the dim
interior of Holy Trinity Church, Port Mel-
bourne, when Victoria Stafford, known to her
friends as Tory, whispered the final assent
to Charles, elder son of the Simms Murphy
couple. The bride was furnished with the
traditional bride lace, drooping over ivory
georgette, and she smiled demurely into a
shower of water-lilies and roses. A. tiny train-
bearer in a cloud of pink, and niece Alma
Stafford, in a billow of mauve georgette,
were artistic color items in the event super-
vised by the Rev. Barnett.
The commodore of the Royal Geelong
Yacht Club, Dr. A. Sheppard G>i’imwade,
opened the club’s new premises with music,
revelry and much flag-flying. Mrs. Grim-
wade, garbed in a smart blue gown, re-
ceived the guests, and daughter Gertrude
assisted. In the house party brought along
to swell the occasion were Elsie Armstrong
and Adrian Woods. The event of the even-
ing was the presentation of a collection of
china to Mr. Wiggs, the retiring secretary.
A number of small dances are listed for
this month and the race weeks of next. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme is one of the hostesses, and
will stage two little hops at her home at
Kew.
The Edmund Thornleys’ daughter Vera
will make her debut at a dance given by
Mrs. Douglas Boyd, of Barooga station, and
Mary Macpherson, of Wanroong, Camper-
down, at the Rex on March 6. The bud about
to burst into social bloom belongs to the
Western District, where her mother has
always been considered one of the country-
side’s most decorative personalities.
Old collegians of the Presbyterian Ladies’
College will rally next Monday evening at
their club rooms to wish Esna Boyd lots of
luck in her oversea racquet-wielding. It
was in her schooldays that the tennis star
first acquired the habit of collecting trophies.
En route to England, she will familiarise
herself with South African tennis courts.
The Boyd family are all making the trip to
see Esna in action.
A start for the year at the Kindergarten
Training College, Kew, was made on Thurs-
day with a tea-drinking welcome home to
the president of the Free Kindergarten
Union, Mrs. T. A’Beckett. Also the function
introduced to past and present students and
other interested folk Dorothy Rosner, who
will be in charge of the college for a year
during the absence of the principal, Miss
Gutteridge. Mrs. A’Beckett, fresh from a
European tour which has given her some
insight into the way such educational in-
stitutions are conducted in Vienna, gave an
illuminating chat that showed the Austrian
city to be a long way from the back
number many people think the war made it.
Mary Lush, who direct the Bouverie-streot
kindergarten, told of similar developments
along the same line in various towns of Eng-
land. Miss Tisdall, of the Rosbercon College,
who was among the special guests of the
afternoon, and Miss Rosner were two others
who had something to say regarding various
sides of kindergarten work.
The auditions at the Albert-street Conser-
vatorium of Music last week for the scholar-
ships offered in piano, violin and song re-
sulted in one or two discoveries of what looks
like rare talent, especially among the birds.
Beatrice Oakley, a dramatic soprano, who
was handed Dame Nellie Melba’s scholarship,
caused even Fritz Hart a thrill; and Ella
Burke, who warbled a well-known contralto
solo, was found to possess a whole three
octaves of fine notes. She received the award
offered by Mary Campbell. From Townsville
came Bessie Dongall, who is visiting Mel-
bourne with her mother. She also was one of
the chosen for free tuition. And Phyllis
Moorehouse was another lucky Melba candi-
date.
Following a fashion set by U. S. theatrical
firms, the J.C.W. people have decided to
decorate the vestibules of their houses with
paintings bought by knight George Tallis
when he went shopping among some Paris
galleries and salons last year. The collec-
tion may be viewed for the humble shilling
of commerce at the Fine Arts Gallery until
Feb. 28; it will then be distributed around
Australia. The paintings belong to the
modern school. Though all are classed under
the same head, about three degrees of art
are featured. Some require getting used to.
The less modern are decidedly the most
attractive.
This intelligent face, mirror of a musical
soul, is owned by Jessie Irwin, a young Vic-
torian whose voice is highly spoken of by
competent critics. A coloratura soprano, it
is rapidly becoming familiar on the concert
platform and
over the air.
Jessie comes of
musical stock,
and there were
two proud
parents when
at the age of
eight she won
a n A.N.A.
s c h o 1 afship.
At 14, with a
prof essional
career in mind,
she became a
Trinity stu-
dent and car-
ried off her-col-
lege diploma
with honors,
subs equantly
winning the
Associated
Board diploma.
Finally a lifo
scholarship from the Violet Clarke Studio
was added to her successes. Now she is
studying opera under that capable tutor, and
if there is no chance offering at home she will
seek it abroad. Buskins made the picture
of the young Australian, who in 1925 won
the radio contest from 750 competing voices.
The Alliance Frangaise put up a cheerful
hop at Bibrou’s as tribute to the visiting
Frenchmen. The Marseillaise, dangerously
near syncopation, floated o’er the ballroom
of old Admiralty House on the arrival of
the guests, who were accompanied by the
Norman Brookes couple, the lady in sheath
gown shell-patterned in silver beads and
glitter. The just-elected president of the A.F.,
Rene Vanderkelen, Consul for Belgium, did
the welcoming with his wife, whose robe
was a confection of' ecru lace; they were
helped by the Consul for France, Rene Turck,
and Madame Turck, whose robe was of a deep
rose hue, with embroidery of steel. Ninette
Turck brought an old-world touch to the
gathering in her much-frilled white tulle
frock. Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Wilkinson were
there, the handsoftie lady with a depth of
gold fringe upon an ombre flame gown. Mad-
ame Gay scintillated in black; her daughter
was a gleam of opalescent sequins; and
Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Watson, she wearing
upholstery of petunia mauve brocade, were
among others gathered around the official
table. The Courtney Dix couple were there
with daughter Dorothy, who had that day
returned to Melbourne after her marriage in
London last year to lan Macdonald, of the
Navy. Her silver shoes went with a clinging
black gown, mostly deep fringe. Mrs. Henry
Rosenthal and her two daughters secured
dress honors, the former wearing raiment of
gold-and-blue woven tissue with embroidery
of gold sequins. Elva proved that the modi-
fied peacock mode of dress could be graceful
if modelled of lovely deep cream lace of the
finest; and Margot’s white uinon frock, with
edgings of black lace upon triple flounces, was
delightful. Dr. and Mrs. Leon Jona, Miss
Yvonne Ilerry (in blue taffeta), Mrs. Thorold
Harper and Miss Tessier, secretary to the
illustrious Borotra, were others visioned. At
supper M. Vanderkelen extended greetings
and congratulations to the guests, and Paul
Bibron beamed upon his countrymen and
spread the best in the larder before them.
This is Mrs. Beth Penney, a Bendigo girl,
whose contralto voice has impinged upon
thousands of radio sets. She is the daughter
of the T. Corries, of the Golden City, and
her voice is an
inherited gift
from a mother
who won many
laurels as a
singer under
the profes-
sional name of
Emma Eames.
Mrs. Corrie
trained her
four children
at home till
Bet h, who
can't remem-
ber the time
she didn’t sing,
won the Violet
Clarke Scholar-
ship and came
to Melbourne
to have her
rich voice pol-
ished in Miss
Clarke’s studio.
Mrs. Penney is so happy in licr home that
a big musical career, involving an attempt
to set the Thames alight, has no place in
her plans. Ruskin made the picture.
Matron M. M. McNab, who becomes
superintendent of the Talbot colony of
epileptics in succession to Olive Templeton,
is a trainee of Alfred Hospital, and has
also had private-hospital experience. She
did her bit in the Big Scrap so valiantly
that she was mentioned in despatches several
times, and can sport the Royal Red Cross
on ceremonial occasions.
Nora Jervis, who came from the Orient
recently with some relatives on a holiday
visit, has been persuaded by the Y.W.C.A.
to enter their organisation and open a new
branch, devoted to health and recreation.
Miss Jervis is a specialist in health-giving
exercises for women. She received her
training at Austerberg, and has had exten-
sive American experience. Her last job was
in Shanghai, where she was training Chinese
girls as instructors in calisthenics.
The latest vagary of fashion is a feminine
tendency to forsake flesh-colored stockings
for hose of darker hues. Motorists and
women, too, should strenuously oppose the
move. Every driver knows wliat an admir-
able warning • light stockings (and plenty
of ’em) under the leadlamps are. The male
pedestrian in his dark clothing, on the other
hand, is perfectly arrayed for his own de-
struction. It would be interesting to get
figures on the subject. Statistics of acci-
dents would probably show that the flapper
earns her immunity more from the protective
coloring of her legs than from their nimble-
ness.
An order has been issued that parcels of
magazines and newspapers addressed to the
Caulfield military hospital, and sent with
freight charges to pay, are not to be accepted
at railway stations. That’s the way to treat
’em. It’s 10 years since the war finished.
What do they mean by living so long?
The British training-ship Woodarra put
into port here during the week, and the
E.-S.U. promptly got busy, as is its wont
on such occasions, to give the lads a chance
of meeting some nice girls of about their own
ages. There was a dance on Wednesday,
and tropical heat didn’t prevent the young
folk from having a good time. Lynette
Young, who is lion, secretary of the newest
branch of E.-S.U. activities, was leading-
lady of that evening in a dainty covering
of blue, trailed over with white and crystal
beads. Assisting her were Stella Ivirkham,
in black with a glimmer of crystal; Evelyn
Manners-Sutton, wearing rose-pink taffeta;
Meg Massey, a study in leaf-green; Freda
Thomson, whose Titian locks blended in with
raiment of shot mauve and blue ; and Dora
Cameron, in filmy covering of gold lace and
net. Harry Bent, Neville Heale and Mr.
Goldin aided their efforts. Mrs. Watson
Robertson, robed in crimson velvet and
georgette, and Mrs. Hetherington, clad in
black and gold, bent the kindly eyes of
chaperons on the pleasant whirl; Muriel
Clarke and Alice Richardson were two
others who saw that the boys from over-
seas enjoyed themselves. Among the belles
were Alice Connell, from Wangaratta, a
shimmer of silver tissue and sequins, and
Betty Meadows, from the same district, in
pink and blue taffeta. Also Madeleine and
Olive Marshall, r.eeent arrivals in Melbourne.
The local maidens included Audrey Osborne,
Jean McLay, Alison Jolly and Peggy
Barnes. Chief-officer Goater, of the Woo-
darra, accompanied the lads.
It is the intention of the English-Speak-
ing Union to run a series of monthly dances
during the winter months in connection with
the junior branch of the union. Lyn-ette
xoung expects to have a fine roll of the
flapper set shortly.
The Melbourne Women’s Club was ren-
dezvous for the monthly meet of the Air
Force Wives and Mothers. Mrs. R. E. Wil-
liams, the president, wearing a gown of navy
hue with a tuscan hat, extended the friendly
hand, with a posy Tor some special guests.
Mrs. Graham Dawson sang her setting of
“Ilymn of the Air Force” penned by Lady
Congrieve; other Entertainers were Marie
Magan, Claire Brennan and Mrs. Rickards.
A certain Melbourne belle, whose frock-
ing always provides the parched penwoman
with a good quarter of a column, hadn’t
always such a free hand with her dress
allowance. She Belonged to a homestead
in the Far North of Queensland, and the
first time as a flapper that she caused a stir
at the local hop she caused something like
hell in her own home when father saw the
bill. At the dance itself father stood in
the doorway of the hall glowering on the
merrymakers. “Great dance, isn’t it, Bill!'”
drawled a cobber. “Cripes, it should be,”
growled the old man, pointing a backward
thumb, “there goes my Mary with three bul-
locks on her back.”
A golfing pair entered into a lifelong two-
some at St. Andrew’s, Brighton, on Wednes-
day evening. In a cloud of white georg-
ette gleaming with crystals Mavis, daughter
of the G. B. Mooneys, of Middle Brighton,
carried an ivory prayer-book up the aisle, a
mist of tulle falling over her court train, and
voiced her responses to George, son of the
J. K. Daleys, of Ormonde. Three little
rosebuds in pink and blue, Peggy Lawrence,
Pat Daley and Vera Jarman, looked after
the drapery. Margery Stahmer and sister
Edith, in wide pink taffeta frocks bordered
with uneven hems of blue georgette, and
picture hats, were the attendants.
A letter from Hollywood is accounted the
chief treasure of Betty, caricaturist Bill
Dyson’s only daughter. Betty, who inherits
the family talent to a marked degree, made
several studies of Ronald Colman in “Beau
Geste” and sent them along to the film
star, who promptly replied with words of
appreciation and warm thanks for the gift.
To fill the gaps caused by the absence of
the Richard Gipps couple, who left last
week for a tour abroad, the E.S.U. has
appointed some new officers. W. J. McLay
will share the secretarial duties with Louise
Wilmot, and Stella Kirkham and Alice Rich-
ardson will be joint lion. secs, of the club-
room.
The Otranto brings us Sir James Roberts,
who lately retired from a distinguished
Indian career to settle in the Cold Country.
The visitor is making but a brief stay in
this city, going on immediately to Sydney.
His late brother, Malcolm Roberts, of the
P. and 0., settled here years ago, and the
widow and a daughter have remained resi-
dents. t
Garden Week, with its show of horticul-
ture, its lectures and attendant visits to nur-
series and parks, comes round again at tiie
end of March. This annual outbreak of the
Tree-Planting Asssociation will be engineered
by Ralph Boardman, just back from a trip
across the Pacific.
Stanley Gibson, whose musical interest has
mostly revolved round violins and the teach-
ing of the instrument, has plunged into the
directing of a School of Music. The ambi-
tious undertaking has its headquarters in
Austral Buildings, Collins-street.
A note from a man: —
Of course this is none of my business, but I’ve just
been looking at another picture of French nuns
leaving by the Montoro for the Islands; and I’ve
looked at Sisters trudging about the city in the
steam-box that is any Big City, all muffled
up as they would be muffled in regions liable to
snowstorms. I don’t know a Catholic woman who, if
she has mentioned the subject at all, has not been
full of compassion for the wearers of a costume
that is surely a wholly unnecessary burden in such
a climate as this and still more in such a climate
as the French nuns are about to work in; and I
know I can’t see them myself without wondering
how much longer it must be before some very
practical and commonsensible Archbishop Duhig puts
it to whoever is in charge of the Church’s millinery
department that different times and different places
demand different fashions.


m
O'
10
9
\S
A. Saunders’
Grandfather
“CHIME”
CLOCKS
MISSION OAK CASES.
Solid Brass Movements, Silvered
Dials, Bevelled Plateglass Doors,
Three - quarter “Westminster”
Chimes, “Litchfield” Strike at the
Hours —•
£2l, £25, £3O.
Inlaid Mahogany Case, £37/ 107-
Full “Westminster” Chimes—
£3s, £45, £5O.
With “Whittington” and “West-
minster” Combination Chimes,
Handsomely Designed Carved
Oak Cases, Massive Burnished
Brass Weights and Pendulum—
£ss, £65, £75.
MANTEL CHIMING CLOCKS.
Solid Oak Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes, £B/10/-.
Full “Westminster,” £l2/107-
Mahogany Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes—
£B/10/-, £lO/ 107-
Full “Westminster,” £l5.
CALL AND SEE THE LATtCEST
DISPLAY OF CLOCKS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
Amusements,
ET M P lIIK T H E A T R E,
“ Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
m Quay Street, Sydney.
RUFE NAYLOR has the honor to present
1/6 2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 3/6 5/G
NIGHTLY AT 7.55.
Reserves at Theatre (MA1000), Nicholsons, Palings
Samuels, and leading Hotels.
Matinees Thursdays and Saturdays at 2.15.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : THE GIRL FRIEND
CRITERION:
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
PALACE: THE GOLDFISH.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
* * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 C. WILLIAMSO N, LTD
u ■ MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE: THARK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
A T II E N /E U M T TI E A T R E.
** MELRO URNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
TWICE DAILY.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
CHANG,
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
Plans at Allan’s.
HOY T’S D E LU X E THEATRE
MELBOURNE.
HAROLD LLOYD in
FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE.
AND
MADGE BELLAMY in
VERY CONFIDENTIAL
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
BETTY COMPSON
in
THE LADYBIRD.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7076 & 7790,
Amusements,
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
Adelaide: Prince of Wales Theatre. Season commences
February 25.
Sydney Rep.: J. Y. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
If any illustration in
'The Bulletin”
takes your fancy,
write to the Manager,
who will quote you
price for the original.
lES
/MOt)EL
Easy to
play
&
&
The Kilauea, in dark
imitation kowood fin-
ish. White Ivorite
binding on front and
back edges.
Complete with case. Price
( Freight Free )
Other models from 20/- to 60/-
Descriptive Catalogue on application.
25/-
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER
OR DIRECT FROM
A.P. SYKES
XIX Lit. Collins St.
cMelbournc.
When ordering please mention this pa her.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin gave a
dinner party at Government House, the
guests being Mr. and Mrs. F. Bulcock, the
T. A. Foleys and Mr., and Mrs. A. 11. Wright.
Their Exes, were at Ascot races on Satur-
day week, accompanied by Colonel and Mrs.
Campbell. The committee entertained them
to tea on the verandah, Mrs. Isaac Moore,
Mrs. Ernest Bell, Mrs. J. S. Henderson,
Naera Sampson and Miss P. Bell being of
the party. Lady Goodwin wore navy geor-
gette. Mrs. Campbell was in her favorite
shell-pink; her wide-brimmed hat trimmed in
salmon and apple green. Mrs. Moore’s frock
was of figured crepe de Chine in Oriental
tints. Rose blonde with facings of rose
and silver was worn by Mrs. Blume; pink
crepe de Chine and Richelieu embroidery
by Mrs. Stanley Chapman; cinnamon by
Mrs. R. W. Cran. Mrs. A. P. Deshon was
in white voile; and Mrs. Lance Brcssow
wore putty color, her white hat trimmed in
saxe and rose. Dulcie Peterson chose ivory
cr6pe de Chine; .Cecily Cadcll Garrick was in
blue broidered in white; Clara Flower wore
ivory. Amidst the throng were the Alex.
Macdonalds, A. E. Coldhams, Dorothy Haw-
thorn, Peggy Borthwick (Charleville),
Janette Fullerton and Nell Macgregor.
Mrs. Cyril Mclntyre had a tea at Yeerong-
pilly for Marie Harding prior to her mar-
riage. There were bowls of roses in the
lounge and a hostess in biscuit mariette.
Marie Harding wore a cream lace frock over
pink.
That intrepid little woman Mrs. Uvedale
Parry-Okeden, of Wells station, Burnett,
who was thrown from her horse when her
little girl was four months old, and who
has been 18 months on the flat of her back
in plaster, is now able to get about a little.
Brisbane had a cyclonic storm on Valen-
tine’s Day, An 80-foot wall collapsed in
Gladstone-road; trams were held up by floods
and trains by subsidences. Not far from
Brisbane nine inches fell in an hour, and
Currumbin, Coolangatta and Tweed Heads
suffered severely. Canungra and Springbrook
are isolated and telephones are out of action
in a hundred places.
To farewell Minor .Canon Park, a party
was arranged in St. John’s schoolroom,
which was decked with dahlias and roses.
Mrs. Brookes looked after the musical pro-
gramme, and Feo Todd was elocutionist.
Dean de Witt Batty, on behalf of the
churchwardens and cathedral congregation,
presented the cheery cheque to the guest, who
left this week for Ballarat.
This is Mrs.
Macauley Tur-
ner, whose col-
ored illustra-
tions of “Our
Aus t r a 1 i a n
Bear Garden”
and various
cover designs
have won
much admira-
tion. One of
the most bril-
liant Queens-
landers, she
makes her
home in the
pretty Corinda
suburb. Hers
is an interest-
ing personality
that matches
her clever
face.
Miss E. Wassail, hon. gen. sec. to the
Red Cross Society, is off for a year’s holiday
to the Cold Country, and the executive com-
mittee gave her a party at Rowe’s, along
with a monogrammed leather writing-case
and a gold-mounted fountain-pen. Mrs.
William Lennon did the presenting.
Arthur Sutton, son of the E. L. Suttons,
Neutral Bay, Sydney, took Bluebell Grey,
daughter of the E. G. Grays, Mooratemi,
Cleveland, for his own in All Saints’. Pink
and white asters decked the altar, and the
Rev. Walter Thompson tied the knot. The
bride was in apricot Mons lace. Her hat
was caught at the side with a diamond
buckle. Myrtle Flower, Roma, the bride’s
cousin, ’maided in mushroom pink and black
hat. Dr. K. B. Fraser best-manned. A
small party of near relatives celebrated at
the Gresham, where pink roses decorated the
tables. Mrs. Grey received in pansy-embossed
velvet. The bride did service with a motor
ambulance in France during the war.
Qantas (Queensland and Northern Terri-
tory Aerial Service Ltd.) is likely to extend
its regular service right into Brisbane. Since
establishment the co.’s planes have flown
565,000 miles. During December alone they
flew 14,065 miles, the increase being due to
heavy rains in West Queensland and resulting
impassable roads. One pilot flew 807 miles
in 10 hours of one day and another 748
miles in 9i hours of another day. The
aerial ambulance brought two critieally-ill
men to hospital; one, from 70 miles down the
Thompson River to Longreach, covering the
trip to hospital at 105 miles an hour. ' One
of the longest taxi trips was from Longreach
to Deniliquin (1000 miles) in days of
stops and flying time. In the Christmas
freight for the bush was an 801 b. cod from
Normanton, ducks, fowls, ham, a Christmas
tree, many cases of fruit, snake skins and a
military sword. From Normanton to Long-
reach Qantas delivered Christmas mails in
three days; the ordinary route takes 27 days.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The engagement is announced of lan Hay-
ward, one of Adelaide’s most eligible young
bachelors, to Nan Irvine, daughter of the
Victorian C.J. The marriage is fixed for
a very early date. lan was one of the three
partners selected to dance with the Duchess
of York last year at the shivoo given at
Government House.
Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith, accom-
panied by their youngest daughter Ursula,
left by the Narkunda for London.. The Vic-
toria League hospitality committee gave them
a bon-voyage morning tea party at the Pic-
cadilly, North-terrace. Miss Murray, pre-
sident of the hospitality committee, did the
honors, and there was a good muster of
members.
When the Amateur Turf Club held its
recent meeting at Cheltenham Park the
chairman, W. A. A. West, being a bachelor,
Mrs. A. V. Benson, wife of Dr. A. V. Ben-
son, chairman of the Port Adelaide Racing
Club, acted as hostess at the ladies’ luncheon
party. She wore a pale green and beige stripe
silk frock, with a beige hat. Frocking on
the whole ran to georgette, worn with felt
crowns. Mrs. Allan McFarlane looked smart
in black georgette, worn with a wide-brimmed
black hat; her daughter Betty chose pale
green and a fawn lid. Mrs. F. A. Tennant
was in white georgette and hat to match.
Mrs. A. M. Toll favored biscuit crepe de
Chine with dark blue aloft.
Mrs. J. L. Price, wife of the retiring
Agent-General for South Australia, is return-
ing from England this month with her
family. Her husband is waiting to hand over
the keys of the office safes and cupboards to
Henry Barwell.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The great racing event of the year ' for
Tasmanians is over. The weather was perfect,
and Elwick looked a picture. The O’Gradys
were there, of course, Margaret in a frock
of deep red georgette, draped in front, and
worn with a big black picture hat. The
vice-regal party included Commander and
Mrs. Eardley Wilmot, and Betty Perry
(Longford), with N. E Somers in attend-
ance.
Mrs. Tom Lyons entertained vice-royalty
and a host of friends at tea, gowned in black
and beige georgette, and a tall hat with a
coque feather springing from a gold buckle.
Her two pretty daughters helped in the
entertainment. The Ashbolts were among
the guests: the laay was in gunmetal lace
inset with bands of beige lace over cream,
and a picture hat in cream with clusters of
grapes and a touch of purple velvet. Gun-
metal was sported as a color (if such it can
be calledi by several women. The Tom
Clarkes, mother and daughters, made an
effective trio. Alys Jones’s honey-colored
georgette and lace turnout, with fairly long
coat and heavy guipure trimmings, was
attractive.
Among country folk at the races were the
R. C. Fields, the Russell Ibbotts, Mr. and
Mrs. Eustace Cameron and family, Col. and
Mrs. H. Foster with their son and daughters,
the P. W. 11. Clarkes, Mrs. E. O. Bisdee
and daughters, the R. C. Fields, Mrs. Dan
Archer, the Ivo Agnews and Miss Leake..
The Tom Tabarts were over' 4 from Mel-
bourne, also the Merson Coopers. And
from the fleet in port came Capt. and Mrs.
Harrison, the Masseys, Capt. Garsia,
Commander and Mrs. Koeidge, Engineer-
Commander Bridge, Commander Ringrose,
Dr. Flattery and Commander and Mrs.
Rhodes.
Margaret O’Grady gave a jolly dance to
about 150 of the younger set in the charming
old ballroom at Government House. The
officers of the warships in port made a good
addition to the number of dancing men, and
the frocking was effective. Margaret’s own
dress of “new blue” georgette had the curious
peacock back to the skirt so much in vogue,
A committee of 21 girls, with Nora Per-
kins as lion, sec., was responsible for a gay
little shivoo at the Winter Garden. The
decorations, and also the dresses of the
hostesses, were in orange and lemon tones,
and there were clusters of orange and lemon-
colored balloons tied to the black beams
of the ceiling. Mrs. Sheppard’s orchestra
made the music, and the Trocadero turned
out the supper.
Mrs. Wilfred Giblin gave a smart at-home
at the Queen Mary Club by way of a
welcome to her sister, Miss Maxwell, just
back from Europe. Mrs. Giblin hostessed
in black with touches of royal blue, and
the guest of honor was in printed georgette
in rose and black. Nancy and Betty, the
two handsome Giblin girls, supported tlicir
mother.
Nina, third daughter of the George Craggs,
well known in Launceston social circles,
announces her engagement to Sinclair
Thynne, of Clieam, Launceston.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Golden-voiced Veronica Mansfield is being
married in July to Basil Parsons in London.
She will continue studying at the Royal Col-
lege of Music, and lias been invited to play
the title-role in Gluck’s “Orpheus” for the
Welwyn Garden City Musical Society. Ida
Geddes, another Westralian songbird who
studied here with Frank Robertson, receives
flattering press notices in the Big Town. She
recently attended a reception given by Back-
haus, and sang several numbers to his accom-
paniment.
Prof. Irving has been gfven God-speeds by
the University and Alliance Frangaise. His
six months’ leave will be spent in France
and Germany probing recent developments
in philology and archaeology. On his
return he will relinquish lectures and settle
on his farm.
Organist Iladyn Hardwick’s sister Alice
arrived from England, and will take the
job in Katanning of resident music mistress
at Ivobeeylia. She filled a similar position at
Orleton, Scarborough, a prep, school for
Eton and Harrow. Another member of
the musical family, Barbara, Hadyn Hard-
wick’s daughter, arrives from England this
month, arid will also join the Ivobeeylia staff.
The Oronsav brings Major and Mrs. Kerr-
Pearse back early next month. While in
England they visited Sir Francis Newdegate
where he happily tills the soil and grows
chickens in Warwickshire.


THE
PORT OF HULL
for reception of
Frozen Meat exported to
Great Britain.
Cold Storage, 890,000 Cubic Feet.
Prompt Despatch in Refrigerator
Waggons to All Parts of the
Country by Express Trains of the
London and North-Eastern Railway
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, P'HILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway in
the World.
PARIS FAIR
MAY 12 to 28, 1928.
TRAVELLERS TO EUROPE—DO NOT
MISS THIS INTERESTING EXHIBIT OF
PARISIAN INDUSTRIES!
Full particulars may be obtained' from the
FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
G. BADER, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
7b be healthu -
drink
The Bulletin
the finest
tonic food
drink
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
OUT OF THE MIST.
BY.J. A. HETHERINGTON.
A HAZE of smoke lxad settled over the
long tables. The room hummed with
the sound of fifty voices discussing
fifty different subjects. White shirt-fronts
glistened; diamond studs sparkled.
There was a shuffling of feet at the central
table and the noise of a chair bumping over
the floor as it was pushed back. Instantly
tongues ceased their gossip and eyes were
turned to the tall man—once a commanding
figure, now inclining to obesity—who stood,
waiting in silence. One or two chatterers,
who had celebrated the old days in France a
little too freely, were nudged into silence by
their neighbors. Group-Captain Bayley was
able still to inspire respect, though his
official authority over these men was ended.
“Gentlemen, I have a duty to perform
i'o-night which is both pleasant and un-
pleasant,” he said. “First, I have to intro-
duce Captain Foulard, the famous French
ace.”
His announcement was greeted with a
ripple of polite handclapping, and Foulard,
who sat at Bayley’s left, half-rose from his
chair and bowed. The coterie of pressmen at
a separate table dropped their pencils and
lolled back, uninterested.
“Gentlemen, you all know Captain Fou-
lard too well to need an outline of his career
from me. He is here to-night because he was
travelling in Australia when this dinner
of Australian Flying Corps officers was
planned. He was anxious to be present, as
an ambassador of his country’s aerial fight-
ing forces—and for another reason.”
Bayley’s voice had grown hard.
“It seems a great wrong has been done
Captain Foulard —and, incidentally, France
There is little doubt in my mind that Aus-
tralia has unwittingly usurped honor that
was due to him and his country. He has
discussed the matter with myself, and with
another of our number, Lieutenant Jones,
whom it concerns vitally.”
The barrage of eyes was turned on Lieu-
tenant Jones, who sat at the main table,
removed from Bayley’s right hand by three
senior officers. Every man in the room knew
Jones —Swivel Jon.es as he was known in
France. He smiled, seeming conscious, de-
spite his sightless eyes, of the general interest
in himself. He fingered the bit of red ribbon
on the lapel of his dinner-jacket—the symbol
of a nation’s gratitude for the destruction
of Lieutenant von Meuller, sometimes known
as the Black Ace, champion Fokker-fighter
of Germany.
The blind man’s valet, who accompanied
him to all public functions, stood behind
Jones’s chair. He was a quiet, unobtrusive
servant and seemed to divine his master’s
every wish.
Bayley was speaking again.
“Now, gentlemen, I come to the unpleasant
part of my duty. While I desire sincerely to
see justice done, it is repugnant to me to
have to tell you that Captain Foulard has
proved to m.e that the honor for bringing
down Lieutenant von Meuller on November
20, 1917, was awarded to the wrong man.”
Although it was apparent that Bayley had
more to say, a buzz of amazed talk rose all
round the tables. Unbelievingly, men con-
sulted their neighbors. Could this be true?
Jones’s right to the credit had never been
questioned.
Bayley stood stiffly, the knuckles of his
closed hands resting on the tablecloth.
Foulard lit a cigarette and smoked uncon-
cernedly.
The reporters had sprung suddenly from
lethargy to action. They had expected this
dinner to be worth only an unimportant news
item. But Bayley’s revelation contained all
the elements of a big story.
Group-Captain Bayley raised his hand and
the company was silent again.
“When Captain F'oulard told me his amaz-
ing story I advised him to refrain from pub-
lishing it until this evening,” he said. “I
told him an announcement made to-night
would secure probably more space in the
newspapers and carry more weight with the
public than could be expected as the result
of a casual interview.
“Gentlemen, I will leave the story to one
who knows the circumstances much better
than myself—Captain Foulard.”
The Frenchman stood, bowing and smiling.
He was calm and seemed entirely at ease.
Despite his diminutive stature, he made an
impressive figure standing with one hand on
the table, the fingers of the other playing
nonchalantly with his small black moustache,
waxed and clipped.
“Gentlemen, I hope no one will misunder-
stand me. I have no wish to cast a reflection
upon the achievements of Lieutenant Jones.
As a man, he would be a credit to any ser-
vice ; as a flying officer, his record speaks for
itself. But my object is to make clear to
Australia and the world that the credit for
bringing down Von Meuller belongs to
France.”
He spoke in a cool, dry voice with only a
slight trace of his native accent.
“No doubt, you all remember Von Meuller.
He was a wonderfully fine airman, possessing
a skill that was uncanny. All of you know
of his stunt-fighting and the bravery with
which he attempted feats that seemed impos-
sible of performance. He was a daredevil
whom every airman had to respect, even
though he belonged to the enemy.”
He glanced about the room to see what
effect his words were making.
“In November, 1917, the Allied forces were
fighting side by side to repel the advance of
Ilindenburg’s army on the Cambrai front. But
their activities were hampered by the enemy
’planes. Lieutenant von Meuller was the
most daring German airman on that front,
and his madcap escapades were the talk of
our lines. Every day there was a long list
of casualties due to the Black Ace’s ‘spring-
cleaning.’
“Then, on a very memorable day for both
Lieutenant Jones and myself, I left our base
early in the morning to reconnoitre the posi-
tion of an enemy battery from the air. A
mist was spread l-iglit over the countryside
and I mounted to ten thousand feet to clear
it. I could see nothing below me—nothing
except the mist, covering the earth like a
thick blanket. I kept on, however, until I
judged myself to be above the German lines.
I dropped my machine lower and lower.
THE RECORD-SMASHER.
GUEST : “Well, I think you’re the luckiest woman in the Territory with your house-boy.
Fancy having one for three years without a spell!”
HOSTESS: “Yes, dear—but you’ve got no idea how many breaks he’s had."
but it was useless. I could see nothing. I
circled about a bit, trying to sight the
German lines, but the mist made observa-
tion impossible and I was forced finally to
turn my machine for home.”
Someone coughed and the sound was as
startling as the striking of a forgotten clock
in a lonely house at midnight.
“It was very silent. The white fingers of
the mist were about me. Then I climbed
again, verified my bearings and set off for
our own lines. I was flying at a comfortable
speed—just going along pleasantly, as
though on a peace-time jaunt.
“Suddenly my ears caught a sound like the
beating of distant drums. I glanced up-
ward. Two thousand feet above me a
gigantic bird was tumbling toward my ’plane.
In that instant I knew I had to deal with
Von Meuller. He was the only German air-
man who employed that hazardous method
of dropping from great heights to engage an
enemy.
“Barely five hundred feet above me he
flattened out and made his swoop. I knew
his game. He meant to fight me as he had
fought so many others —to dive, spraying my
machine with machine-gun bullets as he
went by.
“I waited for the critical moment and
zoomed away. The move was made just in
time, for Von Meuller’s machine-gun was
crackling. It seemed to be laughing fiend-
ishly. I cruised away like a startled pigeon,
trying to devise some means of luring this
aerial acrobat into a trap. A few of Ins
bullets had struck my machine, tearing
through the body without causing any
material damage.
“The dive carried Von Meullcr’s ’plane two
thousand feet earthward. When I looked
he was flattening out in preparation pro-
bably for another ascent and attack.
“That was the manner of fighting employed
invariably by the Fokkers. They learned
it from those two adventurers ot the sky,
Immelmann and Boelcke. I was racking
my brains to determine how I should meet
the next attack, for Von Meullcr's ’plane was
faster and more easy of management than
mine, when there was a diversion.
“From out of the mist, the sunlight glitter-
ing on its wings, came a single-seater Sop-
with—a British ’plane. I didn’t know at
the time, but the pilot of that machine was
Lieutenant Jones.”
The Blind Ace smiled, but there was some
intangible element of sadness in the smile.
Behind his chair the valet stood calmly,
his face an inscrutable mask.
“I saw immediately that the Sopwith in-
tended to engage Von Meullcr’s Fokker, and
I circled to be able to lend a hand. But
I was too distant to be of any assistance
when the pair came together. The Sopwith
went at the German like a terrier. The
crackle of firing came to me. Then the
two ’planes separated.
“The Sopwith won the advantage for the
next move by sweeping above the German.
But I could not realise what the British
pilot meant to do. He seemed to be steady-
ing his machine and measuring the distance.
Suddenly it dawned on me that he was out
to play the German at his own game.
“For a moment he circled. Then he shot
downward like a stone, imitating Yon Meul-
ler’s trick of spraying his enemy’s machine
with bullets.
“The Fokker appeared to wobble, and I
thought the Sopwith’s hair-brained plan had
succeeded. But then I realised the ingenuity
of the German and his masterly grasp of
aerial warfare. He had pretended deliber-
ately that his ’plane was disabled to lead
the Sopwith into a well-considered trap.
“As the British ’plane stormed past the
supposedly disabled Fokker, the Black Ace
opened fire at short range. What happened
I did not know then. The pilot of the Sop-
with seemed to lose control and his machine
side-slipped and tumbled to the earth, turn-
ing over and over. Of course I know now
that he was blinded by the German’s bullets.
“But I realised that Von Meuller had
added another victim to liis long list. In
the next two minutes the fiercest air-battle
of the war was fought in the morning sun-
light above the mist that covered the land
forces. I can’t remember the details very
clearly.
“The German, seemingly, had forgotten me
in his fight with the Sopwith, and I swooped
on him before he had time to try any fancy
tricks. I came at him from above. I fired
until the machine-gun belts were empty.
Then a fog seemed to clear from my eyes
and I saw Von Meuller’s machine tumbling
earthwards.”
Captain Foulard glanced at the faces about
him. He knew he had gripped his audience
and convinced them.
“Gentlemen, that part of the story is un-
known to any living person but myself,” he
said. “You have only my word. Von
Meuller could substantiate it, but he is dead
—killed in the crash of his machine.”
He paused.
“After I had seen the German machine
spinning earthwards I realised 1 had been
badly hit. My compass was useless and the
machine was crippled partially. I had no
idea which way to turn for the Allied lines.
So I drew a bow at a venture and struck
off on a chance course. I was out of luck.
My guess was a bad one and I landed three
miles behind the German lines, where I was
seized and locked up in a prison camp until
the end of the war.
“When I returned to my own country I
learned the misapprehension that had grown
up about Von Meuller’s death. It was said
lie had been brought down by a young Aus-
tralian pilot—Lieutenant Jones. The Aus-
tralian was found, still alive, but with the
sight of both eyes shot away in the wreckage
of his machine.
“In a river, about half a mile distant, lay
the remains of Von Meuller’s ’plane. The
Black Ace’s body was missing, and it was
surmised it had been carried away by the
current.
“At first I was indignant, thinking Lieu-
tenant Jones had lied deliberately to gain the
honor for bringing down Germany’s most
famous pilot. But then I came to believe
that Lieutenant Jones was genuine in the
story he had told—a story, may I say, that
was supported by the circumstances in which
the machines were found.
“I have never told this story before,
gentlemen. I felt it would be despicable to
take the credit for such a glorious achieve-
ment from a blind man. But I have been
thinking the matter over since I came to
Australia. I realise I have been wrong all
along. The credit for this deed belongs to
France —and to France it should go.”
The Frenchman resumed liis seat. An
amazed silence followed his final remarks.
He had told his story in a simple, straight-
forward manner, and it was unbelievable
that a man should have concocted such a
convincing narrative.
There was a rustle at the main table and
Lieutenant Jones’s valet helped the blind
man to his feet. He was greeted with
thunderous applause. He lifted his hand
and smiled. He seemed less concerned than
any other man in the room.
“Gentlemen, I pride myself that I am a
sportsman,” he said. “This is the second
time I have heard Captain Foulard’s story.
I have every faith in Captain Foulard's
integrity. It is quite evident to me how
this mistake occurred.
“We must remember that a wrong has
been done and it must be righted. Only
let me say that if any word of mine was
responsible in part for this terrible error, I
apologise most sincerely to Great Britain,
France, Captain Foulard and yourselves.”
He sat down and men began to shuffle un-
comfortably. Even Group-Captain Bayley
seemed at a loss. He was consulting with
his right-hand neighbor, seeking advice
evidently as to the best course to adopt.
But the dilemma was solved in a startling
manner. Lieutenant Jones’s valet —the man
who seemed never to speak—stepped forward
and placed his hand on the edge of the
table.
“May I say a few words?” he asked,
glancing at Bayley. “I believe I may be
able to throw some light on this question.
Group-Captain Bayley seemed undecided.
“Most irregular,” he said, “I don’t see
what you can know about the case. Still
....this is a unique question. I am com-
pletely satisfied with Captain Foulards
story. But, if you can add something to
it”
The valet acknowledged the chairmans
permission with a slight inclination of his
head.
“I don’t wish to add anything to what
Captain Foulard has said,” he answered.
“I wish to correct it, though.”
Captain Foulard was on his feet.
“What impudence!” he cried. His face
was white and angry. He gripped Bayley by
the shoulder. “Will you let me be insulted
in this way?”


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland' and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank°ofTors the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
AUTUMN MEETING.
RANDWICK RACECOURSE.
April 7,9, 11 and 14, 1928.
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, APRIL 7.
The First Hurdle Race. £750 added.
ABOUT TWO MILES.
The Autumn Stakes
(Standard Weight-for-Age). £2500 added.
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
The Doncaster Handicap. £3OOO added.
ONE MILE. (Entries closed.)
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes. £5OOO added.
SEVEN FURLONGS. (Entries closed.)
The A.J.C. St. Leger. £2500 added.
ONE MILE AND THREE-QUARTERS.
(Entries closed.)
The Highweight Handicap. £lOOO added.
Lowest handicap weight, Bst.
SEVEN FURLONGS.
SECOND DAY, MONDAY, APRIL 9.
The Flying Handicap. £lOOO added.
SIX FURLONGS.
The Easter Stakes. £lOOO added.
For two-year-olds that have not won a
race (other than a handicap) of the value
of £lOOO to the winner at time of running.
Colts, Bst. 21b.; fillies, Bst.; geldings, 7st.
131 b. The winner of any race (not a han-
dicap) of the value of £5OO to the winner to
carry 71b. extra. Maidens at time of run-
ning allowed 71b.
SEVEN FURLONGS.
The Sydney Cup. £6OOO added, and a
Gold Cup valued at £2OO.
TWO MILES. (Entries closed.)
The First Steeplechase. £750 added.
ABOUT TWO MILES AND A QUARTER
The Wentworth Handicap. £lOOO added.
For two-year-olds. SIX FURLONGS.
The Tocal Handicap. £'l 000 added.
ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
THIRD DAY, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11.
The Second Hurdle Race. £750 added.
ABOUT TWO MILES AND THREE
FURLONGS.
The All-Aged Stakes
(Standard Weight-for-Age) . £3OOO added.
ONE MILE.
The Coogee Handicap. £lOOO added.
ONE MILE AND A FURLONG.
The Champagne Stakes. £3OOO added.
SIX FURLONGS. (Entries closed.)
The Cumberland Stakes
(Standard Weight-for-Age) . £2OOO added.
TWO MILES.
The City Handicap. £lOOO added.
ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, APRIL 14.
The Rons Handicap. £lOOO added.
Lowest handicap weight, 7st. 71b.
SEVEN FURLONGS.
The Dangar Handicap. £lOOO added.
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
The Second Steeplechase. £750 added.
ABOUT THREE MILES.
The Fernhill Handicap. £lOOO added.
For two-year-olds.
SEVEN FURLONGS.
The King’s Cup. £2OOO added, and a Gold
Cup valued at £ 100, the gift of His
Majesty the King.
(Entries Closed.)
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
The Final Handicap. £lOOO added.
Lowest handicap weight, 7st.
ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
Note. —The General Entries for the above
Meeting are to be made with the Secretary
of the A.J.C., Sydney; V.R.C., Melbourne;
Q.T.C., Brisbane; S.A. J.C., Adelaide;
W.A.T.C., Perth; W.R.C., Wellington
(N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; or N.J.C.,
Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m. on MON-
DAY, 12th MARCH, 1928. The First For-
feit for the A.J.C. St. Leger (forfeit £1),
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes (forfeit £1),
and Champagne Stakes (forfeit £1) may be
declared and paid to the Secretary of the
A.J.C., Sydney; V.R.C., Melbourne; Q.T.C.,
Brisbane; S.A.J.C., Adelaide; W.A.T.C.,
Perth; W.R.C., Wellington (N.Z.) ; or
T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.), before 4 o’clock p.m.
on MONDAY, 12tli MARCH, 1928. The
hirst Forfeit for the Doncaster Handicap
and Sydney Cup may be declared to the fore-
going and the Secretary, N.J.C., Newcastle,
before 4 o’clock p.m. on MONDAY, 19th
MARCH, 1928.
First forfeits for the King’s Cup may be
declared before 4 o’clock p.m. on THURS-
DAY, sth APRIL. 1928.
First Forfeit (£1 for each race) to be paid
with entry. If Entries are made by tele-
gram the amount of First Forfeit must be
telegraphed.
A.J.C. Rules of Racing, By-laws and
Regulations to be observed.
Owners and trainers must declare
penalties incurred and claim allowances
due at date when making entries.
C. W. CROPPER,
Secretary.
6 Bligh-street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
Warwick Farm Races.
SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 1928.
(The Saturday preceding the Randwick
Autumn Meeting.)
The Farm Stakes. £2OOO added.
For three-year-olds and upwards which
have not at time of starting won a race on
the flat (Maiden Race excepted) of the value
of £lOO to the winner. Lowest handicap
weight 7st.
(SEVEN FURLONGS.)
The Fairfield Handicap. £350 added.
For Two-year-olds. Highest handicap
weight 9st. 51b.
(SIX FURLONGS.)
The Liverpool Handicap. £5OO added.
(Entries Closed.) (SIX FURLONGS.)
The Chipping Norton Stakes.
Weight-for-age, with penalties and allow-
ances. For three-year-olds and upwards.
£lOOO added. The winner, since l/8/’27,
of any race not a handicap of the value of
£5OO to the winner to carry a penalty of
31b.; of two or more such races, a penalty
of 51b.; of any such race of the value of
£lOOO to the winner, a penalty of 71b. Pen-
alties not to be cumulative. Maidens at
time of starting allowed: Three-year-olds,
71b.; four-year-olds and upwards, 141 b.
(ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.)
The Warwick Farm Autumn Cup,
£lOOO added.
(ONE MILE & A HALF.) (Entries closed.)
The Cabramatta Handicap. £3OO added.
Lowest handicap weight 7st. 71b.
(ONE MILE.)
The General Entries for the above Meet-
ing are to be made with the Secretary of
the A.J.C., Sydney; V.R.C., Melbourne;
Q.T.C., Brisbane; S.A.J.C., Adelaide;
W.A.T.C., Berth (W.A.) ; W.R.C., Welling-
ton (N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; or
N.J.C., Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m. on
Monday, March 12, 1928.
£1 (Forfeit) must accompany each entry.
If entries are made by telegram, the
amount of forfeit must also be telegraphed.
Weights for minor events to be declared
at 9.30 a.m. on Monday, March 26, 1928,
or such other time as the Committee may
appoint.
The A.J.C. Rules of Racing, By-Laws and
Regulations to be observed.
Owners and trainers must declare
penalties incurred and claim allowances
due at date when making entries.
C. W. CROPPER,
6 Bligh Street, Sydney. Secretary.
\
tv*
\c»
I'M
<t\N e
W C
\\ T *
ViV-
VWC
\\ey
s !i
few
6^
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
GWY
HAIEt
WOULD
1 SPOIL
IT
TALCUM
ib\W’'//rr Vv
X
The Ideal Powder
For Daily Use
This pure, delicately med-
icated, antiseptic powder
does much to overcome ex-
cessive perspiration. It sooth-
es and cools, is convenient
and economical and is an
ideal face, skin, baby and
dusting powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d.,Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Bayley stood up and roared for silence.
“I cannot allow you to talk like that,”
he said to the valet. “Stand back at once.”
“I refuse,” the man said, and his cold,
even tones carried more force than Foulard’s
indignant shouts. “You gave me your per-
mission to speak and I decline to stand down.
Captain Foulard has attempted to take the
credit for a great achievement from a blind
man. Do you want justice or not?”
Bayley seemed impressed by the steadiness
of the valet’s assertion and he waved his
hand as a sign that the man might pro-
ceed. Foulard subsided into liis chair. He
was smiling ironically and playing nervously
with three lumps of sugar on the table.
A sudden silence had fallen on the room.
Every eye was on the face of the valet. His
voice was smooth when he continued his
narrative.
“The early part of Captain Foulard’s story
was correct,” he said. “When Captain
Foulard said Von Meuller employed his
favorite trick of diving and spraying the
enemy machine with bullets, he spoke truth.
But Foulard’s machine was struck and dis-
abled after that first onset. It was able
only to cruise away, crippled and useless
for fighting purposes.
“The Black Ace was about to follow it
and finish his work when his attention was
distracted. From out of the mist, just as
Foulard said, a Sopwith came tearing to-
wards him. The Fokker had just recovered
its equilibrium as the Sopwith stormed by,
firing a hail of bullets that caused no serious
damage.
“Von Meuller was shaken slightly by the
suddenness of the attack, and almost before
he realised it the British machine was a
thousand feet overhead, preparing apparently
to essay the diving-spraying tactics. As the
Sopwith began to drop, the Black Ace
attempted an Immelmann turn. But he was
too late. His engine was working badly
and he lay there, as though chained to the
sky. :
“Impotently he waited for the bullets that
must come. Suddenly, his machine shivered
and rolled drunkenly. He saw the Sopwith
slide past and, in that instant, he was im-
pelled to attempt a last-minute revenge,
lie rained a dozen shots in the direction of
the Sopwith’s cockpit. Then his own machine
was dropping like a stone to the ground,
spinning round and round, its tail almost
cut away by the Australian’s bullets.
“The Black Ace always had phenomenal
luck, however, and his machine fell into a
river. He was thrown clear of the wreck-
age and lay unconscious on the bank, where
he was picked up many hours later by two
German stretcher-bearers. For days he was
as good as dead. Then natural vigor won
him back to health. His fighting for the
FAtlierland was over, however, for one leg
was smashed so badly that it had to be
amputated.”
The valet let his eyes rove about the
room.
“Now, gentlemen, are you satisfied with
Captain Foulard’s story? Or, do you think
mine is the truthful version?”
An ironical laugh broke from Captain
Foulard.
“I’m satisfied the man’s mad,” he said.
“What does he know of the incident? Who
are you, anyway?”
The valet stood for a moment, absorbing
the doubtful expressions on the faces of his
audience. A look of triumph seemed for a
brief instant to pass over his face.
But he spoke in that same calm, even
voice he had used throughout his story.
“I am a valet. My name is Robert Wills
.... now. Once it was Lieutenant von
Meuller, the Black Ace. Gentlemen, I give
you a toast. ‘Lieutenant Jones, airman
■ and gentleman.’ ”
Bullocky Bill’s Strategy.
BILL BOWEN had forty of the finest
bullocks that ever switched tails. He
bred ’em, reared ’em, and, as they
grew, paired them. It was common know-
ledge that any score of Bill’s bullocks could
shift fifteen tons as easily as they could
shift fifteen hundredweight.
Returning to town late one evening with
a £9O cheque in his pocket and the last of
Teran station’s wool on the waggon, Bill
decided to camp at the Five Mile. For years
the shanty had been well patronised by team-
sters, who looked on it as a sort of rendez-
vous when going to or coming from the
town. Of late, however, there had been a
marked falling off due to the ambiguous
methods of the new licensee.
It was dark when Bill drew his team into
the timber in front of the shanty. Judging
by the number of flickering fires, he esti-
mated that four other road-men had made
the Five Mile the night’s camp. As there
was no movement about the waggons he
concluded that the teamsters were in the
shanty.
An hour later, after having belled his bul-
locks on good grass, and feeling well satis-
fied after a meal, Bill sauntered into the
shanty and called for drinks for the crowd.
That started the fun.
The five were commencing to lurch on their
feet when into the fuddled brain of Bill came
the thought of the open £9O cheque in his
pocket. For a few moments those memory
cells unaffected by the shanty-brewed rum
recalled tales told by other road men of
being robbed at this shanty, and his partly
stupefied brain formed a plan. Staggering
to one end of the counter he leaned across
and addressed the publican’s wife.
“Misshus,” he said, “will y’ (hie)
take care o’ zhish till mornin’?” “Zhish”
was the cheque.
The woman stretched out a claw and took
the paper. “All right, Bill,” she whispered,
“I’ll look after it for you,” and with a furtive
glance about the bar she slipped the cheque
in the till.
_ Next morning Bill sat up and staggered to
his feet. Slowly his bloodshot eyes gazed
around the yard until they encountered a
barrel standing under the eaves of the shanty,
beside a gigantic coolabah-tree. Thither he
went and by pushing his head in and out
of the water several times, freshened himself
up considerably.
Passing through the ramshackle shanty he
walked into the bar, where the other team-
sters were already gathered with an object
similar to Bill’s. ,
When a second rum had followed the
first with scarcely a length between them,
the teamster approached the publican s wire.
“I’ll have that cheque now, missus, he
said, leaning one elbow on the counter. I d
have lost it f’r a cert if I hadn’t given it
t’ you.” .
“Cheque? What cheoue are you talkm
about?” The sharp features across the
counter were screwed tight as the words
were snaDned out. ,
“W’y,” fumbled Bill, taken aback— wy,
th’ cheque f’r ninety quid I gave y’ t mind
lars’ night.”
“You never gave me a cheque larst night.
Here, men!” she called, “here’s Bowen
sayin’ I have a cheque of his for ninety
pounds which I am supposed to be takin
care of. Did any of you see him hand me a
cheque?”
No, no one had.
Bill looked at the woman and forced a
sickly smile.
“Well, I’m sorry, missus,” he murmured,
and his voice seemed surprisingly _ calm, ‘I
musta made a mistake.” And bidding every-
one so-long he left the shanty.
For some time the woman was complai-
santly entertained by her thoughts. Then her
reverie was interrupted by the pleasant sound
of bullock bells. Soon, she soliloquised, soon
Bowen would be on his way, and then there
would be no fear of arguments. The big
simp! .
For half an hour she waited impatiently
for the sound of the teamster’s voice; and she
was on the point of leaving the bar and
going to see how he was progressing with
his yoking up when the men called for re-
fills.
Turning to execute the orders her heart
gave a thump as a bottle of whisky rocked
on the shelf, then crashed to the floor, fol-
lowed by others.
“My God, an earthquake!” screamed the
woman, rushing from the bar, closely fol-
lowed by her customers.
Out on the front verandah all stopped
short. Hitched to a long twisted-wire rope
which apparently encircled the old shanty,
and pulling very gently, were twenty superb
bullocks. Standing close to the leaders and
crooning softly to them was Bill.
“Not too much, laddies,” he was saying.
“Jest keep that steady strain w’ile. I have
a yarn with th’ lady inside.” Turning, he
saw the people on the verandah. “Ah, there
you are, missus.” Hs grinned at the pub-
lican’s wife. “You’re jest in time t’ ’and
over me cheque.”
“Cheque!” screamed the woman, fighting
to the last. “You’re mad! I haven’t any
cheque of yours. If Jim wus home you
wouldn’t treat me like this.”
“All right.” Bill turned to his team and
began to talk. “Now, laddies, I don’t want
it t’ fall with a rush. Gently does it, sons.
Now, all together.... Whoa /”
In perfect unison the bullocks had begun
to double to the strain ; but at the sudden
command they eased just as the woman
rushed up and flung a piece of paper at Bill’s
feet.
“There’s your cheque,” she shrilled. “And
may you drop stone dead ! If Jim had been
home”- she broke off and glared venom-
ously.
Still grinning, Bill stooped and picked up
the lost order, inspected it, then put it well
inside his vest.
“Yairs,” he drawled, rubbing his chin re-
flectively, “if Jim was ’ome things would
’ave bin much different. With ’alf th’ pull
they ’ad on jest now, th’ bullocks would ’ave
jerked tli’ Five Mile ’ead over turkey. But
cos y’ wuz on y’ own, I hitched ’em on ter
th’ big coolabah-tree at th’ back! Still,” and
Bowen surveyed the shanty—“still, th’
beauties squeezed th’ walls sufficient t’ shake
me cheque outer y\ didn’t they?”
And, leaving his query unanswered, Bill
began to unhitch his team.
JIM McCARTER.
Dawn’s Picture.
This was the picture the rosy dawn showed
me
As, early up, hy the harbor I strode;
High clouds deep mirrored in depths and in
shallows,
Sunk clouds that glowed as the clouds
above glowed.
Lone, yet not lonesome, as onward I
wandered,
Breathing air fine as the finest of wine,
Trees mirrored also I saw in the waters —
Fig-tree and oak-tree and gum-tree and
pine.
While things a-weary, all things that had
slept not,
Soft as a kind hand a breeze came to
soothe,
Curved to a crescent a beach lay beside me,
Salt-white and sparkling, and slanting and
smooth.
Moved the tide swiftly with low liquid noises,
Bearing its garnering seaward and out —
Flotsam adrift on the breast of the waters
Rising and dipping and circling about.
Glad of safe haven, her siren loud shrilling,
Peace after wind-war and wave-war ahead,
Strceling a white wake up harbor a coaster,
Rails shining bright in the early gleams,
sped.
Over green islands that floated in stillness,
Searching coves neighbored by headlands
that stooped,
Seizing and preying on what the sea sent
them,
Red of leg, wide of wing, silver gulls
swooped.
Fishermen, too, made a part of the painting,
Fishermen rowing with oar-blades afoam.
Making for market to barter their harvest,
Singing of northern skies, singing of home.
Green lawns dew-moistened and sloping
shore gardens,
Rocks gleaming whitely and ripples that
played—
Such was the picture the rosy dawn showqd
me
As, early up, by the harbor I strayed.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Colonel Lindbergh
USES
9
Solo Flight from New York t° Paris in 33 2 hours.
Aerial Tour of U.5.A.—22,350 miles in schedule time.
2000-mile Non-stop Flight from Washingion to Mexico.
Central American Tour, including some notable “hops”
such as Flight from Maracay (Venezuela) to St.
Thomas (Virgin Islands) 1000 miles in 102 hours.
Supreme confidence in his ’plane, “Spirit of
St. Louis,” and in its ability to function
perfectly on Mobiloil —the World’s Quality Oil —
have characterised Colonel Lindbergh’s daring
exploits. Of particular interest to Australian
motorists is the fact that
—the same quality Mobiloil used by
Colonel Lindbergh may be obtained
from any garage
VACUUM
». . ' . i s'. ’
OIL COMPANY PTY., Ll^


&rtz/rifo
LIQUEUR
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY. 2nd to 11th APRIL, 1928.
NINE DAYS. FIVE NIGHTS.
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE:
WINES 28th February
HORSES (Including Trotting Events) 3rd March
CATTLE sth March
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES, AND CAGE BIRDS . . 6th & 7th March
DOGS Bth March
AGRICULTURE (including Fruits, Apiculture, and Cookery) 9th March
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) 9th March
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Endeavor House, 33 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.
G. G. SOMERVILLE, Secretary.
THE TOKEN.
BY
ALYS BROWN.
LIALI squatted between her father and
her grandmother, after serving the
J evening meal. She had dipped out the
last shellful of broth from the big cooking-
pot into Magani’s wooden bowl. Magani
always liked the bottoms of the pot, sloppy
bits of soft yam and shreds of fish, easy for
toothless gums to mumble.
The family circle at the fire was large
to-night, for the seven sons of Magani had
been to the Government station on the coast
to pay the poll-tax, and had come to give
their old mother the news of the road —
if Soni’s coming wedding-feast; of the dance
at Kupiri; whispers of Maro’s shame; of
deaths and births: gleanings of gossip from
each village on the track.
The old woman heard the news sourly
and scolded Liali for the bit of yam that had
burnt to the pot. She jeered at Maro’s trouble
and sneered and gibed with bitter tongue,
until Seari, her eldest son, spoke of the
bags of money lying on the Government
table, the fruits of the tax. Then her
smouldering anger broke out. Her beady
little eyes narrowed to pinpoints and she
turned on Seari furiously. “Money that
bloodless simpletons like my sons give to the
Government!” she raved. “Money that
should be spent on pigs and dogs. Pah! I
have no patience with you men—nay, not
men; boys. You let the white men tell
you what to do and what not to do. Not
a man among you like my man ! Catch your
father giving good money to the Govern-
ment ! Arrows and spears more likely.”
Then she choked, and Seari, patting her
bare, bony back until she got her wind again,
laughed gently. “Nay, mother,” he said,
“better give the pound and have peace to
hunt and fish than be as in our father's
time, every man watching his head lest it
hang in a bushman’s hut. The tax is paid,
MY WORD!
“You bin likem way this feller kiss, Lily?"
“You bin thinkem me Fay Comp’n, eh?”
and there’s an end to it for this year.
.... Poanari spoke to me this morning as I
passed through Ivupiri.”
Liali’s big brown eyes glanced swiftly
under the long lashes at her father. This
was more interesting than talk of Govern-
ment and taxes. “Poa says his son will soon
be back and the money for Liali will be
ready.”
Magani spat into the fire. “Liali shall
marry a man and no cookie boy who does
women’s work for the white man. Liali’s
man shall be a man. If I have hoys for
sons, boys who may not wear the token,
Liali shall wed a man who’s killed his
man.” She waved her skinny arms, and the
grizzled wisps of friz shook as she glared
round the fire at her stalwart offspring,
stolidly munching, more interested in the
food on their platters than in her ravings.
“Why should I give Liali, the best dancer
in Kanoa, who will own more betel-nuts and
cocoa-nuts than any other girl, to a man’s
son who can give but one pig for her two,
one mairi for her twenty? Why?” she
shrieked, pointing a broken-nailed finger at
Seari, across Liali’s face.
“Why, mother? Because we promised her
long, ago to Poanari’s son.”
Magani scrambled to her feet, shaking
with passion. “Promised her! Promised
her! And what of promises? When I
blooded you and your brothers years ago
you promised to be men, not boys with the
blood of a fish and the bones of a sago slug.
Where are the tokens my sons should wear?
Which of you wears the hornbill’s
heak? Where are the crowns of
karai’s feathers for your wives? They
are with our promise of Liiali, gone
with the wind, up in the sky. Promises !”
and she spat viciously. “Since this white
man’s Government came all things are
changed, all the old customs are gone. But
this I say, Liali will only go to a man
who can lay a head at her feet and place
the karai’s feathers on her brow for the
wedding-feast.” Her eyes gleamed, and dirty
white froth dripped from the corners of her
loose lips. “I see! I see! The head at
Liali’s feet. My sons, I see the token, the
hornbill’s beak!”
She staggered a pace and then dropped, a
little quivering bundle of skin and bone, at
Seari’s feet. Accustomed as they were to
her diatribes against the decay of the old
customs, Magani’s sons had never seen her
so violent. Tela, her youngest, muttered that
it was well that none should hear such talk,
or trouble might come to the family. Care-
fully they lifted her up the ladder into her
hut, and laid her on her sleeping mat. Liali,
with frightened eyes, hung over her, watch
ing anxiously until Magani opened her mouth
and stretched out a shaking hand. Antici-
pating her want, Liali crushed a betel-
nut, and wrapping it in a pepper-leaf popped
it between the quivering lips. A smile flitted
over Magani’s wrinkled face and she patted
the girl’s smooth arm and began to chew
contentedly at the soothing nut, so Liali,
placing the lime-gourd at her side, left her to
rest.
Outside the hut the fire was burning
brightly. The men were planning a hunting
foray for the morrow. Liali slid cautiously
away in the gathering dusk, in search of her
friend Loa. The two girls strolled up the
village street, swaying hips and tossing heads
as they passed a group of young bucks. Liali
knew her worth and charms. Her carefully-
tended mop of black hair, ornamented with
a spray of crimson-and-gold paradisia, made
a perfect frame for her plump brown face.
The full, swishing petticoat of finest fibre
showed' red and black in even
stripes. Two rounded little vir-
gin breasts, uncovered and un-
adorned, bobbed seductively in
unison with the sway of the
lithe body.
juinking arms, the two girls
strolled on until they reached
the end of the straggling street,
where, as the shadows began to
thicken, they turned. It was
not safe to go further, for the
bush grew close to the last hut,
and who knows what vata-vatas
lurk in hiding as evening falls?
A deep shadow under the last
hut moved and Loa gave a little
scream. “Did I frighten thee,
Loa?” said the shadow.
Loa affected anger. “Birepo !
Why are you skulking in the
darkness like a ghost? I thought
you had gone back to your vil-
lage.” And her cousin Birepo
emerged into the street.
Loa pulled at Liali’s arm.
“Come, it grows dark,” she
said; but Birepo stood in the
way.
“Not so fast, Loa. I want
to talk to Liali.”
Loa tugged again. “Come, Liali, it is
not seemly for two maidens to talk to
Birepo even if he is my cousin. He can
have nothing to say to Veru’s promised wife.”
Birepo sneered. “Veru, a white man’s
kitchen boy! What can he offer Liali?
Liali, I want you. Soon I will come to your
father and pay uncounted mairis and toias.
The fattest of pigs shall I pay for you.
Come a little way into the bush and we will
talk of them.”
Loa laughed scornfully. “Birepo, thy head
is full of the maggots that betel-nut breeds.
What shame to ask Liali such a thing!
Where are thy mairis and toias? Where
does that fat pig live? I have never seen
this wealth.” Liali gave a little taunting
laugh. “Birepo speaks of mairis, toias and
pigs. I care nothing for such things. Magani
has a bigger hoard than any of thine, Birepo.
When I marry, I tell thee both, it will be a
man who can give me” —and she thrust her
bushy head between the two cousins and
whispered the things that Magani had said.
Loa scoffed. “Come away, Liali; Magani’s
bad talk has turned thy head. If thou dost
wait until thou canst wear the karai’s crest
thou shalt die unwedded. That fashion is
dead. Men who talk fight hoe cocoanuts in
the gaol plantations. Come, I want to
sleep.”
Birepo laid a detaining hand on Liali’s
shoulder. Such a smooth rounded shoulder,
it stirred his pulses; he longed to draw her
into the bush away from Loa, but Birepo
ate too much betel-nut to be so brave.
“Listen, Liali,” he said. “Before another
moon that head shall lie at thy feet, and
here” —and he lifted his hand to his fore-
head—“here I shall wear the token that all
may see I have killed my man, and thou
shalt have a crown of the karai’s yellow
crest.”
Loa giggled rudely. “O Birepo of the
Crooked Toe, how many of my father’s betel-
nuts hast thou eaten to-day? Birepo the
brave! Birepo the killer!” She danced
away up the street, and Liali slowly fol-
lowed her.
As they said good-night at Magani’s hut
Loa took her friend to task. “Think no
more of that lying boaster. Birepo always
was a braggart. He lives on his mother’s
food, selling her yams and taro for betel-
nut that he may lie all day in the shade
and dream. His mairis and toias are but
betel-nut dreams. He has neither pig nor
dog, and he is too lazy to hunt and fish with
the men of Ivupiri. Sleep and dream of
Veru. who will bring pound-notes, which are
better than many karai’s feathers. Sleep
well, Liali.”
While grey mist still shrouded the valley
old Magani rose and hobbled down to speed
her sons to their hunting. Then she and
Liali went off to the garden by the river.
Liali set her nets and rambled off to search
the creeks for the big grey prawns which
lurk under the stones. Magani, mumbling
and grumbling at her inability to accompany
her grand-daughter, crawled into the little
garden hut to sleep the time away until
evening brought the hunters to fetch her
and Liali home.
She sucked and jnouthed a bit of sugar-
cane, and thought of the tasty meal Liali
would cook if her sons were lucky, then
dropped into the easy doze of old age. In
her dreams she lived again the days when
her husband had slept with his spear between
his knees, ever on guard. She whimpered
in her sleep as the cries of raiding warriors
rang in her ears, waking with a frightened
start to hear the white cockatoos —the karaie
—screaming and quarrelling in the trees
Sighing with relief, she dozed again.
Birepo had outstayed his welcome at his
uncle’s hut. He had come for a walk-about,
he said, but in reality lie had come to noi-
noi (cadge). He had chosen an unfortunate
time, for his uncle, having lent him the
money to pay his tax, was in no mood for
further generosity. Birepo ate the piece of
cold yam that Loa had left for his morning
meal, and after lounging about the village,
now deserted save for a few old women and
children, took the homeward track, as empty-
handed as he had come. Not even a betel-
nut in his pouch! He cursed his uncle’s
meanness, and prowled round the nearest
gardens in vain. The gardens seemed very
populous that day.
He wondered where Magani’s garden was,
and as he wondered his craving for betel-
nut became keener. It gnawed at his belly
like a rat in a cocoa-nut, and he could not
start on the long homeward track without
satisfying it. Questing here and there for
a sight of the slender feathery-topped palms,
he dawdled down the river track. The sun
grew too hot to he pleasant. The noise of
the garden folk gradually ceased, as they
crawled into the garden huts for the mid-day
rest. The bush closed in upon the track;
but there was still a garden beyond, with a
little grove of betel-palms on the river hank.
Birepo peered over the rough fence.
A slight breeze stirred the waters of the
river, making tiny wavelets against the
current. The plop, plop of little fishes at
play in the shadows made a pleasant cool
sound. The shrilling insect life of the jungle
was hushed in the great noonday heat. Every-
where was peace. Suddenly a pair of crested
pigeons, startled from their doze on the
ground under the vines, flapped heavily
across the garden. In the shady kinai- tree
the white cockatoos, roused from slumber,
raised sulphur-hued crests in anger and
screamed as though in warning, but none
noticed their cries. From their bough they
watched curiously a man who slipped across
the yam patch to the little palm-thatched
shelter.
It was Birepo, goaded by the incessant call
of liis belly for the soothing nut which had
enslaved him. Stooping at the low doorway
he peered into the semi-darkness of the hut
and saw a sleeping woman. By her side
was a bulging kiapa and a lime gourd.
Surely he could see the gleam of yellow
nuts through the netted bag? Clumsily, in
his haste to seize the coveted treasure, he
knocked over the lime-pot. A cloud of pow-
dered lime filled his nostrils. He sneezed,
and the old woman sat up in time to see
her hag disappear through the dfiorway.
Birepo heard her move and stood rigid
against the outside wall. On hands and
knees the old woman scrambled through the
opening, and Birepo, stung to action by the
fear of discovery, drove his heavy spear
between her shoulder-blades.
There was a coughing grunt, the arms and
legs sagged and the body flattened, twitched
and lay still, pinned to earth. Still grasping
the spear, Birepo, aghast with fear, scanned
the peaceful garden. Only the bright ey,es
of the karais were watching him from their
screen of leaves. Not a sound disturbed the
serenity of the noontide, save the rippling of
the river and the little fishes still plop-plop-
ping in the shallows. He planted a broad
foot on the scraggy back—the foot with the
crooked toe—and drew out the spear. Slowly
the thickening blood oozed up and filled the
jagged rent. His trembling fingers explored
the kiapa. A grunt of satisfaction, and lie
tore off the golden husk of a ripe nut with
bis blackened teeth and crunched the aro-
matic kernel; then, with blood-red saliva drip-
l ,n . lg bis drawn by the astringent
Fime, lie stood looking this way and that,
AU was , , , ,
He pushed the limp body through the door-
way and turned to go. A thought struck
him. It was the instinct of Ins headhunting
fathers. The head! He gave a cunning
laugh. The head of a man killed in battle!
Liali should have the head. He crawled into
HE’D HAD THAT LESSON.
VISITOR: “If I took two of those six apples
and you took one, what would he left?”
BRIGHT INFANT: “Three apples and an
’iding.”
the hut. Peck, peck, peck went the little
stone adze. The head was off. Then, smit-
ten by a sudden fear, he grasped it by its
grey, frizzy locks, and, clutching spear and
kiapa , sprang away across the sun-drenched
garden, shaking a trail of thick blood gouts
on the yam leaves as he plunged into the
jungle.
Panting lungs at last refused duty, and
sobbing for breath he paused as Ihe reached
a turbulent, gurgling stream. Sitting on a
rock, again crunching and grinding the sooth-
ing nut, he stripped the head, tossing the
bloody slivers of flesh into the water, where
silvery little fishes darted from rocky shadows
to seize them. With adze and sharpened
stick he worked until the skull was bare.
Wrapping it in broad-bladed lily leaves, and
tying it with a strong swathe of grass, he
leaped the creek and made for his village.
* * * *
With a full bag of prawns, Liali sauntered
along the jungle paths to meet the hunting
party, and it was late afternoon before
they trooped into the garden with their
trophies—a fine cassowary, a cuscus and two
hornbills.
It was Liali who found Magani’s headless
trunk. Her shrill cries brought the brothers
to the spot. Crowding the little hut they
gazed on the mangled body with hearts full
of grief and rage. With trembling lips they
auestioned who could have done this thing.
Bushmen from the mountains? A family
enemy? A pay-back?
Ordering his brothers to plait mats and
dig a grave, Seari left Liali weeping and
tearing her face with her nails in her pas-
sionate grief. Questing round, he found the
blood-stained leaves and followed the trail
to the creek. Round the rock where the
murderer had sat he found the blood-red
splashes of spittle and the husks of the betel-
nut. Hordes of meat-ants were busy remov-
ing the few gruesome traces he had left. In
the sandy mud at the edge of the creek was
a deep footprint—a footprint with a crooked
toe; mute evidence which spoke loud to Seari
the identity of his mother's slayer.
Returning to the garden he spoke to his
brothers. “I have seen. Go ye and see
also,” and took up his share of the sad task.
Each brother in turn followed the trail,
and each on his return said “I have seen.”
Tomo and Tela, the two youngest, took
torches of dried leaves, for dusk had now
fallen.
(Continued on page J/9.)


HOUP-LA ABDULLA!
NERO RINGS THE BELL.
Oh! for the calm and unfailing sagacity of Nero, the
Circus Elephant!
He has subsided into a capacious chair after achieving
a dozen dignified feats in the Ring with tubs and immense
painted balls.
He peals a bell summoning Jacko the Page, but his tray
is not laden with the outsized bun we had anticipated. Nero,
being an elephant-of-the-world, has naturally rung for his
Abdulla Cigarettes.
Do not we ourselves collapse into comfortable armchairs
when toil is over, with a craving for Repose and Pleasure
that only Abdulla’s infinitely alluring Cigarettes can
satisfy?
(\BDULIA SUPER. CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


wm
5Si
m
30*
II
Cits
s
H
Be Pretty!
Be
Dainty!
Be
Attractive!
Be a
Rexona
Girl!
Miss
ELSIE
PRINCE,
a beautiful
Rexona
Girl.
Soap
Wealth
“I want to be happy and
I want to make you happy,
too, so I recommend you to
use Rexona Soap for the Skin
and Hair, same as I do.”
—Miss ELSIE PRINCE.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
h. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
(2£C dZoxudu
■to maJiA *
cuouA.
m
m
m
s>^
i
A Few Stitches and They 're On'
ii
CASH’S NAMES are a great convenience and “trouble-saver.”
No mess or bother as with marking ink, and you can quickly attach
CASH’S NAMES not only to linen, but all other fabrics such as
Woollen Wear, Hose, etc. CASH’S NAMES are distinctive, neat,
fadeless and durable. Any name woven in fast color.
<O.&. < Wt££i£urul'
CM.WALKER
Actual Size, Style No. 6
Actual Size, Style No. 3
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. Cash
Pty. 85 CUBITT STREET.
Ltd. RICHMOND. MELBOURNE.
f PRICES^
12 doz. 7 r 6
6 doz. - 5 f ~
\ 3 doj. 3 f &
I
The Bulletin
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
With gentle hands they wrapped the body
in the mats hastily woven from the great
palm fronds. No gaily decorated sleeping-
mat formed Magani’s shroud, but the glossy
green interlaced leaves made a fitting casket
for that garden burial. Close by the little
hut where she had sat and suckled them
they buried her, whilst Liali held the flaring
leaf torches.
Around the grave the seven sons of Magani
stood. “Now, my brothers,” said Seari, “ye
have seen what I saw. Name the name.”
And with one accord tiheir deep voices
answered “Birepo, Birepo of the Crooked
Toe, Birepo of Kupiri.”
Liali, with scratched face and heaving
breast, made shift to give them food. She
alone guessed the puzzle of the severed head.
Hate and a desire for vengeance on that
deceitful braggart mingled with her grief,
and her thoughts turned to Veru. Veru
should avenge Magani and at the same time
win the token and give her her heart’s desire,
the crown of the karai’s feathers.
They sat around the fire, mournful and
savage.
“Let us go to the Government man to
whom we paid our pound,” suggested Tela.
“No, no,” said Seari. “The white man
will say, ‘Where is the eye that saw the
killing?’ and none can answer him. Our
talk of the footmark he will not heed, and
Birepo will go free. No, I say! We the
sons of Magani will avenge Magani. Listen,
my brothers. Together we found her dead.
Together will we be when her murderer dies.
None other shall see, else we may all hang
outside the white man’s gaol. Tell no man
of this killing. We will say that Magani
died in her sleep as old folks do. Two shall
keep watch at Kupiri until Birepo walks
the jungle alone, and then we seven together
will avenge our mother.”
With approving grunts, two of the brothers
rose, and, seizing their weapons, faded into
the shadows and were gone.
Birepo had lain in his mother’s hut for a
week, feigning sickness. Whilst she tended
tihe garden and fished for her drug-sodden
son, he sat over a little fire in the hut smok-
ing the head, and At first he feared
the hue and cry,;, but as day after day
passed he lived more and more in the land of
betel-nut dreams. He dreamed of Liali and
her lovely brown breasts and soft skin; of
the groves of betel-palms that would be hers
when Magani died. His muzzy brain was
in a perpetual twilight, and he thought over
his mother’s evening gossip as a blur of
half-forgotten things, until the kiapa of nuts
was almost empty. Then he came to realise
that he must bestir himself.
He spent the next few days painting the
smoke-dried head with red and black pig-
ments. The eye sockets he filled witih hard
black clay. Cowrie-shell eyes gleamed bale-
fully against its blackness. Tufts of red
banana fibre hung from each side of the
jaw. The toothless gums bit on a pad of
caoutchouc ornamented with shells. Truly
Birepo was an artist.
The day the skull was finished old N’gomi
came in full of news. “Thou must get
better quickly, my son,” she said, as she
served up his evening stew. “Tela and
Tomo are in the village and they bring the
news that Magani is dead. Liali is a rich
woman now. If, as thou sayest, Liali has
promised thee, ’twere better to see her
father before Veru, who is home with pound
notes and steel knives and axes bought in
the white man’s store.”
Birepo swung the skull from its hiding-
place in the thatch before her astonished
eyes. ‘‘This,” he said, “is of more worth
to Liali than steel knives and axes. To-
morrow I weave the crown of yellow
feathers from the karai’s crest that she may
wear it at our wedding feast, whilst I,
Birepo, wear the token, the hornbill’s beak.”
N’gomi eyed the skull curiously. “Where
didst thou get this?” she asked.
“’Tis the skull of a busliman I killed,”
asserted her son.
“Skull of a bushman! ’Tis curiously
small. And why didst thou remove the
teeth, my son, the good, strong teeth of the
killer? Nay, son, tell me truly. This is
no bushman’s head. My son,, what hast
thou done?”
Birepo snarled. “Fool, I tell thee ’tis the
skull of a fighting man whom I slew with
my spear.” He wrapped up the grinning
head in its tapa cloth and hunted in the
thatch for the cockatoo feathers to weave
Liali’s crown. His mother, ever blind to
his faults, sought her sleeping mat still un-
convinced.
Birepo sat for a day and wove feathers
and fibre with skilful fingers, dreaming the
while of Liali and an unlimited betel-nut
debauch. It was good news that the old
grandmother Magani was dead, though with
the head he felt he would have been secure
of her support, for Loa had told him how
she clung to the old customs and cried
shame on her unwarlike sons. Still, old
women have sharp eyes, and he was not too
sure that the head would pass muster when
he thought of his mother’s doubts. Liali
alone should see it. Then it should hang
in a dark corner of their hut, as so many
a head hung in these days of white govern-
ment.
By evening the crown was almost finished,
lacking but two or three feathers. To ask
for feathers in the village would be to
invite unwanted questions. As he sat
drowsing, his thoughts wandered to the old
woman’s garden, and the karais in the kinai
tree. He would go to-morrow and kill one
and complete the crown.
At cockcrow, with the precious head
slung from his shoulder in its wrapping, he
set out. As he took the track two watchers
slipped quietly behind him. Teal and Tomo
knew their vigil was over.
The sun was near setting when Birepo
crouched once more behind the fence. The
garden looked forlorn and untended. In the
jcinai- tree a cockatoo sat on her nest. Not
until her dying squawks rent the still air
did her mate know that murder was once
more abroad in the quiet garden. He flapped
and shrieked impotently at the man who
tore the yellow crest from the white head.
Sitting at the foot of a betel-palm, Birepo
wove the last feathers in the chaplet. Just
one more nut and he would go to Liali. He
bound the hornbill’s bony beak on his fore-
head, and fumbled in his bag for a n•
The bag was empty. In the gathering dusk
he scanned the grove of palms, his covet °"
eyes searching the tufted leafy crowns
capping the grey-green trunks. A buncn or
golden nuts hung in a tempting cluster, ana
his dry mouth watered at the sight. H
tied a loop of vine round his feet and began
to climb. Up, up he went, clinging to the
smooth trunk. The nuts, the golden luscious
nuts, that filled the belly with warmth and
the head with dreams! . . , ..
Through a rift in the evening clouds, the
sun shot a spear of light, crimson and gold,
like a flaming sword above the darkening
world. It showed in its glowing glory the
man high up in the leafy crown of the hetel-
palm. He reached out and plucked the
golden globes one by one, and filled his
pouch. . ‘ „
The crack of a breaking twig sounded tar
below him. His startled eyes searched the
ground. He saw the fireflies the ghost
smiles of the dead— flickering in the bushes.
The bereaved cockatoo was back, circling
round, searching for his dead mate, crying
“Karai, karai.” And round the base of the
palm, with fierce upturned faces, stood the
seven sons of i Magani, silently waiting.
“Karai, karai.” , , Tr
“Twang”! A bowstring thrummed as Veru
shot straight and true. Birepo, still clutch-
ing a golden nut, hurtled, down from the
treetop. . ...
The brothers closed in, but veru, shining
steel axe in hand, elbowed his way to the
body, and, pushing the others aside, with
one stroke severed the head. ‘Sons ot
Magani,” he cried, “I did tlm killing, the
head is mine,” and turning to Liali, who had
stepped out from her hiding-place, he laid
it at her feet.
A Long Time Dying.
JOE MURPHY lay smothered with blan-
kets. He felt very ill. His head thumped,
his eyes were like two hot coals, his
throat was parclied, he ached all over. He
longed for a drink, but he felt too ill to get
it.
Women were callous devils. Everyone had
cleared out and left him. All afraid of
death, he supposed—that’s why they’d done
it When they returned about milking-time
they’d find him dead. Then they’d howl
and wear black, and old Triggs would mea-
sure him up and say what a fine corpse he
was Mother would insist on a stone and
dad would jib at the expense, but mother
would win. On fine Sundays the whole
family would go out to the cemetery and
stick flowers in jam-jars on the grave and
talk about “poor Joe.” Perhaps mother
would sniff when they left for home. Then
they would forget all about him until the
next fine Sunday.
A fit of coughing ceased his thoughts for
a moment. After the paroxysm Joe fell back
exhausted against the pillows. Tears ran
down his cheeks. He dabbed at them with
an already saturated handkerchief.
He wouldn’t have minded dying on a pour-
ing wet day, but to pass out on a glorious
summer-day like this: —it was deadly.
The family didn’t care. They had gone to
the picnic just as usual.... And Maggie, as
soon as he was out of the way, would marry
Bill Hickson —that was the rottenest thing
of all.
For the last two months Joe had decide,d
to propose to Maggie the day of the picnic
... .and now Bill would have a clear field.
Joe had another fit of coughing. He felt
fearfully hot after it, so he kicked some of
the blankets off. Then he felt cold and pulled
them up again. He was like that chap King
Somebody who was such a long time dying.
.... Still, whoever he was he hadn’t been
left to die alone.
Joe coughed again. Tears rolled down his
cheeks, and he mopped them up. Then he
lay still. Very still. His breathing became
quieter.... and quieter.
“Have you had a nice sleep, Joe?” It was
his mother speaking.
“Haven’t closed my eyes since you left,
Joe replied.
“Haven’t you?” said his mother smiling.
“Why didn’t you drink your tea? I brought
it in nearly an hour ago.”
“What was the picnic like?” asked Joe,
groaning.
“Just the same,” answered his mother.
“Everyone wondered why you weren’t there.
But I told them what a bad cold you had,
so”
“Cold !” exclaimed Joe. “Cold ! You know
I been dangerously ill with pneumonic ’flu
for a week?”
His mother straightened the blankets on
his bed.
“Maggie wasn’t there either,” she said.
“She’s in bed with a cold —influenza, too.
It must be going about.”
Joe reached out for another handkerchief.
It might be worth while not dying, after all.
“Have you got anything to eat, Mum? A
couple of eggs or a chop? A chap must keep
his strength up.”
HINEMOA.
This Friendly Night.
Ask ye the cowlfcd night, he hath confessed
you;
To him all your forsakings have been told,
The smothered hopes, the ardors over-bold;
All his the fluttering fays that have caressed
you.
He lures away the ghouls that would molest
you:
His waves, telling their pity as they rolled,
Have taken a heart’s confession in each fold
While his impassionate stars looked down and
blessed you.
His winds bear off the utterance of your
shame
And teach the trees his kindness as they pass ;
He knows how little is found, how much
to do.
He knows all ye have done for Love’s sweet
name :
His friendly shadow fumbles in the grass—
Ask ye the cowlfed night, for he speaks true.
VICTORIA.
F. M.


The great success of Zam-Buk for all skin
troubles lies in its original and valuable formula.
Zam-Buk contains certain extracts of herbal
origin, so blended as to bring out amazing heal-
ing power. Directly this refined balm is applied
it soaks into the tissues, thereby healing below
as well as on the skin’s surface.
ESI
Zam-Buk is most soothing and a safe anti-
septic. It kills and excludes the germs of fester-
ing and blood-poison. Zam-Buk stops pain,
allays inflammation and reduces swelling. The
skin is soon rid of all pus and impurity by
Zam-Buk, which is a splendid healer for cuts,
wounds and sores of all kinds.
■ ■— ■ i pn
HpAl pD
Zam-Buk swiftly clears the skin of rashes,
pimples, etc., and it gets at the root of obstinate
ulcers, eczema, piles, poisoned sores, scalp dis-
eases and other serious ailments for which coarse
lardy ointments and salves are quite useless.
Zam-Buk is the last word in antiseptic healing
and is aptly described as “A Surgery in a Two-
inch Box.” Of all chemists, 1/6 box or 3/6.
TH*
CONTAINS
NO LARD & NO OTHER
ANIMAL OIL on FAT.
gpE AT
HERBAL
COTS *
BRUISES BURNS
SCALDS SPRAINS ■ PILES
PIMPLES "ECZEMA* BAE
(JLCERS • RINGWORM • CHAPPED
• RASHES SORES • INSECT BITES • CHAFINGS
CHILBLAINS • RHEUMATISM • COLO'
i//¥£Q£/ALL£O rox SPOATSMEM
/?VZJ /T
r\ A* "" a.
sop
amßuk Soap
asEmnain
Possessing a high and defi-
nite proportion of the active
properties that have made
the Zam-Buk healing balm
so famous, Zam-Buk Soap
well merits its claim to be the most richly-medicated soap in the world.
Its regular use soothes and clears the skin and makes it soft and pliable.
Used as s shampoo Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap keeps the scalp hygienic
and healthy. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is also highly recommended
for baby’s bath on account of its purity and refinement. In single 17-
tablets, or box of three, 3/10.
The Tragedy of a Dry Mermaid.
A BAUD that sings, a wight that sighs,
A wowser in his mood
Gaze on the world with tilted eyes
That see no trees for wood;
But life’s cold, solid, hard romances
Depend on special circumstances.
The common mermaids up and down
The seas might splash at will,
Or sit on weedy ledges brown
Where tufted rollers spill
The last top surge of salted water
To please some barefoot grocer’s daughter.
Of these I reck not. I have seen
Too many of the kind,
Soft dimpled things with eyes of green
And pink uncovered rind;
And I disdained their obvious wishes
Because they all wore tails like fishes.
* * * *
There was a time, the sages say,
When wild grimacing shapes
Amid tall branches used to play,
Uncommonly like apes,
Till one among them woke compassion,
Tailless, when tails were all the fashion.
This person, mocked, reviled, despised,
As all the wise agree,
Became when apeliood was revised
The ancestor of me.
His children’s children, fashion scorning,
Awoke as maids and men one morning.
The special mermaid of my choice
Differed from all the rest
Neither in looks nor size nor voice
Nor in the way she drest;
But shook my soul when I discovered
She wore two legs with scales uncovered.
My scientific love awoke,
I answered her pink smile.
In weedy haunts I learned to soak
Because I liked her style;
Though such delights were cold and simple,
I liked to see her duck and dimple.
In this fair maiden of the sea
Who wore no fishy tail
I saw a splendid tribe to be
In ages far and pale;
This Eve of new amphibious races
Was full of dainty guiles and graces.
I taught her how to eat ice-creams
On happy summer days,
To understand our fevered dreams
And look on Yankee plays;
And far from beaches wet and shelly
She talked of soul and read Corelli.
But always ere twelve brief hours fled
The girl began to wheeze;
Her bosom heaved, her face grew red,
She raced to meet the seas;
And once the time so nearly caught her
I had to salt a bath of water.
And yet she liked the simple life
The girls of Sydney lead;
She promised to become my wife
If only I agreed
To watch the clock and never let her
Get to a place where naught could wet her.
Great dreams were mine. I thought to see
My young sea-children climb
The. tall green wave or my low knee
With confidence sublime.
I thought—a calculating lover—
What wealth their diving might discover.
Old Spanish galleons, freighted deep
With gold and silver store,
The greedy seas no more might keep—
Their miser days were o’er.
Those kids of mine would lift with laughter
What wild-cat syndicates are after.
Alas ! My aspirations failed,
My finest schemes went wrong.
To no bright treasure reefs I sailed
And took my brood along;
And woe to me are all the splashes
With which the sea Australia washes.
Our honeymoon was short and sweet.
We spent it by the waves,
With shells and sand beneath our feet,
In weedy South Coast caves.
And then we started home to settle
Beside the ice-chest, cat and kettle.
The simple Illawarra train
Made many a weary puff
To bring our gladness home again;
And we had had enough
Of jolt and jar and coaly funnel
Before we reached the Redfern tunnel.
But there we stayed to see the view.
My merwife’s time was up!
Her visage turned from red to blue.
I seized a thermos cup;
And, though I knew the game was risky,
I held her nose in salt and whisky.
I cursed that train. I tore my hair.
Upon my hat I jumped.
My lady could not breathe the air;
Amphibious visions slumped.
There in my arms, her parched soul drying,
My peerless, scaleless wife lay dying!
She died. There is no more to tell.
Great nature’s finest freak
A dry and purple corpselet fell
Against my weeping cheek.
While that infernal engine waited,
Home, wealth and joy were desiccated!
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
My Swamp-man.
1 FOUND him in a Papuan swamp just in
from the Dutch border. Strange trees
grow within that swamp, countless palms
amongst them, and cable-vines like mammoth
snakes loop down from knotted branches.
Massed reeds grow from the black water,
and on the sodden islands there are tufts of
wild sugarcane-like grass that tries to reach
the tree branches. In occasional patches,
diluted sunlight reaches the purple flowers
floating on the water; but the whole swamp
is gloomy and very quiet, so quiet that a
barefooted man makes no more noise than
a shadow.
He is a little fellow, and what shade of
black he is you cannot tell, because his body
is caked with mud as armor against mosqui-
toes. His head is partly shaved (with a
jagged shell for razor), leaving two long
tufts, bound with clay and reeds, jutting up
IS inches above his head. He is very proud
of his toilet and its accessories, being two
alligators’ teeth thrust through the septum
of his nose. He wears no other clothes.
His face is small and a mass of wrinkles
that look like deep cuts. His mouth is very
wide, and as he screws his face you get a
momentary gleam of formidable teeth. His
eyes are not very deep-set, possibly because
he seldom sees the sun, but he shows the
whites frequently, as when he pauses to
listen. At such times he is like a wild
animal that is uncertain of its safety.
Reassured, the swamp-man gazes around
in perplexity, his eyes continually alighting
on two tree-trunks. Reason seems to be
struggling within him every time his glance
strays to those logs. Finally he picks one
up, in a hesitating way. He is surprisingly
strong for his size, and handles the log with
far more dexterity than many a sixteen-stone
white man could.
He slides it into the water so that no
possible enemy could hear the splash. The
log sinks. The swamp-man stands in the
silence, too undeveloped to know even that
he is disappointed. He turns sluggishly and
stares at the other log. Physical inclinations
urge him not to waste labor over it, but
something stronger forces him to the log.
He lifts it, and it squelches from its damp
bed, a phosphorescent fungus on its under
side and a gigantic blue worm wriggling
back into the mould.
The swamp embryo pushes the prospective
liner off. It floats! A wonderful change
comes over his face. The eyes dilate, the
mouth opens, the deep cuts unwrinkle; he is
trying to smile and it looks as though it
hurts.
The swamp-man has something really great
on hand now. He wades out with the log.
He straddles it; it sinks nearly under, but
it bears his weight. Gripping with monkey-
like fingers to retain his balance, his feet
kick out in a swimming motion. As if a
thing of life, the log dreamily forges ahead.
A most wonderful smile cracks up the face
of the man. He gurgles in sheer delight.
Maybe this is the first time in his life that
he has laughed. Certainly he has never
smiled before to such amazing pleasure. He
kicks out, he nearly cries in delight as he
sees that with movements of his body and
limbs he can propel and guide his craft to
an island fifty yards further out amongst the
reeds. He carries on, he actually makes the
black water ripple; he is risking death, but
what cares he in the heat of this great dis-
covery ! He can go back to his tribesmen
now and boast that he can get across the
water without swimming, and with safety
from alligators!
The navigator reaches the island safely.
He carries. His log with him, crooning over
it, for it is far, far more precious than a
baby or anything else in the world.
I smile, because I can see him in gurgling
ecstasy watching his fellow-tribesmen dis-
appointedly throwing logs into the water
only to sink. But some will float, and that
will be the beginning of the tribe’s first dug-
out !
There are similar swamps throughout
Papua where the swamp-men are in different
stages; some still swim, some have discovered
the straddling log, a few have evolved the
dug-out. The next step after the log is two
logs lashed together with lawyer-cane or
swamp-grass. This prevents capsizing, is far
easier to propel and is of much greater safety
in those waters where an ugly black snout
is liable to rise up from underneath at any
moment.
But I like my swamp-man best, because
I saw him ; I saw the birth of his great idea,
its pangs and its successful delivery to help
man on his long, long way. And I saw
greater joy granted to a human being than
many fathers experience at the birth of their
first-born; I caught a hellish dose of malaria
doing it, but it was worth all of that.
Papua, gloomy land, fascinating land, it
is still a cradle of the human race. Men
are there who as yet have hardly evolved to
their first stone-scraping tool, and there
are other men who build houses fifty feet
in height and two hundred feet long; and
men who have not yet found out that a
pointed stick thrust into hot ashes becomes
hard and its spear-point not nearly so
liable to break. And men are there who
build non-capsizable canoes fifty feet long
and five feet deep, and rig them and mast
them and sail them with sails they have
thought of themselves, plaited from leaves
of the cocoa-palm—craft that can sail faster
than a modern lugger.
I wonder how many tens of thousands of
years it took those men to evolve past the
straddling log. It took untold centuries,
because for centuries now different Papuan
tribes have been making canoes for export
to the Torres islanders, canoes that have
sailed all over the Coral Sea.
Several tribes along the mouth of the
mighty Fly River supplied this trade; the
island of Kiwai housed men who have been
hereditary makers of canoes, as are the Sumi
tribesmen. The price of these canoes used to
be so many skulls, depending on the size
of the vessel. The missionary has reduced
the price to armlet shells, which are rarer
than heads nowadays but less trouble in the
procuring.
And the natives are still evolving—quickly
now that civilisation has rudely butted in.
The Torres Strait islanders have mostly
discarded the mat sails, and now use “white-
man” canvas. Many of their men have
sailed in and can perfectly manage a white-
man vessel. And now many of the canoe-
makers use the white man’s wonder-tool, the
tomahawk, instead of the stone implement
and shell scraper.
But my swamp-man may never know of
these great things. H e will probably live
his life out as the hero of a great discovery;
and the swamp moss may mould his bones
before the white man’s influence penetrates
his silent home.
ION L. IDRLESS.


mmi-
U- ' mm
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
ijueensianu ageMtu—uOlMEs * CHCKCII, Brisbane. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
N.Z. Office —93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. . . ’
Victorian Oillce—“Chancery House/’ 485 **onrk? Street, Melbourne. _ .
South Australian Agents: Messrs. BOLDER, S.MIIH & CO., EXD., Adelaide, S.
RAY-O-VAC
The Mark of Superior Quality
HERE it is—the electric torch you want —peer into
dark corners with it, use it when walking at night, for
safety's sake. Note these Ray-O-Lites' advantages—
strong, vulcanized fibre case, corrugated for easy grip;
octagon head to prevent rolling when laid down;
heavy brass trimmings, nickel-plated and polished;
patented lock switch to prevent accidental
discharge of battery; also many others. If
used with Ray-0-Vac Torch Batteries, the
Ray-O-Lite will be a dependable com-
panion;— it's built to last a lifetime.
Write our distributorfor the name
oj the nearest dealer. •
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR:
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
i
i
YAW
m,
c
1
St
w
(0
At all good Hotels
and tobacconists.
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco*
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
D.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100; 45/-
( posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post nrce.
CRAIG £ AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Beil Cigar Factory,
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day, S/6; Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY. CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels. : 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
«
4
4
e
A dose to-night
Awaken bright
Sick headache
Ustlessness, Insomnia
Biliousness, Indigestion
Are danger signals that
Your system
Is out of order
HEED
NATURE’S WARNINGS
STOP the cause
Beecham’s Pills
Cleanse your system
Clear the blood
Tone the stomach
Stimulate Over
And Kidneys
Worth a Guinea a box.
Sold in boxes 1/- & 2/6.
=Q[ =S=S==<m:
(Bf
=T:
-=*l
4
yjpr
i
r.!=~ip; rfEi'ES!
“EING LOCK,” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
This Fence is made from the finest open hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
by Australian Workmen, and is now available for the first time to the Australian Farmer.
The Fence throughout (both Laterals and Droppers) is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual.
Made for the present in two styles only.
No. 1 An ideal sheep fence, five lines spaced, sin., 6in., 7in., and Bin. apart, 261 n.
high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-cliain Rolls, 6/9 per Chain, or £23/10/ per mile.
No 2 A fine sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced 51n., 6in., 7in., Bin., and 10in.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers 'spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mile.
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD,
276 to 294 Brunswick St„ FITZROY. ’Phone J 4145.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. ’Phono F 4175.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
G°
6)
e
2
<€
5 e
0
5 e
•* * 'i 0 '?
\TV .aV>
\' e ;^
** e a V x * s <><


If,
SS v
Jr
//
r
awarded]
..
1
I
Ji
A
T r * „
Vi
y
FINE
■
«.
4 V
'>:- ■('
wtatXb.vwb.' v
-
■
■
L
\
v
,
. -: ■■ ■■ "
,
3tei
••• /
•l
.
"""XN
■h.
- .'•'. i- r >.,,' ’’: •"
.
. f . ■ '■-; :.v ; - .
ISS'"
Kl
Iff.
Wshlltrs PERTH,'Scotland)*
. * ro °uce oFscortANO
,s "*ttS'-Pc«vis,o* OF THC COMMON wtMf^yy^
9
WHISKY
A word is enough
to the wise. If
contentment be
the goal, what
better word than
/
/
/
/
DEWARS
