

There's always
a call for
.
Ji
S\
o
A
Q,
(jj i j
ir*
r
*
£:
//
&SS
> h *'
/S
1
* vi
as
#•».*•
With the Special Ivory Tips
No tobacco can pass your lips.
■&
S’.
Cidarelles
WOE H O WILLS
iManuftohAYibd in your own
country fvov yv Ike finest
Selected Uivyinia leaf
Packets of 10 ~ 8°
Packets of 15 V•
The Bulletin
/fjViCaM dee, /taje Z
Vol. 49.—N0. 2542.
Wednesday, October 31, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BY AN EXPERT CRITIC
A Practical Short Story Course.
EARN WHILE YOU LEARN.
Write for details to
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE,
338 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1 1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.’
ŵ
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
MACMILLAN
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THOMAS HARDY.
WINTER WORDS.
In various moods and metres. By
THOMAS HARDY. 7s. 6d. net.
Mr. Ilardy’s last volume of poems.
OFFICIAL HISTORY OF THE
GREAT WAR.
Vol. IV. Military Operations,
France and Belgium, 191 5 ; Battles
of Aubers Ridge, Festubert, and
Loos. Compiled by Brigadier-Gen-
eral Sir JAMES EDMONDS, C. 8.,
C.M.G., R.E. With Maps and
Sketches. 12s. 6d. net. Separate
case of maps. ss. 6d. net.
New Ideal
Catholic Readers
Revised and Adapted.
Edited by
Rev. T. A. FINLAY, S.J.
With numerous illustrations.
Primer 1 4d.
Primer II 4d.
First Reader 6d.
Second Reader Is.
Third Reader Is. 9d.
Fourth Reader . . 2s.
Fifth Reader 2s. 3d.
Sixth Reader . 2s. 3d.
*As first issued, these books were intended
to meet the needs and conditions of American
Schools, and were therefore distinctively
American in character. In the present edition
they have been adapted for use in all the other
parts of the English-speaking world. But no
change has been made which would affect the
main lines on which they were planned, or
impair their utility for the main purpose they
Were designed to serve.
To bo Obtained from ail
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ẁ
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House,
Possess Insurance; and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
m
z
7,
To
be
of the
sure
//
look
nal
S
on
for
name
WEED
/?
every
on
hook
ALMOST impassable
- roads are made nav-
igable for the truck or
bus equipped with WEED
TYRE CHAINS.
Weed Chains grip and
hold —they furnish the
traction necessary to take
one steadily through soft,
miry mud, sand or clay.
No truck or bus should
ever be without Weed
Chains. Keep them ready
for immediate use when
road conditions warrant.
Orderfromyourdealer.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1507
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco*
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
1
it u iiiiiwtomiwnniimwi///ti
iiilm^uWfew
mm
sa
39
m
n
d
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6
D.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6)j 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post
rree,
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors Sor Club Reil Cigar Factory.
POWDER.
MUSTDIEI
NON POCONOU! PDWDCR.
MCRKi wxa ocmm
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
MUSTDIE''
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
‘MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney,
The Red Page
The Bulletin” Serials
In addition to the prize-winners, all of
which will appear in The Bulletin, three
other stories have been accepted as serials
—-“Bracken,” “A Rogue in Amber” and
“Disenchantment.”
“Bracken,” written by Bernard Cronin,
who is already well known to Bulletin
readers, will follow immediately after
“Coonardoo.” It is a fine, very well written
novel, admirably suited for serial publica-
tion. The story begins in the bush, in
a dairying district, and moves to the city;
the bush sections of it, in particular, are
uncommonly -well drawn. Mr. Cronin, how-
ever, is not concerned so much with setting
as with people. His characters live; there
is brisk action from the opening paragraph
to the end, and the story as a whole enter-
tains and convinces. There is not the literary
breadth that may be found in “Coonardoo,”
but the story is more compact, has more
sustained movement and has other merits
that rank it one of the finest of the several
excellent serials The Bulletin has to offer.
Another of outstanding quality is “A
Rogue in Amber,” which will follow. Con-
sidered strictly on serial grounds, it is per-
haps the finest thing yet produced in Aus-
tralia. It was written by J. B. Cooper,
official municipal historian to the councils
of Brighton, Malvern, Prahran and St. Kilda,
and it, is so remote in every way from the kind
of writing which that position might suggest
that it was probably written as a recreation.
“A Rogue in Amber” brims with humor—
not cowbail humor, not quips or word twists,
but' the deep, fine humor of situation and
character. Nothing much better than the
rogue himself has been done in the way of
character-drawing in Australian writing. He
is a scoundrel, a blackguard, a schemer; but
he is also a fine rogue, whom many Bul-
letin readers will keep as a sort of friend
for a long time. Mr. Cooper is even less
concerned with setting than Mr. Cronin is.
The story is set on a trading barge in the
Murray, in Murray towns, in Melbourne,
in and in gaol; but it is the people
who inhabit those settings that most matter.
Apart from the outstanding rogue there is
a wide range of other characters, all
carefully drawn and alive, none more so
than the rogue’s I’eally fascinating daughter
and his wife. As a serial, “A Rogue in
Amber” can be commended without reser-
vation.
The other story outside the prize-winners
that has been accepted is also a first-class
serial. “Disenchantment” was written by
G. M. Turnbull—“Tauwarra” of, many an
excellent Bulletin story of New Guinea
(one of the most laughable of his short
stories will appear in the next Christmas
number). His novel is also set in New-
Guinea, _ and in one striking particular
differs from nearly every other novel of
merit read in the competition—it is not
realism, but romance. Mr. Turnbull’s loca
color and atmosphere are not likely to' be
called into question; he has lived for year
in the country he writes about, and he ha.
managed his'tropic setting with satisfying
fidelity. His people are romantic types
well drawn in their way, and his story grips
interest early and holds it firmly throughout
This latter is perhaps the principal essentia
in a serial, and its presence ranks “Dis-
enchantment” beside “Bracken” and very
close even to “A Rogue in Amber.”
At first there was a doubt whether the
story of Flora Eldershaw and Marjorie Bar-
nard which shared first place with “Coon-
ardoo” had the essentials that go to make
a good serial. “A House Is Built” was con-
sidered a good historical novel of great
breadth and splendid character drawing, but
a novel to be read bodily as a novel. Briefly,
the story is a family saga stretching over
about half Sydney’s first century, embrac-
ing a wide community of well-drawn char-
acters, told very quietly without any fuss
or hustle. In literary body it resembles
Jane Austen’s “Emma.” Its leading char-
acter is a quartermaster who settles in
Sydney and proceeds to build a house of
business and bring up his family. As was
stated in The Bulletin last week, the
title of the serial is to be “The • Quarter-
master,” and the story, which is over-long
for serial use as it stands, is to be restricted
to the action that occurs during the life of
the quartermaster himself. In this form it
will make quite a gripping serial, for with
the slight restriction the action is height-
ened while nothing of value is lost.
The other story of the accepted six is
the third-prize winner, Vance Palmer’s
“Men Are Human.” The difference between
it and the stories which won the higher
prize money is not at all reflected in the
amounts of the prizes, and that is the
reason why a different ratio of distribution
has been decided upon for the competition
which closes in December, 1929. Mr. Palmer
was simply unfortunate in writing a story
which in the fact that it is realism and has
a rather similar bush atmosphere resembles
“Coonardoo,” which the judges considered
had slightly the greater literary breadth of
the two. To the majority, hbwever, Vance
Palmer’s bush is better known than
Katharine Prichard’s. The story, set in
Queensland, is not optimistic, but it is
really human and true. Its action is brisk:
it is one of v the very best written of all
the competition entries, and it has that
power of gripping the reader which, as has
been said, is the principal essential of a
good serial.
The conditions and the amounts of prizes
for the next competition will be announced
in The Bulletin next week.
One Australian Complex
In Red Page papers on the theme o
their literary adventure as judges in Th
Bulletin competition, Mr. Clegg depre
cates the competitors’ insistence on tragi
endings, Mr. Mann hopes for a little mor
humor, and Mr. Mackaness pleads be
tween the lines for more artistic confidence
These considered dicta based on the experi
ence of half a thousand Australian MSS
seem to me to point to one eradicable ide
in the subconscious of the competitors.
I have lived all my writing life in Aus
tralia. The first story I ever wrote, anc
my first attempt at criticism, appeared
Ihe Bulletin more than 10 years ago
so I can say that at least I grew up here
But I was born 30 years before I saw Aus
tralia; which cuts the other way, and give
me the onlooker’s chance of seeing wha
the native eyes have possibly missed. Thes
considerations may stay the hands reach
ing for bricks when I suggest that wdia'
these novel-writers suffer from is the in
feriority complex.
The insistence on tragedy—the hopeless
heavy labor of the bush, the defeat of mai
by the vast spaces, the relief of death—
is plain evidence of an inferiority idea
Otherwise, man being at least the equa
of his environment, death comes as it
comes, defeat is an accident and, given
life, nothing is so heavy as to be hopeless
Provided always that man is in no way
inferior to his job of life. If it is not
so provided, we have this tragedy always
present or in imminent ambush, and we
have the natural corollary of a lack o
humor and of confidence.
I submit that what the judges felt was
really a lack of truth in the MSS. sub-
mitted. Or perhaps one should call it a
shortsightedness* attributable partly to tra-
dition, partly to the casual Australian view
and partly to a needless inferiority com-
plex in Australian writers. These writers
still-suffer from the old “happy” ending of
the bridal couple’s departure for England
and everlasting joy; however much they
may jeer at the idea, they still subcon-
sciously think and imagine with the base
thesis that Australia is a good place to
get away from. They still suffer from the
more recent conception of the “haggard”
hopelessness of the bush and the Outback.
Poets with their hearts on their sleeves
have humped Matilda and poured out
vivid, poignant verse and stories of the
exceptional way the menacing epic land
reacted to their too-sensitive souls. Other
writers have casually absorbed the local
color of the country job, and written its
grim terrors so well that the books have
made an artistic hit in England and
America. The squatters are still alwavs
mean, the men hard-muscled flotsam of life,
the women haggard and indomitable, the
storekeeper and the publican grabbers.
Other more serious writers lap over the
heroic struggle with the land into the emo-
tions of their characters, and make them
impregnable, humorless, and particularly
unattractive as well as psychologically
false. But one needn’t continue the in-
stances. From this traditional-vision
unconsciously in the blood of the writers, the
rities logically become nests of middlemen
living on their fellows, and therefore socio-
logically inferior to the already defeated
community on the land.
It isn’t true. Fifty years ago it may
have been true in cases, as it may be, in
cases, half-true to-day; even that doesn’t
make it any more than the artificial back-
ground for the bridal couple’s departure
for England and eternal happiness. It can
be said that broken-hearted poets and wan-
dering Englishmen with the trick of style
have helped to keep it alive. It can "be
said that Australia is young, and to the
(Continued on page 5.)


« Truth in Advertising ** is your assurance and our guarantee of satisfaction.
Anthony Horderns'
are sole agents in N.S.W. for
John Deere s High Lift Mower
t
(4ft. 6in. with pole).
m
' \Y-
Quality Points well worth considering
1. —High easy foot lift and extremely high
hand lift furnish great clearance under all
operating conditions.
2. Direct transmission of power through
two pairs perfectly-balanced gears. Thrust
of each pair counteracts thrust of the other
pairs.
3. Bevel Pinion between bearings with large
end toWards rear overcomes forward end
thrust of crank shaft. Wear is reduced
and pinion is kept in proper mesh with
bevel gear.
4. —Twenty-one-point durable malleable
clutch insures instant starting.
5. —Simple, effective adjustment for re-
aligning cutter bar and for recentering knife
should this be necessary after years of use.
6. —Cutter bar and knife accurately made and
carefully fitted. Hardened steel wearing
plates and knife holders keep knife cutting
true.
7. Hardened knife head guides and knife
head wearing plates at both front and rear
of knife head are readily replaced. Knife
head extra long and reinforced by high rib.
8. Connection of cutter bar 'to extra wide
yoke is unusually strong. Iwo lugs on shoe
at bdth front and rear, with pins and bear-
ings machined to size, keep cutter bar in line.
9.—Strongest possible construction of drag
and brace bar—pitman protected.
]O. Cutting parts made of best materials,
and improved construction increases cutting
efficiencv and reduces repair expenses.
11. Flexible bar conforms to uneven ground.
Powerful lifting spring causes bar to float,
which increases traction and lightens the draft.
]2. Pole protected under frame easily
removed without disturbing other parts.
]3. Easy to reps*ir gears and shafts quickly
removed with ordinary tools.
14. Simple, strong, durable and light draft.
Easy to operate and adjust.
a
Challenge” Windmill
Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’
The “Challenge” Timken Roller-bearing Mill (obtain-
able only at Anthony Horderns’) is the lightest-
running, simplest and most durable windmill on the
market. The roller-bearings run smoothly, never need
adjusting or any attention whatever. Oil-tight
reservoirs will hold at least one year s supply of oil.
Shafts are made of best-grade high carbon cold-
rolled steel, which will not wear or cut out. The
internal gear and pinion are made of semi-steel—•
25 per cent stronger than cast iron.
6ft. Windmill. Back geared 3 tol. Weighs 3301 b. Has
4in., and stroke. Develops 1-5 horse-
power in 1 5-mile wind, and is specially adapted for
shallow wells from 10 to 50 feet deep.
Price
£2O
Bft. Windmill. Back-geared, 3 to 1
5851 b. Net weight 4601 b. Has 5 to 7
arms, six sections, and 18 fans,
horse-power in 1 5-mile wind, and
. Gross weight
inch Stroke, six
Develops 3-10
is the standard
farm mill for wells 35 to 100 feet
deep. Price
£27/10/-
10£t. Windmill. Back-geared. 3to 1 . Weighs 4851 b.
Has 6in., 7in. and 9in. stroke. Develops 3-5 horse-
power in I 5-mile wind. Suitable for wells
76 to 150 feet deep. Price
£32
“Challenge” 4-Post Galvanised Steel Tower, in 10
feet sections. Spread of tower at base is as follows:
20ft. x 4ft. 3in.; 30ft. x 6ft. 2in.; 40ft. x Bft. Special.
These, towers are rustproof and do not require
painting.
30ft. 40ft.
20 ft. 30ft. Special. Special.
£l6/10/- £22/10/- £32 \£33
Use Our “Deposit-Purchase System
Secure any of your requirements on this convenient
system. Simply leave a small deposit—pay the
balance in instalments to suit yourself. You pay only
the cash price. There is no extra charge whatever.
Carriage Not Paid on These Goods.
[ill
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O,


aS3
I)
I
/
/
Tremendous Power Without
Excess Weight—
Dodge Brothers Standard Six provides the ideal com-
bination —tremendous power without excess weight.
And it provides this combination with safety and
economy—thanks to the rugged character of Dodge
construction and the masterly balance of Standard
Six design.
As graceful, roomy and comfortable a car as advanced
body engineering has yet produced, and a finer and
faster Six than anyone ever believed possible at a price
so low.
Harden and Johnston, Limited, Sydney .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville»
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth .
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery. Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Netcton King. Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington , N.Z,
Dodge* Brothers
Shnivui Six


ẁ
young many things are tragic and pa 3
be a S'
f conjiously
stultifying our literary
disappointing the judges of ou
Tragedy does not sit on Australian shoulders.
The Australian has a big job, that
He works hard, and maybe he grumbles,a
bit; but he goes on working, winch
that he isn’t inferior to the 3° •
he takes a spell perhaps he uses t in
reading a yarn-preferably a hght conh-
dent yarn that doesn’t assume that a man
can ever fear his job or what it can do
to him. If the book isn’t Australian that s
not the fault of the Australian reading it.
This complex need not be. Ihe uea
is as eradicable as any other misconception,
so far as I can see. Perhaps a concentra-
tion on the success of life, the success of
every life, rather than its difficulty; on
an assumed sanity and health rather than
their dramatic variants; on the radiant
richness of the bush rather than its beauty s
power which has come to be misnamed its
menace; on the quick lighthearted courage
and adaptability of the Australian character
rather than its rare divergence from them--
perhaps these might be workable general
suggestions. At least they are Australian
truths immune from tradition, huither-
more, they have truth’s advantage of being
the only practical environment for Aus-
tralian fiction, the only structure that will
give the confidence and freedom which are
the essence of the job of writing.
HILARY LOFTING.
Poets Presumptive
It is'remarkable how few writers, profes-
sional or otherwise, personally resemble the
picture that might be painted of them by
people who knew them only by their liter-
ary output. In The Bulletin office one
long-ago day I went to the room then occu-
pied by ‘“Kodak” (Ernest O'Ferrall)
to tell him that a wild man from
the country had arrived and wanted
his company. Inspired by “Kodaks
fine tales of drunken orgies, the bushman
had travelled all the way from Woop
Woop with the fixed determination of get-
ting drunk with him. “Kodak,” whose
wildest indulgence, really, was a weak
shandy, turned pale, and implored me to
get rid of the visitor, which was easily done
by taking him down to a neighboring hotel
with a promise that “Kodak” would join
us shortly. Later I learnt that directly
the coast was clear the scared writer of
drunk yarns had grabbed some copy-paper
to work upon, and made a dash down the
back stairs for home, where no beer could
pursue him.
The paradox of “Kodak” is, of course,
a common one. Some of the most blood-
curdling yarns that ever appeared in The
Bulletin were written by mild, bc-spec-
tacled Alec Montgomery, who was
upset one day because he had seen a cat
run over by a cart. Phil Fairleigh (he is
now forgotten, but he was prolific enough
as a story-writer to live upon his work)
was a fragile person, but lie simply could
not resist putting meaty fights and mur-
ders into his tales. •
The Bulletin knows hai 1 triers in a poeti-
cal slaughterman who babbles of flowers and
a country undertaker who pins his poetic
faith to lightly humorous verse. Again,
some of the wildest cries about the “call
of the bush” come from people who deter-
minedly live in Sydney’s crowded Darling-
hurst, and would consider it an appalling
affliction if asked to move out as far as
Paddington. The following verse is from a
set written in a central Adelaide hostelry,
which bears the author’s name as its
licensee:—
I have dwelt in your towns and your cities,
With the swank which those places entail;
I have danced to the strains of sweet music,
And have tasted your jolly wassail;
I have tramped it out back in all weathers,
In sunshine, through mud and through slush,
And a tug at my heart-strings reminds me
“How sweet is the lure of the bush.”
There are, indeed, several publicans who
make occasional attempts to scale the
heights of Parnassus; they are all senti-
mentalists, but not one of them, as far as
memory serves, has ever tried to make
use of wine as a poetic symbol. Another
sentimentalist of the first water is a book-
maker, one of whose successes was a trio-
let. There may seem to be something
ludicrous in the picture of a man who
turns from bellowing the odds to worrying
over the construction of triolets; yet this
particular member of the MacShortodds
clan, who sometimes uses paper intimating
that he is “Registered, A.J.C.,” has ex-
pressed the ideal that he “would rather
have a verse in The Bulletin than a
skinner at the races.”
The most fervent religious-verse contri-
butor The Bulletin knows is a Newcastle
wharfie. On the other hand, several
churchmen who regularly try for poetical
laurels are providers of verses distinctly on
the naughty side. A country bank man-
ager, whose verse successes are all about
the “open” bush, makes bank officials the
villains and honest-hearted cockies’ sons
the heroes of the stories he sometimes
writes. A contributor who has made some
success with stories of light soc >kl butter-
flies. and has tried a little versa less suc-
cessfully on the same subject, is a cripple
who is augmenting an invalid pension with
literary effort.
When you read a delicate little verse
upon old china you can pretty safely bet
that it was written by a blacksmith.
THE VERSE-TASTER.
A Lawson Proposal
An interesting suggestion comes from
“Tee Essbie,” an enthusiastic Lawsonite.
It is that the Lawson Society re-
cently formed in Sydney should produce
a book composed of reminiscences written
by as many as possible of those who knew
Lawson or can supply Lawsonalia the
authenticity of which they can prove.
What a book it might make! There are
many still going strong who were in per-
sonal touch with Henry Lawson during
his life, and who could give intimate, re-
vealing details that every lover of his
would be glad to have.
This, of course, raises the question that
must come into the discussion of
all biography—what should go in and
what should stay out. How seri-
ously this is taken by readers was
proved recently in the Dickens controversy,
when leading Australian newspapers gave
leaders to slating a man who had dared
to take revenge on behalf of Skimpole.
A New South Wales bishop joined in the
outciy, and the Red Page received at least
a dozen articles in like vein. When it is
remembered that not one of these defen-
ders had at the time of writing or talking
read the book which they all found so
objectionable, and that the springboard of
the entire offensive was made of a few sen-
tences torn from their context, it becomes
obvious that it must always be a delicate
matter to produce anything really intimate
in any biographical or semi-biographical
work. When Lockhart wrote his admirable
biography of Scott, the outcry from Scott’s
friends, not to mention that ever-living
army of persons who are ready to raise
a voice because someone else has done
so, shook the British Isles almost literally.
Lockhart lives because lie told the truth
about his very good friend. Would the
Lawson Society be prepared to publish
well-known truths about Lawson?
It is not suggested that there was any-
thing in the character of Lawson that he
himself would object to being revealed. It
is not suggested that there was anything
that any normal person could not wave
aside as merely human. It is simply sug-
gested that there is a danger—which applies
to every literary society that gets together
for the adoration of an idol—that the blue
pencil might be used too heavily on the
human side of the proposed reminiscences.
If the fear is unfounded in this particular
instance, so much the better for what could
be made a really great book, not only for
the delight of true Lawsonites, but for gen-
eral reading, and as Australian literature.
The Bulletin would add that a fair
amount of interesting Lawsonalia appeared
in its columns shortly after Lawson’s death,
and the files are available to the plucky
editor who would undertake the talked-of
task.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the
Associated Booksellers of Australia and
Maoriland. It is issued to serve as a guide
to books of merit; —
General Literature. —The Life of the
Ant by Maurice Maeterlinck; The Aus-
tralian Bush, by Mary E. Fullerton;
The Life of Gen. Lord Ltawlinson, edited
by Major-Gen. Sir Fredk. Maurice; War
Birds, the diary of an unknown aviator;
The India We Served, by Sir W. R. Law-
rence ; The New Zealanders, by Hector
Bolitho. r .
Books of Literary Merit. —Swan Song, by
John Galsworthy; The Deuce, by Alfred
Neumann; General Crack, by Geo. Preedy;
Extremes Meet, by Compton Mackenzie ;
Adam in Moonshine, by Priestley (reprint).
Books for Popular Beading. —While
Rivers Run, by Maurice Walsh; The Runa-
gates Club, by John Buchan; The Female
of the Species, by “Sapper” ; Eliza for Com-
mon, by O. Douglas; The Plains of Abra-
ham, by James O. Curwood; The Man
Hamilton, by Vance Palmer; Swan Song,
by John Galsworthy; Juggernaut, by Alice
Campbell; When West Was West, by Owen
Wister; Ramona, by H. H. Jackson;
Extremes Meet, by Compton Mackenzie.
A Satchel of Books
Benn’s Library. Further additions to these
useful and cheap booklets include “Great
Philosophies of the World,” by C. E. M.
Joad; “The Press,” by Sir Alfred "Robins;
“The English Water-color Painters,” by C.
E, Hughes; “Criminology,” by Horace Wynd-
ham; “British Prime Ministers of the
Eighteenth Century,” by F. J. C. Hearn-
shaw; and “Railways,” by Lord Monkswell.
Sir John■ Constantine and Brother Co pas,
by Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch (Dent). Those
who are collecting the Duchy Edition of
“Q's” works (of which these are vols. 15
and 16) because long since they read and
enjoyed his finely written tales and romances
are now getting some additional gems from
his pen, for the brief introductions are de-
lightful. Of “Sir John.” for instance, he
says: “Critics constantly assure us that
authors are the worst judges of their own
books, and therefore I can only hope that
it will do this offspring of mine small harm
that I confess to a particular fondness for
him.” In the preface to “Brother Copas,”
lie has a word to say that should be pon-
dered over by the great many who seem to
fancy that writing is the one art that has
not to be carefully studied and practised:
“I wrote it and ‘Sir John Constantine’ with
ease just because, after 20 years’ prac-
tice, I had learnt, for what it was worth, to
play on my instrument.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken oj communications insuffi **°“'J*J
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tartly submitted; and no MS. mil be returned unless stamps accompany.
Dan R.: You haven’t made good use of
the materials Ili: But the presence of kerosene
shale doesn’t suggest an oil flow. And it is too
screechy... .Aorem: Very well —the Ballarat was
torpedoed going to England, not returning... .A.G.M.:
Too dull J.G. (Denmark): Dredged it for interest,
and didn’t get a quarter per cent J.N.: Yours is
the 298th verse “To Summer” received to date;
they seem to be coming in order of merit... . A.D.H.:
A poor string.... If. McD.: We don’t like Fido....
Jock Again: It may be original, but it won't d 0....
P.E.S.: Don’t the troops get any rum this morning,
General? E.W.0’8.: Gleams in it, but it badly
needs smelting E.M.: “Gyrie’s ever clung about
my heart and she would have me home.” Honestly,
do you think that’s verse?... .El Viro: Thought you’d
left the country—in fact, hoped it.... F.0.D.: Uncon-
querable soul: —
You hit me once: now smite again!
But Know your buffets are in vain.
Not all your editorial curses
Shall dam(n) my welling spring of verses.
J.W.; Still doesn’t get there Betty E.: If you
say it, they are poems... .P.E.H.: Not bad for 11, but
wait till you’re eleventeen before you try again. . . .
Bettiblcng: If Smith and Ulm had guessed what
sort of verse we’d have to read about them they’d
never have done it... .P.J.1.: “Invitation” declined.
W.C.: Find something to say, old chap, or give it
best D.F. : “Plain—payin’.” What a rhyme !
W.A.McG.: Not poetry—merely description
L.R.8.: “Yesterday” begins well, but gets dreary
long before sunset.... Eileen It.: Refuse to believe
gills would wear such things. .. .M.M.: You’re young;
lock your muse in an incubator for a while. .. .F.M.S.:
You call them “articles.” They might be. They’re
not verse J. 11.: Too slight, though tolerably well
done, ~ .E.W.: Scratched L.J.D.: No use for the
secretive walnut or the petticoated cabbage....L.T.:
Subject-matter too political... .R.K.0.: Struck off the
list W. 8.: Feel like killing William—and his
author E.N.V.: Not far off Eve Personne:
Hob's drama bobbed 0ut.... J.McG.: On the border-
line P.A.: Started well; finished badly
D.McM.: Hard to make a lyric out of Australia’s
national debt; but there’s one stirring couplet:-—-
So it's three loud “Hips” and one “Hooray” for good
old Dr. Page;
The complexities of finance he can handle like ••
sage.
J.F.N.: It won't do Will Jar: Two lines: —
In ’ninety-one, when the Mallee drew first blood from
the sons of toil,
Perched on a rail-backed mare he flung seed at the
sneering soil.
“Sneering” is a change from the overworked “smil-
ing,” anyhow.... Stringy Bark (and others): Com-
petition novel will be returned on receipt of stamps.
. ...T.H.: A. B. Piddington is 66. Publications:
“Sir Roger de Ooverlcy,” “Selections from Paradise
Lost,” “Spanish Sketches,” “Young Italy” and “The
Next Step.” The late Dowell O’Reilly was his
brother-in-law E. 5.8.: “Nulla” bridge is not
officially re< ognised by the Portland Club. The idea
is to force, opponents to make tricks and avoid
doing so oneself. No player can insist on the adop-
tion of the “nulla bid" . ... A.8.P.: It is pronounced
Ne-pe-an; the first eas in sent and the second as in
eve... .B.O.: (1) Probably Dave Smith before he
turned professional. (2) Griff o. (3) As one was a
light-heavyweight and the other a featherweight, it
would be absurd to compare them W.A.R.:
“Kismet” was the name of the play.... L-W. : Strike
dialogue bombed out.. • .H. 0.: Hoover is 54. He
was only 23 when he arrived in Westralia, though
he was taken to be years older Lidcombe: He
saw no fighting in Prance—did not reach that country
till January, 1919. All the same, he enlisted when
there seemed every prospect of the war lasting
another two _ years, so no bricks, please!... .N.r.:
You win; A. J. McLaclilan, now hon. Minister m
the Senate, stood for Adelaide at the by-election
following Kingston’s death in 1908 and again at the
general election. E. A. Roberts, since dead, beat
him on both occasions—by 5121 to 4887 at the
by-election and by 9443 to 5466 in 1910... .H.M.C..
Primary education is compulsory for little Papuans
living within three miles of a recognised school;
the schools are controlled by missions. As a rule,
English is taught as a foreign language after some
proficiency in reading and writing in the vernacular
has been acquired, and in subsidised institutions
there is an annual examination in English, conducted
by a Government inspector... .Y.P.: Half a million
is the estimated cost of a breakwater, but no par-
ticular scheme has been adopted. The development
of- Portland as a splendid port serving rich parts
of Victoria and S.A. does not appeal to Big City
interests. Building allotments run from £BO to
£120; land values are stationary.... Hig: On the
contrary, writing verse is childls play; it consists
merely in putting the right words in the right places.
....Clovis: Estate-agent jingle... .L.L.: Nothing
wrong with your sonnet, except that it isn t one.
T.N.G.: There’s a market for that sort of thing,
but not here... .W.N.W.:
Some destined purpose we fulfill
In Heaven’s vast scheme before we sleep.
Yes, sir; even if it’s only helping to fill the w.p.b.
.. .. Boondooma: Read Silent Jim your verse and
he’ll assuredly say something 11. R.: “Lamp of
Heaven” goeth out L.P.F.: “Wearily—queerly” 1
But it’s empty, anyhow... .A.C.W.: “Drover’s Song”
moves like a hobbled tortoise... .R.L.W.: “Happy
Go Lucky” should make a music-hall ballad. No-
thing in the others —except wind... .AAV.: If your
thoughts are your only company, you must find
things lonely at times.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.C.: As the motorist ran out of petrol, so the
artist ran on I of ideas... . 11.W.8.: Perseverance is
the prescription for you- that and a good teacher.
0.C.: Ag can stay on the sands for all this paper
cares... .D.M.L.: Your hermit looks more like an
acrobat J.M. : Try scrub-cutting instead....
W.F.H.: The cockerel and his armful of flapper have
been sent home Y. J.: Too small and scratchy....
J.T.: The milkman gets no custom here N.E.A.;
At least you have blazed a track. .. .R. 8.: The
more we look at it the more we wonder why you
sent it....G.D.: Gags fair; drawings crude.


ẃ


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2342.
October 81, 1928.
THE WRITING ON THE WALL.
“The year 1930 will produce a heavy list of conversions of Commonwealth loans In March of that year a loan of £10,000.000 will mature, and in December
£60,000,000 will have to be dealt with.”
THE POLITICIANS (both of 'em): “Never mind the old writing on the wall It's election time, and the Old Man’s still got a pencil—what’s yours, boys?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
W estralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, Is.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
t> months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies.—Commonwealth, New Zealand and
iuji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
liritish Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof
la. hlsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
BED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
The Bulletin’s” Serial Programme .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS* .. ..5
“Damn Economy!”
—A page drawing by Scorfield .. 7
EDITORIAL 8 '
INCOME-TAX AND OTHER - POLITICS . . ’ 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11 1)
PERSONAL (illustrated) . . .. ~ .14
“Dignity and Impudence”
—A cartoon by Percival ..
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS * jg' 2 o
Dunlop Rubber ’ ’ ’ j S
Smith’s Newspapers .. ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT ’ -m
MAN ON THE LAND ' " « R ; a
SMOKE-OH . . " " ’
POVERTY POINT . . 1.
POT AND PALETTE . ’ ’ ’ ” 87
Cup Fancies on
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . 39 41 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc %
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER! . " "44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE "
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. " ”49
COONARDOO” 51 63 58
COMPLETE STORIES—
“LittIe Feller”
—By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting .. 55
THE SUBSTITUTE,” by George Lindsay . 57
VERSE gy
\
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1928. ]
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURES
GET A MENTION.
In political campaigns it is seldom a very-
definite mention; but Prime Minister
Bruce made one at Adelaide. His audience
consisted of 600 members of the Constitu-
tional Club, and possibly he was more frank
with them than he would have been before
a public meeting, they being friendly folk
vvlio didn’t interrupt, or ask violent ques-
tions, or throw around scraps of the buried
past. This was the confession put short:—
“He believed that the time had come when
there should be a reciprocal trade relation-
ship between Australia and Great Britain,
under which possibly Australia would give
preferential or free entry into Australia
of British gooda in exchange for preferential
or free entry into Britain of Australian
goods. This would solve many of Australia’s
problems, and many of the problems with
which Britain was confronted. An endeavor
should be made to bring about the develop-
ment of the secondary as well as the primary
industries, by a reduction of the costs of
production but not by a reduction of wages.
High wages were the best thing there could
be in a country.”
So Australian manufactures got a mention,
even though they only turned up in the
form of a postscript.
* * H! #
If this is really what Bruce and Page
are aiming at and looking hopefully for-
ward to, it is a surprising situation, and
calls for explanation. Suppose the Old Man
in London admitted all Australian products,
provided Australia returned the kindness,
he would only be sticking to his existing
policy in most cases (the one he applies
to us and to strangers equally), and the
benefit to us would be very doubtful. And
he isn’t the overwhelming customer that
Freetrade cranks and prevaricators represent
him to be, for the destination of our staple
exports in 1927-28 was as follows:
Britain and Other
Northern Ireland. Countries.
Butter £5,710,062 £1,193.828
Flour 847,091 4,382,372
Wheat 3,976,426 10,653,473
Greasy wool . . . . 17,637,815 41,129,662
Scoured wool .. . . 2,302,434 4,996,634
Meat of all sorts .. 2,430,266 1,291,202
£32,904,094 £63,647,171
There is not even a fool’s reason to suppose
that we would sell much more of these
wares to the Old Man in London if we took
the duties off his manufactured goods and
allowed him to flood our markets, in return
for the Old Man consenting to remain prac-
tically as before. There is no more to sell,
for one thing. Moreover, if, by any im-
possible possibility, J. Bull was willing to
buy more, he could be supplied only if we
turned down other customers, and that
would probably involve a loss. The OJd
Man pays no more than anybody else, and
being a far-off buyer an unpleasantly large
amount is spent in freight before he is
reached.
* * * *
On the other side of the argument, if
duties were abolished or materially lowered
J. Bull could supply us with extra manu-
factured goods ad lib. He doesn’t lack for
bricks with which to build more factories.
He can furnish the necessary machinery.
If the qualified unemployed refuse to enter
the factories and work the machinery, he
can make them get a move on by stopping
the dole, and thus save much money. Aus-
tralia progresses faster in the manufacturing
line than in any other, but still the aggre-
gate output of all industries is shamefully
short of the amount the country requires
to pay its way. At the best our manufac-
turer holds his own with difficulty, and if
the door was thrown open he wouldn’t
hold it at all unless by reducing wages to
the British level, or a little below to com-
pete against mass production and duipping.
The astute Prime Minister, however, stipu-
lates that wages are not to be reduced,
only costs of production, and he would be
a reckless twister of the lion’s tail if he
spoke otherwise. But he fails to explain
how the prices of raw materials, coal, gas,
electricity, new buildings, new machinery
or even horsefeed, all costs of production,
can be cut down save by cutting down the
pay of the men who furnish them. The
visible prospective result of the open door
combined with maintenance of the old wage
standard is that Australian factories would
close because of the inrush of the products
of British factories; that the inrush would
presently cease for lack of money with
which to pay for it; that our factories
wouldn’t re-open because the owners would
be broke; that the Bpuce-Page would be
short of its tariff revenue (about two-thirds
of the whole); and that practically every-
thing would stop, including the tramways
and the interest on the external debt.'
* * * *
The problem which is almost unanimously
shirked, because it is a tremendous thing
to handle, is that the Commonwealth has
an urgent need to reduce its importations
by some £50,000,000 per annum in order to
get out of the habit of paying for a great
stack of foreign goods and all the interest
on its external debt out of new external
loans. This South Sea finance has now been
going for eight years. The results have
been alarming, and the money-lenders begin
to look alarmed. The Bulletin never had
much faith in Bruce and Page (and none
in Scullin) as men to deal strenuously
with the situation; yet, even so, the Prime
Minister’s late utterance is disappointing.
Possibly his Big Four have been talking
with him. about old Freetrade times and
doctrines in England (they appear to know
little or nothing about present times here),
and he is dwelling in the past for a while.
HOW TO HELP BRITAIN—AND OUR-
SELVES.
According to a London cable, which quotes
the Daily Mail:—
“More American films than ever are enter-
ing Britain. British films are improving in
number and quality, but the American com-
panies are retaliating to the quota by Cutting
prices.
. “The sudden drop in prices is designed to
kill the infant British industry and leave the
foreigners in complete possession of the Brit-
ish market.”
This spirited action is really a left-handed
compliment to John Bull. It proves that
the British are doing already what Holly-
wood said they would never do—producing
pictures which are as good, technically
and otherwise, as America’s. Unfortunately,
these pictures are not shown in Australia,
or they are only shown when they have
become out-of-date. Take the case of two
super fight-and-sentiment pictures—“ The
Patent Leather Kid” (America) and “The
Ring” (British). The former degenerates
into bathos at the end, and, as it is war-
bathos (a preposterous love-scene in a
front-line *C.C.S.), it was particularly un-
suited for critical and war-wise Australia.
“The Ring,” by pretty general consent,
is about the best-photographed and most
convincing film of its class that has been
done yet. “The Patent Leather Kid” has
been shown here; the other has not. And
this kind of thing is going on all the time.
The Australian is no more studied as a
consumer by the Yankee picture bosses
than he is studied as an elector by the poli-
tical bosses who select his candidates for
him.
* * * *
Prime Minister Bruce’s proposal at Adel-
aide. Constitutional Club that Britain should
be offered freetrade is visionary, and it is
equally impracticable for this country to
set out to take sufficient immigrants to do
overcrowded Britain much real good. But
there is a way in which we can be of tre-
mendous help to the people who are our
best customers, and alongside whom we will
fight if we have the misfortune to go to
war again—by supporting an industry which
is as essential to a modern nation with a
world-trade as a Consular service is. Not
only will the Commonwealth make no sac-
rifices by legislating to take all the pictures
that the U.K. can supply, it will be an
eventual gainer. Australia’s ultimate aim
must be to start a picture industry of its
own. It will never begin so long as the only
film traditions and conventions which it
knows are American. F6r good or ill the
culture of this country is essentially Brit-
ish, and as different from that of the U.S.
as cricket is from baseball. That is the
culture which will have to be popularised
in the screen sense before an Australian
film industry can be put on its feet.
* * * *
The quota system is the accepted method
of protecting a film industry. It has arrived
in Britain, and is appearing all over the
European continent. .All Australia has to
consider in the matter, therefore, is how
the introduction of a pro-British quota, as
formidable in its incidence as a genuine
protective tariff, is going to affect the well-
being of the 20,000 people who are employed
at present in the Commonwealth’s 1250
picture theatres. The answer lies in the
quality of the latest British pictures. They
are booming in Britain, which two years
ago was quite as contemptuous of British
pictures as America then was; and they
would boom here if given the chance. But
no force except a national Government can
give them that chance.
THE FAMINE IN ENGLAND.
This month 10,000 workless miners have been
sent to Canada to help gather in the wheat
harvest. Thousands more applied and were
rejected. Starvation and unemployment have
made them unfit for hard physical effort.
They must continue to be pensioners on the
dole. The numbers who rushed to make
application show that the unemployed will
work if they can find employment. Few of
them are willing idlers. The case of the.
rejected is almost hopeless. They are the
superfluous manhood of the race.
In spite of all the measures taken by the
Government the evil of unemployment is
now worse than it has ever been in the
history of England. Along the Tyne and in
all the mining districts distress approaches
famine conditions. Despair holds the souls
of the people, whose sullen eyes betray their
complete dejection. The Conservative Gov-
ernment, like its predecessors, has failed to
solve the problem. Meanwhile Baldwin of
the cheerful face is at Aix-les-Bains for a rest,
after posing before the cameras as the com-
mon-sense saviour of the nation from the
hades of communism and confusion. The
filling of his pipe and the smile as he lights
up are handed out by a fatuous press to a
sentimental public as a specific against social
and economic woes. The reckoning will
come next year after a winter of deep dis-
tress. The sword of the general election
is sharpening. By-elections show the dis-
satisfaction with the Government, and its
opponents have a ready text in the suffer-
ings of the workless, the condition of the
great industries, and the failure of the Con-
servatives to grapple with the terrors of the
situation.
The' cry goes out that England has lost
her foreign markets through the increased
costs of production, and that her industries
are being slowly crushed by taxation. Even
the great railways are insecure. They no
longer pay dividends, and will soon cease to
be authorised security for trust funds. Em-
ployees of all grades, including directors,
have been forced to accept a cut in salaries
and wages. There seems to be no great hope
for them whilst trade is bad and the public
prefers to travel by motor. And the gradual
disappearance of the railways as a means
of transport means a very serious decrease
in the demand for coal.
It is evident that low wages are no solu-
tion of the unemployment problem. Ger-
many has a much lower wage than England,
yet she also has a very large number of
superfluous workers. When wages are
lowered the demand in the home market for
consumable goods is also lowered. Still, the
trend of the arguments in the Financial
News and other economic and trade re-
views is that labor is overvalued in terms
of other things. Even J. M. Iveynes
recently said that “unemployment will not
decline unless business men have the in-
centive of plentiful credit, high hopes and
a slightly rising level of prices—a slight in-
flation of prices but not of costs.” This
means a lowering of the wage standard in
terms of purchasing power.
Alas for England’s gteen and pleasant
land! It is park-like and beautiful, and its
roads are splendid for motorists. The area
under cultivation, however, and the number
of sheep and cattle are declining to an
alarming extent. Holland, Belgium and
France are perhaps less picturesque in their
rural districts than England, but their sur-
face is intensely cultivated for foodstuffs.
It is startling to an Australian to see so
few livestock in rich pastures, and so few
men, when the cities are overcrowded with
the workless, and ten thousand of Britain’s
most able-bodied workers are leaving for
Canada to harvest the wheat crop which
will be needed to feed Britain’s unemployed.
Capital is unemployed, as well as men,
through defective economic organisation.
Instead of lying idle in the banks it might
be used for the development of industry
by means of a properly balanced financial
system more generous in the volume of pro-
jects which it attempts to foster, and less
exacting in its demands for interest. In the
meantime the Industrial Transference Board
appointed by the Baldwin Government
declares in effect that the 10.000 who have
gone to Canada and some 200,000 of their
fellows at home are a surplus to the require-
ments of their country. Sentence of banish-
ment has been passed upon them from their
native land. If they elect to remain they
must starve or exist upon the dole.
Countries like France and Belgium, which
have repudiated a portion of their debt by
means of a depreciated coinage and standard
of exchange, are comparatively free from the
problem of unemployment. The British in-
vestor cannot close his eyes to the fact,
though he is trying hard to forget it.
BRUSSELS.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Andrew Fisher.
Half a dozen outstanding acts figure in the
record of Andrew Fisher, who has just had
a State funeral in London. He founded the
Commonwealth Bank, which has been one
of the very few brilliant and unqualified
successes that Public Enterprise has to its
credit in this country. His baby bonus,
thrown indiscriminately to those who
require it and those who don’t, was, and
remains, a sample of muddled humanitarian-
ism, though few have the courage to advo-
cate its repeal even when the £660,000 or
so per annum that it costs can so little
be spared. The graduated land-tax was
one-half statesmanlike endeavor and the
other half unbusinesslike nonsense. It mea-
sures big estates wholly by alleged value,
so now the great bulk of the impost falls
on city allotments which are too small to
be cut up, and is merely a senseless money
grab and one more addition to the high
cost of living. The beginning of the Aus-
tralian navy and the comoulsory training
idea were wholly creditable, and that the
Scullins and Theodores nowadays regard
them with opprobrium is corroborative evi-
dence.
On the other side, Fisher committed
Australia to the East-to-West railway, which
was no Federal obligation and which ran
through State property, while the South-
to-North line, which was a Federal obliga-
tion of the most definite kind and which
was to make accessible a Federal property
of 523,620 square miles, was crowded out,
and is so still. It was the beginning of
the policy of putting State interests, which
involved immediate votes, before the inter-
ests of all Australia, which called for
pioneering effort, and the results are still
with us and still growing like the upas-tree.
So the case may be summarised by saying
that Andrew Fisher was a sincere and
honest man, who did more big things than
the average, and some of them were good.
♦
Australia’s “Conchies.”
Federal Labor’s Defence policy, as stated
by leader Scullin and campaign-director
Theodore, is crazy enough to have come
out of Bedlam. Scullin told a Brisbane
audience that, “though if Britain went to
war the party would certainly make
adequate provision for the defence of Aus-
tralia,” yet “Labor would bend its energies
chiefly towards universal disarmament.” The
party’s notion of “adequate provision” is
indicated in “Labor’s Campaign Manual
(1928),” which has been edited by Theo-
dore. Beyond some figures designed to
show r that too much is being spent on de-
fence by the Bruce party, the only refer-
ence to the subject is as follows:
“The Prime Minister constantly urges the
need of a navy. Yet his Government has
parted with seven fast vessels, capable of
carrying heavy guns; they were auxiliary
cruisers, and each of them more powerful
than the Sydney.”
Meaning the Commonwealth liners!
No one knows better than the worker of
Australia, who in many cases saw active
service, that adequate provision cannot be
made for a country’s defence after a war
has begun; it is as impracticable to impro-
vise an army—to make no mention of a
fleet—as it is to improvise a cathedral or
a harbor bridge.
If Britain went to war it would be the
Commonwealth’s job, both as a self-respect-
ing nation and as a business one, to keep the
lines of communication open in its own
zone. If they were cut, Australia, which
imports all its superfluities and many of
its necessaries, would soon be bankrupt and
in danger of starving. Elderly liners could
do nothing to avert the tragedy, but an
up-to-date warship might. That is the chief
function of Australia 11. It is on record
that Australia I. went to its grave off Syd-
ney Heads without having fired a shot in
anger, and it is to be hoped that the same
may be said a decade hence of Australia 11.
On present appearances the only factor likely
to prevent that consummation is a Gov-
ernment pledged to weaken Australia’s de-
fences so that a predatory Power will come
to regard war in the Pacific as good busi-
ness.
In that sense people who froth about
pacifism whenever an election is near are
our most dangerous war-mongers. In the
alternative they are the equivalent of the
miserable “conchies” who played cunning
in every country throughout the war, de-
nouncing armaments on moral grounds and
skulking behind them for the protection of
their skins and investments.
+ -
Blood-bath Bill.
Ex-Kaiser William was a voluminous
correspondent, and as the people he corres-
ponded with often failed to burn the wis-
dom, a quantity of it is being published
in Berlin. One letter was written to Chan-
cellor von Buelow when Morocco was the
bone of contention:—
“At a time like this, when Socialists are
openly preaching and preparing for revolt,


DETHRONED.
“The Queensland Labor Government, having sold most of Its pastoral properties at a heavy loss, is now considering the disposal of mines, smelters, etc., which have
involved an even greater loss.
SOCIALISM: “You ask me why I failed? See how I am dragged down and chained."
we cannot send a single man from the coun-
try without exposing the lives and property
of citizens to danger. The Socialists must
first be shot down, beheaded, and rendered
harmless, if need be in a bath of blood ; then
for war abroad.”
That doesn’t suggest anything complex
about William’s share in the Big War.
Apparently William took these rather
mild people in deadly earnest and expected
to be beheaded at any moment, and when
they became the largest single party in
the constitutencies, though not in the
Reichstag, he may have felt like Charles
I. on the way to execution. On more than
one occasion he went to the verge of war
and didn’t go over; and probably the idea
that a large body of his own subjects would
arise and bite him from behind accounts
for his sudden stoppages. Possibly he took
something for it, or possibly he grew out of
his panic. Anyhow, when the senile Kaiser
of Austria furnished an opportunity, and
also an excuse which seemed likely to
appeal to the nation, William 11. waded in,
and he found the Social Democrats very
harmless and not at all revolutionary. In
fact, everything went well—except that he
didn’t win the war.
4
Fritz and the Dawes Plan.
It is by no means certain even now that
the Dawes Reparation Scheme will work.
True, Germany has undertaken to find
£62,000,000 this year, following £25,000,000
for the year just ended; but it takes no
responsibility for the transfer of this or
any sum to the Allies. That rests with
the Reparation authoi'ities, and if they
decide that it would upset the exchanges,
the transfer simply will not be made. And
if this position persists the scheme breaks
down.
It was the transfer of these huge sums
that J. M. Keynes criticised as imprac-
ticable. Hitherto the much smaller sums
required have been - transferred successfully,
but only because the U.S.A.’s loans and
investments in Germany have provided the
necessary foreign exchange. Germany has
no favorable balance of trade to make any
but trifling payments to other countries.
Uncle Sam will hardly continue indefinitely
to provide the wherewithal, and if he were
willing, interest payments would soon
mount up so that Uncle’s loans would be
eaten up in payment of Uncle’s interest.
Like enough, the Dawes crowd, and par-
ticularly Stamp, who is credited with the
chief share, never had much conviction that
the scheme would work in the long lun.
But it promised a breathing space five or
six years at least —for excited passions to die
down and for the world, and France par-
ticularly, to adjust its vision to lealities.
So it has been worthwhile.
“State Ownership and Control.”
Keeroongooloo should get a place in the
history of Austr ’iar State enterprises. It
is an ordinary Queensland cattle station
which once belonged to a N.S.W. butcher-
ing firm. In 1919, when the Queensland
Government set out to show the world that
the State could supply every requirement of
the community, it bought Keeroongooloo
for £156,000. It also acquired an adjoin-
ing grazing homestead for £5OOO, which
brought the total purchase price to £161,000.
Eight years of Government “ownership and
control” saw the run £141,312 short on work-
ing expenses. This made the total liability
incurred £302,312.
Attempts made last year to sell the lep-
rous white elephant by auction failed. So
it was sold back again to the firm it was
bought from for £120,000. Thus, roughly,
the place brought £41,000 less than its
original cost to the Government, and
£182,312 less than its total cost. But that
is not all. Conditions of sale provided that
the price paid the Government was to be
conditional on the Government being able
to muster 19,372 cattle and 592 horses. It.
is a year since the sale was made, but -io
muster has been made yet, and if the pre-
sent ultra-dry spell continues in the district
in which the station is situated, it may oe
months more before a' bangtail can be held.
Musters on three other Government sta-
tions sold back to Private Enterprise lately
have shown that the State was “shy” just
under 20,000 cattle on its estimated head
of stock carried on these properites. When
the Keeroongooloo muster is made, the dis-
crepancy, in proportion, may be even more
emphatic. In which case, of course —well,
a buyer doesn’t forego the delivery of a few
thousand cattle for nothing.
»
Government in the Pacific.
The spirit of decentralisation seems to have
reached even the Arcadian atmosphere of
the Solomon Islands. The Group, save that
section of it coming under the New Guinea
Mandate, ranks as a British protectorate
administered through the Crown Colony of
Fiji, much as British New Guinea was once
administered through a condominium of
Australian State? acting for the Colonial
Office. The method never proved satis-
factory, and the great Macgregor has left
on record his opinion of it.
The white population of the Solomons is
even more disgusted with divided control.
The crux of the complaint is that, though
large revenues are collected and an extensive
administrative staff maintained, neither the
white man nor the native gets much, if any-
thing, out of it all. It is an axiom of
modern British administration of primitive
races that where taxation of natives is
necessary it must be expended as far as
possible on the people from whom it is
taken. The usual channels of return are
instruction in improved methods of agri-
culture and craftsmanship and, most import-
ant of all, intensive warfare against the
peculiar and unpleasant diseases which
afflict the native.
Though Papua and Mandated New
Guinea have introduced and spread every-
where among their native populations a
system of medical relief and sanitation
which is meeting with the most astonishing
success, the Solomons have marked time in
this as in other important particulars.
Officialdom’s excuse is that it cannot get
Fiji to do what it wants. Fiji counters with
the claim that London won’t let it. So
nothing is done. White Solomon Islanders
who are not officials are asking for Crown
Colony status, with the wiping out of the
Fijian middleman and direct communica-
tion with the Colonial Office. With a
measure of representation in the Crown
Colony councils, they have an idea that the
non-official white man stands a better chance
of having things done as he would like
them.
There is another alternative worth con-
sideration. That is that the present Pro-
tectorate be taken over by Australia and
administered on the lines now obtaining in
Papua. In spite of financial limitations, the
Australian administration of Papua is a
model of its kind, and its methods have been
closely followed by the Federal Govern-
ment in the case of the Mandated Terri-
tory. In this last, again, the principle of
giving service to white and brown man alike
for consideration or for none at all has
brought gratifying response. Both the
Papuan and New Guinea authorities have
made mistakes. But the Australian Gov-
ernment, administering both, has always
been easily accessible to complaints and
attentive to correction. In most cases it
has been swift to listen to the one and to
accept the other. The experiment might be
well worth trying from the point of view
of both parties concerned.
+
The Australia 11.
If Labor goes to the polls on November
17 handicapped by the stigma of
Bolshevism it will have its press to blame.
The campaign which is being conducted in
Sydney against the good name of the flag-
ship Australia is in the true Moscow tradi-
tion. The theory is that a maritime State
cannot be overthrown till its navy has
been disaffected, and the formula is to con-
vince the ratings that their officers are
bowelless tyrants. The manceuvre succeeded
in Russia, and, to an extent, in Germany,
but here there are too many ex-
Diggers who understand exactly what is
going on. It is a platitude in armies and
navies that the Gum midges of warfare, the
men who always have grievances, are those
who have asked for them; they are the duds,
drunks, lead-swingers and misfits generally
of the fighting trade. Hardship and danger
are abhorrent to them, but they are happy
slinging mud at their ship or brigade, as
the case may be, in an atmosphere of beer
and boy-reporters.
In the case of our flagship, these wasters
are said to have talked of a “state of
mutiny” and of a situation which “nearly
caused a riot.” Such yarns will not cause
a solitary drunk or A.W.L. offender to be
relieved "of his sentence, but they will do
something to earn the Australia the repu-
tation abroad of being a disorderly ship,
and they will do a lot to earn Labor the
reputation of being a viciously Bolshevik
party here.
The Mere Human in War.
The German General Kannengeisser’s
cabled story of the Suvla Bay fiasco makes
much of the contention that Britain’s failure
to snap up victory in the slips in the open-
ing overs, so to speak, was due to her employ-
ment of troops untrained in time of peace
for the eventualities of war. But the cold
facts are that the failure to at once occupy
the lightly-held heights of Suvla was the
fault of the Staff, which held these men on
the beach instead of marching them up to
the commanding ground until the latter
had been strongly occupied by the Turks
and the landing force was demoralised by
thirst and hunger. As far as training and
equipment went, the Turks were probably
inferior to the troops they faced. But
they were most capably handled by highly
trained German staff officers.
Even the most intensively trained troops
can fail as egregiously as neophytes. Von
Moltke's obsession for Paris when the
Channel ports lay at his mercy was one
instance. Von Kluck’s failure to appreci-
ate the situation at the Marne was another.
The vain attempts of the cream of the
German shock troops to break through in
the early Ypres battles, though opposed
largely by untrained levies like the Cana-
dians and backed by a surprise gas attack
and overwhelming numerical superiority,
were further examples; and these could be
multiplied fiftyfold on either side. The
truth is that human fallibility enters deeply
into the conduct of war, and no amount of
intensive training can entirely eradicate it.
Which onlj r makes war a sillier business
than ever, since the result is always liable
to be an accident.
♦
“Aitape” : Last year there was an abor-
tive revolution in Java, after which the
Netherlands Government banished some
2000 Communists to Dutch New Guinea.
The south-eastern border of the latter
marches with the northern boundary of Man-
dated New Guinea, and communication be-
tween the two territories by sea is easy
Recently the New Guinea authorities
discovered a Dutch East Indian named
Marcus Johannes in the Territory without
a passport. Johannes proved to be one
of the Java deportees, but was silent as
to how he had reached British territory. It '
is evident that a southern exodus of the
Javanese Communists is not a remote con-
tingency, and the white population of New
Guinea is asking the authorities to estab-
lish a border patrol and frontier post with
a view to damming the trickle before it
becomes a river.
*
“Long TTn” : The idiotic rule that a man
cannot personally look for work is not
always union-made (B. 3/10/’2B). For in-
stance, the experienced navvy prefers to
go along the job and offer his services to
the ganger who is responsible for getting
the work out of the men. But a Govern-
ment which likes to keep patronage in its
own hands believes that a clerk in an office
is a better judge of a navvy than a woi’k-
ing ganger. So even if the navvy finds a
ganger short-handed, he has to go perhaps
30 miles to the nearest Labor Bureau, to
be told there are no vacancies or that all
men required on the job must come through
the Sydney Labor Bureau. Another
example of decentralisation!


SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lang and Ins deputy and their Whip spent
most of last week putting padlocks on the
mouths of their members. Some of them
aidn t need to be told to keep quiet; all
they needed was something to keep their
gnns from splitting their faces. Nothing
that Lang ever did suited tnem half as well
as what Assistant-Treasurer Stevens did
when he brought in his new Income Tax Bill.
. The Bavin-Stevens rates on individual
incomes go from 7d. to 4s. 41d. in the £ in
respect of personal exertion and from 104 d
to 4s. 9d. in respect of property. The Federal
rates run from a fraction over 3d. to ss.
And the "war has been over for 10 years.
The plight of Robert Cook, of the Federal
Country party, who held Indi (Vic.) by
Bob Cook.
large majorities' for
nine years and then
arrived too late with
his nomination, pro-
vides another argu-
ment against the pre-
selection business.
Harry Griffiths, Cocky
M.L.A. for York
(W.A.), made a simi-
lar botch of things a
few years ago, but in
that case there was
another Cocky in the
field and the party did
not lose the seat. In
Indi the seat went to
Labor by default, and
£3OOO of good prospec-
tive salary blew up
like a bubble of hydro-
gen gas. What Cook
said first isn’t re-
corded, but even a
strenuous character
like Lawson’s Captain
of the Push might,
have had a difficulty
in rising to the situa-
tion.
Slogans can be very dangerous things. The
JN.fe.W. Government, introducing its new
taxation, has tried to make one of “Ability
to Pay.” Stevens assumed that it was the
last word in wisdom that taxation should be
governed by ability to pay. But the phrase
shirks the real question. Is the big, loafing
bachelor who won’t work to be excused from
taxation while the poor little industrious
widow is to be tapped because she has
scraped a few shillings into her purse? What
is ability to pay?
The waterside _ trouble appears to have
settled down, leaving only one cloud or water-
spout visible. The shipowners show a pre-
ference for the men who registered earliest
under the new law, and only a few of the
strikers and job-controllers were among them.
On the other hand the latter suggest that
as they have come back the men who saved
the situation should be put aside, and that
they themselves should have the preference
they lately threw away. Still, it isn’t half
so important to disqualify the old wharf-
lumpers as it is to disqualify and disfran-
chise the old wharf-lumpers’ law-defying
leaders.
. Bruce told the Constitutional Club in Adel-
aide that high wages are best for a country;
and that is another politicians’ parrot-cry
that needs up-ending. Neither high nor low
nor in-between wages are in themselves any
good to a country. High production is good
tor a country; and high production ought to
be accompanied by high wages. But high
wages unaccompanied by high production
may be and in the end must be a curse and
not a blessing at all. You can push off the
evil day by borrowing to make up the deficit;
but the smash must come in the end.
If Speacock has been looking forward to
the Greater Melbourne Bill, with its 400-odd
clauses and 30 schedules, to give him a long
speli out of the chair in Vic. Assembly, he
will probably be disappointed. Cup time is
almost upon the House, and the bill hasn’t
been launched. It may be explained this
session, but it wouldn’t be safe to back it
much further than that stage.
Substitutes are stumping the Wentworth
(N.S.W.) Federal electorate for Walter
Walter Marks.
Marks, whose absence
is resented by some
of his constituents,
though unreasonably.
Before a November
election was thought of
Marks was appointed
to attend the Canadian
meeting of the Empire
Parliamentary Associa-
tion —Australia had its
turn two or three years
ago—and, like Prowse
of Westralia, he can’t
get back before polling-
day. However, the
man' who saw service
in the North Sea
during the war is in
no danger, though his
opponent, Bobby
O’Halloran, has a high
opinion of his own per-
suasive powers. The
Marks majorities were
7770 in 1919, 4702 in
’22, and 12,507 in ’25.
A Maoriland dispute as to rates of pay
in the woolgrowing industry has been settled
in a very interesting fashion. For three
seasons rates for shearers and shedhands are
to be fixed in accordance with export prices
of wool as determined by the Government
Statistician’s index numbers. The index num-
ber for the current year is 1800; this will
equal 30s. per hundred for shearing ordinary
flock sheep. A rise or fall of 50 units on
the index number will mean a corresponding
movement of 6d. a hundred on the shearing
rate.
A railway deputation which recently waited
on Queensland Premier McCormack quitted
him with astonishment on both sides—McC.
flabbergasted that his visitors should ask
what they did, and the visitors all broke up
to find that the time was past when rail-
waymen could Set anything they asked for.
Ihe demand was for the reinstatement of 18
railway employees who were sacked at Bowen
during the recent Red upheaval. The reply
was that the 18 had disobeyed the orders of
their superiors and also those of their union,
which commanded them to stick to work. As
bad employees and rotten unionists the ser-
vice had no further use for them.
Hardly a politician or would-be politician
opens his mouth these days without solemnly
telling his hearers that he’ll see that the
standard of living isn’t interfered with. It.
is about time the public took these politicians
by the ear and told them that they are not
the Omnipotent. Politicians can’t and don’t
fix the standard of living; not permanently,
at any rate. They may fix it temporarily,
but if they fix it too high it must be at the
expense of the next generation. The com-
munity must fix its own standard ; if it is
consuming more than it is producing, then
it wul] have sooner or later either to consume
less or produce more.
Bavin didn’t appoint a Judge to inquire
whether Sydney Ferries were justified in
raising some of their fares. It is one of
the few things that have lately happened in
N. S. Wales politics to be glad for. He gave
the job to a couple of accountants.
While the wharf war was raging, Mel-
bourne Agk and Sydney Guardian reported
Westralian Premier Collier as having de-
nounced “the Booby award.” Hansard
shows that there was no such denunciation,
and that the Premier even said (pianissimo)
“I think the men were wrong in not accept-
ing the Beeby award.” He w'ent on to de-
clare that it was “most improper and mon-
strous” to oblige the Fremantle repudiators
to register under the Transport Workers
Act give a mild guarantee of future good
behavior, in short —before the regulations
had arrived by post. On this point The
Bulletin does not agree with Mr. Collier,
but, having mentioned “the Booby award”
gibe in a paragraph, it cheerfully makes it
clear that he said nothing of the sort.
By piling more loads on industry and
efficiency Bavin and Stevens expect to get
another £i Off,ooo p.a. of income-tax revenue
this year. A tax on amusements finishing
where the federal tax starts would bring
in nearly as much ; S. Aus., with one show-
town, got £106,000 from this source last
year. But m common decency the N.S AY
Government ought to reduce the utterly
reckless rate of expenditure to normal before
any more taxation is imposed. The poli-
ticians who have made such a mess of things
are scandalously overpaid at £875 p.a.; £5OO
p.a. would be more than enough for that
mob. Also at least half a million could be
saved by putting an end to the wicked extrav-
agance in the Government departments which
Bavin practically confessed in his Budget
Sp(3cCil,
The Bruce Government is a good deal to
blame, too, for the mess that the Bavin Gov-
ernment has fallen into in N. S. Wales. Fed-
eral Governments have been far too affluent
and have continued the war-time habit of
tin owing millions around in an airy wav
largely on things that are no business of
The community might have stood
Bavins extortions; it cannot stand Bavin’s
/-!' U v° S - * n ~£<*, Bavin’s demand
t have felt like extortions if Bruce
hadn t been knocking at the door, too.
Under pressure from the leaders of their
parties, Laborite McKenzie and Prohibitionist
Greenwood apologised to Vic. Assembly for
them recent verbal outbreak which so nearly
led to blows. Speacock, who had been worry-
mg over the discredit cast upon a House in
which good feeling is traditional, compli-
mented the pair on their return to decorum
Ihe penitential exercises were done immedi-
ately after the prayer.
The secretary of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association was another witness who told
the Industrial Commission that wheat-farm-
ing in N.S.W. has become a rather pre-
carious business except in favored spots, or
perhaps as part of a mixed industry. He
reckoned the last harvest as an average loss
of _s. or so per bushel all round. The posi-
tion is that State taxation about doubled m
seven years (this is apart from Customs and
excise, which are Federal), and local rates
vent up, and railway freights did the same
also wages and general expenses. The agri-
culturist carries his full share of these and
likewise a proportion of the share of the
landless man. Nobody raises the farmer’s
wages, or lowers his rent, or shortens his
hours, or otherwise improves his standard
of living, but he pays.
Hect9r Stewart, a Westralian M.L.C. and
an engineer by profession, has made some
remarkable statements in support of a de-
mand that the administration of the' Main
Roads Act, a 1925 Perth creation, should be
probed by a select committee. • One is that
it is costing £16,000 per mile of good loan
money to reconstruct the not very important
highway from the Perth Causeway to Fre-
mantle. The average capital cost of the
State railways, which returned £26,670 over-
working expenses and interest in the capable
* as t-, year as Commissioner, is only
£5565 a mile. Again ;
About 400 men were dumped on a stretch of road
near the harrogin Inn just in time to qualify for
votes in the State electorate. The work was dis-
continued ; when it was resumed stinkwort 2ft. high
was growing between the foundations.
It was a suitable crop, anyhow, for a
Federal-aid” road.
J.A.J. Hunter.
When J. A. J. Hun-
ter, of the Queensland
Cocky party, succeeded
the late Jim Page as
M.H.R. for Maranoa,
it was said that Labor
would make a certainty
of it liext time— i.e.,
in 1922. The same tale
was told three years
ago, and it has been
trotted out again by
friends of the present
Labor candidate a
nephew of G. H. Reid
—but the threatened
man is serenely confi-
dent. Nevertheless the
Labor nominee is sure
to have a good lead
when the town votes
are counted on the first day. That always
happens in Maranoa ; Huilter’s strength lies
in the out-back settlements.
For thrifty people to invest portion of
their savings in employment-giving companies
is regarded by N. S. Wales politicians as
something discreditable —certainly something
to be penalised. So shareholders are to be
taxed on their dividends, and then the divi-
dends are to be added to their income from
other sources so that the highest rate pos-
sible may be exacted from them. The com-
panies are to pay from 2s. to 3s. 6d. in the
£. In neighboring Victoria the company tax
is Is. 6d. in the £: nor is there any child-
endowment tax of 3 p.c. on aggregate wages
and salaries in that State.
The superintendent of the Burnside Home
at Parramatta has 284 boys and 175 girls
on his hands, and finds the situation difficult.
Phe aim of the institution has been to put
the boys on farms, and it worked well enough
till some city blokes enacted that the wage
should be "from 15s. at 16,” rising to £2 at
20, with, of course, an adult’s wage (£2 155.)
at 21, in addition to board and lodging. The
typical agriculturist is further than he used
to be from the status of a capitalist, and his
great desire, under a mass of new and mixed
conditions, is to do without labor if he can.
So the old Burnside boy has taken to going
home when 19 to look for a job in the city.
Care is furrowing the forehead of J. H.
Senator Chapman.
Chapman, the Country-
party Senator from S.
Aus. He was elected
three years ago as a
Bruce-Page supporter,
being third on the com-
bined ticket. When
the State Nationalist
and Cocky organisa
tions quarrelled, and
Minister Mclntosh
said lie would lead the
Cocky party no longer,
Chapman took the
Cocky side. though
without ceasing to be
a Bruce-Pagan. Now
the Agrarians are put-
ting up men against
Cameron in Barker
and Dicky Poster in
Wakefield, and are get-
ting Labor support—
for the first time since
the first Federal elec-
tion there is no Labor
candidate in either
electorate. It is a
frightfully embarrass-
ing position for Chap-
man.
One of the brilliant ideas of Assistant-
Treasurer Stevens, of N. S. Wales, in fram-
ing his income-tax bill was that goodwill
should be excluded in ascertaining what capi-
tal there actually was in a co.’s business.
Mr. Stevens is merely calling tenders for
trouble. Bliggs and Co., Ltd., has a capital
of £lOO,OOO, £30,000 of it represented by
goodwill. In that case Mr. Stevens will tear
out the £30,000 from his calculations. But
suppose Bliggs and Co., Ltd., buys shares in,
say, the Union Bank, what about it? F’or
the co. will pay about £l5 7s. 6d. for the
Union share, and according to the published
accounts there are tangible assets for only
£ll 3s. 9d., so the balance must be goodwill.
Yet there isn’t a knowledgeable business
man in Australia who doesn’t know that the
Union’s properties are absurdly undervalued ;
so presumably, in order to find out whether
there really is any goodwill in Bliggs’s capi-
tal account, Mr. Stevens wall proceed to
value all the Union Bank’s premises!
Lx-Premier. Slang _ has discovered many
mares’ nests in his time, though the owner
was seldom at home laying eggs, and he has
made another find which may be an addition
to the collection. His tale goes that the
Savings Bank solicitors had a habit, when
a poor man offered a security which was
really good for, say, £6OO, at 64 per cent.,
to recommend an advance of, say, £4OO only.
It it was accepted the poor man was still
m want of money, so the solicitors, it is
alleged, accommodated him with some more
on _ second mortgage—the accursed thing
which moneylenders advertise their willing-
ness to negotiate at 10 per cent. The Fair
Lents fad is largely responsible for the
second-mortgage calamity. It made houses-
to-let of the modest sort so unprocurable
that numbers of people who hadn’t the least
desire to be legroped to a time-payment
shack have been driven into the business
with utterly insufficient means, and have
fallen into the hands of the second-mortgage
speculator in conseauence, with the result,
in many instances, that they lost first their
original savings and then the shack.
Our finance is a shifty thinsr. In addi-
tion to the visible debt there are often bank
overdrafts here and in London, and accom-
modation out of trust funds, and when dis-
tressed hospitals say they must have funds
or be reduced to leaving the patients in the
street it is usual to guarantee them with a
bank and put some more items into the
unspecified liability. When the Savings Bank
is called upon to lend 90 per cent, on a
house valuation instead of a fairly safe 75
per cent, the State guarantees the difference,
and puts that in with the indefinite heap.
And one visible reason for the semi-inde-
pendence of the Federal Capita! Commission
is that it can have its own overdraft
guaranteed, of course.
[Fof matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. £. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
WHEN HOGAN BOUGHT A MOTOR
CAR.
(F OR THE BULLETIN.]
', <A 2 e r,/ I( ? ud ty protesti ng its devotion to Australian
tlSh A lnd “ Stry> the Ho & an Government has
sought an American motor-car for Ministers’ use.”
“Australia first and Britain next,”
He dinned it in till he was hoarse;
Here was the economic text
many an eloquent discourse,
lime and again he’d preach and stress
Ihe wholesome doctrine near and far
A “dnone impugned his earnestness
lill Hogan bought a motor-car.
Oft and reproachfully he chid
I or recreant to his land the gent
Who spent abroad a single quid
-Chat nearer home he might have spent.
A glass with Munich beer a-brim,
A choice Havana-grown cigar
would have dared to offer him—
lill Hogan bought a motor-car.
Bike trumpet-call o’ mornings blown,
. broguey voice came down the breeze •
Victorians, support your own !
Eschew imported luxuries!”
One would have thought, whatever happed,
lied hitched his waggon to a star,
i ut tare an ages ! something snapped
When Hogan bought a motor-car.
S ™P? e his cherished creed,
Ihe principles he held so dear—
Where have they vanished? Where indeed'.
Where are the leaves of yesteryear?
The colors liaBed, the slogan pinned
Aiott —Ah! ask not where they are'
All gone, all whistled down the wind
Emt how the Devil must have grinned
When Hogan bought a motor-car!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Euroa” : It was at a busy hour in Collins-
street when a man waiting to cross the
thoroughfare was deliberately struck by
another. “What’s the matter?” he asked,
amazed. “Have you gone mad?” The reply
was another blow, and the smitten one
angrily retaliated. A crowd was gathering,
when the inevitable peacemaker rushed
between the struggling pair. “Cut it out,
you fools!” he cried, gripping the attacked
one and dragging him away. “Here’s the
police'. Finish it somewhere else” ; and he
righted the combatant’s hat and adjusted his
tie. A constable arrived, and the aggrieved
one explained: “Never saw him in my life
before, but couldn’t stand and take it all
like a big mug,” he said. Then, in answer
to another query from the John, he began
a frenzied search through his pockets.
HE FOUND IT.
“Hey, waitah! There’s a button in my soup!”
“Oh, thank you, sir—I heard it go, but I didn’t see where it went."
“You’re right!” he said, “my wallet’s gone.”
The attacker and the peacemaker had also
gone ’ *
“Merris”: The air of natural equality
which pervaded the Croweater Special Con-
stabulary during the wharf troubles caused
old Colonel Blank to grow hot in the collar.
Prowling around in the small hours, how-
ever, he was relieved to find all the Specials
on duty alert, but one gave an entirely new
answer to the order to turn out the guard.
“I can’t turn out the flamin’ guard! he
gasped. “ ’Ave a bit o’ common! Why,
the poor blighters are all asleep!”
# * * *
“Ashmead”: It isn’t only the advocate
who sometimes spoils his case by saying
a word too much. The other morning a
Launceston (Tas.) magistrate was just leav-
ing his court when a philanthropic-looking
old party bailed him up with a subscription-
list. It was for a deserving case, he was toll,
that of a man in distressed circumstances
with a wife and family dependent on him.
The beak put his hand in his pocket to re-
spond, but the other warmed to his subject
to make the mite mightier. “It’s for the
man you just fined, yer Honor,” he added.
Out came the hand empty.
5jC
“Avril”: We were ascending one of the
highest blocks in the city the other day when
the liftman deliberately shot past the second
floor, where a little woman was obviously
awaiting transport. He pulled up, unso-
licited, at No. 5 and dodged into a small
office just opposite the lift. “Yer wife s
cornin’ up the stairs, Mr. Blank,” we heard
him hiss in a rapid whisper, whereupon a
fluffy young person dashed out, boarded
the lift and was conveyed up to the next
floor, where she alighted still visibly agi-
tated. “I wonder at your mixing yourself
up in such an affair,” remarked an old lady
severely as we continued upwards. _ “Well,
you see, lady, it’s like this,” explained the
'liftman affably, “the caretaker here s me
brother-in-law and we don’t like rows in the
building. It don’t do no building’s repyer-
tation any good to have wimmin comin up
an’ breakin’ their umbrellers on other wim-
min’s heads. So we do what we can ter help
all parties.” His attitude seemed to have
some justification, for, while descending a
few minutes later, I noticed the small woman
being affectionately farewelled by her hus-
band, as he put her into the lift and arranged
to meet her for luncheon in half an hour.
There was no sign of the fluffy young person.
“I give her the tip ter git out fer ter-day,
said the liftman confidentially.
* * * *
“Baton”: Waite’s Specials, who formed
the Citizens’ Defence Brigade in Adelaide,
flocked from all parts of the State in answer
to the SOS sent out by wireless and
flashed upon the movie screens. Two thou-
sand men were asked for, but three thou-
sand had enrolled, and hundreds more were
offering when recruiting was stopped. A
hundred men came from the pastoral country
north of Broken Hill —some were from
stations near the Queensland border. Over
800 men enrolled on the Friday, and by
Sunday night, a brigade consisting of four
battalions, with engineer company, supply
and medical services, was guarding the
wharves at Port Adelaide and Outer Harbor,
with reserves encamped at Fort Bargs and
Adelaide, while a fully equipped hospital-
train waited in the Port Dock station. The
motor vehicles lent by private concerns had
been organised into tw r o transport companies,
each capable of moving 500 men to any given
spot, while sea transport had also been
arranged in ease of emergency.
* * * . *
“Clifford Snook”: “Gentleman One,”
especially the sort who defends the minor
lawbreaker, is often hard pushed for a
defence, but no one can say that he
isn’t a trier. In a Sydney suburb re-
cently defendant was arrested in the morn-
ing for driving a car while under the
influence, and bailed out when fit to be at
large. He was arrested in the afternoon for
again driving under the influence. It was
impossible to plead that it was the Same
influence, and an allusion to tlic unblemished
character of his grandparents would have
been ludicrously inadequate. So it was
advanced that the second drunk arose out of
the pangs of remorse for the first one. All
the same, it cost £25, and accused will have
to be satisfied with horse traction for two
years.
* * * *
“Iford”: “The defendant pronounced ‘Brit-
ish Constitution’ passably, but failed to pick
a pin off the floor” —thus a Melbourne doc-
tor’s evidence the other day concerning the
condition of a zigzaggy motorist. The first
hurdle doesn’t strike me as a very formid-
able one. Y.ears ago I asked a butcher on
the W.A. goldfields what variety of timber
was best for dismembering meat on. Ho
named one or two that were ideal, but
admitted they were difficult to procure in the
outlying settlements. “Most Backblocks
blokes use blackbutt,” he told me. I left
him with a fine refrain for a bit of verse,
“Blackbutt butchers’ blocks for Backblocks
blokes.” ringing in my block, but it remains
unwritten yet. So I present it to the doc-
tors who are perpetually being called to
police stations to decide whether a motorist
is as drunk as he says he isn’t; it seems
to me a long way better than “British Con-
stitution.”
❖ * *
“Morkrum”: A Melbourne man recently
telegraphed from Sydney that he was about
SHE COULD COUNT HIM IN.
The Lady (seeking information that will settle recent argument) : “You know how
to play mah jongg, John?"
JOHN: “Yes, me play mah jongg What night me come .
to leave by train for home. Tlie message
put up a stiff contest, and had the passenger
walked from Spencer-street would undoubt :
edly have won the race. But lie took a taxi
(in my opinion, an unfair advantage)
and beat the wire home by a clear ten
minutes. He was explaining to his wife that
his telegram should have. reached her the
previous evening when his * small daughter
spoke up: “Daddy should have brought lus
telegram with him—those silly people might
have lost it.”
*** ■ »
“Topee”: Beyond doubt many persons
were transported in the,*
bad old days for stealing
things of trifling value
(B. 17/10/’2B). Old Bill
Seymour, a fossicker on
the Opliir (N.S.W.), told
me in 1883 that he and a
pal had been sent out for
stealing two chisels Valued
in the indictment at
eighteenpence. If Bill had
left it at that I should
have felt more sympathy,
but he went on to com-
plain that the Bristol
police hadn’t given him
a fair deal at the trial.
They had testified —quite
irrelevantly, it seemed to
him —that Bill and his
mate had been noticed
persistently hanging round
a jeweller’s shop where
“goolden doubloons was
on a tray in the winder” ;
that each had already
served short terms of im-
prisonment for theft;
and, finally,, that on
searching their joint gar-
ret portions of a burglar’s
kit had been found be-
sides the stolen chisels'.
The last item had pos-
sibly something to do
with the decision of the
Court that a long sea
voyage and 14 years’ de-
tention in N.S.W. would
be beneficial if not to
the delinquents at least to the city of
Bristol. * *
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The rush of new-
ricli Americans eager to sec the “night life
of Paris” has given some enterprising irencn-
men an idea. Respectable Parisian work-
men and -women can now earn a few honest
francs per night by comporting themselves
as apaches and eocottes for the delectation
of credulous visitors from oversea. The
tourists are guided to dingy-looking premises
where the deception is staged; a brummy
detective sits in a car outside the den of
iniquity, waiting until some realistic brawl
shall send him in to “rescue” his clients.
The tourists are said to be getting excellent
value for their money.
ijj H? •**
“Uramao”: The recent flight across the
Tasman shows that Julius A r ogel, an old-
time Priminister of Maori land, was a pro-
phet of no mean order. Nearly 40 years ago
he wrote a book entitled “Anno Domini
2000” One of the characters. Miss Hilda
Fitzherbert (Dunedin’s representative m the
M.L. Parliament), is in Australia and some-
requires her presence in M.B. Time
being the essence of the contract, she dis-
cusses with her sister whether they should
take the public air-cruiser that could make
the big hop across in 16 hours or use their
own 'bus that could do the journey in |ess
time. The Southern Cross did the journey
in 14 hours 12 minutes. The machines of
Vogel’s imagination ‘had triple fans _ worked
bv three separate sets of machinery m older
tliat no chance breakdown in one or two
engines might send the air cruiser crash.
And this was written before Santos Dumont,
the Wrights and other aerial pioneers had
begun their experiments, and nearly 20 yOar-
before Bleriot flew across the English
Channel.
:|: *
“Ex-Englishman”: The Melbourne photo-
grapher who blacked out the face of his nude
sitter (“Pot and Palette,” 10/10/’2B) was only
following a commonsensible example from
Europe. Many a girl with a good figure is
kept from showing it —in the cause of Art,
of course —only by knowledge of the merci-
less barracking she would get from those-
who recognised her face. There is a whole
American novel about that very idea. But
the champion illusionist was a French artist
who showed at the Paris Salon a magnifi-
cent painting of a lady wearing nothing but
a heavy veil, and called it “The Countess of
X.” There was no real evidence as to her
being anything but a mere studio-model ;
but it set Society guessing furiously.
* :[s * *
“Sir Spen” : During the annual prize meet-
ing of the National Rifle Association at
Anzac Range (N.S.W.) every city gunsmith
who had set up shop there advertised sub-
stantial prizes to riflemen winning matches
with barrels fitted by his particular firm.
O’Jones, the publican who had the “booze
rights” for the range, was quick to see his
opportunity. Outside his bar suddenly there
appeared a large blackboard: “£lOO will be
given to the competitor who wins the King s
with an O’Jones barrel.”
“Windbag” : Amid all the columns of pub-
licity given to the flight of the German
Zeppelin from Europe to Ainerica, one may
look in vain for any reference to the fact
that the English R 34 was the first dirigible
to accomplish such a feat. The western
journey and the return to Europe as well
were made without any of the troubles
afflicting the much-boomed German craft,
with its far more modern equipment. Simi-
larly, a couple of British aviators, Alcock
and Brown, were the first to cross the
Atlantic (from Newfoundland to Ireland) in
a ’plane, yet there was hardly a mention of
them in the press when Lindbergh’s exploit
was being acclaimed all over the world.
This note of reserve may be characteristic of
the Briton, but there is such a thing as over-
doing it.
* * *
“FY7”: Reference to coroners and their
shortcomings (B. 24/10/'2B) is a reminder
that Queensland has never adopted the
official" as a separate entity; his job is
carried out by the police magistrates for
the various districts. These have proved
themselves ns capable as any “whole time”
coroner, and at the same time have rendered
some verdicts which are quite up to the best
coronial form —I am thinking of the coroner
who found that a gentleman who had taken
poison, cut his throat and finally shot him-
self had “died by the visitation of God.”
Long ago in Western Queensland an abo-
riginal desperado was run down and hand-
cuffed after a savage struggle. Natives have
often been known to slip the “bracelets,”
so the captors sought to make assurance
doubly sure by tying a rope round their
man’s neck. A determined effort to make a
bolt for it in scrub country sent the prisoner
before a higher tribunal! Tim presiding
magistrate was equal to the occasion; “com-
mitted suicide while resisting arrest,” was
his finding.
UP IN MARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Mansfield Robinson, an English
investigator, who claims to have communicated
with Mars, says that the Martian men average 7tt
Sin. in height, and the women 6ft. The race has
five times the energy of ours.”
He’s a bit of a giant, the sort of man
Who lives liis days on the I lauet lied,
A sheer Goliath in cubit and span,
Two yards and a half from heels to head ;
On things like apples lie’s mostly ted.
There are forty million miles of sky
’Twixt here and where he is billeted
And the Martian ladies are six feet high.
Wells sketched the race on a different plan,
As far from ours as is A from L,
Sans sex and antediluvian
In form—all brain and a thing; of dread.
It piped to its veins blood freshly bled
Instead of dining like you and I.
How did he come to be so misled.
The Martian ladies are six feet high.
He packetli a wallop, the Martian
The male, that is—like a lump of lead,
A punch to floor an orang-utan
Or Tunney flat as a pancake spread.
His strength is an Anak’s, fivefoldcd.
And hers? —you bet she can make things fly
And hum in her tantrums, maid or wed,
For the Martian ladies are six feet high.
Does she walk with an airy, fairy tread
When she hangs the duds on the line to
Are they light as feathers, her cake and
bread , . .
And the crust that prisons her apple pie?
Well, these be things that are left unsaid.
But the Martian ladies are six feet high.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Coot”: At the recent election of Mel-
bourne’s Gaud Mayor there was observed
the ancient custom of lighting a candle to
measure the passing of the hour required
before the poll could be officially closed. The
candlestick used was an elaborate affair of
brass and blackwood, furnished with ornate
snufEers, presented to the City Council by
Governor Gibson-Carmicbael in 1910. The
ceremony is borrowed from London.
* * * *
“Exdig” : The N. S. Wales R.S.L. has lodged
an objection to Bertram Mackennal’s statue
of the Digger to go on the Martin-place Ceno-
taph on the ground that advance photographs
show puttees with nine folds on one leg and
eight on the other, while there ar e three eye-
lets showing on one boot and two on its mate.
The protest may seem finicky, but the figure
as projected would have caused at least one
choleric A.I.F. officer to use his favorite:
“How dare you come on guard like that!
You’re not dressed—you’re naked !” Careless
enough in many ways. Diggers always man-
aged to be particularly smartly turned out
on ceremonial occasions, and the R.S.L. does
not want to run the risk of any colonels pass-
ing the Cenotaph without saluting because,
to their minds, the stone sentry is
“undressed.” This is the second correction
from the League over matters of detail; the
first concerned the chinstrap to the “tin hat,”
which the sculptor proposed to show under
the chin instead of at the back of the head.
* *
“Mells” : The world moves slowly Utopia-
wards, but it does move. All over the U.lv.
are small towns —big cities, doubtless, too—
where charitable persons centuries ago left
sums of money for the interest to be expended
yearly on the distribution of so many loaves
of bread to the deserving indigent at regular
periods or on certain stated dates. And
the people who administer these charities
are almost everywhere taking legal advice to
see if these moneys cannot be applied to
other charitable purposes, free bread having
become a drug in the market with regard to
the class for which it was intended. Pro-
bably the dole system has helped to raise the
standard of living a little; certainly the
phrase “on the bread line” is by way of
losing its significance. People still want lots
of things, but the deserving poor who have
a settled place of residence, to differentiate
them from tramps, no longer line up for free
bread. Perhaps in another century they will
set no store on cheese, either.
*=;=**
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: Coincidences? I
was sent by my paper to cover a hanging in
Lyttelton (M.L.) Gaol about 12 years ago.
Got to the gaol the night before the execu-
tion, and by the courtesy of the governor
supped full of horrors, largely consisting of
descriptions of previous hangings supervised
by my host. In the morning, first thing, I
witnessed a special hanging rehearsal, with
a bag of sand at the end of the rope; next
I saw the real thing; helped the coroner to
inspect the corpse; swallowed a tumblerful
of brandy and caught the train back to
Christchurch. It was a grey, misty morning,
THE BENEVOLENCE OF THE LAW.
SILLYCUS: “I never can understand why a chap shouldn’t have more than one wife.”
SINNYCUS: “When you are older you will realise that the law protects those who are
incapable of protecting themselves.”
and . while crossing Cathedral-square I saw
a figure dangling in mid-air from the end of
a rope in the cathedral grounds, high over
the heads of a group on an elevated platform.
The shock was severe, and it was some time
before I could pull myself together and de-
cide that I was not the victim of a horrible
hallucination. That is how I came to see
the Godley statue, which had been removed
from the opposite side of the road, being
hoisted to its new pedestal alongside the
cathedral.
* * • *
“Murkah”: Here is some proof that radio
signals cannot be shot into space. The tele-
phone-wire that joins the Beam transmitting
station at Ballan (Yic.) with the receiving
section at Melton, 25 miles away, went down
in a storm. It became necessary to commu-
nicate, so the Ballan operator prepared some
tape, silenced London for 30 seconds, and
fired it at Melton. But the operators there
could make nothing of it. Investigation
showed that the signals, after passing Mel-
ton, had made a circuit of the globe and
whirled through the receivers a second time,
just one-seventh of a second after the first
delivery. This resulted in an unreadable
jumble. In the case of stations working
around the globe the sigs. have to make ll
circuits and are then too enfeebled to matter.
The message in question was then sent the
easiest way—via London! If radio signals
shot iuto space, round-the-world communica-
tion would be an impossibility. Mansfield
Robinson’s proposed message from London
to Mars, at Is. Gd. per word, can at most
have got 100 miles up. At about that height
it would be ambushed by the reflecting layer
called after Heaviside, its theoretical dis-
coverer, and turned back to earth.
* * * *
“Arthur R.”: How’s this for healthy op-
timism? The other day a Melbourne citi-
zen, well into the nineties, bought a block
of land in the Northern Territory. When
asked what use he thought of putting it to,
he intimated his intention of starting a
cattle station there when Vesteys are re-
established.
* * * *
“Dundonald”: The young mistress of a
native school in ALL. asked the chairman
of the school committee, a Maori, for a
testimonial. “What shall I say?” he asked.
“Oh just say you have known me for eight
years, that I have been teaching here for
three years and that my character is irre-
proachable.” In due course the teacher re-
ceived the testimonial, which read: “Miss
Pedagogue is a teacher in our school. I
have known her for eight years. For the
last three years her character has been
irreproachable.”
* * * *
“Cartot”: At the Sydney Quarter Sessions
the other day, Judge Armstrong mentioned
that a prisoner whom he was about to sen-
tence had snent just on 50 of his 6S years
in gaol. The total of the sentences passed was
over 70 years and the offences included
housebreaking, assault, forgery, false pre-
tences and counterfeiting. Another criminal
who died recentlv had spent 42 years out of
GO behind the bars. In Victoria the presum-
ably deceased Richard Buckley, partner of
Angus Murray in the Glenferrie murder for
which Murray was hanged, had received
more sentences than any other professional
lawbreaker of his period.
*•* * *
“Borom”: A favorite tipple amongst Mel-
bourne’s submerged tenth is methylated
spirits, with the acrid taste disguised by
strong oil of peppermint. The ghastly stuff is
hawked about the streets of the city’s lowest
quarters in ordinary beer bottles, generally
on Sunday mornings and late at night, the
customary price being Is. per bottle. As
each bottle contains slightly more alcohol
than is in an equal volume of whisky or
brandy, there is a brisk demand for it.
* * * *
“Fleur”: It is interesting in a gathering
of men in the thirties or over to notice those
who still enjoy talking about the World War.
V.C.’s and ethers who were decorated for
conspicuous gallantry don’t; they never did,
though a few exceptions might, of course, be
cited. Ex-padres are great war-reminiscers,
as a rule. So are those who rose to high
military rank from humble civilian circum-
stances, and reverted when hostilities ended
—those whom Milton had in mind when ho
reflected, “War has made many great whom
peace makes small.” They are very waggish
about saluting and springing to attention, and
their remarks are sprinkled with dead phrases
and catchwords of the glittering past. Staff
and Motor Transport D.S.O.’s and M.C.’s
Base and Training-Camp adjutants (0.8. E. s
and M.B.E.’s), Equipment officers in the
Flying Corps, and others whose lives and per-
sons were as safe as if they had stayed at
home, find their experiences horrifying in
retrospect. Many claim to have been gassed,
though for such a misfortune to have befallen
anyone at Horseferry-road, Etaples, Boulogne
or Lark Hill would have resulted in an
S.I.W charge. Others like to describe how
their decorations were conferred (“The old
General insisted on pinning it on himself.
You earned it, my boy, if ever a soldier did,’
he said”), and deeds of mad recklessness are
always implied. It is significant of many
things that a staggering proportion of those
who still preserve their uniforms, put up
their medals whenever possible and talk like
musical-comedy V.C.’s, did their soldiering in
offices.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Few of those who drop a kindly
word to a dilapidated old fisherman, a per-
manent feature of one of Sydney’s less-
frequented beaches, have any idea that they
are speaking to one generously endowed with
this world’s goods. Glad in disreputable
clothes, with an ancient hat pulled over his
grey hair, the angler spends his days potter-
ing about in his dinghy accompanied only
by an unsociable old spaniel, who sits
solemnly by while his master digs in the
beach mud for worms, and occupies the bow
of the dinghy during fishing operations!. Only
the landlady at the small cottage where the
fisherman mostly stays knows that the fine
launch that occasionally glides into the bay
is his property, and the expensive car that
honks along the beach road is also his. A
family who live in a city flat explain his
absence on the ground of ill-health and
enforced residence in seaside air. The fact
that the old gentleman is next in line to an
English barony adds piquancy to his atti-
tude towards society.
* ❖ * *
“R. Sawyer”: The medico who tries to
establish himself in Macquarie or Collins
street is risking much less than the bar-
THE TIME THEY’RE ALL TREASURES.
My new maid is such a find — she’s economical, clean, industrious and”
“How long have you had her?”
“Oh, my dear, she’s not coming till to-morrow."
rister who takes silk (B. 17/10/’2B). The
latter has definitely cut himself off from
the briefs he could rely upon getting as a
junior, whereas there is nothing to debar
the doctor from maintaining his interest in
a suburban general practice. Often he will
leave a young partner in the latter, while
he himself is trying his wings in higher pro-
fessional altitudes. Or suppose, as often
happens, that the doctor has disposed of
a good country practice which has taken him
some years to build up; he has his old
patients as a nucleus during his compulsory
wait for consultees. But the K.C. burns
his boats.
* * * *
“A. Jack”: Broken Hill begins to feel
much less isolated. With railways to Adel-
aide and Sydney and aerial services it
realises that it is in Australia, instead of
being a republic in the Sahara, and the tele-
phone is now making dwellers in the Silver
City almost too accessible to their poorer
relations). A Queenslander, stuck for a few
bob, rang his Broken Hill brother from
Brisbane the other night to put the acid
on, the voice travelling through 2122 miles
of wire and six exchanges. The cost was
only 2s. lOd,
* * * *
“Lex”: London’s total of 5000 fatal street
accidents to June of last year is largely due
to the amazing way motor-driving licenses
are issued in the U.K. A train-driver has
to pass exhaustive eyesight tests, and keep
on passing them; a motor-driver who may
be given charge of a vehicle like a small
train —some of the new ’buses have sleepiug-
berths and do up to 50 m.p.h.—passes no
test at all. The Briton buys his driving-
license over the counter like a cigar, and as
a rule doesn’t even trouble to buy it him-
self, but sends a messenger for it. There
was a case recorded last year of the issue
of a license to a blind man 1 .
* * * *
“Kanbery”: The visitors’ books at the five
pubs of Queanbeyan (X.S.W.) should be
worth preserving as relics of the bad old
days when the capital was “dry,” though
they would be of little value to an autograph
collector. Customers arriving from Canberra
after hours were required to sign them, and.
while celebrities from all over the world
are represented in these beer-stained annals,
most of the lads drew on local material for
their aliases. Littleton Groom, dignified
Speaker of the House of Reps, and strict
teetotaller, seems to have spent all his spare
time in the “Quong” pubs, and, among other
regular patrons from the national legislature,
Gibson, Paterson, Hill, John Newlands and
Charlie Cox make the best showing.
* * * *
“Bud-G”: This was the queerest guard of
the War. Prior to the final surrender of
the Turkish forces at Amman in Upper
Palestine, hordes of Arabs and Bedouins
gathered within rifle range, and kept up an
incessant fire on the late owners of their
country. The Turkish commander was
doubtful whether the Australian troops, with
no artillery, would be able to prevent the
desert tribes from attacking the surrendered
garrison, and disliked the idea of his men
having to lay down their arms. The Aus-
tralian O.C. soon found a way out of the
dilemma; that night. Turkish troops armed
with their captors’ rifles, manned the trenches
and stood guard, whilst the Australians
slept The procedure looked risky, but one
look at the ragged Turkish troops would
have convinced anyone that they had no
stomach for further warfare and were only
anxious to protect themselves from the ven-
geance of the desert tribes, who had a long'
score to settle with their hereditary
oppressors.
* * * *
“Lex”: At Parramatta Quarter Sessions
last week an accused defended himself, and
by attacking the character of a witness gave
the police the right to bring his own
character into question, and establish that
he had been convicted 10 times of analogous
offences. Verdict “Guilty,” though there
was remarkably little real evidence against
him. It was a striking example of the
truth of the maxim that one who defends
himself has a fool for a client. It is almost
equally unwise to choose an inexperienced
counsel. A barrister in this category made a
mistake on the lines of the Parramatta man,
with similar results. His effort to recover the
ground so lost was spirited, though unavailing.
Here is a man,” he declaimed, “who, against
one "conviction, can point to no less than five
triumphant acquittals on charges identical
with the one he is now facing.” In spite
of the Judge’s warning that they must take
no notice of these lapses, which were cot
evidence, the jury convicted. It may not
be law to. go outside the strict letter of the
evidence in such cases, but it is human
nature; and juries are essentially human.
* * * *
“Gemem” : The Bulletin has been instru-
mental in having one more word added to
Jdj® English language. You may find it in the
I ractical Standard Dictionary” (Funk and
Wagnalls)—“Billjim : A typical Australian;
a nickname.”
* * * *
“The Bat”: The issue of donkeys to the
Light Horse regiments in Palestine was
hailed as a great joke. The batmen, for whom
they were intended, refused to ride them; and
very soon the beasts became a nuisance and
a source of profanity to the pickets told
°ff_ to look after them. Then some bright
spirit discovered a source of income in these
humble animals. Unsuspecting villagers were
always ready to buy them, and the beauty of
the arrangement was that it caused no short-
ages in the donkey tally, for the ass sold
to-night would be back next day, either of
its own free will or driven by regimental
patrols. Complaints to headquarters ended
the traffic, and the donks were handed over
to the brigade bands, more for the protec-
tion of the villagers than for purposes of
utility.
* * * *
“Per. Way”: Railway cottages at Peter-
borough (S.A.) were once allotted, other
things being equal, to the applicant with
the largest family. One clerk, on level-
pegging with another as far as the “other
things” were concerned, solemnly recorded in
the docket: “Mr. Smith has only three child-
ren, while I have nearly four.” He won.
* * * *
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: The Newcastle
(N.S.W.) police made a raid on a pub the
other night and found over a score of cus-
tomers illegally assuaging their thirsts. A
plain-clothes officer was busily taking down
names and addresses when an individual who
had been dozing in the corner woke with a
start, lurched up to the man with the pencil
and handed him. a shilling with a “Don’t for-
get to put me in !” He thought they were
“selling a horse,” he explained dejectedly
afterwards.
THE CONSTANT SWAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As swift the glamorous moments sped,
He held her hand;
While the benevolent moon overhead
Its benison deposited, •
He whispered of the day they’d wed
And held her hand.
Slow-footed years paced by, aud yet
He held her hand;
Long-wedded (vide bassinette),
He seemed unable to forget
The poker that she clutched—the pet!—
And held her hand.
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.
SOPHONISBA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Sophonisba looks away
It means not that her thoughts do stray;
She misses not a word I say.
When Sophonisba looks away
That seems to bid me Go! or Stay!
Or hints that with my love she’d play—
When Sophonisba looks away—
It means not that; her thoughts do stray.
S.A.
C.H. SOUTEE.


*>
1
I. V ' '
IP
§&
i
m.
m
m
«ss«
ms
mi
’■ $
* sms
*!'*•' Vi 'i-'V*
Vi- {? : §j
<'~ t»’
V
M
K ' BUB
SMI
m
f**XiM
im
m
IAVkV ■
! 3 ,:
&
i«ii
m
mi
21
S»
q'm
Mi 11
$ll 1
asm
~cL!
si
J: ill
K
m&wrn
m
m
il
mm
11^
cnfl
IH3
SB
Every newspaper records the oil boom! Everybody is buying oil shares! Everybody .s buying them on the reports of
geologists as to favorable indications on the surface of the leases concerned. So [". so good. But geophysicists, who
combine the mining science of geology with physics, by means of their modern and highly-sensitised instruments are able
to investigate the depths of the earth, virtually X-raying the layers of strata until they find the oil accumulation itself, an
the shortest route to bore for it.
Buy this security—and YOUR oil interest in the new issue of 100,000 shares of £1 each issued at par by
COAL, OIL (N.Z.) LTD.
the only Company in Australasia which has employed all geophysical methods to confirm the opinions of the geologists,
and has obtained from the world’s most expert oil exploration group definite assurance that it will find on its leases oil
large commercial accumulations and economically accessible.
Geophysical
Exploration
Commencing with tests at Jingera
(Queanbeyan district), N.S.W., the
Commonwealth and the British Gov-
ernments have jointly committed
themselves to an expenditure of
£32,000 within two years on the
geophysical exploration of Austra-
lian deposits. This directly results
from a 1927 recommendation by a
British Migration Committee of
which Prof. Sir T. Edgeworth David
was a member.
Government Will Help
The Prime Minister (Mr. Bruce)
said to-day that the Government
would give every possible assistance
to a geophysical research for oil.—
Oct. 14, 1928.
DIRECTORS.
Australian Board:
ERNEST A. COLDSMID, Esq., 17 Martin Place, Sydney; Business Manager (Chairman).
JOHN McGEACHIE, Esq., 16 Barrack Street, Sydney; Cons. Mining Engineer, specialising m
K. M^BURGGRAP^Esq", 8 Wentworth Building, 0 Dailey Street, Sydney; Representative Elbof
Geophysical Organisation. , „ , r , . _
GEORGE W. LONG, Esq., 28 Patterson Street, Middle Park, Melbourne; Manufacturer.
SENATOR JOHN D. MILLEN, Athenaeum Club, Melbourne; Mining and Metallurgical Engineer
(Past-President of the Australasian Institute of Eng., Aust.).
JAMES S. G. WRIGHT, Esq., 421 Collins Street, Melbourne; Master Builder.
New Zealand Board:
HARRY NINHAM GOOCH, Esq., Wellington, N.Z. ; Member of the Wellington Stock Exchange
ALFRED^ANDREW Esq., Kairanga, Palmerston North (N.Z.) ; Pastoralist and
Company Director.
ALBERT ADAM WILSON, Esq., Westport, N.Z. ; Barrister and Solicitor.
BANKERS:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Sydney, N.S.W.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND at Wellington and elsewhere in N.Z.
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs LEY, COHEN, WALKER & CO., Metropolitan Building, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney
Messrs. COOPER, RAPLEY and RUTHERFURD, 47 Rangitikei Street, Palmerston North, N.Z.
AUDITOR:
A. G. NOBLE, A.C.P.A., 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
FIELD GEOLOGIST AND GEOLOGICAL ADVISER:
Dr. LEON BOSSARD, of Zurich University (Switzerland).
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH:
ELBOF GEOPHYSICAL SURVEY ORGANISATION of Cassel-Wilhelmshoehe.
GEOPHYSICAL ADVISER:
Dr. RUDOLPH KRAHMANN, Cassel-Wilhelmshoehe.
SECRETARY AND HEAD OFFICE:
SYDNEY A. HILL, A.C.P.A., Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Advances Made
Mr. E. C. Andrews, N.S.W. Govt.
Geologist: “Special strides have been
made in the development of geo-
physical prospecting.... In all of
these advances have been made in
the location of ore deposits, sucn as
sulphides of lead, zinc and copper,
iron deposits, and also oil. ’
—“S. M. Herald,” March 5, 1928.
Look to Science Now
Dr. Woolnough (Commonwealth
Geologist) at Conference of Austra-
lian Institute of Physicists, Can-
berra, said that the day of the old-
fashioned prospector had gone, and
the physicists, who had passed the
experimental stages of their work,
must be looked to for the discoveries
of the future.
—“S. M. Herald,” August 20, 1928.
HISTORY:
The Company, which is nominally capitalised at £750,000, of
which 67,266 shares have been issued and allotted, was
originally formed to exploit the coal area at Westport, South Island, New Zealand,
and petroliferous areas at Waipatiki, in the neighborhood of Weber, in the Nortn
Island, New Zealand. In its coal leases it has 15,000,000 tons of high-grade
bituminous coal, large quantities of which can be mined by the economical open-
cut method. The Company, however, determined to concentrate on the discovery
of payable oil, the exploitation of its coal assets to follow in accordance with
developments. It is important, however, to remember that New Zealand imports
nearly half a million tons of bituminous coal yearly. *
OIL LEASES:
The Company holds petroliferous land on the Waipatiki
oil-fields and in other extensive areas of the East Coast
of the North Island of New Zealand and in Omata district of the West Coast of
the North Island
The Waipatiki oil-leases were originally secured because of their near-by
connection with the ’Weber Anticline, which was in 1911 recommended by r.
John Wanner, Professor of Applied Geology of Bonn University, as deserving
special consideration for the exploration of oil.
GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYS:
The Company engaged the ser-
vices of the experienced Swiss
oil-geologist, Dr. Leon Bossard, of Zurich University, as special field geologist and
geological adviser, and secured, in addition, a two years preferential survey
Contract with the Elbof Organisation of Germany.
In taking these measures, the Company was guided by the history of dis-
appointing and costly experiences of other companies which searched for oil m
the past, and the Directors resolved to follow a policy of scientific procedure
directed by expert advice in the development and extension of the Company s
petroliferous areas.
On arrival of the Elbof group of geophysical surveyors, Dr. Bossard strongly
advised the acquirement of lands in the Omata district, near New Plymouth, for
immediate geophysical exploration, pointing out the existence of structural con*
ditions favorable for accumulations of commercial quantities of oil in the neighbor-
hood of Motorua, where over one and a half million gallons of superior crude
oil had already been produced.
Following this recommendation, geophysical surveying was carried out in the
Omata district from November, 1927, until early in June, 1928, when the geo-
physical experts were in a position to state that there could be no doubt that
certain leases belonging to the Company, conveniently situated in close proximity
to the deep-sea port of New Plymouth, would prove to contain large unbroken oil
accumulations extending over approximately 400 acres.
The final field measurements, data and survey maps were despatched by the
survey group to the controlling Science Council at Cassel. The Company, on the
I sth September, received information from the Elbof Council, stating that
THE EXAMINATION OF GEOPHYSICAL SURVEY MEASUREMENTS POSI-
TIVELY JUSTIFIED EXPECTATION OF SATISFACTORY OIL-BORINGS.
The Company has received from the survey leader assurances of at least
FIVE SITES SUITABLE FOR THE SINKING OF OIL-PRODUCING BORES,
and in all probability a greater number of sites can be recommended in due course
of actual boring developments.
Apart from this Omata area, other leases were recommended and secured,
and on these the Company proposes to proceed with its geological and geophysical
exploration, having good reason to anticipate success in finding greater accumula-
tions of oil.
Geophysics the Key
Prior to Geophysics only seven out
of every 100 bores sunk were con-
sidered a fair margin of success.
Geophysics is now recognised as the
key to a new era in exploration.
Protect Public, says
Scientist
Father Piggott, Scientist, of River-
view Observatory, states that he be-
lieves the investing public should be
protected, that in their interests geo-
physical tests and all other known
methods should be employed for
thorough testing of the oil-bearing
grounds.
•“Labor Daily,” Oct. 22, 1928.
This is not an ordinary
flotation. It is an issue of
shares at par, after oil
has been definitely located
by the Elbof combined
methods of Geophysical
investigation, than which
science has not developed
a more complete system.
Send for Prospectus
immediately, or use the
appended form as a direct
application for shares .
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Secretary,
Coal, Oil (N.Z.), Limited,
Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —
I hereby apply for (state in words) shares in the
issue of 100,000 Shares of £1 each in the abovenamed Company upon the terms of the
Company’s Prospectus.
And I hereby agree to accept the same or such smaller number of Shares as may be allotted
to me, and I authorise you to register me as the holder of such Shares.
I enclose herewith £ being 2/6 per share on application, and I agree
to pay 2/6 per share on allotment, and to pay the balance in instalments at the rate of 2/6
per share per month from tile date of allotment, and to be bound by the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of . , 192
Name (in full
(State Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
Name (in full)
Profession or Occupation
Signature
Special Note. —All cheques must be drawn in favor of “Coal, Oil (N.Z.), Limited,” or order
(and crossed “A/c Payee only”). The Company will not be responsible for the loss, mis-
application, or misappropriation of any cheque which is not so drawn.


\
«c*
fc'i
m
3»
m
W
TUE- PERFECT
IVORY TIP
333
20 for £/6
ARDATH TOBACCO
CO, LTD-, LONDON*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some November birthdays:—
Bishop McCarthy (Sandhurst), 70, Prof. Skeats
(Melb. Uni.), 53, and sculptor Paul Montford, 60,
on Ist; J. P. Comm (W.A. Surveyor-General), 55,
on 2nd; AV. G. Hayes-Williams (Syd.), 66, T. A.
F.D. THOMSON, head of the Prime
Minister’s Department, Maoriland.
White (“Diggers Abroad”), 42, and Canon Collick
(W.A.), 60, on 4th; Bishop Long (Newcastle), 53,
Lancelot Stirling (Pres. S. Aus. Leg. Council), 79,
and F. T. Hickford (Vie.), 66, on sth; N.S.W.
Senator W. Massy Greene, 54, on 6th; Prof.
Williams (Speck’s Uni.), 76, Prof. Woodhouse (Syd.
Uni.), 62, R. H. Cambage (Syd.), 69, and Atlee
Hunt (Federal Public Sendee Arbitrator), 64, on
7th; James Elder (Melb.), 59, on 10th; Hugh Deni-
son, 63, Prof. Cotton (Syd. Uni.), 45, Vic. Gov.
Statist Laughton, 60, and Percy C. Oake (Sec. Melb.
Chamber of Manufactures), 41, on 11th; Arthur
Lovekin, M.L.C. (W.A.), 69, and Samuel Mauger (for-
merly M.H.R. for Melb. Ports), 71, on 12th; Dr.
Heavey (Vicar-Apostolic of Cooktown), 60, on 13th;
Rabbi F. L. Cohen, 66, and Dr. J. S. Battye (Perth
Public Library), 57, on 14th; Justice Long Innes
(N.S.W.), 59, Arthur Rickard, 60, and novelist W.
Gosse Hay, 53, on 17th; E. W. Bean, 49, and Dr.
N. W. Kater, M.L.C. (Vic.), 64, on 18th; Prof.
Sadler (Syd. Uni.), 46, M. M. Blackburn, M.L.A.
(Vic.), 48, Col. Donald Cameron, M.H.R. for Bris-
bane, 49, and Jas. Mcßae (Vic. Education Dept.), 57,
on 19th; Major-Gen. G. VV. Barber (Director-Gen. of
Medical Sendees), 60, on 20th; Principal Griffith
(Congregational Coll, of Vic.), 53, and Dr. J. Mildred
Creed, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 86, on 21st; Justice Camp-
bell (N.S.W.), 68, John Cowan (S. Aus. Minister
of Agriculture), 62, on 22nd ; Willie Watt, M.H.R., 57,
on 23rd; Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 62, and W. B.
Griffin (Federal capital designer), 62, on 24th; C.
J. Cerutty (Fed. Auditor-Gen.), 58, and Colonel
H. E. Cohen (Melb.), 47, on 25th; Bishop Crans-
wick (Gippsland), 46, and poet Rod Quinn, 59, on
26th Kenneth Binns (Federal Parliamentary
Librarian), 46, on 28th; Fed. Chief Justice Knox,
65, Justice Cussen (Vic.), 69, and Col. G-. J. Bell,
M.H.R. for Darwin (Tas.), 56, on 29th; N.S.w!
Speaker Levy, 56, R. J. Nosworthy (Burns, Philp
and Co.), 67, and poet Sydney Jephcott, 64, 0 n 30th.
Arthur Blakeley, M.H.R. for Darling, got
one of the shocks
of nomination-day.
There was not a
sign of opposition
to him till half an
hour before, closing-
time ; then one
Frederick George
Drury walked cas-
ually up to the
returning - officer
and handed in his
nomination - paper.
Drury is a Parkes
storekeeper.
DR. HORACE
CROTTY, Bishop
of Bathurst, a
very prominent
figure at the
Church conference
concluded last
week in Adelaide.
Henry Gordon Bennett, named third mem-
ber of Sydney’s Civic Commission—John
Garlick has been promoted to the chairman-
ship—-is a Digger, and was a brigadier at
ID: he commanded the 3rd Infantry Brigade.
A Hawthorn (Vic.) College boy, he went
to Gallipoli as a major, and was commanding
the 6th Battalion a few weeks after the
landing. The war over, he became an actu-
ary .again, being on the staff of the Com-
monwealth Bank, Sydney, but in 1920 he
turned manufacturer. He was chairman
of the N.S.W. Repatriation Board from
1920 to 1927, is a prominent member of the
Sydney Chamber of Manufactures, and is
commander of the 9th Infantry Brigade of
the C.M.F. His recreation is golf—soldier-
ing he regards as a duty. “Social” duties will
come easier to him than they do to either
of his colleagues; and they killed poor
Fleming.
Rear-Admiral Hyde, commander of the
R.A.N. squadron, started his sea-life in the
merchant service as a 16-year-old apprentice
in a He entered the Royal
Navy through a side door, as it were, becom-
ing a midshipman in the R.N.R. when he
was over 21. During the usual 12 months’
service with the fleet required of all reser-
vists, _ young Hyde came under the eye of
Charlie Beresford, who wangled an extension
of his term to five years, and, after that, got
him a permanent commission as lieutenant,
a proceeding that involved a special Order-
in-,Council. Hyde’s connection with the
R.A.N. dates back to 1910, when he was a
lieut.-commander. In war time he com-
manded the Vindictive, a R.N. ship, another
special honor. Then he was appointed a
naval A.D.C. to the King, a distinction
usually reserved to the 10 senior captains
in the R.N. Now he has attained his flag—
not a bad record for 26 years of naval service.
Andrew Fisher was a fine figurq, of a man,
with a natural dignity and no vices. Hon-
esty was stamped on his face, and there
was sincerity in the ring of his voice, while
he had an ample share of the sagacity of
his race. A pitboy in his native Ayrshire,
he reached Australia in time to assist at
the birth of the Labor party, and he achieved
Cabinet rank in Queensland and the Com-
monwealth. was three times Prime Minister,
and spent five years in London as High Com-
missioner for his adopted land. Brilliant
he wasn’t, but he was spared the bitterness
of learning, as Hughes learned, that a people
can grow very weary of brilliant men. Nor
was he, strictly speaking, an originator, yet
his name will always be associated with the
establishment of the Australian Navy and
the Commonwealth Bank, while he will live
in Great War history for saying (in a
trumpet-tongued version of other men’s
words) that Australia would stand by Bri-
tain “to the last man and the last shilling ”
When Fisher visited Australia after the com-
pletion of his London term old friends found
him sadly changed. In fact, he had been
ailing for years before the end came in a
London suburb last week. He was 66
Ages of knights in John’s “Who’s Who”:—
Geo. M. Allard 62, Robt. M. McC. Anderson 61,
Jag. Barrett, 66, Henry Barwell 51, Robt. Best 72,
Wallace Bruce 50, William Brunton 61, John Butters
46, Joseph Carruthers 71, Gen. Harry Chauvel 63,
Vice-Admiral Clarkson 69, Dr. Chas. Clubbe 74,
Arthur Cocks 66, Lewis Cohen 79, Hal Colebatch
56, Jas. Connolly 59, Joe Cook 68, Owen Cox 62,
Admiral Creswell 76, Wm. Cullen 73, Major-Gen.
Cuseaden 71, Justice Cussen 69, Edgeworth David
70, N.S.W. Gov. de Chair 64, Hugh Denison 63,
Jas. Elder 59, Geo. Fairbairn 73, Frank Fox 54,
Ben Fuller 53, Geo. Fuller 67, Robt. Garran 61,
John Gellibrand 56, Thomas Glasgow 52, David
Gordon 63, Albert Gould 81, John Grice 78, Federal
Speaker Groom 61, David Hardie 72, John M.
Higgins 66, Sam Hordern 52, Neville Howse 64,
Tom Hughes 65, Vic. Chief Justice Irvine 70, Justice
Isaac Isaacs 73, Walter James 65, Sid Kidman 71,
Geo. Ivnibbs 70, Chief Justice Knox 65, Henry
Lefroy 74, Elliott Lewis 70, Nicholas Lockyer 73,
John Longstaff 66, Clifton Love 60, Edward Lucas
71, and Prof. T. 11. Lyle 68.
They don’t have lords and knights in the
U.S.A., but a few American citizens have
accepted English titles, all the same. One
of them, General Lassiter, who was with
General Pershing in the Great War, is at
present in Australia—he will be at Canberra
this week. After the Armistice he was one
of the Americans who received the British
K.C.M.G.
Herbert. Hoover is probably the only
U. 5.4. Presidential candidate that ever was
who has kept more or less in touch with Aus-
tralia. A man who knew him well in his
Westralian goldfields days lately had a letter
from him in which, referring to some recent
Bulletin remarks about his candidature, he
said lie had been greatly heartened by the
paper’s friendliness and support.
Lord Parmoor, who has been elected leader
ot the diminutive Labor party in the Lords,
is one of the mildest little upheavalists that
ever heaved. - Tiny, frail, pallid and delicate-
featured, he looks, with I)is long white hair
and saintly expression, like Gilbert’s “mild
young curate” grown old. He is a Law Lord
and has officiated in nearly all the
big Australian cases in the Privy Council
since the war. He speaks little in Parlia-
ment, and when he does his gentle voice and
pallid jokes usually stir his learned friend
Birkenhead to ungentlemanly fury.
Westralia’s Nat.-C.P. Senatorial candi-
dates are well known in State politics, and
all three, have, had their moments of great-
nessi. _ Ivingsmill was more than once acting-
Prenner, and when his chief, George Leake,
died suddenly in 1902 he was Premier de
facto while a new Administration was being
formed’. Indeed, he formed it, but as Walter
James refused to join except as head, Ivings-
mill missed a chance which was never to
come his way again. Colebatch was Premier
for three weeks in 1919, then the Fremantle
wharf riot made it impossible for him to
carry on. Johnston, who was first returned
as a Laborite, won to the Speaker’s chair
about a dozen years ago when the Assembly
was in a see-saw condition. But his old
Labor colleagues made the position so un-
pleasant for him that he was glad to sur-
render it after two lurid nights.
Q.L. DELOITTE, the doyen of Sydney
aquatics, who had the joy of seeing the
Mosman eights win the Challenge Cup
on the Yana last Saturday.
E. B. Loughran, who retired 12 years ago
from the Vic. Hansard staff, of which he
was chief, on a pension of £5OO p.a., has
passed in his checks at 78. Nearly half a
century ago he was appointed to Hansard
by Graham Berry, then Premier, because the
People’s Tribune appreciated the fidelity with
which the young man reported him in the
Argus, a strong opposition In the
Parliamentary recesses Loughran wrote some
graceful verse, most of which he collected in
a volume entitled “ ’Neath Austral Skies.”
He was a strict boss, but under his direc-
tion Vic. Hansard reached a high standard.
Country newspaper editors often wished that
their district members would talk on the plat-
form with the same ease and lucidity that
Loughran credited them with doing in Par-
liament.
Melbourne University has selected Red
Page contributor Dr. Ellery to deliver the
Beattie-Smith lectures for 1928. It is a
recognition of his experiment in the treat-
ment of g.p; at Mont Park Hospital.
The Hon TOMMY WALKER, Speaker of
the Leg Assembly of Westralia and 35
years ago a member of the N.S.W. Par-
liament, as seen by Autori.
“Galleryite”: I was in the Cabinet room
with a group of other scribes the day Ash-
mead Bartlett’s description of the landing at
Gallipoli arrived at the end of April, 1915.
Fisher, then in his fifth month as Prime Min-
ister in his third administration, had already
read the story, but he read it again, this
time aloud, and he commented on each para-
graph for our benefit. How his eyes lighted
up with pride! It was gran’ to hear him.
“The last man and the last shilling” was
no pose with Fisher; he meant every syllable
of it.
One of Clapp’s young men, David John
Nolan, has been appointed Superintendent of
Power under Sydney’s City Commission.
iNolan was a rail apprentice in 1915, when
he won a Commissioners’ scholarship which
entitled him to a two-year engineering course
with an allowance of £l5O p.a. He had two
years in the U.S.A. with the General Electric
Co. and McLelland and Junkersfield, consult-
ing engineers. His new job is worth £lOOO
p.a.
Sergeant Whiteford, known throughout
Cape York Peninsula, has gone west at
Brisbane. Joining the northern patrols in
the roaring days, when every miner went
armed, Whiteford saw many stirring adven-
tures. A historic job of his was the search
for and recovery of Mrs. Watson and her
child, who put to sea in an open tank after
the blacks had driven them from Lizard
Island. On another occasion Whiteford was
wrecked on .Knight Island when chasing
natives who had massacred the crew of a
Jap pearling lugger. He mustered his men,
seized a canoe, reached the coast and landed
his birds in Cooktown after a 200-mile
struggle through wild bush peopled by hostile
blacks. 1-Ie was a wonderful bushinan, and
did much valuable exploratory work. A son
has a secretarial post in the Queensland
Mines Department.
Edward Lodewyck Crowther, the Speck’s
most venerable medico, turned 85 the other
day. He has tackled many jobs in his
varied career, from surgeon on the old clipper
ship Sobraon to tin prospector; and in 58
years of doctoring has ushered more little
Australians into the world than any other
man in the. island. A son practises medicine
in Hobart. ’
Shortly after the next Parliamentary recess
begins Frank Clarke, President of Vic.
Uppah Chambali, will be off for a jaunt to
the Cold Land. He was there last about
six years ago when he was Minister for
Public Works. Frank joined the Bowser
Government in November, 1917. and then
continued in the Lawson Administration until
1923, when he vaulted into the Landlords’
presidential chair. Of the five members of
his family who ' have been in Parliament
(grand-dad, dad and three brothers of the
third generation) he is the only one who
has held office. Brother Russell still keeps
him company in the Plush House.
A FAIR WAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dean Inge, writing of Lord Birkenhead’s retire-
ment from politics for financial reasons, considers
that a Cabinet Minister or any other big man should
be content with £5OOO a year.”
I, too, O Dean so quick and keen to trample
On dope that dupes and humbug that
cajoles,
Regard a hundred pounds a week as ample
For those who till the most imposing roles,
From running State departments, for ex-
ample,
To holding down (like you) a cure of
souls.
However pitiably small the money
Might seem to Charlie Chaplin or to Tunney,
It would content us twain. Still, you’ve a
brighter
Prospect than mine to test the theory.
You may be in the running for a mitre,
Live in a palace, lord it o’er a see
And fill a niche that’s far above a writer
Of doggerel verse and shaky feux d’dsprit;
Aye, draw an income I should deem fantastic,
Being an eminent ecclesiastic.
Though clerics’ jobs and what thereto
attaches
Their old-time revenues no longer bring,
And even bishoprics are no great catches
When h.c.l. is in the reckoning,
Withal the vineyard still has cushy patches
And one may wait—so mote it be !—for
Inge,
With some cathedral close to furnish scenery
More satisfying than a London deanery.
There’s no such luck for bards. How bleak
and drear is
Their outlook, with that solitary plum,
The Laureate’s, carrying but a butt of
Xeres
And seventy pounds, a negligible sum.
What could one sing on that but misereres?
No wonder Bridges is a busted drum.
Five thou, enough for any human being?
Right, Dean —no danger of me disagreeing.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


DIGNITY AND IMPUDENCE (1928 MODEL).
Pitt-street Congregational Church, the
tabernacle in the heart of Sydney whose big
pillars were the Fairfaxes in the old days,
is filled now by T. E. Ruth, who came to
it from a Baptist pulpit—the lines between
some of these churches have been wearing
thin lately. If the Rev. Ruth was not a
parson he might have been a great circus
manager or land salesman. A little thing
like a debt of £45,000 on a new pile of office
buildings which he lately induced his people
to run up alongside his church doesn’t stagger
him. A pastor who only thought in terms
of bazaars might be alarmed; he thinks in
thousands, and merely announces that on
October 31 he will be sitting on the steps
to take delivei’y of the money. He’s a
great optimist—and so great a beggar that
he will probably get most of it.
Mrs. Knox Read, wife of the Methodist
minister at Litligow (N.S.W.), has qualified
for the Methodist local preachers’ certificate
—the first of her sex to do so in N. S. Wales.
The lady already possesses the A.T.N.A.
certificate, and in her spare time she has
become expert at shorthand. Every Sunday
she helps her husband "by preaching at
Oakey Park, Marrangaroo, or some other
outlying part of his circuit. Unlike most
of her modern sisters, she won’t have her
picture in the papers.
Ernest Lee Steer'e, the Westralian pas-
toralist who has landed the Caulfield Cup
for the second time, is a nephew of James G.
Lee Steere, Speaker of the State Leg.
Assembly during the Forrest regime. The
uncle was a kindly, courteous politician of
the old school; he died in harness and was
given a State funeral. Ernest himself had
political ambitions in his younger days,
when he was a squatter on the Murchison
and partner in a flourishing business at
Cue, but he abandoned them for more lucra-
tive pursuits. The family came from Surrey,
where the head of the clan is still a large
landowner.
Andy Fisher was probably the only Eng-
lish-speaking politician known to history who
began Parliamentary life without a collat-
or tie, on principle, and who, equally on
principle, adopted the silk hat at the end
of it. A well-known pressman discovered
long ago that Andra had a kind heart as
well as a prudent head. The scribe had lent
Andy Dawson, the first Labor Premier, 155.,
Dawson, a good-hearted fellow of the pre-
Kirribilli school, being down and out. “Boy,'
said Fisher, meeting the inkspiller casually,
“Dawson’s verra worried about ye. How
much do ye earn?” “Twenty-five shillings a
week,” was the reply. Fisher thought for
two or three minutes. Then he said; “Aye.
I earn a ’ot more mesel’. The loan’s too
much for ye. I’ll halve it wi’ ye.”
Though both of the two first prizes in The
Bulletin Novel Competition were won by
women, the other four stories taken by the
paper for serial publication are all by men;
and of 12 others that were under considera-
tion only one was by a woman.
Vic. Chief Sec. Prendergast is feeling the
weight of his 74£ years. ’Flu has given him
a bad shaking up, and the Ministry might
well find a lighter post for him. He de-
serves well of the party for his 20 years’
leadership while it was in the political wilder-
ness.
For “assisting the Commission” in the Syd-
ney civic coal inquiry, a comparatively small
affair, the brilliant Shand, K.C., collected
£758. It helps to explain why eminent bar-
risters refuse judgeships.
Once more B. E. Minns gets the front-
page place in a Christmas Bulletin. Last
year he produced “Gibbit a Bite,” one of his
finest aboriginal studies. This year’s isn’t
as striking as that —a man can’t expect to
produce many such things in a short life-
time —nevertheless “The King’s Dream’’
earns its place: in the mists that surround
the old abo. there are beautifully-drawn
vignettes of the stirring scenes of his life —
of war and the chase, of the corroboree and
the final police “dispersal.” The other full-
page contributor’s are Leason and Jardine.
The Christmas Bulletin arrives this year
on December 8.
Islay McOwen, lately in Australia from
Fiji on Forestry Commission business, was
years ago Inspector-General of the Fiji con-
stabulary. He was making an inspection of
the Levuka station when it was discovered
that, good all-round sport as he was, match
rifle shooting had never come his way. The
captain of the local rifle club took him out
to the range for a private shoot, a native
constable doing the marking. There was
much excitement when the McOwan scored
his sixth consecutive bull. But Mac knew his
Fijian. He fired his seventh shot wide into
the bush, and the signal duly came up for
another bull. The Fijian is a diplomatic
soul, and Samuela wasn’t chalking up any
misses to the boss.
John Marmaduke Ashworth, the new chief
of the Way and Works branch of Vic. Rail-
way Department, a job worth £1250 p.a.,
is 55, and has had 40 years’ experience in the
world of sleepers and dogspikes. He was E.
H. Ballard’s right-hand man —if old Bal.
ever needed one —for four years, and was
sent by Clapp to Canada and the U.S.A. in
1924. The convictions he brought back from
that trip have largely dictated the present
Victorian policy of permanent-way construc-
tion and maintenance.
“Gad” : Though Lord Clanricarde left over
£2.000,000, only part of it was derived from
the sale of his Galway estate. That property
—53,000 acres —brought £238,000. Clan-
ricarde’s mother was the only daughter of
George Canning, and she left him part of his
money, which he multiplied by parsimony.
Lascelles’s uncle had his good points. He
evicted only 180 of his 1500 tenants, and on
his death it was discovered that some of the
holdings had become freehold because he had
remitted the rent over the prescribed number
of years.
Frank Tate, who retired from the job of
Vic. Director of Education four months ago,
leaves for Southern Rhodesia next month
to become chairman of an Education Com-
mission in that part of Africa. He is due
back in April, 1929.
The evidence given by Sir Archibald Bod-
kin, K.C., before the British Pulice Com-
mission, in which he staggered Lord Lee and
the other Commissioners by his claims on
behalf of the police, is only understandable
in the light of his extraordinary personality.
He is the perfect Brass-hat; pre-war Prussia
never produced a better specimen. He has
been principal Treasury Counsel for nearly
20 years, and he runs his department, from
the handling of a star murder case down
to the allocation of “soups” (small prosecu-
tions), or the behavior of members of the
Old Bailey mess, like an active-service O.C.
in a hot part of the line. A first principle
with Bodkin is that the police can do no
wrong. The British public first grasped this
at the time of the Money-Savidge case, and
was horrified. He is a tall, lean, hatchet-
faced disciplinarian who excels at presenting
a criminal ease and at cross-examination.
He belongs to one of England’s famous legal
families.
A. 11. Pinkus, who went to Klondyke in
3898, has arrived back in his native Bendigo
a naturalised Yank. He was one of the few
lucky ones among the hundreds who left
Australia for th e Yukon in that frenzied
year. After the gold fever subsided he inter
ested himself in land and theatres in Alaska
and prospered.
Dr. Cilento, Commonwealth Director of
Tropical Hygiene, and Dr. Paul Hermant
have left Sydney on a tour of Melanesia;
the pair have been appointed by the League
of Nations to investigate and advise upon
the possibility of co-ordinating medical re-
search in that part of the world. Dr. Her-
mant is a prominent member of the French
Colonial Medical Service, and was for some
time administrator of that body in French
Indo-China. He was in Australia in 1926
as French representative at the Pacific
Health Conference.
Dean Inge’s statement in London Evening
Standard that Lord Birkenhead was “not
underpaid at £5OOO a year.” and, if dis-
satisfied with that, “would probably be deal
at the price,” is a conspicuous example ol
Satan rebuking sin. The Dean gets between
£l5OO and £2OOO p.a. for what ?« practically a
sinecure job, plus a house and liberty to write
by which he makes at least another £5OOO
a year. Wyndham Lewis, the Daily Maii
wit, put the popular view of him in a sen
fence: “Yes.” said the Dean, “I am a humble
toiler in the Lord’s vineyard—in the inter
vals of my journalistic work.” Birkenhead
used to make nearly as much as Inge out of
journalising (though much inferior as a
writer), but was stopped by the Prime Min-
ister. He is a peer, and has to provide for
his heir. His personal tastes are frankly
not those of a Dean. And, above all,. he
believes he is worth more, having in his time
made up to £30,000 p.a.
St. Dunstan’s, London, of which most of
Australia’s 131 blind soldiers have grateful
memories, is celebrating another triumph
P. S. Sumner, one of its students, has added
a B.Sc. of London Uni. to a B.A. gathered
in 1920. He is a teacher of- the blind. An
amanuensis was the only privilege allowed by
the examiners.
The House of Lords has no monopoly of
hereditary legislators. Long ago Littleton
Groom, now Speaker, succeeded his father
as M.H.R. for Darling Downs, and a Corser
has followed a Corser in Wide Bay. while
the late 11. E. Pratten bequeathed Martin
to his nephew Graham. On the Labor side
of the Reps. Riley father and Riley son sit
together, and years ago J. R. Dacey was suc-
ceeded by liis son-in-law.
Sir Joseph Duveen has promised to pro-
vide the money for additions to the Tate
Gallery, the National Portrait Gallery and
the British Museum: and it may cost him
half a million. His biggest previous gifts
were the provision of an Italian section in
the National Gallery and the cost of recon-
structing the Tate Gallery; but he has helped
most of the galleries in Britain with pictures
and cash. The habit came from his father,
who, however, left him only a moderate for-
tune compared with the one he has made by
his own exertions. To a very large extent
the younger Duveen has been the medium
by which impoverished Europe has disposed
of Old Masters and the like to the American
millionaire.
John Peerless, of Richmond (Vic.), who
celebrated his 91st birthday recently, is a
veteran of Ihe Crimean and Maoriland wars.
In the Crimea he served on H.M.S. Han-
nibal. In later years he was a member of
the crew of the Cerberus, then the pride
of Hobson’s Bay.
The latest round-the-world motor-cyclist
to reach Australia is a young Latvian. Dr.
Julius P. de Vilnuts, who has had heaps of
adventure since he set out from home in
1926. He estimates that he has covered
62,000 miles so far. A companion got no
further than China.
The ghost of John Morley has published
a book explaining how Morley, Burns and
other Ministers tried to keep Britain out
of the Great War. If they had succeeded
the probabilities are that the Germans
would have secured the victory with a rush,
annexed the French fleet as part of the spoil,
and also taken the most valuable of the
Channel ports. Then their guns would have
commanded the Straits of Dover and the
approaches to London, and when brought up
to date would have threatened London itself.
Britain didn’t move till Fritz had been three
days in Luxembourg, whose neutrality was
also guaranteed, so it kept out till the last
possible moment, but the Johnny Burns
crowd would have had it keep out till later
and lose the moment.
D. W. Davies, of the Welsh Church, Bal-
larat, might easily have been a source of
inspiration to Oswald Pryor. He recently
completed 53 years’ service as choirmaster.
Back in Australia, on a visit to the Bap-
tist Union, is Dr. W. T. Whitley, an acknow-
ledged leader of the Baptist Church in
Britain and the foremost living authority on
Baptist history. He was first principal of
the Baptist College of Victoria in 1902.
During his electioneering tour in Queens-
land Federal Treasurer Page used a Qantas
’plane to visit Barcaldine, Maittaburra and
hughenden. The journey from Tambo to
Barcaldine, 150-odd miles, took only an hour
and a quarter; there was a good following
wind. The pilot was Captain Moody, who
wanted to fly the Tasman but was forbidden
because his ’plane had only one engine.
The average N. S. Wales public servant
doesn’t want to go to Broken Hill, even
though special inducements are offered, yet
there are some who hate leaving the place.
One such was William Banks, who went aloft
recently after a residence of over 40 years.
A week in Adelaide in 1914 and another 14
days in 1919 were all the holidays he took
away from the Barrier.
Melbourne Herald has created a job for
Bulletin contributor Bernard Cronin which
is unique in Australian daily journalism.
He has been retained to write short stories
and serials for the co.’s publications. The
innovation is creditable to Cronin —not every
writer can be relied on to turn out a read-
able yarn on the nail —and also to the
Herald. The big paper has been Aus-
tralianising itself hard of late years.
“Sir Sol”: Fisher’s “last man and last
shilling” phrase was an adaptation of a
sentence uttered by Charles Cameron Kings-
ton at a Savage Club dinner to the Aus-
tralian representatives at Queen Victoria's
Diamond Jubilee in 1897. And Kingston
plainly had in mind Earl Granville’s declara-
tion that England would give her last ship
and last gun in the defence of “the colonies.”
Sir Thomas Parkinson has been revisiting
old scenes and old friends in Maoriland.
Born in Canterbury in 1863, he knocked
about cattle and sheep stations in his youth ;
then he studied medicine in Edinburgh. In
1900 he went to London, where he became
Ehysician to the late Prince Louis of Batten-
urg. He collected a knighthood in 1916.
Born in 1858, B. A. Jarrett may justly
claim to he a pioneer of the Richmond
River (N.S.W.). His father was the first
selector in the Gundurimba district; with
his sons, the old man took the record raft
downstream to Ballina, 150.000 feet valued
at UlOOO. On one occasion the elder Jarrett
paid a blaekfellow £1 to assist him in row-
ing a boat 80 miles. B. A. Jarrett has
lived all his life on the Richmond.


VV»* G
ALL SIXES
L Worlds greatest value
this World-wide Verdict
To-day’s Essex Super-Six is outselling all other Sixes
and exceeding its own previous record by such mar-
gins as to leave no doubt of its leadership.
Such success can only reflect unmistakable public
appreciation of the fact that Essex is the World’s
Greatest Value —altogether or part by part.
Greater in power, finer in performance, larger, room-
ier and more beautifully appointed, to-day’s Essex
Super-Six is engineered to the lowest operation and
maintenance costs. And increasing thousands of
owners rolling up- miles of service prove that these
qualities which delight you on your first ride are just
as lasting as they are brilliant.
Visit your Hudson-Essex dealer to-day—Ride in an
Essex, drive it yourself and make your own decision.
lES SEX Super-Six
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body £27o'
Roadster „ „ 270
Coach „ „ 330
Coach, Imported Body . . . . . . 350
Coupe „ ~ (Rumble Seat) 365
Sedan, Australian Body 345
Sedan, Imported Body . . . . ~ 370^
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALOETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS. LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD*
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD,,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER. ,


ŵ
Finc/t liildnd (Jolr
Unk/inAu/tralia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
ẁ
A Real Man’s Watch
Thoughtfully built in every
detail, is the “Super Fx & R”
in Sterling Silver.
In this model Fairfax & Roberts offer a
genuinely good watch, which is guaranteed
for 1 5 years, and is kept in order (breakages
excepted) for 12 months.
The motive power is a fine working 15-
jewelled lever movement controlled by com-
pensating and adjusted balances.
A watch for all occasions at 84/-, and in a
wide variety of case styles.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 AND 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Vagabond King”
Royal “Interference”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Palace (com. Saturday) .... “Rutherford and Son”
Empire “Bubbles”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedt “On Approval ’
King’s “Whispering Wires”
Princess Shakspearean Plays
Athenjsum “The Family Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
l— ♦ ———
"The Vagabond King,” admirably pro-
duced and played at Sydney Her Majesty’s
on Saturday night, proves that one way of
ensuring a touching immortality is to have
a pretty filthy mortality plus an ability to
string together fine verses. Frangois de
Montcorbier, who flourished under at least
three aliases, including that of Villon, in
France of the sixteenth century, robbed the
man who befriended him, schemed to rob his
uncle, killed a priest with a lump of rock,
spent a summer at the bottom of a lousy well
living on crusts and with the clothes rotting
off him, suffered the ignominious and hor-
rible torture of being bloated out with water,
and died, somewhere about 30, perhaps on a
gibbet, a baldheaded, debased, corrupt piece
of humanity. His one love affair—with Kath-
arine de Vaucelles —was eminently unsuc-
cessful ; it ended with his being “fhrashed
like dirty linen on the washing-board,” as
he himself put it. The person who thrashed
him was Noel le Jolys, l’ival for the hand
of Katharine) and after the hidiixg Villon
returned discreetly to the sordidness and the
bad wine, the worse-than-spongers and the
harlots of his native haunts. Of this elegant
gentleman Justin McCarthy made a grand
hero in liis novel and play “If I Were King,”
and a grand hero he remains in the musical
version by Rudolph Friml (composer of
“Rose Marie”).
* * * #
Throughout “The Vagabond King” his-
tory is ruthlessly ignored to make a pretty
MILDRED COTTELL, who is Margot, the shrewish
tavern-keeper, in the brilliant “Vagabond King” at
Sydney Her Majesty’s.
musicomedy. The tottering Louis XI., in-
spired by a dream that he will pick un a
pearl of price in the gutter, and hearing Vil-
lon boast of what he would do if he were
king, gives the rhymester control for 24 hours,
with the gibbet as payment at the end, whether
he routs the besieging Burgundians or not.
Villon, who had been visited at the tavern
by Katharine, and at her instigation had run
his sword through a Court traitor, smashes
the Burgundians with an army of pothouse
brawlers. The King, .somewhat impressed,
gives Villon the alternative of returning
unhanged to the gutter if he will forego his
passion for Katharine, who, not recognising
the rhyme-maker in his Court clothes, had
promised to marry him if the enemy were
defeated. Villon pins his faith to his charm ;
but Katharine, told who he really is, turns
him down. She, however, relents in tivo to
save him from the gibbet, and the curtain
falls amidst the intense enthusiasm of Vil-
lon’s bawdy crew. No one with a sense of
appreciation for good theatrical fare will be
likely to resent these modest departures from
the text of life. If we fancy making a stage
hero of a Villon we might as well make a
thorough job of it. And a thorough job the
J.C.W. producer, George Highland, and his
strong company have made.
* * * *
The settings are spectacular and luxuri-
antly colorful; the dressing is superb; the
music is light, bright and vigorous; the act-
ing, individual and concerted, is sincere.
There are wild improbabilities, but who carps
about that in a bright musicomedy! The
cast includes Strclla Wilson (a sweet-voiced
Katharine), James Liddy (who makes Villon
a picturesque scamp and polished courtier),
Arthur Stigant (almost Falstaffian as Vil-
lon’s chief offsider Tabarie), Arthur Green-
away (a doddering Louis, with reserved
strength brilliantly suggested), Mildred Cot-
tell (blousy, strident and vigorous as Mar-
got, the tavern-keeper), Cecil Ivellaway
(who, as Oliver de Dain, a foppish Court
attendant, helps Stigant to provide some
good, if occasionally can’t-eat-off-anywhere-
but-the-mantelpiece, comedy), Mabel Gibson
(admirable in figure and face, though a shade
weak in voice, as Huguctte, lover of Villon
and utensil of sundry othex’s), Eax-dley
Turner (good in an obscure part), Adele
Crane (a winsome Lady Mary, beloved of
Tabarie and Oliver), Russell Scott (a Noel
le Jolys who does not thrash Villon) and
Edna Moncrieff (Court dancer, with half a
dozen willowy supporters). The orchestra,
under Howard Carr’s baton, holds the stan-
dard of this fine cast, and in. addition there
is a chorus 100 sti-ong representing soldiery,
tavern-haunters, courtiers and suchlike.
James Liddy—with Arthur Greenaway close
beside him—is the spirit of the production.
This Showman had previously seen James
only in flapper-boy parts, and did not think
much of him. His voice still sobs as if his
heart were palpitating on his palate, and
his pathos, particularly at the death of
Huguette, who jumps between him and a
swoi-d-thrust, lives close to bathos. Yet his
sincerity overpowers such
defects, and his leading in
the anti-Burgundian song is
the best thing in a fine per-
formance ; he lifts his
crowded supporters from
mere musi-comedy to some-
thing like grandeur. The
metamorphosis of Liddy the
flapper-boy stands well be-
side that of Villon the Un-
clean. Nothing seems to
stand against a long success
for the piece—unless it be
that it is so good that it may
prove too good, though the
fact that it is thickly senti-
mental, with a strong femi-
nine appeal, ought to prove
strong armor against any
such undeserved fate.
* ¥
One of the most interest-
ing shows put on in Sydney
during the week attracted
the splendid audience of
seven —all pressmen. It was
held on the fifth storey of
Kodak’s George-street pre-
mises, and was an exhibition
of Kodacolor, the Edison-
Eastman color film for ama-
teur use. The process, an
entirely new one, does not
involve the coloring of the
film ; instead, one side of the
film is scored in a way that
ensures the various color
values being held, and later
reflected or reproduced by the
exhibiting light. The color
reproduction is astonishingly
accurate: there is not the
common preponderance of
red, and sunlight and shade
are held faithfully. This
showman’s query, “What
price?’’ brought the answer,
“Very little more than the
ordinary amateur movie com-
bination.” He was also told
that it’s even easier to work than the ordi-
nary affair. He, for one, had never seen
color reproduction quite so good.
¥ # *
Why Xenia Belmas was not used by the
Firm in grand opera remains a mystery
that her several brilliant performances at
Sydney Town Hall do not help to elucidate.
Last Wednesday the soprano’s really rich
voice swept over the colorful range of Schu-
bert’s “Erl-King” even more effectively than
it had done at an earlier concert, and the
singer made of '“One Fine Day,” from
“Madame Butterfly,” a picturesque and yet
subtle few minutes of high vocal triumph.
To-night (Wednesday) Xenia Belmas will
sing “Elizabeth’s Prayer” from “Tann-
hauser,” Schubert’s “Serenade” and "The
Greeting to the Hall of Song.” To-morrow
night Sliura Cherkassky, who has been in
Maoriland, will be supported by the Con-
servatorium orehcstx - a in Tschaikowsky and
Chopin concertos. He will give his final
concert on Saturday.
* * *
Long Tack Sam, his hefty men and his
rather cackling noise closed their fourth
(or is it fortieth?) visit to Sydney Tivoli
on Saturday, and made south to filch some
of the limelight from Barbette, whose re-
mai-kable acrobatic turn is still giving the
audience shivers at the Mel-
bourne house. The best
thing on the Sydney pro-
gramme at the moment is the
fantastic turn called Schistl’s
Marionettes, which has been
there before, but still has a
draw in its grotesque, sud-
den-change figures. It is
perhaps the finest turn of the
kind the Tiv. circuit has
known. Newcomers are
Errgotti and Herman, a
balancing turn with a fair
amount of sprightly humor
to it. Aussie the ’Roo is
still dealing out left-hooks,
though he isn’t in the
Heeney class, and Tom
Katz’s saxophonists are blow-
ing hard.
* * *
Newtown Majestic saw the
.Carl Lawson co. throw off
its mantle of woe on Satur-
day night, when the humidity
of East Lynne gave way to
the crisper atmosphere of “A
Honeymoon Wife,” a comedy
which is most of what its
title implies to the experi-
enced theatregoer. Lawson
himself and Hilda Dorring-
ton have most of the fat, but
spread it with commendable
discretion. Ned Taylor is a
capable low-comedy offset to
the pair, while the remainder
of the compact company hold
tlieir end up well.
* * *
Fullers’ programme on
Saturday night was the
usual combination of vaude-
ville and revue, the latter
being entitled for this occa-
sion “Yankee Doodle.” Ike
Delav a 1 e, as General
O’Cohon, got plenty of appre-
ciation, due perhaps to the
priceless patina that anti-
quity has bestowed on many
of hi 3 jokes. Reg Hawthorne, Evelyn Dud-
ley, Freda Spry and Elvie Stagpoole were
others who combined in providing .material
for laughter. Nat Hanley’s eccentric piano-
playing in the first part is acceptable, while
,the Dudley duo can be heard in song and
cross talk without tears.
* * *
The Cri. is the only Sydney house, except
Her Majesty’s (where there was a change cm
Saturday) that is not talking of closing its
run. On Thursday the “Bubbles” burst and
“Trooper O’Brien” flicks off the screen at
the Empire, and on the following night that
theatre takes a stride closer to becoming a
legitimate picture-house by making its star
offering “The Beggar Student,” which. in
turn makes the third film with a Russian
setting showing at leading screen-halls about
the Harbor. “The Beggar Student” is a
German product, but was made on the late
Czar’s European allotment. Seven vaudeville
acts precede it. On Friday the Galsworthy
fantasy “The Pigeon” flutters out of the
Palace. (By the way, what is a fantasy?
This is one on the programme, and every-
where else but on the stage, where it is
serious drama.) On Saturday the Gregati
McMahonites replace it with “Rutherford and
Son,” by Githa Sowerby. Children in arms
are still not being admitted to “My Pal
Ginger” at the Grand Opera House, the idea
possibly being that their matrons might jeop-
ardise the small lives by laughing them heart-
ily out of their laps. Ginger and his pals
are others who depart on Friday; “Bertie’s
Cavewoman” is the next offering. Next week
both “Rio Rita” and “Interference” close
down. The former, at the St. James, ends
an illustrious career on Nov. 8 (Thursday).
In the 22 weeks of the run there have been
225 pei-formances, and, according to the lad
at the theatre turnstile, nearly half a million
mortals have put their hands together for the
local lady, Gladys Moncrieff. “Interference”
(“crime in kid gloves; blackmail in evening
clothes,” as the advertisements have it)
finishes at the Royal on Nov. 9 (Friday),
and the following night Leon Gordon revives
“White Cargo” for a brief trick.
* * *
A striking Adelaide show was the Angli-
can Church “pageant” at the Prince of
Wales. It had too much talking for the strict
pageant; it was rather a play about eight
scenes from church history. Miss Nora Col-
lison, author; Ken Duflield, producer; Mrs.
Mellis Napier, on the immense costuming
job. Charles Langley, hitherto a Repertory
Theatre light comedian, was prominent as
Evil, and Miriam Ralph was ditto as the
Church ; and, if the contrast rather suggested
an old-fashioned pantomime opening, it was
none the less dramatic. The big theatre was
packed twice. Gertie’s Garter is Got with
steady success by Frank Neil and co. at the
Royal. The Ingenues’ band almost over-
shadows “Patsy” on the screen at the York;
but Sabatini’s “Sea Hawk” adventures tre-
mendously at Wondergraph, and the York
ZILLAH CARTER, the tall young lady now playing
Deborah in Leon Gordon’s show, “ Interference,” at
Sydney Royal.
has “Arctic Skies,” Alaska travel with ice-
bergs breaking up, and bears catching sal-
mon ; unusual and charming.
* * H-
The Healesville (Vic.) Memorial Hall did
its best to accommodate some of the crowd
who wanted to be present at Melba’s con-
cert on Saturday night. With Elena Daniel i ;
the diva warbled the scena from “Otello,"
which included “Salce” and “Ave Maria.”
Flautist John Lemmone travelled south from
Sydney to help the concert through, and an-
other contributor was singer Alban Cecil
Whitehead. Every flower in the district must
have been plucked for the after-tlie-sliow
offerings, and later Melba and the others
were given supper by the local returned Dig-
gers.
* * *
At Melbourne Princess Allan Wilkie
changed from “Twelfth Night” to “Henry
VIII.” on Saturday, and was an impressive
Wolsey, with Miss Hunter-Watts as good
as ever as Katharine. Alexander Marsh (for
the time being Duke of Buckingham) gave
another excellent example of his mastery in
the craft, and John Cairns also did well
as the dissolute Henry. Mildred Howard
(Anne Boleyn), Hilda Scurr, Denis Barry
and Dulcie Cherry were others in the well-
cast piece. “Coriolanus” will be repeated
to-night (Wednesday) and on Friday night,
and there will be two performances of
“Julius Caesar” to-morrow. “The Taming of
the Shrew’’ is the Derby Night offering.
* * *
According* to present J.C.W. arrangements,
Margaret Bannerman will be in Melbourne
again at Christmas, after what is turning-
out to bo a successful tour of Maoriland.
“Other Men’s Wives” is already billed as
her first offering. The . domestic squabbles
of the Joe Heller family, at Melbourne
Athenaeum, is about the best fare offering
for the Cup season. Wirths’ Circus, thougii
gloomed over by the fatal fall of the pretty
trapezist Valma Stilz, is another very good
show.
¥ * *
“Good News,” which, with Elsie Prince
at its head, is the next Sydney St. James
fare, seems to be heading uphill after its
crash in Melbourne. The U.S.A. crowd that
played the piece in Melbourne have been
replaced by a sound Australian company.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1G MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Kill,SO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
have 38,000 Managing Directors and Department
Heads enrolled for the Alexander Hamilton Institute
Course? Aren’t they too busy to read such a Course?”
The answer is that many of these men have never read the
Course through, and never will. The thing which makes the
Institute Course different is just this: you can dip into it at
any point and find immediately a practical method, plan or
idea, worked out and proved by the biggest men in business,
which you can put to work at once.
Forging Ahead in Business,” which contains Full information about the
Alexander Hamilton Institute, is yours for the asking. Send for it.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
IX CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. b 4
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS.
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Dunlop Rubber Co.
To Re- Nominal
July, Profit. Div. on All Shares, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 145,696 10 p.c. = 106,463 39,133 64.910
Premiums on new shares. £23,110 .. 88,020
1919. .177,0G6rt' e , f -J° p,C ' 123 744 1
Ord. 13 p.e. t 133,322 121,342
Staff fund. £20,000 )
Co. reconstructed ; assets written up and reserves
June, ca Pitalised. £292,000 bonus ordinaries offered.
1921.. 149. | 145>6g4 3,478 3,478
1922.. 108,530^-104,710 2,298
1923. .127,425^-^ j 116,425 11,001 13,299
Refund of taxes .. .. 31,923 45,222
1924. . 130,700 X 7 ° P; c c ; I 133,994 41,928
1925.. 217.428^ f ; 1 157,421 60,007 101,935
1926. .252,581 | 186,589 65,992 167,927
1927.. I Q r r e d f ; l 7 °P-P* } 160.799 - 139,590
Premiums on shares, £115,000.. .. 254,590
Assets written up, £173,864.. .. 428,454
Loss.
1928.. 36,452^• I°P 1 °P- c 'j 52,000 340,002
For the first time since the co. bought the
Australasian rights to the Dunlop patents,
and that was 29 years ago, the board
has seriously underestimated contingencies.
Stocks and erratic markets were the trouble.
For the 12 months to June 30, 1927, profits
suffered severely from the drop in rubber
prices, and though the ord. div. was brought
back to 7$ p.c., £28,000-odd more was handed
out than was earned —an indication, it
seemed, that in the board’s opinion the cracks
had been puttied up and the outlook was
right. Fast year, however, there was a quite
unexpected collapse of prices in the raw-
rubber market following the announcement
of the scrapping of the Stevenson restriction
scheme. The fall, in the third quarter of
the term, amounted to Is. per lb., or approxi-
mately 62 p.c. Chiefly because of that, and
partly owing to poorer trading, gross profits
(£341,208) fell back £202,555, and were the
poorest since the reconstruction in 1920.
That was after visibly setting aside £53,575
as a provision against loss on forward pur-
chases, which are a very heavy item in a
big manufacturing concern like this. The
cut in exes.' (£380,660) was £33,641; thus
a loss of £36,452 showed up. Whether that
is the full measure of the year’s ups and
downs depends upon whether the big piles of
stocks have been written down to just the
right point.
Early in the term the English Dunlop Co.
took up a round half-million of the Aus-
tralasian co.’s ords. at 255. each. That made
paid capital £2,470,655, and reserves bene-
fited by £115,000 of share premiums. Here
is a view of the remarkable expansion of
the business, with glimpses of the rich
patches, as reflected in the mounting figures
of the capital account:—
Ist 2nd 3rd Ordi-
Prets. Prefs. Prefs. navies. Total.
1901.. £BO,OOO £20,000 £70,000 £170,000
1910.. 180,000 20,000 90,000 290,000
1911.. Bonus shares, £172,500
1912.. 200,000 90,000 229,677 519 577
1915.. Bonus shares, £177,500 ’
1916.. 200,000 90,000 230,000 340,396 860 396
1919.. 200,000 90,000 230,000 595,553 1,115,553
1920.. Bonus shares, £292,000
10 p.c. cum. prefs.
:} 92X -- £520,000 1,171,114 1,691,114
1923.. 520,000 1,171,342 1 691 SI?
-wo i:450: 6 i7 i: 9 70:«7
• 520,000 1,450,655 1,970,655
1925 " 520,000 1,950,655 2,740,655
The English co. also has a four-year option
over fl further half-million ords. at 30s. each
lhus the Australasian co. not only has
greatly strengthened its finances and secured
funds for further development, but has also
unproved its trade position by gaining the
l 1 ? 0 7 a l ua frl e trade secrets and processes.
Much is expected from technical benefits
Ail this so stiffened the board’s confidence
in the future that it had no hesitation in
rxko noo\ nt mi resar y e s to pay the pref. div.
(£52,000). The ords., which were passed over,
have had an average of only 5.3 p.c. over
the last eight years; but this is worth much
more, of course, to old holders
The deal with the English'co. also pro-
vided for the formation of a subsidiary
jointly owned, to take over the Maoriland
business; but it was sold outright to the
English co. shortly before the close of
accounts at June 30. Details have not been
made public, but it seems that, owing l to the
high cost of producing the Australian-made
articles, business in M.L. had become unpro-
fitable. What profit, if any, resulted from
the transaction does not show up in the
published figures.
As a preliminary step in the contemplated
merger with the Perdriau Co., Dunlop’s
assets were revalued by independent experts.
The result was a surplus of £173,804 over
published book values, and that amount,
shown as written up in the table, has been
placed in an assets appreciation reserve. The
increase was mostly on account of freeholds,
the book value of which expanded
£153,929 during the year, reaching £591,273.
Whether unearned increment was responsible
for the improvement, or part of it, has not
been disclosed. The report makes no men-
tion of the* contemplated merger with the
Perdriau Co. Thus far this business appa-
rently has advanced only to the stage where
general discussion has given way to detailed
consideration.
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures reflects the many big changes that
have taken place in the business during the
year:— '
1919. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Stocks .. £855,533 £984,459 £1,215,689 £836,826
Book debts 186,687 380,043 469,074 321,919
Investments
and cash 5,345 160,624 160,788 491,737
£1,047,565 £1,525,126 £1,845,551 £1,650,482
Liabilities 214,733 413,636 912,772 263,870
Net liquid
assets .. £832,832 £1,111,490 £932,779 £1,386,612
Properties,
etc. .. 171,109 453,266 479,189 693,833
Plant, etc. 186,186 504,730 580,542 644,786
Net assets £1,190,127 £2,069,486 £1,992,510 £2,725,231
Goodwill 180,000 180,000 180,000 165,000
Investments and cash (1928) includes £138,029 of
assets in course of realisation.
The new capital and share premiums, etc.,
enabled the board to wipe out no less than
£648,902 of the debt, reducing it to £263,870
• —the overdraft (£372.678) disappeared, and
the amount hold on deposit (now £81.743)
was lightened by £247,416. Also an extra
£147,372 was put into debentures and other
securities, and £45,548 was added to the
bank balance, etc. The year’s difficult trad-
ing showed up in a reduction of £147.155 in
book debts; nevertheless stocks, in at valua-
tion, were £378,563 lighter than at the pre-
vious balance, and that looks like vigorous
writing down. Whether the' cut has been
sufficient only the.future can decide definitely.
Shareholders can, at any rate, gather com-
fort from the knowledge that the financial*
position is exceptionally strong. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus was no less than £453,833. During the
term £64,244 more was spent on plant than
was written off, and it was expected that
the additions would enable the co. to dupli-
cate its output. But conditions in the trade
at the moment are far from normal. Com-
petition has not yet fully developed; only
recently did the Goodyear Co. commence pro-
duction here, and shortly the liapson Co. is
expected to be on the market with its pro-
duct. Also the Barnet Glass Co. lately
duplicated the capacity of its plant.
The market sums up the position by valu-
ing the Dunlop ords. at 235. 9d. The cover
amounts to 21s. lOd. in net tangibles. The
prefs., which seldom appear on the market,
carry a cumulative 10 p.c., and have priority
as to capital. The net tangible backing
amounts to £5 Is. 9d.
The Perdriau ords. had a net tangible
backing of 295. 9d. at June 30.
Smith’s Newspapers, Lt 9. (Sydney).
To
, Dividends Reduce
Pref. De-
June, Loss. 9 p.c. Ord. ficit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1924*. 63,961 11,346 Nil 176,307
Profit.
1925. . 18,357 13,497 5 p.c.= 7,500 177,947
1926.. 35,199 13,497 7J „ ~ 11,250 10,452 167,495
1927.. 48,747(13,499 124 „ ~18,750 16,498 150,997
Portion of goodwill apparently sold to
Victorian co., £40,000 .. .. 110,997
1928.. 33,130 13,499 10 p.c.=15,000 4,631 106,366
*l4 months.
(Includes £9406 unexplained additions to reserves.
Last year, the report says, earnings were
charged with many additional and consider-
able costs. Also competition, no doubt,
proved more vigorous. The energetic Sun
people took control of the old Daily Tele-
graph, which had transformed itself into a
morning pictorial, and pushed circulation
very hard. From one cause and another
Smith’s net profit was £15,617 below the
1927 figure. The latter, however, included
£9406 of unexplained additions to “sundry
reserves,” and some or all of this may not
have been true profit, or it may have been
something left over from previous years.
Nevertheless, after attending to the prefs.,
the profit that remained was equal to
13.1 p.c. on the ords., compared with 23 5,
14.6, 3.2 p.c. and a loss back to the time
the co. started. For the first 14 months <jf
its life the loss on the Guardian was
£101,378, including preliminary exes., and
£lOO,OOO of that was capitalised on the
assumption that goodwill of that value had
been created. Over the same 14 months the
Weekly made a profit of £30,141 net. Since
then the earnings of the two papers have not
been separated in the published accounts,
but the Guardian, which appeared to have
definitely turned the corner a year or so
ago, cannot be showing a great deal in the
way of profits, or else the Weekly is drop-
ping back pretty badly.
Shortly after the close of accounts in 1927
the co. sold the goodwill, etc., of Smith’s
Weekly in Vic., S. Aus., Westralia and Tas.
to a subsidiary, Smith’s Victorian Publish-
ing Co., Ltd., for £lOO,OOO in fully paid
ords. Hut as the co.’s own goodwill item
was reduced by only £40,000 (to £160,000),
there was an apparent paper profit of
£60,000 on the deal. The book value of
shares in other cos. (£50,870) increased
£50,750. That looks as if the holdings had
been written down £49,250. Pending publi-
cation in Melbourne, the parent has to pay
the pup an agency commission of £6OOO p.a.
Also the parent has, subject to the rights of
its own prefs., guaranteed capital and div.
on £150,000 of 8 p.c. cum. prefs. in the sub-
sidiary. Last year the subsidiary earned its
8 p.c. pref. dividend with £lB to spare.
The deal with the subsidiary and property
purchases dominate balance-sheet move-
ments :
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £299,9G6 £299,993 £299,993 £300,000
Liabilities . . 55,277 57,212 141,311 191,9G4
Freeholds . . 43,155 51,316 109,258 160,978
Piant, etc. .. 67,427 62,438 81,821 78,906
Stock.. .. 17,735 20,028 45,867 40,092
Book debts . . 51,072 58,069 61,813 62,717
Cash, etc. . . 464 8,988 2,677 1,410
Shares in other
cos. . . 84 120 120 50,870
With an eye to the possibility of apprecia-
tion in property values when the Martin-
place extendon is completed, the co. has
been adding to its freeholds. One property
recently bought has been leased for five
years, and the purchase of another was com-
pleted last year. The book value of free-
hold (£160,978) increased £51,720. On the
other hand, £38,679 was added to the mort-
gage (£99,571) and £31,177 to the over-
draft (£62,677). During the year the excess
of liabilities over the more or less liquids,
including stocks on hand and in bond, in-
'creascd £56,791, reaching £87,745. The float-
ing debt was more than covered.
There are 150,000 ordinary shares in this
parent co.; and the deficit (capital unrepre-
sented by tangible assets) as shown above
is £106,366. But since the ords. in the sub-
sidiary have no tangible backing, the net
tangible cover for the parent’s prefs. remains
practically unaltered—at about 20s. They
are entitled to a cumulative 9 p.c., and have
priority as to capital. The market prices
them at 235. 3d.; at. which figure the return
is 7.2 p.c. The ords., which are all held by
Joynton Smith and his associates, are not
listed.
United Provisions, Ltd.
r fill is is the holding co., formed in October,
1927, that bought all the shares in the ham,
bacon and food-canning businesses of J. C.
Hutton Pty., Ltd., and Foggitt Jones, Ltd.
The idea behind the amalgamation was to
strengthen profits by putting an end to the
old competition between the two cos., thus
improving their trade position and reducing
overhead. The respective goodwills that had
been built up were preserved by each co.
continuing to trade under the old sign. In-
cidentally, goodwill did not figure in the deal.
At April 30, 1927, the combined paid capi-
tal of the two cos. was £716.700 in £1 shares,
of which 350,000 ords. belonged to the Hut-
ton Co., and the balance to Foggitt Jones
in 266,700 ords. and 100,000 8 p.c. prefs.
which followed the ords. to 10 p.c. The
merger was put through, as far as the ords.
were concerned, on the basis of a revaluation
of the assets. This disclosed a combined
net surplus of £655,162. For the lot United
Provisions paid £1.355,008 in shares and
cash; the ords. in Huttons received 38s. 3d.,
and in Foggitt Jones 425. Id. The latter
co.’s_ prefs. were exchanged for prefs. in the
holding co. on a dividend basis. To settle
the account United Provisions handed out
941,725 ords. and 125.000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
all fully paid, and £305.137 in cash, less
£16,854 paid to Foggitt Jones’s shareholders
by way of dividend after the date of the
valuation statement. In order to carry out
the latter part of the programme the holding
co. offered the public 325.000 8 p.c. prefs.,
which were quickly oversubscribed.
Thus when the books were ruled off at
October 15 last, paid capital was £1.391,725,
of which £450,000 was pref. money. The only
other item on that side of the sheet was a
p. and 1. balance of £56,298. To represent
the lot there were shares (£1.355.008. cost)
and advances (£92 950) in subsidiaries and
a handful of cash (£65).
F'or the year to June 30 the combined
figures of the two operating cos. show r a gross
profit of £465,342; exes, consumed £326 957
of this, leaving a net profit of £138.385. After
allowing for Foggitt Jones’s pref. require-
ments the balance was equal to 20.8 p.c. on
the ordinary capital compared with an aver-
age of 20.6 p.c. over the three years to
December 31, 1926. Latest figures were
written after making full provision for de-
predation, bad and doubtful debts and adding
£20,000 to the reserve for contingencies,
which is lumped with provision for taxa-
tion at £81,987. Out of the year’s net earn-
ings the operating cos. paid £127,336 in divs.
to the holding co. The latter’s exes, to
October 15 were only £3869, leaving £123,466
net. An all-round 8 p.c. div. in the United
Co. called for £100,855, and after wiping
out preliminary exes. (£21,984) there was
£628 left.
Although the rate of net profit in the two
operating cos. has been maintained, it has
to be remembered that, whereas previously
there was only £716,700 of capital to be fed,
there is now £1,391,725, and the only new
money in the business as a result of the
£675,025 capital increase was £36,717.
Here are the combined balance-sheet figures
of the two subsidiaries at June 30 compared
with prospectus valuations at April 30, '1927:
Prospectus Book
Valuation. Value.
1927. 1928.
Paid capital £710,700 £716,700
Reserves 655,162 257,070
Liabilities 294,365 351,931
Freehold, plant, etc 842,428 514,996
Shares in other cos 177,573 94,506
Stocks 335,936 344,954
Book debts 275,794 366,310
Cash, etc. 34,495. 4,936
The financial position was very comfortable.
At June 30 the more or less liquid surplus,
including stocks, was £446,256. Perhaps the
most encouraging movement there is the ex-
pansion of £90,516 in book debts. It might
be taken as an indication that trade was
briskei;.
Although it would appear on the operating
cos.’ figures at June 30 that the net tangible
backing for each £1 at which subsidiaries
shares appear in the holding co.’s books was
only 14s. 4d., it is obvious from the pros-
pectus valuations, and the fact that goodwill
did not figure in the deal, that the actual
backing is about par, or a trifle more.
The market looks to the future and pays
28s. 6d. for the United Co.’s ords. At that
figure the immediate return is only 5.6 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The profs, are priced
at 255. 3d. ; the return at that figure being
6.3 p.c. On prospectus figures they have a
backing of approximately £3 per share in
net tangibles; and last year’s net profit was
over three times their annual requirements.
The Federal Deposit Bank (Brisbane).
, To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 4,449 12 p.c. = 3,344 1,105 17,813
1919.. 5,421 12 „ „ 3,344 2,077 19,890
Reserves capitalist, £12.151 .. 7,739
1920.. 6,913 12 p.c. = 3,6.88 3,225 10,964
1921.. 10,594 12 „ ~ 6,096 4,498 15,462
1922.. 11,018 12 ~ ~ 6,525 5,093 20,555
1923.. 14,027 12 ~ „ 7,794 6,233 26,788
1924.. 18,277 12 .. ~ 10,548 7,729 34,517
Additions to reserves, £7OOO .. 41 517
1925.. 23,487 12 p.c. = 13,272 10,215 51’732
1926.. 26,921 12 „ „ 17,803 9,058 60,790
1927.. 34,161 12 „ „ 24,354 9,807 70,597
1928.. 41,816 12 ~ ~ 33,123 8,693 79,290
This Brisbane co 1 ., which is a reconstruction
ot the old Federal Building, Land and In-
vestment Society, took on its present title
20 years ago. After a lapse of 18 years
shareholders got into the picture in 1910,
when 4 p.c. was distributed. By 1918 the
div. had climbed to 13 p.c., and has remained
steady at that rate ever since. In 1919 the
last remaining scar from the tumult of the
I * in (‘ties was removed by the capitalisation
ot £11,151 of reserves. The extraordinary
expansion of the heures over the last decade
reflects the rapid growth of Brisbane and
its suburbs.
Last year there was a general and in
some sections a very sharp depression in the
real-estate market. Suburban lots in parti-
cular were hard to move, and a large number
of small residences came into the market.
Despite this, and marked slackness in the
building trade, the Federal found no difficulty
the extra £27,822 of capital and
±100,460 of deposits, etc., that it gathered in
t' ie year. The spring in advances was
£151,001 compared with a growth of
£121,423 in the previous term. Interest,
rents, etc. (£93,153), brought in £1Q,862
more than in the* preceding year, and
since exes. (£51,337) were only £3207
heavier the net result benefited by £7655,
reaching 16 p'.e. on average capital com-
pared with 10.8, IS, 21.2, 20.7 and 21.5
p.d. back to 1923. The decline in the rate
of profit is probably due partly to the heavy
inflow of capital, which is nearly five times
greater than it was five years ago.
At the close of last accounts ss. 4d. had
been visibly accumulated to assist each £1
of paid capital. That is to say, shareholders’
funds had to earn only 9.4 p.c. to pay a 12
p.c. div.; actually average funds turned in
approximately 12 p.c. net last year.
Shortly before the close of accounts in
1927 the board took a long look ahead and
issued a quarter-million £1 shares at par.
Thus paid capital advanced to £299,177 at
Sept. 30 in 150.000 fully paid shares, 100,000
paid to 17s. 6d. and 250.000 paid to 2s. 6d.


ŵ
DIRECTORS:
K. BURGGRAF, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney,
Australasian Representative of "Elbof.”
LOUIS BURKARD, Bridge Street, Sydney, Mining Investor.
NEIL O’SULLIVAN, Solicitor, Brisbane,
Director Queensland Roma Oil, Limited.
ALEXANDER STAFFORD, Eagle Street, Brisbane,
Director Queensland Roma Oil, Limited.
MAJOR F. L. Dawson, “Courier” Building, Brisbane,
Director Queensland Roma Oil, Limited.
SECRETARY:
E. W. HAMMOND, A.A.1.5., “Courier” Building, Brisbane.
BANKERS:
PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
“Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
OBJECTS
Under the Agreement with Piepmeyer 6c Co., Komm. Ges., controllers of
the "ELBOF,” dated July 1 I, 1928, the Company has secured their exclusive
services in Queensland, and are considering similar arrangements for Australasia.
Two “Elbof” survey groups, fitted out with complete sets of all equipment
for combined geolectric, magnetic, gravimetric, seismic-acoustic, radio-activity and
geothermic measurements, have already been engaged. The two groups consist
each of four scientifically-trained and experienced geophysicists and graduated
mining engineers, with their two field mechanics, comprising altogether 1 2 men.
The first group is timed to arrive in Brisbane by the 25 th of November, and
the second group by the end of February next.
The Company is now arranging contracts with existing Oil Companies in
Queensland for the utilisation of these groups for the geophysical exploration of
their Permit areas. One Contract has been definitely concluded. Two other Com-
panies have decided to have their areas geophysically surveyed, but contracts have
not yet been executed. These contracts will keep the two groups fully occupied
for the next 12 months.
The advantageous terms upon which the Company has concluded its arrange-
ments with the “ELBOF” enable it to contract with these Companies at A FIGURE
BOTH REASONABLE AND HIGHLY ECONOMICAL, BUT YET SUFFICIENT
TO PROVIDE A REDEMPTION OF THE WHOLE OF THE CAPITAL EXPENDI-
TURE TOGETHER WITH INTEREST THEREON OF AT LEAST 12£ p.c. PER
ANNUM.
IN ADDITION TO THE CASH CONSIDERATION, IT IS PROPOSED THAT
EACH SURVEY-CONTRACT WILL PROVIDE FOR A 2\ p.c. SHARE INTEREST
TO QUEENSLAND GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYS, LIMITED, IN THE NOMINAL
CAPITAL OF THE CONTRACTING COMPANY. Investors will thus have a direct
interest in every Oil Company for which a geophysical survey is executed. In
the event of oil being located thereon, these shares would naturally considerably
augment the Company’s profits.
ADVANTAGES OF GEOPHYSICAL SURVEY AS APPLIED
TO OIL AREAS.
Geophysics has nothing in common with divining. It is, as the word implies,
a co-operation of the names of physics and geology applied to mining, mineral
prospecting and geological structures.
While mineral surveys were previously confined to geological observations
and deductions from surface features or mine workings, geophysical surveys are
able to record, by means of highly sensitive instruments, widely different physical
properties of the rocks below the surface, enabling the advanced geophysical
interpreter, i.e., geophysicists, to elucidate their tectonic and other structures.
Geophysical surveys do not claim to supersede the pionerer efforts of the
prospector? the experienced consideration of the geologist and the subsequent
development work of the mining engineer. The interpretation of the geological
features remains no less a fundamental part of the work than does the ultimate
result remain with boring. Geophysical investigations, however, like X-ray exam-
inations, disclose the veiled or hidden subterranean structures, and indicate the
most favorable sites for operating, thus eliminating costly chance-boring ventures.
Prior to the application of the science of geophysics, out of each hundred bores
sunk on American oil leases, an average of seven to nine flows was considered
a very fair margin of success. This means that over 90 p.c. of the initial capital
was exhausted in finding correct sites. The economic advantage is therefore
quite obvious of employing the “Elbof” method of survey, which definitely estab-
lishes the existence of oil or otherwise and enables the correct bore site to be
indicated.
Such scientific survey offers, apart from the reliability of completely-trained
field specialists, a harmonious team spirit of the highest order, backed by an ever
watchful central organisation, continuing new tests in laboratory research and.
technical improvements. The “Elbof” gives all this. The Central “Elbof” Council,
comprised of physicists, geologists, mining engineers and other specialists of the
very highest attainments, together with their assistants and laboratories, supervises
the work of the field-survey groups. It is thus able with a masterful combination
of methods to deal effectively with whatever changeful tectonic conditions arise.
The “Elbof,” after having executed during the past eight years over 1 60 direct
field investigations for coal and ore deposits of all kinds, has for the last four years
been conducting geophysical oil and gas explorations in Germany, Poland, Rou-
mania, Italy, Java, South Africa, America, Mexico and New Zealand. Many of
these surveys, especially in Europe itself, established, as geologically anticipated,
negative results, but clear and positive value in fulfilling, by conclusive findings,
their economic mission. Geophysical findings and subsequent boring results are
at times not disclosed on account of vested interests being interfered with, which
sometimes impedes progress, but is unavoidable. Pending the finalisation of further
bores in Mexico, America, Java and New Zealand, the principal “Elbof” oil-survey
successes are those near Kingsville, South Texas, while others are in Louisiana and
in the direct Gulf Coast areas. So far four commercially producing bores and
several non-producing testing bores, as in both instances clearly foretold, com-
pletely tally with the recommendations made.
Practically all leading oil-producing firms of the world now apply geophysics,
and the more prominent ones have their own scientific survey organisations of
expert groups and laboratories.
Before leaving for America, Mr. L. Borland, one of the Directors of Aus-
tralian Roma Oil No. 2, Limited, was asked to make inquiries regarding the U3e
of geophysical survey by Oil Companies in America. He cabled on October 19,
as follows:
“BIG OIL COMPANIES SPEAK VERY FAVORABLY GEOPHYSICS. HAVE
HAD SPLENDID RESULTS AND SAY THAT IT IS HERE TO STAY.”
According to available statistics the world’s annual expenditure on geophysical
oil exploration amounts to £3,000,000, of which America alone expends about
£2,000,000 quite apart from boring expenditure. Many individual Companies,
set aside a monthly appropriation of from £7OOO to £lB,OOO each for geophysical
surveys of their new extension areas—such figures and facts speak for themselves.
Any experienced modern oil geologist knows of the many outstanding
acknowledged successes that have resulted in recent years, particularly from gravi-
metric and seismic survey information, notwithstanding the fact that the actual
extent of decided geophysical assistance has, in many instances, for obvious
reasons, remained undisclosed by those benefiting thereby.
It is therefore gratifying to find that the Queensland Government is so deeply
concerned in the economic development of the State s petroliferous and mineral
areas, and so desirous of learning more about the possibilities of geophysical
surveys, that it has commissioned the Chief Geologist, Mr. B. Dunstan, to investi-
gate geophysics at its scientific source in Europe, and also to consult the Elbof
Council’s leading exponents: Professors Koenigsberger and Hecker, Drs. Krahmann
and Heimburg. Mr. Dunstan is now on his way to Europe.
It cannot be doubted that geophysical surveys will ultimately furnish the key
to economically open up the vast mining resources of Queensland and Australia as
a whole, and be the deciding factor in the productive development of our oil areas.
A limited number of shares is available to the investing public. Application should be made to:
The Secretary, Queensland Geophysical Surveys, Ltd.,
sth Floor, “Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Brokerage at the rate of 5 per cent, will be paid on any applications forwarded through members of the Stock Exchanges.


w
WATER
innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
[ TNFILTERED
contains
Ye Jolly Abbot.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
ABBOT FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip,
Obtainable at All Stores.
GUTIIRIDGE LIMITED,
1£ Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
NOVEMBER NUMBER ON SALE
FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -f- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7600
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Unapproached in economy, Pioneer Wood Pipe
offers a service of wonderful efficiency. This modern
wood conduit is safe from corrosion of any kind,
will carry any fluid, is light, simple, easy to lav
and c 'heap. It incurs no upkeep nor cleaning cost's.
, , particulars and complete data book from the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bav Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.AV.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
* .. —Advt.
* ❖
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * 5fC
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Roberts’ Improved Prickly Pear Poison is the best
eradicator of prickly pear. All applications for this
poison to be addressed: Secretary, Queensland Prickly
Pear Commission, Brisbane. In New South Wales:
Commissioner, Prickly Pear Destruction Board,
Moree. —Advt.
* * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
(incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
mg, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS— COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hacllieids’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ! Alexandria, Svdney,
Foundries i Rassendean. Perth.
N.S.W.
W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
—there was £30.427 of calls paid in advance.
Shareholders, therefore, need not look for
sweets by way of new issues for a while,
though as the business expands and the
uncalled balance of the capital is got in they
may benefit in that way.
How the co. uses its own and depositors’
money is seen in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. £52,725 £190,860 £271,355 £299,177
Deposits, etc. 303,562 890,468 940,000 1,040,465
Debentures .. 12,500
Advances . . 245,089 717,080 838,503 989,804
Premises, etc. 13,431 45,100 44,332 58,000
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 60,657 208,157 191,640 202,100
Cash, etc. .. 69,195 181,782 220,309 185,898
During the year a branch was opened in
the Valley and the book value of premises
increased £13,668. At the close of last
accounts depositors and others could see
7s. 6d. of each £1 of their money in cash
and Government securities compared with
Sst 9d. a year earlier. And for every £1 of
its own funds the co. was holding £2 14s. lid.
of the public’s money as against £2 14s. lid.
and £3 10s. 9d. at each of the two preceding
balances. No hint is given as to what pro-
vision, if any, has been made for contingen-
cies, and much depends upon that.
On tlie market the fully paid £1 shares
are priced at about 30s!. 6d. The return at
that figure, after allowing for the final div.,
is a shade over 8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
For the eoutribs, 2s. 6d. paid, 7sl 7d. is
asked. The immediate return at that price
is approximately 4 p.c.; thus the investor
who looks for 8 p.c. on his money counts on
another 7s. 6d. being: called. When fully
paid the return would be 94 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis.
The Australian Gypsum, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 2,388 8 p.c. = 2,232 156 156
1921.. 5,188 10 „ „ 4,938 250 406
1922.. 8,160 12 i „ „ 8,089 71 477
1923.. 15,451 12J „ ~ 10,812 4,639 5,116
Co. reconstructed; assets written
up, and 21 ords. issued for
June, every one previously held.
1925*. 17,932 5-6th p.c. = 2,445 15,487 15,487
1926.. 1,510 Nil 1,510 16,997
1927.. 13,210 Nil 13,210 30,207
1928.. 15,517 Nil 15,517 45,724
*l3 months’ operations.
This co., with Sydney headquarters, is now
mainly a holding co. The subsidiary, Wara-
tah Gypsum Pty.. Ltd., operates a large-
plant at Cape Tlievenard (S.A.), fed from
rich gypsum deposits held under lease in the
neighborhood.
Under the protection which the war
afforded, and which politicians failed to give,
the co.’s business expanded rapidly. There
was a reconstruction in 1919, the basis of
which was not made public, but some idea
of the extent to which shareholders benefited
might be gathered from the chairman’s state-
ment that the 8 p.c. div. in 1920 was in
excess of 15 p.c. to old holders. For the
next four years the co.’s progress was unin-
terrupted, and good divs. were paid.
By 1924 the demand for the co.’s pro-
ducts had so expanded and prospects looked
so encouraging that it was decided to again
reconstruct. The idea was “to make paid
capital represent the real value of the
assets.” So the assets were written up, and
five ords. in the new co. were handed out for
every two previously held. That added
£180,324 to paid capital, making it £300,540.
Then, to meet the capital outlay on new works
at Cape Tlievenard and to provide for the
general expansion of the business, 40,018 £1
ords. were issued at par. The valuations'
were based on anticipations of earnings from
increased production. This meant a con-
tinuance of demand at highly profitable
prices if satisfactory results were to be won.
The Auburn (N.S.W.) works were closed
down, and all manufacturing activities con-
centrated at the Cape Tlievenard factory,
which was taken over by a subsidiary and
commenced earning in October, 1924. Since
then the parent has been mainly a holding
co., as mentioned above.
For the 13 months to June 30, 1925,
record sales were reported, but earnings had
to bear a lot of non-recurring expenses, ship-
ping and other troubles added to the diffi-
culties, and the £17,932 netted was no more
than 5.6 p.c. on capital as it stood at the
close of accounts. Since then severe com-
petition and price-cutting, which still con-
tinues, amongst plaster manufacturers have
eaten into takings.- And though the co. has
annually reported salds to be on the increase,
and recent improvements on the technical
side are said to have lowered production
costs, it has been unable to show satisfactory
profits on capital since the reconstruction,
and shareholders have gone hungry.
Last year’s net result was 4.5 p.c. on capital
compared with 3.8, 0.4 and a shade over 5
p.c. p.a. back 1925. In 1923 the ratio
was 17.8 p.c. When saner counsels prevail
in the industry and an end is made to the
present price-cutting, which is probably not
doing those engaged in it or the public any
good, it is reasonable to expect t hat this co.’s
profits will improve. But it is doubtful
whether anything, like the former prosperous
conditions that prevailed in the industry can
be looked for.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £317,276 £ 337,904 £339,736 £341,255
Cieditora .. 23,537 45,336 43,037 39,595
Freeholds .. 32,302 29,449 9,250 9,323
Shares in other
cos. .. 270,145 270,050 270,050 270,000
Stocks .. 9,810 7,099 3,174 6,293
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 43,343 88,477 125,345 135,797
Lease develop-
ment, etc... 700 5,162 5,162 5,162
The pup is a hungry animal; it has taken,
most of the increase in book debts, cash,
etc., over the last three years by way of
advances (£119,459 at June 30). Including
advances the more or less liquid surplus
amounted to £102,495.
The market’s opinion is that the pound
shares are worth only 9s. Assuming that the
other assets, including advances, but exclud-
ing lease development, etc., are worth their
book value, the market (at 95.) thus values
the subsidiary at £41,746, approximately 17s.
in the £ below the figure at which the shares
stand in the parent’s books.
Coal, Oil, Ltd.
This co. _ was formed in 1926 to develop
coal and oil areas in Maoriland. Thus far
attention has been concentrated on the oil
leases, and the board has gone about the
job in the right way to convince investors
that they will at least get a run for their
money. Last year a group of Elbof geo-
physical survey scientists were commissioned
to investigate the co.’s leases near New Ply-
mouth. As a result of their work the experts
made a preliminary but uncompromising
statement in June last that large unbroken
oil accumulations had been located over an
area of approximately 400 acres. The details
in connection with the survey were sent for
examination by the Elliot council in Ger-
many, and its report indicating the exact
boring sites recommended will not be received
here until December.
However, the board has the assurance of
the leader of the survey that at least five
suitable sites exist. The co.’s own geological
adviser—the Swiss petrologist, Bossard—who
recommended this area for geophysical inves-
tigation, puts it this way: “The oil seems
to be concentrated in several independent
layers of fine-grained sandstone separated
from each other by impervious mudstone,
which forms also the capping and bottom
ot the oil horizons. These sandstone layers,
which have a thickness up to 100 ft., occur
mainly at depths between 1000 ft. and 4000 ft.
Their repetition means the probability of
repeated success in the same bores.”
The co. intends to commence boring opera-
tions on one of the suitable sites in the New
I lymouth area as soon as possible. In order
to finance the work it is offering 100,000
new £i shares at par. Paid capital now
stands at £188,467, of which £67,266 was
put up by the public, 102,201 paids were
handed out for rights and other assets, and
the remaining £19,000, in paids, was taken
by the Elbof people in part payment of their
fees.
Queensland Geophysical Surveys, Ltd.
This Brisbane co. is being floated for the
pm pose of arranging geophysical surveys,
primarily of oil areas, in Queensland. It
has secured the exclusive services in that
Mate ot Peipineyer and Co., the German
concern which controls the Elbof organisa-
tion, and similar arrangements for other
parts of Australia are under consideration.
3N I °! n , ma l capita! is £lOO,OOO in £1 shares, of
'7r 11( TT are offered; the promoter
~r i - Saunders) and Roma Oil Corp. take
bUOU and 1 000 paids respectively for their
work and expenses in securing the contract
with the German co., which also gets 5000
paids. The balance of the shares (37,500)
are m pickle.
i-m' liatI iat tlle , terms of the agreement with the
Elbof people are have not been published,
but two Elbof survey groups, each of four
geophysicists and two field mechanics have
been engaged. The first lot are due here in
November, and the second in February It
is not stated what contracts thus far for
the exploration of permit areas have been
secured. A feature of the prospectus is the
proposal that each survey contract, in addi-
tion to a cash payment, shall provide for a
p.c. share interest to this co. in the
nominal capital of the contracting co.,
though on. what conditions is not made
clear.
The formation of this co. is another
definite step forward in oil exploration here
Of course the drill is the final test, but the
sinking of boreholes is an expensive busi-
ness, and the aim of the geophysicist is to
assist the prospector and the geologist bv
the ehmmation, as far as iwssible, of blind
stabbing. All the leading oil-producing cos.
of the world employ geophysicists.
Queensland Oil Prospecting.
Longieach and Julia Creek are the most
attractive potential oil areas in Queensland,
outside of Roma, at the present time. About
20 permits have been applied for at Julia
Creek, east of Cloncurry, and oil-geologist
L. C. Ball has made an examination of the
field, though his report is not yet available.
Deep boring will not be necessary there. The
Congreach-Isisford tract of country is com-
manding a lot of attention. This takes in
Ruthven, one of the earliest bores in which
petroleum derivatives were noticed. Geo-
logical survey has been in progress deter-
mining structures for some months past;
and a float with influential backing is
expected to be on the market at an early
date. Melbourne capital will bo prominent.
Central Queenslanders are heavily backing
the Longreach town sites, on which a heavy
grade flowing oil was struck a couple of
years back.
ihe Walloons in the Beaudesert district
are also being given a try-out. A company
with the suggestive title of Salt Domes Oil
Co., Ltd., has done some preliminary boring
between Beaudesert and Boonah. Dr. Jensen
is consulting geologist, and states the struc-
ture is ideal, and that the Lower Walloon
series in the district have all the features of
an oil series except that there are no oil
seepages.
Reported quantities of oil recovered from
the R.U.C. plant are far in excess of the
figures obtained experimentally from earlier
bores by official investigators. As a state-
ment from a high source during the last few
days averred that n 0 quantity tests had been
made, but that the quality tests were excel-
lent, confirmation of the quantities in the
recent tests is much desired.
“Barsac” : It is highly desirable that fur-
ther tests should be made, and under Govern-
ment supervision, of the oil content of the
K.U.C. gas. The former official tests were
made by J. B. Henderson, Government
analyst, with approximately a twelve-month
interval; he found 1.2 pints per 1000 c.f. of
gas. Ihe latest test is stated to yield six
to_ seven pints per 1000 c.f. The test is also
said to have been made in l£lir. Now for some
the discharge has been reckoned at
600,000 c.f. per 24 hours—37s,ooo c.f. in
liar.; and on Henderson’s figures this would
mean 5-6 gal. of petrol. Actually the extrac-
tion is said to have been lOOgal. No doubt
it can all be explained; and .in the best
interests of the industry it ought to be. Gov-
ernment officials (preferably including Mr.
Henderson) ought to be at the next test.
* * * *
Supplies of copper ore from gougers in
the Cloncurry district will probably Ik;
speeded up as the result of a visit of a
representative of the Port Kembla Electro-
lytic Co. to the district. Bagging will be
cut out and bins erected at the Townsville
wharves. Lower-grade ore can be taken, and
this will mean a big saving in hand-picking
and other handling. The belated move is
assisted by the upward tendency of the mar-
ket, and the lower the grade produced the
less objection there is to gouging methods,
which are regarded in the district as an eco-
nomic necessity.
* * =;>. *
Recent prospecting work in the Mother
Lode, Ravenswood (N.Q.), seems to have
improved prospects. A westerly drive from
the Glory Hole was in medium ore for
16ft., and finished sft. in the country A
crosscut from the tunnel level has proved
sft., so far, of lOdwt. ore, which is reckoned
payable. At present stoping operations are
delayed while arrangements are being made
tor power to start the battery moving.
#
X : The granite which- has been pushed
up to high peaks here and there about
lorres Strait, and even at Mabaduan (W.
tapua), has apparently dipped very flatly
away beneath the Oriomo Oil Co.’s pros-
pecting concession—some of the scout bores
have encountered it already. And petroleum
geologists would as lief see Beelzebub him-
self coming up their borehole as granite,
oo it looks as though Oriomo oil prospectors
might be wise to take a jump with their
outfit to the known tertiary country east.
* * '* *
lie J.B.’s_ defence of the alleged values
taken from the Guinea Gold and Osmi-
ridium reef on Namie Creek (B. 17/10/’2S)
—said to range from 15oz. to 390 z. per toir
The cable from New Guinea Goldfields Ex-
ploration, which has taken over the Namie
leases, stated that checking by a responsible
engineer showed averages from 6dwt. to lloz.,
panning values. Fire assays gave from loz!
to 2.100 Z. The engineer further reported
that though there appears to be a lode out-
crop it is not well defined, showing no signs
of a strike. The values which “J. 8.” says
were O.K.’d by the New Guinea Warden led
to a merry little gamble in Osmiridium
shares. Early last week the 2s. 6<f. shares
were bumped to 21s. Then, when the cable
arrived, there was a rush to get out, and
values dropped sharply to 10s., though bear
covering brought quotes back to 13s. 3d
where they were hanging at the week-end
* * * * *
Huey Yot’s dredge began digging in
January. The directors say that many
defects became apparent, and that a claim
against the builders, Wcrf Conrad, of 110 -
land, has been drafted. Pending the satis-
factory working of this dredge, the construc-
tion of No. 2 has been held over. The
present machine was designed to dig 130,000
yards per month, but its best performance
to date was 03,000 yards for September.
I'he ground came well un to boring esti-
mates in the matter of recoveries, which
consistently topped a pound per yard. The
small turnover and loss of time through
accidents to the plant were against profits!
Once full-time running and turnover approxi-
mating the dredge’s nominal capacity can
be attained, matters should improve rapidly.
Accounts for the year ending March 31
showed a working profit of £457, but adminis-
trative charges turned this .into a loss of
i T he co * has borrowed £19,143 from
Malay Siamese and another creditor; the
final instalment due on the dredge is £4OOO,
and sundry creditors are owed £l5OB. Paid
capital is £138.500; the £1 shares are priced
at about 14s. 9d.
* * * *
Alluvial Tin, having received the full cash
consideration of £500,000 for the sale of its
Malayan properties to Tin Investments of
London, has decided to pay a dividend of
20s. per share on November 15; the books
■close Nov. (5. Paid capital is £250,000, in-
cluding £230,000 of reserves capitalised. The
directors are considering whether further dis-
tributions will be by dividend, reduction of
capital or liquidation. In addition to the cash
payment, Alluvial received 250,000 f.p. shares
in the English £1,500,000 co. formed to
work the holdings purchased by Tin Invest-
ments. Recently sellers were asking 555.
for the Alluvial stock.


a*
ŵ
ADJUSTABLE STEEL SHELVING.
The Ledge Style of Adjustable Steel
Shelving, also eminently desirable, may be
built up from standard units. The units
needed may be installed to fit the allotted
space with a minimum of waste. Has
proved itself to be the ideal storage equip-
ment in the most up-to-date Factories,
•Wholesale and Retail Stores, Motor Supply
Houses, Banks, Libraries, Hospitals, Book
Shops, Music Shops and Offices.
Adjustable Shelving, Clothes
Lockers, Storage Cabinets, Cup-
boards, Plan Cabinets, etc.
Forster s Sixty-Years Reputation
Proves that 4 Quality Counts.
To maintain a solid reputation for
Quality and fair dealing for over
sixty years has been the achievement
of Forster’s. That reputation, so
solidly built, still stands behind all
present activities of this firm.
“Quality Counts” has always been
and will ever continue to be the
watchword. Those who place
orders for the New Adjustable Steel
Products may do so with the utmost
confidence.
ẁ
STEEL CLOTHES LOCKERS.
Steel Lockers with olive-green surface,
adopted by all large, up-to-date establish-
ments for employees’ belongings; also in
public institutions. Made in single units,
in rows against walls or back to back
down centres of rooms, which may be
installed in any number desired to lit
space and needs.
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO,
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).
SYDNEY.
HUSBANDS—GiIt-Edged and Otherwise.
When Edward with a Golfing Soul,
A shovel and a knob of coal
Replays his round at Pinner,
His Wife looks valiantly serene,
Her Persian carpet is the green
He putts on after dinner.
l
m
•'\y
HJ.
a.
THE GOLFING HUSBAND.
The patient guests suppress a yawn,
He’ll reach the eighteenth hole at
dawn!
Meantime there are ABDULLAS —
Through mists of Fragrant Happiness
His feeble grip and wild address
Appear in kindlier colours.
—F. R. Holmes,
SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


rf j-<£? V -'-Sf jS -<* r</ „V .<f % ,<
C?P vv 5 &<& , f .<& .<? J? +& -9 & & ft & & & c 5? 5»
fip f<S? i^ 1 #*? ri? /? If? .f
.._ _ _ ■^ !^-
1& r-SP eSP «d|P rSP r:p» ,gP t^j
-.=5
A -
SF
yi
.sSf
it
V#
A*
f
#
//
a?
&
i
i)
p
\
Legions
of
Motorists
prefer and use
DUNLOP
They appreciate their big
mileage their reliability
and value. For real tyre
satisfaction use Dunlop
covers and tubes.
5000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP
This new "Balt
is trulv 9 *■::§?■
is truly
exceptional!
&r
•SPORTS DEPOT? STOCK IT


PEAPES
Clothe Men AND their sons
Just issued, Peapes’ Complete
Summer Catalogue is an admirable
guide to all that is newest and
best for men’s and boys’ wear
during the warm weather.
It is illustrated by photographs of
living models in natural Australian
surroundings, enabling the goods
to be seen as they actually appear
in use.
A copy will be forwarded to any
address promptly on request.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
e
El,
6y & if,
. r
r al c °ml anrid^
Goo{ l Gut,.. - /0Q -
Goori
è
é
ê
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Waranbini”: Lubras in a Binghi village
have squabbles over their youngsters just as
do Mrs. Bakfence and Mrs. Sydewalk of
Suburbia. Mrs. Bolem, who takes pains to
teach her son the ethics of the tribe, endeavors
to keep him away from larrikins. That leads
to trouble among the mothers. It seldom
goes beyond a wordy warfare ; but one after-
TO MATCH HER COMPLEXION.
“Gibbit ’noder tin boot-blackin’, boss. Him budgery good face-cream.”
noon I saw a couple of lubras attack one
another with yamsticks, fists and nullas.
Bolem intervened before much harm was
done, but Mrs. Bolem wasn’t speaking to the
black hussy next door for some time after-
wards. Then they clashed while picking up
sticks together in a clump of box-trees. When
each had thrown all her firewood at the
other, accompanied by a whirlwind of vitu-
peration, two exasperated husbands stepped
in and gave the ladies a thrashing to make
peace. It did, too; they condoled with each
other when the racket was over, and were
friends ever afterwards.
# :|: * * *
“Drover”: Can anyone account for the salt
pebbles found in' the south-west corner of
Queensland? They are numerous out on
the Mulligan River, and although there’s no
surface salt water nearer than the sea, with
the exception of Lake Harry in S.A., tons
of these pebbles could be gathered. They
are brownish in color, and as hard as flint.
I’ve bought them in a store at Birdsville
(S.-W.Q.) when floods had held up the sup-
ply of salt from the South. They’re hard
and take some breaking, but you can’t beat
them for salting beef.
* * * *
“Pick”: A hunter’s shot sometimes finds
a mark for which it was not intended. At
Tilba Lake, on the N.S.W. South Coast, my
shooting-mate fired his rifle at a mob of
pelicans flying high over the water. The
bullet broke a wing of one of the birds, was
deflected at right-angles by the impact and
wounded a calf feeding by the lake shore.
After ducks along the Cambalong on the
Monaro plateau, we disturbed and fired at
a snake that slithered over the rocks across
tne stream. A flutter in the thistles beyond
led us over. There we gathered up six
bronzewings killed by our shots that had
also settled the long-’un. At Queanbeyan
(N.S.W.) a wallaby-shooter with a Snider
fired at a wallaby that halted above him
on the mountain-side. His bullet ricocheted
from a rock to the hill summit. There it
struck the dry limb of a tree, was deflected
downwards and killed the shooter’s mate,
who was following the opposite side of the
range.
* * * *
“Hayband” : Police experience is that of
all fugitive criminals the hardest to catch
is an ex-bushman. He simply returns to the
bush, takes a job or a contract fencing,
clearing or something, lets his beard grow
—a perfectly normal proceeding in the bush
—and keeps his mouth shut- The city-born
wrong-doer, as a rule, can’t leave the smoke,
and is as easy to find as an elephant on a
billiard-table. He remains himself, even to
the color of his tiy. He daren’t try to grow a
beard, and lie hasn’t the bushman’s gift of
silence. It’s a good thing for arrest aver-
ages that the bushman seldom takes to
crime.
* i'jt Ht ❖
“Walnut”: Here are some of the abo.
names for Sydney and its environs: Sydney
was called “Warrane” ; North Shore, “Walu-
metta” : North Head. “Boree” ; South Head,
“Cuttai”; Middle Head. “Cubba-Cubba” :
Potts Point, “Currageen”; Manly, “Can-
nae.” The aboriginals were evidently fam-
iliar with Mrs. Macquarie's Chair, and called
it “Yuong.” Darling Point was “Yaran-
abe” ; Goat Island, “Mernel”; and Cockatoo
Island, “Warriebah.” Parramatta retains
its aboriginal name, meaning “the place
where the eels sit down.” Parramatta people
should feel flattered.
SANCTUARY.
“Conshable, lock me up—just hit the misshus on the head wizh a spade.”
“Did you kill her?”
“Don’t shink sho—thash why I want to be locked up.”
“Up North”: in the Fingerprint country
the bush over large areas is a maze of vines
binding the scrub together, especially in the
good grass time just after the wet season.
It is a distracting job trying to force cattle
through this country. In a week the beasts
become sullen, bad tem-
pered and scared from
the constant breaking
through of bushes whose
innumerable vines grip
their hooves and bodies
for mile after weary mile.
Soon the leaders refuse to
break the track. The mob
circles among the bushes
with lowering heads,
clashing horns and rest-
less eyes. Horsemen are
at a great disadvantage
because the clinging vines
are an even greater hard-
ship to the horses than
to the cattle. When
massed stubbornness
simply won’t give way, a
track has to be cut
through by hand until
the country becomes a
little more open. I have
seen a beast dragged to
its knees with its horns
hopelessly entangled by
vines, moaning in a dis-
tressing way, with froth-
ing tongue, showing every
sign of madness. When
such a beast is cut clear
it simply bolts, seeing no-
thing in its path. In a
last mad rush it disap-
pears until the vines bind
it for all time in the heart
of the bush. It is quite
useless to follow it. Men
are very careful when
cutting such a beast
through. In its berserk
madness it rams its horns
into the nearest thing in
sight.
“Catalyst” : The oldest description of tlie
pawpaw is in Hughes’s “Natural History of
Barbadoes,” published in 1750. The natives
at that time* were aware that if meat were
smeared with the milky sap from the tree
or green fruit and wrapped in the leaves
and left for some time it would become ten-
der. One hundred and thirty years elapsed
before the ferment was investigated by a
German chemist, Wittack (1878). Since
then much romance has been written about
the fruit. It has been said that a bullock
hung overnight among the branches will be
as tender as a flapper in the morning, or
something to that effect. Northcliffe met
the pawpaw for the first time during his
world tour and he says in his book on the
trip that it is full of pepsin and good for
indigestion. This little delusion has run a
Mafathon and it is time that it was arrested.
The pepsin, like enzyme, disappears as the
fruit ripens, and the ripe fruit, if it contains
any at all, does not contain enough to digest
a mosquito. The milky sap from the plant
and green fruit has marked digestive pro-
perties and is said to be also an efficient
vermifugd The juice of the ripe fruit also
promotes the secretion of milk in nursing
mothers, but neither the fruit nor juice can
safely be taken by pregnant women. The
apparent benefit derived by many persons
from the consumption of pawpaw may be
due to a cleansing action similar to that
experienced after taking a bismuth or
barium meal.
:K * * s?
“F.T.8.G.”: Our house and stables shel-
tered rats who grew fat on poison and
laughed at traps, but they have met their
Waterloo. The other day I saw Dick, my
old tom-cat, sitting watching a hole in the
boards, and crouched well against the wall.
Presently a big buck rat dived out, but only
got half-way across before Dick nipped him.
I was puzzled why the rat should come out
just then, and in such haste. The cause
was Peter, my Sealyham, who, though un-
able to catch rats, could chase them. He
was under the house driving them out. To-
gether Dick and Peter cleaned up 19 rats
in a few days.
“Tom Pepper” : The abo. is not often cre-
dited with sentiment, but it’s there. Some
years ago a young fellow prospecting in the
hilly country between Daverton and Earlis-
ton (W.A.) got bushed. At the time most
of the blacks had gone on a walkabout, and
the police engaged two elderly black gins
as trackers. The country was stony, and
the lost man had crossed and re-crossed
his own tracks. The police, on horse-
back, kept some distance behind the gins so
as not to interfere with the tracking. On
the second day they were much surprised, on
overtaking the trackers, to find them sitting
down weeping bitterly. Asked what the
trouble was. one of them said, “Poor white
pfella tumble down, get up; tumble down
this way, that way; close-up dead.” They
would not run the tracks any further, but
it wasn’t necessary. The body was found
20 yards ahead.
(Continued on page 25A
THE BACK O’ BEYOND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a quaint place this, to which some of us
go,
The men of the wide lands fond ;
Ask where we’re heading, and all we know
Is somewhere Back o’ Beyond.
On the way we traverse the great Outback,
And the regions of Farther Out,
By the route that’s known as the Sunset
Track
To drover and rouseabout.
Across the hills and the wide grey plains,
By many a pool and pond,
It wanders out where it sometimes rains,
To the mystical place Beyond.
And back of that is the shining goal
Of each of the wandering band,
Who finds himself like a motherless foal
On the border of No Man’s Land.
For thereabouts is the Back o’ Beyond,
Though it’s never been marked or mapped.
Where rivers trickle by reed and frond
From ranges of wealth untapped.
The Land of Promise there some have found,
Some a region of God Forgot,
Or the Last Place Made ere the earth went
round
On its never-ending trot.
The Never Never and Never-Come-Back
And others that correspond
All lie somewhere on the Sunset Track,
Out at the Back o’ Beyond.
N.s.w.
E.S. SORENSON.


yffaS
L'=s. I
m
■M
; ii
C®*
p'-
jinnii
H*
m
w
w%
m ////
Porcelain Lined.
PRICE FROM
£75
ESI
35?
iHs-ifTTW
l «fl i
l a i
WW&i
ti?
3-A -
“Freeze with Ease.”
After the party, when those friends
drop in, you will appreciate the
convenience of ElectrlCE, the new
Electric Refrigerator.
ElectrlCE entirely dispenses with
the annoyances attendant upon
outside ice supply, ensuring ample
supplies of deliciously cool salads,
desserts, etc., m all their refreshing
healthfulness at any hour of the day
or night.
Handsome, clean, smooth, both
interior and exterior. Convenient
shelves of ample capacity. Auto-
matic m action. No projections
above or below to collect dust and
dirt.
ElectrlCE refrigeration is always a
source of health, wholesomeness,
convenience and economy.
Made in various sizes, sold at vary-
ing prices, there is an ElectrlCE for
every need.
Before you decide, call, see an
ElectrlCE working, and inspect our
Model Electric Kitchen.
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd.,
137-39 Clarence Street (top of Barrack Street,
near G.P.0.), Sydney. ’Phone: BW 1328.
m
AN EMMCO
PRODUCT
Made by
Electricity Meter Mfg. Co., Ltd.
as
An Emmco Product- Te/e. BM/388
MANUFACTURERS PROOUCTS P™ L T ?
137 CLARENCE 5 T SYDNEY
PLEASE SEND FREE YOUR ELECTRICS RECIPE BOOK
TO
Name -
Street .
Cihy SAa/e...
8.7
ë
'J
&
BUY
A
POPPY
V
ft
i
8
i l
SOLDIERS
POPPY
DAV
APPEAL
NOV. 9 TH 1928


Stockmen!
TuuA 'tywiJats
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards.
Sydney, Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart*
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN,
LTD.
Winchcombe House,
Bridge 'Street, Sydney,
and 99-101
I Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
e
T he purest tobacco only ,
wrapped in snoT»~ white
paper without any trimmings
has made <<c Uhe Qreys” the
best 'Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters!
GREYS
io for 9«L CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
Comfort for the
RUPTURED
a
eiNvea
Denyer’s Elastic
Truss, while
ensuring effec-
tive support, is
always co m-
fortable, and
permits every freedom of
movement. Has a patent
water pad.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
WRITE FOR FREE
RUPTURE PAMPHLET.
DENYER BROS.
Dept. 1, 267 George Street, Sydney.
“Peria Doray”: The South Sea islander
is generally supposed to be a lover of the
water, able to swim like a duck and dive
like a turtle, and spending more of his time
in the sea than out of it. I doubt it- Some
time ago, being short of a house-boy, I
dragged in a New Britain youth. I noticed
his skin becoming gradually darker and
darker and I was puzzled until I looked
closer into the matter. Then I instantly
ordered him off to wash himself. That boy
nearly wept at my insistence. He believed
that if he allowed water to touch Ins skin
he would contract a deadly sickness. This
boy was born and had lived all his 38 years
within a few feet of the sea, and on his own
confession had never ventured into it.
Judging by other skins that I see daily, he
is not alone m his opinion that water is
very dangerous stuff to meddle
«tt ~ m » mu i x u :
. U P Top : The Cooktown abos. have a
legend about the Black Mountains. Big
tribes lived around there, one being bossed
by a witch-doctor named Maneater. So
long as he feasted on lewd fellows of the
baser sort, the tribespeople were too scared
to complain, but when he slew the chief’s
son while the lad was asleep they got nasty,
So Maneater changed himself into a gigan-
tic snake and took up liis abode in one of
the innumerable caves of the mountains,
Amongst the rocks there grows a species of
grass-tree, whose gum is invaluable for bind-
ing weapons, and the gins and piccaninnies
were sent out each week by the warriors to
collect the ,gum. So the witch-doctor trans-
formed his bad old mother into an eagle
and she circled over the mountain by day,
signalling down to her snake son the
approach of gum-seeking parties- In this
way Maneater was able to scoff many a stray
gin. The piccaninnies he transformed into
turkeys for the sustenance of his eagle
mother. Then the witch-doctor put it into
the minds of the tribes round about to unite
and exterminate his own tribe, against
which he had developed an intense hatred.
So a great battle was fought in the plain
below and the remnant of Maneater’s tribe
fled to the hills, the witch-doctor following in
the form of a warrior. But a rival witch-
doctor spotted the impostor, who hurriedly
commenced turning himself into a snake
again. By counter-witchcraft his enemy
caused a hitch, and Maneater became a
gigantic goanna which fled up a tree. As
the indignant tribesmen filled him with
spears he exploded with a bang that shook
the mountains and splashed the rocks with
the blood-red lichen which grows on them
to this very day.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Let me push in a chock on this
argument about a horse’s intelligence being
a matter of memory only. The other day an
Ashfield (N.S.W.) delivery man left his van
standing while he took parcels into cottages
over the way. Coming out, he hurried on
up the street, whistling his steed to follow.
The oft wheel came in contact with a tree-
guard, and the prad was halted with a jerk.
Inquiringly lie looked back with a what-the
devil-is-up? expression on his countenance.
Then he backed the van, manoeuvred the
wheels to the left and right, cleared the ob-
struction, and jig-jogged on after his owner.
Memory doesn’t account for that.
* * * *
“Arev”: “Listen in?” growled old Dan.
“No fear. Yer don’t catch me at it again. I
was up at Murphy’s one night last week an’
they would have me listen in. Well. I put on
the liead-phones an’ heard the bloke givin’
the market reports. He was coughin’ a lot,
but I never took much notice on account of
bein’ interested, me bein’ a bit suspicious
about the prices the agent has been sendin’
me lately. Well, as I was sayin’, I never
noticed the- coughin’ of the bloke much at
the time, but when I got home I started ter
sneeze. I’d caught that feller’s cold.”
* * * *
“Mac Ropus”: “Mick Q.’s” overburdened
swaggie (B. 26/9/’2B) had his counterpart
in the Speck. When Terence O’Connor hit
the old overland track years ago he carried
a big flour-bag pack quite in proportion to
his own huge size. After parting with his
mate on the second morning out, he felt a
strange weakness come upon him, but pull-
ing himself together went over the top of
Mt. Arrowsmith and 25 miles into the high-
GIVE ’EM ANOTHER CHANCE.
NEROUS WIFE: “I’ve counted five ’undred sheep jumping over a fence , and still I
can’t sleep.”
SLEEPY HUSBAND: “Try opening the gate.”
WASN’T ONE AV THEY FLIGHTY SOORT.
“Your full name, sir.”
“W r illiam John Thomas ’Enry Tredizzeck.”
“Where do you live?”
“’Ome ’longa mawther, av coorse. Where dosta think?”
lands before night. Then he undid his pack
and grasped it firmly by the bottom. The
first object to hit the grass was a little
memento considerately left there by his
mate. It consisted of a piece of beautiful
shining quartz weighing about 30 pounds.
He * * *
“AdeL.”: “Soda” is not the only excur-
sionist who has traversed the main roads
of the Gulf country without
seeing rabbits (B. 29/8/’2B),
but he may rest assured that
I did not make wild state-
ments. I have met with rab-
bits off and on in the Burke-
town district, chiefly west of
the border fence, for over 10
years, but it was only this
year that Bunny was seen
on the shore of the Gulf of
Carpentaria, causing great
alarm to the natives there.
In April last two rabbits
were seen within. 12 miles of
Lawn Hill homestead, and
were responsible for much
“yabba-yabba” and excite-
ment among the black stock-
men. If “Soda” ever comes
this way again, he should
take a walk over the barren
limestone hills southward of
the Lawn Hill silver-lead
mining field or examine the
numerous sandy, wattle-cov-
ered patches for a distance
of 200 miles west. He will
surely meet with our furry
friend or see unmistakable
signs of its presence there.
It is useless to ask Binglii
if he has seeu the “furry
pfella alia same pussy-cat. - ’
To niggers of these parts
anything which is not a long-
leg kangaroo is a wallaby or
a rat.
“Fisherman”: “Toheroa” (B. 19/8/’2B)
weaves too much mystery around the Maori-
land whitebait. In the Rangitikei River,
where I’ve been catching them for 30 years,
they come upstream as early as .July and
as late as December, according to weather
conditions, the main run being in September
and October. They like warm water, and
leave the cold river water when the first
drainage from the swamplands, no matter
how small, comes down, and keep on until
they reach the deep swamp water. Then,
inside 24 hours, they have a dark inside and
are poor eating. They grow into inanga
(pronounced e-nun-ga), a scaleless fish that
grows up to eight inches in length. In
March the inanga return to the sea to spawn
on the mudflats.
* =l= * *
“Bad Australian”: I took exception to
“lluffin-Guffin’s” statement (B. 29/8/’2S)
that bush-fires in heavily-timbered country
nearly always run through the tops of the
trees, the grass and undergrowth being
ignited by burning leaves and bark from
above. “Tarago” (B. 10/10/’2S) steps
blithely into the witness-box on behalf of
“Huffin-Guffin” and starts by frankly admit-
ting that “11.-G.” is wrong in stating that
the undergrowth is ignited by falling leaves
and bark from the treetops. He then goes
on to explain that “the heat-draught from
the blaze in the scrub and undergrowth
withers the leaves sufficiently for the top
fire to carry on.” From this it is clear
that the fire does not run in the green tree-
tops but in the undergrowth, as stated by me,
and it is not until the leaves are thoroughly
withered and scorched by the draught from
the burning undergrowth that ignition occa-
sionally takes place.
“Tapu”: The ancient Maoris were well
acquainted with the prevailing winds _ of
different seasons, and with the stars visible
in each month. When Kupe discovered
Maoriland, about a.d. 900, he had come from
Tahiti, over 2000 miles. Furthermore, he
sailed home again. Particulars of his voy-
age and sailing directions were preserved
in unwritten tribal archives right till the
coming of the pakeha, and were successfully
used many times in migrations to the new
land.
*'* * »
“J.H.S.”: Gould’s monitor lizard is the
most casual of the goanna tribe. Slow of
movement until livened up, when he can shift
himself like a streak, he forages round flick-
ering his long, forked pinkish tongue, seem-
ingly careless of the world and all about
him. If he happens to get in your way he is
seldom in any particular hurry to clear the
passage, and if you try to bounce him, as like
as not —if he is a full-grown specimen—he’ll
raise himself on his four legs, swell out his
throat and hiss curses at you. And if you
bounce him too much he’ll as like as not
stand up on his hind legs and invite you to
come on. But if you leave him alone, after
a while he’ll make room for you, and, flick
ing his tongue, go on his way, seeming not
to care a damn what you think of him or
his manners. The casual one, by the way,
is commonly believed to be unable to climb
a tree, but he can shin up one lively enough
if there is no hole or hollow log to dive into.
CARTING WHEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder does she know, the old brown mare,
We’re carting wheat without her? Does she
care ?
The only one that’s left of all the team
Now dad’s gone nap on traction, does she
dream,
Nosing along the sliprails in the heat,
I wonder, of the old days carting wheat?
I wonder does she. hear the tractor drone,
And get a kind of heartache on her own?
They were a bonser team. Dad used to
swear
He’d never seen a grafter like the mare.
He always reckoned she’d enjoy her ease,
Her pension and her patch of she-oak
trees....
Well, I dunno I’m thinking of her eyes,
The way she stands there, wistful —she’s so
wise,
Sometimes I seem to know she’d find it sweet
To work the old roads over, hauling wheat!
Doing their damnedest every drowsy mile,
Eleven sturdy beauties! That’s the style!
There’s music and romance in carting wheat
Behind a satin team —the plodding feet,
The swinging chains, broad backs and prick-
ing ears....
Oh, blast this blanky tractor, with its gears !
I wonder does she know, the old brown mare,
It hurts like Hell and all to leave her there!
S.A.
MADGE R. C.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
Service I^^ * n<dudbl *’ information, you are invited to write to the
in si dcho s j erv4ce is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
Lbe right of selection and rejection is reserved,
a time* a<dbtate searcb if is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
By wife of totally incapacitated returned
soldier, no pension, typewriting, copying or
similar work, at home, Sydney. Own
machine. Work called for and delivered. —
717G.
Young man (20), travelled, desirous of
working passage to Europe, will give £10
bonus; do anything.—7074.
Adelaide man would like to get in touch
with firms in other States, view representin';'
them in S.A.—7105.
Experienced, energetic, sober man wants
position N.S.W. station or farm.—7106.
Engine fitter, now in N.Z., wants position
N.S.W.— 1 7097.
Returned soldier (34), partly disabled,
wants light work, Sydney; references.—7078.
Experienced sheepman (Q’land) wants bil-
let, charge property. Keep books; good
refs.—7141.
North Queensland salesman wants a good
house-to-house line.—7145.
Engine-driver, holds second-class certificate,
used to chaffcutters and all farm machinery,
wants job, any State.—7154.
Name, of firm willing to supply at whole-
sale prices gifts suitable for Christmas
tree for about 200 children.—7138.
To sell 80 copies of London Punch, 1915-
19.—7178.
To sell Sikes hydrometer, complete with
book, thermometer and glass; almost new.—
7155.
To sell set of honey tanks, scarcely used,
cost £15; will take £6.—7115.
To sell American all-metal camera, fits
palm of hand ; cost £2; take half.—7101.
To sell French Home cinema, standard,
condition perfect. Cost £27 ; take £15.-7094.
To buy No. 44, “The Children’s Book of
Knowledge” (published 1923,-24). —7090.
To buy book giving directions how to
plait stockwhips.—7147.
To buy collection of old stamps for cash,
or will exchange Remington No. 10 visible
typewriter. (To Derwent Vallancc, Box 107,
Cairns, N.Q.)
Words of recitations “Yarkup’s Cross” and
“The Stockman’s Yarn.” (To D. A. Mae-
Cubbin, Dept, of Labor and Industry, King-
street, Newcastle, N.S.W.)
Words of verse beginning “Brothers of
Australia, blokes and coves and coots.” (To
E. J. Bond, 39 Golf Links-avenue, Oakleigh,
Vic.)
Words of verse beginning “We were
travelling down the Bogan, where the scrubs
arc deep and dense.” (To Miss Et Skilling-
ton, St. Aubyns, Manly, via Brisbane, Q.)
Words of verse “The Terrible Turk.” (To
F. Kronfeld, Wandsworth Building, Anzac-
avenue, Auckland, N.Z.)
Words of verse “The Bells of Corio Bay.”
(To G. Campbell, care Lawrence Campbell,
350 George-street, Sydney.)
Words of verse “When Guns Go into
Battle,” by Will Lawson. (To W. G. Hay-
lock, Keswick Barracks, Keswick, Vic.)
To exchange, selective one-valve radio set
with cabinet, value £3 10s., for bicycle or
tennis racquet. (To E. Roberts, 5 Egan-
street, Richmond, Vic.)
To let furnished 5-roomed cottage, Haber-
field, Sydney, three to four months.—7137.
Young lady offered home Sydney, at
reasonable rate, best locality, highest creden-
tials.—7059.
Two gentlemen (preferably students) to
join another in a furnished flat; share
expenses.—7077.
Whereabouts of Alfred Arthur James,
journalist, recently residing at Woollahra,
Sydney.—7142.
Whereabouts of William O’Mahoney, who
left Jerilderie (N.S.W.) for Q’land about
1909.—7157.
To correspond with readers interested in
journalism, music, travel and photography.
(Miss M. King, 30 Antico-st., Wellington,
N.Z!)
Information Sought.
How to put down a cement floor for a
cowshed ? —7113.
Excavate to a depth of Sin. below what
is to be the floor surface. Thoroughly mix
5 parts of lin. or l|in. metal (stone) with
3 parts good sand and 1 part cement —mix
with water, of course—and lay on the floor
to within lin. of what is to be the surface.
Then apply the “rendering finish”—that is
a wet mixture of 3 parts sand to 1 cement
spread evenly with trowel to a depth of
lin. For a cheaper (and less durable) job
the bed of metal may be put down without
cement or sand —just plain stones.
(1) Present market value of graphite in
its raw state? (2) Treatment used to make
it of commercial value. (3) Suppose large
deposits are available, would it pay to work
them? (4) To whom could I refer for
further information ? —7066.
(1) Depends upon the quality. Value of
graphite produced in N. S. Wales during
1927 ranged from £2 to £2 2s. 6d per tou.
(2) Hand-picking ns mined, commonly fol-
lowed by grinding and flotation. The dried
concentrates may be further subjected to
electro-magnetic treatment. (3) Depends
upon quality and accessibility to a market,
which is not large in Australia. (4) De-
partment af Mines, Queensland.
(1) Does the N.S.W. Fair Rents Act
apply to country towns? (2) If so, and
a reduction were granted, could! the landlord
eject me? (3) For how long would the
reduction hold good? (4) What would, an
application to the Court cost? —7100.
(1) Yes. (2) Not on that ground. (3)
For not less than 12 months nor more than
three years, as Court may determine. (4)
Filing an application to have rent of a
dwelling determined costs Is.
(1) Do the Federal and Westrulian in-
come-tax enactments allow the creation of
a (joods reserve against a time of slump,
say, in a town? (2) If such reserve is not
shown in a return, would it be considered
an evasion ? —6631.
(1) There is no provision under either
the Federal or State inoome-tax laws for
the establishment of any such reserve. (2)
Yes.
Names and prices of boohs on cocoa-nut
cultivation, and where procurable. —7l62.
“The Cocoa-nut,” by E. B. Copeland
(254.), “Practical Guide to Cocoa-nut Plant-
ing,” by Munro and Brown (195.), “The
Cocoa-nut Palm,” by H. C. Sampson (38s.
6d.) ; and “Cocoa-nuts,” by 11. H. Smith
(165.) ; all from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.
Information concerning Suffolk breed' of
sheep. What sort of country suits them
best? —6741.
The State Research Farm', Werribee
(Vic.), pronounces Suffolks hardy and pro-
lific, and for lean meat unexcelled; the
lambs when pure or crossbred are early-
maturing and keenly sought by butchers.
But the breed needs good pastures, doing
best on country with a heavy rainfall. The
wool, though light, is of good quality, aver-
aging 56 on count. Names and addresses of
breeders, together with a history of their
flocks, arc in “Flock Book for British
Breeds of Sheep in Australia,” No. 20;
obtainable from the secretary, Temple
Court, 422 Collins-street, Melbourne. A
dissertation on the points of the breed, by
Guy Lempricre, is contained in “Tillotson’s
Directory,” procurable from Robertson and
Mullens, Melbourne.
(1) Does the Commonwealth Government
pay, on completion, for all improvements on
land taken up in Central Australia? (2)
What assistance is given to settlers there?
—6878.
(1) No, but it allows the value of improve-
ments on the lessee giving up possession or
on the expiration of the lease, whichever
happens last. (2) Up to £6OO for improve-
ments, purchase of machinery or live stock,
etc. Advances are repayable by yearly in-
stalments; interest (simple) is's p.c. p.a.
Who pays for the erection of anew fevee
between a public recreation reserve and a
private property in Victoria? —6687.
The owner of the private property; trus-
tees or committees of management of Govern-
ment reserves are not liable.
(1) A jacheroo’s wages, for a start, in
N.S.W. and Q’land? (2) Chance of a job?
—6962.
(1) There is no fixed rate on N.S.W.
stations ; the usual thing is 255. p.w. and keen.
In Q’land, jackeVoos get £1 10s. p.w. and keep
the Ist year; a rise of 10s. p.w. the 2nd
year, and £2 13s. per week and keep the 3rd
year. After that they have to be paid station-
hand’s wages—£3 10s. p.w. and keep. (2)
It depends upon your ability and influence—
or influence and ability.
Can a husband leave i his property as he
likes, omitting his wife, or could she law-
fully claim a share of his estate? —7055.
He may do so, but it will not be effectual
in N. S. Wales. Under the Testator’s Family
Maintenance Act, 1916, the widow, if left
without adequate provision, may claim for
such provision to be made for her out of the
estate.
What is the difference between a piebald
and a skewbald horse? —7140.
Among horsemen, piebald means a horse
patched with black and white. A skew-
bald is a horse patched with bay, chestnut
or roan and white. Such a one is often re-
ferred to as a bay, chestnut or roan skewbald.
(1) Cost of textbooks for the first-year
medical course at Sydney Uni.? (2) What
would the additional expenses—sports fees
and the like — come to? —7075.
(1) £9. (2) £6 13s.
Regarding lawn tennis on Sundays, we
have _ been informed by the Clerk of Petty
Sessions _ that if the courts are within the
boundaries of a town, whether on a recrea-
tion reserve or on private property, the game
can be stopped if anyone lodges a complaint.
Is this so under N.S.W. law?— 7oso.
Probably the C.P.S. refers to the power
given to any Justice under the Police
Offences Act to disperse persons gathered
together on Sunday “for the purpose of
gambling or playing at any game.” The
exercise of such power is confined to “any
public or open place in Sydney or towns,
or within five miles of any part of Sydney.”
Would a cricket umpire be justified in
calling “no ball” in the case of a bowler who
jerks his wrist when bowling? —7ol6.
Yes. Rule 10 says: “The ball must be
bowled; if thrown or jerked either umpire
shall call ‘No ball.’ ”
.(1) Why arc there no trout in the Nepean
River (N.S.W.)? (2) Will the perch there
rise to a fly? (3) The best way to fish for
perch? (4) Trout fishing-ground within
camping distance of Sydney, motoring under-
stood? (5) Seasons for trout- and perch-
fishing in N.S.W.? —Till.
(1) Perch are enemies of trout; also
Nepean water is too warm. (2) Yes—the
large artificial kind, such as “Jock Scon”
and “Hornet.” (3) Rod and line, with one
hook (artificial fly), and casting (as for
trout), allowing the fly to float on the
surface. (4) At Robertson, above Fitzroy
Falls (but streams much overgrown) • also
Oberon district (Fish and Duckmaloi
rivers. (5) Trout; From Nov. Ito April
13, except when Easter is later than April
13; then season closes on the Wednesday
following Easter Monday. Perch (or Aus-
tralian bass) : October 1 to April 30.
(1) Must bark, to be of use for tanning,
be stripped while still growing, or are fallen
bark and bark on a dead tree of valuef (2)
The best time of the year for stripping? —
(3784.
(1) Dead or fallen bark is of practically
no value, except for fisking-nets or light-
furred skins. (2) In the springtime, particu-
larly after rain.
What is Gresham’s law? —7029.
An economic principle in currency that
may be boiled down to “bad money drives
out good,” as where inconvertible paper
money is put into circulation side by side
with a metallic currency. Consult any work
on currency or bimetallism.
(1) What method of testing milk is used
in the dairying districts of N.S.W.? (2)
Where to apply for a position as milk-tester?
(3) Wages paid? —6726.
(1) Baocock method. (2) It is not
stated whether the job is wanted in a
dairy-produce factory or with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. If the former, a
certificate of competency must be obtained
by examination under the provisions of
the Dairy Industry Act. With such a
certificate, application can be made to any
manager of a dairy-produce factory in N.S.W.
To secure a position to test milk in connec-
tion with production-recording, apply to the
senior dairy instructor in charge of any par-
ticular district, or to the Dairy Branch, De-
partment of Agriculture, 25 O’Conncll-street,
Sydney. Assurance must be given that the
applicant is competent and has a good char-
acter. (3) Milk and cream testers in dairy-
produce factories are paid £5 Is. p.w.; re-
corders of dairy stock, £4 p.w., the recorder
providing his own horse and vehicle. He is
given board and lodging on the farm and feed
for his horse.
(1) Is the owner of a block of flats in
Sydney responsible for tenants’ electric-light
accounts, and can the Council disconnect the
supply if the oloner disclaims responsibility?
—6817.
The owner or lessee is responsible to the
City Electricity Department for the pay-
ment of the accounts, and if they are not
settled within the stipulated time the supply
may be discontinued. A separate meter
registering the electricity used for all pur-
poses will be provided for each flat, and
a separate statement rendered to the owner,
who may collect from the occupant in the
manner he thinks best.
(1) Are there any establishments in Syd-
ney that give free _ training in hairdressing
in return for services? (2) Can one get
tuition by paying a fee? —6740.
(1) No. (2) There are places where
tuition is given for a fee, but the best way
to learn the trade is to serve a four years’
apprenticeship.
Can icatcr pipes that are choked with rust
and slime be cleared by the introduction of
any mixture into the pipes? —6B3s.
The Metrop. Water and Sewerage Board,
Sydney, knows of no such mixture. Cleaning
out in sections by means of steel wire some-
times affords temporary improvement.
. Whether the pipes are cleaned or renewed,
the work, if connected with Board mains,
must be done by a licensed plumber.
Botanical names of the native cork tree
(jV.S.TF.) and the crcam-of-tartar tree
(North Australia) and a few brief parti-
culars about each. —5876.
The botanical T name of the native cork
tree, of north-eastern N.S.W. and Queens-
land, is Duboisia myoporoides. It is also
known as Bancroft’s Eye Plant, from the
fact that Dr. Bancroft, who cultivated the
tree near Brisbane, was the discoverer of
duboisine, an extract of the leaves which is
superior to atropine for dilating the pupil
of the eye. The tree is related to the pituri
plant (Duboisia hopwoodi) , of West Queens-
land, which is valued as a narcotic by the
abos. The botanical name of the cream-of-
tartar tree, of N.A., is Adamsonia gregoria.
Plants of both these trees can be possibly
obtained from the Queensland Acclimatisation
Society’s gardens and plantations at Bowen
Park, Brisbane.
Directions for making handblocked cre-
tonne? —7042.
The design is drawn on smooth blocks of
sycamore, plane or pear wood, 2in. to 3in.
thick, which should be reinforced at the back
with several strips of ply wood glued on in
opposite directions to prevent warping. The
pattern is then tinted pink or red to facili-
tate cutting, and all the untinted face of the
block is carved out, the wood being kept
damp during the process. A separate block
must be cut for each color to be used, cut-
ting away in each block all the design save
the part to appear in that color. The fabric
to be printed may be any stout cotton or
linen material; it is stretched over a table
covered with a blanket, which helps to secure
the impression. Each block is dipped in a
bath of special dye or color, and pressed
carefully on the fabric: when more than one
color is being used the impressions must
superimpose exactly. Batik and stencil dyes
are suitable. The process is slow, but can
produce beautiful results.
Is it possible to cultivate oysters in an
inland salt lake? —7073.
The Sydney Technological Museum knows
of no Australian instance where oysters
have thrived in other than tidal waters. The
European oyster ( Ostrea edulis) does well in
water shut from the sea, and artificial dams
are built specially for the purpose; but the
only attempt to imitate that method in Aus-
tralia was a failure. A salinity of over 3
per cent, is too high for the Australian com-
mercial oysters.
Does Anybody Know ?
How to waterproof tents with mutton fat
and Stockholm tar? —7093.
How to prevent small black ants from
building nests in the roots of delphinium
plants?—7o9s.
How to remove “Silvafros” from a stove
which lias been painted with it?—7ll2l.
How to clean the burner of a primus
lamp that has become clogged with carbon’
—7121.
How to fix up holes in the aluminium
claws of a milking machine so as to make
them air-tight?—7lo7.
How to build a rough boat of sealed
kerosene-tins and wood framework, to carry
three adults? —7111.
Brief Answers.
Old H.: If you want safety, this won’t
do. If you want a gamble, with very fair chances,
but with the risks that attach to all such new enter-
prises, it is better than most.... J.A.W.: Many
better C.F.S.: Marcus Clark 2nd, Australian Drug,
Arthur Cocks B’s T. K. Walcha: Entirely depends
on management, which has yet to prove itself. But
on the past record of the people interested, we should
say yes G.M.F.: No; it undertook to print four
serials in addition to its ordinary reading matter. .. .
S.T.W.: In a case of that sort the investor backs the
management, and only the future can prove whether
it is a money-spinner or a money-waster. Thus prac-
tically every new co. handling anew business is
a gamble... .H.E.H.: A gamble, with the chances
heavy against you... .R.C.W.: Write to Dept, cf
Lands, Brisbane, for latest Crown Lands Directory.
. ...It.W.D.: Both books unobtainable in Sydney at
present; Angus and Robertson could order them for
you... .M.P.E.W.: Send it along and we will give
you an opinion... .0.C.R.: Australian Press'Cuttings
Agency, 443 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, or Com-
monwealth Bureau of Intelligence, care Catts-Pat-
tcrson Cos., Ltd., 375 Kent-street, Sydney... .F.M :
British-Australasian Tobacco Cos., Raleigh Park, Ken-
sington, Sydney... .Waipuk: See reply to 6897
(B. 24/10/’2B) J.H.: (1) England. (2) We don't
think so. (3) He was a member of the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly, representing at various times Fitzroy,
Northumberland, Surry Hills and Darling Harbor.
(4) Cannot say... .H.S.M.: (1) Try the Registrar-
General’s office, Queen-street, Melbourne. (2) Let us
know more about the nature of the co W.J.L.:
The Commissioner of Police, Hunter-street, Sydney.
.... J.R.: See Bulletin, 23/6/’27 ....M.S.: For par-
ticulars of Hodder and Stoughton’s Religious Novel
Competition, apply to W. S. Smart, 68 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne.... Sandbag: Try the Dept, of
Defence, St. Kilda-road, Melbourne... .C.E.W.: See
any of the following, all of Sydney—Cheetham and
Sons, 237 Elizabeth-street; R. T. Milham and Son,
20 Goulburn-street; J. E. Risdon Saw Cos., 171 Kent-
street. .. .R.M.: The department seems to be right.
There were two distinct transactions, on each of which
taxation could be imposed. The rent was income
derived from the property and not a part of its
capital value... .F.W.G.: (1) No. It does not state
the person to whom the bequest is made, nor is the
attestation in accordance with legal requirements.
(2) The words “all my real and personal estate”
would be a comprehensive cover. Neither stamp nor
seal is required. Exact value of the property can be
ascertained only when the estate is realised....
C.M.D.8.: Govt. Labor Bureau, 132 George-street,
Sydney... .8.J.; Write Patents Dept., Customs House,
Hobart. .. .M.J.A.: Lots are of small value at pre-
sent ; hold for a year or two. Vic. Ministry con-
templates removal of Newmarket saleyards to within
two miles of the district. .. .D.W.: In N.S.W. a per-
missive occupancy is usually a tenancy from day
to day, terminable at will by the Minister for Lands
W on receipt of written notice from the permis-
sive occupant. .. .A. 5.8.: The coin is a Queen Eliza-
beth 6d. In good condition (it isn’t) it would be
worth 2s. 6d Y.E.P.: They apparently belong to
a set of eight. Separate volumes would be worth
a few shillings 0n1y... . F.8.C.: (1) On the facts you
state the prospect of success appears remote. (2)
No; all depends upon circumstances. (3) An action
for damage sustained by breach of contract; but see
(1) ... .W.J.H.: Impossible to give an opinion in
the absence of full particulars; but your plan seems
to resemble the Rodier method. .. .0.G.H.: Bread
and damper is an unnatural food for a horse, though
it might be given in cases of necessity. Better
arrangements should be made for feeding the animal.
. ...Berri: The Federal Distillery is the largest....
W. J.C.: Whatever boots you are wearing, get a size
larger. Pad the affected parts to relieve pressure.
If the corn is hard, get it cut by a medical man ;
for soft corns, wash the feet twice daily, dry
thoroughly and sprinkle dusting powder in the
cracks and crevices J.W.0.: It may be necessary
to take out Letters of Administration before the
land can be transferred to you. Write Registrar of
Probates, Supreme Court House, Elizabeth-street,
Sydney... .R.L.8.: W. Perrers, 480 George-street,
Sydney... .A. J.L.: (l) A competition was held at
Kurri Kurri, N.S.W., May Bto 12. (2) The judge
in the song section was Roland Foster. (3) Miss
Nance Marley, of Sydney, won the operatic solo,
the sacred solo and the championship... .W.W.: Tost
and Rohu, 26 Martin-place, Sydney, sell aboriginal
weapons... .M.L.8.: It is a copper coin issued by
the City of Munich, and valueless... .H.H.G.: J. R.
Smith engravings are now of little value. Colored
prints are worth a trifle more if in good condition.
. ...W.S.F.: Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works, Box
2, P. 0., Port Melbourne (Vic.), can supply agricul-
tuial seed-cleaning and -grading plants. .. .G.S.; A
mile square is a square the four sides of which are
one mile long; a square mile is an area of any
shape containing 640 acres. .. .L.G.P.P.: The trouble
may not be cataract, but opacity of the cornea;
if you have no vet. in your district, ask your medi-
cal man to examine the eyes. Meantime use Silvol
ointment, put up by Parke, Davis and Cos. ; instil a
little into the eyes once daily A.E.K.: (l) Don’t
know of any art agents that sell black and white
work to newspapers. (2) Few commercial art
studios will consider ideas from outsiders, though
there would be no harm in trying. (3) The field is
limited and at present overcrowded, but original
ideas and talent will succeed anywhere... .E.L.: It
would be wise to cable the fact. You should also
communicate with the executor under the will of
Dec. 24 so that he may take any necessary action
regarding revocation of probate of previous wi11....
1.D.: (1) (a) Yes. (b) He adopted the views of
the “Khylysty” sect and was a member of the Russian
Church, (c) The Russian Church is one of the 13
large branches of the Orthodox Eastern Church. (2)
(a) No. (b) She was an English princess, (c)
Royalties do not follow the rule. (3) Yes; Luden-
dorff gave as one of the causes of the German defeat
“the lack of support from Austria, gripped ever more
tightly at the throat by Italy” A.E.A.: Know
of no book on the employment of valves with a
gramophone to obtain volume and depth of tone.
The matter has, however, been dealt with in Radio,
Vol 11, No. 2, and Vol. 11, No. 3, obtainable from
Wireless Newspapers, Ltd., 51 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney (Is. Id. per copy, post’free). (2) “Glass
and Glass Making,” by P. Marson (4s. 4d., posted) ;
“Glasa Manufacture,” by W. Rosenhain (16s. Bd.),
obtainable from Dymock’s, Sydney... .G.M.F.: 4
barrier tally of passengers leaving and entering the
three metropolitan stations was taken by Vic. Rail-
way Dept, in Feb., 1927. The average daily number
who travelled to and from Flinders-street and Prince’s
Bridge, which are connected and may be considered
one station —was 317,393 ; the highest daily figure
was 332,254... .L.T.L.: Information can’t be got
from official sources; it lies buried in the files of
old newspapers A.A.: The N.S.W. Justice Dept.
will not divulge the information... .T.J.: Machines
are not purchasable locally; in any case, the gar-
ments are so few and would have to go through
so many processes that purchase would be inadvisable.
.... (Many others mailed.)


è


CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000.
Office and Saleroom .... Scottish House, 19 Bridge Street, Sydney
Wool Stores Windmill Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney
Directors:
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY, M.L.A.,Grazier,
Tamworth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagga.
W. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
C. W. L. MURCHISON, Esq., Grazier, Gunnedah.
LESLIE P. DUTTON. Esq., Grazier, Guyra
HARROLD COWLISHAW, Esq., Merchant,
Sydney.
G. 11. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days after arrival in store, all
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small clips, late or early shorn, ’free
or faulty, in order of arrival.
Don’t run the risk of having to wait longer for your wool to be catalogued, but have it
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL AND PRODUCE SELLING CO., LTD.
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
.V /
/VJ
IS
N/.
J siSSs;
A
\s
I ,
SMi
\ /
sw,
iS j \SSS-cS
: j
“Its Quality Never Changes
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
RINDERPEST.
“Dcr Jong" : Rinderpest is reported to be
raging again in Ceylon. Some years ago an
outbreak of the disease was detected in West-
ralia, and it was only wiped out by ruth-
less extermination of the dairy herds among
which it made its appearance. There was
bitter protest at the time, but the fact that
the prompt recognition and isolation of the
disease possibly saved the entire cattle indus-
try of Australia has since been gratefully
acknowledged. In the Westralian instance,
the first of its kind known in Australia, the
cattle were probably affected by fodder
imported from South Africa, though this was
not clearly established. The fact remains
that the very highly infectious disease is
chiefly communicable in this way when long
distances have to be traversed, for the period
of incubation in the animal is only 10 days
at the most. It would not be possible for
a beast infected in South Africa, or even
in Colombo, to reach Westralia without
showing very definite symptoms. Hides, wool
and fodder must always be the chief chan-
nels by which rinderpest can be conveyed to
Australia, since there is no importation of
wattle permitted from S. Africa or “the
East," this last including Malaya, closer to
our shores than any of the others named.
The news of the Colombo outbreak should
stir the Federal authorities to the highest
pitch of vigilance, especially in the case of
maize and other stock foods from S. Africa.
In b. Africa the cattle herds have more than
once been practically exterminated, but in
modern times the use of preventive methods
has mitigated the danger. The injection of
Kochs serum is a preventive, and good re-
sults have also been claimed for the old
Boer method of injecting the contents of the
gall bladder of an infected beast. The Koch
serum treatment is a severe one, and the
older remedy often proved worse than the
disease, since it set up virulent blood-poison-
ing in many instances. Sheep are not .so
susceptible to rinderpest as are cattle, and
goats are practically immune. The S. African
rate of mortality among sheep, however, has
been heavy.
While the prospect of the introduction of
the disease among our cattle herds is appal-
ling enough, that of its appearanec among
Australia’s wool-producing flocks staggers the
imagination. Yet the prospect is not a re-
mote one. The former appearance of rinder-
pest in Westralia was only detected by acci-
dent and in the very beginning. A few
weeks’ delay might have seen it spread
throughout Westralia and penetrating by a
dozen different agencies east and north, until
the whole country from the Northern Terri-
tory through Queensland to N.S.W. was in
the. grip of the disease. This is no imagi-
native picture. Rinderpest has spread from
the Zambesi to Capetown in a few months,
and if it once got a similar grip on this
country the likelihood of its ever being
shaken off is as remote as it is to-day in
South Africa.
DAIRYING IN MAORILANI).
Two leading Australian dairying experts
who recently visited Maoriland to investi-
gate the conditions of the industry there
have reported to the Australian Dairy
Council in terms that should make every
patriotic Fernlander want to pat himself
on the back.
The investigators were struck by the won-
derful results obtained by scientific manage-
ment of pastures. By top-dressing poor pumice
country of which there is a vast area in the
North Island —land values in a few years
have been raised fr-om £1 to £5O per acre.
Cropping has given way to grass-land farm-
ing in Maoriland. Superphosphate and basic
slag are used for top-dressing, and perma-
pastures are maintained at maximum
efficiency by the use of these fertilisers and
the hard use of chain and trijiod harrows.
Pastures are also mowed at times, the object
being to ensure that only young grass, which
has the highest protein content, is grazed.
A great deal of attention is paid to herd-
testing and -improvement. Three systems
are in vogue, all optional: A test by a
Government officer every 30 days; submis-
sion of samples prepared by the dairyman
himself for official test ; and tests conducted
by the co-operative dairy co. in conjunction
with the dairyman, who prepares the
samples.
What surprised the investigators more
than anything else was the large number of
small butter- and cheese-factories. They
pointed out it would be much more economi-
cal to have fewer and bigger factories, but
were told that it was an axiom in the in-
dustry that milk shouldn’t have to travel
more than two miles to secure the best
results. Factory tests are very severe.
Cream which the visitors considered should
be passed as “finest” was put into the
“first grade” (the second division), the
explanation given being that it was the end
of the milking season, when no cream is
of “finest” quality. Competition between the
factories, especially in cheese-making, is
extraordinarily keen, and the Government
graders, who grade all product for export,
set a very high standard. Factory plants
for the most part are of the most modern
description. Pasteurisation of milk for
cheese-making, though not compulsory, is
almost universal.
In a foreword the investigators throw this
bouquet to the Dominion: “This wonderful
country seems to have developed an enlight-
ened, contented and prosperous rural popu-
lation, and any undue drift to the urban
areas has been effectively stayed. The hun-
dreds of miles of tar-sealed country roads;
the general equipment of rural homes with
electricity, telephones and wireless; the
aesthetic taste displayed in their architec-
ture and general surroundings, all testify
to the flourishing progressive condition of
New Zealand rural life.”
STAY ON THE LAND.
“I’.M." : “Meum of Tuurn” (B. 3/10/’2B)
is wrong in supposing that farmers work
14 or 10 hours a day, seven days a week,
wet or dry. The average dairyman’s hours
may be taken as from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m.,
with two hours for meals and another
hour at least hanging over the fence gossip-
ing with the neighbors or passers-by. Cut
out one day a week when he goes into the
township, and add five hours on Sunday (not
one farmer in a hundred works between
milkings on Sundays). That makes 60 hours
a week, including walking about the paddock.
The working man puts in a good few hours
over his 44 or 48 travelling to and from
work, and in a good many factories and other
jobs he has to work 60 and 70 hours per
week in the busy season, and gets time off
without pay in the slack season.
When the cocky sits by the kitchen-fire in
the wet weather his crops and grass are
growing all the time. As against the “con-
tinuous worry of working the property” the
working man has before him the continuous
fear of unemployment. Which is better, to
work long hours on your own farm, secure in
the knowledge that if things get slack half
your living, in the shape of firewood, eggs,
butter, milk, vegetables, etc., is to be picked
up on the farm for nothing, or work 48 hours
(if you are lucky) with the chance of being
put off and have nothing coming at all? I’ve
tried both and I know which I prefer.
The “absence of comforts” is another fal-
lacy. The basic-wage man in the towns can-
not afford any more, if as much, comfort as
the poor farmer. The farmer who gets on a
bit and hits a few good seasons can afford
luxuries and comforts beyond the wildest
dreams of the ordinary wage-earner.
The above remarks refer to cow-cockies. I
dismiss with scorn the idea that the wheat-
cocky works hard. Ninety per cent, of them
never work at all. The nearest they get to
work is when they sit on an implement and
dream about their imaginary grievances all
day. I know a wheat-farmer who was
brought up to the game and did nothing else
till he was over 40. Fed up of the so-
called slavery of the farm, he sold out and
bought a shop in a country town. Within
three months he told me he wished he was
back on the farm.
Another chap I know had been growing
wheat on shares for years, and had
saved a fair bit of money; but he imagined
the hard work was killing him. He got
a job in a butter factory, and thought
his troubles were over. The temperature
in the butter-room was 109 deg. F., and
we put him on packing butter with a ram-
mer (its harder than ramming fencing-
posts). He toiled at it for three or four
days, nearly stripped and half-dead, and the
fifth was the local show day. Of course, he
must go to that; no cocky ever works' on
show day. “Well,” said the butter-maker,
we are starting churning at three in the
morning, and if we get a good run we will
be done about one o’clock, and you’ll get to
the show at two.” “I never saw such slavery
m my life,” declared the slave of the soil'
and he went to the office and drew his time’
Next week he took another crop on shares. ’
TANKED MAIZE.
“Apex”: The wisdom of conserving sur-
plus supplies of maize on the farm was
demonstrated by the improved returns
obtained by G. Darrow in the Memerambi
district, near Kingaroy (Q.). Last season
he planted 130 acres with maize and had the
whole crop (about 2500 bushels) stored in
six airtight _ galvanised-iron tanks of 3000-
gallon capacity each. At the time the maize
was tanked the market price in Queensland
was about 2s. 2d. a bushel. The maize was
■old some months later for ss. 3d. a bushel.
GRADING LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“Almanac”: I agree with “Valeria” (B.
3/10/’2B) that many country judges of lamb
carcases for export err in awarding the
prize to the biggest lamb, but he is at fault
in objecting to prizes for the fattest. Fur-
ther,- he is wrong in limiting the weight to
361 b. Here’s an example of an experienced
exporter’s gradings : Prime light, up to 361 b.;
prime heavy, 371 b. to 471 b.; light, extra
prime, 321 b. to 371 b.; heavy, extra prime,
371 b. to 431 b.; prime, extra heavy, 431 b. up
(but not “staggy”). The lowest grade is
any weight, not prime, that passes the in-
spector. Unlike mutton and beef, a selv-
edge of fat on and in the carcase may
enhance its selling value. I have seen 241 b.
Dorsethorn-Leieester cross and 40-odd lb.
Shrops, mud fat, evoke admiration from
the expert grader, and these from the run
of an exporter who had made his name on
the overseas market by good grading and
whose chief business is repeat orders on his
known brands.
Seeing that the exporter is generally buy-
ing and killing according to opportunity, it
would be very difficult to set up a standard,
for it is necessary for him to find an outlet
for 'all he kills which passes inspection. He
cannot profitably buy prime handy weights
only.
While some exporters continue to class in
three grades only, there is no general agree-
ment as to grading. You cannot expect rival
exporters to tie their own hands in the
matter of grading. The less interference
there is from authorities and officials, the
better it will be for the land) breeder and
exporter alike.
RAPE AND STOMATITIS.
“D. J.H.”: Whilst rape is an excellent
sheep feed there are times when it causes
stomatitis, especially in lambs. In the
autumn and winter rape is free from aphis,
but with the advent of the hot weather the
aphis peculiar to the turnip fdmily generally
puts in an appearance. The insect when
crushed in the mouth of the sheep exudes
an irritant poison. Pastoralists in Vic.
and N.S.W. have noticed that sheep turned
into the crop when it is wet with dew or
rain have become badly affected. The only
way out is to feed on it when quite dry, or,
better still, to move the flock to new pas-
tures. Rape turned in with the plough
makes excellent green manure and increases
the humus wonderfully. Crops lost as fodder
are often more profitable as manure.
SHEEP ON N.S.W. SOUTH COAST.
“Pick”: Off 200 acres—the full extent of
many N.S.W. South Coast dairy-farms—
under most favorable conditions an owner
could not expect from sheep an annual re-
turn of more than £3OO, but from the same
area of land, properly worked, a dairy-
farmer couM make up to £960. Yet
“Eureka” (B. 10/10/’2B) finds it hard to
understand why the South Coasters prefer
dairying to sheep rearing.
All the evidence goes to show that the
South Coast is unsuited to sheep. In the
’forties the Twofold Bay Company ran sheep
on all the country lying between the Bega
and Towamba rivers, including Kameruka.
So consistently did they die off from fluke,
bottle and the scrub ticks that, fed up with
the experiment, the company in 1854 sold
what remained of the woollies in Melbourne,
and turned its activities to cattle. In
1898 sheep raising was again tried on the
South Coast. A large flock of healthy hill-
bred sheep was loosed in the paddocks of
Merriwinga at the foot of Mt. Dromedary. In
less than three months almost the w’hole
mob had developed bottle, and every morn-
ing a number were found dead, victims of
ticks.
CULLING BREEDING EWES.
“Breed”: If the standard of the size and
general appearance of sheep and the quality
of the wool is to be kept up, sheepmen must
cull their breeding ewes, and if necessarv
cull heavily. A first rule is to get rid ot
all broken-mouthed ewes, no matter what
other good points they show. Age alone
need not disqualify a ewe. Size is important,
for a small-framed ewe means small off-
spring. Cull out all wrinkly ewes. Next
look to the quality of the wool, and if a
fair number of good sound ewes are of
strong-quality wool, put them aside and let
them go to extra fine-woolled rams. If the
number is not large enough to bother about.
fatten them up for market. All hollow-
backed or wasty-woolled ewes mast be taken
out.
When testing the quality of the wool re-
member the neck portion is the finest, and
looking there is not sufficient; go to the
breech, and throw out any hairy or strong-
woolled ones. Minimise the chance of black
lambs by rejecting any ewes which show
black patches. One important feature often
overlooked when culling is the face and head
of the ewes; these portions must be well
covered with wool, as also must the belly.
Draft out any ewes that don't conform.
If separate paddocks are available, allow
ewes of the same age to be together, and if
some of the rams are a bit old put them
with the younger and better-conditioned
ewes, keeping the more virile rams for the
older ewes.
STUD BULL RAILWAY CONCESSIONS.
“FY7”: After a long period of battling
the Queensland breeders of beef cattle have
induced their Government to grant allow-
ances on the cost of transporting stud bulls
on the Queensland railways. The allowance
will be half the cost of transport of the
bull from the place within Queensland where
lie is purchased, or first arrives after pur-
chase, to the rail siding nearest to the hold-
ing on which he is to be used. The allow-
ance will not be paid unless the bull is duly
registered in the Herd Book of the society
concerned, and lias passed the tuberculin
test within six weeks of application for the
allowance. The animal must also be ino-
culated for red-water prior to despatch, if
he is railed from clean to tick-infested
country, and he must be at least 12 months
old at the time of application. Having got
this far the breeders are now approaching
the N.S.W. Government for similar conces-
sions as far as bulls bought in N.S.W. are
concerned.
WOOLBROKER’S ADVICE NOTES.
“Breed”: Brokers invariably send out
advice notes and waybill forms to their
clients, but the importance of filling these
in accurately and completely is not under-
stood as generally as it should be. It’s of
little help to the broker for the farmer to
write and say, “I am sending you twenty
bales for sale.” Advice notes like that cause
endless trouble at the wool stores. The
advice should be on the following lines: “I
am forwarding you GO bales of wool for sale
to the best advantage. The bales numbered
10, 12 (and so on) contain fleece wool, and
are branded AAA. Bales numbered 11, 10
(etc.) contain the AA and 5. 10 (etc.), the
A.” If this is done right throughout the
clip, with particulars of all lots, and whether
from wethers, ewes or hoggets, the broker
will have no difficulty in placing the wool on
the show floor, but without those particulars
the broker is put to no end of trouble, and
often the farmer is a loser.
LEICESTER CROSSES.
“Breed” : Both English and Border Leices-
ter sheep have been extensively used for
crossing purposes, more with the idea of
obtaining early maturing lambs than for
wool. No Leicester crosses I have seen come
up to the standard of Lincoln crosses in
the matter of quality and handle of wool,
nor does the v/00l show as much length. But
it early lambs are wanted the Leicester
cross gives very satisfactory results. The
large loins of the Leicester show up in
the cross; and when crossed with merino
ewes the lambs are ideal for export.
They do not show the excessive fat so often
seen in lambs of other breeds, yet the quality
is there, and they seem to grow to maturity
in an even manner. The sheep themselves
are good foragers, and will travel well both
for feed and water, but they are hard to keep
enclosed, for nothing but a netting-fence
will hold them if they want to roam. With
all liis faults the Leicester ram, either Bor-
der or English, is a type that could be
successfully used by lamb raisers with
mixed farms, where wool is a secondary con-
sideration and close proximity to market
assures a ready sale for lambs.
SHEEP ON SPINIFEX COUNTRY.
“Pot Jostler”: “Pigcat” (B. 5/9/’2S)
says porcupine and spinifex usually grow on
the poorest country, too rough ‘to be of
much value for stock. I have just finished
a four months’ tour through Nor’-West-
ralian sheep country, which is 90 per cent,
spinifex, and classed the clip of 68,000
woollies. The sheep, though small at times,
were in splendid condition, cutting up to 30
bales per 1000, and the wool of one run
(Pilga) fetched up to 24d. in the July
sales. The strike settled the September
sales, or I would have been able to quote
higher figures.
In 1848 an explorer in the N.-W. gave it
as his opinion that this spinifex country
would be useless for grazing purposes. Yet
to-day there are over 250,000 sheep grazing
on that class of country within 200 miles of
Port Hedland. I think I am right in saying,
as well, that on the desert (spinifex) coun-
try of C. Q’land, with Jericho as its centre,
sheep have been doing well and producing


■
■
PLIANT
and ELASTIC
. with double upper!
Soft, supple leather lines the whole
upper of this specially close-fitting
Abbey Riding Boot.
Made to the most comfortable design,
it arches naturally over the curve
of the instep setting easily to the
shape of the foot and adjusting itself
without strain. Elastic insets at the
sides enable it to give with every
foot movement. And the sole,
though flexible and comfortably light,
is tough made of the best leather
obtainable.
Order by Post
Your foot is suited for both width
and length three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide, are available in
every size. When ordering ask for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d. per
tin). Use Abbey Dark Tan for the
42/- boot.
TAN WILLOW CALF, 427-
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Fifct St.,
36. SYDNEY
E==t
A
Good II
for All
Times
ONOTO ‘Jl c PEN is
more than equal to
any occasion that
may arise where
satisfactory writing
is the need
Blots are unknown where an ONOTO is used.
It simply cannot leak. Ready for action the instant
pen and paper meet.
Thomas De La Rue & Co,, Ltd., London.
Rep.: Norman Baker & Longhurst. Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Wellington. N.Z.
. ALL BRITISH
Of all Stationers and Jewellers
From 15/- eacH
□
m
D
the
ONOTO INK FOR ALL PENS
Post Your Order
e
THE PRINCE
POLEY
Complete.
£l4/14/-
Send to-day for
my Book of Ex-
periences, Post
free.
for the
WIENEKE
PRINCE POLEY
SADDLE.
The World's Best.
This saddle has special
high grip kneepads,
but the stirrup bars
are free, allowing the
leathers to come away
easily.
Perfect Shape for
Comfort.
No other saddle will satisfy
you if you are a dinkum
rider.
JOHN WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
and at
434 Queen St., Brisbane.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
GROCERS,
“EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
vManufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
’rz
<zr\
<er\
tfcura Soa&s
MEOiCINALa TOIL
The Right Soap
For Baby’s Skin
In the care of baby’s tender skin
Cuticura Soap is the mother’s fav-
orite. Not only is it unrivaled in
purity and refreshing fragrance but its
gentle emollient properties are usually
sufficient to allay minor irritations
and promote skin health.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales S WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year 1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia".
good wool for many years. On parts of
the W.A. spinifex country there grows a
pigweed called parackilla, which is a splen-
did feed for lambs. Where it abounds the
sheep don’t drink a pint of water a week.
CONCRETE POSTS. -
“Nota Bene”: Where timber is difficult to
obtain, concrete posts make an excellent sub-
stitute. They are easily made, cheap and
practically everlasting. Moulds for the con
struction of these posts, either singly or sev-
eral at a time, can be made without diffi-
culty. A post 6ft. x sin. x 4in. at the base
and tapering to 4iu. x 3in. at the top is
satisfactory as to size. The concrete should
be: 1 part cement, 3 parts sand and 5 parts
small broken metal, about -Jin.
A cubic yard of this concrete will make
from 35 to 40 posts of the size given. To
prevent the posts sticking to the moulds, give
the latter a coat of cheap oil. Put about
Jin. of concrete into the moulds, then two
(Tft. lengths of No. 6 fencing wire, then
another layer of concrete and two more
lengths of wire, and so on. Six wires suffice
for reinforcement purposes. When the
moulds are full, scrape off with a board all
surplus concrete. While the material is
soft, place at required distances short
lengths of round iron, about £in. diameter,
for the holes for the fencing wires, removing
them before the concrete thoroughly hardens,
or alternatively use short pieces of wood
which can be bored afterwards. Keep in the
shade with wet -bags over them while hard-
ening, which will take about three or four
days.
WELDING STEEL.
“Vulcan”: Welding steel is not the simple
job that “Bert the Carpenter” (B. 3/10/’2B)
makes out, for there are'more steels made
which cannot be welded in the blacksmith’s
fire than can be so treated, and the farmer
will pick the wrong steel out of his scrap-
heap five times out of six.
It may help to lower the odds against
success if it is borne in mind that mild
steels, some miners’ drill steels, shear and
double shear steel and farriers’ rasps will
weld: cold-chisel steels and files will not
weld in such a manner as to be of any use
afterwards. It is also important to know
that the harder the steel —that is, the higher
the carbon content —the lower the melting
point, and therefore allowances must be made
when joining two steels differing in carbon
content.
AGAINST ONION GRASS.
“Silentio” : Onion grass, praised by some,
who evidently don’t know much about it,
is one of the most serious nuisances the
grazier has to face. For a start it is the
quickest spreader known, the bulb forming
many small bulblets, and the flower develops
into a seed-pod which contains up to 50
minute seeds. The pod when ripe explodes
and scatters the seed over a radius of 10
feet. It does not put in an appearance in
the summer, but thrives in the cooler parts
in autumn, winter and spring. The hard
acrid blades are as tough as hide, and it
takes a well-toothed beast to chew them off.
It has the ability of killing pastures such
as couch. I have watched its spread in parts
of the County of Cumberland (N.S.W.) for
many years, and seen many an excellent flat
fall into its clutches. It is almost impos-
sible to eradicate it by cultivation, the har-
row missing the essential part—the minute
bulb. It plays havoc in gardens and lawns,
and stands up quite unconcerned under the
lawn-mower. Pigs certainly do worry it, but
it doesn’t fatten the grunter and he fails to
quite kill the grass. It just keeps stock alive
in drought time, but the first heat browns it
off, when there is no feed value in it at all.
I have a few acres gone under to the pest—
flats that used to grow anything—and my
advice is to give it no room if you can
find any -way of outing it.
BLACK SPOT IN CITRUS.
“Navel”: During the last few weeks,
N.S.W. coastal growers of citrus have been
overwhelmed by a visitation of black spot.
In ordinary years a good deal of this fruit
would find its way into the market, but
as things are most of it will rot under the
trees and many orchardists will be faced with
a total loss this year.
The disease is caused by a fungus which
shows up rapidly after a brief period of hot
drying winds. The small, sunken brownish
spots may be scattered over the fruit, or the
blemishes may develop into irregularly-shaped
brownish black blotches. The spore sacs
of the fungus can be readily observed as
minute black pinpoints in the discolored
areas. The fungus has only been found on
the leaves and on the fruits. Green fruits
may be attacked, but the disease is rarely
seen until the fruit begins to color, and it
appears as if the original infection occurred
when the fruit was little more than half-
grown. The disease has been recognised in
Australia for more than 35 years, but little
is known about it. It is possible that
the cycle from spore to spot may occupy
only a few weeks, and that then new spores
are available to start the fungus going again.
Control measures aim at preventing the
entrance of the fungus into the fruit, and
although spraying experiments haven’t yet
given an indication as to what is best, they
show it is wise to keep a coating of fungi-
cide on the fruit from the time when it
is little more than half-grown till it is
ready to pick.
Several applications of Bordeaux 6-4-80,
with one per cent, emulsified oil added as
spreader, directed particularly over the out-
side fruits, is recommended. A weak spray
applied in this manner should have no
harmful effect on the trees.
REARING TURKEYS.
“Bustard”: Young turkeys need careful
feeding-—hard-boiled egg and lettuce chopped
up, plain boiled rice and, when a little older,
cracked corn is the best food for them. To
prevent the turkey hen from wandering too
far with the young chicks, a good plan is to
leg-rope her to a tree and let the chickens
have a free run. The hen can be moved to
a fresh place each day, and the chickens
thrive better than when cooped up. The
hen could be even leg-roped in a garden under
a tree, as the chickens don’t scratch up a
garden like hen chickens, but do good in
eating up garden pests.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“0.W.W.”: To keep tlxe cross-cut saw
in good working order, mix three parts
melted mutton fat with one of kerosene, and
apply occasionally.
“Old Timer” : To clear muddy water, pour
it into a barrel or similar-sized container,
and throw in a bucketful of wood ashes.
Leave standing over night, and the water
will be clear as crystal and soft to wash
“L’F'ou”: “T.W.” (B. 26/9/’2B) advises
farmers to retain onion weed as a useful
stock food. But not if they’re dairy stock.
Onion Aveed can cause more loss through
inferior grade cream than it is worth.
“Flagwagger”: When sending an imple-
ment part to a factory for repair paint your
name on it in big bold letters. If you attach
a luggage-tag it will probably be torn off,
and you’ll be lucky if you get the part back
without a lot of correspondence and delay.
I know, because I work in an implement
factory.
“Nota Bene”: Now that summer is wit.li
us, Ave can expect the Cape weed. When milk-
ing-cows eat this the milk has a very objec-
tional flavor, and butter made from such
milk retains that flavor. The best way
is to run them on the Cape-Aveed paddock
directly after the morning’s milking and
remove them before noon.
“Old Timer”: Poultry-farmers Avho plant
right noAv a quarter-acre plot of artichokes
will solve the green-feed problem for their
chicks next season. The young ’uns prefer
the tubers to green feed, thrive on it, and
don’t need so much grain. If the artichokes
are planted jmtato' fashion, and the land well
manured and tilled, a quarter-acre will pro-
vide food for 2000 chicks for the season.
Loob ’: An easy Avay to unroll a coil of
barbed-wire is to harness Punch in the old
dray. Put a spindle through the coil (a
croAvbar is very suitable) and rest the ends
of this spindle on the top-rails of the drav,
securing them in place. Fasten the end of
the barbed wire to a post in your fence
and persuade Punch to move on.
“Gumblegubbin”: A good plan in mulga
country, when grass and herbage are scarce, is
to run a few bullocks in the sheep paddocks.
Bullocks are an economical substitute for
axemen. One beast will break down enough
mulga in a day to feed himself and a hun-
dred sheep. The jumbucks will dog him from
tree to tree, and until the flock get the edge
off its appetite poor old Strawberry won’t
see the result of his labors for wool.
“Cuchulain”: Here’s a time-worn tip for
those who have to travel cows with young
calves. As soon as you have reached the
camp for the night with cows and the dray
containing the small calve 3, throw a bucket
of water over each baby as it is lifted out.
This counteracts all the foreign smells
accumulated throughout the day, and the
cows can at once pick out their own offspring
Avithout getting excited and pushing the tiny
creatures about.
. “Jacques”; “Sheik” (B. 29/8/’2B) is right
in saying that adding kerosene to the oil-
engine sump will facilitate starting, but it
will also ruin the bearings, piston rings and
cylinder walls in a very short time. The
best way to ensure easy starting is to use
the grades of oil recommended by the makers
for winter and summer respectively! Don’t
tamper with the oil. If the piston becomes
sticky, fill up the water-jacket with boiling
water.
“Karara”: “C.C.” advises putting struts
or stays where required below the top wire
in a six-wire fence. This is a mistake, as
the stay placed there tends to lift the post
out of the ground. The best place to put it
is under the second-top wire. Also posts
sunk in black soil when dry should not be
rammed hard, as the soil savclls when A\*et and
lifts the posts. The best gauge for boring
posts from. ground-level is 6,5, 5,6, 8, 12 —
this being the gauge of most fencing-droppers
sold.
“Wrash”: Horses put to work when soft
off the grass, and especially when fat, often
develop harness sores. Turning them out to
heal only means a recurrence of the trouble
when they are harnessed again. A prepara-
tion that will cure the sores while the horse
is working is. made of castor oil 1 pint,
turpentine 1 pint, sulphuric acid 3 drachms,
and a cake of camphor. Mix the oil and
some of the turpentine in a bottle. Cut the
camphor into thin chips, cover it with the
remaining turpentine and let it dissolve in
a clean vessel placed in water boiling over
a fire. Then pour it. too, into the bottle.
Add the sulphuric acid and stir vigorously.
Cork well, and keep corked when not in use.
Apply to the wound Avith a clean feather and
neA 7 er use the same feather twice. After a
few. applications a Avliite skin will appear
encircling the sore. Persevere with the
treatment, and soon the part will be sound
for all time.
“Loob”: Here’s a simple way of making a
strong cable for dam-scooping, etc. Take 10
pieces of No. 9 galvanised wire of the
required length, and fasten one end of each
piece to some stationary object. Place your
drill at a suitable distance from this fixture
and jack-up the Avheel of the drill so that
it will move freely on its axle. Now secure
the other ends of the wires to separate
spokes of the drill wheel, and revolve the
wheel. The cable thus made will stand any
strain which can be put on it by six horses.
“Jimmy Dux”: Some Bulletin contri-
butors allege that cows secrete their milk
only at milking time. If this is so. how
is it that Avhen a milker dies the milk will
gush out when the udder is cut in the pro-
cess of skinning?
“T.P.N.”: A comeback ewe on Mr. Peter
Nunan s farm at Duckmaloi, near Oberon,
N.S.W., recently gave birth to four ewe
lambs, all of which, though somewhat smaller
than the average, were hardy, and all are
flourishing.
Formerly the special Clydesdale horse sale
at Melbourne had a catalogue of anything up
to 300 head. This year only 19 head were
listed, and only one changed hands at auction,
with a few sold later by private treaty. The
owners of pedigree Clydesdales who bought
their stock at high figures for stud pur-
poses are no lovers of the encroaching
motor-lorry and tractor. One owner who
generally nets a fair sum from stud fees
from an imported stallion, had only two
services the last season, and even let some
of his own mares go, as there is so little
call for young stock.


m
:
\
I
i
if -
*
:
■I
......
" H
I
mm
£
c
■1
I
- - W**"^?*
I-
<>r ;■
■^l
M
:
111
•' . •
■
llte
■■l
M
■
■
H
. 1
:
I:
11-11 l !|
mm
■ | m
i m
1p
■
m
i
H
1 1
i
;? :
rh
■ ■
1 Hi
: v
■
m!
■ l-Slll-
■
N
: :V-
-i
'i-v
?
. .
■
S
sill
ill
Hi
■
m
i :
i
V
1 i
1
■
■■■ :. '' '■
M US
■
.
m n
n
111
: m.
m
n
£
* JF
I
3
1 1
n
-
■
H H
■
■
■
.. • • • •
i ■
m ,
■
- :
■
. ■
m
■
.
m
Si
iSiii
MP v
vl
■
4
u
&m
■
fc
- v'-V - ''
v"J
1111
.' .
n
■
: 1


1
: • »'.
111
m
■
>■lll
WBBi
V ”
0
33 ■ 3
0
11
Hill lllil!
■
m s
isiiiiiiii
M—llllllll
■
3
■
Hi
l 'M
■
'
’
MM
-Bfifell'S
■
mm HI Uli
.
.3
m
m
3 : 3 333 3 3.3:3
I
3 3
/
/
m
m
msw
01
mm
■ 0
K
v>.
s^o
BIGGEST OFAIL
IN VALUE
TN length —in roominess—in all of its dimensions. Big in
every way —this Oakland Six. But biggest of all in value.
Value compounded of beauty, performance and stamina —of
super-precision construction and length of life —of advanced
engineering features —of comfort and luxury provided in no
other Six of similar price.
Just recall the advantages combined in the Oakland —-and
only in the Oakland in its entire field. Beautiful bodies —
117-inch wheelbase —212 cubic-inch engine, with the G.M.R.
cylinder head. And so on through a list impressively long.
All features contributing to value —that one vital quality which
experienced owners demand. Large as the Oakland Six looms
in any comparison-—its value is obviously the biggest advantage
of all.
OAKLAND
six
Tourer, £375. Sports Roadster, £425. Two-door Sedan, £445.
Four-door Sedan, £485. Landau Sedan, £515.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd. Sydney: John McGrath, Ltd.
Brisbane: Moreton Motors, Ltd. Adelaide: H. G. Richards, Ltd.
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
W 1
33:33333335!3
m
33.
m
HK : :


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Cflub
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
V.
m
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
THE N.S.W. BAR ON STRIKE.
Regrettable Scene in Mr. Justice
Blither’s Court.
The trouble which lias been brewing on
the legal front ever since Mr. Justice Bligg
made his award fixing 50 guineas as the
largest sum that may be marked on a Iv.C.’s
brief came to a dramatic head yesterday
morning.
The Men Walk Out.
Shortly before noon, and while his Honor
was snatching a furtive doze prior to sum-
ming up, all the seniors present downed silks
and, led by the firebrand Buncomb, K.C.,
walked out. The court tipstaff, in an attempt
to intercept them, received a severe push
in the waistcoat. “He shall pay for this,”
said the injured loyalist, indicating thd re-
treating form of one of the men. “It’s a
technical assault, and as such punishable by
law'.”
Strike Deliberately Planned.
That the move was preconcerted soon be-
came apparent. Bewigged strikers poured
out of the other courts and, forming a pro-
cession under the direction of Buncomb,
marched to the Union rooms in Pliillip-
street. There was no disorder, but the men
gave the impression that they were in
earnest.
“Before this infamous award,” said Bun-
comb to our representative, “we fixed our
fees ourselves, and clients had no option but
to pay up, as ours is an exceptionally close
and well-organised Union. The proposed
change is not only uneconomic: it strikes at
the very root of British commercialism. Read
what Herbert Spencer said in ’42. Wo are
equipped to stand a long siege,” he con-
cluded. “Our finances were never in a
healthier state.”
It is anticipated that the juniors will throw
in their lot with the K.C.’s, since the award
allows them only half instead of, as hereto-
fore, two-thirds of
the amount marked
on seniors’ briefs.
Consumers’
Views.
The strike arrives
at an extremely in-
opportune time,
since the bulk of
the summer divorce
business is coming
to hand, and, fur-
ther, there is an
unprecedented num-
ber of murderers,
bottle-wielders and
robbery - with-
violence accused
awaiting trial, who
as a result of this
untoward develop-
me n t will find
themselves without
defenders. “If I
had dreamt that
anything like it
was going to hap-
pen,” one influen-
tial member of the
underworld c o n-
fided to a friend at
Long Bay, “my
razor would never
have left the bath-
room on the fatal
morning. I con-
sider the words
are used advisedly
—t hat B uncomb
has Let Us Down.”
A prominent forger
agreed with him.
“There can be but
one effect of such
uncons id ered
action,” said he,
“namely, to drive
crime out of the
country in a whole-
sale manner.”
“They have
chosen their time
well,’ 7 admitted the
president of the L. P. (Litigious Persons)
Association. “But with the public’s loyal
help we expect to beat them.”
Juniors Fall Into Line.
Later: —The juniors are out —“the right
place for members of the Outer Bar to be,”
as one of them remarked with ill-timed faceti-
ousness. The solicitors are considering a
sympathy strike. They will be addressed by
Buncomb at their rooms after the day’s
routine business of serving writs and call-
ing in mortgages is over.
Urgent Legisration Proposed.
Canberra :—The Prime Minister is post-
poning the elections and calling a special
session of Parliament to deal with the crisis.
He proposes to introduce a short bill on the
lines of the War Precautions Act allowing
everybody to appear for everybody else, and
making it an indictable offence for anybody
to refuse to plead the cause of any stranger,
however total, on being formally tendered
the award rate.
Mr. W. M. Hughes was asked to give
expert advice on the measure, but his
ungracious response was, “Oh ! go to blither-
ing blazes!” It was then recalled that, like
the Prime Minister’s right-hand man, Mr.
Latham, Australia’s former War Lord is a
K.C., and hence on strike.
In the Mother State.
A similar predicament faces Mr. Bavin,
Premier of N'.S.W., and his Attorney-Gen-
eral. On being, informed of the strike, the
Premier said, with a promptitude which was
almost automatic, “I shall .appoint a Royal
Commission” —only to be reminded that no
lawyers will be available to conduct these
remunerative affairs till the strike is settled.
Stop Press.
Free laborers are registering in
droves, most of those eager for
work being Domain orators and
ex-politicians. A nasty brawl de-
veloped outside the Bankruptcy
Court this afternoon, when a free,
worker was stunned by a copy
of “Paley on thrown
with brutal force.
An arrest was effected.
10-2-4.
Melbourne bomb-throwers’ motto: “Women
and children first.”
¥ *
None knows better than W. M. Hughes
that the election egg is a rotten argument.
RUSHING DADDY INTO IT.
DADDY: “I can’t for the life of me think what you girls can want
with a car.”
SIS (quick on the uptake ): “Daddy, that’s perfectly sweet, of
you — we’ll want hardly a thing. Nobody will notice our
clothes then.”
Women tram-travellers persist in crowding
into smoking compartments. And the men
have to stand for it.
* *
Geary, the English cricketer, says that
but for an operation his elbow would have
‘■become permanently bent. It is appalling
to recall that a referendum might have kept
us from bending ours at all.
“The will of some learned men have been
quite faulty.”—Rockhampton (Q.) paper.
So have the grammar of some editors.
* ¥
NO OPTION.
“If some publicans are not prepared to oblige
customers after hours, they may as well shut up
shop.”— Sydney paper.
.4 s the hot night comes down on the bone-
dry town
Those a-thirst sally forth to slake it.
Each puh-keepei''s snore ends with bangs on
his door ;
He must answer the knock—or take it.
WHEN THE POSSESSIVE PLURAL IS SINGULAR.
“Billy, you’ll have to get out of that bad habit of saying 'MY
house’ and 'my children’ — they’re as much mine as yours.”
“Oh, all right D'you remember what we did with our trousers?”
Australia’s underpaid Judges provide
further proof that his Honor is without
profit in his own country.
* *
The name of Kingsford Smith’s aeroplane
is to be changed to Southern Across.
THE GUEST WHO WAS DELAYED.
The sole remaining patron of a cafe from
which the merriment had departed was
about to reach for his hat when there ap-
peared out of the beer-fumes the spirit of
a lost love.
“For old sake’s sake have one more with
me before you go,” urged the phantom.
No sooner had he had seven or eight than
something with its head under its arm in-
quired if lie would like to buy its stomach.
Bargaining began, but suddenly the large
fish he was-standing on stopped swimming,
and, slipping out of its skin, le*t him hang-
ing head-downwards from a nail at the top
of the lift-well. He was wondering whether
he ought to ring up the lift or Motor
Funerals, Ltd., when the lamplighter from
Oozeville, his suburb, assisted by a Funda-
mental Podargus, a Drangleplunk, four
Sonkboojels, two Goobidgers and seven Bim-
blibims set upon and maltreated him
savagely, informing him, when he asked
why, that it was for sooling moths on bo
gas mantles.
"Two pounds or seven days,” said the
magistrate.
Moral: Leave before the raid.
Les R.
# *
“Did you get brown at Manly Beach?”
She asked in dulcet tones,
As by the sea they sat and talked.
“No,” said her friend, “the one I stalked
And landed was named Jones.”
Troy.
H- *
A drunk and disorderly case pleaded that
the winning of a billiard tournament was
responsible. One of his bad breaks.
* *
The Melbourne Cup will be run next month.
Other sporting events listed for November
are the Federal Elections, the Summer Sales
and the customary monthly effort to start
a general strike.
*
The doctors at Forbes (N.S.W.) hospital
have been on strike. Residents who had
arranged for onsets of appendicitis this
month postponed their attacks until the sea-
son of peace and goodwill.
Extract from Editor’s letter which never
reached us:—“Am returning your MSS.
There is plenty of space for your article,
which is the best I have ever read, but this
paper is not of a sufficiently high standard
•to take advantage of it. Please give it to
our contemporary. It will look better there,
will be read by more people, and do greater
public service. Send us something not quite
so good.”
* *
NON-REFILLABLE.
The Backblocks storekeeper looked up to
see McTavish, whose forebears came from
Peebles, glaring at
him.
“Look at this
fly-paper you sold
me !” said the caller
tersely.
“I’m looking,
and I see it’s
smothered in flies.”
“I bought two of
'em off of yer.
didn’t IV”
“I forget.”
“You forget, do
yer? Well, the
other paper, let me
tell yer, was the
livin’ image er this
one.”
“Then why com-
plain?”
“You admit this
’ere paper’s smoth-
ered in flies?”
“Yes.”
“T here isn’t
room on it for one
more?”
“Not even stand-
ing room.”
“Well, when I
tried ter pull ’em
off, so I could set
the paper again,
they wouldn’t come
off. The other
paper’s the same.
I see what the game is. It’s ter make a bloke
keep on buyin’ an’ buyin’ till ’e’s dam’ well
rooined. Well, I’m not one or the mugs.
You can take yor blanky fly-paper back
again. It’s no good ter me.”
R.L.
V- *
“More Scotch migrants coming.” Which
means more closer settlement.
A woman’s hobby is only now and again
her hubby.
è
WHAT HAPPENED IN EDEN.
THE WATTER: “Yes, sir—anything else, sir?”
ADAM: “Some fruit, please.”
A pigeon released from a Queensland
country town six months ago has just
reached its owner in Brisbane. It is believed
locally that the bird, after being lost, had
the intelligence to follow a train.
AFFECTION IN NUMBERS.
(Some way after Lovelace.)
“Petitioner said that his wife, though she had
owned up to repeated acts of infidelity, claimed that
she loved him dearly.”— Vic. divorce report.
Hubby, let’s still be lovers fond,
Drop being jealous. Do!
For this, my vagrant heart, is such
I could not love thee, dear, so much,
Loved I not others, too.
H.
PEAK-HOUR NOTE.
D.
ê


/
Dewar's
THE
V •
\
V
Spirit
Supreme
gSVARDE||
fOMEDAB
1
I Perth a
r///
r
#
TO HIS "Ajfsry r „j
s
rtJgMM&M) ft
FINE
iieiir
s
3K
a
m
g
JR AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
r ' laanoal
'
y ■■..wivy.iwiiiw...—
| 6- 7s)gst6nD Clubs
i JohnDewardSonsß
Distillers PERTH,(scorlai\d)& LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
custom
WTiCO
UN .° E * The SUPERVISION OF the COMMONWEALTH


HOTEL SYDNEY
Manager: HENRY S. PEISLEY.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Ilot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/.
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
... .you need never feel that your table
lacks a desirable dish. Swallow and Ariell
have provided for the occasion | All you
need do is to be sure that your pantry is
never without at least ONE Plum Pudding
—those rich, fruity,. flavorsome pud-
dings that Swallow and Ariell make—
and everyone enjoys. Ask your grocer.
"Umxpecled
(lueses' (Irnve —\)
*
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing
Wu-nderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs A
Poverty
Point
Beerbohm Irving”: It was the first night
ot a drama that whs too-evidently unable
to stay the course. The leading man had
.lust proposed to the leading lady, who coyly
compromised. “Don’t ask me to make up
my mmd now,” she said. “Give me till next
week. ‘Better take ’im now, Miss,” said
someone from up aloft. “You ain’t likely
to be ere next week.”
R. Leigh : I read in an English paper
recently that Phyllis Archibald (who sang
in Australia with the Williamson-Melba
Opera Co. of 1924) had a voice that was
pleasing but for her Colonial accent.”
During the season here she was much adver-
tised as a Manchester girl, her father being
a manufacturer there. It seems rather
rough on Manchester.
“Adelaide”: Clive Carey, till lately a
teacher of singing at Adelaide University
Conservatonum, replies in the London
oacicbut to Maurice Besley’s wholesale on-
slaught in that journal on music in Aus-
tralia i—
• ? h iv. wor i^ er ’? that Australia has become what she
is in the short time she has existed. Her development
is little short of a miracle. ... The almost religious
quiet in which audiences listen to their music, with
tar less fidgeting and coughing than in other and
older countries. .. . How often do visiting artists
play anything new when they appear in London?
Aieltia, at her farewells in Australia, instead of
ciottmg out the old warhorses that so delight English
audiences closed with a group of Strauss and Debussy
—no small tribute to the taste of her countrymen. '
Autolycus The recent production in
Jsydney of Douis Stone’s literary play “Lap
ol the Gods,” reminds me that it was on
the lap ot the gods” whether or no it would
be awarded the first prize in the Sydney
elegraph I lay Competition of a few years
J 1 Judges were Prof. MacCallum, the
?i d j Rterature; Oscar Asche, the god of
the drama; and Farmer Whyte, who, being
an editor, was absolutely godless. The final
three plays were “Lap of the Gods”; “Spirit
of Desire by Betty Iliscocks, and Miss
Armstrong’s “Fire.” The Professor selected
Stone s play; from a literary point of view
it was easily first. Asche selected the “Spirit
ot Desire ; it was an Indian “Cairo ”
imaginative, spectacular. The editor, remem-
bering Shakspeare’s “The play’d the thing ”
trampled his literary soul under foot and
lns decision for the actor’s choice—what
was wanted was a play that would be pro-
duced, and Asche had promised that he
■would produce the prize-winner. He never
did produce it, and as far as I know “Spirit
of Desire is still awaiting a producer. Com-
petent critics who have read Miss Arm-
strong s “Fire” hold that there is money in
that play. Good strong melodrama, it is
the only one of the three that has an Aus-
tralian setting.
Caesar s Ghost” : The bitter contempt that
those who give entertainments have for the
intelligence of those who stay at home is not
confined 'to the producers of “high-brow”
plays. In a country town I had forced upon
me the plaint of a lanky and travel-stained
person who alleged that the residents of the
district had brains duller than their cows.
“A man might sacrifice his life touring the
country giving them intellectual amoosement,
but where’s their blanky gratitood?” he
demanded. “Do they give their minds a
chance and come along and patrernise this
show ? ■ No, sir! Most of ’em don’t know as
they have minds to be atnoosed, and p’haps
they’re right.” I ascertained that the com-
plainant was travelling with a snake show.
“Macann” : Why are producers so careless
about the shadows that players cast before
them, sometimes minutes in advance of their
breaking on to the stage? In several shows
that I have seen in Sydney lately these
shadows have taken the collective eye away
from the stage proceedings and quite ruined
the general effect. In “Madame Pompadour”
Bcppie de Vries could be seen poised close
up in the wings before every appearance,
and the suggestion that she had just come
in a hurry from some distant part of the
palace took a lot of swallowing. The Tivoli
goes one better. It has a large mirror on
the left wall of the auditorium which reflects
all that is happening a yard or two back off-
stage.
“Bloggs”; “Sadie Thompson,” the bril-
hant screen version of Somerset Maugham’s
Bain, has been scissored for Australian
purposes into hopeless obscurity at the
end. The reformer is seen wrestling in
prayer—though what he is wrestling against
is modestly hidden from those who have
not read the story—and the next scene is
the beach where he has made away with
himself. The much-abused Australian censor
cuts a good deal more busily than his oppo-
site number in Britain. Moreover, he has a
disastrous knack of cutting in the wrong
place—of eliminating the sordidness from
eroticism and leaving in the lusciousness.
Moral considerations apart, the sordid in
passion is often artistic, which lusciousness
never is.
“Prog”: I ran up against something new
in my theatrical experience when I went to
the Sydney Prince,Edward the other night
and found the place reeking from floor to
roof with a penetrating and overwhelming
scent. I do not know the name of this
scent, but I redajl it from a part iof
Cairo that. I haven’t tola the vicar I at-
tended. Sitting in the theatre bathed in
it was quite bad enough, but on my way
home I noticed that strong. men looked at
me rather hard, and in the tram a policeman
edged a couple of feet away from me on the
seat. I could distinctly whiff the odor hang-
ing about me, but it was not till I got
home that I found mv scent came from
the programme which I had stuffed into my
pocket. Now, two days later, that pro-
gramme still stinks.
“CHICAGO,” AT THE PLAYBOX
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Freda McGhee, as Roxie, the publicity-
loving murderess; and A.H. Robetson,
as Jake, the yellow journalist, who
supplies the publicity.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : “Song of the Sea,” the
new production at His Majesty’s, deals with
the youthful days of Nelson, and is put
together effectively by Arthur Wimperis and
Lauri Wylie/. The .music is by Edouard Kun-
neke, and it is not only altogether superior
to the libretto, but also the best heard in
any light form of entertainment since George
Musgrove brought “The Belle of New York”
to London. Kunneke is already well known
hnf -n r ° r \ t , ment as , a brilliant musician,
London up till now he has been
unfortunate, although it was the book of
Riki Tiki and of “Love Adrift” more
than anything else that led to failure when
these previous ventures of his were presented
in the West End. Many critics raved over
the music of “Love Adrift,” but it was out
BUSH REVIVAL OF “EAST LYNNE,”
AT MELBOURNE PALACE.
Bill Ayr, as Sir Francis Levison, putting the
hard word on Lady Isabel.
of its way, in any case, at the Gaiety. It
was in “Riki Tiki” that Gladys Moncrieff
made her London debut and made a giant’s
bid for success. She sang and acted with
great vim, but the rest of the company made
no impression ; their opportunities were more
than limited.
“L.11.P.”: John Runyan’s tercentenary
this year recalls the dramatised version of
“The Pilgrim’s Progress,” put on a few
years ago at the London Olympic. Emily
Fitzroy, an actress well known here, played
Melusina. The show did not outrage any-
body’s feelings, it simply bored.
.“C”: It’s difficult these days to keep pace
with the amateur mummer companies sprout-
ing up everywhere Melbourne’s latest is
the Tributary Theatre bunch, which, accord-
ing to report, seeks merely to assist fulfil-
ment of ideals that find expression in the
theatre. All the players associated in the
new movement have been, or are at present,
with the Little Art Theatre co. of J. Bercs-
ford Fowler.
“Macann”: Is there any picture-theatre
in Australia outside Sydney Prince Edward
where the male population of the d.c. sports
dress-suits and starched fronts to honor pro-
gramme changes? About half the he-men
present had the much-stigmatised regalia on
the last night I was there. And a sprinkling
of that half were pressmen!
“Adam Ant”: Touching a recent Poverty
Point reference to the infrequency of “School
for Scandal” revivals, I have before me a
programme of the “Grand Opening and
Inauguration of the Theatre Royal, Mel-
bourne, on Monday Evening, July 16, 1855.”
The “School” was the main item, with G. H.
Rogers as Sir Peter. Henry Neil Warner as
Charles Surface, Burford as Joseph, and Mrs.
Charles Poole as Lady Teazle. Of course,
there was a farce afterwards —-“The Actress
of All Work,” in -which Anna Maria Quinn
played six characters—and a “national
Spanish dance,” by Madame Strebinger and
Signor Carandini. A footnote runs: “Car-
riages : Horses’ heads towards Russell-street.”
“Adam Ant”: I cannot agree with “Flam-
ing Youth’s” recent statement that Tom Cos-
grove, of the Flying Cosgroves, was “only a
moderate comedian” and that it was his
brother Jack who was “the real actor.” Jack
Cosgrove was for years in the spotlight as
Bland Holt’s somewhat beefy “heavy,” but
Tom Cosgrove was more versatile and a
much better actor. He was with Rignold at
Sydney Majesty’s for a long time doing good
work, and his Fluellen in “Henry V.” was
a notable performance. His Widow O’Brien
in “Fun on the Bristol” was excellent, too.
He did well in pantomime, and was clown
at Sydney Majesty’s in one very successful
panto. He played Shakspearean characters
well, with Alfred Dampier and with Walter
Bentley, and was for a time Dampier’s War-
rigal in “Robbery Under Arms.”
“II Barbiere,” performed by the
I uller-Gonsalez company in Auckland
(M.L.), pandered to an English-speaking
audience with the interjection of one or
tw< J), remar^s * n language. The “Shut
up !” of the commandant at the end of the
hrst act (when all and sundry try to explain
the situation to him) was rather a shock,
but it was nothing to Signorina Poletti’s
Ver’ nice song” after the applause at the
conclusion of the lesson scene.
“Teeder Mully” : Re the many musical per-
formances of Malvern (B. 29/9/’2B). I think
our Narrogin (Groperland) Amateur Oper-
atic and Dramatic Society has established a
decent little record for the product of a
three-pub country town 170 miles from the
capital. Since its inauguration in 1919 the
society lias produced “Patience,” “Pirates of
Penzance,” “The Mikado,” “Les Cloches de
Corneville,” “Rip Van Winkle,” “Dorothy,”
“San Toy” and “The Orchid.” Not one of
them was a dud.
“Bond”: Tom Walls, whom Australia
knew long ago mainly as Peter Doody in “The
Arcadians,” has built up one of London's
few standing successes at the Aldwych, in
a run of plays by Ben Travers. He lias
the help of a humorous hero, Ralph Lynn,
and a pretty kid-heroine, Winifred Shotter,
with two fine comedians in Robertson
Hare—a kind of Leslie Victor —and fat
Mary Brough. The latest success, “Plun-
der,” is a matter of plain jewel-robbery by
the two heroes, with a violent assault—chloro-
form, tip out of the window, and sudden
death—by them on a man who interferes:
and the audience laughs steadily through
it all. The only fault with this co. is that
it is catching Tom Wall’s trick of talking
at a friend in the fourth row of the stalls,
instead of speaking up.
“Peter Pan”: Remarkable the number of
recent films that have had a war background
or scenes ; some have been entirely war pic-
tures. There have been so many that it
obviously is no passing phase, but the result
of a definite demand. This demand has not
spread to the legitimate theatre here yet, but
Muriel Starr will probably soon be seen in
Lilac Time,” which was a big success some
years back. The piece should not be con-
fused with the Schubert light opera of the
same name.
“Hamfat”: There is a variation of the
modern dressing of old classical plays in
Arnold Bennett's “The Return Journey,”
which has been produced at the London St.
James. It is “Faust” brought up to date,
with a Henry Fausting who, rejuvenated at
the age of 80 by a Polish scientist (Ben-
netts Mephistopheles), poses as his . own
great-nephew, and tries to steal the fiancee
of a young undergrad., who stands in the
shoes of Valentine but doesn’t suffer a kill-
ing. Hie Polish scientist gives the story
to the newspapers, and that puts the appa-
rently-young man’s pot on as far as the
girl is concerned.
_ “Goldilocks”: Byrl Walkley, who had to
do a Jot of marking-time whilst she remained
in Australia, landed right on her feet when
she got to London ; she is on tour with the
Bhow Boat,” and has signed a contract to
play principal boy in a London season of
panto.
Woods Green” (Lond.) : Eve Grey, who
is leading m the pictorial version of “Sweet
iepper,” the novel by Geoffrey Moss, has
with her Paul Richter, the famous German
actor, and W arwick Ward, well known on
the German and British screens. In addition
to an ideal film face, Eve Grey has developed
very considerable dramatic gifts and has
entered on a solid stage career.
“Ula”: Is there any family with a greater
representation in the movies than the
Alcj jaglens, of Muoriltind? Five of seven
brothers play for the camera. Victor, the
king-pin, is Wm. Fox’s best drawing card,
lie once fought Jack Johnston, and has
played m circuses and many other shows.
Arthur (Gabbett in the “Term”) has per-
haps even greater dramatic ability; he has
“hcavied” in three Australian productions of
late. In England Cyril is in the van of
screen mummery, and the others, Ken and
Cliff, are also associated with John Bull’s
film industry.
“Cine Ma”: George Gee, who provided
comedy of the clowning sort in a multitude
of the Firm’s songandance shows a few
years back, will shortly be seen in Australia
again. His carplike grin has been commis-
sioned to provide the humor in a British
screening of Eden Pliillpott’s “Widdicombe
I air. $
“Flaming Youth”: Mary Hinton (Mrs.
I itt Rivers) has had an appearance at
London Arts Club Theatre in “Payment”
and has been praised by the critics. She
must have improved.
W. Miller, acrobat (Lond.): Old friends
of William Goole.v, formerly with Holloway
and Anderson’s “When London Sleeps,” will
regret to hear that he died at St. Stephen’s
Hospital, Fulliam-road, London, May 11.
THE STAGE PRESSMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Why are pressmen on the stage made such
imbeciles?”— “L.H.P.” B. 17/10/’28.
Alt, brothers, glare not hotly through your
glasses!
Tlitre’s nought in the phenomenon to vex.
\\ hat though you tread the boards as silly
asses
With addled brains and intellects in
wrecks ?
You do but share the fate of various classes,
Including cops in pantomimes and ’tecs
In many a screaming farce and gay revue;
And, all too often, saintly curates, too.
Jews have their grievances, but take them
gaily.
Hibernians are (or were) more prone to
. rage
Seeing some ragged Pat with a shillelagh
Depicted as a type upon the stage.
Draw Caledonians, maltreated daily
With every attribute and appanage
Distorted and lampooned, don’t care a jot.
Copy the Jew and emulate the Scot,
And then—who knows? —the playwright who
traduces
Your calling and would sweepingly ascribe
I he ass s asininity, the goose’s
■ Anserine qualities, to all your tribe
May have in wounded pride some faint ex-
cuses.
The press has doubtless damned with scorn-
ful gibe
Some masterpiece of his in days gone by.
A premise that may wise you to the Why.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


I
ff,
&
'liimmmA
%
m,
* m
m
warn
m
m
m
1
I
W#"l
SB*
V\' '\\W‘
-y"V~W> -A '\ » ~---1
V-<>
vX
•"v/y;
x^vX N X|
AYREFIELD hats have
an indefinable air of
style, and their smart
appearance cannot fail
to appeal to the well-
dressed man. Their
colors are fast and their shapes
permanent.
ë


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
ē
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1529.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
* 269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
*9a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildicr?
(Next G.P.0.).
ĕ
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
T. G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free for the Asking.
Tours Booked. Tours Planned.
ė
Heat/
Conquer its nerve-weakening
influence — with Sanatogen .
Counteract the strength
sapping influence of heat on
body and nerves, by building up
new strength—with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen contains exactly those
elements—phosphorus and albumin
—which create lasting power of re-
sistance in blood, muscles and nerves.
“The debilitated
nerves and tissues
take up Sanatogen
as the parched
earth drinks up
water,”
writes Dr. Cl. L.
Wheeler.
Start taking it to-day.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
At all Chemists —from 3/9 per tin.
GBNATOSAN
LTD.
LOUGHBOROUGH,
ENGLAND.
“In Dublin's fair city
where the girls are so pretty
IRISHMEN the world over have woven a halo of romance
around Dublin. Poets have delighted to sinfc of the queen
city of the Emerald Isle —and the mere mention of “dear
ould Dublin” is sufficient to brin& a li&ht to the eye and a
panegyric to the tongue of every son of old Ireland.
The faith of the son of Erin in the excellence of everything
which is of Dublin origin is further enhanced by the con-
Im
y 4
rf.’l
Um
w%,
&
y
a
/
sistent superiority of a famous Dub-
lin product-John Jameson Whiskey.
For at the Bow Street Distillery,
Dublin, “J.J." Whiskey has been
distilled since 1780, and the same
distinctive qualities which brought
it into immediate popularity account
for its continued preference by
sound judges of whiskey after •
lapse of nearly 150 years.
JOHN
JAMESON
DUBLIN
WHISKEY
txceilati and unchanged since 1780
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Tooth & Co. Limited, Sydney


The Ultimate Choice
THE
KROPP
It never requires grinding .
MADE THROUGHOUT IN SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Time is proving that
after many experi-
ments the man who
will not be satisfied
with anything but the
best comes back to
the Kropp.
\LL - BRITISH
m
WPI
From the usual Dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite Handles
Wholesale onIy:—OSBORNE, GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England
w oiHr
Jellies, Creams,
Blancmanges—
—all your troubles in turning them out can be ended by
using moulds of fine porcelain with the utmost smoothness
of surface, which, by a new mode of production, are of
uniform thickness all over. This obviates the usual difficulty
of getting the pudding out whole.
Shelley “individual” moulds—one to each person-serve dainty sweets
daintily. Fifty different moulds—l4 shapes—to choose from.
Ask. to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie . Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to y—Y. W. tits Ain
h CO.. LTD., 2}t CLARENCE STREET , SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of China
e
>
è
Smooth running Time
The name Elgin typifies the pinnacle of
achievement in the world of watches. Elgin
watches are renowned alike for their rich,
lustrous finish and fidelity of workmanship,
which ensures Elgin smooth - running time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
(Tlcjin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
J'fiiP ftacte Mark Wyfj in the Watch Care
103
Pot and Palette.
Roy Bridges, the novelist, has rejoined the
Melbourne Age staff. There have been
changes since he left, but he has found
enough of his former pals to keep him
from feeling that he is a stranger.
“S.C.M” (Bond.) : They don’t take long
in getting to The Bulletin on this side. For
instance, last night I bought Everybody’s
Weekly and read out an excellent joke to
my wife. The paper was dated Sept. 13.
This morning I received The Bulletin dated
July 25. The joke we had laughed over
last night was inside—attached to a Souter
drawing.
Will Lawson, writer of good sea-verses
and -yarns, is off to the Islands ahd parts of
Asia for three months as the guest of tb<-
shipping companies concerned. As a reporter
first in Maoriland and then in Sydney, M ill
has been associated with shipping for a
eration, and his hosts know the value of his
vivid pen.
Looked through his last file, • Myles
McNaught, who spent 55 of his 84 years in
newspaper production. Until his retirement
13 vears ago McNaught was engineer-in-
cliief for the Melbourne Herald group of
newspapers, in whose service he was for 2o
years; before that he was on the staff of
other , Melbourne papers. .His hobbies were
Masonry and music—he founded a number
of string quartettes.
The work of Alexandre lacovleff, which
is hung at the Macquarie Galleries, Bligh-
street, Sydney, exhibits considerable individu
ality and strength. Several of the pictures
are mementoes of a journey to Abyssinia —
the artist has been a wanderer since the
war. “Ismailia” is a very skilful bit of
work, and some Arab studies are vividly
done. But the eye lingers longest on a
picture of “Le Royal, France.”
The sisters Currie, Alice and Edith, have
provided an attractive show at the Melbourne
Athenaeum Gallery. Alice paints in oils with
remarkable fidelity as to color but with an
occasional weakness in drawing. Most of
her pictures were done in England; there
are two notable paintings of the Trocadero
and Notre Dame, Paris, and capital Tas-
manian and Sydney studies. Edith Currie’s
water-colors reveal a striking improvement on
her previous work.
“0.P.H.”: Harry Lovett, who was poli
tical and departmental roundsman for Melb.
Argus, has gone over to the Herald. The
evening journal began to draw men from its
morning contemporaries 23 years ago, when
Col. Reay snared Davidson from the Argus.
When Davidson became editor he collared
Nish, Innes, Whitehead and others from his
old paper. Then toll was taken from
the Age, Adam, Taylor, Simmonds and
others being attracted. Sydney Sun has also
helped itself freely to men from the Mac-
kinnon and Sym° journals.
“The Wanderer”; Just 30 years ago three
young fellows—Norman Lindsay, Ray Par-
kinson and myself—met in Norman’s studio,
in Melbourne, and deleided to launch a
weekly penny comic. Our combined capital
amounted to £7 10s., but I had credit with
the paper merchants and the printer. The
Rambler made its first appearance on
January 2, 1899, and was fairly successful,
for a time. The years rolled on. Norman
grew world-famous; Parkinson joined the
Englishman, a Calcutta daily, and a few
years later died in India of consumption;
I —well, some day trumps may still turn up.
HORACE YELLAND, lately appointed
editor of Adelaide NEWS.
The carefully-done “Excavation of City
Railway” stands boldly out from the exhibi-
tion of Henry Fullwood’s water-colors at the
Sydney Fine Art Gallery. It depicts a wall
of sandstone, with cranes and their sugges-
tion of manual work in the foreground, and
to the rear oblong piles of grey fiats. There
is feeling in it, and the little color is warm
and friendly. Most of the other pictures are
gleanings of a holiday which the artist spent
in Maoriland. “The Great Tasman Glacier”
is excellent: a broad path of snow climbing
through jagged hills. In the others the actual
painting is fine, but there is a similarity of
subject and treatment that grows mono-
tonous.
“S.T.S.”: The Melrose prize for figure-
work always calls out a lot. of triers of
widely varying merit at the spring show of
the South Aus. Society of Arts. Wilkie,
now curator of the Adelaide Gallery, has won
it this year, with a careful study of a male
figure. Wheeler is represented at the show
by strong portrait work. Landscape is also
strong. Knox and McNally, hitherto unre-
presented in the Adelaide Gallery, have both
been selected for it; Knox, with a Streeton-
like sweeping view, McNally •with a close
study of brown foliage, in water-color. The
Gallery bought another Jackson, in his later
or Southern Europe manner; also etchings
by rising-men Goodhart (of Broken Hill)
and Glover. The Society of Arts gives
prizes at this show for landscape and sea-
scape. Hans Heysen was judge, and awarded
them to Robert Waden and Howie, the
society’s president. If there were one for
still-life, it would, I think, have gone to
Bernard Hall.
Jimmy Macdonald, art critic of the Mel-
bourne Herald, has been appointed director
of the N.S.W. National Art Gallery, vice
G. V. F. Mann, retired. The chief obstacle
Macdonald had to face was a war disability
—he went into the line when he was over
40. He has studied and painted in England,
Europe and the U.S.A. as well as in Aus-
tralia, and he has been guide-lecturer in the
Vic. National Gallery for years. The Herald
will be sorry to lose him, though one of his
articles did land the paper in the most sen-
sational libel suit of its career. The Herald
won.
“F.S.”: Horatio Bottomlcy’s long-threat-
ened weekly, John Blunt, is with very small
differences John Bull. You might as well
ask Bottomley to change his face as to pro-
duce a different kind of weekly. John
Blunt may hit John Bull hard, despite
the latter's huge circulation, for Bottomley,
in addition to being a great purveyor of sen-
THE DECLINE OF HUMOR.
sationalism, sob-stuff and bogus patriotism,
has a big public which persists in regarding
him as one who was brought low by the
machinations of jealous plotters in high
places. John Bull has had two Australians
on its staff —Will Dyson, the cartoonist, and
Harrison Owen, the playwright—and John
Blunt has acquired A* G. (“Smiler”)
Hales.
The older generation of presswomen in
Sydney and Brisbane are rejoicing over
Mrs. Marie Irvine’s windfall from the tree of
the Caird fortunes. Marie in the years
ago was on various Sydney and Brisbane
papers, and was the original “Australia
Jane” of The Bulletin’s Queensland letter.
When Colin Caird, the wealthy old bachelor-
partner in Caird, Maxwell, and art collector
of discrimination, died last winter, he left Mrs.
Irvine his Sydney home, Innellan, and all the
art treasures it contained, and Mrs. Irvine has
been in enjoyment of it ever since. With the
house goes a sum of £4OO0 —just a suf-
ficient income for the upkeep of the place.
Colin Caird and Mrs. Irvine had been close
friends over a great number of years, and he
had often consulted her over the acquiring of
some new treasure. After Mrs. Irvine’s death
the collection, lock, stock and barrel, goes to
the town of Greenock, in Scotland, the home
of Mr. Caird’s forefathers.
Of course, there has been controversy
about the authenticity of Katharine Prich-
ard’s “.Coonardoo.” Do the pictures she
draws of life in the Par Nor’-West tell the
truth or are they fanciful? From a basket-
full of evidence on the point The Bulletin
extracts this testimony by “H.J.D.,” who not
only personally knows the Central and Nor’-
West country through and through, but be-
longs to a family which has been connected
with it for two generations:—
"Coonardoo” strikes me as the most wonderful
descriptive bush story I have read. The characters j
fit almost any far-back station. Coonardoo herself !
is a typical bush-born young gin admired by black
and white. Two other personalities of the story,
Cock-eyed Bob and Sam Geary, are both commonly
met out back; while station life, horse mustering
and cattle-branding by bladkboys are so well
described that you think you are back once again
among it all. Lastly, the blacks are so well depicted,
their modes and customs, that the fascinating story,
real to life, holds me word by word.
Frank R. Crozier has wandered from the
path of gum-trees and portraits, and en-
deavored to invest his show of 30 pictures
at the New Gallery, Melbourne, with a wider
interest. Crozier, a former student of Mel-
bourne’s National Gallery, has had consider-
able experience in America in the domains
of commercial and decorative art, and is a
skilful blender of bright colors. In the
present show he gives us pictures historical
and religious, with some local bits of sea
and bush. There is a certain stiffness in
a study of a scene from “Richard III.” It
suggests a colored plate in a history book.
“The Pirates’ Wooing,” with fewer figures, is
much better; in fact, the best thing in the
collection, though “Bacchus” is good. And
there is some charming painting in smaller
efforts, notably “Palm Beach” and “A
Breezy Day.”
“C.Q.”: One of the consequences of
cricketers and ex-cricketers bursting into the
journalistic side of the game is that the
Test-match talk has already taken on the
atmosphere of schoolboy barracking. There
is usually this boyish trait in the habitual
athlete. He boos at the other side in expec-
tation of being booed at, that being the
essentially juvenile idea of keeping up morale.
The London Daily Express put it in a nut-
shell when it said, regarding the outburst of
adverse criticism of the M.C.C. team, that
“the Australians are simply whistling to
keep up their courage.” Of course the Eng-
lishmen are busy whistling too. and when
you find one in grave danger of blowing his
front teeth out in the effort you will prob-
ably find he is an ex-star of the game. The
professional journalist is more or less im-
mune from this jejune spirit. If you want
to know w’hat the phrase “Olympian detach-
ment” means you need to look in at the
press-room at a final Test, when “the issue
is hanging in the balance” and “the whole
Empire is waiting breathless.”


SM
V
C \PTH
•„ ONt'.S
I! 5
T.
❖ n
m
0
A good wife and a good watch
are companions for life
lifelong companion and a trusty friend. To be
implicitly relied on in emergency as well as
in the ordinary course of existence. To stand
by one, to counsel and to aid. Every good
watch should have these qualities.
Every Omega Watch has them.
An Omega Watch is an acquisition and a pride. It
marks the owner as a person of discernmant. As one
whose sense of values leaves nothing to be desired.
And in making Omega Watches the sturdy, accurate
and long living timepieces they are, beauty has by no
means been forgotten. Each Omega Watch has a
charm that is all its own.
(stem
* Exact time for life”
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
Sunbeam
WHMr
m
For export all Sunbeam Cars have standard track, a ground clearance of 9in. at
the lowest point, special springing and a larger radiator with fan to ensure
perfect riding and adequate cooling under local conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept.: 12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W. 1., England.
Cables: ‘Subeamoeo, London.” Codes: A.B.C. stb edit. Marconi International, Motor Trade and
Bentleys.
Head Office and Works: WOLVERHAMPTON, England.


NEW BROWNING
DE LUXE
FN. 22CAL. RIFLE
MODEL
SINGLE-SHOT
BOLT ACTION.
The greatest improvement in 22cal. Rifles yet produced by Browning F.N. Entirely new and
efficient type of bolt. Patent safety and automatic half cock. Large half-moon extractor, which
does away with the trouble of shells jamming in the breech. The “DE LUXE” Model has a 24in.
barrel fitted with an adjustable rear sight and bead front sight with protector. Checkered pistol
grip stock and fore-end. Perfect balance. Easily taken apart for carrying. Fires 22cal. short,
long and long-rifle cartridges. Accurate range with 22 long-rifle cartridges 200 yards.
DIRECT FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES:
Va
LTD
PTV
35/- Post Free.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ê
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Moonee Valley Racing Club is usually
lucky in the matter of weather, but its luck
was out on Saturday. Rain the night before
and a hailstorm just before the second race
made the going heavy, and the crowd—very
good in the circumstances —found the condi-
tions very unpleasant, the more so as a
number of fancied horses couldn’t or wouldn’t
do their best with the track as it was. Back-
ers had a very rough handling; every favo-
rite was beaten.
Sol Green had decided after the Caulfield
Cup not to start Gothic at the Valley, and
Mollison was another absentee —he is not
to race again this spring. All the same, the
nine starters for the W. S. Cox Plate, which
is run over the unusual distance of fur-
longs, . were the most interesting w.f.a. lot
seen in Melbourne this season. Ramulus,
who looked particularly well, touched 9 to
4, and Amounis —to the surprise of shrewd
Sydney visitors, who remembered that heavy
going did not suit the substantial fellow—
challenged him for favoritism; it was 3 to
1 the pair at the close. There was also solid
backing for Winalot at fours, and for High-
land at 9 to 2, so McSliortodds could hardly
have lost had he tried. Fourth Hand, Prince
Humphrey, Oatendale (all 15 to 1) and
Statesman (25 to 1) were the others. Ramu-
lus, on the outside, ran to the front turning
out of the straight, but Fourth Hand, who
seemed to like the going, took charge down
the side, and with seven furlongs to go was
a length ahead of the three-year-old; High-
land, Oatendale, Winalot and Amounis were
nearest of the others. There was little change
till they were racing for the home turn ; there
Ramulus cut the English horse down, and
turned into the straight with a nice lead.
Bartle obviously thought he had the race
won, and rode accordingly, but he was unde-
ceived when Highland came at him. Duncan
rode another fine finish, and got every ounce
out of his mount, with the result that the
game gelding from Queensland caught the
colt, who also finished stoutly, a few strides
from the post, and had his head in front
when the judge had his job to do. Then some
°f the crowd cheered Highland and Duncan,
while others made angry remarks about
Bartle.
Fourth Hand ran his best race in Vic-
toria ; he was third, two lengths away. Winalot
did not please his Melbourne Cup backers by
running fourth; Statesman delighted his by
making up a lot of ground and finishing fifth,
showing also that he was good in any going.
Oatendale did pretty well; but Amounis
never looked like getting a place, and Prince
Humphrey was last. Thanks partly to Holt’s
skill as a trainer, Highland is a greatly-
improved horse, and his defeats of Gothic
and Ramulus have put him right up among
the topnotchers. The Highfield gelding is
engaged in the Cantala Stakes with 9st. 81b.
The time shows what the track was like—it
was actually 2min. Gfsec.
The Moonee Valley Gold Cup brought out
14 starters. With Textile scratched, Bacchus
was topweight with Bst. 121 b., but though he
looked a picture lie is no good unless the
ground is hard, and he drifted to 20 to 1.
Black Duchess, it was also recalled, made a
miserable showing in the A.J.C. Craven
Plate last season when it was soft under-
foot; but the many had forgotten the inci-
dent, and voted it a match between the mare
and Ivalloni, who has never shown a liking
for a distance. When bags were closed
it was 3 to 1 each of them, with Nawallah
—well backed by the stable at tens and
longer —next on the list at 8 to 1. Yodelist
(14 to 1) made the early running, and was
still leading at the back of the course, where
Kalloni dropped right out of it. Near the three-
furlongs T. M. Burke’s 100-to-l shot, Mon-
diaga, passed Yodelist, and Nawallah —pro-
minent always—ran into second place. Then
Nawallah was given his head, and it was all
over; he cleared out in the straight and
passed the finishing point an easy winner
by three lengths from Mondiaga, Demost
(also 100 to 1) being a length and a half
away. Beppinsan was fourth; Black Duchess
knocked up and finished second last, Bacchus
bringing up the rear. Nawallah is a six-
year-old brown gelding by Magpie—Booran’s
sister; he is owned by W. Bourke and trained
by Fred Foulsham, and had beaten his stable-
mate Mollison in a gallop at Caulfield dur-
ing the week. Daniels rode him. The time
was 2min. 35|sec.
Sinetre, a gelding by Treclare —Andesine,
won the division of the St. Albans llandi-
eaD for colts and geldings; the fillies’ race
went to Pay Paix, from Sydney, ridden by
Munro. Sinetre’s price was 10 to 1; Batro’s
filly—she is by Paper Money-La Paix—
started at eights.
* * * *
Trivalve won the Victoria Derby and the
Melbourne Cup last year, and the betting
shows that Strephon is expected to do the
same this year. He may, but it cannot be
said that his credentials are as good. Tn-
ROAD GRADE ITEM.
A drop of 2 in 1.
valve was a seasoned colt and hai'dy;
Streplion has had comparatively little racing.
Trivalve was certainly beaten by Avant
Courier in the Caulfield Guineas, but he did
better than Strephon, who was a good dis-
tance behind the placed horses. Certainly
the son of Saltasli won the Herbert Power
Stakes stylishly three days later, beating
Maple, who went on to win the Caulfield
Cup; but would the same achievement have
been' beyond Ramulus, Balmerino, Prince
Humphrey or Oatendale at the weights?
Caulfield showed that Gothic had been over-
boomed; perhaps Flemington will show that
his young stable-companion has been over-
boomed. Wonder as he may be, Sol Green’s
colt will run against The Bulletin.
Mollison’s retirement from the Derby
improves Ramulus’s prospects for that race.
In the A.J.C. classic, it may be, these free
gallopers beat one another by battling for
the lead, and the same is possibly true of
the Caulfield Guineas. With nothing to
worry him between the four- and two-fur-
longs posts, the Briens’ colt might conceiv-
ably set up a winning lead. It is pretty clear
that lie is improving, nor has he had the
best of jockeyship this season. Balmerino,
who beat Ramulus in the Guineas; Oaten-
dale, who finished like a stayer in the A.J.C.
Derby and in the W. S. Cox Stakes at
Moonee Valley; Prince Humphrey, winner
of the A..T.C. Derby, and Strephon are all
to be respected, but this Page will take a
risk and plump for Ramulus.
If Strephon wins the Derby he wall have
7st. 61b. in the Cup—the handicapper gave
him 7st. lib. Balmerinb’s Cup weight is
7st. 31b., and so is Oatendale's; Ramulus
(who is probably not a two-miler) was
awarded 7st. 51b. The Derby race is sure
to throw light on the Cup, but in this
Page’s opinion none of the three-year-olds
will beat Statesman. Second to Trivalve in
last year’s Derby, and sixth in the Cup,
Statesman is wonderfully handicapped at
Bst. William Kelso is seldom confident about
his horses, but he is known to be confident
about Statesman; and in Bacchus (Bst.
41b.) he has a good second string. Winalot
(9st. 41b.) seems to have too much weight,
and may be going off at that, nor is Maple
(Bst. 131 b.) likely to equal Poseidon’s
achievement. Fancies: —
Melbourne Stakes: Gothic; next, Amounis.
Maribyrnong Plate: Parkwood; next, St.
Andrew. , ,
Cantala Stakes : Karuma; next, Habashon.
Victoria Derby: Ramulus, 1; Oatendale,
2 ; Balmerino, 3.
' Ilotham Handicap: Statesman; next,
Nawallah.
Melbourne Cup: Statesman, 1; Bacchus,
2; Oatendale, 3. If heavy going, Oatendale,
2; Balmerino, 3.
Results at Moorefield on Saturday, as at
Canterbury Park the previous week, were
decidedly in favor of the bookmakers, and
those operating on the Moonee Valley Cup
and the W. S. Cox Plate paid out very little.
The wins of Lady Busli (20 to 1) in the
Nursery Handicap, of Chryses in the first
division of the Flying Welter and of Hard
Chip in the Moorefield Handicap were
especially welcome to the bag-wearers.
Chrvses, who has been racing in Queensland,
went out at 10 to 1, and a little better was
available about Hard Chip, though he closed
at tens. In Hard Chip’s race Bawn-na-Glas
was tried over 10 furlongs, but third in
2.9 was the best he could manage. He is a
Greenstead gelding. So far Greenhorn, who
captured a nine-furlongs handicap at Rand-
wick. is the only offspring of Greenstead who
has been successful beyond a mile —and he
has never been the same horse since.
Short-priced favorites that got home were
consistent Canberra Florin (7 to 4) in the
first division of the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap, and Leisure Hour (6 to 4 on)
in the second division. It was 5 to 2 Can-
berra Florin, Trillary and Chrylyssa in the
early betting on the first division; then Tril-
lary bolted twice round the course, and his
price receded to 7 to 2 —it should have been
100 to 1. Leisure Hour was always kept on
the safe side. He is a four-year-old black
gelding by Magpie—Opera, and pretty good.
Second to Greenwich (3 to 1) in a division
of the Flying Welter and first in the St.
George Handicap (at 0 to 4, but there were
only three starters) was Giorgio’s record; in
the second race he beat the hot favorite
Energique. He is an old Bowman gelding,
like Resource.
i'fi Jj* ❖ ❖
For Rosehill to-day :
Flying Handicap: Cave Dweller; next,
Black Douglas.
October Handicap: Blather; next, Lady
Mulyan.
Parramatta Mile: Anorient; next Padicol.
* * * #
And for Moorelield on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Somnolent; next, Jazz
Baby.
Moorefield Handicap: New Sweet; next,
Hard Chip.
Carlton Welter: Rosso; next, Factor.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two really good boys made things very
lively for each other and very gratifying to
a good “mixdd” house at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night. They were Charlie Glasson,
of Melbourne (Bst. 11 Mb.), and Tommy
Doble, of Sydney (Bst. 131 b.), and a bright,
willing battle they provided over the whole
15 rounds. Doble got so well ahead in the
first six or seven rounds that he seemed a
certainty for the verdict. From then on he
weakened, and Glasson was able to catch up
with him and get his head far enough in front
to receive a points decision.
# * * *
The N.S.W. amateur boxing and wrest-
ling championships at Sydney Stadium last
week produced some capital boxing, the
form shown in one or two bouts being very
good. This was particularly the case in the
bantam filial between A. Allan and H. Green,
the fast and skilful Allan gaining a close
decision on points. Another find i was E.
Sheppherd, winner of the welter division, and
a cool and clever boxer. B. Ford, winner of
the featherweight section, was the most
attractive of the wrestlers. He is a brother
of Olympic wrestler J. Ford.
* * * *
Melbourne Stadium staged another alleged
wrestling bout on Saturday night, enter-
tainers Hugh Nicholls (12st. 61b.) and Clar-
ence Eklund (12st. 81b.) having the floor.
The crowd was small and sceptical. At
times Hugh attempted to live up to his
reputation as a bad man, but his efforts were
half-hearted. In the seventh round he sur-
rendered to a toehold after registering agony
unconvincingly. This was the only point
scored.
Ins and Outs
Batting on a wicket made slow and easy
by recurrent showers, England put up the
thumping total of 528 against South Aus-
tralia at Adelaide. Hobbs went for a color-
less 26, but Sutcliffe (76), Mead (58) and
Hammond (145) took the edge off the bowl-
ing, -which Chapman then proceeded to belt
all over the place, till he was caught off
Grimmett for 145. His slashing innings was
a delight to watch; he hit 19 fours and
a six. Even more interesting was the first
serious appearance of Hammond. His in-
nings, one of the finest played on Adelaide
Ova], satisfied all who saw it that England’s
high estimate of his batting ability was more
than justified. A vigorous hitter, he utilises
the drives to perfection, and his back play
is very powerful. Grimmett came out of
the ordeal with 6 for 100.
At lunch time on Monday, South Australia
had scored 275 with only one wicket (Harris,
46) down. Vic. Richardson was 128 n.o.
and D. Pritchard 102 n. 0., the English bowl-
ing being made to look cheap.
* * * *
Against N.S.W. at Brisbane in the first
Sheffield of the season. Queensland made
324, O'Connor scoring 72, Gough 67, Higgins
53 and Benstead 46 n.o. The veteran
Hooker bowled well to get 6 for 46,
McNamee and Nicholls failing. N.S.W. had
lost one for 61 at the mid-day adjournment,
Jackson (33) and Bradman (24) being n.o.
(Continued on page 41.)
The 22nd Henley-on-Yarra regatta at Mel-
bourne on Saturday was marred by wind and
rain, but over 36,000 attended. The big event,
the Grand Challenge Cup, was retained by
last year’s winners, the Mosman (N.S.W.)
eight, who beat Mercantile (Vic.) in the final
by a length and a quarter. Maoriland, repre-
sented this time by the Wanganui Union
Club four, again annexed the Stewards’ Chal-
lenge Cup, won last year by Waitemata.
HOW MANY?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If I’d to pick a team to win
The Tests v. England,” he averred,
“I'd put some younger players in
Nor leave their claims ignored and slurred
Until they’re sick with hope deferred.
Relieve me, I’d be no respecter
Of names that we’ve for seasons heard,”
Said he, “if I were a selector.
"Yet if some well-proved paladin
Depreciation had incurred
Because his latest scores were thin,
To scrap him straight would be absurd.
Too oft thereby have judges erred ;
I should be fairer and corrector.
A second chance —perhaps a third —
He’d have if I were a selector.
“I’d choose, the bowling to begin,
One chap (or two) whose fast ones whirred
Like lightning; and two more with spin
And swerve; and still another bird
Of breaks and bosies registered
Purveyor. One left-hand ejector
Would just complete my trundling herd
If I,” said he, “were a selector.
“Two outfields, guaranteed to shin
Like blazes, each across his sector;
Three slips with hands as sure as sin—
To these, all these,” said he, “I’d pin
My faith if I were a selector.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE PERFECTED SET FOR THE COUNTRY
feji
(J A* y
RADIO S
Mick Jimmons
RADIO-6
The most modern refinements in six-valve receiver"
design contribute to its unfailing performance and ensure
COUNTRY DAYLIGHT RECEPTION
Dominating Facts of this Master Radio !
The Mick Simmons RADIO-6 cuts
running service costs to an abso-
lute minimum, the total current
consumption not exceeding that of
most two-valve receivers.
A simple Dual Drum Control gives
flexibility of two dials with the
easy tuning of one.
The fidelity, breadth and magnificent tonal
qualities of the Mick Simmons RADIO-6,
in combination with the Magnavox Speaker,
will thrill you and give you an entirely new
conception of Radio.
o
s
Special high impedance valves are
used, resulting in a circuit that
combines terrific power with the
utmost stability.
The manufacturers give the guar-
antee that every component of this
splendid set, apart from being
of special design to reduce running costs
and eliminate breakdowns, has success-
fully passed the most rigid inspection and
test, and should give years of unfailing
service.
Truly an amazing Set at an amazing price. Remember, whether you
live in Town or Country the Mick Simmons Radio-6 will faithfully
stand up to every claim made for it.
Price, complete with highest-grade Accessories f* A 1 1 /
and the incomparable MAGNAVOX Speaker 3I»TT f j X\J J m
EASY DEFERRED PAYMENTS
Price .includes free installation in the Metropolitan Area or F.O.R- Sydney and Mick Simmons
Service Guarantee.
Play Your Phonograph Records ELECTRICALLY through
the wonderful
BOSCH RECREATOR
Price, £6/10/-. With adjustable Counter Balance, £6/17/6
Attached to any model or style of Phonograph, coupled to the
Mick Simmons Radio-6 and the Magnavox Speaker, the Bosch
Recreator will give you all that is scientifically possible in Phonograph
reproduction.
«S i
Country clients are asked to deal with Mick Simmons’ Country Agent. This ensures and guarantees a perfect installation and
service. If there is not a Mick Simmons Agent in your town—communicate direct with Mick Simmons, Sydney.
O
1C
immons
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
AND AT BRISBANE.
“THE PREMIER HOUSE FOR ALL RADIO SUPPLIES”


YO,,
jUf I
I f
"V
AC
f?
*°CP
<<?
.0
(i
&
Cf<
o*
Cable, Wireless, Telegraphic Address:
u Austraotel, Sydney.”
Magnificently illustrated booklet free on request.
The Australia is the centre of
Sydney! Socially, of course,
and having as well a pleasing
proximity to all that counts —
to shops, banks, theatres and
business houses, to depart-
mental and public buildings.
And it has that atmosphere and
that air of completeness which
marks a hotel as worthy of your
patronage.
The Ins and Outs
“Aunt Sally”: The aeroplane smash in
England recently in which two women were
concerned is of some interest to cricketers,
since Cicely O’Brien, the injured pilot of the
machine, is a daughter of Sir Timothy
O’Brien, a mighty smiter for Oxford, Middle-
sex and the Gentlemen a generation or so
ago. “Tim” came to Australia with Lord
Hawke’s team of 1887-88, but was not a
success. He was a splendid aggressive bats-
man and a magnificent outfield, all the same,
while he was one of the hardest cases that
ever donned flannels.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Not many followers of cricket
know that W. M. Woodfull was once rated
higher as a stumper than as a batsman, and
that not so vei'y long ago. He was at Mel-
bourne High School, where he is now a mas-
ter. from 1913-15, and skippered the school
eleven. He was a capital schoolboy 'keeper,
but was ranked in the also-ran class by the
school experts when it came to batting.
Indeed, it was considered in those days that
if he ever won to distinction in any game it
would be in tennis, at which he was some-
thing of a schoolboy champion.
* * * *
“Ilotham” : The Test Trial in Melbourne
was a triumph for the Queensland all-
rounder Ron Oxenham, who bowled his way
into the first Test match with 10 wickets for
90. Blackie was the chief disappointment,
the spin bowler failing to take a wicket. The
best of the other bowlers was Scott, who
outshone Gregory with the ball and aston-
ished everyone by the manner in which he
has sharpened up his fielding. There are
less unlikely things than that “Scotty”. may
at last get his chance in a Test.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: If Chapman has any doubts
about his side, it should be reassuring to
know that P. G. 11. Fender, of Surrey, will
shortly be in Australia as a newspaper cor-
respondent. Fender is still one of the best
all-rounders in England, and is probably the
shrewdest skipper in the Cold Country. His
aid in the field or the team’s councils would
be invaluable in a pinch, and there is no ques-
tion as to his eligibility for selection if
needed. A notable precedent was established
when George Gunn,* of Notts, who accom-
panied A. O. Jones’s side of 1907-08 on a
health trip, was invited to play on the eve of
the first Test, and proved the outstanding
batting success of the tour.
t- * * *
“Lancaster Park”: The annual report of
the Maoriland Cricket Council indicates that
M.L. ci'icket will in future go its own way
as far as visiting teams from overseas are
concerned. Hitherto, the practice has been
to take over visiting sides after these have
completed their Australian programme on
terms decided by the cricket authorities in
the Dominion and Australia. The heavy
programme in Australia this season did not
give the Board of Control a chance to pass
Chapman’s men on to Maoriland, and this
has induced the M.L. Council to consider
the importation of its own teams in future.
It is probable that an English side will be
invited to visit Maoriland in the 1929-30 sea-
son, and that this will be the first of a regu-
lar interchange of visits. It is a good idea.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The English sporting press
seems to have fairly got the wind up over
the accident to Geary of the English XI,
and already there are frantic howls for the
immediate despatch of reinforcements. As
every journal has its idea as to who should
go, material for half a dozen extra elevens
has already been suggested. There does not
seem any reason for the hysteria. More
than one English side in the past has been
handicapped by injury or illness of players,
but has managed to hold its end up. A few
instances w T hich come to mind include W.
Bates, the Yorkshire professional, who paid
several visits to Australia with the teams of
the ’eighties, and who lost an eye on the last
occasion from a blow from a ball in Melbourne.
Another was L. H. Gay, in Australia as
’keeper for Stoddart’s first team in 1894-95,
who could only play in one or two matches
through illness. “Plum” Warner was equally
unfortunate in the matter of illness, and
another was J. W. Hearne. Skipper Chap-
man’s remark to an Adelaide interviewer,
that the remainder of his side would be
quite good enough for the task they have
set themselves indicates that the Kent
amateur, at least, has not “done his block.”
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. cricket authori-
ties sat in solemn conclave the other day to
consider the important subject of caps, and
recorded its severe disapproval of players
who persisted in wearing their inter-State
lids in mere grade matches. Also, it depre-
cated a tendency on the part of certain
players to wear aged and revered tiles in big
matches in place of the. uniform coverings
provided by the association. I am afraid,
the heads are in for a shock when the Eng-
lishmen arrive. Jardine is said to affect an
ancient particolored Harlequin cap which
would be indignantly rejected by a Sydney
Domain dosser. Chapman rejoiced in a simi-
lar ruin when he was last here, but some
Westralian sympathisers are said to have
presented him with a new one. Warner s
ancient Rugby house-cap never left him.
Cricketers, like other people, have their super-
stitions. None is more widespread or more
deeply rooted than belief in a “lucky” cap
and not all the tears of the Cricket Associa-
tion are likely to shake the immemorial
tradition.
* * * *
“Hillite” : Sydney C. G. trustees are wak-
ing up. The big scoring board will now show
the members of the side in the field in their
batting order. When a ball is fielded, or a
catch made, a strong electric glow-lamp will
show alongside the name of the man respon-
sible. A much simpler and less expensive
method would have been the numbering of all
players, or their distinction by means of
colors. This last idea lias been dropped
because the players themselves have objected
to the wearing of numbers “like convicts.”
Amateurs —like the Rugby Union Waratahs,
to quote only one instance —don’t object,
and it is curious that semi-professional cric-
keters should be so sensitive.
He * * *
“Mulgo”: Tl\e first English cricket team
that visited Australia, Stephenson’s Eleven
(1862), had a glorious time on the Vic-
torian goldfields. It played at Ballarat
and Geelong. The locals were not much
at cricket, but they were great at entertain-
ing, for at that time sovereigns were thrown
about as if they were brownies. The team
was driven to Geelong by “Cabbage-tree Ned”
(Ned' Devine) behind a team of 12 grey
horses. The roads were pretty rough then,
and for his masterly driving the Geelong
cricket committee presented Ned with a
purse of 300 sovereigns. The presentation
was made at the British Hotel, Geelong.
Devine, who always wore a wide-brimmed
cabbage-tree bat and was the most notable
THE POOR CHILD!
Short-sighted Nurse (interrupted in conversation, seeing Jones whirl past in his
baby Rolls-Roystin ): “My goodness! There goes the pram!”
of Cobb and Co'.’s early drivers, made
several records on Victorian roads. lie was
paid £l7 a week and keep, and his 70-nas-
senger coach was the largest used in Aus-
tralia. He also drove for a time a team ot
22 grey horses —the longest team that ever
pulled a coach on any road.
Racquet and Bawl
“Adelaide”: Geoff Kyffin Thomas (no
relation to R. V.) and Justin O’Dea have
decided to join Gerald O'Dea m retirement
from match tennis. All three have been near
the top in S.A. tennis nearly all this cen-
tury, and have been able to give a. hard
game, especially in doubles, to any visiting
champions. Justin’s tally of over
years as first singles player for the strong
Glen Osmond club is possibly a world s
record.
Me * * *
“Cut Shot”: A sensation has been caused
in the tennis world by the decision of the
French Tennis Federation to transfer the
challenge round of the Davis Cup from! ans
to Brussels. This is the result of the French
Treasury’s decision to levy entertainment-
tax on national and international tennis
tourneys in future, these having been ex-
empted in the past. As the proposed taxation
amounts to 33 per cent, of the gross takings,
the decision of the Federation to hold the
final in Belgium is understandable. Foot-
ball and other field sports are not affected
by the tax. In this connection, the Treasury
is alleged to have got a nasty one off its
chest. Approached by the Federation with
a request that tennis be accorded the same
privileges &s other sports, it dismissed the
application with the freezing comment that
tennis was not a sport.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : After a silence _of
some weeks, the touring troupe of Australian
women tennis-players has turned up in Singa-
pore, accompanied by its faithful chaperon.
The company has played most of the big
stands in Europe, and is now finishing up
with a tour of the “smiills.” It is under-
stood that when the Singapore season is
over the combination will return to Aus-
tralia to disband, there being no more gate-
money to conquer.
* * * *
“Dedans”: How many Australian sport
enthusiasts can name, off-hand, the tennis
champion of Australia? I don’t refer to the
open-air game beloved of youths, flappers and
irascible old women of all sexes and varieties,
but to that ancient and history-laden mystery
which the modern world occasionally refers
to as Royal Tennis. Not many Australians
know that the game still dwells in their
midst, but Melbourne has always kept the
sacred lamp alight, and now boasts the only
specimen existing in Australia of the expen-
sive and elaborate enclosed courts in which
the game is played, with the exception of one
at Hobart. This week the annual tourna-
ment for the Victorian championship will
begin. The holder of the title and the gold
racquet which goes with it is Iv. Tolhurst,
and the runner-up last year, who sports a sil-
ver racquet, is E. C. Dyason. On November
5 the match for the championship of Aus-
tralia will be played between the holder,
Woolner Stone, of Victoria, and Percy Finch,
of Tassy. For the benefit of your “Colonel
Damurize,” it may be stated that Royal
Tennis is about the only game in which
women have never been known to intrude.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Old Q.”: Tlie new president of the
Queensland Golf Association,, Brigadier-
General Jim Cannau, hails from Townsville,
which disputes with Charters Towers the
honor of having harbored the first Queensland
golf club, so that his interest in the royal and
-antient game is easily understandable. Not
exactly on the plus-four mark as a player.
he has done a great deal for golf in the
northern State. A keen volunteer sad later
a C.MIF. man, he commanded a regiment
and then a brigade in the Great War, and
his decorations include the C. 8., C.M.G.,
D.S.O. and Belgian Croix de Guerre. When
not engaged in war and golf, he is a big
man in insurance.
*■ * =l= * *
“Hamilton” : Queensland is losing one of
its best professional golfers in Arthur Spence,
who is leaving the Royal Queensland Club
to take over the job of professional and
coach to the Yarra Yarra Club. Spence has
been very successful as a teacher of golf m
the North, and he is one of the best pro-
fessional players in Australia.. He still holds
the record for the Australian Golf Club
course at Kensington (N.S.W.), made a
couple of years ago in the professional stroke
competition, when he returned a card of 70.
# * * *
“Olaypan”: One-armed golfers are not
uncommon, but few of them have sufficient
control of their game to figure in the handi-
cap lists with players who have both “wings
in good working order. R. B. Dore, of
Queensland, is one who has, and in a stroke
competition at Indooroopilly, near Brisbane,
the other day he went round 18 holes in
86 off the stick?. His handicap was 22—by
no means the highest—so he won the event
with a net card of 64. Incidentally, the
best gross score of the 23 competitors was
75 by a man on the minus-3 mark, so the
excellence of the performance can be appre-
ciated. There is now a suggestion that
Dore and A. M. Epps, another one-armed
player, should be matched.
* * * *
“Baffy”: A knotty problem for the golf
rules experts chopped up on a Sydney course
recently. A tee shot took cover in thick
grass and was played out on to the green.
When he arrived for his putt, the exas-
perated player discovered the ball was not
his. Going back he hunted round until he
found another, and again got it out well.
This time lie found the ball just played was
branded with another man's name. Sup-
pressing his emotions he went back again,
found his own ball, and played out. Then
he was disqualified by the committee under
special rule 8 (2). This allows a player
to play one stroke with someone else s ball
without incurring penalty. If he plays two
consecutive strokes with a wrong ball he is
“for it.” It is a nice question whether
playing two different wrong balls in suc-
cession comes under the law as in this case
made and provided. “Argument proceeding,
as the law-court reports say.
* * * *
“Logan”: Queensland will shortly boast a
golf course which is unique of its kind, as
far as Australia is concerned, at least. This
is being constructed on top of Mount Tam-
bourine, an isolated tabletop mountain some
2000 feet high, with semi-precipitous sides,
about 50 miles south of Brisbane. The
mountain, which is comparatively small in
area, has long been a summer health resort
for Brisbaneites, and is nowadays well sup-
plied with first-class accommodation for
travellers. It is possible in three hours or
so to exchange the sweltering summer heat
of Brisbane for the climate of a high moun-
tain plateau, and the completion of the golf
course should come as a blessing to the
Brisbane addicts of the game, the most
devoted of whom find it hard sometimes to
maintain the real golf spirit in a northern
summer at sea level.
:Jc * * *
“Hoylake”: Reference in a recent Bul-
letin to the charming scenery of a Queens-
land golf course moves me to ask what the
dickens scenery has to do with golf. No
player who values his game can pay. atten-
tion to scenery or anything else that is
likely to interfere with the concentration so
necessary in golf. There is a type of player
who will insist on discussing other mundane
matters than the game, and he is universally
accepted as a nuisance. There is an English
yarn of one who talked incessantly to his
silent opponent all through a round. The
last green was surrounded by a rookery.
“How charming the calling of the rooks is,”
said the talkative one. No answer. The
asininity was repeated in a louder key, and
again there was no reply save a snort, as
the other addressed himself to putt. Once
more the insistent one tried, raising his voice
to a shriek. “No use,” yelled his maddened
auditor, hurling his club after the missed
putt; “I can’t hear a word you say for the
noise of those crows,”
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Hagen is not coming to
Australia after all. No particular reason has
been given for his sudden change of plans,
but it is announced that lie and Farrell
have entered upon a long exhibition tour
of the States. The money offering would
be much better than anything he could pick
up in Australia, and the practical Walter
has never made any secret of the fact that
he likes to go where the money is. There
is a film contract to be fulfilled also, after
which he may at last visit us. The fact
that his abandonment of the proposed tour
has inconvenienced Australian golfing organi-
sations which have been making tentative
arrangements for his arrival will not trouble
Walter at all.
“The McHaggis”: While I agree with
“Fitzwilliam” that there is an clement of
the ridiculous about all modern organised
sport, I must join issue with him over his
assertion (B. 24/10/’2B) that golf was
“originally played by Dutch fishermen on the
banks of the Zuyder Zee.” That is an
atrocious heresy which I have been at some
pains to refute in The Bulletin on more
than one occasion. The case for the Dutch-
men rests solely on paintings by Dutch
artists which date no further back than
the sixteenth century. One of these,
reproduced in “A Golfer's Gallery,” reviewed
some months ago in The Bulletin, shows
several players among the Dutchmen wearing-
kilts, irrefutable evidence that the game
was introduced from Scotland to Holland,
and not vice versa. Furthermore, Scottish
records dating back to the time of
James IV- and earlier show that sums were
allotted the Royal household of those days
for the purchase of golf balls and other gear
for the game. That goes back a couple of
hundred years or so before the date of the
pictures and drawings on which the theory
that the royal and antient game began in
Holland was fabricated.
* * * *
“Wingella”: A new invention reported
from America will help to- prevent the
theft of golf-balls>. It consists of a rubber-
stamp, which prints the name of the golfer
in indelible ink on the ball. The appliance,
which may be carried in the hand, consists
of self-inking pad and stamp. The stamp
is curved to fit the face of the ball, and the
impression will remain for some considerable
time; in fact, the inventor declares it to
be ineffaceable. If so, the sneaker of golf-
balls will find difficulty in disposing of his
spoil.
(Continued on next page.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
{behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Caf£ de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
mm
lllii
Egnl
*■B 1 11 B
1111
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
‘SHOOS 00T
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
World’s Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdaie Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Garry” ; To demonstrate to British motor-
manufacturers the benefits to be gained by
lighter chassis, engine and body construction,
an English investigator, W. G. Aston, re-
cently conducted a series of tests on Brook-
lands track with a six-cylinder A.C. car,
with an engine of 1991 c.c., and weighing,
with two passengers, 23551 b more
than the average English ratio of power to
weight. The car was first put through
various tests in its normal condition and then
loaded up with 13601 b. of old iron, an in-
crease of 57 per cent., when the same tests
were repeated. The maximum speed of the
car, unloaded, was 58 m.p.h.; loaded, 46
m.p.h.—a reduction of 20.7 per cent. From
a standing start, unloaded, the car covered a
mile at 454 m.p.h.; loaded, 36 m.p.h.—a re-
duction of 20.8 per.cent. The effect of load-
ing was most marked on acceleration. Accel-
erating from 10 to 40 miles an hour, using
all gears, unloaded, took 16 3-ssec.; loaded,
36 3-ssec., a retardation of 120 per cent.
When the same test was undertaken on top
gear the figures were 20sec. and 55sec., a
retardation of 175 per cent. Loading gave
only one benefit; it reduced petrol consump-
tion by 13.8 per cent, at average touring
speed.
* * * *
“T.C.McG.”: “Ula” (B. 17/10/’2B) errs
when he states that Levassor “devised the
transmission system which in general prin-
ciple is unaltered to-day.” Actually the selec-
tive gearbox, which is practically universal in
to-day’s chassis, is the invention of Louis
Renault. It was on the completion of his
first road test with this invention that Louis
made his now-famous remark —“Horrible;
but it -works!” The differential gear was
invented by one Starley, an uncle of J. K.
Starlqy, chairman of the Rover Co., of Cov-
entry; who is now in Australia in his co.’s
interests.
* # * *
“L. Gunn” : It is not generally known that
Sir Herbert Austin, the creator of the famous
baby car, learned his trade in South Mel-
bourne. Coming to Australia as a child, he
was later apprenticed to an engineering firm
there. The firm at the time was agent for
Wolseley’s shearing machines, and imported
several of the earliest of that company’s oil
engines, which were somewhat erratic. In
spare moments young Austin strove to over-
come the engine’s defects, and at last suc-
ceeded. The Wolseley people induced him to
go to England, where, on the firm deciding
to attempt motor-car construction, he was
set the task of designing a cai*. This was the
old, long-bonneted Wolseley. Later he formed
the company to make cars under his own
name.
* * * *
“Trembler”: The Whippet is the latest
American car to demonstrate its stamina
and quality. Recently a stock sedan model
was driven from Denver to Chicago, a dis-
tance of 1167 miles, in 26hr. ISmin. The
fastest train running between the two points
takes nearly an hour more to cover a route
124 miles shorter than the road the car was
compelled to take. In spite of bad weather
and indifferent roads, an average speed of
oyer 44 m.p.h. was maintained. The run-
ning average was 25.93 miles per gallon of
petrol, and throughout the journey the radia-
tor needed no water replenishment. The run
is yet another illustration of the threat which
the modern motor vehicle levels at railroad
transportation of passengers and freight.
Even in Australia, where the roads are of
the worst, the rail is feeling the compe-
tition more keenly every year.
* * * *
“Bumper”: The mysteries surrounding
the Robertson automatic gear have been
cleared away by the arrival of full details.
It is a gear of the friction type—not cogged
—and the gear ratio between engine and
driving shaft is infinitely variable between
the limits of 5 to 1 and 20 to 1. An auto-
matic device of the governor type shifts the
gear as engine speed increases until top is
reached. The gear is clutched into action by
the operation of depi’essing the accelerator,
and speed is controlled by raising or depres-
sing the accelerator. The gear can also
be operated by hand, but the necessity for
this feature is not very obvious. The de-
vice . has had practical trial in an 8-h.p.
British car and has given very satisfactory
results. Hills with a grade of 1 to 44
were climbed with ease, and the car was
stopped and restarted on that gradient.
* * * *
“Trike”: The three-wheeler type of cycle-
car is again attracting the attention of
English makers. One or two of them made
an appearance in Australia a few years ago,
but never caught on with motorists. A
recent Brooklands meeting showed a variety
of makes, and some of the cars put
up good performances. A Morgan 545 c.c.
was particularly speedy, averaging 94.5 miles
over a six miles run ; on e lap was done at
the rate of 98.04 m.p.h. These cars are
selling in Englarxd at about £lOO, and have
a fairly large air-cooled motor-cycle engine
and a two-seater body.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Two Australian road records
for unpaced bikes were broken when F.
Ivei’z, amateur long-distance champion of
N.S.W., set new figures for 50 and 100 miles
the other day. The route was a stiff one, from
Mount Victoria (NIS.W.) over the Blue
Mountains to Penrith, and thence to Ash-
field. His riding time for the 100 miles was
4hr. 47min. 6 4-ssec., and he is the first
Australian to cover the -distance under 5
hours. The 50 miles was covered in 2hr.
3min. 30sec. The unpaced world’s record is
4hr. lSrnin. 34 l-ssec., put up on the perfect
roads of England last year by Lautwesser.
America’s best time is shr. smin. ssec.,
so it can be seen that the Australian’s per-
formance puts him in the front rank for
this class of cycling. His average was 24
m.p.h. for the 50, and 21 m.p.h. for the
100 miles.
Miscellaneous
“Market-street”: “I’m orf th’ bettin’ game
for good,” said Spidei’, looking gloomily into
his empty pewter. “Swear off bettin’!”
cried his amazed mate. “Yer’ll be signin’
tlier flamin’ pledge nex’. Wot’s it orl erbout,
anyway?” “Me luck’s stiller than er Sydnee
alderman’s,” replied the fed-up one. “Ev’ry
time I backs er Weedin’ ’orse ther owner
sits down and scratches ’im. Ev’ry time I
’as er bit on er dorg ther cow sits down
an’ scratches ’isself.”
* * * *
“Long Dog” : The friends of the tin hare
continue to grow commendably less. The
latest centre to tire of the cheap gambling
agency is Shanghai, where the Chinese
authorities have begged the controllers of the
international settlement to wipe it out.
Crime committed to get the money for a sure
thing at the dogs lias become appallingly
common, while the suicide rate, always high
in China, has gone up like a rocket. A gamp
which is crook enough to drive a Chinaman
to suicide seems about the limit, and its
continued existence in N.S.W., under one
guise or another, is not particularly credit-
able to the responsible authorities.
* if $ *
“The Gaffer”: A notable long-distance run
was put up the other day at Madison-square
Garden in New York by El Ouafi, the Arab
winner of the last Olympic Marathon. Run-
ning . against Ray, who gave the great
Nurmi some good races when the latter visited
the United States a couple-of years ago, Ouafi
covered the Marathon distance of 26 miles
400 yards, in 21irs. 44min. It is good going,
but American J. C. Miles did better at Bos-
ton two years ago, when he took only 2hrs.
25min. 40 2-ssec. for the journey. Both Ray
and Ouafi were making their first appearance
as professional runners. The Arab is not
the fu-st Olympic champion to yield to the
call of cash when fame has been established
as an amateur.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The termination of the
Rugby League’s monopoly of the Sydney
Cricket Ground has brought to light the fact
that the trustees exceeded their powers in
giving any body an exclusive right 'to the
ground during the winter. If anyone had
gone to the expense and trouble of challeng-
ing the League’s lease in the courts, can-
cellation would have followed.
J. EDMOND, owner of the Caulfield
Guineas winner, Balmerino.
“Everton”: They take their Soccer foot-
ball seriously in England. Last month the
Bedfordshire Association closed the ground
of the Arlesey club for three months, while
an engaging damsel of 20 summers, rejoicing
in the name of Dora Monk, was barred from
attending any match in Bedfordshire during
the 1928-29 football season. The club got
its poultice for permitting a Donnybrook
during and after a match; Dora got hers
because she took a willing and prominent
part in the thing—she walloped one of
the opposition with a horsewhip.
“Backwoodsman”: English sporting jour-
nals have been giving prominence to the case
of B. Arnold, who played his daily game of
bowls as usual on his 104th birthday. The
old gentleman was interviewed, of course,
and among other remarks declared that strict
temperance was the secret of his long life and
good health. There are bowlers who would
consider the veteran’s score of 104 not out as
hardly worth while under the conditions laid
down by him.
* * * *
“Rummy”: Maoriland is holding its
annual bowling championships at Welling-
ton early in January, and a host of Aus-
tralian athletes are now busy having their
“woods” fitted with a bit of extra bias, or
straightened up a trifle, as fancy and their
particular style of play prompt. For the first
time in the histoi-y of bowling visits between
the two Dominions, swearing and gambling
will be banned fiunx the greens, in conformity
with the new rules and regxxlations adopted
by the M.L. body. However, matters might
be worse. The ’ rules say nothing about
abstention from alcohol.
sfc *!» :|= $
“Bed”: “Tickle” Whyte, the Victorian dis-
tance runner and Olympic representative, has
taken up his quarters in Sydney, and will
turn out in future with Botany Harriers.
Whyte was one of the unlucky ones of the
A.P.F. CHAPMAN, captain of the visiting
English Eleven.
Australian team at the Olympiad, and never
got a chance to do himself justice. At his
best, he is one of the finest half-milers Aus-
tralia has seen.
* >1 : * *
“Colonel Damurize”: I am glad to see
that someone has had the courage to attempt
the stemming of the tide of feminine intru-
sion on sport and games generally. The other
day a body styling itself the Victorian Ladies’
Amateur Swimming Association declined to
recognise the authority of the Victorian body
controlling swimming, and publicly denied
that it was affiliated with the, old thing. The
authorities have promptly disqualified the
rebels, and have formed a new association
for women swimmers, to be known as the
League. Members of this will have to sign
an agreement to abide by the decisions of the
governing body, and only those who do will
be allowed to compete in amateur swimming
events under the Victorian Association’s aus-
pices, in Victoria or out of it?. That ought
to give the cats something to think about.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: That writer who be-
wailed the retirement of “Boy” Charlton
because of the cash loss the swimming
authorities would sustain (B. 24/10/’2B) is
not alone as regax-ds his outlook. Another
Sydney sci'ibe, treating of the retirement of
sprinter Jim Carlton from the running
track, puts by tears for curses. He asks
passionately what on earth is the good of
spending money on such persons to enable
them to attend the Olypipic Games if they
ungratefully retire as soon as they get back
to Australia. The idea that a crack ama-
teur athlete is like a “meal-ticket” per-
former at the ponies, and must go out
for a. spin whenever the stable wants him
to, seems to be quite a popular one nowa-
days.
❖ * H: ' sjs
“Koolonga”: Gustav Froelich, who made
this country’s best swimmers look like hacks
last season, is putting in some good work in
Melbourne as a professional coach. Speed-
swimmers have been training for several
weeks in Victoria —the coming season
promises to be a hard one—and the result
of first-class coaching is already showing
on the. champions and neai’-champions who
pati’onise the little German. His methods
are unique in that he disregards “style” and
decries “prettiness” as a l’esult-getter. It’s
a great pity more coaches don’t do that.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sunny Jim”: The top price for Melbourne
city property since the land boom of 1888-93
has been given by Simpson and Davenport,
the chemists, for part of Cole’s Book Arcade,
running from Collins-street nearly half-way
through to Little Collins-street. The front-
age is 20ft. 6in. and the depth 120 ft.; and
the price was £54,000, or £2034 a foot. In
1893 a little block on the corner of Collins
and Elizabeth streets cost the Equitable Life
of New York £2500 a foot.
❖ * * ❖
“Weeta”: A useful Sydney industry is the
making of rope and twine. The fibre is
imported—some of it comes from Maoriland
—and the rope manufactured is second to
none. It is used in the Australian Navy and
by many foreign ships; it is even making
its way abroad—shipments have been sent as
far as Copenhagen. The twine is equally
good. Yet large shops in Sydney still go in
for imported twine.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The biggest factory building in
Adelaide city is getting busy again. Erected
by Holdens, it has been idle for two years
or so since the vast motor-body-building en-
terprise was concentrated at Woodville; now
Myers have bought it for an adjunct to the
Marshall business which the Melbourne con-
cern recently acquired.
* # ❖ *
“F.M.”; Tell “Clerget” (B. 10/10/’2B)
that in fuel value four tons of wet megass
equal one ton of coal. Plans for the manu-
facture of celotex in Queensland were origi-
nated by Australians. There has been no
hitch over the price of megass, patents or
anything else. The Australian co. has simply
followed a wise policy of developing demand,
so that the factories maj be kept busy when
they are started. As a rule, there is too
much talk about production and too little
about consumption.
$ # Si* *
“Brady’s Forest” : A couple of factories on
the Derwent Valley (Tas.) line are working
up a good trade in axe, pick and other kinds
of handles, using blue-gum and leather-wood.
Clothes-pegs made from green sassafras sea-
soned in a few days by a patent process are
also turned out by the million. As all this
timber is carried on the Government railway
from Fitzgerald, about 30 miles away, the
State revenue benefits.
* * * *
“Jonah”: While Zane Grey and others
have been making much of the swordfish as
a game fish, other countries capture him for
market and reap a good harvest. The mari-
time provinces of Canada specialise in this
form of fishing, and last year they put
500,0001 b. of swordfish on. the market.
Maoriland waters land Australian in some
parts) swarm with the big fellows, which are
never used for anything but manure or bait
Attention to the beast as an edible commodity
should be worth while.
if * * *
“Stellsby”: The Age lauds the Hogan
Government (Vic.) for “making an earnest
effort to put our highly important timber
industry on a satisfactory footing.” Yet at
the High School now going up on the old
pig-market site all the door- and sash-frames
are made of imported pine; Australian
material didn’t get a look in.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Clapp’s new goods line between
South Kensington and Tottenham via Foots-
cray is now in running order. The link
is four miles long; it includes half a mile
tube railway underneath a Footscray street.
The idea is to relieve congestion on suburban
lines by assembling all country goods trains
in the proposed Tottenham goods yard. Goods
trains from the Bendigo and Ballarat lines
will be diverted to the South Ken.-Totten-
ham duplication : northern and north-eastern
freight traffic will be brought to Tottenham
along the Broadmeadows-Albiou link, which
will not be completed until late next year.
* * * *
“Melos”: At Ballina (N.S.W. North
Coast) works have been established for con-
verting oyster-shell into tiles, poultry-grit
and fertilisers. Great mounds of shell,
evidently collected by old-time abos., are
available; in fact, the supply appears to
be inexhaustible. The tiles have a very
high polish, and there should not be
any difficulty in getting a market for them.
The crushed shell (fertiliser) should be in
demand in districts where the lime content
of the soil is deficient. Local gardeners have
given it a trial and found it satisfactory 1 .
Shell fertiliser absorbs atmospheric moisture
equal to its own weight in a very short time.
* * * *
“Teller” : World tourists must be a care-
less or a gullible lot. Hardly a week passes
without Australian bankers being advised
that a letter of credit issued to Hiram P.
Mcßeef, of Chicago, or Ibanez Dumaresqy
Ortega, of Lima, or Takashi Yasui, of Naga-
saki, has been lost, mislaid or stolen. In
such cases the head offices of most of the
world’s big banks are advised, and these in
turn circularise their branches, and so it
goes on until there is a chain of correspon-
dence linking the continents.


ë
BROADLY speaking, the measure of any
\ man’s success is the size of the public
behind him.
He grows as his public grows—as his acts
are approved in increasing volume by an
increasing public.
These few words tell almost all there is to
the Chrysler story —or give, at any rate, the
root-reason why Chrysler looms large on
the motor car horizon. Chrysler is present-
ing at this moment a group of cars sparkling
and shining with newness of performance
and appearance —cars which have again
captivated their public.
These brilliant new Chrysler cars have been
in process of creation for two years—they
will exert their influence upon the design of
all other motor cars for several years to come.
Chrysler has never halted or
hesitated, because Chrysler is free
and has no obligations to anyone
ē
but its own public—no limit except the
limit of its own creative powers, its own
energy and enthusiasm, its own faith in the
boundless resources of the nation*
Chrysler quite frankly confesses its inten-
tion to try to surpass other cars and other
manufacturers—quite frankly admits an en-
thusiastic ambition for continued leadership
in value giving—quite frankly intends to
leave nothing undone to earn and deserve
and hold the greatest motor car public in
all the world*
This, it seems to the Chrysler management,
is the urgent need of every manufacturing
institution which aspires to satisfy a swift-
moving public—to realise that it does move,
that yesterday is dead, that laurels wither,
that today is gloriously alive, that
tomorrow calls clamourously for
greater and greater endeavour*
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. AustO. T. Rod da Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide •
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas : Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


.ioyal
•airant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
King
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Chaifelleiieclt
MMWMB
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
OariesHeidsie^
Reims
-g2?
PELLISSO N
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrer is—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ĕ
7hp cen/ne o/ Queens/andi
''c/is/mjfuished Soc/o/ Life.
(23
emorn
WM
ROTCTR
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Lines.
Unexcelled for
Convenience
Main
Theatres
situated
nearby.
Right
opposite
Railway
Station.
\a^A
■c
Handy to
main
public
buildings.
Conveni-
ently near
Shopping
Centres.
No hotel in Adelaide is so conveniently
located as The Grosvenor, and none
offers better service or greater comfort.
Tariff from £3 10/-.
Write for information booklet.
GROSVENOR
r cJldelwdes Finest Unlicensed FioteL
Opp. Railway Sin. North Terrace. c MSwifl -Manager
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Bishop D*Arcy-Irvine last week sought
St. Philip’s for his marriage with Florence
Gertrude Angus. It is the Bishop’s second
venture into the holy estate, but the lady’s
first. The new Mrs. D’Arcy Irvine has
pretty white hair, is tall, pleasant-faced and
-voiced, and for her wedding wore soft grey
frocking. She has been a family friend for
many years, and at her wedding was
attended by the Bishop’s daughter, Dorothy,
and her great friend the Herbert Maitland
widow.
Dances are being laid away in lavender,
There is talk of both the Wentworth and
the Ambassadors going into recess for a cool-
off and a brace-up. Committees are feel-
ing jaded, and the social organiser is turn-
ing her attention to that summer money-
spinner, the fete. One of the few big dances
last week was the Royal Life Saving
Society’s party at the Ambassadors; and the
star turn was the presentation by Premier
Bavin of three mqdals for distinguished ser-
vice to the society. The breasts which had
the decorations pinned on them were the
property of Kelso King, fairy godfather to
the life-savers; D. Douglas, treasurer for two
years, and for five years chairman; and
S. G. Cunningham, who has (for love)
worked hard as an instructor to members
for 37 years. The Premier came at ten, and
daughter Shirley arrived about the same
time. Both had been at a rehearsal of “To
Have the Honor”; but the daughter’s book
of words was by A. A. Milne, and father’s by
Assistant-Treasurer Stevens. Despite her
lord’s worrying time, Mrs. Bavin looked very
well in black velvets. Mrs. Kelso King, who
was the Bavin family’s hostess, wore black
georgettes, much beaded. Flight-Commander
Garnet Malley and his wife entertained a
party, of which the Ulms and an aeroplane
of red roses and blue delphiniums were the
striking features.
The wall at the back of the stage in the
Education Department’s Gallery throbbed
with color the other afternoon when Knight
Henry Braddon opened this year's Arts
and Crafts Show. A young man who repre-
sented Peace or Pan, or maybe both, with
his head in a cloud of golden flame, seemed
to be illustrating the time spoken of by
the Prophet when the lion and the lamb
shall lie down together, but having got his
zoological specimens mixed lie had a lion,
a leopard and a puma crooning at his feet.
It is a striking piece of work, broidered in
finest silks cn glowing velvets. Mrs. G. IT.
Nelson’s was the patient hand that made
the innumerable stitches, and the allegorical
design was by W. E. Spradbury. Ebbing
and flowing about this seventh wave of color
were 'quiet etchings and camera studies by
Eirene Mort, Mrs. A. M. Parsons, Helen
Farmer. Mrs. B. Job and Mrs. Ilewett.
Painted shawls, scarves and evening coats,
vivid and picturesque as old Stamboul
sounds, are exhibited by Mrs. Noble Wallace
and Mrs. Dalgarno. The old-fashioned cross-
stitch of which the Armenians make such
use in their embroideries has been worked
into delightful pictures, illustrative of mot-
toes, by Mrs. G. 'Henry. Perhaps they are
the butterfly that the grubby little sampler
worked by grandmama turned into. Bryam
Mansell excels not only with his shawls and
scarves, but in the charming names with
which he christens them. Some screens of
his, too, would change the corner of even
the dullest room to a place for dreams.
Hand-woven scarves and kerchiefs have a
suggestion of Scottish moors and Irish glens
about them, along with the durability of an
heirloom in the making. The great Ada
Newman shows china. Others who are
steadily coming on to greatness are respon-
sible for filling the two big rooms with
beauty.
But Avhy buttress Henry Braddon’s open-
ing- words by two little orange-trees heavy
with fruit? Oranges have the pip; and the
Knight of the Woolly Bales is never any-
thing but suave.
Xenia Belmas, the dramatic soprano who
was given no chance to appear during the
Grand Opera season, burst into bloom for
Sydney audiences during last week. Her
husband (Dr. Alexander Kitchin) and
Laurence Godfrey Smith supplied the ac-
companiments to a group of arias and songs
amazing in their variety, and Puccini and
Beethoven were sung with equal force and
charm. Her frock deserves a word. It was
of black taffetta chiffon, a stiffish, outstand-
ing fabric, made with a spreading skirt of
tlie period beloved by Lanvin, from whose
fashion storehouse it came. The little tight
bodice was snugly enfolded in a sleeveless
jacket, bordered with white velvet camellias.
The singer, whose looks are vivid rather than
classical, seemed to make the unusual frock
part of herself. And that is the secret of
wearing one’s fig-leaves to advantage, as the
snake told Eve at the original Fall dress
display.
All the girls in Sydney, so it seemed,
were squeezed beneath the roof of the Con-
servatorium on a night last w T eek. Dis-
turbing waves of them surged across the
footlights and threatened to submerge the
complacency of a chorus of Rotarians waiting
to do their bit. For these young women
walking across the stage were sure, capably
attractive—they were the eports girls of the
Y.W.C.A., and they mixed Ancient Greece,
Mediaeval Italy, Victorian England and the
world of to-day in as palatable an anach-
ronism as might be found. The entertain-
ment set out to be a pageant of Y.YV.C.A.
girlhood, and was programmed as “The Girls
of the Blue Triangle.”
At the “Persian Garden” matinee last week
Mrs. Norman Lowe had all the honor and
none of the scratches—if ever there are any
at a Society “charity.” The big event of the
afternoon was A. A. Milne’s “To Have the
Honor,” and the comedy came as, a pleasant
surprise to the not-too-packed audience. There
was not one uneducated voice on the stage.
Prince Michael and Jennifer had quite a pro-
fessional ease, and Erna Living proved very
charming against a background of affluence.
Shirley Bavin, too, did her very little very
well. In the interval, while the stage was
being prepared for the part of the show she
was producing, Mrs. Norman Lowe came out
and told about a tiger-hunt—told of its
thrills and its tremors in an animated manner
from an aura of rose-pink chiffons and a hat
cut small enough to display her velvety eyes.
Then Omar burst on the ear and the vision.
The costumes and stage setting were glitter-
ing and spectacular, and a young beauty,
Sheila Waugli, was the lady underneath the
bough. The balance of color in this living
picture was admirably sustained, and in this
the assisting hand of Sir Hugh Poynter was
no doubt felt. The profits go to the Deaf and
Dumb and Blind appeal; and quite the most
touching item of the afternoon was the music
of a small blind boy’s violin.
Lewisham Hospital is getting on in years.
It had its 39th annual meeting last week, and
Minister for Health Dr. Arthur caused an
outburst of applause when he announced
that he was amazed at the economy with
which the institution was run. “It makes
me wish to steal the' head of this institution
and place her as overseer of all the hospitals
in my charge.” Mother Provincial, of
Lewisham, is still blushing, and wondering if
that tribute evoked the response of over
£lOOO that immediately followed.
The distinction of being probably the only
Australian girl to be trained in stage work
by Mrs. Patrick Campbell belongs to Lucille
Bruntnell, the
girl in-this pic-
ture. Lucille,
who is a daugh-
ter of Mr.
Bavin’s lieu-
tenant, went to
London nearly
three years ago
to study elocu-
tion and the
drama at the
Royal Acad-
em y. The
groundwork
had been wed
laid by Sydney
teachers, and
she received
great praise
for her work
in the stage
tests necessary
before admis-
sion as a §tu-
dent of the Academy. It was later on she
sought inspiration and polish from Mrs.
Patrick Campbell, the still-famed beauty
actress of a former generation. Towards the
end of November Miss Bruntnell will give
her first recital in Sydney.
Is the wreath that hangs high above a
man-o’-war whenever there’s a wedding in
the family a stock affair? Or is it newly
strung each time? But even if the garland
is a stock rejoicing, it was hung out for
the first time on 11.H.A.5. Australia the
other morning in honor of Engineer-Lieut.
Otto Francis McMahon, for whose wedding
with Tempe Joan Farquhar every .sword of
the quarterdeck had got an extra ration of
knife polish. The matrimonial skiff was
launched at St. Mark’s, in Darling Point,
by Canon Howard Lea. The atmosphere was
charged with the aloofness of white arum
lilies linked with deep-green ribbons'. Tempe
Joan, who is an only daughter, was handed
up the aisle by Arthur Farquhar, of the
C.S.R. service at Fiji. A veil of tulle and
filmy lace and a train of tulle billowed about
the bride like a masterpiece of fairy floss;
and the ankle-length frock was of deep cream
lace and chiffon. With this went a bouquet
fashioned like a miniature flowering rose-
bush. From a long green stalk burst green
stems crowded with golden roses. Enid
McMahon and Edna Carr maided in daffodil
yellow chiffons and hats of the same tone,
and carried bouquets which were long stiff
stems of delphinium pierced by one golden
daffodil. From these bouquets fell a corn-
flower chain threaded like a child's daisy
chain. Three little Early-Victorians in
bouncy yellow organdie followed; and
Lieutenant ,C. Clarke and Surgeon-Lieu-
tenant Downward were the 'groom’s aides.
Afterwards at the Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion’s clubhouse at Rusheutter’s Bay. the
bride’s mother took the helm in navy blurt.
Hollywood studios are responsible for this
happy picture of Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, who
is putting her musical knowledge and her
well-known energy into the affairs of the
Queen Victoria
Club. This
quiet, pleasant
group of
women has
done much to
encourage the
young musi-
cians of this
city, not oifly
with words
but with solid
buying of tic-
kets for reci-
tals. The Raw-
son Institute,
St. Andrew’s
Guild, the Blue
tearoom in
Rowe - street
which is run
for the benefit
of the Angli-
can Missions,
and Burdekin
House when Prince Alfred’s benefited by its
teas and lunches have reason to be grateful
for good work done on their behalf by the
energetic and capable little lady.
Mary Phillips, a Neutral Bay girl, last
week became Mrs. Adrian Slade, of Ellan-
gowan, Darling Downs (Q.). The Carlton
saw a gathering of the wedding guests, the
bride’s mother, Mrs. Claud Phillips, doing
the honors. First Katoomba and then
Colombo supply the honeymoon.
Another of the week’s life-mergers was
signed and sealed by Mamie Gibbs, of
Yaucluse, and Harold Manion, of Dulwich
Hill. Toasts at the Wentworth.
Valrnai Crisp, of Lindfield, and Romney
Fairfax Smyth, of Gordon, linked hands and
hearts and income-tax returns at St. James’s
last week. Dean Talbot and Padre J. F. S.
Russell launched the matrimonial venture
on a full choral tide. The bride, clad in clotli-
of-silver, was followed by two grass-green
’maids. Later Mr. and Mrs. 11. J. Crisp
presided over a monster rally of friends at
the Dungowan.
Doris Vale, only daughter of the Fred
Vales of Kirribilli. has had a diamond stand-
off signal slipped into position by Ernest de
Tourret, only, son of the Ernest de Tourrets.
Letters from Paris tell of Kathleen
(“Girlie”) Hollingdale’s engagement to
Captain John Ravel, of the Indian Army.
Captain John is an old friend, but it is
only this time that he has been able to per-
suade the Sydney girl that a home in Eng-
land is not too far from Australia. Just
now Kathleen, mother, two sisters and her
solicitor brother (Freehill, Hollingdale and
Col ) are motoring through Europe. When
they return in January they will have been
away a year.
The latest old couple who in death were
not divided were old Redfern identities,
Frederick T. Pantlin, wliq was 87, and his
wife, two years younger. They died within
two hours of each other. Both were born in
Poplar, London, and came to Australia when
they were children, 74 years ago.
The ink was scarcely dry on that para-
graph before Elijah Basham and his wife
Miriam, residents of Crow’s Nest, added theirs
to the list of dual deaths'. Mrs. Basham had
not been informed of her husband’s passing
when within 24 hours she joined him, and
they were buried together. Mr. Basham was
first of all a Sussex-street merchant and
later in business in Taree, but retired some
years ago. He was born in England in 1854
and his wife was two years younger.
It was after the spectacular race in which
Limerick and Winalot had run a dead heat.
The lady was standing four-square in front
of the anguished bookie while a muttering
crowd of collectors grew restive behind her.
She was flourishing a ticket under the
bookie’s nose and wailing, “But this says six
to one!” “Yes,” replied the man, “but you
see it was a dead heat, so you only get
three to one.” “But you sold me this
ticket on Limerick, and it says six to one,”
repeated the fair one suspiciously. “Yes,
but you see Limerick and Winalot ran a
dead heat,” patiently explained the man with
the bag, thrusting four notes towards her.
“Well, aren’t you going to give me six to
one?” persisted the lady, drawing back in
an aggrieved manner from the four notes.
“Oh, Madam, don't you understand it was
a dead heat!" “Well, all I can say is its
very funny,” flung hack the punter, gall
and vitriol in her tone; “it wasn’t a dead
heat when I backed it!”
The other night, at the Criterion, Irene
Homer had just whispered her way through
the second act when a large American
gentleman, breezing down from the front
stalls, stopped to greet a medical friend in
the unreserveds. “Hello, Doctor,” he boomed j
“isn’t this Patsy a sure little heart-winner?
The doctor pulled the other to him and said
cautiously: “Well, I don’t know —I heard
something like a heart murmur, but I didn’t
bring my stethoscope.”
On November 9 that good friend of the
city's poor, Miss Boswell, will he at home in
the crypt under St. James’s to take over all
the old but still wearable suits or half-suits
you can spare. Boots will receive a special
welcome.
At Muswellbrook a few days ago Miss
Ruth White, in the presence of the members
of the committee of Brentwood hospital,
handed over her home, Buralee, as quarters
for the nurses. The home, with nearly an
acre of land hard by the hospital, is valued
at £BOOO, and was completely renovated and
furnished by the donor—a splendid gift.
Shura Cherkassky, the boy pianist who
is helping the fortunes of concert manager
Gravestock, will sandwich two concerts in
the Town Hall between his return from
Maoriland and his departure for New York.
The first will be given (Nov. 1) with the
assistance of the N.S.WI Orchestra, W.
Arundel Orchard conductor.
Not many of us in Australia remember
that in our island outposts Australian fathers
and mothers are bringing up families whose
members have little chance to become
acquainted with the amenities of life as the
Aussie kiddie knows them. So there is some-
thing more than ordinarily appealing in the
cry published in a recent Rabaul Times for
subscriptions towards a Christmas-tree for
the youngsters who have their being in that
faraway spot, Rabaul. The plea has been
put forward by members of the Rabaul Club,
who especially ask that the names of all
European children in the district should be
• forwarded to them before the final boat goes
to the South which will enable orders sent
for toys, etc., to eventuate in Rabaul before
Christmas. The appeal is addressed to Rabaul
citizens only, but Australians with Island
interests, and any others to whom the situa-
tion of a lonely and isolated band of child-
ren appeals, might well help. Any effort in
that direction would be welcomed by the sec-
retary of the club at Rabaul, Mr. Brinston,
though neither he nor the club have had any
idea of appealing to outsiders. The sugges-
tion is The Bulletin’s.
Ernest Watt is on the Moldavia, which
is ploughing Sydney wards through the Red
Sea. His trip to England was necessitated
by the serious illness of daughter Pauline,
erstwhile-partner of Jocelyn Gaden and
Hera Roberts in a fashionable battery. The
invalid is now convalescing in the depths of
the English country.
From “A.G.M.” in London :
No wedding of the last two years has been so
much talked about in London as that of the Earl
of Bective to Rupert Clarke’s widow, which took
place on September 18 at the Brompton Oratory, one
of the most beautiful R.C. churches in the metropolis.
The presence of so many Clarkes and Fairbairns,
Clive Millers, Armytages and Moules brought in a
very distinct Australian atmosphere, further
strengthened by Mrs. Falconer Macdonald, Mrs.
Anthony Hordern, Mr. and Mrs, R. G. Casey, Lord
Richard Nevill and Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh. They
were all quite at home among the flower of the
aristocracy, which included Prince George of Russia,
Princess Kourakine and Constance Duchess of West-
minster, cousin of the bridegroom. Instead of wear-
ing the usual shy and self-conscious faces familiar
to such occasions, the bride and bridegroom were
the soul of jollity, and laughed and chatted with
the crowds on the church steps. There was one
unusual little incident—the bride, on arrival at the
Oratory, was helped from her car, not by the
customary close friend of the family, but by a
courteous policeman, whose easy gallantry she
acknowledged with a beaming smile.
A Sydney woman goes to Dublin: —
There were few traces of Australia on the day I
went out to see the Horse Show at Ballsbridge,
Dublin. The only “native” I could pick out on
the grandstand was Michael O’Loghlen, Australian-
born son of the Irish baronet who was once a political
leader in Victoria, and whose sisters were the
bosom friends of the late Rupert Clarke’s first wife.
The decorations of Dublin for the occasion and for
the Tailteann Games were very effective and unusual.
From the electric-light standards in all the principal
streets, about 10ft. from the ground, hung circular
wire baskets filled with pots of flowers in all colors.
Here and there at the base of public statues and
other suitable spots, beds of flowers and shrubs had
been arranged, and all along the edge of the footpaths
were Venetian masts flying the Free State flag and
blue and gold flag of Queen Tailte. Thousands of
visitors and competitors at the games were wearing
the ancient Irish dress. A band of harps was one
of the great attractions on the opening day.


s*?
J
¥
m
4
Simply Adorable.
“4711” Eau de Cologne, the perfume exquisite, dainty,
alluring, with a lasting fragrance subtly suggestive of
orange blossoms and romance. An unequalled deodorant,
a delightful restorative in moments of nervousness or
exhaustion. Inhale from the handkerchief or dab on
wrists and temples. But be sure you have the genuine
with the blue and gold label.
Obtainable from all leading chemists and departmental stores.
Eaude
mi
0


tn
%
Bottles of 36, 2/3
Bottles of 100,4/9
The SAFE Way to Health!
Pure Yeast is recognised by the medical
profession as wholly beneficial and harmless
in its action. Yeaston Tablets are pure,
living yeast . They contain no or
chemicals. They build health in the safe,
sure way.
Do not confuse the action of bromide tablets
with the safe, natural benefits of pure yeast.
Start a course of Yeaston Tablets tO'day.
Look for the letters “ROX which are stamped on each
genuine Yeaston Tablet.
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
“Yeaston,” Box 2682 EE, G.P.0., Sydney
“A clear spotless
skin denotes
health from within.”
e
“Nature's
Corrective
Tonic Food”
Melbourne
Chatter
The tears of youth mingled with the
rain on Saturday morning, for Henley re-
gatta promised to be a wash-out. But the sun
found its way through the clouds after
luncheon, and flappers put on their organ-
dies and flowered voiles (though these must
be hidden under top-coats- at the outset, the
weather threatening treachery), and hied
them to the Yana. The house-boats moored
by the Heuley lawns fluttered gay pennons
and festoons, bands and string orchestras
made music, and hundreds of brightly colored
canoes were paddled by youths in flannels,
while their fair freight in bright frocks- —
some sleeveless —lolled amid gorgeous cus-
hions, or leisurely changed the records of
portable gramophones, which were well to
the fore. The Japanese umbrella was also
much in evidence. Vikings and pirates in
appropriately camouflaged craft shared the
river with persons more peacefully clad who
floated in flower-covered gondolas. Visiting
racing crews found many barrackers, and
Mosman got a full measure of applause for
again carrying off the Grand Challenge Cup.
Window boxes of feathery flowers and
foliage surrounded the pale yellow and blue
houseboat with its sky blue curtains on
which Mayor and Mayoress Morell took their
stance. She wore a cream and brown crepe-
de-Chine frock beneath a mole cape, and a
black hat. Sheila Morell’s pretty lemon-
colored jersey suit was covered with a fawn
cloth coat, with same-toned millinery. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Napier, General Chauvel,
Cady Headley, the H. H. Smiths, the
Richard Lintons, and Mayor-elect Luxton
and his wife took tea on the civic houseboat.
During the afternoon the Governor-Gen-
eral and Lady Stonehaven, who had attended
the Moonee Valley races, joified a party on
the red and green houseboat of George Fair-
bairn, president of the Regatta Association.
There was such a crush at the Moonee
Valley Cup meeting that it was only be-
tween events that one could get a glimpse
of the red, white and pink roses that bor-
dered the straight. There were many pretty
gowns beneath cloth coats and fur wraps,
but the weather was too wintry to allow of
them being exposed to view. The chairman
and committee entertained the G.-G. and
Lady Stonehaven and many other guests at
luncheon. Her Ex. wore under her coat of
black Persian lamb, sable collared, a frock
of beige hue, and her hat also was black.
The gardens of Bulla provided the masses of
wonderful roses that decked the damask.
The Premier and Mrs. Hogan were there, she
having a black velvet coat and hat. Among
those who paced the lawn were Mrs. Oscar
Lempriere, who topped a fawn tweed suit,
with a toque of reseda green; Mrs. J. Lillies ;
Mrs. Ben Lempriere. in sapphire blue; the
Norman Falkiners, the R. M. Cuthbertsons,
Mrs. Hill and the Briens.
Dame Nellie Melba gave a farewell tea-
party at Coombe Cottage, Coldstream, last
week, and though the weather was cold and
threatening the limousines and sedans of the
very nicest people of the city and country-
side rolled through the iron gates in a steady
stream. Then the sun shone forth and the
glory of the diva’s garden could be enjoyed,
the tall hedges affording welcome protection
against a wintry breeze. An avenue of tall
slim cypress-trees leads to a pale green
Roman bathing-pool beside a pergola-covered
walk, at this season all white and mauve
blossoms. Where cypress and laurel do not
divide the grounds into sections, roses of
every tint from white to purple form the line
of demarcation. The long, low, white and
green bungalow is overgrown in places with
Virginia creeper, and the flat roof is covered
with wistaria and climbing white and pink
roses. Within are Melba’s treasures —old
furniture, china and crystal; rare fans which
form a unique screen; wonderful curios in
glass-cases, and pictures of great value.
.Arum lilies, crimson gladioli and tulips made
a gala show, and glowing fires everywhere
emphasised the note of comfort.
Among the 400 guests were the Governor-
General and Lady Stonehaven, her Ex., who
has just returned from England, looking par-
ticularly well. Her lime-green felt hat was
worn with a beige pink frock and a coat
of brown and gold patterned velvet. Beneath
a caped coat of black velvet, fur-collared,
Dame Nellie showed a sparkle of I’opes of
diamonds upon a black gown embroidered
in cream. Her hat was of felt and shiny
straw. Mrs. George Armstrong, who was
co-bostess, was in a cloth gown of apple-
green, and white camellias wreathed her
pastel-green hat. Her small daughter, Pamela,
was in a dainty frock of organdie and lace of
apricot shades. Elena Danieli, who was
heard in song, after which there was danc-
ing, braved Ihe wind for a time in floral
chiffon, but soon added a fawn coat. Tea
was spread in a marquee. Lady Duciiliam,
whose husband is the biggest of the “Big
Four,” was a striking figure in black and
white, and her daughter Phyllis was in
reseda green. Irene Vanbrugh’s large hat
shaded a tailored coat of grey tweed. Irvine.
C. J., and his lady; the Frank Clarke lady,
arrayed in suit of mushroom pink with mil-
linery to match; Mrs. Reggie Power, Mrs.
Russell Grimwade, the Robert Edies, the
R. S. Whitings, Mrs. A. V. Kewney and
Mrs. T*. A. Tabart were in the throng.
Madame de Bavay was there with her
daughter Vera, whose red hat had contrast
in a black velvet wrap. Other guests were
Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt; Mrs. .lames Purves.
in a kolinsky fur wrap and nigger-brown
felt hat; Mr. and Mrs. A. V. lliskens and
daughter Lorna; and Tommy Cochran, who
was bidding his friends good-bye on the eve
of his departure for South Africa,
Logan House, the Toorak home of the
Leslie Stuarts, wore a festive air one night
last week, the ballroom and other apartments
being lent for a dance to gath r funds for
the radium ward of Melbourne Hospital. Un-
fortunately Mrs. Stuart was unable to be
present owing to a family bereavement, so
Mrs. Harold Newbigin, wearing a black lace
robe, took over the role of hostess. The
attendance was somewhat disappointing.
With the idea of giving the affair a Bohemian
flavor the committee had announced that
pierrot and pierrette costumes would be wel-
comed, but only a trio of good-looking girls
wore this attire, and one of them, on seeing
how matters stood, exchanged her fancy togs
for an evening gown lent by a pal living
near by. The supper of birds, hot pies,
pickles and such was served in the closed-in
courtyard on tables spread with checked
cloths. In the hall leading to the billiard-
room and ballroom were pale pink rhododen-
drons and azaleas all a-growing, and other
flowers filled in the corners.
The organisers included Miss May Bulli
vant, president of the Red Cross auxiliary, in
bronze-colored satin; and the lion, ticket
secs., Mrs. lan Sargood and Biddy Tallis.
Miss Tallis’s filmy black lace frock was
mounted upon pink chiffon. Mrs. E. A.
Spowers, Mrs. A. Bright and Mrs. Arthur
Bullivant had a stall where they dealt in
fancy caps, balloons and other carnival trifles.
Mrs. R. E. Shuter had a radiance of gold
paillettes on a Lido-blue gown; and Mrs.
Beacham Kiddle, whose daughter Margaret
was a pretty maid in an old-world frock of
pink taffeta, displayed lines of crystal on
her red gown. Beryl Ainslie’s rose-red attire
had also a sprinkle of dewdrops. Mrs. R. A.
Staugliton was arrayed in draperies of pale
green. Elizabeth Robinson, of Sydney, came
with Nan Cook, whose pink frock had a
glitter of crystal fringe. The younger set
showed a marked preference for black lace
and apple-green georgette.
J. R. W. Purves —his friends call him Bill
—pictured here by Lafayette, is one of
the chief
engineers o f
the Stamp
Show that is
being held at
the Town
Flail this week.
The young
man, who is
a son of Mr.
and Mrs. J l . G.
Purv es , of
Toorak, is a
barrister by
profess ion,
and is an ex-
student of Gee-
long Grammar
School and of
Trinity Col-
lege. Stamp-
harvest ing
has been his
hobby for
years, and he
possesses a very valuable- collection.
The Flappers’ Dance at St. Ivilda Town
Hall on schools sports night brought joy to
600 young folk, mostly of the senior-school
age, with a few of the just-left. Profits went
to the C. of E. Babies’ Home at Brighton
and the S.P.C.A. Mrs. J. M. Pittendrigh and
Mrs. Campbell Guest ran a stall for the
sale of balloons and such. A diverting inter-
lude was the singing of their school
songs by Grammar, Geelong and Scotch.
Marion Montgomery, organiser of the party,
who was hostess, wore black lace with lines
of diamente, and her sister, Mrs. C. Lort
Smith, who aided her, was in draperies of
burgundy tone. Olga Geddes, who looked
striking in silver tissue and lace, judged the
fox-trot competition, which was won by Nell
llealy, softly clad in white, and her brother
Tom. One of the prettiest of the dancers
was a Londoner, Patricia Dane, a niece of
Dr. Paul Dane of this city. She wore white
georgette. Molly Docking’s fair shingle
topped a white frock with lilies trailing over
the left shoulder, Lucky Stogdale had a pink
sash tied about a black lace and pink chiffon
frock, Nancy Falkiner was in black georg-
ette, Audrey Nunn chose white taffeta with
touches of green, and Lynette Dickenson’s
black tulle and lace gown had a sparkle of
crystal.
The Bulletin lost a good friend last week
when Dr. W. E. Davies died at Ballarat.
For many
years he had
been Mr. Wil-
liam Ma c-
leod’s medical
adviser, an d,
as a rule, jour-
neyed over to
Sydney twice
a year to over-
haul the vet-
eran who wa3
for so long the
paper’s manag-
in g director.
But though he
was a great
surgeon an d
d i agnostician
who wou 1 d
have made his
mark in any
Harley - street,
lie would not
leave his be-
loved Ballarat. Born in Wales, he came
early to the goldfields, graduated at Mel-
bourne, took an equal interest in the sport
and social and religious life of his adopted
city, and, with a great sense of humor, had
an inexhaustible repertoire of old goldfields
stories. He was with the A.M.C. in the
Great War, and was still in the fifties when
pneumonic influenza robbed us of him. His
wife and four children survive him.
Mrs. Richard Fitclier put on bridge, nausie
and tea at the Windsor for many guests to
while away an afternoon last week. The
Oriental suite was utilised, bowls of roses
and cinerarias helping to gladden the scene.
The hostess wore beneath a cape wrap of
fawn georgette a frock of jacaranda blue,
hand-embroidered with stray blossoms, and
her stitched hat of the same hue had a gleam
of pink. Mrs. C. B. Daly (Edith Harrliy),
Mrs. Edward Dyson, Betty Paterson, Mrs.
Cecil Farkes and Tom Broderick were
melody-makers. Mrs. A. Champion and Mrs.
George Upward won the bridge prizes. Mrs.
Jim Angus ; Mrs. J. S. MacDonald, who re-
ceived congratulations on her husband’s
appointment as director of Sydney’s
National Art Gallery ; Esther Paterson ; Mrs.
Russell Jackson ; Mrs. Ivan Gutmann, a sym-
phony in pastel green; and the Mickey lady
were among those who dealt cards.
Lucy Stogdale, an attractive blonde of the
younger set, had a hop at the Prince’s on
Thursday night to say good-bye to some of
her friends prior to setting out to Europe
with her parents, the Frank Stogdales. The
hostess wore a frock of brocaded lame that
shimmered with a pink and gold rose design.
Her mother lent support in a black robe em-
broidered with cut jet. Among the guests
were Kathleen Ahern, in bouffant attire of
black taffeta; Sheila Morell, who wore pale
gold satin; Phyllis Mein, Mollie Neil and
Carmyle Starr.
On Thursday afternoon Mayoress Morel]
bade a collection of representative womenfolk
to the final tea party of her reign as chief
civic lady. The numerous guests stepped
out of a rain-drenched street into the pan-
elled banquet hall of the Town Hall, made
gay with pink and red roses and rare pot-
plants. A string orchestra provided a sooth-
ing background for chatter. The Mayor’s
lady gave greeting in ensemble covering of
biscuit-toned silk lace of eyelet design, topped
by a brown hat, and her daughter Sheila's
sports suit was of lime-wliite silk, with lemon
and rose bands on the jumper. Her hat
was of the tuscan mode. Dame Nellie Melba,
wearing a coat of black satin with hem
of fawn, a frock of similar colorings and a
black hat. was there with Mrs. George Arm-
strong, who wore a two-piece suit of royal
blue and white. Lady Duckham chose
black satin, with a white-bordered cape, and
a shiny straw and felt hat, her chick Phyllis
sporting a fawn suit and felt hat. Frank
Clarke’s lady made appearance in a russet-
brown gown and millinery. Mrs. Harold
Luxton, the Mayoress-elect, whose blacx
gown was cheered by a coat-posy of lilies-
of-the-valley, was introduced to many folk
by the hostess. Other guests were the
Irvine, Raw's and Best ladies; Mrs. Richard
Linton and her jiiece Molly Bannister, from
Tamworth ; Mrs. W. A. Watt; Mrs. Herbert
Rrookes and her mother, Mrs: Alfred Deakin ;
Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson and the women-
folk of various aldermen and councillors of
the city.
When Dagmar Anderson hostessed the
Austral Salon’s tea.party there was a back-
to-school atmosphere about the gathering,
which had a theatrical flavor too. Former
students of Ormiston College met one-time
principals, the Misses E. and A. Singleton,
who were guests of honor along with Maurice
Moscoviteh and Nat Madison, whe was accom-
panied by his wife, Virginia Perry, wearing
a frock of periwinkle blue velvet and a shiny
black hat; also shapely Maud Zimbla, who
topped a fawn and green plaid skirt with a
green coat and hat, and some other stage
folk now appearing here. Mrs. Thomas
Baker, the Salon’s president, welcomed the
visitors, Mr. Moscoviteh making reply. The
entertainment included music and short
sketched.
At the Toorak kirk last week was cele-
brated the marriage of Linda Winifred
Anderson, daughter of James Anderson, of
Hawthorn, to Dr. Reginald McKellar Hall,
son of the late Anthony Hall, of Brok'en Hill,
and of Mrs. Hall, of Perth. White satin
and lace and the usual tulle veil formed the
bridal array; and three ’maids made a charm-
ing show in almond-green frocks and hats of
the same hue bedecked with pink roses. The
bridegroom, who is a graduate of Melbourne
Uni., will exhibit a brass plate in Perth.
The Royal Horticultural Society’s spring
show at the Town Hall presented a little
of all the season’s blossomry. Honors
were shared by A. M. Nicholas and the City
Council’s curator, J. T. Smith. Mr. Nicholas
was represented by gorgeous orchids, banked
in front of the stage amid callndiums and
other foliage plants, while the Fitzroy Gar-
dens’ hot-houses furnished a circular bed
with a central grouping of palms and green-
ery, surrounded by masses of gloxinias, pink
and crimson azaleas, ethereal feathery schi-
zantlius and brown, yellow, red and speckled
calceolarias. The students of Burnley High
School and the Mount Macedon Horticul-
tural Society sent quotas of blooms, and a
side-line was a wild flower and gardening
section contributed by school children. Medi-
cal-knight James Barrett made the opening
speech. Visitors included the G.-G. and Lady
Stonehaven and Lady Duckham and her
daughter.
A feature of the National Rose Associa-
tion’s show at the Town Hall was the wealth
of yellow exhibits. Last year there was a
dearth of blooms of this shade, hut someone
seems to have waved a magic wand. Pinks
and reds made a fare display, attractively
grouped in fancy baskets and bowls. The
honors went to a perfect flower entitled Nellie
Parker, the white petals of which surrounded
a heart tinged with faint pink. It was
grown by H. Bailey, of Thornbury, an ama-
teur. Alister Clark sent along a gorgeous
array of seedlings, among which were two
new varieties. The attendance was worthy
of the excellent show.
Lady Somers being still on the convales-
cent list after an atack of ’flu, Lady Stone-
haven went in her stead to open the Presby-
terian Babies’ Home at East Melbourne on
Friday. The building, which was originally
a portion of old Scotch College, in addition
to providing a refuge for infants will house
a school of mothercraft and a nurses’ train-
ing institution.
Last week saw another addition to the
National Gallery thrown open, including
the Buvelot gallery and the tearoom.
Here, too, parquet floors and blackwood
doors are features, and there’s a par-
ticularly fine staircase of grey, black and
white marble. A collection of embroideries
dating from the late sixteenth century to the
present time, samples of weaving from Cen-
tral Europe, and fans of many periods are
among the exhibits of the new gallery. The
tearoom is a harmony in fawns and browns,
with Turkish rugs scattered about the
polished floor. Quaint metal candelabra help
to give distinction to the rendezvous.
Beatrice, the slim, dark-eyed daughter of
Commander and Mrs. Hussey Cooper, was
producer and leading lady in the matinee
performance of a revue, “It,” at the
A then a;um Theatre last week, the Austin
Hospital being the beneficiary. The clever
amateur gathered up 10 or 12 nice-looking
girls to swing shapely limbs beneath frilly
ballet skirts, and led them through dance
and song. Of another period was a sketch,
“The Followers,’’ creditably given by Marnie
Clarke and Nancy Jones, looking fascinat-
ing in crinolines: Judy Finch, wearing the
uniform of the well-trained domestic of the
Mid-Victorian age, and Ray Whiting. Eliza-
beth Williams and Dudley Riddick intro-
duced yet another sort of atmosphere in “The
Test Kiss.” Billed as “the Cole brothers,
colored gentlemen,” Les Raphael and Bar-
bara Bryans provided a good turn. Jim
Paxton, arrayed in the skimpy skirts of the
ballerina and a flower-wreathed coiffure, part-
nered lan Heath in a laughable burlesque
of classic dancing. Millicent Osmond and
Lennox Brewer sang. The dressing of the
dance numbers was original, particularly that
in which the girls wore wigs that matched
in color the stripes on their suits.
Captain J. I. Whitelaw and his wife are
renewing acquaintance with friends in Lon-
don. He is attached to our Staff Corps,
which is sparing him for a two years’ course
at the gunnery instruction school at Wool-
wich.


A. SAUNDERS’
FAMOUS
CLOCKS
A. SAUNDERS’ 8-day Marblette Clock, Bronzed
Pillars and Mounts, Strikes Hours and Half-hours on
Cathedral-tone Gong. Width, 12in. Height lOin.
A. SAUNDERS’ 30-hour Alarm Clock, Walnut
Case, Silvered Dial, Dependable Timekeeper,
A. SAUNDERS’ Bedroom Clock, Pink ‘
Alabaster, Highly Polished, Accurate
Timekeeper, i
12/6.
;■ , ffl)'
Jli
m
•bbu i
A. SAUNDERS’ 400-day. Gilt Presentation Clock,
Porcelain Dial, Glass Dome,
£3.
WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Central Railway Station), SYDNEY.
sr
V
V
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday. Evening Express” obtainable from :
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
•If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis. _
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
Irk 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
the mount lyell chemical works,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
WORKS: YARRAVTLLE. VICTORIA.
Addai
ADDAC
is the world’s most practical small adding and
calculating machine. Weighs less than 71b.
Anyone can operate ; just pull down the dial. Full instructions and written
guarantee. Suits the pocket, too. £l5 Cash with order; free delivery in Aus-
tralia. Capacity with farthings, £lO,OOO. Used in small stores, offices
and garages all over the country. Machines slightly used, £B/15/-.
Full cost allowed if exchanged for new make within 3 months.
ADDAC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. (Agents wanted.)
BICENTENARY OF THE BIRTH OF CAPTAIN COOK
COOK’S VOYAGES and WORK—Reviewed by Dr. C. ANDERSON in
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE.
OTHER CONTENTS FOR OCTOBER-DECEMBER.
NEW GUINEA—LAND OF THE DEVIL DEVIL, by E. A. Briggs, M.Sc.
THE MOUNTAIN MINNOW (Galaxias coxii Macleay), by F. Walford.
TEXTILE WORK ON PENTECOST ISLAND, N.H., by Eleanor S. Williams.
' DAYS ON THE DAINTREE —A Tropic River, by Chas. Barrett, C.M.Z.S.
JENNY HAN 1 VERS. . Described by G. P. Whitley.
MUSEUM NOTES AND NEWS. FULLY ILLUSTRATED.
OBTAINABLE FROM LEADING BOOKSELLERS AND THE MUSEUM.
7T> rjnpY 1/1 ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION, 4/4.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012
(4 lines).
è
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
lias always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
Neio South Wales edition available
every iveek.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Madam ▲ a
aNew BISSELL
SWEEPS
Every
Surface
EASIER
from heaviest
carpet to
bare floors !
nz
(■(»
r^v
S
The New “Hi-Lo” Brush Control
BISSELL has perfected the greatest im-
provement in carpet sweepers in twenty,
if not in fifty, years! It Is the new “Hi-
Lo” Brush Control which gives the sweeper an
unlimited range of self-adjustment. With
the new better Bissell, you can go from
the heaviest, long nap carpet to lino-
leum or bare floor and sweep either
perfectly—and with much greater ease
than ever. The new “Hi-Lo” Brush
Control turns less effort into greater
sweeping power. It lowers the brush
faster, farther and easier!
You must see and try the new Bissell to
appreciate the difference—leading mer-
chants ev rywhere will show you. Costs
no more than before. Booklet upon in-
vitation.
Sweeps any
Surface — ,
Easier .
No. 747
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dept. 46 West Broadway, New York, N. Y.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
é


iiou will like
this savouru*
An Easy Recipe.
Salmonelle Savoury.
Cut some tomatoes into rounds and fry
in a little butter; have ready some small
rounds of buttered toast or small toast
biscuits. Spread with Salmonelle, put a
slice of tomato on each and cover with
grated cheese. Decorate with a few capers.
Put in oven for a few minutes and serve
hot or cold.
Salmonelle is a choice REX fish paste with
a delightfully delicate flavour. It is delicious
for sandwiches.
In dainty glass jars.
23
Rex Salmonelle
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
Luncheon Cheese, in 40z.& 2oz.
Rex-Pye, in lib and Alb tins
Ham Pate, 2oz. and 3ioz : ins
Veal and Tongue Pate
Devilled Ham
tin & porcelain jars
Ham and Tongue
Veal and Bacon
Anchovy Paste
Bloater Paste
FOGG ITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
JOHN GILBERT and RENEE ADOREE in THE COSSACKS.
A METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER PICTURE.
Also KARL DANE and GEO. ARTHUR in DETECTIVES.
CMPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF
BUBBLES.
OPENING FRIDAY NEXT,
The Russian Super Picture,
THE BEGGAR STUDENT,
With the three most distinguished screen artists of
the Continent in the leading rfiles.
HARRY LIEDTKE, AGNES ESTERHAZY and
MARIE PANDLER.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6.
MatinGe: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6. Children half-price.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: INTERFERENCE.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: RUTHERFORD AND SON.
Commencing Saturday.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
ON APPROVAL.
ATHENiEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY,
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Thursday and Saturday.
ALLAN WILKIE with Miss HUNTER-WATTS and
his Company of Shakspearean Players in
THE PLAYS OF SHAKSPEARE.
Change of Programme Twice Weekly.
Box Plan at Glen’s and Theatre.
fJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
A A MELBOURNE.
MARY PHILBIN in
LURES OF LOVE.
ALSO
MARIA ALBA in
ROAD HOUSE.
|£IN G’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MURIEL STARR in
WHISPERING WIRES.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
PHYLLIS GIBBS and ARTHUR TAUCHERT in
the All Australian Racing Thriller,
ODDS ON.
With all the celebrities of the Australian turf —
Maurice McCarten, Jimmy Munro, Jack Toohey and
Billy McLaclilan, Junior.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS, LTD.,
OLYMPIA.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Plan at Glen’s.
DINGOES.
OQUATTERS who suffer losses through the
above pest are honestly advised to try
the Dingo decoy known for the last seven
years as FLO-DIN-OGAL. Dalgetys, Ltd.,
are the agents for the Commonwealth. Flo-
din-ogal can be had from them in all the
States, price 21/- post free. Flo-din-ogal is
well worth your attention. Try it and sec
for yourself.
beyond an HM. VPortable
bu
fu
tare
you,
Specialising in H.M.V Portables,
£l2 cash or terms arranged
TheTALK.ER.iES
Meetings.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
"fUE FORTY-FIRST ORDINARY GEN-
-1 ERAL MEETING of Members will be
held at the Company’s Office on TUESDAY,
6tli NOVEMBER, 1928, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1928.
To elect one Director in place of F. N. Yarwood,
Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of the
Articles of Association and who offers himself
for re-election.
To elect one Director in place of Col. T. L. F.
Rutledge (appointed to fill the vacancy caused
by the death of A. G. Milson, Esq.), who
offers himself for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. C. A. Lc
Maistre Walker and Co., Public Accountants
(who retire under Clause 131 of the Articles
of Association and are eligible for re-election),
and to fix the amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
J. W. BARNES,
Manager.
By Order of the Board the Share Register
will be closed from 23rd October to 6th
November, 1928, inclusive.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE BUILDING,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
23rd October, 1928.
Tenders.
TO AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND
STATION AGENTS AND OTHERS
In the ESTATE OF ALFRED BACON,
DECEASED.
'"TENDERS will be received up till noon
* on the 19th November. 1928, for the
purchase as a going concern of the well-
known and old-established business of Live
Stock and Land Salesmen, Auctioneers,
Forwarding, Trucking and Merchandise
Agents, carried on at Gunnedah for about
50 years under the name of BACON & CO.
This is a splendid opportunity to acquire
a sound, well-established business in a pro-
gressive district.
Separate or collective tenders may be
lodged for the following:—
(a) Goodwill.
(b) Land and Building used as Office
Premises.
(c) Stock, Furniture and Fittings.
(d) Lands used in connection with the
business, namely, Stock Yards and
Resting Paddocks.
Book debts may be purchased by success-
ful tenderer, less 21 p.c. discount.
Interested persons are invited to com-
municate with the UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., No. 2 O'Connell
Street, Sydney: 333 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; and 398-400 Queen Street, Brisbane,
for further information.
The highest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tlie usual 10 p.c. deposit must accompany
the tender.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender Bacon
and Co.” and addressed to THE UNION
TRUSTEE CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
No. 2 O’Connell Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
'"TO EMMA WHITE, NELL MOLLOY,
1 LUCY HATTON and any other rela-
tives of EDWARD NOLAN NOONAN,
late of Porangaliau, Hawkes Bay, New
Zealand.
The next of kin of Edward Nolan Noonan,
who died at Waipukarau, Hawkes Bay, on
the 11th June, 1928, or any person know-
ing of their whereabouts, are requested to
communicate with the District Public Trus-
tee, Napier, New Zealand.
Startling Secret
of Hair Health
New Liquid Grows Hair from Live
Follicles of Perfectly Bald Heads—
Gives Youth to the Hair!
There are two ways to baldness —
(1) Dandruff, an infection caused by dandruff germs.
(2) Sluggish action of scalp glands.
In either case, the new “Vi-Glo” treatment checks
the trouble immediately, and gives you a new growth
of youthful, healthy hair quicker than you think
possible. Dandruff infection is positively stopped by
“Vi-Glo,” and so potent is the “electric” vitality
infused into the scalp that the new hair growth
actually tends to be wavy !
Try “Vi-Glo” for yourself under guarantee.
Get a 3/- package from the nearest chemist or
store, use as directed, and if not surprised at the
improved appearance of vour hair after even a few
days’ use, YOU CAN HAVE YOUR 3/- BACK.
Don’t confuse “Vi-Glo” with old-style hair tonics —
this is a real scalp stimulant and hair-grower.
Remember there is
NOTHING TO EQUAL “VI=GLO.”
VI-GLO RID N T GO., Dept. 8.,
Kembln Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
I Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
-i temperature of 93 in the shade and a
duststorm did not dry up the ardor of the
Victoria League when it drank tea at New-
stead Park with the feminine part of the
economic delegation from England. The old
Moreton Bay fig-tree, which remembers the
days when the Harrises kept open house
there in the ’eighties, sheltered Lady Good-
win, frocked in black and white georgette,
Colonel Cameron and other members of the
executive who received the guests. A mar-
quee on the river terrace sported blue lotus
lilies and larkspur at the tea tables. While
tea was in progress Lady Goodwin explained
to the Englishwomen that we don’t always
have so much dust. Boomerang paper-knives
of Queensland woods inscribed with the
badge of the league were presented to Lady
Hirst, Lady Evelyn Malcolm, Lady Clark
and the Hon. Mrs. Archer.
The Government House garden party to
the Big Four happened before the dust in-
vasion, and the jacarandas swayed softly in
a pleasant wind, dropping their bee-filled
blossoms on the grassy lawns, where tea was
spread. Lady Goodwin wore grey satin
charmante with a cream Baku hat. The
guests were received by their Exes, on the
terrace opposite the main entrance. The
band played on the upper terrace, and every-
body admired the blossoming plumbago. Sir
Arthur Duckham,' Miss Marion Duckham,
Sir Hugo and Lady Hirst, Sir Ernest and
Lady Clark, Mr. D. O. Malcolm and Lady
Evelyn, Miss Farquar and the Hon N. F.
Archers were amongst the guests. Lady
Hirst was in a cool-looking frock of shrimp
pink. Lady Evelyn wore black and sand,
with a cheering of red; Lady Clark was in
black; Mrs. Archer in navy and white; and
Mrs. Blair in navy. Mrs. Woolcock’s fair
skin went well with rose and fuchsia ninon
and a pink and blue picture hat.
The council of the Girls’ F'riendly Society
had a tea party in the Botanic Gardens kiosk
for Lady Clark, who is president of the
Irish Girls’ Friendly Society, and Lady
Evelyn Malcolm. Mrs. Stevenson received,
and Mrs. Uumbrae Stewart, Mrs. de Witt
Batty, Mrs. King, Mrs. Compton and Mrs.
Hill were there.
The crowd that rushed the Australia on
the day before her departure had to be kept
in check by bluejackets. Women fainted and
children howled, and many hundreds of people
retreated from the congested wharves with-
out a sight of the interior of the, ship.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
What with church and manufacturers’
congresses it has been a serious-minded
week. Its outstanding feature was the
Church Pageant at tile Prince of Wales
Theatre with 300 in the cast and Norah
Colli son as author-director. Her chief allies
were Kenneth Duftield, producer; Mrs.
Mellis Napiei’, mistress of robes; Laurel
Lawrence,, hon. sec., and John Horner, who
was responsible for the music. The whole
thing was admirably done, the dressing being
beautiful and the grouping of the tableaux
well above ordinary amateur standards'. Of
the cast, honors went to Cyril Langley, an
impressive Evil, and to Miriam Ralph, who
took the part of the Church, a very exacting
one, at ten uays’ notice. The audience, which
included an appreciative party from Govern-
ment House and visiting ecclesiastics en
masse, was large enough to warrant a repeat
performance, and there was also a second
staging of a morality play by the pupils of
Creveen School.
Feminine offshoots of the Anglican Congress
were a women’s rally in the Exhibition build-
ing. at which Lady llore-Ruthven presided,
and a Mothers’ Union meeting that she also
attended. An outstanding figure of the
Congress was Bishop Gwynne, of Egypt. He
stayed at Government House and, in such
spare time as lie was allowed, joined with his
Ex. in putting the clock back to 30 years
ago, when they first met in the Sudan.
The feminine part of the manufacturers’
conference was a dinner for the wives of
delegates at the Oriental, while their lords
w r ere banqueting at the South Australian.
Mrs. F. N. Simpson did the honors and
guests included Mrs. R,. L. Butler and Mrs.
Lavington Bonython.
The Port Adelaide Sailing Club, with more
regard to the calendar than the thermometer,
declared itself open for the summer. Presi-
dent J. T. Mortlock did the honors in the
Martindale, and had for his chief guests the
Governor and Bishop Gwynne.
Mister Chapman and his men on arrival
Avere civically received and vice-regally
lunched, and after the lunch the Governor
went to the Oval to watch his guests at the
nets. Mrs. Chapman, who is staying with
the Dudley Haywmrds at North Adelaide,
plans a trip to Maoriland to see her people
before the Sydney Test, and another on her
Avay home.
The wedding of Portia, daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. R. H. Polleine, to Morgan, son of
the Claude Lucases, of Ivapunda, took place
in St. Peter’s College chapel and the recep-
tion was at the Oriental. The bride was in
mediaeval Lory satin and her sister and the
bridegroom’s ’maided in delphinium blue
georgette.
Many sorrowed w T hen news came of the
death of Mdlle. Marguerite Michelet. She
was only 25, and had made a large circle
of friends amongst members of the Alliance
Franqaise and other educational bodies here.
Her mother came from Noumea (Miss
Michelet’s father is secretary to the Govern-
or there), but was too late to see her
daughter alive.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Clontarf Orphanage will materially benefit
from its annual ball. Interspersed between
dances were solo and. ballet numbers by Miss
Claridge’s pupils, songs by Miss Crisp, and
a clever acrobatic display. Judge Dwyer
brought his wife, who was in primrose
beaded in gold and silver. Hilary Smith
wore lengthy points on beaded white geor-
gette, Bernie O’Dea chose crimson flares
and Dot Solomon a sparkle of silver on
palest pink. Miss M. Ramsay wore bands
of velvet on black, her sister Slack marietta
and Elsie Paxton fringes of silver beads.
Mrs. Franklin’s brocaded lame was _ worn
over moorlands purple, and Maude Mitchell
was in cherry, beaded in gold.
Dal Monte’s final performance in Australia
was in “Rigoletto,” and standing-room only
was for sale at 7.45. The prima donna and
her supporters were in splendid voice, and
the orchestra was at the top of its form.
There was no inundation of flowers, but
some baskets and posies, a harp covered in
fern and a white cockatoo were spirited up
from the wings between the final curtain and
the-first of its series of raises. Toti bowed
and bowed and kissed her hand, but there
were no speeches.
The first two days of international cricket
gave the Englishmen a good of
our climate, but the third was cold and
windy and rain suspended play. The grand-
stand was packed during showers and frock-
ing was of the tailored and mackintoslied
variety. There were such crowds, too, on
the week days that it looked as if many
offices had been closed for the occasion.
The smile belongs to Mrs. Sinclair McGib-
bon, The lady, who possesses a disposition
to match her
smile, is a
whole - hearted
worker for the
Free Kinder-
garten m o v e-
ment. Black-
eyed little
Greeks and
Italians who
learn English
phonetics side
by side with
small Austra-
lians are her
fortunate pro-
teges at Pier-
street centre,
where most of
her committee
work is done.
Two of her
daughters have
obtained kin-
dergarten dip-
lomas from Meerilinga College in Perth. Mrs.
McGibbon’s other interests include the care
of a rose garden and the collecting of rare
pieces of china. Armstrong and Rowe made
the portrait.
The Otranto brought back the Hon. Mrs.
Lindsay and daughter Joyce, who chase the
Australian summer every year at their Yan-
chep estate. Under their wing came Lieut.-
Commander Drummond, V.C., his wife and
two small children. The Drummonds intend
opening a store for campers at not-yet-popu-
lar Yanchep.
TASMANIA.
Hobart'.
The Naval and Military Ball made a big
splash in the social pond. There was a big-
ger attendance than usual and everything
went with a swing. Owing to Court mourn-
ing for the ex-Empress of Russia, the
O’Gradys didn’t atteiid. Guests were re-
ceived by Commander and Mrs. McFarlane,
Col. and Mrs. R. P. Smith, and Captain and
Mrs. Gray. Dressing was very gay and
attractive, though black was well in evidence,
both Mrs. McFarlane and Mrs. Cox Taylor
being clad in sable hue. The supper-room was
a dream of soft muuves and purples, with
wistaria, purple pansies, scabious and auri-
culas. Several debs, came out of their shells
among them Margaret Rex and Edna Helle-
well.
A fancy-dress skating party got up by
Mrs. D. F. Piesse and Mrs. C. F. Richard-
son for the kiddies was a pretty sight.
Prizes were given for the most humorous
costume, the best-dressed couple, the pret-
tiest costume and the best skater. Edna
Fisher topped the poll, with Mary Harbottle
a close runner-up. as the most graceful per-
former on the rollers.
The weather was a little kinder than the
usual week-end brand when Dr. Scott was
host, on President’s Day, at the Kingston
Beach Links'. Unfortunately Mrs. Scott
was not well enough to act as hostess. The
big crowd contained more spectators than
players, as usual on these occasions, and
tea was set in the big dining-room, where
the tables were decorated with yellow
broom and deep red rhododendrons. Len
Nettlefold presented a “knock-out” trophy,
which was won by S. Chancellor, other
prizes going to Grace Barclay and Gordon
Blew.
The Field-Field wedding at Holy Trinity
Church, Cressy, was an event of importance
in the North and the Western district, both
families being well known. The bride was
Dulcie, daughter of the Norman Fields of
Woodfield, and the groom her cousin Ran-
dall, son of the R. C. Fields, of Soundridge.
The wedding dress was of ivory satin worked
in silver thread and gathered at the front
with a rhinestone buckle. The long three-
piece train was of ninon and satin. Tim
veil was of tulle, caught at either side
of the head with a spray of pearls in
a lily-of-the-valley design, and the bride
carried a great sheaf of golden tulips, tied
with wide bows of gold and silver ribbon.
Zeerust Clarke and Alison Cameron ’maided
in tulip-pink and sky-blue chiffons, very
bouffant as to skirts. Their heads were
adorned with classic-looking decorations of
fiat golden leaves, and they carried sheaves
of pink tulips.
Mrs. F. V. Crisp’s Monday Night Skat-
ing Club wound up its season with a
gymkhana. Black and white decorations
made a good foil for the gay fancy frocks
of the skaters. Margaret O’Grady. Mrd.
F. X. de Bavay. the Giblin girls, Grace and
Froda Stops. Sybil Lyons, the Tinning
girls, Prof. Taylor. Major Dixon, R. Lyons
and many others were in the throng. Chief
Justice Nicholls handed out the prizes.


r
V:
SIMM
>sk k£.
\
3?Q>
□
h
"K
-X.-*
L'f'i*
1 ':
I
For General Transport
For the building of roads —for the
transport of goods, materials, food-
stuffs or people—for any job of
hauling or carrying—Graham
Trucks built with the famous Dodge
Brothers engine, have the power,
the speed and the strength to serve
you dependably year after year.
And with their low price and low
operating costs they are recognised
money makers the world around.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
'Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Oossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. ~ New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY THE TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS CORPORATION
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
10/28


“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £5OO PRIZE STORY.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
4%
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, 34% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO.
Society Accounts, 4% on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses, Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
Prom one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose Accounts inay be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the
(fiommonwcaltb Savinas Bank of Australia
MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
3141n5. wide will
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
30/-
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
COONARDOO.
By- Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
C. H. FERCIVAL.
"' You’re mad,’ Hugh gasped, ‘to say what you’re doing. Even if it’s true.'"
è
CHAPTER XX.
WINNI had mounted a ruddy bay colt
Warieda was breaking, and Warieda
was riding out from the. yards on
his own gelding beside the colt. The colt
threw up his heels a little distance from
the yards, twisted, started bucking, root-
ing and prancing. He flew off at a gallop,
propped, bucked, and Winni flew to earth.
Up in an instant he swore after the run-
away. .
“1 stick ’m! I stick ’ml” he cried.
Warieda galloped after the colt, who.
with tail stuck out, head up and barrel
bouncing on short, stiff legs, was making
for the distance.
Warieda brought the colt back and
heaved Winni into the saddle again.
Winni swung as the colt swung, clapped
like a spider to his sides, stuck and weath-
ered a spasm of rooting, while Hugh and
the rest of the boys at the stockyard fence
watched, crowing gleefully.
“Winni’s fair shook on riding this colt!”
Hugh exclaimed.
Six times the colt threw him and six
times Winni jumped up, shrieking furi-
ously, and mounted again.
Hugh was for stopping the contest. But
Warieda would not have it.
"Best let ’m finish ’m, You,” he said.
And Hugh, gazing at the youngster,
mastered his fear. He watched the boy
wrestle with the colt, humor and outwit
him, until the wild thing knew and settled
down to that light weight on his back,
that slim, strong wrist on his jaw.
“By God. he’s a kid to be proud of,
isn’t he?” Hugh called to Warieda. “Be
as good.a horseman as you are, Warieda!”
Warieda’s dark eyes lit to their pleasure
and satisfaction.
“Good man, Winni,” Hugh yelled as the
boy rode in, showing off a little, careless
and a cock-a-hoop in his excitement and
triumph.
It was next day the colt took his ven-
geance. With a flying root he sent Winni
to earth, so that he lay crumpled and un-
conscious on the stones out from the stock-
yard.
Hugh was first out and beside him. held
the lad up in his arms, sent Wanna flying
to the hou&e for whisky. Nor would he
leave Winni till he was conscious again—
carried him to the buggy shed and kneit,
over him until the lashes fluttered
and the imp’s dreaming, fathomless eyes
looked into his own.
Bewilderment, wonder and rage returned
to Winni’s eyes. He started up, looking
for the colt.
“Where is he? Where is he? I stick
’m!” he cried.
How they had laughed. Warieda, Chitali
and the rest of them standing about and
glancing out to where Mick had tied the
horse against the stockyard fence!
But' Winni fell back unconscious again,
blood streaming from the wound in his
head as he moved. Hugh saw Coonardoo
bending over him.
Mollie had gone into the half-dark of
the big shed while Hugh was there, watch-
ing the boy.
Coming from the brilliant sunshine, she
could not see at first. Then Hugh’s white
shirt and his face as he crouched beside
Winni impressed themselves on ,her.
She saw Coonardoo, a tin of water be-
side her, holding a wet rag to Winni's
head; Warieda,
Chitali and two
or three of the
other boys
standing silent,
aghast, at the
back of the
shed.
“What’s the
matter?” Mollie
asked sharply.
“He’s not dead,
is he?”
Hugh got up
from his knees.
“No,” he said,
“he’ll be all
right now.”
Hugh wheeled
out of the
shed. He
walked towards
the house,
steering un-
steadily as
though he were
drunk. Mollie
went after him.
“What on earth’s the matter?” She
looked at Hugh curiously when they stood
together in the sitting-room under the en-
larged portrait of Mrs. Bessie. “I’ve never
seen you‘so upset in my life!”
“Oh thought the kid was killed,” Hugh
muttered, striving for control. “Seeing him
crumple up like that.... and the crack 'as
he hit the ground. Thought his neck was
broken.”
He opened the cupboard, took out a
bottle of whisky, poured himself a stiff
peg and went along the verandah for the
water-bag.
Mollie stared after him. His wrenched,
ghastly face, the horror and suffering of
his eyes, surprised her.
“ ’Pon my word,” her thought formed
slowly, “anvbody’d think it was your own
child had been nearly killed. You weren’t
anything like so upset when the 1 buggy
horses bolted and Phyllis and Cora and I
were bumped out.”
Hugh stared at Mollie as she spoke, as
if an idea had just come to him. He drank
his whisky, standing a little away from
her, walked into the sitting-room again, put
the bottle back in the cupboard, shut the
folding doors and went into the kitchen
with the glass.
He could not talk just then. It would
not be safe, he realised, still under the
shock of knowing that Coonardoo’s boy
mattered so much to him. He had kept
an eye on the lad, seen he was well fed
and got anew pair of trousers now and
then. But the rush of fear and anguish
which assailed him when Winni lay where
the colt had thrown him was too passion-
ate and overwhelming to be reasoned about.
It was there to be reckoned with: that
was what he had to get hold of. He was
sick, and shook to the fear which had
pierced him. They were mad to have let
the kid try a young horse like that. He
had spirit all right, but Hugh promised
Warieda a piece of his mind for giving
Winni such a “roughie” to ride.
The thought brought its cooling reminder.
After all, it was for Warieda to say what
the boy should do. But no, Hugh argued
with himself, the blacks knew he would
not allow unfair chances to be taken with
boys in the stockyards. Mick or Wanna any
more than Winni. And Mollie —what was
it she had said?
That was a different matter. He guessed
what the thought she had put up wouid
do in her mind.
“Anybody’d think he was your own
child,” she had said. And Hugh saw the
suspicion stirring in her grey-green eyes.
She would brood over it, pump tlie gins,
try to worm the truth out of him. What
was there to do? Nothing—except lie con-
sistently. Hugh would have liked nothing
better than to claim the youngster, treat
him as his son, make a fuss of him, give
him* clothes, have him taught to read and
write, as he would in any other circum-
stances. But* there was Warieda, his pride
in the boy. Was his love and pride greater
than Warieda’s? Hugh asked himself. He
was fond of the kid; but could he do for
Winni what Warieda was doing, teach him
to handle horses, fit him for an indepen-
dent life in his natural surroundings?
Warieda was on his own with horses. And
how would Warieda take the shattering of
the belief thatWinning-arra was his own son?
Hugh did not know whether the belief
could be shattered; but he determined that
never in any way would be allow it to be
tampered with, if he could help it.
Next morning Winni was up at the
yards, his head swathed in bandages, ready
to mount and ride the horse again. But
Hugh said harshly:
“No, you’re not to ride to-day.”
And he had stalked off down to the
house. The blacks looked after him, won-
dering. But they knew Youie too well to
disobey. Winni understood he could not
ride if You had spoken against it, but ho
felt shamed and discredited, broken in his
pride of horsemanship.
He lay in wait for Hugh as he went up
to the yards next morning and begged to
be given the colt again.
“I stick’m, You,” he begged. “I stick ’ml”
Warieda and the others laughed, hearing
the youngster. Hugh, looking over to
them, caught their good-humored amuse-
ment at the boy’s spirit and his concern.
“What do you say, Warieda?” he asked.
“Got to have few busters,” Warieda re-
plied. “We’ll give Pan a turn in the yard
first.”
“Right!”
During the morning Hugh went up to the
yards. He watched Warieda handling and
humoring the colt, teaching Winni how
to make friends with a horse, to keep out
of the way of his heels. The youngster
followed his movements with an assurance
and boldness which amazed and delighted
everybody.
“Beat you for your own job some day,
Warieda,” Hugh cried.
He joked with the boys and Winni about
the fall; asked Winni what he had done
to the colt to make him carry on like that,
bluffing out the buster in the high-handed,
genial fashion these goings-to-earth of a
good horseman were usually the occasion of.
The boys grinned and joked back with
him. Winni hung his head, sulky and
shamefaced. He wanted to mount the
horse and ride again next morning. But
Warieda knew better than that; no need
for Hugh to give him a piece of his mind.
Warieda had judged and condemned him-
self, although Hugh was there to see that
the “ro'ughie,” as they called him, got more
riding and handling before he went out of
the yards again.
When Warieda went out with Pan a week
or so later, Winni rode the colt and rode
him well.
Hugh was surprised at Mollie’s silence.
That it was sultry as the day before a
storm he recognised, and prepared to leave
the homestead and go o.ut to one of the
wells until she had time to forget it and
gather a crop of new grievances. Mollie
waited and watched. She had gazed, long
(Continued on page 53.)


IfllVA H)()§
i
2,000,000 WILLYS'OVERLAND CARS ARID GOING STRONG ?
j;
flip
ft
Vfl
SK
*rt
v r
'3
£
»
V*
V.
*sr.
55
i * -
* r ’“ JW '''~*r
“'tel
-Vr-
*?*
J>.a»7
ESti
n
5w
a
'■ ww
■-V,;
l,’
«
m&
'r‘n~~
a^*nwEaes»
iHt-r.V-V*’ *V’* •+ * i
with quality,beauty and style dominating
In definite value for your money there are no cars on the market comparable to
the Whippet Four and Whippet Six.
This is true not only because these smart cars are amongst the lowest priced
in the world, but because they represent the most advanced ideas in auto-
motive design both mechanically and artistically*
The Whippet Four offers such desirable quality features as full
force-feed lubrication, silent timing chain, extra leg rootn, and large
4-wheel brakes. The Whippet Six, in addition to these pro
vides a sturdy 7-bearing crankshaft, counteracting vibration,
Invar-strut pistons, wheelbase of 109V2 inches and many
other advantages.
Such notable values as these are possible only because of
the skill and experience gained in the production of more
than 2,000,000 high quality motor cars.
Whippet
?> <
.sc*.
fiXSj
r* A >»
ft. i-'
Wj
. *v.
r*
SSZ?*/
Mi
r> ..fit
IST
3#
V*MV
Eft*
.ro?
m
&
r: >
m
**•
Rif
m'.'l
u
&
FOURS
SIXES
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY„ LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 5 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS-OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


THERE ARE MANY GRADES OF
CRAB. *ut
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
TAKES COMMAND OVER ALL
■ASK VOUR OROCf f*Ct RECIPE-BOOK
PERCY MARKS,-
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
\s\LEXvteaStrop
Offer
for a strictly limited period
A genuine “VALET”
Auto Strop Shaving Set
regular price 3/* together
with a full sized tube of
Auto Strop Shaving Cream
regular price 1/6
«:
mWit
mm
mm
iwlll
n
%//
m
THE COMPLETE
OUTFIT IN
COMBINATION
PACKAGE
“VALET" AUTO
STROP RAZOR
The only Safety Razor
and Stropping machine
in one. Nothing to take
to pieces for either strop-
ping or cleaning.
“VALET"
STROP
of carefully selected lea-
ther tanned by a special
process to be most suit-
able for use with its own
Razor.
“VALET”
BLADE
—the blade that starts
good and stays good.
Tuned up to a perfect
shav.ng edge by skilled
engineers before it leaves
the factory.
AUTOSTROP
SHAVING CREAM
abundant in pearly
white lather it leaves the
face soft and smooth.
The best Shaving Cream
for the best Razor.
look for this combination offer
package in your dealers window!
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON &. CO. LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“THE. AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at——
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
and curiously, at the son of a whirlwind
next time she saw him. And saw Hugh
stamped all over him. But, questioning
Meenie and Bardi about Winni, she met
only the blank wall of their stupidity,
feigned and invulnerable.
Winni was no darker than many a Greek,
or Dago, in fruit- and fish-shops or oyster-
saloons in Geraldton. His features were
aboriginal, certainly, but with a refinement,
and his ears were Hugh’s ears, his finger-
nails the finger-nails of a hall-caste. Mollie
did not mean to ask Hugh any questions.
She had rummaged out all the facts she
cared for. They were sufficient.
Mrs. Bessie’s death.... Coonardoo in
charge.... Hugh’s illness and Coonardoo
nursing him at the homestead.... the
baby in her arms when Hugh came back
from the coast. His name even —son of
the whirlwind. Hugh had lied to her. Of
course he had lied. But Mollie knew her
Nor’-West well enough to know now that
on this subject most men lied to their
wives.
But so sour and hostile had her mind
become towards Hugh that she found plea-
sure, really—a secret, mean joy—in follow-
ing the suspicion which had risen against
him, and piecing the evidence for and
against it. There was much more for than
against. She realised her knowledge would
mean power. It was a whip she could use
over Hugh. She knew well enough how
to scourge him with it.
When she told Hugh that she knew what
he wished to hide, she could make terms,
she decided. Her own terms. Terms he
would not, could not, consent to. She
knew what almost any woman in her posi-
tion would do. She would declare it was
a shame and a disgrace for Coonardoo and
the boy to remain on Wytaliba while she
was there. They must be sent away. But
where? That was not her business. After
all, there was Nuniewarra and Geary. Why
couldn’t Coonardoo go to Geary?
Mollie could not quite persuade herself
she was justified in asking Hugh to do that.
She knew very well he would not do it.
Her natural good sense assured her she
■vyould be asking him to do what even she
could not imagine his doing. But she was
determined to go away, to make him suffer
for all the suffering she had endured be-
cause he refused to live anywhere but on
Wytaliba.
She could not rouse herself to much
wrath and virtuous indignation ab'out what
happened before she married Hugh. He
had a strict code of what he called honor,
she knew. After they were married she
was quite willing to believe there had been
nothing between Hugh and Coonardoo.
She could not trace anything to lay against
him on that score. In fact, Mollie was
sure the more she thought of it; Hugh
prided himself on being “a faithful hus-
band.”
She wondered vaguely whether Hugh had
married her to escape Coonardoo. She
knew enough of him to understand he had
some queer idealisms locked away in the
back of his brain. He loathed Sam Geary
and the way he lived with native women.
It was for fear he should ever become like
Sam that Hugh had resolved to take a
wife back to Wytaliba, after he was ill,
Mollie guessed. “A wife?” And she had
been that. But latterly under the strain
of the long summers, in the throes of her
dissatisfaction, Mollie had reproached and
abused him for her ill-health and the
children until Hugh did not come near
her room. And for, so long he had kept
his word not to do so that Mollie was con-
sumed with a resentment she could not
explain. She liked to have this sound
grievance against Hugh, it seemed; and to
remove it removed her good ground foi
upbraiding and humiliating him.
When she spoke she was sure of herself.
She knew just what she was going to say.
The girls were playing in the garden,
and Winni, strolling down from the stock-
yards, a slender figure already with the
gait of a horseman, stood to watch them.
He leaned over the fence, a white rag still
tied round his head showing under his hat.
“Good man, Phyllis,” he called as Phyllis
threw a hand-spring and picked herself
up in good style. She shook red sand
out of her hair and ran over to the fence.
Winni considered himself too much a
man to play with the little girls and young-
sters from the uloo any more, although
he would have liked to show them what
bonny somersaults he could throw, and
walk on his hands as well.
The horses were ready, and he was going
out with Hugh. Winni would have charge
of the packs. He had run to the house
for Hugh’s tucker-bags.
Hugh came out from the kitchen where
Coonardoo had been stowing tea, flour and
sugar in the bags. Mollie, stretched in one
of the hessian chairs on the verandah,
knew well enough he was going out to
avoid the scene which he suspected she
had in store for him. She did not intend
that he should escape.
“Hugh,” she called, as he walked across
the verandah, his spurs chinkling.
Hugh stood and looked towards her.
Seeing she had more to say, and knowing
the morose concentration of her gaze, he
went towards her.
“Well?” he asked.
“What are you going to do about it?”
“About what?”
Mollie’s glance strayed to the garden
where Winni was still leaning over the fence
talking to the children.
“Winni.” Back to him those grey-green
angry eyes swerved. Hugh gathered his
forces for what he had resolved to say.
Mollie stopped him with a passion, vindic-
tive and uncontrollable. “I know what
you’re going to say and it’s no use! You’ve
lied to me before. Winni’s your own son
and Coonardoo’s his mother. I know. It’s
no good saying he isn’t!”
Hugh looked back along the verandah.
The gins were in the kitchen.
“Hold your tongue, for God’s sake!”
“I’ve held my tongue long enough, though
I believed you, really, until a day or two
ago. I’ve been a fool, but now”
“You’re mad,” Hugh gasped, “to say what
you’re doing. Even if it’s true.”
He was in no mood to deny, to make a
fool of himself for Mollie’s benefit. “They
don’t know.” He jerked his head to the
kitchen. “You know what the blacks be-
lieve. Warieda”
“I understand all that!” Mollie was
almost blithe in the realisation of her power.
“But what are you going to do about it?
That’s what I want to know.”
“Do?” The resentment of his long re-
pression was in Hugh’s muttered under-
tone “Wh n+ T iio V p always done.”
“That all?” Mollie queried. “Oh, no,
that's not all. \ou don't mean to say you
imagine you’re going on just as you’ve
always done? You don’t mean to say you
think I’m going to stay here with your gin
and her half-caste brat?”
“Mollie!” Hugh sweated under her out-
pouring.
“No,” she torrented. “That’s one thing
I won’t stand. It’s an insult. No decent
man would ask his wife to live in the same
house as his gin. They’ve got to go, Coon-
ardoo and her son. You’ve got to send
them away.”
Hugh gazed at her. What had happened
to the woman? Had she lost her reason?
“Don’t be absurd,” he said. “You know
it’s impossible. Coonardoo was born here.
She grew here, as they say. It would kill
her to go away. Wytaliba folk are not like
others. In all the twenty years we’ve been
here, they’ve never been off the station
once. And Warieda”
“Let him go, too.”
“Warieda?” Hugh could not grasp the
idea. To send Coonardoo and her child
away was impossible, of course—preposter-
ous. They could not be sent away. They
belonged to Wytaliba; were part of the
place as . the air and the trees were. But
Warieda, the pride of the station, the best
horseman and breaker in the Nor’-West,
what would the place be without him? And
to send him away—Warieda, who had re-
sisted every tempting offer made him to
work for bigger, wealthier stations? Warieda,
who, boy and man, had served Hugh with
a loyalty and friendship beyond under-
standing ! In all the time after his mother’s
death, the long years of mustering, droving
and breaking, through the droughts—it was
unthinkable. He would sooner chop off
his right hand, Hugh told himself; how on
earth could Mollie suggest it? What had
happened to the woman? She used not
to be unreasonable like this.
“Have you thought,” Hugh asked, trying
an appeal, “what you’vfe said yourself about
Coonardoo? You could not get on with-
out her. What she has done. for you when
the children were little? Have you thought
what it would mean to her?”
• “Have you thought,” Mollie flashed,
“what it means for me to see her, and that
boy, about the place?”
Hugh entreated; he tried by every means
to reach Mollie’s good nature, to make her
understand the situation as he saw it. He
promised he would do everything within his
power to make her happier, more comfort-
able.
But Mollie, with all the obstinacy of a
small mind, realised her power. She had
found the stick to beat Hugh, and was
beating him to her satisfaction.
Either Coonardoo and Winni must go—
or she would, she said, taking the children
with her.
Hugh tried every way he could think of
to move and soften her. But Mollie had
planned her campaign. She knew what she
wanted, and how she was going to get what
she wanted.
“It was when I was alone up here, after
mother died,” Hugh explained, pleading with
her, throwing himself on her mercy. “I’d
have gone mad or died but for Coonardoo
and Warieda. And it was never again. I
swear, Mollie.”
“You’ve lied to me before,” Mollie re-
minded him coldly. “I would not bother
any more, if I were you.”
, “But, I say, old girl, you don’t believe—
you don’t think” Hugh protested.
“Coonardoo’s been here all the time I’ve
been away.”
“But I say” filugh despaired of mak-
ing headway against her resolution.
“I like Sam Geary’s way better, after
all,” Mollie declared. “At least he doesn’t
ask a white woman to live with his gins.”
“By God” Hugh sprang to his feet,
his face tortured. “I haven’t asked you to
live with gins. You’ve had the best i could
give .you always—and if that’s not enough,
then go and be damned to you!” He seized
his hat and turned from the verandah.
The day was hers. Mollie was satisfied
with the result of the conflict.
“Very well,” she said. “When can you
take us down?”
“As, soon as you like.”
Hugh could see Mollie’s point of view,
he assured himself. Almost any other white
woman would have carried on as she did
(Continued on Page 58.)


ê
ë
The famous Kookaburra Hats
Kookaburra Hats are made from finest selected Australian
Fur. Newest color tones, including the new cinnamon and
spark-grey shades, to please the most particular. Shapes
specially featured are the popular “Snap Brim,” as illustra-
tion above, the fashionable “Nail Curl“ and “Prince” styles.
Greaseproof leathers. Sizes 6| to 7f. Australia’s finest
Guinea Value
ē
y-TE?
a
AOE^
The World’s Best Hat.
Perfect in every respect! Every “J. A. Murdoch” Hat
is entirely hand-made from finest picked and blended furs.
Greaseproof leather, silk lining. “Snap
Brim, Prince” and “Nail Curl” shapes.
Dark, Mid and Light Greys, Fawn and
Beaver shades. Every hat fully guaranteed.
“STAR” and “Al” QUALITY HATS
Exclusive Murdoch Hats in a “class all their own.” Made
from a perfect blend of choicest furs. Latest deliveries
embrace many new and attractive styles
and colorings. Sizes 6J to 7§. Murdoch’s
Price
50 1-
35/-
MURDOCH’S COUNTRY HATS.
The “Drover” —the ideal Hat for
the Man on the Land—protec-
tive, comfortable. Made from
special pure felt ensuring
staunchest service. Wide brims,
plaited leather
band. Fawn shade.
Sizes, 6 \ to 7|,
“K o o k a burra”
quality
211-
The “Sombrero” has full 6£in.
crown, big rolled brim—
- Australian pure fur
felts. Plaited leather bands.
Fawn shade. All regular sizes
2716
ĕ
ė
. ~ \ k
Jiff A
L*:
m
zxzz****^
When ordering be sure and state size and shad
required, and address your letter to Desk R.
ę
“Nail-
curl’*
Style.
mm
Prince”
Style.
. '■
,
■ ,-J!S
_ • ‘
■■ I
Mr
» ♦ . - MA \ f
vg? -
■- i #
- !*■ y'
Wfy
, s ''
hHIF
The
‘Sombrero.**
ě
IN
PARK
STRCET
YDNEY
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”
Here s your chance to secure the
best Bolt-action Magazine
Rifle on the market.
“True and Trusty”
e
Write for Catalogue “B
WINCHESTER
Model 56, .22-Cal.
Long Rifle.
Price, £5
POST FREE ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Gun House,
COWLES & DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
it is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3J.


Babies
thrive on
e
it is so
nourishinq and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of ell Chemists & Stores
K 35
jfiS?
KRAFT <fK)> CHEESE 1
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
A SANDWICH
HINT.
A most appetising sandwich is made by combining Kraft
Cheese with jelly or ginger. Kraft Cheese cuts smoothly
into golden slices.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Little Feller
By MARGARET FANE &
HILARY LOFTING—one
of the most affecting stories
of the ’Loo ever written.
MARTY turned round from the sink as
Mary came up from the shop at clos-
ing-time.
“Wasn’t that Mrs. Kelly, Mary my dear?”
he asked.
“It was,” said Mary, not looking at him
but walking into the scullery.
"I thought I knew the voice,” he said
when she came back. “Did you hear any-
thing more of poor little Molly?”
“Will you look at the kettle, Marty! And
you boiling all the life out o’ the water you’d
be making the tea with!”
Marty glanced at her, and went over to the
stove. He turned the gas down under the
kettle, put the tea in the pot and filled it
Putting the pot on the table, he glanced
once more at Mary, whose face was rigidly
unconscious of his existence. He sat down
thoughtfully, and helped Mary to ham. Pre-
sently he tried again :
“Mrs. Kelly is a hard woman, Mary my
dear.”
Mary apostrophised the kitchen. “And
me not knowing you’d brought up a large
family, Marty, and knew the ways of a
mother with her young girls!”
Marty returned unhappily to his ham and
the safety of silence.
Mary addressed the kitchen again. “Isn’t
it a pity that a girl with a good mother and
the Church behind here should bring great
disgrace on her family and on herself?” The
question required no answer; its duty was
clearly only the closing of the subject. “Did
you order those small jams, Marty?” she
added, to emphasise this.
But it wasn’t a subject you could close
like that and feel comfortable about it. At
least, Marty couldn’t, for one. The ’Loo
knew that Molly Kelly had been chucked out
of her home; and some people (Marty, for
instance) wanted to know what had become
of her. Pretty as a picture Molly was, and
not too strong, from the looks of her; full
of smiles and gentleness, with her soft voice
and all hqr kind ways. And she’d vanished,
and Marty wanted to know what had become
of her. Just because her mother found out
she was going to have a baby. Of course,
you might think that was pretty hot; but to
be kicked out, neck and crop like that, and
nothing more ever known about you—to
Marty that was over the odds. Besides, it
was little gentle Molly, who had never a
hard thought in her mind. And that made
all the difference, Marty thought.
Mary was a Catholic, and of course that
made another difference, in a way. Ever
since she was little Mary Phelan in Kildare,
just able to tell her beads, she’d been to Mass
every Sunday and never missed; nothing
could make her miss, even if it had to be the
six o’clock Mass- —Marty knew that well,
from experience of summer Sundays spent
at the beach. But she wasn’t hard —far
from it. Marty knew that well, too; no-
body better.
And this feeling she had about Molly
Kelly surprised and worried Marty as much
as Molly's vanishing did. He knew that
some people got a bit harder sometimes as
they got older; but he didn’t lump Mary in
with some people. She was Mary—the only
thing that kept him going, as you might
say. He could no more look sideways at
the way she thought about a thing than he
could fly. But he couldn’t help his own
feelings, cither. And that worried him, too.
It made him think that there was something-
wrong ; and, since the day Mary had mar-
ried him, the thought of anything being seri-
ously wrong had never entered his head.
But little Molly Kelly’s face kept on get-
ting between him and his job. He’d find
himself putting a fresh ham in the slicer, or
stacking up the butter in pounds and halves,
or even at his favorite job of cleaning up
the shop ; and all of a sudden there would
be Molly, her kind eyes smiling at him. He
could almost hear her voice saying: “Mr.
Marty, mother forgot it was Friday. Could
I have a tin of herrings?” And that wasn’t
right, not for a man as interested in his
job as Marty was.
He did his best. He would have liked to
ask Mary to help him; but he couldn’t, with
the way she thought about it. So he fossicked
around on his own. And all that he found
out was that little Molly had had her baby at
the big hospital; and when she was well
enough they had left. Nobody knew where.
The address in the book was her mother’s
place in Barge-street; but he knew she
wasn’t there. Nobody knew anything; she
had vanished. Marty gave in. and went back
to his job in Brazier-street. He’d tried every-
thing ; and here he was, back where he
started. He’d have to go on worrying!
or try to forget little Molly.
If only he could have put it to Mary or
got her to share it with him in some way, it
wouldn’t be so bad. But Mary wasn t like
herself these days. That was another thing.
She was always one to be cheerful and
light-hearted—not come-day, go-day, like the
’Loo, but wholesome and merry, with a
chuckle and a laugh and a bright word for
everyone. And every now and then in these
days he’d find her sitting looking at nothing,
as you might say, her hands idle in her lap.
Every now and then there’d be days when
she’d’ just serve the customers with never a
smile or a word. She seeped to be changed
and unhappy—lost her kick, as the saying
was.
It got on Marty’s nerves so much that
he began to have that old lost, scared feeling
that sometimes used to jump on him when
lie was the ’Loo’s messenger and odd-job man,
before Mary married him. Perhaps she hadn’t
been too clever in marrying him.
He put one more egg into the wicker-
basket and paused to let this thought sink
in. That would be a pretty kettle of fish,
wouldn’t it? The lost, panicky feeling
jumped on him again. Of course, he was
oldish- —-you couldn’t even call him middle-
aged. And he had only one arm since his
“ ‘Little Feller,’ she murmured, ‘and me longing for him this great while.’”
accident. And for a good many years he’d
been the ’Loo odd-man—a sort of charity of
the ’Loo’s, with one foot in the gutter. She’d
picked him out of the gutter and married
him and driven the scared feeling and the
pain in his back away; but that wasn’t to
say she’d got a good bargain for herself out
of it. Far from it, from the looks of things.
A shadow haunted his eyes as lie picked
another egg out of the case and put it into
the basket. That would be a pretty kettle
of fish.
When the shutters were up and tea was
over he came back from the scullery to find
her sitting with idle hands, looking at. the
bare table. The haunting shadow Wickered
into his eyes as he paused in the doorway.
“Mary my dear,” he began.
She turned and smiled at him, her old
rich smile. “Well, Marty,” she said, “and
what is it? You’ve only given me my name
so far.”
He came in and stood by the bare table,
brushing it softly with his one hand. It
wasn’t too good a job, this.
“I’ve a sort of feeling that you haven’t
been finding enough in—in your life lately.
You don’t seem to be”
“And why wouldn’t I?” she caught _ him
up. “I have my old man and the business
and the best of health. Isn’t that enough?”
“You’re a fine woman, Mary my dear.
There never was a finer.”
“Thank ye kindly,” she told him, glancing
up at him and seeing the scared shadow at
his eyes. “What it is, Marty dear? she
asked in a different voice.
“x\nd I’m a one-armed old fellow that
never was much and isn’t much now. Not
enough for a fine woman like you, any-
way.” - . . .
Mary stood up and came over to him.
“What’s this ye’re saying, Marty?” she said.
You’re not getting enough out of it, Mary
my dear. You’ve only got the business which
you always had, and an old fellow kicking
about and giving you a hand with it”
“Marty,” she interrupted him, speaking
steadily and gravely, “if you ever so much
as put your tongue to words like that again
I’ll walk out of this house and shop, and
I’ll not come back. If you so much as think
it, I’ll do that same.”
Marty looked at her glowing eyes. She
sounded as if she meant it.
“I made the best any woman could make
of her life the day I married you, Marty.
When a thought different from that crosses
your mind, you’re a traitor to me. Ye silly
man.” She stood on her toes and kissed
him. “Don’t you know you’re all I want?
Put ‘Killarney’ on the gramophone and don’t
be fisliin’ for any more compliments.”
That cleared the ground, in a way. and
quietened some of his worrying, if it didn’t
destroy it all. He couldn’t say it was all
gone, because every now and again—not so
often, perhaps—Mary went off into one of
her moods of depression. lake as if she
felt she was useless, in a way, and only
went on because it was her job and not from
any love of it. It was hard to put a name
to it; Marty felt that some part of Mary
had gone away from him, for all she was
so affectionate and bright when she caught
his eye on her. Something was wrong.
For eighteen months he stuck it out, get-
ting his job done and doing his best not to
rub it in that he was an oldish fellow helping
her with the business and liking a bit of a
sit-down in the evenings. This wasn’t hard,
he being still pretty spry, if he was put
to it. He was slipping round this bit of
cleaning-up, for instance, as if he had two
arms and only thirty—or say forty—years to
his name. If you couldn’t get everything you
wanted, well, there were some things you
could make sure of —your job, and keeping
a bright face on it, and
The telegrapli-boy hopped off his bicycle
and came into the shop.
“Urgent wire for Mrs. Day,” he said, and
put it on the counter.
“She’s out,” Marty told him.
“Well, if there’s an answer you can ’phone
it,” the boy suggested, and hopped on to
his bicycle again.
Urgent. . Mary was over at the Lanigans in
Crown-street, taking a cup of tea with Nora
and the old woman. Urgent. —Marty
opened it.
Come at once. Mrs. Phelan dying.
W illis.
Handed in at Glenlee.... Phelan —would
that be a relation? Mary had no relations
in Australia, so far as he knew....
In five minutes young Bob Critchley was
in charge of the shop and Marty was in a
taxi turning into Crown-street.
Mary blanched when she read the tele-
gram. “Oh, wirra, wirra,” she said softly,
rocking her shoulders and speaking to her-
self. “I feared it this long time. The poor
soul, the poor little soul!” She looked up
at Marty. “It’s Molly,” she added.
“Molly Kelly?”
She nodded, the telegram shaking in her
hand.
“But —Mrs. Phelan”——
“It was little enough I could do for the
girl, and a small thing to give her my own
name.”
Marty looked at Mary in silence. That
lost part of her seemed to be coming back
to him.
“I could see at the hospital that she
wasn’t long for this world. Ailing, always
ailing she’s been since the child was born.
The country air did her no good”
Marty touched her arm. “I’m asking your
pardon, Mary my dear,” he said, his voice
low and grave. “I thought you were hard
about her.”
“That was foolish of you, Marty,” she
told him. “You should know I wouldn’t be
hard.”
“I’m sorry, Mary my dear. You’ve been
looking after Molly all the time! —you knew
where she was and all about her?”
“I did,” she said sadly.
Marty drew a deep breath. “I wish I’d
known.”
Mary’s wide eyes looked at him. “And me
with a great sin on my conscience, or the
condoning of a sin—would I be tellin’ you,
Marty? Ah, the poor little girl!”
In the taxi going home she held her dis-
traught silence while Marty was seeing old
worries and imaginings fit themselves into
his real thought of Mary before they van-
ished for ever.
In the back room she stood for a moment
beside her chair.
“And if it’s a great sin I’m guilty of,
Cod will forgive me.” She wiped the tears
from her eyes and leaned against Marty.
“He’ll not be hard on us useless, childless
women if we’re a bit soft with other
women’s children, sin or no sin, will He,
Marty?”
He shook his head. “He couldn’t be,” he
said.
She picked up her handbag. “You must
come with me, Marty. I’ll have my man
with me for this.”
There was already a still quietude in
Molly’s face when they arrived.
“Ah, Mr. Marty, too,” the shadow of her
gentle voice greeted him. “Mary’s a saint,”
she told him with the shadow of her smile.
“But you know that, of course.”
Molly was glad to go. He could feel that
in the quiet room, and see it on her face
and still, transparent hands.
After a little while he felt a sudden change
in the room, like a soft, chill breeze. He
straightened his back.
Molly’s eyes flickered over to Mary; her
voice was like the ghost of a sound. “You’ll
look after.... him.... won’t you?”
“I will, my dear. God be with you,” Mary
murmured.
Seeing the sudden grey in Molly’s face,
she gasped and made the sign of the cross,
as she knelt down beside the bed.
Presently Marty went out. They’d be
better without him now.
On the verandah a baby was smiling at
the leaves of the creeper. This would be the
little fellow. Marty stood beside the cot and
the baby transferred liis rapt gaze from the
leaves to Marty’s face. A fine handsome
little feller.
The baby’s questioning eyes were suddenly
satisfied, and he smiled at Marty. Marty
felt as if something had touched his spirit,
as if life had paused, as you might say, to
say a word to him. There was little gentle
Molly dead in there; and here was this baby
smiling out here —beginning, while Molly in
there had finished. A fine handsome baby.
Like a picture he was.
He was conscious that Mary was stand-
ing beside him, and that the baby’s smile
had become rapturous as he saw her. He
knew her and evidently loved her, Marty
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
c apital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th .Tune, 1928.. £18,623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
PRANK N. YARWOOD; H. R. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : (*>2 Bishops gate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,526
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
UIVAIU O UJ\Ar ID Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS 2* , interest . f ° r
fixed periods
anu transacts all other usual Banking business.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
'■Wglg/
' SCHUTE,
BELL & Cut.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
%
Register
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered bj' Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRRS, N.S.AV. Representative.
Telephone 3W187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
\
A.
W
V?® \X>»
<$W C
,V C
*.e»
tV e
\V^
\\ e ?
oi
ft**" A
IfM
miNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
<GKEY
HAIfIJ
WOOL®
SPOIL
IT#
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
S>®s
ml
miie
WiV »
Pacific isles are Calling
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS
SPECIAL Excursions to Honolulu via Auckland and
Suva will be run from Sydney by the magni-
ficent ocean liners Aorangi and Niagara.
U XQUISITE Hawaii, embowered in blos-
som, offers jragrant welcome to her
Australian guests. A thousand sights
enchant, and fascinating contrasts extend
from the surfing beach of Waikiki to the
great precipice of the Pali.
Return Excursion Fares
From Sydney £75 (First), £55 (Second).
Aorangi, Nov. 15. Niagara, Dec. 13.
Aorangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Feb. 7.
Alternative Excursions
to Raratonga and Papeete are but
£55 First Saloon and £4O Second.
Particulars and literature from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc,
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TcT
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
A
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And all Branch Offices.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
e
£7,500,000
6,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Tliomaa Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES
H-'' * *Hioe—Georsre Street, Sydney London Office—39 Threadneedle Street V ( *
a in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiii Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the World ®
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 187“>
Directors— Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esa. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., CMG > »
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN
w ... _ *J E T AE > OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also rem-esentation
Rnnb U fff P - lll th ea f'n s f Instituti ° ns covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank oflei s the_tullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
H!
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
:j:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
1 Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Canal
VIA SOUTH AFRICA. | VIA SUEZ CANAL.
BELTANA.. Sails Nov. 2| 1929.'
BALRANALD „ Nov. 21 I BARRABOOI. Sails Feb. 27
BALLARAT „ Dec. 21 [BENALLA „ April l
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.,
Tel. 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE,™ BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers..
For full particulars appIy IIUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne: Bridge Street, Sydney.
SAFE with GUYATT’Sf
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
è


ê
MISS ADELAIDE
LIE FELD, a beautiful
Itexona Girl, writes: —
“I think the world of
Rexona Soap, and would
not think of using any
other Soap for my skin
and hair.”
ë
9
torn
<®
Hi IJcoA^iuo
If you wisli to preserve the freshness and beauty of your complexion, you
will find there is no substitute for Rexona Soap and water. Rexona Soap
cleanses the skin and beautifies it, because it contains all the soothing proper-
ties iof Rexona itself. Rexona is the greatest Skin Remedy of the age, and
Rexona Soap is medicated with Rexona.
This is what gives it that pure, iresli, outiof-door fragrance that appeals to
so many thousands of fastidious men and women who want and insist on
having only the best and purest soap and one which is free of all alkali.
If you would have a natural complexion, a clear, fault-
less skin which will stand the closest inspection,
you will never obtain this quicker and more
surely than by the daily use of
Rexona Soap.
'Rexona,
Soap
~for J&uilth
/ and
B&autij
1/-
■ &
\-4
Mailed to you the \%
day dieyate made
fjhe famous Red Box of GkocolodeS^
osh free lo any
'address in Cbstr&Lia.
Wz
CPATON)
#
m
HILL
P R.I C ES
3/- 54, 6 / -. 10/-. 124,
' 20/-a.^304
CHOC O LATE
162-166 Pitt Street
SYDNEY"
ē
SEND FOR, CATALOGUE ILLUSTRATED .WITH (IfiPiWDUCTIONS'OP.OUR'CONFECTIONERY. IN COLOURS-
w Looking down at him, her face was
beautiful
“Little feller” she murmured, “and me
longino- for him this great ivhile. I’d have
taken him long ago, but for” She paused
and gave the baby a finger.
• But for what, Mary my dear?”
“I was afraid you’d be hurt, Marty, to
think I needed something to make up for
having only you of my own.” .
That something seemed to touch Marty’s
spirit again as he remembered Mary’s idle
hands in her lap and her way of sitting still
and looking at nothing, lie remembered the
times when she just took the customers a «
they came, with never a smile all day.
“You won’t be thinking that now, will
you, Marty ? she went on.
I never would have thought it—only to
be glad you—you were getting a fairer deal.
It’s a beautiful baby, isn t it Mary my
dear? I could knock up a bit of a gate tor
the back verandah—those steps are not too
safe, and he s a big strong-looking child,
“He is that.” She picked up the baby,
“Come to your mother, my son,” she said.
The Substitute.
WHEREIN GEORGE LINDE AY TELLE HOW SMITHY AND HIS MISSUS SAW
THE CUR.
KNOWN amongst their mates on the
railway construction job as the Twins,
owing to their striking resemblance to
one another, Smithy and Long Ted, who
had been bosom friends during the progress
of the work, at its termination parted with
many promises to keep in touch by letter, a
promise unfulfilled by both. But on Long
Ted’s return to Rockhampton after a two-
years’ sojourn in the North, one of the first
persons he met was Smithy.
“Hello, Teddo,” said Smithy, “what you
doin’ down this way again?”
“Lookin’ for a job, for one thing,” replied
Ted.
“Don’t like your chance,” said Smithy. “I
worked last season at the Bloostone Meat-
works, and I’ve just got word my job is right
for this run, but I’ve done very little in
between. Never saw things so bad.”
“Well, anyhow, you’re set,” said Ted.
“Wish I had your luck.”
“Dunno about luck,” replied Smithy.
“I’m just ready to go to Bloostone to start
on the 24th when I gets word from New
South that my old dad’s crook, and they want
me back home. I’m not holdin’ too strong,
and I can’t walk back.” Then, struck by
an idea, Smithy exclaimed: “Look here, Ted,
you’re a dead ring for me. Give me a fiver
to help me get back home, and you take
my name and the job at Bloostone.”
“That would be coming it pretty strong,
wouldn’t it?” Ted asked.
“No, it’s sweet,” Smithy urged. “The
boss last season has left—he’s standing for
Parliament- —and most of the men have gone
to the Crocodile Creek meatworks, where
they’ll get a longer run. And, anyhow, even
if any of the blokes did take a tumble, they’d
be scabs if they put you away.”
“It’s like takin’ a ticket in Tatt.’s,” said
Ted, “but I’ll give it a fly. They can’t hang
a fella.” And lie handed the fiver to Smithy.
A few days later Ted turned up at Bloo-
stone and passed muster without a word.
The election campaign was in full swing,
and both part" s were raking up every pos-
sible vote. ( election day cars were wait-
ing at the wi *s to take the men to the poll-
ing-booth.
On going in Ted found the scrutineers were
challenging the vote of every non-resident
until he had signed a declaration that he
was the person whose name appeared on the
roll. Ted would have left the booth but for
the presence of his foreman, w T ho was one
of the scrutineers. He decided to chance it,
declared lie was William Smith and voted.
Next Saturday was pay-day, and Ted had
just lifted his envelope when the sergeant of
police called him to one side and said, “I’ve
got a little blister for you, Smith.” and
handed Ted a document showing William
Smith to be £37 15s. 3d. behind on a police-
court order of thirty shillings per week for
the support of his wife and child.
“Gor’struth, why pick me? Ain’t there
any amount of Smiths in the world?” Ted
argued.
“Didn’t you sign a declaration on election
day that you were William Smith, whose
name, occupation and address were on the
roll?” said the sergeant. “You’re the man I
want, all right.”
Ted realised he was caught both coming
and going, but “I’ve got no thirty-seven quid,
anyhow,” he pleaded.
“Perhaps you haven’t,” replied the ser-
geant, “but come into the office and I’ll fix
up that little difficulty. It’s either that or
the lock-up.”
Going into the office, Ted signed an order,
which left him a few shillings over his board
and-lodging bill each week, the rest of his
wages to go towards paying off the arrears.
A couple of weeks later one of the local
lads who had met with an accident at the
Crocodile Creek works and come home while
recovering met Long. Ted in town, and over
a pot Ted told him the facts of the case.
“By cripes, Smithy’s hot stuff, all right,”
he said. “I’m cobbers with one of the Johns
here. He told me they had a blister waiting
for Smithy if he turned up this season, so
I wrote him in Rockhampton and put him
wise. That’s what made him sell you his
job.”
But that wasn’t the .last Ted heard of
Smithy. Next thing he knew, two months
later, was that Smithy had met his wife,
become reconciled to her, and as she’d got a
windfall in Bloostone they were going over
to Melbourne on a second honeymoon to see
the Cup.
“Yes,” said Ted sadly, “and the blanks
are doin’ it on my £37 15s. 3d. —that’s what
hurts.”
The Road.
é
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
The New Day.
A builder built upon “the Bocks”
A house long, long ago ;
A house of size, a noble house,
His worth and wealth to show.
For years and years, seen by the town,
Its slate roof towered ta11....
Last week men tore that proud house down —
Walls, stairway, roof and all!
Who dwelt beneath its roof and climbed
Its stairway, broad and curved,
Dreamt not (minds fixed upon their times!)
A new day would be served.
Brought down to earth, poor wreckage is
That strong and storied house,
With all its tale of birth and death,
Gay revel and carouse.
Year after year its windows saw,
Like fixed and staring eyes,
Tracks turned to streets, a town take shape,
A mighty city rise.
They saw washed rocks become long, wharves,
And tree and grass and flower,
Where thrushes sang sweet songs, give place
To steeple, house and tower.
Blue skies, unsoiled since time began,
They watched grow grey with smoke,
That hovered o’er a swelling tide,
A tide of human folk.
Beheld by them, those watchful eyes,
Those windows on the heights.
Dark spaces round about became
Thick-starred with white night-lights.
* >1: * *
Time marching on, Time changing all,
Works out his will unswerved ;
No more those high-set windows watch....
The New Day has been served.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Night on the Shore.
Mist creeps about the hills and veils the bay.
Softly the waves slip from the silvery
sheet.
A quiet sea, an empty, lonely shore;
And where the black man’s dug-out lay of
yore
Ts nothing; on the sand no print of feet—
Time and the sea have taken all away.
The black man goes—is gone! No more his
fire
Sends up the signal-smoke from hill to
plain;
His melancholy voice is lost and cries
Among the tall, gaunt trees where sunlight
dies,
Sobbing and fretting out a wild refrain
Of long-dead hope and frustrated desire.
Desire—ah, God !—for freedom, and the long,
Long track, the bnsy camp at evenfall.
The fire, the flesh, the herb won by his own
Fleetness and craft and strength. In
darkness blown
His hopes are dead; the white man has his
all—
Whose ear is open to a native’s wrong?
The hills grow dark; the night is all a-creep;
The sky is vacant, and the ghosts have left
The talking trees and crowd about the shore,
With sad deep eyes that plead for evermore.
(Oh. where, and how, and why are they
bereft ?)
Out where the jungle ends lost Children weep.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
The Toy.
God made His child a toy,
His love for him to prove—
A trifle to destroy
Or cherish long and love.
Ingeniously wrought,
A thing of priceless worth,
He fashioned life, and thought
Upon a small, dark earth.
The sages and their peers
Arose with minds aflame,
To count the milliard years
Before their knowledge came.
Man made his wars and fell;
Made emperors and kings;
And from the struggling hell
He strove for better things.
Grand cities did he frame;
His fleets swam o’er the skies;
And newer ages came
With knowledge in their eyes.
The years their milliards spent
Till earth, its warm life shed,
Through spaces endless went,
A dark thing, cold and dead.
God said: “The child has grown ;
No more does infant play
Delight him. He has thrown
The toy I made away/'"
N.S.W.
HAMER.


PROVISION FOR YOUR OLD AGE
PROTECTION FOR YOUR DEPENDENTS
CREATION OF AN IMMEDIATE ESTATE
A PROFITABLE INVESTMENT
Are some of-the advantages of a Life Policy with The
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
No Shareholders. All Surplus divided annually amongst the
participating members.
Policies effected to cover payment of Federal and State
Probate Duties.
Funds, £68,400,000. Annual Income, £10,500,000
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
Rouse your sluggish liver,
Relieve your stomach ills,
Revive your drooping spirits
By taking
ĕ
ė
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Whether you are an energetic optimist
or a languid pessimist depends upon
the state of your liver. An occasional
dose of Cockle’s Pills is a splendid
liver tonic, ensuring healthy, regular
action with efficient cleansing away of
all surplus bile and uric acid, which
sour the digestion, wreck the nerves
and cause that tired, depressed feeling.
Get a box to-day, take two Pills to-
\ night and see how fit and sprightly
you feel in the morning.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD. LONDON*
; —those Embarrassing
V
zs.
%
NOW an advanced type lubri-
cating system has made proper
lubrication and squeakless, squawk-
less driving easy. The Alemite High
Pressure System for lubricating hard-
working, dust-exposed chassis bear-
ings. Used on over 15,000,000 cars
today.
So' easy that there is no longer any
reason for neglecting lubrication. So
positive that the lubrication is al-
ways effective in preventing friction
and wear.
What Alemite Is—How It Works
The Alemite system is built for high
pressure lubrication. To force clean,
fresh lubricant entirely through the
bearings—to force old, worn-out lu-
bricant entirely out of the bearings.
This efficient high pressure lubrica-
tion works wonders with every car.
Squeaks
and
Squawks
from your car!
—and, too, avoid
80% of all repair bills
Renews the riding qualities and com-*
fort of middle-aged cars so they seem
like new. And it eliminates the cause
of 80 % of motor car repairs—if you
will but tend to it every 500 miles or so.
Your Car Can Be A lemite-
equipped at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprising-
ly low cost. A fitting costing only a
few pennies will save a bearing
worth many pounds. The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en»
tirely through bearing.
No. 833.
ATT
»A <Ei
High Pressure Lubrication
©T.BM.Co. Beg.U.S.Pat.Off,
except, perhaps, his mother. But she had
loved the country more than her husband.
Nothing would lead her from it. Ted Watt
could do anything he pleased so long as he
left her in peace to rim the station as she
liked.
Of course, Mollie was entitled to feel
herself outraged. The women in Geraldton
would agree with her when she told them
the story. They woidd say she was quite
right to refuse to live on Wytaliba with
Coonardoo and Winni.
Perhaps Mollie was right; he had lived
so long among them he was seeing black,
thinking black. He felt things as Warieda
and Coonardoo did, saw their right to live
and work on Wytaliba as long as they
wished to. He could see nothing but wrong
in Mollie’s demand for them to be driven
off. It could not be done. Should not be
done. He could not do it. He would not.
He had promised himself to keep faith with
the blacks on Wytaliba, as they kept faith
with him. Was he to be less scrupulous
about observing the unwritten law between
them than they? Was the honor of a white
man not to be equal to an aboriginal’s?
Hugh swore his should be. He would keep
faith if he died for it.
Riding out over the wide, tawny plains,
the scene with Mollie re-enacted itself.
Over and over again it flitted, pursuing and
tormenting him.
Wytaliba without Warieda, Coonardoo,
Winni—what would it be? Hugh was devas-
tated by a sense of utter loss, irretrievable
disaster. The possibility was not to be
thought of.
If Mollie went —and the children went—
after all, what difference would it make to
Wytaliba? He had a sense of relief in the
thought of being able to face the homestead
without the feeling of walking into a shindy.
There was rarely anything to look forward
to at the house these days except a row
or unpleasantness of some sort. The pros-
pect of going in through the garden gate
and having the old warming homeliness,
quiet and restful, comforted him. He could
see himself sketched on the verandah read-
ing and sleeping at mid-day.
The more he thought of it the more
reconciled Hugh was to the idea. After
all, it should be less costly for Mollie to
stay down in town and put the children to
school than for them to be coming and
going every winter. When he returned to
the station he had become so accustomed
to the idea that he was almost pleased
Mollie had thought of it, and was disposed
to be kindly and complacent. He would
tell Mollie he was going to make her as
generous an allowance as the station could
stand. That might please her. Perhaps they
would part good friends.
Before he left the homestead Hugh had
warned Mollie against showing Coonardoo
any ill-will.
“If you do, you’ll have the place on
your hands until you go down,” he de-
clared. “Nobody’ll do a hand’s turn for
you.”
“Coonardoo, Coonardoo!” Mollie jeered.
“Can’t you think of anybody but Coonar-
doo?”
But he guessed Mollie was shrewd enough
to realise she must treat the gins as she
had always done if they were to continue
doing the work of the household until she
went away.
That the tongue-banging at the home-
stead had something to do with Coonardoo
the uloo guessed and resented, for so long
Coonardoo had been the person in favor
there. She had done everything for Mollie
for years, growing gaunt and docile in her
service. And from her power at the home-
stead Coonardoo had attained a position
quite unusual for a gin in the uloo. Of
course, she was Warieda’s woman, and
Warieda was the most powerful man in
the camp. But he, too, respected the way
Hugh, Mollie and the children deferred to
and depended on Coonardoo.
Humble and untiring at the house, Coon-
ardoo in the uloo was a different person.
She ruled the camp with an intelligence and
authority which were unquestioned,
although she was wise enough never to let
it be seen or guessed she ruled except
through Warieda. As the person with in-
fluence over Hugh and Mollie, she was'
obeyed; her requests were attended to,
nevertheless. Had she not the giving of
flour and sugar, the issue of nammery and
tuckerdu in her keeping? But Coonardoo
out of favor—everybody was whispering
and wondering about it.
CHAPTER XXI.
The two heavy, old-fashioned four-
wheeled buggies were piled with boxes and
bedding strapped down under a ground sheet
when Mollie and the children went south.
The gins knew she had collected all her
pictures, stowed away china ornaments, tray
cloths and books which they remembered
she had brought with her when she first
came to Wytaliba.
- They did not ask questions. But the
uloo knew very well that this going of
Mollie’s was different from any other. She
was going away for a long time.
Mollie gave the girls some old dresses
and woollen jackets, talking quite affably,
a little more to Meenie than to Coonax-doo.
Avery little, but Coonardoo noticed it and
felt the change in her maimer. She knew
her name had come a good deal into that
last row between Hugh and Mollie on the
verandah. She had heard some of it, and
sent the other women out to the woodheap.
so that they could not hear. Mollie had
tried not to show any difference in her
manner to Coonardoo, but all the gins knew
she was not pleased with Coonardoo —
that Coonardoo had something to do with
this going away of Missus Watt.
Mollie did not look at Coonardoo when
she gave her an old dress with the other
gins. She did not call her to do as much as
she had always done. Coonardoo moved
with the same straight back and easy
swinging gait, her face quiet and heavy
when she was at the house. She played
with the girls as usual, took the baby
away down to the creek so that Mollie
might rest in the afternoon, told the children
stories, mended their frocks and knickers
while they hunted for bardies, climbed trees,
dug for water or played narlu through the
acacia and thorn bushes.
Phyllis had coaxed Hugh to let Coonardoo
take her for a ride the day before they
went away. A wiry, sunbrowned little
creature, utterly fearless, she had one day
climbed on to Hugh’s own mare, Demeter,
finding her saddled beside the fence, and
galloped off over the plains on her. Winni
had gone out after her and brought her and
the mare in. But Hugh himself scolded
the child soundly.
It took him all his time to handle
Demeter, and how Phyllis, who was nine
years old at the time, had managed to hold
her and hang on he did not know. She had
pulled up the stirrups before starting, it
seemed, and prepared to thoroughly enjoy
herself. The joy of her life was a ride
across the plains with Hugh or Coonardoo.
Phyllis had a natural seat on a horse, and
hands made for handling reins; but she was
too daring. Hugh was afraid every time
she got on a horse, he admitted. Even
Winni could not boast so many spills from
horses as Phyllis, and the most serious
punishment Hugh could threaten her with
was that she should not be allowed to ride
out to one of the wells with him when a
windmill or pumping gear was out of order.
The other two little girls who might have
ridden were as nervous as cats and could
scarcely be induced to go near a horse.
Hugh had given each of his daughters a
horse when he branded young things during
the year of the child’s birth, and it was
understood a horse might be claimed as
soon as its owner could ride. Phyllis had
demanded Persephone after her first jaunt
on old Hera with Hugh.
* * * *
When the dust of the buggies had gone,
swirled away beyond the line of the creek
trees, the scowl lifted from Coonardoo’s
face. She went about her day’s work at
the house, sweeping and scrubbing, clear-
ing and putting the place in order, as she
had always done when Missus Watt went
away for summer holidays. She shut the
door of each room where the wardrobes
were empty, folded mattresses and blankets
on the little girls’ beds, and carried soiled
sheets, pillow cases and towels to the wash-
ing box. She locked the food-bins Hugh
had left in her charge and hung the keys
on a nail beside the kitchen door.
Her face wore its old peaceful dreaminess,
its serenity and waiting calm. When Meenie
and Bardi stretched to sleep under the
shade-shed at mid-day, Coonardoo sat, legs
doubled under her,-gazing over the plains,
and smoking, as if she were allowing reali-
sation of the quiet at the house to soak
into her. So absorbed was she that she
did not notice Winni for a while.
In the men’s shelter he stretched, sulky
and wakeful. Wanna and Mick were sleep-
ing like logs there. But to Winni had come
disturbing thoughts and he brooded over
them. He had expected to go with Warieda
to Karrara. Always wherever Hugh went
Winni went to look after his baggage and
horse. To be left behind like this had
never happened to him since he was working
as a man. He was Hugh’s boy; wherever
Hugh went Winni went.
Winni did not understand it. He brooded
over his grievance. Hugh must be dis-
pleased with him. He had been very off-
hand when he said:
“No. You’re not going, Winni.”
Htirt and disturbed, the lad did not know
why he had been thrust aside like that.
There was something about this whole busi-
ness of Missus Watt’s going away which
hurt and disturbed him. She had turned
her back and walked away when he went to
say good-bye to her. And she had always
been kind and jolly. Winni did not under-
stand it at all. His restless movement, a
grunted exclamation, drew Coonardoo’s
eyes.
What was troubling him she guessed;
calling him, Winni slouched over and sat
down at a little distance from her.
Coonardoo went on gazing over the plains.
She was thinking, disentangling her
memories out of the distance, gathering and
puzzling over threads of the talk she had
heard between Hugh and Mollie, reviewing
beliefs, native superstitions and the ideas
white people had given her. She had heard
what Mollie said to Youie and what You
had said to Mollie.
Coonardoo picked up her son’s hands and
examined them closely. She laid her own
beside one of his. Winni’s nails were white
shells laid on the darker skin. Her own
nails were of darker horn. And his ears—
she pushed back the soft loose hair over his
ears. Small curled ears, flat to his head,
they were; but she recognised them. Her
eyes smiled into his eyes, the troubled turgid
eyes of adolescence; smiled with the wealth
of her knowledge and tenderness. She was
very proud of and pleased with him, though
the mystery was beyond her understanding.
é


m
-
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOßMßs CHIKCH, Brtsbane. CONCORD WFST N S WALES
N.Z. Olliee—93-107 T'eatherston Street, Wellington. „ „ U V * ’ "
Victorian Office—" Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EIJiElt, SMITH & CO., LTB., Adelaide, S.A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
is
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE lid.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart,
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
rn 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24£ inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
161 pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DA/IK PAPER
THE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
"Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
"Queenslander” and
"Sports Referee.”
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinner*.
Delightful 25-minutes 3 trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
p. ' RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—;
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 81522.
What tale do
your eyes tell?
te
A.
rxc
yvi
The Pills that
Conquer Constipation
DO you know that your eyes can tel! you when
your health is right or ailing ? If right, they
will be bright—if ailing, they will be dull and
lack lustre. In this case you probably suffer
constipation and liver trouble, one of the most pre-
valent causes of headaches, biliousness, indigestion,
etc. Constipation should be treated carefully, for,
if neglected, worse may follow.
The right medicine to take is BEECHAM’S PILLS
—the world’s approved regulative remedy. Beecham’s
are purely vegetable and will not harm the stomach.
They ensure the proper and harmonious working of
the digestive and eliminative organs.
Put things right quickly with the aid of
)i\
K \
WORTH A
GUINEA
HO
(he unrivalled remedy tor
Constipation, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Indigestion, Dis-
ordered Stomach, Torpid Liver.
lEbe SDomtmon.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854'.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily.
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy of your
advertising expenditure in Victoria use
“THE AGE.”
“THE AGE” Publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually
and enters the homes and offices of
123,533 SUBSCRIBERS DAILY.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
PLU
A..k any man vou know who uses m PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
tuil»€r, “Why, rather!”
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12/6 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
e
&
rS
o°° p
cp* ..."
t* 6 ,••••••'■ • ■•" •-
#•
•'1


è
Mobiloil Service in at once world-wide and most modern
It. provides up-to-date facilities for convenient purchase
by the motorist.
The Mobiloil Lubesell—quart and pint bottles—is ready
at the kerb for quick delivery of the required grade of
Mobiloil to the crankcase of your engine. This new
method spells cleanliness, convenience, accurate quantity.
Authorised Mobiloil resellers have been provided with this
latest feature of Mobiloil Service.
6 p,ttCOy <
Mob! tail
MobitoU
BB
Rm >i
Mobiloit
C|ui*»
iWHJ.i
- - P-SXP
I I
•1111(2
• so
99 O
n^O^U
iim
llti
Ask here
for
51*
Mobilail
E
A
OIL
