

HUTTONS
DRAHD
HAMS 6
m
-r<
M
$
>
DON7AOGUE,
NOTHING
TO ARGUE
ABOUT/
■
Don t Argue I
HUTTON’S
PINEAPPLE
Brand
HAMS & BACON
Are the Best. \
i
Factories & Warehouses: BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, CANTERBURY (N.s.w.)
(Agents: PRESCOTTS, LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.) (Agents: A. W. SANDFORD & CO., Adelaide, S.A.)
Launceston, Tas.; Fremantle, W.A.; Wellington, N.Z. (“Swan” Brand).
d
fc.S. MAYNARD ADVERTISINGS ?
The Bulletin
NEW STORY BY KATHARINE PRICHARD—THIS ISSUE.
Vol. 49,-No. 2517.
Wednesday, May 9, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Scandal and slander are sisters of strife,
Spreading their venom o’er social life;
Raeh with the other in virulence vies,
Scandal and slander the spawn of lies.
Germs of infection afflict us, too;
Diphtheria, phthisis and deadly ’flu.
Check early symptoms and ease assure—
Remember, Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn
at HONE
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin;
My Name
My Address
LY3AGHT*
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
m
& any Pranch oP
_ NATIONAL BANK
l/ou map obtain Copies of its Informative Booklets
' * entitled
THE
SERVICES & FACILITIES
AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey rrmch useful
IrjPormation and Indicate the Various
Ways in Which the Banlv may be
helpPul to you
They show that the Bank’s Service,
covers the Financial side oP Primary
&. Secondary Production, Land Settle-
rnent,Trade mCommerce. Investments,
Loans, Overseas Business & Tourist*
RequireTijents
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BANKS BRANCHES
national bank
OF AJJSTRALASIA LTD.
Capifai Paid up 5.000, 000
ToFal Assess in 1917
£,15,017,282
fohal Assess in 1927
OLnd j kfia&
tfu (fauAwetfo"
4m
m
Kc \
'KLu
A
That picnic to-morrow
wouldn’t be a real picnic without
the Anchovette sandwiches.
Everyone in the party likes their
tasty add appetising flavour.
Serve Anchovette, too, for light suppers.
Get a jar from your grocer to-day.
/ f Peck's
ANCHOVETTE
/ The delicious Fish Paste
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
w
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cue
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices : 44 Bridge Strict, Sydney.
HAVE DRY HATCHES
1H WET WEATHER
It’s possible if you have 1
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
sd
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
'Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd-
Box 1349.1, Sydney, N.S.W.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! H
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY
JUj
C.hudson:
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says :■ —“Proved to be effective b3C’
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contia ■.’
they have a beneficial effect, as their
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the iooa
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Send Them in Early!
The Bulletin did not quite realise what
the result might be when it announced
that to encourage the production of the
Great Australian Novel it would give prizes
of £l7OO. For the first competition, which
will close on June 30—seven weeks hence —
and for which the first prize is £5OO, entries
are now arriving steadily; and judging by
the rate at which they are coming in, there
will be at least 300 novels to read. As
some of those already received run to just
upon 100.000 words, the amount of work
involved in the judging is tremendous.
Already the task of reading has begun.
For some weeks, past Mr. Y. B. Clegg,
barrister-at-law, one of the readers for The
Bulletin and its chief reviewer, has been
steadily at work upon the mass. He will
be joined this week by Mr. T. W. Heney,
formerly editor of the S. M. Herald, and
for many years before that its book-
reviewer, whose great interest in the com-
petition has persuaded him to' undertake
this onerous work. Other members of the
court of judges will come in later.
To lighten this great labor of judging,
competitors are invited to lodge their
entries as early as possible.
The Danger Instincts
What are the usual emotions and re-
actions of the normal person in the presence
of danger? The answer is important as
well as interesting, for therein lies the
remedy for the prevention of the neuroses
that are liable to follow exposure to dan-
ger, especially the prolonged exposure that
occurs in wartime.
It is necessary first to distinguish neu-
rosis from cowardice. The essential differ-
ence is that cowardice is a voluntary atti-
tude, the individual deciding to place his
own safety before duty to his country or
comrades; neurosis is a mental conflict, in
which voluntary control is impaired, between
the powerful instinct of self-preservation
and the sense of duty.
We must study the reactions of the nor-
mal man to danger before we can consider
the abnormal states embraced by the terms
war neurosis and shell-shock. By knowing
these normal reactions, one can improve
one’s own moral, and, by instruction, the
moral of others.
The late W. H. R. Rivers (“Instinct and
the Unconscious”) held that the normal
man’s reaction to danger is some manipu-
lative activity to get himself out of that
situation. Rivers classified the instincts
under three headings:
(1) Self-preservation.
(2) Sex (continuance of the race).
(3) Herd or Group instincts.
In man and animals five chief reactions
to danger have been noticed:
(1) Flight. This is the most primitive reaction.
(2) Aggression. This is the opposite to flight.
(3) Manipulative activity. According to Rivers,
this is the normal reaction of the healthy man. The
driver of a motor-car or the pilot of an aeroplane,
in danger of collision, has to make definite move-
ments to avoid the danger ; the greatest discomfort and
apprehension are felt by the passenger or observer
who is compelled to be inactive during the emergency.
(4) Immobility. This complete cessation of move-
ment is the opposite to manipulative activity, and
its object is to gain concealment; it is seen most com-
monly in animals with protective pigment cells
which enable them to blend with their background.
(5) Collapse. This is usually accompanied by
tremors, and the subject is in a hopeless condition
to meet the threatening danger.
The above reactions are usually found to
be associated with definite emotions or
states of consciousness:—
(1) Flight is accompanied by fear, and this
is especially pronounced when there is obstruction
to the flight.
(2) Aggression goes with anger.
(3) Manipulative activity is associated at most
with excitement, certainly not with fear; a surprising
degree of coolness and skill is frequently shown at
the time, as noted by Wing-Commander Uippon in
air pilots. Pain is often not felt in these circum-
stances.
(4) Immobility involves suppression of fear and
pain, because these would mar immobility and so
make the concealment less successful. Rippon quotes
the experience of a hunter to illustrate this: “I had
been out hunting for several days, when, on entering
a small clearing in a forest, I came face to face with
an enormous bull moose. I stopped instantly as if
hypnotised, unable to move a muscle, Suddenly
the animal turned and fled; then I regained my
senses and fired.”
(5) Collapse is associated with terror. An impor-
tant determinant is frustration of the effective re-
actions already discussed; for example, Brehm
describes a state of fear, with staring eyes, in seals
surprised in their favorite resting place and cut off
from their usual access to the sea. Mosso observed
collapse with terror in a youthful brigand condemned
to summary execution: “Emitting a shrill cry, the
boy turned to flee, and rushing against a wall,
writhed and scratched against it as if trying to force
a way through. Baffled in his attempt to escape, he
at last sank to the ground like a log and trembled
as though the muscles had been turned to jelly and
shaken in all directions.”
The influence of inaction in the presence
of danger is stressed by Wing-Commander
Rippon, who found that observers in aero-
planes tended to have more severe psycho-
neuroses than pilots, and that balloon offi-
cers were the worst sufferers of all. This
agrees with Rivers’s findings. Hence the
first point in the maintenance of moral and
the prevention of neurosis is to avoid the
demoralising effect of inactivity during
danger. The next point is to make men
understand that to be afraid is not the
same as being a coward, and that in emer-
gency and danger the prime need is self-
control. Thirdly, men should be encouraged
to discuss freely their unpleasant and terri-
fying experiences rather than to bottle
them. It is well known that those who
came through the war with least disturbance
are those who talk freely of emotional
episodes, whilst a reluctance to speak of
them is associated with psychonaurotic
symptoms.
M.P. SUSMAN.
A Rat-trap Named “Elia”
I was cheerfully, breaking the Sabbath
quiet by gurgling over Robert Lynd when
my small boy cried loudly and with pain
from the lawn-mower’s garage. I found
him with a hand caught in the rat-trap,
and after he had been released and had
gone muttering stormily into the house, a
slightly guilty conscience made me linger.
The trap had been bought the day before
to catch a rat accused of stealing the
cabbage-seed, an act of which 1 knew the
rat (if any) was wholly innocent. I my-
self had stolen the cabbage-seed, and had
thrown it over the fence, for the very good
reason that I do not like cabbage, and am
pessimist enough to believe that if planted
the wretched vegetable would grow even
in my garden. It was while I lingered
there with my guilty conscience that I
noticed the name “Elia” clearly printed on
the base of the trap.
There are some, I have no doubt, who
will see in this an evidence of reincarna-
tion; gentle Elia, for some sin committed
in his life—hissing at his own play, per-
haps—returned to earth in the guise of a
rat-trap, to catch the fingers of unsuspect-
ing small boys and lurk in wait for hypo-
thetical rats. But for me the thing stood
merely as a twisted symbol. The maker
of that trap, I imagined, Was an ardent
lover of the essay, and in this shape had
passed savage judgment upon Australia's
neglect of that exquisite form of literature.
To me it seemed just that .here, where the
essay has never been encouraged, and has
never grown to more than a paltry half-
hearted stalk or so, and those not true to
seed, the name of one of its most brilliant
masters should have come down to adorn-
ing such decadent and despised things as
rat-traps. Here prizes, tempting and other-
wise, are frequently given for every other
form of literary exercise, from epigrams to
novels: I have not yet heard of a prize for
an essay. (I do not forget the Lothian
prize for an essay on Australian literature;
but as that was not won by an essay, but
by a critical study, I cannot accept that
it was truly offered for an essay.) Here,
again, every form of literary exercise, from
the epigram to the novel, is published by
scores of newspapers; but the essay, which
of them all most depends on and is en-
couraged by fugitive publication, seems to
be so genuinely abhorred by publishers
that it could be used as a sure' method of
starving free-lances to death.. In Ringstad
and Fitz Henry’s excellent venture, “The
Australian and New Zealand Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book,” I notice that the essay
ranks proudly with facetise as one of the
two literary forms not once mentioned.
I suppose the publishers know their
business—that there is no demand from
‘the reading public for this kind of literary
fare; and yet I cannot believe that work
such as Robert Lynd’s, A. A. Milne’s or
J. B. Priestley’s could not but assist and
improve any paper in which it appeared.
I am even more reluctant to accept the
only other explanation—that we" have no
one capable of writing an essay worthy of
the form that Montaigne fathered, and
Hazlitt and Lamb fostered, and Lynd is
now fully nourishing. Yet here once more
I am at a brick wall, for I can find no
glimmering of evidence that we have such.
I have read several volumes of alleged
essays produced in this country, but I have
not read one essay produced here. There
are plenty and to spare of didactic articles,
of learned and careful and worthy inquiries
into this and that: there is no essay
that would tempt me to throw my hat
into the air and shout, “Whoever wrote
that is an essayist.”
An excellent example of the type of
thing we abound in is 11. G. Wells’s latest
volume, “The Way the World Is Going.”
It is a volume, and a very weighty volume,
of critical articles, written, not by an
essayist, but by a weighty writer of criti-
cal articles. I do not suggest that we have
dozens of H. G. Wellses, but we have
dozens who write in the manner of H. G.
(Continued on page 5.)


“ Truth in Advertising'*’ means much to tis and more to yon.
Anthony Horderns'
are Sole Agents in N.S.W. for
“Wiard” Agricultural Implements
A Plough suitable for every class of soil.
The XT66 Plough is built with extra heavy construction and reinforcements
throughout, and is intended for heavy contractors work where great strength is
necessary. Four or more horses are used. The Points and Mouldboards aie
especially designed for digging and loosening the hardest clay, gravel and rocky
ground. The Beams* are made of Charcoal Iron or Steel, extra heavy. The
Handles are made wholly of Steel, well braced. Used with great
success for ploughing out rabbit burrows. All-Steel Plough . . .
£15 76
£11/10/-
Plough, with Charcoal Iron Beam, weight 2501b. (XT66)
Extra Steel Shares, 36/-
mr
WOW
*'-41
aini
Use Our "D.P.S.”
Deposit-Purchase System.
You pay no interest
or extra charge.
Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough,
rigged with coulter and adjustable
clevis. 5 in. to Bin. deep, Bin. to 1 2 in.
wide; weight 1 181 b. Mouldboard is
made of soft centre steel, highly pol-
ished. Coulter is adjustable, auto-
matically shifted when mouldboard is
reversed. Plain or adjustable clevis,
operated by lever between handles.
Shoe is made of Cast Iron, chilled on
bottom.
(XTI2O)
£8/15 1-
Extra Cast Shares 4/3
Extra Forged Steel Shares .. . 32/6
Ransome’s Improved Chain Harrows,
These Harrows are useful for cleaning
land, dressing meadows, covering
seeds and reducing clods. Being made
entirely of diagonal wrought-iron
links, working loosely in each other,
they have the property of cleaning
themselves from all accumulation of
soil.
Our illustrated Agricultural
Catalogue Post Free on request.
I
* •
Wiard Road Contractors’ Plough.
The shares on these Ploughs being
subject to more wear and tear than
any part of the plough, the Forged
Crucible Steel Point is made extra
heavy, is strong and durable, and
can be forged or drawn by any black-
smith. Suitable for heavy excavating
and all kinds of contractors’ work. All-
Steel Ploughs, weight
3151b. (XT69) ..
£17/7/6
Extra-wrought Steel Points . . £1/2/6
CARRIAGE NOT PAID
No. 68. (All Steel) Contractors’
Plough, can be used with four or more
horses, or steam power, if required.
Specification: Standard is of Cast Steel,
very heavy; Beam of Trussed Steel,
well braced; solid Steel Clevis, very
strong; Shin-piece is extra heavy and
easy to replace; Wing of Forged Steel.
The Point is a solid bar of forged Steel,
1 \ inches thick, made so it can be re-
versed end for end, thus giving double
wear. Weight, with
Clevis, 3251b. Each
£17/7 6
Extra Steel Points 42/6
Chains for No. 68 Plough .. . 33/6
XT67.—Wiard Road or Contractors*
Plough. This has great strength, and
is adapted to contractors’ work and
for tearing up cobblestone or macadam
pavements. Four or six horse. Beam
is made of Charcoal Cast Iron. The
tendency to wear off the lower front
of plough is entirely overcome by a
separate shoe casting attached to the
Beam at this point which can be re-
placed at slight expense when worn;
this often saves the cost of a Beam.
Weight, 2501b.
Each
£11/15|-
Anthony Horderns*
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Telephone Number:
(1+0 lines).


7
h
m
m
F
Double - sleeve
motor power
In each cylinder of the famous Falcon-Knight engine two
sleeves glide up and down in a film of oil. These sleeves are
directly connected to the crankshaft and give positive con-
trol to the movement of gases into and out of the cylinders.
Iheir action cannot develop irregularities. The sleeves’
action always synchronizes perfectly with the engine’s speed.
1 here are no springs or valves to get out of order.
Falcon-Knight double-sleeve-valve performance means a
smooth, active flow of power that surpasses ordinary six-cylin-
der performance just as the average six surpasses the four.
Select one of the several popular body styles. Drive it.
I ou will be delighted with it.
Falcon-Kninht
THE WORLD’S FINEST TYPE OFC^viOTOR,
(N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PTY., LTD., 124-26 Russell Street, Melbourne.
KNIGHT MOTORS (QLD), LTD., Q.T. C. Building, Petrie’s Bight, Queen
Street, Brisbane.
(S.A.), LTD., Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD., 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
fs
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiased
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer. *
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY;
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinr?
(Next G.P.0.).
Wells, and a great void of pure essayists.
I should be greatly surprised if Nettie
Palmer, who won the “essay” competition
I have mentioned, were to arise and sug-
gest that her excellent critical survey was
an essay, or anything like one. Of course
it was not an essay—any more than
Macaulay’s unhistorical histories or the
compositions that win the prizes for essays
at the Piper’s Flat agricultural show are
essays. But it and its lesser brethren, the
usual informative newspaper articles, are
what pass muster here for essays. There is
nothing that comes within the scope of
this definition by Priestley:—
The real essayist has no subject, or, if you will,
has every subject in the world at his command, for
the simple reason that his business is to talk about
himself or to express the relation between any
subject and himself. Thus, he can write, probably
delightfully, on a topic about which he is completely
ignorant, because he will simply discuss bis ignor-
ance. The true essay approximates to familiar talk,
and the essayist is the brilliant and self-revealing
conversationalist, whose every phrase is salted with
personality.... He is compelled to make the printed
word do the work of the spoken word. The inflec-
tions of the voice, the gestures, the very physical
presence of the talker himself, his face lighting up
or clouding over as he passes from one nioqd to an-
other, all these are lost, and cold print has to take
their place.... Lamb’s essays, for example, are not
merely the expression of Lamb, they are the essence
of Lamb.
And that rather conveniently gets me back
to Elia, which is the name of my rat-trap,
and the symbol of a dark and murky void.
CECIL MANN.
The Two Wallaces
The barbarity of the Australian school
curriculum never ceases to fill me with
amazement. The other evening my daugh-
ter told me she had to write an essay on
Wallace. Inquiry elicited that the Wallace
referred to was the redoubtable Sir Wil-
liam, defender of Scottish liberties against
the loathly Sassenach. Further inquiry
revealed that the information my offspring
had been given about the hero was the
same old haggis of folklore, ferocity and
plain invention derived from the famous
epic of Blind Harry, which has been dis-
credited so often that even a few Scotch-
men are beginning to doubt its absolute
veracity.
Sir William was, no doubt, a meritorious
hero. He murdered an English Governor
at, Lanark in 1927 and thus woke the land
of the bagpipe and the kilt to a sense of
nationality and paved the way for its pre-
sent occupation of the best posts in the
Empire. From a guerilla chief he rose to
the command of the country’s armies,
bashed the oppressive English at Stirling,
devastated the northern counties in the
following winter, was utterly crushed by
Edward I. at Falkirk and had his head
removed in London in 1305. Practically
nothing of his private life is known, though
a letter survives asking the corporations
of Lubeck and Hamburg to resume com-
mercial intercourse with Scotia.
Out of this material bard Harry, writing
amidst the turmoil and savagery of two
centuries later, made a tale which has as
much to do with historic fact as Wells’s
“War of the Worlds.” The hero is repre-
sented as driving the first soldier in
Europe before him like a sheep and only
sparing London when Edward’s queen,
alleged to be Wallace’s lover, comes humbly
forth and begs her husband’s life.
Nobody begrudges Scotland her national
hero, but an Australian may fairly ask
whether it isn’t time to stop feeding Aus-
tralian youth on a partisan account of a
very ancient squabble. There is another
Scotchman—or partial Scotchman—named
Wallace of whom my daughter had never
heard and of whom she will never hear
while the present slovenly adherence to
old traditions rules in Australian schools.
He is Alfred Russel Wallace, and the facts
about his life are readily ascertainable.
They also happen to be of peculiar inter-
est to this' country. He was the colleague
of Darwin, and came to his conclusions in
the course of one of the most fascinating
voyages of exploration in history. He
made it at Australia’s backdoor, in the
Dutch East Indies. He made it in
Macassar prahus, sampans, any old thing
that lay handy to his purpose. In one
endeavor to trace down the life history of
a bug or butterfly he took three months to
make a passage the Australian tourist now'
does in luxury in three days. His coo|,
Scotch mind—in its old age attacked by
spiritualism—appraised over 125,000 speci-
mens, which provided the basis for an
immense advance in scientific knowledge.
His theory that the geological division be-
tween Australia and Asia runs between Bali
and Lombok stands good, I believe, to-day.
His book, “The Malay Archipelago,” is
delightful reading.
I admit that the story of the first Wal-
lace is more picturesque, but it ought to
be taught as fiction; and the yarn might
be cut short occasionally to leave room for
a brief mention of the Alfred Russel Wal-
lace of recent history.
F.S.
Von Kotze
Most elderly people will remember some-
thing of a big scandal in German Court
society in 1894. Kaiser Wilhelm 11., by
Emil Ludwig, throws some light on it, as
well as on many other details of the Kaiser’s
private life.
In the middle or perhaps late ’nineties,
while riding round the Kennedy electorate
(N.Q.), I called at the Keelbottom copper
mine. It was under exemption; but a care-
taker was in charge, and a fine handsome
man he was. We had a talk. He spoke
perfect English, though he was a German;
his name was Von Kotze. A little later I
met him at Charters Towers, where he had
become editor of the Eagle, a Labor
paper. About this time he became, too,
over his own name, a prolific contributor to
The Bulletin, showing a wonderful com-
mand of strong English.
He confided to his few intimates that he
had left the Fatherland owing to some
scandal at the German Court. Putting two
and two together, it looks as if our Von
Kotze is, or was, the Von Kotze referred to
by Ludwig in his book. •
For two years all ranks at the German
Court had been receiving anonymous letters
in the same handwriting, telling of intrigues
and cabals, and some of them enclosing
pornographic pictures. The missives w r ere
so well informed that they could only come
from the Emperor’s immediate environ-
ment. Exalted personages were accused of
heinous offences—illicit love affairs, fraud,
calumny. As Baron von Schrader was
especially attacked, suspicion fell upon his
antagonistic" colleague, Von Kotze, for both
were Masters of Ceremonies. The convivial
Kotze wits a universal favorite, much liked
by the Emperor, but was the envy of his
superiors generally. A blotting-pad with
writing on it similar to that of the anony-
mous letters was found in Von Kotze’s
room. Shown this, the Emperor jumped to
the conclusion that his friend Von Kotze
was the guilty party. He made no inquiry,
consulted no graphologist. Ludwig writes:
Returning in the best of spirits from his mother’s
country home, Kotze no sooner entered the palace
than he found himself arrested—“in the King’s
name!” Since as Master of the House he came under
military jurisdiction, they took him, an hour later,
in a court carriage and in uniform to the military
prison.
But in spite of Von Kotze’s imprisonment
more letters were received. A graphologist
was consulted. The new letters, he said,
were from the writer of the old ones, but
neither had come from the person who used
the blotting-pad. After a week the Adju-
tant-General released Von Kotze.
But the Kaiser was too small a man to
send for his old friend. For nine months
an investigation as to the authorship of the
letters went on, conducted by the Judge
Advocate of the Corps. Full acquittal of
Von Kotze came just before Easter. “What
will the Emperor do now?” was the ques-
tion asked. The Kaiser was still too small-
minded to admit his blunder and make
decent amends. But on behalf of his
Majesty an Easter-egg composed of flowers
was delivered at Herr von Kotze’s abode!
Von Kotze never saw his sovereign again.
But his enemy, the Baron von Schrader,
him he killed in a duel.
I do not know; but it looks as if The
Bulletin’s old Von Kotze and the hero
of Ludwig’s story are the same. The hero,
because Ludwig declares that subsequently
the real author of the letters was discovered
in a near relative of the Emperor’s.
GEORGE JACKSON.
Short-story Giants
Butting in with one’s personal opinion, I
would say that O. Henry is the most skil-
ful of all short-story writers, but with
little depth and no permanency. Balzac
cannot be classed as a short-story writer,
but on the higher plane and amongst the
big stuff he makes small fish of even
Dickens and Thackeray. Kipling con-
tributes only old-age obsession and de-
cadence to English literature.
STEELE RUDD.
A Satchel of Books
Irish Vignettes, by Ella MacMahon (John
Lane). A group of sketches of Irish char-
acter that succeed in catching not only the
quick wit but underlying qualities of sym-
pathy and pathos.
Secrets of Success in Public Speaking,
by Max Crombie (Allen and Unwin).
“Finish your speech on a high note; work up
to it all the time; reach it, strike it hard—
and sit down.” A practical little book.
The Life of Rachel McMillan, by Mar-
garet McMillan (Dent). By the founding of
“open-air nursery schools” the subject of
this memoir did a social service that has
been widely realised, though not as fully
recognized. This volume supplies a story of
the work of the unselfish pioneer.
Tango, by Charles Rodda (Benn). The
author is an Australian journalist who
followed the craft ■in New York and then
settled in England. Several novels and
many short stories have preceded “Tango,”
which is a tale of the stage, ragged in
construction, with many loose threads.
Health and Exercise for Girls, by Anne
M. Robertson (Heinemann). This includes
photographic reproductions of a number of
exercises designed by F. A. Hornibrook.
Ettie Rout’s husband. The Australian girl
has ampler opportunities for keeping fit
than her English sister, but even she will
find useful words here.
The Life and Genius of T. W. H. Crosland,
by W. Sorley Brown (Cecil. Palmer).
Thirty years of a stormy career in Fleet-
street ended in poverty with none to do him
honor beyond a few faithful cronies; yet in
his day Crosland was a power, for he wrote
with a pen dipped in acid —dipped too deeply
to bring him many friends. The story is
interesting, but crudely drafted.
The Chart-makers, by Boyle Somerville
(Blackwood). The Vice-Admiral here relates
his experiences when the duty was cast upon
him to help in making hydrographic surveys
of the Queensland coast, in the South Seas
and later on of the coast of Persia This
is no dry-as-dust record, but a happy, breezy
account of life on a schooner yacht of 400
tons dodging in and out of all sorts of
picturesque and interesting places, many of
them in, Barrier Reef waters.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Innes O.: That race was over. But you
shaped very we 11... .Wallingford: (1) No. (2) See
“Wild Cat” Monthly March and April Rang:
Much obliged; but it’s this cursed lack of space....
Cootha : Bill’s yarn was our yawn. A.W.'I.: A rattling
of dry bones O’K.: Well enough done; but doesn’t
fit in anywhere... .Leamington: Your verses miss by
very little. You have something to say, if only you
would say it metrically and rhythmically.... Ivor H.:
We’ve learned to beware of those endless arguments.
. ...T.N.C.: Never saw it. Don’t think we shall
ever want to see it... .E.A.A.: Capital idea; but you
can tell the story better than that.... Marathon:
Elise isn’t convincing... .Yenton: Quite agree with
you that no Government will ever bring in such a bill.
... .Ted: Offerings unsuitable... .G.K.C.: In the origi-
nal drawing he had also twisted legs. But that made
him too monstrous... .Yacko: No such absurd state-
ment was ever made as that “two of the Bounty
mutineers” entered the Tasmanian police force. It
was “two Pitcairn Islanders”... .R.E.8.: Many good
points in the yarn, but the end of the old rascal
doesn’t seem true... .F.R.F.: The unknown husband
has arrived too often... .Peter H.: Crushed 0ut....
T. J.L.: It was a good trier.... Tom II.: Having
discovered that about women, you rush to warn the
world. Suspect you of being nearly 17.... Peter P.;
Not at all bad; try again T.S.G.: Too 10ng....
P.H.C.: No good making an epic of a political verse.
. ...J.F.K.: We liked “‘You bot, Youghal,’ inter-
jected another voice, appearing on the scene at that
moment.” You’re trespassing on “Hamer Junior’s”
preserves... .R.E.: It nearly convinced us; but you
leave it in the air.... J.S.L.: Not enough story in
“Nym” Ewen K. E.: Vivid description of an
incident, but you don’t work a story into it.... Clem
G.: The only thing not commonplace about it was
Broncho’s remark that he sometimes “felt like
spittin’ on hisself and rabbin’ hisself 0ut”....
Zelle P.: The workmanship might do if the matter
was less ordinary... .W.A.E.: Belated... .P.H.8.:
Echo answers “Whaffor?”... .T.S. (N. Guinea):
“Pioneer” is earnest but rough... .K.G.M.: The
publican’s theology won’t get him to the heaven of
publication... .Vera P.: Duly interred. The cigar-
glow item, rhymed better, would d0....An0n: A
rough sort of grumble. D.R. (Brace Rock): One
or two good lines ; otherwise ineffective.... Cessnock:
Coal exports to Chile —107,300 tons in 1922-23,
117,100 in 1923-24, 31,200 in 1924-25, 2200 in 1925-
26, 12,100" in 1926-27 .R.8.D.: Understand your
indignation but can’t read your writing... .8.T.:
The envelope was sealed as soon as the parcel was
opened... -R.J.C.: Good stuff in it, but it is just a
descriptive article and won’t fit in.... Coreen N.:
Didactic... .R.T. (E. Brunswick): Hope you don’t
“Oh” your tradesmen like that... .D.J.A.: “Tides”
ebbed out... .A.E.W.: Too slight... .G. 8.: Not as
well done as by 50 per cent, of the million who
have done the same thing... .R.G.W.: Almost per-
suaded us... .Philo: An overwrought jest. W.J.W.:
“A girl’s form was visioned in his dreams.” It
was in the kindergarten class, then... .W.V.W.:
Forty “ands” on one copy-sheet. Stay your and!
....Marg. McD.: Too obstretric. 8.0. L.: “I read
my poems to my wife.” Grounds for divorce, we
should say G.M.M.: The w.p.b. supplied the fourth
silence D.T.D.: Crude reincarnation... .G.L.:
Pathetic item. Verse still more pathetic 8.R.M.:
Market for corpses glutted... .Adolf G.: Go to sleep
again... .8.M.5.: We suffered from “Seasickness” ....
D.L.M.: How dead are your characters !... .H.H.A.:
Victoria verse seems epidemic; yours is unique in
naming May 25 as “the day on which the great
Queen Empire did found”.... Byron T.: No earth of
thine is cast in vulgar mould —in fact, your earth is
an artificial absurdity... .Bellerive: His send-off: —•
Year in and year out,
O’er smoothe and rough roads,
Bill Darrow’s bay horse
Hid bear heavy loads.
He'd wade through thick mud,
And rugged trails cross;
Sure-footed and game
Was Darrow’s Bay Horse.
One morning in summer
The faithful brute Died ;
O’er the death of he’s friend
Poor Bill Darrow cried.
He’d cared for him well
And during a trip
The willing old horse
Never .suffered the whip.
Year in and year out,
O’er smoothe and rough roads,
In all sorts of weather
He’d bear heavy loads.
....Douglas C.: Pleasant little story but jogs along
monotonously... .R.F.W.: The “wicket-shikkered”
rhyme goes into the worst-rhyme competition....
John K.: Should have been much better handled.
The end loses all interest... .R.G.L-T.: “Disappoint-
ment” is another one... .E.X.P.: Much nearer....
John G.: Not enough in it; what there is is good.
. ...8.M.W.: Very weak; and “divine-clime” don’t
rhyme.... Catchpool (Norfolk Island): You ought to
get matter for a yam or so from your islet without
wandering afield.... Scot’s Grey: The thought of
“Cupid Dwells” is not worth that space.... Ilerhug:
No poetic phantoms haunt it. ... W.M.W.: Can’t take
those pigs to this market... .W.Y.: You’re generous;
you’d as soon give a yard as a foot in the measure
of a line... .G.J.W.: Looks like syndicated stuff; no
use if it i5....L.G.: We felt a lingering regret in
sending it back... .Jennifer: Very nearly.... Flak:
You merely state an argument.... Parsons: If you
must write in pencil use a good 0ne.... A.J.M.G.:
“Virtue” does not triumph... .R.G.W.: The ten-words
title is not the only cumbersome thing about it....
R.C.H.: Weakly done.... Dan O’C.: No. You can’t
sell topical verse about something over six months
01d... .H.C.R.C.: A small thing to grumble at....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.S.W.: You have a sense of humor, but you are
no artist... .W.H.G.T.: Can’t see you finding a
market for it E.T.A.: Dad’s efforts to prevent
the swallows roosting beneath the verandah will not
be pictured in our .pages.... A. 0.: It was the draw-
ing that was fired 0ut.... G.L.: Did you pose your
models before a distorting mirror and draw from
the mirror?... .C.8.P.: Weak attempt to illustrate
tame gag F.A.: Also ran P.W.: You have left
a lot of the stragglers behind; it depends upon
yourself where you finish W.A.: Bobby’s humor
did not appeal R.C.H.: The final word in feeble-
ness... .H.W.P.: Your Giles, who wears a smock
and addresses the squire as “Zur”—try him on some
English paper if you’re game enough C.A.W.:
Have chased the same characters out of the office a
hundred times... .W.H.S., L.T. and N. 8.5.: Won’t do.


9
Li!
\
,*'j
n
m
I //
m - is
: ,
■m'f.
A
.
~'?r2 -
i* , » Vv
■S
jWk ’**■?£.& iylP§
zm
!
m
1 ■m* m iVr f
/„ f .
„ ~ .
»■* -,/4 f ~
■rti
«
.
-%/ '" ■ / y>/ '
-lapi
\
,
■
3


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—X0. 2517.
May 9, 1938.
WHICH SHALL WIN?
The marine cooks have tied up the entire Huddart-Parker fleet and told the Arbitration Court to go to the Devil.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.’
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road Mosman, for
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the °ffi ce ...
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney,
Australia.
Melbourne Office : 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY address in Austra l asia, weekly:
12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d., 3 months 7 .
To any ADDRESS Ovbuseas: 12 months, £1 lbs., 0
months, los. Cd.; 3 months, Bs, ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Alt correspondence to be addressed to Pox 20~l 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. *
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
ref ZZ-contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters dr Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tins HuiJjKTiN will return all unsuitable Mo. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Ilut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless ,hsse
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it m not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting phologiaph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Favnngdor-
Street, London, E.C.Jf; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E. 64;
E T Hole, Holerth Satire Service, IJi Fleet Street,
London E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 1,11,-11 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Graeechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and *.on
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, himbeiley, and
—Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland hay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brenlano’s, sth Avenue and With Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner _ 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street . New York City; Hotalvng s
News Agency, 203 West l,tst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle • Washington,
Wheatley News Co., 101, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51,U South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
lOgyft. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Co.omal
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. .... „ ,
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 1,1, Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby „
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 70-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.\ .
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz , Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
T^e'^xxlleiioi.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 1928.
THESE ITALIANS.
The outcry against Italian immigration is
no new thing. It was heard before the war;
as a matter of fact, the influx of Italians
was relatively greater in the late eighteen-
nineties than it has been in the late nine-
teen-twenties. Five-and-twenty years ago
there was a vociferous anti-Italian agitation
on the Westralian goldfields. In those days
Italy was a second-rate kingdom struggling
against difficulties which would have over-
whelmed a second-rate people, among them
dire poverty, over-population, an anti-
national socialist movement, a bitter quar-
rel between State and Church, corrupt poli-
ticians, brigandage and the general de-
moralising consequences of centuries of
foreign oppression. Worst of all, it had.
been forced into a hated alliance with the
ancient oppressors, being dismally aware
that they could smash it as easily as they
smashed Denmark. To-day, with its lost
provinces regained, its frontiers safe and its
internal foes put down, Italy ranks as a
Great Power and is proud of the fact. To
thrust a quarrel on it at the instance of a
few politicians and union bosses would be
an utterly mad proceeding on Australia’s
part.
* * * *
There are many things about the Italians
that Australians would do well to remem-
ber. Like every other combatant nation, they
.vere horribly licked in one of the great
battles of the war, but unlike Russia they
rallied stoutly and won a decisive victory
in the following year. And they were not
found wanting in 1922, when their socialist
party tried to “take and hold the means oi
production by revolutionary action, ’ in the
jargon employed at a Melbourne conference
of trade-union bosses the previous year.
We owe Mussolini thanks for that prompt
and bloodless suppression of the doctri-
naire-led mob, for the Bolshevisation of
Italy might have had awkward results in
Australia, as it would certainly have had
very grave consequences in Europe. And
the splendid revival which dates from the
advent of the supremely able Black Shirt
chief has brought substantial benefits, direct
and indirect, to the Commonwealth. In
four recorded years of Fascist rule Italy
bought £24,816,000 worth of Australian
goods (Italian exports to during
the same period were valued at £5,760,000)
and made a start with paying off the 500
millions it owes Britain, whose financial
stability means so much to Australians.
Had the Communist rising succeeded,
Italian imports from Australia, the coun-
try’s credit having gone, would have shrunk
to the Red Russian level or disappeared
altogether (Australian exports to Red
Russia amounted to £46 in 1923-24, £8 in
1924-25, £lO in 1925-26 and £1092 in
1926-27), and the debt to Britain would
have been repudiated, as the Russians re-
pudiated the 655 millions they owe. Musso-
lini’s system would never be acceptable to
English-speaking nations, but it seems to
suit the Italians. And so long as it suits
them and is in no way menacing to us, it
is not for Australians to rail at it. Neither
would the Russian system be any concern
of ours if Russia had not gone in for whole-
sale confiscation of property and repudia-
tion of debts, and if (what is vastly more
important) its agents and dupes had not
set out to introduce it in this country by
white-anting methods, with civil war as the
next step.
* * ® v
Australians should be cnary of taking
their views of Italy and the Italians from
union officials, especially the narrow and
bitter Moscow variety. It is as natural for
Italians to emigrate as it is for Britons, and
natural for them also to congregate in colo-
nies and clubs—in similar circumstances we
would do the same. There are good,
medium and bad among them, as there are
among all immigrant races and ourselves;
but, generally speaking, they work hard and
save their money and are not noticeably
less law-abiding than their neighbors. It
is their virtues, rather than their failings,
that offend. Many of them, the experience
of 30 years suggests, come here with the
intention of saving up £3OO or £4OO and
then going back to Italy or moving on to
South America. Those who remain get on
remarkably well with Australians, as a. rule,
and their children are in many cases indis-
tinguishable, even in appearance, from
young Australians of British descent.
Unmindful of these facts and careless of the
consequences, our gin-case spouters demand
the enforcement of a policy that would shut
out Fiaschis, Ramaciottis and Lazzarinis;
cpera-singers, musicians and painters; engi-
neers and mechanics from the Fiat works—
possibly new Marconis, Puccinis and
Pirandellos. There is a case for regulating
the immigration of unskilled labor when
Australia is well supplied with that com-
modity, as it is at present; but to secure
this result no noisy campaign is needed —it
could be arranged, there is every reason to
suppose, by friendly negotiations with Rome.
The Mussolini Government has already
given proofs of consideration for the Com-
monwealth. and it has other claims to the
respect of Australians who realise that it has
breathed a new spirit into Italy, which
abounded in great men who have pro-
foundly influenced the great men of our
own race before the Austrian made it “a
geographical expression.”
WHY DO SHIPS RUN ASHORE?
Unless something is done about it the
south-eastern coast of Australia will soon
have a totally undeserved reputation for
being so subtly dangerous that a traveller
must take his life in his hands when he ven-
tures outside the Heads or across the bar
into open sea.
In the absence of icebergs or derelicts,
accidents to steamships under way and
with efficient navigational appliances may
be classified thus: (1) Collisions between
ships, and (2) strandings, or collisions be-
tween ship and shore. The former can
only be dealt with on their merits; if the
relevant facts can be elicited the degree of
blame can be apportioned to a nicety The
International Regulations are. definite in
their practical application, leaving no doubt
as to where responsibility lies. The trouble
in these cases simply arises from difficulty
in finding out the facts leading up to the
collision.
In the other cases,. however, when a
ship runs ashore, there is usually little diffi-
culty in finding out what took place. The
main fact is already established—that a
moving vessel under control hit the land.
If there is any blame to be attached to
anyone it must primarily be to the captain.
As points of land do not move about, the
skipper is the only person having the situa-
tion absolutely in hand. He can do what
he likes and go where he likes, and if he
strikes a stationary object the onus should
be on him to show that it was not his fault.
The principle of British justice, that a man
is innocent until he has been proved guilty,
should not apply. It is not logical, nor is
it fair to passengers and others whose lives
have been imperilled and may be imperilled
again by the same man; though the skipper,
of course, may be able to shift the blame to
one of his officers, e.g., for not calling him
as ordered.
When a ship strikes the land the skipper
should be called upon to show (1) that he
was justified in supposing his ship to be
in some other position, and (2) that he took
every precaution to verify that she was in
that position. Regarding the first point,
evidence is always available from the ship’s
log and from officers of the watch, helms-
men or others as to the courses steered from
the last definitely known position. These,
combined with allowances for known cur-
rents and for the state of wind and sea, and
checked by observations, if procurable, will
show that at the time of the stranding the
ship should have been in a certain position.
If this spot is clear of all danger, then it
follows either that one or more of the
courses stated was not the course actually
steered, or that some unknown factor —
such as our old friend “abnormal drift”—
had intervened. In both these cases the
investigation will have been fruitless and
the grounding may have to be regarded as
an act of Gon.
We come, however, to the second con-
sideration: what steps were taken to verify
previous conclusions as to position? These
steps are few: (1) Solar or stellar obser-
vations, whose results may be miles in error
through abnormal atmospheric conditions;
(2) bearings of points of land, either by
direct observation or by wireless if a
direction-finding station is available, the
ability to obtain which would in any case
have prevented anything but a deliberate
wrecking; and (3) soundings. Of these (1)
and (2) are really part and parcel of the
calculations previously taken into account;
but the third is the one which can definitely
prove that all those calculations were in-
accurate and therefore open to grave sus-
picion. One sounding can seldom prove a
ship to be in a certain position, but it is
quite capable of proving she is not where she
thought she was. Take, for example, such
a coast as that of N. S. Wales. The
100-fathom line is definitely marked
along the coast, and a coastwise vessel can
with one solitary sounding ascertain
whether she is inside or outside that line,
and can get definite information as to
whether she has been “set” towards or away
from the shore.
In a recent sensational wreck the vessel
was going north and ran ashore in a south-
easterly gale just inside a prominent head-
land. All her courses were verified and due
allowance had been made for existing con-
ditions of wind and tide and current as far
as they were known. But no sounding was
taken, though knowledge as to whether the
ship was east or west of the 100-fathom line
would have provided a vitally important
check on everything. One single sounding
would have prevented the accident. Yet
the Court held the skipper blameless for the
loss of a fine ship and the hazarding of a
great many lives.
Much the same applies to a more recent
case where a ship with passengers and crew
ran aground on her way south from Sydney.
If the sounding machine was not used in
this case, the skipper neglected his obvious
duty, as the visibility was bad. If it was
used, either it wasn’t used enough or the
results were not acted upon, in both of
which cases it is inconceivable that the
skipper should have been exonerated—as he
was.
The old navigators found their way
round the world and back again “to the sob
of the questing lead.” Yet the navigators
of to-day run ashore on the self-same coasts
in spite of the enormous advances in the
sciences of navigation and pilotage. A.nd
the reason seems to be that the sounding
machine is neglected, though the depth of
water can give the modern skipper far more
accurate information than it ever gave to
Captain Cook, who hadn’t even got a cnart
to show him what the depth ought to be.
X.N.O.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Siguaicance of Brighton.
According to the Argus, “no State political
contest in recent years has aroused more
interest than the Brighton by-election.” This
is a fact, but no thanks are due to the
Argus, which did its best to restrict the
electors to a choice between some favorite
of the National Federation and a Labor
man, in which event it would have had no
occasion to mention “the scenes of extra-
ordinary activity which characterised the
polling.”
Butting in at a late hour, after vainly
demanding that six of the seven National-
ists in the field of ten should efface them-
selves, the Fed.-Leaguers “endorsed” Abbott,
Hall,’ Kelly, Macfarlan and Ramsay.
“Nationalist sympathisers,” the Argus said,
“are urged to distribute their first, second,
third, fourth and fifth preferences among
these candidates, and to place the figure
10 in the square opposite the name of the
Labor candidate (Mr. W. F. Finlayson)
One result of this impertinence was a re-
markable sympathy vote for Mrs. Glen-
cross, who, as Brighton knew, has worked
in the Nationalist interest for years. An-
other was the loss of many Nationalist
votes through informalities. Says the
Argus: “Most of the informal ballot-papers
(slightly fewer than 10 p.c. of the whole)
were rejected because the voter had not in-
dicated' his full preference.” Obviously
they were nearly all persons who thought
they were doing what the Nat. Fed. and
the Women’s League and the Argus coun-
selled.
In spite of this bungling the Nationalist
poll was much greater than it would have
been had the pre-selectionists been per-
mitted to work the oracle, and Macfarlan
won handsomely. On the other hand, the
A.L.P. lost prestige because of the pre-
selection business. Its one candidate got
only 4318 primary votes out of 18,911. And
although it had instructed its supporters to
give their second votes to Mrs. Glencross,
1470 declared for Macfarlan instead—the
majority of them, no doubt, because he is
against Prohibition, whereas the lady is
for it.
In fine, Brighton was a triumph for the
“open go” as against the pre-selection
swindle—an outrageous anachronism in
democracies which have the preferential
system of voting.
Maoriland Faces Hobson’s Choice.
Maoriland is due for a general election at
the end of this year, and it is possible that
the event may be hastened by two or three
months. The Reform party has no present
reason to fear an appeal to the electorate,
though the long fat years of peace and
power which it has enjoyed have had an
unsettling effect on some of its Parlia-
mentary supporters.
The fact that party discipline has been
badly impaired wasn’t realised by outsiders
until last session, when a Licensing Bill
designed by Coates to please wets, drys and
in-betweens was so mangled by his own
supporters'—enthusiastically aided, of course,
by the Libs, and the Labs.—that he cast
his vote against the amended measure. The
allegiance of the “middle classes” has been
strained by a readjustment of the graduated
income-tax which leaves the big incomes
alone and calls upon taxpayers in the £4OO
to £BOO a year class to dive deeper into
their pockets. The first revision by the
Reformers of the graduated scale was a
remarkable performance, full of unexpected
kinks in its curve, and the latest adjust-
ments make it look like a dog’s hind leg.
The farmers, who have three times more
representation in the House and four times
more in the Reform party than any other
class, though they, with their families and
employees, represent only about a quarter
of the population, are not satisfied. They
have driven the Government into a number
of produce-control schemes, and some of
these have resulted in substantial financial
loss, for which, of course, the Government
is blamed. It is also held against the Re-
formers that they have not fulfilled any of
their important promises of 1912 save the
pledge to sell the freehold of L.I.P. hold-
ings to the lessees at original value.
The arrival of the Great War and the
formation of a coalition which, as in
Britain, completely dished the Whigs, who
don’t look like recovering, obscured
domestic issues for years, but the facts are
plain. The Upper House is still a body of
nominees, and the Elective Executive is
still a mirage. There has been no depart-
mental retrenchment, no curtailing of bor-
rowing, and the railways show an annual
deficit. There has been no relief for any
save agrarian taxpayers. In the latest
financial statement Downie Stewart
admits that expenditure rose while revenue
diminished, and flourishes a surplus of
£lBO,OOO as an offset to a debt increase of
£5,546,000. He promises, as his predecessors
have done, to lean less heavily on the
pawnshop counter in future, and mentions
in the same breath the new £5,000,000 loan.
But there are no practical alternatives to
Reform rule. The Liberals, having lost the
vision of Ballance and the political in-
stinct of Seddon, wander aimlessly in their
wilderness. The Laborites, though they con-
tinue to improve their position and as a
Parliamentary party are becoming more
mature and adroit, are handicapped by the
poor judgment of their leader, and have
won no laurels in the role of the Opposi-
tion. Since they hate the Liberals far worse
than they do the Tories, there is no pros-
pect of an alliance. Small new parties crop
up every now and again, and some of them
may put candidates on the hustings and
attract a few votes, but it will be at the ex-
pense of the Liberals. So unless the Reform
party splits, Maoriland is not likely to
change its bosses.
4
The Starting-Price Parasite.
The N.S.W. Government having expressed
an intention of inquiring into betting taxa-
tion with the idea of altering its incidence,
there has been a good deal of surmise as
to what direction the proposed changes will
take. By far the greatest volume of betting
on horse- and pony-racing goes untouched
by taxation. On the other hand, legitimate
and recognised racing as conducted by the
A.J.C. and similar organisations is heavily
burdened, and the betting turnover con-
ducted in the open by reputable persons


who are licensed to do so is aiso liable to
tax reductions. Ninety-nine per cent, of
the s.p. odds-layers are unknown to the
people who entrust money to their tender
mercies, since they work through agents
paid on commission. Many of them pay
nothing like the genuine starting price, but
have a self-imposed “limit” of which the
bettor knows nothing until he has backed
something at a long price, when he finds
that the concealed bookmaker rarely pays
more than “tens” even on a 100 to 1 shot.
The agents of these men operate in every
large shop, office, warehouse and factory in
the State, and their turnover is tremendous.
The milkman, the butcher and the baker
are often agents, and book bets for the
housewife as they go their rounds. On top
of that, other agents bet freely in the street,
particularly on racing afternoons, when bets
are taken from the “first” to the “last.”
The obvious remedy, if we cannot
make the tote take the place of the book-
maker altogether, is to return to the old
method of licensed betting shops in the city
or town. The cry that this will increase the
volume of betting seems quite fallacious.
The licensee, like the racecourse book-
maker at present, would have to produce
evidence of character and solvency, while
the laying of genuine s.p. odds would be en-
forced. His books, like those of the race-
course man, would be open to inspection,
and betting with young people and the em-
ployment of agents and touts would be
forbidden—all under heavy penalty. The
result would be to drive the Unknown who
flourishes at present, with his short odds
and frequent failures to pay up on the most
transparent excuses, out of business.
Further, it would compel many hundreds of
employees to give some attention to the
work for which their employers pay them,
instead of touting among their fellow em-
ployees for bets.
The betting-shop system has been per-
mitted for many years in England, which
is probably quite as moral as Australia,
though there it has never been under control
or license. With proper organisation and
supervision licensed shop betting in this
country should easily wipe out the secret
betting evil which is so rampant to-day.
More than that, a licensed system would
mean the return of a considerable revenue
to the Government, which, while taxing
the totalisator and the racecourse book-
maker, cannot touch a penny of the huge
amount which annually passes through the
dirty hands of the underground s.p. mer-
chants.
♦
Should the Police Be Armed?
“R.G.LI.T.”: Many people have been
shocked by the published story of an
alleged motor thief being shot in the mouth
by a police officer who was endeavoring to
arrest him. The Law has prescribed penal-
ties for motor thieves, and those penalties
do not include death nor mutilation by
revolver shot. Our whole criminal law will
go to pieces if the police are permitted to
administer the death penalty at their dis-
cretion, and without trial.
The police in England are not armed; the
police in America are armed, and America is
the home of lawlessness and of gun play.
When the police are armed it is the natural
law' of self-preservation that makes the
criminal arm himself. If the criminal knows
that the policeman’s only weapon is a
baton, of what use to him is a revolver —
except as a dangerous machine that may
make him, usually unintentionally, commit
murder? The criminal is glad to discard it.
It is known that Mr. Mitchell, the
N.S.W. Police Commissioner, was so favor-
ably impressed with the English system
that, following his return, he did disarm the
N.S.W. police; but the order was cancelled.
Why, has never been explained.
Statistics support the theory that where
the police are armed the use of firearms
among the criminal classes is greatest. But
it must not be imagined that I advo-
cate needless risks for the men that have
an exceedingly difficult task to perform.
The English police are trained in the use of
firearms; detectives who have to arrest
criminals who are known to be dangerous
are permitted to carry a revolver; police
who are assigned protection duty (he.,
guarding diplomats, Cabinet Ministers,
etc.), and whose potential adversaries are
assassins are, of course, issued with revol-
vers. But these men are not dealing with
ordinary criminals, and even so their
weapons are issued under very severe re-
strictions. They have to be handed in to
the officer-in-charge as soon as the con-
stable goes off duty.
It would be well, too, if the profound
psychological truth of disarmament was in-
vestigated with a view to ending the atro-
cious criminal record of Sydney during the
past few' months. As a student of crime,
the writer believes that herein lies the solu-
tion.
* —— —
The Producer and the Communist.
In the House of Reps, the other day the
Bruce-Pages’ old colleague P. G. Stewart,
lushing himself into a fury, thundered
against the Government for selling the job-
controlled Commomvealth line of steamers
for the best price obtainable under the
exacting conditions laid down. Mr.
Stew'art’s tears were, of course, all for the
poor primary producer. But what are the
facts? The line has had a pathetically
negligible influence on “the highest ocean
freights in the world”; as a matter of fact,
Maoriland, whose Government has never
tried to teach Inchcape and Kylsant their
business, gets its produce shipped to Lon-
don at lower rates than Australians pay.
In the running of the dismal enterprise 10
millions have been chucked into the sea,
and, instead of receiving the consideration
which it had every right to expect, the coun-
try has been repaid by the maritime unions
with the grossest ingratitude and humilia-
tion; ships have been held up on innumer-
able occasions by one set of Communist
union bosses after another. On the
very day before Mr. Stewart opened
fire it was announced that the Cus-
toms revenue for 10 months was two mil-
lions less than the estimate and a million
and a half less than the receipts for the
corresponding period of 1926-27. Yet he
demanded, in effect, that the Australian tax-
payer—and notably the primary producer—
should go on losing £500,000 or £600,000 on
an utterly useless undertaking of which an
unwhipped mob of Communists has been
in virtual control.
Is there no limit to the sacrifices which
Stewart, M.H.R., expects the primary pro-
ducer to make in order to maintain these
Communists in their impossible demands?
♦
The Digger’s Dried Fruits.
P. G. Stewart, M.H.R. for Wimmera since
1919 and Minister for Works in the Bruce-
Page Ministry for 17 months, addressed
Parliament the other day on the position
in the dried-fruits industry. “It is costing
the growers approximately £l2O to produce
£lOO worth of fruit,” he said. “They are
compelled to market 80 p.c. of their crop in
competition with the produce of the cheap
labor of Mediterranean countries, and pay
the highest ocean freights and the highest
production costs in the world.”
In the boom days of the industry, Mr.
Stewart went on to say, “700 soldiers were
placed on orchards at Red Cliffs within a
few miles of my home, about 1000 were
given blocks in the Mildura irrigation area
and a large number were settled in South
THE NORTHERN PIPER.
“Mr. Theodore has been defeated for the deputy leadership of the Federal Labor party, but his
supporters are hopeful of upsetting this election and winning in the next.”
(The artist regrets that he cannot show the tune Mr. Theodore is playing. It is
understood to be “I’ll borrow you millions, too.”)
Australia. It was like putting men into an
already overloaded boat.” Unfortunately
this view of the matter does not seem to
have occurred to the gentleman while the
excessive settlement was going on under his
eyes. An outspoken protest from the repre-
sentative of Mildura and Red Cliffs might
have had some effect, even in those mad
days; but apparently no such protest was
made.
However, Mr. Stewart’s latest report is
profoundly disappointing after all that has
been done to help the dried-fruits industry.
It has had Protection here, tariff concessions
in Britain, Government advances on pro-
duce, control boards, a substantial share of
the wine-export bounty and other forms
of assistance, direct and indirectf. The
member for Wimmera now declares that it
requires a bounty on its own account and
will be in dire straits without one. If this
is the case, Australia will rise to the occa-
sion. It has never been found wanting when
asked to help Diggers who are trying to
help themselves.
But though we dropped the Diggers into
the bog and must see that they don’t
smother in it, we ought to be warned not
to drop any more of our citizens into the
same bog or any one of its numerous
cousins. The moral of the whole business
is to turn our attention to supplying the
market we can protect, and which is close
at hand, instead of keeping our eyes glued
on a foreign market which we can’t pro-
tect and which is thousands of miles away.
*
Easy Divorce.
Down to 35 years ago, when the Act of
1893 introduced a new principle, the decrees
made absolute in N. S. Wales were few.
Between 1888-92 they numbered only 224.
Between 1893-97 they jumped to 1307 ;
The bill of ’93 dealt with the restitution of
conjugal rights. The means of enforcing the
will of the Court on a spouse reluctant to
obey its decree had been to attach his or
her person until compliance. This was found
to be not only very unpopular, but very
ineffective —probably because what the
parties really wanted was not to be forced
into association but to be freed of associa-
tion. The Act of ’93 substituted desertion
for attachment. It provided that failure to
comply with a decree for restitution should
be deemed equivalent to desertion without
reasonable cause. In other words, a suit
for restitution followed by noncompliance
furnished an easy short-cut to divorce, since
it ousted the three-years period of desertion.
There was an immediate rush to the court,
and it hasn’t ceased yet. For three years
past the crowd has varied beween 1378 and
1700 per annum.
From time to time amending legislation
has been suggested to check the flow. No-
thing, however, has been done, and so far as
the discontented matrimonial partners are
concerned perhaps it is as well nothing
should be done; but that does not settle the
of the child. In the derided mid-
Victorian days the root of the objection
to divorce was the break-up of the home
and consequent loss of influences on char-
acter. Does not that objection still hold?
The common reply is that it is better for
the child that it should be free from the
influences of a home where there is con-
stant bickering and strife. But would there
be constant bickering and strife if there
were not so easy a way to divorce? There
comes a time in practically every married
life when the future might very easily be
smashed. If there is no well-greased way
out, the couples would be more likely to
bury their momentary differences; and the
wounds generally heal without a scar.
The Bulletin does not ask for fetters.
But happy married life is best for the child,
and what is best for the child is best for the
State. Any law, therefore, which encourages
the parties or either of them to withhold
those concessions and sacrifices without
which domestic happiness is impossible is
not a good law.
♦
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —I wish I could be as cer-
tain as Mr. J. M. Fowler (B. 18/4/’2B) that
the election of Ministers by Parliament
would greatly improve the tone of Aus-
tralian politics. One advantage would be
that “members of Parliament would have to
shoulder the responsibility for their choice
of Ministers.” The Labor party does that
now. If it came into Parliament from the
caucus with its list prepared, and gave its
solid vote there, in public and without
explanation, the result might not be widely
different.
In Switzerland a voter may be elected a
Minister without being a member, but he
is generally a member to begin with. When
he is chosen for a portfolio at £lOOO per
annum he ceases to be a member, or at
least a voting member. But he talks in
either House, helps, with his fellow-Min-
isters, to prepare and guide the business,
and “window dresses” if he pleases. He also
runs his department. The fact that parties
seem to generally treat a Minister with
respect doesn’t prove that they would do so
here, especially if Lang, who might be a
party leader, had just come back from a
Labor Conference with fresh instructions
and a Red flag in his pocket.
Most of the United States are even more
advanced than the Swiss Federal body.
Instead of the people electing the State
Legislature and it choosing the Ministers,
the people elect both Legislature and Min-
isters, and the Governor to boot. The re-
sults are various. In Federal politics the
people elect the President, and he creates
the Cabinet from men who are wholly out-
side Congress. He also sacks the Cabinet.
This method produces more results which
are various. Great Britain, on the other
hand, creates its Cabinet as Australia does,
or ostensibly does, and the consequences are
fairly respectable now. They weren’t so
always.
Possibly the position is that there is no
political system which will keep straight of
itself if the owners are not straight. Still
I have a regard for the Swiss methods—and
for the Swiss people. Yours, etc.— Solomon
Malaprop.
+
The U.S.A. and Us.
“Blue Water”: Ernest Osborne’s article
(B. 18/4/’2B) is obviously intended to direct
Australian eyes more towards America and
hence away from England.
In support of his leaning towards
America, Mr. Osborne makes the statement
that “history is merely a prejudiced record
of past events.” Histoiy may be such if the
historian sets out to make it so. Here is
an extract recently cabled from London and
taken from a typical American history
book:—•
“It is a wonder the war lasted 15 minutes
after we arrived. Nothing could stop us.
We fought 1,200,000 men on a piece of
ground three miles by five. We whipped
twice our number and demonstrated that an
American with six months’ training was more
than a match for a German veteran. We
opened Foch’s eyes. We used common-
sense. We did not need an army staff. The
tide of battle turned as soon as we arrived.”
If history is written like that, of course it
is a prejudiced record.
In further support of his eulogy of
America Mr. Osborne quotes the American
fleet’s visits to Australia in 1908 and 1925
and refers to them as being “successful
cruises.” Why shouldn’t they have been suc-
cessful? There is nothing wonderful in a
modern man-of-war being able to steam a
few thousand miles. But let me tell Mr.
Osborne that when some American battle-
ships joined up with the Grand Fleet in
1917 we had to send a cruiser into the
North Sea to show them the way back to
Scapa, after their first exercise cruise. Also
that when their crack battleship, the Idaho,
visited Rio in 1919 and kept open house for
the Brazilians, the Americans had to give
up working their gun-turret machinery after
the first day because it all broke down.
The fact is that America is not in the
slightest danger of attack from any quarter
and never has been, and that she has there-
fore no real need for a fleet at all. And a
fleet which has no proper justification for
its existence cannot be an efficient machine.
That is the real lesson of history—naval
history at any rate. If America had an over-
seas trade upon which she depended for her
very existence, as England has and does, the
American fleet would be .justified; and it
would, because of the nation’s need for it,
be a very much more efficient instrument.
Meantime if Australia is to look to
America for her defence, as Ernest
Osborne suggests, then Heaven help Aus-
tralia !
+
The heavy drop in rubber has hit Papua
hard. A deputation interviewed Governor
Murray a few days ago in Port Moresby
asking for a bounty to maintain the price
at Is. per pound. Unless the Federal Gov-
ernment can afford some help, most, if not
all, of the plantations will have to close
down, and as these pay out something like
£lOO,OOO a year in Papua, the collapse will
have a serious effect on the community. It
is estimated that £25,000 a year will keep
the plantations working, and the Federal
Government has been notified accordingly.
Whatever the demerits of the bounty
system, its application in this instance is
called for. If nothing is done, the majority
at least of the carefully prepared planta-
tions must inevitably go back to the jungle,
which is always encroaching on them, and
the Commonwealth will be without the
means of providing itself, from its own
resources, with one of the essential things of
modern civilisation.
♦
An interesting sidelight has been cast upon
crime by a recent report of the American
National Crime Commission. This body,
which was instituted to inquire into the
causes of the amazing wave of criminality
which has swept over the U.S.A. of recent
years, has come to a rather well-worn con-
clusion —that the existing state of affairs is
solely due to the inefficiency of the police,
and that this, in its turn, is due to the very
low level of police intelligence. But is it
not true that every community gets the sort
of police it deserves, since it appoints its
own police? And do not these, like its
politicians, indicate the sort of community
it really is? The Commission in blaming
the police is condemning the nation. Cor-
rupt and inefficient administration cannot
be cured by suppressing some of the effects,
but only by removing or amending the
cause. And that is as true in Australia as
it is in the U.S.A.


warn?
iltui iMIifliMh III* I iil lltJUl
■ i
&
tttt/Zfi i R
m
■ i*Lm
“Mangrovite”
Waterproof
Belting
Is proving invaluable for outdoor conditions
It fully sustains the great reputation of Mangrovite quality, giving
even longer and safer service. Can be supplied stretchless, too,
if required. Ask about it.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney,
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Federal revenue situation grows
worse through the decline of imports, a
necessary event which should have been fore-
seen, and the fall in paper-money Customs
receipts. When the new sinking fund ar-
rangements are in full work they will involve
more expenditure all round, though what
effect paper sinking funds will have on the
gold debt abroad no one can imagine. It is
a time when Bruce and Page and Bavin and
Hogan and the rest might be well advised to
disguise themselves by night, and borrow a
local Witch of Endor, and get her to call up
the ghost of George Turner to give counsel.
Saul extracted mighty little satisfaction from
his interview with Samuel’s spook, but Tur-
ner was never a venomous man like Samuel,
and he would assuredly do his best.
The verdict of Hugh Denison, after 15
months as Trade Commissioner in New York,
is that “very little export trade from Aus-
tralia to the United States can be done de-
spite the heavy importation of American
goods into Australia.” He further reports
that U.S. capitalists don’t want to invest
in Australian industries, and employ Aus-
tralian workmen, and “assist in the de-
velopment of this huge continent,” though
this amiable ambition has just been attri-
buted to them by the deputy-governor of the
Commonwealth Bank.
As the Bavin Government has suspended
not only adult suffrage and the lodger vote
but even the ratepayers’ franchise in the city
of Sydney, its decision to leave the first and
second in full bloom so far as concerns
country shires and municipalities is creating
some uproar. Jobbery doesn’t attract such
general attention in a small place as in a
large one, but it may cost as much per head.
Some- people are asking if it wouldn’t be
much the same thing to give non-subscribers
a vote in the management of the A.M.P. life-
assurance concern.
Westralia is to have Leg. Council elections
on Saturday, and the Labor Government is
rather uneasy about Hon. Minister. Hickey,
who is being opposed by an energetic Cocky
for the Central Province. Hickey is by
no means unpopular, but the pastoral and
farming votes in the Province have grown
while the mining vote —once the deciding
factor —has diminished. Moreover, the recent
strike on the Midland railway, in which
Government employees took part to the ex-
tent of declaring Midland parcels “black,”
won’t help Hickey.
Queensland Premier McCormack is getting
ready to face another Labor Convention, and
the Rymers and Moroneys are going to
make it hot for him because he didn’t
truckle to them during the last railway strike.
But so long as he is sure of the A.W.U., of
which he used to be general secretary. Mc-
Cormack need never be afraid of the Reds.
When the Registrar of Friendly Societies
last collected the figures the Queensland sec-
tion of the A.W.U. had 56,000 members and
all other unions 86.000, and in unions like
th-e Police (1127 members), the Bank Offi-
cers (1110), the Trained Nurses (1211), the
Shop Assistants (3391), the Teachers
(4302). the State Service (2360) and others
Red influence is negligible.
Various parties at Newcastle made state-
ments last wrnek, and another row is pending.
Some of the statements are tangled. Secre-
tary Davies, of the Coal and Shale Em-
ployees’ Federation, said there are 8000 more
coal and coke men than the industry can
support, and charged this to the immigration
policy. The number of coal and coke
workers in the union, according to Mr.
Davies, is about 25,000, so apparently there
is room for only 17,000. Yet in 1925 the
number employed was 24,038, so it doesn't
appear that the immigration policy has
multiplied miners, seeing that they haven’t
multiplied. There may be too many miners,
but that isn’t due to immigration.
One of the first uses the Gyppo made of
the Parliament with which Britain pre-
sented him was to try to push through a
law imposing heavier penalties on the police-
man who attempts to put down disorder
than on the agitator who creates it. The
Baldwin Government objected, moving a few
warships to give the matter point. Mahomet
Pasha capitulated with promptitude, and
the measure has been pigeonholed for the
present. • Meanwhile 200,000 foreigners
islanded amongst a sea of potentially fan-
atical Afro-Asians, nine-tenths of whom are
illiterate, feel relieved.
The Vic. deficit for 1927-28 is now ex-
pected to be a round million, and it will
be due almost entirely to the falling off. in
railway revenue without a corresponding
reduction in expenditure. Chief Commis-
sioner Clapp, who has basked in the sun-
shine of public favor for years, is now
learning how severely Victorians can frown.
It is not his fault, of course, but he is the
handiest scapegoat.
General Birdwood, writing to a friend in
the S. Aus. township named after him, men-
tions that it is hard to get Australian fruit
for love or money in India, although
Indians and British alike are great fruit-
eaters. According to Wickens, £5ll was the
value of the fresh fruits exported to India
last year, dried fruits being valued at £1504,
fruit juices and syrups at £3738, fruits and
vegetables preserved in liquid at £6839, and
wine at £787. All these figures could be,
and should be, considerably improved,
especially as the balance of trade with India
is heavily against this country. Exports
to India for the last two years amounted
to £6 902.300, and imports from India to
£13,257,400.
The M.L. Capital-Labor conference paid
little attention to the views of various
learned professors, but spoke with respect of
the arbitration principle and with still
greater respect of the conciliation principle.
In Maoriland, at least, arbitration works.
In the 34 years that have elapsed since the
Arbitration Act entered the Statute Book
there have been only nine strikes of serious
magnitude. Neither employers nor em-
ployees want to abolish the system, though,
of course, both sides would like to mould
it nearer to their own desire. Maorilanders
take even their industrial laws seriously, and
breaches on either side are not winked at.
The Federal Arbitration Court has de-
registered the Marine Food-Spoilers’ Union
for bringing about the latest monthly ship-
ping hold-up, and deprived it of the benefit
of the award; but, as it had ceased to take
notice of the award, this doesn’t matter
much. If a prosecution under the Crimes
Act follows, and the Court sees its way to
convict, the union may be fined £lOOO or
less, and individual strikers £lOO or less.
If they don’t pay it isn’t likely the Court
will discover that it knows any reliable way
of collecting. The main difficulties seem to
be lack of definite authority, lack of a
Federal police, of Federal criminal courts,
and of judges and magistrates to run them,
and want of Federal gaols to put anybody
in, or Federal apparatus for collecting fines.
To these may, perhaps, be added a lack of
any mailed-fist characteristics in the man at
the head of affairs.
Comrade J. Ryan, who, as he complac-
ently records, was “delegated by the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade Unions to attend
the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat at
Shanghai,” contributes an abbreviated
account of the proceedings to Lang-Willis’s
Labor Daily:—
We were a mixed lot—three Filipinos, two
Chinese, a Japanese, an American, a Russian and
an Australian. Delegates from Java and Korea were
unable to attend owing to Governmental persecu-
tion. I strongly recommend to workers that they
procure copies of the resolutions, for they are
extraordinarily good. One decision that should par-
ticularly interest Australians is that the next Pan-
Pacific Trade-Union Congress will be held in Aus-
tralia during March, 1929.
The “Australian” Council of Trade Unions
is the show that refused to take part in
Bruce’s industrial peace conference. There
may be some difficulty in finding accommoda-
tion for its friends, who are certain to be
another “mixed lot”; but perhaps Theodore,
of Kirribilli, and Baddeley, of Bellevue Hill,
will rise to the occasion.
A report about the S. Australian railways
says that coal for railway use cost 19s. 3d.
per ton (£174.029) in 1914; 38s. 2d.
(£343.437) in 1923; and 425. 3d. £565.544)
in 1927. S.A. imports all its fuel, and the
rise was blamed on “concessions given by
tribunals and Governments to the coal indus-
try in N.S.W. and increased coastal freights.”
Neither the coalminers nor the seamen nor
the shipping people seem much happier some-
how. But if the State’s railway coal bill
increased by £220,000 per annum in four
years its interest bill grew by £1,461,000 per
annum in the same time, and it much more
than doubled between 1920 and 1927. That
supplies enough food for thought to cause
indigestion.
Part of the Tas. Lyons Government’s elec-
tion policy is a proposal for reducing the
membership of both Houses, “so that the cost
of government may be lowered and propor-
tional voting applied to the Leg. Council.”
Lyons’s idea is to abolish five of the 30
seats in the Assembly and three of the 18 in
the. Council. Pledge- and Caucus-men com-
plain that reduction of Assembly members is
against all Labor traditions, and that there
is no accompanying plan for the alteration
of the Council franchise, now bestowed on
freeholders (£lO annual value), rent-payers
(£3O annual value), lawyers, doctors, par-
»°us, University graduates, “officers of
II.M. Army or Navy” and returned soldiers.
Ilowever, they console themselves with the
reflection that there will be small chance of
getting the necessary legislation passed
even if the Government retains its Assembly
majority of one, and that also is doubtful,
. ~.... , ,
1 e vast difference between Theodore s
career in federal and Queensland State
politics makes you \wmder harder then ever
whnt the Queensland State election machinery
1S mi worn v „ . .
. 4he N.S.W. liquor referendum isn’t due
till September, and if Prohibition is carried
it will be some time before the compensation
bill comes in. Should it arrive it will be a
noble bill (£10,000,000 is spoken of), for even
the smallest and least obtrusive barmaid is
to get something, and other claimants will
be very numerous. The general assumption
is that. I rohibition won’t be carried, but
an impish desire to put the Government in
a hole and an. idea of the profits which ap-
parently lie m the bootlegging trade may
upset calculations. Assistant-Treasurer
Stevens was asked m Parliament if he knew
how the compensation money could be raised,
and Ins reply indicated that the Ministry
hasn’t begun to worry about that con ting»n'cy
yet. If it intends to go on with the refer-
endum it should worry—just a little Even
a remote possibility is a possibility. ’
Labor politics always provide something
new. It is now said that so far from Matthew
Charlton’s resignation of the Federal Opposi-
tion leadership being voluntary, as alleged lie
was pushed out to make room for Hcullin
as leader and Theodore as deputy. As
Scullin was already deputy-leader he could
hardly be overlooked and pushed out also—
not at once, that is—and Theodore could
hardly be lifted to the top all at once.
But the tale goes that Scullin was to
be shoved off the premises by the Red
elements iu his turn, when the community
had become more accustomed to Theodore
and could stand him better. The election
of Blakeley as second in command struck
these plans like the earthquake which hit
Corinth, and th.o fat was in the fire, and
the soiled linen m the tub.
The report of the N.S.W. Treasury for 10
months of the financial year shows that,
compared with the corresponding period of
last year, revenue from business undertakings
was £7.92,626 more. But it cost £828,215
more in working expenses to earn the
£792,626, and the interest on the public
debt, which constitutes the eternal mortgage
on the business undertakings, was £791,730
more. So the position was nearly £900,000
worse, and that is something for a Treasurer
to think about when the milkman wakes him
before sunrise and the S. M. Herald lands
with a crash on the verandah. A promise
has been made that the Sydney Harbor sur-
plus will no longer be annexed by the
Treasury, but left to the Harbor Trust for
new works or reduction of debts; in fact,
the harbor takings are to cease to bloat the’
revenue returns in any shape. This is wise
policy, but it will cost a trifle.
Tommy Ryan, who has bottomed the poll
in Brighton and lost his £5O, is the ex-
Labor man whom the Nat. Federation
sent up to Ballarat in November, 1925, to
settle the hash of McGrath, M.H.R. Bal-
larat has no great opinion of McGrath, and
was disposed to dispense with his services
on that occasion, especially as Labor stocks
were at their lowest throughout Australia.
With an open , go on the other side, such
ct°TT^ a \ ned i ln M annon ; and Gwydir
(N.S.W.), he would almost certainly
have shared the fate of McNeill and Cun-
Bingham. But the Nat. Fed. insisted on
having a “selected candidate,” and its
choice fell on the loquacious stranger from
the city, to whom Ballarat did not take at
all. So McGrath was spared—to draw un-
flattering attention to himself by denouncing
those of his colleagues who exercised their
right toi vote against Theodore for the
deputy-leadership, and demanding publiea-
tion of their names so that the executive
might deal with them. And Ryan went
back to Melbourne to find himself out of
favor with the Nat. Fed., which dkl not
even endorse him for Brighton. These bund
and vindictive machines!
Somebody seems to be always inquiring
into Canberra or reporting on ft, officially
or otherwise. McCallum Smith,
of Westralia. lately visited it, and described
it as “a garden city run mad and under the
control of madmen,” which was reminiscent
of Bismarck’s description of another capital
when he called Paris “a madhouse full ot
monkeys.” Witnesses have been telling
the Public Accounts Committee that the
leasehold system is a fiasco, because it is
almost impossible to raise money on lease-
hold, and that people dislike it on principle,
that the quaint building regulations are a
fool, that house accommodation costs twice
as much as in Melbourne, and that the fear
of a reappraisement and increase of ground
rents is already becoming a nightmare.
Meanwhile, the Government has notified 184
officials, belonging to seven departments,
that they are to shift from Melbourne to
’Berra during the winter, and 1000 more
are awaiting notice and practising snow-
shoe tricks.
Bela Kun, one of the prize monsters
of Bolshevism, has been heard of again,
having been jugged by the Austrian police.
Kun set up a "dictatorship of the prole-
tariat” in Hungary, and for five indescrib-
able months (March —August, 1919) lie and
his gang committed every crime except sui-
cide and cannibalism. When the dictators
fled from the invading Roumanians —all ex-
cept one ’bus-misser, who is said to have
been torn in pieces by the crowd—Bela got
back with difficulty to Russia, where Trotsky
found him a provincial governorship or some-
thing. with a salary and chances of stealing.
Possibly the eclipse of his patron left him
stranded, for after nearly nine years’ absence
he was discovered at Vienna planning a
new revolution, and was roped in along with
14 accomplices. They evidently have a shorter
way with conspirators there than in Aus-
tralia. If Bela is extradited to his own
country it is expected that he will b'
executed on several thousand charges, amid
widespread regret that it can be done only
once.
The first-past-the-post electoral system
and a 28 per cent loading on rural votes
have brought about eccentric results in
Maoriland. The Reform party, which has
been in office since 1912, has never had
behind it a majority of the electors. After
the general election of 1914 Massey had a
Parliamentary majority of two, and a min-
ority in the country of 28,955 votes. In
1919, after the “long Parliament,” he re-
tained his two-seat majority, but the coun-
try cast 1.26,000 votes more against him
than for him. In 1922 he went back with
an actual minority of three seats, but rats
came to his rescue. In 1925, Coates, who
had succeeded Massey, went back with an
overwhelming majority of seats, but 36,793
votes short of a majority in the electorates.
“Wingclla”: As was confidently expected,
the North Australian Commission, latest of
a long line of investigating boards and com-
missions, reports that it discerns a need far
better wharves at Darwin and a more reliable
water supply, more water-bores on stock
routes and more roads and railways. It has
taken the three commissioners over a year
to find out these things, at a cost of £5500 a
year in salaries alone. Every official report
on the N.T. for the last 20 years has con-
tained the same recommendations, and the
amount spent on commissions and experts
would at least have given Darwin a water
supply and new wharves.
“Bildad”: Denmark, classed as a model
State, gives a vote for the Lower House
only to men and women aged 25 and upwards
and possessing fixed abodes. Upper House
electors must be aged 35 and upwards.
Sweden fixes the voting age at 23; so does
Norway. The Netherlands and Iceland
make the age 25, and Finland 24. These
examples are set by sober, peace-loving, in-
dustrious and solvent communities, which
seldom embezzle the public funds, and are
sometimes even described as “God-fearing.'*
They are whales for education. The idea of
making the suffrage age 24 for one House
and 30 for the other might be considered.
The value of coal exported from New-
castle was only £435,383 in the second half
of 1927 against £640,227 in the second halt
of 1926, and Newcastle runs the N.S.W. coir-
export business. The miners’ secretary says he
has known miners to make £3 to £4 per day-
From which it looks as though wages are so
high that the price of Newcastle coal has
gone up till there is a very general desir
not to use it, and that the miners might
get a good deal more pay if they were con-
tent with less wages. The rise of pric"
from 13s. 6d. per ton in 1919 to 17.5. ’(<■■
in 1921 and subsequent years, and the
erratic character of supplies, set various old
customers vigorously developing resources
of their own. and results were bound to show
themselves in time.
THE “DOCTOR’S” ORDERS.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
“All vessels of the Huddart-Parker line are laid
up owing to the action of the Marine Cooks’ Union.”
Wliat news do you bring of the seven seas,
Ye steamers by the quay?
What tales do you tell as you lean at ease
Of crooning waters and chanting breeze,
Of ocean’s roads and its argosies
A-sailing fair and free?
“We bring no news of the waters wide,
We steamers lying by;
The captain bold and his crew abide
Like longshore lubbers this many a tide,
For cooks are cooks, and the same decide
Just when we sail and why.”
Rich cargoes rest in each bulging shed,
And empty be your holds;
Then why are your winches dumb and dead,
Your hungry furnaces unfed?
It it that some fell plague its dread
Pall over you unfolds?
“Nor plague nor famine holds us in thrall;
Our owners bid us go,
Our captains wait and the markets call,
We’re trim to the very last block and fall,
But the cook says ‘No, you don’t’ —that’s
all—
The tyrant cook says ‘No.’ ”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Stellsby”: When Captain Richard Wood-
get held command of the famous Cutty Sark
he never let even the vilest of weather stop
him from from cracking on sail. It was
said that during the 10 years he commanded
the clipper he never once hove her to.
Being a strict disciplinarian the skipper
conducted church service every Sunday,
fair weather or foul. One Sabbath a par-
ticularly heavy sea was running, and in the
middle of a prayer the ship pooped a green
one that made her shudder like a small boy
taking castor oil. “The blanky mast will
be overboard soon,” confided a mischievous
shellback to a nervous passenger. The old
man heard the stage whisper, and marked
time with his supplication. “You stop your
infernal row while I’m praying,” he roared.
He then finished the service, and afterwards
logged the flabbergasted A.B. for profanity.
* * * *
“L.G.”: The word “cobber” has an abori-
ginal derivation, not a French one (B.
25/4/’2B). “Cobba-cobba” was used by
Black Brother in the old days as an epithet
of endearment applicable to both sexes.
* * * *
“Flunk”: Those of us who like to claim
acquaintance with the great or to walk with
kings will be interested to hear of the latest
New York idea for gratifying such aspira-
tions. In that city an enterprising photo-
grapher has laid in a stock of life-like repre-
sentations of celebrities done, in wax. The
visitor from the American equivalent of Alice
Springs or Darwin can thus be photographed
arm-in-arm with a convincing
President Coolidge or ’Gene
Tunney. or having a spot with
Big Bill Thompson of Chicago,
or being received by King
George at the Tower of London,
and bear the photographic
proofs of his distinction back to
whence he came. If he so de-
sires it he can be “done” with
a rifle in his hand, with one
foot on a recumbent elephant or
lion, backed by a party of
supers recruited from the
N’Yark negro quarter of Har-
lem. This last format is specially
recommended for gentlemen who
have been “away” for a few
years and desire to explain their
long absence without embarrass-
ment.
* * •
“Sea Nomad”: In the pio
neer days of Torres Strait, when
the thousand reefs and coral
passages were uncharted and
unknown, hundreds of ships
went down as they sought to
crawl along those tortuous lane-
ways. In several passages ships
have actually piled up one on
top of another. Most of them
are long since forgotten, but
relics are brought up every now
and then by the pearl and tro-
chus divers. The fact that tlie
Windhover, of Glasgow, a com-
paratively modern vessel, is
lying underneath a steamer off
Bramble Cay was recalled the
other day when a native re-
trieved her brass capstan-head. In some
places it is alleged that wrecked ships
actually lie three deep, but there is nothing
left of some of them except a few copper
bolts overgrown a foot thick with coral.
❖ ❖ * *
“Hcrk”: The battle of Whaffor is
ignored by war historians, but they still
tell of it at Suva. It was when Fiji was
slightly apprehensive of a visit from Von
Uuckner, of See Adler fame, that somebody
reported that a tin hut in the Lami district,
some three miles distant from the capital,
had a mysterious occupant who was sus-
pected of being a German spy. The local
defence force was hurriedly mobilised; an
hour later the hut was surrounded and the
C.O. called on its occupant to surrender.
After repeating the demand twice rqsult-
lessly, he ordered his men to fire a volley at
the roof. The din of lead on iron had hardly
subsided when out of the hut rushed -an
ancient Chink propounding the eternal
Oriental query about the bewildering ways
of the Occident.
'** v
“Flagwagger”: Second marriages are
liable to occasion some strange relationships.
In 1901 Mr. Blank, of Geelong, aged 21,
married Miss Asterisk, of Ballarat, aged 17.
About a. year later came their first and only
child. Ruth. In 1904 came a belated edition
to the Asterisk family in the shape of a
daughter named Mary. Thus Mary Asterisk
was the aunt of Ruth Blank, two years
older. Mrs. Blank died in 1919; and in
1922 Miss Mary Asterisk, now 18, compli--
cated her relationship to Ruth by marrying
her dead sister’s husband. Consequently,
Ruth had now a combination aunt and step-
mother two years her junior. This second
marriage of Blank’s has since yielded two
STILL KEEPING IT UP.
CISSIE “Auntie, you' know the old man at the corner that was ill?”
AUNT JOBKINN (Christian Scientist ): “You mean he thought he was ill.”
CISSIE: “Well, now he thinks lie’s dead.”
offspring, and friends of the family are still
desperately trying to determine the exact
relationship of the new-comers to Ruth.
“Mullarula”: Moving up through the
mountains near the Dead Sea for the attack
on Jericho, we halted about midnight, and
camped till morning on the ridge of Jebel
Muntar, where the surface of the ground
consisted entirely of loose round stones about
the size of a man’s fist. About sunrise a
trooper, hobbling round with the stoop of an
octogenarian, caught the eye of the major,
and drew the reproof: “Don’t get round like
that, man. You look like an old-age pen-
sioner.” “Well,” was the reply, “what
do you expect a man to look like after sleep-
ing on one of David’s ammunition dumps?”
“Lao-dah”: A well-known Melbourne sur-
geon was in the full tide of his morning’s
routine operations at a leading hospital.
Wiping his hands after dealing with a motor
casualty, he shouted “Next!” A Chinaman
stumbled through the door into the theatre,
followed by a compatriot. “Tonsils, Doctor,”
murmured the nurse. “On to the table with
him,” ordered the doctor. The son of Tong
drew back and sprayed the landscape with
a flood of agitated monosyllables, while his
friend stood trembling in the background.
“No time to argue,” bellowed the sawbones,
“up with him!” Anaesthetist and sister of
the lamp closed on the gibbering Celestial
and silence intervened. After it was all over
a second nurse came tiptoeing in. “As far
as I can gather from the Chinaman in the
waiting-room, Doctor,” she murmured, “he is
the one who was to have his tonsils out. The
other one came to assure you that his friend
had no money.”
“Larrapinta”: The dailies have been full
of cables about a South Australian girl who
stowed away on the four-masted Finnish
barque. IJerzogin Cecilie, and was signed on
as cabin-boy. A thing that isn’t mentioned
deepens the mystery. Four months ago, when
the vessel was lying at a Port Lincoln
jetty with her cargo aboard ready to start
on her race to Falmouth with the Swedish
barque Beatrice, a rumor got about that a
young woman was hidden aboard. On hear-
ing it the skipper warped his ship out into
the stream, mustered tlie crew on deck, and
then, in company with the stevedoring agent,
searched the ship from stem to stern without
finding any stowaways. The girl came to
light, it now appears, when the vessel was
three days out. Two days after the Cecilie
sailed the skipper sent back a wireless mes-
sage stating that his ship had passed the
Beatrice, but making no mention of any other
occurrence. The girl must have appeared
next day, when the Cecil ie's little wireless-
set was unable to reach Adelaide.
“Stellsby” : I notice from the cables that
the Corinth earthquake has left the ship-
canal intact. It could hardly have been
otherwise; the solid rock walls rise perpen-
dicularly, higher than a ship’s mast in places,
and would take some shifting even in a
natural convulsion. Imagine a watery Argyle
Cut (as it was) about four miles in length
and you’ve got a fairly accurate picture of
the Corinth Canal. During the war t.b.d.’s,
despatch vessels and colliers used it as a
short cut to the iEgean, but it was too
narrow for the big convoys. Apart from
this the Gulf approach from the Adriatic was
usually well sprinkled with mines, and would
have been a happy hunting-ground for sub-
marines if troops had taken through
tlie canal. Nevertheless, a few brass-hats
and Tommies did take passage on the de-
spatch vessels, and a few small craft were
torpedoed. I made several trips through the
canal, and found that if the ship didn't
get an absolutely straight kick off and your
crack coxswain wasn’t at the wheel, it was
odds that she would bump herself from
Posidonia to Isthmia, and vice versa.
* * * *
“Alex.” : The Hebrew word for the refresh-
ment with which Jael entertained the unfor-
tunate Sisera (B. 25/4/’2B) is a generic
term and covers such edibles as cream, clab-
ber and cheese. Gesenius translates it
“curdled milk,” and adds the curious com-
ment “such milk having an intoxicating
power,” but queries it. Modern interpreters
reject the Authorised Version rendering,
“butter,” for the reason given by “Midford.”
In the translation issued in 1917 by the
Jewish Publication Society of America the
passage is rendered: “Water he asked, milk
she gave him; in a lordly bowl she brought
him curd.”
“Don Alhambra”: The Romans knew
something of butter, even if they didn’t eat
it (B. 25/4/’2B). The word “butyrum”
found its way into the language somehow,
even if it never gets into the classics, and
the stuff was recommnded by Roman medical
men as an excellent plaster! Olive oil wars
preferred to butter in cookery, just as it
still is in present-day Italy. Another of
our modern necessities, sugar, is described
by the naturalist Pliny under the name of
“saccharum,” as “a kind of white gum, col-
lecting on reeds in Arabia and India, brittle
to the teeth, and of use only in medicine.”
“Carel”: Is it necessary for the legality of
a marriage that the bridegroom shall signify
his willingness in the usual way when he is
pointedly asked, “Wilt thou?” I know of
one man who was in such a pitiable state of
nervousness on his wedding-day that he was
unable to utter a word or do anything but
stare helplessly at the interrogator. The
minister, however, evidently concluded that
if the bridegroom hadn’t been willing he
wouldn’t have been there, for he took silence
for consent and continued the ceremony, the
bride doing her part manfully. The incident
gave the parson a chance to work off a
chestnut at the breakfast later. “I said to
him, ‘Wilt thou?’ and he wilted!” he re-
marked, and the hoai’y joke made quite a hit.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Confectionery isn’t the
only thing that shouldn’t Have its ante-
cedents inquired into too closely. Years ago
I worked in the kitchen of a popular Melb.
hotel, and one night just as the dinner-gong
was about to boom the chef and the second-
cook had an altercation about a joint. Words
suddenly failed the clicf, and he grabbed a
leg of mutton and clubbed his lieutenant with
it. With a hoarse yell the smitten one
launched himself at his boss and loosed a
blow that landed the other in a crumpled con-
dition on the cooking-range. There was a
scream of agony, and half a minute later a
waiter’s voice sailed in from the passage,
“Roast mutton, two.”
“DON'T MIND IF I DO.”
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
“ ‘Don’t mind if I do!’ That phrase gets
my goat,
Destroys amour propre and sticks in the
throat.”
Thus in Flanagan’s bar George let himself
go
With a snort of contempt, and the thing
apropos
Was a drink that he’d offered a down-and-
out chap,
Who rose like a hurdler to finish the lap,
Scare pausing to murmur with nose in the
brew
A grudging and graceless, “Don’t mind if I
do.”
“You offer one something you know that he’d
like.
A square meal,” said George, “or the use of
a bike,
Some clothing, a basket of fruit or of eggs,
A lift on the road to one gone in the legs,
A job to one workless and down on his luck,
The loan of a pound to some hopeless ‘lame
duck.’
To one form of acceptance you’ve got to get
nerved:
‘Don’t mind if I do.’ ” “Too right.” I
observed.
“The very word ‘thanks’ would seem infra
dig.
‘Don’t mind if I do’ —the assent of the pig,
Whose grunt you interpret to mean, on his
side,
A ‘just to oblige you I’ll take it’ implied.
The form of the cliche itself is absurd
To a purist who looks for at least the ‘just
word’;
When one says, ‘I don’t mind,’ then it’s plain
as can be
That.he docs. Am I right?” “You’ve said
it,”. from me.
“Well, suppose,” George continued, “we start
a combine
For the, teaching of manners to mannerless
swine.
Our first rule shall be, when we find a man
slack
In acknowledgment gracious, to swiftly fire
back.
Like a shot from a gun or a bolt from the
blue,
The cutting retort, “You, don’t mind? Well,
l do'!’
And the , offer, of course, will be promptly
withdrawn.” •
“Good enough for the cows,” I replied with
a yawn.
“It only needs courage,” said George, “for
a start,
If we stand by each other and each do our
part
DISCOVERED A LOT SINCE THEN.
JONESMITH: "Out again-always out! And, not two years ago you told me I was
the world to you.”
MRS. JONESMITH “Yes. Wonderful how much geography one can learn in two
years, isn’t it, darling?”
Resolutely and firmly like true pioneers,
Regardless of comment, of insult or jeers.
Reform will come slowly but surely, you’ll
see.
Let us give a kick-off. Will you join me?”
asked he.
My eyes wandered idly, my thoughts else-
where flew,
And I absentlv answered, “Don’t mind if
I do.”
S.A.
BILL O'C.


“Yufn” : Some persons undoubtedly resist
electric shocks better than others; I am
wondering if there is anything hereditary in
the trait. A friend was busy helping dis-
mantle a wood-turning factory when, discon-
necting a switch, he received the full force
of 450 volts through his thumb. Apart
from the thumb being sore, he feels no ill
effects. His brother, on a visit to White
Bay power-house (N.S.W.), ignorantly
touched a machine which sent 2000 volts
through his right arm. Sparks feet long
played about his arm, and it looked as if
the _ Coroner would have a job. But the
victim wasn’t even knocked off his feet,
though his arm was numb for some days and
broke out in a series of abscesses. To-day
he bear no marks of his experience.
OH THESE CHILDREN!
DOTING FATHER: “Sweetie, weetie pettums! Whose lickle baby are ’oo?”
MODERN INEANT (on the floor); “All right, dad, I’ll bite. Whose lickle babies are we?”
“Larrapinta”: Touching the unlikelihood
of getting genuine curios where they are
supposed to be made (B. 11/4/’2B). Nearly
40 years ago I tried to persuade the wrinkled
old skipper of a Malay proa, lying off tli e
McArthur River (N.T.), to sell me the beauti-
fully-made kris he wore. He flatly refused,
but finally hinted that he would trade me
another kris for a revolver and some cart-
ridges. Knowing that the revenue cutter
was nowhere near I took a chance, hunted up
a rusty old army revolver and some ammu-
nition, and handed them over. The Macas-
sar man went below and returned with what
looked like an old pruning-saw, but which,
on closer inspection, proved to be an ancient
kris in a scarred and worn bamboo sheath,
I demurred a bit at, the dilapidated condition
of the exhibit, but the other party pointed
out that the revolver had seen its best days,
too, and began to roll a cigarette with a
“take it or leave it” air worthy of a civilised
pawnbroker. So the deal was made, though I
had grave doubts about the value of my
acquisition. They were intensified a few
years ago when I showed it to a doctor who
prides himself on being an authority on
native weapons. He laughed at it, and cer-
tainly the 18in. rippled-iron blade, black and
unpolished, with a pistol-like handle bare
of any ornamentation, looked a poor old
tiling when contrasted with the well-made
weapons in his own collection, with their
springy steel blades and inlaid sheaths. A.
few weeks later, however, a very crestfallen
“collector” came to me and confessed that
a touring museum curator had looked over
his weapons (all secured in the Far East)
and, after testing the blades with acid and
a high-power lens, had pronounced them all
to be Sheffield- or Birmingham-made. Then
I took my old kris along to the same expert,
and found him not only ready to warrant
its genuineness but eager to buy it! That
kris will remain in my possession until it
goes to a public museum.
* * # *
“Au Fait” : My country friend was being
driven down to the vehicular punt at Syd-
ney, and was admiring the stone supports
of the approach to the Harbor Bridge on the
city side. He dwelt lovingly on the perfect
alignment. “I’d like to get the bloke that
put those up to do a bit of fencin’ fer me,"
he said.
* * a *
“Sir Sol”: Parliament House, Canberra,
is a much more pretentious building than the
horde of sightseers realise. In its construc-
tion over 5,000,000 bricks were used, the
floor space covers an area of five acres, there
are 306 rooms, and 800 windows; there are
over two miles of corridors, all covered
with india-rubber, which cost £2 per yard.
The stairs and some of the floors are of
inlaid timber, and in this over 4,000,000
separate pieces, mostly jarrah, were used.
Realising the volubility of members, nearly
20.0 telephones were installed, and the cost
of upkeep is double what it was when
the Federal Parliament was housed in
Melbourne.
* * * #
“Feng-Shui”: The British Colonial Office
has formed a committee to examine and
report upon measures to protect white
women and girls in Asiatic colonies. Some
sort of action is badly needed. Several
British colonial governments along the fringe
of Asia used to permit Austrian, French and
even American women to be recruited for
their unofficial yoshiwaras, contenting them-
selves with putting an absolute embargo on
females of British birth. The notion was,
of covirse, that British prestige would thus
be maintained, the subject native being able,
by some occult means, to distinguish between
the white women of one race and another.
The native did nothing of the sort, one
fallen memsahib being the same as the next
to him.
* * * *
“Herodot”: A case of whisky from the
wrecked Cambus Wallace (B. 18/4/’2B)
turned up as recently as 1925, although >t
must be nearly 50 years since the ship
struck Stradbroke Island, opposite to South-
port (Q.). Some fishermen found the stuff,
where it had lain under sand and bushes,
doubtless planted by an enterprising per-
son who could never hit on the hiding-place
again. The finders brought it to the hotel at
which I was staying, just across from the
scene of the wreck, and had no difficulty in
selling it at £1 a bottle, a Queensland Judge
purchasing half a dozen. It's long period in
storage made it the best whisky I have ever
tasted.
* * * *
“Fagele Wolf” : The Hebrew word for the
“butter” which the
Bible represents Jael
as presenting to Sisera
“in a lordly dish” (B.
25/4/’2B) is “chamoli,”
which two translators
whom I have consulted
render “cream.” Most
likely the dish was
some form of junket.
“Au Fait”: Prosaic I’itt-street (Sydney)
was disturbed during the lunch-hour by the
spectacle of a paper-boy suddenly dropping
his bundle and taking to his heels, hotly pur-
sued by two frantic females. He was caught
in the first 50 yards, much selling of the
afternoon press having doubtless told on Ins
w;ind. The women were his mother and
sister, who had recognised him by his voice,
evidently the same which used to call the
cattle home. He had run away from home
12 months previously to make his fortune,
and was inexorably taken back to help with
the farm work,
* *
“Mells” : The frequent phrase on his own,
with its variants, used to be a slangy collo-
quialism 30 years ago, but it has long become
good enough English for most speakers and
many writers. I have an idea that it origi-
nated in Australia- it was here that I first
encountered it—but I was _ never quite cer-
tain of what it is an abbreviation. Ploughing
through some of the recently published letters
of Queen Victoria. I found some light on
the problem, in the last place where one
would look it. T-he date of the extract
is Feb., 1579.; the occasion was when the
Prince Imperial of .France had offered lm
services to England in the. Zulu \\ ar. Diffi-
cnlties," writes the Queen, “are made about
his actually serving, but George [the Duke
of Cambridge, then Commander-in-Chief]
suggests his going out on his own hook.” It
is the only instance I can find of the august
letter-writer falling into slang, but as she
was only quoting cousin George, perhaps it
was excusable. Was “on his own hook” the
parent of “on his own” ?
BARRED.
JILL: “Oh look how it’s raining! You’ll have to take me home.”
JACK: “I’d — l’d — but I’m living at the Y.M.C.A!”
“Bullwhanger” : On her last voyage north
the steamer Calulu called at Rabaul and
landed a brand-new all-metal Junkers mono-
plane, powered with a Bristol Jupiter engine,
which by this time is doubtless plying be-
tween Solamana and the Edie Creek gold-
fields. Captain Mustard is the pilot. He
arrived from Salamana per schooner and
with the help of his mechanic assembled the
monoplane on the beach. As there is no
aerodrome at Rabaul they had to turn the
craft into a seaplane by fitting floats to the
undercarriage in place of wheels. There are
quite a flock of ’planes serving the gold-
fields now; miners can fly from the sea to
the fields in about three-quarters of an hour,
thereby saving some 10 days’ hard foot-
slogging.
* * * *
“F.S.” : As more or less a relic from the
late Victorian era I am mildly interested in
a movement that has sprung up in Mel-
bourne. Earnest young medicoes and equally
earnest spinsters foregather in drawing-
rooms, mainly in St. Kilda, and solemnly
discuss the advisability of revealing to young-
people the mysteries of sex. As far as my
experience goes, the young people know
already. For years past we have had a suc-
cession of films dealing with the subject, the
last, a particularly uncompromising one,
running for over three months in various
picture theatres to two packed houses daily.
Every bookstall bristles with the frank works
of Marie Slopes and cheap editions of “What
a Young Woman Ought to Know,” etc. In
my young days no such respectable mediums
of enlightenment existed.
“G.F.”: The first name bestowed on
the capital of Queensland was Edinglassie.
Soon after the arrival of Chief Justice
Forbes in Sydney, Governor Bris-
bane invited him to join an excur-
sion to Moreton Bay in the Gov-
ernment brig Amity. Among the
party was the Surveyor-General,
who pointed out the site selected
for the future city. The Governor
asked the Chief Justice for a name,
and the latter suggested “Eding-
lassie” after his home in Scotland.
Later, however, it was officially
superseded by “Brisbane.”
if if if *
“Barangkali” : Despite all vigilance opium
is sneaked into Sydney under the noses of
the Customs officials. Before the recent
arrival of the St. Albans from the East, ad-
vices were received that there were good
reasons for believing there was a store of the
contraband drug aboard. Accordingly, when
the boat arrived, the luggage and personal
effects of the Chinese crew were carefully
searched, and the ship itself combed from end
to end —even a gallery of cages containing
Chinese birds was not overlooked —but no-
thing rewarded the searchers. Days later
two Chinese members of the crew were inter-
cepted leaving the ship, and found to have
20 tins of opium concealed in belts around
their bodies. Apparently with an eye to
future business, they steadfastly refused to
disclose the hiding-place.
* if * *
“Mullarula” : The German steamer Pfalz,
stopped by a shot from a battery at Port
Phillip Heads at the outbreak of war (B.
11/4/’2B), afterwards became the Boorara,
one of the least popular of Australian trans-
ports. With over a thousand troops on
board, there was only deck space for about
400 to parade. Also the old tub had a leak
somewhere which allowed sea water to e’lter
the drinking-water tanks: and she took half
the ocean over her decks in any sort of
a sea. When I went across on her few
things were discussed more profanely than
the shot across her bows which helped to
make history. The general verdict was tiat
the gunners should have been shot tor not
sinking her outright.
* * * *
“Berhantu”: “Feng-Shui’s” theory that
“the small brunette type of white man is
successfully resistant to equatorial conditions
where the Nietz-
chean big blonde
beast goes under”
(B. 25/4/’2S) has
been disproved by
thousands of Scotch
and Scandinavian
residents of the
tropics during the
last century. The
Dutch in Java (not
the mixed bloods)
demonstrate it con-
stantly, while fair
Austraiiaus of the
second and third
generations (I am
one myself) suffer
no disability in
tropical residence.
The utterly falla-
cious argument was
once used that the
tropics were not lit
for white men be-
cause “the nearer
you got to the
equator the darker
the people were.”
Yet the only people
in the Arctic (the
Eskimos) are dark-
copper colored,
whereas they should
presumably be
albinos if there
were anything in
the above theory.
The worst trouble
of the big blonde
beast is the small
black bottle. As for
the recent investi-
gations and deci-
sions of the French
Government, even if
they are accurately
represented, they do
not affect the ques-
tion. It is very
much easier at any
time to choose a
small brunette type
from France than
to find big blonde
beasts in sufficient
numbers for service in the tropics.
❖ ❖ * *
“Bret Vane” : One of the rarest decoration*
seqn on Anzac Day was the Kurdistan Medal.
There was a little war in Kurdistan in
1919, after the Big Scrap was over, a British
force being detailed to impress upon the hill-
men that British outposts are not estab-
lished for merely ornamental purposes. A
small Australian unit looked after wireless
communications and had a hot time. Only 52
Kurdistan medals came to Australia; one
local lad collected a D.C.M. as well.
* * * *
“Lucifer”: For stoical equanimity the
Chinaman is surely in a class of his own.
One of them grows cabbages on a fertile
island in the middle of a creek which dribbles
through a Brisbane suburb. Every time it
rains heavily for a day or so the creek
washes his shack and all his vegetables away.
This happens about twice a year. The
Chinaman waits till the flood is over, and
then returns to the spot where his garden
once was. There he re-erects his hut and
patiently proceeds to grow more cabbages in
the rich soil the flood has left behind.
* * * *
“Ilerodot”: Thp occasional exchange of
identity-discs and hats among Diggers some-
times led to men being erroneously reported
killed, and the error was not always cor-
rected (B. 11/4/’2B). I knew an A.I.F.
man whose wife in Melbourne was officially
informed that her husband had fallen in
the early part of 1918. She accepted the
news unquestioningly, and a few months
later married again. Six years later an old
cobber of the allegedly dead man got the
shock of his life when he came face to face
with the latter in Market-street, San Fran-
cisco. The supposed corpse made no effort
to deny his identity, but mentioned that
the man who had been killed was one to
whom he had given his disc the night before;
and that lie had decided, for reasons of ms
own, to take advantage of the mistake. How
he eliminated himself from the fighting from
and eventuallv got to America would make
a l£mg story, but he, too, had married again.
THE WOUNDED NAME.
[For The Bulletin.]
“At the Sydney Central Police Court a restaurant-
keeper named Aristides was fined £3 and costs for
having cockroaches on his premises.”
Just, was he just, whose famous predecessor
Suffered, on that account, such cruel fate?
Or did the axe descend on a transgressor
Whose knobby luck was to be just too late
In shooing ’roaches underneath the dresser
When stickybeaks called to investigate
The culinary lair where chips are slid
On fillet, hot and hissing from the grid?
What’s in a name, however lustrous? Little
Or less than nought, ’twould seem, for
those whose biz
Is hungry customers o’ nights to victual
What time the nimble taxis homeward
whiz,
Or surely he’d have wangled an acquittal,
A chap with such a moniker as his.
Where hero souls loll in Elysian bliss
All me! I wonder what they’ll make of this.
Who pictures an Achilles playing Indies
In the grim press of war, for fear of hurt?
A Socrates with tarnished bona fidcs't
A Timon toting round his bit o’ skirt?
Or —does it jar you less?—an Aristides
Who’s intimate with subterfuge and dirt
In haunts where agitated insects bide
Their time, behind the range where
snapper’s fried?
Mourn. Athens, mourn! Your noblest soil
you held him,
Surnamed “The Just” your crown of fame
he starred.
And, though, inconsequentially, you “shelled”
him
’Twas not for keeping ’roaches in the yard.
At rugged probity no man excelled him,
And now—and now—it’s desperately hard.
“Three pounds and costs” a frowning Beak
decrees....
There should be copyright in names like
these.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE "WHEELS OF FORTUNE.
[For The Bulletin.]
Perhaps to be poor will be always my fate.
My fortune may lie in a commonplace
sphere; „ , ,
But sometimes I dream of the lives of tne
And,° if I could carve a distinguished
career, . ,
How proud I should he might I ever attain
To a car where the chauffeur sits out in tne
rain !
I would loll on the cushions of choice Bed-
ford cord ,
In the covered-in part at the rear of the
’bus;
As I drove to preside at some guinea-pin
board .
I would smoke my Havana, not caring
a cuss. ,
The snugger because I could see through the
pane ., .
The back of my chauffeur outside in the
rain.
It stirs me and nerves me with zest for the
fight. . _ ,
Lends wings to my feet in life's arduous
race . „
To think that my labors may gain me the
right
To occupy such a magnificent place.
That constant endeavor may finally gain
A car where the chauffeur sits out in the
rain.
N.s.w.
SOLLY MACFINKELSTEIN.


P&m
tt
#i
Sit
a
m
Ittitlllll
llllli.
-
m,
ffP
CIGARETTES
PACKETS OF 24 FOR 11-
—a
'
W '*
'
m*
r
-■
V' ' '*
«•
■fegSSli!* |
' , -• i."
:
S i
••» l '
, ,
5
ifiiitt • iisi
■
r
.
.
or
m'
I
it.
wm.
,: w
■
m
m


my
H
DJba
The Story of an Armstrong Whitworth Ship.
On January 25 the Oil Tanker Varand, loaded with
benzine, struck submerged wreckage during a gale
in mid-Atlantic and lost propeller and rudder.
“For five days,” says one of the ship’s officers,
“we drifted helplessly in mountainous seas, waiting
for help to arrive. It was a terrible ordeal, with
the constant danger of the benzine tanks breaking
and the ship catching fire. The vessel proved
magnificently seaworthy and survived the buffet-
ing.” Then to her aid came a Dutch tug, the
Zwarte Zee. A second tug came also to help, but
was so damaged by the gale that she had herself
to seek help from the Zwarte Zee. For three
weeks the battle with the gale continued, until at
last, on February 1 7, the gallant Zwarte Zee and
another Dutch tug, the Gele Zee, brought the
battered Varand to the Mersey.
During the night a new gale caused the helpless
ship to drag her anchors and run aground near the
Formby Lightship, where she lay with her 7400
tons of benzine. Now the fear was that she would
break her back as has happened in similar cases
before, and so let loose a terrible menace in the
crowded waters of the river. So she lay buffeted
but unbroken for three days, when she was refloated
and towed to a safe anchorage.
All honor to Captain Rodgers and the crew of the
Varand; to Commander Mace, of the Mersey Docks
and Harbors Board, who refloated her; to the gallant
Dutch tugs who came to her in distress and brought
her through a thousand miles of gale to safety.
And honor also to the gallant ship herself who,
battered but unbroken, brought her cargo safe
through one of the finest battles in the story of
Sea and Ships.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
SALES ORGANISATION:
KINNAIRD HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON, S.W. 1. WORKS AND SHIPYARDS, NEWCASTLE.
Sole Representatives for Australia: Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & CO., LTD., Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide*
fHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C.717.


NO ESCAPE!
“Owing to his popularity making it almost impossible for the Prince of Wales to travel by road, he has been provided with an army aeroplane,”— Cable.


JB
K
r/'f.
(mm*
i
Jzr
HI
C
13
M
3-'
slit
-a*
i
Men’s
Shirts
Must Go!
Every cut-price has a double
GUARANTEE —-(a) you save hard cash;
(,b) satisfaction absolutely, or your
money back. Here’s a great stock of Men’s
Striped Mercerised and Repp Poplin Golf
Shirts; superb-wearing' quality. Smart neat-
coloured stripes. All with collar to match.
Sizes in Mercerised Shirts, 13% to 16; in
Repp Poplin, 15, 15%, 16%, and 17.
Honestly Worth 7/6
to 10/6.
While they last
s'll
Men’s Pyjamas
These bargains will be the talk
OP SYDNEY. A positive sacrifice in
Men’s good, strong-wearing and wash-
ing Flannelette Pyjamas. Woven broad
coloured stripings. Sizes: S.M., Men’s, O.S.
These are ideal for Winter wear; so buy now.
Honestly Worth 7/11
Clearing at —
4'll
Boys’ Wear Bargains
BOYS’ ENGLISH ZEPHYR TENNIS SHIRTS,
Woven Stripes. Sizes: 11% to 14%.
HONESTLY WORTH 5/6.
Clearing at-
-3'll
BOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ FLANNELETTE
PYJAMAS, Super-wearing. Neat Stripes. All
sizes.
HONESTLY WORTH 6/11.
Clearing at —
4’ll
SINCERITY in every Statement, Honesty in every Trans-
action these are pillars in the mighty Murdoch Store.
Murdoch’s now take the shopping Public into their confidence
and give the frank explanation for these remarkable Bargains !
Murdoch’s, with a colossal Store in course of erection, cramped
space due to building operations, and huge Winter stocks arriving
daily,
Are compelled to dispose of
Huge Accumulated Stocks at
heavily cut prices !
That is the frank explanation ! The most heavily stocked lines
must be swept out within the next few days at drastic cut prices
and—
Now’s Your Opportunity!
Mail Orders will be Dealt With
in Rotation.
A Genuine
£7 / 15'- Value
Blue Serge Suit
%,
for —
TO MEASURE
l.
|~rv PIECES of Magnificent All-Wool Pure Indigo
v-/ Serges MlurdocK s own famous manufacture,
and every inch of it guaranteed. Soft, superb-
finished Serges, of fine, dressy weave, and
guaranteed pure Indigo Dye. Choose from
Fine Twill or Herringbone weaves —• and
obtain a faultlessly-tailored S.B. Sac Suit
of style and dignity to your measure at this
astounding reduction !
Worth Every Penny of
£7ls'-
While stock lasts,
£sf3V_
Patterns Free!
Send the Coupon Now!
No Obligation Whatever !
Desk R.
Murdoch’s in Park-street TAd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Without any cost or obligation, kindly send me com-
plete range of Suiting Patterns of your Special £ 5/13/9
Tailoring Offer, also simple measure form outfit.
Name .
Address
May 9th. ’2S.
When writing kindly address your letter to Deslc B.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
. -W&&
s*y£X;
K
«s&?■£
... ••/
Hats! Hats!!
Hats!!!
SUPERFINE PURE FUR FELT ENGLISH-
MADE HATS FOR MEN. “Snap
Brim” style (illustrated), in Fawn,
Beaver, Tan, Citron, Rose, Light Grey, Reseda,
new Plum, and Electric shades “Prince ’
shape in Fawn, Beaver. Cuba, or Light Grey.
ALL NEW STOCKS. HAND - FINISHED
HATS, each fitted with highest-grade leathers
and trimmings. All sizes.
Honestly Worth 35/-
Cleaving at —
22'6
Men’s Trousers
1000 PAIRS PRICED FOR QUICK ACTION.
An extra fine stock of Men’s All-wool Austra-
lian Tweed Trousers —a popular quality sold
every day. Serviceable Dark Grey shades.
Side and hip pockets. Cuff bottoms. All
sizes.
Honestly Worth 18/6.
Clearing at —
MURDOCH S IN PARK
I
>■/<«
sX'j
H
XWvv-
//
•s/tfss.t,
|l||§|P
ss
ss<s
m
m
mwm.
wmm
m
m
ii
mm
mm
W£
m
m
'm?,
m
m
m
SB
m
m
WM
m
m
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
€2O
€2O
€2O
€2O
ig&fii
W’'
€2O
crMcia
€2O
Some of our newest diamond designs.
FAIRFAX (s ROBERTS L TD
23 -25 HUNTER ST.
7fw OLoiest JeweJUen/i{ tlouuse tsi Sydney
sd
Melbourne
Italian
OPERA SEASON
Opens May 12.
Stay at the Hotel Windsor, the most
beautifully located of all Mel-
bourne’s good-class metropolitan
hotels. Opposite Parliament House and facing
magnificent gardens, and but a few minutes
from theatres and shops. Hot and cold water
and telephones in all bedrooms. Minimum
tariff from 22/6 (inclusive). Room and
Breakfast from 16/-.
WE Kote£ WindAOt
Spring Street, Melbourne
Telegrams & Cables:
“Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
Manager:
D. G. Baker.
.’Phone: Cent. 9260.
&
Ml I 21
Miilt ®
&■ i V ■
WaitSr
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Caxton’s Ghost”: The death of Major
Billy Hardham, M.L.’s South African V.C.
(B. 18/4/’2B), recalls the fact that Queen
Victoria knitted a couple of scarves, one to
be given to a Maorilandcr and the other
to an Australian, for the most gallant action
during a certain period, and it was men-
tioned in orders that the Q.S. equalled the
V.C. H. D. Coutts received the Shivery
Islanders’ scarf. Who had the honor of
donning the Aussie one?
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN, leader of the
Jewish community in Sydney and
doyen among its financial rulers.
Beating nine other candidates, Digger
lan Macfarlan, a Melbourne barrister, won
the Brighton (Vic.) seat which Snowball
held. In the last count Macfarlan received
sufficient votes from the preferences of
Daborite Finlayson to defeat Mrs. Glencross,
president of the Housewives’ Association, by
531 votes. Up to the last hour the woman
candidate’s friends felt sure she would snap
the seat and be Vic.’s first skirted legislator.
Tommy Ryan and Martin Hannah, two old
political stagers, lost their deposits. C ~
farlan is the only barrister in the Assembly,
which has three solicitors Lawson,
Blackburn and Attorney-General Slater. He
is a brother of a Vic. Supreme Court Judge,
and is the fourth man of law Brighton has
returned. Higinbotham, Moule.and Snowball
were the other three. There are now seven
Macs in the House —Mackrell, McAdam, Mc-
Donald, Macfarlan, McKenzie, McLachlan
and McPherson.
It was H. H. Champion, just dead in
Melbourne, who said that the Australian
unionists of the early ’nineties were “lions
led by asses” *, and he was never forgiven
the phrase—which, incidentally, wasn’t just.
Champion, one of the little band of high-
brows who had awakened the English con-
science to the terrible condition under which
the dock and other workers lived, came to
Australia with a loose commission to write
for the Times, then still the more or less
non-partisan Thunderer, and eager to get the
point of view even of a man who had been
charged with sedition —certainly he had been
acquitted. But ill-health fell upon him, and
his early hope of being something large in
the public life; of this country had soon to
be abandoned. He founded the Booklovers'
Library to give him bread and butter, wrote
a little for The Bulletin and one or two
other papers, and for the rest had to con-
tent himself with quiet service ; for the Anti-
sweating League and a few similar bodies.
A. K. Murray, the messenger who pilots
visitors round Federal Parliament House,
is about to hand in his uniform and trip to
the Cold Country to take possession of a
baronetcy and an estate that will more
than suffice to keep the wolf from the door
for the rest of his days. Before joining the
Parliamentary staff the new “Sir” was recog-
nised as a historian of the Capital terri-
tory. He was responsible for Canberra’s
first magazine.
Like Hinkler, Wing-Commander Wackett,
of the Widgeon, is a native of Northern
Queensland. He came from Townsville.
“Stellsby”: Collard’s successor, Rear-
Admiral C. V. Usborne, did not invent the
paravane (B. 2/5/’2S). Commander Burney
was responsible for that device, which some
naval men consider an invention of the Devil.
A ship had to be slowed down considerably
to unship it and hoist it inboard again.
That was when Fritz scored with his tor-
pedo. I know it—only too well.
Sergeant Bob Scott, who policed 2000
square miles of territory at Alice Springs,
passed out the other day while on one
of his rare holidays; he was run down
by the engine of a train at Way-
ville (S.A.), and died of his injuries.
Scott joined the S.A. police 46 years ago
and was taken over by the Commonwealth
with the Northern Territory. Last year he
was appointed Commissioner of Police for
Central Australia.
It was an unusual brand of heroic action
which, the other day, caused the Parramatta
coroner to pass eulogy on Walter Reginald
Wrench, an orchardist of the district.
Wrench had climbed a dead tree to rob a
bees’-nest, but feeling it falling under his
weight, had jumped clear when he noticed
that the falling timber would crash on to a
little girl who had been watching him.
Dashing in, he put his weight against the
trunk and diverted its fall. His action saved
the child, but he was badly injured and died
subsequently in hospital.
The name of Barry Pain,, who passed on
the other day, induced thousands to buy
magazines that sported it on their covers, yet
Pain never secured the literary prominence,
advertisement or big fees that have been
given to less entertaining writers. He started
writing in the Cambridge University maga-
zine, Granta, and bis first book-hit was a
collection of lmmorosities. “Playthings and
Parodies,” published in 1592. After that he
poured stories out and was taken much as a
matter of course. He did some service with
the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserves during
the war.
“Hop” in the Bulletin of 30. years ago
used to find “Jake” Garrard a mine of cari-
cature wealth. The old chap, who will be
S 2 in June, the other day celebrated the
58th anniversary of his marriage.
The old home on the Rocks (Sydney)
where Rev. John Reid lived, and where the
slight, sandy-haired kid who grew up to he
the rotund George was reared, is now in
the hands of the breakers. It stands in the
way of the Harbor bridge approach es._ Reid’s
father took possession there in 1857, when
George was 11.
A. E. Coates, M.D., M.S., who was acting-
professor in Anatomy at the Melbourne Uni.
while Prof. R. J. A. Berry was overseas,
worked as a mechanic in the post office
before taking to medicine. He did his postal
work at night, and took high honors in his
medical course by day. An honorary at Mel-
bourne Hospital and a lecturer in Anatomy,
he still makes time for research.
Count von Luckner, the German commander
who thrilled Maoriland by his clever escape
from the island of Motuihi, a few miles from
Auckland, about the end of 1917, guarantees
as true and correct the story of his exploits
in Lowell Thomas’s book, “The Sea Devil.
Aucklanders always had a sneaking admira-
tion for the versatile Von Luckner, a regard
that will be heightened by his assertion that
in all his exploits he never took a human life,
or even consigned a ship’s cat to a watery
eiid.
Albert Mottershead, who lost his job in
the ballot that followed the recent upheaval
in the N.S.W. Breadcarters’ Union, pre-
viously enjoyed a quiet distinction. He was
the solitary returnod-soldier secretary of a
union at Sydney Trades Hall.
Senator A.J. McLACHLAN, of S. Aus.,
the handy man of the Federal Ministry.
He is a lawyer by trade.
Of the million and one claims to distinc-
tion it is possible to make, a quaint one is
put forward by R. McDoUgall, who in his old
age finds happiness in bowls and is president
of the Kew (Melbourne) Bowling Club.
McDougall claims that he was the first man
robbed by Ned Kelly, when the affray with
the police set that chap going on his outlaw
career. Ned took his watch, but McDougall
subsequently recovered it, and it is a prized
possession. All the same, it is mighty risky
to bet upon the exact occasions when the
careers of our Ned Kellys started.
Dr. Kneebone, surgeon-superintendent of
Broken Hill Hospital for the past five years,
has moved on to Hamilton (Vic.). Knee-
bone’s skill, research and energy smashed the
criticism that was levelled at him in his
first year or two, and those who loudest
lament his going are the mine-workers. The
job, at a starting figure of £lOOO a year,
with quarters, almost equals war experience
in the treating of maimed and injured, and
is one of the best of its kind in Australia.
Forty-eight wanted it when applications
were called. Dr. J. C. Ross, of Bendigo,
was the lucky one.
Sydney Fremantle, knight and admiral,
who has hauled down his flag and retired
from the service, was at the Dardanelles in
1915, and as late as 1917-18 commanded the
squadron which kept an eye on Jacko’s
Levant ports during the last big push through
Palestine. After the war he was deputy-
chief of the naval staff; then he commanded
the first battle squadron, and later became
C.-in-C., Portsmouth. His mother was the
daughter of R. M. Isaacs, of N.S.W. Like
his father, Admiral E. R. Fremantle, whom
Australia and Maoriland once knew well, he
was a confirmed writer, mostly on naval
subjects, and he held more varied decorations
than can well be chronicled.
Emanuel Myerson, who has bought the
Astoria Flats at Kirribilli for £22,500 —a
bargain—is among the biggest suburban
landlords in Sydney. Myerson started with
a George-street tailor’s shop, which he turned
into a chain, but his speculations became so
large that it paid to give them undivided
attention. At one time his hobby was run-
ning libel actions against Smith’s Weekly,
until its proprietors found their fingers badly
burnt with costs. He shines mildly now as
a philanthropic donor, especially to Jewish
causes. The Astoria Flats, incidentally,
were built 20 years ago by Mrs. Helen White
before she became the Marquise de Ruvigny.
the building being the first big block erected
in Sydney for flat purposes.
“H.M.R.”: Victoria has had 18 bishops—
Melbourne five, Ballarat five (including one
suffragan, Cooper, afterwards of Grafton and
Armidale), Bendigo three, Wangaratta two,
Gippsland two, St. Arnaud one.
Meat-king Angliss is almost certain to get
a walk-over for the Southern Province to the
Vic. Upper House. He is one of the veterans
of the Plush Chamber, having been in it for
16 years. He looks after his big constituency
well, and that he is a good boss is indicated
by the length of time employees stay with
him.
The No. 2 Valuation Board for Federal
land-tax, which has to deal mainly with
South Australian appeals, is to have E. H.
Bakewell as third man; A. F. Twine and
W. J. Lambert arc the permanent members.
Bakewell is an all-round man —chairman of
the Tramways Trust, president of S.A.
Employers’ Federation, and partner or
director in a lot of pastoral concerns.
A real veteran has died in Adelaide, Archi-
bald Reid, an old soldier who said he ivas
born in 1827. At any rate, he was on
H.M.S. Fox in the Burmese War of 1852,
helped to bombard Odessa in the Black Sea
and Sveaborg in the Baltic, saw the charge
of the Light Brigade, and finally took part,
with a naval brigade, in the relief of Luck-
now, where he was badly bayoneted. He
came to Australia in 1870, and settled down
at Port Adelaide as a painter.
G. W. Stead, chairman of the Vic. Royal
Commission on railway management, will
draw £5 ss. for each day of sitting, and his
four pals, Benjamin, Buckley, Leeson and
Chappie, will get £3 3s. each. They will
have to pay their own travelling expenses,
bar rail transport. Gilchrist, the sec., will
get nearly £2O a week, the same as he was
paid when clerk of the Upper House. If
the inquiry lasts 21 weeks the cost, with
incidentals, will run into £2500. Clapp’s
salary is £5OOO a year, and his fellow rail-
way managers, Molomby and Shannon, take
£1750 each.
J. 11. Symon, the veteran K.C. and states-
man, came out of his retirement for an
hour the other day to move the Supreme
Court of South Aus. for admission to the
Bar of his youngest son, Oliver, commander
(retired) in the R.N. The new lawyer was
a midshipman on the New Zealand on the
round-the-world voyage under Halsey in 1913,
and after the war returned to Australia with
the destroyer fleet. He has since studied
in London at the Inner Temple.
“Gallery”: George Swinburne, who is
trying to capture the East Yarra seat in
Vic. Upper House, says that no present
member of the Plush Chamber previously
occupied a place in the Assembly, though a
training in that Chamber was desirable.
In other times it was not uncommon
for gladiators of the Assembly to go up
to the “Lords,” as witness O’Shanassy, Ser-
vice, Wrixon and Arthur Robinson. On
the other hand, few have come down from
the Council, though O’Shanassy returned
when there was an opportunity. Agar
Wynne was a Minister more than once in
the Council before he turned his back on
it to go into the Reps, and become P.M.G.
Then, with the view of bidding for the
Premiership, he entered the Assembly, but
got only the Law portfolio. Martin Cusscn,
who had been an M.L.C., won the Waranga
seat in the Assembly. He, however, found
things too strenuous and died.
TOM GILCHRIST, sec. of the Royal
Commission which is inquiring into
railway management in Victoria.
W. J. Scammell, lately dead in Sydney,
was one of the Adelaide family that
developed the old Faulding business in chemi-
cals. Born in 1856, he had several years’
intensive training in London, and then was
in the Adelaide office for nearly 30 years
before removing to Sydney as Faulding and
Co.’s local managing director.
THE OPTIMIST.
[For The Bulletin.]
There isn’t much a man can keep; there’s
little that will last;
Things soon become a memory, an’ one that’s
fadin’ fast.
But when ’is dreams ’ave blown away an’
hope is nearly gone,
There’s always somethin’ else turns up to
kid a feller on.
E gets a whisper from a mate, or p’raps
some big' ideer
Comes like a flash into ’is ’ead an’ every-
thin’ looks clear.
An’ quick an’ lively ’e forgets the nasty thud
’e came,
An’ ’as a drink or two for luck—-an’ goes
on with the game.
A feller don’t remember much, au’ though
there’ll be some nights
When ’e will sit communin’ with the ghosts
of past delights
An’ feelin’ sorry for ’imself, an’ wisliin’ ’e
was dead,
'E’ll sleep to dream of better days an’ bigger
cheques ahead.
There isn’t much a man can keep—but,
lumme. that’s all right.
The ’ills are easier to climb if you are travel-
lin’ light.
You’ve got more time to look about, your
pace is twice as fast,
The road is smoother when you’ve dumped
the dunnage of the past.
There isn’t much a man can hold; a memory
or two
Is just about as much as ’e will ’ave to
see ’im through.
But when ’e’s feelin’ pretty glum, when
things ’ave all gone wrong,
There’s always somethin’ else turns up to kid
a bloke along.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Alexander Hamilton Institute
n CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
Even well-informed people are often amazed to learn that
the average age of men enrolled in the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute is 37 at the time of enrolment; that 60% are
owners or officers of businesses; that 25% are department
heads and that 15% are clerks and assistants.
y A
‘mm
The most famous
little book on
business
ever written.
We will gladly
send you a
complimentary
copy.
Name
Business Address
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SECURE A RELIABLE EXECUTOR
by appointing
THE Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., Limited,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia.)
Its experience of over 49 years in controlling all classes of Estates ensures a service that
will protect the interests of your dependents.
If you have already appointed a private Executcr, the Company can be substituted by a short
codicil.
SECURITY: Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £BBB,OOO
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT, General Manager. V. G. WATSON. Manager.
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank or Adelaide (S. Australia) :
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
«£ &L £
1917 .. 66,173 8 p.c. = 40,000 16,173 556,173
1918 .. 71,355 10 „ „ 50,000 21,355 ( , r 7 - 9a
Voted to Provident Fund, £IO,OOO J ’
1919.. 69,349 10 p.c. = 50,000 19,349 I a 77
Written off premises, £3OOO .. J ’
1920.. 87,694 10 p.c. = 50,000 37,694 ( „ 1(1
Written off premises, £SOOO .. ) ’
1921 .. 93,108 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,608 [ r ,., , 7 „
Written off premises, £SOOO .. J ’
1922 .. 92,633 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,133 672,312
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 722,312
1923.. 94,889 10 p.c. = 67,500 27,389 749,701
1924 . . 115,823 10 „ „ 87,500 28,323 778,024
1925 .. 117,217 10 „ „ 87,600 29,717 807.741
1926 . . 104,733 10 „ „ 87,500 17,233 824,974
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 874,974
1927 .. 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 14,853 889,827
Premiums on new shares, £IOO,OOO 989,827
1928 .. 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
It was not till June 10 that the new issue of
shares was authorised, and the purchase
money was due in July (£3), August (£2)
and September (£2). So the directors
haven’t given much away in the shape of
unearned dividend; they paid at the rate of
10 p.c. on £1,050,000 for the first six months
and of course on the full £1,250,000 for the
second half. Taking that into account the
lay-by isn’t what one would like to see it;
only a fraction less than 90 p.c. of the dis-
closed profits have been paid away. True,
the State has been passing through a hard
time. But there was no reason why it
should have been a particularly hard time
for banks. In fact, what the banks said
in effect to a large body of traders was:
“You are risking too much in order to make
quick money, and you must stop it.” Up to
that moment the banks had been almost
wholly responsible for the big wave of buying
on credit, and had taken the rich profits
thereof. And though the managers’ offices
are much colder places these days, the banks
still charge heavily for the accommodation
they do give, basing those charges presum-
ably on the risks they have to take.
And that is perfectly right. Any
Australian who lends or invests money
takes a chance. Even allowing that
Australia is to have as big a future
as the greatest optimist predicts, there
must nevertheless be a readjustment.
How it is going to be produced The Bul-
letin doesn’t know; but if there is not a
better understanding of the position among
the labor unions there is pretty sure to be
trouble. Maybe to meet the possible diffi-
culties of the future the Adelaide is building
up its internal reserves. But there are no
evidences that much has been done in the
way of writing down assets and saying no-
thing about it. At any rate, when the
Adelaide has specially written down premises
it appears to have always mentioned the fact.
This might be taken into account by some
of those who showed a good deal of annoy-
ance when the last two share issues were
made at a premium. The simple truth seems
to be that the bank can’t afford to give it to
shareholders both ways—share-issues at par
and high dividends. As recently as 1920, it
has to be remembered, the paid capital was
£500,000; and to expect a bank to earn 10
p.c. on another £750,000 in 1928 would be
unreasonable. The premiums have not been
any more than the needs of the case called
for.
• • • • • •
The situation has not been made any
easier for the Adelaide by very keen local
competition for deposits. This comparison is
very significant:—
Liquid
Deposits. Assets. Advances.
1914 .. £4,834,739 £2,988,615 £3,128,104
1919 .. 5,365,076 2,176,522 4,424,338
1920 .. 6,380,056 4,342,048 3,327,451
1921 .. 5,984,597 3,303,919 4,689,898
1922 . . 6,545,112 4,087,129 3,991,579
1923 . . 5,853,069 3,220,147 4,478,926
1924 . . 6,143,317 3,315,369 4,686,169
1925 . . 6,317,889 3,805,303 4,436,198
1926 . . 6,453,083 3,791,891 4,623,226
1927 .. 6,463,478 3,326,545 5,256,819
1928 . . 6,084,129 3,131,547 5,655,750
Thus actually, though the bank has to pay
dividends on £1,250,000 as against £500,000
in 1920, there is less money on deposit now
than there was- then. Fixed deposits cer-
tainly have improved a little. The S.A.
averages for this bank compare for the
first quarter of 1920 with the first quarter
of 1928:
1920. 1928.
Free deposits .. £2,596,942 £2,194,306
Fixed deposits .. 2,761,375 3,186,273
It looks a good deal as though Adelaide’s
large capacity for—well, getting its tail
down pretty quickly is not a good thing for
some of its own institutions. Probably there
are other reasons ; but here, at least, is the
fact, that whereas in the first quarter of
1920 the Adelaide had over 30 p.c. of the
fixed deposits in its own State, it has now
only 21 p.c. In those circumstances it is not
a bit surprising that the management has
decided to go afield also, and having recently
established itself in Melbourne, Perth and
Sydney has now passed on to Brisbane.
Meantime though S. Australians have not
been so prone to turn into the one bank with
headquarters in the State, they still have
good reason to be very proud of it. Its
total external liabilities of all descriptions
are £6,818,842, and its total liquid assets
±d,131,546 ; so it holds no less than 46 p.c.
of all its liabilities liquid, and its non-liquid
assets of £6,003,260 are protected by share
capital and visible reserves totalling
£2,253,464 after paying the last dividend.
The shares are worth about £9 12s. 6d. The
value of the net visible assets is a few
pence over £9. At £9 10s. they give the
buyer about £5 ss. p.c. It may be taken
for granted that there are not going to be
any early issues, at a premium or otherwise.
* * * *
Burns, Philp and Cos.. Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, merchants, etc.: —
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1917.. 161,466 Y$ p.c. = 78,750 i 82,716 377,533
1918.. 199,747 7* „ „ 78,750 120,997 498,530
£IOO.OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398.530
1919.. 227,488 7sp.c.= 93,750 133,738 532,268
1920.. 260,139 10 „ ~ 125,000 135,139 667,407
Island interests sold to Burns, Philp (South Sea) Cos.
1921.. 132,274 10 p.c. = 125,000 7,274 674,681
1922.. 194,718 10 „ ~125,000 69.718 744,399
Written off steamships, £25,000 719,399
1923.. 192,242 10 p.c. = 125,000 67,242 786,641
Written off steamships, £25.000 761,641
1924.. 182,357 10 p.c. = 125,000 57,357 818.998
1925.. 190,155 10 „ ~125,000 65,155 884,153
1926.. 198,683 10 „ „ 125,000 73,688 957,841
1927.. 213,297 10 „ ~ 137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243,485 10 „ ~ 150,000 93,485 1,127,123
Only once has a bigger profit been shown;
that was in 1920, during the price boom.
Since then the co. has sold its Island busi-
ness to the subsidiary, Burns, Philp (South
Sea) Cos., and, though the pup made a visible
net profit of £64,104 at Dec. 31 last, only
about £35,000 of it found its way to the
parent to be included in the latter’s figures.
Certainly the co. has had considerably more
funds to work with. Since 1920 capital
has been increased by £250,000 (£125,000
of this came in during the last term), and
visible reserves have benefited by £459,716
of undistributed profit.
In spite of a falling-off in Queensland
trade owing to the drought, and notwith-
standing that shipping earnings from the
Island service show a shrinkage, gross profit
(£733,447) constitutes a record to date.
It is an advance of £30,371 on the 1927
term, and is £20,280 better than the pre-
vious best —£713,167 in 1920. Exes, con-
sumed £388,769, and, as usual, a hefty
sum (£123,066 this time) was put by to
provide for “depreciation, bad debts and
losses.” Including ,an unexplained addition
of £21,872 to the insurance fund and sun-
dry reserves, net profit was thus £243,485.
The following table shows how liberally
depreciation, etc., has been allowed for over
the past nine years
1920. . £86,773 | 1923.. £96,284 | 1926.. £123,948
1921.. 88,835 | 1924.. 118,350 | 1927.. 108,736
1922.. 106,587 | 1925.. 103,244 | 1928.. 123,066
It may be taken for granted that a good
deal of real profit has been hidden in these
provisions. Substantial sums are no doubt
necessary, but the fact that a round million
has disappeared off the co.’s assets during
the past 10 years in the above manner sug-
gests the co. goes about its job with both
hands and a shovel. Visible reserves, too,
have been growing rapidly. Last year’s net
profit was £93,485 in excess of dividend re-
quirements, and reserves were added to by
that amount. This carried them up to
£1,127,123, which makes a very interesting
figure, particularly in view of the annually-
growing surplus of profit over dividends.
The last capitalisation of reserves took place
in 1918, when £IOO,OOO of bonus scrip was
handed out, and, provided nothing extraor-
dinary happens to upset the co.’s earnings, it
is only a matter of time before another gift
will be made.
Balance-sheet figures show general expan-
sion. Cash (£163,887) is £12,366 greater,
stocks (£787,596) have been added to by
£4390, and the book value of property, ship-
ping, etc., has increased £64,728. But it
was to finance further trading that the new
capital was apparently got in: book debts
(£1,008,669) have expanded £201,011 during
the term. Anew cargo and passenger
steamer, the Mirani, has been built for the
inter-island trade, and will soon be in com-
mission.
For the scrip, with net tangibles amount-
ing to £1 155., the market pays 435., at which
price the return is a shade under 4.7 P-c.
on the 10 p.c. div. If, however, the tangibles
in the business are worth only 355. per
share they are visibly earning over 0 p.c.;
which suggests that perhaps the book valua-
tion could be stretched a bit without break-
ing anything. ■
* * * *
Garratt’s, Ltd., importers of motor-cars,
body-builders, etc. The co. began in 19US,
but the shares were not listed on ’Change
until 1019: —
, Dividends.
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. (6 p.c.). Ordinary. serves, serves.
1917.. 6,033 60 25 p.c. = 4837 1,136 6,906
1918.. 7,027 60 10 „ „ 2711 4,256 11,162
1919.. 7,039 60 10 „ „ 3990 2,989 14,151
1920.. 9,623 60 10 „ „ 6363 3,200 17,351
Written off reserves, £5849 . . . . 11,502
1921.. 9,070 60 Nil 9,010 20,512
Loss. Deficit.
1922.. 46,224 30 2)p.c.= 2069 27,811
Written off capital, £21,296.. .. 6,515
Profit. Reserves.
1923.. 11,800 90 Nil 11,710 5,195
Goodwill (£4622) disappears.. .. 9,817
1924.. 25,180 60 10 p.c. = 8518 16,608 26,425
Set aside for taxes, etc., £BOOO .. 18,425
(10 p.c.)
1925.. 33,606 3914 10 pic. = 8518 21,074 39,499
Written off, £3587 35,912
1926.. 36,014 10,100 12* p.e.=10,648 15,266 51,178
1927.. 7,674 10,100 10 „ „ 8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976.. 31,258
Loss. 7i p.c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil
Garratt’s have been caught in the back-wash
of the motor-boom, and they could hardly have
escaped without going out of business alto-
gether. So, despite the loss shown for last
year, the “Wild Cat” is not at all disposed
to quarrel with the shareholders who at their
annual meeting carried a motion of confi-
dence in the directors. The back-wash, too,
was inevitable;. Australia, following the
post-war Spring-cleaning, began to have a
rattling good time. Wool went to unheard of
prices, and, though they didn’t hold, the
market remained .extraordinarily strong.
There was even a run of good wheat-seasons.
Moreover, Australian politicians long ago
discovered that the man who spent money
was the good fellow, no matter how he got
it; and every Government began to borrow
hard. Of course, in these circumstances,
there was a boom; and it happened that the
thing above all others that most people
fancied they wanted was a motor-car —the
thing that until then had been within the
reach only of the rich. Lots of people were
prepared to mortgage almost their immortal
souls to get the new hall-mark; and as every-
body was feeling full of beans, credit was
easy to get.
That is to say, it was easy to get in
Australia; it wasn’t easy to get from the
manufacturer. The latter appointed his
agents and helped them with literature and
sales-talk, but held out his hand for cash.
When the boom broke this arrangement made
things far more difficult than they otherwise
would have been. The manufacturer might
have been strong enough to hold his cars
for a few months, the so-called agent in
many cases wasn’t. As the directors of
Garratt’s say':—
In various instances distributing houses have been
forced into liquidation, and in other cases where this
extreme has not been reached distributors have been
forced to throw upon the market stocks of cars for
sale at prices and upon conditions more akin to
compulsory realisation than normal trading.
It hasn’t been “akin to compulsory realisa-
tion” ; it has been the thing itself. And cos.
like Garratt’s have had to compete with the
sacrifice prices or stand out of business. But
the motor business isn’t all froth. There
was a boom because the motor-ear is such a
very desirable thing that thousands con-
tracted to buy who hadn’t the means. It
remains a very desirable thing, nevertheless,
and will be a still more desirable thing as
improvements are made. The trade will
settle down and be carried along on plain
business lines, without the extravagances of
the boom period, also without its risks, and
well-handled houses with the right agencies
will make good, solid profit.
The next comparison shows further ups
and downs: —
1099 1Q94 1097 IQ9S
Capital £107,045 £86,182 £186,182 £186,182
Liabilities .. 161,082 257,491 224,731* 121,236*
Freeholds and
leaseholds. . 87,756 79,993 49,675* 82,002*
Plant, etc... 9,333 10,349 12,197 12,181
Stocks . . 106,757 202,189 60,248 1,067
Book debts.. 34,903 86,052 295,783 195,828
Cash, etc. . . 2,708 1,412 1,071
Shares in other
cos. . . 5,622 61,022 39,522
*To the liabilities must be added the Camperdown
mortgage; but the amount of the mortgage has been
deducted from the total of the freeholds.
Apropos that footnote, since the co.’s year
ended the Camperdown property has been
sold “on the basis of £115,000,” which is
“about £4OOO less” than book-value; but
there arc inner reserves to cover that, it is
said. That sale will simplify finance, pro-
vided, of. course, the co. can find other suit-
able premises and doesn’t have to pay
through the nose to get them. Capital is in
101,000 cumulative pref. 10 p.c. £1 shares
and 106,478 ords. of 16s. fully paid. The
last sale of the prefs. was at 10s., of the
ords. at ss. On paper both lots of shares are
worth par. Thus the market has written off
£109,000 of the present capital. As the
assets, apart from since-sold property, were
on Jan. 31 worth only £261,630, and as bad
and doubtful debts were said to be provided
for by reserves, it is hard to justify the
discount unless on the assumption that there
is a heavy liability under a guarantee in
respect of bills receivable by Overland (Syd-
ney), Ltd., and bills secured by hire pur-
chase agreements, £214,000 —a figure not in-
cluded in the balance-sheet save as a con-
tingency.
* * * *
Perkins and Cos., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Writ-
Feb. Profits Dividend Tax. ten off. Reserves.
ii £ £ £
1917.. 22,630 6 p.c. = 16,797 5833 5,669
1918.. 25,118 7 „ „ 19,599 4519 6,669
191 y. . 25,066 7 „ „ 19,599 4467 7,669
1920.. 26,235 74 „ „ 19,698 5537 8.G69
Reserves disclosed, £80,220 .. 88,889
Reserves capitalised, £88,889 ..
1921.. 26,941 7i p.c. = 24,138 2803
1922.. 23,054 6 „ „ 22,666 388
Reserves disclosed, £29,289 .. 29,289
1923.. 24,676 64 p.c. = 24,555 29,409
1924.. 28,353 7 „ „ 26,444 31,318
1925.. 30,427 8 „ ~ 29,332 32,413
1926.. 23,550 8 „ „ 28,443 27,520
1927.. 23,858 6J „ „ 23,492 '27,886
Assets written up, £IB,OOO .. .. 45,886
Loss. • t
1928.. 16,561 Nil 29,325
These people arc having a had. time, and it
is not all their own fault. But a good deal
of it is. The name of Perkins was once a
sweet sound in the ear of every beer-cliewer
in Queensland; and, as often happens in
such cases, the proprietors thought that this
was all that was necessary. Others knew
better and sang an even sweeter. song, and
before Perkins’s management woke up to
the situation a competitor had become some-
thing more than well entrenched —he had
taken first place: among Queensland brewers.
Whether Perkins can recover it or not re-
mains to be seen. A fight is being made;
new plant is being put in, and improvements
made to old. But plant can’t do every-
thing. Meantime the figures have been getting
rapidly more gloomy;, and it doesn’t look as
though the directors are making them look
any gloomier than they really are. At any
rate, they drop into Profit and Loss account
£IB,OOO “appreciation in value of buildings,”
and that seems like putting everything pos-
sible in the shop window. Incidentally, there
is another feature that the “Wild Cat”
doesn’t like. The auditors say “Subject to
our report of even date, we certify that.”
etc. “Our report of even date” is not pub-
lished. And apparently it is not a fad of
the auditors; it figures this year for the first
time. A balance-sheet carrying such a certi-
ficate is no certified balance-sheet at all,
and shareholders should refuse to accept it.
Stock Exchanges should also refuse to quote
shares in cos. which put such documents
forward.
Twelve months ago freeholds, including
machinery and plant, were in the books at
£407,570. Though meantime these assets have
been written down £6904 —a good deal more
than usual—out of gross profits, the total
now stands at £468,808; so the co. lias had
a pretty busy year; and even now the direc-
tors say that “more machinery and improve-
ment to the plant will be necessary to cope
with the present conditions of trade.” That
will mean, no doubt, further increase of over-
draft; “secured, trade and other creditors”
were bundled together on February 29 at
£374,569, with bills payable, etc., to add to
that. The position in that respect has
shifted as follows :
1922. 1924. 1927. 1928.
Stocks .. £94,048 £86,923 £101,984 £97,545
Loans, book
debts, etc.. 137,369 213,052 209,465 223,390
Cash, etc. . . 22,825 10,413 2,135 4,490
£264,242 £310,388 £313,584 £325,425
Liabilities .. 78,950 204,507 306,848 390,198
Liquid surplus £175,292 £105,881 £6,736 £ 64,773*
*Excess liabilities.
There is no reason whatever to suppose that
the co. can’t do better. The season was
bad, and on top of that labor conditions
made things very • difficult. There may,
nevertheless, have to be a cleaning-up; prob-
ably many assets are over-valued. Present
value of shares is about 13s. 6d., and it
must be some consolation to shareholders to
know that they were not worth more than
that five years ago. In other words, it is
no sudden calamity that has struck the co-
lt is suffering from the slotv effects of a
queer mixture of torpor and greed admini-
stered in years gone by.
* * * *
Though the world’s gold production is
shrinking, the process is very gradual, and is
marked by spasms of recovery. In comparing
available figures for the period 1913-1927
inclusive, it is interesting to note the pre-
dominant position maintained by the British
Empire. The year 1915, when half the world
was at death grips was, curiously enough,
the peak period within the limits mentioned,


DAILY CONTROL SHEET
THE NEWSPAPER OF YOUR BUSINESS
o.
2 8.
DATE
INVOICES
RECEIVED
CASH RECEIVED
CASH PAID OUT
CHEQUES
ISSUED
CHARGE
SALES
FOR
MERCHANDISE
PURCHASED
FOR
MERCHANDISE
FROM CHARGE
CUSTOMERS
CASH SALES
Account
FOR EXPENSES
Account
1 1. 17. 6
1 2. 2
1. 1 7. 6
2. 1 4. 4
8. 1 5. 6
5. 2. o
1. 1 5. 9
1. 1 4. 8
1. 1 5. 6
5. 1 3. 6
3 1.
1. 1 7. 6
5. 1 2.6
4. 1 0. 9
1 5. 3
1 8. 6
6. 1 8. 7
2. 1 3. 5
16. 9
1 3. 4
1 4
3. 1 5
1 6. 9
7. 6
3 2.
2 5. 1 4. 6
1 4. 3
1 7. 8
3 4
4. 8
4. 5
1.
3 6.
12
13. 6
1 8. 2
8 7.
17. 9
9. 3
2.
3 9.
5.i0
4. 1 5. io
5. 6
15
1 4. 8
1 2. l
1 2
15.6 14
1. 3
3. 6
17. 3
6. 5
1. 2
4. 8
. 9
9. 3
. 2
. 8 %
2. 2
. 6
. 9
.10
3. 3
4. 6 'k
S 3
1. 7
as
v
si
\o>
9.ii
4. 2 '/6
.<3
&S>
53
4. 6
NS
53
53
53
NN
53
NN.
53
53
53
\N
53
53
53
53
5X
53
53
53
53
XN
53
53
X 5
53
5X
53
53
53
4. 17. 7
5. 7
3 1
53
53
t>?
Doing Business on a Sound Basis
OU will find this wide carriage Portable Adding
JL Machine extremely useful and profitable in your
business.
With the aid of this Burroughs Machine you can have
at all times perfed control of all your business operations
-—accounts receivable, accounts payable, cash sales, pur-
chases, bank balance, interest earned and the many other
figures vital to a progressive business.
The Portable Adding Machine illustrated has a wide
carriage and an adding capacity of £999,999 19s. nfd.
and is priced at £47 10s.
Try this machine on your own work for a week at our expense and with no
obligation to yourself.
Burroughs
Portables
are priced
as low as
j£ 3* IOS.
for IX months
terms
Discount for Cash
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Sydney Melbourne
Rockhampton
’Phones: FL2671 (five lines).
Adelaide Brisbane
Auckland Dunedin
Hobart Perth Newcastle
Christchurch Wellington
□
□
□
□
Adding
800 kkeeping
Calculating
Machines


Sharks Are About!
“The‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’s”
object is to give the average man
such expert advice about invest-
ments (including insurance policies)
that he will not lose his money.
MAY NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
New Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.), has
made a doleful report of operations for six
months. Loss in working was £1221. Only
one crushing was put through—7 tons from
the Black Diamond lode gave 51oz. of gold!
The report naively states that the battery
loses all the fine gold which is seen in the
dish prospects. The tunnel has reached
1456 feet and cut the eastern wall of the lode
worth 5-7dwt. per ton, which the manager
states is virgin ground neglected by the Long
Tunnel and Long Tunnel Extended cos. One
has to have a lot of faith or something to
believe that these two successful old cos.
missed much. They paid £2,089,000 in divs.
between them.
* * * *
We stock 4- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has many important advan-
tages. It saves on purchase, transport, installation
and service costs. It has constant capacity, for no
corrosion chokes the flow. It is safe from extremes
of climate—frost will not crack it, nor electrolysis
harm it. Get full particulars. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry
to Figtree Bridge), N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic.
—Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.— Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.- — Advt.
* * * *
The construction of firebreaks and tank drains, also
the clearing of drains in and around watering places,
and from wire-netting fences, can all be effectively
and economically handled by the use of the special
graders which are made by Messrs. Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd. These machines are available in
seven different sizes, either to be hauled by tractor
1 or horses, the prices ranging from £45 to £105
each. There are many properties equipped with these
1 machines and the results obtained amply demon-
; strate the necessity of having a grader available on
the station or large farm. As most people nowadays
' possess motor-cars, one of these machines will also
! be able to construct and maintain in perfect condition
the private road to the homestead. Full particulars
are available from the manufacturers, Messrs. Arthur
1 Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Mac-
l quari e-place, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane. — Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
df
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
■ Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney ,
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL,
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT, ATTORNEY OR AGENT.
Established over 41 years, during which it has successfully handled almost every class of asset.
Directors • Hon R J. BLACK, M.L.C. (Chairman) ; T. H. KELLY ; DR. ROBERT L. FAITHFULL;
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN; WALTER T. BRUNTON ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
H. V. DOUGLASS. Manager.
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606. .
1 \y. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
with n world output valued at £96,400,000. to
which the Empire contributed £00,G00,000.
From then the drop continued till it reached
£65,500,000 in 1922; then the rise began
again. During that period the production
of the Empire was nearly double that of other
producing countries. The total jumped to
£75,500,000 in the following year, Empire
production being £53,400,000. From 1924 to
1927 the total figures were SI millions, 81
millions, 82 millions, and 82 millions again.
The Empire’s contribution for those years
was 56 millions, 50 millions, 571 millions and
58 millions. When it comes to holders of
gold, America is out on its own. At the end
of last November the U.S. Treasury held
£259,800,000, with £576,375,000 in the
Federal Reserve Banks. The British Empire
held £252,238,376 (total visible supplies),
Australia’s share being £20,721,000 held by
the Commonwealth Bank against notes.
Other large holders are: France,
£219.115,000; Spain, £103,213,000 ; Germany,
£91,270,000; Italy, £69,181,000; Argentina,
£92,915,000.
* s|: * ❖
Northcote Brick Cos., Ltd. (Melb.) :
To Re-
Mar. Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1921.. £10,298 7 p.c. = £9,375 £923 £7,297
1922.. 17,575 8i „ „ 11,250 6325 13,622
1923.. 27,251 141 „ „ 18,750 8604 22,126
Bonus from holdings, £15,470 .. .. 37,596
1924.. 22,821 141 p.c. 18,750 4071 41,667
Special div. 2s. 6d. per share, £18,750.. 22,917
Bonus from holdings, £9,646 .. .. 32,563
1926.. 15,082 10 p.c. = 15,000 82 32,645
19<>6.. 20,835 121 „ „ 18,750 2085 34,730
1927.. 24,658 121 „ „ 18,750 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10 „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Not much of last year had passed before the
banks said that it was time credit trading
was restricted and they would have to cease
making advances to those who bought with-
out the means to pay. The building con-
tractor suffered with the rest, albeit it can’t
be expected that the average young man will
be able to lay the whole cost on the founda-
tion-stone. Later in the year another cir-
cumstance occurred to slacken building in
Melbourne; the trek of public servants to
Canberra set in, and scores of dwellings were
thrown on the market. Hence this co.’s
trade last year was slack, and both profit
and div. suffered. Nor is there any imme-
diate prospect of great improvement. Vic-
toria feels a lot better than it did a .few
months ago, but there are still many “un-
digested” dwellings; money for city buildings
is still dear, and in their construction brick
is out of fashion, anyway. Capital of this
co. is £150,000: £123,782 of it and the re-
serves is in freehold (chiefly brickfields') and
buildings and plant, and another £30,301, is
in unspecified “shares in other cos” —-
probably also connected with the trade, and
on past records very profitable. There isn’t
therefore much held outside the business.
Still the co., though it lias had many ups
and downs in its 40-odd years, has come out
very well on averages and is likely to do so
in the future.
* * * *
Malayan dredging returns for April con-
tinue to show the improvement in turn-
over and value which has been marked
of late, and some very promising figures have
been recorded. Alluvial Tin’s subsidiaries
and connections are first in the field with
their figures, as usual, and show a fair
month’s work in most cases. Rawang’s
dredge recovered 20 tons from 98,000 yards,
averaging a little under .501 b. Average for
quarter .ending March 31 last was .461 b.
(The figures following in. parentheses will
indicate these quarterly figures.) Rawang
sluicing plant took 35 tons from 80,000
yards, an average for April of 1.051 b. to the
yard (1.041 b.). Malim Nawar South won
35 tons from 145.000 yards, and averaged
a hit less than .581 b. (,581b.). Kundang,
with 22 tons from 85..000 yards, an average
of .621 b., was a point or two better than
the quarterly figures (.581b.). Kuala Kam-
par turned over 120,000 yards for 25 tons;
average .501 b. (.431b.). Tanjong Tualong,
50 tons from 160,000 yards, averaged .751 b.
f.571b.), the hungry look of the quarter’s
average being due to a poor recovery for
February. Changkat turned over 97,000
yards for 45 tons, returning I.lllb. The
dredge was not digging all through the
quarter, but the average for March was ,671 b.
Jelapang, with 28 tons from 84,000 yards,
averaged .801 b. (,651b.).
Larut dropped a little on last month’s
recovery, taking out 341,000 yards for 77
tons of t. 0., or a little better than .541 b.
The average for the quarter, January-
March, was .601 b.
Of the Austral Malay subsidiaries, Kam-
pong Kamunting treated 138,000 yards for
38 tons, or a trifle better than .791 b. (.651b:).
No. 2 dredge, which has been docked for re-
pairs, is expected to recommence work by
the middle of May. Asam recovered 34f tons
from 109,000 yards, averaging ,701 b. (.991b.).
Ulu Yam turned over 102,000 yards for
321 tons, which included 26 tons from
dredging and 6J tons from the sale of
amang. The average was .571 b. (.611b.).
Tliabawleik recovered only 271 tons from
68,000 yards, but the average was .971 b. A
lot of time was lost early in the month
owing to water shortage. Good rains have
relieved the situation.
Hs sis * *
Alluvial Tin announced last week that the
preliminary deposit of £50.000 had been paid
by Tin Investments, the London co. formed
to take over Alluvial’s interests in Malaya,
under the agreement of October last. Alluvial
is to receive £750,000 cash, in addition to a
large holding in the new concern. The sale
is to be completed before June 30 this year.
* * => *
Tanali Biji intends to ask shareholders to
increase capital to £IOO,OOO by capitalising
£75,000 of undivided profits and to issue to
shareholders three f.p. shares for every one
held by them in the co. Tanah’s original
authorised capital was £50,000 in £1 shares,
and 25,000 f.p.’s were issued. During th:
year Percy Penman, director as well as
engineer, has been busy on a boring campaign
on the Selangor River and has proved an
optioned area of about 115 million square
yards of ground which he estimates to go
from .651 b a yard for 18,000.000 yards to
75,000,000 yards worth .451 b per yard, with
a balance of 27,000,000 containing .311 b. No
mention is made of it in the circular propos-
ing the increase of capital, but the signs and
portents are that Tanah Biji is about to
tackle another float.
* * * *
Meetings were held on April 30 at Selangor,
F.M.S., of Malim Nawar South, Kuala
Kampar and Tanjong Tualang, when resolu-
tions were unanimously adopted authorising
the directors to go ahead with the amalga-
mation proposals. The three co 3. are offshoots
of Alluvial Tin, and are operating or about
to operate in the lower Kinta Valley. The
amalgamation will be known as Kampar
Tin Fields; nominal capital, £1,000,000, in
2,000,000 shares of 10s. each. It is pro-
posed to issue 170,000 shares in the ne_w
company to the shareholders of Alluvial Tin
—3 to 1. Great saving in cost is expected
from the consolidation, and dredges are to be
added to those programmed in order to speed
up turnover.
* * * *
The pontoon for Muang Tin, the Austral
Asiatic show in Siam, has been shipped and
should arrive in Penang early next month.
Managing-director Joseph Tomlinson is back
from Malaya; he says erection will commence
immediately the material is to hand. Regular
shipments of material for the superstructure
will reach Penang during the next few
months, and erection will be carried on with-
out interruption. The road from rail to the
property is almost completed.
!]! * * *
The final call has been made in Puchong,
one of the Austral Malay subsidiaries, bring-
ing the shares to 20s. f.p. The first shipment
of 275 tons of dredge material was made
from Britain a week or two ago, and ship-
ments of similar tonnage are following fort-
nightly. Everything will be ready for com-
mencing erection as soon as the material
is delivered at the mine.
* * * *
Ilatrut Basin lias suffered delay in the
construction of No. 1 dredge owing to slight
alterations being decided upon, but the erec-
tion of the superstructure is completed, the
boilers are aboard, and machinery is being
erected. They expect to commence a trial
run about , the middle of June. The pon-
toon for No. 2 dredge should be floated early
next month.
# * * *
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavays) annual
meeting in Melbourne was told that the
allied co., Tasmania Paper Pty., Ltd., is
conducting careful tests before expending
much money on establishing a paper-making
industry .in Tasmania. It has been announced
separately that Gerald D. Mussen has paid
the last deposit necessary to secure forest
lands from the Van Diemen’s Land Cos. of
London and it is proposed to establish a paper-
making industry on a large scale at Burnie
(Tas.). Hitherto all the “newsprint” used
in Australia, as well as the better qualities,
of paper such as that on which this is
printed, has come from Canada, the U.S.A.
or England (the last made mainly of Scan-
dinavian pulp) ; and the scheme to supersede
it with an Australian-made product has the
financial backing of the Bulletin News-
paper Cos. and the proprietors of the Adver-
tiser and News (Adelaide), Argus and S.
M Herald. The idea is to replant as
quickly as the forest is destroyed, and it is
hoped that thus a perpetual supply suffici-
ent for Australian requirements may be
secured. . .
* * * *
“Engineer”: Apropos the “W ild Cat s
recent friendly review of the Northern Coal
and Cement Co.’s prospects (N.S.W.). It
is quite true that the market for cement is
saturated at the present price, even before
these proposed new works begin to operate.
But the potential market is far from satura-
tion point. In other words, the present price
—£s 10s. per ton in Sydney; £6 12s. 6d. at
a large country centre like Lismore—limits
the consumption : reduce the price by 25 p.c.,
which it should be easily possible to do, and
you inevitably add 50 p.c. to the consumption.
Therein lies the great hope of any new cement
co.
* * * *
Almost-deserted Glenelg Hills goldfiehl
(W.A.) has bucked up through striking
water in the Government-subsidised Gt.
Beacon winze. Boring failed to locate a
supply for the field, and none was struck
in the shallow workings of any of the claims.
Cos. and prospectors, therefore, got dis-
heartened, and most of them were granted
exemption or gave up. Recently the
Beacon winze was started from below
100 ft., and at 55ft. water has come in.
Should a sufficient supply be obtained for
ore-treating Glenelg Hills is tipped to boom
in a small way.
* * * *
Burbanks Mining and Investment Trust,
second reconstruction of the old Burbanks
Birthday Gift and a London co. with more
optimism than cash, has acquired an
asbestos deposit in the nor’-west of Wes-
tralia, and hopes to make an annual profit
of £50,000, though why it shouldn’t hope to
make £IOO,OOO isn’t clear. The co. also
claims to have two rich copper shows in the
same locality out of which it hopes to ob-
tain another fortune. But before the “Wild
Cat” gets enthusiastic it will want more
convincing evidence than is forthcoming.
* * * *
Tribute parties on the Great Boulder
(W.A.) continue to do well. First quarter
this year they dug out 9104 tons ore worth
£50,000. Spurred on by tributors’ success
the co. is now displaying a little more energy
in searching for mill supplies from new makes
of ore. One recently struck in the deep
workings looks a good thing.
* # # *
Backed by the State Government, Riverina
Prop., near Menzies, is about to rejoin the
list of Westralian gold producers. The show
was worked with varying fortune for a num-
ber of years, but for some time was shut
down. A local co. is now in possession and
confident of doing well. If published widths,
lengths and values are correct it should.
:1c 4t $
South Kalgurli, the only Kalgoorlie gold-
mine paying divs., is still fulfilling expecta-
tions. For the March quarter the profit was
£9089 from 2100 tons ore of a little over £2
per ton value. The surplus was over £IOOO
more than that of the first three months of
last year.
* # # *
The sharp rise in London-controlled Star
Emerald shares (W.A.) was followed by a
sudden fall, but not before at least one
firm of London brokers, which had taken
liberties with the stock, had been hammered.
The venture is an extraordinary one. Com-
paratively little work has been done; only
a few odd parcels of stones have been ob-
tained ; no sales, as far as it is known, have
been made; and no one takes it seriously
in the West. Yet on an oversold market,
and reports that Hatton Garden had taken
an interest, the shares —there are 163,500
fully paids issued—recently rose to over
50s. Then the pool unloaded a few and
prices tumbled.
* * * *
The chances of the Chillagoe smelters
operating again at an early date are very
sick. Deputations from gougers to the
Premier met with no success ; in fact, they
were plainly told there was no hope. Parts
of the plant—a boiler or two —are being
transferred to the State coal mine at Collins-
ville. The latter venture supplies the
northern railways, and still has hopes of
an oversea trade. .
■je * * *
Cloncurry (N.Q.) seems to have another
kick in Silver Ridge, about four miles
from Mt. Cuthbert, towards the old War-
wick Castle mine. The lode matter, from
12 to 300/ feet wide, is traceable on the sur-
face for about three miles. Fair silver, lead
and gold values exist in lenses of arseno-
pyrite. The “Wild Cat” would be really
interested to see the core if the Isa crowd
dipped down about 300 feet in a couple of
places on Charlie Smith’s lease with one of
their idle drills. Anthony Allis took a
£SOOO option on this lease before he passed
over. The whole affair has been only
surface-scratched.
* * * *
In connection with Mt. Isa, boring for
water has been started on Rifle Creek, pre-
paratory to the railway getting there. Muck
work on the railway is within eight miles
of Isa, and the plates are dragging them-
selves along five miles from the Duchess,
a slow job! But there is enough staff to
build a railroad to the N.T. About 150
men were employed for quite a long time:
but, since Commissioner Davidson rushed
another 150 on to the job, the line is
being thrown down much more quickly.
Hoskins rails are being used. Advance
Australia!
* * x *
An option agreement has been concluded
between Guinea Gold, Guinea South, Guinea
Central and Guinea North, the cos. interested
in the lower Hulolo dredging areas, as ven-
dors, and W. A. Freema'n, on behalf of Placer
Development, Limited, of Vancouver, Canada,
of which company lie is president. Intensive
testing of the areas will be undertaken forth-
with. The sum of £2000 has been paid for
the option. If it is exercised, the vendors wil
get £50,000 cash (including the £2000) and
10 p.c. of the issued capital of any co. or cos.
formed to work the areas. The exercise of
the option is subject to the completion of the
road to the field now under construction by
the Administration of the Mandated Terri-
tory The Guinea Gold properties on Koran-
ga‘ Creek and the Kaili lease, with certain
interests on Fdie Creek, are not included in
the option.


•v
<
YOU CAN
/LAVE
DRIVE
ANY
REPUBLIC
TRUCK
Why are there more Republics in use throughout the world than the trucks of any
other individual truck manufacturer? Because Republics have stood up to the slave-
driving of heavy loads, careless handling and bad road conditions, and have still led
the field in efficiency of transportation.
Republic service is more than a mere term; it is uniform, efficient and ready in every
country where Republics are operated. From front axle to rear member, the Republic
is built to serve you efficiently— at a profit. It is built by an organisation which has
never made anything but trucks.
If you are unable to call and inspect
the Republic range let us send our
latest booklets. Mail the coupon
to your State dealer.
Please send me the fullest information
about Republic Trucks.
Name ,
Address
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
TRUCKS
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.


HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Engineers Steel Founders Forg'esmiths
HAVE ACQUIRED THE SOLE AUSTRALIAN RIGHTS
OF MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTING
THE HAMEY MILL
THE MOST MODERN AND EFFICIENT ORE-CRUSHING PLANT ON THE MARKET
IT STAMPS
and
GRINDS SIMULTANEOUSLY
Reduces the hardest of ores to
any degree of fineness.
Low horse - power
and running costs.
A(Y
■\M
mm
TENS
H&'PtfJiolW’ HS-v"
swess
THE HEAVIEST PART
WEIGHS ONLY 6cwt.
This mill can be readily trans-
ported anywhere.
A complete crushing and recov-
ery plant may be seen at our
Sydney Works.
Manufacturers of every class of Rock Crushing, Cement Making and Mining Machinery, including
Rock Breakers, Rolls, Ball Mills, Hammer Mills, Tube Mills, Screening Plants and Conveying and
Elevating Machinery.
Makers of Heavy Plant and Machinery for all Industries.
High-grade Carbon and Alloy Steels for all purposes.
Special Steel Wearing Parts for Industrial Plants and Machinery.
THE LARGEST STEEL FOUNDRIES AND
ENGINEERING WORKS IN AUSTRALIA
[ AUSTRAUI aST j
535
■; i -
m
,
S. SYDNEY N.S'A 1
§^ Li t v (' branch works-, pE* l W
Head Offices and Works: Alexandria, Sydney, N. S.W.
Telegrams: Hadfields, Sydney. Telephones: L2Bll (4 lines).
BRANCH OFFICES:
West Australia:
Branch Works,
Bassendean, Perth.
South Australia:
56 King William Street,
Adelaide.
Victoria:
422 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland:
T. & G. Buildings,
Queen Street, Brisbane.


Cmnons IMotel
The con/no of
Quconclan c/o
‘Distinguish ed
Social Life.
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
A
) ~
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES — LENNONS , BRISBANE.
7 TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES,).
*Such a reputation is not won overnight”
ft
¥
Vwv*
■ML
IGO% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d * * ♦ * 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin cS Co., London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“11.E.R.”: Joe, a big blonde Swede, was
the successful tenderer for one year’s river
mail-carrying in the nor’-west of Groper-
land, but encountered the hostility of all
concerned. They reckoned it an outrage that
the Government should lose confidence in the
old mail-coach driver and they placed as much
obstruction in Joe’s path as was possible.
ANOTHER OPTIMIST.
But Joe, who was thoroughly Australianised,
got even. !I.e named his team of horses after
the four most antagonistic inhabitants, and
whenever in their presence used his whip and
tongue on the noddies. “Get up. you four
mongrels!” he’d roar. “Get up, Blank, you
loafer! Dash, you backbiting cur, I’ll cut
your liver out! By Jingo! I’ll stir you up,
Double-Blank, you swine! Double-Dash, you
thievin’ lizard, I’ll skin your hide. Joe
used to apologise later to the startled steeds
and make it up with choice morsels from ms
tucker-box.
.1.
“Shoveller”: It is a foolish duck
that doesn’t know its own brethren.
A wooden decoy, however artistic-
ally painted, would not deceive the
youngest bird in the upper reaches
of Tassie’s Derwent. The decoys
used there are made from the
natural skin over a cork body, the
tail and head being kept in posi-
tion by fairly stout copper wire.
Ambushes, locally known as “duck-
houses,” are built on the mud-flats.
These are composed of saplings in
leaf interwoven with river-grass,
and are covered in a similar man-
ner at the top. Into these struc-
tures the duck-punt is thrust till
quite concealed. The punts are of
pine; they are about 10ft. long
and Ift. deep, and with 34ft. beam.
Two men, as a rule, man each punt.
The shooters make for the flats be-
fore daylight and on arrival at the
selected duck-house the decoys are
placed in a “fleet,” about 25 yards
off. Much care is exercised in the
placing, a good decoy being put in
the lead and the balance in well-
spaced positions, by twos and
threes. The average number used
is about a dozen ; but I have seen
twice that number assembled. A
string of about six feet in length
with sinker attached maintains the
correct position. Shooting holes
having been made in the business
side of the shelter, the duck-call —■
a musical instrument of one note —
replaces pipes, and all is set for
the advent of dawn and arrival of
the black duck. Frequently one
sportsman shoots at the ducks as
they lob among the decoys while
his' mate takes them on the wing.
If they are in luck they may bag
20 or 30.
“Mulgo”: George Cobb had two strong
sons who worked on his farm for their
clothes and tucker, with a few shillings for
the races, till they were starting to use
razors. Then they began to take notice of
the girls, and, finding themselves at a dis-
advantage in not being able to buy choco-
lates and dance tickets, they got notions
about wages. There was a stop-work meet-
mg in the corn patch. Sitting on their hoe-
handles, they discussed the problem of ap-
proaching father, and finally agreed" to see
Mum about it. Mum was sympathetic,
“I’ll .see wliat he says,” she promised. Be-
yond that nothing happened for a week. In
reply to her offspring’s daily inquiries Mum
said she was waiting for a favorable op-
portunity. Then one morning Cobb broached
the subject unexpectedly at the breakfast
table as though he were the prime mover
in the matter. “I’m not the sort of man
that expects his boys toi work for their keep
when they’re sweetheartin’,” he said. “I
mentioned it to your mother last night when
MAKING HARD WORK OF IT
JACKIE (wanting a bullock bell): “How much, boss?”
STOREKEEPER: “Little one three bob, hear it one mile. Big one five bob, hear it three
mile.”
JACKIE: “Three mile too plurry far to walk Gib it little a feller.”
we was talkin’ about pigs! Four litters a
year we’ve been havin’ pretty regular. An’
pigs is money. ‘The boys,’ I says, _ ‘must
have some means to launch out on their own
by-an’-bye, an’ when they’re gettin’ the
spoony feelin’s it’s time to think of by-an’-
bye.’ Which she agreed was correct an’
proper. So from this out I’m goin’ to
divide half the young pigs between you
boys.” Before the boys had recovered from
the shock of this dazzling offer, Cobb added :
“I’ll expect you to get a move on a bit
earlier in the mornin’ for you’re not
workin’ for me, you know, while you re
lookin’ after your own pigs.” Two days
afterwards the boys were missing. They
left a note on the bunk where their blankets
laid been : “We gone rabbiting till the pigs
grow.”
* * * *
“Gregor”: The carnivorous pitcher-plant
'(B. 11/4/’2B) is one of a species apparently
endowed with a rudimentary thinking appar-
atus. Tests carried out in Sydney demon-
strated this. Several dead flies placed on
the gummy exudate of the leaves were swal-
lowed and their indigestible remains in due
course ejected. Flies and fragments of
gravel about the same size and weight were
then placed on the leaf; these, too, went
down, the gravel being ejected with the fly
remains. The experiment was repeated several
times with a number of the leaves; then on
one leaf was placed the gravel and on the
other the flies. The insects were received
by the plant, but the leaf with the gravel
fragments remained quiescent, no attempt
being made to digest the indigestible.
* .j. -i' *
“Waranbini”: Tommy Saucepan wanted a
haircut and, having no scissors, he fell back
on the old way. He sat on the ground near
the fire, and a mate barbered him by taking
successive, tufts of Tommy’s wool between
his fingers, and singeing off the super-
abundance with a small firestick that burned
with a steady, smokeless flame. The special
stick was one of the gunyah treasures.
Tommy never flinched as the flame singed
round his neck and ears, but he didn’t like
the smell of the burning hair. When the
barbering was finished he rubbed his head
with emu fat, the only pomatum he had. I
asked him what he put it on for. “Make
um stink better,” he said.
* * * ' *
“C. Coral”: Of course dogs can catch fish
(B. 14/3/’2B) ; in the. Torres Strait islands
they are trained to catch ’em. One old fel-
low came to me the other day full of grief
because bis dog bad died. “That dog,” he
said, “got stripe all over—half-caste dog, I
tink. He look all same that ting like horse
stop inside picture-book. He go inside water,
put hand belong him underneath stone, haul
out that fish ; then he carry that fish ashore
and put him on top stone in good place.
S’pose me stop long way when he bring that
fish, lie sing out now ‘bow-wow-wow’ big one,
so I can hear; then he go back along water
for get more fish. Me, I proper sorry that
dog he finish die!” He sighed heavily and
moved away.
Hs * * *
“Larrapinta”: I once watched two young
lubras of the Larrakea tribe (Centralia)
“shingle” each other’s hair. One woman
squatted on the ground whilst the other stood
over her with two Hints, one in each hand.
By tapping the two stones sharply together
she shore the hair off close; the locks were
carefully collected, to be spun into twine
later. Then with the glowing tip of a fire-
stick the remaining stubble was singed off,
the scalp being left as bald as an emu-egg.
A huge poultice of white clay was then put
on as a protection from the sun.
sf: :|: *
“Warradulla”: “J.H.S.” (B. 11/4/’2B) is
wrong when he asserts that 25 points of
rain won’t bring a creek down a banker after
a fall of five or six inches. At Quartz Reef
station (N.S.W.), after 44 inches of rain the
previous day. a shower fell, 23 points being
registered. That morning before the shower
the creek was merely a shallow stream at
the homestead; four or five hours later
it was 150 yards wide, running deep and
strong. The open plains out west are devoid
of “ground sloping sharply towards a gully,”
so that wasn’t the explanation.
* * * #
“Trevdee”: What is the distance of a
hare’s stride at full speed? At a coursing
match in the Wimmera (Vic.), where the
hares are big and strong, one chap cleared
a 15ft. channel in his stride without slacken-
ing speed to take off. He had a foot or
more to spare on each side, yet was barely
a foot above ground at the highest point
of his leap.
■!• $
“Neurone”: It isn’t the boy with bird-
lime or pea-rifle that kills the greatest
number of native birds (B. 11/4/’2B). The
domestic cat gone wild ought to shoulder
a major part of the blame. The native cat,
now nearly extinct, was a terror to anything
in feathers, but his numbers were not suf-
ficient to account for many. The tame cat
gone wild breeds prolifically in hollow trees
and rabbit-burrows, and combs the gums at
night, leaving ample evidences of his depre-
dations. Foxes are blamed, as a rule, in
such cases, but they can’t compete with cats
as bird-killers.
(Continued on page 25.)
ON THE TRACK.
[For The Bulletin.]
When Mick and I are on the track, ’tween
jobs that never last,
No longer is it our delight to travel far and
fast.
“For what’s the use of that?” says Mick.
“We’ll make an early camp;
There always will be roads to tread, and men
to go on tramp.”
There was a time when Mick and I would
rattle off the miles,
When every road seemed like to lead to some-
thing worth our whiles,
When Fortune waited just beyond the distant
hills of blue
Lpon the roads of yesterday, when every
road was new.
But all the roads that we have tramped, the
miles we’ve left behind,
And all the years that we have trod in sun
and rain and wind
Have told their tales to Mick and me, and
now at last we know
The loneliness and emptiness of all the roads
men go.
When Mick and I are on the track to haste
there comes no urge,
For soon enough we’ll reach the spot to which
all roads converge.
“So what’s the odds?” says Mick to me.
“We’ll make an early camp;
There always will be roads to tread, and mugs
to go on tramp.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


7 HE ILLUSTRIOUS A/EW
c Scorinq Greatest Success
in /ill ChrifslerHistorif ~
*
~***
✓
iZ
0
MIOST
unusual, even for
Chrysler, has been the reception given to
the Illustrious New “72.”
But no other result could have been pos-
sible, because no other car combines such
rare quality and value.
Before the “72,” no car in its class or even
in the more expensive group provided
C'ounterweighted 7*
Bearing Crankshaft and
Rubber Spring Mount-
ingsMadePossibleforthe
First Time at Such Prices
counterweighted 7-bearing
crankshaft in a 75 horse-power
engine; spring ends anchored in
blocks of live rubber; and long,
roomy, handsome bodies in
such correct taste..
Every Chrysler dealer is eager
to show you the Illustrious New
“72”; to put it through its paces.
Only by riding in it and driv-
ing can you familiarise yourself
with this new performance, this
new smartness that has been re-
sponsible for the greatest success
in all Chrysler history.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larkc Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney ,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rod da Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


Send Your
Wool
to
Winchcombe
Carson
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Founded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
by Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St., Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently result from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
m
xi a & mms.
xX-r iV
•:#'l
x
te
r?\
X:
\ /
\ !
'■ §& v....-'
y
X
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
To shop at Peapes’ by mail
is to ensure the same satis-
faction as if one paid a per-
sonal visit.
A special staff is detailed to
see that all clients’ wishes
are EXACTLY fulfilled and,
except in cases of goods to
measure, orders despatched
on the day of their receipt.
Write for Peapes’ Winter
Catalogue just issued.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
“Boronia”: Is there really any trust-
worthy bush-barometer? None of those I
have tried was any good. The narrow-
necked bottle inverted in a 'pickle jar of
water; gut attached to an indicator on a
dial; an electric-light bulb containing a small
hole and filled with water—these and others
I have found useless. A piece of seaweed is
all right on the coast, but inland it fails to
respond.
* * * *
“Lucifer” : “Fitzwilliam” knows how to find
his way by means of a watch with the help
of the sun (B. 4/4/’2B), but what would
he do at night, especially if he were in scrub
Country where not even the stars could be
seen? I’ll reveal my own secret. I grasp
the end of iny watch-chain and whirl the
timepiece rapidly round and round my
head. When the watch is moving as fast
as possible I suddenly release the chain.
The watch is sure to go west.
* * * *
“H.II.”: An old abo., a descendant of
the Otati tribe of N.Q., informed me of
one of their ways of obtaining water. A
spear was pushed three or four feet into
the ground about a pandanus-tree. If, on
the spear being withdrawn, the point was
moist, some grass was rammed into the hole
as a strainer; a reed was then pushed down
to the bottom and the water sucked up.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Fiercest and swiftest of
North-Westralian mosquitoes is the “round-
belly.” The brutes come flying straight out
of the black night like arrows, and are boring
their victims for the red juice before a fist
can be raised. When vengeance is' travelling
in their direction at the rate of 50 miles
an hour they deftly hop to another claret
field. When full their bodies are round like
a berry and ruby-red, but the load does not
lessen their wonderful speed. As fast as
they come they whiz back into the scrub
to sleep it off.
* * * *
“Coot”: There is an earlier reference to
the abo. call, “coo-ee” than in the journal
of Ensign Barrallier in 1802 mentioned by
“G.8.L.” (B. 18/4/’2B). In the vocabulary
of native words in Governor Hunter’s journal,
published in 1790, “cow-ee,” meaning “to
come,” is included. In Barrallier’s
journal he spells it “cooy,” and thus it is
THE BLOOMIN’ LOR AGAIN!
CONSTABLE (to group of deadbeats ): “Now, then, move on. You’re not allowed to
colect on the streets.”
DEADBEAT: “Gam! We ain’t arst anyone fer a bean.”
spelt in many early Australian books. The
present spelling “coo-ee” first appeared in
the second volume of F. Cunningham’s “New
South Wales,” published in 1827.
MORE DIVISIONS IN THE CHURCH.
MR. JAMES HICHURCH: “Can’t sing the right tune, can’t I? I’m glad to think I’ve a
better ear for music than you have!”
MR. WILLIAM LOCHURCH: “Well, sing with your ear, then. What comes out o’ your
mouth is horrible.”
“Bud-'G.”: How big do stingrays grow?
One I saw caught by some kanakas in a
creek near Proserpine (N.Q.) during the
Easter holidays was nearly 10 feet long and
had a breadth of 7ft. 6in. The sting measur ’d
15 inches.
* * * *
“Up North”: A custom known as “ven-
geance by night” is in vogue amongst some
of the wilder Gulf tribes. Alone with the
witch-doctor, the buck who meditates
slaughter goes through an incantation which
craves the help of the spirits of the night.
Then he fashions pads of emu
feathers cemented together with
blood, with an upper part of woven
human hair, which he binds on his
feet. The pads have neither heels
nor toes, and even on soft sand
leave only a faint imprint, from
which it is almost impossible to
tell whether the wearer was com-
ing or going. The interesting pair
next massage their bodies with
goanna fat mixed with finely-
powdered charcoal, draw bands of
white ochre down their faces and
wider bands across their chests,
and encircle another part of their
anatomy with glaring white bars,
in threes. Having donned a girdle
of hair that once belonged to a
noted warrior and a head-dress of
tufted feathers with a band of
green leaves (signifying that be-
fore they have withered life will
have departed from the gentleman
to be assassinated), the avenger is
ready for business. Stealthily by
night the two men steal into the
enemy’s country, and in the dark-
ness of the victim’s gunyah the
deed is done. Sometimes the
avenger is ambushed and slain, but
the witch-doctor is never harmed.
If the avenger doesn’t return, the doctor
makes tracks for home. Tribal etiquette
demands that he shall not be pursued,
otherwise evil spirits would sicken the
camp.
* * * *
“Wang”: “One o’ them strong spiders’
webs they’ve been writin’ about in The
Bullerteen lorst me the best mate I ever
"ad,” said Larry th& Liar. “Me an’ Bill
Dobbs was camped under a tree alongside
the road w’en an ole cocky comes along
drivin’ a spring-dray with a load o’ pigs
aboard. He ’ad a net over the top—the
most beautiful-lookin’ pig-net I ever seen.
It was shinin’ like silk, an’ the strands was
cris-crossed sometliink wonderful. We words
the ole bloke fer a lift, an’ ’e tells us t’ wait
till ’e delivers the pigs. About a coupler
hours later ’e comes drivin’ back. The pigs
is gone an’ so’s the net. ’E ses he always
sells the net w’en ’e takes pigs in an’ gits a
fiver fer it. ‘There don’t seem much sense
in that,’ I ses, ‘seein’ you ’ave t’ buy another
net.’ ’E looks knowin’, an’ tells us t’ ’op
up. We goes joggin’ along yappin’, Bill sit-
tin’ next the ole bloke an’ me on the out-
side. All of a sudden Bill gives a yell an’
bumps me outer the dray. I picks meself
up an’ sees Bill grab a lump of wood in the
bottom of the dray an’ squash the biggest
spider you ever see in your life. It was
six inches acrost. The ole cocky lets out a
fearful yell an’ makes a swipe at Bill with
a tommy’awk ’e picks up. Bill scrambles
down an’ ducks away, with the cocky
screamin’ like a loonertic after ’im. Pre-
sently the cocky comes back an’ starts pawin’
the spider over, mumblin’ to ’isself; but ’e
calms down after a bit an’ tells me wot the
’ullabaloo is about. ‘I wouldn’t ’ave lost
that spider fer a ’undred quid,’ he tells me.
‘ ’E’s the bloke Avot made me pig-nets. W’en-
ever I ’ad pigs t’ take in I useter set ’im on
the dray the night before, an’ nex’ morniu’
’e’d spun a loverly net acrost the top. I
brought ’im down from North Queensland
ten year ago, an’ ’e’s spun over a ’undred
nets fer me; an’ now ’e’s thrown a seven.’
Bill Dobbs? I never seen ’im no more.”
“Waranbini”: The forest ranger was an
old man who wasn’t skilled in bushcraft. He
had to check the timber-getter’s logbook by
counting stumps on State lands. The royalty
was 2s. Gd. a stump, and the ranger was ex-
asperatingly particular. It appeared to him
that the number of logs obtained was out
of proportion to the number of stumps paid
for, and he annoyed Jerry Johnson by mea-
suring the ground from stump to last saw-
cut so that he could check the length with
the total length of logs drawn out of the
forest. Next time the ranger came along
Jerry took him on a zigzag course, his mate,
who was screened by densely-timbered undu-
lations, following on another zigzag course,
raddling stumps that Jerry had dodged. The
ranger, when returning over part of the
mate’s course, was thus led to believe that
he had already been there, though it was
plain from his mystified air that he couldn’t
remember certain spots and stumps. The
mark was a red stroke. When he went out
again, being a suspicious person, he made a
cross on each stump. It was a new section
of the forest, and when he found some stumps
that had the usual stroke on them he rode
about a bit. and then made the strokes into
crosses. “Your mate’s using the wrong brand
to-day, Johnson,” he remarked as he passed
on.
RIDING TO THE DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas pleasant in the moonlight, and ’twas
jolly in the dark,
While riding to the dance in Batten’s
barn,
With merry girls from bush and farm, all
eager for a lark,
And older folk intent upon a yarn;
With horses pacing briskly ’long the -wind-
ing bridle track,
By clear lagoons that mocked the starry
dome;
When every young man’s neddy seemed to
love a lady’s hack —
But ’twasn’t always merry going home.
From scattered yards the couples and mixed
parties sallied forth,
A shadowland of charm before them
spread;
O'er rippling creeks and gullies, riding east
and riding north,
When roving swans were calling over-
head ;
Through sweetly-scented valleys where Love
whispered to the fair,
And laughter echoed clear from crag and
comb,
While every heart was buoyant and romance
was in the air—
But ’twasn’t always so when going home.
There was music in the hoof-beats on the
litter-covered ground,
In the creaking of the saddles as we
rode
Across the starlit ridges, and it seemed that
every sound
Was a symphony attuned to Cupid’s code,
Whilst fancy sprinkled fairies ’mong the
nodding forest flowers,
With here and there a grubby little
gnome;
For the bushland was entrancing in those
happy fleeting hours—
But ’twasn’t so entrancing going home.
A night bird calling softly from some cloister
far away,
To the jesting of a tantalising lass,
The perfume of rare blossoms that half-
tempted us to stay,
Commingling with the scent of trodden
grass,
Impressed that time of promise on the chart
of memory
That made the book of life a treasure
tome;
For love and hope and joyance rode upon
the saddle-tree —
But ’twasn’t always joyous going home.
Where level ways invited, with the horses
at a prance,
With champing bits and clink of stirrup-
bars,
One led a sudden gallop with a challenge in
licr gl&iice,
For there's daring in the glamor of the
stars. . ~
Then merriment and laughter mingled an
along the track,
While swans were questing westward
towards the Frome;
But weary, drowsy spirits stretched the dull
miles riding back —
’Twas never very merry going home.
N.S.VV.
E.S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Sydney man, with wide experience in
book-keeping, auditing, stock-taking and
preparation of balance-sheets, wants spare-
time work.—4401.
Salesman, young, understands all kinds
of agricultural machinery, can drive car,
desires position with Sydney manufactur-
ing firm.—4408.
Young married man experienced dairy
farmer, wants up-to-date dairy farm on
share basis ; 50 or 60 cows ; witliin 40 miles
of Sydney. Camden or Richmond preferred.
—4407.
Girl (18) desires oversea correspondents ;
India, Africa or Pacific Islands preferred.
(To Miss Glinn Bellamy, Iladdy Park,
Coutts’ Crossing. via South Grafton,
N.S.W.)
Teacher (27), interested in everything
from Sunday-schools to jazz, would like to
correspond with women of her own age in
South Sea Islands, Australia and Britain.
(To H. Johnstone, c/o G.P.O., Shanghai,
China.)
Man, single (30), sober; 14 years’ ex-
perience sheep, cattle book-keeping, farm
manager, station overseer, wants position
on large farm or station; go anywhere; ex.
refs.—4433.
Young man (20) wants work on Tas.
sheep station. Can ride, drive car, and used
to all farm work.—4456.
Young Englishman wants partner for
rabbit trapping in Victoria. —4454.
Englishman, well educated, seeks position
on station as tutor, bookkeeper, etc. Can
teach piano. (To G. W. M. Ilare, G.P.O.,
Sydney.)
Young man (23) wants work near Bris-
bane ; handy with tools and used to horses.
—4446.
Words of songs “At Dawning,” by C. W.
Cadman and “For You Alone,” by Geehl.
(To J. Heppingstone, Watalgan, Q’land.)
To sell Bulletin files, complete, for 1914
and 1916. fl each or 30s. the two, plus
carriage. (To A. D. Linden, 4 Webb-street,
Croydon, Sydney.)
Words of verse, “Beyond the City Gates,”
or where same could be obtained. —4459.
To sell, file of the Connoisseur for the
last nine years. (To ,J. Wilson, Colton-
street, Highgate Hill, South Brisbane.)
To buy, novel, “The House of Fear,” by
Wadsworth Camp.—4421.
To buy, second-hand canoe, 12ft. to 16ft.,
for use on Sydney Harbor; price and par-
ticulars.—4410.
To buy, in Sydney, silky dog, about five
months old. Particulars and price.—4417.
Words of verse “A Split in the Opposite
Party,” published about 25 years ago. (To
C. J. Pittman, Harrisville, Woolaware-
road, Burraneer Bay, Port Hacking,
N.S.W.)
Words of verse (probably in Bulletin)
about a drover challenging a bush priest to
a horse race, and the latter, who was
mounted on a Melbourne Cup winner, un-
known to the drover, winning.—4398.
Information Sought.
How is tripe cleaned? —4151.
First wash well in tepid water, scraping
with a knife and rinsing thoroughly. Then
put it into a saucepan with enough water to
cover it, bring to the boil and pour
the water away. Repeat this until the
tripe has lost its unpleasant smell. When
quite clean simmer slowly till tender, which
will take six to ten hours, keeping the tripe
covered with water. Then put into a basin,
cover with the liquid in which it was pre-
pared, and set aside till next day, when it
can be cooked in the usual way.
A, as security for an advance of, say,
£100, executes a lien over his crops in favor
of B. A’s crops are duly harvested, and
realise considerably more than the £100
owing to B. Can B legally demand that the
purchaser of A’s crops shall pay to him the
whole of the proceeds in order that he may
reimburse himself and forward the balance
to A?—4169.
Yes. Under the Lien on Crops Act 1878
the lender is, in law, entitled to the whole of
the crop, and the borrower may not sell it
without his written consent.
If I have machines which are patented and
manufactured in America made for me under
contract in Australia, who will have to stand
proceedings taken under the patent laws, the
manufacturer or I? —4196.
If the machines are not patented in Aus-
tralia there can be no question of proceed-
ings against you. If they are patented here,
but not manufactured here, you can obtain a
license to manufacture them from the Com-
missioner of Patents. If they are patented
and manufactured here action could be taken
against both yourself.and the manufacturer
with, whom you placed your contract.
(1) Is land available for selection in W.A.
for wheat-growing? (2) What size are the
blocks? (3) What is the price per acre,
cleared and uncleared? (4) Terms? Where?
What monetary help can I get from the
Government and Agricultural Bank? (5)
How much capital of my owm ought I to
have? (6) Is much experience necessary?
(7) What books could I get to help me, or
from whom can I obtain information ?—3967.
(1) Yes, but as the demand has been very
keen for some considerable time past you
would have to wait your turn. (2) Any
male over the age of 16 may acquire an area
up to 160 acres as a Free Homestead harm,
also under Conditional Purchase conditions
up to 1000 acres of agricultural land and
2500 acres of grazing land. (3) At present
improved wheat lands run from £3 to £7 per
acre. The minimum price of unimproved
land in ordinary circumstances varies from
3s. 9d. to 15s. per acre, to which must lie
added cost of survey. (4) Financial assist-
ance is rendered by the Agricultural Bank
up to a maximum of £2OOO. Advances usually
are repayable by half-year instalments over a
period of 30 years at 6 per cent. (5) While
the right class of man with a good block of
land and an Agricultural Bank advance may
get along in the wheat belt with very little
capital, it is safer that the settler should
have at least £3OO to start with, as lie
cannot hope to get a return from his land
immediately he occupies it. (0) A man
should have a fair amount of experience be-
fore taking up land for himself. (7) The
Department of Lands, Perth, will send you
its pamphlets and any further information
needed.
A and B are playing five-card cribbage. ,4
has scored 5 holes, whilst B requires only 5
to go out. It is A’s crib. B “dies in the
hole” and A pegs enough to go out. What
were the cards and how were they played?
—4220.
A, in the deal, receives three sixes and a
pair of threes. B receives a ten, a six, a
seven and two threes. A discards two
threes. B discards two threes and a nine
turns up. B plays a seven. A plays a six,
making 13. B plays a six, making 19, with
two holes. A plays a six, making 25, with
six holes. B cannot go, so A plays a ’ six,
making 31, with 14 holes. B counts two
for his hand and A has 12 in his hand and
24 in crib. .
(1) What were the Seven Wonders of the
World? (2) What was the Colossus at
Rhodes?— 4o6s.
There are two sliglitly-divergent lists, but
the one that is commonly accepted comprises :
The pyramids of Egypt, the gardens of
Semiramis at Babylon, the statue of Zeus at
Olympia, the temple of Diana at Ephesus, the
mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Colossus
of Rhodes, and the Pharos (lighthouse) of
Alexandria. (2) The Colossus of Rhodes
was a bronze statue of the sun-god Helios
made from the spoils left by Demetrius
Poliorcetes when he raised the siege of
the city. The sculptor was Chares, and it is
said the work occupied him 12 years. The
statue stood 70 cubits (about 105 ft.) high,
and is believed to have stood across the
entrance to the harbor with a beacon light
in its hand, ships passing between its legs.
It was thrown down by an earthquake about
224 b.c.
(1) Was the oth Battalion, A.1.F., the
first section to embark for Egypt at Brisbane,
joined by other units of the Ist Div. at Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany? (2)
On what date did the Ist Div. sail? (3)
Were any members of the A.I.F. entitled to
the Mons Star? (4) What was the qualifi-
cation for that decoration? (5) And for the
1914-15 Star? —4131.
(1) With other units it was on the
first ship, which left Brisbane September
24, 1914. (2) October 31, 1914, from
Albany. (3) Only if they had service in
the Imperial Army in 1914. (4) Service in
France or Belgium in 1914. (5) Service
in the theatre of war up to the end of 1915.
Can I compel my neighbor to assist in
eradicating white ants in our dividing fence?
It’s all his fault, as he lets Ms grass grow
long, while on my side there is a cement
path.— 44l9.
You can call upon him to pay half the cost
of repairs, if the fence needs them; but unless
the fence is actually defective you have no
remedy.
The land attached to my seaside cottage is
unfenced, and I am much annoyed by shoot-
ing parties tramping over it. Have I any
remedy ? —4425.
You could bring a common law action for
trespass, claiming damages, but you wouldn’t
get much, and if the person sued were unable
to pay costs you would have to pay them.
If the shooting goes on upon a Sunday in-
form the police, as it is an offence.
(1) What is the formula for calculating
the cubical contents of an ensilage pit ivith
sloping sides? (2) What are the cubical con-
tents (in yards ) of a pit 76ft. by 21 ft. Qin.
at the top; 47 ft. by 18 ft. at the bottom, 7 ft.
in depth? —44o4.
(1) Multiply together (all in feet) (a)
length and breadth at bottom, and depth;
(b) length at bottom, half the difference
betw-een breadth at top and bottom, and
depth; (c) breadth at bottom, half the dif-
ference between length at top and bottom,
and depth; (and) difference in length between
top and bottom, difference in breadth be-
tween top and bottom, and depth, and divide
the result by three. Add the products of
(a), (b), (c) and (and) together and divide
by 27 to reduce feet to yards. (2) 314.46
cub. yards.
Dark brown hairy grubs, an inch to two
inches long, are infesting the butts of my
cedar and other trees and eating the leaves.
They have been coming into the house. How
can I get rid of them?. —4276.
They are probably caterpillars of the cedar
moth. Spray them with kerosene or other
oil when they are congregating at the butts
of the tree. If pure kerosene is used instead
of an emulsion, the preparation of which is
described in the leaflet posted, care should
be taken not to saturate the soil around the
roots, otherwise the tree may be seriously
affected. Another effective spray is arsenate
of lead . (powder), lib. to 40 gallons of
water.
In your answer to 4159 ( B. 18,/4/’2S) yon
say that a bullet fired from the rear of a
train travelling at 1500 miles an hour would
reach the driver, as the velocity of the train
would be added to the velocity of the bullet.
Hut would it strike its objective with as
much force as if it were fired from a station-
ary point at a stationary object? —4424.
Yes. It is assumed there is no question
of wind resistance, the train being enclosed.
In that case the speed of the train would
have no effect whatever on the force of
impact of the bullet.
Is it lawful in N. S. I Vales to keep rabbits
in captivity?- —4290.
Application should be made to the secre-
tary Stock and Brands Branch, Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney, for a license, which will
cost you 10s.
How can l yet rid of ticks in a dog? —
4320.
Remove them, preferably with forceps, and
then apply a little turpentine, kerosene or
ammonia to the affected parts. A daily
examination of the dog is advisable. In case
of paralysis small doses of whisky or brandy
should bo administered every hour and a
purgative given without delay.
I want to grow culinary herbs on a com-
mercial scale. Cam you tell me (1) What
herbs compose the mixed herbs of general
household use? (2) The proportions of each?
(3) Any others that might be used to advan-
tage? (4) What proportion of herbs of each
variety should I plant? (5) Are there any
books on the subject? —33Bs.
(1) Thyme, sage arid marjoram. (2) and
(4) No set proportions. (3) Don’t know
any. (5) There are no books applying to
local conditions. Circulars and newspaper
clippings have been forwarded.
(1) What is the bush,man's name for
Exccecaria parvifolia? (2) Is there any
commercial demand for the timber?— 4lso.
(1) “Gutta-percha tree,” “Surveyor’s Eye-
water” or “Milk bark.” The abos. call it
“Ji leer.” (2) No.
(1) Is it possible for a certificated marine
engineer to get a shore job in Brisbane?
(2) How could such a job be obtained? —
4372.
(1) Yes. (2) Watch the newspapers for
advertised vacancies. Membership of the
Australasian Institute of Marine and Power
Engineers (Q’land district), Celtic Chambers,
246 George-street, Brisbane, would be help-
ful.
How many tons of water will pass through
a canal tivo chains wide and halj a chain
deep in 24 hours on a fall of three inches per
mile?— 42s2.
Depends on whether canal is lined with
concrete, rubble or earth, and whether banks
are vertical or sloped. In the case of an
earth-lined canal with sides sloped to a
grade of 14 in 1, approximately 20,500,000
tons.
(1) How long was it after establishment
before the M.L.C. (including the old
Citizens') declared a div., and amount? (2)
How long before it paid a bonus to policy-
holders, and amount? (3) How long was
it before Aus. Metropolitan „ Life declared a
div., and amount? (4) Blow long before
it paid a bonus to policy-holders? —3Bßl.
(1) In its second year ; 5 p.c; on paid
capital. (2) Reversionary bonus of £1 10s.
in the first year after its first quinquennial
valuation. (3) In the third year a div. of
£194 4s. was paid. (4) Reversionary bonus
of £1 10s. was recommended at the end of
first quinquennium; but bonuses had been
allotted during the quinquennium.
(1) I paid off the second mortgage on my
house a year ago, but did not register the dis-
charge. Do I run any risk, an id can I re-
gister ntiw without employing a solicitor?
(2) My first mortgage was for five years.
That term has expired and I have heard
nothing from the mortgagee. What ought I
to d0? —4233.
(1) There is the risk that you may have
to prove discharge at some future time, if
you want to sell the property or give another
mortgage. Apply to the first mortgagee to
lodge the certificate of title at the Land
Titles Office. When advised that this has
been done take proof of discharge to that
office, pay the required fee, and get the dis-
charge endorsed on the title. (2) Evidently
the mortgagee does not want to call in his
money just now, but, unless you get from
him a renewal for a specific term, he can
demand the money at any time.
(1) Is there an Australian equivalent of
Ruff’s “Guide to the Turf”? (2) TT 7 7i0 fixes
the published starting prices? (3) Price of
admission to grandstand at metropolitan
meetings? (4) What is the best daily news-
paper in Sydney for racing news? —4243.
(1) “Australasian Turf Register,” £2 2s.
(2) In N. S. Wales s.-p. bookmakers accept
S. M. Herald, which strikes an average
on the odds laid by paddock bookmakers.
(3) At Rand wick 15 s. 3d., inclusive of gate
admission and taxes. (4) A matter of
opinion. All devote considerable space to
racing.
My Yorkshire. terrier has symptoms of
constipation and worms. He has been under
treatment by a veterinary surgeon who pre-
scribed a worm oil and a regular meat ration,
but there is no improvement. Can you sug-
gest a remedy? —4392.
As we don’t know what the vet. prescribed,
don’t like to suggest drugs which might be
dangerous on top of the others. As to diet,
feed once daily with a little meat and green
vegetables, with gravy. The usual remedy for
worms is arica nut, extract, of male fern and
a little calomel, administered in capsule form
and followed by a small dose of castor oil.
What is the greatest length known to
have been attained by the red and white
bellied black snake? —4510.
If you mean the common black snake with
carmine underparts (Pscudechis porpliyria-
eus), the longest specimen known is one 11
feet in length captured by the late “Profes-
sor” Fox. A black snake with red and white
belly is unknown to zoologists.
How much can I afford to pay for 2000
acres of land carrying one sheep to the acre
to get a return of 6 per cent, on capital
invested and a fair reward for pei'sonal
exei'tion ? —4511.
Not much more than £6 an acre, freehold.
At that price your capital
would be £12.000 for land, fol
sheep at 30s. and, say, £IOOO f » r P 1
furniture and incidentals, a total of flo, •
You might expect a net return in 12 montns
of 17s. 6d. per sheep, £1750, giving you a
margin after deducting interest at o 1 e
cent, (i 960) of £790.
Information Supplied.
3907. —To retard the ripening of bananas
without storage, cover the bunches on the
trees with bags so as to counteract the heat
of the sun.—“B-Gar.”
4305. —To make fly-paper, take five parts
castor oil to eight parts powdered resin.
heat together till resin is dissolved; applj
while hot to surface of paper or to wires
suspended across the room. To make a
paper poisonous only to flies, take quassia
chips, 20 parts; molasses, three parts;
alcohol, one part; water, 115 parts.
Macerate the quassia in 100 parts of water
for 24 hours, boil for half an hour, set aside
for 24 hours, then press out the liquid ; mix
this with the molasses, and evaporate to four
parts; add the alcohol and the remaining Id
parts of water, and saturate absorbent paper
with it; the paper is used on a plate or
saucer with a little water. —“Grade S.”
Does Anybody Know ?
Where a waterproofing liquid preparation
called “Bacoduc” can be. procured in Mel-
bourne V—3908.
How to clean soft, fleecy blankets that
have been blown by flies? —4444.
How to poison box-trees with arsenic?
4432.
Brief Answers.
R.W.H.: 124-gauge, whether Australian or
imported, is inclined to be brittle. For knotting, 12-
gauge ordinary mild steel wire is more suitable....
M. : (1) In very good condition it is worth 3s. 6d. ;
(2) 7s. Gd. ; (3) Is. 6d E. 5.0.: All Coalport ware
carfies that mark and date, the date being the year
in which the business was established and not the
year in which the piece was made. Any collector
could give you a fair idea of value. .. .J.D.H.: A
committee is now taking evidence on fur-farming in
N. and will make recommendations to the Gov-
ernment. Chinchilla, beveran or angora rabbits aie
not allowed to enter the State. Communicate with
Sydney Smith, secretary, Fur Farming Committee,
Stock and Brands Branch, N.S.W. Dept, of Agri-
culture, and ask him to let you know the com-
mittee’s decision. .. .G.L. and D. K.: See reply to
J.C.H 8.5.: Society of Arts and Crafts of N.S.W.,
8 Rowe-street, Sydney... .B. A.N.: (1) Linoleum for
pictorial block-making costs: 6in. by 4in., 6d. each;
Tin. by sin„ 9d. ; Bin. by 6in., Is. Mulberry paper
for printing, 3-sheet, 2s. 9d. per dozen; Japanese
paper, 5-sheet, 4s. 6d. per dozen. Tools used for wood
blocks would do. They cost 2s. to 3s.- each. (2) W.
C. Penfold and Cos., Ltd., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney
S.S.: Write to Henry Disston and Sons, Inc. (Aus-
tralasia), Ltd., Camperdown, Sydney, for their “Saw,
Tool and File Book” W.G.D.; (1) Twenty-two
per cent, of the men who embarked from Australia
as members of the A.I.F. were born outside Aus-
tralia. (2) Thirteen born outside Australia won the
V. including one of the two members who gained
this decoration whilst serving with the Russian
Relief Force H. 8.: Unless you are a member of
either union you would have no chance of employ-
ment in the callings mentioned. The leading steam
ship companies have long waiting-lists of applicants.
The local shipping offices would be able to advise
you as to future prospects. ... J.8.D.: Highly specu-
lative. There’s something about such cos. in the May
“Wild Cat” Monthi. y ... .Quiert Sabie : A 5-blad'e ball-
bearing mower with high driving wheels is recom-
mended .... W.W.: Charles Hargreaves, Brisbane-road,
Manly, will send you a sample topeppi and infor-
mation as to planting. .. .G.F.F. and J.C.: See “Brief
Reply” to W.W. this issue.... T.G.W.: The British
typewriter referred to is the Barlock. The Melbourne
agent is the Typewriter Service Cos., 343 Collins-
street, Melbourne.... W.H.: (1) The use of sodium
nitrate is being developed in America, but it is not
yet used in Australia. The Maoriland Agricultural
Dept, is reported to have made successful experiments
with it recently, but details are not yet available.
(2) Use one bag of salt to 21b. of saltpetre and 200
gallons of water. Add a little brown sugar J.J.:
Sorry; the information isn’t procurable
W. : By “a distraint” you probably, mean
a writ of execution. Yes... .F. 8.8.: No nor-
mal person’s spine could be affected by wearing
rubber soles. .. .A.M.; Send us a list of the foods of
which you are doubtful and we will try to pick
them for you; but why worry when you can get
an alkaline or acid prescription to suit your needs
till your health improves?... ..J.F.: All depends on
the nature of what you call an “easement.” If it is a
right of way, you are not liable... .T.M.G.: Yes; the
A.P.A. holds a controlling interest in the L.C.A., and
it would be merely wasteful to keep the two running.
... .R. Dluck : The shares are valueless. .. .T.0’8.:
No. When considering which of the shares you
should buy, favor those banks which have made par
issues to shareholders... .M.S.: (1) No. (2) Fairly,
though most of the capital has gone in preliminary
exes. They may have a chance, because it is not
easy to start a co. there now D.A.R.: If on
present appearances they pay a div. inside 10
years, they’ll have to first write off a great deal of
their capital—either that or pay div. on capital
which has no existence... .Wallingford: Don’t take
any notice of so-called dividends p.c. of capital in-
vested in old flax ventures without ascertaining what
that capital was. You’ll probably find it was a few
hundred pounds.... E.N.: Unless the worker can show
that he contracted the ailment in the course of his
employment and that the employment was a con-
tributing factor he is not entitled to compensation
under N.S.W. law. Consult your doctor before taking
action... .F.A.J.: Fill in the transfer form, obtain-
able from and returnable to the p.o. where you
now collect your pension, and payment will be made
available at any p.o. in N.S.W. you may nominate.
. ...C.G.A.: (1) Have inserted a “Want” asking for
the book. (2) “Easy Pickings” was not adapted
from a novel, but based on the stage play of the
same name by William A. Burton and Paul Onger.
S.J.B.: (1) Goat farming is not carried on, on
a commercial scale, in N. S. Wales. (2) The
British Goat Society, Lloyds-avenue, London, E.C.3.
issues a monthly journal. (3) Ask the Government
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney, to send you a free
leaflet on “Breeding Angora Goats for Mohair”
N.W'.H.: If a man asked you to give him ss. to buy
a young apple-tree, and promised to give you in
return £5 to £6 from the proceeds of the fruit
of that tree in 10 years time, what would you say?
And when he even guaranteed that the fruit would
be worth all that, what would you say to that!
(Many others mailed.)


DUNLOP
Is a household word
throughout Australia
»o
r^l
1
M
Cc^
ss-
J
%
ZZ
&
—the hoys of
30 years ago-and
the boys of
today all know
that Dunlop stands
for .... leadership,
quality, Value and
dependability.
Motoring conditions to-
day-call tor sturdier
tyres than ever before—
Dunlop makes
them!
Their outstanding service awaits you at no extra cost at your Garage!
lorn;
m
mm.
3 °
MNNiM
Dunlop Rubber Mills The Largest in the Southern Hemisphere.


sd
P. & C. SUCCESS MEANS
YOUR PROTECTION
Success is seldom un-earned, and the spectacular rise of the
P. SC C. to the foremost rank, in the short space of five (5)
years is due to the special :ervices rendered by the Com-
pany. It keeps policies in force when times are bad; it
sets aside, each year, sums for loans to its members; its
policies are designed to meet the particular needs of the
man on the land. In joining the P. 8C C. you obtain the
benefit of co-operative assurance and further the need of
the countryman.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS 4/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD^
114 -HO CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY
MARTELLS
BRANDY
A Household Word "
in Sichness&in Health
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SOWING LUCERNE SEED.
“Paul C.”: This is a good time of year to
sow lucerne seed in most coastal areas, as
spring-and-summer-sown seed has to battle
with a prolific growth of weeds. On cold
tablelands early March sowing gives the seed
a chance to establish itself before heavy
frosts set in. More than half the success of
lucerne-growing is dependent on the care
exercised in the preparation of the soil, and
to have the ground ploughed over and worked
down many months before the time of sow-
ing. When a crop of weeds shows through
they can be turned under with the plough.
By doing this there are few weed seeds left in
the soil to choke the new lucerne growth.
When the ground has been worked to as
fine a tilth as possible, it needs to be rolled
to make a firm seed bed. The quantity of
seed per acre varies according to climatic
conditions, for while lucerne-growers in drv
areas find that from 81b. to 101 b. an acre is
enough, others, where the soil is rich and the
rainfall great, find that they need to sow up
to 201 b. per acre. In medium rainfall dis-
tricts about 141 b. an acre will be found suit-
able. However, it is better to err on the
side of sowing too much than too little.
There are different machines for sowing
the seed, but most farmers are competent ro
broadcast it evenly by hand. The inex-
perienced man I would advise to take onlv
half the quantity of seed he proposes to sow,
and broadcast this, say, the “long way”
of the paddock. Then take the other half of
the seed and sow it across. In this plan
there is less chance of uneven sowing. Where
big areas are to be sown it is best to use
a seed-drill, and sow it through the grass-
seed attachment, mixed with superphosphate.
By thoroughly mixing 701 b. of fertiliser with
141 b. of lucerne seed, and setting the drill
to sow about 801 b. of manure an acre, a
good stand of lucerne will be obtained. A
light harrow may be run over the ground
after the drill so that 110 seed remains un-
covered, as it needs to be at least 4in. in
the ground and not deeper than 2in.
Many farmers still believe in sowing other
seed, such as wheat or oats, mixed witli
lucerne seed, on the assumption that the
quicker-growing crop acts as a protection
to the young lucerne, at the same time giving
them some return while the lucerne is
growing. Personally, I regard it as a mis-
take, for I have found the lucerne looking
puny and starved. Then, when the covering
crop was harvested the young lucerne plants
were, not stout enough to stand liot-weather
conditions.
INTENSIV r E GRAZING.
“Hatter”: This system, which was in-
vented by a Jersey farmer and developed by
the Germans, lias made such a stir amongst
dairymen in Britain that a short account
of a farm in the West Riding of Yorkshire
where it is in operation should be of interest
to Australian dairymen.
On this farm the land was divided into
five five-acre strips, considered the most suit-
able size for the herd of 50 cows. lhe
treatment began in the winter, when the
land was dressed . with artificial manure,
such as Chilian nitrate or superphosphate,
111 order to put it into good heart and induce
an early growth in the spring. The result
was that the grass sprouted three weeks
earlier than under normal, conditions. As
aool \ as, R was four inches in length, and at
its highest proteid value, the cows
turned 011 it to eat their fill after each milk-
ing that is to say, three times a day and
were then removed to rough land in order
to keep the pasture as clean as possible. At
the end of hve. days they were moved to the
next manured strip and the abandoned pad-
d £ n was Si’azed by dry cows or heifers
then cross- arrowed aMd if necessary, lightly
Wl n P of ammonia or nitrate
ot soda. At the end of 25 days the gra&s
r t a i„ ag w°™l,, b ™„ f ?^,. inehes hiSh and * kC
The sustenance supplied by this young
grass is of so high a quality that it was
found that cattle-could be grazed on it for
a fortnight later in the year than heretofore.
Altogether, the farmer gained an extra five
weeks’ grazing in the open, and so saved
five weeks’ expensive cake-feeding.
It is claimed that the total expenses of
fencing, watering, manuring, etc., were
about £4 10s. per acre; but in return for
this outlay the herd of 50 cows increased its
f eld by more than 3000 gallons, and the bill
bn l ,ulc hased teed was reduced by u .
* A „ „„„
in nil i/s athlsers - nVI
ia
sabiect . lt ‘ Cambridge University
,“ ant at ..A
/’r- ’ 1 1 s \ j A, : 1..:.]. Vv<> > stiito
belts ani iQgmama.
mim miTm r'T>TTvr»«'TWNn?
iHL FARM GRINDSTONE,
“Paul C-”: You cannot do without a
grindstone, and it is just as well to set it cor-
rectly, so that it will grind better and last
longer. To set it “true” on the spindle, put
the stone on the spindle and then place the
spindle on the stand it is to work on if you
have it ready; if not, place the ends of the
spindle on two logs or chocks quite level,
Get eight hardwood wedges a quarter of an
inch wide, and in. thickness, according to the
S ' KC °f the hole in the grindstone and the
diameter of the spindle. The wedges are fixed
j ll pairs, one on each side of the stone, placed
iu the centre of each flat side of the spindle,
By turning the handle gently and watching
the stone, it can be seen if it is running true,
It it is not the wedges must be tapped lip
where required till it is Then cover the
tele and wedges on one side with clay. Rost
the stone on its side with the clayed side
down. Next melt a quantity of lead and
l» oar into the hole round the spindle The
wedges may then be knocked out, and the
grindstone is firmly fixed,
To provide a constant water supply an
°id tm may be fastened to one end of the
®t a nd a V ( a nai l"h°l e 2 na r e la ie 2? e
to the bottom nearest the stone. . I ill the
t, m Wlth water . , and everything is ready,
Some use a trough under the stone, so that
it is always turning in the water. This is
a jl right if the water in the trough, is run off
adx ' r the stone is finished with ; if not the
P a i't of the stone left in the water becomes
soR and cuts away quicker than other parts,
f nd ' s< ! on .’ instead of a smooth-running circu-
ai, grindstone, you would have a polyhedral
1 . hurtling around anyhow and blunting
ie tool ‘
~ rr > 77, T „
LAMPAb iin
“Nota Bene”: In young horses this is
something akin to teething trouble in chil-
dren. There are very many blood vessels
between the bone and mouth surface of the
palate. These become engorged with blood
as tlie result of “cutting teeth.” In a dry
time, and with hard dry feed, older horses
suffer. Instead of the old inhuman prac-
tice of searing with a hot iron, try soaking
a sponge or soft cloth in a solution of alum
in water and dabbing the palate with it.
Feed on green lucerne and soft feed for a
few days.
BREEDING MARES.
“ Paul C .”: Many farmers do their breed-
jng mares and foals injustice .by mistaken
notions as to when a mare should be rested
f rom work. Some think that she should not
be worked at all during the last three months
gestation, but consider it quite the right
tb f n g to pub ber work again as soon as
ber f o£d j s a couple of weeks old. To reverse
t j ds order would be nearer the mark,
j) rau g b f mare s may be worked up to within
three days of the dato so long as \ he W ork is
not beavy 0 r fast. They should not at any
per j od o 'f gestation be put to work that
m ig b j- cause a strain, nor should they be
wo * ked in the shafts ’ of a dra Steady
work eithcr in high or low traces is not only
admigsible but beneficial, both to the mare
d t th foal . But the foal is dropped
th mare ghould not be worked for tln-ee
month if justice is to be done to her and
her off ’ prin J g . If it beC ome S imperative to
n nnro while her foal ic; vonno* onre
ro\ud bT a lak™ not to allow the foaf io
ie
leacls to s eu °us tioub e tor fle foal.
T.T,Tnrrmm,rTXTn
BRIGHTENING FARM LIFE.
The first great move towards making farm
life brighter after sunset was made when
certain progressive cockies ousted the slush
lamp in favor of the kerosene affair. The
next onward step was when some of the big
stations and country pubs put in acetylene
or other gas installations. But that was a
luxury for the rich. Nowadays, however,
almost any farmer can have real electric
light just as good as the city’s. Compact
little bunches of machinery are available —
the Delco-Light people showed a full range
at the recent R.A.S. Show—which will cope
with the lighting needs of anything from a
two-roomed cottage to a 30-roomed mansion
or hotel. It has been noted by the same
thoughtful firm that the iceman is not very
prevalent in the country, so they have
devised what they cull a Frigidaire. You
just connect it up with an electrical supply
—Delco-Light or any other—and it com-
mences to refrigerate. These things are made
in all sizes, shapes and styles, and every
farm-wife knows their value in the home.
11l someone will now invent a radio cinema,
the drift to the cities won’t worry the poli-
ticians half as much.
SAND IN HORSES.
“Hugh Calyptus” : In sandy districts, par-
ticularly when feed is scarce and dry, grazing
horses become affected with accumulations of
sand in the intestines. When rain brings
up the young grass-shoots, the trouble is
only accentuated, for the animals hungrily
devour the blades to the ground, often pull-
ing up the immature roots to be eaten with
their coatings of sand. . The quantity of
sand that can be carried by an affected
animal would astound one unacquainted with
the matter; instances of half a kerosene-tin-
ful have been vouched for. If unworked,
the horse will probably evacuate the sand
when the growth of the feed enables a satisfied
appetite and a sufficiency of juices to move
the bowels. But working horses are apt to
go down to the trouble, generally when the
day’s work, or a swift journey, has taken
its effect. The animal goes off its feed, and
stands about stamping its feet as the bowels
expand and contract in the endeavor to get
rid of the sand. Hollows form over the
eyes, the coat stares, and a swelling some-
times appears along the right side, while the
flanks cave in. Severe thirst frequently
accompanies the symptoms, yet, if noticed,
the quantities of water drunk are mere
sips extending over long periods; the animal
seems unable to take a full drink. Badly
affected horses die.
Among the several remedies prescribed,
none is handier or perhaps more efficacious
than honey and milk mixed in equal quanti-
ties. Treacle, molasses or golden syrup is
a good substitute for the former. Melt the
honey in warm milk, and give the horse
doses of a pint or two every few hours, using
a drenching-bit or ’a strong bottle. It is
wonderful how soon the horse is relieved.
Keep the stable floor or yard clean, so
that any fresh droppings can be examined
as a means of determining the condition of
the animal. Work the horse with discretion
when first putting it into harness again.
OPHTHALMIA IN DAIRY COWS.
“Porco”: I have had much experience in
this malady and have always found that, if
proper attention be paid to the treatment of
the trouble as soon as tears appear to be
pouring from the cow’s eye, the animal is
saved from much suffering and there is very
little loss of milk; whereas, if neglected,
the flow of milk is very considerably reduced.
My treatment is to apply twice daily at
milking time a lotion of boracic acid mixed
in the proportion of one teaspoonful to one
pint of boiling water. When cold inject it
with a glass syringe. If an opaque scum
comes over the eye, and only then, blow in
a little powdered burnt alum, and this will
remove the. scum. I have also used a lotion
of one grain of sulphate of zinc to one ounce
of diluted water with great success; though
I prefer the boracic lotion.
In my travels through the country I have
been astonished at the ignorance some
stock owners display concerning the treat-
ment of their stock. It is hardly credible
that any man would deliberately put pow-
dered glass into a cow’s eye! Yet in the
past eight years I have come across at least
half a dozen people who told me that they
did so to cure ophthalmia or pink-eye!
Many others have told me that they used dry
boracic-acid powder, salt and even sugar;
others put their faith in good old kerosene.
REARING THE CALF.
“Lex”: “Poddy” (B. 11/4/’2B) might add
four more to his eight rules, thus making up
the Twelve Commandments of Successful
Poddying:—
IX: Let the newly-born calf get the “beastings,”
or first milk flow, preferably direct from its mother,
letting it run with her for a few days; but if fed
to it from bucket, add a little hot water. This serves
to prevent inward coagulation, caused by the calf
gulping down the milk, which it cannot do when
suckling, '7 ,
X: Feed each calf separately. Some poddyists
pour the skim-milk or whey into a trough, or tub,
and let the calves fight for it; resulting in the,
smaller calves going hungry. A good plan is to
have little bails, roofed with a rack in front, with
slots to hold half-cut kerosene-tins with bevelled
edges. Then each bailed-up calf gets his whack.
XI: Heat and neutralise skim-milk or whey with
a hot iron, to drive out air-bubbles and prevent
scours. As the quantity of new milk lessens with
the addition of more skim-milk or whey, add steamed
meal to make up.
XII: Let the growing calves have a watered and
shaded grass paddock; and a little sweet hay, or
green stuff, to wean them off the sloppy food by
degrees.
QUEENSLAND GRAZING AREAS.
“Coolibah”: April 20 saw the first of
Queensland’s grazing areas, under the new
regulations, thrown open for selection —at
Inglewood. They consisted of four blocks,
varying in area from about 5000 to 10,000
acres, in good sheep country, well watered
and improved, and situated in one of the
State’s most favored areas. It has been
customary in such cases to have several
thousands of applications for each block.
Some time back over 7000, bogus and other-
wise, were lodged for one selection near
Longreach; but in this instance, owing no
doubt to the severity of the new conditions,
a paltry thousand applications came to hand
for all four blocks.
An intending selector is not only required
to give evidence of his ability to pursue the
gentle jumbuek skilfully and well, but must
also show cash or “financial backing” suffi-
cient to enable him to pay, practically on
the spot, the value of existing improvements,
and, further, to stock the selection to its
full estimated capacity in three years. So
dubious was the Commissioner about some
of the “financial backers,” and some other
things, that he indefinitely postponed the
Land Court to enable him to probe beneath
the surface.
The Saltern Creek lands, near Barcaldine,
are being proclaimed open for selection, and
this time the proclamation is more explicit
as to conditions, the applicant in this in-
stance not being considered eligible unless
he can produce evidence of wealth equal to
£1 per head of the estimated carrying capa-
city of the selection.
The avowed intentions of the Government
are, firstly, to stamp out dummying, and,
secondly, to place the pick of the State’s
grazing areas in the hands of the “small
men”; but the “small man” in the Saltern
Creek case will have to show on an average
about £7OOO before lie is allowed to speak.
CORRIEDALES IN QUEENSLAND.
“W.P.D.”: “Arty’s” statement (B.
4/4/’2S) that the attempt to acclimatise
Corriedales in Queensland is neither practical
nor sensible is opposed to facts. One of the
best Corriedale studs in Australia has been
established at Marinya, Darling Downs, anrl
stock from there has been sent to the coastal
areas, the tablelands and elsewhere. Con-
trary to “Arty’s” assertions, Corriedales and
Corriedale crosses give a better return for
wool than any other crossbreds because the
quality is more even. The ewes are prolific,
are splendid mothers and do not walk about
in mobs, and thus destroy feed, as do merinos.
Many Corriedale and Corriedale cross flocks
about Boonali and Beaudesert, and other
parts of the South Coast districts, are stand-
ing proofs that the breed flourishes as well
in Queensland as anywhere. If “Arty” likes
to get the opinion of butchers in Brisbane
and other towns, he will learn that the
mutton is excellent, and that the lambs are
equal to the best. My own experience fully
bears this out. No one with a knowledge of
sheep would dream of replacing merinos
by Corriedales in the West, which is the
natural home of the merino, but to put
merinos on the coast or the tablelands is
asking for trouble.
To secure good results buyers of Corriedale
rams must touch nothing but guaranteed
sheep purchased from the studs of recognised
breeders and members of the Corriedale
Association. Many Lincoln-merino cross-
breds masquerading as Corriedales have been
sold to unwary buyers, and have proved dis-
appointing.
TRAPPING BUNNY.
“Don Lee”: Having pitched your camp,
take a ride over the ground and see what
it's like. There may be a line of warrens
running zigzag fashion across the middle, or
they may be clustered at the far end.
Wherever they are, don’t interfere with them.
Once you set traps at those holes you’ll have
educated the whole colony and the rest of
the ground will be useless to you.
Try to discover the direction in which the
main body of rabbits travel when leaving
the warrens. When satisfied that you have
a good idea of their “beat,” take your traps
as far away from the burrows as you can
get them and line them out in such a way
that the “beat” of the rabbits wall cross the
line of traps. This is important, for if the
rabbits come down along the line of traps
the squeals of the first 15 or 20 trapped will
check the others, and the tail-end traps will
lie idle.
Point your trap. This again is important,
(Continued on page 31.)


Where one Lister goes —
others inevitably follow
itiS
ter ( % -m-
T Jj
•W
From every State comes
enthusiastic praise of
In
1927
Messrs. Elsinora, Ltd., of Urisino
Station, Wanaaring, bought
Six
They found their first Lister so depend-
able, and required so little attention, that
it was economical in more ways than one.
Each time another engine was needed, a
Lister was their inevitable choice. All
six Listers were used on vital pumping
jobs during the drought with long non-
stop runs and only occasional attention.
You can’t have conditions too strenuous
for the Lister!
We reproduce a snap-
shot of a 5-B.H.P. Lis-
ter engine driving a
walking-beam on a bore
on Urisino Station,
Wanaaring, the pro-
perty of Messrs. Elsi-
nora, Ltd. The plant
operates a pump
300 ft. down the bore
and delivers 1000 gal-
lons per hour. The
drive is through a coun-
tershaft on which a
1 Oin. pulley drives the
74in. pulley on the
valking-beam.
LM
m
m
Performance
In Queensland.
Mr. R. W. Graham, of “Lakeside,” St. George,
wrote: “In 1915 I bought from you a
24-h.p. Lister engine. During the following six
years I shore one-quarter of a million sheep
without a hitch, and the whole cost of engine
repairs was only 7s. After six years’ use I sold
it for the same price that I paid for it to pur-
chase a 5-h.p. Lister. With the larger engine I
have had the same satisfactory service.”
In Western Australia.
Mr. W. D. Johnson, Bruce Rock, wrote:
“I have now had my Lister engine five
years, during which time it has not given me the
least cause for trouble. I have always found it
very simple to operate. Its main work is driving
a lOin. mouth chaffcutter and 14ft. elevator. It
is a 4-5h.p., and has no trouble in driving the
cutter, which puts through approximately 35cwt.
per hour. For the five years the cost of upkeep
has been nil.”
In Victoria.
Mr. N. T. Holland, of Shepparton, wrote:
“Eight years ago I purchased a
Lister engine, and the engine has always given
the best results. When the Shepparton Freezing
Works were burnt down the engine did a non-
stop run of 136 hours, pumping with a 2in. cen-
trifugal pump through a fire hose, which I think
is second to none.”
Write to the agent in your State
jor full particulars.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd.,
Mile End, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros.,
William Street, Perth.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Malloch House,
Young Street, Sydney.


siililMj
or
m
Cv
m
almost 2 tol
:ssex
Cl
a
iL
I
QU
D
w
Super-Six
IN outselling any other “six” at or near the price, almost two
to one the world over, the signal thing is not merely the
overwhelming preference for the Essex Super-Six, but the
source from which it comes.
A great proportion of buyers are owners, former and present,
of big and costly cars. They turn to Essex because they find—-
The smoothness and performance of their costlier cars —
comfort and riding ease not excelled in any car —the roominess
and relaxation of their larger cars —traffic nimbleness and
handling ease unmatched in larger cars and economy of
operation and maintenance exclusive to Essex.
Your steamer may land you at Copenhagen or Sydney, at
Liverpool or Tokio, at Shanghai or Buenos Aires —Valetta—
anywhere on the Seven Seas where steamers ply—you will
invariably find an Essex Super-Six at the pier.
What is the answer?
It is that the Essex Super-Six is a proved car. Tried and
tested as few cars have been in the history of motoring. It is
this proved reliability, durability and efficiency that have made
it a car of the world.
ESSEX SUPER-SIX.
Essex 5-pass. Touring (Aus. Body) £255
Essex 5-pass Coach (Aus. Body) . . 325
Essex Coupe (Imported Body) . . 335
Essex 4-door Sedan (Aus. Body) . . 345
Essex 4-door Sedan (Imp. Body) . . 365
Prices at some points slightly higher.
From the London Bureau of the Wall Street Journal— “The Essex Super
Six was an instantaneous success.”
London November 1st —
“Essex sales have been the outstanding achievement of American Cars this past season. More
than 6,000 or over a fourth of the American total have been sold, as against 4,000 last season/*
-WALL STREET JOURNAL
November Ist, 1927
Distributors:
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


bbe
.... **■
■ '
Pliant, calf upper-
springy, rubber sole
For easy walking—for re-
silience—for hard wear and
sporting looks, this Abbey,
low-cut brogue meets the
active man’s need.
The brown calf upper arches
evenly at the lacing—its dis-
tinctly low-cut sides fit closely
and ensure new comfort at
ankle. The supple leather
glosses perfectly—takes a mel-
low brown tone. And to main-
tain good shape, the crepe
rubber sole is sewn to a foun-
dation of strong leather.
Order by post
Ask also for a supply of the correct
Abbey quick-shining polish (6d. per
tin) and for copy of the illustrated
catalogue.
Brown Calf - - 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
lai. SYDNEY
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR ”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
mis
9NIAVHS
fc-inoitfD
futicura
SHAVING
stick
A Cool Clean
Refreshing Shave
Every morning, or oftener if de-
sired, is afforded by the Cuticura
Shaving Stick. Containing the
medicinal properties of Cuticura, it
makes shaving easy for tender-
faced men, and leaves the skin
fresh and clear, free from any tense,
dry feeling.
Soap Is.. Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S.W.”
MSS??— Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
■
The strong
!of High Watdi
recision
S 3
Brighter Nurseries!
Mabel Lucie Attwell has drawn the prettiest, funniest desigfl9
for Shelley Nursery China! No child can resist her charm*
ing colour schemes: and the substance is fine English
China—hard and enduring.
Her pictures will make you smile, grown-up though you be ! The Milk-
jug may be a chubby goblin, the Tea-pot a Brownie’s cottage. Cups, Saucers’,
Plates, Egg-cups and all the rest are bright with colour.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China ,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds — allliritish. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: —T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
£
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of China
fs
HOLDS 50% MORE INK
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy man’s pen. The
ease with which it fills and cleans itself, its readiness to write when-
ever wanted, its absolute security from leakage, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any other self-filling pen, has
gained for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
dfs
d
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street. Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
and means digging the set in such a way
that the front part of the trap will be facing
in the direction from which the rabbit is
most likely to come. If you have it pointing
the wrong way the first thing bunny will
reach will be the back spring of the trap,
irom which he will probably scratch the dirt
and depart in disgust. .
Now dig your first set; we’ll say it s in the
middle of a pill-heap. This will be the last
trap in the line. Make a cross in the ground
about four feet from the trap. Don’t make
it any closer, or the rabbit racing round when
he gets caught will cover it up with grass
and dirt, and you won’t see it in the dark,
and it’s your only way of knowing when
you’ve reached the last trap. If you are
weak in bushcraft, make a mark alongside
the cross and point it straight to the camp.
Now walk on about 40 paces and set the
next trap. Having set it, make a mark in
the ground that points straight to the first
trap you planted. Be sure it’s pointing
dead on, or you’ll be in trouble at night.
Continue on, setting and marking back to
each trap as you go, until you have buried
the last.
The last trap set will be the first visited
at night, and you must be able to locate it.
Look out for an extra big tree somewhere
close, an old jagged stump, or an extra big
log, something that’s. uncommon and will
show up at night. Then lean a good long
stick up at the side of it, and make a mark
from the end of the stick straight to the
last trap set.
Go back to your camp in as straight a
line as you can. When you get there make
a mark pointing in the direction from which
you came. Stroll round your traps at sun-
down and take notice if the mark at your
camp is pointing straight for the landmark
where you leaned the stick up. If it’s a bit
to the left or right alter it when you go
back.
When you are ready for the night round,
stand square behind the mark and gaze
straight ahead. Rick out a star that's
straight in front of you and walk towards
it. You’ll meet that stick leaning against
your landmark. You’ll think that your
troubles are ended, but they are only just,
beginning. When you have stepped in i
few holes, fallen flat on your face, broken
your lantern, barked your shins on invisible-
logs, missed half your traps and hopelessly
lost yourself, you’ll decide that there’s still
a good deal for you to learn.
HORSES AND BULLOCKS.
“Mullarula”: For shifting heavy loads
horses, because of their better pace, have my
vote on long stages where watering places
are far apart, but bullocks, because of their
greater tractability and handiness, hold an
advantage on crooked tracks. When it comes
to the question of boggy or sandy tracks
there is something to be said on both sides.
Horses will get further before letting the
waggon stick, but, once held fast, it is a
good team that will come up for the third
pull, whereas good bullocks will come up as
often as they are asked. More than half the
horses hauling loads up-country to-day are
also used for ploughing; and, as they are in
the habit of being pulled up every time the
plough strikes an obstruction, they are not
much good when the team is bogged. To
shift a waggon that is well and truly bogged
there is nothing like a team of horses hooked
in front of a team of bullocks. The bullocks
may be depended on to do their best to give
it a start, and, if the horses feel it move,
ever so slightly, they will do their best to
keep it moving.
PEANUTS.
“Nuces”: “Silentio” (B. 21/3/’2B) asks
why not more peanuts. The South Burnett
(Q.) district will probably grow sufficient
this year to supply the home market. There
are thousands of acres in that district under
peanuts and harvesting is now on. A pea-
nut board functions locally, with the most
up-to-date plant for grading and treating
nuts. Gangs, working by contract, follow
the plough and gather and stock the plants
as they are ploughed out. The peanut
grown is the small-podded variety, and the
best bush I have knowledge of held 216 nuts,
all double-enders.
PRUNING TIME APPROACHES.
“Hop Scrub”: Everybody who has any-
thing to do with fruit trees, even if it be
only two or three in the back yard, likes
pruning. Whilst touching up the secateurs
and the saw, consider awhile some of the
principles at the back of the job.
When the tree is received from the nursery
man the top must be cut back to balance
root, loss, and, for a year or two after that,
cutting back is necessary to get sufficient
leaders into the young tree. On good soil
with adequate moisture, cutting back reduces
the size of the tree and postpones fruiting.
Once the tree has a dozen good leaders, hard
hewing is unprofitable. Allow it then to
settle down to its job of production. To
check growth in any part of a non-bearing
tree, cut that part heavily. To encourage
growth, prune light.
Bearing trees are another matter. Various
kinds of fruit trees bear their fruit in differ-
ent ways, and the pruner should know their
fruiting habit, whether on spurs, last year’s
wood or current season’s growth. Condensing
instructions to a few points r Don’t head back
unless wood growth has almost stopped.
Spread your pruning over the entire tree.
Don’t forget to protect all large pruning cuts
with wdiite-lead naint, which keeps out fun-
gus diseases. Watch the tree from one sea-
son to the other and note the growth from
the pruning cuts.
CARD-INDEXING POULTRY.
"Silentio” ; One of the most useful articles
in the poultry-farm equipment is the leg-
band for marking each season’s stock. No
matter how expert the owner may be at tell-
ing fowls’ ages a slip is often made. Leg-
bands can be secured in many different
colors of celluloid, either flat‘ or spiral.
The best plan is to use a distinctive color
for each year’s pullets, and when the birds
are marketed the rings should be detached
and used again. Other rings are available
in copper wire and aluminium, both plain
and numbered. Fowls of varying ages can
be run in one pen when so marked, and easily
separated when required.
The best plan, if heavy fowls are kept, is
to get numbered bands or little numbered
tags that will slip on the spiral coil pattern.
When it is desired to reduce the broodiness
of the flock, all that is needed, especially
in the first year’s laying, is to keep a record
of the number and date of each broody,
and at the end of the year go over the record,
selling those that show too much broodiness
to be profitable. The record is valuable
when the breeding hens are being selected.
When a large number of fowls are kept it is
impossible to remember each individual hen’s
broodiness, and the recording of the number
provides an authentic record. Various
points can be noted against the fowls’ re-
cord, such as sickness, type, etc. A small
card system can be made at home, or a
book can easily be ruled to serve the purpose.
In buying day-old chicks the system of
marking is valuable too, especially if you
buy from more than one farm, as the dif-
ferent strains can be separated for breeding
or observation as to productiveness. The
cost of rings runs from tenpence a dozen
upwards, according to quality, and can be
secured at any store stocking poultry
equipment.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Nat Y.”: In growing pumpkins it will
be found that the vines produce larger
specimens, and resist dry conditions better,
if a number of joints on the runners are
covered with soil and watered. They will
soon take root and establish themselves as
firmly as the parent. The additional
nourishment enables the plant to withstand
a hot spell without wilting.
“Bud-G.”: When operating on calves
there’s always a percentage beat the doctor—
at least partly so—with the. result that, un-
less attended to later on, stags appear
amongst the bullocks. Nothing spoils the
appearance of a good lot of fat bullocks more
than the inclusion of a few stags. The lat-
ter may be fat, but a buyer on the look-out
for quality cattle will probably demand the
rejection of the staggy ones. When the calf
operation turns out a failure, the ones so
missed should be “dew-lapped,” so that later
on they can be distinguished and tried again.
It’s not wise to let them go too long, as
with age the “bull” look and appearance
soon becomes noticeable.
“N.M.L.”: When yarding touchy sheep,
particularly ewes and lambs, it’s always ad-
visable to have the receiving yard leading
well away from the entrance gate. That
allows the sheep to run in and clear the
gate. If the yards don’t allow that clean
getaway the sheep huddle inside and impede
those that are entering. The result is that
the sheep outside have to be forced, and that
means a breakaway of lambs. It simplifies
yarding no end if the entering sheep run
straight in and on.
“M.L.”: Care should be taken to have
mares in foal well rugged when a cold snap
comes on suddenly; unless they are kept
warm they often gallop up and down the
paddocks and in many cases bring on a mis-
carriage. This happened recently to a well-
bred mare, in foal to a top-notch stallion,
belonging to a neighbor of mine.
“M'ephisto” : Eggs need to be clean to sell
well, and Australian egg-producers on a large
scale should soon be using the latest sand-
blower, which cleans without breaking.
“Salambo”: The Cinnabar moth has
passed the most rigorous tests at the Caw-
tliron Institute, Nelson (M.L.), and is being
introduced to attack ragwort. It is expected
to give fully 80 p.c. control over this weed.
Its method of attack is to enfold the flowers,
thus preventing the blooms seeding.
“Spadger”: “Donlee” (B. 4/4/’2B) gives
excellent advice in his “First Steps in Rabbit
Trapping,” but omits the placing of the peg.
This should be hammered into the ground
slightly behind the end of the spring in his
18 x 6 hole, and the chain laid flatly along-
side. Knock the head of the peg about an
inch and a half beneath the soil and tamp
the dirt round it with the setter head. The
extra time required is only a couple of
seconds, and will save perhaps an hour’s
search for a lost trap next morning.
“Country Ped.”: To catch fowls on free
range, use a long thick bamboo rod to which
is attached at the small end a hoop of fenc-
ing wire (No. 8) about 15in. in diameter.
Over the hoop is fastened a loose cord net.
It is an implement most disconcerting to the
fowl.
“Keystring”: I tried that other cocky’s
“reliable and expeditious method of oiling
harness”; and I consider him morally in-
debted to me for the price of a new set.
According to him, if we got a vessel and
partially filled it with water, made the
water hot, and kept it so, then poured the
oil in, it would be safe to plunge the already
washed harness into the mixture and “the
oil would not allow the water to enter the
leather.” When mine got dry after the dip,
it had the appearance of an old boot that
had been discarded last century and was
just as brittle.
“Tintex”: An Ayrshire calf now about
three months old, born near Melbourne,
yielded milk from birth. When two days
old the owner noticed the unusual size and
shape of the udder, and found that milk
could be drawn from it. Lactation in a
virgin heifer is not unknown, but is un-
common, and to find it commencing at birth
is remarkable. Analysis of the milk showed
a high percentage of sugar and a rather low
percentage of fats.
A Melbourne syndicate, which has been
experimenting for the past two years with
a new chilling process, has now announced
the perfection of a process for defrost-
ing. It is the invention of an Australian
engineer who has had experience of the
Argentine, Australian and Maoriland meat
trade, and a plant is being installed in Mel-
bourne to demonstrate it. The inventor
claims that he can extract the ice from hard-
frozen beef and seal the tissues, making it
fit to be placed on the market within 24
hours in equal condition to the best chilled.
Cost of handling in bulk is l-16d. per lb.,
and shrinkage of the treated meat is reduced
to .25 per cent.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
20^16
Swe ©PRESS
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SMOKE-OH!
Casual is the adjective; casualty the
result.
* *
A stitch in time used to save nine—now
it makes a dress.
* *
Newspaper heading: “Why Cousins
Should not Marry.” Why single out cousins?
The trouble with living in the best tri-
angles is that they have a nasty habit of
becoming glass houses.
Newspaper heading: “Husband Helps
Wife to Elope.” Another instance of man’s
inhumanity to man.
Says the Sydney News sporting writer:
“Whatever beats Bagpipes ought to win.”
We wholeheartedly support him, though wf
should not care to listen to the contest.
Mary has a little heart
As lamb-like as can be,
For joyously it leaps and bounds
When Mary sights a lie!
Out of 14,000 votes cast in a “popular
item” poll conducted by 3LO broadcasting
station, Melbourne, only two favored political
speeches. We take it that no other politi-
cians voted.
Si: Si:
A journal says the motoring trade gives
more bright young men a start in life than
any other industry. It gives lots who are
not young starts also.
SHE’D SORTED IT OUT.
FIRST LITTLE GIRL: “What’s etiquette, Lily?”
LILY: “Oh, that’s the noise you mustn’t swallow your
tea with when there’s company.”
Binks quailed as he saw his wife’s face
darken when her hand went out to seize
the hair on the shoulder of his coat. Her
brow was like thunder as she held it to the
light. Then, as she threw down the long
hair, she said severely: “John, I see you
have been out with your men friends again.”
❖ *
The thing that put poor Smithcrcd
For ever off the drink
Was not that he got blithered
And found himself in clink.
’Twas but that he got blotto —
Which haps in many lives —
And waiting for him ( what-ho !)
Found (hie) two (he-hic) wives!
* *
Our foreign correspondent advises that the
fact that a Sydney suburban street has been
named after Hinkler has fired Signor Mus-
solini with a desire to fly to Australia.
TO-NIGHT’S BROADCASTING.
Station SHO : 6 p.m.—Lecture on mission
work among the Hottentots ; 7 p.m. —Lecture
on the potato crop of Brazil; 8 p.m.—
Lecture on the psychology of dictionaries;
9 p.m.—Lecture on the extermination of the
dodo; 10 p.m.—Lecture on the Batik workers
of Borneo; 10.45 p.m.—ltems of popular
interest till 11 p.m., when the station closes
down.
Station OHO: Ditto.
Station 7110: Ditto.
* *
Many a storm at home has been caused by
a fellow’s inability to raise the wind.
A husband is really looking for a thin
time when he arrives home with a thick
speech.
, :|= >!=
To make life more interesting to some men
a variety of designs for hotel ceilings is re-
commended.
* *
“Double weddings,” says a woman w'riter,
“are considered to be unlucky.” Why pick
on double weddings?
* *
When many a fellow looks back to the
time he felt like smothering her with kisses
he is filled with regret.
According to tin* S. M. Herald, hundreds
of people are eager for a trip over Sydney
in an aeroplane. Wo did not know that this
city had so many safety-first enthusiasts.
We are assured that the fact that the Syd-
ney Guardian has the exclusive rights to
Mr, Edgar Wallace’s short stories is not
the only thing that accounts for the S. M.
Herald’s increasing circulation.
$ *
We learn that the fact that four grey-
hounds mistook a cat for a tin hare and
chased it down a Sydney street has led to
the formation of a women’s anti-greyhound
society.
* *
In a recent divorce case it was stated
that the wedding had been postponed twice
because the intending ’groom had lost all his
money at the races. And yet some people
believe that racecourses are institutions of
the devil!
* *
“Australian manufacturers,” reports a
daily, “have captured the ladies’ hosiery
trade.” Hooray! Even if we have to import
all *-he rest of their clothes we can’t lose
much.
* *
r Phe dull game of football had been going
on for nearly an hour without an exciting
incident, when a fight started
in the shilling enclosure.
A spectator in the stand
turned his eyes towards it
eagerly. “Hello,” he cried,
“a fight on the lull!” Then,
vehemently: “Damn near
time, too 1”
* *
“Keg”: The Woop Woop
storekeeper was amazed
when asked if he had a
gramophone record that
"tells erbout a chap stealin’
wood.” Many discs had
been reeled off before
Caruso’s voice was heard
in the first bar of “The Lost
Chord.” Then the gentle-
man with frilled whiskers
hastily interposed “That’s th’
toon orl rite,” he chuckled.
“Just wrap it up, Mister.
She’s goin’ on out at my
place every time I ’ears th’
dogs barkin.’ Yer know,” he
added, “I ain’t sayin’ that
it’s me neighbor Gleeson
as is stealin’ our wood —but
I’m goin’ to give ’im a pretty broad ’int,
an’ as Robinson Crusoe’s been dead er few
years, ’e can’t be ’ad up fer slander!”
sic *
The young lady clerk is always very care-
ful about dotting her “i’s” and crossing her
knees.
We hope Mr. W. M. Hughes will not
resent our suggestion that he might make
everybody happy by arranging a Back to
Italy Week.
*
Loud shrieks rent the air. “Willie, I wish
you wouldn’t tease the cat!” said Mum. Dad
thought it was something else. “The
through train’s early to-night!” he observed.
Then Willie spoke. “Sorlright, Mum,” he
said, “I forgot to turn the wireless off—
another new soprano’s on the air!”
LINES TO A SKIRT.
Frail tcisp of stuff, blown lightly in the
breeze
Between uncertain hem and pretty knees,
How you have soared since Gladys was a
girl,
And you about her ankles used to swirl!
How you have clambered to your giddy
height,
Where you reveal this lovely left and right —.
Long, shapely things, whiph ribboned bands
have zoned,
And which, apparently, she’s always owned ,
Though I had scarcely guessed them there
before!
T aslc you now: What else have you in store?
Eh!.... Hang it, then uhy linger any
more?
n.s.w. Macann.
A MARE OF A DIFFERENT COLOR.
"I ain’t afraid of (hie) my wife. Are you?”
“No, but I’m a bit (hie) scared of my own!”
“Macann” : I found Bill at dawn the other
day tearing along the sands at Manly. That
afternoon I saw him going into a physical-
culture joint, and in the evening I found him
skipping industriously on his back verandah.
“Hello,” I said, “this is the third time I’ve
caught you training, to-day. Appetite bad?”
“Haven’t you heard the football season’s
started?” said Bill. “Yes,” I admitted, “but
I didn’t know you were a player.” “Player?”
said Bill. “You don’t have to get into this
sort of nick to play. I’m a barracker.”
* *
Love! It is an axvful thing.
It makes a man a crank!
It takes away his appetite
And wears away his bank!
* *
A writer on golf states that the use of
too many clubs is the root cause of many
golfing failures. We (hie) undershtand.
* *
The son of an English aristocrat has mar-
ried the daughter of a wealthy American
plumber. That is one way of fixing up the
drain on the family exchequer.
* *
In his last fall from a horse the Prince
of Wales turned a complete somersault before
hitting the ground. This must be what is
known as moving in Royal circles.
* *
To excite the curiosity of book readers, an
American publisher seals the most excit-
ing passages. We think it a good idea,
though our reason may differ slightly.
“An expedition has left for Inner Mon-
golia in search of the missing link.” We
hope they find him, if only to dissipate the
belief current among freelance journalists
that he writes the Bulletin’s “Answers to
Correspondents.”
* *
“Trouble,” says the Melbourne Age, “is
predicted on the Australian waterfront.”
Not to be outdone, our sporting authority
makes the equally rash prediction that on the
first Tuesday in November the Melbourne
Cup will possibly be run in Melbourne.
“Speaking at Hay this week,” reports a
country paper, “Dr. Page said he tried to
see as much of Australia as possible, and
regretted he had been in Hay before.” If
this report is correct, we forecast that he
will not be in clover if he goes there again.
=!= *
A CONTRIBUTOR WRITES.
Dearbu lletinyou maynothaverio ticed that
i havepurchaseda new typew riteran dyouwill
nolongerbeco mpelled tostruggle withmyhand-
wr itingth isyouw ill nodo ubtbeve rygladto
hearand iamo nly toogladt oletyouknow-
justinc aseyou have not noticedit.—You’re-
sincer ely, F. Reelance.
Psychologists say that blue eyes denote
a weak will. Black ones, of course, are signs
of a weak defence.
A DESERT TRAGEDY.
The sun blazed down on the hollow like
blazes. A solitary bird circled overhead;
a vulgar dingo skulked in the mulga. In
the desert hollow two men worked diligently.
They were loading gold into a wheelbarrow.
Gold ! Gold!
James Grabball stared at the gold, at his
companion, at the wheelbarrow. George
Gentle went on working. Grabball watched.
One shot, he thought, and the gold would
be his. lie drew out his rifle quietly, and,
with bloodthirsty coolness, shot Gentle
through the chest with his sawn-off .303.
As Gentle saw the rifle pointed at him, his
heart leaped to his mouth. This proved his
salvation, for the bullet pierced the spot
where that vital organ had been but a second
before. Gentle pitched forward on his face
in the sand.
“I’m shot,” he groaned. “I’m shot, I’m
shot.”
“You are,” sneered Grabball, “and when
I get this gold to town I will be, too.” lie
began to push the barrow.
Gentle saw him go with hate growing at
his heart, which had now returned to its
normal position and was stopping, to some
extent, the draught through his chest, thus
preventing him from catching pneumonia.
“You shan’t escape so easily,”, cried
Gentle, and began to crawl in pursuit.
Grabball went on, stolidly pushing his
wheelbarrow of wealth through the mulga.
Yet always behind him came Gentle, and be-
hind Gentle came the dingo, and behind the
dingo came the solitary hawk. In the
terrible heat Gentle’s spirits sank lower and
lower. By the time lie had crawled two
miles he had drunk the lot. He threw
away the empty bottle and crawled with
renewed energy. Ah ! The courage of that
man. His story should be made immortal.
And on and on went Grabball, dodging
wandering tribes of blacks, missionaries and
visiting politicians.
Suddenly the wheelbarrow gave a squeal
and sank upon its side. And Gentle over-
took them. So they fought—ah! how they
fought! Like murderer and victim; like
wireless and sanity; like man and wife;
locked in each other’s arms—not only locked,
but barred and bolted!
The dingo sat down beside the wheel-
barrow and watched, barking encourage-
ment. Dear animal—how it enjoyed that
struggle!
Two hours passed—three, four, five
weeks, a month—and still they fought under
the burning sun. Grabball, the traitor, was
the first to succumb. Was it not justice?
His vengeance accomplished, Gentle rose
from the corpse and tottered to the wheel-
barrow'. He burst open the bags and ran
his hands through the treasure. His gold—
the gold lie had wrested from the stream
where no man had ever set hand or foot
before!
Gold! Gold! Spanish guelders, pieces
of eight, nuggets and miscellaneous coins.
A PERMANENT NIGHTMARE.
GUEST (to absent-minded host); “I say, old
chap, don't forget the waiter.”
Host (dissatisfied with attendance): “For-
get him? Not if I live for a thousand
years!”
All his! But the wound in his chest had
weakened him. He sank slowly forward
over the wheelbarrow'....
Twenty minutes later the sun, the hawk
and the dingo had done their desert duty.
When the headmaster returned this com-
position to his pupil at the English public
school it bore the footnote: —
“The atmosphere of your Australian story
is splendid. I would suggest that you give
it a definite setting—say, in the heart of
that well-known desert, Sydney. Then you
should be able to sell it to one of the fiction
magazines.”
Russell J. Oakes.
ASPIRATIONS.
I long to sec, before I die,
Wee fish consume the larger fry
And spider-dinners for the fly,
And stranger things than those.
I long to see, and so affirm,
t rabbit roar while lions squirm,
And. many a lusty turning worm.
The thought still further goes—
/ long to see great nations cowed
By small and bloody tyrants bowed
Before the meek and helpless crowdj .
In fact, as you’ll suppose,
/ long with an abiding lust
To see the weak raised from the dust,
For then ah, then, maybe I’ll bust
That blighter, Brown, upon the nose!
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.


AT. HP
\«
SIXCYL
mm
I
m
m
m
m
m
< t•' *-
ng
w
m
1
!■ m
hi
35
It
HH
<£?■*
*i;:|
MBKiBMa
m
mmm
m
;■ ; ‘
m
'm
m
m
Mr
K*!ZOO/sfZ£6,JSff&ofX\
£
*
6Cyl
of today is the best
Standard ever produced
The 1928 SIX-CYLINDER “Standard” has been produced to meet the requirements of
Australia —a smooth, powerful 1 8/42-h.p. Engine with Seven-bearing Crankshaft minutely
balanced comprises the power unit.
A Four-Speed Gear Box with hardened and ground gears, and dead silent at all speeds.
A strong, straight Frame, ample section, well trussed to withstand all road shocks and
strains —and many other features which go to make this new Model a triumph of British
Workmanship. The “New Standard Six” is a pleasure to drive —exceptionally lively,
powerful yet economical to operate, and has an acceleration which is a delight.
Price from £450.
CARS OF ENGLAND, LTD.,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD.,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
OLYMPIA MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
CARS OF BRITAIN, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
Hobart, Tasmania.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., COVENTRY,
ENGLAND.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited,
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1026.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, jEsq.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane,
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE. Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE. General Manager.
THRIFTY DONTS.
Don’t fail to plan your expenditure, and keep within the limit you set.
Don’t be ashamed of saving pennies they soon make pounds.
Don’t let false pride cost you money there is no happiness in that.
Don’t think spendthrifts need be capitalists. You can be a spendthrift
with a shilling.
Don’t forget that peace of mind is better than things you cannot afford.
Don’t forget that the Savings Bank is the best thrift aid.
Don’t forget there is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office in
Australia.
CoiEonwealtb Hank of Hualralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Poverty
Point
“Nakhoda”: Truth is stranger than stage
depiction. The theme of “The Trial of Mary
Dugan,” in which a girl sells her body to
buy her brother an education, lias a definite
relationship to a real-life drama staged in
Borneo. The hero (or villain) was a
planter who got down on his uppers and fell
sick in a coastal town. His Japanese mis-
tress thereupon went on the street to obtain
the wherewithal to put him on his legs again
In gratitude he married her and, later, rising
to a good position, gave her a pension and
a single ticket to her homeland, thus clear-
ing the way for an English girl. The second
knot-tying was celebrated in the same church
and by the same padre as the previous one,
and most of those present knew the mar-
riage-lines were double. Nevertheless, the
girl lived for years in that little backbiting
community in perfect harmony with the man
who wasn’t really her husband. Does it.
indicate a low or a high moral standard that
it -wasn’t the brea.th of scandal but death
which dissolved the union?
“Cine Ma”: So many mushroom film com-
panies, self-watered with their own glowing
prospectuses, have sprung up and shrivelled
lately that it is good to record the persist-
ence of the McDonagh sisters (trade name
Lorraine). The three scored a very fair suc-
cess with their first heartbeat, “Those Who
Love,” a film tale staged in Sydney. Their
second will be “The Far Paradise,” a romance
which alternates between the Melbourne
University and a picturesque old farm at
Donnybrook. Veteran actor Gaston Mcrvale
and Arthur McLaglan are in it. Last-named
was the ferocious Gabbett in “The Term.”
“Matteo McPhairson”: The sight of the
Italian opera chorus at St. James Theatre,
Sydney, the other night, when they appeared
in kilts as the retainers of the Master of
Ravenswood and others, moved many to
mirth and some to wondering Avhat on earth
the attendants of a Lowland laird were
doing in the proscribed and detested garment
of the Highland caterans. The kilt is a
convention in “Lammermuir,” however, and
never fails to strike a false note in the
proceedings. One of Marryat’s heroes—Mid-
shipman Easy, I think —tells how, at a com-
mand performance of the opera at Malta
before the naval C.-in-C. and other poten-
tates, the chorus and some of the principals
appeared in kilts borrowed from a Highland
regiment then in garrison. All religiously
wore the sporran hanging down behind, and
it was difficult to gauge which was the
greater, the calm assurance of the wearers,
the dumb rage of the Scots or the ribald
mirth of the rest of the army and naval con-
tingents present.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The present Wilkie season
ia Sydney will introduce a number of Bill
Shakspeare’s productions that have not been
seen for donkey’s years. “Henry VIII.,” “Cor-
iolanus,” “Antony and Cleopatra,” "Measure
for Measure” and “All’s Well That Ends
Well” are among the newcomers. They are
rarely played, even in England. London’s
last look at “Measure for Measure” was
in 190 G, when Ellen Terry chose to play
Francisca in it to celebrate her jubilee. Lily
Brayton was Isabella and Oscar Asclie
Angelo in that production.
“Spokeshave”: Producers are beginning to
follow the English practice of trying things
out on the provinces—if Adelaide, Perth and
Brisbane won’t scalp me for so terming
them. Betty Ross Clarke recently tested
Perth with a whole batch of new plays,
Hastings Lynn reserved “Rookery Nook” for
Adelaide, and the same centre of culture is
to be allowed first look at Leon Gordon’s
presentation of Dion Titheradge’s “The
Crooked Billet” and his own “The Man Up-
stairs.” Prolonged observation, however, con-
vinces me that the verdict of one town is no
indication of what the verdict of another will
be. Melbourne and Sydney, in fact, take
a wicked delight in contradicting each other’s
opinion. Of recent years they have disagreed,
to a greater or less degree, on Pauline Fred-
erick, Judith Anderson and Muriel Starr;
and there have been others.
“Arthur R.”: Frank Neil, playing in Mel-
bourne, showed that he had the comfort of
his patrons at heart when h.e recently emptied
the gallery of ’Varsity students who, even
before the curtain went up, were boisterous.
Each was given his money back, and that
night the show played to an empty top shelf.
“Proscenium”: Omitting the American
“crook” article, Australia is rarely treated to a
play in a language unknown to the majority.
Quaint exceptions are the occasional plays
staged by the Yu Tan Ilwa Society in Syd-
ney. These show’s go on at the Kuo Min
Tang headquarters, within a cabbage-throw
of the vegetable markets, and attract large
audiences of Celestials and some curious
whites. Mostly they are propaganda plays
praising the Canton thread in the Chinese
tangle. To an outsider they are tedious and
long-winded, but the patrons vote them welly
ni’.
“MR. WHAT’S HIS NAME,” AT
MELBOURNE ATHENAEUM.
Percy Hutchison as a hairdresser irresistible
to women.
“X.N.0.”: The Dondon Daily Mail an-
nounces that Commander Daniel, the nigger
in the Royal Oak wood-pile, has joined its
staff to writ© on naval matters, Rugby foot-
ball and the theatre. He certainly has
credentials in the theatrical line. I re-
member a musical comedy he put together
in 1909 and Avhich filled the Opera House
at Malta to capacity for six nights and a
matinfee. It was written and produced en-
tirely by Daniel and acted by men from the
lower deck, with the assistance of three
“London actresses’- picked up at Corfu, of
all places, where they were appearing in the
local cafe chantant. Daniel was also in
the cast. The show rejoiced in the name
of “Fascinating Phyllis,” and it was always
something of a mystery how the three ladies
got to Malta in time for the opening per-
formance. No one was ever able to locate
any ship other than H.M.S. Duncan
(Daniel’s craft at the time) in which they
could possibly have done it.
“Coot”: The Firm’s Comedy Theatre in
Melbourne, which opened on April 28, is the
first new theatre built in that city for 20
years. The last was the King’s.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Phil Lytton dropped
some money over his metropolitan venture
with the “Sheik”; apparently the bottom
fell out of the Sheik madness when Valen-
tino died. Rudolph was Lytton’s meat
originally ; he had actually made a contract
with that flapper idol to come to Australia,
and if Valentino had not died there might
have been a fortune in tin* venture, in spite
of the money required by the film star.
“THE MERCHANT OF VENICE,” AT
NEWTOWN ( SYDNEY) MAJESTIC.
Allan Wilkie as
Shylock and
John Cairns as
Antonio.
“Goldilocks”: In Italy it is possible to
pick up musicians who know the full score
of the popular grand operas, but the Aus-
tralian fiddlers and blowers who helped the
Gonsalez Sydney season through were largely
on new ground. Still, with 14 operas to
rehearse for a season of six weeks, the har-
mony makers did well; but they used up
a lot of sweat.
“Hamfat”: Some of the musicians who
left Sydney to join the J.C.W.-Melba grand
opera returned promptly: they did not hit
it with the conductor. However, the VV il-
liamsons are allowing plenty of time for
the orchestra to get into shape—the re-
hearsals cover four weeks. With the <5 on-
salez show half a score of Italian musicians
rushed to Melbourne to rehearse with the
Melbourne recruits on Friday morning for
the Saturday opening.
“W.1.U.”: Broken Hill does not claim to
be a city of culture, yet in spite of industrial
depression Allan Wilkie was able to give nine
nights of Sliakspeare to good houses, the last
being the best of the lot, an experience
sharply in contrast to the poor season in
Adelaide —the alleged city of culture. Wilkie
had the inevitable strike, though, his supers
“pulling out” after the first night—6s. a per-
formance not being considered enough for the
laborious work. He found liis own company
sufficient on the following nights.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Fred Carpenter, the red-
haired chap who was introduced here by the
Fuller shows, has pulled off a 1000-dollar
prize for dancing offered by John Murray
Anderson, U.S.A. The dancing that worn the
prize also won so many engagements in New
York that Carpenter had to decline a very
good offer to go on the London stage for a
revue at the Palladium.
“Flaming Youth”: The pleasant-voiced
Bobby Chisholm, whose going was regarded
as a disaster by the J.C.W. firm when, over
three years ago, lie decided to venture over-
seas, has struck oil in New York, where he
is getting an outsize salary as leading man
in “Golden Dawn.” But he has a higher am-
bition; grand opera is his aim, and he is
studying hard to qualify for an appearance
next year.
“Meridian”: Mention of speculation in
theatre tickets in Australia reminds me of
the fancy trade that is done in N’York in
this business. Every now and then the police
are asked to settle arguments between sub-
stantial gentlemen who claim to have tickets
for admission and managements who state the
tickets are worthless. These forgeries were so
common a little time back that n.any man-
agements advertised that no tickets would be
accepted that were sold by speculators. It
made no difference.
“Craiser”: Dorothy Thomas, daughter oc
a Methodist parson in Ballarat, lias made a
name for Australia with her voice in N’York.
That city knows her as Dorothy Canberra.
“Morehead”: A curious theatrical experi-
ment was tried recently at the Saxony State
Theatre, Dresden-—Bernard Shaw’s “Saint
Joan” and Schiller’s “Die Jungfrau von
Orleans” being staged on alternate nights.
At the end of the season the honors appeared
even, the crowds showing an equal fancy for
both plays.
“Santander”: llylton Allan, who kept
rather refined company in the comedies intro-
duced by Renee Kelly to Australia, is one of
the three husbands in the London edition of
“Cradle Snatchers,” served up at the Lyric
as “Sauce for the Gander.” Hylton's natu-
ral speaking voice has a pleasant velour
finish, but the farce will rub off all the nap if
it has a fair innings. Two or three Eng-
lish critics have sniffed heavily at the show,
alleging that “netting” is purely an American
science of which old England knows only
the rudiments, and, admitting that much,
doesn’t want to go any further. This kind
of comment makes one wonder whether some
London critics are genuinely Pccksniffian or
merely ignorant.
“L.11.P.”: The producer of the Gonsalez
operas ought to take a tour round our sub-
urban operatic shows and get a few tips in
correct mounting. With 45 years’ experience
as a patron of grand opera in Australia I
liave never witnessed mounting so shoddy.
The absurdity of Marguerite praying in the
open street, a modern bed in the era of
Louis XIV. in “Traviata” and doors that
open on wall-less houses as in “Mignon”
would have sent Gilbert King, Henry Rracy
and other past-masters of producing to the
rat-liouse.
“L.11.P.”: Shylocks Sydney has seen in-
clude Nesbitt, G. V. Brooke, Barry Sullivan,
Walter Montgomery, James Anderson,
Charles Kean, Daniel Bandmann, William
Creswick, Fairclougli, Walter Bentley, Geo.
C. Miln, Win. E. Sheridan, Ivyrle BeUew,
Moscovitcli, Wilkie find Oscar Asche. When
Asche was in Johannesburg (S. Africa) the
Hebrew population would have none of his
Sliylock. They simply stopped away, and the
business dropped from £lOOO a week to £5OO.
Asche made Sliylock a very repugnant char-
acter. Wilkie plays him a la Henry Irving.
“C. Ockney”: Robert Loraine, who is
coming to Australia this year, recently tried
London with doses of Strindberg, staging for
the first time on West End boards those
cheery trifles “The Father” and “The Dance
of Death.” Though Loraine’s performances
were artistically most satisfying, patrons of
the powerful but humorless Scandinavian
were not sufficiently numerous to encourage
the actor-manager to go on with him. So
Edgar Wallace was asked to supply a real
British “thriller.” The obliging Edgar in a
week or so duly weighed in with a piece
called “The Man Who Changed His Name,”
which is now on view at the Apollo with
Loraine as the man and Dorothy Dickson
as the woman.
“Lever de Rideau” : The worst frightful-
ness ever perpetrated on G. and S. was a
Berlin production of “The Mikado.” One
Fitelberg “arranged” the music and Ber-
nauer and Oesterreicher brought the dialogue
up to date. Ivatisha was metamorphosed
into the widow of an American fruitpacker
and Nanki Poo into the son of a sugar
baron. The music was re-scored for a jazz
orchestra and the choruses danced the black-
bottom. Those who were acquainted with
the original were carried fainting from the
building.
“Hamfat”: The Scotch bass-baritone Wil-
liam Heughan is due to pay Australia an-
other visit. He is now giving recitals in
U.S.A., and, after a tour in M.L., will strike
Sydney at the end, of July. Heughan came
here in 1925 under the auspices of the Burns
Society, but the reliance upon local Highland
organisations to supply the necessary boost
was misplaced, and on his appearance in
Melbourne he was almost unheralded.
Heughan is that rarity, a fine singer who is
also a dramatic artist. He sang folk-songs to
a great extent, and his preliminary explana-
tion of each song’s history added to the
interest of his work. This writer, for one,
will be glad to hear him again.
“Hamfat”: The 27 Sydneysiders picked
for the Williamson grand opera orchestra
left for Melbourne a month ahead of the
opening date, salaries being paid for re-
hearsals. Times have changed for musicians.
I remember one approaching an actor-
manager, then inhabiting Sydney Criterion,
and pointing out that, although he had re-
hearsed for a week for nothing and was sup-
posed to receive ss. per night, he had carried
on for some time without pay and was suffer-
ing financially. The manager was justly
annoyed. “Good God, man,” he exclaimed,
“you’re surely not relying on your money as
a musician for your upkeep? You ought to
have a trade to supply your necessities; the
joy of music should be enough for yon.
Besides, you can see the show every night
without paying!”
THE SANCULOTTE.
[For The Bulletin.]
“There seems to be an impression among most
American producers that even a serious film is not
complete unless one or more of the characters are
shown without their nether garments.” —Australian
Fi Ini Censors.
Weep, aye, you well may weep, Melpomene,
My stately Muse, and shudder at the
shock!
Fallen on evil days is Tragedy,
Debased the cult of buskin and of sock.
No tale of passion now may satisfy
By these new standards Hollywood im-
plants
Unless across the screen some hapless guy
Shall stalk at intervals without his pants.
Strong men may do great deeds ’gainst dizzy
odds
With guns or good right arms, no matter
which ;
Yet feats like these no longer grip the gods
Or string the groundlings up to concert
pitch
Unless, for foil to scenes where heroes rage
And villains bite the dust in anguish wan,
A character is shown upon the stage
Who quite forgot to put his trousers on.
Women may stoop to conquer, or may leap
To heights of sacrifice well-nigh sublime,
May gesture nobly or, impassioned, weep
With art that used to knock us every time.
Their purplest patches leave us cold unless
There ambles now and then across the floor
Some chap in such exceeding haste to dress
He left his “rammies” hanging on the door.
For Aeschylus and Sophocles, I wist,
Was some excuse—a “bag”less era, theirs.
But think of what immortal William missed,
With all his skill in Thespian affairs !
Ah, well ! Ring out the old, ring in the new!
Inexorably Hollywood decides
No modern drama’s worth a second view
Without an actor who’s mislaid his
“strides.”
N.S.AV.
T. THE R.


i
m.
I
<
•>i:
HI
•I Ik
m
: .syAf
Ml
H
P
The “Valet” alone among safety razors
possesses the secret of giving you a quick,
clean shave with the same blade, day after
day, week after week. That secret is first
a blade made of the finest steel brought to
the finest edge, and, secondly the power
of retaining that edge by ten seconds
daily stropping.
Any user, and their number is legion, will
tell you what that combination means to
the comfort of his before-breakfast shave.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
British Made.
Of all dealers.
No. 50—Nickel Set. Contains
heavily - silvered razor, 12
blades and strop in hinged
container. Complete in
highly polished
nickelled set
25/-
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON (El COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
IVew Zealand Agents:—Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
W i
WiVun.tiA,
I Losing
% your
Health
T’HE only way to look really young
is to keep both body and nerves in
perfect condition. And you can do
that—with Sanatogen.
Your nerves need phosphorus, your
body needs albumin, to build up
lasting strength and good health.
Sanatogen gives exactly those elements
in such a perfect combination that
the weakest stomach can digest it.
RADIANT HEALTH
with
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
At all Chemists —from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
U.S.ROYAL CORD TYRES ARE GOOD TYRES
l o be honourable is to do
the right thing when you are
sure nobody can see you.
U.S. ROYAL CORDS have plenty of rubber
right down in the invisible fabric of the tyre,
withstanding the stresses and strains, which age
any tyre less honest than the Royal Cord.
Plenty of rubber —both where you can see it
and where you can’t.
U.S.ROYAL CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’AS!A), LTD.,
439 Kent St., Sydney.
195 Flinders St., Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.,
894 Hay Street, Perth.
The Discount Bicycle
& Supply Co.,
110 Charles St.,
Launceston.
11l Margaret St., Brisbane.
102 Victoria St., Carlton,
Melbourne.
F. W. Heritage & Co., Pty.,
Ltd., Collins St., Hobart.
Australian Auto
Agency, Ltd.,
Sturt St., Townsville.


Quality, Value and Style!
Never have Dodge Brothers Qual-
ity and Dodge Brothers Value been
so high as in to-day’s brilliant Four.
True Dodge Brothers sturdiness,
advanced to new high levels.
Famed Dodge Brothers dependability-made
more dependable than ever.
And in addition, new style, new beauty,
amazing new performance that make this car
not only the greatest value Dodge Brothers
have ever offered, but literally the criterion
by which to-morrow’s moderate-priced cars
will be judged.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
F.F. 320
0/5/'2B.


BY AF POIUTMENT
Mappin&W^hb
A A LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVERWARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
Fumed Oak Cabinet containing a complete service
of Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks and “Trust-
worthy” Stainless Steel Cutlery. Prices range from
£5/5/- to £lOO.
Visitors to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of being one of
the oldest firms of Gold and Silversmiths, Jewellers,
etc., in the world, and they extend a cordial invita-
tion to visitors from the Commonwealth to call at
their Showrooms when in London.
The West-end Showrooms are within 5 minjites by
taxi from the Leading Hotels; the City Showrooms are
opposite the Mansion House, and quite near the Guild-
hall, St. Paul’s Cathedral and the Tower of London.
Mappin
A A LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND.
158-162 Oxford St. W.l. 172 Regent St. W.l. 2 Queen Victoria St. E.C.4.
The Company has Branch Establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Bombay.
/ ... £
,
t mmmm
r / i
f
m
/ UJ
THE “WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
An Improved High-grade Stock Saddle, designed for
increased comfort to the rider. It has combined flap
and skirt sewn direct on to the seat, thus giving a
narrower non-chafing grip; and the pads being setw r e!l
up along the rider’s thighs give the greatest security
for rough-riding. The materials and workmanship are
first-class throughout, and it is fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATION.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
“K’BURRA” Stockwhips
Guaranteed Kangaroo
Leather Throughout.
feuASSU
WHIPS
Thongs.
12-plait ..
16-plait ..
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
.. 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
.. 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Handles for 9ft. Thongs
are 1/6 extra for loading.' Post Free for Cash.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Type, Tripe & Co.
“Huffin-Guffm” : It was from the Hamilton
(Vic.) Spectator (B. 11/4/’2B) that the
late J. F. Archibald drew his first payment
for a paragraph, the item being one about
a military funeral at Warrnambool (Vic), at
which, according to the writer, more interest
appeared to be taken in the corps than the
corpse. The' Spectator is still owned by
the Rippon family, the original Rippon in
the firm having been in partnership with
Mott.
Ease for the Artistic Sense :
A safe haven for the fancy of the art-lover is to be
found in the exhibition of M. J. McNally’s water-colors
at the Fine Art Gallery, Boomerang House, Sydney.
The red tabs indicating sales are pleasantly frequent
on the pictures, the trustees of the Federal Capital
Art Collection being amongst the purchasers. There
is nothing conspicuously distinguished about this
pleasant exhibition, but it is the work of a man
who knows his job and has an artistic perception.
“The Cloud and the Convent” and “Early Morning,
Mosman,” are the most effective of the paintings,
and a small item, “The Wharf, Gunnamatta Bay,”
is one of the most appreciated.
“Ike Hollar”: Friends of the personable
and breezy Tom Clarke, who left the Mel-
bourne Herald to go to London as news-
editor of the Daily Mail, will wish him
the best of luck in his new job of managing-
editor of the Daily News. Clarke, who
is one of those men who do a lot of work,
but never seem to be working, was assistant-
editor on the Melbourne evening paper; but
he managed to tour the country, writing
specials, in his spare time. No pressman
was ever better liked by his fellows.
BEST WISHES.
THE LADY: “I suppose your wife’s like the
rest of. them—always got something
to harp on?”
THE MAN: “Ai really hope so—Ai do indeed.
She’s been dead quaite some taime,
y’know!”
“Bouragi”: Small wonder that Lionel
Armit, of Papua, has the right touch when
writing of island affairs (B. 2/5/’2S). His
dad first visited British New Guinea, as It
then was, in the early ’eighties as leader of
an expedition financed by the late David
Syme, of the Age, and returned to become
one of the country’s pioneers, and left his
bones there. His best work was done in the
Northern Division, where he succeeded
Shanahan, discoverer of the Gira goldfield,
as R.M. He was the first of the Govern-
ment officials to open up the country, and
a stiff time he had of it in those days. Like
his two predecessors on the job, he died in
harness, and his bones lie on the edge of the
jungle clearing behind where Whitten’s store
used to stand at Old Tamata station. Writer
cannot remember whether the son was born
in 8.N.G., but can recall him as a very
youthful cadet in the Government service
many years ago.
A Feminine Outlaw :
Perhaps Aletta Lewis was excluded from the lady-
like exhibition at the Education Gallery, Sydney;
her bitter vengeance is thrown on to the walls of the
Macquarie Galleries. In just a few of the 38 exhibits
the lady’s Bolshevism is effective —in “Palm Beach,”
viewed sombrely from above, or in “Austinmer,” for
instance —but mainly her vision is confined to night-
mare jungles of mercilessly ugly roofs and land-
scapes even less pleasing. Nothing worse has been
said about the Yarra, considered as a river, than
this artist conveys in paint in “Factories on
the Yarra”'; she spoils a bilious-looking allegory in
“Pilgrims” by giving the woman a lop-sided foot;
and her “Pink Chestnut Tree” is painted in crude
layers of pink and dark green.
“L.J.”: Bert Hinkler’s was not the first
story “spooked” by Frank Russell. About
a couple of years ago veteran Harry Musgrave
reeled off his theatrical reminiscences at
book length for Melbourne Table Talk per
medium of the same facile pen.
“Ed-Ra”: “Probably the first Bulletin
ever sent out without the old pink pinny,”
says a paragraph (Woman’s Letter,
25/4/’2B) about the special Easter number.
Nevertheless, I retain an impression that the
paper’s early rig-outs were pea-soup colored,
and that a few of the very earliest numbers
had plain covers. [Quite right about the
plain covers. —Ed.]
“C.G.H.A.” (London) : How The Bul-
letin does travel! No less than six cut-
tings have been forwarded to me about a
deed of mine recently paragraphed in the
old pink paper (B. 8/2/’2B), an ordinary
shipping job per Customs launch and Jacob’s
ladder. Each was accompanied by some
such comment, as “This sounds like you.”
They came from Colombo, Amsterdam,
Vienna and other farther away parts.
Anyone would think a woman had never
done general reporting in Australia before.
“Top Rail”: The S. M. Herald’s Federal
gallery notes, which B. C. Penton made an
outstanding feature of Australasian jour-
nalism, have suddenly been taken out of that
young man’s hands. Penton, a keen ob-
server, with a sharp satiric flair and a
fluent penful of good English and invective,
committed the offence of trying to tell the
Herald’s readers that all is not gold that is
Nationalist. Also, he made a god of Billy
Hughes, and these days Grannie thinks Billy
a thoroughly nasty little boy. Penton was
hated by a fair sprinkling on both sides of
the House, one member having even attacked
him from the floor. It is, however, a pity
that Grannie has given him back his
diamond ring, though perhaps he was a little
young for her old love.
From an Adelaide critic:—
The Autumn show of the Society of Arts has no
inter-State element. Figure work is comparatively
scarce, Leslie Wilkie (curator of S.A. Art Gallery)
standing out; the society gives a prize for this kind
of work at the Autumn show. Glass jugs and copper
pots, with flowers or fruit, are everywhere, the
prize going to George Whinnen’s marigolds, carefully
painted, though half a dozen others might well have
caught the judge’s eye. In landscape, Robert
Waden (rapidly advancing) and Mrs. Barringer are
prominent, and old James Ashton brings back
trophies of a Ceylon visit. Two youngsters are well
worth watching. Nora Heysen, daughter of Hans,
makes a start with a marvellous fruit study; and
Ivor Hele, barely 16, shows both strength and power
of composition in his heavy black-and-white work,
though at present it is too imitative.
“Lao-dah”: “Guests of the Unspeakable”
will be the title of Col. Tom White’s yarn
of his escape from Abdul, shortly to be pub-
lished by John Hamilton. White, who con-
tributed to The Bulletin from his Turkish
prison, had his manuscript ready in 1920, but
had the bad luck to be forestalled by four
fellow-prisoners. Two of them, Hill and
Jones, who wrote “The Road to Endor,”
occupied beds next to him in a prison hospi-
tal where they were feigning lunacy. One of
the “lunatics,” Hill, pressed £4O on White
which he had got through a friendly under-
ground “telegraph.” Armed with this, White
and an Englishman named Bott laid plans
for their dash for freedom. They succeeded,
after extraordinary vicissitudes, in getting
into British-lield territory just three weeks
before the Armistice. A few months later
White was able to return the loan to Hill in
London.
“S.T.S.”: A curious discussion is running
in the most prominent column of Adelaide
Register. One “LL.B.” took the public
into his confidence about his typist of 19
of “immaculate” character, and his applying
ammonia to an ant-sting on her leg “half
way to the hip,” with the best of intentions.
The usual correspondence followed, the
older generation saying that the younger
has lost all modesty, the younger protesting.
The older one had nasty minds, revelling
in “sex mystery.” Meanwhile the original
writer fans the flame with another letter
about mixed bathing on a lonely beach,
“perfectly safe in each other’s company....
complete confidence in my character....
implicit trust, a prize too precious to lose.”
It is a pretty safe bet that the leg of the
public, and not of a girl typist, is being
extended by this Bachelor of Legs and
Lingerie.
Studies in Futility :
A disappointing show is that of the Society of
Women Painters, who have decorated the gallery of
the Sydney Department of Education with the results
of a year’s toil. A very obvious fault in many of
the pictures is a failure to realise the importance
of a focal point; in one of the pictures of Miss
Ethel Stephens, for instance, a boy at one edge of
the painting sits at a table contemplating a few
uninspiring table utensils upon which the rest of
the canvas is wasted. The poor lad is apparently
wondering what he is going to have to eat. Ethel
Stephens has many contributions, including some
big canvases and two stills full of harsh color; her
best work is in her smaller subjects, “Resthaven”
and “Briar Roses,” which last has been awarded the
George Taylor Memorial Prize; Mary Edwards, whose
“Dorothea and Roses,” if slightly over-ornate, is
still the most striking picture in the exhibition, and
Mrs. Hedley Parsons, with Constance Moses as a
runner-up—her “At the Ferry” and “Blue Day” are
light and airy—are the most successful of the con-
tributors ; Mrs. Parsons’s “Blowhole, Kiama,” being
a really good performance. Mabel Barling falls
a great deal short of her ambitions. A big canvas
is wasted on a study of five giraffes (Noah’s Ark
brand) in the wild. Of the lady’s animal studies, a
group of horses, “At the Straddle, Wilberforce,” is
the best; and “Grief” show's a rather strongly done
back view of a red-haired girl who has been sent to
sit with her face in the comer without any clothes.
After these, although Bessie Gibson does well in
“Tired,” Vida Lahey in “Roses,” and Vi Eyre
succeeds fairly well in an impressionistic way in
“A Shady Walk,” the rest is mainly chaos with an
occasionally tootling prettiness. In the water-color sec-
tion Laura Booth makes a better showing than in oils ;
“Cumberland-street Before Demolition Days” is a
good wet-weather view, and “A Touch of Spring” is
pleasing; while Alice F. Whyte, Violet Bowring and
A. M. Parsons have some likeable offerings. In
the applied arts section there are many pieces of
decorative work well worth viewing.
THE TINKLING CYMBAL.
[For The Bulletin.]
The heathen in his blindness
Enjoys a genial clime,
Where Nature ripes in kindness
The salutary lime;
But some stern dispensation
Ordains that my poor station
Is dodging sequestration
By idiotic rhyme.
Not overblessed with notions,
Ideas are not my forte;
No anchorite’s devotions
Are less akin to sport
Than my forlorn, myopic
Pursuit of any topic
Which holds some microscopic
Intention or import.
So sad, indeed, my case is
That life seems shifting sand
With only one oasis
Wherein a man may stand:
When duns beset and harry
And all things else miscarry,
A good vocabulary
Will lend a helping hand.
For in the simpler metres
The public look for sense,
Just as in single-seaters
They count on speed immense;
But it' the bard perform all
The quirks and twists abnormal,
Which mark the truly formal,
They ante-up the pence.
N.S.W.
FORIS DONLY.


i
: x
'•*•• 'Jjfc >■
*
EXCLUSIVELY used
r-
Interstates Victorian
Tournament
BARN ET
TENNIS
GLASS


THE
A NEW,
NEW LEFEVER
reliable gun made by an old,
SINGLE
RELIABLE FIRM.
LEFEVER single barrel long banbe
FIELD AND TRAP GUN
85
( ■
Post Free All
Over Australia.
THE LEFEVER LONG-RANGE 12-GAUGE TRAP AND FIELD GUN.
This is the only inexpensive HAMMERLESSS Single-barrel breech-loading Shot Gun with an auto-
matic safety device such as is used on expensive double-barrel guns, and an automatic ejector which
kicks the shells out when the gun is opened. Every Lefever single is carefully choke-bored to give the
closest hardest long-range pattern. Every barrel is 'proved with an excessive load to make doubly
sure it has the necessary material and strength to be safe for ANY standard factory load. The
barrel is 3Zin. long. The stock has checkered full pistol-grip stock with hard rubber grip cap and
heelplate.
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE. We are the Agents.
VA
LTD
PTY
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
! r- Western-. Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILF & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It is a pity Trivalve was not given a
long spell after his inglorious failures -at
Randwick. Taken to Adelaide for the St.
Leger he finished a poor third in a field
of eight, being beaten by Ben Chaffey’s
Spearhead—Your Majesty gelding Burnaby
and the Ethopian—-Sessa filly Some Quality.
He came in two lengths behind the filly, who
fought out a spirited finish with Burnaby,
and pulled up lame. Old-timers recalled that
Clean Sweep (the Scobie-trained winner of
the 1900 Melbourne Cup) also failed in the
St. Leger at Morphettville that season, and
was no good afterwards.
Imported Fourth Hand, having his first
race in Australia —-he is owned by Lord
Somers —went out favorite for the Elder
Stakes, w.f.a., and made a fine attempt to
win. He proved much too good for every-
thing bar Finsbury, who beat him by a
head in lmin. 514 sec. (record time for the
race), Spearer being a poor third.. A half-
brother, by St. Alwyne, to Valamita, Fins-
bury races in the same colors as Burnaby,
and the Chaffey-McCalman interest certainly
holds a strong hand in the Adelaide Cup.
Dempsey rode the four-year-old, and
Burnaby also.
Another race record was established in the
Goodwood Handicap, which the country
mare Second Dale (Two—Thorindale) won
in lmin. llfsec. She was followed home,
at a distance of two lengths, by Adoradale,
who had her head in front of Greens-
borough and Triangle, whom the judge could
not separate. The dead-heaters were at
short prices, Triangle especially; but first
and second were outsiders, the divs. on the
£1 tote being £2l Is. and £7 2s. respectively.
Second Dale is owned and trained by W.
Clezy, and Medhurst had the mount.
A bad day for backers concluded with the
victory of Altimeter, a Kenilworth gelding,
in the Fisher Handicap. His dividend was
£8 135., and that of the second horse, Kel-
lidie, was £5 10s.
* * * *
At Rosehill on Saturday the bookmakers
recovered their Moorefield losses and more—
not that they ever lose much either at Moore-
field or Canterbury Park. Among the six
winners there was not one favorite. Tedwin
(9 to 4) did arrive home first in the Maiden
Hurdle Race, but he swerved in front of Ego
(20 to 1) immediately after clearing the
last jump, and the stewards allowed a protest
for interference —much to the annoyance
of Tedwin’s backers and to the surprise of on-
lookers who were not interested either way,
for Ego was well beaten when the incident
occurred. Aorangi, co-favorite (at threes)
with Golden Grist for the Auburn Handicap,
would probably have won had there been
another 100 yards to go, but Bunkum (6 to
1) was too smart for him at six furlongs, as
also was Ariedon (14 to 1). Bunkum is not
much to look at, but he has won three races
tins season, two of them at Rosehill, where
lie is trained.
Trahere (7 to 4), who is rather badly
treated by the handicappers, was not equal
to getting a place in the Granville btakes,
which went to Lady Mulyan (5 to/), a
likely-looking chestnut by Poitrel-Veneta.
King Cyllcne (10 to 1), now owned and
trained by J. H. Abbs, beat all the well
backed horses (there were five) in the Rose-
hill Handicap; Boonala (6 to 1) looked a
winner two furlongs from home, but was out-
stayed by the old ’uu, who had never before
succeeded at a mile and a quarter. And
“Young Bill” Kelso saddled up his _ third
winner in nine days as a registered trainer—
Bollinger (7 to 2) in the Ilighweiglit Handi-
cap. Bollinger, who was a costly yearling,
is by Woorak —Vinalia; a run on the rails,
stolen by Pike, enabled him to get the better
of Anorieht (16 to 1), who seemed to have
the race won a furlong from home.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Prospect Handicap: Less Noise; next,
Beclgah.
Farm Stakes: Lauder.
May Handicap: Lady Clara; next, Prince
Colugo. _.
Casula Handicap: Cute Bird; next, Sir
Allan.
* * *
“Amateur Urger”: Part of the wooden
Leger stand at Rosebery Park, one of Syd-
ney’s pony-racing emporiums, collapsed on
Saturday while a meeting was in progress.
The thing was packed at the time, and
there was a panic when the flooring caved
in. By a miracle nobody was killed out-
right, but a couple of hundred were hurt,
some of them badly. This ought to spell the
finish of pre-war wooden stands on Sydney
racecourses. Clubs which still retain them
should be advised, ungently if necessary, to
THE RIGHT VIEWPOINT.
“If the view from the ninth hole looks like that I don’t
think much of it.”
“My dear, that’s how it looks from the nineteenth.”
replace them with modern structures —
ferro-concrete, for choice. They can well
afford to make the change.
* * * *
There are more hurdlers than usual about
Melbourne this season. No fewer than 18
started in the race over the battens at
Aspendale Park on Saturday. Baldini (4
to 1), a rather good sort of gelding by
imported Varco, won very easily from
Nelanjie (20 to 1) and Autrolite (5 to 1).
He iis in the same stable as Black Allen,
winner of the Khartoum Hurdle at Caul-
field the previous Saturday.
The one-time Riverina trainer S. W.
Biggins, whose useful Tressady gelding
Diamond Plume had scored in the Warrnam-
bool Cup earlier in the week, had another
slice of luck in the second division of the
Trial Welter, his imported gelding Hengist
(10 to 1) % winning well. Hengist was
ridden by Scanlon, successful on Double
Duty in the first divijsion. Eric Connolly
had one more punt on Little Coon (9 to
2) in the Plate, and this time he collected;
his imported nag, who had the featherweight
of 6st. 81b., had too much toe for Vagrant
(6 to 1) and Day Dreamer, (8 to 1), the
next best.
Duncan’s mount, Elarby, was all the
rage for the Park Handicap, 6 to 4 being the
closing price. Spearer’s brother ran a fair
race, but Billy Leyshon’s Varco —Lady Cool-
trim gelding/ Retsacnal (9 to 2), who had
led all the way, lasted long enough to win
from Pinkerton (7 to 1) and Elarby. After
another hot favorite in Eric Connolly’s
Rugbyean had been beaten into second place
by Duncan’s mount, Millwin (4 to 1), in
the Purse, punters went for a recovery on
the Grand National winner Coybeau (evens)
in the Jumpers’ Flat. But old-timer Jack
Brewer had something a little too good for
the favorite in Tantaroo (10 to 1) ; Sir
Eaton was third.
“Ces”: Just what “a certain consulta-
tion” means to Tattsmania was shown to a
party which visited the Hobart headquarters
the other day and had the system explained.
Last year the concern had a turnover of
a million and a half, and the Tasmanian
Government reaped £480,000. There are
over 300 clerks employed in the show, and
goodness knows how many agents. Twenty
officials are doing nothing else but handling
this particular matter in the post-office, and
the same number of people are exclusively
employed in the printing of tickets and
results:
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Norman Radford, the young English
featherweight, unappreciated in his own
country on his return from a successful Aus-
tralian tour, has
come, back to the
Comm o n w e altli
under engagement
to Stadiums, Ltd.
In Sydney on Sat-
urday night he met
Tommy Barber, and
the show they pre-
sented was worthy
of a better “house.”
Radford (Sst. 121 b.)
was two pounds
heavier than Bar-
ber. He makes a
feature of a left-
rip to the belly and
scored with many
of these punches;
but they had little
or no terrors for
Barber, a healthy
lad who is always
fit. The Austra-
lian would respond
with hot attacks
that drove the Eng-
lish boy info des-
perate clinches.
Gradually Radford
tired, and in the
twelfth round he
was floored heavily
for nine seconds by
one of Tommy’s up-
sweeping rights to
the jaw, A heavy
punch under the
heart put Radford
down again and the
count had got to
“eight” when the
bell came to the
rescue. He scrambled through the next two
bounds without sustaining much damage,
but in the fifteenth, in a life-and-death clinch,
he back-heeled and hurled Barber to the can-
vas. The foul was too obvious to be over-
looked, and Joe Wallis promptly indicated
Tommy as the winner.
* * * *
A particularly lean boxing season was
wound up at Melbourne on Saturday night
when Geo. Hyland (Bst. 1351 b.) outpointed
Tommy Crowle (same weight) and Alby
.Cardy (Bst. 1011 b.) proved much too good
for George Dwyer (Sst. 9ilb.)._ In keeping
with the importing craze, foreign, wrestlers
are now to be enriched by a ' community
which has little use for home-grown boxers.
Footbrawl
The meeting of Oollingwood and Richmond,
first and second in last season’s Vic. League
competition, drew 33,000 to the Richmond
ground on Saturday. ’Wood led by a few points
to lemon-time, but in the last term the
Tigers, whose marking had been superior all
through, developed a bit Of system to go with it
and gained a lead of a goal. The Magpies set
their teeth and forced the ball down for points,
but a faulty kick even as the bell rang lost
them the game by two points—42 to Rich-
mond’s 44. The Tigers can thank their full-
back, Don, for saving the game for them.
About 18,000 people went to see South Mel-
bourne play away out at Essendon, but got
little joy for their bawbees, the ’Dons being-
much too fast for the Red-and-Whites : ’Don
S 5 points; South, 41. Hawthorn staged a
strong, level game against Carlton up to
half-time, but faded to nothing thereafter,
finishing with 59 points to Carlton’s 93.
Melbourne easily accounted for Fitzroy, 118
points to 84; and St. Kilda got little glory
out of its win over North Melbourne, 77
to North’s 75. The first real shock of the
season was sustained by Geelong, on its own
ground, at the feet of the despised Tricolors
of Footscray, who kicked more accurately
than usual and kept going determinedly, till
they finished with 81 points to Geelong’s 77.
Geelong has so far lost .every game this
- season .and-, is beginning to ask itself “Whaf-
for?”
* * =!' *
“Adelaide”: Frank Golding, the Sturt
(S.A.) footballer, has been presented, on re-
tiring from the game, with an address setting
out his record, considered by his admirers to
be possibly unbeaten when taken in bulk. (1)
He played senior football in Westralia (he
was born in Perth) and S.A. for 21 seasons;
(2) played 207 games for Sturt and was
captain four seasons; (3) played for S.A. in
40 matches and captained the State team nine
times; (4) started as a crack goalkicker but
later stood right out as goalkeeper. The
large claim is added that “he never once
received a warning, or even a rebuke, from
a referee.” Yet the man with the unblem-
ished record could have taken care of him-
self in an argument; he. did some competi-
tion boxing in Perth as a young fellow.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League abandoned its
grade fixtures on Saturday for a series of
matches between metropolitan clubs -and
country district teams. The latter, to the
general astonishment, proved victorious in
three of the eight matches, the surprise-
packet being the defeat of the premiers,
South Sydney, by Newcastle, which downed
the Red and Greens at the Cricket Ground
by 12 (2 tries 3 goals) to 8 (2 tries and
1 goal). The Newcastle men thoroughly
deserved their win. After putting on their
points in the first half they settled down to
a policy of dogged defence, and kept their
heads in front. Bell played a great game at
full-back; Gilbert, a forward of real class,
was also notable. Save for Wearing—and
he was watched. closely all day—none of the
South Sydney men showed to their usual
advantage. Far North made a good recovery
against Glebe to win by 10 (2 tries arid 2
goals) to 9 (a try and 3 goals), after being
7 points down at the interval; Maher, a
three-quarter who will shortly be available
for South Sydney, was the star of the match.
South Coast beat North Sydney..by 16 (2
tries and 5 goals) to 9 (1 try and 3 goals) ;
O’Neill kicked all 5 goals for South Coast.
Balmain had its first success of the season at
Birchgrove, beating North-West by 39 to
5: and the other metropolitan sides to
win were St. George (27 to 12 against Far
West), Western Suburbs (29 to 12 against
Western Districts), Eastern Suburbs (20 to
13 against Southern Districts) and New-
town (59 to 17 against North Coast).
( Continued, on page Jfl • )
“Sclilaff” : George Duncan has found occa-
sion to say a few words of wisdom on the
advantages of seaside golf courses when it
comes to developing a really solid game.
Duncan points out that most of the British
championships have been won by men who
learned their golf on seaside courses. The
player on a seaside course has always _to
tackle a wind of some sort, and battling
against this, or circumventing it, teaches him
many valuable lessons. A Bulletin con-
tributor called attention to this important
point some months ago.
* * * *
“Robot”: According to the cables, the
Lacoste-sponsored mechanical device for
serving up balls at lawn tennis is being
adopted in France to train young players,
to whom the French tennis authorities are
paying particular attention. Norman
Brookes has been duly impressed, and it is
stated that some of the gadgets may be pur-
chased for Australia. It is a characteristic
suggestion. Not long ago The Bulletin
told of an excellent device of the kind in-
vented by an Australian which, exhibited in
Melbourne to Jean Borotra and co., earned
their entire approval. With an excellent
home-made article at handCt is quite in the
nature of things Australian that foreign
machines should be bought. There are people
who would import the air they breathe if
it could be managed.
CALLS OF THE WILD.
[For The Bulletin.]
“The latest Wembley invention is an electric hare
that emits loud squeaks when hard-pressed.”
Sing hey for the sounds of the stirring chase
On the winds of Heaven borne,
From the charging lion’s ferocious bass
To the twang of the huntsman’s horn !
There’s few may thrill to the outcry shrill
When the speared pig squeals like sin,
But, high or low, soon all may know
The squeak of the hare of tin.
Sing hey for the prowling dingo’s howl
Or the wolf pack’s chorus harsh,
For the honk o’erliead of the homing fowl
As you crouch by the icebound marsh.
The fox may bark in the watches dark
But, when giving the hounds a spin,
He must save his breath for a race with
death;
Not so with the hare of tin.
Sing hey for the wounded bison’s snort
Or the trump the elephant sounds!
They’re all bound up in a way with sport,
Like the bay of the eager hounds.
Though we can’t in Selous’s hunt-haunts
dwell
Or Roosevelt’s trophies win,
Still, faint and clear, we all may hear
The squeak of the hare of tin. ■
Hark! like elfland horn that thin note borne
O’er the bookies’ deafening din,
As the dogs abut on their quarry’s scut,
The squeak of the hare of tin!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Primary Producers Bank of Australia Limited
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 29th FEBRUARY, 1928.
LIABILITIES.
£2.121,561 £2,333,527 3 5
ASSETS.
Feb., 1927.
Commonwealth Notes
and Coin . . £50,649 12 10
Balances due by Other
Banks .. .. 117,662 19 6
Money at Short Call 291,000 0 0
Commonwealth
Treasury Bonds . . 215,007 0 9
Bills Receivable and
Remittances i n
Transit . . . . 104,607 3 1
Total Liquid Assets
Bills Discounted,
Loans, Advances
and other Assets
Furniture and Fittings
£778,926 16
1,537,787 1 7
16,812 9
2 £717,904
7 1,388,734
8 14,923
£2,333,527 3 5 £2,121,561
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR 12 MONTHS ENDED 29th FEBRUARY, 1928.
To Balance Carried Forward
. £8532 9 11
£8532 9 11
By Balance from last year . . .. £2895 1 1 3
~ Balance of Profit and Loss for the
year, after deducting rebate on Cur-
rent Bills and Expenses of Manage-
ment, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
Interest on Fixed Deposit, Thrift De-
partment and Current Accounts, and
provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
and other Contingencies . . . . 5636 18 8
£8532 9 11
W. V. THYER, Secretary.
I. W. KERR, Chairman of Directors.
WM. MOFFATT, General Manager.
In our opinion the above is a full and fair Balance-sheet and is
state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books.
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the
H. ROACH, F.1.C.A., A.C.1.5.,
CLEVELAND, SON & HISLOP, Fs.I.C.A.
Auditors.
You can now have
WII.I.YSKiNIGHT
Six-Cylinder
MOTOR TRUCKS
in 1-ton 2-ton 2%-ton capacities
The present competitive age demands
that your business secure the best
equipment available for modern trans-
portation. The six-cylinder truck has
generally supplanted the four-cylinder
—and now the six-cylinder patented
Knight-engined truck is rapidly gain-
ing supremacy as the most efficient,
most dependable and most economical
form of motor transport.
The big, powerful six-cylinder double-
sleeve engine of the Willys-Knight
trucks offers extreme flexibility and
uniform compression—and freedom
from troubles that take most trucks
periodically out of service. No valves
to grind, carbon never a nuisance,
positive sleeve action, dependable per-
formance — these valuable assets and
many other advantages of modern
chassis construction are assured in the
purchase of a Willys-Knight truck.
I
*
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-126 Russell Street, Melbourne.
E G EAGER AND SON. LTD.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., 62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
LONG ECONOMICAL LIFE


Command attention
by using your voice
well —keep it clear
and strong by using
‘Allenburvys
Black Currant PASTILLES
Your Chemist stocks them
1/6 and 119 per hox
ID, ill j
11
m I
gm
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute 0.P.0.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DONALD MACKINTOSH
“OF SHOOTING FAME”
fs
I have supplied
guns to W. G.
DOWNIE, J. W.
SUTHERLAND, J. SLOAN,
CLAUDE MITCHELL, W. ISON,
J. DRUMMOND, GRANT BROS., J.
THRELFALL, R. WRIGHT, SPORT,
ELENARA, SYDENHAM, Jun.
Nearly every man shooting well to-
day has had his gun seen to hy me
for pull off, bend of stock, cast off,
balance, choke, "* etc. Let me add
you to my list.
Youths’ Single Guns, 50/- to £5/5/-
Youths’ or Ladies’ Guns, Light,
Crossbolt, all latest patents.
Write for Hints All-round Guns, Hammer and Ham-
to Shooters, merless, £l2/10/- to £2l.
Match Guns from £2l to £5O. By all leading
Eng. makers. Special Presentation Guns, Match
and Field, from £5O to £75 and £155.
All classes of repairs to Gun, Rifle and Revolver
—only best work. I have the most up-to-date
workshop. Satisfaction is assured. Ask your
shooting pals who have given me a trial for the
last 10 years, and have seen my workshop.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Footbrawl
The opening of the N.S.M . Rugby Union
grade fixtures on Saturday was notable ~or
the high standard of football shown in
most of the matches. _ln spite of many
losses to other clubs, University again has a
fine side, forward and back; the A' arsity
XV beat Glebe-Balmain by 18 (4 tries
and three goals) to 8 (2 tries and a goal).
Glebe-Balmain suffered from the absence
of Wallace and Eric Ford from the back
division. Gibson, Mann and Ross did great
work behind for University, and the hand-
ling, in spite of the wet, was excellent.
Stewart showed good form at full-back for
Glebe, while Tancred, Ford and Brecken-
lidge upheld the prestige_ of the Waratahs
in the Reds’ forward division. Something of
a surprise was Y.M.C.A.’s defeat of Eastern
Suburbs, which greatly fancies itself this
season. The Young Men put up 11 points
in the first spell, and the lead proved too
much for the Easterners to reduce, the Y.
Emmas finally prevailing by 19 (5 tries
and 2 goals) to 8 (a converted try and a
penalty goal). Gordon was in great buckle
in the Y.M.C.A. backs, as were Greatorex
and Woods in the vanguard. Snell played a
capital game at half for East. Randwick
scored heavily against Western Suburbs,
winning by 21 to 6; its back division, with
Towers, Meagher and Caldwell, a recruit
from Sydney Grammar, played fine football.
Wests’ pack did good service, but the back
division was patchy. Manly, on its native
heath, proved too solid for NortheTn;
Suburbs, winning 13-0 in a forward game.
Austin, a new full-back, gave a good exhi-
bition for Manly, while the Northern for-
wards were more useful than their backs.
Ns N: Ns Ns
“Stand Off”: Though tentative arrange-
ments had been made for the visit, the
Maoriland Rugby Union has announced that
it will be unable to send a team to Sydney
this season. The decision will come as a
disappointment to Union -enthusiasts in
N.S.W., who fully realise that though the
first pick of the All Blacks is in South
Africa M.L. is capable of producing from its
reserves at least a couple of sides fit to test
any opposition. However, the cancellation
will leav-e the way clear to concentrate on the
N.S.W. visit to Maoriland. It is not likely
that many of the Waratahs will be able to
get away, but the form of The Rest in the
recent match against the tourists engendered
confidence that N.S.W. will be able to select
a side capable of extending ,the men across
the Tasman.
N: Ns N* N:
“Bowen Bridge”: The public meeting
called in Brisbane to consider the revival
of the Queensland Rugby Union proved to
be much larger and more enthusiastic than
even its conveners had anticipated. F. O.
Lea, one of the founders of the code in
Queensland, was there, and so were many
other veterans who helped “the Old Bird” to
make Rugby Union history; and the younger
generation, which has not known the game,
was in even greater force. The meeting
formally re-established the Union, which was
formed, as the Northern Rugby Union, in
1882, and named Maurice Baldwin, for
years hon. sec. of the old organisation, pre-
sident. The formation of clubs, in addition
to the adoption of the game by many of
the schools, was announced, and, though
no great advance can be expected this sea-
son, the future seems full of hope. In Dr.
Nothling and Tom Lawton, of the Waratahs,
the Union, will have two great exponents on
the spot. Both have volunteered to impart
to the school teams and the new clubs all
the wisdom that is in them.
N: N= >|s N=
“Warateg”: A. T. Young, the English
scrum-half, whom the Waratahs have good
reason to remember, is reported to have
played a brilliant game in the last of the
series of international Rugby matches. One
paper, commenting on his lion-hearted tack-
ling, said he appeared capable of tackling
one of his own tanks. (He belongs to the
tank corps.) At the beginning of the sea-
son it was hinted that the selectors were
searching for another half, as Young’s be-
wildering and sometimes inaccurate play
was not conducive to good combination. The
rumor gained ground substantially when he
was omitted from the English trial match,
However, the selectors were not impressed
with other candidates for the position, so
they set about finding a stand-off who
was likely to be least troubled by Young’s
irregularities. They were happy in their
choice of Laird.
N: Ns N= N:
“Methuselah Minor”: Some of these
fellows who write in the Sydney papers
about old-time Rugby players make me tired.
One of them fired off a long screed the other
day about the costume of players “thirty
years ago,” and alleged that they wore caps
shaped “like an ice-cream cone” of the
same material and pattern as their jerseys.
That type of headgear vanished from the
football fields somewhere back in the ’7o’s.
The assertion that the players of 1898 wore
striped stockings is equally incorrect.
N.S.W. wore socks, while Queensland long
ago adopted the maroon stockings which
it wears to-day wffien its League teams take
the field. Writer has a picture _of the
Queensland team which played against the
Maoriland Native side after its return from
Britain in 1889. The turn-out of the
players differs little from that of to-day,
though the breeks were, perhaps, a little
longer. So were the girls’ skirts in those
times. A further allegation that the hardy
men of yore scorned to wear shin-guards is
equally baseless. The front-row player who
neglected that precaution against N.S.W.
and Maoriland in that golden age would
have been a cot case five minutes after the
game started.
Racquet and Bawl
Disaster early threatened Australia’s Davis
Cup hopes with the cabled news that the
Italian crack, De Morpugo, had defeated
Jack Crawford in the opening singles match
in straight sets, 7-5, 6-3, 6-2. There had
been a day’s postponement owing to rain,
and perhaps this did not help the youngster,
previously reported as listless and depressed
owing to a cold. He fought hard for the
first set, and then the Italian proved too
good. However, Gerald Patterson made
amends by outing the other Italian singles
player, Stefani, in workmanlike fashion,
taking three sets with the loss of only seven
games. It was then announced that Hopman
would replace Crawford in the doubles, albeit
we were told last week that Hopman was
far below his form. What has become of
Ilawkes, who it was announced would be co-
opted, if necessary, no one seems to know.
Perhaps his journalistic duties prevent his
wasting time on tennis itself. Patterson is
in an unenviable position. He made no secret
of his opinion that more than three players
should be taken, and in this the public was
with him. Yet, with ample funds in sight
as the result of the Frenchmen’s tour, the
THE CATECHISM—QUESTION 1.
SPLINTER: “’Ow many miles to the gallon do yer get out of ’er?"
Australian tennis authorities proved too par-
simonious to agree to the popular demand
f or reinforcements. The possibility of the
present position arising was foreseen when
Crawford and Hopman showed signs of
cracking up after many months of playing
without a respite. An experienced fourth
man (a player, not a player-writer) should
h ave been sent to be on the safe side, but
Die sp i r it of “economy” prevailed.
......
jf Die Australians rise to the occasion in
the remaining singles, they will have to meet
Roumania in the next round, that country
having eliminated Belgium. It has a front-
rank man i n Mishu.
* * * *
-g Ralms, of West Wyalong (N.S.W.),
won ‘ t^e jst.S.W. tennis championship; in
t h e dna l he defeated Jim Willard, who has
recently regained his old form, 6-1, 6-4, 2-6,
3_g ; g_o. With the score two sets all Wil-
iard f e it the pace, and in the deciding set
Kalms had things all his own way. He has
already held the Country and State cham-
pionships of N.S.W. —the latter in 1926 —
and many are of opinion that he should
have been included in the Davis Cup team,
for, in addition to his serving and volleying
ability, which is exceptional, he is a doubles
player in the first class.
N: N= N: N:
“Rev. Knucklebone”: During one of the
matches for the State championship, Kalms
took exception to the finding of the umpire,
and expressed his feelings in terms which
the estimable daily journal to which I am
indebted for my information declined to
print. I understand, however, from private
sources, that the remark was “Botheration!”
or a similar tennis or croquet expression.
The umpire immediately left his chair- —they
sit down to it at tennis —and another ref.
had to be pulled in to take his place, the
Referees’ Union not objecting. In tennis, each
individual player seems to be a law unto him-
self as soon as he arrives at a certain
measure of eminence. Umpires are also
getting an excessive idea of their own import-
ance since daily papers have taken to em-
ploying them to write tripe about the game.
N: N! NS Ns
“Adelaide”: With the district system not
yet in force in Adelaide tennis, the club
premiership is interesting mainly for indi-
vidual successes. Rowe is out of the field
with a sprain, and his club just missed
being in the final, wherein Parkside beat
Hyde Park. Turnbull was a set in and 5-1
against “Gar” Hone, but, playing more care-
fully and serving fiercely, the senior man
won 3-6, 6-5, 6-4 (sets are sudden-death in
these matches). Then G. M. and R. B. Hone
had a hard fight to beat Turnbull and H. M.
Smith 6-3, 6-5. The third Hone brother
was playing for the opposition club.
The Watermen
The inter-State eight-oar race for the
championship of Australia was rowed, for
the first time in its history, on the Nepean
River at Penrith (N.S.W.) on Saturday,
and was won in convincing fashion by West-
ralia, with Queensland a good second. The
Westralians have a great record in this race
since the war; they were second in 1920,
first in ’2l, third in ’22, second in. ’23,
fourth in ’24, first in ’25 and in ’27 (in
’26 they did not compete). On Saturday
they were a length and a quarter ahead at
the finish, and though the Queensland crew
challenged them boldly in. the last quarter of
a mile had plenty in reserve to get home
with. Striking their usual fast rate, the
winners showed fine condition, and after the
first half-mile, when they headed N.S.W.,
never looked like losing. Tasmania took
third place, with Victoria, N.S.W. and South
Australia following in that order. The time
for the 3 miles was 16min, 50 2-ssec.—good
for fresh water.
......
The other event of the day, the champion-
ship sculls, also went to the winner last
year, H. R. Pearce, the N.S.W. champion
and Olympic representative. The race was a
procession, Pearce, rowing with consummate
ease and with great length. He gradually
increased his lead from the start and won
as he pleased by what was officially
announced as 30 lengths. L. R. Marsh, of
Tassy., was second, and behind him came
the Victorian, A. H. Cambridge, 10 lengths
back, with A. Buckley, of Queensland, whip-
ping in. The time was 15min. 30 2-ssec.,
one of the fastest races that have been
rowed in this event for some years past.
With anyone to push him, Pearce would
probably have done something extraordinary,
and if he can keep his condition in Europe,
he looks a very good thing for the Olympic
championship. There was a very large
attendance, and the experiment of shifting
the big contest from the Parramatta was
thoroughly justified.
* * * *
“Don-Crew”: Ex-champion sculler Bill
Beach was one of the old-timers at Penrith.
Beach first saw the light in Surrey, England,
and came to N. S. Wales when three years
old. Twenty-six years later he took up row-
ing on Lake Illawarra, but in early races he
learned the flavor of defeat. He was beaten
by McDonald and Pearce, and lost a match
for £lOO a side with Ned Trickett. Beach
subsequently defeated all three. Then he
went on to become a world’s champion.
The Nineteenth Hole
In a challenge match for £5OO a side,
Archie Compston, the British professional,
beat Walter Hagen by the astonishing mar-
gin of 18 up and 17 to play. Hagen could
scarcely have been at his best, being only 48
hours oft" the boat, but it is improbable that
his best would have been good enough for the
Briton on the day. Compston’s two rounds
of 67 and 66, the latter a record for the
course, are described as astonishing ex-
hibitions.
* # * *
“Brassey”: Archie Compston has not been
left long unmolested after his defeat of
Hagen; Macdonald Smith has come at him
with a challenge to a match over 72 holes,
36 to be played over Smith’s home course at
Lakeville and the balance on another New
York course to be selected by Compson. The
stake will be £lOOO a side, and the match is
to begin on June 1. This will not leave the
Englishman much time to settle down in
America, for he will be engaged in the open
championship this month and will have his
Atlantic journey on top of that.
sS Ns N=
“Fore”: The professional golfers’ tourna-
ment at lioehampton, which is always taken
as a guide to form for the professional con-
tingent in the British open championship,
was won by Abe Mitchell, who defeated
Alec Robson at the nineteenth of the last
round, being, presumably, one up, though the
cable gives no scores. In the semi-final,
Robson only got home from his opponent,
Robertson, at the twentieth, so the play must
have been close and exciting. It is a good
augury for Britain that Mitchell should
have battled home in such a tight finish, for,
though he is undoubtedly the finest player
in the country, he is supposed to “have a
bundle.” It will be interesting to watch
his meeting with his old golf enemy, Walter
Hagen, if the pair meet in the open, as they
are likely to do.
* sis sj:
“Schlafll” : English golfers have been favor-
ably impressed with the effort made by South
Australia to have this country represented
in the British open championship which re-
sulted in the dispatch of Rufus Stewart to
Britain. A writer in a leading golfing journal
suggests that Roehampton officials should
have waived the necessity of Stewart’s quali-
fying for the final. He adds that it is obvious
that a man would not be sent 12,000 miles
unless he was good enough to have a sport-
ing chance at the finish and quotes a U.S.
precedent. When the last English team
visited America the Yanks, in sportsmanlike
fashion, absolved all its members from the
qualification rounds for matches in which
they took part.
Ns Ns N: N:
“Divot Digger”: The British open cham-
pionship which began on Monday is being
watched this year by golfers all over the
world. There are 271 entrants, many of
whom come from France, the Argentine,
America, Australia, Maoriland and Spain,
not to mention oddments from other coun-
tries. The only cockroach in the soup is
the failure of Bobby Jones to defend his
title, but in Hagen America has a good
substitute. The big event opened at Sand-
wich on the Royal St. George course; 134
played there and the balance on the Prince’s
course, changing courses the following day.
The leading hundred players were then to
put in a couple of days over the St. George.
The finals, due to be played on Friday, will
include only players who are 15 strokes
behind the leading man at the end of the
eliminating rounds.
(Continued on next page.)


r ti queu*
'tOlii
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellou)
Shipped by
\YM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
this is the Winchester focussing flashlight.
No. 6921.—1 T USES A 3-CELL BATTERY AND
A SPECIAL MAZDA LAMP. IT HAS A
SCIENTIFICALLY DESIGNED RE-
FLECTOR AND BY SIMPLE
ADJUSTMENT OF THE
FOCUSSING RING
m
CAN BE MADE
TO THROW A
SEARCHLIGHT-
LIKE BEAM OF
BRILLIANT
WHITE LIGHT
TO A DISTANCE OF
EIGHT HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET.
Yachtsmen, Motorists, Campers, Shooters, Surf- and Rock-Fishermen, Householders, Night AVatch-
men, and a host of others will see the advantages of such a powerful light in portable form.
Supplied in full Nickel-plate or Black Metal and Nickel-plate.
No. 6021. PRICE, complete with battery, 21/- Post Free.
Write for Special Illustrated, “TORCH” Catalogue.
COWLES & DUNN
{The Oldest-established Gunmakers in Australia),
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
Car and Cycle
“Pulex”: Major Segrave got some alarm-
ing news off his chest the other day, when
he told an audience that in a few years’
time 200 m.p.h. would an everyday
road-speed for cars. It is*a blissful prospect
for any pedestrian that may be alive by then,
though it is likely that casualties, and the
instinct for self-preservation which will
drive survivors to motor-cars themselves, will
entirely abolish the breed. All the same,
it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that
the Major was speaking in that spirit of
glowing optimism that so frequently follows
oh a good lunch. There are one or two
factors, air pressure among them, that no
human ingenuity can set at defiance. Both
Segrave himself and Campbell found re-
cently that the slightest variation from an
absolutely straight course at high speed spells
disaster in the event of the driver failing
to bring the nose of the car back from the
position into which the tremendous pressure
tosses it. It was this factor which brought
about Frank Lockhart’s death. His light car
failed to stand up under the lateral pressure
that the heavier cars survived by luck and
good management.
“Whizz”: Undeterred by the fate of
Parry Thomas, Frank Lockhart and many
another, Major Bernardi, the famous Italian
car-designer and motorist, has announced
his intention of having a shy at Ray Iveech’s
new world’s speed record. Bernardi already
holds the world’s record for speed in the air,
and he is having a special chassis built,
which is to be fitted with a Fiat engine of
the same type as that with which he made
the air record. It is noteworthy that recent
land records have all been made with aero-
plane engines. Major Segrave’s car, now
being exhibited in Sydney, has Coatelen-Sun-
bearn engines, while Campbell’s Blue Bird
was fitted with an air Napier of the type
used by the late Lieut. Kinkead. Ray Keeeh,
the present holder of the record, had three
16-cylinder Liberty air engines on his ’bus.
This growing practice rather discounts the
alleged utility of these speed-tests, since the
aero engine, with its immense consumption
of petrol, will always be quite impossible for
the commercial car.
* * * *
“Spark": Though electricah-timing con-
trivances have been used for years in all
sorts of sports, from pugilism to tin-hare
racing, they have not yet reached the stage
of perfection, having a malicious habit of
going on strike at the all-important moment.
An example of this cussedness was seen at
an acceleration test for motor-cycles con-
ducted by the Brisbane Motor-cycle Club.
The gadget refused to work, but when a
new battery was borrowed from a motor-
car it started off in reassuring fashion. The
test was to be taken on the best of three
runs, and all the entrants 1 got through the
first without interruption. Half-way through
the second the timing apparatus shut down
and steadfastly refused to function further.
As a result the judges decided to test on the
first attempt, and, as some of the riders in
the second trial had secured better results
than the leaders of the first trial, there was
some heartburning. The winner was R.
Todd, whose little 2i-h.p. Levis with an
allowance of 6see., did the quarter-mile in
21sec. gross, or 15sec. net. The fastest time
was 17sec.. done by G. O’Donnell on a
2 : j-li.p. Velocette.
* * >:■ *
“J.H.” (Lond.) : A. .1. Hunting, of Bris-
bane Speedways, has been learning some-
thing about “big” finance in the world of
sport since he came to London. How suc-
cessful he has been in putting the Aus-
tralian sport of dirt-track motor-cycle-racing
on the map of Britain may be judged by
the fact that his board includes Col. Bersey,
tlie founder of Wembley—-he is chairman —
and Arthur 11. Johnson, the moving spirit
of the Walbrook Trust, one of the biggest
issuing houses in the city. An old Sydney
University and N.S.W, Rugby forward, who
has been a Fleet-streeter for years, brought
Hunting and the financiers together. The
syndicate has set its face against the boox-
maker, and expects to tap an entirely new
public—the kind that wears plus-fours and
goes to Twickenham, as well . as motor-
cyclists and their girl pillion-riders, and
their sisters, their cousins and their aunts.
Miscellaneous
“Spike” : After much chopping and chang-
ing. and no end of heartburning, the Aus-
tralian Olympic team sailed by the Naklera
last week, the number having been increased
by degrees as the financial outlook improved.
The list comprises Carlton. Stuart. Whyte,
Watson, Hyde, Winter and Miss Robinson,
track athletes; Ford. Morris and Bolger,
wrestlers: Charlton. Boast and the Misses
Davcy, Mealing and Thompson, swimmers;
Stan den and Gray, cyclists: and Pearce,
sculler. Charlton and Pearce, with,
perhaps, “Nick” Winter, look to have
the brightest prospects of collecting the
modern equivalent of the parsley crown,
while the chances of Carlton, Wat-
son and the two cyclists are fair. On
times and performance, Doris Thompson, a
breast-stroke swimmer, should do the best
among the young women. She has recently
beaten the Olympic record for the 200
metres, which will be her chief objective.
' s= * * *
“ Jeames”: That section of the Sydney
press which assumed sackcloth and ashes
because the Australian Olympic team is trav-
elling to Europe second-class has had its
agony slightly assuaged by the announce-
ment that the tourists will be housed in a
“Prussian nobleman’s chateau” near Amster-
dam, though what has been done with the
Prussian nobleman has not transpired. There
will be a special char it-banc to convey the
athletes to and from the stadium and their
training-grounds, and this is to be available
for pleasure trips. The contract also provides
for plenty of fresh beef and mutton, with
other viands which the Australian is sup-
posed to consume in his native wilds. And
one enterprising individual has offered to
head a fund to furnish the team with a
real Australian cook, so that the athletes
can be supplied with the sort of tucker they
are accustomed to. There is something in
the idea, for one recalls the bitter complaint
of the Maori football side in France a couple
of years ago regarding the quality of the
unaccustomed kai. But care should be taken
in the selection of the chef. There are cooks
and cooks, as ex-members of the A.I.F. can
testify.
* * * *
“K.11.C.”: Stan Lay, the M.L. javelin-
thrower, is Hawera’s first representative in
an Olympic team. The Saturday night
before he left to join the boat at Wellington
vehicular traffic was blocked at 8.30
and the town went loose. Bands played,
pipers piped, Maoris danced the liaka and
made speeches as only Maoris can. The
Mayor also spoke, and collection-boxes
rattled—the offertory was £lB5. If Stan
comes back with a crown Prohibition will
have a trying time in Ilawera.
* ❖ aje Jfc
“The Gaffer”: Miles, the crack profes-
sional ped. from Queensland, has struck a
trouble which threatens every spiked-shoe
merchant—a strained back sinew. It de-
veloped during a recent run at Benalla
(Vic.), and, instead of lying off at once, as
he should have done, the youngster kept
going while the money was good. Going to
Brisbane, he ti-ied to break the record for
100 metres, and collapsed before reaching
the tape. Very few runners who develop
this sinew trouble ever do any good again,
for it is even more persistent than a mis-
placed knee cartilage. That can be cured by
operation, but rest is the only possible hope
for sinew trouble, and long rest at that.
And even then one can never be sure that
the condition will not return without
warning.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victoria is to be the scene of
the longest distance run yet attempted in
Australia under the control of an organised
body—a 150-mile relay race. The thing is
being arranged by St. Stephen’s Harriers,
and the route to be traversed is from Mel-
G.F. WILSON, the A.J.C. handicapper,
whose present preoccupation is the
allotment of weights for the June meet-
ing at Randwick.
bourne through the Dandenongs, Flinders,
Cape Schank, Sorrento, Dromana, Morning-
ton and Frankston to Melbourne again. The
race will be open to teams from all the
States, and conditions will be published
shortly. ,
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The sacrilegious suggestion
of the Lancashire county cricket club that
the management of future cricket tours
abroad should be handed over to a Board
of Control has met with the fate it
deserved. When the motion came up before
the Advisory County Cricket Committee the
delegates could hardly be restrained from
throwing the Red Rose representative out of
the window. A seconder could not be found,
and an amendment by Leicestershire that
the M.C.C.’s control of English cricket
should “long continue” was received with
“he-ah he-ahs.” It is interesting to note
how many sports which had their origin in
England are controlled, throughout the
world, by self-appointed and quite irrespon-
sible —in the sense that they have no official
standing—concerns. The Jockey Club, a pri-
vate and arbitrary body which appoints its
W.G. GEORGE, the slippery Rugby Union
five-eighth, who captained the Rest of
N.S.W. against the Warataris.
, ... , . .
members as it pleases, rules horse-racing
throughout the Empire, while its laws have
been universally adopted even by countries
which do not acknowledge its actual sway,
The English Rugby Union, an organisation of
the same type, occupies the same position
as regards its own particular brand of foot-
ball, though it lias latterly inclined to per-
mitting outsiders to have a say in minor
matters connected with the game, and has
consented to become in some measure a pub-
lie institution. In the same way, the Wimble-
don Club, under the disguise of the English
Lawn Tennis Association, rules the tennis
world with a steel racquet. And there are
other instances.
#
“All Fours”: A general rule on coursing
enclosures is that no hare shall be coursed till
at least six w.-eks after Pn trv Exnerience lias
at. least s x w.t ss d :ei entiy. Experience Has
shown that it takes an average hare that long
to thoroughly learn the ground. Coursing,
fairly described, is a ferocious business for
the quarry. I lung this way and that, as the
exigencies ot the course demand, she is,
unless well trained, apt to lose her sense. of
direction—and her life. Slow training
drives are no indication ; the severe, dusting
of an actual course is the test. In view of
these facts the N.S.W. coursing crowd which
o S af b vertlsin £ a meeting for May 21 is
•® 1 g i.X^ epe it T ° f - *V e recen j ; sicben-
tSmwjK KIM fone Zy Witt
the exception of the few* that survived that
butchery, no hare will have been on the
ground more than three weeks. The country
is still being combed for them.
„
* *
“Mid Leg”: For want, apparently, of any-
one else to .quarrel with, members of the
N.S.W. cricket executive have been bickering
„ mi „ , . .
E b . them ® have been very
livery since the Test match was taken from
Sydney and given to Queensland ; and the
st tU n «l eir lamentations have been
gnored by the Eoard of Control lias not
improved their temper. Recently there has
been a split over the proposal to create a
“super-grade” composed of the best players
in the Sydney clubs. Many of -the delegates
have been opposed to the decimation of their
club sides to make an Association holiday,
.and after much argument the scheme has
been rejected. The fuss has culminated in
the. resignation of R. O. M. Boyce, the ex-
University and Gordon player, who has
been one of the upholders of the super-grade
proposal. “Selfish parochialism” of club
delegates is the reason given, but, as R.C.M.
is admittedly annoyed because the Associa-
tion deprived Gordon of the club champion-
ship for failing to comply with the rules as
to obtaining permits for players, the charge
of parochialism is being levelled at himself,
Business, Robbery, etc.
“R.G.W.”: Unusual cargoes? A railway
truck passed through Maoriland’s cathedral
city the other day with a freight of swans
packed in big crates. The birds, which are
for export, are taken aboard ship at Lyttel-
ton and placed in a specially prepared cage.
* * *
“Clerk”: The latest threat to the Vic.
railways is the horse. A driver, turned out
of the motor business by the ban, proposes
to start a service of horse vehicles for carry-
ing packages from door to door along thg
Qeelong-road. The notion sounds fantastic,
but it begins to look more reasonable when
one considers that it takes Clapp anything
up to 40 hours to deliver a parcel between
Melbourne and Geelong.
* * * *
“C.T.E.” : The reason so many orchardists
use imported soft-wood cases is that fruit,
when properly packed in the most attractive
containers, brings the best price. The local
sawmiller, as a rule, sells a very rough
article. He also refuses to meet the growers
in the matter of a standard case. My own
locally made “shooks” did not give 40 p.c.
of cases of the required bushel measure!
Other growers I know have had a like ex-
perience. The orchardist is not having such
a joyous time that he can take chances.
What he needs is a standard case, planed
and guaranteed by the miller to hold exactly
a bushel by measurement.
>|t * * *
“Boronia”: “Garbut” (B. 11/4/’2B), who
received only Id. for 20 cases of good apples,
was comparatively fortunate. One Bridge-
town (W.A.) orchardist marketed 40 cases
of prime peaches, and had to send a cheque
for over a pound to settle freight and cartage
charges. And even his lot was enviable be-
side the experience of a Westralian apple-
exporter, who had to cough up £6O on a
shipment of 1200 bushel cases of superb
Jonathans.
:1s * * *
“E. 8.”: Melbourne Housewives’ Associa-
tion is out to compel bread manufacturers
to wrap up their loaves at the factory.
Master bakers are jibbing about the extra
expense that will be involved, and meanwhile
are offering a hygienic sop for Cerberus in
the shape of “jabbing-forks” and canvas
basket-covers. In our suburb these covers
are seldom put to the purpose for which
they were designed. “The blooming thing
gets in the why,” a carter told me dis-
gustedly; “yer can’t get at the bread.”
* * * *
“Teller”: The recent forgers of Common-
wealth £lO notes craftily chose the Easter
holidays to get rid of some of their “stumers”
in Sydney and Melbourne; the banks being
shut, the chance of immediate detection
was much slighter. If the counterfeit note
is compared with a genuine one the printing
will be found slightly smaller than it should
be, and it varies in heaviness; generally
speaking, it is not sharp or clear. The color-
ing is a fair attemp't at imitation. Some of
the forgeries are numbered in the U/l 900,000
series. The usual test of holding this forgery
to the light to look for the watermark is
quite likely to fail, because in some cases
an effort has been made to reproduce the
genuine watermark. Within a compara-
tively short time 10s., £1 and £5 notes have
been forged, besides this latest effort at the
tenner. There are also a considerable num-
ber of spurious florins in circulation.
“Joss Stick”: The comparative respite
in the Chinese turmoil, and a consequent
improved demand for sandalwood, has con-
siderably bucked the little-heard-of Queens-
land trade in that romantic merchandise.
A few weeks ago two China-bound steamers
took some 150 tons of the stuff from Towns-
ville to the Flowery Land, most of it coming
from the main range inland. In China,
though some of it is used for making the
familiar boxes, most of the precious wood is
ground to powder and used as the main
ingredient in incense sticks for propitiating
the gods and the souls of ancestors. Sandal-
wood-getters are not distinguished for their
religious tendencies or respect for anyone’s
ancestors, but, as contributors to the pacifi-
cation of minor deities and the repose of
millions of departed souls, they have their
humble uses.
*!* * =S *
“R. Volt” : A “death” ray for military pur-
poses isn’t quite as fantastic as it seems. A
beam of the wave-length used for broadcast-
ing converts the ether into a conductor almost
as good as a copper wire. Two rays of
shorter wave-length could then be directed
along its path parallel to one another. Any-
thing getting between the two would tend to
complete the circuit, and if the power was
sufficient considerable damage might ensue.
If such a thing eventuates we may see future
armies carrying insulators along with their
gas-masks and other defensive impedimenta.
As for kings, Mussolinis and other objects of
anarchist attention, they will stir off their
rubber mats only at the peril of their lives.


II mi rmm him min
[British Bearings
That Give
Consistently Greater
SERVICE
rSn
BALL $ ROLLER
BEARINGS
&VGLANO
“ Specify them for Replacements ”
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors;
GARDNER, WAERNRCO.Pty.,Ltd.
d
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARDWARE
00., LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & 00., LTD..
BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
West Aus. Agents: Automotive —COVENTRY MOTOR
CO., LTD., PERTH. Industrial—FLO WEE,
DAVIES & JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
BUY BEARINGS
,-jp'To be V
Jgfsuxe of the'
yoriginal, look
for the name i
WEED >
on every
hook^«
Heavy Duty Vehicles
find WEED TYRE CHAINS almost an abso-
lute necessity. Trucks, Buses, Motor-Lorrys,
etc., plowing their way through deep soft
mud, treacherous sand or clay need the safe
positive traction that Weed Chains afford.
Weed Tyre Chains get right down to hard
surface—they grip and hold.
Weed Tyre Chains are made especially
rugged to withstand the severe requirements
of heavy vehicles of all types. They are
furnished for all tyres, whether pneumatic
or solid—single or dual.
Order from your dealer. Standard of
quality for over a quarter of a century.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
1500
TWO GREAT WRITERS
In the Famous Shilling Series of Bookstall Novels:
Arthur Wright and Steele Rudd
Steele Rudd’s Famous
Australian Novels.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
DAD IN POLITICS
DUNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
GRANDPA’S SELECTION
MEMOIRS OF CORPORAL KEELEY
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
ON EMU CREEK
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON OUR SELECTION
SANDY’S SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
THE BOOK OF DAN
THE DASHWOODS
THE OLD HOMESTEAD
THE POOR PARSON
THE RUDD FAMILY
Arthur Wright’s Sporting
Novels.
A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY
A GAME OF CHANCE
A ROGUE’S LUCK
A ROUGH PASSAGE
BOSS 0’ YEDDEN
FETTERED BY FATE
GAMBLER’S GOLD
IN THE LAST STRIDE
OVER THE ODDS
RUNG IN
TRE BREED HOLDS GOOD
THE OUTLAW’S DAUGHTER
THE SPORT FROM HOLLOW-LOG
FLAT
UNDER A CLOUD
WHEN NUGGETS GLISTENED
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER
Price 1/-; Posted 1/1-J-.
COMPLETE CATALOGUE, COMPRISING 150 TITLES, POST FREE.
Wlien ordering, please mention The Bulletin.
GETS AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The Book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and
Drawings with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
The Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/-; 4d. Postage.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
SYLCOT
CAMBRIC
HANDKERCHIEFS
for
MEN
HAVE MET WITH A WONDERFUL RESPONSE
in Great Britain. "That is why you now have the opportunity
of seeing for yourselves the excellence of their quality and
the attractiveness of their appearance.
/
m
X
HANDKERCHIEFS
MAY NOW BE OBTAINED FROM MOST
OF THE LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH
SI. 2-48
SYLCOT LTD.,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
London Office : 35. Basinghall Street.


A Written Guarantee with
Every
CatanacH Diamond Ring'
24,847 All-Plati-
num Octagonal
Cluster, close set
•Centre, set with
fine quality, double-
cut Brilliant Dia-
monds, from
£35.
24,889 Fashion-
able 7-Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum
Settings, £2O.
24,845 —All-Plati-
num Square Clus-
ter, set with fine
quality, double-cut
Brilliant Dia-
monds, from
£27/10/-
24,826—4 Fine
Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, £25.
Catanach’s written guarantee is an absolute safeguard against
inferior Diamonds.
BE SURE that the Engagement Ring is the best obtainable—buy
at Catanach’s, Melbourne’s Leading Diamond House.
Catalog post free on request. •
Corner Royai Arcade and Litde Collins Street,
MELBOURNE VICTORIA
24,850 —All-Plati-
num Solitaire
Ring, in variety
of designs, set
with fine Brilliant
Diamond, from
£3O.
24,855 — Dainty 6-
Stone Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Setting, set with
fine quality,
double-cut Brilli-
ant Diamonds,
from £lO/10/-
24,853—Dainty 6-
Stone Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Plati-
num Setting, set
with fine, double-
cut Brilliant Dia-
monds, from
£l2/10/-
24,829—22 Dia-
mond Cluster,
18ct. Gold and
Platinum Settings,
£2O.
Melbourne
Chatter
Dame Nellie Melba's concert at the Town
Hall for the Queen Victoria and Womens
Hospitals was an unqualified success. The
building was crowded, an enthusiastic audi-
ence flowing over into the choir gallery and
on to the platform, while the walls were
fringed with scores of late-comers who could
not find seats. In the forefront of the audi-
ence were Dol’d and Lady Somers, she wear-
ing a dull-gold coat over her gown; Sir
William Campion, Westralia’s cocked hat:
Irvine, C.J., and his lady; and Mayor and
Mayoress Morell. The diva, in good voice,
looked much younger than her years in the
softest of white satin hung from diamond
shoulder-straps, the low waist-line being
marked with onyx embellishment. From a
rope of diamonds dangled a large plaque of
twinklers; and a biasing tiara crowned the
Queen of Song. The posies and .emblems that
rewarded the singer made a great show. One
device, over six feet high, topped by a golden
crown, was a tribute from a returned soldier.
The supporting artists were pianist Lindley
Evans, of Sydney, and the promising young
basso, Arnold H. Matters, of Adelaide, and
the orchestra boasted two conductors, Fritz
Hart and Bernard Heinze. The instrumen-
talists’ accompaniment to Melba’s singing
of the “Ave Maria” from “Otello” was one
of the triumphs of the evening. Several
society buds sold programmes under the
supervision of Mrs. Hart and Mrs. George
Armstrong, among these maids being Sheila
Morell, in glistening lettuce-green; Wilma
Clarke, Phyllis Holmes Hunt and Joan
Clarke. The audience was not a dressy one
though seats cost up to five guineas. The
night being wintry few dared to shed wraps
and fur coats. The two hospitals will bene-
fit to the extent of something not far short
of £lOOO apiece.
Jubilee celebrations of the C. of E. Girls’
Grammar School, generally known by its old
name, Merton Hall, commenced with a
dance, organised by the Old Grammarians,
at St. Kilda Town Hall on Friday night.
The school’s colors, blue and gold, figured
extensively in the decorations, and blooms
of the same hues formed the presentation
bouquet to the president, Mrs. J. McMahon,
who welcomed the guests in a dignified gown
of black. Black was also the choice of
Miss Gilman Jones, the head-mistress, re-
lieved in this case by blue-and-black sequins,
and of Mrs. George Patterson. Hon. sec.
Bessie Williams had billows of black tulle
on a skirt of petunia hue, linked to a bodice
of black velvet. The dancers were mostly of
the younger set, amongst them Margaret
Gilruth, whose attire combined white georg-
ette, silver tissue and pink roses; Bessie
Cummings, in lime green; and Helen Green,
in buttercup yellow.
Mrs. Robert Knox served music and tea
at her Toorak home on Wednesday after-
noon. Firelight gleams played upon wintry
foliage and cactus dahlias in the reception-
room, the hostess herself suggesting the
falling of the leaf with ensemble attire of
buff-toned velvet with harmonising fur and
felt millinery. Greta Callow and Lennox
Brewer raised their voices in song to the
accompaniment of Ida Scott. Relatives of
the hostess present included Mrs. William
Knox, several Clarks, and Mrs. George Lan-
dale, whose gown of deep rose hue made
cheerful contrast in a throng mostly garbed
in black. Among the non-related guests were
Mayoi’ess Morell and Sheila.
Pat Wood’s decision to desert Geelong in
favor of Adelaide gave Gertrude and Alice
Grimwade, daughters of the Shepherd Grim-
wade couple, an opportunity to fill Kerri
Kerri with young people to bid him fare-
well. Dr. E. Chapman and his wife, Betty
Anderson, Joan Milne, Mollie Alexander,
Anita Parsons and all the nicest young
men of the district were mobilised for the
occasion.
Archbishop Mannix betook hmself to
Xavier College on Friday afternoon to lift
the lid off a two-days’ fair. Taking no risks .
with the weather, the organisers spread
their wares in the College Hall, and served
afternoon tea in the dining-room. The
chief engineers of the effort, Mrs. P.
McCauley, president, and Mrs. Clarence
Marriott and Mrs. Arthur Moore, joint hon.
secs., had no reason to be disappointed with
results. The aim of 'the organisers was to
add £2OOO to the fund for the erection of a
chapel to commemorate the patriotism of
old students who fell in the Great War.
Kathleen Herring crossed the ocean to
say “I will” to Rawdon Chomley, once of this
city and now in Brazil, the ceremony taking
place at St. John’s pro-Cathedral, Buenos
Ayres. The bride is the daughter of the late
Edmund Herring, of Maryborough. Her
mother and sister Stella, who went to South
America for the wedding, afterwards took
ship for England, with the intention of
sailing home this month.
The charm of green has evidently out-
weighed the superstitions attaching to the
verdant hue, for it is becoming popular for
wedding raiment. Jocelyn Hope Brett, who
married Dr. Ewen Ballantyne Tunbridge on
Thursday, had as background for her white
opalescent embroidered draperies and Limer-
ick-lace veil the lettuce-green chiffon velvet
apparel of two attendant ’maids.
Eileen Ray, eldest daughter of the late
W. C. Jennings, has signed an altar con-
tract at St. Aidan’s, Lockhart, with
Andrew J. Somerville, of Lockhart, whoso
late father. Inspector Somerville, was long
stationed in the Maitland district. The
bride held a cluster of pink roses against
a gown of beige georgette. Sister Mabel
attended in warm rose tunings.
The marriage of Anthony Prinseps and
the leading lady of his company, Margaret
Banncrman, caused but little flutter. Our
Marie Lolir’s former husband and his new
bride were entertained and congratulated
over teacups by members of the Austral
Salon.
Leon Gordon’s marriage to pretty young
Nancy Atkins, of Adelaide, was staged at
the Wesley Church, Lonsdale-street, with
an epilogue at the Windsor to which
numerous guests were bidden by the bride’s
parents. The leading lady played her role
in a simply designed long-sleeved white satin
gown, short of bodice and gathered of skirt,
bordered with tucks of white tulle through
which was glimpsed Limerick lace. Fifty
yards of white tulle with trails of orange
buds did service as veil and train, and the
bride held a couple of long-stemmed pink
roses. The attendant maids were the bride’s
sisters, Betsy and Joan, whose soft white
taffeta frocks, adorned with clusters and
trails of tiny chiffon roses of varying shades
of pink, were lined with mushroom pink
georgette. White felt hats with mother o'
pearl buckles were worn.
Tall Edie Urquhart, who was principal
attendant at the Chirnside-Andrew wedding,
is to be a June bride, the man of her choice
being Charlie McCardel.
The Live Art Society, which staged several
performances at the Playhouse last week,
is blessed with a most enthusiastic and
sincere membership. The ancient Indian
play “Sakuntala,” translated by Laurence
Binyon, was the principal offering of the
season, and two nights were devoted to Irish
plays. Painter A. D. Colquhoun and Alan
Harkness co-operated to give the produc-
tions appropriate scenery and dressing. Cos-
tunes that will be remembered are those of
Matali, the celestial charioteer in the Indian
play, whose trailing draperies of gold and
aureate helmet exactly suited the role; the
Wise Man, in the Yeats play “The Hour-
glass,” in his soutan of dark green and
scarlet cloak and cap, and the angel, whose
mantle of gold floated over a pale green
robe embroidered in gold and deep rose, and
who looked as if he had just stepped out of
a stained-glass window.
When the Tallis lady set sail for America
the Grosvenor Auxiliary of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, which she organised, was deprived
of its guiding
hand, and an-
other helms-
woman had to
he found. The
choice of the
auxiliary mem-
bers fell unani-
mously upon
M r s. W.
Rogers Thom-
s o n, whose
husb a n d is
well known
in both legal
and sporting
circles. Mrs.
T h o m s o n.
being too good-
natured to pro-
test effectively,
found herself
elected, almost
before she was
nominated,
and the auxiliary congratulated itself upon
having secured so energetic, genial and tact-
ful an administrator. The lady has had a
great deal of experience in charitable work,
and in war-time was a tower of strength to
various organisations that sought to provide
soldiers and their dependants with creature
comforts. Lafayette made the portrait.
Autumn foliage, spreading in hue from faded
green to crimson, and arranged in big brass,
bowls, climbed to the top of the brown drop-
curtain, and bordered the stage of the
Assembly Hall for the recital of works for
two pianos by Margaret Sutherland and
Mary Baillieu. Tall standard lamps, with
golden- and green-fringed shades, cast a
soft light over the players. Miss Suther-
land’s fair shingle appeared above a black
gown; her fellow-artist, a daughter of the
Clive ’ Ballieus, was clothed in water-lily
green tulle that ran to bunchy flounces.
Arrangements of the Bach Concerto in
C minor and the Mozart Sonata in D
demonstrated the degree of enrichment that
can be imparted to familiar solo composi-
tions by using two instruments and 20
fingers. The only thing lacking in a most
interesting and enjoyable evening was an
adequate audience.
Frances Lea has been caught by camera-
man .Tack Cato in a meditative mood, but
she doesn’t always look so cryptic. Nature
endowed the young lady with a mezzo-
soprano voice
ot' pleasing
qnality, and
she is a favo-
rite on the con-
cert. platform
Tralford Fos-
ter took her in
hand when she
was 17, and she
pleased him
by winning
his scholar-
s h i p. She
essayed the
part of Dol-
ores in a re-
cent amateur
production of
“F lor odor a”
with such suc-
cess that she
was embold-
ened to think
of singing as a
vocation ; 3LO lias sent her dulcet strains far
and wide, and encouragement has come from
other sources. A cousin, Frances Leigh, has
gained success in musical comedy in the Cold
Country, but Miss Lea reckons that there’s
no lack of opportunities in Australia.
Musical Melbourne is enamored of the
vista opened up by the discovery that the
pianoforte is not limited to solo or duet
effects, but can accommodate many pairs of
hands on a single keyboard and still more
on a number of keyboards in operation
together. Mrs. H. E. Spry, professionally
known as Violet Ewart, engineered a recent
music-club programme that included a piano-
forte quintette by Dohnanyi and a quartette
by Gabriel Faure. Marjorie Hatchard sang
Jongen’s “Calmes aux quais deserts,the
accompaniment of which is scored for piano-
forte and four instruments of the viol,
tribe, and the soprano and her accompanists
had to repeat the item before the audience
was satisfied.
Edith Smart is once again managing a
show of the Victorian Artists’ Society, the
autumn exhibition, which was launched by
medical knight James Barrett. President
Douglas Richardson did the honors, assisted
by his wife, best known in art circles as
sculptor Margaret Baskerville. Mrs. Farmer,
Mrs. Paul Montfort. of miniature fame;
Clara Barrett, Mrs. H. L. Wilkinson, whose
portrait by Colin Colahan was an exhibit;
Muriel Campbell, Aileen Dent and Margaret
Cumming were amongst those who had a
first glimpse of the pictures.
The Victorian Artists’ Society’s conver-
sazione on Thursday night was a great
gathering of painters, buddiug and other-
wise, and the guests were entertained very
pleasantly by students of the Albert-street
Con. Muriel Campbell’s violin and the
voices of Mary Kingston, Victoria Wilson,
Dawn Harding and Millieent Osmond were
heard, Ida Scott being at the keyboard.
Afterwards there was chatter and coffee.
Chief among last week’s flock of painters’
one-man shows was that of pictures by the
late E. C. Officer. According to Dr. R. R.
Stawell, who opened the exhibition, Officer’s
work in 1903 ushered in a new and brighter
school of Australian landscape painting.
The artist was a student of the late Fred
McCubbin at the National Gallery, and
later went to Paris. Knight John Longstaff,
Rupert Bunny, the Maudsley and Miller
ladies and Mrs. Donald Mackinnon were
amongst the private-view throng.
The Lyceum Club’s lion at its last meet-
ing was Russell Grimwade, who supple-
mented an interesting talk about his travels
with cinema films and lantern slides. That
Australia has not got a monopoly of the
gum-tree was proved by glimpses of the
transported article in Spain, the south of
France, Sicily and Algiers.
Prof. Wilkinson, of the Uni, who lias been
endeavoring to instil the politeness of kings
into the dental students by locking the door
upon late arrivals, found the tables turned
upon himself one day last week, when he
was behind time, and there was no lecture
that morning; fines were imposed all round.
Evidently the undergrads are still infected
with the exuberance of Commem. week, dur-
ing which period another prof, was the butt
of a practical joke. Margaret Bannerman
had been invited to hand over the sports
trophies, and everyone was anxiously
awaiting her arrival. At last came a fair
and charmingly-frocked lady, who was intro-
duced to one of the most polished and
dignified of dons as Miss Bannerman, and
welcomed with courtly grace. But a little
later the real Margaret arrived, and a mas-
culine impersonator was found to have
faded discreetly from the scene.
There was a great roll-up of the Guthrie
clan recently to congratulate the head of the
house on reaching his 05th milestone. Bat-
man had only founded this city two years
when Thomas Guthrie stepped ashore, and
he has watched Melbourne grow from a
struggling collection of daub huts to the
fine city of to-day. Since retiring from busi-
ness he has lived at South Yarra with his
daughter Ella as his companion. His son
James is one of Vic.'s six repreentatives* in
the Federal Senate.
A Chatterer had her first glimpse of
Ballarat the other day, and lias not yet got
over her admiration for the folk who laid,out
the city and the people who have so faith-
fully carried out the intentions of the foun-
ders. A wonderfully beautiful lake, a regular
inland sea. has been evolved from a swamp,
and the long, narrow gardens are a dream of
trim beauty with their smooth lawns inter-
spersed with beds of flowers of a single color
and variety. The orderliness and fitness of
things seem even to have influenced the trees
and the shrubs, which turn to autumn tones
synchronously—no slouch of a word that, as
Mark Twain remarked of another long-un.
Ballarat’s famous tuber begonias are just now
at their best in the glass-houses, and never
were seen more vivid yellows, reds and pinks.
The gardens centre upon the city's pride, the
world-famous group of statuary “The Flight
from Pompeii,” which is housed in a pretty
pavilion. That the younger generation has
inherited the civic traditions is evidenced by
the fine memorial avenue from the Arch of
Victory, which runs for several miles and is
kept in order by the girls of the Lucas fac-
tory. A remembrance of the gold-glamor m
which the city had its birth is the park and
monument dedicated to those who fell at the
Eureka Stockade in 1854.
On Thursday afternoon Lord Somers held,
in the drawing-room of Government
House, a meeting of citizens likely to be
interested in the mission of Bishop Cham-
bers, of Tanganyika, who wants £lO,OOO
to provide schools, hospitals and other
amenities in the former German colony.
Already 60 people have offered to go out
and help the Government of Tanganyika and
the church in their formidable task.
Our Professor of Philosophy, Boyce Gib-
son, is sunning himself in the art centres of
Italy. After leaving Florence he intends
devoting the remainder of his holiday year
to research work with Prof. Hasseri at Frei-
burg in Germany, where his family is being
educated.
Lady Stonhaven will be a passenger for
Blighty in the Naldera, but she will return
in good time for the Cup festivities.
Pearl Sheldon, of Sydney, has a show of
water-colors in Margaret Mac Lean’s studio.
It’s a cosmopolitan collection, the painter hav-
ing travelled a great deal, but she includes,
as in honor bound, some glimpses of the one
and only Harbor. Miss Sheldon has an
especially deft hand with interiors, one of
her best offerings of this sort being a peep
into the studio of Lister Lister.
Though Mrs. Glencross got beaten in the
race for the Brighton seat, she made a pretty
close finish of .it and proved herself a
formidable campaigner. She has received
many congratulations on her plucky fight
against big odds.'
At the comparatively early age of 63 Lee
Murray answered the last call in England,
where he was engaged in electrical research.
Mr. Murray, who was the second son of tin'
late K. E. Murray, of this city, pursued his
profession both here and in Sydney, and
later went to a South African post, which
was relinquished for greater opportunities
in the Cold Country.
Warrawee, with its mile of terraced rose
gardens and many other undeniable attrac-
tions, s.eems unable to retain a permanent
hold on its possessor’s affections. The
Butter Clarkes built it, and in their time this
stately Toorak home boasted acres of glass-
houses and was a sort of horticulturists’
paradise ; later, during the reign of the Charlie
Moore couple, it became a setting for social
activities. Now Mrs. L. M. Macpherson, the
latest chatelaine, has decided that her country
home is preferable, and Warrawee passes
into the hands of one of the Darlings, who
paid, it is said, something like £20,000 to
become its overlord.
The Woman’s Mirror, The Bulletin’s
little sister, established three years ago,
last week passed the 130.000 mark in circu-
lation. And Tiie Bulletin has had some-
thing of a record, too. More new names were
added to the subscribers’ lists in April than in
any previous month in the paper's recorded
history—and that goes well back into last
century.


JEWELLED LEVER
WRIST WATCHES
NO BETTER VALUE OBTAINABLE.
30/-
POST
FREE
STRONG
ACCURATE
RELIABLE
, <'
//
mj
FULLY
GUARANTEED
30/-
POST
FREE
8673. —Mini’s Wristlet Watch, fitted with reliable and accurate lever move-
ment. Fully jewelled. Stout dust- and damp-proof case. Luminous hands
and figures. Exceptional value at 30/-
£2
POST
FREE
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
liM +'k \9rs\
lllllililllii
tn
TRONG
ILVER CASES
£2
POST
FREE
B667.—Man's Wristlet Watch, fitted with jewelled lever movement. Guaran-
teed accurate and reliable timekeeper. Luminous hands and figures. An ideal
watch for hard wear. Wide leather strap, with strong silver buckle, £2/10/-
NEVER has the firm been able to offer such a large
and varied range of Wristlet Watches. The selec-
tion includes many new and distinctive designs, and it
can be confidently stated that nothing of finer quality
and value could be obtained anywhere in the Com-
monwealth. Mail inquiries receive prompt attention.
Fully Illustrated Catalogue Post Free to any address.
m.
Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. SAUNDERS’
GENT.’S PRESENTS
E 3
m
MSB
[S3
ea
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Strap Watch, Gold-filled Elgin Lever,
Luminous Dial,
£7/10/-
With Plain Dial, £6/10 /•
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold,
Bloodstone Signet
-Ring,
35/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Links,
Engraved,
Minin
! !
li
i
tii jt.tm
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s 10-year Gold-filled
Imperial Lever,
£2/107-
Sterling Silver, £2 /10 /-
GUARANTEED.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Oct. Gold
Shield Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
V,
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Links,
25/-
Heavier, £2.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Curb Albert,
£5/10/-
Lighter, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
ALL ORDERS BY MAIL RECEIVE OUR SPECIAL ATTENTION
AND PROMPT DESPATCH.
WE PAY POSTAGE. : : WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Wati
Worthy alike
of your Pride
and your Trust
Such a masterpiece of craftsmanship is the wafer-like,
modern Elgin.
Whether wristlet or vest-pocket variety, you never
have reason to question their accuracy, and none,
however discriminating, will ever challenge such out-
standing beauty of design.
Elgin watches are true alike to the time-minute and
the style-minute.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<§>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
°[hi? C Jrade Mark Wffiw in the Watch Care
fs
Wear the
best
Underwear
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear for
Women, Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men and £ Hose
and Socks for Children.
TO protect your health you must wear
good underwear next the skin. But
you want the best underwear, made in
England from pure wool, by skilled British
labour. Wolsey, of course! Wolsey Pure
Wool Underwear has won a reputation for
cleanliness, pureness and thorough good-
ness. With Wolsey on you can go from
one temperature into another without
catching cold. The fine healthy bodily-
glow which it sets up is a continual protection.
Wolsey is unshrinkable and will not lose its
shape in washing. Save yourself, save your
money—wear Wolsey. Look for the Wolsey
Head Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
C.F.H. I
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO Directors:
Issued Capital 40 iri John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
Paid-UD Canital W> G> Woo( te e r, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
j P tal *• •_ <30,234 R. g. jj. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
A^Joao
"WH °1
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Charfeslleidsiecfc
EBIHi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiariesllcidsieot
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydnsy.
Gable Address —
“ Mum," Sydney .
Wire accommodation.
Wentwoi
tn
HOTEL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 30/-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached !
the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
vrir
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.16 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30. 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. liing M36C6.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Still the jumper reigns, and the high-necked
plain white silk is particularly smart with
the tailored sports suit. One of wavy pink-
nnd-white stripes—like an old-fashioned
sugar-stick—was on a girl just new from
lioiid.on at a Sydney art show last week.
She wore it in conjunction with an almond-
green marocain coat and skirt, the coat
lined with the pink and white. Hips are
once more worn, this girl reports, and belts
repose peacefully above them. This means
that woman must be, if anything, more
slender about the torso—or Corso, as the
sah>s-lady who tried to sell the Girl in the
Flat Opposite a rubber corset called it.
Trains are sweeping in. In the new-comer’s
trunk came an evening dress in palest lilac
satin cut with a long *tail-like train that
floats away from tin* waist-line; and another
of gold lace and lam-5, the skirt draped into
a, graceful bow, falling thence into a beau-
tifully-composed train towards the back of
the left hip. Blue, from the merely misty
to sapphire, is, if any one color can claim
precedence, Fashion’s hue of the season.
Bathurst-street held more novelty, if not
more beauty, than Martin-place last Friday
when the old-established Hospital Saturday
collection raged up and down tin; city high-
ways. The belles of Martin-place were a
group of girl collectors from one of the
banks, dressed appropriately enough in
checks: they were the brightest thing this
Letter met in its mooch among the crowds.
Bathurst-street wore the ancient smell, but
a different dress. Here were gay booths
and pretty vendors, some fascinating tiny
daughters of China and Greece among them.
From here the Aerial Derby was flown, and
here Matron F. Lappcr presided over a hos-
pital run by the medical students. Patients,
usually unwilling, were herded into this en-
closure, and most were willing to pay a
larger fee to escape an operation than ro
undergo it. Anaesthetic pumped from a
bowser soothed the patient while appendixes
that turned into plump sausages were suc-
cessfully removed. A Viking vessel, manned
by Youth and Beauty, moored in Bathurst-
street waters and unloaded a cargo of
treasure from Esthonia.
Sir Hugh Poynter, in a brisk grey suit,
above which his almost black eyes looked
as crisply alert as a frosty morning, opened
the Women Painters’ Show last week. He
told the brush-and-canvas sisterhood that
lie thought they sold their wares at a cut
rate, and thereby warmed the cockles of their
Hearts; for Sir Hugh, whose father and
ancestor, Burne Jones, were in the painting
line, should be able on sight to assess
the value per square inch of any picture.
President of the society Ethel Stephens and
little George Taylor’s tall widow, the latter
impressive in black chenille-embossed chif-
fons, supported the lion in the damsels’ den,
and afterwards dropped a verbal curtsey.
There was a great rally of women
artists and their friends, and a strong ad-
diction to capes was noticeable. A woman
tucked her green one under her left arm
in true toreador style, but, lacking a bull
worthy of her free right arm, intently
studied a method of attack on Mabel Bar-
ling’s lions and zebras. Mrs. Hedley
Parsons was in a flat sort of brown hat
that looked as though the winds of Ivia.na
had battered freely thereon while she painted
her little masterpiece, “The Blowhole.”
Beauty of sun and movement of air and
sea sweep out of this canvas, and grip the
onlooker with a nostalgia for long lazy
days on a headland by the sea. A golden
girl by Mary Edwards drew much atten-
tion, and the texture of the frock and the
light on the hair are a marvel of color work.
Hetty Dymock was there, very enthusiastic
over the breezy work of Constance Moser
and a Maoriland lass named Alice Whyte.
Two youthful secretaries, Vivie Andrews
and R. Macdonald, are in charge of the
exhibition, which already has broken out in
a mild red rash.
A complete outfit for sport of every de-
nomination was displayed at the Univer-
sity Sports Union melee on Friday night.
This dance is one of the most popular
of the annual rallies. Mon who run, ride,
row, play cricket or juggle with tennis-
and hockey-sticks, be they first-year men or
Old Indomitables, foregather, under the
bravely-floating pennants that whisper of
victories past in the particular sport of
their desires. Over 600 men and girls kept
the Ambassadors’ orchestra handing out
encores, and at supper-time nearly blew
off the roof in a unanimous sound that might
have been mistaken for singing but was
more probably a battle-cry. Vernon Treatt,
president of the union, had the legend
S.U.S.U. blazoned in gold above his table.
With him were the Charles Hills, her ninons
blue and mauve like a sunset cloud. Rita
Cullen Ward wore her ankle-length black
velvets banded in geranium red, a gaze-
attracting combination. Mrs. G. V. Portus,
an energetic committee member, was in green
and gold. Shirley Bavin and Morna Mac-
Cormick and Betty Playfair were among the
dancers. Lily and Mary Kemp, from far-
away Glasgow, brought their cold-climate
complexions in company with orchid-and-
gold frocking. The naval Brian Stevensons,
from Flinders Base, were in Mrs. Potts’s
party. White georgettes closely patterned
in gold—the dress she had worn in London
to visit the Queen —shed their lustre about
this sailor’s wife. Margery Potts wore lace,
blonde as to complexion; and Cecile Waley
flashed georgettes as red as sealing-wax.
Eighteen years ago a woman who loved
books, and had herself known the isolation
and the long uneventful days of the Out-
back, planned the Bush Book Club. Last
Friday, at the yearly meeting in the King’s
Hall, the report proudly announced that no
fewer than 2252 addresses are on the club
list. During the year just ended nearly
13,000 volumes were circulated, not to men-
tion magazines and papers. Lady de Chair
presided at the council, and knights Jim
Fairfax and Mungo MacCallum were smiled
upon equally and in the same degree by
Irene Vanbrugh, all three urging the neces-
sity of increasing the good work already
done by the club. But not even the S. M.
Herald magnate put forward a plan to
multiply the sinews of war, which treasurer
Barbara Knox whispered were down to £43.
It was left to the same lady to report that
two youthful Bush Bookers, Helen Stephen
and Molly Street, were endeavoring to swell
the bank balance by an outburst of song
and dance at the King’s Hall on July 10
and 11.
Lady Mary Carlisles and many a piquant
Kitty Bellairs floated up and down the ways
of the Ambassadors on a night last week
when the May time Ball was in full bloom.
Powdered head-dresses and coyly patched
cheeks and chins, carried with sometbing of
the sparkle of the ladies who fluttered their
hour in the famous pump-room at Bath, made
the onlooker long for a Beau Brummel to
marshal the gathering and proclaim the
Queen of Beauty. But even Beau Brummel
would have found that task a hard one, for
beauty was everywhere. It took the vice-
regal by storm as they entered the ball-
room between a guard of honor of old-time
belles, and shone about every table in the
white and gilt room. President of the dance
May Matchett wore white, georgette fluffy
with tiny frills of black val. lace, and Elaine
de Chair looked bonny in rosy velvets with
spready skirts of tulle ■ and silver lace. A
transformed Lady de Chair smiled out under
a powdered wig, whose curls she clasped with
a diamond buckle. Below this she flew her
favorite lorelei greens and golds. The blonde
Mrs. Ellis Feilding-Jones mixed black velvet
and pink chiffon. Mrs. Norman Bladen, the
secretary of the Sydney Hospital Auxiliary,
whose members arranged the dance, supported
the dignity of her white locks with rustling
black moires, and Mrs. Arthur Winn, presi-
dent of the Auxiliary, wore leaf-green georg-
ettes sparkling with a frost of crystal. Joan
Norton was one of the night’s best frockers.
She wore more rhinestones than any Rhine
maiden ever possessed, and she scattered
them broadcast over velvets pink as a rose,
and flashed them in a necklet that looked like
prisoned wafer.
The Personality dance was another of the
night’s features. Sydney’s recognised women
leaders —society, business and artistic —
were invited to help, and in response thereto
women such as Mrs. Sep Levy, Mary Craven
(of Berlei corsets —Jo O’Keefe, of David
Jones’s, was to have been there, too, but
at the last minute couldn’t) and Matron
Kellett (Sydney Hospital) were among those
who took the floor in this dance. Others
were Mrs. Maple Brown, outstanding as a
country hostess; Ruth Beale ; flying-girl
Evelyn Follett; Myra Dempsey and Gladys
Moncrieff. The State Exes., in full vice-
regal upholstery, supplied the Court atmo-
sphere.
Old boys of Waverley Christian Brothers’
College answered the call and turned out
in a cold night breeze to support the bur-
sary fund. The Ambassadors was the scene
of direct action, and they who pitted their
strength and endurance against waves of
jazz made the going willing. Girls as pretty
as magazine-cover heroines kept the sturdy-
young men company, and much taffeta
and: the frills beloved of flappers were a
dominant note in the evening’s frocking.
President of the Union J. J. O’Brien and
liis wife did the honors at the official table,
where representatives from other schools
were entertained, and where among the
honored sat Cyril Towers and Walter
Meagher, two just-returned Waratahs.
Enid Gerber, in spring-like greens, and
Linda Maguey, whose black moires were
lightened by a hem of silver lace like a
line of hoar frost, were among the evening’s
attractions.
Last week the Women Painters staged a
party to the glory of just-returned organist
Lilian Frost, who turned up a study in
golden browns, her bufE costume warmed by
cosy furs of brunette complexion topped by
a golden-brown velour hat. Flautist John
Leinmone’s wife welcomed the unobtrusive
but far-famed guest, and Mrs. Taylor hung
the lady about with a garland of fair words.
Music and song arranged by Lily Juncker
produced a hailstorm of applause.
One gift amongst the avalanche that fell
upon Gladys Moncrieff on her opening night
at the St. James will remain a prized posses-
sion. It is a “laurel” wreath made of
gilded gum-leaves, each leaf bearing in black
letters the name of a performance in which
Gladys lias appeared; and the blue silk
ribbons attached are impressed (six of them
running in order) with the heartfelt good
wishes of Nellie Stewart. Still another
noteworthy gift came from the Queensland
Tourist Bureau. It was a basket of cus‘
tard apples—sweet Queensland fruit for a
sweet Queensland singer.
Kathleen Brunsdon Fletcher, youngest
daughter of the S. M. Herald’s editor,
should be a lucky bride. Not only her veil
but her train as well was an heirloom from
the scented wardrobe of family friends. The
wedding garment was short in moderation
and of white chiffon flecked with silver,
worn with the mellow lace veil and a snowy
nimbus of tulle. The chapel of Shore Gram-
mar provided the setting and Neville Mil-
ford Goddard the ring. Sisters Thelma and
Jean ’maided in pale pink georgettes topped
by pink felt hats. Wilga, the Ivirribilli home
of the bridegroom’s people, spread the loaves
and fishes.
The .T. A. Murdochs have had a wedding
in the family, and daughter Peggy is Mrs.
C. R. Gant, of Mosman. White chiffon
splashed with rhinestones and a snowdrift
of tulle and Brussels lace were cunningly
mixed in the attractive bride’s outfit. A
trailing armlet of roses that sprang from a
cluster of lilies of the valley was a fragrant
embellishment. Faintly-blushing velvets,
silky and supple, were worn by the two
’maids, Etta Murdoch and Nell Holden, who
followed the bride up the aisle of a St.
Stephen’s that was fragrant with tuberose
and gladiolus. The decorations at the
Wentworth, too. where the toasts were hon-
ored, deserve honorable mention, a peal of
bells in white and pink blossom ringing the
changes from the usual array of pedestal
baskets. Colonel Murdoch and his wife pre-
sided over the festive deocli ail doris, she in
black lace covered by a rose and black-beaded
cape.
Herewith Knight Arthur Rickard’s lady,
who is a pillar of strength to the Barnardo
Homes and to any charity committee lucky
enough to secure her aid. The successful
hall to help the Deaf and Dumb and Blind
Institution at Darlington numbered her
amo n g its
vice-presidents.
This ball
chose the
Palais Royal
for its scene of
action the
Moore Park
rendezvous
was that night
opening
its doors for
the first time
this season.
The new deco-
rations are of
a dazzling and
gaudy splen-
dor, and the
Carnival spirit
was height-
ened by bunch-
es of girls in
futuristic wigs
who bobbed
gaily among the dancing 600 and sold bal-
loons of every color. George Portus had
been crowned King of the Chocolate Wheels,
but, being sensitive to the communism of
the times, he was satisfied when given half
a crown.
His Ex. the State Governor is setting a
good example in his appreciation of Allan
Wilkie’s effort to make Shakspeare go in
the suburbs; he was at the Newtown
Majestic again last Saturday, with Chief
Justice Street and University Chancellor
Cullen, each with his lady to keep him
company.
The Crown-street Women’s Hospital has
its regular customers in spite of Marie
Stopes. Not all the women patients go into
the hospital when the new infant is ex-
pected ; the mother who produced her
eleventh the other day did it under the
auspices of nurses from the hospital who
always come to her own home. She is not
the hospital’s record mother by any means ;
Mrs. Eccles has provided 19 of the 27,000
babies the hospital has helped into the
world.
One of the newest and youngest ring-
flashers is Peggy Simpson, daughter of Mrs.
Macneil Simpson and grand-daughter of the
late A. E. Jaques, of the old law firm, and
a grand-niece of the late Justice Simpson.
Her young man is Walter Dalton, a son of
Mrs. Gerald Dalton, of Sydney, and grand-
son of the late Edward Butler, Q.C. —
which almost forgotten tag shows that that
famous lawyer lived in Good Queen
Victoria’s day.
This is Billy Jackson, the typical present-
day Undergrad in “The Temple on the Hill,"
the mask
which is the
strong piece
of the Page-
ant at present
filling the
Great Hall of
the Uni. In
everyday life
he is Ralph
Shiress a n d
pursues law.
As he is the
only male with
a speaking
part in the
whole mask
he’s an im-
portant per-
son of the
week. He and
Ailsa Cullen,
who is the
dashing Post-
il ac, the
student of the future,, sustain a quarter of
the blank-verse dialogue which Le Gay
Brereton and a symposium of academic poet-
asters have put into the 40 pages of words.
Ralph Shiress is a leading light of the
S.U.D.S. and was a charming Mirabel in its
production of “The Why of the World.”
May Moore made the picture.
All the world knows that Moiseiwitsch
and his wife, who was South Australian vio-
linist Daisy Kennedy, are divorced, and that
Daisy is now the wife of John Drinkwater.
poet and playwright. But Moiseiwitsch paid
his former wife a pretty compliment the
other night when a Sydney cousin of Daisy
Kennedy’s asked after the children of the
marriage, Sandra and Titania. “They live
always,” lie answered, “with their mother
and are therefore well and happy—Daisy is
one of the best mothers in the world.”
This very morning, at the Ambassadors,
ardent members of the Country Women’s
Association are in earnest conclave over the
year’s Extra Chukka Ball during Polo
Week.. The vice-res. will be present, and no
novelties except the polo song-books will be
peddled. Last year the £420 profits were
evenly split between Bonalbo Rest Home, in
the North Coast mountains, and a maternity
home at Yenda, the soldier settlement in the
Riverina. By these balls —-the first was in
1923—£3566 has been raised for the direct
benefit of women and children out back.
The tennis girl of the future is likely to
appear on the courts in trousers; delectable
sets have been shown in Puritan grey,
shagreen and gazelle at the Exhibition of
British Artificial Silk in London. Pretty
actresses were the mannequins, and on them
the silk goods lost none of their charm.
The metallic lustre is gone from these goods,
which now have the dull appearance and soft
texture of real silk.
On Saturday, May 5, half of Sydney
promises to set out on a picnic. This is a
new idea in aid of the Hospital Saturday
fund, and the wife of Minister for Lands R. T.
Ball is the organiser. Palm Beach, Ivatoom-
ba or Wollongong will be chosen as the
rendezvous, the car-owners will pay for the
petrol, the passengers will pay for their
fares, and the fares will then be handed over
to the fund. Car-owners who wish to help
should ring Mrs. R. T. Ball—Petersham 536.
JFrom “A.G.M.,” back in London:—
The French Riviera, by reason of noise, local
discourtesy, high prices and the discovery that it is
not so health-giving as popular opinion decreed, is
losing much of its attraction. The food in the whole
south of France is notoriously lacking in nourish-
ment, as very little is raised locally, and the fish
of the tideless Mediterranean is very poor. For all
that, many Australians still patronise the Cote d’
Azur. Thomas Hughes and his lady are at the Hotel
Metropole, Monte Carlo; a hostelry much patronised
by theatrical stars. Mrs. Massey, widow of the
Maoriland Priminister, and her daughter are at the
same hotel. Mr. and Mrs. Westbrook, who bought
Hugh Mclntosh’s house on Bellevue Hill, have spent
the winter at the Alhambra Hotel, Cimiez, with
their children. Mr. Westbrook’s health is slowly
improving, E. J. Carroll and party patronised the
magnificent Winter Palace at Cimiez, which is one
of the best-managed hotels in Europe, and where
even the humblest lackey does not accept tips!
Thirteen seems a lucky number to Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Henville, of Kensington,
who celebrated their 64th wedding anni-
versary the other day. They had 13 chil-
dren, there has not been a death amongst
them, and they are all married. The old
gentleman is 87, his wife five years younger.


A VOYAGE to Europe by the Orient
Line is a holiday full of interest and
variety.
After leaving Australia the liners go
by way of Colombo, Suez, Port Said,
Naples, Toulon and Gibraltar —places
which invariably prove attractive to the
visitor.
The beautifully appointed public rooms
on these liners together with their
spacious decks for recreation and
exercise and the comfortable cabin
accommodation, ensure the passenger a
very enjoyable voyage.
The First Saloon fares from Sydney to
London range from £9B to £134 single,
and from £172 to £233 return.
ORIENT LINE
2-4-6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia.
Amusements.
JF M P I II E T H E A T It E,
““ Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.1 u.
An Airy Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Violet Elliott, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6." Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
SIDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J, C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
PRINCESS CHARMING.
ROYAL : ROOKERY NOOK.
CRITERION:
THE NOTORIOUS MRS. EBRSMITH.
PALACE : WHISPERING WIRES.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivcli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
The greatest motion picture programme in the
History of the Screen.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
THE CIRCUS.
ALSO
METROPOLIS,
A U.F.A. Production.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays ot
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn. Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
J C. WI L L l A MSO N, LTD..
' MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MARGARET BANNERMAN CO. in
OUR BETTERS.
KING’S THEATRE :
GETTING MARRIED.
A
’I 1 II E N EU. M TIIEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MAY 12.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor Manager
PERCY HUTCHISON
In the Hilarious Three-act Comedy,
THE LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
Amusements.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THE A THE,
MELBOURNE.
MARY PICKFORD’S LAST PICTURE.
MY BEST GIRL.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE RICH
in
THE DESERT WOMAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs n know.
«GKEY
HAIIS.
WOULD
SPOIL
IT#
\
■CQ&
>c\C
<vW c
\" v
cV e
SCC:$ CC :
\>V t
vV c
\\ e r
9«V
tfeVfV ,/
A''' lrt va?' ,s
PM
REMOVES THE GREY
WAINUT
STAIW
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Tiie big social event of last week was the
Naval and Military dance at the Troca-
dero. The Goodwins and Colonel Campbell
and his wife were there, arid four debs,
were presented—Royale Journeaux, in white-
tucked tulle, early Victorian and ankle-
length, with a posy of pink rosebuds; Betty
Carter, in a French frock of cream satin;
Audrey Tooth, in white mariette and silver;
and Joyce Jennings, in ivory taffetas. Lady
Goodwin wore platinum satin with insets
of grey georgette. Mrs. E. S. Mutton, wear-
ing black and silver, handed Lady Goodwin
a bunch of roses and fern. The Countess
di San Marzano was in shell-pink, and
pretty Mrs. Campbell chose tomato-red velvet
enriched with gold lace. In the middle of
the floor was a flag-draped platform which
bore a 20-li.p. monoplane, built in Brisbane
and flown at Eagle Farm. Oriental lanterns
and pennants hung overhead, and large pun-
kahs were draped in deep blue and outlined
in pink roses. The Governor’s special alcove
was festooned with the Union Jack and Aus-
tralian ensigns arranged as a lounge with
carpets, easy chairs arid silver vases of
roses. A model of the Renown, outlined in
electric light and equipped with tiny search-
lights, was on the orchestral platform. The
naval alcoves were marked off with blue
anchors and .enshrined such relics as the
port and starboard lights of the Emden
and the binnacle of the first warship to visit
Queensland. The porch was fitted up as a
dug-out, with French war-maps on the table
and other realistic touches, and the vesti-
bule was guarded by a British 18-pounder.
Nellie Bramley’s opening night in “Beware
of Widows” attracted a fashionable audi-
ence that included the Cadell-Garricks, the
Herrings, Mrs. C. E. Sligo, and Professor
and Mrs. Goddard. During the week-end
Mrs. M. Forrest had a party for the popular
actress at her flat. Miss Bramley wore
saxe-blue and ivory crepe de Chine, with
saxe-blue hat. Among the guests were
Mrs. M. L. Reading and Tessa, Alice Gore-
Jones and Mrs. Vivian McCulloch.
George Sampson’s very fine orchestral con-
cert at the Exhibition Hall happened on the
same evening, unfortunately for the chances
of securing an adequate audience. Tschai-
kowsky’s “Pathetique” was one of the chief
works of the evening; Percy Grainger sup-
plying some of the lighter themes.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Lady Campion, in tiers of black georgette
plisse flounces, launched the Ladies’ Golf
Club’s season at the South Perth links. Presi-
dent Mrs. Evans in smart blue checks made
a neat speech and Mrs. Arthur Hardwick
won the nine-hole competition. Tea tables
w’ere spread in the club house. Mildred
McDougall wore a mulberry jumper suit,
Mrs. Stowe cigar-brown and beige, and Mrs.
Trouchet plumbago and white stripes. Mrs.
Pelloe, Mrs. Lovell and Mollie Ross looked
summery in cream.
Old-world gowns were unfolded from layers
of tissue paper and lavender satchets for the
Historical Society’s meeting. Mrs. James
Cowan in a tartan dress and a bonnet
adorned with poppies and daisies read a
paper on customs and fashions in this State
during the last 100 years. A bevy of
demure ■ maidens sat with her in all the
dignity of crinolines and 19in. waists, sorely
strained hooks and eyes being hidden by
shawls. The fichu and the old-time fan
were also resurrected. Grace Gavan Duffy
wore her mother’s wedding gown of white
brocade and Flora Lewis sported a white
wig and a hooped-skirt dress of pink satin.
The affair was a sort of dress rehearsal for
the society’s ball, to be held at the end of the
month, when costumes o‘f the 1829 to 1910
vogues will be worn.
Captain V. C. Seeombe has given a dia-
mond ring to Dot, second daughter of Mrs.
E. -T. Ilayes, of Adelaide Terrace, and Joan
Good flashes a similar trinket, the gift of
Reg. Meagher, who soared -by ’plane from
Carnarvon to slip it on her finger.
This is Airs. Cecil Andrews, wife of the
Director of Education of this State, who for
many years has been one of our most ener-
getic social workers. She is a sturdy
pillar of the
Forrest River
Mission and
die Ministering
C h i 1 d r e n’s
League, presi-
dent of the
M o t li e r s’
Union for
Perth diocese
and president
of the after-
care commit-
tee of the
W o m e n’s
Immigration
A u x i 1 i a ry
Council. New-
comers from
oversea have
n o stauncher
friend. She
assists i nex
p e r i e n c e d
group settlers
with their shopping, gives wise advice about
babies’ health, and in every way possible
cheers and encourages lonely strangers.
Mrs. Paton arranged a musical afternoon
at the Repertory Club. She wore a black
georgette and lace over ..shell pink, and her
pianoforte solos and accompaniments were
star features. Beth Johnston, Florence
Besley and Le Ray-Meyer sang and Jessie
McGregor recited. Loyda Haywood wore a
sleeveless waistcoat of cinnamon crepe over
a fawn jumper, and Dorothy Bird covered a
powder-blue frock with a rose beige coat.
Sailed by the Koolinda for Port Hedland,
Michael Terry and a party, intent upon
gathering material for another book in the
northern and central parts of the continent
An engineer, a botanist and a mining expert
will interpret the young man’s discoveries
to him, and the party will travel in six-
wheeled tractors.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The last of a long line of annual con-
ferences held in the Speck this season was
that of the Federal Council of the Australian
Journalists’ Association. The members have
been dined at Hadley’s and taken trips to
Ferntree and the Huon. The weather broke
up towards the end of the visit and rather
spoilt the finale, but the first few days were
typical of the lovely Tasmanian autumn.
The O’Grady was present at the Uni.
Commemoration, when the platform of the
Town Hall presented an awesome array of
high foreheads that loomed above academical
robes and hoods, and all the pomp and
panoply of learning. The proceedings were
quite orderly, and 28 students held out a
thankful hand for sheepskins. His Exds
speech was short and to the point.
Some musical enthusiasts have conceived
the idea of forming a gramophone society to
study the works of the great composers,
especially symphonies and orchestral scores.
The first concert, at the Mayor’s court-room,
gave promise of an interesting series. Care-
fully-annotated programmes were provided,
and the listeners were greatly uplifted.
Relatives and friends of the Jim Mitchells
of Etham, Sandy Bay, and Ellesmere,
Jericho, gathered in force to celebrate the
couple’s golden weddng. The large rooms at
Etham were gay with autumn blooms and
foliage, and many golden offerings—not the
least beautiful being bouquets of flowers in
every shade of gold tied with golden ribbons
—were received by the popular couple. At,
tea speeches were made and toasts honored.
C. T. Docker, a nephew of the groomsman
at the Mitchell-Forbes wedding 50 years ago,
returned thanks on behalf of the brides-
maids.
This is a very learned young lady, Nancy,
daughter of the C. W. Grants, of High Peak,
who has lately
(1 istinguished
herself at
Janet Clarke
Hall, Trinity
Coll., Me 1-
bour n e, by
taking her
B.A. degree
and winning
the Cob den
Club medal for
Pol. Econ., an
honor very
rarely ob-
tained by a
woman stu-
dent. The dis-
mal science
hasn’t cast
any gloom
over her young
life, and she
thoroughly en-
joys the sum-
mer vacation in her beautiful home near
Ferntree —one of our show-places when over-
sea folk come to have a look at the Speck.
The Jim Melroses, of Barton, Campbell
Town, came to Hobart to farewell Mr. Mel-
rose’s mother, who sailed for the Cold
Country in the Osterley, having spent some
months in Tasmania as the guest of her son
and his wife. The elder Mrs. Melrose is a
great sport, and when at home flies about
the country in her own Moth. Golf, tennis,
and bridge are other favorite pastimes of
this energetic lady.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
There is a big crop of debutantes this sea-
son and they are getting in early. On Friday
night the William Angus pair gave a dance
at their home, Medindie, for daughter Nancy,
and Margaret Newland, Evelyn Dunn, Bar-
bara Ive, Dorothy Stevens and Adele Reid
also dropped into the social whirl. Dancing
was in a marquee, with supper in the dining-
room and gorgeous flowers everywhere from
Dr. W. A. Verco’s garden at Victor Harbor.
The Graduates’ Association had to admit
at its annual meeting that the Students’
Union building, for which it takes respon-
sibility, progresses in a one-sided way.
While the original planners were consider-
ing whether woman could be given any
space, Josiah Symon and his lady jumped
in and gave £lO,OOO for a women’s wing
alone. This is now built, and should be
open by August. So will the refectory
that is to link the two wings; but this
exhausts the money in hand, and “for the
men’s portion of the building there are no
funds.” A further appeal is to be launched.
The undergrads.' are doing their bit, but,,
naturally, it is not enough.
Port Adelaide R.C. meeting drew a big
crowd, and the club entertained many of the
nicest at luncheon and afternoon tea. Sum-
mer clothes were worn by wise matrons and
maidens, and the unwise sweltered in fur
coats. The chairman’s wife, Mrs. A. V.
Benson, looked cool in pale green and white
silk and a beige hat.
The Hospital Auxiliary organised a bridge
party in the Town Hall to strengthen the
finances. T. R. Searfe and L.
Cornell gave prizes, and the response was
all that could be desired.
Bishop’s Court has been the scene of an
open-air fete organised by the Missionary
Association and opened by Mayoress Bony-
thon. The weather was fine, and church
folk rallied valiantly to relieve the heathen
of his blindness.
Friends of Harold Parsons gave him a
concert at the Town Hall on Saturday night
to celebrate the completion of his 2lst year
on the staff of the Elder Con. The com-
mittee had its pick of all the concert artists
in Adelaide, and the South Australian Or-
chestra contributed items. Lieut.-Governor
Murray was in the van of a packed audience
The city will soon be surrounded by golf
links. Suburban clubs are springing up in
all directions, the latest being The Gran an
and Kensington Gardens. ■


* m nil
lye
\v i(4-3
*V^
60,000
BEALE PIANOS
have been produced in
these Factories and are
now in use in Australian
Homes
I til ffySs
Wa
m
ips>
..2
W>-
iv..
m
m
■ r
V-
•V-'
El
■ sri
3&£
t
<r»
ftStjEJ i
Sk
2rr»
i
iasr.
i«
ss*
li
' ' _
Ks*
,•>
r-/.-
S®*
Jtgfe;
c fflli
ss
3^SSf
f?n
?\.w: Y*» ;y
3
- '
-<sc. n :
"Vs
ns
xi
t I\\v\ I
iS:
ft 2
M
M
. '•:.
Ilk
6he Largest Piano Factory
in the British Empire
&
HIRTY-THREE years ago the founda-
tions of the Beale Piano Industry were
digged—how deeply and how well
the present writing tells. In the face
of early difficulties, stubborn obstacles
and a bitter and unrelenting foreign
competition, the little factory of 1 895 has grown
to be the largest in the British Empire. To-day
the factory covers 10 acres of ground. The two
large buildings alone have each a floor space of
43,200 square feet. Already the output has passed
60,000 instruments.
The Beale Factory makes more component parts of the piano than has ever
been attempted by any piano manufacturer anywhere.
It shows the largest proportional production of Players of any factory in
the world.
It builds more Player-Pianos each week than any three European factories
combined.
The acorn of 33 years ago is become the great and
flourishing oak of 1928. No other metaphor can
be so true. The oak is typical of British integrity,
British sturdiness and British fair-dealing. It
symbolises an unswerving honesty of purpose and
practice—the honoring of promises, the discharge
of obligations, and a deep and constant sensibility
of the rights and interests of all those who trust
its pledged word.
The reasons for the remarkable expansion of the
Beale Factory can be expressed in a phrase—the
constant betterment of the Beale Piano. Given
the finest materials that the world produces; a
carefully trained and conscientious staff; an ever-
widening experience of Australian and high tropi-
cal conditions, and a rigid adherence to an exalted
standard of quality, the Beale Piano necessarily
results.
Other makes of piano, though of identical type and
model, vary greatly one from another. On the other
hand there is an extraordinary “family likeness”
present in all Beale pianos. Any Beale piano will be
found to possess all the essential qualities of its
type mates, full and undiminished. This remarkable
and highly desirable similarity, which insures an
absolute uniformity of tone-scale, is possible only
because all component parts are manufactured in
one factory, under one supervision, and are built
into a homogeneous and unvarying whole..
Where parts are purchased from separate manu-
facturers and merely put together in an assem-
bling factory, no such result is attainable.
Jl Real Guarantee—2s Years.
Because the Beale piano is “all Beale” it is
guaranteed for at least 25 years. And the Beale
Factory, with over £750,000 capital behind it,
exists in your own country, at your own doors,
always ready to honor that guarantee.
Call or write for descriptive literature. The easiest of terms
can he arranged. Old Pianos taken in part payment.
r
BEAL
*
COMPANY
I M 1 T E 1>
Showrooms;
340 George Street, Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annanda!»
LIIJI
r
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Wollongong. Victoria:
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Maples, Hobart and Launceston. South
Australia: Savery's Pianos, Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd. Queens-
land : G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhamp-
ton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.


Bottles of 36 -.2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
“Below par” conditions which makes you feel middle-aged
are generally caused by an unhealthy condition of the colon.
Clogged with over-refined food, unclean through lack of
exercise, the colon transmits poison from waste through
the whole system. Yeast cells soften the contents of the
colon, promote regular elimination, build up vigorous, hardy
health. Yeaston Tablets are pure, living yeast cells in
handy form.
Accept no substitute for genuine Yeaston Tablets .
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within.”
AO'S
P\<Zr
V
Nature* s
Co rective
Tonic Food
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's “Princess Charming”
Royal “Rookery Nook”
Criterion “The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith”
Palace “Whispering Wires”
Empire “Take the Air”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's Grand Opera
Royal “The Girl Friend”
King's “Getting Married”
Comedy “Our Betters”
Athenjoum “The Laughing Optimist”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
Sliakspeare wrote nothing better fitted
for stage presentation than “Twelfth
Night”; Allan Wilkie, at the Majestic,
Newtown (Sydney), last week filled out the
cai'ousal scene with comedy which enables
Malvolio to take the curtain. The matter in-
troduced is quite in keeping with Shak-
spearean traditions and enables Malvolio to
show himself as a courageous, if ridiculously
pretentous person; while it creates laughs,
it helped Wilkie to make an outstanding
figure of the man. Miss Hunter-Watts came
to light with a surprisingly lively A^iola;
Lorna F'orbes was a sympathetic but mas-
sive Olivia, and Dulcie Cherry turned
Maria into a lively flapper. Memories of
Charlie Kenningham cling to the part of
Feste; but Robert Jarvis managed both the
singing and fooling effectively; and John
Cairns and Arthur Keane left little to bo
desired as Toby Belch and Andrew Ague-
cheek. Milton Sands was a robust Antonio.
* * * *
Swinging over to “Hamlet” on Saturday
night, Allan Wilkie presented a Prince
thoroughly maddened by the thoughts of his
own wrongs and indecision rather than one
cloaking with a faked dementia his designs
for vengeance. None the less, his work was
uniformly effective, and a storm of applause
rewarded the soliloquy speech. The part
of the Gravedigger, handled by William
Lockhart, suffered nothing by being
shorn of some of the usual “gags,” Milton
Sands was a capital Ghost, but the King
Claudius of John Cairns seemed as much
troubled by his whiskers as his conscience.
Arthur Keane fell short of the concep-
tion of the garrulous Polonius, Yvhilst Den-
nis Barry might have given more fire to
L,aertes. The Queen of Lorna Forbes,
struggling between sympathy for her son and
her own voluptuous tendencies, was a good
AUDREY LEWIS, the young Sydney girl who was
lifted out of the chorus to lead at the Empire
Theatre—and is holding it.
bit of work, and Miss Hunter-Watts
(relieved at the matinee by Dulcie Cherry)
made a pathetic Ophelia. The company
makes another change to-night (Wednes-
day) to “Romeo and Juliet”; on Saturday
“The Merry Wives of Windsor” will frolic.
* * * *
A good basic idea, rather tawdrily dressed
in dialogue and incident, causes “Three Live
Ghosts” to walk through gales of merri-
ment at the Grand Opera House (Sydney) :
the seance began on Saturday. Three sol-
diers escape from a German prison-camp,
and return to England to find themselves
officially dead —and some excellent reasons
for remaining so. In the case of Jimmy
Gubbins (into whose Cockney character
D’Arcy Kelway fits admirably), his mother
has drawn and spent a portion of his in-
surance money, and is counting on getting
the rest; William Forster, who enlisted as
William. Jones (Fred Mackay), fancies lie
is “wanted” in America for one of those
crimes which stage heroes are allowed to
commit without tarnishing their heroic
quality; and as the shell-shocked Spoofy
doesn’t know who he is, it is difficult to see
how he can come to life. Brian Ewart gets
occasional pathos into the comedy of the shell-
shocked soldier, whose reason is restored by
a counter-shock; Fred Mackay plays the
hero naturally; and Marie D’Alton makes
an admirable Mrs. Gubbins. The two harm-
less but necessary sweethearts are Violet
Neitz, pathetic and courageously stony-
broke, and Nina Dacre, who brings some
rather amazing facial contortion to her
comedy. The author’s paucity of dialogue
is the play’s handicap.
The revival of “The Nortorious Mrs. Ebb-
smith,” with Dion Boucicault in the part of
Duke of St. Olpherts, which he played in
the original production in Sydney 32 years
ago, makes another event for next Saturday;
the end of “The High Road” will be reached
on Friday night. “Take the Air” is also in
its last lap; it makes way for “Top Hole”
at the end of next week at Sydney Empire.
“Rio Rita” moves brightly at the St.
James, with the remarkable Janette Gil-
more getting almost as much of the lime-
light as popular Gladys Moncrieff. Large
audiences at the Palace continue to be
thrilled by “Whispering Wires”; and the
Royal patrons are showing appreciation for
“Rookery Nook.” After Saturday, Wirths’
Circus will fold up its tent and steal away.
* ❖ *
George Wallace has l’eturned to Fullers’
(Sydney). Falling on his ear is one of this
comedian’s accomplishments, and every time
he does it the audience yells. Wallace
opened his return visit with “Married Bliss-
ters,” a compote of popular sarcasms upon
married infelicity in which the humor is
refreshingly clean.
* * * *
One can’t help hoping that the Tivoli
(Sydney) management tempers the water
in the big tank used by Captain Winston’s
diving troupe to the shorn ladies who share
it with sea-lions; the ability of some of the
nymphs to remain under water for long
periods is one of the show’s amazing features.
Florrie Levcre is growing very popular with
her public; and a noteworthy new arrival is
Hazel Stalling, described
with more justice than
usual as a “song bird.”
The Regent still finds
“Metropolis” and the
Charlie Chaplin film, “The
Circus,” good enough to
keep on with; but the
Crystal Palace, after
Friday, puts aside “Sor-
rell and Son” in favor
of “The One Woman,”
with the personal appear
ance of Captain Lancaste
and Mrs. Keith Miller a.
an additional attraction.
“M errie England,”
more than a little self-
conscious in its May-day
fooling, frolicked rather
woodenly on Sydney Con-
servatorium stage on Sat-
urday. The singing was
good, and the dancing and
grouping as artistic and
pleasing as the restricted
space would allow. Harold
Watch, the producer, got
most of the laughs as
Master Walter Wilkins,
the player in Shakspeare’s
company. Ada Ruben-
solni’s May Queen was
florid rather than exuber-
ant, her best work being
done with Wilkins;
Violet Rogers was an
attractive and tuneful
Bessie Shrockmorton ; and
Beryl Lynex was the
“Jill - All - Alone who
managed to make a lot of
trouble for herself and
everybody else. Raleigh
and Essex and other men wandered
about the scene emitting tuneful music m
fine style; but, considered as actors, they
might have been gramophone records.
“Princess Charming” makes her debut at
Sydney Her Majesty’s on Saturday, dis-
placing “Rose Marie.”
“La Traviata” burst upon a surprisingly
ill-populated Princess (Melb.) last week—
possibly the story of the consumptive cour-
tesan is a trifle too clinical for this merry
age. Poletti as Violetta wasted songfully
away through the four lugubrious acts
without losing any of her physical well-
being. “E Fors Lui” came beautifully off
her rounded lips and her final death flurry
was the most convincingly dramatic that
this Showman has seen. Garuit, her in-
fatuated; consort, has a rotund face and in-
OLIVE SLOANE, originally with “Cradle Snatchers,” who is to have one of the
important roles in “Princess Charming,” opening at Sydney Her Majesty’s on
May 12.
expressiye legs, and profound gloom sat
upon his soul. Also his tenor voice
suffered from a cold. Scamuzzi, as the
young man’s garrulous papa, scored the
triumph of the evening. The orchestra was
often too exuberant for the singers, and the
chorus sometimes wasn’t exuberant enough;
the male revellers in Violetta’s joy-house
looked as if they had borrowed their clothes
from accommodating giants. A kind word
should be said for the quaint little realistic
serving-maid.
* * * *
“The Murdered Bug, or the Bloodstained
Bedpost,” alias “Rigoletto” was Melbourne
Princess’s fare on Friday. The promise of
robust choruses and Olga Poletti singing
"Uaro Nome” drew a larger concourse than
attended on the demise of “La Traviata.”
"Faust” followed, and the usual rattle of
changes will see the second week out.
The Live Art Society, a refuge for intense
young females and aesthetic youths, staged a
batch of Irish plays and “Sakuntala,” an
Indian drama by Kalidasa, at Melbourne
Playhouse last week. From a theatrical
standpoint, the loin-clothed Shakspeare, who
flourished 1600 years ago, was a futile per-
son. He dealt in vague rhapsodical fashion
with unsophisticated gods, who get into
troußle with demons and call on human aid
to save them and whose vengeance is easily
bought off by a small offering of vegetables
in season. On the earthly side, the yarn is
simply a Frederick Lonsdale domestic drama
in which a king, having forgotten himself
with a pretty bit of skirt met with while
hunting deer, conveniently forgets the girl
and denies the paternity of the resultant
child when he gets back to his palace and
has to explain matters to his 101 other
wives. He gives it up and ends by being a
monogamist on a lonely mountain top. whose
postal address isn’t known to the 101 appa-
rently. Nevertheless, the Live Artists did
the thing amazingly well. Alan Harkness’s
dyed-sheeting settings, lighting and Edmund
Dulac tableaux suggest that an incipient
Gordon Craig is brewing in the land. The
music, composed by Stewart Burton, of the
Hawthorn Symphony Orchestra, was fuli of
admirable ideas. Beatrice Sakuntala Tou-
zeau was beautifully ecstatic, and no musi-
comedy producer ever had the courage to
stage anything as forthrightly voluptuous as
her encounter with undressed royalty in the
woods. Little Patricia Edie got gooseflesh
being the monarch’s child and acted excel-
lently besides. Norman Heymanson was a
tedious Indian Polonius and Lennox
Brewer’s lines demonstrated that kings in-
variably select their jesters from the dullest
dogs around. After “Sakuntala,” the Live
Art Society should have rested on its oars
—the Irish plays were sad.
“Aida” begins the Williamsonian opera sea-
son at His Majesty’s (Melbourne) on Satur-
day, when Australian baritone Brownlee
will sing his how-d’ye-do. “The Barber”
follows on Monday, “Maon” on Tuesday,
these three cards being reshuffled till
Saturday, when “Lohengrin” will invite.
“Mary Dugan,” after a successful run,
falls over the tape to-morrow night; then
Shaw’s “Getting Married” starts with a
professional co. and McMahon. Miss Croft
is “The Girl Friend” to admiring multitudes
at the Royal. “Our Betters” hangs fire at
the Comedy. The gutter, even when uphol-
stered in satin and studded with diamonds,
never did interest Melbourne overmuch.
“The Laughing Optimist” opens at the
Athenaeum on Saturday.
A Maromon eight-cylinder sedan resting
on its back with its feet in the air is an
arresting item in the million-pound motor-
show at Melbourne Exhibition. This isn’t
meant as a confession of an idiosyncrasy of
the machine, but as an illustration of the
great strength of its handsome body. An-
other startling feature is a golden Cinderella
revolving slowly on. her heels. She is a
Citroen saloon, decorated in the new lacquer
process. There seems to be no end to the
amount of luxury that can be introduced
into the modern petrol-waggon. Some are
leather covered, not only inside but out. An
interesting display is Australia’s end of the
overwhelming industry—bodywork, faithfully
constructed and often exquisitely finished.
Manufacturers, American, English and
Continental, are doing their best to make the
pedestrian’s lot a happy one. He §an be
run over now by vehicles more gloriously
arrayed than Solomon in all his glory.
Beppie de Vries is back at Adelaide Royal
as lead in “Pompadour,” with Frank Web-
ster now leading man and Cory as the mon-
arch. Stigant is his own quaint self again.
The voices are good, costumes unusually
sumptuous, music appealing—and business
big. At the Prince of Wales is “Tommy’s
French Wife,” of which the title tells the
story; Lesley Adrienne scores heavily in the
name-part. The most striking picture of the
week is “The Country Doctor” at Wonder-
graph, humor mixed with sob-stuff by Schild-
kraut and a Coglan boy, with a negligible
feminine element for once. Also Foote’s S.A,
orchestra, with Sylvia Wlntington, has given
a great concert at the Exhibition.


/ fiuiouoog psqseoiddvun ptm
nßinsj^inqY^DSß
%
M,
F=)
f
y
nr
iL
s s
3NIMSN3
i’l'
SEDAN
*
£
368
*3
O
%
%
Small Deposits
Easy Terms
Four-wheel brakes,
5 balloon tyres,
bumper bars front
and rear, rear-
vision mirror, auto-
matic windscreen
wiper, thief-proof
lock, petrol gauge
on dash.
No Small Car
equals Erskine in
Character, Distinc-
tion, Safety, Com-
fort, Performance,
Economy & Value.
F.O.R. SYDNEY,
WITH all the world waiting for a
small car which would give big car
performance and comfort, it remained only
for Studebaker to add to its triumphs by
creating the Erskine Six the first really
fine quality small car.
To do 60 miles an hour, to conquer 1 1
per cent, grades in top gear, to accelerate
from 5 to 25 miles an hour in 8k seconds,
to turn in an 18ft. radius and park in
spaces other cars must pass—those are the
advantages of driving a New Erskine Six.
Yet notwithstanding these advantages, this
“Little Aristocrat” delivers 25 and more
miles to the gallon, 1 200 miles to the gallon
of oil.
See it! Drive it! Judge it from your own
experience!
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited Sydney
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND.
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street*
Christchurch.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
WEB 29
STUDEBAKERS
EFLSKINE SIX


Ready
ah
in amoment
hade
aiwaus
in the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
oFali Chemists & Stores
siV
WF
$
%
Q
m
The Choicest
Australia
Produces.
Plump palatable
and spotlessly clean.
Such are Swallow and
Ari e 1 l’s Raisins,
stemmed and seeded
ready for your cakes
and puddings. Ask
your grocer.
SWALLOW
AND
SBEDEIrRAISINS
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager— l
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PAPER MONEY
BY M.S T JOHN M c CALLUM
TWO returned soldiers, crestfallen, em-
bittered against the world in general,
had just met a little fat man by chance
in Little Bourke-street, and retired to the
saloon bar of a hotel near by. Their first
call was sherry, then came Australian bur-
gundy, and what with a decanter of tawny
port on top, neither could have declared
which of the trio had started the present sub-
ject of conversation.
“There are three good reasons why the
forgers of paper-money fail to become really
rich,” the fat man was saying in his lazy,
pleasant tone. “They are insufficient capital,
lack of technical skill and not enough
patience. The poor devil of a forger, in his
poverty, inefficiency and urgency, turns out
a few miserable imitations which have to be
planted on small shopkeepers or lolly-shops
in the dusk, and is then spotted, ignomini-
ously run in, and in due course sent to penal
servitude. But, most of all, big capital, I
should say, is vital.”
The speaker paused, moved forward from
a lounge chair to fill up his guests’ glasses
and take a sip of his own.
“I put it to you, Mr. Bantin,” he re-
sumed, addressing the grey-haired man. “I
put it to you, Mr. Chard” —turning to the
younger partner, a dark, good-looking fellow
—“as practical engravers and printers”——
“Has-beens!” said one of them, with a
sudden bitterness hardly in keeping with the
cheerful prospect.
“Let us say, temporarily eclipsed through
no fault of your own,” the fat man quickly
and kindly rejoined. “Is there any reason,
given abundant capital, patience and skill,
why the perfect imitation, say, of a one-pound
or a five-pound Treasury note should not be
produced ?”
“None at all! But it could not be done
profitably.”
“Why not?”
“Oh, think of the watermarked paper, the
inks and so on,” answered Bantin.
“The forger would have to get rid of
thousands and thousands of his notes before
he could recoup his first cost,” put in Chard.
“But suppose he got rid of a million or
so?”
“What? But don’t you see, Mr. Pope”
—— began Bantin.
“Mr. Pope,” interrupted Chard, who was
flushed and excited —“Mr. Pope is forgetting
that notes have numbers.”
“Not at all,” said Mr. Pope. “But the
numbers don’t shout. They don’t answer till
they are questioned, and. normally, that does
not happen till the notes have gone home to
roost!”
“That is so,” replied Bantin. “But surely
you don’t imagine that a forger could get
rid of a million or so in this small population
before some of them got back to headquarters
and put the wind up?”
“But what are they going to do ? I picture
to myself the chief cashier or somebody
weeping over two Treasury notes of the same
number, because he simply can’t see any dif-
ference between them!”
“That’s a puzzler, eh, Chard?” queried
Bantin.
“For the Treasury, yes,” agreed Chard, sit-
ting up. “And when the duplicated numbers
began to arrive in shoals —why, the Treasury
would have to do something.”
“They couldn’t refuse to pay notes which
experts declared to be in order, could they?”
said Bantin. “There would be an awful
panic.”
“They’d have to call in the whole issue of
Treasury notes,” said Chard, wiping his hot
brow- with a handkerchief. “And before they
could do that they’d have to get a new issue
ready, with a different design. Just imagine
what a mess it would be! A panic in the
Commonwealth.”
“You are quite right, it would be a mess.”
remarked the fat man. “Supposing, for
argument’s sake, there are about two hundred
million Treasury notes circulating in the
Commonwealth; they wouldn’t be replace-
able in a week! Meantime, the forger is
keeping busy, and if the Treasury advertises
the facts of the case
you have a run on
the banks people
wanting to change
their notes for other
forms of money.
Yes, as you say,
Mr. Chard, a de-
lightful mess!”
Chard took a
mouthful of port.
“Yes, but here’s the
weak point. The
moment the Trea-
sury gets the wind up every detective >n
Australia —Victoria, New South Wales,
Queensland and so on —will be up and doing,
and every corner will be searched.” .
“Good!” said the fat man. “I was just
waiting for you to see that! Now let us start
again. Let us see what a skilled forger—a
master crook —might do with unlimited
capital and patience; nerve understood, of
course. He has provided for the paper, inks
and so on, and has funds, say, amounting to
fifty thousand pounds.
“But with a fortune like that” began
Chard.
“Any solid figure you like, Mr. Chard;
but that sum does not seem much when one
is aiming at millions. Well, lie converts
his fifty thousand pounds into Commonwealth
notes. Then he registers their numbers in a
book, and puts the notes away in his safe.
He then produces his fifty thousand perfect
imitations bearing these numbers, and dis-
tributes them among the accounts he has
already opened with different banks.”
“Nerve, indeed !” remarked Chard.
“Presently,” went on Mr. Pope, “he with-
draws money—leaving balances, of course—•
from these accounts, taking it in five, ten,
twenty pound notes and so on, so as to avoid
getting his own notes back by any chance.
“Gradually he was
pressed back; gradually
the massive door closed.”
With these withdrawn notes he opens more
accounts in other districts, and later with-
draws fl notes again, at a place a good way
away from the first deposits. These notes
he again registers, and puts in his safe,
then prints off their duplicates and lodges
them in different banks as before. And so he
proceeds until he has distributed, say, a mil-
lion perfect imitations, and holds in his safe
a million genuine notes. Of course, it would
take time, and, as T have already suggested,
it involves some patience.”
“But I don’t see,” put in Bantin, “why
he need go to all that trouble if his imitations
are perfect?”
“I can see it,” said his mate; “he doesn't
want the Treasury or anybody else to dis-
cover a single duplicated number until his
stunt is completed.”
“Exactly, Mr. Chard,” replied the fat man.
“But the moment he has liis million genuines,
he must lose no time, though exercising every
caution, in getting them converted into other
forms of money.”
“I don’t believe any one man could carry
it out,” observed Chard, mopping his
brow.
Mr. Pope assented. “It would require a
syndicate.” He looked at his watch. “Well,
we shall see, gentlemen. It is now three
o’clock. Oblige me by meeting me on Friday
at my hotel.” And with kind words and
warm handshakes he left them.
On the way to Flinders-street station
Bantin said : “Chard, I feel a beast to have
had all that luxury, and the wife and kids
having 'their meal off bread and butter.”
“I understand,” said Chard; “but I am
hoping that Pope will help us to a job
of some sort. I’m fed up with this pro-
longed unemployment. I’d take anything.'’
“Yes. so would I,” said Chard with a short
uneasy laugh, “even if it was the printing of
Treasury notes!”
“My great consolation,” said Bantin, “is
that we are not going to help ruin or even
injure any poor souls. The loss will fall on
the Commonwealth —and what’s a million
or so to Australia? Not that I like the idea
of defrauding one’s country.”
“What has our country done for us?”
cried Chard. “Took our war service all those
years. Sent us back to our broken businesses
and homes: left us un-
employed, without
even means of making
a living! Confound
the country! We’ll
make it pay now!”
“Sh! The people
will hear you,” whis-
pered Bantin. And
they mingled with the
throng of people in
“the busiest station in
the world.”
* *
Six months had
passed. The little
printing works of Bau-
tin ana Chard at South
Yarra did not appear
to have caught the pre-
vailing trade depres-
sion. So well provided
with orders was the
firm that frequently
the machines were run-
ning well into the
morning. Certainly the
firm’s prices were ex-
ceedingly low for the
quality of work it
burned out. Mr. Pope
had been amazed at
Mr. Chard’s skill in
engraving. Not that
that department bulked
largely in the business.
Outwardly it was
chiefly concerned in the
publication of the
South Yarra Clarion
and general printing.
Mr. Pope, assisted
by certain friends who
bad not been intro-
duced to Messrs. Ban-
tin and Chard, had
disposed of two and a
quarter millions of
perfect imitations, and
now held almost pre-
cisely the same number of genuine Treasury
notes in his private “strong-room” on the
second floor at the rear of the premises.
The odd thing about it all was that Bantin
and Chard, freed by their bounty from the
pains of poverty and its cruel anxieties,
hated the man with their whole hearts. If
the fat man sensed that hate—and certainly
he never showed that he did—he must have
been aware that it was growing to be dan-
gerous.
In the comfort of his parlor—what a
change in its appointments from six months
ago!—Bantin was sitting alone. He kept
late hours nowadays, and for some time lie
had been sleeping badly. Thoughts, ugly
thoughts, were his and always the questions:
“When is it going to stop? When Mill I be
free? Will it have been worth the hundred
thousand promised us?”
He was startled by a tapping on the win-
dow. They both had homes in South Yarra,
and Chard, who lodged near by, often came
in if he saw the light burning, however late
the hour, to smoke a final cigarette. He,
too, had become subject to nerves.
Bantin ushered him in, and without
greeting he took a chair. Bantin went ovot:
to a cupboard. Glasses clinked.
“Not for me, thanks,” said Chard. In his
voice there was that which caused Bantin
to turn quickly.
“Chard, what’s the matter?”
“I’m sick."
“Well, then, take a nobbier”—-
“No! The smell just now would bowl me
over. Sit down, Bantin.” Bantin obeyed.
“I was glad to see. your light,” he con-
tinued, fumbling in a packet of cigarettes.
“Still off your sleep, old man ?”
The other man sighed. “I am afraid of
sleep now—afraid of talking in it!”
“My wife cannot understand why I’m in
this nervy state, when business is apparently
brisk, and every month I hand her almost
more money than she knows what to do
with.”
Chard nodded sympathetically. Slowly lie
said: “I wonder if you oughtn’t to tell her
the truth?”
Bantin could not have started more if he
had had an electric shock. “Why?” Then,
with a gasp: “Something has happened!”
“Yes, something has happened,” Chard
replied. “I’ll try to tell you. Don’t lose
your head. I’ve just come back from the
works”
“But you didn’t tell me you Were going to
the works. There was nothing to be
done”
"Except to get at the truth.” Shakily
Chard lit his cigarette. “Bantin, I couldn’t
stand it any longer—the uncertainty, the
damnable mystery. A month or two ago I
got the feeling that Pope was after some-
thing bigger than the million. He’s after
something more than any number of millions.
I didn’t want to alarm you without reason,
so I kept the feeling to myself. Bu,t now—
well, listen. I had learnt that to-night Pop'
was having a meeting with those queer
friends of his, and I determined to be there.
I went up early and hid in the stereo room.
Although I could not see, I heard fairly
well. I learnt this much: Pope is a foreigner
—Russian or something.”
“But lie told us his whole history—brought
up in England, emigrated to Australia with
his parents, and”
“All lies! Listen. In the first place, our
printing of notes is at an end.”
“Thank God! That’s good-oh!"
“Wait! In the second place Pope is going
to start emptying the strong-room imme-
diately. He has agents everywhere ready to
distribute the genuine notes. They will get
rid of them by banking and converting into
English and American currency, by purchas-
ing drafts on London, Paris and elsewhere.
Pope expects to complete the operation in
four days, and he doesn’t care if it costs
him twenty shillings in the pound!”
“What’s that? Chard, I don’t under-
stand !”
“You will presently. Pope and his five
friends stand to win millions on millions in
another direction. Bantin, my friend, you
and I are blind conspirators in a huge, hor-
rible plot. After all, I think I will have a
drink—better have one yourself.”
Bantin, looking like an old man, walked
unsteadily to the cupboard. Having drunk,
Chard resumed:
“It appears that Pope kept back a small
bundle of notes of our last printing, and
along with them placed the genuine notes
bearing the corresponding numbers. Pope
is not going to wait for the fraud to be dis-
covered by the Treasury or the banks—he’s
going to put the fat in the fire himself
through his agents.”
“Explain!”
“Well, assume that the distribution of the
genuines is complete. On the foliowing day
a man walks into a bank, say, in Collins-
street. lie is looking puzzled. He lays
on the counter a couple of Treasury notes,
and requests the teller to examine them, ex-
plaining that when about to send the notes
by registered post he had discovered their
numbers-to be the same. Naturally, the
teller is interested, gets out his magnifying-
glass and calls the manager.”
“But why does Pope want to”
Chard held up his hand. “All over Aus-
tralia similar episodes are taking place.
The newspapers get the story—a forgery
that cannot be detected! The scare begins.
(Continued on page 53.)


FAU LTLE S S
FOOTWEAR
Obtainable at all leading stores
throughout Australia. Agencies in
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Sydney.
If any difficulty in procuring, com-
municate with Head Offices,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
m
•V* :
. '. J: -
: / -%r
- m ,6m.
to, &L,
m ||§y||P
* H -aX’ a
m
w i
m
* <
4 \*
BP; SmWjo
n®
H
’ - '
r-
••- y ' OK
W •;
m
.ff.
■3
MBM
m
A
m
mm.
■„. %
;
*
■ .
mmmff
m
W
.
m
-j
*
me
11: J
hi :
■
I
0
G
fjor People
of Class
MEN’S and WOMEN’S
BOOTS and SHOES


PALMER RIVER GOLD
COMPANY N.L.
Bucket Dredging and Hydraulic Sluicing
of the Palmer River.
PALMER GOLDFIELD,
CAPE YORK PENINSULA.
Issue of 5,000 Cum. 10 per cent.
Preference Shares of £1 each.
This issue of 1 0 per cent, preference shares ranks equally for Dividends with
the Ordinary shares of the Company in the distribution of profits over I 0 per cent.,
and forms portion of the issue of 12,000 cum. 10 per cent, preference shares made
in March, 1928, of which the present shareholders of the Company have
subscribed 7000.
Open for subscription by the Public at I/- on application and I/- on allot-
ment, calls not to exceed I/- per share per month.
Investors that prefer to pay the full amount of £ 1 per share forthwith, or
10/- on application and allotment and the balance of 10/- 6 months later, can
do so, and will receive 10-per cent, on the money forwarded from the date of
receipt of same by the Company. Interest is payable in September of each year.
Shares in this issue will be allotted in priority of application from time to time
and the list will be closed as soon as the 5000 shares have been applied for.
CAPITAL AND SHARE ISSUE.
The Capital of the Company is £lOO,OOO in 100,000 shares of 20/- each,
and on completion of this issue there will be in circulation 65,000 shares, and the
number held in reserve will be 35,000.
AREAS AND VALUES.
The Company has acquired 1360 acres on the Palmer River, of which 270
acres has been systematically bored, proving a cubic yardage of 6,146,000, valued
at £350,000, and altogether 123 bores were put down.
The balance of 1090 acres has been sampled by the General Manager, and
we estimate recovering in the region of £850,000 value in gold from same.
Altogether, from the 1360 acres, it is reasonable to expect a recovery of at
least £1,250,000.
DREDGING PLANT.
An All-Steel Bucket Dredge with Steel Pontoons, capable of treating 50,000
cubic yards of gravel per month, has been purchased and conveyed to Laura, the
terminus of the Cooktown railway line.
The present issue of shares has been made for the purpose of transportation
to and erection of this valuable plant on the Company’s No. 1 area at Strathleven,
a distance of 73 miles from Laura.
This area has been proved by 77 bores to contain 3,484,000 cubic yards of
gravel, exceptionally well adapted for bucket dredging, and conservatively esti-
mated to yield a value of not less than 1/1 per cubic yard, with a gold recovery
of £200,000.
From this area alone a profit of £lOO,OOO should be obtained.
There are no particular road difficulties, the country being flat, and when
creek crossings have been made the transportation of the Dredging Plant should
be quickly completed with Motor-lorries.
The Company has secured a 6-wheel Motor Lorry to open up the road and to
retain for its own future requirements.
NOTES.
The Company’s General Manager, Mr. Walter Baker, has had 30 years
practical bucket-dredging experience, and the particulars of his working of the
Perseverance Dredge on the Buckland River, in Victoria, is quoted in the Standard
Book on Gold Dredging, written by Mr. T. C. Earl, his working costs being quoted
at 2.3 d. per cubic yard, and dividends were paid on values averaging 3.2 per
cubic yard.
The Vendors received no cash, and the Leases embrace ground on what
has been one of the richest alluvial goldfields in Australia, over 40 tons of gold
having been taken from the Palmer Goldfield.
The average value of all material tested is I/I per cubic yard. There is no
other Gold proposition in the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia that shows
such average values; the estimate of total cost of dredging is put down at 6d. per
cubic yard, leaving a margin of at least 7d. per yard for profit.
Owing to water facilities cost of treatment will be cheap, there is abundance
of suitable timber for all requirements and the climate is healthy.
The prospecting of the river and the continuation of the sampling and
boring of the Company’s acquired areas will be continued, and gives large scope
for the flotation of subsidiary Companies to work portions of our areas, whereby
the Shareholders of the Company would materially benefit.
Thus investors securing shares in this issue have the advantage of joining in a
Company that has proven its areas and purchased and paid for its dredging plant,
which plant is now at the terminus of the railway and about to be transported to the
field of operations.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES MUST BE MADE TO:
The SECRETARY of the PALMER RIVER GOLD COMPANY, N.L., P.O.
BOX 92, CAIRNS, from whom full prospectus, latest reports, balance-sheet, maps
of areas, boring plans, etc., can be obtained.
Information will also be supplied to intending investors by the following
Directors of the Company:—
ARTHUR H. CLARKE, Esq., Commercial Bank Buildings, Cairns.
ED. HENRIQUES, Esq., Kingsley, George Street, Brisbane.
D. W. B. ARTHUR, Esq., 3 Millecca Flats, Manly, N.S.W.
C. L. BUTCHERS, Esq., 360 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
APPLICATION FORM.
The Directors,
PALMER RIVER GOLD COMPANY, N.L.,
c/o G.P.O. Box 92, Cairns, N.Q.
I hereby apply for Ten per cent. Cum. Preference
Shares in the above-named Company, and enclose remittance for
£ : : , being application of 1/- per share on the above
number of shares (being in full payment for shares at
20/- each).
I agree to accept the same or any smaller number that may be
allotted to me and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of the
Company.
FULL NAME
ADDRESS
People examine the numbers of all notes in
their possession—banks, great firms, small
shops, everybody. And people all over the
Commonwealth find they have duplicates.
People begin to realise that the affair is wide-
spread. They begin to refuse notes. The
banks are besieged”
“Good God, Chard!” gasped Bantin, “are
you imagining all this?”
“Pope’s own words, and he and his friend
laughed,” replied Chard. “But listen;
there’s more. Every hour a fresh discovery
of duplicates is made. Businesses held up.
The Stock Exchange takes alarm. Un-
employment sets in. The Treasury hesi-
tates —it dare not promise to honor all
notes. Parliament in recess is summoned —
too late—it is bound to be too late, for
already people without anything but Trea-
sury notes are without the necessities of life !
What’s going to happen if you offer the work-
ing folk paper that won’t buy anything?”
“Chard! It will mean rioting everywhere
—pillage—bloodshed—revolution all over the
Commonwealth! But surely this is only a
dream —a nightmare !”
“It is no dream, Bantin ! It is a devilish
scheme and will possibly succeed unless you
and I prevent it.”
“You and I?”
“Yes,” said Chard, “you and I went into
this thing in an hour of bitter need. And
now, while we may not altogether adore our
country, I don’t imagine we are going to
take our hundred thousand blood money!”
“Well, what can ive do, man? Quick!”
“Perhaps you don’t see, because it is so
simple,” said Chard.
The other drove his fist into the palm of
his hand:
“Don’t beat about the bush, Chard! If
there’s a way out tell me!”
Chard drew his chair nearer the other’s.
“I heard Pope say to-night that lie was
going to Sydney to-morrow, so we won’t
have him at the works. To-morrow night,
Bantin” —he drew a long breath —“we shall
destroy the whole contents of the strong-
room.”
The older man started up. “You are
dreaming,” he said. “We can’t open that
door, and we dare not employ a blacksmith.”
“True!” Chard’s hand went into his poc-
ket. “Until to-night I was sometimes un-
easy about our share —wanted to have some
control over it. A fortnight ago by the
merest chance I managed to take an impres-
sion of Pope’s keys. The result!” His hand
came out and opened in front of Bantin.
Bantin did not respond. He had fainted.
* ?|! *
Two and a quarter million genuine Trea-
sury notes. The place was crammed with
them. In square, neat, solid bundles of fiye
thousand, done up in thousands, they were
stacked up to the roof as the two Diggers
pushed open the heavy steel door.
“Send down the plates to begin with. I’ll
go down to the cellar and get the furnace
started and —I say, Bantin, pull yourself to-
gether !”
“I’m a coward!” was the reply. “I keep
on thinking of Pope’s revenge. I suppose
he’ll have us murdered.”
“Anyhow, let me have those cursed bundles
as quickly as you can dump ’em through.”
He ran out and made for the cellar.
Now, the mere handling of nearly five
hundred bundles, the tossing them into the
mouth of the chute to the cellar, involved
labor and time. Some hours had gone when
Bantin called down that none was left, He
then descended to the cellar, and found his
friend reeling in front of the furnace, hair
and clothing singed, flesh scorched.
But Chard had the true Aussie spirit—
he was game. He sank into a chair. “It
hurts like hell!” lie muttered, “but not like
the hell we might have been in! Bantin,
old man, look at ’em! See ’em flaring and
roaring away ! We are free men !”
Bantin brushed the tears from his eyes.
“I’ll go to the chemist—carron oil, cotton
wool; then a taxi.”
“Thanks. But just a moment. As a
matter of form, Bantin, I want you to search
me.”
“No, no ! Nonsense ! Come, let us”
There was a long silence while they stared
at the bulky figure standing just outside the
steel doorway.
Without haste the fat man put his hand
to his hip-pocket, producing an automatic.
“So you would get rich quick!” he said.
“Where have you put my paper money?”
The answer was the last one he expected.
Said Chard brightly; “Into the furnace —
every beautiful one!”
The next instant the two men looked into
the face of a devil, gross and white, and
quivering with fury.
“You lie!” he said.
“Go to the furnace —you will find it still
roaring,” said Chard.
The fat man raised the automatic and let
it fall again. “No, you shall not die so
easy,” he said. “I will leave you in there
—to rot. So!” And he flung his bulk
against the steel door.
Chard made to dart forward, collapsed,
and lay helpless. Bantin got there, but his
power was insufficient. Gradually _he was
pressed back; gradually the massive door
closed. A mere streak of light entered the
strong-room. It vanished. They heard
heavy breathing and a fumbling.... then a
gasping, a heavy fall and the tinkle of keys
on the floor.
Chard struggled to his feet as Bantin got
the door open. Pope lay on his back, his
hands clenched, his face a dreadful color.
“What the” ——
“I once saw such a case,” said Chard,
clinging to the door —“heavy supper, too
much excitement, blood-vessel burst
Put something over his face.”
“Put his revolver away in his own
desk. Lock this door. Get a constable—a
doctor”
“A constable?”
"Why not?” said Chard. “We are free,
old man; as free as the birds in the air!
Help me!”
He put his arms round Bantin’s neck and
fell to sobbing like a hurt child.
Beyond.
Beyond the hill the light
Goes on and on;
The vales are hid in night,
Their beauty gone.
The bird, lost to the eye,
Over the hill
May through the sunset fly,
A traveller still.
Till hidden in some tree
Far in the west,
She yet awake may be
When we’re at rest.
Awake with the red light
Still in her eyes;
When for us half the night
In a dream dies.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Evening.
The cattle are coming home from the hills,
Treading slowly and one by one,
And the bird of evening fills
Ilis throat and sings against the sun.
And the men are coming in from the field,
To the light and lo.ve of the little houses;
The moon is only half revealed,
As still among her mists she drowses.
And evening has come, most gentle-kind,
With a hushing of winds and a breath of
sleep,
Falling upon the tired mind
And the herds in the field and the sheep.
S.A.
D.P. MCGUIRE.
The Mortal Tale.
I have looked wonder in its startled eyes
From the first dawning;
Digged in the hidden depths and stormed the
skies,
Defiant —and fawning.
I have bade myths depart and gods arise,
Doubtful, believing;
Reared everlasting truths —and found them
lies—
Sinqe Time’s conceiving.
I have gripped knowledge in my greedy hands.
Lusting, acquiring;
Chained, earth’s last miracles to my com-
mands,
Questing, aspiring;
And—in some conquering and quiet loam,
Done with all roaming,
I shall come empty-handed home
In the last gloaming!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.
The Craftsman.
I builded me seemly a house
For Beauty’s delight
Foursquare to the wind and the rain,
Roofed in from the night.
Silken the grass for her feet,
And the trees spread above
Shadow the flowers that wait
Like delicate Love.
Beauty, she cometh not home;
Ah, whither went she?
Cometh she ever this way
I will content me,
Cometh she never so late;
Here, in her shrine,
Trim I the lamps, tend the fire,
Waiting a sign.
MAORILAND.
H.E.F.
In Orchard Land.
In orchard land the ways are sweet,
For every narrow leafy street
Is spiced with apples ripening
As winds the rosy censers swing;
And rapturous the finches tweet
As shadow-light and swift they fleet
From tree to tree. Noon's drowsy heat
To slumber lulls both wind and wing
In orchard land.
Here in this pleasant green retreat
Rare peace and charm together meet,
Fulfilment rich of bloomy spring,
Whose faint elusive memories cling
Where never fevered pulses beat
In orchard land.
VICTORIA.
EMEL.
The Lean Witch.
We can plan a doom for a dimpled witch,
For other women are dimpled, too,
And other women have swaying hips
And an ankle tapering above a shoe;
But this witch is thin as a yellow flame,
And her little bones are too neat for sham e.
If her cheeks were red, we could well con-
demn,
For a tavern moll has a cheek of red ;
But her face is white as a flower is white,
And all her body of life seems bled:
There seems no blood in her anywhere,
And no heart —that a knife might nestle
there.
For the witch is thin as a blade is thin ;
She is bright as steel, as a mirror clear ;
With no blood to drain and no heart to
smite;
No satin flesh that a coal can sear.
You can’t burn fire with fire, and so
We must keep our silence —and let her go.
’Twixt lashes pale as the sun-dried reeds,
Grey, as a lake in twilight lies,
With two black centres that never change
(And you can’t drown water!) I saw her
eyes,
Too wise for laughter, too old for tears:
The witch has lived for a thousand years!
If the witch was rounded (as wantons are) :
If the warm blood flowed through a painted
cheek.
There were blazing faggots for such as she,
And a ducking stool, and an icy creek
Of a lily fairness men cannot shame,
We must let her be she is thin as flame.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FOBBEST.


.Legal Notices.
ftE JOHN PEARSO N—Deceased.
Ex parte Thomas Moore—Deceased.
Pursuant to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 21st day of February 1928 made In the
Matter of the Trustee Relief Act 10 and 11
Victoria Cap. 90 and In the Matter of the
Trusts of the Will of John Pearson deceased
ex parte Thomas Moore deceased 1928 P. 09
whereby the following inquiry was directed,
viz.:—
(1) An inquiry whether the abovenamed
Thomas Moore is living or dead and if dead
who are now legally and beneficially entitled
to the fund in Court to the credit of In the
Matter of the Trusts of the Will of John
Pearson deceased ex parte Thomas Moore
deceased and in what shares and proportions.
NOTICE 18 HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are on or before the sth duly 1928
to send by post prepaid to Mr. George Arthur
Whitfield a member of the firm of Messrs.
Whitfield, Byrne and Dean of 22 Surrey
Street Strand London W.C.2 England their
full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their
claims or in default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Order un-
less the Court or Judge on application other-
wise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by
their Solicitor before Master H. W. Jelf
Room No. 315 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England on Thursday the
12 th day of July 1928 at 12 o’clock noon
being the time appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or
Wales must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in
England or Wales to whom notices to the
claimant can be sent.
Dated this 16th day of March 1928.
HERBERT W. JELF,
Master.
Note : The said Thomas Moore resided at
Hamilton near Melbourne, Australia, and
is believed to have died on the 11th April,
1867, at a hospital there.
Whitfi.eld, Byrne & Dean, 22 Surrey Street,
Strand, W.C.2, Agents for Whitley & Co.,
Liverpool, Solicitors for Dame Kate Bol-
land Hampson and Marjorie Owen.
•yO CHARLES FREDERICK BURGESS
* . the husband of Edith Violet Burgess of
the City of Christchurch in the Dominion of
New Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Christchurch, citing you to
appear and answer the petition of Edith
Violet Burgess of Christchurch, wherein she
prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of ». desertion, and such
citation intimates that in default of your so
doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence. NOW
THEREFORE take notice that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within forty-two days
after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court office at Christchurch in the said
Dominion and there to enter an appearance
without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the pro-
ceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court office at
Christchurch in the Dominion of New Zea-
land.
Dated this 24th day of April, 1928.
(1.5.) A. H. CUTLER,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
WILLIAM ROSS LASCELLES is the soli-
citor for the petitioner, whose address for
service is at the offices of Messieurs
Weston, Ward and Lascelles, 152 Man-
chester Street in the City of Christchurch.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
To STANLEY WILLIAM NOBLE
formerly of Brisbane in the State of Queens-
land Clerk but whose present whereabouts
are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been'
commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane in the
State of Queensland Number 737 of 1927 by
EDITH MAY NOBLE your wife in which
she claims a DISSOLUTION of her MAR-
RIAGE with you and hy a Petition filed
in the said Court on the fifteenth day of
December 1927 she alleges that on or about
the seventh day of September 1921 you with-
out cause deserted her and such desertion
has been continuous up to the present time
AND it has been ordered that service of the
writ of summons and petition on you by
filing in the Registry of this Honorable
Court at Brisbane and by fixing on the
notice board in the said Registry a copy of
the said Writ and an office copy of the said
Petition and by posting in a prepaid letter
addressed to your Mother Ada Mary Park-
man Noble at Stanley Street East Brisbane
an office copy of the petition and a copy of
the Writ of Summons together with a copy
of the order for substituted service and
the publication of this advertisement shall
be good and sufficient service of the writ
and petition on you. IF you desire to
defend this action you must within two
months from the date of the last act done
in pursuance of the said order enter an
appearance at the Registry of the Supreme
Court at Brisbane aforesaid and in default
of such appearance judgment may be entered
against_you.
Dated this fourth day of January, 1928.
(L.s.) W. C. WOODHOUSE.
Acting Deputy Registrar.
HAWTHORN & LIGHTOLLER, Solicitors
for plaintiff. 303 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
TIM ANDERSON, late of Atherton Table-
J land, communicate Sister, Upper Barron.
Important, Policy not paid.
DE SARAH FEATIIERSTONE. DEC’D.
D Will Jane Moore (sister of the above-
named Sarah Featherstone) communicate
with the Public Trustee, Hobart?
__ Legal Notice.
jSJOTICE TO NEXT OF KIN.
Re MICHAEL JAMES LAVERCOMBE
late of Winton in the State of Queensland
Butcher deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given to MARTHA
JANE LAVERCOMBE widow of the above
deceased and to ALEXANDER LAVER-
COMBE MICHAEL JAMES LAVER-
COMBE THOMAS LAVERCOMBE MAR-
GARET BIRD SUSAN GRIGG and
KATHLEEN CARROLL the children of
James Lavercombe deceased the brother of the
abovenamed and to the children (if any) of
Alexander Lavercombe deceased brother of the
abovenamed that they must send in particu-
lars of their claim to the undersigned on or
before the Thirtieth day of November 1928
otherwise the assets of the abovenamed de-
ceased will be distributed among those of lib
known brothers and sisters disregarding the
claim of all such persons and all persons
claiming by through or under them or any
of them by derivative title or otherwis,
howsoever.
DATED at Townsville this Twenty
seventh day of April, 1925.
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville.
Legal Notice.
ESTATE OF RICHARD BALDWIN
STAPLES, late of Alstonville, Richmond
River, in the State of New South Wales,
Farmer, Deceased, Intestate.
The abovenamed intestate is believed to
have been born in London in or about the
year 1842, and emigrated to Australia in
or about the year 1870. He died in New
South Wales on the 7th May, 1906, aged
64 years, leaving a widow but no children
him surviving. It is believed that both his
parents predeceased him. so that any brother
or sister who survived him or any child of
any brother or sister who predeceased him
lias an interest in his estate. Any person
claiming an interest in the estate of the
intestate must send in particulars of his or
her claim on or before the 30th day of Sep-
tember, 1928, to the administrator of his
state, namely, PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia,
\ftef which date the Company will proceed
o distribute the property of the intestate
imongst the parties entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which the
Company then has notice.
5
mm
mm
■
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
I K
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
Special Issue of 35,000 Ordinary Shares
of £1 each at par
IN
CASH ORDERS (AMALGAMATED), Limited
(Registered under the Companies Act 1899, New South Wales).
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - - - £500,000
Capital Subscribed: £85,000 in 73,700 Ordinary Shares of £1 each and
11,300 10 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each.
Shares are payable: 2/- per Share on application, 2/- per Share on
allotment, and the balance in' calls not exceeding \/~ per share as
required. Calls to be made at intervals of not less than one month.
DIRECTORS:
FREDERICK YELVERTON WILSON, Esq. (Chairman and Managing Director), late Chairman Hohsr'
Stock Exchange, 1920-26, Bennett Street, Crcmorne, Sydney. aobau
ARCHIBALD HOUSTON TAIT, Esq., London Bank Chambers, Brisbane.
GEORGE H. DEATON, Esq., Managing Director Deaton’s, Ltd., 774 George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. STARKEY & STARKEY, Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
R. H. NEWMAN, Esq., Adams’ Chambers, 195-97 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
OPERATIONS TO DATE.
This Company was formed in September, 1926, and commenced operations in New South Wales bv
purchasing established Cash Order Businesses in Auburn and Bondi Junction. Both of these have
proved very successful, and their turnover has been greatly increased. The Auburn business was
taken over in December, 1926, and that at Bondi Junction in February, 1927. Further Branches have
been established at Parramatta, Campsie, Bankstown, Newtown and Glebe.
Queensland Branches were opened under contract with A.C.8., Limited, in Brisbane and South Bris-
bane, in May, 1927, and later in Maryborough, Toowoomba and Ipswich. By this contract Cash
Orders (Amalgamated), Limited, has the exclusive right to issue Cash Orders on A.C.B. Stores through-
out Queensland.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Limited, is to-day firmly established, and is dealing with over 12 000
Customers. ’
DIVIDENDS.
For the financial year ended 30th September, 1927, the Company paid dividends of 10 per cent
per annum on Preference Shares, and 8 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares. Interim dividends at
the same rates have been declared for the half-year ended 31st March, 1928.
PRESENT ISSUE.
The present issue of 35,000 Ordinary Shares, which, when allotted, will increase the subscribed
capital to £120,000, is being offered so that the Directors may have adequate finance to handle the
increased business offering and to permit them to extend the operations of the company to other districts.
SECURITY OF INVESTMENT.
The Company has taken out an insurance policy guaranteeing against any loss by bad debts whilst
all employees of the Company have been placed under Fidelity Bond.
All capital advance must be repaid by the holders of Cash Orders, or, should they fail, by the
Insurance Company, which has issued the Policy guaranteeing against losses by bad debts.
FOUNDERS’ CONSIDERATION.
The founders have received no consideration for establishing the Company beyond the option to
purchase at One Pound Sterling one share for every four shares allotted. These' shares will be paid for
in cash if and when the option is exercised, so that no free shares whatever have been, or will be issued
. Complete Prospectus and particulars may be obtained from the Brokers for the Company.
J. T. WALTON AND SONS, LTD.,
Rofe Chambers, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone, 8W1231-2.
The Directors have definitely resolved that this issue will close not later than 16th
June, 1928, and that the next issue of shares, if any, will be at a premium of not
less than 2/6 per share.
EVERY WOMAN HER OWN
BEAUTY SPECIALIST.
In these days when every intelligent
woman realises the importance of an
attractive personal appearance, there is a
great demand for some simple aids to
beauty which are within the means of all.
The professional beauty specialists, with
their fabulous prices and long treatments,
are obviously impracticable for all but the
wealthiest. Moreover, it is a fact that
equally good results can be obtained by
the wise use of a few simple materials
easily obtainable at most good chemists. It
is proposed, therefore, in this article, to
point out the average deficiencies which
mar a woman’s beauty, and to suggest some
practical remedies.
IS SOAP INJURIOUS?
The skin demands first attention. The
foundation of a good complexion is perfect
cleanliness. This, however, is too often
only obtained by ruining the skin with
alkaline soaps and hard water. Soap is
really injurious to most skins, and if soap
is used on the face it should be a pure non-
alkaline kind such as Pilenta. The ideal
method of freeing the complexion from
waste matter, dead cuticle, and dirt is to
smear it with pure mercolized wax before
going to bed, sponging the face in the
morning with warm water.
A COMMON DISFIGUREMENT.
About 75 per cent, of the women one
meets suffer from disfiguring blackheads.
These are caused by enlarged pores which
become clogged with dirt and waste matter.
To get rid of blackheads, the safest and
quickest method is to damp them
thoroughly with warm water in which a
tablet of sty mol has been dissolved. When
the face is dried the blackheads will come
right off on the towel without any pain or
forcing. In order to prevent them forming
again the face needs an occasional astrin-
gent bath to keep the pores from getting
over large. Always keep a few stymol tab-
lets handy, for an occasional sparkling
face-bath of stymol water is the best pre-
vention for this ugly affliction.
EVEN WORSE
is the sight, alas! too common, of a woman
with an unsightly growth of down on her
face. Yet many of these spend a good deal
of time trying to eliminate the offending
hairs. Electrolysis and shaving have both
proved unsatisfactory, as well as painful.
There is, however, one remedy which has
a great deal to recommend it. If pure
powdered pheminol is applied directly to
the superfluous hair, the latter can be
removed after a few minutes without the
slightest difficulty.
BEAUTIFUL IN THE RIGHT PLACE.
If superfluous hair is unsightly, the lack
of hair in the right place is a serious defect.
The most beautiful eyes lose half their
charm if the lashes are thin and pale, while
beautiful lashes and brows give a peculiar
charm to even the plainest face. In feed-
ing the eyelashes it is essential to choose a
preparation that is absolutely harmless.
The best thing known for this purpose ;s
pure mennaline, which is easy to obtain
from your chemist. About every other
night a trifle should be rubbed into the
roots of the eyelashes and eyebrows, h
this treatment is continued, the lashes will
not only grow thick and long, but they wiil
tend to become darker in color.
ARE YOU TOO FAT?
It must be generally admitted that the
prettiest face loses half its charm if it ;
owner has a clumsy figure. Superfluous
flesh is, however, much easier to reduce
than most people imagine. It is wonderful
what a difference is made by taking a few
clynol berries after each meal. These little
berries are quite pleasant to take, and
they are absolutely harmless. They have,
however, a wonderful power of reducing
superfluous fat. Over-stout people will do
well to remember that excessive fatness
not only unbecoming but really dangerous.
This very simple and homely remedy
deserves a trial. — Advt.
Pilenta Soap, all Chemists, 1/9. — Advt.


WE ARE THE AGENTS
"bulldog"
HAMMER L£Ss
A GREAT
CUN AT A
LOW PRIGS
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns,
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FOX D.B.—Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE,
Agents wanted where not represented.
HEINZ
Peanut Butter
Serve dainty sandwiches
of Heinz Peanut Butter.
Easy to serve—easy to
enjoy—easy to eat more.
A treat for old and young.
1370
one of the
57
Varieties
-t OR GENTS
n
Si
i-Ar
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perfect fit
guaranteed, or money
refunded.
Send for patterns and
self measurement forms
IMPERIAL SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY Phone 83991
«
WHITE KID GLOVES.
By
KATHARINE
SUSAKNNAH
PRICHARD.
SPRAWLED beneath the sky, the black-
smith’s shed of corrugated iron, its
back broken and rusty, upheld by)
jarrah beams and posts; one, new red,
squared-off, by the wide-open doors. A
swamp gum there, silver body under snake-
skin bark, peeling in flakes —an old tree, all
that remained of scrub where now a country
town spread, with small predatory shops
and streets wandering off and losing them-
selves across cleared plains, among un-
dulating hills.
The blacksmith’s shop had grown along
one side of a by-street. Within, as you came
from the street, the dark was taken up by
shapes of wood and iron, hung from the roof,
crouched in the corners against the walls.
Across a space of earth swept clear, the
anvil struck a fang, polished, gigantic; be-
hind, the furnace had the glowing embers of
a log in the paddocks at night.
Draught horses, rank and steaming, stood
against the wall near the door, their massive
hindquarters fronted out. A chestnut in
trotting tackle against the side wall slewed
oblique eyes, whinnying.
The blacksmith and his men, moving about
the floor from furnace to anvil, from anvil
and bench at rear of the furnace to the
working horses, looked up as a woman
walked into the smithy leading her horse; a
child on his pony beside her.
“Flash dame, staying at Pratten’s....
Nanja-miia,” the striker muttered under his
breath.
“My hack is tender-footed. He needs
shoeing,” Lady Emilia Howard said when
the blacksmith went to her.
Men in the smithy saw the boss go to the
horse, lift a foot, then stand off, in the head-
up, eye-straight way he had when talking
to strangers. They did not see the irises of
liis eyes seethe; his face wither and harden.
As he stood before the woman, she looked
stronger, physically fitter than he. A well-
made creature, unsubdued, moving with as-
surance, she cut against the light of the door-
way in riding breeches, high polished boots,
skirted coat and black hat; her son on a
rough pony, long gaiters buttoned over his
sturdy legs, under tweed coat and cap, was
dressed as no one in the smithy had ever
seen a youngster dressed for riding before.
She watched the blacksmith lead her
horse from the entrance to a peg on the
side wall near the chestnut mare. His head
moved against the satiny pelt of her hack;
the back of his neck flashed to her.
The child had looped his pony’s reins over
a post near the door and run to the forge.
Anthony Bridges turned to the furnace
and anvil again.
“Oh, smith”
Anthony swung to the call. lie went to
the woman and stared into her face again.
“Your name on the door outside attracted
me. I'm looking for a friend, Colonel
Bridges, whom I knew in Egypt.... some
time ago. Perhaps you could tell me where
to find him.”
Cranked-up and wooden Anthony
Bridges replied : “That is my name. But ™
I’m afraid I have not the honor of your
friend’s acquaintance.”
His voice clanged in the hollow twilight,
wandered among dusty machine-parts hung
against the roof, derelict harvesters, stump-
jumps, six-furrow ploughs and drills, tree-
pullers, spring carts newly painted the blue
and scarlet of children’s toys. The words
sounded foreign, difficult to understand in
such a place; their easy politeness, formality,
giving the lie to what they said.
It had been raining all the morning. A
shower pelted along the street now, splashing
out of sight the small shops crushed together
in a row opposite.
Emilia sat down on an empty fruit-case
near the doorway.
“We’ll take a felucca and drift along the
Nile”. ... How could he be the same? How
could he be the self-contained, quiet man
whom everybody referred to at Divisional
Headquarters? “Must ask Bridges.” “What
does Bridges say?” “Hear how Bridges
cleaned-up those wells on the canal?” How
often had she heard such things said. Among
adventurous, hard-drinking, go-as-you-please
men of the Australian regiments, Colonel
Anthony Bridges had a
reputation for thorough-
ness and reliability; for
knowing to the letter
every detail of military
regulation and etiquette.
The stories against him
were all of a weakness
for accoutrement, his
fury if boots did not
shine like polished metal
or there was a speck on his gloves. His
gloves. ...
Emilia watched the bare, rough-haired
levers of those arms and blackened claws
at work, gripping long flat tongs, lift a horse-
shoe, showering sparks from the furnace
to anvil, turn and place it for the striker.
She had jeered at hands whiter, smoother,
more carefully manicured than her own—at
white kid gloves they carried and flaunted
when her hands were coarse and red with
the constant use of disinfectants; her finger
nails broken.
The bare, wooden arms and work-grimed
hands menaced her as they moved over the
anvil, from anvil to furnace and water-butt.
She sickened, was furious, insane with rage
and disgust to have been the prey of those
arms and blackened claws !
Shining stretches of the river. . . .cushions
on the floor of the flat-bottomed boat....
drifting... .three-cornered sail a moth’s wing
against sea and sky, pale blue....silk of
light, fading, sequined with stars. Dark
figure of a boatman in the bow; throb of an
Arab drum.... cries of the town, shrill and
contentious, dying away... .
Lap-lap of water against the ancient
wooden timbers of the felucca.... moving,
unconscious of motion, almost.... stars glit-
tering above... .be10w.... Which was sky,
which water? So clear, so still the shin-
ing. ... *
Quiet infiltrating; mystery; murmur of
the river. Far away a Nubian boatman sing-
ing. His melody thrumming you as though
“They had found each other stranded on a
solitary expedition beyond the Barrage.”
you were one of those primitive, curiously
intricate stringed instruments of early Egypt,
chelys, nebel, shawm or sackbut, thrown
there on the floor of the flat-bottomed
boat.. . . Gusts and wispish rhythms of wild
music beat against the brain, with glints of
tarnished gold, turquoise, colors and odors
of the mummy cases, buried treasure....
Instincts sang; wraiths of improvisation
from ruined temples, wandering across the
desert, stirred, and waved the feathery nerve
crests until body and sense, luminous, dis-
solved, were drawn into the centrifugal sun
of being and oblivion.
She had not been Lady Emilia Howard
in Egypt, but Emily Howard, a Y.A.D.,
doing any sort of dirty work, as a favor, in
auxiliary hospitals. She had worked hard
and felt unimportant; inferior to trained
and competent women of the nursing ser-
vice, admiring, envying them in the wards ;
but unable to get on with them at all, off
duty, on their excursions or social junket-
ings. So that she went about by herself in
much the same detached, self-contained way
as Colonel Anthony Bridges. They had
found each other stranded on a solitary
expedition beyond the Barrage. It had
been the first of many together.
Emilia had told Colonel Bridges who she
was and why she was nursing—that her
husband, Sir' Herbert Howard, had been
crippled by a fall from his aeroplane a year
or so before the war, and they had decided
she should do war service for both. Emilia
herself had been eager for any work, how-
ever menial and arduous, to escape the
futilities women were wasting their lives on
in England. She and Colonel Anthony
Bridges had drifted into a pleasant com-
panionship with a sense of being safe in
themselves, secure from the incalculable
undercurrents of sex attraction. Thair
pleasant companionship had gone the way
of most pleasant companionships in Egypt.
“Anthony and yet not Anthony !” Emilia
had mocked him from the cushions of a
felucca on the Nile, and found herself
daunted by his silence, bis immobility.
Emilia, the self-sufflcient, “para-sexual,”
as she liked to say, who set her life calmly
in the channels she wished to go, had found
herself challenged and forced to lures she
despised to break the reserve and controls
of her Anthony. She had won him with
painted lips, perfume behind her ears, eyes
uncurtained, so that he might see her
smouldering for him. And there had been
the breath of Egypt in it all —moonlit
stretches of river and desert sand, glittering
tinsel of stars in water and sky.
Even after they were lovers he had re-
mained bound to the tragedy or memory
which held him in all but the time they
were together. He did not speak of him-
self before or beyon.l
this island of existence.
Emilia had tried not
to peer beyond his
barrier; her pride
affronted. She laughed
at him, accepting it;
her coarse, work-red-
dened hands ; his man-
dibles elegant, “ivo-
rene,” she said that
she should play Cleo-
patra for him, a part
so out of character for
her!
When Anthony’s regi-
ment was ordered into
Palestine she expected
her feeling for him and
their “romantic epi-
sode” to die down ; but
it did not. It was still
there when she re-
turned to Engla n d.
There were those years
in England with Herbert. Tony was born.
She had told Herbert of Anthony and
Egypt. He knew of them and stood by
her; they had been good friends. Of
Anthony Emilia had heard nothing since she
left Egypt. She did not know even whether
he survived those last days of hostilities in
Palestine. She had always intended to go to
Australia some day to look for him; and
when Herbert died she took passages for her-
self and Tony.
Of people on the boat she had inquired
for Colonel Anthony Bridges and could hear
nothing of him. Then casually, the Prat-
tens, who were returning after a visit to
the old country, spoke of a Colonel Bridges
near Nanja-miia, their home. She had not
asked whether he was married, or anything
about him, rather suspecting a wife and
family. But what had Anthony’s wife and
family to do with her? Emilia did not intend
that they should concern her, or she them.
Seven years—and this was the first time
she had seen him since they were in Egypt!
Since coming to Nanja-miia she had
heard gossip, of course. People who knew
him well were not surprised when Colonel
Anthony Bridges went back to his old job
after the war. There had been no end of
newspaper talk about his brilliant record of
service. But he was a wreck when he came
home, shot through the back, nerves of the
spine injured. Military sinecures were not
chasing wounded men just then, and Anthony
was not the man to chase them. He made
it clear he preferred independence and his
trade to leading-strings of any sort, although
old Arnold Pratten and Wonga people gener-
ally declared it was “a blasted shame so
distinguished a soldier should have to go back
to blacksmithing for a living after the war.”
Ilis business was a good one. This forge
on the old road to the goldfields had been
established by Anthony’s father before
Wonga was a town, and Anthony had two
grown sons to carry on the heavy work of
the smithy for him.
Anthony looked light for a blacksmith;
was lighter and slighter than most black-
smiths ; but meh who had worked with him
boasted how tough he was—all hard sinew
and bone, not an ounce of loose flesh on him.
His sons did the heaviest work of the forge
now; but Anthony Bridges was a demon
to work.
He drove himself relentlessly, welding iron,
breaking young horses, training them in a
flimsy trotting spider, and spending week-
ends away with his dogs, kangarooing. But
pain and the fighting of pain were on his
bare brown face, in his eyes, and the will
which glimmered through them. You got
the ache of the man as he talked with every
gesture of his desperate energy. He worked
to lose consciousness of that crack in his back.
Anthony had explained to somebody once.
The back of his neck flashed to Emilia
again as he stooped over the anvil. She
knew the back of liis neck better than his
face; but not the whipcord across if. nor
the worn leather apron cut in the middle to
form flaps over his grey trousers and 'led
round the waist.
Her brain surged and left her clu .cliing
the sides of the empty box she was sit .mg on.
Tony’s voice went through the hollow dark
of the shed, exclaiming joyously, asking
questions, staccato, eager. Noises of the
smithy clanged through it, cliing, chang,
chang. She could hear men’s voices, rough,
uncertain, rolling about her; see a huge,
shapeless figure there, some distance off,
beating down with a hammer. Flashed silver
fire leaping out from him; leaping to the
blacksmith, before him. The blacksmith —-
that man with the ruckled, unfamiliar,
familiar face!
Did he know? Did he guess Tony was
his son? Would he teach Tony to swing
a hammer like that?
Rain clouted the shed; sharp and clear
raindrops spat into the enclosed twilight
and against the new, bright grass, stretching
up beside the wall. Emilia could see
nothing through the wide open doorways for
fume of the rain.
A youth, heavy and powerful, with a face
of greasy dough, a mat of fairish hair and
ghoulish, adolescent eyes, was dragging nails
from worn irons on the hoofs of a draught
horse, leg and fetlock flounced with hair,
held across his thigh. Long, strong young
arms swung, and clutching he yanked nails
out, knocked-off crescent irons.
In the half-light about the furnace the
smith and another youth were working,
heads, arms, shoulders, trunks to the midriff
under shirt and leathern apron, against red
mist of the fire. The smith lifted a horse-
shoe from the dais of the forge, showering
red sparks, laid it on the anvil. Huge,
inchoate, the figure of the striker opposite
him struck at the horseshoe, chang on the
shoe, ching on the anvil. The smith turned
and moved the shoe for his blow, turned
and moved it at the end of his long tongs.
Chang, cliing, chang-cliang, the rhythmic
beat and song of the hammer. The hammer
flashed, sweeping down, swooping off, a
planet wandering in space, returning to the
nebulous, muscular mass of the man, and
flying again.
Emilia was fascinated by it —the deft
precision of every action; the way dull ob-
stinate metal obeyed these men. The fur-
nace breathed; a horseshoe glowed red and
waxen: the smith wrenched it away, and
held it to the striker’s hammer; plunged the
hot iron into a barrel of water so that it
hissed and spat, and withdrew it, steaming,
purple, sodden.
Again the smith fitted a shoe, red and
waxen from the furnace, on the horse’s hoof.
Smoke rose in yellow gusts. They swept
across the smith, clouding him, cutting him
in halves, as he crouched over Nanja’s leg.
Head and shoulders above the gusts of
yellow smoke, lie bent; crooked across his
thigh, the near hind leg of Emilia’s hack,
fetlock and fetlock joint, black satin-skinned
pastern and hoof.
“If she could model him like that!”
Emilia thought. The grace and wisdom in
pose and gesture. Every muscle sprung,
direct and sure, to run a well-known track.
The horse, standing to him at ease, unper-
turbed ; knowledge and sympathy, wisdom
and strength—wliat he got from the man.
Arm and forearm, cutting down from the
head, dark, indefinite; that line of the black-
smith’s shoulder swung over; bold, clear
lines flowing and swerving to his movement.
If she could fix them, take them away with her !
Men brought other horses to be shod,
coming into the smithy in oilskins. They
hung their nags against pegs on the opposite
wall and stood smoking and talking to the
smith.
“How’s things, Anthony?”
“Not too bad.”
The smith did not miss a beat of what he
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Prank N. Yakwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
Geokgh J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rdt-
lf.dge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. SI. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. Q. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Walea.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, Jamf.s Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every deSel'intion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock; .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. ~ 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374J97
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Aust ™ i! “. New
Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or int S
periods and Iransacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOlhH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000 000
Subscribed Capital 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. OOO
Reserve Fund 950,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£2,200,000
- 1,250,000
A T <on -»V l *Oj‘idUjl(UU
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W. 0.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne
UihV
actual 512
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9 ,
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars. 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors fo-
G3ub Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Shipping, etc,
Across
THE
m
c>
<CJ
cjrF-*-
Vo CANADA, UNITED STATES, EUROPE.
MAIiURA ... 8,075 tons, May 17 I
MAUNGANUI 7,5?7 tons, June 14 3
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons, May 31
NIAGARA ... 13,415 tons, June 28 \
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu,
Victoria and Vancouver.
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti
and San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
U otI^fe™s
*' JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated 1 only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/V
&
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
f&A
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors :
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.O.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRF.CT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
e Di'ygQfOPS •
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman; Hon. JAMES ASHTON MLC •
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.- ’
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Austn.Ho
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and In
4 parts of the world. er
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOB! MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and othei
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf-ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Magkay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
Sunshine and Flowers Now in ,
HAWAII
Avoid the winter cold by visiting the Islands
of Enchantment. Total cost of round trip from
Sydney in 8 weeks pr less (3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii) about £lOO to £l5O. En route to
America or Europe, “stop-over” privilege costs
no more. All modern American conveniences at
good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3 per day.
Tropical scenery; fresh fruits, vegetables;
thrilling melody; golfing, motoring, outrigger
canoeing and surf-board riding; inter-island
cruises. Ask steamship or travel agent, or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full description in
colored booklet, attaching this advertisement.
NO EXTRA COST TO BREAK YOUR
JOURNEY AT
HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
clue Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOliBONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due, Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £ 3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office;
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
Three Day
Tours
Rail & Motor
£4/7/-
Motor all the
Way, i<‘>
£5/10/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious
Scenery,
Wonderful
Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room
Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Hi
ft
&
X
l
x
w
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: “Rexona Soap is
worth its weight in gold
for the skin and hair.”
df
Girls! Shampoo your Hair
With 'H&xcma S© a P
Makes The Hair Bright Soft & Silky
To shampoo or vvash the hair with Rexona Soap is an easy task, but the results ai'e start-
ling. It leaves the hair in such a beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly clean and whole-
some. The hair becomes light and fluffy, waving about the face in abundance,, as beautiful
hair should always appear. Rexona Soap leaves a delicate perfume, invigorating the roots
of the hair, which prevents greyness. A few shampoos with Rexona Soap effectively removes
every trace of dandruff or loose and falling' hair. Ladies who use it for the hair say that
Rexona Soap is far better than any of the so-called hair tonics.
Helena
Soap
'dor Wealth, u^^eauty
:
* b
i
1-
daddy's
HOME I"
*
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/s 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free, to any address
Australia. > ~f ;
i4xltU\
162-Q6 PITT STREET. $
•j BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
V: CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal) ,
SYDNEY.
* * ■’
was doing, as he talked to them, moving in
rhythmic, mechanical fashion, from one de-
tail to another of his work. Emilia saw
that he was fitting the shoes for her hack
himself. Through the muffled breath of
the furnace, the ching, chang, chang of the
anvil, regular, measured movement of the
smith from the furnace to anvil and water
barrel, hanging of the horseshoe on a peg
when it was finished, she could hear the men
talking.
■‘ ’Room’ this week, Colonel?” “Cripes,
that’s something like! Me and the boys was
out last week-end and got a couple of big
chaps and a doe. There’s not too many
about our way now. Brush, of course....
but they’re a nuisance. Goin’ out like you
do with a car’s better sport, I reck’n”....
■‘Horses give the ’roos too big a start in
rough country. Walking with dogs you do
better.”
Emilia could not hear what the black-
smith said. She could only hear the men
about him, orchardists and dairy-farmers
from the hill.
"Had bad luck.,. .lost a dog, they tell me,
Colonel?” “That rough-haired yellow bitch?
It s a damn shame. Wouldn’t have been so
bad if she had been killed hunting, but on
the road coming home! The way the motors
get along this road, it ought to be stopped,
I reck’n. Near had the wheel dragged off—
of me cart the other night, going 0ut”....
“There’s some, of course, likes the rough-
haired dogs better than the smooth. I say
myself I’ve seen as good smooth-haired dogs
as rough. But she was as good a ’roo dog
as I’ve seen and no mistake.”
Emilia could not see the blacksmith now
for the men standing about him; but the
ching-chang of the. striker’s hammer went
on. The youth paring horn from the hoofs
ot the draught horses spoke occasionally in
a rough, mild voice; a horse neighed; the
place in the half-dark with the rain beating
outside smelt like a stable, though ashes and
charcoal exhaled a dry, harsh and tangy
fragrance; there was wet paint on carts and
cart wheels at the back of the shed; and the
nu <!rvi overa^s gave off a faint odor of tar.
Old Pratten was saying they was mad on
tlie dog he got from you to send to India,
Lolonel. Killed a couple of leopards, and
he was wanting to put his dog to your
Emilia, and send out some more. Rotten
luck to lose a dog like that....”
The blacksmith, too busy to have much to
say to them, the farmers gossiped together.
Seeing the woman sitting on that box near
the door they asked Dick Bridges who she
might be; went to look at the mare in trot-
ting tackle against the wall, stood off in-
specting her, and came to yarn to the smith
again.
c . ome 011 fine > Colonel,” one said.
Louple of months ago you wouldn’t have
pven two bob for her and she couldn’t trot
twenty yards without breakin’. Giving her
a fly Saturday?”
‘‘Any use havin’ a quid on her?”
Reckon she’ll just about do it—if she
gets a good start.”
“P^ ei } Alick Ralston about, Anthony?”
a full-faced, red-headed man inquired, eye-
Emilia with child-like curiosity.
No. He hasn’t been in for a week or
so, George. Not since his wife died,” the
blacksmith said.
“When he comes in, ask him if he’s got
any ducks he doesn’t want, will you? Ask
him to bring them in for me.”
“Heard how old Paul is?” “Gone
wood-carting up Wyalin way.” “Cripes!
And a couple of weeks ago he was sup-
posed to be all-in. What is he? Over
eighty—and wood-carting!”
Men swung out of the shed, laughing;
rain splashed about them, their wet oil-
skins shone in the light.
-r, anger which had overwhelmed
Emilia left her. She felt empty, weary,
defeated; as if suddenly she were tired
after her long journey, after waiting so
man .y years to see this man; as if now
there was nothing to wait for, nothing to
look forward to, nothing to go further for.
As if really she could not be bothered to
move again.
Already she was strangely familiar with
the place. Talk of the men who had come
into the smithy had made her acquainted
with it and with Anthony. She knew
him better than she had ever known him;
better than in Egypt. There he had been the
silent man, distant, reserved. They had
encountered, no more. She understood
how much she had wanted to know him.
And now that she knew him, had seen him
at work like this with rough and black-
ened hands, what did she think? What did
she feel about it all?
He was as much in command here as in
camp at Mena or Ismalia. There was
military order under the roof of this old
shed. She took in the horseshoes along
the wall, ranged systematically, rows and
rows of them, lines of hammers, tongs,
ehisels. The bellows breathed at his com-
mand—she enjoyed the fantasy, indulging in
it; striker and youth moved as he willed;
rods of iron were wrought into horseshoes;
horses, men and metal obeyed him. And he
called a dog he loved and was proud of
Emilia!
Unbelievable. But there it was still,
inviolable, unutterable, the caring. It
had taken a deeper channel ever since
coming here. She seemed to have been a
long time listening to the talk of kangaroo
dogs and trotters, of old men carting wood;
watching men beat iron; shoe horses.
Dismayed, Emilia looked in at herself, and
out again at herself, sitting on a box at
the door of this blacksmith’s shop.
It was a dream she was in, she was
sure. If she could move from the door; if
she could get out of the shed,v'away from
the shadow of the windowless roof and
walls, it would vanish. But as in dream
she did not seem able to move.
She could see Tony playing with two
big dogs at the back of the shed. Like i
heavy greyhounds, they were: the one
grey with lighted, green eyes, the other
singery-fawn colored —kangaroo hounds.
Tony’s voice, asking questions, reverberated.
Shining stretches of the Nile.... she
could always see them when Tony was
chattering like that, and the moth’s wing
of a felucca against the sky. Lap-lap of
water against the felucca. The song of
Nubian boatmen assailed her, enervating,
beguiling.
She did not know she was singing that
song of the boatmen drifting across her
lips, until a cry from the furnace startled
her. She could hear the melody then,
winging about the shed, coming from her
own throat. She looked back. Anthony
was standing, anvil and furnace between
them, his face wrenched. His eyes plunged
into her. He turned and blundered out
through the back of the shed.
Staring out into the rain, she was still
sitting there on that box in the doorway
when the youth who had been knocking-
off old shoes on the draught horses and
paring her hack’s hoofs —“cutting his toe
nails” as Tony said —stood before her.
“Mum says would you like a cup of
tea? She’s just made some,” he said.
He was Anthony’s son, Emilia had gath-
ered, a youth with heavy, powerful limbs,
sawny, self-conscious, fluff coming down from
his ears along his cheeks; but a man’s assur-
ance worn like the leathern apron covering
three-quarters of him, khaki flannel shirt and
yellow trousers.
Emilia looked up from his boots as they
stayed before her, boots of unblacked leather,
huge and pudding-shaped.
“Thank you,” she said, surprised, and not
knowing quite what to say.
She rose and followed when he turned
away through the -back of the smithy, his
heavy limbs thrust out before her, barring
the machinery piled there —monstrous, inert
wheels, rusty grinning teeth. What an in-
ferno ! Who was this youth leading her
through it? Where were they going? Past
benches spread with tools, tongs, tweezers,
hammers, twitchers, nails, stilettos, gimlets,
ranged along the wall, and horseshoes, hun-
dreds of them, hundreds and hundreds of
horseshoes, all shapes and sizes. On the walls
of her brain they were hanging like that,
fusty, plum-colored, silver. New moons of
horseshoes, rows and rows of them.
Eight from a door in the side of the shed
flashed on her, blinding, exhilarating. She
went into it, striding, swimming, gulping
the clear cold air, grateful to see the sky.
earth, grass, all fresh, newly-washed, so
pure and tender.
Across a yard strewn with scrap-iron,
rusty machine parts and glassy pools of rain-
water, a small brick house, white wooden
lace round the verandahs, watched the
smithy. A ueat, prosperous-looking house,
with a garden of red and yellow flowers,
dahlias, coxcombs and geraniums.
The woman who met Emilia on the door-
step was like her house and garden. Emilia
could see her house and garden in her.
“It’s such a cold, miserable morning,”
she said, “and I always make tea for dad
and the boys at eleven. When I seen you sit-
ting in the forge I thought you might like a
cup.”
“That was kind”
But Emilia was consumed with realising
that this was Anthony’s wife, this stout,
bland little woman with sleek hair, whose
skin shone as though it had been polished.
Her blouse drew tight over a full bosom and
her skirt went down in a black bell over
broad hips and thighs. She looked very
healthy and good-humored. Her wide dull
mouth held itself with an expression of
patience and perpetual smiling; the eyes
were mild and complaining over a soft thick
nose and ruddy cheeks.
And this was Anthony’s life that she gave
him, Emilia exclaimed to herself as she
went indoors. So neat and tidy-looking,
everything. Oiled linoleums everywhere. An
enlarged photograph of Anthony in uniform
displaced all else in the sitting-room; and
there were several smaller pictures of him
on the mantelpiece, with many other photo-
graphs. But how did he live with those
panels of pink flamingoes and knowing-
looking birds in pea-green landscapes?
An old woman seated beside the table,
which had a red cloth and a tray with tea
things on it, stared resentfully at the tall
woman in men’s breeches who came into the
room. “Mother,” Mrs. Anthony Bridges said
when she spoke to her, and the old woman
called Mrs. - Bridges Annie. “Gentle Annie,”
Anthony would have called his wife, Emilia
imagined; and sung “Little Annie Rooney
is my sweetheart” to her when he was court-
ing her before they were married.
Emilia smiled to think of it. The critical
malignity of her interest relaxed. A spasm
of affection swayed her towards Mrs. Bridges.
She realised how kind and conscientious
Mrs. Anthony Bridges was. What a good
wife she had been to Anthony. Honest and
industrious, keeping his house in order,
bearing him sons, bringing them up to be
decent, hard-working lads. They thought
the world of “Mum,” it was easy to see.
Sc did Anthony.
Emilia had a sense of obligation to An-
thony’s wife. She wished to thank her for
being so good to Anthony—as if Anthony
belonged to her, Emilia, really, but by some
accident, shipwreck or misadventure in his
early life he had been lost, cast away and
fallen into this woman’s hands! She had
been kind; taken care of him. Emilia was
grateful.
Amused at the sway of her thinking,
Emilia drank her tea, and listened to Mrs.
Bridges talking. The misery, sense of de-
feat and failure which had overcast her in
the smithy were gone. She had forgotten
them. She was pleased to be exploring
Anthony’s life like this, the life he had so
carefully hidden away from her: enjoyed
hearing Anthony’s wife talk of him with
pride and a slightly puzzled querulousness,
as though really he were the most trouble-
some of her children.
“Dad not coming in?” she asked her sou,
who, it was clear, obeyed an unwritten law
by not entering the house in those heavy
boots.
He shook his head, supping his tea on the
verandah.
“Mr. Bridges has never been the same man
since the war,” Mrs. Anthony Bridges bab-
bled politely, with an air of making con-
versation. “Since he came home from the
war, that is. Not like himself at all, that
restless and irritable; flying off into rages
at the least thing. They say the war’s made
•tnany a man like that, nervous and jumpy.
Doctor says all Anthony needs is rest and
quiet. Well, the boys could run the business
now; but he won’t let them. Never happy
unless lie’s going like mad from one thing
to another. If it’s not in the smithy it’s
away with the dogs, kangarooin’, or trainin’
trotters.” .
(Continued on next page.)


sd
w
■M-
x
Pells and Peals
We have been Bell Manufacturers for over
50 years, and cast bells for Churches, Fire
Purposes, Ships, Schools, Clocks, etc.
We also cast Church Peals of an octave or over, correctly tuned
for Church and musical purposes. All our bells are designed
upon scientific lines, and are noted for resonance and beauty
of sound.
Iron lowers for Pells
Where towers or belfries are not available, we supply Iron
Towers for swinging the bell, with a weatherproof hood.
These towers are in demand where belfries are not available
—their low price making them available even in small parishes.
We erect lowers knells
in every part of the State. Inquiries invited.
NMNKS&SON
PTV.
LTD.
Iffjfrgo PITT ST SVDNEV-391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE'
,
The old woman stared disapproval of Lady
Emilia Howard's crossed legs in their close-
fitting gear and polished boots.
“You talk too freely to a stranger, Annie,”
she said.
“Don’t you like my boots?” Emilia asked
and smiled to the old woman.
Mrs. Bridges looked as if her face had
been smacked. She was in the habit of talk-
ing like this, Emilia realised. It was more
from habit than anything else she was chat-
ting. There were those mild, complaining
eyes; the mouth held patiently with a smile.
“I suppose we can’t help talking of what
occupies our minds most. That’s it, isn’t it,
Mrs. Bridges?”
“Of course, mother.” Relieved to con-
tinue her story, Anthony’s wife went on:
“If only he slept well he’d be better. He
doesn’t sleep; that’s the worst of it. Pulled
his stretcher on to the verandah, so as not
to disturb me. But I hear him walking
about half the night, sometimes. He keeps
all his military things in that room off the
verandah. And the other night, when I got
up, what do you think he was doing? Stand-
ing at the chest of drawers —all his gloves
spread out! Must be a dozen pairs of them,
white kid gloves, he used to wear at the war.
And he keeps them all folded up in tissue
paper like you buy gloves in a shop. Not
a spot on any of them. And when I took a
pair to wear to Bertie’s wedding, you should
have heard him go off!
“What he wants all them gloves for I
don’t know. Never wears them now; not
from one year’s end to another. Just takes
them out, has a look at then*, and puts
them away again. Course/ he used to wear
them in Egypt. Mick Ralston was saying
the other day: ‘You’d never ’ve known the
Colonel in Egypt, aunty. First time I saw
him, there he was, standing outside his tent
at headquarters, talking to some of the big
bugs—as big a bug as any of them himself —
white kid gloves and all.’ ”
Emilia had finished her tea and bread and
butter. She thanked Mrs. Bridges for them;
said she was sure her horse would be ready
and that her small boy was getting into mis-
chief over there in the smithy. She stood
up; her long straight legs in their buff
breeches and polished boots struck across
the oiled linoleum; lie-els clicked on the
verandah steps. She went through the lush
coxcombery of the little garden, liking it,
the small well-ordered brick house with its
wooden lace round the verandah, Anthony’s
wife, and the shrewd, disapproving old
woman, feeling indebted to them.
A quite unconscionable happiness took
possession of her.
“White kid gloves.... sleepless nights.”
Ching, chang-chang, hammer sang to
horseshoe and anvil, as she went into the
shed again. Tony ran to her exclaiming
eagerly.
The youth who had taken her out through
the back of the shed brought her horse shod,
treading daintily, hoofs slick and newly-
painted black.
“Where is the Colonel?” Emilia asked.
“Dad?” The lad apologised. “He’s gone
sick of something. Cleared out a while ago.”
Emilia looked around the hollow dark of
the smithy, taking possession of it. “Tell
him—no never mind. I’ll tell him myself.”
Merciless and serene her voice flowed.
“We’re going to buy Nanja-miia, Pratten’s
old place, Tony and I. Will you ask your
father if he thinks he could find a dog for
u 5.... like the one that was killed.. ..and,
perhaps, some day... .take us kangarooing? ’
The Garden of God.
THE little steamer that plies between
Dover and Boulogne is not as crowded
as it used to be in the years just after
the war. Nevertheless its human freight is
still considerable of those who, bringing their
flowers and the homage of their love, make
pilgrimage to that garden outside Boulogne
where lies the rich dust of England’s dead.
They are mostly poor, humbly-clad people,
and Barnet, my clergyman friend with whom
I was making the passage, noted it.
“It would seem- that the rich forget their
dead.” he said, not cynically, but a little
sadly. Then as an afterthought: “The
poor gave all they had. That is why they still
remember.”
The day was clear and invigorating, the
Channel peaceful, and the sunshine, even for
an Australian like myself, sufficiently cor-
dial ; so the reflective mood came readily and
remained undisturbed.
Lying in deck-chairs, Barnet and I, from
a sympathetic curiosity, took to speculating
upon the circumstances and manner of life
of the little groups of people who passed or
sat within eye-shot about the deck. Almost
without exception the passengers were Eng-
lish, typically and obviously English, and
the fragments of speech that floated our way
confirmed it.
Presently our interest became directed to
an old couple sitting in a recess by the
poop gangway. They were a picturesque
pair, and in some subtle, indefinable way dif-
fered from the rest of the passengers.
“They are not English.” said Barnet, who
is a keen judge of the native.
“They may be Australian,” I suggested,
whimsically. Barnet and I are always in
argument over the qualities of the two types.
For a while we sat watching them,
chiefly, I think, with a view to deciding
their origin. The woman was small and
wizened, with a keen face lit up by some
inward excitement, and the man, who must
have been a giant before age stooped his
shoulders and bent his frame, occasionally
placed one gaunt hand caressingly over the
woman’s as it rested on her knee. They
conversed sparingly in low tones, the man
lifting his brooding eyes now and then to stare
out across the sea at some distant invisible
object. Beside them on the seat lay a large
posy of common garden flowers, mostly
white. The flowers looked a little withered.
We were nearing Boulogne when I first
got into conversation with the old fellow,
lie had left his wife’s side and was standing
by the rail watching the glittering sun-
bathed coast as we approached, a mild inter-
est in his dim old .eyes. Barnet was in the
saloon and I strolled across to the old man.
“Pleasant trip,” I remarked, inviting con-
versation.
“Yes, pleasant enough," he replied, with-
out enthusiasm.
"Ever seen Boulogne before?”
“Never.” The old man’s lips came to-
gether tightly and the word was unaccount-
ably tense.
Suddenly it occurred to me to wonder why
this taciturn old man and his wife had
waited ten years to make their pilgrimage.
“It is my first visit, too,” I said, to keep
the conversation going. “Boulogne is a
long way from New South Wales.”
The old man looked up ; his (‘yes blinked
and a tired smile wrinkled his face. “You
are Australian too?” he queried, more affably.
We gripped hands.
“You have someone over here?” I asked,
sympathetically.
“Yes.” The old man’s eyes wandered to
where his wife was sitting. “Our son,”
lie said, with simple candor. “Barely
twenty-one when he enlisted and our only
child. He was killed an hour before the
Armistice was declared. He is one of the
few Australians buried in the Boulogne
cemetery.”
11c turned to the woman on the seat.
“Mother,” he called, forcing an air of cheer-
fulness. “Come and meet a dinkum Aussie!”
He helped her across, and after she had
fumbled a while with her spectacles the little
woman regarded me with kindly criticism,
and smiled her approval.
We were now close to the Boulogne pier,
and the passengers crowded forward with
exclamations of pleasure at the delightful
picture made by the town’s white-fronted
buildings, relieved by the gay pleasure-
grounds of the Casino, with the Chateau and
Notre Dame high in the background. Bar-
net came on deck, and there was no further
opportunity for conversation with the old
couple, but later I noticed them cautiously
descending the gangway, aided by a ship’s
steward, and then they were accosted by a
plump, red-faced French woman, who by her
gesticulations seemed to be giving them a
most hearty welcome. Even from a dis-
tance it was obvious that they were handi-
capped by the difference of language, and I
suggested to Barnet, who is an excellent
linguist, that he should offer his services as
interpreter. This he readily consented to da,
and we approached the little group.
“My friend speaks French,” I said,
addressing the old man, who seemed rather
overwhelmed by the French woman’s exuber-
ance. “Perhaps he can help you in some way. ’
The old fellow looked his thanks. “Madame
is trying to say something to us,” he ex-
plained unnecessarily, “and we don’t under-
stand.”
Barnet stepped forward. “Madame Bon-
neau welcomes you, and wishes to see a
certain photograph,” he said, turning to the
embarrassed couple.
“Oh! The photograph!” The little Aus-
tralian woman became suddenly animated.
She appealed to her husband. “The photo-
graph, Dan!” she insisted. “Jim’s photo-
graph !”
The old man foraged in his pockets and
produced a postcard portrait of a young man
in Australian uniform. It was handed to
Mme’. Bonneau, who went into raptures over
it, and, having this assurance that the couple
before her were the persons she the little
threw her plump arms around the MUe
woman's neck, and the.u-ef.u va d B inmt
was hard put to it to keep pace with
“Meanwhile Dan had turned hja attention
to me and I gleaned some information co.i
cern ng thei? former life and circumstances
They owned a small store in a suburb of
Sydney and out of their irregular income
had put by a little at a time with a view
to visiting. England and the grave of their
son here in the cemetery of Boulogne. Again
and again during the ten years of waiting
sickness had intervened and diminished thur
little hoard, but at last they had been able
to make the journey. Mine. Bonneau had
corresponded with them during that time,
and one of the chief interests of their years
of waiting had been the reading of the letters
—translated for them by a school-teacher
friend. Mine. Bonneau had known Jim, their
son, well; had been a second mother to him
while he was billeted with her, and after
lie was killed had tended his grave with
affectionate care. .
“Paul would have been here to-day with
his cart,” Mine. Bonneau said, referring to
her husband, as we left the pier, “but he
required it to take vegetables into the town.
The chars-il-bancs are always so crowded
when a boat comes in.” She sighed heavily.
“We’ll get a taxi,” said Barnet, and
Madame beamed gratefully.
A brisk ride along the boulevards and we
were at the cemetery gates. Cemetery, did I
say? It was one riotous glory of flowers, with
prim cypresses and elegant times and spruces
watching silently. Nothing but the crosses
and the long, low mounds indicated that it
was a place of death.
Jim’s grave was distinguished from the
rest by a tree planted at its foot —a shapely
wattle in full bloom. M. Bonneau had
planted it at Madame’s direction.
Jim’s mother, dazed at the rampant beauty
of it all, overflowing with the repressed grief
of years, wept unhindered on Mme. Bon-
neau’s wide shoulder; whilst Dan, gaunt,
stoic, stood silent with folded arms and set
face....
“What do they call this place?” asked Bar-
net in undertone.
“The Garden of Boulogne,” I said in some
surprise.
Ilis voice was tense; his eyes dim with
emotion. “It is the Garden of God,” he
said earnestly.
H.E. BURROWS.
To Keep Me Unafraid.
Out of a lily-bed and out of fire
I drew this thing I love, the fighting song
Of Christ and Adam—epic of desire
Listened for overlong.
A burning angel from the gates of God
Leaned down. For my reward
I saw a flower blossom from the sod,
And, in my lhand, a sword.
I have lit a candle in my heart
To the song, the flower and the blade—
A candle, blowing bravely and apart,
To keep me unafraid.
N.S.W.
BETTIE RIDDELL.


mm
> u,
■:
w
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE SHAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agenis—uOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OlUee—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
“ BITUMASTIC ” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
“Bitumastic” Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
roe
S
ih e
V, %
y
ce
Si ......... ... , . ... .. ,
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it ha 3
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9 " at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY„ LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCII MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l. a
V - Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London. /
5,000 SATISFYING SHAVES
nr
yr
to
s:
Guaranteed
in order for two years free |
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
>gU Y THIS RAZOR And share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brinqs to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
fs
df
Tote
is tote
&*««*
pleosuf*
BA
A
> 1?
or %
To keep fit and in form, you need sound,
robust health. Assist nature to maintain
perfect health by ensuring a sound diges-
tion. This is where Beecham’s Pills come
in! They invigorate the digestive powers,
clear the system cf injurious accumulations, give tone to the stomacn
and stimulate the liver, making you feel fit and well.
Keep keen and fit for work and play by taking
Heechanid
Pith
Worth a
Guinea
a box
* ; s*
D
MARINE ENGINES
EXTRA durability and longer
service are as traditionally
Kermath features as its depend-
able and economical operation.
Install a Kermath Marine En-
gine. It will successfully over-
come the most trying conditions
with effortless ease-“A Kermath
always runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
I
3 to 150 H. P.
I to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
1
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
~ North Sidney, N. S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
24
» I*l
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at3 P . m ., r o m No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults. 1/6. Children, 6d.
T«»a.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
o


■A „
V
' * ’
svardeb
a V
50MEDAS
v
rjg
»
Perth
:T«,,
; f,
-•'V s
k
TO HIS WAJfsry r f ; f lf/
s*
e&
■:
in Oltu f V . S DPQJ y
FINE _ %J
a
;- 'rv . •;> .•
'
&
m
- -;'
vv: ? .
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
■
V; :■• tyam&ri
*" - '* r, ' :
■
livliV
V ■•.■ • ■ /: ,--, v ' :\ V
. r ! 'V^ r v‘v:/:'V.
' t« ‘ ■
.-1
Cl.ffl
SJtK
< 7 q)cstGnl) Clubs
Distillers PERTH,(Scotland)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
lt o UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF THE COM MON WEALTH CUrD*-
rs=J
Vi
a 2
wm
rd
A jtrand
m
t
wl
If you say QUALITY
you must say AGE,
and when you say
AGE you must say
QUANTITY,
DEWAR’S is backed by
millions of gallons of
the finest Whiskies pro-
duced at the leading
Scotch Distilleries.
