

rv i rvrm mil rm mum n nm» mil i mm ii*i numiri wri'rrr 1111111 n il
THE
H
j»
mv/»'
, f &>CST<jNI) CIV* 5 u
- H lsfl| lers rtili
J ! '*» Ui, ofß PHOOUCE or SCOTLAH °..,u f AITH cuS J .
rtONKf* 1
the com
Supervision
J
Si
%
award
SOMEM
e t a
. fW «wwu° " IS m*, Mt Jfc
r
m
FINE
rmtn
maii > mi in
The Bulletin
\sux-dj /{vrujf cXuM'M " !rtacC?'JhfK J &tx, fxuji'Sf
Vol. 49—No. 2519.
Wednesday, May 23, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r T'HE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Follow the rule of the road alway,
Keep to the left and avoid delay,
Don’t be a jay-walking pavement pest,
Blocking the way, impeding the rest.
Follow the rule of the wise who lead
Into the drug-store for \that they need.
Get it betimes and for colds assure—
Unrivalled Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT.
sdfsdf
Tl\is BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTTS Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
H_Y S AG HT
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
The
World’s
Standard
m
S 5 :!
’ N
.1
glig«
for Watch Integrity
Slender, graceful, accurate—every tiny wheel and
cog made with unusual care. So wafer-like that it
slips into your pocket almost unnoticed.
ELGIN is conceded to be the world s standard for
watch integrity, and to such efficiency is wedded
beauty of design. ,
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
gin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
jhi? frade Mark
in the Watch Cas-e
Oven Baked—
in the good old way
m
HEIN*
pa.
HEINZ Baked Beans are
Oven Baked, in real
ovens—the slow, sure, thor-
ough way. They are easier to
digest because they are baked
—. delicious and nutritious.
They have a wonderful flavour
—the baked flavour. You’ll
taste the difference ins tan tly •
Ready to heat and serve.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Can*
one of varieties
HEINZ
1487-A
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and fiad
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the. stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, Tlie Pbactitioneb, etc.
m
v).Uj
MincM.«nmum
HUDSON
:,v,v
The Red Page
Art in Melbourne
In Melbourne the opinion is frequently
voiced by those few who are sufficiently
venturesome to voice opinions on art, that
Lionel Lindsay is a far greater artist than
his brother (meaning, of course, Norman).
If one dissents from this view, one. is
gravely informed that “that is the opinion
of people here.” And so it is. I saw an
exhibition of Lionel’s water-colors. It
covered four walls of the New Gallery,
and was broken up into little oblong pieces,
but it. was all one picture, repeated over
and over with certain slight variations in
detail. Visitors were assured that they
were Spanish scenes, and they would have
made admirable picture postcards for sale
to American tourists while passing through
Madrid. They were very competently
painted, very smooth and slick, and an
attendant mentioned very wisely that
Lionel Lindsay’s technique was “wonder-
ful.” This was obvious, even to the naked
eye.
This preoccupation with technical con-
siderations is one of the banal influences
retarding anything in the way of artistic
expression in Melbourne. It is part of the
very spirit of the place. It is implicit in the
straight, wide streets, so rectangularly
arranged, and it speaks in the conscious
pride Melburnians take in this rectangu-
larly. Art rarely portrays anything pur-
turbing in Melbourne. The correct por-
traits of the Mid-Victorian Mclnnes, the
exact representation of the boisterously
eameraic Meldrum, the endless prettiness of
the innumerable lesser lights of Victorian
art merely stroke with soothing kindness
the- Melbourne mind.
Three artists stand piquantly out from
this welter of saccharinity. Shaw and
Frater work in collaboration. Both are
Melburnians of some years’ standing, and
they have been steeped until they were
sickened in the obsession of technicalities.
Before revolting, they went the whole-hog
along with “The Twenty” led by Max Mel-
drum; but when at last they shook them-
selves free from that dogmatist’s hypnotic
spell, they found themselves and com-
menced to really paint pictures, to allow
their imaginations to soar, to revel in the
glory of beautiful colors, to find infinite
pleasure in the creation of intriguing de-
sign. They were promptly excommunicated
as Bolsheviks in Art. But in their post-
revolt canvases there is to be seen the
illuminating light of personality; there is
to be found pure beauty bound by no fet-
ters but the unerring sense of design that
holds each picture together. And, though
fallen from grace and isolated, these artists
are happy in their creative work.
Pat Harford, the third of this trio, has
never been one of the fold. He burst
upon Melbourne some seven or eight years
ago and determined to become an artist,
studied at the Society for a year or less,
demonstrated that all the technique re-
quired by an intelligent painter could be
acquired in a few months, and straight-
way commenced teaching the Society’s
most hoary veterans how pictures should
be painted. From intriguing and very
beautiful landscapes he passed to futurism,
and now paints almost unintelligible mix-
tures of color and line, the colors mostly
primitive, the lines running to corners. He
was made for better things, but having, as
he has, a strong sense of the futility of
Melbourne art as a whole, he is naturally
anxious to dissociate himself from the
crowd. This he lias certainly accomplished,
and I am sure that he finds more pleasure
in pulling mawkish faces at the fat and
lazy lion than Melbourne’s conformists
have found in being devoured by him.
LESTER WAY.
Stripping the Veil
It is very evident that Cecil Mann (R.P.
2/5/’2B) has never taught children (for
which, no doubt, he is profoundly thank-
ful),’or he would never have suggested in
his criticism of “Rhymes for Young Aus-
tralians” that “obscurity is a thing to tempt
the Australian child on.” After 16 years
of teaching experience I can safely say
that obscurity in any subject has just the
opposite effect on children, Australian or
not. “Stripping the veil” of obscurity is
the business of teachers, as Cecil Mann
states; but sometimes the veil is so thick
that when one has cleared it away there is
ndthing of any value left, and in the process
the children are bored stiff.
For instance, in the April School Paper
(Victorian), as April 23 was Shakspeare
Day, two Shakspearean selections were in-
cluded in the issue for Grades V and VI,
to be read by children aged 10 to 12 years.
My class actually enjoyed going through
“The Seven Ages of Man”—the famous
lines described a process common all
around them. But when they went on to
read the scene in the French camp where
Cordelia visits the sick King Lear —! I
spent a whole period stripping away all
the involved thoughts, and reducing every
sentence to simple language, and the same
children were just as interested as when
they were first forced to read it through.
Two Australian selections were also in-
cluded—the Victorian School Paper for
some years now has been a consistent sup-
porter of Australian literature —and I sug-
gested that they should learn any poem of
the four they liked the best. Half of them
are now learning “An Anzac’s Thoughts of
Home,” while the rest are memorising “The
Hills of Dandenong.” These particular
poems may not be classed as great litera-
ture, as the quidnuncs would aver, but they
suit our children—and that is the main
thing.
As for putting patriotism before literary
appreciation, at least I am in good com-
' pany in doing so. Last year the Ontario
Education Department (Canada) equipped
a “school on wheels,” which was intended
to follbw the railroads into settlements
away out on the fringes of the Province.
Its library consisted solely of books by
Canadian authors. I’ll guarantee that very
few schools in Australia can boast of one
shelf of Australian literature.
We must recognise that our native litera-
ture is part and parcel of the wider Eng-
lish literature—a fact my critic prefers to
forget—and is therefore right worthy of
study. If we study Australian literature,
are we not at the same time studying
English literature? In my article I did
not intend to suggest that English litera-
ture, per se, should be neglected all to-
gether; but I did, and do, strongly con-
tend that Australian literature should be
placed first.
For this reason. The majority of our
children leave school at 14. Both on the
score of patriotism (and I make no apology
for placing it first) and of literary appre-
ciation, they should leave school carrying
with them a genuine love for Australian
literature, which in its turn will lead them
to appreciate the deeper significance of
our vast and splendid English literary
heritage. Is not that ideal superior to .the
present fact that our children are leaving
school with their first eager love for litera-
ture killed by the daily parting of the veil
of obscurity that surrounds so much of the
ancient literature they are first asked to
study, because adults think it is good for
them?
COUNTRY PED.
The Two Wallaces
Under that heading “F.S.” (R.P. 9/5/’2B)
discourses on “the barbarity of the Aus-
tralian school curriculum,” because his
daughter was instructed to write an essay
on William Wallace, and to that end had
been filled up with “the same old haggis
of folklore, ferocity and plain invention
derived from the famous epic of Blind
Harry, which has been discredited so often
that even a few Scotsmen are beginning
to doubt its absolute veracity.”
The best authorities I know of as regards
the life of William Wallace are Fordun, Wyn-
toun and Bower, who wrote history before
Minstrel Harry came on the scene. I
never knew any Scottish school where the
metrical yarn of Sightless Henry was taught,
and I never met any school book which
contained it, and I never heard of any
Scotsman taking it seriously where it wasn’t
corroborated by history. I don’t believe
that even a barbarous Australian pedagogue
would treat the “epic” as an authority.
Anyhow, I would like to know the name of
the book, if there was one, from which the
daughter of “F.S.” got her information.
The statement that Wallace “murdered
an English Governor at Lanark” is a lie
except from the point of view that it was
always murder for a Scotsman, Irishman,
Welshman or Frenchman to offer armed
resistance to the “base, bloody and brutal
Saxon” (as "he Irish have described him)
who went thieving in the countries of all
four. Wallace came to a horrible end at
the hands of the “loathly Sassenach,” as
“F.S.” calls him —perhaps correctly. Joan
of Arc, whom “F.S.” would doubtless regard
as a rather noted French murderess, also
came to a painful finish. In Ireland a long
line of homicides resisted the Sassenach in-
vader, often with bad results to themselves,
but Wallace and Joan are outstanding cases.
“F.S.” alleges that Wallace “woke the
land of the bagpipe and the kilt to a sense
of nationality, and paved the way for its
present occupation of the best posts in the
Empire.” Then he compares the hero in a
(Continued on page 5.)


“ Truth in Advertising ,** the key to reliable shopping information.
Anth
N
A
m
«<v
S
yA
Xv
m
/
/vs
m
4*
to
om
r
Nc
x
A
/
O.
/N
A
at
x
A
J5O
x\
-O-t
SBS
rpA
(S
(/r
4£
W»S
c-ve
v-»V-4
'X
SS£
Electric Radiant Fires, suitable for Home, Office or Study.
Absolutely safe —and tbe radiated heat is odorless, and does
not vitiate the air. Supplied with fittings and 6 feet of flex.
The "Regent” is a good design finished in oxidised copper.
lOin. reflector. 900 watts. Economy Price 35/6
The "Thornbury” Electric Radiator.
A strong cast design, finished in oxi-
dised copper, and suitably relieved.
Nickel-plated lOin. copper reflector,
900 watts. Economy Price .. . 47/-
® !!!!££ EM
IiRKISfiKISErf
K
Tlie "Don” Electric Radiator. Very
suitable for the office or study. The
Reflector can be turned to a horizontal
position for boiling or toasting.
Economy Price 35/6
Q
"'UIU
m
' **
-a Ok
■
Electric Bar Type Fires
These Radiators present the ideal method of heating the average sized room.
The heat is distributed evenly in all directions, and can be regulated at will.
The Ivanhoe design, as illustrated, is
handsomely finished oxidised copper on
cast iron. One-bar or two-bar elements.
One-bar, 1000 watts. Economy Price, 42/-
1 wo-bar, 2000 watts. Economy Price, 66/6
The "Richmond” design, as illustrated, is
of cast iron, finished in oxidised copper.
Offered at these Economy Prices.
One-bar, 1000 watts. Price .... 55/-
Two-bar, 2000 watts. Price .... 87/6
Use Our Deposit-Purchase System
It simplifies buying. You pay no interest. Under our Deposit-Purchase System
you leave a deposit on the goods selected, pay off the balance as it suits you.
The goods are then delivered in the usual way when fully paid for. No interest
charged. ..
OPEN EVERY FRIDAY UNTIL 9 P.M.
BOOKS
Fiction for the Fireside.
Do you seek hours of rich
entertainment ? A large
assortment of Up-to-date
Novels awaits your inspec-
tion in the Book Department,
Per 5/3 vol.
(Postage sd. extra.)
Young Men in Love.
Michael Arlen
Falling Seeds.
Elizabeth Cobb Chapman
Questionable Antics.
Mrs. Dowdall
The Crook’s Shadow.
J. Jefferson Farjeon
Caste. Cosmo Hamilton
Nancy Trevanion’s Legacy.
Joseph Hocking
The Fast Gentleman.
Keble Howard
Lighten Our Darkness.
Robert Keable
Red Sky at Morning.
Margaret Kennedy
The Midnight Folk.
John Masefield
New Wine. Geoffrey Moss
Bitter Heritage.
Margaret Pedler
Passionate Particles.
Margaret Peterson
The Spirit of the Light.
Chart Pitt
Little Pardner.
Eleanor H. Porter
Saltacres. Leslie Reid
The Two Mackenzies.
W. Pett Ridge
The Nuptials of Corbal.
Rafael Sabatini
The Hoop. J. C. Snaith
The Dusty Angel.
Lady Troubridge
The Patriot.
A. E. and H. C. Walter
Saturnalia in Room 23.
Arthur Weigall
Meanwhile. H. G. Wells
The Way the World is Going.
H. G. Wells
The King Diamond.
Fred. M. White
Per 3/6 vol.
(Postage sd. extra.)
Three Pilgrims and a Tinker.
Mary Border
The Setons. O. Douglas
The Surprising Adventures of
Mr. Shuttlebury Cobb.
R. Austin Freeman
The White Monkey.
John Galsworthy
Soundings. A. Hamilton Gibbs
Roping Lions in the Grand
Canyon. Zane Grey
Another Scandal.
Cosmo Hamilton
Simon the Coldheart.
• Georgette Heyer
Secret Fool. F. Tennyson Jesse
Tom Fool. F. Tennyson Jesse
Snaggletooth. Selwyn Jepson
The Constant Nymph.
Margaret Kenndey
Summer-time. Denis MacKail
Sard Harker. John Masefield
The Moon and Sixpence.
W. Somerset Maugham
The Painted Veil.
W. Somerset Maugham
The Trembling of a Leaf.
W. Somerset Maugham
The Dark Gods.
Lady Dorothy Mills
Thunder on the Left.
Christopher Morley
The Hermit of Far End.
Margaret Pedler
The House of Dreams Come
True. Margaret Pedler
A Daughter of the Land.
Gene Stratton Porter
Ann’s Crime. R. T. M. Scott
The Thirteenth. Clare Sheridan
The Hounds of Spring.
Sylvia Thompson
(BOOKS SECOND FLOOR.)
Anthony Hopdepivs:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


HUDSON
Super
Six
4
;
l
l
s<7Ti
\Jt
M
%
Wl
x
X?
7
XJ
/=
f
l
&
Kj
\
V
■O«MW»
JJJ_.
Mi
WA
1 i
m
i amt v
€
■w.
7 (
c'
V - ” A C 7
l v&/
V 'Vw'^
ii
, i,ijuti)iii^.L=^^S
-jr
A
r
A j
/
This Leadership Exclusive in
High Compression Performance
HPHROUGH a remarkable companion invention to the Super-Six
principle, the Hudson Super-Six retains all the advantages of both
the high-compression motor and the low-compression type—waste heat
is turned to useful power. There is greater economy in fuel. There
is more power at all speeds and much greater power at high speeds.
With the Super-Six principle, this new invention combines the
highest efficiency in power generation and the maximum efficiency in
power transmission ever achieved within our knowledge.
These Performance results, that are usually obtainable only with
special, high-priced motor fuels, are assured with ordinary petrol.
STANDARD MODELS.
1 18-inch Wheel Base.
Tourer (Aust. Body) £445
Coach (Imported Body) 480
Sedan (Imported Body) 510
STANDARD MODELS.
127-inch Wheel Base.
7-Pass. Tourer (Aust. Body) .. . £465
Coach (Imported Body) 499
5-Pass. Sedan (Aust. De Luxe
Body—Leather) 675
CUSTOMS-BUILT MODELS.
127-inch Wheel Base.
5-Pass. Brougham (Imported Body) £560
7-Pass. Sedan (Imported Body) . . 650
Prices at some points slightly higher.
the smooth
and mighty
POWER
of the steam
engine
/
with the new
high compression
motor that turns
waste heat to*
POWER
Distributors:
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney,
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


•a*
5*
I
FREE OVERCOATS
—are all 1928 models—among these we fea-
ture the popular Prince Edward Double-
breasted Style, tailored in smart shades of
Grey and Plum tones —but to 6uit all tastes
we have the smart Single-breasted Raglan—in
fashionable shades of Navy, Grey and Brown
Overcoatings. a
Our Mail-Order Department
is a well-organised branch of our big busi-
ness, and through it we receive orders from
all parts of the Commonwealth.
We invite you as a reader of The Bulletin
to avail yourself of this offer —if you will
write your name and address across this
advertisement and post it back to us we
will, by return, post you patterns, tape
measure and particulars of this money-saving
offer, but you will be under no obligation
to order.
AN ALL-WOOL
DOUBLE-BREASTED
Ongsd
ft'io'o.
Suit to measure
THIS GENUINE OFFER we have repeated
each year since 1923, and in launching it
again in 1928 goes to prove that it has stood
the test of Public Opinion.
This astounding offer is made to stimulate
business during the recognised quiet period
of the year.
We do not look for profit during this quiet
period, but aim to keep our workroom busy
and to the making of new clients, besides
reminding our old customers that we are
still in business.
Patterns and Particulars Posted to Any Address in Australia.
THE DB LUKE TMLOfZS.
269 PITT STREET, ’Phone: M 3319.
CORNER NEW ROYAL ARCADE, NEAR PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
tone of intense disparagement with Alfred
Russel Wallace, born in Wales, who dis-
covered bugs and things in South America
and later in the Malay regions. It seems
to me that there are points about a man
who could do what “F.S.” says William
Wallace did. If Greece, Armenia or Serbia
had possessed that kind of personage at the
critical moment, and if he had enjoyed good
luck, these countries might have been spared
centuries of dreadful misery. Even a natu-
ralist who was capable of classifying 125.000
loathly and squashy bugs would be of little
value by comparison. Bugs can wait.
In a sorrowful sort of way “F.S.” states
that his daughter has never heard, and will
probably never hear, of the naturalist man
from Monmouthshire. The tale of a Welsh-
man who gathered fauna in Asia is not
likely to attract an ordinary healthy-minded
white girl, but still she may be driven by
an unreasonable parent to simulate an
interest in him.
J. E.
Help for the Free-lance
As one of the. two editors of “The Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book,” which was the subject
of a gentle onslaught by Mr. L. Phillips in
a recent Red Page, I desire, first, to extend
to our quixotic critic our thanks for the
bouquet bestowed upon us for our labor on
behalf of the downtrodden free-lance. But,
then, we are charged with being timorous,
over-optimistic and reticent in a few un-
mentioned details. Let us look into that.
I don’t know what Mr. Phillips expects
from the “Year Book,” but he seems piqued
because Mr. Ringstad and I have not
turned it into a sort of annual black list of
editors who have fallen foul of their con-
tributors through the year. While we agree
with Mr. Phillips and other critics that the
Australasian newspaper world has its share,
perhaps more than its share, of editors who
deserve censure for their ill-mannered atti-
tude towards outside contributors, we are
also convinced that there are just as many
free-lances deserving of censure. Whilst our
“Year Book” is intended to be a work of
reference and direction to the free-lance, it
has also set out to be a bridge between the
editors and the free-lances. In our pages we
have permitted editors to state their re-
quirements, and it is our object to help find
for them contributors who will give them
exactly what they seek. So, if we are to
tell free-lances of the sins of those that sit
in editorial judgment, we should in fairness
to the editors publish particulars of con-
tributors who are not trustworthy. Does Mr.
Phillips maintain that a person who sells
an editor “copy” stolen from another jour-
nal, who duplicates his work, who is notori-
ously careless in important facts and dates,
is any less deserving of exposure than an
editor who underpays or who mislays a
MS.? As much as we would like to casti-
gate the offenders on both sides, we realise
that such is not within the scope of a direc-
tory. There already exists an organisation
for the amelioration of the abuses that
Mr. Phillips so bitterly complains about.
The A.J.A. has a power that no directory
can ever hope to possess—the backing of
the Arbitration Courts.
Mr’. Phillips complains that reading our
work “one would conceive Australia to be a
land overflowing with journalistic milk and
honey.” In “The Field for the Free-lance in
Australia,” we point out how such and such a
department is restricted and monopolised
by staff writers. A point which I made,
and which Mr. Phillips appears to have
overlooked, was that “while specialisation
in certain subjects is recommended, it pays
to cultivate versatility as well. The market
is not so extensive that a writer can hope
to live comfortably by confining himself
to one or two particular fields and ignoring
all other avenues to print.” Unfortunately
free-lancing in Australia offers little to the
one-subject man, but to the man who can
turn his pen to every kind of prose and
verse, who is not mentally lazy and is
eager to exploit every possible happening
that has a news interest, there is a good
deal more than the basic wage to be won.
The field for the average outsider no doubt
is limited—and will remain so until he
realises that to succeed he must increase his
knowledge and improve his technique.
If Mr. Phillips has based his second
charge on the particulars given about the
500-odd newspapers listed, I trust he is
aware that the editors of the newspapers
concerned are entirely responsible for de-
tails supplied. Mr. Ringstad, upon whose
shoulders fell the enormous task of compil-
ing that section, had to write as many as six
personal letters to almost one-third of the
editors before he could obtain even an
acknowledgment, let alone a satisfying
reply. Yet he persisted, and to him alone
belongs the credit of presenting free-
lances a wealth of information hitherto in-
accessible and which, despite a few errors,
must be of immense value to thousands of
battling Inky Wayfarers.
The 1928 edition is not as comprehensive
as we desired. We have left undone a
few things that we should have done. Yet
we both worked for six months as very few
free-lances have done, and, though the
financial reward has been minute, we have
been repaid in the satisfaction that we have
performed a definite service for the free-
lance. Whatever errors have crept in—and
what work of such a nature as ours doesn’t
contain a few?—we hope will be rectified
and the usefulness of the volume increased
in the second edition to be published at the
end of this year.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
A Husbandman’s Record
In a modest book, The Fruitful Granite,
Hector Dinning writes his experience as an
orchardist at Stanthorpe (S.Q-). That sur-
prising plateau, like an oasis in the
humidity of the coast and the aridity of
the interior, stands up with the climate
and features of another country. Begin-
ning with tin-mines, Stanthorpe was after-
wards pioneered as a fruit-growing district,
with wonderful results in the deciduous
fruits otherwise denied to Queensland.
Dinning’s book is both a statement of
delight in his lot and an exposition of the
undeniable hard work needed to sustain it.
There are the months of rush in the sum-
mer—picking, packing, carting, with never
a sense of freedom. There are the more
quietly active months of winter, when “it
is pleasing to be doing something that need
not be done to-day.” These are the slow
jobs to be done in the wonderful sunlight
of those uplands, especially pruning, with
all its importance and variety, when “a
grower whose heart is in his work gets to
know his trees as individuals.” In this way:
“See that chap?” says a grower, pointing to a
lusty Wiggins peach. “Five years ago he was a
miserable little devil. I thought he was going to
snuff it. But I decided to be drastic with him. ‘Kill
or cure,’ I said. So I cut him hard back —made
him spur out on his lower limbs; rejuvenated him,
in fact. And now look at him!”
Looking at this lusty, strenuous book, I feel
a double symbolism in the title. The
Fruitful Granite is paradoxical, a rock
bringing forth apples: again, the granite-
like hardness of the life has burgeoned in
these radiant pages. Known already as the
writer of two vivid books of war-time im-
pressions in France and Palestine, as a Red
Page contributor and as Australian corres-
pondent of the London Mercury, Hector
Dinning has here found a fine employment
for his hard-won writing hours in the
Stanthorpe winter, with “the closed house
and the open fire and the clear frostiness
beyond the walls.”
An invigorating notebook, good company
for any husbandman or onlooker.
N.Q.
A Satchel of Books
Weather Observations and Aids to Fore-
casting, by Donald W. Horner (Allen and
Unwin). A useful little book for the general
reader, with many interesting diagrams and
pictures.
(The Babyons, by Clemence Dane (Heine-
mann). Four long short-stories linked so as
to make a history of the Babyon family
covering a period of over a century and three-
quarters. Good work, the gloom lightened by
welcome touches of comedy.
Golden Rain, by Owen Rutter (Fisher
Unwin). A story of North Borneo case
back to the days of early British adminis-
tration “when it was the battle of the old
w y ays of the East against the new ways of
the West.” The author tells of the struggle
of Pangeran Jeludin, the son of Yusuf Ali,
to maintain his ancestral rights and, power
against the invading authority. A well-told
tale.
Bonn’s Sixpenny Library (Benn). “Six-
penny” is a misnomer in Australia, but
even with freight, etc., added, copies are
extraordinarily cheap considering their
quality. Recent additions are “Ancieut
Egypt,” “Islam,” “English Furniture,” “A
History of Italy,” “Psycho-analysis,” “The
English Drama,” “The Theory of Music,”
“Heredity,” “An Introduction to Botany,”
“The English Educational System,” and “Re-
ligion and Science.”
Men and Monsters, by Christian Swanl-
jung in collaboration with Lewis Stanton
Palen (John Lane). The joint authors
have put together a body of alleged facts
which calls from Mr. Palen the prefatory
note that he makes “no apology for its incred-
ible passages.” They are. he says, “the al-
most fantastic record” of Mr. Swanljung and
“their rugged virility is their own best justi-
fication.” This gentleman posed as a German
prisoner of war in Siberia, and his narrative
has much to do with comparatively little
known regions of Central Asia. Will appeal
to readers who are credulous and love a
thrill—its more gentle passages include the
skinning alive of a White soldier by the
Reds.
An Outline History of Painting, by S. C.
Kaines Smith (The Medici Society). The
author is the keeper of the Birmingham City
Art Gallery. “The History of Painting,”
he remarks, “is a kind of illustration of the
mind and thought, not only of the artists,
but of the time in which they lived.” How
it came about that men learned to paint at
all, and how from the crudest attempts to
depict existing things painting became the
instrument of symbol and a vehicle for the
expression of thought as well as beauty—
an interpretation of the seslthetic and
spiritual forces of the time—-is the theme
of a scholarly and informative book. It is
illustrated by many monochrome repro-
ductions.
The Sea-devil, by Lowell Thomas (Heine-
mann). After an apprenticeship with the
Salvation Army in Westralia, some kangaroo-
shooting and a tour with a side-show, Count
Felix von Luckner returned to Germany and
fought his way up from seaman to officer of the
German Navy. Then came the Great War, and
with it his golden chance. To him during the
British blockade was assigned the task of
taking a vessel through the ring of steel-
clad war ships to raid Allied shipping. His
Seeadler maintained a destructive attack
for months before her career ended in ship-
wreck, and her commander’s capture and
removal to Maoriland as a prisoner of war.
Lowell Thomas has told the story well,
though the Australian part of it rings a bit
false—for instance, Luckner signed a con-
tract in Brisbane to box exclusively for
Queensland!
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications < sufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. 'will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Stringy Bark: You’ve hacked out your
humor with a very blunt axe... .Murdina: What
eating-house annoyed you?... .R.J.0.: This one falls
short. R.J.J.A.: The marks of the sob-story are
over it all Russell E.: You didn’t make
what you should of it J.0’8.: The ramblings
of the Wandering Jew were nothing alongside your
own meanderings.... W.C. (Soldiers’ C.) : Poor.
A.R.T.: “Ad lib-live” and “forth-horse”—
where’s your ear ?... . Thalwa: We’re still guessing
what it means. .. .Albert J.: No; too crude.
H.E.R.: Only worth a par....G.C.: Your style
lacks terseness; the stories merely wander.... Roy-
ston: The story stays uncompleted... .A.M.R.H.:
Have added “off-horse” to the list of curious rhymes.
H.C.P.: Print also is not for “It Ain’t for the
Likes o’ Me”. Stoneplover: Pants idea worn out.
L. Grater: The “Cat” goes back... .G.C.B-W.:
Ghastly humor—built on a war-sick man!.... Ela:
It lands in Hobart at the 3000th word and closes
with “To be Continued.” Please! Joy B.: Slight.
....Dolly L.: Haven’t the heart to pluck your
“flowret sparkling in the dew” and put it into our
sixpenny bunch... .A.L.S.: Happily forgotten....
294: A brain storm. There’s something in it, but
it would have to be sorted 0ut.... G. MacG.: Of
course M.L. is Included. The story is trivial
A.C.D.: Night fell on it... .G.R.M.: Religious story
lacks sects appeal... .W.F.: The large girl in the
ballroom doesn’t attract us A.R.W.: Painfully
mechanical P.S.L.: Merely a series of incidents
thinly strung together.... W.T.W.: A paragraphic
comment would have sufficed Ed. D.: You spoil
it by crude bias.... J.S.: Frail Warradulla: It
won’t do —even though “hips” does make a nice
rhyme for “lips”... .G.H.: A1a5!....P.G.M.: You
fell into trouble, so you got married. That’s merely
skirting your trouble... .Lilian E.: Almost persuaded
u5....M.M.: “Hark! to frogs a-croak in ditches”
had to be, of course—you needed the rhyme for
“bewitches”.... G.R.8.: Not poetry; potter-y....
Jimcrow: Too many discords in your “Band” —.
J.R.8.: The conflict of singular verbs and plural
nouns makes a battlefield of it....R.C.: Rotten end-
ing to “Meditation”—and the others. In that one
you might mend it.... T.W.N.: Not suitable, but
very promising... .R.A.G.: Not worth debate nowa-
days.. ..D.McL.: Dreadful pun....D.T.: Can’t em-
ploy your Dago... .H.R.V.C.: The form is monoton-
ous, and the kangaroo story too commonly known to
stand verse.... Els.: This stanza delighted us :
I do not mourn for the withering rose,
I do not miss her, I do not weep her,
But study the deeper color of those
Evergreen leaves of the climbing creeper.
. ...L.M.C.: “Horton laughed: Like Falstaff, I
wish that this too, too solid flesh would melt.”
Horton’s mistake. The fat was Hamlet’s.... Leslie C.:
P00r... .F.W.B. “True Love” isn’t original; and
the others are no good either... .Geo. W.: You move
forward with the agility of a drugged elephant
W.S.T.: Apparently you committed a murder of
some kind; but we can’t get the hang of it
M.F.H.: “Henry the Hum” told to buzz 0ff...,
Chas. O.: Cannibalism item unpalatable... .F.R
(Waipiata) : Crude G.D.MacD.: The verse melo-
drama is not brief enough to be in the “Bellerive”
class... .I.F.MacG.: Idea too slight... .G.C.8.: To
get consolation because he died “where silence
reigned” seems curious.... Tullv C.: Might suit a
daily as a “special'’... .Clare T.: Not wildly ex-
cited about your adventure with the man with a
cold who paid your fare... .A.E.W.: Come right in:—
Taffy was a cracksman;
Taffy was a thief;
Taffy came to my house
And blew a safe to grief.
Policemen went to Taffy's house;
Taffy wasn’t in;
Their chance of getting Taffy
With my cash is pretty thin.
(There is a splendid reason
For this, you will agree.
Because the safe was empty—
I had no cash, you see.)
... .Svranx: They lacked finish. We supplied it....
Ron O’C.: Shows improvement. Go on trying....
J.McC.: Has merit, but is unconvincing Harry
M.: Rough stuff Robert 0. M.: Hilarious melo-
drama P.E.M. and R.A.M.: Another dual effort!
A case of two minds without a single thought
John W.: Well done, but inadequate C.M.R.:
Fragile little blossom 8.L.M.: The verse is so ugly
that it might be about the hum of the boneworks
rather than that of the bees... .D.G.8.: “Flies”
merely a nuisance... .E.J.G.: Too faint... .C.H.8.:
The knell has been rung on your bells... .M.L.T.:
Germ of a good idea R.R.: Quite unbelievable.
Not worth believing, either... .Pietje: Note of opti-
mism, as far as publication is concerned, is quite
misplaced Ken H.: A medley of mixed metaphor.
P.H.S.: Learn the difference between wit and
filth 8.C.A.: Absolutely decline to take your
medicine Minchah: The characters are not true to
life —or wife A.R.C.: You can be as immoral as
you like—as long as you are as amusitig as we like.
K.M.: Sorry; the verse is fair, but not good
enough San Fery: Dully made point Phil L.:
“Lizzie” travels a rough road.... A.M.W.: It is told
better in a collection of short stories called “Whiskers
and Soda” F.C.8.: Wooden T.Y.T.: Has some
appeal, but misses... .Ron 0.: Note how it is fixed,
if It appears, in “Smoke-oh.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.N.: The ladies on the billiard-table were
“potted” W.H.C.J.: They are far from what
we want. .. .D.F.P.: It is easy to drift, but not so
easy as you think to “drift into art” H.W.8.:
If we printed the first we would be in the Criminal
Court; if we printed the others we would be in the
Bankruptcy Court... .J.W.C.: It is up to the artist
to also “take the rough” off... .R.E.C.: You took
the wrong turning when you took to art....
H.E.C.: Jacky is certainly black, but he is as cer-
tainly not an abo F. 8.: Your long-legged ladies
are walking home. .. .T.H.: We don’t want Tom. .. .
A.F.: Those frail little head-studies won’t bring any
cash.... Z.P.: Neither joke nor drawing appealed
to us.


Ml
\ 11
m
1
*£
VJ
■
■
:
V ■'* I
I Whim -
* iLt* >.
fcar.
m
It
M
, i
m&'Pfpw-
, tea&*P\ J.
rf 1 °wM \\;§/ 1
; 1
C*
f\4 j® Jr> :; ■ »*x* *e 1*
>r/ p?. / i 4 \ \
s m Lk hj% vkJki
;1
1 4 # i| 1 \
VJf:t •' W' \v“ - >
Vi? : f .' S ? f >: L£.!>'^


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2519.
May 23, 1928.
A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM.
“Tom Walsh, once regarded as an extremist himself, declares that the workers must awaken to the tricks the Reds have worked upon them.”
CHORUS OF IMPS: “Oh Bottom, thou art changed!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office ot tae
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.„.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, WCeKly .
l:t months, £ 1 IfS.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—\.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
snaqestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.G.),; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, Jj6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” lflh-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.G. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; _ Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, Neiu
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and .’find Street. New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West hist Street, New York City.
Washington ': Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 541$ South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Peddei• Street,
llong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, Jjli Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
PAruA. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby „
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional l/oz. . Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
i^e'^xzlleivn.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 1928.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST CUSTOMERS.
It was a favorite saying among hard-headed
men of the old commercial school that there
is no room for sentiment in business. For-
tunately for themselves and the world they
lived in, most of them indulged in a good
deal of sentiment—the very sound senti-
ment that one should give as much business
as possible to one’s best customers, even
though outsiders might quote lower prices.
The element of reciprocity cannot, perhaps,
enter so strongly into international trading
as it does in the relations between individual
traders, but it is the business of Govern-
ments to foster it. An examination of Aus-
tralia’s trading accounts for the last five
years shows that there is plenty of scope for
the new Minister of Trade and Customs,
whoever he may be, along that line.
* * $ ❖
On averages for the five years from 1922-
23 to 1926-27, J. Bull stands out as Aus-
tralia’s best buyer, taking £55,300,000 worth
of our produce a year. True, he sold to us
£68,940,000 worth of manufactured goods;
but deep dippings into the pocket where
John keeps his loan money more than
account for the adverse balance. Maori-
land provides Australia’s next-best British
market, buying £4,862,000 worth of goods
a year and selling us only £2,497,000 worth.
We have been squabbling mildly with this
very profitable customer for years, over
matters that, as the late H. E. Pratten
discovered when he visited the country,
were very easily adjustable. The Dominion
is our nearest market, and the Maorilanders
ought to be encouraged to do a bigger trade
than is at present passing. Much less
satisfactory customers are India and Ceylon,
which between them sell us £9.067,400 worth
of goods a year and take from us only
£3,676,000 worth. South Africa’s is a small
but profitable account, showing an average
balance in Australia’s favor of £356,000.
Canada buys only £669,000 worth of our
produce and sells us £4,314,000 worth of her
manufactures, a condition of affairs that
ought to be investigated and if possible
rectified. Hong Kong and Fiji tail the
list of Empire customers and provide Aus-
tralia with close on £1,000,000 of a trading
balance annually. But Empire trade, taken
as a whole, is not well balanced, imports
exceeding exports annually by £15,200,000.
Taking the world at large, Australia’s best
customer in a large way is France, whose
purchases average £16,658,800 a year, while
she sells us goods to the value of only
£4,015,000. Next on the list of purchasers
is Uncle Sam, who pays an annual bill of
£11,485,000; but he sells us no less than
£35,355,000 worth of motor-cars and other
notions. A very astute gentleman is Samuel.
Japan stands next in rank; its annual pur-
chases from us are £10,783,000, its annual
sales to us no more than £4,239,000. Ger-
many, Belgium and Italy each buy from us
£6,000,000 to £6,500,000 of stuff annually, and
the yearly margin in our favor on those
three accounts is £14,674,000. Trade with
Egypt is one-sided: average sales to the
Gyppos, £2,737,000; average imports from
Egypt, £16,000. Per contra, the East Indies
supply us with £5,450,000 worth of merchan-
dise and buy only £1,945,000 worth in return.
Holland takes an annual £1,354,000 worth of
our goods and sells us £759,000 worth of
hers. Trade with China almost balances;
exports to us average £805,000 and ours to
China, £781,000. The Philippines take
£533,700 worth of Australian goods, and sell
us £222,800 worth of their produce. The
list ends with two very lop-sided accounts:
those of Sweden, which sends us £1,803,000
worth of timber, matches, sardines and so
forth, and buys from us only £267,500 worth
of commodities; and Switzerland, which bills
us for £2,249,000 per annum and takes in
return only £15,700 worth of old clock-
works. Trade with the foreign countries
enumerated, excluding Uncle Sam, brings
in a favorable balance of close on £30,000,000
annually; but that is not enough to wipe
out the deficit on Anglo-Saxon accounts,
which amounts to close on £40,000,000
annually.
* * * 4=
Summing up the entire situation, it would
seem to be elementary commonsense to
discourage imports from the United States,
Sweden and Switzerland and to endeavor
to divert as much as possible of this trade
into the hands of better customers until
such time as we can provide for our own
needs. Meantime the Indian and Canadian
accounts might be made to look healthier
by an adjustment of tariffs and more atten-
tion to the needs of these markets.
A NEW BIBLE.
According to skimpy cable information the
Rev. Alex. Nairne, Professor of Divinity at
Cambridge University; T. A. Glover, Pub-
lic Orator there, and Quiller-Couch, novel-
ist and much besides and himself a Cam-
bridge product, are making a revised and
boiled-down Bible. It is also to be boiled
up by the addition of the best parts of the
Apocrypha. Among the things that are
to be shot out are the verse numbers, the
marginal notes and the quaint early genea-
logical trees which set forth at length that
“Joktan begat Almodad and Sheleph and
Hazarmavetil and Jereh and Hadoram and
Uzal and Diklah.” Most of Leviticus and
Numbers are to be scrapped, but not Deu-
teronomy, in which Moses is alleged to
finish his literary labors by describing his
own death and burial. The Book of Pro-
verbs is to be reduced and picturesque
Isaiah is to be reconstructed, which seems
a pity; and Chronicles, alias Paralipome-
non, is to vanish altogether. Apart from
some amazing efforts in the way of statis-
tics, mostly military, Chronicles has few
merits. Some minor epistles are to go
overboard.
But there is something about the Bible
which is greatly missed, and it is unlikely
that any revision will supply the want.
The holy volume covers an immensity of
time and a trifle of space, yet it tells
so little about the home existence of the
people that it might almost as well tell
nothing at all. The veiy few remarks con-
cerning stairs are connected with the
Temple, so apparently the Palestinians
were a ground-floor people. Such scanty
allusions as that to the hole in the wall,
which “a great woman” made for Elisha
and fixed up with “a bed and a table and
a stool and a candlestick,” give the impres-
' sion of a badly-furnished people. Fre-
quent allusions to food suggest a plain
and monotonous diet. But there is very
little information in any of them.
Since science got a chance to dig up
buried Palestine, some light, mostly the
light of the scrap-barrel and the ash-heap,
is thrown on the daily Old Testament life.
The impression given is that the towns or
townlets packed their inhabitants in a small
space so that the circuit of the walls might
not be too large for the defenders. The
town wall was the one substantial structure.
The aggregate families threw the aggregate
debris into the narrow streets. The aggre-
gate correspondence went the same way
when finished with. Such of it as survives
was mostly written on broken crockery. In
time the aggregate street silted up with
debris, and became too high for conveni-
ence. In time, also, the aggregate house
wore out and fell down or was pushed down
as unsafe, and that made the surface fairly
even again. Then a new high-level town
might start over the old foundations. Now
and again the bones of a buried family
which had waited too long have been found
under a collapsed domicile. When the
place was abandoned, because the pile of
ruins had become too high or for other
reasons, the space enclosed by the wall
filled up, and another mound was formed
with another buried curiosity inside. But
of the old daily doings inside the mound
there is an aggravating lack of detail.
Eastward, in the muddy Euphrates region,
great kings built great palaces, and the
vast superstructures were mostly made of
the same stuff as Babel. An active king is
said to have been quite capable of wearing
out a palace in -his lifetime, or even a
palace and a half if he was long as well as
active. If the architect miscalculated, and
the old palace started to double up pre-
maturely as the result of a wet season, it
is assumed that the great king fled in his
great nightshirt with the Court and the
harem running behind. Doubtless the archi-
tect fled likewise.
Greek and Roman conquerors brought
bright ideas from Europe, architectural ones
especially, but the life of the Hebrew
housewife seems to have remained on much
the same unobtrusive scale as in the days
of the “great woman” who constrained the
prophet to eat bread, and set him up in
life with a table, a stool, a candlestick and
the usual mattress on the floor. A small
woman, even with the best intentions,
would probably have been unable to run
to such hospitality.
But apart from all this, perhaps it
would be better if the Doctor of Divinity
and the Public Orator and the eminent
Novelist didn’t produce their new Bible.
The Unrevised Version is a quaint old liter-
ary structure, and some quaint old struc-
tures are disappointing when modernised.
The Yairalumla mansion at Canberra, ad-
jacent to Tidbinbilla and not very far re-
moved from Cuppacumbalong, may be
cited as a case in point.
J.E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How Far Can Seats Be Bought?
Prime Minister Bruce has declared that
“the allegation that seats in the National
Legislature are being bought and sold strikes
at the honor and dignity of Parliament and
threatens the very foundations of our demo-
cratic institutions.” Also he has endeavored
to get the highest judicial authority in the
Commonwealth to try to ascertain if this
detestable thing really is being done, and
the C.J. has very properly refused. The
Priminister would have been wiser to let
his political opponents stew in their own
juice of allegation and recrimination; for,
as the Chief Justice well knew, the buying
of seats is no new thing, if it isn’t as old as
Parliamentary institutions themselves.
Nor is there necessarily anything dis-
graceful about it, although furtiveness may
make it so. Of course, no member of Par-
liament can sell his seat straight out and
give the buyer immediate possession, as he
might do if he were disposing of a station
or a pub. The utmost he can sell is himself
as a present or prospective obstacle in the
way of the other man’s winning the seat;
he can’t guarantee that the electors will
approve and return the other man. Per-
haps the only exception to this rule was
when A. D. Kay, the N.S.W. State member,
sold his North Shore M.L.A.-ship to Labor-
Premier Lang for a seat on the Meat Board.
Kay knew to whom his seat, or the un-
expired tenure of it, must go, in the then
condition of the State electoral laws, and
hence he was in a position to deliver the
goods. That was a straight-out sale, if ever
there was one.
As for the sale that depends upon the
electors being agreeable, something that is
liable to be so regarded happens after almost
every general election in the United King-
dom. A prominent Minister is defeated, un-
expectedly or otherwise, and some loyal
member of the party, holding a seat that
is reckoned reasonably safe, applies for the
Chiltern Hundreds in order that the big man
may step into his shoes. It isn’t suggested
that he does it for money; it may be a
free gift prompted by the loftiest motives;
but dozens of instances could be given in
which a baronetcy or some higher title has
come such a self-sacrificing one’s way, after
a decent interval, “for party services”—in
plain Latin, as a quid pro quo. Nobody in
England demands a Commission to investi-
gate such self-effacement; it is quite likely,
indeed, to be regarded as meritorious.
Presumably, therefore, what the Chief Jus-
tice would have had to determine was where
the line should be drawn. Obviously the
law could not help him much if at all. It
is, indeed, not a question of law so much as
of morals or ethics. Was Mahony wrong
if he accepted money to stand down in
favor of Theodore and was Parkhill right
if he was persuaded to stand down in favor
of Billy Hughes? The Chief Justice is
to be applauded for refusing to be drawn
into any such controversy —for controversy
is all that it amounts to.
*
Stoush or Statute?
The attitude of the Federal Labor Reps,
towards the Bruce-Page Arbitration Act
amendments suggests that of a naughty
boy who has raided the pantry and eaten the
cake and jam, and is tremendously aggrie-
ved on being told that he will have to put
up with plain bread and butter for tea.
The amendments are not the best machine
possible for effecting the purpose in view—
the import and application of some of them
isn’t clear, for one thing—and constructive
criticism of them on that score might have
been helpful. But all Scullin, Blakeley,
Lazzarini and the rest had to offer was a
howl of utter enmity. All of them seemed
anxious to retain the arbitration principle,
but professed to be horrified at an attempt
to put sabotage, go-slow, irritation strikes
and job-control outside the system. Those
weapons, they inferred, must be left in the
unions’ armory, or their “economic exist-
ence” would be threatened.
The plain fact is that, a certain class of
union bosses —placed with nice precision
exactly where they can create a maximum
amount of trouble —have been substituting
Rafferty’s rules for the Arbitration Acts
for a great many years. The fighting has
not been fair. One side, under bonds not to
patronise the Rafferty code, has had its
hands tied; the other side has been equally
under bonds to keep off Rafferty, but the
Law has been powerless to realise on the
bonds. As some “leader” has been unwise
enough to admit whenever a body of work-
men have been urged to strike: “You’ve
got nothing to lose. What can they do to
a thousand men?”
There are only two ways of settling in-
dustrial disputes. If the Labor party as at
present constituted wants to scrap arbitra-
tion, it will find many supporters in the
employers’ ranks. But it can’t have both
ways unless the other party has both, too.
To what extent a modern State can com-
pel acceptance of arbitration awards re-
mains to be seen. It may be that the
continuous consent of the two parties may
be necessary. If that is so, it is a very
bad lookout for civilisation. In that case,
all that the Law can do is to see that.
when mutual consent breaks down, both
parties go into the ring on even terms. It
is, however, yet too soon to despair. Com-
pulsory arbitration deserves another chance.
And it is so infinitely better than the other
plan that well-wishers of their country will
make large efforts to secure and preserve it.
*
How Australia Pays Its Way.
With the solemnity of the boiled owl of
commerce, the Federal Commission on
Child Endowment lately put this question
to the Governor of the Commonwealth
Bank:—•
“If it becomes necessary for the Common-
wealth to raise an additional sum of approxi-
mately £24,000.000 per annum by direct taxa-
tion, what effect will it have upon bank
assistance to industry and on the raising of
loans, either Commonwealth or State, locally
or overseas?”
The Federal income from direct taxation is
about £15,000.000 per annum, and the effects
if land and income taxes become 2j or more
times their present size are so obvious that
even a Federal Commission shouldn’t ask
silly questions on the subject. The Gov-
ernor’s reply was equally interesting in
spots:—
“Australia being a debtor nation has to
send abroad each year considerable sums to
cover interest and redemption on its debt.
Such sums can only be sent abroad in the
form of goods exported. At present the
bulk of our export of goods consists of
primary products.... In the event of any
serious decline in the price of primary pro-
ducts it would probably be necessary to make
an endeavor to export manufactured goods.
It is a pity the Governor didn’t tell
the bald truth, which is that Australia has,
for years past, covered “interest and redemp-
tion on its debt” with the proceeds of new
lOU’s, and the IOU isn’t a primary product.
The chronic self-deception and make-believe
about how Australia pays its way are as
harmful as they are pitiable.
♦
The Last Audible Rose of Summer.
To judge by results, which have been
accumulating for eight months, the business
of the Federal Constitution Commission is
to hearken to the views of all sorts am.
conditions of men on all manner of sub-
jects, to listen while learned counsel sums
them up, and finally to sum them up itselt
and draw conclusions from them in book or
library form. Then it will presumably be
the business of Bruce and Page, as chiefs
of the Antarctic expedition at Canberra, to
collect suitable amendments from the mass,
to amend the amendments where necessary,
to persuade the two Federal Houses to agree
to them, and to persuade the six State
Governments, if possible, to lend a hand m
persuading the people to agree. At the
same time they may dispense with the sup-


port of the State Governments, which will
probably refuse in any case.
If the whole business doesn’t sag and faint
by the wayside, it will ultimately reach the
people, and it is already a tradition with
them that every proposal of importance shall
be rejected by a small majority. Even if a
Ministry attains office on a clear-cut issue,
the issue will be turned down on referendum
day. The essential amendment of the Con-
stitution is one providing an easier way of
amending the Constitution.
A final scrap of evidence was typical of
the proceedings, or most of them. As re-
ported :
“Dr. F. C. Benham, lecturer in economics
at Sydney University, gave evidence concern-
ing the effects of Protection on the States.
He said that as a result of the protective
tariff Australia did not save as large a pro-
portion of her national income as was pos-
sible and expedient. The practice of treat-
ing the total yield of import duties as revenue
defeated the intention, usually recognised, of
spending on capital rather than revenue pur-
poses loan money raised abroad. He sug-
gested that a percentage at least equal to the
average percentage rate of duty upon imports
should be applied to all new, as distinct
from conversion, loans raised abroad by Aus-
tralian Governments and other bodies, and
that the resulting sum should be applied to
capital and not to revenue purposes.”
Assuming the report to be substantially cor-
rect it seems to amount to a proposition
that a large part of the Customs revenue
should be used for public works purposes
instead of being treated as revenue, and that
Australia should borrow less abroad in con-
sequence. Difficulties arise, of course. The
Commonwealth can’t send the money thus
set aside out of the country except in the
shape of a surplus of exports, which doesn’t
exist. On a steady average a year’s external
loans represent the amount that exports are
short of imports and the amount of the
external interest bill, which is otherwise
wholly unprovided for. Public works and
external loans represent two lines of activity
which, under existing conditions, run par-
allel but don’t touch. The case is one for
a strenuous reduction of imports, but there
is little or nothing in the orthodox text-book
of economics to meet such a case.
*
Should Storekeepers Sell Poisons?
There isn’t a registered chemist in every
hamlet, and where there is one, exorbitant
prices are sometimes to blame for the
competition which vexes his soul. Many of
the lines which fall, on a strict interpreta-
tion, under the ban of a measure like the
N. S. Wales Poisons Act (insecticides,
weedicides, rabbit- and vermin-killers, etc.),
are regular merchandise, and the farmer
expects to be able to stick them on his
account at the local store just as he does
sugar or fencing-wire. When labelled
“Poison: For the Destruction of Vermin,”
these are generally understood to be per-
mitted by the N. S. Wales authorities, but
there is no guarantee of that.
The safeguard afforded by a qualified
chemist handling them is largely imaginary
—the purchaser signs the book and that’s
the end of it. Various proprietary medi-
cines, for selling which storekeepers are
prosecuted at intervals, are handed out
cheerfully by chemists without question.
Where is the protection to the public?
Storekeepers have had a dark suspicion
for a long time that the Poisons Act is
administered less for the protection of the
public than to keep this trade a close pre-
serve for chemists.
Not more restriction but less, accom-
panied by commonsense safeguards, is what
is wanted. There is a public demand for
a wider distribution of many of these lines
than the chemist can give, partly because
he doesn’t exist in every isolated spot. The
drag-net schedule of the N.S.W. Poisons
Act is too wide. Stuff should be classified
and the sale of common patent medicines
by storekeepers be permitted. No criminal
who wanted poison would ever be prevented
from getting it because it had to be pur-
chased through a chemist.
The careless purchaser cannot be elimin-
ated, but a good practical remedy is com-
pulsory labelling with the warning word “Poi-
son” prominent. For such a miscellaneous
class of goods as “preparations containing
poison” to be reserved to pharmacists only
would be a hardship in rural districts and
no real safeguard.
If the chemist pleads that he finds it hard
enough to make a living without this com-
petition, the answer is that nobody is
stopping him from competing in other lines.
As a matter of fact, it is absurd for the
small-town chemist to try to make a living
out of the lines strictly proper to a drug
store, and the drug trade proper would not
occupy him two hours a day. Most
chemists, realising this, have gone into
other lines more or less ashamedly. There
is no reason for any shame at all. Nor is
there any reason at all why the public
should fight shy of the drug store that
handles other lines. On the contrary, from
such a store it ought to be able to get
better and cheaper service, than from the
one which struggles to make a living out
of drugs alone. I
Diddling the Elector.
When Labor-man A. E. Roberts resigned
suddenly from scrutineeririg at the N.S.W.
Labor selection ballot fqr the Senate he
made a brief statemen/t of his reasons.
He alleged, among other things, (1) that
“large numbers of ballot-papers had been
tampered with”; (2) that thousands of
ballots were consigned to headquarters in
brown-paper parcels, anid that these, or
\
parcels colorably resembling them, arrived
at times in a busted condition with any
pretence of secrecy thrown to the winds
and blowing about in all directions;
(3) that in some districts there was no vote
at all because voting-papers weren’t sup-
plied; (4) that some unions which were
reckoned “moderate” and unfavorable to
the candidates of a certain Trades Hall
coterie had their votes rejected bodily,
1500 in one case; (5) that some unions
which were considered reliable, or Red, got
a superabundance of ballot-papers to play
with, 4000 in one case; and (6) that even
when a “moderate” country district secured
a chance to express itself it was possible
for its vote to be cast out on general
principles, Dubbo being mentioned as a
sample.
It is difficult to suggest a remedy for
corruption on a really big scale. Some-
thing might be done, though, by the dis-
qualification of every candidate who could
be shown to be pre-selected, or to have
made an attempt to get himself pre-selec-
ted by anybody, and by providing severe
penalties for everybody who was found pre-
selecting somebody—not against his will, of
course, otherwise the Communists might
pre-select Buttenshaw out of pure aggra-
vation. Certainly something hard and sud-
den must be done. There is no use taking
steps to keep a sausage from contamination
in the cooking if we have allowed it to
be made on a muck-heap. And that is
about what is happening with regard to
Parliament. The Law has gone to no end
SUFFERING FROM A BILLIONS HEADACHE.
“A certain amount of confusion is inseparable from the rapid growth of a great modem city.”
-Witness before the Traffic Commission.
of trouble to establish one-person-one-vote
and all the rest of it. But what is the use
of that if the voters can only vote for some-
body chosen not by themselves but by a
little coterie—and a possibly corrupt coterie
at that?
♦
Cash Coupons as a State Monopoly.
“Solomon M.”: By wav of a minor mitiga-
tion of the stress by which Treasurers are
afflicted it might be a good idea to make
a Government monopoly of cash coupons,
likewise of cash orders if a feasible method
can be devised, and possibly of some other
frills such as the lay-by device. The Post
Office is a monopoly, and the Government
has annexed the sole right to issue paper
money; also if it finds anybody save itself
coining gold, silver or copper it sets up
quite a roar. So there is precedent to go
upon. The throwing in of a coupon with
every shilling’s-worth of retail cash purchase,
even a purchase of retail beer, might be
made compulsory. The new system would
discourage the habit of drinking beer on
credit, and a man full of beer on credit
is a discreditable spectacle.
I don't consider it advisable to redeem
the coupons with fancy goods, etc. That
method involves the rent of premises and
the wages of someone to ■ stand round and
keep an eye on the wares. But 1 would
make them good in payment of rates,
taxes, subscriptions to loans, as savings-
bank deposits, and in the purchase of,
tickets in a Government lottery. By rea-
sonable liberality in the matter of prizes
the lottery might be made a big thing
which would even attract British capital
into the country.
There might be some difficulty in fitting
the cash-order and the lay-by system into
the lottery, but it shouldn’t be an insuper-
able difficulty.
4f>
King Log to King Crane,
The outside world, which hears much of
the downtrodden Indian and his desire
for release from the hated yoke of Britain,
got a glimpse of the other side of the
record, so to speak, from a recent address
in London by the Maharajah of Burdwan.
Though a Bengali, one of a race which
breeds most of the disaffection against
British rule in India, the Maharajah, like
most of his class and type, has the sense
to see which side the country’s bread is but-
tered, and, having nothing to make out of
the independence movement, is not afraid
to point out its futility. If India tires ot
British rule and the British tire of ruling
India, then the latter must prepare to be
governed by yellow or brown races whose
religion is other than Hinduism, or by
Soviet Russia, the Maharajah says. Few
will disagree with him, even among the
agitators for freedom, saving that bad sec-
tion which looks eagerly forward to the
orgy of loot that would follow on the with-
drawal or expulsion of the ruling Briton.
The Superfluous Inquest.
One of the many particulars in which legal
procedure in Victoria and some other
States has become sadly antiquated is
the provision whereby a Coroner’s inquest
is held even where a criminal trial is pend-
ing in respect of the same matter. There
are at least three grave objections to this
proceeding.
(1) The evidence admissible at an in-
quest is absolutely unlimited, and all sorts
of stuff is let in that would not be admitted
in the criminal trial. But it all finds its
way into the newspapers, and it is a hundred
to one on that the men who form the jury
in the subsequent criminal proceedings will
have read it. And to the extent of that
legally inadmissible evidence is the accused
man prejudiced.
(2) The Crown has to lay bare its whole
case, by which the accused’s legal advisers
can see at once its weaknesses and jirofit by
them, shaping his defence in the higher
court accordingly. And to that extent the
Crown case is prejudiced.
(3) There is the useless expense of the
additional inquiry—an added burden for
both the country and the accused.
In England legislation has made the
Coroner’s inquest, in cases where criminal
proceedings are pending, a mere formal
affair, to be adjourned pending the disposal
of the trial. Something of the sort is badly
needed here.
“Make Marriage More Difficult.”
“Marko”: The divorce laws seem to me to
be designed almost entirely for the protec-
tion of the wife and the children and to
give no consideration to the man at all.
When grounds for divorce exist either party
should be able to apply for a legal termi-
nation. In my own case I would willingly
go into court and admit that, after eight
years of trying to make a success of things,
I left my wife eight years ago and have no
intention of returning to her. In other
words, I should be entitled to call upon her
to show cause why she should not divorce
me. She will not do so of her own accord,
because she wishes for some reason to
cling to a legal tie which has long ceased
to be an actual tie, and because she is
determined that another of her sex shall
not have an opportunity of making a suc-
cess where she made a failure.
The problem of the children is the cry
always raised by the opponents of easy
divorce. But is it a problem at all? Surely
it could be settled once and for all by say-
ing that children up to a certain age—l 4
or 16 —should remain with their mother, that
is in the absence of any proof of immorality,
drunkenness, etc., and that after that age
they should have their own choice as to
which parent they will live With. And they
should be entitled to change their minds if
they -want to. This is, generally speaking,
the attitude adopted by the Law at pre-
sent. Anything would be better than to
force them to be brought up in a home
where their parents are continually fighting.
I would far rather see marriage made
more difficult than divorce. Too many—
I was one of them—rush into it without
giving themselves a chance of realising what
they are doing. And having fallen into an
obvious mistake the Law makes it as hard
as possible—though, thank goodness, easier
than it used to be—to correct the mistake.
♦
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —A word in reply to
“Solomon Malaprop.” I agree that the elec-
tive principle can be and is overdone in
many respects, under so-called democratic
influences. “Selection” more nearly ex-
presses my idea than the blind voting so
often associated with “election.” The choos-
ing for increasingly responsible positions
should be done by delegating the task at
each stage to the body which is the result
of a previous choice. This is the only way
in which a discerning and expert selective
process can be carried out with democracy
still controlling the situation. Thus the
people select their Parliament, which in turn
appoints its heads of departments, and these
again choose a chairman to preside over
their occasional consultations, who ipso
facto would be the Premier. He would no
longer be an autocrat, holding Ministers
and Parliament in the hollow of his hand,
but would carry out the formal and
mechanical duties of leadership in the
House.
“S. Malaprop” thinks that, if the Labor
party came into Parliament from the caucus
with its list prepared and gave its solid vote
there, the result might not be widely differ-
ent. Not widely different, I admit; but
as one who has been through the mill, I
am sure there would be enough difference to
make the change worth while. In the first
place, the vote in Parliament would be not
a block vote, but a separate vote for each
Ministerial position. And even if that were
decided beforehand in caucus, but with the
knowledge that the choice would also have
to be acknowledged on the floor of the
House, there would not be so many misfits.
Not even a Labor member could afford to
vote openly for a pal who would be likely
to make a mess of his job of administration.
But the main advantage of elective Min-
istries is that this system abolishes the un-
constitutional clique called a Cabinet whose
usurpations have reduced the authority and
responsibility of Parliament to an obvious
makebelieve. It was this reason which
Speaker Frederick Holder urged upon me
20 years ago and the necessity for the
change has grown with the years.—Yours,
etc., J. M. Fowler.
♦
“U.S.A. and Us.”
“Bildad”: Re Ernest Osborne's remarks
about the “writer who obviously supports
individual bias with second-hand informa-
tion,” my statement was based on statistics
which can’t be denied. I didn’t collect hearsay
information from U.S. “publishers, movie-
producers, editors, bankers, manufacturers,
merchants and traders” as he says he did.
My idea that E.O. was one of those who are
obsessed with the idea of Australia’s
“boundless natural resources” arose because
he seemed so grateful when some alleged
Americans who had looked in on us were
kind enough to give us the certificate: “You
have a very fine country and are putting
it to excellent use.”
As regards E.O.’s denial of my statement
that the Australian is content to sit down
amid “a snowdrift of pawntickets,” the ex-
ternal borrowings of this ill-managed coun-
try for the year to 30/6/’2B (Federal, State
and municipal) will be £50,000,000 or there-
abouts. When the Federal Treasurer turned
up in New York for the second loan inside
II months, making about 18? millions (this
in addition to 22 millions raised in London),
it didn’t follow that the people of Gotham
thought “Australians are crooked in mind.”
But they may have thought Australians
were flabby in soul, or lazy in body, or had
a very poor country, or were making very
poor use of it.


Occidental Mine
Machinery for Sale
COMPRISING—
Babcock Boilers, 1426 and 2690 sq.
ft. heating surface.
Winding Engine, 1 6in. Cylinders.
Beilis Morcom Cross Compound Air
Compressor, 2500 cubic ft.
Two Beilis Morcom Generating Sets.
Four Rockbreakers.
Six Tube Mills.
Twenty Head Stamper Batteries.
Quantity of other Plant.
WRITE FOR FULL DETAILS.
Goodall & Co., Ltd.,
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-305 Kent Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
USE
Jfau&e&Zoi-
SILVER
EDGE
BRAKE LINING
REPRESENTATIVE:—
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
BRITISH
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
THE “BULLDOG "
HAMM EB LESS
A Gft EAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammer Jess, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO„ GUNS, £4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents\for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne; & Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ex-State Premier Holman is an applicant
for Pratten’s seat, and he wouldn’t object to
Pint ten’s portfolio. By way of showing that
he is the same old Holman he informed the
electors that Pratten’s work was completed
before he died. So what is wanted now is an
easy-going low-tariff man, who believes in
letting in heaps of cheap-labor goods, and
borrowing money to pay for them, and bor-
rowing more money to keep our factory
workers-who-ought-to-be fooling round on
public jobs.
Justice Harvey presiding and Sliand,
K.C.. assisting the Commission to inquire
into Sydney Town Hall administration, got
into the thick of it at once. Arnot. Aus-
tralian representative of Babcock and Wil-
cox. explained liow he had been “black-
mailed” for £10,600 to get a half-million
power-house contract, assured that some-
body else was prepared to be “blackmailed”
for £15,000; and Maling, late acting-manager
of the council’s electricity department,
admitted that the money had been paid.
Who got it has yet to be determined. But
what then? It isn’t the first time a Com-
mission has found that somebody in the
Town Hall has been “slipped” a few fifties;
and the men then named were rewarded,
one of them with a seat in Parliament. The
democracy which doesn't protect itself by
disfranchising proved crooks hasn’t half-
jealous enough regard for its foundations.
It will be Senator Kingsmill’s turn next
to face the electors of Westralia, and two
other anti-Laborites have to be found to
complete the team. A working arrangement
may be arrived at between Nats, and C.P.,
in which case Bertie Johnston (M.L.A. for
Narrogoin in the Assembly and deputy-leader
of the Country party) is most likely' to pair
up with Colebatch, ex-Agent-General. But
Colebatch, it is believed, wants to add a
proviso to his nomination that he shall be
a “State’s representative,” not a cog in the
party machine. It will be interesting to
watch whether the party has the pluck to
endorse such an unusual candidate.
The Italian Cabinet and Parliament (both
named Mussolini) have ordered that local
industry shall use local brown coal, any
other sort being practically non-existent, in-
stead of imported fuel wherever it is humanly
possible. The bill for British coal has been
greatly reduced, and Musso. aims at total
prohibition. His view is that a country with
no vast natural resources and a great deal
of debt should do without foreign goods that
are dispensable; and the way to do with-
out them is not to let them in. Australia
doesn’t take that view, so the Bruce-Page
Government has floated four big foreign
loans inside 12 months, and paid for much
imported fluff out of the proceeds.
The Newcastle coal shipped for the sec-
ond week of May was 60,280 tons as com-
pared with 92,515 tons for the corresponding
week in 1927. Yet the half-year which in-
included May, 1927, was a time of serious
slump in coal exports (30 per cent, slump)
as compared with the first half of the year
before. Still, if ships stop going to sea on
account of unreasoning cooks the coal de-
mand must suffer. The Bulletin never
realised before quite liow true it is that
Heaven sends meat and the Devil supplies
cooks.
Maoriland got a scare when her external
trade for the financial year 1925-26 showed
imports exceeding exports by £4,600,000. The
banks raised the overdraft rate and importers
found it hard to get advances. In 1926-27
there was a favorable balance of about
£4,000,000, and for the year ended March
31, 1928, exports increased by £10,000,000
and imports decreased by close on £4,000,000,
giving the Dominion a balance such as has
not been seen since the palmiest of war-years.
An interesting item in the imports is motor
vehicles—£s,BB2,3B7 in 1924-25; £5,193,474
in 1925-26; £3,181,287 in 1926-27 and
£1,874,813 in 1927-28. Good seasons and
better prices for produce have helped to swell
the export harvest. The rest of the fine
result must be set down as a tribute to the
national commonsense of the Dominion.
Canberra will owe about £9,000,000 by the
end of this year. It being difficult for 3000
families to pay £l5O per annum each as
interest, the usual writing down seems
inevitable. The Vic. Auditor-General also
proposes that £15,000,000 be written off the
paper value of the State’s loan railways. The
money will bo owing as much after the
writing off as before, so it makes no real
difference. The A.-G. proposes the usual
sinking fund, but a paper-money sinking
fund in Australia to pay a gold debt abroad
remains perfectly useless.
A statement that the timber-workers pro-
posed to, reduce the output by 81 per cent,
evoked some comments from Arbitration
Judge Lukin, and comments which Judge
Lukin evoked from Jimmy Garden, of the
Trades and Labor Council, were woolly and
wild. The gist of the ex-preaclier’s song
was that he would gladly damage Australian
industry to the extent of making the re-
duction of output 28i per cent., and some
of those who have taken an interest in
Jimmy’s career believe that he would gladly
reduce the output of all Australian indus-
tries 98| per cent, if the other 1-1 p.c. would
cover his salary.
Lysaglit’s firm at Newcastle (N.S.W.) is
increasing its rolling mills from seven to
twelve with a view to raising the output
of galvanised-iron to 50,000 tons per
annum. This move doesn’t involve any
Government loan, any land resumptions,
any new railways. Australia paid away
£2.046,512 in 1925-26 and £2,314,783 in
1926-27 for imported galvanised-iron, and
if that outflow of money can be stopped it
will be a much more reliable benefit than if
some small increased inflow of money was
gained by, say, a larger export of butter.
Another interesting immigrant from Rus-
sia, via Eastern Siberia, landed in Sydney
the other day without apparent inquiry into
his bona fides. His name isl Broit, and he
has had, by his own account, a varied career
in his native land. There may be no con-
nection between the growing influx of casual
Russians from the Far East and the rapid
and open growth of Red political propaganda,
which has been so noticeable of late in Aus-
tralia, and in N.S.W. in particular, where
such institutions as the International Sea-
men’s Club have recently been spawned; but
the coincidence is darned curious.
The United States scheme for the “out-
lawry of war” is gaining adherents, because
even if its value is questioned it isn’t worth
annoying a touchy relative by saying so. The
“Outlawry of War” plan is that the six Great
Powers shall pledge themselves not to fight
each other. But if one of them refuses to
arbitrate with another, or to stand by the
arbitration decree, there is no reason why
the other four shouldn’t just watch the scrap,
the same as if war hadn’t been outlawed.
The statement made by Lambert, M.H.R.,
that he was offered £BOOO if he would vacate
his safe seat at West Sydney to make room
for Theodore (that was before Mahony
vacated his safe seat) is to be the subject of
an inquiry. Another matter that might be
inquired into is in regard to the luckless
Cornelius Wallace. He gave up his West
Sydney seat in 1919, made room for Ryan,
Theodore’s old partner in Queensland poli-
tics, and was provided with a wretchedly-paid
job at Brisbane. When Ryan died in 1921
Wallace sought the nomination for his old
constituency, and it was Bill. Lambert who
got in ahead of him.
Thousands of acres of land are being
opened for selection in Queensland, but the
length of lease, 28 years, has not been
altered. It is enough for first-class country,
though not for lands that should be ringbarked.
But ringbarking is not allowed as an “im-
provement” to be paid for by the incoming
tenant at the expiration of lease; so of
course it isn’t done in most cases. If ring-
barking was inspected annually by the
land rangers, the Government could well
afford to pay for the job by an extension
of lease.
Commissioner Clapp the other day told
the familiar tale of moth and rust and decay
to the board which is inquiring into the
Vic. State railways. Though the lines nomi-
nally represent between 4)3 and 45 per
cent, of the public debt, they really don’t do
anything of the sort, because “millions of
pounds” of the alleged asset is rust and
scrap-heap and dry rot. He recommended
that lost capital should be written off, as has
been nominally done in S. Australia. But
what’s the good? In such cases the amount
is only taken out of the schedule of pro-
ductive loan investments, where it is a lie,
and put among the unproductives, where
it is a dismal fact. The logical thing would
be to pay off the lost debt; but Australia is
too busy floating new loans and wasting the
proceeds to even consider that.
The only people in N. S. Wales who are
not concerned over Unemployment on the
Northern coalfields seem to be the miners
themselves. As a relief measure the Bavin
Government gave an order for 800 tons of
coal to Whitburn. On the very first day
of work all hands went 'out on strike because
a man who usually worked from 11 p.m.
to 7 a.m. was required to work on one
occasion, for a purpose connected with the
safety of the mine, from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m.
The request involved no breach of the award,
but apparently the new union principle is
that any old thing justifies a strike.
Where government is weak, or corrupt,
or both, Prohibition means taking the
drink trade out of the hands of fairly re-
putable persons with fixed addresses and
putting it in the hands of disreputable per-
sons of elusive and criminal habits. If Pro-
hibition is carried in N.S.W., and the Red
organisation adds distilling and the profits
thereof to its other sins, the position will be
interesting.
These imported experts who take a quick
look and prescribe for us have had another
set-back. One of the very few recommen-
dations of the Fay-Raven Commission given
effect to by the Coates Government in Maori-
land was the abolition of the office of general
manager and the setting up of a Railway
Board of three. After three years’ experi-
ence a reversion to the old system has
been decided upon.
The West Coast of Tasmania has seen a
curious political contest for the Council.
Six years ago the sitting member, standing
in Nationalist interests, defeated the Labor
candidate. Since there was no Labor mem-
ber then in the Council, the Labor Ministry
presently induced him to take charge of bills
there. Gradually his sympathies with
Labor became more pronounced, until he
was made a member of the Ministry. When
the time for re-election drew near, though
he was not a member of the Labor party
the leaders declared that the party would
not oppose him. His old Labor opponent
did not fall in with these views, and came
forward as a candidate. There was, there-
fore, a fight between a Nationalist candidate
who was a member of a Labor Ministry and
a Labor man who was opposed by the leaders
of the Labor party. \ The voters showed
their independence by Selecting the Labor
man by a large majority.
It must have brought the tear to many a
hardshell Nationalist eye the other day to
find the S. M. Herald damming, albeit
faintly, the plan of party selection. This
abandonment of the faith of a lifetime must
have been a severe wrench, but the old
lady plucked up courage as she went, and
actually advocated the claims of younger
men as candidates for political favor, as
opposed to those of the political Rosinantes
periodically trotted out by the National
selection ballots. A “great daily” is as
good as a straw when it comes to showing
which way the wind blows.
It gives tone to a legal firm when one of
its members butts more or less successfully
into politics, but, again, it may lead to
trouble. Ogilvie, of Okines and Ogilvie,
went into Tasmanian politics, and rose to
immediate distinction. From 1823 onward
he immersed , himself in the jobs of Attorney-
General and Minister of Education. But
when the firm’s affairs became a subject of
inquiry, and Okines committed suicide, and
the Law Society wanted Ogilvie himself
disqualified, he naturally returned to legal
business with a rush. He found many curious
things, among them that five or six persons
of whom he knew nothing held, or thought
they held, a first mortgage apiece on his
(Ogilvie’s) house. He was honorably dis-
charged, and a friendly press expressed grati-
fication that he would now be free to pursue
his Parliamentary candidature at the
coming election. Rut perhaps he will decide
to stick to the office instead. A law office
evidently isn’t a thing to be taken on trust.
The South Queensland meatworks have
decided to leave off work because the em-
ployees refuse to abide by a recent decision
of the .Court. One branch of the disturbance
arose out of the promotion of a meatwork
•employee to a better position, whic.i
amounted to invidious discrimination or
something—probably something. A vague
impression is in the air that instructions
from Moscow are partly responsible. _ A
summary hold-up of the Russian mail might,
produce illuminating disclosures.
It will take more than a few strokes of
an Arbitration Judge’s pen to resurrect some
of the inter-State shipping trade that has
been killed. For months past the traffic
has been getting less and less, largely be-
cause shippers who had an inter-State busi-
ness have been making arrangements to
manufacture on the spot. One food factory
in Sydney, for instance, which used to ship
50 tons a week to Melbourne, has been
driven by delays, etc.,- to start works also
in Melbourne; and now it is said that the
Dunlop-Perdriau merger will make .both Dun-
lop and Perdriau goods in Melbourne for
the Victorian trade, and in Sydney for the
N. S. Wales trade.
It having become apparent that the sea-
cooks bit off more than they could chew,
Sydney’s Labor Daily, which had watched
their antics with an approving smile for
10 weeks, suddenly discovered that they were
very injudicious. “The owners,” it sadly
remarked, “will use all their energies to con-
tinue to intensify the dispute. The reason
is that they do not want idle vessels in
commission. Winter, with its seasonal
slackness of trade, has set in, and there is
not sufficient cargo offering to fill all coastal
vessels. Besides this there is a general de-
pression in trade.” So the journal goes on
to suggest that S. M. Bruce, elsewhere re-
ferred to as a “mere tool” of the “Lords of
Finance,” should be implored to tell the
shipowners that they must do whatever it
is the cooks want them to do, and do it at
once.
Two foreign lions used to roar in unison
along the shore, but now the Johanson lion
comments bitterly every day on the Walsh
lion, and vice versa. Each seems amazed
that Providence should tolerate anything so
horrible as. his one-time friend. A recent
statement by the Walsh lion was that his
fellow-animal practises the vilest Bolshevik
tactics in Seamen’s Union affairs, as thus:
In Russia the dictatorship will allow no represen-
tation to any body of individuals who may elect
representatives not in agreement with Soviet policy.
Any individual who is against the tactics and policy
of the Soviet body is not only not allowed a repre-
sentative position if elected, but he or she is dis-
franchised, as is also the body which had the
temerity to elect them.... Because the branches in
S.A. and W.A. are opposed to the tactics of Mr.
Johanson and his supporters the secretary of the
S.A. branch has been declared “black” and we may
presume the branch also. ... The branch in W.A.
where Mr. Johanson also has been opposed has been
disfranchised as a branch, and its representation
on the committee of management eliminated.
Years ago The Bulletin represented
Tommy Walsh as a bad boy setting fire to
the home of trades unionism. Now that the
premises are well ablaze the bad boy asks
the world to witness what terrible people
his old companions are.
The miners’ union boss who said there
were far too many men trying to make
a living out of hewing coal is quite right;
but if he thinks the miners are the only
ones who suffer he is quite wrong. Because
the coalminer is so often idle his pay per
ton has been pushed up and up so that he
might earn enough to keep him and his
family somewhere in the neighborhood of
decency; and that has simply meant that
the industry has had to hand him about two
days’ fair pay for one day’s work. Some-
body has to keep him while he is idle; and
it is, of course, the man who employs him
while he is busy. Which, of course, has
handicapped every coal-using industry in the
country, and killed scores of other industries
before they were born.
The first brilliant idea, when a member
of a union threatened to be a thorn in the
flesh of the union bosses, was to accuse
him of heresy and hunt him out. They do
tlr'ngs in a larger way now. Thus the Syd-
ney branch of the Seamen’s Union has
decided that a plebiscite should be taken as
to closing up the whole branch at Fre-
mantle, “as the sale of the Commonwealth
line will render its further existence super-
fluous.” The Fremantle branch leans to-
wards Tom Walsh in the squabble between
him and Jake Johanson for place and power;
which is the milk in that cocoanut. And,
good, honest toilers are tricked into allowing
themselves to be made the pawns in this
game of cut-throat.
APPLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The suggestion that the box of Australian apples
designed for the King should be sent to Buckingham
Palace by the usual coster’s cart was turned down
at Australia House, and the fruit was despatched in
a Rolls-Royce limousine, driven by a liveried chauf-
feur and escorted by a uniformed commissionaire.”
No plodding ass, with homely frame and
wiry,
Drew through the London streets that
precious freight;
No coster bloke, with Cockney phrases fiery,
Dumped down the package at the Palace
gate;
Thank God ! he knows his job too well, does
Ryrie,
To throw such stigma on a sovereign State.
They went in style, our orchard offerings,
As gifts should go from satrapies to kings.
Along the Strand the motors honked and
snorted,
With belted earls aboard and millionaires,
Statesmen and duchesses, but no one sported
A more imposing equipage than theirs;
Or rolled along the throbbing ways escorted
By such a fuchsia of commissionaires
As those choice pippins, for dessert or pies.
That riped and reddened beneath Austral
skies.
Some were so lacking in correct perspective
They would have hired a taxi at the most
To send the fruitage to its royal objective,
Or rustled it along by parcel post.
To make the gift dramatic’lly effective
Was Ryrie’s task, and the old Brig, may
boast
Not even Sheba’s queen conveyed her pile
Of gifts to Solomon in swankier style.
Along the city’s palpitating traffic
In cars de luxe industrial magnates went,
Rank, fashion, beauty wearing smiles
seraphic,
Great, lords and leading lights of Parlia-
ment.
Yet none were whirled along in pomp more
graphic
Than those red apples that Australia sent,
The fruit on which our southern sunshine
poured,
Its ripening rays, to grace a monarch’s
board.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“Mike Antony”: Practising- golf strokes
the other evening in one of the few pad-
docks adjacent to our industrial suburb,
I lost a ball, and, as usual on such occa-
sions, two youths appeared out of the gloom.
The elder, aged about 12, greeted me famili-
arly: “Lost a ball, mate?” Being S(X fat
and pompous, I remarked cuttingly, “Are
you ever taught manners?” “Stacks of ’em
at school,” he told me imperturbably. I
gave him up and turned to the younger lad,
who may have been nine. “Do you usually
address men you don’t know as ‘mate’?” I
asked him. He shook his head as one above
such gaucherie. “I always say ‘Good day,
Dig’!” he assured me.
$ * * *
“C.Q.”: The Maeßobertson Around-Aus-
tralia expedition had a weird experience
in taking the coastal route between Adelaide
and Perth. It passed through the entirely
deserted town of Eucla, and spent the night
PAINFUL BUT NOT FATAL.
BAWBEES MCSQUATTER (after examination): “An’ noo tell me the wor-rst, doctor.”
DOCTOR (who knows his man ): “The worst? Let’s see. An operation, some weeks in
a private hospital—say £150.”
jn the abandoned telegraph buildings. Eucla
has half a century of history behind it —
it was opened in 1877 as a relay station of
the inter-State telegraph. It was the action
of the saltwater-laden winds on the copper
wires which moved the Department to
shift them inland last year.
“Gregor”: An old-fashioned ring contain-
ing a green diamond was purchased for under
a pound in a Sydney second-hand shop the
other week. The stone was set among cheap
emeralds, and the buyer, a representative
of a well-known jewellery firm, noticed that
it reflected light from every facet, making
the other stones seem dull by contrast.
On its being submitted to tests at Sydney
University, it turned out to be a genuine
diamond, slightly less than half a carat
in weight and worth approximately £250.
There are very few green diamonds in exist-
ence, their unusual tint being attributed to
the admixture of a minute quantity of one of
the copper salts in the carbon before crystal-
lisation.
“Bud-G.” : Worse things than a ham-bone
or even a stick of tobacco have been known
to find their way into a barrel ot beer (.»•
16/5/’2B). A fresh cask put on at a North-
Queensland pub smelt abominably, and, after
pulling a couple of pots, mine host rolled
the barrel out in the yard and sent an
urgent call for the brewery traveller. the
latter arrived, gasped at the reek, and gave
orders to run the beer off and open up the
cask. How or when it got there remains
a dark mystery; inside was found a very
evil-smelling calfskin.
:•< :j: V '**
“L.11.H.”: Steadily Outback recedes till
you find yourself wondering whether there
really is such a place. Passing through
Thargomindah (Q.) I made a few purchases
at a local store, and while the girl was
wrapping up the parcel I chanced to make
use of the word. “Surely,” she said, ‘ you
wouldn’t call this Outback; why, Thargo-
mindah was the first inland town m Aus-
tralia to have the electric light. Weeks
later I spent the night with some drovers
who were coming in with a mob of cattle,
They were camped not far from Boulia, and I
found myself grumbling at the insect pests.
The boss drover looked surprised. “Mos-
quitoes and sandflies!” he said. “Why,
you ought to be out back; they’d fairly eat
you there.”
:|s * *
“M H.” - He got into the tram at Market-
street (Sydney), a smart Alick hardly out
of his ’teens, and with the air of one doing
something richly humorous handed the con-
ductor a £5-note and awaited results. We
other passengers awaited results, too, for the
official hardly looked the sort who would
see the point of the joke, and one or two
glanced at the notice that requests pas-
sengers to tender the -exact amount of then-
fare. But the conductor proved quite equal
to the situation; he didn’t “go off pop” as
the youth evidently hoped. Quite courteously
he handed out the 2d. ticket, and impound-
ing the £o-note in his bag crisply remarked to
the grinning cub: “You’ll get your change
at the office.” I never saw a grin fade out
so quickly.
“Bilbav” : The ruling passion ! As a kid
of 12, my friend Blank was the champion
bad boy .of the school we both attended —
when nov-wagging it. He was always in hot
water with the truant “heads,” and more
than once narrowly escaped a stretch on
the old Sobraon. His redeeming quality—
although few of us regarded it as such —
was a real love of music, and this saved
his bacon more than once, for the head-
master was also a musician. Afterwards
I altogether lost sight of Blank, who was
supposed to have run away to sea. During
the war a battalion cobtyer and I were
strolling along a little one-horse French
town when we passed the village church.
Someone was playing the organ, and playing
it so well that we stopped, and then, by a
common impulse, went inside. The organ-
ist was beginning the first bars of Han-
del’s Largo. His uniform showed that he
was an Australian artilleryman from a bat-
tery camped near by. After he’d finished he
turned to leave, and, as he passed close to
me, our recognition was mutual —it was
the old hard-case of my school days. He
told us he’d knocked about all over the
world, but omitted to say where he’d learned
to be a first-rate organist. He. had to leave
us at the double, because the battery trum-
peters were sounding .“defaulters” —so I
knew he was still in trouble.
“Detonator”: “Berliantu” is quite wrong
when lie suggests that the “small brunette
type” vastly out-numbers the “big blonde” in
France (I>. f)/5/’2B). Next time lie goes to
France lie should extend his investigations
beyond Levantine Marseilles; or let him call
on the next French warship visiting Aussie
and he’ll discover that the great majority of
Frenchmen are of Nordic or Alpine stock.
One-fifth of France only (viz., Corsica,
Marseilles, the Riviera and parts of Lan-
guedoc and Gascony) belongs to the small,
brunette, dark-eyed and -haired Mediter-
ranean type. Two-fifths of France (viz., the
Nor’-West, Flanders, Normandy, Vendee,
Burgundy, Sou’-West, Auvergne, Rhone
Valley, and part of Alsace-Lorraine, Brit-
tany and Central France) belong to the
Nordic, or Gallo-Teutonic tall, blue- or grey-
eyed, fair, blonde or redhaired group. The re-
maining two-fifths, represented by Provence,
Navarre and part of Languedoc, Brittany
and Central France, belong to the stocky,
WHY OTHER BABIES ARE
BETTER.
DORRY: “And the worst of it is the doctor
insists on my giving up my kindergarten
work.”
CORRY: “ That’s a shame! You’ll miss it dreadfully. ,
DORRY: “Yes. What a pity, isn’t it, one has to stay at home to see one's own babies!"
grey- or brown-eyed, brown- or black-haired,
fair group. Incidentally, out of the 17 Gallic-
born members of Brisbane Alliance
caise, 11 sport blonde to red hair. There aie
six of my own family in Aussie of Burgun-
dian-Breton stock, and they are all blonde
to auburn and average over six feet m
height. ... ...
* *
“Fagele Wolf’: The word “cobber” has a
Yiddish, not an aboriginal, derivation (B.
9/5/’2B) It is merely the English spelling
of “covir,” Hebrew for “companion. A
large proportion of our slang words have a
similar origin, e.g,, “shikker” which is pure
Hebrew and means to drink. Even the
American arose from Central laui
pean immigrants calling the Americans
“goys,” Hebrew for “strangers or Gentiles.
“Herodot”: Customs officers could tell
some queer stories about the
used for opium and other drugs on vessels
coming from Asia to Australian ports
(B 0/5/’2B). The stuff has been planted
in the hollow legs of the table in a skipper s
state-room, the legs having been specially
bored out for the purpose. The hollow parts
of the masts used to be a favorite place ot
concealment until the searchers came on oU
tins of the drug in the mainmast of a boat
belonging to the Australian-Oriental line.
Even the vegetables in the cook’s store have
been scooped out and filled with small
bladders containing opium. On another
occasion the immobility of a large parrot in
a cage of birds attracted attention; investi-
gation disclosed that the exhibit was a stuffed
one and had been filled with opium and
glued to the perch in the hope that it would
pass muster among its noisy fellows. Now-
adays, the Customs searchers take nothing
for granted—not even a parrot.
“A.H.8.”: Henare is becoming interested
in the preservation of ancient relics of his
race and the reservation of lands with
early historic associations. The Tainui
canoe, one of the seven in which tradition
records that the original Maoris came from
Hawaiki. now lies buried at Kawhia. on the
west coast, south of Auckland. The native
owners of the land have applied to the
Native Land Court to vest the ground in
Te Rata, son of the Maori chief Mahuta,
who controlled the King country of the
Central Auckland province when the natives
retired there after the Maori War. The
land will now become a permanent reserve
whereon the Maoris may raise a monument
to their enterprising ancestors.
“P.R.”: Hobart’s morals were _ uncor-
rupted by the annual uproar of the University
graduates this year. Before the procession,
the whole show was lined up in the Univer-
sity grounds and censored by three eagle-
eyed sergeants of police, who deleted every-
thing that might have brought a blush to
the cheek of innocence. What was left of
the foolishness would have passed muster at
a Y.W.C.A. carnival.
“Feng-Shui”; “Larrapinta’s” kris (B.
9/5/’2B) may not be so valuable as he sup-
poses: The standard for virtuosity in the
. Malay dagger is set by the royal krises
of Djogjakarta, Java. These are the
monopoly of my comic-opera acquaintance
the Sultan. The pamur, or wavelike dama-
scene work on them, is made from the metal
of a meteorite which fell some centuries ago
in that province and was promptly seques-
trated by the reigning monarch. Owing to
their celestial origin, the Djogja krises have
unusual attributes: some of them bear
names, like King Arthur’s “Exealibur.”
One famous weapon, Kalamoonyong, was
used by a Sultan to execute a rival’s 60
sons and daughters, and after the first half-
dozen had been despatched the loyal weapon
leapt out of its owner’s hand and com-
pleted the operation. On another occasion
it went out unaccompanied and routed a
Hindu army, thus establishing the rule of
Islam in the island. For such potent weapons
high prices are naturally demanded. I
once bought a pedigreed kris from a Javanese
who only parted with it, he declared, because
he was threatened with imprisonment tor
debt. He assured me that if I stuck it into
a tree, that tree would be dead by the morn-
ing. I tried the test on a mango, but the
talisman bent double.
* * *
“Idmer”: Nobody ever received a 2000-
volt shock at White Bay power-house
(NSW) (B. 9/5/’2B). The voltages there
are' 11,000, 6000, 415 and 120, and t<»
get either of the two former a man would
have to crawl underneath the machine.
“Yufu’s” friend may have got 120 at the
small generator at the end of the big
machine. No one is allowed near the high
voltages without a special permit and_ a
mate as well, not even persons working
there. There are men walking about Syd-
ney to-day who have received 11,000 volts,
but it takes years to get over it properly.
A man with toil-hardened hands will not
feel a shock as much as a person with soft
moist ones, calloused skin having some in-
sulating properties.
* =:= * *
“Fana” : Having examined one of the un-
finished forgeries of the Commonwealth
£5-note seized by the Victorian police at
Geelong, I should class it as the work of a
real craftsman in engraving. The paper
seems almost identical to the feel with that
of the genuine notes, and the actual printing
is without a blemish capable of being de-
tected by the lay eye. Had these fivers
been put into circulation there is no doubt
that anybody, except a bank clerk, would
have accepted them without hesitation. As
a consequence of this discovery, the Common-
wealth note-printing authorities are said to
be considering certain alterations in the de-
sign of the £5-note. The wonder is that
they never thought of making such before,
for our paper currency is ridiculously easy
to imitate.
“Verri” : The new War Memorial Museum
at Auckland (M.L.) is to receive two in-
significant-looking slips of paper that will
probably be treasured as much as anything
in the collection. They are the original
military signal forms which gave instructions
for the N.Z. Division to cease hostilities on
the morning of November 11, 1918. The
signalmaster-sergeant at the M.L. head-
quarters after the Armistice was ordered
to destroy certain files of routine messages,
but could not resist souveniring the two
scraps of paper officially ending the war
for the Dominion. The messages go on to
mention that “defensive precautions will be
maintained, and there will be no intercourse
of any kind with the enemy until receipt of
instructions from Army Headquarters.”
* * * *
“Xul”: Recent researches into the nature
and effects of carbon-monoxide, the deadly
gas that has caused innumerable bath-
room tragedies, indicate that it may be
the real explanation of countless ghost-
stories and numerous haunted houses. In
large doses carbon-monoxide causes asphyxia -
tion; in small ones, extreme depression, hal-
lucinations and a sense of some evil presence.
Experimenters who have entered test-
chambers in which small quantities of the
gas were present particularly stress the last
symptom. In ancient houses it frequently
happens that chimney- and stove-flues be-
come partially blocked, and charcoal fumes
are formed and slowly dissolve. All that
remains for an authentic ghostly visitation
is an imaginative man and a room with a
grisly history. The sense of smell is unable
to detect the gas in minute quantities.
THOSE ANKLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In old days an ankle
Conferred but a glint,
Little more than a hint
For the passer to hold.
Which would ravish or rankle
According to mould —
So I’m told.
In these days, however,
All ankles are free
For the passer to see,
And, in fact, they invite
One’s attention and never
Are out of our sight
Day or night.
Some, daintily rounded,
Are dreams to behold
In cream hose or gold.
Some are nightmares instead,
And the mere male, confounded,
Averting his head
Cuts ’em dead.
Such sights oft engender
In those who pass by
A desire to ask why,
If a leg is not neat
And an ankle not slender,
They don’t dress complete
To the feet.
SCOTLAND.
W. H. O.


“Jumpinpin” : Touching the wreck of the
whisky-laden Cambuswallace at Stradbroke
Island. Q. (B. 18/4/’2B). A nigger told
me that shortly after the wreck he noticed
the tracks of a man who had evidently
walked backwards from the scrub to the
beach. Suspecting there was some method
in the mode of progression, he ran back the
footprints into the scrub and found a cache
of three cases of whisky. I asked him how
he knew the tracks were made backward,
and he enlightened with “Heel bin makim
big feller hole longa ground, an toe small-
feller track. Spose-im that one bin go
frontway then toe bin go in deep an’ heel
small-feller tracks.” My next query was
what he did with his find. “Plahnty drunk
long time, all camp bin close-up dokkai
[dead],” he told me with a grin. A white
man informed me, some years later, that he
and a mate had buried 20 cases in a gully
in the sand dunes, and decided to leave it
there for six months, owing to the activities
of police and Customs officers. When they
investigated they found that the wind-blown
sand had filled up their gully and left a
30ft. ridge over their cache. They were
CROWED ON HER.
“Where did you get those big, beautiful eyes?”
“Oh, two people I know gave them to me for a birthday present."
never able to retrieve it, as the very fine sand
fell in as fast as they dug it out. The
chances are that it is still there.
m/ i
lalmat : Ihose men who were willing
to pay £1 a bottle for whisky that had
!lT n ,.n r r° rko(] fo F hal £ a century or so (B.
9/5/28) must have been mugs, and the con-
noisseur who found it “the best he ever
tasted” singularly imaginative. Whisky
docs not age in the bottle, and spirit
which has been bottled for 25 years is not
one whit better than that which has been
englassed for 25 days, all things being equal
at the start. Wlrsky ages in wo-d alone,
glass having no qualities to give the prize!
mellowness.
“4X2” : “Herodot” ran a grave risk in
drinking that 50-year-old whisky from the
Cambuswallace (B. 9/5/’2B). Whisky
stored in glass bottles retains all its original
fusel oil, whereas, if stored in wood, the oil
is absorbed. My grandfather, in rummaging
through a lumber-room untouched for over
40 years in his business premises, found a
quart-bottle, unlabelled, of what looked like
whisky. On taking it to an analytical
chemist he was informed it was genuine
Scotch; he was further warned on no
account to drink it owing to the heavy fusel-
oil content. It was a sair blow, as he cam’
frae yon country.
Jt; * *
“Dr. Nil”: I have no doubt that the
phrase “on his own hook” was the parent
of “on his own” (B. 9/5/’2B). The former
was used constantly by the educated classes
during the last quarter of the nineteenth cen-
tury. It was derived, ! believe, from a seafar-
ing expression referring to anchored ships.
“Hook,” or “mud-hdok,” was the old-time
sailor’s name for “anchor,” and “on her
own hook” signified that a ship was not
tied up to a wharf or moored to a buoy,
but riding to her own anchor. As a certain
class of people whose Vocabulary is limited
have always been fond of twisting and jing-
ling popular by-words, ’ the phrase “on my
own” is varied by “on my lone (or lone-
some),” “on my Pat Malone,” and “on my
pat.” . | .
“Rostand”: The phrase “on his own."
whatever it may be an abbreviation of. was
used by at least one celebrated writer before
Australia was christened. In Samuel Pepys’
diary the writer records that his wife was
annoyed at having to go a certain journey
“on her own.”
“Mond”: Insurance companies receive
some queer claims from motor-owners, but
the strangest I ever handled concerned
damages to the hood of a touring car occa-
sioned by a horse falling on it. On investi-
gation it proved to be a genuine case. The
car had been left unoccupied close to a
bank where the road ran through a cutting.
A horse was grazing on the bank, when
the edge gave way and down he crashed
on the hood of the vehicle, rolling off on
the far side. picked himself up,
did a few more pounds’ worth of damage, by
lashing out with his hind legs at the wrecked
hood, and resumed his grazing.
“Reckington”: When that serious person
Ramsay Macdonald was Prime Minister he
was moved to expostulate with the Prince of
Wales for risking his neck so often across
country, and that enthusiastic thruster
was understood to have promised to be more
careful. But the Prince must have broken
oven his own record for leaving the saddle
violently on March 30, when, in a point-to-
point steeplechase near Bromsgrove, he hit
the ground three times and narrowly missed
doing so on a fourth occasion. On the first
occasion his horse stopped dead and the
rider was thrown over the animal’s head and
a high hedge as well. On the second, the
steed forced a passage through the top of the
hedge and dislodged the Prince again. On
the third, the beast stumbled on landing, and
man and mount once more parted company
But beyond being “plastered with mud from
head to foot” the Royal-Thrown sustained
no damage. 1
*°* * *
“ Up Top”: I have a mate who shudders
• , , ... . . . .
w h rror when anything touches his neck,
even if it is only a drooping vine, a wirid-
blown leaf or an inquiring insect. And yet
he has battled his way through the New
Guinea head-hunters’ country. It was at
Somerset, C.Y.P., that a cold thing dragged
across his face while he slept. His shriek
awoke me,_ and the match I lit showed him
standing rigid, his upheld hands clenching a
carpet-snake. It was near python size, 10 feet
long, and proportionately thick. Jim’s right
hand squeezed the reptile’s middle whilst
its coils tightened round liis neck. His left
hand clutched its throat, forcing the big-
fanged jaws wide open. He had gripped it
ANOTHER OF THOSE OLD MODELS!
GWENDOLING: “Isn’t the technique superb?"
BETTY: “Yes, but. slightly—slightly flabby, don’t you think?”
in the one position which made it im-
possible for it to strike. He would have
stood there paralysed until the thing
strangled him had I not tugged tire writhing
coils away. Even then lie could not move;'
and, whilst I jumped for the revolver, the
coils whipped round him again. When the
snake’s head had been blown heavenward,
Jim collapsed.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Rotten luck has pursued Captain
Lancaster and the plucky little Melbourne
woman, Mrs. Miller, who flew with him to
Australia. Their smash in Sumatra held
the pair up in Singapore for nearly six
months, waiting for an engine. Their arrival
in Darwin was unheralded, owing to a cable
delay,, and in any case Hinkler was already
well in the forefront of the picture. 11l-
luck dogged them to Melbourne, where Lan-
caster was obliged to come by tiain hist
to see it the landing-ground was feasible,
In Tasmania they were sure of a good re-
ception, but they crashed at LauncoMmi
s o lmd"mo°st of its petals. 1 As a box-office
attraction the flight has lost its freshness,
Mrs. Miller, by the way, showed her tena-
city in getting to the Cold Land as well
as flying from it. The little lady raised the
passage money by selling vacuum-cleaners
in Melbourne suburbs.
* * *
“Pick”: For appropriately named pubs
my nomination would be “The Bird in
Hand,” which flourished in the stage-coacn
days at Jugiong on the ’Bidgee (N.S.W.).
The bird, of course, was the bullocky,
shearer or fossicker who crossed the
threshold with a cheque and a thirst. Pub
names are sometimes conferred upon .the
locality. The village of Cathcart, on the
Southern Monaro tableland, was for decades
better known by the name of “The Dragon,”
the George and Dragon being the pioneer
HrinVerv tlipro
... ‘ ... *
t, * ,1 t> i-u n
Dr Arthur Burrows, the Commonwealth
radiologist and a s:aff ofbfour have.ai deli-
cate job m hand at the Commonwealth Build-
SI e r rne t 16 S Z
£2OO 000-worth of radium recently re-
edicd lorn Euiop . . ~ . ’?, ’
9f grammes, and might be held in the
hand if the owner of the hand contemplated
suicide, A lead wall two inches thick is
kept between the array of tubes, needles and
plates in which the radium is stored and the
inspectors, a salutary precaution in view of
the fate of the five New lork girls, con-
demn-ed to lingering’ dentil tlirougli pointing
the hands of watches.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Touching Franz Hohenzol-
lern’s boast of the refusal of the Emden
to surrender and her punishment for it (B.
16/5/’2B). The Sydney had every cause
to be wary of such a tenacious fighter as Von
MiiHer. After his steering gear had been
shot away and his ship was a shambles he
endeavored by manipulating the screws to
manoeuvre close enough to his antagonist for
Franz to discharge a torpedo. He also con-
templated entrenching himself on North
Keeling Island, while he expected that his
landing party on Direction Island would put
up a good fight, not knowing that it had
already seized the island schooner and de-
parted. The Emden had lost 13 officers, 25
petty officers and 92 men, and had 65
wounded. Many were drowned or dashed
to pieces on the reef. The uninjured remnant
on the ship were largely occupied in beating
off the dbskoppe, a savage variety of gull
which hankered after the eyes of the
wounded. Owing to the inferior calibre of
her guns the Emden had been incapable of
inflicting any serious injury on the Sydney
right from the beginning. After the beach-
ing she was helpless. In the circumstances
Von Muller’s vainglory in keeping his flag
flying looks like megalomania.
“D.8.0’C.” : The attempts of Victorian ’bus
companies to evade the law by giving free
transport to persons who purchase apples
and sweets at fancy prices reminds m.e of
a visit I paid to Cork in 1917. The licensed
victuallers of the city were prohibited under
severe penalties from supplying liquor to
soldiers in uniform, and it was not until a
M.L. sergeant had changed into his pyjamas
that we realised how we might increase the
bar takings without involving our host in
possible trouble. Within 10 minutes the
bar was full of Diggers in sleeping-suits
quaffing pots of Guinness and double-head-
ers of Jamieson. Bung beamed approvingly
on the thirsty crowd, and opined that he
might have made “lashins of mooney” if his
military patrons had hit on this idea sooner.
;*c * ❖
“Mond” : “Companionate marriage” is an
ages-old institution among certain tribes in
north-east Burma, whose sexual morality is
certainly no whit lower than that of the
neighboring communities where the more
orthodox manner of courtship obtains. When
a youth is accepted by a girl’s father as an
eligible suitor he is not only a welcome visitor
at ordinary times, but should he happen to
miss the last canoe home it is quite the
right thing for the young lady to put him up.
The couple are given every freedom until
they themselves decide whether they were
made for one another; if the “engagement”
is broken off, no slur is cast on either of
them by their relatives. But a marriage
once entered upon has a binding quality
that extends beyond anything that civilisa-
tion knows. Should the husband die before
his wife his brothers are bound to
take over the widow. If none of them are
inclined to wed her, possibly as an accessory
to an existing family, they must find a w r ay
of pensioning her off. It would be a grave
insult for her to have to return to her
own family, and would almost certainly lead
to bloodshed.
HOW HARRY ASKED FOR JANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young ’Arry Jones from up the flat came
’ere las’ Saterdee,
An’ tied ’is ole mare to the fence an’ asked
the wife for me;
I knew ’e wanted something an’ I wondered
wot ’twould be.
’E’s borrer’d sixteen sets o’ shears, an’
’arrer an’ a plough,
A ball or two o’ binder twine, a rope to
lift a cow.
An’ so I looked ’im up an’ down with
“Wotcher wantin’ now?
“If it’s the bull yer luck is out” (I ’ave
a thoroughbred).
But 'Arry jist grinned funny-like an’
scratched ’is ginger ’ead,
An’ then ’e opens ’is big mouth, an’ “Mister
Brown,” ’e said,
“It ain’t the bloomin’ bull I want. It’s—
it’s” —-g- ’e spluttered out.
“Well, then,” I answered, “take yer pick o’
wot is round about.”
’E stood there rumplin’ up ’is ’air, a sawny-
looking lout.
“I wants ter ask yer if I could” ’e
stopped an' stared again.
I couldn’t make ’im out at all—in gen’ral
’e speaks plain.
An’ then it comes out with a rush, “I wants
yer daughter Jane.”
An’ seein’ wot with Maud an’ Belle the
’ouse is pretty full,
I sez to ’im: “The cows need care. We’ll
’ave a toughish pull
Without young Jane —but still she’s yours,
I’m glad it weren’t the bull.”
VICTORIA.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.
FARINACEOUS FRENZY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How can I sing with rapture
When good rump-steak’s taboo?
How may my Muse recapture
Her melody on burgoo?
The sunshine has left my being
And life seems a Stygian lake
Since for days there is no foreseeing
I must live upon gruel and cake.
My high poetic status
Quite naturally flops
When I seek divine a Hiatus
On fodder from grocers’ shops.
And even the most ethereal.
Of lyric metres flags
Before insipid cereal
Purveyed in paper-bags.
Doubtless, great prose like Bunyan’s,
Muscular, virile, free,
Might be done on tripe-and-onions—
Ev’n that is denied to me.
The call to high adventure
Wakes no responsive chord
Since I fractured my upper-denture
And a new one can’t afford.
N.S.W.
FORLS DONLY.


. :
Hi
'
:
Ik
V
I
I
a
m
sag
m
GUARANTEED MADE BY
EASTMAN KODAK C°.Y
Important Announcement!
FREE TO SMOKERS
of
“Vice Regal” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s Flat Tins
“Three Castles” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s Flat Tins
“ Capstan ”(Ooal) Cigarettes, 25’s and 50’s Flat Tins
“ Player’s ” Cigarettes, 18’s Packets
A No. 2 Cartridge Hawk-Eye Model “C”
CAMERA
(Guaranteed made by the Kodak Company)
This Camera is finished in handsome black leatherette, fitted with view finder, is daylight loading, and
takes excellent pictures inches. TO OBTAIN THE CAMERA colled: the Coupons now
enclosed in any of the above well-known brands of Cigarettes, and when you have colleded 100, write
your name and address plainly on a piece of paper and enclose with Coupons and bring or forward to
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD.
KENT & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Or 411-423 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
who in return will present' you with the Camera as advertised.
COUPONS NOT REDEEMABLE AFTER 31st DECEMBER, 1928
START COLLECTING NOW!
and forward as soon as you have the requisite number.


Nursery Rhymes revised by REX. No. 2.
Three fine pigs,
Three fine pigs,
See how they run,
See how they run,
They all run away from the farmer’s wife
Who’ll send them to REX from this world of
strife,
To REX Ham Pate she’s dedicated their life,
These three fine pigs.
3
z
. '
::
■'S''
111-'
I IV/
.jJk^
i.;
You will relish its
true ham flavour
No necessity to pile on an ex-
travagant, thick layer of REX
Ham Pate to find a flavour* REX
Ham Pate is all Ham —delicious,
sweet, mild REX Ham in spread-
able form. Hence its true ham
flavour and its great popularity
as a tasty sandwich spread. Use it
also for savouries and on buttered
fingers of toast. It is delicious.
In 3{oz. and 2oz. cans .
REX Ham Pate
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. & 2oz. tins & porcelain jars
REX-PYE, in lib & lb tins
REX Salmonelle, in glass jars
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham
REX Ham and Tongue
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
asdf
Foggitt Jones Ltd. Curers of the Choice
REX Hams and Bacon,


IN THE DAYS OF TELEVISION.
The Public Morals League, tuning in for "The Sign of the Cross,” has the bad luck to pick up “Oh, Naughty, Naughty!”


vp
tace
and is still
a year ahead
COMFORT.
The unique body and dash con-
struction of the Whippet shown
below provides several more
inches of leg room for the front-
seat passengers, greatly increas
mg comfort.
First in the field to offer 4-wheel brakes , greater
economy, low center of gravity and increased
roominess . Over 110,000 sales the first year
set the record for new-car popularity.
Modern —-The first light car to offer 4-wheel brakes as
national standard equipment.
Maximum Economy —Proved by the recent State-wide test
amongst Queensland Whippet private owners establishing an
economy record average of 54.15 miles per gallon.
Higher Speed —You can do 55 miles an hour in a Whippei.
The low gravity centre keeps the car safely hugging the road.
Quick Pick-up —Fastest of any car of its size and weight;
5 to 30 miles an hour in 1 3 seconds.
Balloon Tyres —For extra mileage and added comfort.
Snubbers —Another reason why the Whippet is the easiest-
riding light car on the road.
Adjustable Steering Post —Easily fitted to any driver of any
size or stature.
Force-feed Lubrication —The oiling system you find on the
highest-priced automobiles.
Roominess —Plenty of leg room for tall people in the front
seat.
Full-vision Body —Narrow front pillars on the enclosed bodies
enable you to see clearly on all sides.
f
y t
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY,, LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 5 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.


-Legal Notice.
]\JOTICE TO NEXT OF KIN.
Re MICHAEL JAMES LAVERCOMBE
late of YVinton in the State of Queensland
Butcher deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given to MARTHA
JANE LAVERCOMBE widow of the above
deceased and to ALEXANDER LAVER-
COMBE MICHAEL JAMES LAVER-
COMBE THOMAS LAVERCOMBE MAR-
GARET BIRD SUSAN GRIGG and
KATHLEEN CARROLL the children of
James Lavercombe deceased the brother of the
abovenamed and to the children (if any) of
Alexander Lavercombe deceased brother of the
abovenamed that they must send in particu-
lars of their claim to the undersigned on or
before the Thirtieth day of November 1928
otherwise the assets of the abovenamed de-
ceased will be distributed among those of his
known brothers and sisters disregarding the
claim of all such persons and all persons
claiming by through or under them or any
of them by derivative title or otherwise
howsoever.
DATED at Townsville this Twenty-
seventh day of April, 1928.
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville.
Sterling Silver, of course, for “Silver Wedding” Gifts
. -
iiSSiS®*!
vd
. -
y
We have a comprehensive
range of silver goods ranging
from small pieces, such as
Toast Racks at 35/-, to full-
size service sets.
asdfas
TEA SET
of heavy sterl-
ing silver. The
teapot holds
li pints,
£lB/18/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET. PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addresra:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Thomas Peel Dunhill, one of the many
Australian medicoes who have been lined
into the front rank overseas, has scored high
official honor in being appointed surgeon to
the King’s household —Frederick Treves was
his most notable recent predecessor. Dun-
hill stayed in London after serving with the
A.1.F., his work for which excited comment
and secured him a post at St. Bartholomew’s
Hospital. A product of Melbourne Uni-
versity, even before the war he Was making
a world-name through his treatment of
goitre at St. Vincent’s Hospital in the south-
ern city.
Professor Danes, the first Consul-General
for Czecho-Slovakia in Australia, was killed
in a motor accident in California the other-
day. When the Czech republic was estab-
lished in 1918, it was officered largely by
professors and graduates of Prague and other
universities, with Professor Masaryk as
President; Danes undertook to go abroad and
JUSTICE HARVEY, who holds the Com-
mission to inquire into Sydney Town
Hall administration.
open up new markets. Australia was not
new to him: pursuing his studies in geology
he had worked on the Barrier Reef and in
Queensland for a year early in the century.
There, of course, he met The Bulletin,
and for literary exercise began translating
Bui.letin verses into Czech and German for
publication in Vienna and Prague, and he
continued the practice all his life—which
partly explains, among other things, how
Lawson came to be so well known in the
European continent.
“El Verdugo”: Sergt. Bob Stott, whose
death was recorded in The Bulletin the
other day, was for years, on a sergeant’s
wage, virtually ruler of the entire McDonnell
Range country—nearly 250,000 square miles,
or about five times the area of the United
Kingdom. A stout, hale, twinkling, white-
hai-red, very human man, with a bushman’s
innate dignity, there was nothing he could
not turn his hand to. His road through
McDonnell’s, well-graded, might have been
built by a qualified engineer. Another that
he made to the south of Alice Springs to
dodge the dreaded Depot Sandhills (at a
cost of £5O for 50 miles with native labor)
was a miracle of careful surveying. His
was the largest single police-station area
in the world, and ho was the only sergeant
in British Empire police history to be raised
directly from that rank to the rank of com-
missioner.
Bishop Langley has just celebrated his 92nd
birthday in Melbourne. The potato famine
caused his father to sail for Australia in
1853, and the son. who was thus torn from
his studies at Trinity College, Dublin Uni.,
got a job in the Bank of Australasia. Later
he joined the Church, and was gaol chaplain
at Bernina (N.S.W.) until he settled at
Surry Hills (Sydney). He has seen a good
many steps in the evolution of Australia; he
remembers well the first train doing its
crawl from Sydney to Parramatta.
Now visiting Australia, knight Basil Phil-
lott Blackett, who was a financial Hercules
during the war. He worked on exchange
problems with America, and w r as one of the
Anglo-French mission which arranged a
500,000,000-dollar loan with that country.
For the past four years lie has been finan-
cial expert to the Indian Government.
“S.II.”: Is Richard Laffan, town clerk
of Koroit (Vic.), the oldest man in that
line? He is S 6, and has been 52 years in
his present position.
“Russell”: Though Count von Luckner
guarantees the story of his exploits in
Lowell Thomas’s “The Sea Devil” (B.
9/5/’2S), his yarn about riding a horse from
Cape Leeuwin lighthouse to Port Augusta
and obtaining work there for 30s. a day
(he did it in 1900) takes a deal of believing.
It makes me wonder if most of his exploits
are not equally fanciful.
Passed on at 55, J. A. Haslam, first and
only headmaster of King’s School, Adelaide.
As a young man he took an Angas engi-
neering scholarship at the University and
a Science degree; then he gave all his life
to teaching—at Roseworthy Agricultural
College and at Prince Alfred school for
18 years. He was given charge of King's
in 1923, wdien that institution was founded
by the Congregationalists-p/a-S'-Raptists.
Just gone aloft, Father Adrian Holier-
lioek, of Te Puna (M.L.), aged 70. He was
born in Holland and studied for foreign-
mission work at Mill Hill College, London,
where lie had as a fellow student Pelman,
originator of Pelmanism. The Dutch priest
threw in his lot with te Maori in 1888 at
Rotorua, and became proficient in Hori’s
tongue. He was a talented sculptor and
a master builder, and possessed a good
knowledge of medicine, accomplishments that
all find favor with brown brother.
Vice-Admiral Kobayashi, in command of
the visiting. Japanese squadron, saw Aus-
tralia previously in 1901. 1906 and 1917, on
this last occasion as captain of the cruiser
Ilirado, hunting a Fritz raider. He has
also had a distinguished diplomatic career,
is still young, as admirals go, and is re-
garded as one of the most promising men
of Nikko’s navy.
On June 1 Payne, Merritt and Crockett
will disappear from Vic. Upper Chamber.
All are ex-Ministers and Executive Coun-
cillors, and are entitled to be styled “honor-
able” and use a free pass on the Vic. rail-
ways for life. Payne relinquishes the
fathership of the House, which will pass to
Edgar, Chairman of Committees. Payne
has linked the House with the times imme-
diately succeeding Federation, and he was
associated with some of the best men that
have sat in the Chamber.
“Big Bill” Haywood, originator of the
1.W.W., has passed out in Moscow. He had
lived in Russia since 1918, when he had to
hasten from the U.S.A. to avoid a sentence
of 20 years for disloyal war-time activity.
Soviet Russia, however, didn’t suit him
either, and several times he attempted _to
escape from that land of alleged proletarian
freedom, but he was always caught and
carted back. He was a big figure in Ameri-
can Labor before lie decided, in 1905, that
it was not sufficiently militant, and broke
from it to organise the I. WAV.
Just recently kicked out in the Labor
selection ballot, after serving the party well
from its earliest days, Senator Jack Grant
has gone west at 71. He came to Aus-
tralia when he was 23, and was secretary of
the Political Labor League until the double,
dissolution of 1914 gave him a chance (he
had tried before in 1910-13) of winning a
seat in the Senate. A stonemason by trade,
he kept a bluff, democratic manner all his
life, The Prince of Wales on his visit here
took a special fancy to him; Grant was the
only man among the Federal politicians who
did not look as if he had got into new
clothes and strange manners to meet the
Royal ambassador.
Sydney Chance, who hailed from Adelaide,
gets an F.R.G.S. for nis explorations in Papua
He had Adelaide University training, and
was a draftsman on the Commonwealth rail-
ways, at Port Augusta (S.A.), before serving
in the war; after which he was sent to
Papua as assistant R.M.
Glen Innes (N.S.W.) honored a very
ancient inhabitant when Mrs. Norcott cele-
brated her 100th birthday there last week.
Barely 20 when she arrived in Australia,
HUGH N. BEGGS, of Nareeb Nareeb,
president of the Australian Sheep-
breeders’ Association.
Mrs. Norcott went to the Hawkesbury, mar-
ried and moved on to the New England dis-
trict, where she was among the first to
join the Salvation Army. She was a
“lassie” until she turned HO.
A historic clash with the Jaluit Gessei-
scliaft is recalled by the death of Captain
R. R. Cable, who for years commanded
island steamers for Burns. Pliilp and Co.
The German co. held a monopoly from its
country of Marshall Islands, and when
Cable, commanding the Ysabel, challenged
this, lie was refused water and supplies.
That breach of international courtesies the
Federal Government took up, and following
consideration by the British Government
and an international commission. the
Jaluit co.’s monopoly was upset, and Burns,
Philo secured £4OOO compensation.
Frank Tate, Vic. Director of Education,
who completed 50 years as an officer of the
department last year, will retire on June
18 and will have a pension of £lOOO a year
to console him. If he draws it for 25 years
lie will not be overpaid.
R. O. Todd, Anglican chaplain attached
to the Rookwood Cemetery (Sydney), has
read the burial service over 11.000 coffins.
During the influenza epidemic in the year
after the war lie was called to officiate at
an average of 20 funerals a day.
Millionaire George Judah Cohen still
attends the offices in Spring-street. Sydney,
which stand where his father helped to
found David Cohen and Co. 70 years ago.
Sam Cohen settled on the spot when he
arrived in 1883, and George Judah was
born there nine years later.
Australia has had many examples of the
longevity of the Jewish race, including
Morris Jacobs, of Geelong, 102, and his
widow, 98. But in Lutowiska, Poland, there
died lately Lieb Feld, born allegedly 125
years ago. His widow is 117; they had been
married 100 years.
P. S. Hossfeld, chosen as one of the two
geologists to represent the Federal Govern-
ment in the Angio-I’ersian oil prospecting of
Papua, is an Adelaide man: Prince Alfred
school, M.Sc. at the University, mineralogist
at the Museum, a master for two years at
Scotch College and a member of numerous
scientific bodies. And he is not 33 yet.
The interest Australian Jews have in
Zionism is mainly abstract, but Sol Cohen,
who was president of the Young Zionists of
Brisbane, is an exception. He has decided
to make Palestine his home. The farewclliag
was not confined to his parents and the
Chosen ; Colien was a sportsman, particularly
interested in aquatics, and Bananaland
yachtsmen shared in the send-off.
Warrnambool (Vie.) has a family affair
that will take beating. Grandfather, W.
Ardlie; father, E. L. Ardlie; and son, I.
Arjllie gather Costs at the one office.
Dr. Poole, president of the World’s Sun-
day-school Association, has just set foot on
Australia. Now the parson for the famous
Christ Church, Westminster Bridge-road,
London, the doctor first saw the light of day-
in Tasmania, where he lived to young man-
hood.
Dr. Allan Thomson, director of the
Dominion Museum, Wellington, who died
the other day at 44, was Maoriland’s first
Rhodes scholar. At Oxford he attained
international football- rank and became
lecturer in petrology. 111-health prevented
him from going to the Antarctic as geolo-
gist with the unhappy Scott expedition.
The Sydney Great Synagogue has put
away among its treasures an old book of
the Pentateuch in Hebrew, from which the
“portions” were read at the first authoritative
Jewish service* held in Sydney. That ser-
vice took place in the house of Philip
Joseph Cohen, in George-street, about where
the Bank of Australasia stands to-day. It
was Philip’s son, Victor, who recently
handed the volume to the Great Synagogue.
Analytical chemist Dave Avery, of Tas-
manian Paper Pty., Ltd., has been battling
for years to prove that Australian timbers
are suitable for the manufacture of paper.
He carried on alone until he convinced
Amalgamated Zinc that it was worth while
risking some coin on the matter. Now he
is heart and soul in experiments at the
test plant down at Geeveston (Tas.).
The Maoriland Anglican General Synod
has decided to appoint a Maori suffragan
bishop to the Bishop of Waiapu. He will
hold the title of Bishop of Aotearoa and will
minister to Maoris in any diocese where his
services are required. No nomination will
be made unless a stipend of £5OO p.a. is
guaranteed, together with a suitable resi-
dence and travelling allowance. Lack of
money is not likely to hamper the scheme,
but Henare’s preference jfor putting his
cash on a sure thing or investing in tlm
latest in sports models might have some
such effect.
“Vicar”: Groperland's Agent-Genleral,
Billy Angwin, is a Cornisliman ; but he re-
vealed the fact only when he became ex-
cited in the Assembly, and then his tor-
mentors would retort: “ ’Ow do ’ee !” One
day, however, the late Peter O’Loghlen took
Billy by surprise at a street intersection
where lie awaited a tram. Bill held a
travelling-case in his hand, and had just re-
turned from the country. “Hello, Bill.”
said Peter, “where are you going?” “I
bain’t goin’ nowhere,” replied Bill. “I be
goomin’ back from where I’d been goin’.”
The Sydney police identified an old friend
when the cable announced the other day
that Cyril Pegg. alias George Enright.
alias George McCraig, the London cat-
burglar, collared after much sweat on the
part of the sleuths, had absconded from bail
and was believed to have gone to America.
McCraig, with
another ma n,
escaped from
Darlin g li u r s t
Gaol in broad
daylight 18
years ago, using
a rope made
of strips of
blankets. Both
were recaptured,
and paid in
extra time for
their exploit.
Since then Mc-
Craig has been
troubling the
police in
America a n d
England.
BLAMIRE,
YOUNG, the
brilliant
water-color
painter, who holds
an exhibition of
his work at the
Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney,
this m’onth.
Professor Ernest Scott, of Melb. Uni.,
recently wrote an article in the Argus on
the late Lord Dalziel. The other day he
was reminded that the subject of his post-
mortem eulogium was very much alive.
There were two Lord Dalziels: the one
who had passed out was his nibs of Wooler.
The live peer (formerly Sir Henry Dalziel)
and Scott were brother newspaper reporters
in the Cold Land more than 30 years ago.
A long-broken friendship is renewed by the
slip.
THE LAST VOYAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I go on my last voyage,
To the port of Who-Can-Tell,
I want to go on a sailing-ship,
A full-rigged clipper sailing-ship,
With painted ports, and turtle-poop,
And bright-work polished well.
A ship with a long, clean run,
And a trim and saucy rig ;
With plates of steel, and decks of teak,
Ot holystoned and shining teak.
And a good old-fashioned figurehead:
And she needn’t be too big.
When I go on my last voyage,
And the bos’n pipes “Aloft,”
I want the feel of Manila rope,
The well-worn, handy Manila rope,
That runs as sweet as twisted silk,
And very near as soft.
And when I’ve made my last voyage,
And the land-fall’s on the lee,
And the stiff breeze filling every sail—
No stu'ns’ls set, but all plain sail —
The bos’n shall pipe all hands to grog. . . .
And Farewell to the Sea !
S.A.
C. H. SOUTER.


Alexander Hamilton Institute
ix CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
sdf
The most famous little book
on Business ever written.
We will gladly send you a
complimentary copy.
Name
Business Address
Bj
Position
Modern
SjkisinesV
PIONEERS!
Pioneers in the establishment of the making of leather belting in Australia 70 years ago —
and pioneers in every important advance in belting practice since that time.
The four Ludowici Trade-Marks
PIONEER
CHROMOL
COMBINA
PLATYPUS
are guarantees to the user of the best product obtainable.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI ®. SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers Since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Iloey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street. Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland ;
Patterson t& Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
The [?]
COLUMN
The Bank of Australasia:—
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct. £ £ £ £
1918.. 438,745 17 p.c. = 340,000 3,127,055
1919.. 460,768 18 „ „ 360,000 3,227,823
Premiums on new shares, £875,000 4,102,823
Reserves capitalised, £1,000,000 3,102,823
1920.. 573,052 13 p.c. = 455,000 3,220,875
Premiums on new shares, £250,000 3,470,8/5
1921.. 688,389 13 p.c. = 487,500 25,000 3,546,764
1922.. 620,105 13 „,, 520,000 3,646,869
1923.. 618,559 13 ~ .. 520,000 3,745,428
1924 629 904 13 „ „ 520,000 25,000 3,830.332
1925.. 632’,555 13 ~ ~ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926.. 652,621 14 „ „ 560,000 40,000 3,945,50 S
1927.. 654,060 14 „ „ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Since the close of accounts shareholders
have been offered 100,000 new £5 shares,
one for eight, at the stiff premium of £6
each; that was proportionately £8 10s.
per share more than was asked for the last
issue, in 1921. When all the money on the
present lot is in, paid capital will be
£4,500,000, and the already corpulent re-
serves (£3,989,568) will be further fattened
with £600,000. Al 4 p.c. div. —and given ordi-
nary circumstances that may be looked upon
as a sure thing—will then call for £24,060
less than last year’s admitted net profit.
The total of £654,060 was equal to 16.4 p.c.
on capital compared with 16.3 p.c. and 15.8
p.c. in the two preceding years. Among
Australian hanks only the Union and the
Wales show better figures than that. The
premium, however, takes the gilt off the
gingerbread for shareholders. To the bank
it means something very different —in short,
that even with a 14 p.c. div. the new money
will cost only 6.3 p.c. p.a. A point the direc-
tors ought to consider is whether it is pru-
dent to sell shares at such a premium that 14
p.c. divs. are possible, if not inevitable.
Nowadays, when a little knowledge is liable
to be more dangerous than ever it was, 14
p.c. divs. are indiscretions: they encourage
hostility, and even though it be ill-informed
hostility, it is none the less dangerous. An
issue on such terms that the rate of dividend
might be actually reduced without damage
to the shareholders would, in the “Wild
Cat’s” opinion, be infinitely wiser.
The next comparison shows what it has
cost to handle the steadily-increasing busi-
ness :
Oct., Gross Profits. Expenses. Taxes.
1917 .. £952,206 £349,751 £196,810
1918 .. 1,020,966 361,052 221,168
1919 .. 1,065,927 391,917 213,242
1920 .. 1,302,861 481,756 248,053
1921 ' .. 1,501,541 535,470 377,682
1922 .. 1,520,467 532,749 867,613
1923 .. 1,489,876 538,157 333,160
1924 .. 1,478,205 541,389 306.912
19 25 .. 1,485,143 564,636 287,952
1926 .. 1,516,376 584,400 279,354
1927 . . 1,572,735 632,563 286,112
The year’s spring in gross profits was
£56,359, but the growth in exes, and taxa-
tion took all but £1438 of the increase.
However, provision is made for had and
doubtful debts and all other contingencies
before the public is allowed to take a view
of the income from the widespread business.
That shareholders have never failed to re-
ceive an annual div. for the last 80 years
makes it plain that the board has not
hitherto underestimated the risks.
Again wool was the bright feature *n
exchange earnings. The clip was not so
bulky as it was in the previous year, but
prices, especially for fine crossbred, were
stronger. In Victoria and N. S. Wales the
returns from wheat were a trifle disappoint-
ing. Still, with one thing and another the
balance-sheet movements were healthy. De-
posits increased £2,084,709 as against
£685,373 in the previous term, and there
was evidence of efforts to check the growth
of advances. The increase under that head
was £1,913,385 compared with £2,382.642 in
1926:
Liabilities.
1925. 1926. 1927.
Notes .. .. £437,626 £438,849 £427,542
Bills, etc. .. 3,694,129 4,430,226 4,418,994
Deposits .. 28,708,674 29,394,047 31,478,756
Assets
Liquid assets.. 11,180,726'' 10,495,927 10,419,682
Advances . . 25,393,633 27,776,275 29,689,660
Bills, etc. .. 4,339,651 4,164,149 4,355,725
Premises .. 79,306 72,280 129,792
The drop in the note issue reflects conditions
in Maoriland, where the position has bright-
ened considerably since the close of
accounts, Oct. 10, and prospects are that
Australia will have another good season.
Depositors could see 21.4 p.c. in cash and
money at short call; and that is satisfac-
tory. The holding in Commonwealth Gov-
ernment securities (£1,079,901) was
strengthened by £253,193 at the expense of
investments in British Government stock
(£2,584,548). One way and another,
liquids contracted £76,245. In the aggre-
gate, they represented ss. 9d. of every £1
owing to the public at Oct. 10 compared
with 6s. 2d. a year earlier. When the
books last closed the bank was holding only
£4 10s. lid. of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own funds; so looked at from that
point there was no need for more capital.
In addition to the visible strength there are
large inner reserves, which in premises alone
must approximate £1,000,000. Owing to a
new building campaign the book value of
that item (£129,792) increased £57,572
during the year.
The scrip, which has always been popu-
lar on the market, is valued approximately
on a 5 p.c. basis. The visible backing is
£lO 2s. per share in net tangibles including
the new issue.
Sun Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Towards
Re- Re-
Mar.. Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 15,116 7 p.c. = 14,745 371 10,504
1919.. 24,526 72-} „ ~ 23,750 776 11,280
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up and goodwill
assessed at £245.633. Three £1 shares paid to
17s. 6d. each issued lor every £1 share previously
held. Goodwill is not treated as an asset hereunder.
Deficit.
245,633
Add new co.’s preliminary exes., £3,048 248.681
1921.. 56,910 11.1 p.c.- 50,576 6,334 242,347
Goodwill transferred to Mel-
bourne co., £25,000.. .. .. 217,347
1922.. 103,100 18-8 P-c.= 77,922 1 3>l7S 214 ,169
Written off, £22.000 )
1923.. 105,440 11.1 p.c.n 72,274 33,166 181,003
Goodwill items, £15,097 .. .. 196,100
1924.. 82,109 11.1 p.c.= 80.978 1,131 194,969
1925.. 116,655 11.1 ~ „ 97,316 19.339 175.630
1926.. 136,827 11.1,, ~101,487 35,340 140,290
Reserve disappears, £12,500 .. .. 152,790
Reserves.
Realisation and removal reserve,
£297,059 . . 144,269
1927.. 148,581 13.3 p.c.=122,553 26,028 170,297
1028.. 157,224 13.3 „ „ 123,267 33,957 204,254
With the accounts freed of the last traces
of the Melbourne venture, the energetic and
ambitious management began to look round
with a view to establishing a morning pic-
torial in Sydney. The Daily Telegraph,
which had shudderingly transformed itself
into such a sheet, provided the opportunity.
The old paper had drifted into a back-wash;
and the outlook for its shareholders, some
of whom paid high premiums for their scrip,
was far from rosy. Negotiations between
the two cos. resulted in an agreement that
should benefit each, the outcome being the
formation of the Daily Telegraph Pic-
torial, Ltd. (nominal capital £500,000 in
£1 shares), the control vested in the SUN;
The latter sold its right to publish morning
papers in Sydney to the new 7 concern for
£78,581 in fully-paid ords., and agreed to
take up a further 50,000 ords. for cash;
together, £123,581. Thus with 106,680 7 p.c.
prefs. and 77,000 ords. paid for the .Tele-
graph assets and goodwill, and £38,557
to be put up in cash by the new Telegraph
Holding Co., the Pictorial co. commenced
business on Dec. 12 with £345,818 of capital
either drawn or on tap. But apparently the
Sun Go. is not hungry for large figures. At
any rate its investments (£35,500 at
March 25) increased only £25,634 during the
year; no account whatever has been taken
of the goodwill payment. Although the
new co. has made a very promising start,
it is too soon yet to form any definite
opinion as to what financial results will he.
The early pictorials were very successful
because they had the field to themselves.
Nowadays, when every paper is a pictorial,
and the one that isn’t a pictorial is liable to
produce better pictures than the one that is,
things may be different. Still, the Sun has
such an aggressive organisation that the
failure of this enterprise seems very un-
likely.
The Sun’s profits for the year were easily
the best yet. The £157,224 netted was 17.4
p.c. on capital compared with 16.5 p.c. in
the previous term, and 78 p.c, of it was dis-
tributed. The £33,957 of the year’s net
earnings that remained in the business made
reserves £204,254. That figure was arrived
at after deducting goodwill items (£225,000)
—they ar.e mercurial elements in a news-
paper’s balance-sheet. Also, it does not
include the plant and building reserve
(£82,617) and provision for contingencies and
taxation (£55,790). The former increased
£31,941, and the latter was drawn upon for
£16,163 net during the year. The suspension
of the Sydney City Council on Dec. 31 de-
layed the handling of the co.’s" claim for
£592,810 on account of the resumption of
the old office property to allow of the ex-
tension of Martin-place. However, the Civic
Commissioners have promised to deal with
the matter soon. Meantime good progress is
being made with the co.’s new premises on
the Wentworth Court site near by. This
was bought years ago when the manage-
ment sensed the possibility of having to
make such a move. During the year
£50,330 was added to the book value of free-
hold.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
reflects the year’s activity :
1919. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £196,910 £894,094 £898,605 £900,000
Liabilities .. 37,197 92,329 97,694 68,485
Premises .. 61,370 189,821 126,733 178,778
Plant, etc. .. 79,784 376,563 241,004 269,997
Stocks .. 86,703 123,141 118,657 82,393
Book debts .. 34,347 114,883 161,560 151,698
Cash, etc. . . 18,968 2,202 38,596 989
Investments .. — 1 202,366 9,866 35,500
Goodwill .. 225,000 225,000 225,000
City Council claim 592,810 592,810
During the 12 months the more or less
liquid surplus (£202,095), including stocks
(£82,393), shrank £28,890, and the book
value of the fixed assets (£448,775) increased
by no less than £81,038. The new capital
got in was only £1,395 on account of em-
ployees’ shares.
The market, which pays 465. 6d. for the
scrip, thus compliments the management and
at the same time discounts the future. At
that price the return is 5.1 p.c. on a 13.3
p.c. div. basis; the backing is 245. 6d. in
net tangibles per £1 of paid up capital. The
market thus values the goodwill and undis-
closed reserves at somewhei’e about
£1,050,000.
Youngtiusband, Ltd., formerly Young-
husband, Row and Co. Pty., Ltd., wool,
grain and produce merchants, agents, etc.
( Melbourne)
Net To
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1918.. 23,341 10 p.c. = 6,982 16,369 50,093
1919.. 24,265 15 „ ~10,473 13,792 63,885
1920.. 29,183 15 „ „ 10,473 18,710 82,595
1921.. 12,140 10 „ „ 8,491 3,649 86,244
1922.. 11,382 10 „ ~10,000 1,382 87,626
Surplus from sale of property 3,750 91,370
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640 100,016
1924.. 25,405 15 „ ~15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums . . 12,500 122,921
1925.. 32.534 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
1926.. 28,598 15 „ ~ 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ ~ 22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 83,958 .7,804 230,141
Paid capital is £250,000 ; £lOO,OOO of it was
got in early in the last term at a pre-
mium of 75 p.c. Reserves thus benefited
by £75,000, which with the year’s surplus
earnings (£7804) made the visible total lay-
by £230,141 at March 31. With this but-
tress for capital the 15 p.c. div. becomes
easy in fair times, calling for only 8 p.c.
on total funds.
Unfavorable weather conditions in the
earlier part of the term curtailed market-
ings, and the new money had not got pro-
perly into its stride when the books were
ruled off at March 31; nevertheless, all
things considered, earnings were highly
satisfactory. The £41,762 netted was 18.4
p.c. on average capital compared with 20.3,
19.1, 21.9 and 25.4 p.c. back to 1924, when
wool was selling at hitherto unheard of
prices. Here is a close-up view of the posi-
tion, with a comparison to show the co.’s
progress over the last seven years:—
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. , Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1922.. 49,513 £69,628 £55,246 83.6 p.c.
1923.. 68,106 93,487 69,847 74.7 „
1924-. . 48,968 90,073 71,668 79.6 „
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5 „
1926.. 73,562 108,061 79,463 73.5 „
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
The drop in the expense ratio was mainly
the result of a slightly smaller turnover and
better prices for fleeces. Australian scoured
and greasy wool averaged £25 6s. 9d. per
bale for the nine months to March 31 as
against £22 9s. 7d. for the corresponding
period of the previous year. Because of
that rise gross profits sprang £11,648, reach-
ing £124.863. Although the demand for wool
from Britain, U.S.A. and Germany has
been a little disappointing, optimism pre-
vails as to the future of values, and the
current season’s prospects over most of Vic-
toria an 4 the Riverina, where the co.
operates, are distinctly bright. A “Wild
Cat” man who, seeking an up-to-the-minute
view of things this month, flew over Vic-
toria from north to south, found the country
looking like a well-kept garden.
The co.’s capacity to handle bigger busi-
ness is seen in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1922. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 149,271 155,724 223,196 187,795
Premises and
plant . . 77,339 109,115 110,352 125,487
Book debts, etc. 235,652 328,819 408,487 446,407
Invest m ents,
cash, etc. . . 30,526 15,517 11,218 116,255
Merchandise .. 3,380 6,626 5,476 4,788
The co.’s new wool store at Albury was re-
sponsible for the increase of £15,135 in pre-
mises and plant (£125,487) ; but most of
the £175,000 that shareholders put up dur-
ing the year was in a handy form at March
31. The more or less liquid surplus
(£371,649) was £169.664 Cash
and Government securities (£108,250) in-
creased £97,031, and that didn’t help the
year’s earnings much. The co. is going
deeper into the pastoral-finance business;
book debts, etc. (£446,407) have nearly
doubled in the last six years. Much depends
upon the figure at which they have been
written.
The market’s opinion of the pound shares
is expressed in sales at 45®. 6d. At that
price the return is £6 18s. p.c. after allow-
ing for the div. (25.). The visible back-
ing amounts to 38®. sd. in net tangibles,
most of it advances.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1920. .26,223 12J p.e. = 15,750 1 6 g 73 6 g 73
Staff fund, £3500 . . .. I ’ ’
Aug., 1920. .25,124 124 P-c. = 15,750 j 7 g 74 14 g 47
Staff fund, £l5OO ..
Feb., 1921. .22,736 12} p.c. = 15,750 6,986 21,833
Aug., 1921..21,498 124 „ „ 15,750 5,748 27,581
B'eb., 1922., 21,718 12J „ „ 15,750 5,968 33,549
Aug., 1922. .21,298 124 „ „ 15,750 5,548 39,097
Feb., 1923. .21,643 12J „ ~ 15,750 5,893 44,990
Aug., 1923..22,398 124 ~ ~ 15,750 6,648 51,638
Feb., 1924..22,619 124 „ „ 15,750 6,869 58,507
Aug., 1924..22,694 124 „ „ 15,750 6,944 65,451
Feb 1925.-23,207 124 „ „ 15,750 7,457 72,908
Aug.’, 1925..25,291 124 „ „ 15,750 9,541 82,449
B’eb 1926.. 25,347 124 „ ~ 15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug., 1926. .28,446 15 _ „ „ 18,900 9,546 101,592
B’eb 1927.-28,316 124 ~ ~ 15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug.’, 1927..28,378 124 „ ~ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671 179,457
Feb., 1928.-28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
During the year the co. sold Denison
House, one of its George-street (Sydney)
freeholds, to McDowell’s, Ltd., an energetic
neighbor in the drapery business, for
£140,000 —£30,000 cash and the balance on
mortgage. The deal turned in a juicy profit
of £52,671, and this amount was placed direct
to the reserve account, making' it £179,457
The co. still occupies the ground floor as a
tenant. That is to say, its trading has not
been disturbed, for the present at any rate.
Disclosed net earnings (£28,947) for the
half-year to Feb. 28 were £568 better than
for the preceding half; the year’s result was
22.7 p.c. on capital compared with 22.5, 20.1,
18.2 and 17.8 p.c. in the four preceding
years. In addition to the usual distribution
at the rate of 124 p.c. p.a. shareholders were
handed a special bonus of 6J p.c. (£15,750).
This was provided out of the £25,194 of
visible surplus sent to reserves for the 12
months to Aug. 31 last.
Of recent years the surplus profits and
a good deal more have gone into liquids:—
Feb.,’2l. Feb.,’27. Feb.,’2B.
Liquids .. .. £43,140 £202,507 £366,83^
Liabilities . . 34,684 49,417 48,228
£8,456 £154,090 £318,605
The div. and special bonus will reduce the
more or less liquid surplus at Feb. 28 to
£287,105. Thus, since 1921 the surplus,
including the mortgage referred to above,
has been strengthened by no less than
£278,649. The visible addition to reserves
over the same period was £155,072. The
assets concerned are, moreover, of excellent
quality.
Here is a more detailed view of the posi-
tion : „ ,
Feb., Feb., Aug., Feb.,
1921. 1927. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities.. .. £34,684 £49,417 £45,170 £48,228
Premises, stocks,
plant, etc. . . 282,819 235,189 220,677 149,169
Book debts, etc. .. 10,445 45,382 45,299 144,00 i
Govt, securities . . 14,709 150,330 160,804 210,054
Cash', etc... .. 17,986 7,795 20,297 12,772
Shares in other cos. 9,308 3,630 3,630 3,630
At Feb. 28 there was more than was coming
to creditors in book debts alone, apart from
the mortgage. The cash proceeds of the sale,
and more, were put into Commonwealth
securities, which increased £49.249, reaching
£160,054. This with £50.000 of N. S. Wales
Government stock and £11,042 in cash was
equal to 17s. 7d. per share. Further, the
value of freeholds, some of which were picked
up when prices were dirt-cheap compared
with present figures, is greatly understated
in the books. At Aug. 31 last premises,
■stock, plant, etc. —an untidy. entry —were
in at less than the figure at which they stood
10 years earlier, though the development of
the manufacturing end of the business must
have added considerably to the value oi
stocks and plant. Shareholders are apt to
raise hosannas over the accumulation of
liquid reserves, and no doubt it is cheerful to
see in Government stocks and such things an
amount equal to the entire paid capital. But
there is another point of view. With all
the knowledge of this business which the
management possesses, can’t it find profitable
employment for capital? There must surely
be something very rotten in the state of
Denmark if it can’t.
The last capitalisation (£36,000) was in
1919; it followed a similar gift 18 months
earlier, when the div. rate was dropped from
15 p.c. to 12J p.c. The market, which con-


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
DRYICE, LIMITED
(A Company Registered under the Companies Acts of N.S.W.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £50,000 in 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
45,000 Snares are now offered for subscription, payable 5/- per share on Applica-
tion, 5/- on Allotment, and the balance in Calls of 5/- per share, as and
when requi;- , with notice of not less than One Month.
5,000 Shares of £1 each will be held in reserve for future issue from time to
time, with such rights attached thereto as the Company may think proper.
50,000
DIRECTORS:
ALLAN CHRISTIE, F.1.C.A., 18 Martin Place, Sydney (Managing Director).
HERBERT E. ROSS, Engineer (Ross Rowe, Architects and Engineers), Equitable Building, George
Street, Sydney.
ALEXANDER WRIGHT DONALD, Merchant (Chairman of Directors, A. B. Donald, Limited, Auck-
land, New Zealand).
PETER McWILLIAM, Merchant, 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
(One other to be appointed.)
SOLICITORS :
CAMPBELL & CAMPBELL, Herald Building, Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS :
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, Martin Place, Sydney.
CHIEF ENGINEER:
ERIC W. RICHARDS, Late Assistant Chief Engineer. The Dryice Corporation of America, Inc.
BROKER ;
P. T. CAHILL (Member of Sydney Stock Exchange), 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
(To be appointed.)
REGISTERED OFFICE:
London Bank Chambers, 18 Martin Place, Sydney. (Telephone: B 1640.)
SECRETARY:
R. A. FRASER, A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng,), Holt’s Chambers, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. (Tel. 82651.)
Australia presents a wonderful field for Dryice, owing to its comparatively warmer climate, due to
its proximity to the tropics, also to the comparatively longer seasons of hot and mild weather. Internal
transportation in Australia is largely Rail and Motor borne, both being practically unresistant to the
heat, necessitating the use of large quantities of Water-ice and salt, whereas with Dryice the goods
carried can be nearly ALL TIIE LOAD, only a small fraction of the tonnage being required for refrigera-
tion.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from Eric W. Richards all of his rights
under agreement with the Dryice Company, Limited, of Canada, touching the patent rights, copyright,
and secret processes for manufacturing Dryice in Australia, It is proposed that this Company should
forthwith (a) manufacture and trade in and otherwise exploit the product Dryice in the State of New
South Wales ; (b) exploit the patent rights in the processes by the sale of limited rights to use same
to trading Companies to be formed in other limited areas in Australia.
The consideration to Mr. Richards was £20,000, but he has shown his confidence in the product
by applying for shares to that amount in the company, so that none of the money to be subscribed
by the public has to be applied towards this valuable purchase.
MARKETS.
Ice-Cream Refrigeration.
As the product lasts five to fifteen times as long as water-ice and has half the bulk for equal weight,
it will not be necessary to utilise more than one-tenth the space now occupied by water-ice in the
delivery waggons and yet achieve the same refrigeration result. This factor will reduce delivery costs
by two-thirds.
There will also be a considerable demand for Dryice by various retailers. The cost of supplying
these with water-ice averages ten shillings a week for each retail depot. It is not only a question of
ice, but labor has to be employed to pack the containers. As an equal weight of Dryice will
only use half the space and will last five times as long, it is evident that this cost can be very con-
siderably reduced. Further, as the temperature desired will not vary as will be the case where water-
ice is used, there will not be the slightest danger of the ice-cream becoming soft.
At the present time the ice-cream trade of Sydney would alone require more than the output
of one six-ton plant, while the demand which Dryice will make possible is certainly most conservatively
stated at 25 tons per day. In addition to the large commercial users of Dryice in the following fields, as
COLD STORES, HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATION, RAILWAY REFRIGERATION,
SHIP REFRIGERATION AND FRUIT AND FISH TANSPORTATION.
it has large scientific uses, among them—
Oil Refining, Building and Constructing, Varnish Industry, Wool, Fur and
Grain Storage, Chemical Industry.
RETURN TO INVESTORS—PROFITS.
The following figures have been calculated on the basis of installing a definite capacity Plant in
New South Wales—with provision for any necessary future extension thereof —after careful examination
of production costs.
Estimated Annual Sales (conservatively calculated) .. . . .. .. .. .. £35,000
Cost of Production and Distribution, inclusive of Royalties, Taxation and all other items 26,500
Estimated Net Profit for New South Wales .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,500
Equivalent to 18.88 per cent, on a subscribed Capital of £45,000.
In addition, Dryice, Limited, will immediately undertake the exploiting of its
patent rights by sale to other companies for limited areas for cash and shares in
those Companies. It is conservatively estimated that the subsidiary Companies so
formed to exploit the product in other Australian areas should each return a divi-
dend of at least 15 per cent, on Shares therein; this Company is thus assured of a
further lucrative return from its holdings in these subsidiary Companies.
The Vendor is already in receipt of an application from probably the largest
Ice-Cream producers in Australia, requesting first consideration for their require-
ments of Dryice.
This letter may be inspected at the office of the Company.
The Directors have every confidence in recommending so unique an opportunity for investment in
a manufacturing and holding Company, with such possibilities of yielding a handsome return.
SUPPLIES AVAILABLE—CHEMICAL BASE FOR DRYICE.
In order to place the Company in the position of supplying the product immediately after flotation,
the Company is completing arrangements with The Colonial Sugar R'efining Company, Limited, for the
supply of the chemical base of Dryice. The Dryice Company will therefore only need to erect the Plant
for applying the final secret process for the finishing of the product.
The uryice Company will have under such arrangements the immediate use of certain buildings,
etc., at The Colonial Sugar Refining Company’s distillery property at Pyrmont.
Similar arrangements will be made in other areas in Australia for supplies from other suitable
sources.
SERVICES OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EXPERT.
The services of Mr. Eric W. Richards are to be retained by the Company as Chief Engineer, under
a Service Agreement, hereinafter referred to.
Mr. Richards was associated with the Inventor of Dryice, in the United States of America, in
the original experiments in the discovery thereof. He lias since been engaged with the parent Com-
pany in supervising the erection of buildings and plant and other technical and practical aspects of
the manufacture of Dryice throughout America.
CONTRACTS.
The only known material contracts are:—
1. An Agreement dated 2nd May, 1928, between Eric Wilfred Richards and Reginald Albert Fraser,
as Trustee on behalf of Dryice, Limited, providing for cash payment of £15,000 and progressive
Royalties (Vending agreement).
2. An Agreement dated 2nd May, 1928, between Reginald Albert Fraser as trustee on behalf of
Dryice, Limited, and Eric Wilfred Richards (Service agreement).
Copies of the abovementioned contracts may be inspected at the office of the Company’s Solicitors
during the usual business hours.
GENERAL.
The Company will pay all costs of flotation and brokerage, inclusive of brokerage on all shares
allotted in response to applications bearing the stamp of the Company’s Broker.
Applications for shares should be made on the form provided and sent to 18 Martin Place, Sydney,
together with a remittance of five shillings (5/-) per share, or be lodged with the Company’s Broker.
If “the whole of the shares applied for are not allotted the surplus amount paid on application will
be appropriated towards the remaining payments on the shares allotted and where no allotment is made
the deposit will he returned in full.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Applications for shares may be made through any recognised member of the Stock Exchanges to the
Company’s Broker, or direct to the Secretary at the address given herein. Cheques should be made
passable to Dryice, Limited, and crossed “Not negotiable.”
Application will be made forthwith to list the Company’s Shares on the Stock Exchange. Voting
on shares will be in accordance with Stock Exchange regulations. The Directors will proceed to allot-
ment when 35,000 shares have been applied for or underwritten.
DRYICE, LIMITED
(A Company registered under the Companies Acts of New South Wales).
CAPITAL: £50,000, divided into 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To THE SECRETARY,
DRYICE, LIMITED,
IS Martin Place, Sydney,
Dear Sir, —
I hereby enclose the sum of £ being application money of
5/- per share on ... shares in the above Company. I agree to
accept the above or any lesser number of shares which may be allotted to me, and to pay the
balance according to the terms of the prospectus, and I authorise you to register me as the
holder of the said shares, and I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Associa-
tion of the Company.
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
NAME (in full)
(State here whether Mr., Mrs., Miss or Title).
address
OCCUPATION
DATE
1925.
LONGREACH OIL WELLS
LIMITED
(Registered under the N.S.W. Companies Acts),
Controlling prospecting rights over 10,000 acres surrounding No. 2
town bore, Longreach.
CAPITAL, £50,000
(Divided into 100,000 Shares of 10/- each).
50,000 Shares are offered to the public for subscription, payable
as follows: 2/6 per Share on application, and 2/6 per
Share on allotment, and the balance in Calls, as required,
not to exceed 1/- per Share per month.
45,000 Shares in reserve.
5,000 Fully-paid Shares to be allotted to the Vendor on regis-
tration as full consideration for preliminary expenses
incurred.
100,000
Share applications from Longreach, Roma and Queensland
districts have considerably reduced the number of Shares available
to the public.
POINTS OF INTEREST TO INVESTORS.
1. Petrolene is already flowing from a bore on the property. ( 14ft.
of oil sand having been tapped at 3243 ft.)
2. Extract from report by L. C. Ball, 8.E., A.1.E.A., Deputy Chief
Government Geologist (see prospectus) : “If relieved of the head
due to the artesian water that fills the casing, it (the petrolene)
would enter the bore-hole much more freely, and might, perhaps,
partly or wholly fill it, and so become truly a flowing Oil Well.”
3. Doctor Woolnough, Commonwealth Government Oil Expert
and Adviser, has inspected the property with Mr. Ball, and
emphasised that, in his opinion, he considered the prospects of
this Company superficially the best he has seen anywhere in
Australia.
4. Hon. A. J. Jones, Secretary for Mines (Queensland), in a lecture
on Queensland oil, stated: “I visited the town bore at Long-
reach. The engine-driver of the plant, in the presence of others
and myself, skimmed the oil off the bore drain and lubricated
the engine with it. I thoroughly believe oil would have flowed
from the well had the top water been shut off.”
Application for Prospectus, Shares or Information should be
addressed to —
Longreach Oil Wells, Ltd.
Bull’s Chambers,
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Apply Now and Get Your Shares at Par.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors of
LONGREACH OIL WELLS, LIMITED,
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs:
I beg to enclose herewith the sum of £ being 2/6
per Share application money for Shares of 10/-
each in the above Company, and I request you to allot to me that number of
Shares in terms of the Company’s Prospectus, dated 13th April, 1928, and I
agree to accept the same or any smaller number or proportion that may be
allotted to me, and I undertake to pay the further sum of 2/ 6 per Share on
allotment, and the balance as required in Calls of not more than I/- per
Share per month.
I authorise you to register me as the holder of the Shares in pursuance
of this application, and I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of the Company.
PLEASE WRITE DISTINCTLY.
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
NAME IN FULL
(State here whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
DATE 1928
If the remittance be made by cheque, the same should be crossed, marked
“not negotiable,” and drawn in favor of the Company, with exchange added
—Longreach or Sydney.


Sharks Are About!
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly’s”
object is to give the average man
such expert advice about invest-
ments (including insurance policies)
that he will not lose his money.
MAY NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock GF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * ❖ *
Long service is inherent in every length of Pioneer
Wood Pipe, for no corrosion of any kind can harm
it. It is safe from frost or electrolysis and it can
carry any class of fluid without deterioration. Other
advantages of this modern conduit are its light
weight, simplicity, cleanliness and low cost. Get
full particulars from the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Koad, Lane Cove (Ferry to Figtree
Bridge), N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. —Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * # *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* *
The construction of firebreaks and tank drains, also
the clearing of drains in and around watering places,
and from w'ire-netting fences, can all be effectively
and economically handled by the use of the special
graders w'hich are made by Messrs. Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd, These machines are available in
seven different sizes, either to be hauled by tractor
or horses, the prices ranging from £45 to £105
each. There are many properties equipped with these
machines and the results obtained amply demon-
strate the necessity of having a grader available on
the station or large farm. As most people nowadays
possess motor-cars, one of these machines will also
be able to construct and maintain in perfect condition
the private road to the homestead. Full particulars
are available from the manufacturers, Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking: out.
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
General Secretary.
&
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
siders that further benefits cannot be now
far distant, paid 51s. for the scrip two years
ago ; recent sales were at 575. The imme-
diate return at the latter price is only 4.4
p.c. on a 124 p.c. div. basis. The visible back-
ing figuresout at 345. in net tangibles, ex-
cluding £6OOO in a taxation and contingency
reserve.
* =!: >1: *
The new Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.,
has a nominal capital of £5,000,000 in
1,500,000 74 p.c. cum. prefs. and 3,500,000
ords., of which 1,000,000 prefs. and 2,100,000
ords. are to be issued. Of the prefs. the
public is offered 675,000 at par. (these have
been underwritten by J. B. Were and Son,
Melbourne) ; the balance (325,000 shares)
are to be exchanged for the “A,” “B” and
“G” prefs. in Hoskins Iron and Steel Co.
The 20,000 “A” 10 per cents, and 10,000
“B” 7 per cents., which are privately held,
get 22,000 and 3000 prefs. respectively in
the new co. Thus in annual income the
“A’s” lose £350 and the “B’s” £475; in
respect of capital the former make a profit
of £2OOO and the latter a loss, of £7OOO. The
300,000 “C” 74 per cents., in which the
public is interested, are to be exchanged on
a par basis, or for cash at the option of
the holder. Any prefs. in the new co. not
thus applied for will be offered for subscrip-
tion.
For the Hoskins Co.’s assets, which had
a net tangible book value of £2,215,131 at
Nov. 30, the new, co. will pay £1,771,400 in
f.p. £1 shares —325,000 prefs. and the bal-
ance ords. For the purposes of transfer,
Flack and Flack, accountants, figure the
net value of these assets at As
the Hoskinses are receiving only 1,446,400
ords. and 325,000 prefs., all of £1 each, the
new co. will begin with a reserve of £42,989.
Of the Hoskinses’ 1,446.400 ords., 396,400
are to be handed to Dorman, Long and Co.
and 50,000 to Howard Smiths for coming
into the big venture, leaving a balance of
1,000,000. On the book values at Nov. 30
Hoskins shareholders are thus making a
sacrifice of no less than £890,131.
For its Australian assets, except the Syd-
ney Harbor Bridge contract, Dorman, Long
and Co. get £399,136, including £195,536
cash, making with the gift from Hoskins a
total of £795,536; that co. will have a share-
holding of 600,000 ords. Howard Smiths
are to take up 350,000 ords. for cash, making
their holding 400,000 shares. And Bald-
wins, Ltd. (Eng.), get 100,000 f.p. ords. and
£68,000 cash for a heavy steel-rolling mill.
The combined annual net profits of the
Hoskins and Dorman-Long businesses
taken over averaged £151,403 for the last
two years. The transfer of operations to
Port Kembla is expected to result in a cut
in overhead that will lift the net result to at
least £213,758 p.a. And that does not take
into account the earning capacity of the new
capital or the anticipated lower cost of
production of pig-iron at the Port as com-
pared with Lithgow. All things considered,
the pref. position is very satisfactory.
* * * t-
Dryice, Ltd., which has a nominal capital
of £50,000 in £1 shares, is issuing 45,000 of
them. The promoter gets £20,000 in fully-
paids for the Australian rights in the manu-
facture of Dryice plus £15,000 cash and pro-
gressive royalties. These two latter pay-
ments are to go to the Dryice Co. of Canada.
On the present issue that leaves only £lO,OOO
to cover preliminary exes., etc., buy plant
and provide working capital. The first plant
unit is to have a capacity of six tons per
day, but no estimate of cost is given. On
sales of £35,000 per annum the prospectus
figures a net profit of £B5OO, equal to 18.8
p.c. on the £45,000 of capital. Further pro-
fits of at least 15 p.c. p.a. on holdings in sub-
sidiaries, to be floated later, are spoken of.
The process, claimed to he a very cheap one,
is that of solidifying carbon-dioxide instead of
water. It is claimed that the product will
last from five to 15 times longer than water
ice, and has half the bulk for equal weight,
thus reducing delivery costs. How the retail
price compares with that of water ice is not
stated. The process has attracted a good
deal of attention in America, and appears' to
have possibilities. But the consideration
(£35,000) is very heavy, and the sophisti-
cated investor will want a lot more informa-
tion about royalties and the possibility of
£lO,OOO doing the job.
❖ # ijc
The recent resumed conference between the
mining managers and the industrial council
at Broken Hill was mostly bluff. The unions
thought they might get something—they
couldn’t get less than nothing—and with a
show of strength asked for the conference vo
be resumed in the hope that the managers
would be drawn into saying something.
Emery, the companies’ spokesman, was not to
be caught by the tongue, and merely said that
as the unions had asked for the conference
the managers were prepared to hear them.
Chagrined, the union men could only go over
the ground previously covered in presenting
their original log, Emery countering with a
tale of woe and resubmitting the companies’
log with modifications of no consequence.
Conference then adjourned sine die with mat-
ters standing as they were on December 20.
Meantime both sides are pinned down by
the metal market. Just before the con-
ference Emery forecasted the early closing
of the British if there was no improvement,
but this failed to induce the workers to talk
of making conditions easier for the com-
panies. As a matter of fact, the position
is serious even for one or two other cos.
The South can’t follow the markets much
further downhill.
❖ X ❖
Last September Waihi (M.L.) capitalised
£125,000 of its big reserves, thus doubling
the issued capital—its original £1 shares had
been reduced to ss. by previous returns of
capital. An alternative w r as 10s. in 6 per
cent, debentures instead of each new ss.
share. A M.L. financial concern signified
its willingness to pay face value for these
debentures. Thus ingeniously a worried
board sought to satisfy three sections of
shareholders —those who had been pressing
for a distribution from reserves, those who
were content with the much-criticised policy
of holding these in gilt-edged securities, and
those who still had faith in the mine as a
mine. The view expressed by the “Wild
Cat” at the time was that prospects justi-
fied a sporting risk in taking up the shares.
Those who did so should feel pleased, as the
first half-yearly dividend on the new basis
lias just come along at the old rate of
Is., suggesting that shareholders may hope
for double the amount previously distributed.
The market has responded. A year ago it
was a shade over 18s, following the capi-
talisation announcement; it is now 12s. 6d.,
which is equivalent to 255. per old share.
For this the healthy look of some of the
lower levels, notably in the Grand Junction
area, is mainly responsible.
* * * &
Torry Co. has been registered in Melbourne
with a capital of £lB,OOO in 72,000 shares of
ss. Vendors took 25,000 f.p. and £2OOO in
cash. The co. will work two leases for lode:
tin on the extension of the Dutchman’s and
New England lodes at Torrington (N.S.W.I.
* * * *
The connection of the Lansell family of
Bendigo with quartz mining has been severed
by the closing down of Lansells Little 180
mine after nearly 50 years’ work. Being a
private concern the total yields are unknown,
although they have been estimated at about
£2,000,000. George Lansell at one time
owned 13 mines and held shares in every
other mine of any consequence on the Ben-
digo goldfield. Lie was a soap manufacturer
in Forest-street, Bendigo, when four of the
banks bought his works out in order to
extinguish an olfactory nuisance. Lansell’s
first mining venture (in 1852) was in a
show called the Adventure and Advance,
which is said to have yielded him nearly
£200,000 net. He and his family were
great prospectors, and the field owes much
to them and their pertinacity. Yet it would
have been better off if it had spent more
money nearer the surface and less at the
great depths which fascinated both Lansell
and his advisers.
* * * *
Bowonga tinfield. Mitta Mitta (Vic.), has
proved a dud and is likely to be abandoned.
Most of the cos. and syndicates formed dur-
ing the flutter of 1925 have stopped work,
the last to do so being the first to peg
out a lease, the Bowonga Tin-mining Co.
S. N. Rodda, the co.’s superintendent, is
definite that the co. has failed to locate
a payable shoot of ore. The tin ore
looked like being payable on the surface,
but nowhere on the field did the ore live
down nor values persist. The man who
trusts a tin lode , on its surface or near-sur-
face looks is in for a sad disappointment 19
times out of 19£.
S. Australia announces with modest pride
that its mineral production for 1927 was
worth nearly £1,200,000, a total only ex-
ceeded previously under the abnormal con-
ditions of war. The State generally expects
about a million sterling from the curiously
mixed hag that it gets. Coal is non-existent
gold and silver are widespread but almost
negligible in results, and copper is about
worked out. But it gets a lot of salt, and
last year’s output of such useful lines as
iron ore, gypsum and limestone w r as the best
on record.
* * * *
In connection with speculative mininsr
stocks, when the liquidator has been called
in, generally W.A. has been found to have
the scrip and Eastern States the cash. Edna
May stock was an exception; in that case
the'West got in early and stuck. Remember-
ing those good days, West got a quick hold
of McCahon’s shares, and is showing no
signs of letting go. : Not that McCahon’s yet
looks like another Edna May, but it is being
opened up on sound lines and is responding
very well indeed to developmental work.
X X X
Good developments continue in Chaffers
(W.A.) at the 2800 ft. level. The lode now
being exposed is no doubt a continuation of
the formation from which the Golden Horse-
shoe for years drew its supplies of pay ore.
As Lake View and Star controls' Chaffers,
the rise in L. V. and S. shares can be under-
stood ; still, a rise of 2s. 6d. on 1,500,000
shares looks like over-valuing recent develop-
ments, bearing in mind their depth, which
of course adds to all costs of working. Golden
Horseshoe, after obtaining a £55,000 cash
advance from the State Government, is
again seeking favors, but with poor chance
of success. Probably Horseshoe will be
acquired eventually by Lake View and Star.
After that it is probable that a 3000 ft. shaft
will be found necessary on Chaffers lease
in order to extract the ore from the new dis-
covery, so there may be a good while to
wait before its gold is bullion.
Attracted by the good developments in
McCahon’s Westonia, representatives of
Adelaide cos. with small cash balances are
pegging out and christening pups. As the
area of gneissic rock in which the Westonia
gold-bearing ore occurrences are contained
is extremely limited in the vicinity of
McCahon’s, the chances of pups developing
into good dogs are small.
* * * *
After being tested and practically aban-
doned a quarter of a century ago, Wiluna
leases have now a million-share issue with
buyers 30s. per share. Considering the gold-
extraction problem has not been solved be-
yond all doubt, the high valuation must be
classed as—well, romantic.
* * * *
Bidor Tin, a Malayan show floated in Mel-
bourne with an authorised capital of £150,000
in £1 shares in 1926, was mothered by Tin
Options, but seems to be nobody’s darling
now. The report covering the year to
December 31 last is pessimistic. When the
board went after the uncalled capital to pay
for equipping the mine the response was far
from enthusiastic. This was in May, 1927,
and since then the property lias been offered
for sale in London. If the deal goes through
the directors say that shareholders will bene-
fit substantially; if it does not, another
attempt is to be made to raise capital in
Australia. As boring estimates for a
selected area of 560 acres with a depth of
40ft. were only B§oz. to the yard, a large
and economical turnover will be necessary
to make the ground pay with tin at present
prices, especially as the Bidor country is
reputed to be heavily impregnated with
among, while the tin is fine and requires
special provision against loss. The original
dredge contemplated was to have 150.000
yards monthly capacity. Paid capital at
Oct. 31 last was £72,3.37. In addition to
£lO,OOO owing to the vendor, there was a
contingent liability of £1348 on account of
15,000 10 p.c. cum. participating pref. shares
of £1 each.
* * * *
Shareholders in Tanah Biji, a Malayan
holding and prospecting offshoot of Alluvial
Tin, did not need much persuasion to agree
to the board’s suggestion to increase capital
to £lOO,OOO by swallowing £75,000 of the
undivided profits. The gift represents three
f.p. £1 shares for every one held at May 30.
The co. promoted Jelapang, now producing;
Serendah, which should see its dredge at
work this year; and Serendah South. The
shares are about £5 155., equal to 555. after
exercising the option.
The amalgamation of Malim Nawar South,
Kuala Kampar and Tanjong Tualong into
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields was complete last
week, when general meetings confirmed the
scheme. Following on this an allotment of
1,170,000 f.p. 10s. shares in the new co.
was made to shareholders in the old.
* * * *
Katu Tin, Burma Malay’s first subsidiary,
has now the start of digging operations in
sight. It is announced that the electric-
Diesel dredge, with a capacity of 125,000
c.y. per month, will have the wheels going
round by October next, which will be just
two years after the co. was incubated. The
area held is over 500 acres, averaging 33ft.
deep, and managing-director E. N. Mulligan
found 400 acres of it worth .871 b. The first
year’s digging will be in ground which has
been close bored and gave an average value
of lib. per c.y.
t]i :J: ❖ *
Some Malayan returns for the first half
of May show a falling off in recoveries com-
pared with April. Of the Alluvial Tin string,
Rawang dredge turned over 62,000 yards for
,271 b. (,481b. in April). Malim Nawar
South dug 50,000 yards which returned .571 b.
(,581b). Ivundang’s ,511 b. from 55,000 yards
was a sudden drop from the .621 b. per yard
of the month before, while Kuala Kampar
lost a fraction with .481 b. as against ,501 b.
Tanjong ran well with .711 b. for 70,000
yards ; April’s average was .751 b. Ghang-
kat is travelling a great bat, the 36,000 yards
turned over going 1.111 b., the same ns
April’s. Jelapang’s 35,000 yards averaged
only ,481 b. (.801b. for the previous month).
In the first half of May, Ivampong Kamun-
tiug’s No. 1 dredge was stopped for 51
hours for repairs and boiler cleaning, but
dug 37,000 yards for 104 tons. The April
turnover was 3.8 tons from 108,000 yards.
No. 2 dredge was to have started digging
again last week. Asam Kumbang also lost
time, 81 hours in all, for cleaning and re-
pairs ; 43,000 yards were dug for 121
tons (April figures, 34.75 tons from 109,000
yards). Ulu Yam, 11 tons from 52,000 yards,
was behind April, which showed 32.5 tons
from 102,000 yards. Thabawleik was also
slack—26,ooo yards for 10 tons of t. 0., as
against 27.25 tons from 63,000 yards for
April. The dredge had to work through a
difficult patch of poor values.
Takuapa is experiencing slightly leaner
times. Accounts for 1927 show a net profit
of £30,559, as compared with £42,540 for the
previous year. Suspension of dividends dur-
ing the year caused some comment, but the
result has been that finance is comfortable.
Average tin recovered was 12.84 d. per yard,
costs were 5.31 d. as against 4.40 d. in the
previous year, and working profit is stated
at £96 per ton of t. 0., including depreciation
of plant. The delivery of No. 2 dredge has
been delayed; it is not now expected to com-
mence digging until August. With this
dredge working it is expected that the divi-
dend will reawaken. During the year the
go. has added 500 acres to its holding. T.R.
Tin. the holding and prospecting co. formed
by Takuapa in conjunction with Ratrut
Basin, has not yet struck anything astonish-
ing in the course of its prospecting activi-
ties. Paid-up capital of Takuapa is now
£249,979. Authorised capital is £250,000.
Creditors arc owed £6184; assets include con-
cessions, £138,721; No. 1 dredge, £88,732;
No. 2 dredge, £54,178; stores. £5261; tin
ore. £3168; debtors £2929; T.R. Tin £431;
cash, £2937.


(This is only a preliminary notice for the information of the public, and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe for shares; and applications
for shares will only be received on the footing of the full prospectus and in the form issued therewith.)
Australian Iron & Steel Limited
(To be registered under the Companies Act, N.S.W., 1899.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Issue of £1,000,000 in 1,000,000 7-|- per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, of which there are now offered for public subscription,
on the terms and conditions set out in the prospectus, 675,000 shares with, in addition, any shares not allotted out of 325,000 shares being
offered to the holders of “A,” “B” and “C” Preference Shares in Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited.
CAPlTAL:—Authorised: £5,000,000. Issued: £3,100,000.
Divided into—
-2,100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each • * • •.* • • £2,100,000
1,000,000 7£ per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each . . . . . . . . 1,000,000
Total . . . . £3,100,000
The issued ordinary capital of £2,100,000 will be held by the following Companies or their shareholders:—
Hoskins Iron & Steel Company, Limited. . £1,000,000 Howard Smith, Limited .. .. .. £400,000
Dorman Long & Company, Limited .. 600,000 Baldwins, Limited .. .. .. .. 100,000
DIRECTORS'
CECIL HAROLD HOSKINS (Chairman),
(Chairman, Hoskins Iron & Steel Company, Limited.)
SIR ARTHUR JOHN DORMAN, Bt., K.B.E.
(Chairman, Dorman Long & Co., Limited, Middlesbrough, England.)
LAWRENCE ENNIS, 0.8. E.
(Director, Dorman Long & Co., Limited, Sydney.)
ARTHUR SIDNEY HOSKINS
(Director, Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, Sydney.)
SIR W. CHARLES WRIGHT, Bt., K.8.E., C.B.
(Chairman, Baldwins, Limited, London.)
HARRY BELLINGHAM HOWARD SMITH
(Chairman Howard Smith, Limited, Melbourne.)
EDWIN HAROLD FLACK
(Director, Howard Smith, Limited, Melbourne.)
ARNOLD STANLEY TAYLOR
(Chairman, Southern Portland Cement, Limited, Sydney.)
(One Director to be Appointed.)
MANAGING DIRECTORS:
CECIL HAROLD HOSKINS. ARTHUR SIDNEY HOSKINS.
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
SOLICITORS:
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY, 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CERTIFYING ACCOUNTANTS FOR THIS ISSUE:
FLACK & FLACK, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney; 128 William Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR:
W. S. PHILIP, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney; 128 William Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
R. J. BURNS, Kembla Building, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
J. B. WERE & SON, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne
(who have underwritten the whole of the Preference Shares now being issued, with
the exception of 25,000 reserved for and at the request of the holders of “A” and
“B” Preference Shares in Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited).
BROKERS:
SYDNEY Clarence Degenhardt & Co., 105 Pitt Street.
Philip Pring & Docker, Cor. Pitt and Hunter Streets.
MELBOURNE. . J. B. Were & Son, 349 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE . . . Gavin F. Gardner & Co., 1 8 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE .... Henry Monteith & Co., 334 Queen Street.
Charlton Elliott & Sons, 356 Queen Street.
HOBART Smithies & Langford, 82 Collins Street.
LAUNCESTON. W. G. Baird, 94 Cameron Street.
PERTH A. G. Bird, 20 Howard Street.
WELLINGTON. S. R. Hornabrook, 26 Johnston Street.
AUCKLAND . . Frater Bros., 113 Queen Street.
CHRISTCHURCH R. Hill Fisher & Son, 134 Hereford Street.
DUNEDIN .... Fenwick & Reeves, High Street.
IMPORTANT MERGER OF LARGE INTERESTS. .
Australian Iron & Steel,'Limited, represents a merger of the iron and steel manufacturing business
of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, and the structural steeLengmeeing and fabricating busßiess
in Australia (excepting the Sydney Harbor Bridge contract) of Dorman Long & Co. Ltd Lngland.
Ir addition Baldwins, Limited, the large iron and steel manufacturers, England, and. Howard, Smith,
Limited the well-known shipowners and colliery proprietors, etc., are becoming associated with the new
company and acquiring a substantial interest in it by means of ordinary shares.
V J 1 AUSTRALIAN STEEL MANUFACTURERS. . . . , .
The Hoskins family have been instrumental in building up a large and profitable business during
the last 50 years, and' at the present day Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, has a very high
reputation as one of the leading iron and steel ™anufacturers in Australia^■
LEADING STRUCTURAL STEEL ENGINEERS.
Dorman Long & Co., Ltd., also is well known in Australia, not only through its Sydney Ilarboi
Bridge contract, hut through other work of bridge construction and large structural steel engineering and
fabricating works carried out in many of the large buildings _ erected _ini recent years.
GREAT BENEFITS FROM COMBINAIION.
The combination of these two businesses means greatly increased strength. The bulk of the steel
for the structural and fabricating business which would otherwise be imported Lorn the works in
England of Dorman Long & Co., Ltd., will, on completion of the new works at Port Kembla, be supplied
by Australian Iron and Steel, Limited.
PRESENT MANAGEMENT WILL CONTINUE.
Messrs Cecil H. and A. S. Hoskins, who have for 20 years been actively associated with, and in
recent years have managed, Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, will be managing directors of the
new company. Mr. L. Ennis, a director of Dorman Long & Company Limited, who is in charge of the
Company’s operations in Australia, will also be a director of Australian Iron and Steel, Limited. Th.
whole of the personnel, technical staff, etc., of both companies will be transferred to the new Company
and there will be neither break in the continuity of operations, nor loss of efficiency and business.
' CARRYING ON ESTABLISHED PROFITABLE BUSINESSES. . .
Australian Iron & Steel, Limited, will, therefore, have the inestimable advantage of entering into
full operation in all existing departments of its business right at its inception. It will start with
established and profitable trade connections, with the active support and material assistance of two of
Britain's foiemost steel manufacturers, and with experienced sales organisation and shipping facilities.
It will have at its disposal the results of years of practical experience and research and the services
of trained and thoroughly equipped technical staffs.
PORT KEMBLA—AN IDEAL SITE.
The iron and steel making operations of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, have hitherto
been carried on at Lithgow, 98 miles inland from Sydney. The great expansion of the business has
rendered this location unsuitable, and a site eminently suited for the purposes of the business has been
secured at Port Kembla, on the coast, 56 miles south of Sydney, where a large area of land has been
bought The property has direct rail connection at two points with the New South V\ ales railway system
and” its own direct rail connection with the Company’s deep-water wharf in Port Kembla, situated within
half a mile of the works property. , . . , , , ,
This site is only 84 miles by rail from the Company’s collieries and coke works at Wongawilli, and
is conveniently situated'for receiving the necessary iron ore by rail or sea and supplies of limestone from
Marulan, where the new company will own practically inexhaustible deposits of high-grade limestone.
The Company is acquiring enormous deposits of iron ore in New South Wales, Tasmania and Western
Australia. The Company’s leases in the last mentioned State at Cockatoo Island, Yanipi Sound, contain
one of the richest known iron ore deposits in the world and are sufficient to supply the Company s
requirements for generations. , . . . ~
Port Kembla is ideally situated as regards the low cost of assembly of the raw materials for the
manufacture of iron and steel and as a centre from which to distribute the new Company s products
tinoughout BLAST FURNACE, STEEL PLANT AND ROLLING MILLS.
A most modern blast furnace, with a nominal capacity of 200,000 tons of pig iron per annum, and
fully equipped with all the most up-to-date appliances, is being installed at Port Kembla and is expected
to commence production of pig iron next month. This pig iron, together with steel scrap, will be con-
verted into ingot steel in thoroughly up-to-date basic open hearth steel furnaces.
Large steel rolling mills of the most modern type, suited to production for the Australian markets,
are being purchased from Baldwins, Limited, at a cost of £168,000 and will be installed at Port Kembla.
The Directors of Baldwins, Limited, are showing their confidence in the new Company by taking £lOO,OOO
of the purchase price in fully-paid £1 ordinary shares.
CERTIFICATE OF THE ACCOUNTANTS.
The certificate of Messrs. Flack & Flack is as follows:
42 Bridge Street, Sydney, 10th May, 1928.
Messrs. J. B. Were & Son, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Dear Sirs, —We have examined the Books and Accounts of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited,
and Dorman Long & Company, Limited, in connection with the transfer of assets to Australian Iron ana
Steel. Limited, in consideration of the issue of fully paid £1 shares in terms of Agreements being entered
into between the respective parties. , „ ~ .. ,
After having made full allowance for Depreciation, we hereby .certify that the values ot the Net
Tangible Assets to be transferred in terms of the said Agreements are as under: —
Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited .. . . . • • • £1,814,389
Dorman Long & Company, Limited .. .. • • • • 103,600
£1,917,989
Dorman Long & Company, Limited (Stocks and Work ir. progress) 295,536
£2,213,525
We have satisfied ourselves that the above values are sound.
We further certify that the Combined Net Annual Profits of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company,
Limited, and the Australian business of Dorman Long & Company, Limited (excluding the Sydney Harbor
Bridge contract) during the three latest fiscal years of the respective Companies, after allocating
Income Taxes to the years in which the respective profits were earned were as follows: —
Fiscal year ended in 1925 .. .. .. .. .. £85,617 9 8
„ „ 1926 134,810 17 2
„ „ „ „ 1927 167,996 14 3
The figures showing an annual average:—
For the latest 3 years of.. .. .. .. .. .. £129,475 0 0
„ „ „• 2 „ 151,403 0 0
In arriving at the above Profits we have excluded both interest Received and Paid, and the net
amount of such interest represents additional earnings which for the three years totalled £6603/17/8,
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) FLACK & FLACK, Public Accountants.
VALUE OF NET TANGIBLE ASSETS EXCEEDS AMOUNT OF SHARE CONSIDERATION.
The certificate of Messrs. Flack & Flack shows that the net tangible assets being acquired from
Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, and Dorman Long & Co., Limited, are valued at £1,917,989, in
consideration for which 1,875,000 fully-paid ordinary shares are being issued. There is thus a surplus
of net tangible assets valued at £42,989 as an initial reserve for the purpose of meeting flotation
charges ■ etc.
SECURITY FOR. PREFERENCE CAPITAL.
When all the capital now being issued is fully paid, there will be net tangible assets of over £..
as security for each £1 of preference capital.
SECURITY FOR THE PREFERENCE DIVIDEND.
The average combined net profits for the last two years of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited,
and the Australian business (as now being acquired) of Dorman Long & Co., Ltd., amounted to £151,403
per annum.
Taking this figure as a basis and adding savings in freight on coke and pig iron alone, which are
absolutely assured by having the blast furnace at Port Kembla instead of at Lithgow, and deducting
taxation on the amount of these savings, the minimum annual net profits of Australian Iron and Steel,
Limited, should be approximately £213,758, or more than two and three-quarter times the amount of
the annual dividend charge on the preference capital.
This estimate of minimum annual net profit of £213,758 does not take into account the substantial
additional profit to be derived by the much lower cost of production of pig iron in the modern blast
furnace at Port Kembla, as compared with the Lithgow plant.
The profits that will result from the expenditure of the new capital now being raised will considerably
augment the net earnings.
When the steelworks commence production at Port Kembla, in about two years’ time, a much wider
range of products and greatly increased quantities will be manufactured than is now possible from the
existing piant, and the cost of manufacture will be considerably reduced on all products, thus enabling
still further profits to be earned.
POSSIBILITIES OF EXPANSION OF BUSINESS.
The importations into Australia during 1925'-26 and 1926-27 of the iron and steel products to be
manufactured from its inception by the new Company amounted to 132,281 and 137,082 tons respectively.
The sales of similar products by Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, in the same years amounted
to 120,592 and 129,987 tons respectively, so that the new Company, merely by replacing importations,
can develop a business more than double that of the Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited.
PURPOSES FOR WHICH NEW CAPITAL IS REQUIRED.
The preference and ordinai’y capital now being raised is required for the erection and equipment of
modern steel works and rolling mills at Pore Ivemhla for the manufacture of steel rails, structural steel,
steel bars and sections; together with general machine shops and additional power house units, inclusive
of the erection of the steel rolling mills being purchased from Baldwins, Ltd.; and the installation of the
first units of a Do Lavaud Centrifugally Spun Cast Iron Pipe plant (sole patent rights for Australia for
which process are being taken over by the new Company) ; and to provide the additional working capital
necessary for a considerably increased production.
RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF THE PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
The preference shares entitle the holders thereof—
(a) To receive out of the profits of the Company a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the
rate of £7 10s. per cent, per annum on the capital for the time being paid up thereon and —
(b) The rights in the event of a winding up of the Company to repayment of capital and
arrears of dividend (whether earned or declared or not) up to the date of such repayment
in priority to the ordinary shares.
The shares confer no further right to participate in the profits or assets of the Company and will
not confer on the holders thereof the right to vote either in person or by proxy at any General Meeting
of the Company, unless such meeting is convented for the purpose of reducing the capital, or winding up,
or sanctioning the sale of the undertaking, or unless the proposition to be submitted to the meeting
directly affects the rights and privileges of such holders, or unless the dividends of the Preference Shares
are, at the date of the meeting, in arrears for more than three calendar months.
The rights and pi'ivileges attaching to the preference shares will only be alterable by agreement
made between- the Company and some person acting on behalf of the holders of these shares and provided
that such agreement is ratified by the holders of at least three-fourths in nominal value of these shares or
is confirmed by an extraordinary resolution of the holders at a separate General Meeting.
The number of Preference Shares of the present issue is less than one-half of
the number of Ordinary Shares now being issued, and the Company will undertake
not to issue any additional number of Preference Shares unless it shall have pre-
viously issued at least double that additional number of Ordinary Shares.
Dividends will be payable half-yearly on the Ist May and the Ist November in each year. The
first dividend will be due aud payable on the Ist November, 1928, and the amounts of the dividends
due on that date and on Ist May, 1929, will be adjusted according to the dates of payments of amounts
payable under applications for shares. The dividend due Ist November, 1928, on shares allotted to
holders of “A,” “B” and “C” preference shares in Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited, in respect
of their present holdings, will be calculated and paid as from the Ist May, 1928.
Dividends will be paid free of exchange in Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart and Launceston.
A Branch Register of the Company will be opened in Melbourne.
PAYMENT OF APPLICATION AND ALLOTMENT MONEY.
2/6
5/-
51-
5/-
Payment for the shares now offered for public subscription shall be made as follows:—-
2/6 per share on application.
„ allotment.
„ „ the Ist August, 1928.
„ „ the Ist November, 1928.
„ „ the lst_ May, 1929.
Subscribers shall have the right to pay for their shares in full on allotment, or to pay in full all
outstanding instalments on any due date for the payment of an instalment.
Subscription lists will he opened on Tuesday, the 22nd May, 1928, and will be closed simultaneously
at all centres at noon on Wednesday, the 6th June, 1928.
Allotment notices will be issued as soon as practicable after the closing of the subscription lists.
There will be no priority of application, and, in the event of the issue being over-subscribed, a
pro rata allotment will be made, but the Directors reserve the right to dispose of fractions! in such
manner as they deem fit. All applicants will receive allotment in full up to 100 shares, provided suffici-
ent shares are available.
In case a less number of shares is allotted than is applied for, the excess of the application money
will be applied in or towards payment of the amount payable on allotment and the balance (if any)
will be returned to the applicant in full.
If no allotment is made the application money will be refunded in full.
Application and allotment money and all instalments will be accepted free of exchange in Canberra,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart and Launceston.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Copies of the prospectus, with application forms, may be obtained from members of any recognised
Stock Exchange, or from the Company’s Solicitors or Bankers.
Applications for preference shares may be made through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange
or direct to any of the Brokers whose names appeal’ in this abridged Prospectus, or to the Canberra
branch of the Bank of Australasia.
Brokerage of 4d. per share will be limited to members of recognised Stock Exchanges and such
brokerage will be paid on all allotments in respect of which the application bears the stamp of a
member of a recognised Stock Exchange
Applications may also be lodged at the office of Mr. A. G. Noble, A.C.P.A., 302 Dalton House, 115
Pitt Street, Sydney.
LISTING THE PREFERENCE SHARES ON THE STOCK EXCHANGES.
Application will be made in due course to have the preference shares listed on the Stock Exchanges
of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Launceston, Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch
and Dunedin.
The Underwriters, J. B. Were & Son, 349 Collins Street, Melbourne, have exercised their option
under the underwriting agreement of applying for and being allotted 500,000 of the shares now being
offered for subscription. This means that shares to the face value of £175,000 only are available for
public subscription, with, in addition, any not taken up in the terms of the offer to the preference
shareholders of Hoskins Iron and Steel Company, Limited.
AGREEMENTS.
Copies of all agreements material to this issue may be inspected at the office of the Company’s
Solicitors.


WINTER CONDITIONS DEMAND BETTER FEEDING
H
m
■I
'w.
*■
1
mm
m
m
m
i
m I
m
m
H
. H Bw I -
MEGGITT LIMITED’S
PURE LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
AND
PURE LINSEED OIL MEAL
are, by reason of their richness in digestible protein, their high content of Linseed Oil,
their palatability, their concentrated nature and their soothing, tonic, regulating and
conditioning qualities, the best Winter feed for sheep (in the form of Sheep Nuts),
beef cattle, dairy cattle, horses, pigs and poultry (in the form of Linseed Meal).
n
*■** ’"*l ■* i
hi
Ml Hpw •
mt-
v :
*3
'
■. g M t* 1 i I i
We have Expert Advice on the Scientific Feeding of all
Classes of Stock at your service, and welcome inquiries on
all Feeding Problems
JZiyrtitedL
HEAD OFFICE, 26 KING ST., SYDNEY
\Dorhs; Parramatta, N SAD. - Melbourne. Victoria • Port Adelaides A
4
rm
D'/ic boy on the bag '
guarantees quality*
Victoria:
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency,
Co., Ltd.
South Australia:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
r yAe boy bn the boo
quaiuntees qualify
Queensland:
Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane.
Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Corser & Co., Maryborough.
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville
and Cairns.
Tasmania:
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.


'Such a reputation is not won overnight”
m,
TO
4Tf TTN
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ . . . 20 /or 1/6
Major Drapkin d? Co., London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
mm
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
°f Liver and Kidneys, which means more
eniovment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
PREPARATION IS THE BEST DEFENCE.
FARM HAND (to new vicar): “That’s him up at the pig-sty. But you
want to stick a couple of rocks in your pocket before you
go near him. He’s rampin’ wild this morning.”
“Far West”: An identity familar to the
residents of Bourke is Bare-foot Harry.
As a teamster he padded the naked hoof on
every hard and stony track of the n.-w.
corner of N. S. Wales, from Tibooburra to
Hungerford. Bindeyes, stones and burning
sand had no terrors for him. He is said
to have once inadvertently stood on glowing
gidya embers and only awakened to the
fact by another member of the camp smell-
ing “somethin’ burnin.” Picking up coals
with his toes to light a pipe was quite his
usual custom. While tank sinking on what
is now the 11-mile Government tank out of
Wanaaring, the bullocks employed hauling
the scoop were knocked off bleeding and
footsore from the sharp kopi crystalline
chunks unearthed. Harry, working' bare-
footed, the scoop following behind, remained
unscathed. When scrub cutting, with a pre-
carious hold of the spreading toes of one
foot, he would negligently break down the
sharp underhanging dry branches of the
mulga with the other. Once only had he
been known to wear boots, and that was
when giving evidence in a court case where
the magistrate ordered them to be worn;
these, however, Harry discarded on the steps
going out. Now, at 70-odd, he ambles boot-
less over the uneven, stone-formed streets
of Bourke.
* * * *
“Spadger”: We’d just yarded a mob of
cattle that had been out in the mountains
for a couple of years and had grown pretty
wild. Old Tom sat on the cap of the gate-
post discussing the lamentable tameness of
cattle to-day and his own boyhood deed-;
amongst mobs of ferocious stragglers. A
four-year-old bull in the yard apparently
objected to the slur on his temper, for lie
charged the gate, knocked it to splinters,
and so jarred the post that Tom fell off and
landed astride the bull. He stuck on man-
fully. One of us rode out, cornered th:
bull and yelled to Tom to hop off; but he
wasn’t having any, and we had to get the
boss to put an end to the brute with liis
.303. Tom won’t mount even a trestle now
if there’s an old milking cow in sight.
* * * *
“Dai R.” : A similar Binghi belief to that
mentioned by “E.S.S.” in connection with
the spur-winged plover obtains amongst some
of the Cape York Peninsula tribes with re-
gard to the miner or soldier-bird. According
to them all the tribes of the north-east of
the continent were once one, and were so
powerful and so much feared by tribes for
hundreds of miles round that tribute was
paid them. Then there arose a chief named
Saloofa whose egotism bred discord amongst
liis sub-chiefs, and eventually resulted in
disruption and secessions till the once power-
ful tribe became a Series of has-beens, all of
whom were in turn well walloped by the
quondam tribute-payers for their previous
arrogance. The'havoc he had wrought so
preyed on the mind of old Saloofa that one
night he went out and drove a fislibonc-
headed spear into his breast. After death
his spirit entered the whole tribe of miners,
and now sounds the alarm when strangers
show up.
* * * *
“Malakuna”: The Hindu custom of sut-
tee used to have its parallel in New Guinea.
Th-e totem rules
prohibited m a r-
riage between mem-
bers of the same
totem. Widows
whose fear of the
totem might some-
times be ov.e r-
shadowed by a de-
sire for a further
matrimonial ven-
ture were usually
killed to prevent
any breach. Many
young widows, after
the whites came,
managed to evade
death by finding a
place in the house-
hold of a European
planter. The death
was by strangling
with a tappa band,
the woman being
decorated and
painted according
to the custom asso-
ciated wi t h the
totem. The strang-
ling was performed
by members of her
own social group,
sometimes her own
brothers, or even
her own children.
The ceremony over
—usually part of
her late husband’s
burial feast the
widow was buried
beside her husband,
the sacrifice being
duly acknowledged
, , by the people of her
husband’s totem paying pigs and shell-money
(tambu) to the relatives who strangled her 1
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: Strange that the highly
developed islanders of the Eastern Group
(Torres Strait) never hit on the idea of a
written language. Their zogo-le on great
occasions could demonstrate a complete
mastery of telepathy, sending and receiving
THE OF HIS LOVE.
“Do I hate Quayloffski? Veil, I don’t like him so much if I saw his place on -fire I’d
go and put it out.”
thought-messages over long distances. Ordi-
narily, news was passed by word of mouth
from island to island, the canoe man carry-
ing as his bona fides a specially recognised
bow and arrow, known as the tome. A
special tome was carried when aid was
sought to raid a neighboring island. At the
approach of the big yearly ceremonial gather-
ings, these tome men travelled long distances
with invitations. The greater ceremonies
took place on Darnley and Murray, as these
two islands are the most fertile in the Strait.
The islanders’ calendar was the Kup, a
stem of cocoanut leaves. For each day one
leaf was torn off. Thus when a canoe
cruised the outlying islands with invitations
to a big feast, the leader regulated his sail-
ings according to a preconceived plan, and
the zogo-le knew to the day when to expect
their visitors.
* Hi ije s{:
“AdeL.”: King Dow Dow, of Eulo tribe,
stood looking at the fleeting clouds, frown-
ing darkly towards the sorcerer, who had
once more failed to make rain. There had been
two years of drought in succession. How
could he save bis tribe from starvation?
At last he called his hunters and the elders
together for a great corroboree, and an-
nounced that the whole camp was to be
shifted down the range toward the great
plains eastward. Then came moving day.
At dawn two powerful trusted hunters took
the track as the vanguard; an hour later
the three younger princes filed out in order
of their ages, the youngest being hardly
five, followed by the king, heavily armed
with handsomely-carved spears and boomer-
angs. His five queens, in order of prefer-
ence, came behind. Then in fours and
sixes came the members of the royal family,
the ladies-in-waiting heavily ladeii with the
royal household cooking utensils and pro-
visions. At a respectable distance came a
strong party of warriors in full war-paint
and equipment; then, straggling onward, the
old and the blind accompanied by hundreds
of diseased dogs. Last of all came two war-
riors as a rearguard, these keeping in touch
with the vanguard by smoke signals, and
apprising the king of all the movements of
the party as it progressed toward the
promised land.
* * * *
“Up North”: In Cape York Peninsula
small black ants colonise in trees. Binghi
slaps the trunk with a tomahawk and a
shower of white eggs falls into the waiting
hands of the piccaninnies. They then smash
the bark, and, throwing it into the air,
eagerly winnow the eggs, which have a nut-
like taste.-A fair-sized black ant which nests
upon the ground he breaks with liis mun,-
(Continued on page 25A
dowies, and then stands while the angry
householders swarm up liis legs. He scoops
them off in handfuls and conveys them to his
huge mouth. The green ant is always a
favorite of his when the football-like nests
are full of eggs. The whole mass, nests,
eggs and ants, when soaked in water has a
peculiar flavor which Binglii much appreci-
ates. Then there is the honey ant, a large
harmless light brown fellow whose belly is
a storehouse of the honey of flowers. He is
a rather rare delicacy.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : Uncle Harry, engaged to
be married to Maudie Patten, went to the
saleyard and cashed out for six milking
cows. Proud of his purchase he drove them
past old Patten’s place on his way home.
“Yard ’em, Harry,” called out Maudie, “an’
come an’ have a cup o’ tea.” Harry gladly
complied and was soon in the kitchen yarn-
ing to Mrs. Patten while Maudie served the
tea. Then the prospective bride disappeared
for a while; when she returned to the
kitchen there was set determination on her
face. “You can find some other girl to
marry you, Harry,” she declared. The pros-
pective bridegroom nearly broke a cup at
the news, so precipitately broken. “I’ve
just looked over your new milkers,” went on
Maudie. “All short teats an’ as hard as
nails. You get another girl.”
* * * *
“Pick” : Go to the ants for weather tips.
When they march in file, carrying their eggs
from the creek banks to higher ground, a
flood may be expected. Before storms they
erect mounds of fresh earth around their
holes, or they forsake their customary nests
to burrow feverishly under stones or into
crannies. When the few rarely-seen big-
headed members of their colony appear at
the mouth of their tunnel, warm days fol-
low ; but when only their foragers emerge,
straggling singly and at intervals from be-
low* look out for cold weather. Their march
from afar to the neighborhood of a river
or dam indicates a coming drought; and
when they cluster under the bark and
branches of trees, heavy rain is presaged.
In very windy weather they travel with
their tail-ends held erect.
* * * *
“255”: Here’s another case of “didn’t
know it was loaded.” At a station hut the
barrel of an old muzzle-loading musket was
used as a poker, and the old hands always
used the muzzle end. But a newchum used
the breech end, the heat exploded a charge
that had lain there for years, and the new-
comer had to have a funeral.
DINGOANNA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you should chance to go out back
And “bush” yourself on Gilgai Plain,
Then find a faint and aimless track
That slewed, and lost itself again ;
And if perchance you struck a creek
Which water sometimes wanders down,
It may be, if you cared to seek,
You’d light on Dingoanna town.
Why Dingoanna ever grew
(Or came, or happened) none can say.
No brave activities it knew
Back in. a roaring early day
Of diggers, streaming in a “rush”
For nuggets in some gully sown,
With hectic nights of “lash and lush”—
No gold has Dingoanna known.
Of homes it numbers half a score
Against the straggling fringe of scrub;
Amazing hordes of goats ; a store ;
A pub (especially a pub !)
Where elders argue languidly
One never-failing theme about—
It dawdles to infinity:
Is this worse than the other drought?
The boys soon learn to wander hence,
Their gaze on the horizon set;
Seeking, beyond the bound’ry fence
Of local life, new fields.... And yet
To them, whenever memory tells
Her garnered tales of woe and mirth,
Distance, the jesting wizard, swells
The sum of Dingoanna’s worth.
And one who followed ways afar
From that old township, once his home,
Seeking whatever joys there are
(Elusive goals for those that roam!),
Sighs as a haunting fancy steals
Back on a bush road bare and brown,
And once again a longing feels
For drowsy Dingoanna town.
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


*4
1
IPSPIIWiP
psppsilgips
' 2
39
■M
fV-K
tm
W
I ‘ ■i
■
mmm
■mm
lH
mm
ms
mm
mmmm
m
m
?#}, f
v J - 1
ilia
n
&£\
«SAM
MmW
&S
mtfm
miM
was
ife
. -
sm
*«?i)K
MSsiS 8«S
a ■
i^a2
.
.- -
mm.
«a
J m
iK
mm
sßft
lIBX
OV-;
kh
mm
?r,:\‘~:
«S£
ms<
335
$8
•>>•••'y/
iwvwy
&•,
JS ihi
.
rjA?-- •i?SSt , '.>^ 1
.'■•*i
*2»
tP
> fBl
Wipfl
.- -.'4*'K«
«r;
ES&&
m
■f* a>.V
ggsa
sSSii!
.: . :
'
1
Mli
MSI
- ■<
mimmmi
,«Jt;
I i
SKstgra&Sb&gs®
08*5#
S*£3
«»
!ilfei®iiti
rV ’^9kKvjJrS* : :&S£T?
TO
SSI
XMP
<- v <'><■.'. '.-v'ac
, •
SK
Mm
SSfip
#§M& Mfr
Hg*
M
as»
O
zs®ms&
■s
Wmmz
wxt.
'\
*■>.*.*
\ ■
V*
XTO
5^
Sg
pe^s
inter
\
#Hi
*w
a'.-a
/
<rr' r ",
-tiffin
Motor
cMi
/
S&9&
■
M*
//'
fp
5*3
S
£p
asas
f^m^a
SHI
5.^
aa
m
f’V?'v
:•/ ■
gf
-s
ensures
Easy Starting
DO you find difficulty in
starting your car in winter?
Do you find the engine unre-
sponsive and sluggish?
The fault may be a mechanical
one, but the probability is that
the motor spirit you use is not
sufficiently volatile.
Use Plume. First have the
carburetter adjusted to suit the
more volatile fuel, then fill up
at the Plume pump. You will
find that however cold the
engine there will be no trouble
or delay in starting. You will
find a new pleasure in Winter
motoring, a new appreciation of
engine efficiency, a new stan-
dard of economical operation and
mileage.
But be sure you use pi um e.
Look for the Plume disc on the
kerb pump.
For Correct Lubrication
Mobiloil
The World’s Qualify Oil
BPII
VACUUM OIL COMPANY, PHL™


TTTTTTTTITTTTI
"Jo ibe healthy-
J drink
the finest
tonic food
drink.
In
sizes
of all Chemists
Stores
and
r'-s
xt™,vN
l&Sv
/ x
Nc
\/
x*'
t JL
*" v >i<- :
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
NRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £ 1 00,000.
BYERS'
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 187 J h
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
“Caloola”: “Yairs,” drawled Lanky the
boundary-rider, “you can skite about yer
post-borin’ champeens, but none of ’em was
a patch on a bloke named Scott who come
from out Bathurst way. ’E got a contract
to put up five mile o’ dividin’ fence on
Springfield station, an’ I tell yer it was a
work of art. ’E put all the posts up first an’
then bored em—six holes. ’E was terrible
particular that bloke, an’ jus to make sure
that them holes was true ’e fired a pea-
rifle into the top hole of the first post an’
then went along to see how things was.
When ’e got to the other end of the line
there was the bullet bedded in the strainin’-
post. You see,” said Lanky in conclusion,
“each ’ole was bored so true that it directed
the flamin’ bullet into the next ’ole up an’
down hill for the five miles.”
* * *
“B-Gar”: “Yairs,” said Ned the Dogger,
“I’ve had me hard times in ther bush, an’
it was only by takin’ notice of things and
birds that I never perished. Many’s ther
time I’ve followed ther tracks of dingoes ter
water, an’ once when I was jest about all in
I see a lot er birds flyin’ in an’ outer an old
RELATIVELY.
BARBER (to customer whose skin he has just nicked ): “Hurt you, sir?”
EINSTEIN SECUNDUS: “Well, it all depends on what you’re doing, old man. If you’re
skinning me, it didn’t; if you’re shaving me, it did!”
bottle-tree. I knew there was no water-
oles about, so I looks round tlier tree a
bit, an’ I sees a sort of a wet place near
ther fork. ‘Water, says I, an so help me,
after cuttin ther bark a bit with me tommy-
hawk ther water oozes out. I has a good
drink, fills me water-bag. an thanks me
lucky star I was born a bushie. No I itt-
street busliman would ’a’ woke up ter that
stunt, so this’ll come in handy fer any_o±
them coves that might get lost on a dry
track.”
* =1: * *
“Aniraf”: “B-Gar” jars us far-northern
South Australians by his references to
“Hergott Springs.” ’Way back in ’B2 Her-
gott was often called Marree, and now that
name alone is used in referring to this
desert town, which is the jumping-off place
to Mungerannie and Birdsville (Q.). Mar-
ree and Farina are the two main Afghan
settlements in S.A., and between them can
muster most of the camels in Australia.
* * * *
“Garbut”: Saw a Danish teamster at his
midday meal. His table was the earth and
his cutlery a rather battered-looking axe.
The menu consisted of a tin of bully beef,
a bottle of tomato sauce and a loaf of
bread. The beef was hacked open with the
axe, the neck of the sauce bottle was knocked
off, also with the axe, and the bread was
torn into lumps in his hands. A billy of
cold water washed it down. For simplicity
and an entire absence of fuss or frill I’ll
say that the square-head’s methods take
the bun.
:J: * * *
“Warradulla” : We were shifting into our
new home, which previously had been a
wayside pub. Alongside where the counter
had once stood was a large mirror. Dad
and mum and us youngsters were busy
arranging furniture. Our large yellow tom-
cat, looking very superior, was strolling
round inspecting the rooms. Coming into
the room that had originally been the bar,
lie espied another large tom staring at him
from the mirror, and decided to expel him.
With a furious splutter he darted at the
mirror, and for a while put up a gruelling
contest with the apparition. Finding he
could neither reach nor injure his antagonist,
he sulkily desisted. Suddenly he crept
cautiously to the door leading from the
bar to the parlor. He had decided upon a
rear attack. It was rather gloomy in the
parlor, and dad was on all fours tacking
down lino. Tom peered round the door, and
seeing dad’s hindquarters looming through
the gloom at the back of where the mirror
stood, mistook it for the other cat. A low
growl, a spit, a sudden spring and Tom
dug his teeth and claws into dad’s moleskin-
clad posterior. Dad leapt into the air with
a blood-curdling yell, overturned two chairs,
cannoned the table into the wall and hurled
pi s hammer at the now thoroughly alarmed
eat. Tom skidded and slithered across the
flooi . as he ma dly dived' for the door. Mum
came running to the portal to see what
caused the rumpus, just as Tom skidded
through. His momentum carried her legs
MAKING A HOBBY OF IT.
THE V ISITOR: “Say, now, you’re wrong ’bout that. In the States making dollars ain’t
the main business in life.”
THE NATIVE: Course it ain’t. It’s just a nice profitable ’obby, like.”
from under her, and she tumbled head-first
into the parlor. Tom, more startled than
hurt, fled from his new home. The last we
saw of him w r as a cloud of dust disappearing
into a clump of turpentine bushes.
“Bud-G.”: I’ve just won a new Akubra.
To disprove the old bush fallacy that, any
horse can -walk four miles an hour, I bet a
friend a hat that his horse, a good walker
too, could not get over 16 miles in four hours.
The mile pegs were a shade under two
short of 16 when time was called. Not 10
per cent, of bush prads can do it.
“Sea Nomad”: Tutu Island, a patch of
mangroves on coral, lying beside the famous
Warrior Reefs that have made history in
the pearl-shelling industry, was
once the home of a tribe that
terrorised the length and breadth
of the Strait right across to New
Guinea. Even to-day the New
Guinea men bring yearly tribute
1o Maino, last mamoose of Tutu.
Maine’s father was the chief
Kebisu, who forced his people to
tolerate big Captain Banner, thus
allowing the discoverer of the
pearl-shell beds an opportunity to
work the find. Kebisu hob-nobbed
with Captain Moresby, of the
Basilisk, as man to man, when the
captain was endeavoring to con-
quer the islands by peace. The
people of Yam Island, near by,
who are the remnant of the Tutu-
ites, have their produce gardens on
Tutu, but never camp there. Maino,
who bears a striking resemblance
to King Edward VII., had the ill-
luck to reach manhood when the
virile whites had just about con-
quered the Strait. He used his
power to protect many a famous
explorer and naturalist. D’Albertis,
the Italian, got out of most of his
scrapes through Maino’s influence.
For years Maino was Sir William
Macgregor’s orderly, and saved his
master’s life on more than one
occasion.
“J.R.A.”: As soon as the cyclone season
is over, about the end of March, the luggers
leave their home port in search of beche-de-
mer. They are schooner- or ketch-rigged
vessels of about 50ft., carrying any number
up to 20 boys and four dinghies. Amidships
is a smoke-house and boiler for curing, for-
’ard the boys sleep, while down aft is the
skipper’s cabin. The skippers are, as a rule,
Japs, although a few white men go to sea
with their boats. In the early morning decks
are washed down, breakfast cooked and the
boats put over the side. Number one boat is
usually powered with a small benzine engine,
and tows the other dinghies out to the coral
patches where the sea-slugs live, and then
diving begins. Each boy wears a pair of
goggles and carries a lead weight in which
are embedded three barbs, the whole gadget
being attached to about 30 fathoms of
light strong line. On sighting a slug on the
bottom he drops the weight and up goes
the catch. A good haul will load the boat-
down to the gunwale. At the end of the
day the boats are towed back to the lugger,
and after tea all hands turn to cleaning.
The fish, having been boiled and washed,
are spread open with wooden skewers and put
on' the racks of the smoke-house to dry.
Twenty-four hours is, as a rule, sufficient to
cure them.
❖ ❖ * *
“The Bat”: During the shearing at Mulga
Downs a “traveller” approached the boss for
a vacant stand. “How many of them could
you do?” queried the sheepman. “I’d eat a
hundred of them, easy,” boasted the shearer.
At “smoko” the learner had tomahawked two
sheep, and on telling the butcher to hang up
his machine the boss said grimly, “I thought
you said you could shear a hundred of
them?” With a grin the culprit remarked: “I
said nothing of the damn sort. I said I’d cat
a hundred, and I bet I’ll eat a darned sight
more than I'll ever shear!”
•** * *
“Bud-G.”: I’m all in with “Sucker” (B.
28/3/’2B) as to Whitsunday Passage
(N.Q.) being an exceptionally fine fishing
ground. There’s one feature, however, he
missed —shark-fishing as a means of profit.
I doubt if anywhere on Australian coasts
sharks congregate as they do about the Pas-
sage islands. All sorts and sizes are there
in numbers, and with the newly-established
shark by-product industry there’s wealth
unknown awaiting a company in the North.
Fresh water is available on many of the
islands, ample grass for running sheep and
goats and plenty of suitable timber for
building.
* * * *
“G.E.8.” : A hand-fed black lamb of ours,
a great pet, became very lonely when he
reached the hogget stage,'so he was turned
into the paddock with the others. One day,
without any warning, poor Black Joe
died, and we found that his wonderful thick
fleece clothed a mere bag of bones. He had
died of starvation. Artificial feeding had
rotted his first teeth before nature gave him
his grass-getters.
“A.M.R.”: In the island of Tanna (N. 11.)
the tapa belt holds a very prominent place
in the native sing-sings (dances). It is the
only tapa manufactured there. The belts are
usually four to five feet in length, two to
three inches in breadth, and are of two
kinds: white decorated in black or red de-
signs, and a common plain kind red on one
side and yellow on the other. Used only in
solo dancing, the belt is held doubled between
the teeth, and at the end of the dance is
thrown on the ground. A wild rush of
spectators takes place for its possession, the
winner being loudly acclaimed. Apparently
the custom has been in vogue since very
early times. Nowadays the, dances are few
and the belts scarce. I would like to know
if a similar custom exists in other Pacific
islands.
A LITTLE ADVICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘I wouldn’t argue with the cow; I wouldn’t
let ’im see
That anythin’ that ’e could say was worth
a curse to me.
Of course it’s no concern of mine, but let
me tell you, Jim,
I'd see ’im up a tree before I bandied words
with ’im.
"This arguin’s a poor old game—it’s like
a silly pup
That chases its own tail around —it don’t
fix nothin’ up.
'E makes you mad, I know, when ’e comes
at ’is dirty tricks,
But arguin’, I tell you straight, is wastin’
time for nix.
"Take my advice an’ cut it out. It pays,
as soon you’ll see.
I tell you, Jim old chap, that if it ’appened
to be me
I wouldn’t bother answerin’ when ’e lays
down the lor,
I wouldn't say a blanky word —I’d sock ’im
in the jor.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page i:s set apart for the service of Bulletin readers. . ,
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to tne
Service Department.. , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from tne
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject ai
a time. _ # . .
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Sawmiller and building contractor would
like to hear from anyone interested in co-
operation between sawmillers and builders.
—4599.
Saddler and harness-maker desires position
on Vic. station. Can drive horses. —4620
Job as grocer’s assistant or storeman,
city or country, N.S.W. Good references.
—4615.
By carpenter, job on station. Own tools,
not afraid of any work. Understands tennis
courts. £3 a week and keep.-—4653.
Young married man (Vic.) wants steady
job any capacity. Not afraid of hard work.
Good refs.- —4644.
Experienced plantation man wants to lease
cocoanut plantation British Solomons, or will
take management.—4647.
Color chemist and dyer, years Brad-
ford Tech. Coll., 6 years Bradford Dyers’
Ass’n; seeks position as dyer, dye traveller,
technical rep. or working partner; go any-
where.—4sBB.
Retired Sydney business man, large ex-
perience, wants clerical work three or four
days per week. —4658.
Young lady offers help in home for three
months’ experience on farm or station (Vic.).
Refs, exchanged. (To “Mooraric,” 29
Keilor-road, N. Essendon, Vic.)
Young man (23) studying accountancy
wants job as clerk, town or country, stock
and station firm preferred; good exp. and
refs.; go anywhere.—4sB7.
Cocoanut-plantation manager, 20 years’
experience, best credentials, wants position
Islands or East as manager or assistant, or
would work on shares or lease. Go anywhere.
(To A. M. Waterworth, 16 Lintliorpe-street,
Newtown, N.S.W.)
To exchange, one hundred bound novels
(modern) for similar fiction. (To G. Fahey,
Uardry Station, via Hay, N.S.W.)
To buv, mission stamps, all countries.
(To A. Mothan, 168 Melbourne-street, North
Adelaide.)
Amateur water-color artist would like to
make acquaintance with another in Sydney.
—4607.
To sell, Buzacott spray cart, perfect order,
cost £7O; £2O. (To Box 21331, G.P.O.
Sydney.)
Words of verses, beginning “I stood one
day by the breezy bay.” (To Frank Van-
sian, Maidos, Moyston, via Ararat, Vic.)
To sell, mere (ivory), used in Maori War,
£5O. (To Miss M. Chapman, 548 Thurgoona-
street, Albury, N.S.W.)
To buy, book “The Theory of Machinery.”
(To R. D. Mount, Private Mail Bag, Albury,
N.S.W.)
Fashion artist, studio handy to Sydney,
sketches from models or descriptions,
thoroughly familiar with dress construction
and design, wants work. —4637.
To buy, or exchange for modern works,
old books, Australian or other. —4628.
Words of verses. “The Last Muster,” by
Will H. Ogilvie. (To W. F. Williams, Royal
Mint, Perth, W.A.)
Whereabouts of Tom Graham, Englishman,
was working on Strathfinella, Longreach, Q.
1921. Sister inquiring.—4567.
To buy “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” late
issue. Cash. (To A. E. Calver, 9 West
Tamar-road, Launceston, Tas.)
To sell, sawmill plant near Kiama, 10-h.p.
multitubular boiler, 5 and 3 li.p. horizontal
engines; 6 Disston saws. Cost £6OO. £250
on easy terms. —4582.
To hear from young lady of good presence,
and gentleman, for character part; ama-
teur dramatics. (To Herbert 11. Duke, 23
The Avenue, Windsor, S.L Melbourne.)
To sell, “Art of J. j. Hilder,” 21s. ; “Art
of Arthur Streeton,” 215.; Woodcuts by
Hiroshige, 305.; “Songs of a Campaign,” by
Leon Gellert, 10s. 6d.—4669.
Information Sought.
Are there any black wallabies in N.S.WJ
If so, ivhat are they called? —4266.
The black-tailed wallaby ranges from
Vic., to N.-E. Q. It is known in Vic. as the
“black wallaby,” and in N.S.W. as the
“swamp wallaby.”
What is a reliable remedy for mange in
horses? —4272.
While the skin lesions exist, the nitro-
genous diet of the horse should be reduced.
Give a dose of purgative medicine, and
afterwards twice weekly for four weeks
administer one tablespoonful Epsom salts
and one tablespoonful of sulphur in the
evening feed; also, at once, wash affected
parts with soap and warm water, and, after
drying in a thorough manner, rub in a
mixture of black sulphur, 40z.; oil of euca-
lyptus, 30z.; fish oil, 300 z.; leave this on for
three days; then wash it off with soap and
warm water, dry, and reapply the mixture.
(1) Does the German Verge Trust grant
maternity allowances to the wives of re-
turned soldiers? (2) To whom docs the
trust render assistance? —4362.
(1) No. It was discontinued in March,
1926. (2) The trust assists Diggers and
Diggers’ people in necessitous circumstances.
Its funds are now very low.
I entrusted, a last-season’s cloak to a dyer,
and, it teas returned to me badly damaged.
Can I sue for what it cost me? —-4365.
The cloak having been used for a season,
you could not expect to recover its original
value; but you can sue in the Small Debts
Court for damages against the dyer. It
would be advisable first to endeavor to
arrange a private settlement of your claim.
Arc black and white colorsf And how
can it be proved that they are or are not?- -
4307.
Physicists and grammarians do not so
regard them, but paint and pigment makers
include them in lists of “colors.’' Webster s
Dictionary defines a “color” as “any hue or
tint distinguished from white,” and “black
as “a destitution of all color.”
In a block of flats next, to my home one
of the tenants keeps a dog that is always
barking. She refuses to get rid. of the beast.
What can I do about, it? —43BB.
Advise you to appeal to the owner of the
flats. Your legal remedy is to apply to the
Court of Equity for an injunction, but that s
a cpstly and risky business.
A clause in my motor-car insurance policy
excludes the insurance co. from liability to
repair or replace lamps or tyres “unless
damaged by accidental collision or impact,
causing, in addition, damage to the extent
of at least £5 to the motor vehicle itself .”
I have damaged the back of my car to the
extent of £4 10s. Does this clause debar
me from making a claim? —4380.
No. Thp clause is limited in its appli-
cation to claims in respect of lamps and
tyres.
(1) How many 16-c.p. lamps can be run
from a Ford car lighting generator? (21
At what, speed should the generator be run?
(3) What voltage lamps?—' 4366.
(1) Consumption of different makes of
lamps varies considerably, and the only way
to find out is to put a meter in the
circuit and insert lamps one by one till an
output of 15 amps, is recorded. To exceed
that would injure the generator. (2) 1400
r.p.m. (3) Six volts.
What is a cure for a hard corn? I have
one on top of the middle toe and two on
the sole of the foot. Liguid corn c
pastes and plasters won’t shift them. —42B3.
An obstinate corn should be treated by a
medical man or qualified chiropodist. There
are many satisfactory cures, such as glacial
acetic acid, but they are injurious to healthy
skin and should not be used without medical
supervision.
/ am a pianist and organist. Gan you
tell me how to cure stiffness of the wrists ? —
4368.
First make sure that your trouble is not
deep-seated—it may be rheumatoid arthritis
—by getting the opinion of a medical man.
If there is no question of disease of the
part, take a fortnight’s rest and see if that
has any effect. If the trouble is still there
buy leather wrist-straps. If these give no
relief, write and let us know.
lam 50 years of age , with £2OOO. What
annuity could I buy with that in the large
offices ? —4327.
The A.M.P. will pay you £6 12s. in
ouarterly instalments for each £100: the
National Mutual, £6 19s. —tliat is, assuming
you are a male. A female would get only
£5 19s. lOd. in the A.M.P. and £6 9s. Bd.
There may, however, be slight differences in
the conditions of the policies of the two
offices.
(1) How is the final polish put upon
articles made of nephrite ( M.L. greenstone)?
(2) What tools are used in carving? (3)
Is there any method of softening the neph-
rite? —-4149.
(1) The Maoris employ primitive methods
that need not be described here. Modern lapi-
daries grind first on carborundum wheels,
then on lead wheels, using carborundum
powder. The final polish is given on leather
wheels, with ruby powder. (2) Carving is
done at the lathe, using small carborundum
wheels of suitable shape, the work being
finished on wooden discs, using emery flour.
(3) No.
(1) What are the different varieties of
wallabies in Australia? (2) llow can they
be trapped? —4o46.
Of the larger wallabies the most com-
monly found are the Scrub or Bjack-tailed,
Red-necked, Bennett’s, Agile, Black-striped,
Parry’s, and the Black-gloved. Of the
smaller wallabies the most widely known are
the Pademelon, White-throated, Red-legged,
Short-tailed, Dama, Rufous-belliod and the
Toolach. Resembling the wallaby in some
particulars but not included in the genus
Macropus are the rock wallabies, nail-tailed
wallabies and the hare-wallabies. The dis-
tinction between kangaroos and wallabies is
mainly a matter of size, and the difference
between the two forms is so slight that
both arc now grouped under the same head-
ing. See article in “The Australian Encyclo-
pa'dia.” (21 We are asking for the infor-
mation under “Does Anybody Know?”
(1) Who is liable to furnish annual in-
come tax returns? (2) What are the
penalties for failure to return same? (3)
What is my best course of action if I have
failed to send returns when I should have?
(4) What is the maximum income one may
enjoy without being subject to tax?— 4o42.
(1) Returns for each year ended June 30
are required from all persons who were in
business during the year, irrespective of the
amount of income derived, and from all
other persons whose gross income exceeded
£3OO. (2) Federal, not less than £2, nor
more than £100; N S.W., not more than
£lOO. (3) You should communicate with
Commissmn.'r nf Taxation and place
the position fully before him. (4) The
statutory exemptions are: N.S.W., £300;
Federal, £3OO, less £1 for every £3 by which
lie net income exceeds £3OO.
What proportions of arsenic and caustic
soda are used to make an efficient weed
killer?— 4236.
Take arsenic lib., washing soda lib. or
caustic soda 41b., water 4 gallons. First
dissolve the soda in the water. Then mix in
the arsenic, which must first have been made
into a thin paste. Boil for half an hour,
taking care to stand well away from the
fumes.
Is the shoe used on a springboard by scrub-
f alters patented? If not, what would it cost
to patent it? —4351.
A device which lias been known, used and
made by hundreds of persons for years is
not likely to be patented, and it could not
be patented at this late stage, since the
would-be patentee could prove neither in-
vention nor novelty.
llow can a youth of 20 become an assist-
ant wireless officer on an overseas liner? —•
4434.
Apply to the Marconi School of Wireless,
97 Clarence-street, Sydney, for particulars of
its course. The total length of training is
14 months, 12 of which are occupied by a
correspondence course. The charge for the
full course is £45 cash or £5O terms. Having
completed the course, the student must sit
for his Government certificate, after which
he is qualified to go to sea as a junior wire-
less officer.
What can be done with sheep infested with
lice, and carrying eight months' wool, when
it is too cold either to dip or shear them? —
4382.
Hold them till the next season, when it
is essential that a full muster and careful
dipping be carried out. Lice infestation is
notifiable under the N.S.W. Stock Diseases
Act, and offering for sale or travelling in-
fested sheep is an offence.
In what way do botflies injure horses? —
4491.
xney cause loss of condition in horses by
interfering with digestion. Sometimes, but
rarely, death may follow from peritonitis
due to perforation of the stomach wall.
Creolin, train oil and fish oil are good
dressings. Oil of creosote, 1 part mixed
with lf> parts olive oil, or rape oil, is
also very effective. Flowers of sulphur may
be added. In the cases of horses in work,
eggs may be removed when grooming;
singeing the hair with a flame will also
destroy the eggs.
What will cure an obstinate fistula on a
her sc? It has healed up more than once
and broken out again. —4525.
The only certain cure is a rather difficult
and painful surgical operation, which should
be performed under an anaesthetic by a
qualified vet.
Which is the more correct grammatical
construction, artfl why: “I do not know
what man you want," or “/ do not know
which man you want"?—4s9l-
- would depend upon the circumstances.
If the men were lined up before f&a, or their
identity in some other way defined in your
mind, or in that of your interlocutor, the
use of which would be correct, since it
indicates some definite scope of choice. But,
if you wanted one man out of an indefinite
number unknown to you or your questioner,
what would be in order.
How can I make a liquid polish to be
added to water when washing linoleum? —
458(5.
Take |lb. beeswax, loz. curd soap, and
1 pint turpentine; shred wax and soap
finely, pour on turpentine, and let stand un-
til dissolved and soft; add 1 pint of water,
that has been boiled, cold; bottle and shake
until white and creamy. To use add 2
tablespoonfuls to half a bucket of hot water.
You would get a better result with a good
lino, polish.
(1) What is inverted polarity in a dynamo
or storage battery? (2) Its cause? (3)
Is it indicated by an ammeter?- —4592.
If the charging current in an accumulator
flows in the wrong direction the cell will
discharge. When it is run down it will
commence to charge up in the opposite
direction, and the original positive plate
will become negative, and vice versa. If
the volt meter or ammeter indicates the
direction of the current in addition to its
voltage or amperage, the needle will move
opposite to its normal direction, both in
charging and discharging, provided, of
course, that the positive terminal of the
meter is connected to the original positive
terminal of the battery. In the case of a
dynamo, the polarity may be reversed by
the alteration of the position of the brushes
on the commutator, or by reversing the
direction of the current in the field coils.
(1) What is a cure for ulcers in the
mouth? (2) What is the cause? —4631.
(1) Try borax and glycerine made up in
proper proportions by a chemist, bathing
each ulcer, after eating, with a clean rag
soaked in the solution. (2) Commonest causes
are chronic ill-health, or infected teeth left
unattended. If your teeth need attention,
the condition probably won’t clear up till
you get them treated.
Do you recommend the use of ferrets for
rabbiting, in combination with trapping?—
4574.
Fex-rets are used for the purposes of fol-
lowing rabbits into their burrows and driv-
ing them into the open. Rabbits that escape
will leave and form burrows elsewhere.
That hampers trapping with set steel traps,
but ferrets and netting traps are a good
combination. These traps are made by en-
closing the burrows, or warren, with wire-
netting, leaving a Y-shaped indentation at
one side leading into a netted tube connect-
ing with a small killing-pen. If set over-
night net traps can be operated without
ferrets, the latter being principally used in
daytime.
What is a safe method of removing (1)
small brown motes from a girl's arm? Home
are raised and some merely dark spots on the
skin. (2) Hmall wens and cysts? —4667.
(1) They can be dissected out if flush
with the skin. If raised, they are "sometimes
tied off. It’s a job for a skin specialist or
surgeon. (2) Wens and cysts are easily
jlissectcd out. Any competent medical prac-
titioner could undertake it.
Information Supplied.
4375. —To prevent weevils from getting
into rabbit skins, sprinkle lightly with napli-
thaline, roll up tlie skins, and place in air-
tight boxes. —"L.C.”
Does Anybody Know ?
I wish to cement a gauge-glass into
two wrought-iron elbows 2 and use it on a
drum of kerosene. The oil leaks past plaster
of paris and putty, plus seccotine. What
should I use'?-—4162.
Agents in Sydney for the Johns Excelsior
Maize Husker, Shelter and Bagger. Also
power required to drive it. —4696.
Brief Answers.
Hugh W.: They may turn out a good
spec but they’re not a safe investment.. . .F.S.H.:
The phrase that eludes you is probably de trop
E A. 8.: (1 and 2) Not listed; ask the secretary if
he has any buyers on hand. (3) Believe nothing will
be gained by waiting. (4) A fair gamble; but don’t
expect par in two years. .. .S.J.E.: The N.S.W. rates
on Australian-made galvanised roofing iron, properly
packed, are B class for trucks loaded to full capacity
and 0 class for smaller quantities, with a minimum
of half a ton. Under B class, Darling Harbor to
Batlow, you would pay 78s. 7d. per ton, and under
0 class, 109 s. 7d. per ton W.S.Y.: Write to E.
Boos, 76 Pitt-street, Sydney T.L.: No college or
institution in Queensland includes banana and pine-
apple culture in its subjects. A novice could get
practical experience by working on a plantation,
but an experienced agriculturist could pick up all
he needs to know from the Q. Agricultural Depart-
ment’s leaflets and pamphlets E.J.: Czerney’s “31
Exercise;;” and “101 Exercises” (2s. 2d. each,
posted) and Schmitt’s “5-Finger Exercises” (Is.
Bd.) ; from Paling’s A.E.A.; (1) Try them first
with Presser’s “Beginner’s Book” (3s. 3d. posted).
(2) The only piano correspondence school we know
of is the Arkins Piano Academy, 284 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.... Dero: From your account of it a
reduced rate of pension would be payable. Apply to
the Deputy Commissioner of Pensions, Sydney
G.C.: “On Education—Especially in Early Child-
hood,” by Bertrand Russell, Allen and Unwin, 65.;
“The Right to Be Happy,” by Dora Russell, Rout-
ledge, ss. Any bookseller would order them for you.
F.F. : “Model Steamer Building,” in the “Model
Engineering Series,” Is., and “Model Yachts and
Boats,” by J. ctu V. Grosvenor, 6s. 6d., obtainable
Dymocks, Sydney W.K.; Try the arsenic and
caustic soda remedy described in reply to No. 4236
this issue T.H.H.: If you let us know the pur-
pose for Which you want the list we may be able
to help you A.8.L.: “The Letters of Dowell
O’Reilly,” Angus and Robertson, 10s. 6d 8.5. W.:
You are not entitled to endowment until you have been
resident in N.S.W. continuously for a period of two
years. Further particulars can be obtained from
the Deputy Registrar, Court House, Cessnock, N.S.W.
. ...1.F.W.: Write to the Deputy Postmaster-General,
G. Sydney, and ask him if the letter was re-
ceived. Give him the exact date of posting and
the number of the receipt given by the local post-
office. If it has been received write again, and if
that fails bring the matter under the notice of your
local M.L.A. and ask him to make inquiries
R. : (1) A few might, but the majority are
anxious to handle the work of beginners. (2) Not
unless you are assured of acceptance. (3) Yes. (4)
Yes ; have you tried Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-
street, London, W.C.2 ?. .. . Wool Classer: (1)
Write to the Dept, of Sheep and Wool, East Syd-
ney Technical College, Sydney. (2) Goldsbrough,
Mort; Wincheombe, Carson and Co. and Dalgety and
Co., all of Sydney, may be able to help y0u....
A.D.T.; Read W. T. Tilden’s or Wallis Myer’s books.
R.C.L.: (1) The finishing line at Randwickand
Flemington is at right angles to the straight. (2)
Photography was tried in connection with the fin-
ishes of races' by a South Australian club,
but was discarded. .. .R.C.; Your old home
has defective teeth and is unable to masticate
hard food. Consult a vet. .. . A.J.C.: (1) Write to
the Commissioner of Police, Sydney. (2) Special
constables are not entitled to travel free on trams
or trains, nor are they entitled to any other conces-
sions. .. .P.L.; The idea has been exploded several
times. See J. W. Gregory’s “The Dead Heart of
Australia,” published 1907 E.S.H.: John Brush,
saddler, 371 George-street, Sydney, would do the
job for you. The cost would be about 225. 6d
H. : The Black Soil Plains are of alluvial origin,
stiff clay, not rich in humus, but rich in
mineral plant food. Consult Jensen’s “Soils of N.
S. Wales” for further information... .M.J.N.: You
can make arrangements for payment of duty by
depositing with the Supervisor, Chief Parcels Office,
Central-square, Sydney, Is. for every 4s. of the de-
clared value, plus booking fee of 6d. Copy of form
posted N.D.: (1) English translation of Dr.
Albert Moll’s “Das Sexualleben des Kindes” is pub-
lished by George Allen and Co., London, as “The
Sexual Life of the Child” (last edition, 1912). Any
bookseller could order. (2) His other two books have
not been translated into English as far as we can
discover. They were published in Germany over 30
years ag0....G.G.: Sydney Technical College has a
metallurgy diploma course occupying five years of
evening study. Students must be engaged in the
daytime on work related to the course. Send for
free copies of syllabus of the Science Department
and the College Handbook.... 0.W.T.: Under N.S.W.
law the dispute may be referred to the arbitration
of two persons to be mutually chosen by the parties,
and if they fail to agree it may be referred to
an umpire appointed by the parties and his de-
cision shall be final.... W. 8.: We know nothing
about the agency. If you believe you have an
interest in any estate or fund under the control
of the English Chancery Court, communicate with
the Assistant Paymaster-General, Supreme Court Pay
Office, London. A list of all funds £5O- and over
which are in chancery can be obtained from the
Government Stationery Office, London, at a cost of
ss. plus postage... .F.M.A.: (1) You cannot travel
direct from Sydney. (2) The route is via Panama,
where you must tranship to a coastal boat going
to Chile. (3) About £lOO. (4) 44 days. (5) Shaw,
Savill and Albion Co., 15 Bent-street, Sydney
A.S.F.: H. L. Lewis, 15 Hunter-street, Sydney....
E.K.P.: (1) Write to the Colonial Secretary, Fiji
Government Offices, Suva, and the secretary, Suva
Chamber of Commerce. (2) For Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and Solomon Islands apply
to the Under-Secretary, Home and Territories Dept.,
Canberra, F.C.T. (3) For those of robust health the
conditions are as good as existing in the public
services on the mainland... .W.G.: (1) “Lyre
Bird” brand, sold by Stott and Hoare Pty.,
Ltd., 91 William-street, Melbourne. (2) Unable to
trace any Sydney importers of the fibre. The French
Trade Commissioner, 58-60 Margaret-street, Sydnej,
would be able to give you the names of firms in
Tahiti to whom you could write... .W.M.: Single
volumes of Rollin’s “Ancient History” are of no
value. The complete set is worth 30s. to £2..--
XYZ: (1) No chance whatever. By the necessary
majority Mt. Morgan shareholders decided to liqui-
date, and liquidate it must. (2) No time limit,
though the Courts may give directions.


doiNna
piojfo im) jspfljom ftwg
>jp
W/t.
\S
r m
%
W//i
l\
//
'n 1
/ /
//
%
fi
'll.
'I
H
'/
•>h
"I
'III
'n
'ii
_because they
cost no more
and they give really
outstanding service . . .
so choose Dunlop and
obtain many thousands
of miles of trouble-free
service.
* * *
27 years’
experience
building tyres in
Australia for Aus-
tralian roads is
one reason why you
can expect more
from Dunlop
and get it!
* * *
5000 Garages in Australia
sell Dunlop Covers & Tubes !
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States and N.Z.
OCO
CIO
B
d a
<33
3>2 *}
mm
To ensure
playing “the like”
play Dunlop
The longest driv-
ing Golf Ball in
the world.


r-
&&g»ycL - V
Money
Makes
the
Skins
worth getting. It’s not
what they are, but
what they realise
which chiefly concerns
you. Top values are
what you want. See
that you get them. For highest possible prices—
consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
asdf
Taxing Dependents
You may leave a heritage to your dependents but how
much of it will they receive ? Will they be forced to
sell or .mortgage part of it to pay the heavy Probate
Tax ? Will they be provided for during the long period
of assessment when their property will be securely tied
up with not a penny available for current expenses.
P. & C. Probate Assurance solves all these problems.
Write for full information on this important subject.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
s=_ CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD. J
Ho u 4- -no CASTL.ER.EAqH ST. SYDNEY
PEAPES
—jor men AND their sons.
Better-dressed men buy at
Peapes’, with the assurance
that their purchases possess
individuality as well as cor-
rectness.
There is CHARACTER in all
styles sponsored by Peapes, indi-
cative of the quality not only of
the materials but also of the man-
ner in which . they are developed
into garments of style and service.
Write for Peapes’ Winter Cata-
logue, just issued.
Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE HARD-MOUTHED HORSE.
“Hugh Calyptus”: When fastening the
reins, instead of buckling them to the bit
pass them through the bit-rings, and bring
the buckle-ends back to be fastened to the
rings on the top of the saddle. This applies
to both buggy and saddle horses. In the
latter case the saddler could fit larger and
stronger rings than usual. The principle
employed is that of the pulley. Among its
advantages are that it needs no special bit or
mouth-ruining apparatus. The strain is re-
moved from the driver’s arms and transferred
largely to the horse’s own body, for by pulling
at the bit the animal pulls equally against
itself. As it finds the futility of a tug-of-war
with itself, the horse will lessen its evil
practice, and will so carry its head as to give
need for no more than the ordinary touch on
the reins.
In an emergency, such as with a bolting
horse or a plunger, the strain of a strong
pull will bring the horse’s head right back
to its chest—in most cases to hold it
thoroughly.
LUCERNE IN DRY COUNTRY.
“W.P.D.” : In the Northern, Areas of South
Australia, 200 miles from Adelaide, lucerne
which receives no irrigation and has an
average rainfall of only about 15 inches a
year is doing well. One paddock, 25 years
old, still thrives, and two more, 22 years
old, have given excellent results this year,
showing between 30 and 40 plants to the
square yard. They have been fertilised with
phosphates. Six paddocks sown in 1926
have survived two very dry summers, and
although there was only 12 inches of rain,
they gave, this summer, one cutting and
three feedings to the end of March, and
show an average of 70 plants per square
yard. The manager of Booyoolie estate
says that once lucerne is established it is
as drought-resistant as saltbush.
Country around Cunnamulla, Charleville,
Blackall, Longreach, Winton, and Hughen-
den, in Queensland, is in some respects
similar to Booyoolie and has a better rain-
fall. I would like to see experiments tried
with unirrigated lucerne in these districts.
WEEDS AND WHEAT.
“Molong”: To keep wheat land clean run
a flock of sheep and goats. When the
former have eaten out the paddock, turn the
goats in to clean up any weeds that sheep
don’t relish. If a farmer hasn’t enough
stock to clean out his dirty paddocks, let
him take some on agistment, or buy some
on a bill. This, by the way, should be
sufficient proof to farmers that sheep are
more profitable than wheat —agents are
always ready to advance money to buy
sheep, but close up tight when wheat is
mentioned. Anyway, have some sheep.
CLIPPING FARM HORSES.
“Paul C.”: Now is the time to run the
machine over the draught-horses. Many
farmers clip their saddle and light harness
horses every winter, but seem to think that
it is not necessary for the farm horses. As
a matter of fact, it is more necessary to
clip heavy draughts that are at work than
the lighter horses. Their coats are heavier,
and their work being harder they sweat
more, and any horseman knows that if
a horse carrying a thick coat of hair is
turned out wet with sweat at night the
animal’s coat will be wet in the morning.
When draughts are clipped they will do
better work on less feed, sweat less, and
be livelier in their action. Although light
horses are clipped down to the hoofs for
the sake of appearance, the draught should
not be clipped below where the rug will
cover. The hair is needed to keep the
extremities warm, and the tuft at the fetlock
joint acts as a protective cushion in the
clods.
HANDLING THE FOAL.
“N.M.L.” ; The proper time to commence
handling and educating a foal is as soon as
it is a foal. Up to about 10 days old it knows
no fear of man. It will then go as confidently
to him as to its mother, and if the man 1
moves away the foal will follow him in pre- 1
ference to its mother if the latter elects
to stand still. That is the time to increase
the thing’s stock of faith in humanity. And ■
it never forgets.
■ A mare may or may not resent you hand-
ling her first foal. But, no matter how
much the old girl goes off the handle when
first she sees it done, she becomes accus-
tomed to such things in no time, and with
the second foal she usually doesn’t trouble
even to prick her cars. But a note of warn-
ing: I’ve been knocked kicking when I first
laid hands on the first foal.
WIMMERA RYE WITH WHEAT.
“Hugh Calyptus”: “J.C.D.” (B. 2/5/’2B)
asks concerning the sowing of Wimmera rye-
grass with wheat. Much will depend upon
the ultimate purpose for which the land is
required—whether for wheat or for grazing.
For the former, crops whose seeding habits
can be kept under control are best, "helping
to clean the field. For the latter, where a
mixture of grasses is desirable, those that
tend to form a well-balanced pasture should
be sown. Knowledge of the characteristics
of Wimmera rye-grass will help “J.C.D.”
to decide.
In itself, it is an annual giving several
months of splendid green feed, particularly
in districts having good winter rains ; further,
being hardy, it possesses considerable drought-
resistant qualities. Hay made from it is
both palatable and rich, for the seed grips
and remains on the stalk for a long period.
If sown with wheat and fed-off before the
seeding-stage, nutritious feed is obtainable.
It benefits the land, especially when used as
a fallow crop on worn-out wheat lands. On
second-rate wheat paddocks it is sometimes
reckoned payable to sow the two together,
the grass to provide a pasture after the
mixture is cut for hay. Allowed to seed,
the grass by virtue of the same hardiness is
able to remain firmly established in the
paddock. With land required for the finest
wheat production, the difficulty of eradica-
ting it would need to be weighed against
its advantage as a fodder.
Allowing it is sown for pasture purposes
with wheat, a sowing of about 81b. of grass
with from f to 1 bushel of wheat per acre,
sown in the autumn, should suit the Liver-
pool Plains district (N.S.W.). A dressing
of Jcwt. of super, per acre would add
vigor to the crop : while the subterranean
clover, which “J.C.D.” proposes to leave
until a later season, could with more advan-
tage be sown at the same time. The clover
would give a better-balanced mixture. In
this case add from J to lib. of the clover
seed per acre.
THE TIME TO CUT HAY.
“T.W.”: “Hatter” telis us that hay should
be cut w T hcn immature (B. 2/5/’2B), and
contends that what is lost in quantity will
be gained in quality. When should it be
cut? Hay is immature from the time it
shoots until it flowers. When grass first
springs above the surface its chief and
almost whole substance is water. As it
advances in growth it takes on solid sub-
stances, sugar, etc. Now, until the flowers
form, the growth continues steadily to in-
crease its protein constituents. “Hatter”
has it: “Protein contents diminish as the
grass grows,” I contend that protein is
in greatest abundance just prior to flowering,
and that hay should be cut at that time.
MENDING THE LAND.
“Hatter”: Some 3000 years ago Moses
commanded that “six years thou shalt sow
thy land and gather in the fruits thereof,
but the seventh thou shalt let it rest and lie
still.” This marked the first or “resting”
stage of agricultural practice. The second
stage, namely, “bare fallowing,” which had
the advantage of controlling the weeds, came
into use about 30 b.c. The third and most
important advance took place about 1600
A.D., when the Flemish farmers introduced
clovers and legumes into the cropping sys-
tem in place of bare fallowing, and so ren-
dered it possible to keep more live stock, and
to renew the land as well as rest it.
This practice is not followed in Australia
nearly as widely as it should be. All clovers
are rich in lime and bone-building materials
for stock and enrich the soil in humus and
nitrogen. They can be sown with grasses
or grain: Western Worlth (one bushel) and
red clover (81b.) are a good combination;
so are Algerians and crimson clover; or
on wet and cold soils for a short-duration
crop, Alsike and Timothy. Alsike is hardier
than the red clovers, and can be sown more
thinly—in conjunction with Timothy, about
2Jib. to the acre is sufficient. The grass
or grain should be sown or drilled first;
and, if the soil is at all loose, it should be
rolled afterwards, as a firm seed bed is
absolutely essential for a good strike of
clover. A very light harrowing gives
sufficient cover. Young oats are a perfect
food; but, as they grow coarse and stalky,
the protein contents diminish, and the clover
comes along to restore the balance.
If, however, it is intended to feed off an
autumn-sown crop very heavily, it is better
to broadcast the clover in the spring, and
harrow lightly; otherwise, the young plants
are apt to be killed through being grazed too
closely. Crimson clover is an annual; red
clover has a life of 2-3 years; and cow grass
lias a long life of 10-20 years. It is, how-
ever, difficult to obtain true seed of the last-
named, as it is usually cross-fertilized with
red clover. In addition to its other useful
qualities, red clover has a strong tap-root,
which opens up the stiffest soils.
Clover is a double-headed crop that feeds
both the stock and the land and saves ex-
pensive nitrogenous manures.
THROW THE WINKERS OFF.
“Paul C.” : The practice of breaking farm
horses to work with winkers is a mistake.
Farm horses—in fact, all horses—should be
broken to work with the bridle. There is
no more sense in using the winkers in har-
ness than in saddle work. “Horse might
bolt,” someone says, “when he sees what’s
behind him.” Well, isn’t there often more
reason for him to bolt when he sees what he
lias got on top of him? It’s simply a matter
of becoming accustomed to his surroundings.
When a horse is broken in with the bridle
he becomes used to all that is going on
about him from the beginning, and takes no
more notice of what he is attached to than
he would to a rider. A bolt in harness is
often caused through some commotion be-
hind him that the horse can’t see, simply
because the winkers won’t let him. Besides
being needless, winkers often impair the
eyesight of the animal wearing them, as
the “close to the eye” form of winkers,
particularly of the farm type, force the
animal wearing them to concentrate his
vision on one point for long periods, with
the obvious result.
The invention of the winkers is said
to have been the work of a proud but
crack-brained English gentleman to hide the
sightless eye of a carriage horse he prized.
He placed his coat-of-arms on the things.
The fashion spread, and our faithful friend
on the farm to-day suffers.
SEED SELECTION FOR MAIZE
CROPS.
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
has drawn up some bints on selection of
maize seed, and communicates them to this
Page as follows :
1. Select seed in the field only from those plants
which produce good ears under normal or adverse
conditions of space, etc.
2. l)o not select because of two or more ears on
the stalk unless the first is up to standard size and
quality.
3. Select ears which are at a medium height on
the stalk, neither too high nor too low.
4. Select only those ears which are well covered
and protected by the husk. Only such ears remain
free from weevil infestation in susceptible districts.
5. Select ears which droop when approaching
maturity for increased. resistance to weather damage.
Erect ears are usually found on short, thick shanks.
6. Select ears from those plants which produce
a large ear for a limited growth of stalk for economy
in grain production.
7. Avoid the selection of those ears from plants
which are blown down or broken down, no matter
how good the ears may appear. Root and stalk rot
diseases are transmitted readily through the seed.
With regard to the diseases just referred to take care
also (a) to avoid ears from prematurely ripened
stalks, (6) to regard brace-rooted stalks with
picion, . (c) to select seed early to more largely pre-
vent mycelium of the fungus penetrating the seed
by systematic infection, (d) to dry seed ears quickly
by storing in a dry, warm,, well-ventilated place
in an endeavor to prevent the fungus (if any) mak-
ing further growth from the core into the seed.
8. Maintain a special seed plot of field-selected
seed.
GET OUT YOUR RUGS.
“Nota Bene”: If you haven’t done it
already, now is the time to overhaul the
horse-rugs, patch any holes and tears and
attend to loose straps and buckles, or pur-
chase new rugs. For the horse turned into a
paddock, a -square rug, with leg-straps and
girth under the canvas, is preferable to the
shaped one. All rugs will work back on the
horse more or less—the “lie” of the hair
helps this —and the breast-strap becomes
very tight, often chafing the skin or giving
sore shoulder-points; it also tends to make
the horse a short-stepper. With a shaped
rug the rain is apt to get in between the
rug and the wither.
When the horse comes in after work, let
him have a roll and give him a brush down
before rugging. The breast- and girth-
straps should not be buckled tightly, as the
canvas will shrink when wet with rain.
The rug should be removed every day even if
the horse is not working. If the rug is left
on, the horse is likely to sweat and is liable
to lose his hair under the rug.
SCRUB-FALLING WITH TRACTOR.
“L.H.11.”: The recent drought in South-
West Queensland was responsible for at least
one innovation in the scrub-feeding of sheep.
It saw the tractor adapted to the breaking
down of mulga with so much success that
over 40 of these were in use in the Charie-
ville district by the time the rain came last
Christmas. Some idea of what this means
to the sheepman with mulga country in
drought time may be derived by comparing
the new method with the old style of scrub-
cutting with axes. On Ray Station (in the
Quilpie district), which had very little relief
after the recent rains, and where the sheep
are still being fed on scrub, the tractor is
giving excellent results, two men with one
machine actually feeding 7000 sheep and 80
head of mixed cattle. As experienced sheep-
men claim that it is practically impossible
for one axeman to properly feed more than
1000 sheep, it will be easily seen that the
amount saved on even one month’s cutting
is a considerable sum.
Naturally, a great deal depends on the
scrub; mulga of fairly even growth and not
exceeding 4in. in diameter is the ideal.
Trees of this size allow of straight-ahead
work, whereas those which are bigger have
to be butted down and the tractor reversed
off them; otherwise the machine would
almost certainly get hung up in attempting
to run straight over them.
The whole of the breaking is done on
second gear, nothing being gained by using
the low gear, while considerable risk is in-
curred, as the machine tends to climb the
tree instead of knocking it down, and there
is the danger of it turning over backwards.
The consumption of kerosene in the machine
I’ve been watching averages four gallons
per day ; that of oil four gallons per week.
These figures would probably vary accord-
ing to the length of time the tractor had
been in use; this machine has been breaking
mulga for eight months now, besides being
used for wood-carting.
So far only Fordsons have been tried in
our district, and as these are light, weigh-
ing less than SOcwt., it is not unreasonable
to expect that with machines weighing double
or treble this, one man may in the near
future be found feeding 15,000 or even 20,000
sheep. In fact, everything points to the
tank of war days being the ideal machine
for the purpose.
In any case the day of the scrub-cutter,
as far as mulga country is concerned, appears
to have definitely ended.
DROUGHT AND AVERAGE FLEECES.
“G.G.6’’: The Queensland sheep and wool
returns for the year ended June 30 last,
while not attempting to settle the vexed
question of how many sheep were actually
lost in the 1926-27 drought, throw a good
deal of light on the wool loss in the sheep
that survived. The State’s total of sheep,
based on the number actually shorn, was
17,600,510, a drop of 3,000,000 as compared
with the previous period. The Maranoa
country, which was comparatively unaffected
by drought, averaged 81b. per fleece. The
Mitchell returned an average of only 5.881 b„
a reduction of 1.231 b. on the previous year,
while North Gregory averaged 5.721 b., a re-
duction of I.ollb. Mitchell carried 6,698.000
in 1926 and 4,339,000 in 1927. North Gre-
gory’s figures fell from 2,022,000 to 1,330,000
in the same period, so the loss in potential
weight can be estimated. Burke, Leichhardt
and Warrego also showed a reduction in tin;
number of sheep carried, while the favored
Darling Downs and Maranoa districts added
largely to their totals with sheep from the
drought-stricken areas. The whole Queens-
land clip for the year under review averaged
6.601 b. greasy wool, a reduction of .39ib.
and ,811 b. as compared with the two preced-
ing years.
CLASSING BREEDING EWES.
“B-Gar” : The keep slieep-man will class
his ewes before joining the rams with them,
and in both merino and crossbred flocks it
is necessary to carefully hand draft if future
results are to be satisfactory. In most large
flocks all sheep are age-earmarked, and the
trouble of culling for age is not so great as
with a small mixed flock. Big studs, if the
manager is not competent to do so, em-
ploy a sheep-classer for the work of selec-
tion and culling of ewes; but, with the
nondescript small flock, a little care and
time takfen befor'e shearing will amply
repay.
All weedy ewes, together with any broken-
mouthed ones, should not be allowed to go
to the rams, and don’t allow sheep showing
kempy and hairy breeches, or any mushy
or wasty-backed ewes, to be bred from. What
is predominant in the ewes will assuredly
show up in the lambs. Settle the type of
sheep you want to breed, and by culling keep
up to the standard. Culls can always be
fattened and sold, and there’s always a mar-
ket for small lots of store sheep. This ap-
plies to crossbreds as well as merinos, only
(Continued on page 31.)


ssssss
W 1
A
2^
r
9
CVM
a
o
X
\
te .«*
l/e
per large tube.
Managing Agents for Australia—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
"New Zealand Agents',—Van Stavercn Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
m
Is
w
new
Shaving"
m
Cream
Made by the Valet
people
#
With this new cream even the best
blade will shave still better. It is
copious in lather, pure in colour (as all
good creams should be) and leaves
the skin invigorated and refreshed.
Buy a tube now and learn the “clean
feeling of a perfect shave.”
Shaving Cream
Of all dealers.
British made.
sppagsuavadxn - aiieroiwsv
1!
m
H
g
W.\
$$
I
££s
<£
<o
4>
r O.
i
4-
7 /
•J
o'.
(5=
6
°x
4^
asdf
CAppointment
tu H M THE KING
BOULTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
HOME LICHTINO
AND DOWER PLANT
WHEN you know that one of the world’s largest aeroplane
makers also biiilds an electric light and power plant, you
know that it must be something different—vastly superior. You
expect that it will be built with the same precision and care
that are exercised in aircraft manufacture. And when you
examine Electolite, you’re not disappointed!
All the experience gained in building about six thousand aero-
planes during the past twelve years, and of manufacturing
numbers of Electolite plants for the British War Office for
arduous war-time service, is incorporated in Electolite.
It is the strongest, simplest, longest-lasting plant ever offered in
Australia. It supplies ample power not only for lighting, but
also for operating an electric iron, vacuum cleaner, refrigerator,
milking machine, separator, churn and many other labor-saving
devices both in the home and on the farm.
And, above all, it is low in price, and so economical that many
users claim it to cost less than city electricity. Let us send you
literature giving complete details, without obligation on your part.
GENEROUS TERMS MAKE PURCHASING EASY
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 683.
154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney: 3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
Box D 147 G.P.0., Perth. Box 1139 P G.P.0., Brisbane.
Resident Factory Representative: R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney.


PL
r
A
/
.
r
\m
/1
A
'/As
UjV.
m*
Mk
'/A,,
A
B
■■■-.
K 4
1
I
3?;
i
UiK
WA
sS^fev
pi?Kf
BtPfty
m
$M
K
v.
N - v^
Lets complete the rout of
Prejudice~Old Court's
worst Enemy
HE Whisky Season is with us again—by which
we mean that Winter weather creates a greatly
enhanced demand for this finest of all.stimulants.
Thus, in the next few months, Australia is going
to either increase her wealth materially, or decrease it
seriously.
If the voice of Prejudice is heeded, loss is inevitable.
Last year Australia lost £1,875,000 by drinking imported
whisky. Next year the waste will be no smaller unless the
“test of taste” replaces blind belief in the whisperings of
Prejudice.
OLD COURT WHISKY, Australian and “the World's
Purest,” has proved itself as good at least as any ever
imported. In the uphill fight against the enemy Prejudice,
it is steadily winning the day.
For your pocket's sake and your country’s industrial
welfare, call for OLD COURT WHISKY.
Every man who tries Old Court Whisky
strikes a stout blow in the fight—because
he finds it good and sticks to it.
s'-V-
-lr';
CT
01
SI
#
mm
uviU^urtio' 1
otHntlwtSfiSi
o
4
Purest


Bms
11
J
A “comfort” shoe
from toe to heel
This is a special Abbey design
of willow calf the most com-
fortable leather for ordinary
wear. A low-sided shoe, it
smartly fits the ankle without
any tightness. The toe is flat
and roomy, the lacing arches
naturally over the instep. A
broadly-welted sole of even
thickness from tip to heel gives
the right finish.
Order by Post—three widths
for each half size
You can get narrow, medium or wide
fittings in any size. That guarantees
made-to-measure comfort. Simply state
width as well as size. Order, also, a
supply of the correct Abbey, quick-shin-
ing polish (fid. per tin).
Dark Tan - - - 50/-
Copy of forty-page colored catalogue
post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Do Your Hands
Itch And
Burn ?
If so, Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment will afford instant relief and
quickly heal. On retiring bathe the
hands with Cuticura Soap and hot
water, dry and apply Cuticura
Ointment. Wipe off surplus Oint-
ment, or let it remain on and wear
old gloves during the night.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
IHT" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
(GIREY
HAIR
WOULD
SPOIL
ST#
\
Aj
W°
&
V\»
A 0»
W' e A\e
\M
.^W c
kV c
'oaa
\> c
Jji/l
s>“ f,
miNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
Queen Armc ShajoQ
Where can I buy beautiful china ?
In the shop that sells Shelley China, is the answer. A
Shelley Tea Set has the rare purity of colour that made
Staffordshire china world-famous. The Shelley Cups
of beautiful form—light,- thin, elegant, strong—are a
pleasure to use; and every hostess loves a Shelley set for
the modest splendour that it imparts to Afternoon Tea.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Dude Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: —T. W. HEATH
Hr CO., LTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
for the name Shelleij on each piece of China
asdf
i-Sr* 5 *
The Martin Ditcher
A ustralia’s Road-Builder
Road-building, Repairing and Main-
tenance are carried out with ease by
the Martin Ditcher, either with horse
or tractor. It is the best friend of
the municipal shire engineer.
Price £35.
All parts are welded,
bolted and riveted
together. The blade is
of high-carbon steel
and every ditcher is
guaranteed.
j>
’ammamm (Jf'QcmiiDmi
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
lixton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
B.K.
that the quality of wool is more varied with
the former, and heavier culling may be
necessary.
In all cases it is imperative in small
docks to handle and mouth every ewe.
Drafting from a distance is useless. Do
the job properly and take time; an even
lot of sheep will make all the difference
in the wool cheque. The fact that inferior
sheep eat the same quantity of grass as
sheep of better type should encourage all
sheep-men to go in for the best.
FALSE WOOL-PACKING.
“Bosso”: Although it is seldom that com-
plaints are heard about false packing of
wool in Australia, one does occasionally
meet the cunning fool who argues that it
pays small growers to adopt the “all-in”
principle when wool pressing. But, apart
from the stark dishonesty of placing bellies,
pieces, and locks in a bale branded “Fleece,”
the would-be thief more often strikes trouble
than any extra cash. At the Durban (S.
African) sales this year the Transvaal clips
were so fraudulently packed that the buyers
took decisive action by refusing to bid, and
the brokers had to withdraw the offerings.
It certainly served the growers right, and
those cunning fools who are inclined to adopt
the “all-in” method of marketing their wool
in this country should make up their minds
to abandon the idea lest a like fate befall
them.
INTERNAL PARASITES IN SHEEP.
“Manton”: The losses due to internal
parasites are not confined to deaths of sheep,
for the loss in wool, owing to the sheep
being infested with worms, is immense.
Wormy sheep not only cut less wool than
healthy sheep, but the main wool characteris-
tics are greatly impaired.
The spread of worms in Australia is
alarming, and with the exception of our
semi-arid saltbush and bluebusli country,
there are few districts that are entirely free.
Travelling sheep have been responsible for
the spread.
The surest diagnosis is by post-mortem
examination. Some experts recommend the
examination of the dung, but this is tedious
and slow. It is done in this way. Collect
some fresh droppings from a suspected sheep,
place them in a jar with a screw lid, screw
the lid down tightly, and place the jar in a
dark place. By the fourth day, if the
droppings were moist enough, a fine film
of moisture like dew will have settled on
the side of the jar. If there were any worm
eggs in the pellets, they will have hatched
out, and the young larva} will in their
migrations leave white slimy tracks on the
sides of the jar.
There are certain symptoms from which
one may infer that sheep are infested with
worms. The appetite is generally good,
but some members of the flock show a poor,
stunted, hide-bound, bloodless, big-headed,
pot-bellied appearance. The skin loses its
pink, healthy color, and becomes pale
and dry. The membranes of the eyes and
mouth have a bloodless appearance. Emacia-
tion and diarrhoea indicate severe infection.
When these general symptoms are noticed,
and the condition of the country does not
warrant them, suspect worms.
Young sheep are more easily affected than
old sheep, and an owner who notices a weak-
ness in his lambs should not wait till one
of them dies before he endeavors to find
out the trouble ; he should sacrifice a lamb
and hold a post-mortem. If he finds .worms
the flock should be treated before the trouble
has gone too far.
Treatment is practically confined to
drenching; some owners prefer to give tab-
loids, but drenching is, generally speaking,
more effective. Arsenic or bluestone may
be used ; but varying circumstances will call
for different drenches. The sheep should
be yarded the night before drenching, be-
cause it is very important to dose on an
empty stomach, and they should be kept
in aftei'wards for five or six hours. It is
bad for sheep to have a drink directly after
drenching, especially when arsenic has been
used. Fifteen hours without feed or water
before and five to six hours after drenching
is a good rule.
Land infested with worms can be greatly
improved by draining and cultivation and
the application of superphosphates. The
latter increases the quantity and quality of
the pasture, and wormy sheep are better able
to withstand the attack under such condi-
tions. Liberal allowances of medicated salt-
licks should also be provided, especially for
ewes with lambs at foot, and when the lambs
are weaned there is no difficulty in getting
them to take a lick, which will greatly
assist them to withstand the attacks from
internal parasites.
MINERAL SALTS FOR LIVE STOCK.
“Agra”: Breeders of live stock who are
otherwise careful of their young and grow-
ing stock often seriously neglect to provide
them with a sufficiency of mineral matter.
A great deal of the reduced tliriftiness of
our farm animals is due to this cause; as
are also many of the diseases from which
they suffer. Of the many elements neces-
sary for animal welfare, lime and common
salt are the most essential, and the natural
foodstuffs fail to provide them in anything
like adequate quantity. Lime phosphate
is required to build up a sturdy frame-
work of bone, and is, therefore, very neces-
sary for young animals. The cow and the
ben also require a considerable amount for
the production of milk and eggs.
On sheep and cattle stations licks of
calcium (rock) phosphate should be in-
cluded with salt-licks. For dairy cattle,
pigs and poultry. 31b. of powdered bones,
or powdered rock phosphate, should be
added to every 1001 b. of concentrates, in
order to supply this great need. Sodium
chloride is an essential constituent of the
blood. It is also required for the manu-
facture of digestive juices.
The addition of salt to the diet is
especially necessary in the case of grass-
and grain-fed animals. Salt-licks supply
the need for sheep, cattle and horses: but
the addition of lib. of salt to every 1001 b.
of swill or mash is necessary in the case
of pigs.
PLANTING FRUIT TREES.
“0.0.” : When planting out a new orchard,
the position of every tree is indicated by a
peg; but, when the peg is removed for
the purpose of digging the hole for the
tree, it is difficult to find the exact position
the peg occupied before removal.
To avoid any trouble in getting the trees
dead in line, follow this plan. Get a bat-
ten about 4ft. x 4in. x lin. Out a notch at
each end and another in the middle, all
wide enough to embrace the pegs. Before
removing the peg where the tree is to be
planted, place the notch in the centre of the
batten against the peg, then drive a stout
peg (round preferred) into the ground
against the notch at each end of the batten.
Remove the batten and dig your hole, taking
care not to disturb the two pegs. When the
hole is ready, replace the batten between
the two pegs, place the stem of the tree
in the centre notch, and it is in the exact
position that the marking-out peg occupied.
Another great advantage of the planting
batten is that, acting as a level, it enables
the planter to see that he is not burying
the tree deeper than it was in the nursery.
The slight thickening that indicates where
the graft is should be a few inches above
ground level.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“P.C.”: To take a single-furrow plough
from place to place with ease, put a bul-
lock’s horn on me share point.
“Wrasli” : When a post in the fence rots
off at the surface of the ground, and the
fence develops a sag, cut a dummy half the
height of the fence, and preferably of red
gum or box. Place it in a 2ft. hole along-
side the broken post. Lash the two together
with top and bottom lashings of doubled
No. 8 wire. Bring the ends of the wire
through the loop of the double and twist
up firmly. „ '
“Let Go”: Wrinkly sheep are fast be-
coming a thing of the past. Wool blind-
ness is not so common as formerly, but
hoggets still are liable to be affected. Don’t
wait until shearing time, but take the wool-
blind mob to the shed or the nearest break,
and wig them. The work does not take
long and will probably mean saving the
lives of many and give them a chance to
hold their condition.
“The Bat” : The tractor plays a big part
in Western Q’land during a good season,
ploughing fire-breaks. Strips up to a quarter
of a mile are so treated. Many stations
have their own plants, but a lot of the work
is done by contract, and the absence of
any big fires in the West of late years has
proved that the practice pays.
“Bill R,”: Cultivation lands should not
always be ploughed the one way. If the
furrows are turned east and west one year,
they should lie north and south the follow-
ing season. Not only does this method more
effectually pulverise the clods, but it will
prevent watercourses forming by erosion
along the finishing furrows and much good
soil being washed from the paddock.
“Bosso”: Custom ordains that a horse
must be mounted from the near side. But
when lading around the sides of steep hills
on narrow sheep tracks, it is often impossible
to dismount and remount on the near side,
owing to the steep slope. Therefore ac-
custom your stock-horses to being mounted
from either side, and thus save a lot of
trouble.
“Cwrw Bach” : Berseem (B. 18/4/’2B) is
not comparable to lucerne, but sown in early
autumn it will, in good seasons, give three
cuts during the winter and early spring. It
has been known to make a growth of two
feet in height in three weeks after a pre-
vious cutting.
“O. W. Wadham”: An old shearing-
machine comb, with a wire handle attached
(there are convenient holes), makes a handy
implement for thinning out Dobbin’s mane
or tail.
“Paul”: If you have a cow with milk
fever, give her up to half a bottle of
whisky mixed with an equal quantity of
water. Half an hour afterwards give her
a good dose of salts. Give her the whisky
yourself to make sure she gets it. Anyone
abont the place may give her the other dose.
“N.8.A.V.”: When scalding pigs, if a
handful of washing soda is dissolved in the
water, the scraping will be made much easier.
It also helps to clean the skin. The same
water can be re-heated and used for other
carcases. A wooden vat., or cask, is pre-
ferable to metal; it retains the heat better.
“Nota Bene” : When about to kill pigs for
bacon, care should be taken that sows on
heat are not killed. The flesh of such pigs
will not cure properly, it becomes flabby and
will in a short time develop an objectionable
taste and smell.
“Cola” : Last year I fed a cow on pump-
kins and quinces, with a few corn tops. She
milked well, and her cream increased.
Neither milk nor cream had the slightest
taint. Pumpkin vines should adorn every
fence in the vegetable garden,' and quince-
trees be used as hedge-fences wherever pos-
sible on dairy farms.
“A. 8.”: Epsom salts, when given to poul-
try, should always be dissolved with boiling
water and added to the morning mash. For
a dozen birds a loz. packet is quite sufficient.
Birds in moult can be given the salts once
a week, and it is advisable to house them
during the cold days.
“H.M.”: When the dog puts on heavy
winter hair, it sometimes develops itchy
skin eruptions under the shoulder and along
the back. Treat with a mixture of lard (two
parts), sulphur (one part) and a few drops
of kerosene. While the skin is irritated do
not wash oftener than once in 14 days, and
if the complaint is pronounced use gloves
when handling the animal.
Soft hams and bacon will not hold their
shape, are difficult to store, present a greasy
and rather unsightly appearance, and also
are difficult to slice for table use. Soft-
ness is the result of the character of the
feeds used, the use of maize or beans for
all or a major part of the ration causing
softness; while, conversely, the use of a
ration composed of equal parts of oats,
barley and peas, or the supplementing of the
meal ration with skim-milk or such feeds
as mangels, turnips, sugar beets, rape,
pumpkins or artichokes, counteracts in a
marked degree any tendency to softness.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
20/orllS
Stqte (xp^ess
333
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SMOKE-OH!
We understand that the English summer
falls on a Wednesday this year.
There are only two ways of doing any-
thing—your own way and the wrong way.
A difference between the bush and the
city is that in the city the girls walk bare-
back.
* *
“While it is in the fermenting-room,"
says the Sydney News, “beer is nursed as
carefully as a baby.” And not only in the
fermenting-room.
The difference between Charon and a
stout lady is that the. former stays on the
Styx, the latter sticks ——
SHE’D BEEN THERE BEFORE.
“What are you stopping for?”
“I think we’ve taken the wrong road.
“That’s a change, anyway. Most of them say they've
run out of juice.”
The real fact of the recent strikes of
shins’ cooks seems to be that they preferred
not cooking on shore for a change.
... ...
l-Mt’antiti
Tt never shows a speck of dirt—
But it shows a lot of Mary
But it snov a iot j . .1
A “Poverty Point” contributor points out
that in London Margaret Bannerman called
Bertie in “Our Betters,” straight out a
.’fool” whereas here she waters it
down to “damn fool.” Apparently even an
adiective has no honor in its own country,
* *
“Billy Hughes,” says a newspaper writer,
“has a double in Sydney.” We understand
that the first leg is not Spaghetti.
* *
A secondhand-book seller states that he
will buy any books except sermons and
poems. But surely there must still be a few
people who like sermons!
* *
“Untold wealth” is that which does not
appear in the income-tax returns.
A company has been founded in Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) to make tobacco and cigars
out of gum-leaves. VVe understand that a
protest has already been lodged by United
States cabbage-growers.
Now that Mr. Hugh D. Mclntosh has
bought 2F>,000 day-old chicks in England,
we expect it will be only 50 or 60 years
before he has ready a good crop of lady
vaudeville artists.
* *
“A member of the House of Commons,”
says a cable, “has made a speech for the
first time in 25 years.” Australia, how-
ever, has dozens of politicians who have
never made a speech in their lives.
-fi
“There will be no reform in taxation,”
says the Sydney News, “until taxpayers
take a burning interest in the subject.” We
support this; further, we’ll give our tax-
papers to help burn him.
* *
The fact that an English picture pro-
ducer is shortly to visit Australia makes _us j
hope that lie will be able to take a moving
picture of our steamers.
ils
Judge Winneke, of Melbourne, lias pub-
licly stated that he cannot grow cabbages.
This seems to suggest that his appointment
to the Bench may have been because of his
proficiency as a lawyer.
“Convincing evidence that a full moon
upsets the mental equilibrium of those sus-
ceptible to childish turns of lunacy was
given in the Central Court yesterday,” says
the Sydney Guardian. What, are they using
a court now as a marriage bureau V
“In the Darlinghurst area,” says the Syd-
ney Guardian, “they breed confidence men
in short trousers.” It is rumored also that
the better-class children are now being born
there with silver razors in their mouths.
According to the Sydney Sun, Hugh
Denison has stated that “plenty of women—
as much as can reasonably be required—is at
the disposal of Australia in
the United States money
market at from 5-j to 5| per
cent.” Say, Uncle Sam,
don't you think your rates
are pretty hot?
It has been suggested that
some of the Federal gift to
the Victorian Government
should he expended in
making the Legislative ,Coun-
cil chamber up-to-date. The
members, however, will not
be interfered with.
The theft of the radiator
mascot from his car has, wa
understand, seriously upset
a Sydney motorist who be-
lieved it had a lucky influ-
ence in helping him to estab-
lish the splendid record of
seven pedestrians to the
gallon.
* *
Two French engineers pro-
pose to cool off the tropics
by raising the cold Antarctic
currents to the surface. They
should be told that any
attempt to interfere with out-
heat waves will be resented
by all right-drinking people.
We learn that the man from whom
Hinkler buys his footwear has died sud-
denly from starvation.
❖ $
“What animal,” asks the Sydney
Guardian, “is considered the sole living
representative of man’s remotest ancestor?”
We flatly decline to mention that notorious
politician’s name.
=>-. *
“In a weak moment,” says a motoring
writer, “I consented to carry a fair passen-
ger on the carrier. Th.e result was disas-
trous.” He should not give up hope. Girls
are not all like that.
Some Sydney publicans have asked the
police to move on street musicians who play
outside their hotels. Why? Have these
artists lost their power of driving men to
drink?
The N.S.W. Chief Secretary states that it
is really difficult to know what a woman
driver is going to do at a particular moment.
The answer is, of course, the opposite.
Before marriage a man is always yearn-
ing for his loved one; after marriage he is
always earning for her.
❖ *
Sydney Sun states that “to set off on a
journey half-way round the world with her
clothes in a receptacle smaller than a small
haversack would throw most women into
hysterics.” We don’t believe it. What
woman objects to an excessive wardrobe?
* *
A cable states that a typical Samoan wel-
come was given to the new Administrator
when he arrived at Apia. There is uo truth,
however, in the rumor that lie proved so
tough that the chiefs went on a wild orgy
of bismuth.
ALL ARRANGED.
“So you are still a bachelor, eh?”
“Yes. I found out that by the time I’d got
rich enough to be a kid’s father I’d be
old enough to be his grandfather, so I
decided to skip one generation — see?”
A motoring writer asserts that it is highly
dangerous for motorists to stop within 50
yards of a bend. On the other hand, it
would be even less risky if they always did
stop within 50 yards of a bender.
❖ *
No wowsers of old e’er declared they were
hold,
Or shouted, “Oh, ladies!” and “Shame!”
When the ancients wore dresses as short as
their tresses,
Or short as political fame —
So why should they hatter the air with their
patter
When, ancients to-day do the samef
According to Hugh Denison, the dis-
tribution of Australian bonds in the United
States would make Australia better known.
We suggest that it would be even better
if we distributed some of the stuff we keep
in bond.
* *
According to the Sydney Guabdian a
young man has arrived in Australia from
U.S.A. to show us “something very new
in bathing suits next season.” But surely
those things will be out of date by then !
We learn that the Victorian farmers who
are touring England have been surprised by
the fact, more than anything else, that
when farmers over there have a grouse they
eat it.
“In these days,” says a Sydney barris-
ter, “it is hard to tell whether a woman is
dressed in a street dress or a nightdress.”
We refuse to believe that our womenfolk
dress so scantily as all that for bed.
“It is only in recent years,” says a motor-
ing writer, “that the motor-cycle has been
put into commercial use.” Like the bagpipes,
it has, of course, had a much longer reign as
a weapon.
❖
Modern dresses are certainly doing their
best to refute the old gibe that a woman
can’t keep a secret.
WITH THE BROADCASTERS.
“Hello, hello, little ones. This is station
SHO, your Uncle Billo speaking. Now, dears,
1 am going to read you a little fairy story
sent in to me by little Willie Smith. I
haven’t read it myself yet, but I am sure it
will be very nice. ‘Once upon a time,’ writes
Willie, ‘there lived an old Daddy Bear and
an old Mummy Bear. “Now, isn’t he a
darling?” said the old Mummy Bear as she
tucked the little baby Boy Bear into his
cot. “And isn’t she a darling?” said the old
Daddy Bear as he tucked the little baby
Girl Bear into her cot. And then, after
they had all kissed each other good-night,
and the baby bears were both asleep, the two
old bears went away to the church and were
married and lived happily ever after.’ Good-
night now, children. Oh, I forgot to tell
you—little Willie Smith adds that he is
nine years old and goes to the pictures every
night. Good-night, little ones. Good-night,
dears.”
Uncle Billo.
“Gevi.fi Tunney, the world’s champion
boxer,” reports a cable, “has delivered a
lecture on Shakspeare to university stu-
dents.” Tom Heeney, we learn, has retali-
ated by delivering a lecture on Bacon to
another group of baseball students.
* *
She crept away in the Stygian gloom,
Where no prying person could watch;
For the deed that, perhaps; was to seal her
doom
Must he done without hindrance or botch.
The street lay about like a soiilless Styx;
The chill wind blew down in a gust —
But at last, thank the gods! she managed
to fix
Whatever it was that bust.
* *
“Don Crew”: Red Mick, the punter,
ordered a pint of beer, and Murphy served
him. “That’ll be a sprat,” said
Murphy after an expectant
wait. “Eh?” said Red Mick
absently. “I said that’ll be a
sprat,” repeated Murphy. “Be-
have yerself,” said Mick, “I
paid yer.” “You did not,” ex-
ploded Murphy. “But I did,”
returned Michael stoutly. “Well,
I say you didn’t,” shouted
Murphy, “I haven’t seen the
color of your money.” “Very
well,” said Red Mick heatedly;
“will you stand a pint if I’m
wrong?” “Of course I will,”
fumed Murphy; “I’d stand ye a
dozen pints.” “Right,” said
Mick; “well, I am wrong, so get busy and
pull them.”
* *
An explorer in Brazil has found a savage
whatever. Evidently a nation of plumbers,
race with no notion of the passage of time
* *
A N.S.W. Judge has decided that fire-
wood is not timber. As if anyone ever sus-
pected it might be!
* *
We learn that Lindrum’g recent break of
100 in 2i minutes has fired Mr. Edgar
Wallace with an ambition to make a break
of as many novels in the same time.
* *
HIS FINISH.
Bill and ’Erb, stonebroke, were talking
about what they could not buy.
“S’posing,” said Bill, “a bloke was ter
come erlong and ask yer to ’ave a lunch
regardless—take yer to a good place, an’ tell
yer ter jest wade in, and ’ave what yer
wanted w’atever it cost —whatidyer do?”
“Gripes!” cried ’Erb, as if he was chew-
ing the dream, “if er bloke did that, I’d
start on five or six plates of oysters, jest
ter keep me busy while I thort of what was
to come. Then I’d ’ave a plate er two of
thi,ck, ’ot soup; and a lobster —an ’ole
lobster—ter foller.”
“Yer orter ’ave something solid,” sug-
gested Bill.
“I’d on’y be eatin’ that while me pounder
steak and four eggs was getting ready. When
THE FIRST MOTOR RIDE.
TOMMY (repeating lesson ): “So the angel
with the flaming Ford drove Adam and
Eve out of the Garden!”
that come Would the bloke include
licker in the contrac’, Bill?”
“Anything yer wanted,” said Bill, gener-
ously.
“Well, when the steak an’ eggs come, I’d
order me third pint of ’alf and ’alf. After
the steak, I’d pick er bit of roast chicken an
’am.”
“Ye’d be pretty full by that,” said Bill.
“Wliat’d yer do then?”
“Do? Why I’d jest sit back then,” said
Erb, “and wait fer dinner.”
Hameb.
TILE COMING HOME.
The captain, mate and engineer
Of the good ship Ruddigore
Were yarning over their evening beer
Of their wives who lived ashore.
Said the captain, as he quaffed his ale:
“When T reach Sydney Town
1 bloiv the horn like a roaring gale
To salute my Lucy Brown.”
“As my wife lives har'd by the sea,”
Said the mate, “J climb the mast,
And watch her fondly reave to me
As we go steaming past.”
Said, the engineer, a dour man,
With a look they understood;
“I sneak home quietly as I can
And grab a length of wood.”
N.S.W.
PENN.


FATHER MADE IT
THE
"HOMEREX
WAY
%
or
o
o
THE
HOMEREX»
WAY
YOU CAN DO IT, TOO!
WITH “HOMEREX” FURNITURE
C"-
*=
U
m
\
All the Articles in this illus-
tration in Maple or Oak the
Same Price.
All Accessories, Glue
Stain and Polish supplied
No Extra Charge.
The Hobby Family’s Lounge Room is now the last word in
real homely comfort and “FATHER MADE IT” so.
Can you furnish a room like the one shown above at anything like this
price from anywhere else?
% - .
rrs
£
\
/
“FATHER MADE IT”
No Middle Profits.
No Tools to Buy.
£ s. cl.
2 MORRIS CHAIRS 4 10 0
(at £2/5/- each).
1 WRITING BUREAU 2 13 6
1 BOOKCASE 2 15 0
1 TABURETTE .... 96
1 SETTEE 2 15 0
(sft. 6in. Long).
TOTAL £l3 3 0
COUPON.
PLEASE POST TO ME, FREE,
a copy of your illustrated Story
Booklet,
“HOW THE HOBBY FAMILY
SOLVED ALL THEIR TROUBLES."
(. “Homerex” Butler
2. Wall Cabinet
3. Shaving Cabinet
4. Small Table 10/6
5. Mother’s Kitchen Chair
6. Wall Drop Table
7. Bookshelves
8. Broom Cupboard
9. Plate Drying Rack
10. Round Table
11. Taburette
12. Monk’s Chair
13. Hall Stand
14. Traymobile
15. Monk’s Bench
16. Monk’s Table . ..
17. Chest ••
18. Book Rack Desk
19. Corner Wardrobe
20. Writing Bureau
21. Lounge Chair
22. Settee
12/6
22/6
17/6
24/
3i/e
21/
55/
30/
20/
25/
9/6
31/6
42/
42/
27/6
70/
75/
40/
50/
53/6
45/
55/-
KAME ~
ADDRESS
B. 23-5-’2B.
“HOMEREX,” 388 George St., Sydney.
THE BASEMENT
Home Recreations Ii d .
388 Secrge Street (opp^eardlfatsonsi
Sydney.
No Flaws.
No Putty Fillings.
We invite you to visit our
“Homerex" Department and al-
low us to demonstrate the sim-
plicity of our designs.
BRANCHES AT
NEWCASTLE:
88 Hunter Street.
CESSNOCK:
161 Vincent Street.
ORANGE:
Summer Street.
GOULBURN:
118 Auburn Street.
Send for free copy of story
“How the Hobby Family
Solved all their Troubles.”


South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/*
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability no dor Compensation frt 192<v
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Ksq.
Victorian Branch: 300-dff Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROI.L, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR. Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M MINOGUE. Manager
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE. General Manager.
r SMOKERS
Here is something differ-
ent to relieve a dry mouth
or tickling throat. Try
‘Allenbur<ys
Black Currant PASTILLES
and be delighted with
their soothing effect
and refreshing flavour.
Your Chemist stocks them.
lj- and 1/9 per box
Poverty
Point
“Fait Accompli”: Artists are. generally
supposed to be hopelessly improvident and
careless about such mundane matters as
cash, but Mapleson, the impresario, records
the commercial vein of Adelina Patti. At
one opera that was to drag Mapleson out
of a financial mire she refused to go on to
the stage until she had received a sub-
stantial deposit of her salary. She was
dressed except her shoes. He rushed to the
box-office and grabbed a handful of shekels
for her. She put on one shoe. He rushed
back, frantically grabbed the balance of
the receipts and thrust them into her hands.
She then put on the other shoe and went
on to the stage.
“Meridian” : Moiseiwitscli has been educa-
ting Sydney audiences to refrain from the
barbarous habit of interrupting a sonata
by applauding between the movements. This
exasperates an artist who wishes to pause
only long enough to mark the transition
from one movement to the next. He accom-
plished his end by letting his hands wander
over the keys in a sort of suspended anima-
tion, instead of dropping them to his knees.
“Genung”: Ballarat’s lately opened new
palatial Regent Theatre, with all its modern
comfort, lighting and ventilation, sets me
thinking of the theatres of Main-road
during the golden ’fifties. Montezuma, Royal,
Her Majesty’s and the Charlie Napier. The
last mentioned was a huge wooden building
with long bars all round the interior.
Waiters wearing felt slippers were busy all
through the performances carrying drinks
round the house. Brooke, Croswick and the
Dons all showed here, and here Lola Montez
danced her notorious Spider dance, which
induced Charlie Seekamp, editor of the
Ballarat Times, to make ribald and caustic
comments. Next day Lola chased him down
Main-road with a horsewhip and gave him
a father of a thrashing while hundreds of
whiskered diggers cheered. Later Lola
became unofficial missus to the mad King
Ludwig of Bavaria. Every one of the Main-
road theatres finished up with a mighty
fire. Now that part of Ballarat, once so
jolly and rowdy, is as peaceful as Paradise
is supposed to be.
“Cauboy”: The multitude’s alleged loss
of interest in the legitimate stage and its
heroes in favor of the cinema is disproved
by the scenes at Leon Gordon’s wedding in
Melbourne with an Adelaide girl. Thou-
sands gathered outside the kirk, and sundry
indispensable officials had to find their way
in by back entrances, to the scandal of the
church beadles. Grinning policemen had to
carry the bride and bridesmaids over the
heads of the gaping mob, and one constable
obligingly fainted. Theatre proprietors
should take heart hereby. The prospects of
Doug Spareshanks or Mary Pickaxe staging
their marriage or divorce in Melbourne
except in celluloid are remote; so the legit,
theatre has that advantage.
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne is to be allowed
first peep at “Hit the Deck,” the next musi-
caleg show to be presented by the Miss A.
Croft co. Playgoers who have been con-
templating suicide because May Beatty has
such a small part in “The Girl Friend”
should stay their hand. The perennial favor-
ite wdjl have an important role as Magnolia,
a colored gal.
“Doric”: I recently submitted a song to
one of our leading publishers. It was not
a masterpiece, but, in my estimation, it
reached the high standard of “The Prison-
er’s Song.” They returned it, saying the
words were good, but the music poor. I
tried another firm, who raved over the tune,
but thought the lyric very weak. Then I
called personally on a third firm, who, at
least, were honest. They frankly told me
that they could not publish any local works,
as they were bound by contract to take a
certain number of American “master-songs’
each month. No; it was no use trying
mine over —they couldn’t publish it, even
if it were another “Yes, We Have No
Bananas.” Perhaps this explains why we
get “Poppa’s Sweetie Gets so Meaty” or
“Wanna Go Back to Oshkosh” instead of
vocally boosting up the beauties of Bondi or
the janes from Jindabyne.
“E.C.D.”: The passing of 11. 11. Cham-
pion in Melbourne (B. 9/5/’2Bl recalls the
embryonic stage of repertory theatricals in
Australia. H.H.C. and other devotees of
highbrow drama used to foregather in the
old Mia Mia tea-rooms and read aloud the
plays of Shaw, Ibsen and Chekhov. Painter
Blamire Young was among the leading-
lights. When the theatre they aimed at
came into being Madge Macintosh took the
helm, which later was held by McMahon.
“Spokeshave” : It is the little irritations
that make the major exasperation, and it
didn’t help the Fuller opera season in Mel-
bourne when patrons found on paying six-
pence for a programme that it didn’t even con-
tain a resume of the acts. To obtain that and
the story of the play you had to pass out
another sprat to another predatory female.
Then the Herald spoilt the game by print-
ing a synopsis of the operas as they came
along. I saw several sitters in the higher-
priced seats consulting the slip w r hich they
had cannily cut out —in between reading
my own.
“J.A.” : Surely John Fuller didn’t have to
go abroad to observe the effects of permitting
smoking in theatres (B. 25/4/’2B). Smok-
ing has always been permitted in all parts
of the house at Fuller’s Empire. Brisbane
(or had been up to a year ago). Similarly in
the northern city’s Wintergarden, its toni-
est film-house; and at neither have I ex-
perienced any smoke “barrage” discomforts.
“Dr. Nil”: Harold Parsons, of the Adel-
aide Conservatorium, completed his 21st
year of service at that institution the other
day, and the staff and others combined to
celebrate the occasion with a concert in the
Town Hall. Harold’s playing of Rubin-
stein’s sonata for piano and ’cello (Op. IS)
was something to be remembered. But when
GUS BLUETT,
life and soul of
“The Girl Friend,”
at Melb. Royal,
gets so convinc-
ingly drunk that
the audience has a
headache, too.
he gave the solo “At the Fountain’’
(Davidoff) we agreed with Dr. Davies, who
said it was a pity our Harold was not better
known in the musical world, and put it
down to the artist’s incurable modesty.
He has given his whole time to his home
school.
Duncan Macdougall : “Seventh Under-
study” truly says that the encouragement of
the Australian dramatist is one of my planks
at the Playbox (B. 25/4/’2SL Few Aus-
tralian plays have been sent me, however,
and not one measured up to the international
standard, or anywhere near it. My door
always wide open for the Australian drama-
tist ; and my faith in Australian drama was
shown on my return from producing in
New York, when I went on tour with “The
Dinkum Oil, or Reforming Bart#,” and
dropped £7OO. Because of that, I had to
start The Playbox with the proverbial shoe-
string.
“Shep”: Two of the best examples of
unrehearsed realism I have seen on the
stage happened on successive nights in
Edinburgh. In the first show the hero stag-
gered around in an exhausted state to col-
lapse at the feet of the heroine. The
collapse was so well acted that he was out
for minutes through his head striking the
boards, the play being held up until he
was able to carry on. In the second show
one of the Three Musketeers was put out
of action by a touch on the nose from his
Opponent’s weapon in a sword duel. He had
to leave the stage to have the bleeding
stopped.
“ROOKERY NOOK,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Leslie Victor as Mrs. Twine’s husband, and
Minnie Rayner as Mrs. “Thunderguts”
Leverett.
“L.H.P.”: There is a theatrical legend
that no piece with “Princess” in the title
becomes a success. With the exception of
“Princess Charming,” there seems to be
something in the superstition. “Princess
Ida” was by no means the most successful
of the Savoy operas, and another, “The
Princess of Kensington,” was a dead failure.
Leo Fall’s opera “Princess Caprice,” never
did much biz at the money boxes, and
Pinero’s play “The Princess and the Butter-
fly” was a comparative failure. Gilbert
and Clay’s opera “Princess Toto” was
a frost here, and in Fogland H. B. Irving's
scissors-and-paste version of Mason’s novel,
“Princess Clementina.,” was a wash-out, as
was Charlie Coghlan’s “Princess George,”
with Lily Langtrv as star. The only suc-
cess I know is Kenny’s English version of
“The Princess of Trebizond,” last done : n
Australia by Pollard’s “Kids.”
“Cine Ma” : The movie people have a fine
sense of the relative importance of things.
This is how a N’Yoik paper reported the
death of an English novelist: —
Thomas Hardy, who wrote “Tess of the D’Uber-
villes,” which M-G-M, filmed, died yesterday.
“L.H.P.”: The Sydney Criterion, wdiich
is to come down in 1932, was opened by
John Solomon with Rignold and Alison’s
Comic Opera Co. in “Falka” on Boxing
Night, 1886. Emilie Melville, Armes Beau-
mont, Verdi, Colbourne Baker and Fannie
Liddiard were in the leads. For years it
was the home of the famous Brough-
Boucicault companies. Ibsen’s “Doll’s
House” shocked Sydney there in 1889; and
Rice’s spectacular “Evangeline” ran six
weeks in the same year. George Rignold
scored as “Othello,” with Harry Diver as
“lago,” in 1899. Pollard’s “kids,” includ-
ing May Beatty and Bill Percy, did
“Patience” and “La Maseotte” in 1892.
Dampier, Walter Bentley, Johnny Sheridan,
Charles Arnold and Bill Anderson also ran
seasons with success. Meynell and Gunn put
on fine musical shows, notably “Miss Hook
of Holland” and “Tom Jones.” They also
introduced Oscar Asche, Mathieson Lang,
Ethel Irving and other London stars. The
stage was enlarged in 1910 for Asche’s
elaborate Shakspearean productions. In
fact, the Cri. has seen everything, including
nigger minstrel shoWs and gentlemen who
produce rabbits out of bottles.
“L.H.P.”: The Fuller-Gonsalez mob will
invade Maoriland at the end of the Mel-
bourne season. Fernland has had some good
grand opera shows. Lyster was the first
to tour —in 1864. Prices were 10s., 7s. 6d.,
r>s. and 35.; but, then, lie had great artists.
Tie toured again in 1865. In 1872 came
Cagli’s Italian Opera Co.; and after Cagli
joined up with Lyster in 1873, Maoriland
was again visited. Lyster went once more
in 1877. (Prices had dropped then to
7s. Gd., 4s. and 25.) G. B. Allen’s co. in
1874 made a profit of £7000; and Lyster
made his last campaign in 1880. _ Martin
Simonsen toured occasionally in the ’eighties,
but bit the dust in 1889 at Dunedin, when
the local Otago Daily Times roasted him
for bringing a poor company. The Montague-
Turner co. went through in 1882 and again
in 1894. Then there was a long lull till
1901. when Musgrove came on with a
fine co. that got lost for weeks on the
Monowai (ai broken shaft) on the way back
to Melbourne. Musgrove’s mutinous Ger-
mans (1907), Gonsalez-Fuller (1917) and
J. C. Williamson (1920) complete the his-
tory.
"Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : The _ first per-
formance in America of Stravinsky’s greatest
composition, “GSdipus Rex,” was not with-
out interest for Australians. The superb
English translation was the work of Gilbert
Murray, and the parts of Creon and CEdipus
were sung, and sung admirably, by Fraser
Gange and Arthur Hackett respectively.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Florence
Austral is the only Australian singer who,
at the moment, cuts any ice in America;
for her there is quite an unusual measure
of appreciation. At Philadelphia she lately
created a deep impression by her fine singing
in “Aida” and “The Valkyrie.” From there
she left for Colorado Springs, where her
voice was needed for the dedication of a new
organ in Grace Church, and after that
she started on one of the longest tours
ever planned on the Pacific Coast.
“Ilamfat”: Curious that “L.H.P.” (B.
9/5/'2B) should have omitted Alfred Dampier
from his list of Shylocks seen in Australia.
Many who had seen both put him ahead of
Henry Irving. His Shylock was a cultivated,
learned man. Australians are forgetting
what a very fine actor Dampier really was.
“L.H.P.” : Vinia de Loitte, called to fill the
shoes of Alexia Bassian, who had taken
suddenly ill during the performance of
“Patience” at Sydney Her Majesty’s in
1905, met her future husband, Howard
Vernon, the Bunthorne, in the course of
the opera. - “Who are you ?” questioned
Vernon, up stage. The lady introduced her-
self, and the pair returned to the footlights
to continue the action of the opera.
“Adelaide”: Mjoko (or thereabouts; the
name is sure to be humorously distorted),
of the African pigmy tribe nearly extinct,
has landed in Australia under contract for
exhibition purposes. He is about 35, beau-
tifully developed—and a shade over 3ft.
high. The South African name for this
tribe is Bushman; so there was a huge
sensation at Cape Town about 1900 when
Australia announced proudly that it was
going to send a splendid Bushman’s Contin-
gent to help in finishing off Kruger.
“Wang”: About an hour before the per-
formance of a travelling troupe was to start
on its second night in this bush township,
Micky Muldoon, who was bordering on the
d.t.’s, tore into Ryan’s pub and collapsed.
When he had been brought round a bit,
Micky unburdened himself of a tale of
horror. As he was making his way to the
pub a Thing perched on a post had grimaced
at him, and had indulged in some remark-
able acts. Micky resolutely refused to lead
a party to the place where he had seen the
terror, but when some of the lads went
there they found nothing, and it was put
down as being a new brand of fantod. Weeks
afterwards we found out that Micky had
seen the Thing all right. It had been
Francois, the human frog, who, dressed in
green with a frog head, performed contor-
tions on a post in the troupe, and who, at
the solicitation and payment of Mrs. Mul-
doon. had done his little piece in an endeavor
to win Micky from the booze. It was effect-
ive, too —for about two days.
“Cauboy” : The Fu 11 er l Goiisalezes have
been attacked for reviving the same old
stereotyped procession of moth-eaten operas.
They haven’t any option. There are several
the Fullers would have liked to produce, but
the Williamsons hold the Australian rights,
which wild aeroplanes wouldn’t drag from
them.
“Cine Ma”: Vaughan Marshall, whose
first film, “Environment,” failed to seduce
the movie managers into cancelling their
contracts with Tom Mix and Mary Pickford,
has had a second shot with “Caught in the
Net.” The famed scenery of Sassafras and
a yacht race at St. Kilda provide Zillah
Bateman, the star of the flesli-’n’-blood play,
“Outward Bound,” with a background for
her emotions. Melbourne will see the first
showing of the opus.
‘^Spolaeshave”: The Gonsalez brother- —
there are four others —who is conducting the
Fuller operas at the Melb. Princess had, six
months ago, a better predecessor, in my
opinion, though it is a double heresy to say
so. She was the Countess Filippiui. The
heresy consists in the fact that she is (1)
a woman ; and (2) an Australian.
THE ACTOR’S RING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In time of scarcity and dearth
Be warned, dear chap, against the thought
Of pledging, far below its worth,
The bauble your first triumph bought;
Not that I reckon it as aught
Dress-raiment Leviwards to bring,
But always, as my father taught,
I keep intact my diamond ring.
The Philistines are moved to mirth
When genius to distress is brought;
The churls encumbering the earth
Count talent as a thing of nought;
The wise man does not wax distraught
When life appears an empty thing.
For even hunger may be fought
When fronted with a diamond ring.
Plenty will soon restore the girth
One loses when all paths seem fraught
With dolour, and at Hope’s new birth
How distant seems the belt drawn taut!
But who, when scaling some vast ghat,
Before the summit gained would fling
Aside the staff? In contracts sought,
Virtue is in a diamond ring.
Envoy.
Prince, do we measure as we ought
The supplicant’s importuning,
Or are we, as the agents, caught
By glamor of a diamond ring?
N.S.W.
By SOM AXTBERK.


HONOLULU
£75
Sydney to
Honolulu
and Return
£55
Excursion tickets at the above fares arc issued the entire year
by all Matson-Oceanic Steamers, available for return within
three months from date of issue.
IN ORDER TO ENCOURAGE TOURIST TRAVEL
the Matson-Oceanic Coy. have arranged a series of inclusive
tours to the Hawaiian Islands covering all expenses Sydney
to Sydney.
TOUR No. I.—Five and a half days in Hawaii— 33 days away from
Sydney—touring Honolulu and the Island of Oahu. Inclusive cost cover-
ing all travel, living and sight-seeing expenses, first class—from £B5.
Same as above, but with second class steamer accommodation, £65.
TOUR No. 2.—Five and a half days in Hawaii—33 days from Sydney
—touring Honolulu, the Island of Oahu and Hawaii National Park
(Kilauea Volcano) on the Island of Hawaii. Inclusive cost—all travel,
living and sight-seeing expenses, first class—from £94. Same as above,
but with second class steamer accommodation, £74.
TOUR No. 3. —Twenty-six and a half days in Hawaii —54 days from
Sydney—a complete tour of all the important Hawaiian Islands —Oahu,
Maui, Hawaii and Kauai. Inclusive cost—all travel, living and sight-
seeing expenses, first class—from £l4l/10/-. Same as above, but with
second class steamer accommodation, £l2l/10/-.
ALL EXPENSES INCLUDED.
The tour price includes berth, meals, steamer chair and rug on the
steamer from Sydney to Honolulu and return; taxis to and from
steamers while in Honolulu and the Islands visited; motor trips, as
shown in itineraries; room and meals at Seaside Hotel on Waikiki
Beach; inter-island steamer fares, including berth and meals; room
and meals while on various Islands.
Write for copy of folder “A Holiday in Hawaii’*
giving detailed programmes of above tours.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
HIE ©esw© STEAPjeBIP
IIH§I Ul
12 Bridge Street, Sydney,
local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharr Ltd., 94-96 William St. Melbourne; 117-119 Ki
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard L.mit.d, Busbar
G—2B
117-119 Kin?
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
sdf
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiased
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS.
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
COOK AND
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SON
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND: „ WELLINGTON:
N.Z. Insurance Building, Government Life Buildir.fr
Queen Street. (Next G.P.0.).
i§
■ .
■
mm . jTj
'
M
V
1
I
'. ■'. ' ' :
maim
- a
IKW'
» i
l
vvv
ill I \R 1
frpprtf
e "
The “Ideal” Hot-
Water System
is Continuous, Copious
and Cheap.
The “Ideal” Hot-water
System is reliable and
constant. Hot-water day
or night. A hot bath for
a penny—a hot shower
for less. “Ideal” systems
are in use in most of the
leading establishments
and homes of the Com-
monwealth. Write for
booklets and particulars.
t!.?t IMf
i :
JSL
- j!
jjj
Scientific Home Heating
Where many rooms have to be heated,
coal or wood fires are too expensive in
upkeep and service for cleaning. Gas and
electricity are also high in upkeep.
“Ideal” Heating System
Effective and Cheapest of All Systems
The “Ideal” Central heating system is easily first for heat-
ing many rooms. One “Ideal” furnace and boiler
placed in any convenient position and connected with
individual radiators in each room maintains a summer
temperature of 70 degrees. The average cost for heat-
ing a room for 24 hours is twopence. There is no
cleaning of grates or removing soot from hangings.
Any intelligent person can stoke the boiler and look
after the system. The new “Classic” Radiators are
artistic in design and will harmonise with any furnish-
ing or color scheme. The system soon pays for itself in
low fuel bills and reduced cleaning expenses. Write
for particulars and an approximate price. Mention
number of rooms to be heated.
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE


c
"S
n
x
-4
7i
4
itfi
Economy
The makers of Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses believe that
economy of operation is of equal
importance with dependability,
speed and power.
Each type of Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses is designed and
built to operate at low cost-to make
money for its owner.
The new 6-cylinder 2-ton truck-
fast and powerful—is already prov-
ing itself a money-maker for own-
ers because of its unusual operating
economy.
Canada Cycle Sc Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
F.G. 395
23/5/’2B.


PAINT YOUR OWN CAR —OR HAVE
IT PAINTED WITH
s
8
RIPOLIN
ENAMEL
The durability of RIPOLIN and its ability to stand continuous washing make it
a favorite with Motorists who desire t . paint their own Cars, or have them
painted by Motor Painters. RI PORI X is an air-drying Enamel, noted for its
freely flowing qualities.
Easily Applied—Rapid Drying—Will Not Rub Off—
Does Not Require Polishing Apply with a Brush.
This Enamel dries with an exceptionally hard surface, which retains its lustre
without polishing.
For Best Results Apply Over Special Ripolin Undercoating.
Ripolin is also largely used for all interior and exterior home painting, for hos-
pitals, boats, golf balls, etc. A special quality is obtainable for painting baths.
White and 70 Artistic Shades Procurable from All Stores.
Write for Color Card. Booklet and all particulars to —
LA A (Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood Street
. LUIviYI/ILIV (off 35 Pitt Street), SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
BRISBANE: S. J. Squires & 00. MELBOURNE: Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Clarkson, Ltd. HOBART: W. 1). McMinn & Co. Pty., Ltd. LAUNCESTON : French Bru>.
H-SJPMANNB.COS
HAVANA. CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES:—
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples 1/ - each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
m
m
W/b
w-
M
wm
m
L TC
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
• AND &RANCHES*
IbUati
InAuppei!
When friends drop in for a
game of cards, or some music,
give them sandwiches made
with delicious Anchovette.
There’s nothing like it for a
dainty and appetising supper.
Get a jar from your grocer to
day.
For a change try Peck’s
Salmon and Shrimp Paste.
Peck’s
A'
The
delicious
Fish Paste
sf
HOLDS 50 % MORE INK
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy man’s pen. The
ease with which it fills and cleans itself, its readiness to write when-
ever wanted, its absolute security from leakage, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any other self-filling pen, has
gained for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Raker & Longhursl
50 York Street: Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
$4
*
A
A’*!
K|
The strong Watch
of High Precision
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO , , Directors:
Issued Canital 40 Icm John Deai)s . Esq. (Chairman),
issued Capital 49,161 \y. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
Paid-up Capital 30,234 R. G. H. .Toseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
Type, Tripe & Co.
“DE GUSTIBUS....”
As one loves the dressing of salad
Which renders liis neighbor malade.
There are some who refer to the Ballade
While others prefer the Ballade.
But I hope, in a moment still madder,
To chant, like a roystering blade,
A deftly constructed Ballade.
A noble and stirring Ballade.
N.s.w. The Downtrodden Worker.
“G.D.S.”: L. Phillips’s article on the
trials of a free-lance makes no mention of
the editor who evades payment for an article
by publishing it in the form of a letter.
I have just had this shabby trick served on
a topical sketch of mine despite the fact
that I enclosed a stamp with a request for
return of the MS. if unsuitable. I am now
precluded from forwarding it to any other
journal which might have paid for it.
“Ces” : The A.J.A. is going to tackle the
problem of imported serial and other “literary”
matter, the same having become a definite
menace to the Australian scribbler. It can now
be bought by an individual paper at so much
a foot; but, with the formation of several
distributing bureaus in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, it will be dumped on Australia at so
much a yard. The Hobart conference of
the A.J.A. instructed the headquarters
executive to see the Tariff Board about the
matter, and ask for an inquiry and a pro-
hibitive tariff.
A Calm Outlook:
Sincerity is the dominant note of Will Ashton’s
show at the Hordern Gallery (Sydney). A year ago
Ashton made a bonfire of unsold pictures, estimating
that there must be something in them uhworthy of his
reputation or they wouldn’t have remained on his
hands; there is perhaps one of the present exhibits he
might like to add to the pile. It is a view of Trafal-
gar-square to which on a blue-sky day he has forgot-
ten to give any sunshine. But real charm lies on
most of the other pictures. “The Headlands, Sydney
Harbor,” is massive but rather monotonous; for sheer
appeal “Morning Glitter, Berry’s Bay,” “The View,
Balmoral,” and “The White Schooner, Marseilles,”
are most worth special mention.
“Knib”: The building at the corner of
Flinders and Russell-streets, Melb., in
which the Herald was housed for 27 years
or thereabouts, and which the Morning
Post occupied for its brief span, is being de-
molished to make way for a theatre. It
was formerly Degraves’s bond store, and was
bought by the evening sheet for approxi-
mately £27,000. Curiously enough, the pre-
vious home of the Herald and its com-
panion prints in Collins-street, next to the
old Argus office, was recently razed to per-
mit of a theatre being erected. In its new
shack at the corner of Flinders and Exhi-
bition streets the evening journal has acres
of space and four floors and a basement.
“Hamer”: The religious publication is a
queer bird. I have just picked up a chatty
mag. run in connection with a suburban
parish. One bright paragraph begins “Our
dear friend Mrs. is unlikely to live,” a
leader starts vivaciously with “In this land
of the living, which is now truthfully a land
of the dying,” and a pathetic story is featured
in which two parents, after losing all their
children but one in a struggle with want,
become affluent. The surviving child, how-
ever, has the bad luck to be knocked down
by a motor-car and dies pathetically implor-
ing his progenitors not to forsake the Deity.
This story is entitled “Whom He Chas-
teneth” and is followed by some swishing
verse about “The Tomb.” The title of this
hilarious budget is Cheerio !
Sydney’s latest monthly is Newspaper
News, published by David Yaffa. who
handles most of the foreign syndicated stuff
sold in Australia. The idea chiefly is to let
advertisers know what is happening in the
newspaper world. Thus regarding The
Bulletin, after reporting various changes,
Newspaper News announces that they are
“proving so successful that the Company is
now negotiating with Hoe and Co. for the
purchase of still another magazine rotary
press—the third in five years.” Newspaper
News’s annual subscription is 45., and to
the large advertiser, the service agent and
the space salesman every issue ought to
be worth that much.
“Ces”: Bernard Cronin’s Society of
Authors is flourishing. Latest to join the
membership are knights John Quick and Bob
Garran and Judge Beeby. Cronin’s society
grew out of the Derelicts’ Club, which he
and Gertrude Hart formed some years ago.
The ideal aimed at is the formation of a
club and the establishment of a literary
bureau which will supply information to
budding writers, and be a guide to all
scribblers. The secretary is Arthur Goode,
and the founders include Gertrude Hart and
Louis Lavater, vice-presidents ; Myra Morris,
E. A. Aujard, Hilda Bridges, Meryon Webb,
Georgia Rivers, Furnley Maurice, Capel
Boake, Vernon Williams, Elsie Cole, M. B.
Baton and John Shirlow.
“W.I.LT.”: Mum essays to clarify the
domestic situation per medium of a Barrier
newspaper:—
If Certain Persons in West Broken Hill do not
stop scandalising my character, legal proceedings
will be taken without respect of persons; also that
my husband has welcomed the children and self to
anything in his name.
“P.S.”: Melbourne has had a continuous
run of art shows for a year, the Christmas
holidays excepted, and lately luxuriated in
five simultaneously. This has moved a
daily to proud proclamation of the existence
of a local renaissance. The truth is not
so reassuring. Many of these one-man
exhibitions are by amateurs who would
never get a picture past a conscientious
committee, but who are prepared to pay
the heavy _ expenses involved in order to
gratify their vanity. Others are by budding
professionals, whose ambitious efforts only
serve to disclose that they have not yet
grasped even the essentials of their problems.
The art critics play the game for the picture-
frame makers and the gallery-owners by
treating them with ludicrous leniency. One
young man recently bad what was described
ns a successful exhibition, and it cost his
hard-working father £B5 in frames and
gallery rent alone, sales being nil. But the
artists who have arrived are the worst
offenders. In Europe painters of eminence
arc satisfied with showing two or three
canvases annually at a general salon. Men
like Streeton feel they have had a bad
year if they fail to hold a solo show of
30 or 40 canvases. Obviously, most of them
are potboilers. Unlike novelists, painters
are their own readers and publishers. It
would be a good thing if some of them were
also their own critics.
Importations:—
Although the “R.E.” of some of the English
artists whose etchings have been shown at the Mac-
quarie Gallery (Sydney) might be taken to indicate
an association with the Royal Engineers, there is
some treasure trove for collectors in the exhibi-
tion. Three exhibits by the dielightful W.
Walcot are full of delicacy; Sir D. Y. Cameron,
R.A., shows in “The Tower” how art can put a
glamor over a plain subject; Joseph Gray’s “The
Ocean” suggests eternal movement, and, A. E.
Rushbury scores with “The Little Iron Foundry.’
“P.X.”; Jam and journalism ran together
a good deal in Sydney a few years ago. Just-
dead H. E. Pratten wasn’t exactly a journal-
ist, but lie was next door to it —a printer —
and many of liis early friends were on the
Inky Way. And he didn’t forget them either:
when he saw what great chances the Malay
tin-mines offered, he put several of his old
press friends in on something better than
the ground floor, and I know two of them
who are living pretty comfortably on the
proceeds. The jam comes into the argument
through J. P. Wright. That early Sydney
manufacturer of leather goods got interested
in a jam factory, and Pratten, marrying
Wright’s daughter, got interested in jam too.
Another journalist who reached the jampot
through marriage was G. B. Edwards. He
wedded into the Peacock family. And he
too ascended (or otherwise) into politics
and was the first Federal member for Soutii
Sydney.
June 30 is the last day for receiving
entries in The Bulletin’s Prize Novel
Competition. In order to expedite the judging
Mr. T. B. Clegg, barrister-at-law, and him-
self one of the most successful of Australian
story-writers—nowadays he is The Bul-
letin’s principal book-reviewer —and Mr.
T. W. Heney, late editor of the S. M. Her-
ald, are reading the MSS. as they are sub-
mitted, and making reports on each for the
assistance of the other judges. It is evident
that well over 200 MSS. will have to be
considered; but it is hoped to make the
award some time in August. As soon as
that is done publication of the £5OO-prize
novel as a serial will begin in The Bulletin.
Applications continue to arrive from Europe
and America for permission to publish the
Great Australian Novel simultaneously with
its publication in Australia; but, as that
would involve several months’ delay in pub-
lishing in Australia, all such applications
have had to be regretfully declined.
“Ces”: Walter Woods, Speaker of the
Speck Parliament, was one of the founda-
tion members of the Tasmanian district
A.J.A., and while a member became Speaker.
When he lost his seat lie went back to the
press; regaining it lie again exchanged the
pen for the mace. Bulletin readers know
him as “John Drayman.”
The best general-knowledge map of Aus-
tralia issued to date will be owned by who-
ever collects the 51 sections of this coun-
try’s contribution to the international map
now being prepared by the 21 nations that
make up the Geographical Map Committee,
which has been talking the idea over at con-
ferences since 1890. Each section is drafted
on a scale of about 16 miles to an inch, with
altitudes indicated by color tints. The mass
of useful information given includes roads,
railways, irrigation channels and areas, tele-
graphs, artesian-bores, contours (land and
sea), explorers’ routes, population and even
mission stations. Excellently produced by
the Lands and Survey branch of the Com-
monwealth Works and Railways Depart-
ment, the sections are available at 3s. a
sheet.
“Ballyboo”: According to the librarian of
the British Patent Office, a vast number of
valuable inventions have been patented long
before conditions became suitable for their
use. The diving bell was patented in 1664.
the periscope in 1702, safety razors in 1762,
roll-top desk in 1772 and the taximeter about
1800. The fountain pen was patented in
1809 but did not catch on, while roller-
skates, invented in 1823, were of no use on
the bad roads of that period. The pneumatic
tyre was invented early in 1845 but it
couldn’t come into its own until the bicycle
was perfected. The same authority is of the
opinion that there are numerous patents
that could be revived and made profitable
under modern conditions. James Watt did
not invent the steam engine, nor George
Stephenson the locomotive; Fulton was not
the inventor of the steam-boat, nor Galileo
of the telescope, nor Faraday of the electro-
magnet, while Marconi was not the discoverer
of wireless telegraphy!
A still-life show in Sydney:—
These unfortunate artists seem to have poor luck
with their laundresses, judging by the table-linen
introduced by many of the exhibitors at Sydney Gros-
venor Gallery Still-life Exhibition. Nearly all
the napery shows the same tendency to stand up in
ridges, where the ironing creases occur, and the
whiteness of the table-covers is not above suspicion.
The old Bohemian tablecloth, which supplied the
news as well as protecting the table, must have
been far more comfortable than these over-starched
affairs. It is an interesting show, this, in which
George Lambert has piled a mass of kitchen-
stuff around a cut-glass decanter and an overturned
wineglass. The said mass includes a performing
tomato and an invalid egg. The most notable eon
tributions are the two gorgeous but restful dis-
plays of L. Bernard Hall; those by Blamire Young;
the “Magnolias” of E. Buckmaster; three honest
exploits of Adelaide Perry; a fine effort in subdued
colors, “Hydrangea,” by B. E. Minns; a “Flower
Piece,” by George Bell; “Zinnias,” by Robert John-
son —about the first item to win that award of merit,
the red tab that says “sold.” The young Maori-
lander deservedly finds his pictures selling like hot
cakes; there is always honest effort and artistic
sense in them. IT. R. Gallop, Newbury, Hal Gye and
A. M. E. Bale attract attention, and the rebellious
Aletta Lewis gets a measure of success in her queer
style in “Flowers on the Piano,” while Roi de
Mestre also secures an effect in “Flower Piece.”
Margaret Preston’s decorations are much as usual :
there is also a nicely done painting by Alf Priest
which does not deserve to have been forgotten by
the catalogue.


it
»|| A
.
% smM
■
ms
i#
i ?a
/' , , :
1
fv .
,
L .
? * ■ j
1
■
mmmr
xsm
i ■. j
a
® Bft
luj
Argentine Locomotive
Contract for Great Britain
THE REPUTATION OF BRITISH LOCOMOTIVES
STANDS HIGH IN SOUTH AMERICA.
A RECENT CONTRACT FOR THIRTY FOR THE
BUENOS AYRES GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY
HAS BEEN PLACED WITH US.
The work is being carried out entirely at our Scotswood
Works, and engines and tenders will be shipped by the
A. W. method, i.e., in fully erected condition. The
locomotives are of the 4-8-0 type.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & Co., Ltd.,
SALES OR GANISA TION:
KINNAIRD HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON, ENG.
WORKS AND SHIPYARDS, NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE.
Sole Representatives for Australia: Messrs. Gilbert-Lodge & Co., Ltd , Melbourne, Sydney & Adelaide.
SHIM MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C. 720.


Firearms Sent C.O.D,
RELIABLE ENGLISH 12-GAUGE
HAMMER GUN for £lO, Post Free
Specially made by the Celebrated Makers,
Holloway & Naughton, for me to suit Austra-
lian conditions; 30in. barrels, both full choke
for 2fin. cartridges. For a Fox or Duck Gun it
has no equal. I also have a wonderful range of
best makes of English Hammerless Guns from
£l2/10/- to £95.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
Welcome the Coming —Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHJLP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
DONALD MACKINTOSH
“ “OF SHOOTING FAME”
sďf
I have supplied
guns to W. G.
DOWNIE, J. W.
SUTHERLAND, J. SLOAN,
CLAUDE MITCHELL, W. ISON,
J. DRUMMOND, GRANT BROS., J.
THRELFALL, R. WRIGHT, SPORT,
ELENARA, SYDENHAM, Jun.
Nearly every man shooting well to-
day has had his gun seen to by nie
for pull off, bend of stock, cast off,
balance, choke, etc. Let me add
you to my list.
Youths’ Single Guns, 50/- to £5/5/-
Youths’ or Ladies’ Guns, Light,
Crossbolt, all latest patents.
Write for Hints All-round Guns, Hammer and Ham-
to Shooters, merless, £l2/10/- to £2l.
Match Guns from £2l to £5O. By all leading
Eng. makers. Special Presentation Guns, Match
and Field, from £5O to £75 and £155.
All classes of repairs to Gun, Rifle and Revolver
—only best work. I have the most up-to-date
workshop. Satisfaction is assured. Ask your
shooting pals who have given me a trial for the
last 10 years, and have seen my workshop.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The wind of success fanned backers’ sails
for the first race on the card at Tattersall’s
meeting at Randwick on Saturday, but it
died out shortly afterwards. Elated at their
will on Anorient (3 to 1), who romped
in the best backed horse in the Hurdles,
backers plunged on Lesboo (3 to 1) in the
Flying Handicap. The Polycrates horse
never gave liis supporters a thrill, and the
race went to Kapuya (10 to 1), who squeezed
home from Nandillyan (20 to 1) by half a
head. Others to give the ringmen a lift
were Bavacre (Tattersall’s Stakes), 15 to
1; Newsore (Two-year-old), 7 to 1; and
King Cyllene (5 to 1), the last-named being
one of the two outsiders in the Winter
Stakes. Bollinger dragged backers from des-
pondency by winning the last race, the
Welter Handicap, but as he went out at
2 to 1 they had little chance to salvage
their losses.
Armed with excellent credentials, Green
Pad (3 to 1) was made a solid favorite for
the Two-year-old Handicap, but he met with
interference on the journey and finished near
the tail of the field. Newsore, a likely-
looking bay gelding by Newmarket, took out
the money. He came into the straight with
a fairly big lead but had to stave off a bril-
liant attack by Casque D’Or, who ran him
to half a head. The third horse, Clargull,
was three lengths away. NewSore’s top-
weight imposition of 9st. 51b., although it
was lightened by a 71b. allowance, was a
fairly big load for a youngster in the soft
going, and it would seem he is a galloper
above the ordinary. He was bred by Hunter
White.
A weak field of five faced the starter in the
Winter Stakes, owing, no doubt, to most of
the cracks having gone into temporary re-
tirement in anticipation of the big spring
meeting. Honan was top-weight and favorite
at twos, Edgardo threes and Lovebox 9 to 2.
King Cyllene and Reonui were at fives and
sixes respectively. Although Honan had a
four-lengths’ lead when nearing the turn for
home, he finished out of a place. Lovebox
gave an even worse display and came home
last. King Cyllene, who appears to gain
stamina with age, got a break on the field
in the straight, and finished six lengths clear
of Reonui, with Edgardo two lengths away
third. It was a remarkably easy win.
Anorient, though he jarred his supporters
badly when he struck two fences, won the
Plurdle Race comfortably by 20 lengths.
After the first hurdle, where his co-favorite,
Really, came to grief, the field spread like
a bush-fire and the race developed into a
procession. Mindful of Anorient’s lapses
in the past many thought that he would
stop, but he finished very strongly. Gros-
venor, favorite for the A.j.C. Hurdle Race,
beat Pindarus by 24 lengths for third posi-
tion.
The servants of chance were on the spot
when they sent Bollinger out a warm favor-
ite for the Welter Handicap. The chestnut
was w’ell handled by Pike, who sent him to
the front when the turn was reached. Mag-
daff (7 to 1) set out after him in the
straight, but Bollinger had sufficient in,
hand to bring him a sliort-neck victory from
liis pursuer. Triplex (10 to 1) was four
lengths away third. Magdaff’s performance
was good (he humped lOst. 41b.), and lie
should give a good account of himself in
Brisbane next month.
The most dire calamity of the day from
a punter’s point of view was Lesboo’s failure
in the Flying Handicap. He was so heavily
backed for the race that many of the ring-
men were reluctant to lay him towards the
close of operations. Piloted by E. Ellis, he
was in sixth position when the straight
was entered but dropped back quickly to
third last, and could barely have blown out
a candle when the judge’s box was reached.
The winner, Kapuya, brought to an end a
trot of bad luck for her trainer, F. Hickey,
but she only just shaded Nandillyan by half
a head. Whitta ran a respectable third.
For Moorefield next Saturday:—
Hurdle Race: Burraform; next, Tedwin.
Kogarali Stakes: Sweet Auburn; next,
Firefly.
Maiden Juvenile Handicap: Pinnate;
next, Clargull.
Flying Handicap: Nandillyan; next,
Ariodon.
Moorefield Handicap : Blather ; next, Flin-
ders.
Carlton Welter Mile: Singledale; next
Lesboo.
:J: s): $ $
With every favorite beaten, and two 10-1
shots among the winners, punters crashed at
Williamstown (Vic.) on Saturday last. 11l
luck began with the first event, the Kororoit
Hurdle, for which the unlucky Gift' was a
strong favorite at 5-2. The Ilonorious geld-
ing again ran a good race, but had no chance
at the finish with the well-bred Henare (All
Black —Fobchain), who, starting at 7-1, won
by two lengths from the favorite, with Lord
Bounty (9-2) eight lengths away third. The
winner looks like turning out a first-class
performer over the battens. He is owned by
THE PROFESSIONAL TOUCH.
SPECTATOR: “’Ow did you land ’im?”
PUG. FISHERMAN: “I used a hook to the jaw!”
J. Fell —one of the syndicate of wealthy
men who bought the costly Saltash colt in
Sydney recently—and is trained by Joe Mui-
cahy. Pildin was amongst the starters, and
ran a promising race. There was another
capsize in the six furlongs Juvenile Handi-
cap—-for which Jack Daniel’s mount, Ban-
doeng, was favorite at 3-I—a 10-1 shot —the
Maoriland-bred youngster Star Boy (Lucul-
lus —Starella) defeating the favorite by a
neck, with St. Teresa (7’s) half a length
away third. Elliott had the mount.
=l= * * *
For the 10 furlongs Bay View Handicap
A. T. Creswick’s All Black mare Amarelle
finished up favorite at 4-1. King's Consort
(6’s) took charge at the home turn and,
despite a strong challenge by Amarelle. the
Comedy King—Amoureuse mare won by a
long neck, with Miss Disraeli (20’s) half a
head away third. The whiner is trained by
“Bob” Ferguson for R. ,T. Edwards and was
ridden a clever race by young O’Brien. The
Autumn Steeplechase (2m.) was responsible
for the downfall of a favorite —the topweight
Lachlan, who started at 2’s, coming a purler
at the last fence but one. The winner turned
up in the 10-1 shot Strath Bligli, who had
led most of the way, and lasted long enough
to win by a head from Kilvenny (6’s), with
Victorious (25’s) third. In the six furlongs
Gellibrand Handicap the St. Anton gelding
Stage Saint (B’s) won by a long ncek from
Madom (7’s), with Billy Duncan’s mount,
One Too Many (7’s), a neck further back.
The Tasmanian sprinter Greener was favo-
rite, but was not heard from. Darcy Eccles
was not long in winning a race with his
recent purchase, New Hope, Godby’s cast-off
getting the judge’s verdict in the mile Welter
by a neck from Qustar (10’s), with Hawick
(15’s) a head away third. The winner
started second favorite at 7-2, and Bastian
had the mount.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Things in the boxing world are getting as
bad in Sydney as they have long been in
Melbourne, as was glaringly shown by the
fact that the Stadium management could
offer its loyal Saturday night supporters
nothing better last week-end than the “mixed
programme” that, in happier days, was the
menu on Thursday afternoons and, later,
on Wednesday nights. On this mournful
occasion the “collation” included a 15-
rounds’ bout between Jack Mason (Bst.
111 b.), winner of the featherweight tourna-
ment promoted by Stadiums, Ltd., and com-
pleted only the previous week, and Ernie
Connors (Bst. 131 b.), a lad who has been
showing a bit of form in preliminaries of
late and who had to give the tournament a
miss in baulk owing to his having hurt
himself in training. What he would have
done to his tourney opponents had he been
able to compete was well demonstrated by
the fact that after taking Mason’s measure
for two rounds, and belting him a whole
lot in the third, Connors cut loose in the
fourth, floored his man for the count of
seven and followed up by knocking him clean
out as soon as he rose from the restful
canvas. As usual on mixed nights, when
the tariff is low, there was a large attend-
ance.
Two well advertised new-comers in Patsy
McCarthy (12st. 81b.), of Ireland, and Tom
Alley (12st. 121 b.), the Mormon from Utah,
had the mat. at Melbourne on Saturday
night, but so poorly did they do their stuff
that they got the bird from the big crowd
on hand. On their showing, what either of
them doesn’t know
about the grappling
art would fill libra-
ries. Apparently
Tom’s mission in
this season’s pro-
gramme is to fill
the cave-man role
vacated by Bill
Edwards; but his
bursts of simu-
lated fury were so
poorly done that
they were greeted
with derisive laugh-
ter and; the re-
peated application
of the “count” from
the disgusted pa-
trons. After some
futile attempts at
wrestling by the
pair Thomas re-
lieved the mono-
tony by spitting
venomously at
Patsy, but the act-
ing was poor and
failed to go over.
Pat retaliated by
stamping on the
M o r mon’s foot.
Tom hopped franti-
cally and appeared
to be in mortal
agony. After some
more harmless
theatricals, Alley
scored the only fall
of the match in the sixth duel, with a
reverse headlock and hatch, but even the fall
failed to arouse any enthusiasm.
Footbrawl
The feature of the Rugby Union season in
Sydney to date has been the fine form shown by
Y.M.C.A. and Raiulwick, who now stand level
for the Shute Shield. Saturday’s games saw
the Young Men win a hard battle with
much improved North Sydney by 12 to 6.
Booth, a recruit from Maoriland, making an
impressive showing for the Northerners, as
did the Hammill brothers. George, Greatorex
and Harry Woods stood out in the Young
Men's ranks. Western Suburbs inflicted an
unexpected licking on Easts, winning by 24
points to 17.. scoring six tries to five and
three goals to one. Waratah Storey’s return
to Wests’s ranks helped them a lot, and in
S. Wheeler, who scored four tries, the Blacks
have a most promising winger. O’Dea in
the forwards and Forsayth at back did good
service for Easts, the latter line-kicking in
fine style. ’Varsity had a field day against
tlie young St. George team on the students'
home ground, winning 40-3. This is only
the Saints’ third game together, and the side
has not yet shaken down. In J. C. Harris
they have a dashing tlireequarter who should
he heard, from when his side is able to give
him more opportunities. Glebe-Balmain
and Manly met at the Village, G.-B.
getting home by 25 to 16. Manly led at
half time, but faded at the finish. Erie
Ford, the Waratah winger, made his re-
appearance with G.-8., kicking two field
goals. The redoubtable J. Ford also bulked
big among the Red forwards, getting two
tries. J. Cant, who kicked four goals, and
Abbott were the most conspicuous of the
Villagers. Randwick, probably the best team
in the competition this season, had a run-
away win in their bye game with Police,
scoring 60 to 10. Donald and Mackney scored
for the John Hops, Payne and Little landing
penalty goals.
The second Rugby League inter-State
match of the season saw New South Wales
reverse the previous Saturday’s decision, and
defeat Queensland at Sydney Cricket Ground
by 16 to 7 —two tries and five goals to a
try and two goals. In the mid-week match a
N.S.W. second XIII had won from the
Northerners’ second string by 22 to 9, so
honors rest at present with the Welshmen.
Saturday’s game was hard and interesting,
but, except for a few patches, not clever foot-
ball. The Welshmen early settled down to
“spoiling” tactics, and aided by a greatly
improved back division the Blue forwards
were most successful in keeping the Queens-
land backs off their characteristic game. The
pack more than held its own with the hefty
vanguard of the visitors, and must be given
most of the credit for the result. The in-
clusion of Busch and Maher greatly streng-
thened the inside back division of the New
South Welshmen, While a revision of the
pack was all to the good, the passengers of
the previous week being well replaced by
solid workers. The six country players in
the side fully justified their selection. The
Queensland contingent did not show that
cleverness under pressure which was such a
feature of their play under the easier con-
ditions of the first match, and the attentions
of the Blue forwards and half-back line
hampered the spearhead of the Queensland
attack, Gorman and Craig. Only once did
the combination get fairly going in a fine
series of transfers which ended in Sellars
scoring. Over-eagerness cost the team many
penalties, and these were utilised most effec-
tively by Wearing, who landed five goals.
The stars of the N.S.W. backs were the
scrum-half, Busch, and N. Hardy, at centre.
A burst through by the latter gave Free-
stone a chance to register the first N.S.W.
try, and all through he was effective in
attack and defence. Busch gave a great all
round exhibition and wound up with a clever
individual try. The wingers on each side
bottled each other effectively, but the play
of Ellis and Smith, the N.S.W. and Queens-
land full-backs, cannot be said to have called
for bouquets. Maher’s handling at centre
Was disappointing, but his tackling and un-
remitting attention to his opposite numbers
were very useful to his side. Gorman, Craig
and King were the stars of the Northern
back division, but could not rise superior to
the opposition, in spite of determined en-
deavor. Both packs played fine all-round
football, though the handling might have
been cleaner, with N.S.W. slightly the better
in all departments throughout the game.
N.S.W. has now won 27 of these games to
14 by Queensland.
On the form shown so far, and making
allowance for the chopping and changing of
the N.S.W. team, the standard of play has
been disappointing. Unless it improves a
great deal in both States the outlook in the
Tests against the Englishmen is not promis-
ing—that is, unless the standard of the
latter, as is reported, has also dropped con-
siderably from that of other days.
* * * sis
Ideal conditions favored Melbourne’s
Saturday games, some 32,000 turning out a
trifle over £7OO to watch Richmond and
’Scray. Latter was fast and handled well,
but the Tigers got a tidy lead by half-time,
and won finally by 100 points to ’Scray’s
86. South visited Geelong and showed fast
and clever ground play till lemon-time, when
Geelong’s solid ruggedness smashed them up
and the Pivot won by 105 points to 81.
Essendon handed ’Roy its fifth successive
defeat with 94 points to ’Roy’s 84; and
’Wood outed St. Kilda with 102 points to
74, Gordon Coventry booting 9 goals. The
best games were where they were least ex-
pected, Hawthorn putting a determined,
scientific attack over the unbeaten Mel-
bourne Fuchsias, and missing victory by 110
to 101 through faulty goal-shooting. North
Melbourne beat Carlton in pace and clever-
ness, and, gaining a 24-point lead by half-
time, stuck to most of it to the end—North.
81 points; Carlton, 65. It was Carlton’s
first defeat this season, and the barrackers
couldn’t understand it.
(Continued on page 41.)
A HYMN WITH A MORAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The simple-minded golfer,
With ever-hopeful soul,
Upon liis legs puts checkered bags,
And sallies forth where leering flags
Lead on from hole to hole.
lie tees a spotless ball which
He means to whack afar;
He prays to kindly fate he
May smash the stubborn eighty,
Nay, travel round in par
The disillusioned golfer
lie hath a lurid tongue;
The bunkers crumble at the sense
Of his most anguished eloquence,
Far to the fairway flung.
He takes his heavy niblick
And smitetli hard and deep.
Now, does he dig for treasure,
Or exercise for pleasure,
What time the strokes up-creep?
The broken-hearted golfer
Crawls back with drooping head....
Could he hut keep his bean down thus
When stringing fast, and furious,
He’d make his handicap a plus,
And never need to swear and cuss
And wish that he was dead!
victoria.
RIKKI T.


Do You Realise
McMnq
make Sets of
GOLF CLUBS
to Suit every Pursel
Pitcher ' Mashie K : hlic Mswhie Ms-hie Iron Mid Mashia Midlroi> Drivinz Iron
New 1928 “SWEET SPOT” Custom Made Sets
KROFLITE IRONS
Uniformity conserves energy; it ensures the repetition of an act.
Uniformity is the most important essential in golf. Great golfers
are great because they have a uniform swing- I —they can swing in
the same “groove” every time. With the average set of clubs this
presents difficulties. But not so with Spalding, who have made
every club in the bag feel exactly alike with the “Kro-Flite” Set.
In Spalding clubs the shafts are exactly matched. There is an exact
increase in pitch from one blade to another. There is also an exact
variation in the lie of each club. The distance you stand from the
ball is automatically determined. Such absolute uniformity must bring
greater uniformity to your game.
Set of 7
fiio'lo'o
Set of 5
«7'lo'o
KROFLITE WOODS
With Inlaid Face. Custom-made Sets Spoon to Match if Required
NOTE.—The important feature of these clubs is that, unless a driver and brassie are
perfectly matched from the very beginning of their manufacture, it is practically impossible
to select two regular clubs from stock that are directly related to each other.
90^ m P F(
KROFLITE—AUTOGRAPH MODEL
Clubs of very finest quality and equal in every way to our Custom-made Sets, but
manufactured as single clubs only. Finished with highest-grade hickory shafts and
long, best-grade calf grips. Made in Men's Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
“CRESCENT” WOODS
These Clubs are made up with a fine-grade hickory shaft, persimmon wood head,
striped, aluminium sole plate in driver, brassies and spoon.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
“CRESCENT” GRADED IRONS
These graded Clubs are wonderful value and beautifully finished. Popular model
heads, made up in men’s right and left hand, and ladies’. Can be bought in sets or
single clubs.
“THISTLE” WOODS
Good grade hickory shaft and persimmon head, striped.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies'.
“THISTLE” IRONS
A very well-finished, low-priced Club, made in Driving Iron, Mid Iron, Mashie Iron,
Mashie Niblics and Putters.
35'" ea.
22'6 ©a.
ea«
ea *
10'6 ea *
A. G. Spalding 8 Bros. (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
352 Kent Street, Sydney.


Ilk hi 11
■ 111
m
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O. . Proprietor:
One Minute Railway Station. J, M. AHERN.
One Minute Wharves.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 XOBK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
New LEFEVER Nitro Special HAMMERLESS GUN
23ZS
m
LEFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
DOUBLE
BARREL,
£7/15/-
0.K.-ed and Purchased in Quantities by U.S. Navy.
The Lefever Nitro Special is well finished and the best value obtainable. Chambered for 2fin.
Cartridges. 30in. barrels. The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gun-
smiths the world over say it is the best-designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was
snapped 77,000 times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was shot 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The United States Navy selects the Lefever Nitro Special from all other makes and orders a
quantity to be used by the U.S. Navy men. You may be sure the U.S. Naval experts get the
best gun. LONG RANGE. HARD HITTING. CLOSE PATTERN.
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE.
VA
PTY. LTD
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Footbrawl
“Ferrocliie” : Much has been said and writ-
ten of rough play on the football fields of
Australia, but it would appear that we
cannot claim a monopoly in this. The par-
sons of Leicester (Eng.) generally meet the
police of that city in an annual Rugby
match. This year the clerics had to meet the
lawyers instead, the chief constable having
forbidden his John Hops to take part, as
the preachers of peace and goodwill had
incapacitated so many of them last year.
The match was in aid of charity, too!
* # * *
“Past Grammar”: The Rugby Union game
continues to make steady progress towards
regaining the old footing in the N.S.W.
country districts. The revived Orange Union
is making good headway, and the Sydney
Grammars are to play there on June 2.
Newcastle and West Maitland are Mcreasiug
in enthusiasm for the amateur code, and
the schools thereabouts are going over to it
wholesale —a bad lookout for the League,
in the days to come. The New England
Union is flourishing, and in addition to the
usual competition is running a special car-
nival at Armidale shortly, when teams from
the North West, Clarence River and New-
castle unions will appear. All the local
secondary schools are playing the Union
game. The return to the Union of many of
the schools of this type in N.S.W. and
Queensland which have been playing League
is strong evidence of the fact that those in
authority in these institutions do not look
on the professional code as an ideal one for
their charges to adopt.
* * * *
“Rucker”: Nothing has helped so much
to extend interest in Australian Rules foot-
ball in N.S.W. of late years as the visit to
Sydney last season, of the famous Carlton
and Geelong clubs from Melbourne, when the
Southern cracks gave exhibitions of the game
which attracted large crowds of followers of
other codes of football, as well as the con-
firmed adherents of the game in N.S.W.
The Australian Football Council in Mel-
bourne has decided to follow up the first good
impression, and has recommended to the
Victorian League that a match between
Victoria and South Australia be played in
Sydney this season, with, perhaps, another
to follow in Brisbane. September 8 is the
suggested date for the Sydney game. In
addition, negotiations are in train with the
Port Adelaide and West Adelaide clubs,
from South Australia, which, it is hoped, will
play in Sydney on August 25. Footscray,
from Melbourne, and Broken Hill are also
asking for games in Sydney, which is all
to the good of the national game in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The arrival of the Queens-
land Rugby League team in Sydney recently
was marked, among other happenings, i>y an
impassioned appeal from a newspaper corres-
pondent to the League authorities of N.S.W.
and Queensland to put aside the inter-State
jealousy which was gnawing at the vitals
of the manly and lucrative sport. The
pronunciamento closed with a fervent ad-
juration to both sides to assume the “spirit
of the A.1.F.” It seems a bit late in the
day. The time for that sort of thing was in
1914. The Rugby Union closed down
entirely, and remained with the shutters
up until the close of the war. The League
went on playing all through that period
in club and .even inter-State matches, and
never seemed at a loss for hefty young
eligibles to fill its teams. In almost every
record of British games, “play abandoned
owing to the war” appears against the years
1914-18 inclusive. The League’s record is
the only exception known to the writer.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: In addition to the honor
and glory, there promises to be a nice little
bit of brass coming for those Rugby League
players so fortunate as to play in the Test
matches against the Englishmen. The
honorarium for each match will be 10
guineas—none of your measly quids—and
men playing outside their own State will
receive in addition 255. a day, as well as
travelling and hotel expenses from the day
they leave home till their return. The
“refs.” will draw five guineas a match and
255. a day. The raised admission charges
make it clear who is going to find the money.
# '4 * *
“Gate”: The big event of the Rugby
League season in this country will be the
arrival in Sydney of the Northern Union
footballers on May 31. The visitors will
have to start grinding the money-mill with
a match against N.S.W. two days later, the
League being evidently of opinion that there
is no sense in keeping its importations eating
their heads off in the stable. The tour will
include Queensland and the N.S.W. country
districts, and a marked departure fromi
previous programmes is the inclusion of
matches in North Queensland, at Towns-
ville and Mackay. Indeed, there is a general
disposition to cater for the country “eonnec-
tion,” due probably to the increasing return
to favor of the Rugby Union game in some
of the country districts. The first Test
match will be played in Brisbane on June
23 and the second and third m Sydney
on’ July 14 and 21. Owing to the coolness
prevailing between the Cricket Ground trus-
tees and the N.S.W. League, the grounds
for these games have not yet been fixed,
but it is expected that the choice will lie
between the Cricket Ground and the Agricul-
tural arena.
* * * *
“Bunce”: As was anticipated, the determi-
nation of the N.S.W. Rugby League to
repudiate the original agreement as to the
division of the swag accruing from the
English team’s tour with Queensland has
proved successful. That agreement pro-
vided for a pooling of the gates and an
apportionment of the takings in shares be-
tween the two State Leagues and the Board
of Control, which is supposed to run the
tour as an “Australian” body, the Board's
cut to be devoted to financing further tours,
etc. Realising that the biggest gates would
be in Sydney, Ma refused to throw its hat
into the ring unless it got the dashed lot
of the State takings for itself. Sooner than
see the tour an expensive fiasco, the Queens-
landers, though they promise to provide
most of the drawing cards in the Test
matches, backed down, and agreed that each
State should handle its own earnings. A
further request by N.S.W. that it alone
should nominate the chairman and vice-
chairman of the Board was fortunately de-
feated, Ma, somewhat mollified by the jing-
ling financial future in the distance, making
the best of the situation.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rough House”: A curious but interest-
ing article appeared lately in an English
tennis annual on the question of who are
the best behaved of modern tennis players.
A SURE THING.
GOLF LIAR: “I’ve done that 480-yard hole in one.”
GOLF CYNIC: “In one of your flights of fancy, of course.”
It is by a leading English handicapper and
referee, and he picks Helen Wills, Rene
Lacoste and Zenzo Shimizu, of Japan, as
the ideal trio. This goes to bear out the
contention of some Bulletin scribes that
tennis is notable for the “temperamental” be-
havior of its exponents, especially as the
expert concludes that spectators are con-
stantly “subject to emotional displays on
courts which can be charitably described,
t the exclusion of a harsher term, as theat-
rical.”
* * * *
“15-30”: De Morpurgo, mainly responsible
for Australia’s eclipse in the Davis Cup,
ranks next to Lacoste and Cochet among
European tennis stars. In four years he
has played 17 Davis Cup matches, and has
only been licked three times—twice by
Lacoste and once by Borotra. In the last
go with Lacoste the battle ran to five sets,
each taking a love set from the other. It
was in that same tourney that the Italian
proved the superiority of a hard-punching
base-liner over the most agile volleyer by
putting up an impressive rubber against
Gochet, scores going 7-5, 5-7, 6-1, 7-5. In
the light of those achievements, the perfor-
mance of Patterson in forcing the Italian
to five sets is not to be sneezed at, especi-
ally when one recalls that Patterson is
not a hard-court player, all his triumphs
having been won on grass.
;li Jj: H* ❖
“Cut Shot”: The French
championships opened at Auteuil on Mon-
day with a record entry, in which the Aus-
tralian Davis Cup players are included, as
well as other Australian players, among
whom Norman Brookes, J. B. Hawkes and
the Victorian, P. Ilaege, are prominent.
Tilden is not appearing for the Americans,
and his doubles partner, Hunter, has Nor-
man Brookes for a mate. Patterson,
Brookes, Crawford and Hawkes appear
among the entries for the singles, for which
there are 69 starters. Australians in the
doubles are: Patterson and Hawkes,
Brookes (with Hunter) and Crawford and
Hopman. Both these boys have had much
experience of hard-court tennis, and it
may be that the big French tourney will
give them a chance to rehabilitate their
tennis reputation after the Genoa fiasco.
In any case the pair are under orders from
the Australian tennis authorities to return
after the Wimbledon tourney, a course of
action which has something of a “naughty-
boy” flavor about it. As a piece of unneces-
sary tactlessness, it is quite on a par with
other actions of the Australian tennis
serangs.
si: * * *
“Dr. Knucklebone”: The female of the
tennis species rose in her might at a special
meeting in Sydney last week, and demanded
that the' sex be accorded representation on
the council of the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis
Association. Some dozens of those present
made speeches on the burning question, and
it was only at the finish that one or two of
the male officials of the L.T.A. who were
also there made a nervous suggestion that
definite proposals be formulated for the coun-
cil’s consideration. This will be done at
a later meeting. Another grievance was
that the women were not allowed to play
their grade matches on the Rushcutter Bay
courts. A vague promise of reform in this
direction was also extracted from the mere
males concerned, and the meeting, appa-
rently satisfied, powdered its collective nose
and went home.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurize”: The enervating in-
fluence of the feminine element on the game
of golf is a subject which has often in-
spired my pen. A striking instance is to
be seen in a recent encounter between a
Sydney shire council and the local golf
club. The latter desired sole control of
the playing area for a term of years, with
power to make all its own rules for regu-
lating play. The council refused this, on
the ground that the club had recently en-
forced rules forbidding associate members
playing on Saturdays and public holidays,
and that this was unfair to the dear crea-
tures. No mention was made of it, but it
is apparent to the meanest intelligence that
some fairly energetic lobbying must have
been done by the ladies to win the council
over to their side. Most of the women
players have all the week days to play in,
but naturally insist on jamming up the
fairways on week-ends as well, though these
are the only occasions on which their men-
folk get a chance for a game. The club
would be well advised to abandon the whole
show to the women members, and let them
run it themselves. The soft-hearted and
-headed councillors would then get what
was due to them, in good measure and some
over.
* :3c * *
“Divot Digger”: The inglorious incon-
sistency Of golf has never been better illus-
trated than by the results of some of the
big games recently played in Europe. Take
Walter Hagen, the American undefeatable,
so-called by admiring countrymen. He re-
ceives a father of a hiding in his first
match in England against the British crack
Compston, and then beats the latter in a
hard-fought go for the British open cham-
pionship. A little later, he meets Aubrey
Boomer, the Englishman who is chief pro-
fessional at the St. Cloud course, near
Paris, and is beaten —3 and 2. If “stipes”
were a feature of golf contests, Walter
would have been on the carpet in short
order for inconsistent running.
The Watermen
“Shrewsbury”: The orgy of G.P.S. row-
ing which annually afflicts this country lias
now reached its finish for the year with
practically simultaneous events in Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Perth. The Melbourne
Head of the River crown was won for the
first time in the history of the event by
Xavier College, which beat Scotch after a
fighting finish by half a length. In Perth
the local event resolved itself into a struggle
between the Christian Brothers and Scotch
Colleges, the Brethren getting home by a
canvas. In Brisbane, where the race is
a four-oar event and not one for eights,
State High School and Brisbane Grammar
rowed a dead-heat. The rules have not pro-
vided for this unusual happening in rowing,
so State High will hold the silver mug for
six months, and then hand it over to Gram-
mar to swank about for the remainder of
the year.
* * * *
“Slide”: The 17th annual report of the
Mosman Rowing Club reviews the notable
career of one of Sydney’s most famous
boating organisations. The present year
is the seventh in succession that the Mos-
man Club has won the State senior premier-
ship, the veteran Sydney club being the
only one in the history of N.S.W. rowing
to better the achievement, the ancients
having won for eight years in succession in
the dim and distant past. Last season the
Mosman Club won all the senior eight events
competed for, including the Grand Chal-
lenge Cup at Henley-on-Yarra. A fine re-
cord, and a pity it was marred by the
puerile spirit which induced most of the
members of the club selected for the State
crew to decline acceptance of the invita-
tion, on the ground that the entire club
crew should have been selected to represent
N.S.W. Whatever the merits of their case,
true sportsmanship demanded that they
should accept the ruling of their govern-
ing body.
* * * *
“Scull”: Bert Barry, the English holder
of the world’s professional sculling cham-
pionship, has refused an offer from Aus-
tralian Major Goodsell to row for the title
at Salt Lake City, though he has been
offered £5OO for expenses. Barry is willing
to defend the title on the Thames, but says
he will not row Alf Burns in Australia, or
Goodsell in America. In this attitude he
is only adhering to precedent, which has
always given a title-holder an implied right
to defend his title on his own midden.
There have been exceptions to this rule,
the most outstanding being- the meeting of
Dick Arnst and Ernest Barry on the Zam-
besi in 1910.
H: sfc ❖ ❖
“Blade”: After the inter-State eight-oar
race for the King’s Cup at Hobart last
season, someone sent King George, donor
of the mug which was first acquired by the
A.I.F. eight, a marked programme of the
race and the results. lI.M. wrote acknow-
ledging the message, and stating the interest
he had taken in the accounts of the race
in the Australian newspapers. The N.S.W.
Rowing Association has now decided to for-
ward a programme of this year’s event to
Buckingham Palace, but has supplemented
this with a copy of the S. M. Herald con-
taining an account of the race, with pictures,
moral deductions and all complete. Anyway,
H.M. can’t say that he didn’t ask for it.
(Continued on next page.)


Bottles of 36 - 2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
The secret of buoyant spirits and never-tiring energy lies
in healthy, normal digestion. Fatigue, headaches and
depression are usually caused by faulty elimination of waste.
Fresh, active yeast consists of millions of tiny plants which
act as healthful cleansing agents in the system. Yeaston
Tablets are guaranteed to contain live (active) yeast cells.
A course of Yeaston Tablets will build up a stubborn resist-
ance to disease, and give you new zest in life.
Yeaston Tablets are Quaranteed Pure
and contain no drugs, chemicals or preservatives
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PXY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within
8£
Nature’s
Corrective
Tonic Food
Car and Cycle
“Coil”: Something like consternation has
been caused in English motor-racing circles
by the refusal of the Royal Automobile Club
to sanction Malcolm Campbell's attempt to
recover the world’s speed record on the
Pendine Sands in Wales. The R.A.C. gives
as a reason for its refusal the insufficient
len'gth of the course, only seven miles, with
a river at one end and a wall at the other.
It was on this -beach that Parry Thomas
was killed in 1927, and a recurrence of the
tragedy is feared. The decision, will cause
great extra e’xpense and trouble to Camp-
bell, who will have to make his attempt
abroad, probably at Daytona Beach in
Florida. The run for this test is only a
mile each way, and there would seem to be
ample room for getting up a flying start,
and slowing down gradually at the finish in
a seven-mile stretch.
* * * *
“Whizz”: A new Australian motor-car
road record for the mile was put up near
Sydney last week over a level stretch of con-
crete road. Driving F. A. Parle’s well-known
2269-c.c. supercharged eight-cylinder Bugatti,
which has figured in many recent contests,
.T. J. O’Rourke covered the distance in 35
2-ssec., an average speed of 101.7 m.p.h.
The first attempt averaged ,only 98.9 m.p.h,
owing to a cylinder missing, the time being
36 2 ssec., but the second shot was success-
ful. The driver was hampered by a short
run for the flying start and a cramped
distance in which to pull up after the mile.
This is the best Australian time yet re-'
corded since D. J. Harkins covered the
mile on Gerringong (N.S.W.) beach at the
rate of 107.14 m.p.h. in a Minerva chassis
with a Hispano-Suiza 210-h.p. engine in
1925.
i'fi * * t'.z
The results of the third annual 24-hour
reliability touring contest of the Royal Auto-
mobile club were published last week, and
showed that no less than 24 of the 29
starters qualified for gold medals by com-
pleting the run without the loss of a point.
The trial was over a course of about 463
miles, from Sydney through Moss Vale,
Nowra, P.raidwood, Goulburn and back by
the main Southern-road. The 24 successful
competitors drove cars of 13 different makes,
British and American. Out of the six Austin
cars which started five finished with the
full marks of 500, four of them being Baby
sevens and the fifth a 12-h.p. ear.
‘Tlotham”: There has been another
breeze in the Victorian Amateur Cyclists’
Union, that somewhat draughty body which
blew Australia’s finest amateur road-rider,
“Fatty” Lamb, into the ranks of the profes-
sionals some months ago. It started with
one of the delegates to the meeting of the
Council of the organisation in question
stating that he had been instructed to in-
quire into the amateur status of several of
the officials. The president, one C. A.
Schwaebsch, was indicated as one of those
concerned, it having been alleged that he
had ridden in two Austral Wheel races in
the past. The president denied that he had
ever ridden as a professional, but when
asked if he had ever competed against pro-
fessionals declined to argue the point. W.
Heron, of the Essendon club, in the name
of his members, then called on the president
to resign, which he' refused to do. It was
agreed to refer the matter to the status
committee, the names of other officials
charged with professionalism being also sub-
mitted to that body for investigation. In
view of the Victorian body’s antagonistic
attitude to Lamb’s nomination as Australia’s
representative for the Olympic road-racing
events, on the ground that he was suspect
of professional acts, the situation is not
without an ironical humor.
* * * *
The Australian cycling team in France
which is to compete in the great Tour de-
France road-race in June, made • its first
public appearance last week in the Paris-
Rennes road-race, which was won by C.
Frantz in 12h. 37m. Hubert Opperman, the
Victorian crack, finished eighth in a field of
32. which included four other Australian
riders.
“Trembler”: The attempt to cover 50,000
’piles in a continuous run with the same car,
which was begun by Lionel Ilapson at the
Miramas track near Paris some time ago,
proved a triumph for the driver and Iris
Marmon car, to say nothing of the Rapson
tyres, the manufacture of which is soon
to begin in Tasmania. The car. like the
tyres, a product of a British factory, was
an ordinary stock coupe. The driver set
himself the task of completing the 50,000
miles in 10 weeks. He accomplished it in
nine. The first set of tyres was changed after
20,000 miles had been run, and were found
to have been unharmed save for nails
picked up. A second set of covers was put
on at 40,000 miles, and these were found in
first-class condition. The deflector tubes
were not changed, and it was not necessary
to use a pump. The run is a wonderful re-
cord of car and tyre endurance, and still
another illustration of the perfection at-
tained in all branches of the motor-car indus
try by British makers.
Miscellaneous
“Verri”: Although Maorilanders regard
S. Lay, the javelin-thrower, who. has achieved
within three feet of the world’s record, as
having the best chance of their Olympic re-
presentatives, the chief interest centres in
Norma Wilson, the youthful runner, who,
with the already-famous Dr. A. E. Porritt,
will represent the Dominion on the running
track. This girl hails from Gisborne, and
her times compare favorably with those of
the best women runners in other parts of
world. All the same, it is quaint to see
a country which has produced Randolph
Rose and the All Blacks to look to a girl
runner to win it fresh athletic bays.
Jj: $ sl:
“Bramall Lane”: The annual meeting of
the Mary-le-Bone 0. C. brought an old
friend of Australia’s into prominence, when
A. E. R. Gilligan was elected to membership
of the committee. Such an honor is unusual
for anyone under 60, and must be taken
as evidence of the club’s recent determination
to assume a more up-to-date atmosphere than
has marked it since it was founded by
William-itlie Conqueror or one of his con-
temporaries. Much more in keeping with
tradition was the bestowal of a similar
honor on Lionel Palairet, of Repton, Ox-
ford and England, one of the greatest
stylists the game has produced. He is
only two years short of what used to be
•considered the qualifying age.
“Pot th’ White”: The billiard match in
Sydney for IS,OOO up between Walter Lind-
rum and Clark McConachy, won by the
Maorilander by 879 points, was responsible
for a new Australian record under the re-
vised rules. This was a break of 1006 by
the defeated man, which is not far behind
the English record under the same con-
ditions, 1176 by W. Smith in London last
year. The revised rule calls for a stroke
off the cushion after 30 nursery cannons
have been made.
•'r * * *
“Shrewsbury”: With fine weather and
good wickets the batsmen are holding high
holiday in England, while the lamentations
as to the dearth of decent bowlers have got
old Jeremiah gone a million. Hammond
has been batting in wonderful style, his
latest being a faultless 206 n.o. for Glouces-
tershire, and he is certain to give some of
our bowlers a pain when he meets them. It is
interesting to note that the small ball, which
was introduced to aid bowlers, has had the
opposite effect, going all in favor of the bats-
men in actual practice. Bowlers are unable
to swerve it, and one of their chief weapons
F. McGRATH, the Randwick trainer, one
of the leading exponents of the craft
in N.S.W.
in an English atmosphere has been taken
from them. There is an added interest for
Australia in the news that Arthur Richard-
son, in his opening match with the Bacup
League Club, scored 75 against Nelson, the
club for which E. A. McDonald and the
late Frank O’Keefe played in England.
“Third Base”: Australian baseballers are
fairly on their toes in anticipation of the
arrival in Sydney on July 26 of the Cali-
fornian baseball team, drawn from the
Leland-Stanford and California Universities.
Victoria and South Australia will land hi
Sydney at the same time for the annual inter-
state triangular tourney, and the visitors
will be pitted against the Australian State
teams on July 28 and August 4 and 11.
In addition, they will meet a representative
Australian team and one from Sydney Uni-
versity. This will be the first occasion that
Australian and American sides have met
at baseball, and the inter-’varsity match
will also be the first of its kind. As
the Japanese squadron, which can field a
strong nine, will reach Sydney on July 14,
there will be practically a month of inter-
national games staged in Sydney. It is to be
hoped the N.S.W. association will be able
to secure one of the big central grounds,
since that is essential to complete success.
GORDON COY ENTRY, of Collingwood
Football Club, Victoria’s champion
goal-kicker.
“Der Jong”: That eminent jurist, “Judge”
Swindell of America, who first dragged the
tin hare into Australia’s ken, has at last
found a place to lay his head in South
Africa. When he left these shores some
time ago with a retinue of hare hounds and
a carpet-bag full of good Australian brass,
a Bulletin writer forecast that he would
not be received with flowers in Afrikander-
dom. This turned out to be correct, and the
legal luminary, having being turned down
by the Cape and Free State and Transvaal,
had to wander the country seeking an abid-
ing place for himself and his faithful
hounds. This he is reported to have found in
Natal, which, being largely Scottish in
composition, is always prepared to try any-
thing that smells like money once, at least.
He has secured the right to build a track
and stands at Durban.
“Rich Uncle”: The Suva Bowling Club,
which is renowned for its hospitality even
among bowling clubs, has issued an elabo-
rate programme of its fourth annual bowling
carnival to begin on July 7, to which the
world and his wife is invited. In addition
to bowling information the publication con-
tains alluring photographs of all the leading
hotels, interspersed with much general in-
formation that makes it valuable as a guide-
book alone. The carnival includes the
Pacific Pennant, for two teams from each
competing association, Pacific Championship
Singles for a 50-guinea trophy and one of
10 guineas, an Open Rink knock-out com-
petition, open to all-comers, and the South
Pacific championship singles. There are
many other prizes and trophies, and a big
Australian contingent will go over to annex
some of them, as well as teams from
Honolulu, Samoa, and pretty well every-
where else except, possibly, Papua and Ocean
Island.
❖ »'i # *
“Glebe”: Sydney Uni. Athletic sports!
meeting last week produced some excellent
performances, in spite of a strong southerly
wind. The outstanding feat of the day was
R. Hay’s shot putt of 38ft. Sin., which beat
the same performer’s figures for last year,
and established a ’Varsity record. Another
good performance was O. E. Worth’s 22ft.
5-Jin. long jump, which is only half an inch
short of R. J. Honner’s record of 22ft. 6in.
M. Rosenblum put up another record for
the sports with a hammer throw of 98ft.
Sin., breaking his figures of last year by
2ft. Sin. The track events were not produc-
tive of such good results, though T. M.
Clouston won the mile championship in 4min.
43sec., equalling the record put up in 1911
by H. S. McNeill. R. ,C. Smith ran a good
hundred, considering the conditions, in 10
5-10 sec,, but the track times do not show
well in comparison with those recorded by
some of the men the Sydneyites are meeting
in the inter-’Varsity contest.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Yen” : For the first time since about the
middle of the second century a.d., Palestine
has its own money. The last occasion was
when the ill-fated Bar-Koehab rebelled
against Rome, and minted a coin of his own.
Before, and since his day, Palestine money
has borne the marks of Roman, Persian,
Saracen and Turkish conquerors.
* * * =s
“The Bat”: How much cement is wasted
annually? I ordered a ton, and after taking
delivery from our cargo boat, found about
2cwt. short. I don’t know how those that
followed me got on; as I was first in and
naturally picked the best-conditioned bags.
In the consignment, every second bag had a
tear, and some were half-empty. Can’t Aus-
tralian cement works put their product in
casks, and ensure full weight?
=i= * * =i=
“Genung”: Two historic Ballarat estab-
lishments have gone down before the motor-
car. One is O’Farrell’s saleyards in Arm-
strong-street, founded in 1857, three years
after the Eureka affair, and a great rendez-
vous for horsey men in the days when
the V.A.T.C. had its headquarters in Bal-
larat. The other is Craig’s stables, of which
Adam Eindsay Gordon was the proprietor
in 1868. It has now become a garage.
“Q.N.”: Looks as if the steamship will go
the way of the sailing vessel at no very dis-
tant date. The world’s tonnage of motor-
ships has increased from 234,000 tons in
1914 to 4,500,000 tons to-day. And during
the past 16 months there have been more of
these constructed than steamers. Inciden-
tally, the tonnage of steamers fitted for oil
fuel has increased since 1914 from 1,310,000
tons to 18,500,000 tons.
* ❖ ijc :*t
. “Coot”: The McCaugliey bequest has
proved a godsend to the Diggers’ children.
Since 1920, when the trustees of the A.I.F.
canteens accepted the administration of the
bequest, 5800 youngsters have been assisted.
It is computed that the bequest, which
should yield £600,000 at least, will enable
over 13,000 children of deceased or seriously
incapacitated soldiers to obtain technical
training in skilled trades and other occu-
pations.
* * * *
“Menin”: A man in Victoria bought a
car on time-payment, signing the usual series
of promissory notes, and sold it almost im-
mediately for ready cash. The firm then
took action against him for selling its
property and its only security against his
p.n’s, but the Law held the sale quite legal
and somebody pointed out that even Com-
monwealth notes were nothing more than
Government :p.n’s. The only action the
firm could take, it learned, was to wait
until a p.n. fell due and was dishonored
and then sue for payment.
* * *
“B-Gar”: Still another State enterprise
has gone to the wall—now that the Queens-
land Government has decided to do away
with the gem pool, which sold only £l5 of
precious stones in London last year. The
sapphire miners of Anakie (C.Q.) were
the most vigorous objectors to Government
control; but, unless some influence in
Europe or America brings the wearing of
sapphires into fashion again, future pros-
pects for sales are no better than when
the pool operated. German gem merchants
were once big buyers on the field at Anakie,
but the war has apparently changed German
taste.
'3* * * *
“Cartot”: The invention of a Sydney
man for extinguishing burning benzine and
other oils has just been tested by the Fire
Board. It consists of a device in which cer-
tain chemicals are combined to form a thick,
soapy lather, which is forced by a small
pump on to the burning material, the effect
being to cut off the air and smother the
flames. At a demonstration recently at
Rozelle (Sydney), oil and petrol were poured
on to the surface of a waterhole and then
ignited; the mixture extinguished the flamer
in less than three minutes. In fighting petrol
and oil fires mere water is worse than
useless.
'l* v
From the Commissioner of Rural Inter-
mediate .Credit, Wellington, M.L.: Confusion
between two quite distinct schemes of rural
finance was shown in the reference (B.
18/4/’2B) to the New Zealand Treasury’s
recent issue of £400,000 bonds. The Rural
Advances Act of 1926 set up a special
branch of the State Advances Office, to
grant long-term loans to farmers on security
of land. By another Act of last session the
Rural Intermediate Credit Board was created
for the purpose of making advances for terms
not exceding five years, on stock security.
The issue of bonds mentioned was made on
behalf of the State. Advances Office, and
therefore had no connection with the Rural
Intermediate Credit scheme.


In Iheuniver^al
11
[tR!
tu.
aj
18
a--o
Front Wheels
The Importance of the Bearings
in the most vital and inaccessible parts of your car
KiN
VO
BECAUSE you cannot see the part they
play, you are apt to discount the
importance of the bearings in your
car.
You must realise, however, that they are
responsible for the smooth working of the
most vital and inaccessible parts of the
engine and ctiassis.
The presence of R & M British Bear-
ings adds longer life and greater running
smoothness to your car.
BRITISH R&M BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
are so reliable and efficient that they are
used by more than 80 per cent, of Brit-
ish Motor-car Manufacturers.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors: —
GARDNER WAERN 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
WEST. AUS. AGENTS: (Automotive) COVENTRY
MOTOR CO., LTD., PERTH.
BOOKS FOR EVERYBODY.
Obtainable from N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
Arthur Wright’s Sporting
Novels.
Price 1/-. Posted 1/IJ.
A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY
A GAME OF CHANCE
A ROGUE’S LUCK
A ROUGH PASSAGE
BOSS O’ YEDDEN
FETTERED BY FATE
GAMBLER’S GOLD
IN THE LAST STRIDE
OYER THE ODDS
RUNG IN
TRE BREED HOLDS GOOD
THE OUTLAW’S DAUGHTER
THE SPORT FROM HOLLOW-LOG
FLAT
UNDER A CLOUD
Steele Rudd’s Famous
Australian Novels.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
DAD IN POLITICS
DUNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
GRANDPA’S SELECTION
MEMOIRS OF CORPORAL KEELEY
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
ON EMU CREEK
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON OUR SELECTION
SANDY’S SELECTION
RAYSTON’S SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
THE BOOK OF DAN
THE DASHWOODS
THE OLD HOMESTEAD
THE POOR PARSON
THE RUDD FAMILY
TECHNICAL BOOKS for All Tracies.
DIESEL ENGINES, by Davjd Louis Jones. Price 25/-. Posted 267-
MODERN CARPENTRY. Hodgson—2 vols. Price 16/- posted.
AUDELS’ BUILDERS & CARPENTERS’ GUIDE—4 vols. Price 30/-post free.
MAYES’ AUSTRALIAN BUILDERS & CONTRACTORS’ PRICE BOOK.
Price 15/-. Postage 4d.
BOOK OF AUSTRALIAN BUNGALOWS. Price 5/-. Posted 5/4.
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH-CENTURY BOOK OF RECIPES, FORMULAS
AND PROCESSES. Price 20/-. Posted 21/-.
DYKES’ AUTOMOBILE ENCYCLOPAEDIA New 15th Edition. Price 30/-
Posted 31/6.
A DICTIONARY OF MODERN ENGLISH USAGE. Price 10/-. Posted 11/3.
WISDEN’S CRICKETERS’ ALMANAC, 1928. Price 6/6. Posted 7/-.
HAWKINS’ ELECTRICAL GUIDE. Complete set of 10 vols. Price 50/-.
Postage 2/6 extra.
AUDEL’S MASONS AND BUILDERS’ GUIDE. The set of 4 vols. Price
30/-. Post -free.
PRACTICAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Handbook designed as a Book of
Reference for Persons Engaged in Building. By John P. Allan. Price 10/-.
Postage 1/3.
SHEET- AND PLATE-METAL WORK. For the Use of Boilermakers, Braziers,
Coppersmiths, Ironworkers, Plumbers, Tinsmiths, etc. By E. Atkins. Price
9/-. Postage lOd.
PLUMBING. Practical Handbook by E. G. Blake. In 2 vols. Vo!. 1 : House
Drainage, Lead Laying, Gutters, etc. Vol 2: Domestic Hot-water Installa-
tions, Sanitary Appliances, etc. Set. Price 16/-. Postage 1/3.
METAL-PLATE WORKERS’ WORKSHOP COMPANION. Manual of Work-
shop Practice. By Francis Turner. Price 8/6. Postage 6d.
CONCRETE AND PRODUCTS AND CAST STONE. Manufacture and Uses.
By 11. Childe. Price 6/6. Postage 6d.
SKETCHING IN WATER-COLORS. Book for Amateurs. By J. Stewart.
Price 4/6. Postage 6d.
GAS AND OIL ENGINES. Running and Maintenance. By Peter Caldwell.
Price 4/6. Postage 6d.
RECENT FICTION.
ROMANCE OF RUNNIBEDE. By Steele Rudd. Price 4/6. Postage 4d.
THE PORTRAIT INVISIBLE. Joseph Colomb. Price 5/6. Posted 5/11.
THE SEA DEVIL. By Count Von Luckner. Price 10/6; Posted 117-
Write for Complete list of Bookstall Novels. 150 ’Pities. Free on application.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
J
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of
Australasia, Limited
The Balance-sheet of the Bank, as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the year
which then terminated, are now submitted to the shareholders.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including' £104,331/12/7 for
Income, Land and Note Taxes, amounted to
Add balance brought forward from previous year
Making available . . .. .. .. ....
Prom this sum the following' appropriations have been made
Interim Dividend of 10 per cent, per annum paid in November last
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £3,000,000) ..
Reduction of Bank Premises ..
And it is recommended that a Dividend be paid on the £lO and on the £8
shares at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum
Carry forward
The increase in the Paid-up Capital from £4,000,000 to £5,000,000, referred to at the 1927 Annual
Meeting, has been completed.
The Reserve Fund has been increased from £2,500,000 to £3,000,000 by the addition of
.£411,576/11/4 of premiums on the recent issue of new shares, and by the allocation of £88,423/8/8
from the year’s profits.
The new Head Office premises were completed during the year, and officially opened for business
by the Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor of Melbourne, Sir Stephen Morell, Kt., on 27tli October, 1927, that
date being the seventieth anniversary of the meeting in 1857 which resulted in the formation of the
Bank. The building is now in complete occupation, and the whole of the portion available for tenants
has been let.
During the period the following New Branches were opened: VICTORIA —-215 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne. WESTERN AUSTRALIA —KooJ'da, converted from a receiving- office. QUEENSLAND —Wool-
loongabba (South Brisbane).
The death, on 21st September last, of Mr. William Davies, a member of the Bank’s Queensland
Board of Advice, is recorded with much regret. His wide and useful knowledge of Queensland
conditions was always at the disposal of his-colleagues and the management, and, although incapaci-
tated by illness for many months prior to his death, he maintained throughout a keen interest in the
affairs of the Bank.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the Bank’s Head Office,
271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 30th May, at noon, when the shareholders will be
called upon to elect two Directors in lieu of Mr. Hugh Murray Strachan and Mr. .J. Newman Barker,
who retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association, and are eligible for re-election.
There are no other candidates. .
The shareholders will also be called upon to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year, in lieu
of Messrs. John Bislop and S. J. Warnock, who retire, but are eligible for reappointment.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., Melbourne, 14th May, 1928.
BALANCE-SHEET
Of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
at 31th March, 1928.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200,000 £lO shares
fully paid up £2,000,000 0 0
600,000 £8 shares
paid up to £5
per share .. 3,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund
Account . . 3,000,000 0 0
Profit and Loss
Account .. 398,494 16 9
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest .. £247,670 0 10
Bearing interest 849,590 8 2
8,398,494 16 (
47.956 10 0
788,792 17 0
£1,097,260 9 0
Other Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest v. 13,699,461 18 6
Bearing interest 20,723,357 3 3
£34,422,819 1 9
35,520,079 10 9
Interest accrued and rebate on cur-
rent bills . . . . .. 418,284 17 , 9
Balances due to other banks .. 448,447 15 10
£45,622,056 8 1
Contingent Liability, as per contra
in regard to obligations of cus-
tomers and others on letters of
credit and guarantees, £2,170,831/3/1.
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion, Australian notes and
cash at bankers .. .. £6,421,243 9 5
Government, municipal and other
public stocks, debentures and
funds . . . . . . .. 6,462,548 11 10
Bills and remittances in transitu .. 2,965,285 13 5
Notes and bills of other banks .. 103,992 13 11
Balances due from other banks • .. 1 15,488 1 7
Duty , stamps . . . . . . 32,385 14 3
£16,103,944 4 5
Real estate, consisting of bank
premises . . .. .. .. 1,155,412 17 4
Other real estate .. .. ■ .. 73,402 0 4
Bank furniture . . . . . . 66,803 2 2
Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts .. 28,222,494 3 10
£45,622,056 8 1
Liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit, drafts.and
guarantees, as per contra,
£2,170,831/3/1.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
DR. ’
To expenses at Head Office, 325
Branches', and 157 Agencies .. £803,747 10 11
~ Income, Land and Note Taxes 104,331 12 7
~ Interim Dividend .. .. 248,085 TO 0
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. 88,423 8 8
~ Reduction of Bank Premises
Account .. .. .. .. 50,000 0 0
„ Balance 398,494 16 9
£1,693,082 18 11
CR.
By Balance brought forward .. £144,602 13 11
„ Gross Profits, including re-
coveries, less rebate on bills
current, interest accrued on de-
posits, repairs to premises,
rent, etc. .. .. . . 1,548,480 5 0
£1,693,082 18 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
I)R.
To Balance .. .. .. . .. £.3,000,000 0 0
£3,000,000 0 0
CR.
By Balance Last Year . . .. £2,500,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account . . . . . . 88,423 8 8
„ Premiums on issue of new
shares .. 411,576 11 4
£3,000,000 0 0
I, Ernest Henry Wreford, Chief Manager of The National Bank of Australasia, Limited, do
solemnly and sincerely declare —
That the Reserve Fund amounting to £3,000,000 and the Accumulated Profits to £398,494/16/9
are used in the business.
That the accompanying statement and balance-sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my know-
ledge and belief, true in every particular.
The names, addresses, and occupations of H the persons who are Directors of the Bank at the date
hereof are: Sir John Grice, Melbourne; J. Newman Barker, Esq., Melbourne, gentleman; Hon. Sir Frank
G. Clarke, K.8.E., M.L.C., Melbourne; Sir James A. M. Elder, K.8.E., Melbourne; Bowes Kelly Esq.,
Melbourne, grazier; and Hugh M. Strachan, Esq., Melbourne, merchant.
And I make this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration
punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this twelfth day of May. 1928
Before me, H. A. AUSTIN EMBLING, J.P.
To the Shareholders of The National Bank of Australasia,
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
Limited,
.. e , tl , ia L v i c ? lave exarr . lll } eci and audited the accounts of your Bank for the year ended 31st
March, 10-H, and that, in our opinion, the Balance-sheet and Accounts have been properly drawn up and
exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs according to the best of our information
aim the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Bank.
The London Office Return to 31st March, 1928, duly audited by Messrs. Price, Waterhouse, and
Company, has been submitted to us.
&n< * labilities at the Branches are taken on the certificates of the Managers and
n re P. eived every assistance from the officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with
all the information and explanations required by us in the course of the audit.
Melbourne, 14th May, 1928. g OI WtIRNOCK A j Auditors.
Aiia+3w:o Oh T Newman Barker, of Melbourne, being Directors of The National Bank of
l;“ a ’ limited, do hereby certify that, in our opinion, the above balance-sheet is correct and is
drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this fourteenth day of May, 1928.
JOHN GRICE - ) ,
Th( . , . ... , J. NEWMAN BARKER J Dlreptors -
with fhl C p U ± o ™7, , lv ? l \ ort and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager, to comply
with the Companies Act (Victoria), appear on the Official Report.
* E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.


Q weekly treat in mom homes
~anc( always a Slmibu
COUNTLESS housewives include
Swallow and Ariell’s Plum
Puddings in tlioir menu once
a week at least. Their richness,
fruitiness and incomparable flavor
have made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over fifty
years. They’re made from an
“Olde Englishe” recipe, too! In-
valuable when unexpected guests
arrive.
Ash your Grocer, and Serve One
Every Sunday.
1
1.
fc
c/
0
w**/
.IfeiV
SiVtdlvtir &r CltieCti
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
WHEREEVER YOU TRADE BUY AUSTRALIAN MADE
“TRITON”
Electric Bath Heater
What a. joy to the housewife and mother to
know that when a hot bath is needed she has
merely to turn on the '“Triton” Electric Bath
Heater tap and the steaming hot water is there.
No dread of explosion or fumes : —no carrying
in fuel, no matches, no danger of Are, no clean-
ing out grimy ashpans afterwards. The
“Triton” Electric Bath Heater means a bath-
room fresh and spotlessly clean, and it very
soon pays for itself in the economies it effects.
Full particulars from—
Thos. Abbott &. Co.,
343 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone F 4042.
O. Wynyard & Margaret Lanes, Sydney, N.S.W.
11l Taranaki Street, . Wellington, N.Z.
AGENCIES—A. C. Clarke, 112 Gawler Place,
Adelaide, <S.H.; Harris, Scarfe '& Sandover,
Ltd., Hay Street, Perth, W.A. : W. 11. Knight
& Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Laun-
ceston; James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Creek
Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
m
Melbourne
Chatter
The Newman Society's ball at St. Kilda
Town Hall on Thursday launched 54 debu-
tantes into the social whirlpool. The
maidens in white, holding long-stalked pink
posies, made their curtsey to Archbishop
Mannix, who beamed approvingly on the
attractive spectacle. The lancers followed,
danced with pre-war decorum. The New-
man Society, which antedates Newman Col-
lege, was founded as a sort of social club
for Roman Catholic students of the Uni.
The crest and motto of the late Cardinal
Newman was adopted, and stamped in gold
upon blue bannerettes it figured largely in
Thursday’s decorations, between festoons of
yellow and flame draperies. Mrs. P. F.
O’Collins, wife of the president, was hostess,
receiving a shower bouquet of tawny blooms
that harmonised with her gold and blue
brocaded gown. Others of the committee
were Dr. Maurice MacGillieuddy and his
wife, whose gold-lace robe dipped to a pea-
cock’s-tail effect; the T. U. Brennans, she
with a shimmer of crystal upon apple green ;
the M. J. I). Pages, and the J. P. Caseys.
Mrs. E. Coffey and Mrs. I). Barry marshalled
the debs. The dancers were chiefly of the
younger set. Pat Parer, a sister of the
aviator, was a dainty figure in sliot-taffeta
frills; Madeleine Page’s black-taffeta frock
was banded with vari-colors of velvet ribbon ;
and Nellie Brosnan wore many frills of
white tulle linked to a gold frosted-tissue
bodice.
Lohengrin’s fairy barque, with its swan
pilot, came to anchor on Saturday night at
His Majesty’s, and was hailed by a full
house. Fttore Cesabianchi, in his mail of
silvery paillettes and huge shield, made an
effective Lohengrin, and Hina Spani, his
Elsa, made a taking bride with fair hair
floating over a trained mantle of moss-green
velvet that fell from draperies of the faintest
pink georgette, gold embroidered. Giuseppina
Zinetti was striking in the role of the sor-
ceress, her henna locks straying unbound
over a cloak of apple-green and white that
did not quite conceal a lime-green satin
gown.
The temperature was too low for a dress
display on the part of the feminine section
of the audience, which was mostly fur-
wrapped, hut turbaned tissue toques and
glorified boudoir caps made their appearance
for the protection of shingled heads. Lord
Somers, with Colonel and Mrs. Davidson,
were in the forefront of the d.c.. and they
were joined by Dame Nellie Melba, in pale
apricot georgette frock and ermine wrap. The
diva, who passed another milestone that day,
received an especially cordial welcome. Three
or four boxes were filled with singers from
the other grand-opera organisation. Lina
Scavizzi came wearing a bandeau of pearls
and silver beads that dangled ropes of pearls
over each ear. Toti da.l Monte and Mrs.
Charles Tait were with her. Mrs. Couch-
man. of the A.W.N.L., was with Mrs. Scott
in a stalls box, and Mrs. Geoffrey Syme had
a party of friends in her usual d.c. annexe.
Stephanie Deste, of “Rose Marie” fame, in
white tulle flounces and. a blue-green Spanish
shawl, received greeting from numerous
admirers. Mrs. George Armstrong. Wilma
Clarke, the Frank Clarkes. Bernard Heinze
and Mrs. Percy Deane, down from Can-
berra for the season, were in the throng. . An
immense swan was one of the floral offerings
passed up at the final curtain.
In “Un Ballo in Maschera,” at the Prin-
cess on Saturday night, Rosita Silvestri. as
the erring wife, matched her shining black
coiffure with a velvet robe opening over a
satin petticoat. A domino of pink brocade
was worn with a white satin ball gown.
Tall Margherita Flor, as the page 1 Oscar,
wore brocaded suits of blue and lavender!
The stage supplied the color effects of the
evening; the audience being covered in
sombre hues. A few bare backs showed in
the stalls, but such outings were of brief
duration. Cecil Beveridge’s wife, wrapped
in a golden cloak bordered with white fox,
sat in a box; opposite, Maria Henkina ex-
hibited her blonde head bound with a helmet-
fashioned band of silver. Colonel Maxwell
Carroll and his wife, Warde Morgan, slim
Doris Bell, in a cloak of floral lame, and
Sheila MeCubbin were in the auditorium.
At His Majesty’s during the week Mel-
bourne renewed its acquaintance with stars
of a former J.C.W. grand-opera company—
Toti dal Monte, as Rosina in “The Barber
of Seville,” and Lina Scavizzi, as the ill fated
heroine of Puccini’s “Manon Lescaut.” Dal
Monte, just a trifle less plump than when we
last saw her, entranced the audience with
her roulades and trills. ' John Brownlee, of
the opposition operatic crowd, was in the
“Barber” audience, and got a great reception,
in which Melba, Who occupied an adjoining
box, joined enthusiastically. As Manon, on
Friday night, Lina Scavizzi seemed nervy
and weak of voice in the first act, but she
gathered confidence as the opera proceeded
and wound up triumphantly. Dame Nellie
Melba, wearing a clierry-red gown, was in
a box with the French Consul-General and
Madame Turck, Geoffrey Gibbs and his
wife, Justice Hayden Starke and Mrs.
Starke, Mrs. Wilcox from Adelaide, the
Norton Grimwades, Mrs. Archie Currie, Mrs.
Phinias Smuts (Capetown), Mrs. Germaine
McMicking and Mrs. K. McCleland were
also among the first-nighters.
One of the most picturesque and melodious
of operas, Bellini’s “Norma,” produced last
week at the Princess, provides opportunities
for some very effective stage settings, of
which the Gonsalez organisation took full
advantage. Rosita Silvestri, as the druidical
high priestess, looked very striking with her
black locks, crowned with oak-leaves, flow-
ing over a white robe that had a draped cape
of Madonna blue fringed with gold. Crimson
and gold clad warriors and a stray Roman
imparted most of the color into the dressing,
which was mainly white by reason of the
large number of vestals and priests involved
in the story. Ben Fuller and his lady, with
Mrs. W. Mortill, occupied the managerial
box on the opening night, others in a
crowded audience being Mrs. Dalrympie,
Betty Moule, John Chirnside, Prof, and
Mrs. Scott and Mrs. Jim Angus.
The Mortills had a smart party at Tay
Creggan, Hawthorn, one night last week
in honor of Madame Henkina, Russian prima
donna of the Gonsalez company, who is a
countrywoman of her hostess. Mallee roots
blazed in reception-rooms and ballroom, for
snow lay upon the highlands; and crimson
candles in silver candelabra shed a cosy
radiance over the supper tables. A French
frock of white georgette scattered with black
and crimson poppies upon silver lace was
worn by Mrs. Mortill, the guest of honor
showing, beneath a lengthy pale gold satin
coat, a sparkle of crystal upon Wedgwood
blue. Ben Fuller, with his lady, whose black
gown melted into a deep flounce of emerald
green, was of the company. The Barry
Thomsons and Jack; Dr. and Mrs. Apperly,
painter George Bell and liis wife; Mrs. H.
L. Wilkinson, charming in chenille-embossed
white georgette; Bernard Heinze, Louise
Gargurevich and several members of the
Gonsalez co. were among the dancers.
This is Esmond Kiernan, the baby of our
Plush Chamber and occasionally its
stormiest petrel. lie was responsible for the
Unimproved Property Tax Bill which stimu-
lated the in-
terest of sub-
urban coun-
cils in vacant
lots, and he
hones to
abolish capital
punishment
and the office
o f aldermen.
Two years ago
he went to
Europe to
study the old
Guild system,
in which he
was interested
because, though
a Laborite, he
is a large em-
ployer. He re-
turned a con-
vert to the old
method of
trade organi-
sation, which he reckons fairer and more
stimulating than modern unionism. He suc-
ceeded the late Donald Melville in the N.
Melbourne seat, and has kept it warm for
nine years. Ruskin made the portrait.
Members of the Housewives’ Association
got together at the Austral Salon one even-
ing last week to farewell Mrs. John Down-
ing and welcome home Mrs. I. H. Moss after
her European mission. Mrs. Glehcross, the
president, handed bouquets, horticultural and
verbal, tr the guests of honor, and supple-
mented Mr- Downing’s posy with a travel-
ling clock. d.o £--*-Ft of members. The recipient
of the b*. •" . will attend the Baptist
World Conference in Toronto as an Austra-
lian delegate, and later will look in at the
W.C.T.U. conference at Geneva. A talk
about her travels by Mrs. Moss and some
music and coffee filled out a pleasant evening.
Professsor A. E. Richardson’s wife was
tended parting cheer at Menzies’ on the
eve of her return to Adelaide. Mrs. Russell
Jackson, who topped a flame-pink jumper
suit with a beige felt hat. and her sister,
Mrs. Edward Hyson, wearing black with
emerald-green velour millinery, were co-
directors of the big gathering. Airs. Richard-
son wore an enamel-green frock under a
squirrel coat, and a hat of parrot-blue-
green breast plumage. Cocktails and/or tea
(as they say in business documents) were
followed by some music by tenor Walter
Kirby, Airs. Dyson and the guest of honor,
the last-named playing some of her own
compositions. Captain Jackson, whose ship
was in port, Mrs. A. Boyes. the Weedon
lady. Airs. C. B. Aloore and Doris. Air. and
Airs. James Angus, Airs. AlcNicol, Airs.
Quinnell and Airs. Frank Beavis joined in
the valediction.
A bridge party one evening last week
brought in about £BO towards the expenses
of the Civil Ambulance ball of next month.
The hon. organising sec. of the ball. Rose
Paterson, was responsible for the gathering,
which was held at Ardocli, Dandenong-road,
Airs. Arthur Paterson, in black velvet, offi-
ciating as hon. sec. Sales of smokes, sweets
and other trifles brought in many a shilling:
Aliss Paterson, who wore blue chiffon with
interludes of black and steel embroidery,
had help in this department from Mrs. Bains
and Airs. Kelly. Among the players were
Airs. David Armstrong, whose rose-pink gown
sparkled gaily; Airs. Percy Sutherland, robed
in black, and Elbe Alorton, from the Harbor
City, also in sombre tones. Aimee Paterson’s
white frock glistened beneath a white fur
coat.
A Lafayette camera caught this glimpse
of G wen d a,
one of the
clever daugh-
ters of Dr.
Kent Hughes,
who is a city
father. As
president of
the Old Gram-
marians’ Club
and secretary
of the 0.G.A.,
Miss Hughes
was one of the
moving spirits
of the recent
silver jubilee
celebrations of
the Church of
England Girls’
Grammar
School, which
numbers her
amongst its
teaching staff.
Buckley and Nunn, the Firm and 3LO
joined forces on Thursday afternoon to' give
a helping shove to the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital. The Bourke-street emporium lent its
restaurant and provided tea, and the others
sent along artists to amuse the throng a la
cabaret, The room wore festive furnishing of
crimson streamers and draperies. Mrs. Corrie
Gardner, woaring coral-pink, and Sheila
Morell, were ticket secretaries; other lead-
ing workers being Mayoress Morell, presi-
dent of the committee, Mrs. W. M. Robins,
Mrs. Felix Lloyd, Airs Clarence Marriott
and Miss Cutlibertson, acting-president of
the institution. May Beatty, slimmer than
of yore, was one of a band of entertainers
that included Rowena Ronald, Vera Bed-
ford, Elsie Day, Nora McManus and Ste-
phanie Guy.
Lilian Valerie, eldest daughter of Air. and
Mrs. W. J. Clemens, of Elsternwick, attended
Holy Trinity, St. Kilda, one evening last
week in a cloud of white georgette glittering
with crystal, with a lace veil draped over a
train, to marry Charles Barnard, whose
late father was a popular medico in the
district. Sisters Nuria and Peta attended
her, the former in a fluffy blue georgette
frock relieved with pink, and a felt hat in
same tonings. Her small sister was a pink
edition bound in taffetas. The newly-weds
will start housekeeping at Yarran.
AVelcoming hands were extended at the
week-end to Mrs. Phinias Smuts, of Cape-
town, S’Africa, best known here as Ivy
Philips. Hailing from Adelaide, where she
was a pupil of Alaud Thackeray, she was
for a time on the staff of our Uni. Con., and
is also remembered as a recitalist. She left
Australia nine years ago, spending over six
years in London and Paris, where she sang
in oratorio under Sir Henry Wood and other
great conductors, and made a niche for her-
self as a solo concert artist. On a tour of
S’Africa a couple of years ago she met her
husband, a medical specialist, and has
settled down to occupy a leading position in
Capetown’s social and musical world.
The Austin Hospital, which sent out an.
SOS to the public a few months ago for the
first time in its 40 years’ battle against T.B.
and cancer, wants £lOO,OOO for new cancer
wards and a research endowment. To date
there is only £23,000 in hand, and the Chari-
ties Board has decided that collections must
cease at the end of next month. The Austin
is an admirable institution, with many ex-
soldier patients, and its call for help deserves
a much more generous response than it has
received at time of writing.
The feminine leads in Shaw s “Getting
Married,” at the King’s, attire themselves
rather more fashionably than the women-
folk of an ecclesiastical household are popu-
larly supposed to do. Beatrice Day, as a
bishop’s wife, wears an up-to-the-minute froce,
of wistaria blue, with interpolations of putt3 r
color; and Zillah Carter sports. fine nigger-
brown lace over beige, with a fringe of Dade-
green tassels. Daphne Deane, as the young
person who is getting married, covers rose-
pink lingerie with a mist-grey peignoir, and
later is enveloped in bridal trappings ot
white tulle flowing over deep cream georg-
ette and flounces of lace. Very worldly, ot
course, but even the Salv’army has recently
had to overhaul its feminine fashions.
A few commendatory words from Mayor
Morell launched the show of pictures by
Hilda Rix Nicholas, now drawing art
patrons to the Athenseum Gallery. The clever
artist had just received word that some of
her work had been hung at the R.A. show
and the Paris Salon and she received many
congratulations. Her attire was of vellum-
colored silk with Chinese embroidery in red
and dull green, topped by a fur coat and a
felt hat of bottle-green tone. The Masson
lady, Madame Turck, Mrs. Herbert Brookes
and painter Arthur Streeton and his wife
were in the opening-day throng.
Governor Somers will hold liis second
levee at Parliament House, Spring-street,
on June 5, the day after the King’s birth-
day celebration. Although he has made
the time 12.45 p.m. and has permitted sac
suits to be worn, it is doubtful if more than
a few hundred will turn up. His Ex. is
liked, but levees are out of date.
Bankes Amery is packing his suitcase for
departure amidst a cascade of regretful fare-
wells. An enthusiast at winter sports, his
cheery smile will be missed at Buffalo and
the Alps, where his holidays were always
spent. He is sorry to leave us, but his three
years’ work for the British Migration Depart-
ment has ended, and he makes place for
Colonel E. T. Crutchley, who lias been
attending to finance in the overseas settle-
ment department.
Pride thrills every R.A.N. heart at the
appointment of Australian-born George
Lyster, who numbers a knighthood and a
D.S.O. among his honors, to the command of
the Nelson, the newest and biggest battle-
ship afloat. Captain Lyster spent his boy-
hood days in the Colac and Geelong districts,
where his dad has a medical practice. His
last visit home was when he brought the
Renown to anchor with Edward P. on board,
and slipped ashore for a quiet chat with
old friends.
An auction sale of tall Marie Burke’s
lovely furniture announced the fact that she
had abandoned her idea of returning to us
with a set of plays. Instead, she has con-
tracted with Alfred Butt to play in “The
Show Boat,” a play founded on Edna Fer-
bers’s best-seller.
Tommy Cochran, unofficial aide of Society’s
naieest hostesses, is planning a long sojourn
on the other side of the world with a jaunt
amid the Pyrenees as a curtain-raiser. A
comfortable legacy has come his way, and
he has resigned his position with Dalgety’s
after 30 years’ service. Firm and staff gave
him a wallet of notes.
The E.S.U. has succumbed to the fasci-
nations of bridge and commenced a tourna-
ment that will be continued fortnightly.
“A.G.M.” writes from London:—
Australian friends have shown great interest in
the exhibition of water-colors by the dowager Lady
Darnley, who as Florence Morphy captured the heart
of Ivo Bligh. There was a private view of the
pictures at Walker’s Galleries on St. Patrick’s Day.
Landscapes are the medium through which the
dowager Countess has expressed her artistic soul, and
Cobham Woods near the Darnley seat in Kent and
the Duke of Sutherland’s estate of Dunrobin are the
two places mainly presented. Lady Darnley is no
mere dabbler relying on high-placed friends for sup-
port, several of the pictures showing great beauty
of color and treatment —especially the sky studies.
, Several purchases were made on the opening day,
, Sir Herbert Baker, the famous architect, being among
' the earliest patrons. Lady Dorothy Peploe, the
i dowager's daughter, Lord and Lady William Nevill
and Lady Alice Bligh were among those who attended
’ the private view.
; The arrival of Lady Massey and her daughter at
’ the Hotel Metropole, Monte Carlo, at the same time
as Thomas Hughes, of Sydney, and his lady, helped
■ the Morning Post to the erroneous assumption that
; the Masseys were the widow and daughter of the
, late Prime Minister of Maoriland. When the special
’ telegram was published in London many old friends
sent messages of greeting on to Monaco, and it was
the inquiry of, one of these friends that disclosed
the fact that the Maoriland Masseys had not stirred
1 out of Wellington,
Adey Brunei, who has written the scenario for
“The Light Woman,” and her son Adrian, who is
> to produce the film, were the principals at a jolly
■ party in Adrian’s fine flat at Queen’s Gate. It was
; a sort of farewell to the artists concerned before
their departure for Spain, where they are to spend
■ five weeks in capturing local atmosphere. Adrian
5 Brunei, who got his first impressions in Australia,
seems to have really and truly arrived as a power
in the film world.


London-made
Grandfather Clocks
DRUMMOND’S carry the
largest and finest selec-
tion of English - made
Grandfather Clocks in the
Commonwealth, produced by
the world’s foremost manu-
facturers, The cases may be
had in Mahogany, dark-
stained English Oak, or Eng-
lish Lacquer Work, and their
appearance alone is indica-
tive of unparalleled quality.
The clock illustrated is fitted
with a reliable 8-day move-
ment, playing the Westmin-
ster Chimes on five tubes,
every hour and quarter-
hour. The Case, which is of
solid Mahogany, is 6ft. 9in.
high, and the Clock is
priced at £132/10/-
Smaller models can also be
supplied in sizes suitable for
the villa or flat.
An invitation is cordially ex-
tended to view these new
models,
sdf
W&m. Brummonb & Co,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster,
set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring-,
; £6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
5 Diamonds,
Oetagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold .Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£7/10/-
15et. Gold, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Single Diamond, Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
£7/10/-
WE GIVE A WRITTEN GUARANTEE
WITH EVERY WATCH SOLD.
Illillllll
30 CDS _
S X.SAUhIfcHS
P* WN>"
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband, -
£lO.
18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
SJ 00 <0 5 =
<y»
os
CH4SiW.ro
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s Oct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£3/10/-
WRITE FOR RING BOOK with Size
Card, it’s FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. Saunders'
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£l5
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-shi.ped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, set
Platinum
18c-t. Gold Ring,
£25
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
ROS-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY
imp
W f
**?
-IS?
Healthy and full of joy—
WHY should not you enjoy life to
the full, when it is possible to
be healthy and energetic —by taking
Sanatogen ?
Blood, body and nerves will soon gain new
strength and vitality, because Sanatogen
contains exactly those elements phos'
phorus and albumin—which build up
lasting health in all the body cells.
Thousands of Physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing—why should
you not, at least, give it a fair trial ?
Get a tin at your Chemist’s .
At all
Chemists
SANATOGEN
The True Tome-Food
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
from 3/9
per tin
of RUBBER
U. 5. ROYAL CORDS
RUBBER TREES
The United States Rubber Company, builders of U.S. ROYAL
CORDS, owns 10,000,000 rubber trees in Sumatra. So it
doesn’t have to stint the rubber.
Furthermore, by an exclusive process, demanding a unique
plant, the web fabric of every ROYAL CORD is IMPREG-
NATED with sprayed rubber latex.
ROYAL CORDS live abnormally long lives, because there
is plenty of the right kind of rubber in every point of wear
and strain, whether the point is visible or invisible.
U.S.ROYAL CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.,
439 Kent Street, Sydney. ’Phone M 2031 (4 lines).
102 Victoria Street, Melbourne, N. 3. Cent. 9437.
11l Margaret Street, Brisbane. ’Phone 4250.
195 Flinders Street, Adelaide. ’Phone 6246.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth, ’Phone A 3 151 (4 lines).


Under
Royal
Warrant
sdf
To H R
Kino
George V
Vintage 1917. I
CHAMPAGNE <
CharlesTleidsieck
MUSS •
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
OuuiEsJleidsiea^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
‘‘Mum,” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
f .
[(Wentworth
H(flfeL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
"The cen/re of Queens/anc/s
(_y cf/sfinputsheot Soc/o/ fLife*
temorn
motel
BRISBANE
sdf
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayes
SILK
GLOBES
Beauty walks the city velvet-shod these
early-winter evenings. To stand on the
corner of Macquarie-street while the sky is
slowly shutting out the dusky crimson of
sunset with its mauve-grey curtains of twi-
light, and look down King-street to Avliere
the four-square St. James’s lifts its bronze-
green spire to Heaven; to take in the curve
that sweeps past the old Mint and the
meditative towers of St. Mary’s that breathe
a benediction across Hyde Park—to do this
is to feel a surge of civic pride. Who can
pass unnoting the top of Bridge-street where,
between the Gardens and the gates of Gov-
ernment House, a bronze horseman thrown
into relief by the cloud of tree behind him
appears about to urge a charmed steed over
the city roofs? And then to come to the
harbor, across which the laughing lights of
crouching points beckon the breadwinners
home; to slip across the polished stillness
of its floor; to gaze at Kirribilli Point, more
than ever in this hour like an old Japanese
print with its crooked tree and its white
gabled house, its blurred outlines turned to
some fanciful pagoda; to catch here the
glimmer of an emerald light, there the ruby
of Fort Denison; to steer for the lizard that
is Cremorne or the secret little bays about
Clifton and Vaucluse —this is indeed to know
enchantment!
Into the midst of the other troubles which
are assailing S. Y. Maling fell his wife’s
petition for divorce, which will probably
now be hurried forward.
But the reaction to their husbands’ troubles
is different in different women. One Sydney
man who recently went through the ice
after doing much perilous skating had a
wife who was on the eve of joining a brother
in England. After enduring much, including
privation, from the man she had married,
she had decided that the limit had been
reached; and her wealthy brother, at her
request, had forwarded the money to enable
her to leave Australia. On the very day that
the cash arrived the husband was arrested
for embezzlement. The wife cancelled all
her arrangements for leaving, and, besides
spending on his defence, the money she had
received, stood by her husband right through
his trial. She commenced proceedings for
divorce after his conviction; but her loyalty
in his difficulties was superb.
At a bachelor-girl’s flat the other evening
this Letter was introduced to something new
in the way of table service. There were
four guests at the satiny-polished old black-
wood table, and before each was placed a
tray of daffodil-yellow lacquer on which
were set a large dull-red plate and a small
dull-red plate, crystal salt and pepper, a long
stemmed Venetian-red goblet and the neces-
sary implements. When you had finished
with your meat plate, you slipped it to
one side and put the other into position.
There was only one decoration on the table,
a squat bowl of dull-blue pottery filled with
red and yellow autumn leaves. Afterwards
with what ease did each guest carry her
tray into the tiny kitchenette ready for
the morning’s advent of the woman-by-the-
day!
The _ desperate housewife with a young
brood is ready to try anything in the way
of help. One the other day sought the
aid of one of those largely-paragraphed insti-
tutions which offer the services of unsophisti-
cated country girls who have come to the
great city to be trained for domestic duties.
Two damsels were recommended, and
put into her keeping with many exhortations
to watch over them and keep them guileless
—their bush parents would never forgive the
institution if any harm should hefall them.
The first shock the housewife got was the
discovery that her unsophisticated country
maidens (or one of them) smoked cigarettes
in bed; the next that they were both factory
girls, the home of one being at Botany,
while the other came from the sylvan neigh
borliood of Granville.
The poet who sang the merry month of
May was not a Sydneyite. May is one of
the tweenies in our calendar. It is a month
as barren of weddings as it is supposed to
be of oysters. It is the month when the big
spectacular dances of June and July are in
the making and committee meetings are the
great dissipation of woman’s days. We are
not yet resigned to the hreatli of winter,
and still cling to that crepe de Chine we
were misguided enough to buy late in
autumn; and the only dances that infest
the night are the gatherings of very young
“old” girls of city and suburban colleges.
The Cremorne Kit Ivat Club filled the
Wentworth on one of the coldest nights
of last week. The object of the indomi-
table Six Hundred was Charity—Charity
that didn't stay at home. It crossed Port
Jackson by ferry and punt and wrapped
its disciples more snugly than bunny coats
or woven underwear, if anybody at all carries
it these nighta. Ordinary Kit Katters
wore the order of the black cat with mystic
red whiskers; but the D.S.O. of a red rose
was worn by the Urgers, who apparently are
the Right Worshipful Grand Masters in
Kit Tvat circles. The jazz cap most favored
was, a Tam o’ Slianter in cocktail colorings
with creme de menthe and cherry-brandy
tassels. The star turn of the evening was
the ballet of coy young Ivremorne males,
led by dancing-teacher May Henry. In a
profusion of white Columbine frills over
lustrous tights they toed and pirouetted in
great style. A young Australian giant,
Gordon Hawkins, twisted his six feet two
into eurhythmic postures that might have
been inspired by the. Maid of Athens giving
Byron back his heart; and Carl Thomas
and May Henry demonstrated the Yale
Blues. The three institutions that benefit
from the frolic are the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, the Institution for Deaf
and Dumb and Blind Children and the hostel
for the Adult Deaf and Dumb.
Rose Day workers can claim the success-
ful cabaret of last week, and much of the
success was due to untiring Florrie Howard,
the press secretary, whose name has become
identified with the Rose Day Appeal. Steph-
anie Deste, the snakelike dancer of
“Rose Marie,” couldn’t do her cobra turn
owing to a sprained back, but the crowd of
dancers at the Ambassadors cheered her
speech of apology in a friendly fashion and
passed on the bottled-up applause to the
dancer’s aunt, Mrs. Van Lier, who filled
the gap in the programme with gypsy airs
on her violin.
Gladys Moncrkiff, looking almost lissom,
so much of her plumpness has she lost on
her travels, was the guest of the Society
of Women Painters at their club rooms last
week. The brilliant Bundaberg girl wore
a mink coat over a fascinating jumper suit
of rosewood kasha. Her hat, of dryad
brown, had the lustre of chiffon velour.
Gladys’s pay envelope must be something to
blink at. for Denis McSweeney, John Mc-
Cormack's manager, once told this Letter
that a mink coat was the sartorial sign that
the second-top rung of an actress’s triumph
had been reached. When she gets to the dizzy-
ing pinnacle of world renown, nothing but
Russian sable can warm her. But to return
to the party. Miss Rio Rita having been
welcomed, the concourse sang the anthem
“For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow,” during
which the guest looked as though she’d like
to browse among the autumn leaves of her
posy. Then a group of musicians were let
loose and Gladys turned unwavering atten-
tion to the musical bill of fare.
Constance Moser is a lover of trees in
the Hans Heysen manner; but when she
paints a tree
in a sunny
grove or on a
wind - swept
headland, un-
known to her-
self she sug-
gests romance.
A tree on her
canvas is a
trysting place,
a group of
them a place
for youth to
dream of high
adventure.
This roman-
tic sense
sweeps out
from her “Blue
Day,” a forth-
standing ex-
hibit in this
month’s
Women
Painters’ show.
Though not prolific, she is a constant exhibi-
tor with the Society of Artists and the
Women Painters. As a beginning student
she had the benefit of Syd Long’s direction,
and later that of Will Ashton. May Moore
made this picture.
Lindfield has its own music club, founded
some time ago with pianist Henry Penn
as director. Now Henry is going off to
Melbourne and Charlie Philip has been made
wizard of the baton. The club’s first at-
home lured its members to the vestibule of
the Lindfield Theatre in the marrow-freezing
forties. The Alfred Hills were the guests
of honor, and Alfred talked entertainingly
of Maori music, afterwards, with the assist-
ance of Lionel Lawson’s violin, playing his
Maori Sonata in C minor.
To the Carlton came Jewish women from
all the States, and one at least from far-
away Budapest. The gathering was a wel-
come to Mrs. Maurice Patkin, the Victorian
president of the Council of Jewish Women.
Dr. Fanny Reading, the N.S.W. president,
from a white glitter of rhinestones made the
speech of welcome, and Mrs. Patkin. young
and very glowing, breathed enthusiasm from
the midst of well-cut cruiser-grey georgettes.
Herewith Falk presents Mrs. Stewart
Dawson, wife of Australia's King of Dia-
monds. But Mrs. Dawson doesn’t bask only
in the reflected glory of her husband’s gems ;
she is herself one of the most energetic
charity
workers i n
Sydney. She
has just been
appointed
president o f
the Furlough
House Com-
mittee during
the absence of
George Ful-
ler’s lady in
E n g 1 a n d.
Mothers and
babies are
Mrs. Dawson’s
chief concern,
and any plan
to improve
their health
and happiness
is sure to cap-
ture her
earnest a t-
tention. Kari-
tane and St. Margaret’s Hospital, with the
latter’s rest home, Dalwood, at Balgowlah,
are two other institutions which have her
earnest support.
Polo week and the Extra Chukka ball will
click, as the Country Women’s Association
has artfully appointed. Booking for this
popular jazz-annual is already heavy, and
the Ambassadors threatens to be as crowded
as it was last year. Mrs. Hugh Munro and
Mrs. A. E. Mclntosh are the dynamos, and
the spoils from this year’s dinner dance will
go half to Keera, the association’s 1 holiday
home at Narrabeen, £5O to the Hillston
Hospital, and the remainder to buy a bush
nursing car and patent stretcher for the
Menindie bush-nursing centre —the Kuring-
gai Branch lately gave one to Moulamein.
The Menindie nurse gets calls from 160
miles out back, so this type of car would he
invaluable for her centre. You can hardly
realise how remote you can be from the
world in comparatively closely settled N. S.
Wales until you go out a bit from Menindie.
It was there not so many years ago, in the
almost impassable “porcupine” country, that
a quite-wild little tribe of blacks was dis-
covered—the descendants of a bad man who
had done some wrong and cleared off with
a couple of lubras in the earliest days of
River settlement. And those days go back
further than you might think. Kars and
Balaclava and Sebastopol—Crimean names—
were sprinkled over the map of this part
by the surveyors who were measuring it up
when Florence Nightingale was binding the
wounds of the Light Brigade.
On Hospital Friday a fleet of colored bal-
loons, the entries, for the aerial Derby, was
loosed in Bathurst-street. A prize of £5 was
to be awarded to the owner of the balloon
which travelled furthest in 10 days. The
winning vagrant, No. 2434, was found at
Terragong, by way of Merriwa, having flut-
tered over 230 miles. The holder of butt No.
2434 is therefore asked to communicate with
the secretary of the Hospital Saturday Fund,
Commonwealth Bank Building.
Mrs. Roystone Davey, who has been secre-
tary (for love) to St. Luke’s C. of E.
Hospital since its first beginnings, has gone
off on six months’ holiday. Few hospitals,
if any, are better furnished than St. Luke’sj
and this for nine years was Mrs. Davey’s
special charge. First her home town, Mel-
bourne, and next (to get unfrozen again)
Cairns will be Mrs. Davey’s holiday ports.
A feature of the Navy League ball at the
Wentworth on June 4 will be the screening
of a picture of the Sydney-Emden fight.
Chief-Justice Street’s lady, Mrs. Leo Quick
and Shirley Bavin are the C.O’s of the
women’s committee.
Ethelwyn Kirk, of Maoriland, who has
made a study of the costumes of all periods,
and allies this with artistic sense and a
taste' for stage production, is in charge of the
Dream of Fair Women pageant which is to
the head-line for the Milk-o ball —and be care-
ful you spell that word right. The purpose is
the enrichment of the N.S.W. Milk Fund, and
the purpose of that is to supply the poor child-
ren of the city with pure milk. A startling
bomb was flung into the committee meeting at
the Australia last week when Mrs. Halse
Rogers declared the milk supply of Sydney was
just about the worst in the world, and not
even fifth grade. Thereupon, on a showing of
hands, it was determined “to do everything
possible to ensure a pure and hygienic milk
supply.” The Milk-funders, incidentally, are
fighting the discussed legislation for ' tying
up the milk runs even as the newspaper
runs are tied up. The Milk-o will be the
first ball to be held in David Jones s new
restaurant, and will happen there on July
14. And while the discussion ot adulterated
milk was raging, that old Tivoli gag popped
into memory about the woman who went
down to the dairy every morning to see
the butter made, and her husband who went
down every evening to see the milk maid.
Mary Gilmore has woven her sympathy
with a fluent pen into an appeal for the
deaf and dumb and blind children now in
the all too inadequate Darlington institu-
tion. Here is one of the beautiful verses
You hear the doves in the pine-tree call,
You hear the wind in the leaves,
And you hear the rain at the window-pane,
And the drip, drip, drip at the eaves;
But they—no carolling bird for them
Has sung its song of the dawn;
They have not heard the beat of the rain
In a summer shower on the lawn.
And this suggests still another plan for mak-
ing money for the building fund. Couldn’t
a book of kiddies’ verse, specially written
by the different women versifiers of the State,
be compiled and sold (interlarded with ad-
vertisements, of course) for the benefit of
the fund?
“The nutty tennis girl is wearing shoes
with uppers in a mixed cotton and woollen
material. These uppers are considered cooler
and lighter than canvas ; certainly they are
gayer, being spotted or checked in many
coiors. Net stockings are threatened with
the spring; and milk white lace is the only
wear for the really smart bride.” All
of which has been written, by a friend in
London.
Winifred Hamilton, the new editor of the.
Wentworth Magazine, came to light in
Sydney journalism for the first time with a
Christmas story in The Bulletin. Subse-
quently she contributed to the paper some
stirring articles on birth control and the
genius of women, causing a host of male
critics to sit up and take notice. For four
or five years previously she had been the
sub-editor in Brisbane of Steele Rudd’s
Magazine.
Seven thousand hats are needed for the
of the Mad Hatters’ ball, which
is the name under which the Artists’ annual
fever will rage this year. Nobody’s hat is
safe, for the girls on the committee are a
desperate gang. June 18 is the date when
the Town Hall will be turned into a monster
hatrack, and at present not one thousand
of the imperative seven have been bagged.
However, on May 30 25 girls will collect
lids in the vestibule of Her Majesty’s. A
ticket for the ball will reward the person
bringing the most original, and another
will be given for the most humorous. A
prize of £5 will be given to the Art school
bringing the largest number of hats (not less
than 100) and another to the individual who
brings in the largest number (not less than
100) to any J. C. Williamson theatre.
Queenslanders from .every suburb are
going in to David Jones’s this afternoon
for the reception to the Hinklers by the
women of the northern State. Mrs. Bert is
to be presented with a wristlet of platinum
in which is set a “Q” of Queensland sap-
phires ; and Mrs. Hinkler, senior, and her
daughter will each go from the party the
richer by a brooch in the form of a pine-
apple designed in yellow sapphires. Two
Queensland singing girls will sparkle on the
programme—Molly de Gunst and Jeanette
Ethelston. Mrs. Theodore is at the head of
the committee.
One of the few weddings of the week was
housed in St. James’s. White chrysanthe-
mums massed like a snowdrift decorated the
church and provided a charming setting for
the Albury girl-bride. She was Margaret
Eva Barrett, and the bridegroom George
Atherton Dart Roxburgh, from the same
border town. White satin and georgette em-
blazoned with diamente, and a veil whose
embroideries resembled the delicate designs
of artist Jack Frost, formed the bride’s out-
fit. Marjorie Cook ’maided. Mark Macrae
was best man, and Padre J. F. S. Russell
tied the knot. The bride’s mother hostessed
a reception at the Wentworth.
Are we becoming as over-sentimentalised
as the children of Uncle Sam? We now have
a Mother’s Day, a Father’s Day, a Father-
and-Son dinner, a Mother-and-Daughter ban-
quet. The emblem of Mother’s Day is a
white flower. Surely we don’t need to wear a
lily-white carnation to remind us that we
had a mother, nor does a mother need to
sit down before York ham and cold turkey
to remember that unto her a daughter was
born. And a father who has a grown-up
son can’t forget him, because the blighter
always clears off with Dad’s best black silk
socks and evening pumps.
Federation was the policy of the ex-
students of the Dominican convents, and the
schools of Moss Yale, Stratlifield, Newcastle,
Maitland and Tamworth combined in the
yearly dance at the Ambassadors. Mrs. Oscar
Diethelm is the president of the union, and
clothed her honors in black lace enriched
with diamente.


GAMES AT SEA,
MONG the many attractions of
a voyage on board an Orient
Liner will be found the spacious
games decks, where all kinds of ship-
board sports may be played under
ideal conditions.
ORIENT LINE
2-4-6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
SYLCOT
CAMBRIC
HANDKERCHIEFS
for
MEN
HAVE MET WITH A WONDERFUL RESPONSE
in Great Britain. That is why you now have the opportunity
of seeing for yourselves the excellence of their quality and
the attractiveness of their appearance.
\
HANDKERCHIEFS
MAY NOW BE OBTAINED FROM MOST
OF THE LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH
SI. 2-4 S
SYLCOT LTD.,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
London Office: 35, Basinghall Street.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Goodwins have been to Barcaldine
and Emerald, where the town councillors
have given them hearty greeting. Emerald
entertained their Exes, at dinner and a ball.
The Uni. had a dance in the main hall on
Head-of-the-River day. Russet and white
was the color scheme, and supper was spread
on tables bright with chrysanthemums and
dahlias. This year Brisbane Grammar and
State High dead-heated. Archbishop Sharp
presented the O’Connor Cup, which the
winning schools have to share as best they
can.
Lennon’s was dressed up with roses and
chrysanthemums for a party arranged by
Mrs. Eve, Mrs. Christopherson and May
Moore to benefit the funds of the Creche
and Kindergarten. Bridge and mah-jongg
tables were dotted about the Palm Court.
Mrs. Eve wore pale grey with small blue
felt hat; Mrs. Christopherson, navy mariette ;
and May Moore, pink, with deeper toned
wide-brimmed liat. The Valley Theatre and
Cremorne lent artists for the musical pro-
gramme.
The Stephens Croquet Club opened its
season in a club house ablaze with the glory
of golden chrysanthemums. Mrs. Weston,
in black marocain, and Mrs. Rudd, in black
crepe de Chine and cyclamen, welcomed the
guests.
Dr. John Bostock talked to members of
the Women’s Club about “The Defective
Child.” Music by Herbert Coulter and
Eunice Cochrane, and supper, rounded off
the evening.
The theatrical event of the week was the
Repertory Society’s performance of “The
Admirable Crichton,” with Leo Guyatt in
the lead. He shone particularly in the emo-
tional scenes. Lady Mary was played by
Mrs. R. Scott, who looked charming and
acted well. Dorothea Hives and Irene Syl-
vester took the parts of the other Lasenby
sisters, and Nell Douglas Graham, who pro-
duced the play, came in at the finish as the
Countess of Brockhurst and got the hand
clap she deserved. Many posies went over
the footlights.
After Saturday night’s performance of
"The White Rat” at His Majesty’s, Nellie
Bramley had a supper party at the Ann
Hathaway, where there were hot saveloys
and jazz. Among the guests were the Huttons,
the Moores, Mrs. Reading and Tessa, Mrs.
M. Forrest and all the members of the co.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Period bridal gowns are becoming increas-
ingly fashionable. Doris Russel, who stepped
up the aisle of St. George’s Cathedral to
exchange vows with Elton Wilson, of Dal-
wallinu, wore ivory satin with hooped over-
dress of lace and a beautiful veil of very old
Limerick lent by Mrs. Kelsall. Peggy
Ivelsall, in powder-blue georgette, and the
bridegroom’s sister, Eileen, in dawn pink,
both wearing rainbow-tinted crinolines,
attended. The cake was cut at Mrs. A. A.
Gibson’s home in King’s Park-road.
Molly Beck’s bridge party at the Green
Room Club and Mrs. Stephenson’s evening
at her home in Claremont were among
a bunch of farewell parties arranged for
popular Joan Hodge, who accompanied her
mother in the Orama to spend a year in
England. At the Stephenson party the
hostess wore black lace and georgette, and
Miss Hodge midnight-blue velvet. Among the
guests were Dr. and Mrs. Dunckley, the
Stephen Kessells, Stella Meagher, Joan
Good, Ethel Anthoness and Clarrie Doherty.
Pictured here by Bartletto is the* wife of
legal knight Walter James. She is a worker
for many good causes, and is particularly
interested in the Girl Guides, holding the
rank of Assist-
ant Chief
Commissioner.
The Minister-
ing Children’s
League, which
at present is
centreing it s
efforts on the
education and
medical treat-
ment of defi-
cient children,
is proud to
claim her as
president, and
she is a vice-
p r e s i dent of
the National
Council of
Women and of
the Divisional
Red Cross.
The Lady
Lawley Cot-
tage by the Sea, where little ones from the
Children’s Hospital and private homes are
sent to recuperate after illness, has her
staunch support. The Victoria League,
which has constituted itself a foster-mother
'to Fairbridge Farm School, is another of
her interests.
Among this month’s voluntary exiles are
Mrs. D. D. Paton, who chose the spicy island
of Ceylon ; Mrs. Burgoyne, who is in Singa-
pore; Mr. Norbert Keenan, K.C., who
boarded the Naldera for a flying trip to Lon-
don ; and Mrs. T. Ambrose and daughter
Helen, who are visiting N.S.W. and Vic.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s musical fantasies
drew good audiences during the company’s
short season here. Just before the final
curtain, of “Ruddigore,”. Charles Walenn
and Winifred Williamson were given a
special farewell, the audience singing “Auld
Lang Syne” and “They Are Jolly Good Fel-
lows.” Both mummers are seeking , fresh
pastures in London.
Our enjoyment of “Lilac Time” was
marred by the illness of John Ralston. His
understudy was not available, and at the
last minute the part of Schubert was taken
by Edward Butterworth. He has a beauti-
ful voice, and shaped well under difficult
circumstances.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
For the last of the three Cup meetings
of the S.A.J.C. at Morphettville the weather
was as cold as the South Pole. Only those
lucky enough to have fur coats escaped blue
noses. Black tailored coats trimmed with
fur were almost universal, and the popular
black felt minus a brim was sported by all
women from 20 to 60. Mrs. R. E. H. Hope
was hostess at the luncheon and tea in a
smart black ensemble and black hat with a
becoming wide brim. Leon Gordon and
his bride were there, the latter wearing
storm boots, possibly to keep her legs warm.
There was a splash of tiger and leopard
skin on some of the black coats.
Even the most erudite of savants have a
social side to their lives, and Prof. Arnold
Richardson, who, as head of the Waite Re-
search Institute and a leading light of our
U n i., enter-
tains all the
high - tonnage
scientists who
come this way.
is fortunate in
having the
aid of a very
charming and
a c e omplished
wife, pictured
here by Broo-
tliorn. Mrs.
R i c h a r dson
was a music
student at
Adelaide Uni.
when she met
li e r future
husband, and
has ma d e a
name for her-
self as pianist,
singer and
composer. She
has travelled considerably, having accom-
panied the Professor upon many of his
scientific missions .. and to conferences at
which he represented Australia.
The swearing-in of our new Governor,
Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven, drew a large
crowd to the Town Hall. His Ex., in the
striking uniform of the Welsh Guards, with
scarlet tunic and plumed liat, and his A.D.C.
(Captain G. H. Verney) as a Grenadier
Guardsman, wearing a busby, stood out
against a background of gowns and wigs.
Judge Angas Parsons was so much like
Charles Walenn as the Lord Chancellor in
“lolanthe” that a solo dance seemed inevit-
able. Lady Hor-e-Ruthvcn wore a shimmering
coat of silver floral tissue with collar and
cuffs of sable fur, and her smart beige hat
had a twist of cerise velvet across the
front. She carried a bouquet presented, to
her by the Mayor’s tiny daughter Katherine.
Miss Murray, sister of Lieut.-Govcrnor
Murray, and Mrs. Verney, with Miss Daly,
who accompanied the Hore-Ruthvens from
England, were the only other ladies on the
platform.
It appears, from wliat they say, that the
new arrivals, like the Weigalls, are going
to take an active interest in the social and
sporting side of their job, and not make
a purely official thing of it. The Weigalls
did more for trade than any of their pre-
decessors, and the Hore-Ruthvens seem to
look at matters in the same light. The
Victoria League Hospitality Committee has
issued invitations for members to meet the
v.r. party at the Town Hall.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The ball in honor of Bert Hinkler got
up by the R.S.S.I.L.A. at the City Hall was
a great occasion. The usually depressing
and barn-like premises were civilised
with flags and greenery. During the even-
ing Mrs. Hinkler was presented by the
Mayoress with a mauve silk shawl liand-
painted with Tasmanian flowers —the gift
of Mrs. Laughton. Mrs Hinkler’s husband
has had to come to her rescue more than
once when thanks had to be returned—he s
had a lot of practice in that sort of thing—
and he obliged this time.
The T. W. 11. Clarkes, of Campbelltown,
were fare welled extensively before leaving
for London by the Naldera, both in Hobart
and in the midlands, where a dance was
held in Powell's Hall, charmingly decorated.
About 200 guests rolled up, and daughter
Ronda, whose marriage on the other side
of the world is' the reason for the journey,
looked her best in delphinium-blue georgette.
The races at Elwick, postponed on
account of heavy rain from the preceding
week, were well attended, and the Tom
Lyonses entertained a crowd at the presiden-
tial tea. Most of the women turned out
in furs or heavy coats, and looked very
cosy in them. The Campbelltown Clarkes,
Rhona Lyons and several others whose pas-
sages were booked in the Naldera put in
a farewell appearance on the eve of sailing.
Una, daughter of the Charles Rockliffs,
of Sassafras, walked down the aisle of St.
James’s to join Francis Onslow, of Turiff
Lodge, New Norfolk, in a gown of heavy
ivory chiffon velvet, very plainly and simply
cut,' with long sleeves that ended in points
and a beautiful Honiton lace veil draped
from a circlet of orange blossoms. Helen
Onslow, the bridegroom’s sister, was the
only maid, a pretty picture in midnight-
blue georgette with a banded head-dress of
blue tulle. The feast was spread at Hadley’s.
Kitty, daughter of W. B. Propsting,
M.L.C., and Miss Allardycc, wdiose dad was
a former Governor of the Speck, intend to
start business in Adelaide shortly as pur-
veyors of art needlework and Other pretty
trifles, in the making of which they .are
both expert. Miss Allardyce has been in
Tasmania for several months, staying with
her sister, Mrs. C. Travers Butler.


■
■
1 mm
■
mm
\ H
m
I
'
n
Hi
sm
n
1 H
I
H
mmmmr
''v ' '
- V
:
■ : '
; • ..j-
HH
mm
■
M
. -
■ .
mm
HI
til.
■
MB
L' .
■.
till
■: : x
WR
't
■
:
■
l;;--
m
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD BY THE BEST HATTERS
SYDNEY: BOX 1845 K G.P.O.
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD., Stockport.
For further particulars, write
MELBOURNE: BOX 364 G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: BOX 763.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Princess Charming”
Royal “Thark”
Criterion “Belinda”
Palace “The Last Warning”
Empire “Top Hole”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Opera
Royal “The Girl Friend”
King’s “Dear Brutus”
Comedy “Diplomacy”
Athenasum “The Laughing Optimist”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
With the battle raging on two fronts in
Melbourne, grand opera becomes a ticklish
subject for discussion. “The Barber” was
the principal engagement at His Majesty’s
last week, mainly because it brought Dal
Monte into view and hearing. As Rosina
that pert little lady promptly established
the usual intimate relations with her audi-
ence. She cuddled it, patted it and tickled
it, until even the critics made noises sug-
gestive of contentment. She wasted no time
on her lover, who was not worth wasting
time on, anyhow—in the person of E. de
Muro Lamonto he was a painfully dull
wooer, who apparently harbored the belief
that .Count Almaviva was a nobleman who
serenaded out of tune. The rumor that
Toti has lost weight is hereby confirmed as
far as the eye can confirm it. The quaint
little figure in tight Spanish dresses is a
dainty dancer, and her voice is as magical
as ever—whether simulating passion, archly
mocking or wittily imitating. As Figaro,
Apollo Granforte drove the golden chariot of
song with an experienced hand- —he was the
richest, warmest of hairdressers. Antonio
Gelli waddled and warbled in broad-comedy
fashion through the part of Bartolo, and
Fernando Autori was a fantastically thin
Basilio, whose hat, being plain farce, got
laughs where his lines, being Italian, didn’t.
* * * *
From the first tap of Bavagnoli’s baton
till the voice of the prompter finally died
away, “Manon” was beautifully done at Ilis
Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Friday. This free
Puccini adaptation of Abbe Prevost’s novel
hasn’t been heard in Australia since the
Quinlans sang it 17 years ago. It is less a
drama than a series of travel sketches in
which the principal tourists migrate from
Amiens to Paris, then to the convict ship
at Havre, ending their passionate pilgrimage
in a desert outside New Orleans, IJ.S.A. As
Manon, the girl who abandons a convent
for the courtesan business, Lina Seavizzi
began nervously but was Lina Stromboli,
in full eruption, before the night was done.
The same negative singer but beautiful
woman and consummate actress that she
showed herself in 1924, she painted brilli-
antly the character of the easy lady whose
professional career as mistress to a rich old
beau is shattered by the self-forgetting pas-
IRENE HOMER, who is to open her Australian season in
Melbourne with “The Patsy.”
sion for the Chevalier des Grieux. That per-
son, the only reputable character in the cast,
was in the hands of a new tenor, Min-
ghetti, whose Valentino graces and powerful
and dramatic voice mated worthily with the
Scavizzi’s charm. Their final expiring duet
in the desert created a riot second only to
the one John Brownlee incited on the open-
ing night. As Geronte de Revoir, the
Treasurer-General who enjoys Manon’s
favors until Des Grieux comes along, Fer-
nando Autori came next on the roll of
honor, and Emilio Ghirardini’s portrayal of
Mahon’s gross and greedy soldier brother
deserved more than a consolation prize.
Polished acting by all hands and John Cole-
man’s romantic settings were strong fea-
tures of the piece. The women convicts
looked nice enough to have been lecruited
for the Ziegfeld Follies instead of the I rench
convict hells they were consigned to, and.
their departure was an affair of brilliant
color as little like reality as any grand-
opera enthusiast could desire. The orches-
tra indulged in some heckling of the singers,
but that was the fault of the composer
rather than conductor Bavagnoli.
* * * *
“Norma” is a beautiful and moving story
told to the wrong sort of music. The tragic
druidess who forgets her vows for love of
a Roman soldier, only to learn that he has
found a lesser virgin of the temple equally
complaisant, required the dramatic intensity
of a Verdi. Instead, it got the sweet ballad-
making qualities of the gentle Bellini. Re-
vived at Melb. Princess last week, it served
mainly as a testimonial to the Gonsalcz
company’s possession of the perfect tragic
prima donna in the dark, tall, stern, lovely
and altogether impressive Rosita Sylvestri.
* * *
No blinding originality was displayed by
the Beresford Fowlers in their staging of
“The Taming of the Shrew” (Melb. Play-
house) in modern dress. Bianca and
Ivatharina entered with tennis rackets, but
there the flow of fresh ideas stopped. A
whisky decanter and a soda syphon would
have been a feasible addition to the third
act, the music-master might have instructed
Bianca in the ukulele, and Petruchio could
have carried off his harridan in one of the
new model Fords; as it was the perform-
ance merely suggested an undress rehearsal.
Still, it revealed Sylvia Archer as an actress
who would command attention in any rig.
Her Katharina struck a happy medium be-
tween the mediaeval virago to be married off
to the first-comer and the modern rebellious
flapper who would probably be handed over
by her parents to the nearest Children’s
Court.
George Storey’s new revue at Melbourne
Bijou. “A Wild Night,” is moderately wild,
though some of the chestnuts voided by
the veteran comedian made this paper
wilder. Dulcie Milner is an engaging little
dancer.
s
Having failed to interest Melbourne in
the internal troubles of the English aristo-
cracy, Miss M. Bannerman will dismiss
“Our Betters” from the Comedy and revive
Sardou’s “Diplomacy” on Saturday. The
McMahons will stage Barrie’s “Dear
Brutus” on the same night at the King’s. The
only things that remain fixed and unfading
in a world of grand-opera changes are. “The
Girl Friend” at the Royal and “The Laugh-
ing Optimist” at the Athenaeum.
-i- * ; i ; *
That fetching actress. Fay Compton, is
flitting across Hoyt’s Melbourne screen in
“London Love.” London love, it seems, is
no way different from Sydney love or the
love of Oodnadatta, for that matter, except
in the quality of the background. The
Majestic's current dish of passion and pre-
judice is “The Opening Night,” the story of a
playwright who loses his memory in a ship-
wreck and returns to find his wife about to
marry the hero of
his play.
The atmosphere
of the “Old Vic.”
seems to have set-
tled on. the New-
town (Sydney)
Majestic, once the.
noisiest showhouse
in Sydney. No
audience could have
exhibited ke e n e r
interest than that
which viewed
“Henry VIII.” on
Saturday, and
there w a s no
doubt about its ap-
preciation tof a
stage presentation
of S li a k s p e a r e
quite new to Syd-
ney. There was
prolonged applause
wh e n Alexander
Marsh, as Bucking-
ham, had delivered
the stirring lines
of a patriot be-
trayed to the scaf-
fold by the am-
bition of Wolsley,
a passage given
with quiet dignity
and force. As the
scheming Cardinal,
Allan Wilkie scored
well, and brought
down the h‘ ou s e
with his portrayal
of Wolsey’s heart-
break when his am-
bitions crumble
around him. Miss
Hunter - Watts
made a tragical
Katharine, and
John Cairns was a
moderately good
King, although the
petting-party en-
counters with
Anne Boleyn (Mil-
dred Howard) at
the Cardinal’s sup-
per seemed rather
out of place. The
numerous long
Howard) at the Cardinal’s supper seemed
rather out of place. The numerous long
speeches makes “Henry VIII.” a rather talkv
production; but the dressing—Wilkie secured
Tree’s wardrobe for the play—is really
sumptuous.
* * * *
On the previous Wednesday “The Winter's
Tale” was told; and the part of Hermione,
one of Shakspeare’s finest achievements, gave
Miss Hunter-Watts an excellent opportunity.
The season becomes increasingly interesting
with the introduction of the more rarely per-
formed of the Bard’s plays. “Antony and
Cleopatra” is to appear to-night (Wednes-
day) and “Measure for Measure” on Satur-
day; and two weeks from then the even
greater rarity “Coriolanus” will be staged.
“A Honeymoon Wife,” which superseded
“Three Live Ghosts” at the Grand Opera
House (Sydney) last Wednesday, is a
comedy written in a vaudeville spirit. The
idea of the husband who wins out by appear-
ing to assist his wife to a honeymoon with
the man with whom she has decided to elope,
while taking good care that there are no
honeymoon opportunities, presents possibili-
ties that are spoilt by the vaudeville manner.
In spite of mediocre acting, except in the
Gorrington and in a minor
hg ee Call Lawson and D Arcy Ivelway (as
, a manservant) the piece provides some
laughter. It retires, at the end of this week,
to enable The Rudd I amily to take the
boards. ,
s‘: 5 ‘ : v ::
The theatrical slump which is an inevit-
able feature of the
after-Easter season
is bringing quick
changes to the Syd-
ney theatres. “Rio
Rita,” running
blithely at the St.
James, doesn’t
seem to have felt
the depression at
all, and “Princess
Charming,” at Her
Majesty’s, very
little, but these are
the only exceptions.
The Vanbrugh-
Boucicault co., at
the Criterion
closed down on
“T h e Notorious
M r s. Ebbsmith”
last night (Tues-
day) ;
“Belinda,” begin-
ning to-day at a
matinee, will finish
the V.-B. season on
S atu rda y. The
company • at the
Royal are shelving
“Rookery Nook”
in favor of
“Thark,” another
Ben Travers fri-
volity, on Satur-
day, and will move
over to the Cri-
terion on Saturday
week, when Leon
Gordon claims the
Royal for “The
Crooked Bullet.”
This is likely to
leave Muriel Starr
in possession of the
Palace; she is put-
ting on “The Last
Warning” on Satur-
day next in ex-
pectation of a
further extended
season.
To-night “Top
Hole” will com- _
mence its Sydney operations in an Empire
Theatre that has undergone an autumn
cleaning since “Take the Air” finished
last. Saturday night.
A well-patronised Sydney show of last
week was; that of the new Ford cars at
the Wentworth parking station in Jamieson-
• street The new Betty is_ a very different
person from the old Lizzie. The spindly
rear-axle housing that spelt F-O-R-D a
mile away lias given place to a fat differen-
tial casing whose worm-drive superstructure
wouldn’t do discredit to a Crossley; the
biretta-like radiator cap has been replaced
by a plump button that a Rolls-Royce could
carry, and that awful old salmon-tin under
the steering wheel has gone into limbo. The
rejuvenated old girl has a clean-cut strong-
looking chassis of conventional type, with
a gear-box and multiple-disc clutch snuggled
up to the engine. Her millinery is as nice
a piece of hood-tailoring as ever came out
of Detroit, and there is a saucy expression
in her liead-lights. She doesn’t profess to
be fast, but her aunt, with a smaller amount
of motive power, had a fine turn of speed
when she was put on a race-track with
suitable gearing, and the flapper niece looks
as if she could teach a rabbit something
about the art of locomotion. Only two
points are hotly discussed: (1) Are the
prices right? (2) Is there enough leg-room?
Rupert Hazel, who threatens to become a
vaudeville habit, has cropped up again at
Sydney Tivoli. With the Big Four, another
habit, he has received uproarious greeting.
Meazza and Adrienne are a pair of dancers
who have earned approval; and Yvonne Ban-
vard helps along a programme which will
lose Winston’s Sea-lions after this week,
when the Kelso revueists return.
It is nearly five years since Queenie and
David Ivaili introduced their Hawaiian act
to Australian audiences, and there are no
indications that it is palling. Even the
noises which George Wallace evokes were
eclipsed when the dusky pair reappeared at
Fullers’ Theatre (Sydney) on Saturday.
Marshall Crosby does some capital work in
AVallace’s new extravagances; and Marie
Nyman draws some tears from a few im-
pressionable vaudeville fans by singing
“Sonny Boy.”
If Peace propagandists were paying for
modern war films they could hardly get better
value than “Wings,” which came to the
Sydney Regent last Saturday. It is
a remarkable film, which suffers little
through the producer sometimes losing his
plot in the magnitude of its background; and
the air pictures are most thrillingly con-
vincing. A magnified projection on a
greatly enlarged screen emphasises the scenes,
and the acting of the principals is excellent.
Another fine film, probably the best the
Capitol has yet given, is “The Way of
All Flesh” which has an Enoch Arden-ish
turn at the end. Hoyt’s De Luxe has a
breezy couple in-“A Girl in Every Port,” in
which Victor McLagen appears, and “The
Law of the Range,” notable for its scenery
and a prairie fire scene. The Lyceum in-
dulges in a review of “A Man’s Past” ; the
Prince Edward keeps going with “The King
of Kings”; and the Crystal Palace, which
mentions that a super “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
is coming shortly, maintains “The One
Woman.”
* * * *
. r „ i t. ,
~ Mfiry Dugan has been tried and found Not
at - Royal. Admitting tha^
t !^ c V ay J?, aa it^ azu if law, one
1 it
only one big chance 'L-is West and
& o ; n ? e te™ afe bX Ind the
sma ll parts are uncommonly well done. The
assol q e d humors of “The Rudd fi’amily” at
t ] lc p 0 f Wales prove so acceptable that the
sea son has to be prolonged. Pictures are
unusually good all round. “Quality Street,”
at "Wondergraph, preserves more of the Barrie
flavor than one expects on the screen; and
[?] one of th e [?] from overseas for [?]
News,” the new Fuller show to open in Melbourne.
at West’s the blonde whom gentlemen pre-
fer makes the preference understandable.
The old “Sheik” brings Valentino back to
earth at the Pav.; and the York has a
“Desert Woman” who is not “sheiked,” but
who shows the disturbing influence of
woman in an out-back setting.
The Unwrapt Female :
With the exception of Wheeler and one or two
lesser lights, G. Lyall Trindall is the only Australian
artist who maintains the old cult of the nude; he
maintains it very well, too, ,in his varied show at
the Fine Art Gallery, Sydney. “Devotions” exhibit the
well-modelled figure of a girl who is evidently in the
habit of removing her clothes to say her prayers;
the shadows of this composition are delightfully
handled, emphasising quietly the flesh tints of the
figure. “The Daughter of Ra” wears clothes very
effectively managed,. including a shawl full of rich
detail. This is an outstanding picture; and there
is sound pastel work in the vivid “Russian Dancer,”
Melbourne art: —
Hilda Rix Nicholas is praising life in a huge sh6w
at Melbourne Athenaeum. Alert, gay, vigorous, eager
to say something about everything, she sees in fluent
line, hot in tone; hence the finest of her painted
figure studies —bushmen sweeping wide horizons,
Breton peasants in fancy dress —are brilliant illustra-
tions rather than efforts at reality. “Dorothy,” for
instance, is a vivaciously drawn lady, but she stays
only on the surface of the canvas and has been given
no atmosphere to live on. Similarly, in the land-
scapes in oil the pomp of color and richness of
light fail to conceal the poverty of tone. It is in
line Mrs. Nicholas excels.
The New Gallery has broken out in 28
unequal pictures by F. R. Thompson, one .of
the young men. There appear to be two Thompsons,
or else he is hastening in two directions simultane-
ously. One is a realistic Thompson whose vision is
steadily growing more refined; the other is an ex-
pressionistic Thompson who throws discretion to the
winds. One of these days the two may meet, to
their mutual advantage; in the meantime, several
of the canvases in the present show are of consider-
able charm and merit.
Twenty bronzes by Bertram Mackennal are a
welcome interlude in the procession of paint at the
Fine Art Galleries. Whether posing as Sappho, the
poetess, or Circe, the first dope trader, the Mackennal
girl is a lissome creature, ideal enough to satisfy
the mind and natural enough to be warmly embraced
by the eye. Except in the “Circe” in the National
Gallery, of which the bronze in this show is a
model, tile Australian sculptor never perhaps scales
the giddy heights of inspiration, hut in all his work
the delicacy of his imagination enjoys the happiest
of marital relations with his technical proficiency.
Next week's Sliort Stories will be particu-
larly strong in humor. Harold Mercer will
write of a Jewish courtship and give a most
interesting glimpse at Hebrew marriage cus-
toms. Steele Rudd will be represented by
one of his rollicking stories; this time “Dad
Falls Sick.” Patricia O’Ranc (a daughter
of the most brilliant Australian prose-writer
of the last generation) will contribute a
delightfully fantastic sketch: “How Uncle
Aubrey Went to London.” Furnley Maurice
and Z. Y. Webb will be represented by other
charming stories—Webb’s is a very humor-
ous snapshot of one side of farm life.


Let HECLA Electric Radiators
Heat Your Home!
i
lie
uns
e
A
\
I
.A -J ■ J
i 15
03 yi*
Cj •
Ui
ELECTRIC RADIANT FIRE
Wlade in JLustralia
B
“EMPRESS” DESIGN
“HECLA” Electricoal FIRE
indistinguishable from, a cheerful blazing
;oal fire, with flickering, leaping flames
—an unbelievably realistic effect. Exud-
ing comfort from every aspect, and giv-
ing clean, electric, radiant heat at the
map of a switch.
Sturdily constructed in cast iron, combin-
ing solidity with dignity. The finish
may be armor bright or Florentine
bronze, as desired.
Provision is made for the burning-fire
effect to be maintained, if desired, after
the heating element is switched off. Con-
sumes 3000 watts on full heat. 2-heat
control.
PRICE . £l6/16/-
Overall dimensions —
20|in. W., 2in. H., 12in. D.
The Electric Wiring in a house represents a substantial
investment. If you use it only for lights you are receiving but
a small part of the benefits to which you are entitled from
this investment.
USE AN ELECTRIC RADIATOR to keep your homes
warm during the cold days of Winter.
For SIMPLICITY, CLEANLINESS AND ECONOMY
Electric Radiators have now established themselves as firm
favorites.
You can carry them from room to room as required. You
connect the plug, and in a few minutes the room is heated—
at very slight cost.
We can safely say we have the largest and most assorted
stock of Electric Radiators in the City. Their design and
construction are of the highest grade, embodying the result
of modern engineering, and have never been equalled in
durability, efficiency and appearance.
It has always been our aim to supply Radiators on
whose reliability and lasting qualities absolute dependence
can be placed, and we have therefore made an arrangement
with the famous “HECLA” manufacturers to handle their
products.
sdf
asdf
Please post me to WILLIAM
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, and 1 will bring
you the ILLUSTRATED “HECLA”
PRICE LIST by return mail.
You place yourself under no obligation
whatever.
NAME
ADDRESS
B’t’n,
G/28.
/A\
k
i I
f. , ' : '
* /' *
V W
“HECLA” Radiant FIRE
"PERFEX" DESIGN.
An inexpensive fire of simple yet im-
pressive desgin. Made of stamped
sheet metal, suitable for the home or
office; finished in oxy-copper.
Reflector
Size. PRICE.
9in., 700 or IOOOw. S.E.. . £l/14/6
12in., 700 or 1 OOOw. S.E.. . £2/5/6
“HECLA” Radiant FIRE
“JUPITER" DESIGN.
A simple, but pleasant, design that is a
distinctive feature amid any surround-
ings.
Constructed of solid brass, finished in
Florentine bronze.
Reflector
Size. PRICE.
9in., 700 or 1 OQOw. S.E.. . £4/3/-
12in., 700 or IQOOw. S.E.. . £4/11/8
12in., 1400 or 2000 w. D.E. £5/10/-
12in., 2100 or 3000 w. T.E. £6/8/6
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPAQ
. U MITEPi V
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
17 BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
wo.man’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THRIFTY DONTS.
Don’t fail to plan your expenditure, and keep within the limit you set.
Don’t be ashamed of saving pennies—they soon make pounds.
Don’t let false pride cost you money there is no happiness in that.
Don’t think spendthrifts need be capitalists. You can be a spendthrift
with a shilling.
Don’t forget that peace of mind is better than things you cannot afford.
Don’t forget that the Savings Bank is the best thrift aid.
Don’t forget there is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office in
Australia.
Commonwealth Sank of Ruslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
LADIES
CENTS
Oft
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perfect fit
refunded.
Send for patterns and
self measurement forms
guaranteed, or money
IMPERIAL SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
asdf
Phone 83991
HONOR AMONG THIEVES.
By
FRANCE MURPHY.
CONLY was palpably nervous. That was
not surprising. When one is engaged
in lifting £lO,OOO worth of jewellery
and a little cash in an audacious burglary
one is apt to be nervous. Grey, watching
the beads of perspiration on his face, won-
dered why he did it. Conly had the hotel;
he had enough to live on. True, he gambled,
but he was never on the rocks as Grey had
been.
Grey was not nervous. He was excited, as
any man who has come down to sleeping in
parks and dosshouses might be excited at
the sight of such wealth. Otherwise he had
the detached feeling of a mere onlooker, and
a vague contempt of the whole business.
Anyhow, he was only a very junior partner
in it. It was Conly who had planned the
whole coup. He, Grgy, was merely the
trained mechanic, the hands: Conly was the
brains.
Grey had selected a diamond stud from
the tray and placed it in his shirt. Both
men were in evening dress. That, too, was
Conly’s idea. In the hours around midnight
it made them less conspicuous. Grey was
thinking how odd Conly looked in evening
dress.
But Conly wms a good general. From the
moment they had entered by the skylight
all had gone well. A few more moments and
their bags were packed. Conly, in cotton
gloves, was restoring the place to some sem-
blance of order and vigorously rubbing
finger-marks with a silk handkerchief. He
looked like some stout obsequious waiter —
probably that was his destined vocation.
Quietly and in darkness they left the
room. They had only to dodge or otherwise
ileal with the solitary watchman now. What
a broken straw to have one watchman —-
and he probably old and infirm—on a build-
ing this size! Why, he had a beat the size
of a policeman’s. You only had to time
him, make your plans, and work without dis-
turbing the old chap at all! But could you ?
There was only a wall to descend with the
rope ladder now, a length of alley to traverse
to the iron-barred door they had left un-
locked. Then suddenly they heard the slam-
ming of a door, the smashing of a fire-alarm ;
after that running footsteps up the stairway,
more doors slamming. A light appeared in a
window across the well, a shadow moving,
a telephone ringing.
Bo.th men realised quite well what it
meant. Somehow the watchman had dis-
covered their presence. He had re-locked
the iron outer door, broken the fire-alarm
and was now frantically summoning the
police.
Trapped! Grey and Conly faced one
another caged and helpless. The sound of
the telephone, the indistinct voice in the
room across the way seemed to madden Conly.
His face was that of a beast at bay. Run-
ning across the room he flung up a window,
and from his revolver poured shot after shot
at the window opposite. The voice ceased.
There was no further movement or sound.
Now, sparring for time, Conly raged
around, trying door after door. Grey was
leader now. The _ watchman had summoned
the fire brigade in his panic. In a few
minutes the firemen would be here. How
much he had telephoned they did not know.
If there was a fire they might still escape
in the confusion. He looked around the room.
A linen motor-coat hung by the door. There
was a waste-paper basket in the corner, a
rug on the floor. Hastily he draped them
about the Venetian blinds and set fire to
them. They were blazing in brave show
when the fire-car arrived.
They stood gesticulating at the window
—two gentleqien in distress. For even a few
burning furnishings can make a room hot
and suffocating. Then, somehow, it seemed
the firemen missed seeing them. They were
rushing about directing hoses at the other
end of the building. It seemed ages before a
ladder was reared to their window. They
climbed down, each clutching a precious
handbag.
Out in the street they could see, poor
blundering fools, the building was alight on
the other side, a real raging fire. The watch-
man had given no mor-e than a fire alarm.
And now red murder was added to their load
of sin and trouble.
An official bombarded them with questions.
Grey parried with plausible talk until a
chance came to slip
away in the gather-
ing crowd. They
walked quickly to
where Conly’s car was
waiting, two blocks
away.
Two months later Gr-ey sat in the little
patch of sun in his prison cell. It was hard
to realise it was the last day he would ever
sit in the sun. One could no more realise
non-existence than one could realise eter-
nity. The imagination baulked at it. What
would be, would be.
Trying to force liis mind out of that un-
fathomable cul-de-sac he found himself turn-
ing over once more the events that led up
to this day. Of course, he had always had
a constitutional dislike to sticking to things.
And, with life slipping by, there had come
that craving for quick, easy-earned money.
That gift, that mechanical genius with locks,
had just developed by accident. It was only
chance, too, that Bull Conly had hit on
him as a confederate on this big job.
That night after the burglary he remem-
bered the shock of disgust with which he
found himself hand in hand with a murderer,
bound to him for ever by a common bond.
It was as if he had suddenly come to out of a
moral coma.
Then the nightmare of days that followed,
the torture of suspense, watching the papers,
straining one’s ears about the city for any
stray hint or scrap of information.
. Perhaps it was to occupy his mind as
much as anything that he had gone then to
see a doctor about that nagging pain. One
of CoHius-street’s top-notch men had given
it to him straight, like a knock-out blow,
that lie had not six months to live!
Bv a coincidence it was that very night
he got a tip that the police had at length
succeeded in solving the murder mystery.
Some stray finger-prints, a man with a
“ ‘Be calm!’ he shouted. ‘You’d have me be calm when I’m being robbed
as well as murdered!’”
hobby for noting motor numbers, a fireman
with a flair for faces, sundry information
Grey had obtained so very casually months
before—links fitting with damning precision,
Then a blundering “fence.”
It was the jar of these things coming
together that had stampeded him into the
proposal he had made to Conly that night.
There was he, Grey, a wreck of a man
no life-insurance company would look at.
Conly, perhaps, was good for half a century
yet. Grey had a wife and family to provide
for—not that he always had provided for
them. Conly was without family, and was
well enough off without that £lO,OOO which
had come so suddenly into his possession one
certain night.
It looked as if Grey would be arrested,
anyhow; but they had nothing definite on
Conly—could not have unless Grey gave him
away Conly would be able to dispose
safely of the stolen stuff; Grey would _be
robbed or exposed if the job was left to him.
So Grey had offered, begged almost, to be
allowed to take all the blame, to confess
everything, on condition that Conly saw that
the whole proceeds of the loot went to
Grey’s wife and family.
He remembered the incredulous look in
Conly’s small, greedy eyes as he listened;
remembered the sagging, doubting mouth as
lie hesitated, as though lie expected treach-
ery ; or did he seek some loophole in the
bargain? He had made Conly put it into
Avriting before they parted. It wasn’t, of
course, the sort of document one could put
into court. Still, it was a sort of whip one
could hold over him. Grey had taken, too,
the precaution to show it to one or two
influential friends in the underworld.
After his arrest the trial had gone just
as though he had stage-managed it himself.
The police had been searching for weeks for
someone to whom they could sheet home the
watchman’s death. Dreary, irksome work it
must be to the detectives; like looking for a
needle in a haystack. It was fine when
they found a suspect to have him endorsing
their theory. It wasn’t their job to prove
him innocent. Still, sitting there in dock, it
gave one a superior feeling to see all the
weak points in the chain of evidence, all
the flaws of reasoning. It was funny in a
way to sit back and watch the Law barking
up the wrong tree at the wrong man. Even
if he had been the right man it was still
funny for them to go to such trouble to
secure him a quick, comparatively comfort-
able death, when, left alone, he might die
a worse death almost as soon. Once indeed
during the trial a suspicion had been raised
that he was lying to save an accomplice—
some well-loved friend. Well-loved friend!
Greasy Bull Conly! He laughed aloud.
But this long aimless waiting after every-
thing was fixed cruelled a man. Twice in
the waiting weeks an attack of the old pain
had made him almost long for the Day....
Anna, his wife, had been to see him. It
was years since they had lived together.
Yes, it was his fault. Anna was a good
woman. Too damned good, he thought. Of
course she was sorry for him. But even here,
on the threshold of death she couldn’t help
preaching,
It wasn’t as if he could talk to her and
tell her everything. Anna wouldn’t under-
stand. And she wasn’t the sort of woman,
who could keep a secret. She might even
refuse the money if she knew of its history,
You never knew what Anna’s conscience
would do. And he passionately wanted the
children to benefit by that money. Ray
would be leaving State school next year:
the youngster had brains. Why shouldn’t
he? His father had had brains—if only he’d
used them. Well, the boy would get a better
start than ever lie had. Ten thousand
pounds. Why, even if Bull could trade them
for only half of that it would be enough.
Anna was always careful about money; she’d
get value for every pound. She would want
the money even more for the girls than for
Ray. Blue-eyed Nina was going to be a
great beauty some day, though lie would
never see it. And wistful eiglit-year-old
baby Betty!
Grey found himself crying. He had wanted
to see his children. He wanted to feel the
soft hug of their arms, to feel there was
something worth dying for. In spite of
everything the kids had always loved him.
They had always been far more demonstra-
tive towards him than towards their mother.
Anna might have been a bit jealous at
times. But she was always a good mother.
She used to say it was for their sake, to
keep them from evil influences, that she had
left him.
When he had broached to her the subject
of his craving to sec the children again she
had pointed out how impossible it was. The
children did not know he was here—did
not know anything about it. The name was
so common, and living away in a little
country town as she did she would be able
to keep it from them. What a cloud if
would cast over their lives if they knew!
She would invent some plausible tale of
accidental death, and they would always
honor his memory.
Of course she was right, as usual. The
thing was out of the question. He must go
through with the show without whining.
But when. Anna had gone he had wept in
his agony of utter loneliness. He had put his
own children out of his life. He would
never see them now. They would never
know of his sacrifice for them, of this last
bitter effort at reparation.
In his final abandonment he had ached
for love. Anna had pity—though she had
left him feeling it was she'who merited all
the pity. What if some woman had loved
him, had had faith in him through thick and
thin, had loved him in spite of his weak-
nesses —and without nagging? What had
that priest said? Try to realise Heaven.
Well, he was doing his best!
He was sitting in the shadow now. The
sun had shifted on its downward course.
And it was the last sun.
“Confound it, why did not that priest
come?” he asked irritably, and then resumed
his old pastime of turning things over in his
mind. The priest had promised to come early
this afternoon—after doing those few odd
jobs for him. It had been a good idea making
the chaplain a confidant under the seal of
confession. The chaplain had tried hard to
argue him out of it. But rvhen at last he
had found him adamant in his resolution he
had been quite a useful ally. He would see
that Bull Conly gave a square deal. Pat
Lynch and slim Sam Cooper, too, to whom
lie had showed that writing: they would be
in a way the executors of his will.
Conly himself was coming to see him off
in the morning; Grey had insisted on that.
It had seemed to Grey that if Conly actually
with his own eyes saw a man hanged for
murder in his place—well, that would bind
the compact as nothing else could. Conly
had not been too keen on it. He had kept
out of the way all this while, too, as though
even now he was afraid of having his name
mixed in the affair. But he would turn up
to-morrow. They said he had been laid up
in bed last week with a touch of ’flu. Per-
haps it was a touch of conscience, Grey
thought whimsically. But the priest was
going to see him to-day and make final
arrangements for his admittance to the party
at 7 a.m. to-morrow.
The dooi* opened to admit the priest. He
was only relieving the regular chaplain,
this young Father Roach. He was very
young and thin and aesthetic. His face
looked drawn and haggard. Looking at
them one might have thought it was the
priest who was to be hanged at dawn, and
Grey a mere sympathetic but irritable friend
taking leave of him. “Well?” said Grey.
The young chaplain extended a hand that
shook visibly and bowed his head in silence.
“Well, did you see Conly?” Grey
again.
The priest raised pitying eyes. He seemed
to struggle to find speech. But when he
spoke his voice was strong and level. His
words were blows, he. knew, but they were
blows struck in defence of that abstract
Truth he worshipped, blows that would force
the other to Tift the seal of silence from his
lips.
“I did not see him,” he said. “There is
evidence that he is well on his way to
America. That story about his being ill was
false. The man left a week ago. He was
heavily in debt. The hotel is about to be
sold up. The man undoubtedly means to
repudiate a contract which by every natural
law he should hold sacred. There is no
probability that your wife will benefit at all.
It was a fool’s bargain.”
He paused to let his words take full effect,
to galvanise the other to an appreciation
(Continued on page 53.)


Amusements.
E M P I R E THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russell
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
o/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking ©fflces.
yYII X E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
PRINCESS CHARMING.
ROYAL: THARK.
CRITERION: BELINDA.
PALACE: THE LAST WARNING.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
Presents
WINGS
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE,
With CLARA BOW, RICHARD ARLEN and
CHARLES ROGERS.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
-SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney!
’Phone: MA1277.
J C. WILLIA M S O N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MARGARET BANNERMAN CO. Last Three Nights cl
OUR BETTERS.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY
A NEW PRODUCTION.
diplomacy.
A
THEN AS U M THE A T R
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON
In the Hilarious Three-act Comedy,
THE LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
E,
HOYT’S DIS LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
FAY COMPTON in
LONDON LOVE.
Also
MAY McEVOY as
TESSIE.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE OPENING NIGHT,
with
CLAIRE WINDSOR and JOHN BOWERS.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
Missing Friends.
TIM ANDERSON, late of Atherton Table-
J land, communicate Sister, Upper Barron.
Important, Policy not paid.
Wanted.
'YY^' ANTED for New Guinea, Competent
Accountant, thorough practical experi-
ence essential. Salary commence £4OO p.a.,
and Quarters. Apply first instance, stating
Qualifications, age, if married or single,
with copies of credentials, to Box 543 b,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Legal Notices.
NOTICE TO NEXT OF KIN.
DE ALEXANDER TURNER, late of
■* Y Ewan, via Ingham, in the State of
Queensland, Laborer, deceased.
AVill all persons claiming to be the next-
of-kin of the abovenamed ALEXANDER
TURNER, or any persons knowing the
whereabouts of such next-of-kin, kindly com-
municate with the undersigned.
Dated at Townsville this Eighth day of
May, 1928.
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville, Queensland, Australia.
T’O OLAF EMANUEL LUNDIN, Son of
Olaf Lundin of Gelfe, Sweden, and any
child or children of the said Olaf Emanuel
Lundin and all persons claiming by,
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 19th
day of April, 1928, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of November,
1928, your claim to the estate of Axel
Wilhelm Barkman, who died at Te Kuiti in
New Zealand, intestate, on the 16tli day
of March, 1926, failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 24th day of
April, 1928.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
COWBOY CHAPS 8 RIDING GEAR
asdf
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE
OF TEXAS & AUS. SADDLERY
No. 73—COWBOY CHAPS, as
illus., with Nickel Conchas and
Fringe 917-
No. 70 CHAPS, with Fringe, but
without Conchas 857-
No. 60 COWBOY LEATHER
CUFFS 12/6
No. 50—STUDDED FANCY BELT,
27/6
No. 53—FANCY BREASTPLATE.
as illus., with Brass Studs 757-
No. 54 BRIDLE to match with
Gold Color Bit, with Nickel Horse
or Bison Head 767-
No. 81—LINEN ROPE LARIAT—
-22/6
No. 80—COTTON ROPE LARIAT,
15/-
TEXAS SPURS, 7/6 to 30/- pair.
“TEXAS RANGER” COWBOY
SADDLE £l3/13/-
Add Postage on Orders under £3.
Walther 8 Stevenson
395 George Street,
SYDNEY
Ltd.
sd
SADDLERS, POLO SPECIALISTS AND TROTTING-GOODS EXPERTS.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
PROHIBITION IN N.S.W.
WOULD COST MILLIONS
PROHIBITION enriches the bootlegger;
regulation enriches the Government.
PROHIBITION can never prohibit; but
regulation can control.
PROHIBITION endangers public health;
but regulation protects it; under Prohibition
there can be no guarantee of the purity of the
liquors sold; but under regulation they can be
tested at every stage of manufacture.
PROHIBITION weakens self - control;
regulation encourages moderation.
PROHIBITION means bad liquor drunk
in secret by sneaks and hypocrites; regulation
means good liquor used in the light of day by
self-respecting men.
PROHIBITION awakens resentment; but
reasonable regulation appeals to common-
sense.
WILL YOU SPEND A LITTLE
TO SAVE A LOT ?
THE CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIA-
TION is out to fight Prohibition, believing in moderation, commonsense
and reform of the drink traffic. It stands as a moderate medium
between the extreme Prohibitionists and extreme liquor partisans.
MONEY IS URGENTLY NEEDED, and the Association appeals
to all reasonable men and women to help swell the funds, as the fight
against Prohibition will be long and costly. It is of national importance
that an intelligent vote should be recorded on the momentous question.
PROHIBITION WILL MEAN
IMMENSE TAXATION
TV7ENTY MILLION POUNDS will need to be found for compen-
sation, and many millions more every year would have to be spent in
the payment of an army of prohibition agents in order to enforce the
system, and it would never be enforced.
IN ADDITION, the Commonwealth would have to make up in
extra taxation the £4,618,000 collected annually in Customs and Excise,
and the State an amount of nearly £500,000 obtained from licensing
fees and other charges.
CONTRIBUTIONS small or large may be forwarded to the
CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
Belmont Building, 1 5 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
G. R. w. McDONALD, H. B. JAMIESON, Hon Treasurer.
Chairman. P. H. COATES, Hon. Secretary.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at. which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE SHORT STORIES
OF
THOMAS HARDY
Complete in one volume, containing
about 1100 pages. 7s. 6d. net.
A BOOK OF WORDS
BY
RUDYARD KIPLING
7s. 6d. net. Pocket Edition, 6s. net.
Leather, 7s. 6d. net.
Also Dominions Edition.
Dominions Edition.
WINTERSMOON,
BY
HUGH WALPOLE
The Spectator: “Mr. Walpole has long been
a master of his craft, but in this book he
excels himself. It is one of the most delight-
ful stories we have read for a long time.”
THEISTIC MONISM
An Answer to the Question Is
There God?” reached by deter-
mining the Relation of Mind to
Body- By Joseph Evans, M.A.
12s. 6d. net.
ETCHED IN
MOONLIGHT
A Volume of Stories. By JAMES
STEPHENS, author of “The Crock
of Gold,” etc. [Empire Library.
The Irish Statesman : “Mr. Stephens’ new
volume, ‘Etched in Moonlight,’ is made up of
short stories, all alive and vivid with that
clear and strange imagination which is so
characteristic of the writer.”
To bo Obtained from aft
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
A FEW moments
spent in attaching
WEED CHAINS to your
tyres — before trouble
is encountered —will
prevent danger and long
delays on the road.
Weed Chains grip
give positive traction
in mud or sand.
Standard of quality for
over a quarter of
a century
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals « ith every subject of
interest to women.


Sporting.
Australian Jockey Club.
WARWICK FARM RACES.
SPRING MEETING, 1928.
THE CAMPBELLTOWN HANDICAP.
£5OO added. For three-year-olds and up-
wards at time of starting. SIX FUR-
LONGS. (Entry fee £l.)
THE WAR WI C K FA R M SPRING
HANDICAP, £5OO added. For three-
year-olds and upwards at time of start-
ing. ONE MILE AND THREE FUR-
LONGS. (Entry fee £l.)
RACES FOR NOW YEARLINGS.
(Entrance free.)
THE KIRKHAM STAKES. 1928, £lOOO
added. FIVE FURLONGS.
THE HOBART VILLE STAKES. 1929,
£lOOO added. SEVEN FURLONGS.
ENTRIES for the above races close with
the Secretary V.R.C., Melbourne: Q.T.C.,
Brisbane; S.A.J.C., Adelaide; W.A.T.C.,
Perth; W.R.C., Wellington (N.Z.) ; T.R.C.,
Hobart (Tas.) ; N.J.0., Newcastle; or the
undersigned at 4 o’clock p.m. on TUESDAY,
JUNE 5, 1928.
C, W. CROPPER,
Secretary.
G Bligli Street, Sydney.
Australian Jockey Club.
RANDWICK RACECOURSE.
OWNERS AND TRAINERS are hereby
reminded that Entries for the undermentioned
races close with the Secretary V.R.C., Mel-
bourne ; Q.T.C., Brisbane; S.A.J.C., Adel-
aide; W.A.T.0., Perth; W.R.C., Wellington
(N.Z.), T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; N.J.C.,
Newcastle: or the undersigned at 4 o’clock
p.m. on TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1928.
SPRING MEETING, 1928.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, £3OOO added.
For three-year-olds and upwards at time
of starting. ONE MILE. (One pound
first forfeit must accompany each entry.)
THE METROPOLITAN, £6OOO added. For
three-year-olds and upwards at time of
starting. ONE MILE AND FIVE
FURLONGS. (Two pounds first for-
feit must accompany each entry.)
RACES FOR NOW YEARLINGS.
(Entrance free.)
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, 1928, £2OOO
added. For colts and geldings. FIVE
FURLONGS.
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, 1928, £2OOO
added. For fillies only. FIVE FUR-
LONGS.
THE DECEMBER STAKES, 1928, £2OOO
added. FIVE FURLONGS.
THE A.J.C. SIRES’ PRODUCE STAKES,
1929, £5OOO added. SEVEN FUR-
LONGS.
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES, 1929, £3OOO
added. SIX FURLONGS.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, 1929. £BOOO added.
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE ADRIAN KNOX STAKES, 1930,
£l5OO added. For fillies only. ONE
MILE.
THE A..T.C. ST. LEGER, 1930, £2500 added.
ONE MILE AND THREE-QUARTERS.
NOMINATION OF SIRES FOR SIRES’
PRODUCE STAKES, 1930, ENTRANCE
FEE, £lO. Programmes containing full par-
ticulars and Entry Forms may be had on
application.
C. W. CROPPER,
Secretary.
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Professional.
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LTD.
Queensland forests, limited,
has one vacancy for a Qualified Forest
Technician in its forest operations in Queens-
land. Three years’ practical applied experi-
ence in forest surveying and general field
operations essential. Candidates must have
demonstrated organising capacity and ability
to get things done. Preference given to
applicants under 32 years and single. Salary
£5OO, rising to £6OO by two equal annual
increments.
There are two vacancies for Junior Trained
Foresters. Preference to candidates under
25 and single. Salary £350, rising to £450
by two equal annual increments.
Applications close June 20.
l. macintosh ellis,
Director of Forests,
Queensland Forests, Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 2922NN, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
1
w
SCHUTE,
BELL &C ud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
Pilenta, the ideal complexion soap, 1/9. —-Advt.
£l.
of justice. There was still time—God grant
there was still time—to stay the ponderous
machinery of the law which had been set in
motion.
The prisoner had been sitting in stunned
silence. Now he was on his feet, his face
distorted, babbling out incoherent curses,
Tiie priest made an effort to calm him. He
shook off the restraining hand.
“Be calm!” he shouted. “You’d have me
be calm when I m being robbed as
murdered!” He shrieked tor waiae .
He pounded on the barred door witn n
hands till blood came. Then the rage on his
face gave way to a look of pure anguis .
He fell back clutching at his chest ana
crumpled on the floor. A warder came mi iy-
ing and in turn went for the doctor. l lie
priest knelt on the floor beside Grey. Dea
had anticipated the Laiv by halt a aay.
The Deserter.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY HEN GUN.
IF you . read Hi is story you will say that
men like David Traquair do not exist.
But I knew the man. He was a sergeant
in the Border Regiment—a long-faced, silent
Scotch lad of three- or four-and-twenty,
melancholy as those heather moorlands
whence he came. Also I knew Trooper
Dicky Clayton, of the 16th Australian Light
Horse, a liard-case who laughed his way
through the worst of things and had a good
time anywhere. And I have met Poppy
Lane, the little London girl who was what it
was so easy for her to be remembering the
whirl of love and war that overwhelmed
her young life.
Of all her lovers (and she had many, for
soldiers did not tarry long in time of war)
Poppy loved Dick the best —the laughing
horseman with the feathered hat and jing-
ling spurs. At the little flat she rented and
managed somehow to keep afloat they lived
together a wonderful three weeks that might
have been three years for all the merry-
hearted soldier cared. Then one day a
couple of military police (bad luck to them !)
bailed Dicky up for his pass. It was a
long time overdue. They took him on
with them.
For a day and a night Poppy sat waiting
for the boy who would never return. Then
she mended the ravages grief had made in
her pretty face, took a walk down Picca-
dilly and met David Traquair. He was
exactly the opposite to Dick, and maybe
that was the reason she was interested in
him at once. David, with his dark, sober
face and troubled eyes—whoever would have
guessed that his head was crammed full of
the romance that is part of the, romantic land
that bred him? And he was chivalrous as
Lancelot. It may be that Poppy, shrewd
child of the greatest city on earth, sensed
this. As for him, his heart may have gone
out to her childish beauty with the idea of
helping her, or it may have been his sheer
loneliness that caused him to go with her.
Certainly David took up his abode in the
flat of that little London light of love, and
away sped the days on winged feet. She
never loved him, though, as she had loved
Dicky, perhaps did not love him at all. He
worshipped her.
But, hard as it was to go, he did not
overstay his leave. When the time came he
held her to him for one long minute, so
tightly pressed that the hard metal of his
equipment bruised her breasts. Then he
slung his rifle on his shoulder and went
stumbling down the dark stairs—out into the
dawn and whirling snow of a November morn-
ing. The war still held him.
Back he went to the Hell that was in
full blast over in Flanders. But first he had
sworn an oath, as only such a man can
swear, that if ever she wanted him he would
return to her if he lived, no matter what
the odds.
“And I will come again, my love, though”....
The wheels of the train sang to him, all
the way down to the sea, the words of that
old song that had often run in his head when,
a boy, he lay on the hill watching the border
country stretching away to the Solway Firth.
The months dragged on—those awful
winter months we somehow lived through in
1916-17; months that gripped the north-west
of Europe in ice and snow and sleet. When
the spring came Poppy found that she did
want David, and wrote to him telling him
so and begging him to return.
Knowing what it meant, David asked for
leave —and was refused, as a big stunt was
being prepared.
So Sergeant David Traquair, the silent,
dour Scot, and one of the best soldiers in
Scotland’s splendid army, deserted from the
front line. At the very hour he went slink-
ing away across the fields behind Poper-
inghe, Trooper Dick Clayton, who had
swung the lead so well that he was again
in Blighty with another furlough, walk-
ing down Leicester-square with a minx on
his arm, met a pale and scared-looking Poppy
Lane, and handed her a cheery salute.
How David reached London I do not
know. All I can tell you is that lie got-there.
Once again in the tiny flat he held her to
him. Then because nothing could make
things more desperate, he got into civilian
clothes. If the military got him now there
would be no hope. Death would be his lot
in front of a firing squad.
At the registrar’s office he procured a
special license. But even with that they
must wait three clear days before the cere-
mony could be performed.
All that time he was in great danger of
being picked up, and hoped and prayed that
they might not get him before he had made
Poppy his wife. What happened afterwards
he did not care. As much as possible he
kept inside the flat. Out in the street a well-
set-up young man like himself would cer-
tainly have been asked for papers.
He wrote to his solicitors, very deliber-
ately, telling them his intention of getting-
married and enclosing a new will leaving
his little Scotch estate to his wife. Poppy
took the letter to the post to register it.
While she was on this errand David, turn-
ing over the pages of a novel, came across a
letter Poppy had written and for some reason
never posted ; and it was to Trooper Dick.
It was impossible for him to avoid reading
it. In the plain round hand of Poppy the
words leapt from the paper to his brain,
burning themselves in as if by fire-brand.
The letter was much the same as she had
written to himself, only there was all her
heart in it. She begged the Australian sol-
dier to come back to her, and for the same
reasons that she had asked David to return.
Traquair closed the book with a snap
to hide the thing from him. and hurled it
across the room. He sat. as stricken men
will sit, staring at nothing. The bottom
had fallen out of things.
Since he had deserted, his brain had worked
at high pressure and kept wonderfully clear.
Now it was suddenly dull and numbed. It
was not till Poppy came back and sank on
her knees beside him with her arms around
him that he could think clearly again.
lie made up his mind to go on as u
nothing had happened —to marry her saying
nothing of what he knew. Afterwards— —•
Next morning he stood with the girl in
front of the registrar, repeating such words
as he had to. In his firm, unformed writing
he signed the documents. So Poppy was given
her marriage certificate, and together they
stepped out into a quiet street and the
summer sunlight of a June day—lus wed-
ding day.
David stopped at the bottom of the steps
leading from the doorway and looked down
at his wife. Never before had she seen a
face so dark and stern. The blood left her
own. It was white as death. Something
told her that a terrible thing was going to
take place. „
All her soldier did was to say Good-bye,
turn on his heel and stride swiftly away.
Bewildered, Poppy stared after him, her
heart pounding in her throat. Then, sud-
denly understanding that he had gone from
her for ever, she started to run after him.
But a crowded street had swallowed him.
She never saw him again.
David, giving himself up at once as a
deserter, was taken back to France. On a
morning when the poplars dripped with rain
they marched him out into a field behind the
battle-line. The bullets of the firing-party
smashed through his breast.
In a neat little house in a London suburb
lives a widow, not badly off on the income
from the estate her husband left her. She
has a son with her, a big lad, ten or eleven
years old. He is a silent youngster who
keeps rather to himself. And his eyes are
the melancholy, troubled eyes of David
Traquair.
BEN GUN.
The Castle in the South.
Sure, there’s little need to fear
Pirate band or privateer
Sailing through the river-mouth ;
No haughty gun has threatened yet
Architrave and minaret
Of our castle in the south;
And there is always welcome here,
Come who may. Our doors are wide
For saints.;. .or lovers.... or for these
Rogues and vermin of the seas
In dirty sashes, crimson-dyed.
Let them for an hour abide,
Laying cutlasses aside;
We have meat enough for all,
Wine and fruit' —it’s theirs for taking.
They may rest within our hall
And splash the night with merry-making.
Small wonder then that indolent
Long headlands, dazed by sun and sleep,
With their great bodies negligent
Which should be anxious and intent
Are coastguard trim enough to keep
This gateway to our continent;
Though yonder where the ocean marches
Rank by foaming rank to land,
Grimmer sentries take their stand
With solemn foreheads seaward bent;
Cliffs that never cast a glance
Over their shoulders at our towers,
But watch the wrinkled waste of waves
Through the proud unhurrying hours,
And stare (from under furrowed arches
Overhanging deep-set caves
Like eyebrows lowered frowningly
At the sunlight on the sea)
To note what travellers advance,
Decks a-jog and spirits a-dance,
Through the morning’s radiance.
O sailors coming in from sea,
The entrance opens safe and free;
You made it in a single tack,
And there seems nothing now to fear
For you have done with leaping sprays ;
But know the spell upon these bays—
It would be wiser to turn back;
We too came in former days
On a morning just as clear —
One man goes but one man stays
Of all who ever venture here.
Drop your anchors, though, and come;
That’s a milder curse than some;
We have girls to keep you near
Or send you singing on your ways.
O captains putting out to sea,
Look long upon our masonry:
Watch the drowsy hazes twine
Round our columns like a vine,
Purple-flowered, climbing up;
Watch its tinger-tendrils seize
Cornice-work and carven frieze;
Mark how, spilt from summer’s cup,
Quivering sunlight drowns our floors
Streaming in through greedy doors.
Carry lienee, ye feathers cast
Fortli upon the writhing vast,
All that memory can store
Of our castle. .. .sliding past—
Memory thereon, may sup
When your grosser eyes shall fast
For a glimpse of steady shore;
Thus you’ll have a dream to show
In that far unmeasured realm
Should you meet some friend we. knew
Who departed, even as you,
With his hands upon the helm.
Remind him of our garden-walks.
Our terraces hung row on row.
Our haven sailed from years ago.
And should you meet those ocean-hawks,
Sea-scouring pirates, let them know
That there is little here for plunder
though they split our walls asunder.
Rack our limbs and sack our shelves;
Yet are we robbers’ sons ourselves
Who send them greeting, and could pass
Swift nights beside them, glass for glass.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
ALL’S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
A FANCY-DRESS FRIENDSHIP.
I WISH,*’ said Helen, as she gave hot
liair a final pat, “that I could get hold
of a really decent costume for to-
morrow night. This jazz affair is getting
dreadfully tired. And every other girl in
the room is wearing its twin sister.”
A pretty rose-and-grey Pierette, who was
adjusting her right shoe, nodded reflectively.
“H’m,” she said, “but it’s no good worry-
ing. It’s a bore not being a plutocrat. .. .
I say, Helen... .just look there!”
The two girls gazed fascinated at a woman
who had just slipped off her coat. She
wore a delicious eighteenth-century costume
of mauve satin over a sprigged petticoat. A
white powdered wig set off her softly glow-
ing face, and a patch was perched haughtily
in one dimple.
“Isn’t she exquisite!” whispered Helen.
“I think those old-fashioned things are en-
chanting.... and original these days!
Come along, Mabel; they’re waiting for us.”
It was a very depressed Helen who changed
her shoes in the dressing-room after the
dance. Her costume was rumpled and torn
and a large stain was visible on the front.
“I can’t go to the Excelsior in this to-
morrow night,” she confided to Mabel. “I’ll
have to tell Guy I’ve got a headache or
something.”
“Poor old girl!” sympathised her friend.
“I’ve only this one fancy dress, and I
haven’t a sue in the wide. Oh, I say, I was
introduced to that lovely creature....she’s
a Airs. Beauchamp. She’s asked me to have
tea at her flat to-morrow. .. .here she is
.... I’ll introduce you, too.”
The following afternoon Helen and Mabel
were having tea with Mrs. Beauchamp. It
was a charming room, and, though the
weather was warm, a small wood fire burned
clearly in the grate.
Mrs. Beauchamp’s appearance by daylight
had given both girls something of a shock.
Her frock was pretty, her complexion beau-
tiful, but the lovely wig of the previous
night had given place to her own hair, which
was lank, dull and straight. Though she
seemed young, there was already more than
one grey streak in her locks. She looked
almost plain.
“I’m. so glad you liked my frock.” she
smiled in answer to a remark of Mabels.
“But it always depresses me so. I do wish
I lived in the eighteenth century, or that
wigs were the fashion nowadays. I can’t
camouflage my horrid hair anyway by day-
light ! Have "another cake. Helen ; they’re
real cream! Forgive my being frightfully
rude, but could you tell me where you get
your hair waved? Or is it natural? Because
I was admiring it all the time at the dance.”
Helen laughed.
“Can’t afford to patronise hairdressers,”
she answered, “and it isn’t natural. No, I
just use silmerine.” She finished as if that
explained everything. Mrs. Beauchamp
knitted her brows.
“Silmerine?” she inquired. “I’m afraid I’m
very ignorant. What is it? Where do you
get it? What do you do with it?”
“One at a time,” laughed Helen. It is
a rather nice-smelling colorless liquid. You
can get it from any chemist’s. You just
damp your hair with it, put in slides where
you want the wave and, voila, ze curls!”
“But that’s too wonderful,” exclaimed
Mrs. Beauchamp. “Ho you have to use it
every day?”
“Oh, no! The effects last for some days.
And the queer thing is that the more you
use silmerine the less often you require it.
It seems to coax the hair into natural waves
that stay in of their own accord.”
“If my hair weren’t so odiously thin and
streaky,” said Mrs. Beauchamp, “I would
rush out this minute and buy a bottle before
I have another sandwich. But my grey
locks would look too ridiculous in waves.
Shall I have a bottle of peroxide or Condy’s
fluid, and turn my few remaining hairs a
bright gold or red?”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” put in Helen, “I’m
going to' reveal a horrid secret. A little
while ago I found some grey hairs on my
own head. Mabel’s fair; she won’t go grey
so soon. So I got a packet of tammalite and
dissolved it in bay rum, and put it on the
faded parts with a clean little brush. It
was wonderful the way that it gradually
brought back the color to my hair.”
“How lovely,” continued their hostess.
“Yes, I really must try that. Tammalite,
you said, didn’t you? By the way, a lot of
people I know are using boranium as a hair
tonic, but so far I haven’t tried it. Do
either of you know if it’s any good?”
“Any good!” chorused the two girls.... “Why,
it’s the only thing”....
“I mix it with bay rum.”
“You can use eau-de-Cologne, I believe.”
“It’s the most priceless stuff.”
“My hair’s grown heaps thicker since 1 used it.”
“Good gracious!” interposed Mrs. Beauchamp, “I
suppose I shall have to use it too. I’ll put it down
with the tammalite. What do you shampoo with ?”
she asked. “You’ve both got such glorious hair.”
This time Mabel answered. “Oh, the usual—stallax,
you know.”
“Stallax?” I don’t seem to know it. Is it some
special preparation?”
“I don’t think so,” replied Mabel. “It is quite
ordinary stuif, I believe. You can buy it in pack-
ages from most chemists. But it makes the most
lovely shampoo; it lathers gorgeously in any water,
and your hair dries quickly after it and looks so soft
and bright. My own hair always gets so dry and
brittle after a shampoo of any kind that I always
massage my scalp with olive oil before washing it.”
“That’s awfully nice to know,” said Mrs. Beau-
champ. “Really, I’m most intensely grateful to you
two girls. I’ve been envying your hair.”
“And we’ve been envying your complexion,” said
Helen. “I do wish I had nice pink cheeks like
yours, and I don’t like the idea of rouge.”
“Powdered eolliandum,” said Mrs. Beauchamp, in
a dramatic whisper... .“just a trifle... .harmless. ...
indeteetable... .any chemist’s... .used it for years. By
the way, Helen, didn’t you say something about
wanting a fancy dress for the ‘Excelsior’ dance to-
night ? You wouldn’t care to borrow my rig-out, I
suppose? It’s just your size, and 1 know it would
suit you.”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” said Helen, “you’re one of
the best.”


f
i
M
\i'«
>
v
\ >
■
sU'jJ
LLTf
/
%
>
/
AT
THE
STEEP
TIN CM
Ij you are unalle to call and inspect
the Republic range let us send our
latest booklets . Mail the coupon to
your State dealer.
Please send me the fullest information
about Republic Trucks.
Name
Address
82358.
THE Republic always has a
reserve of power—a reserve
of strength —a reserve of
engine - energy which makes
light of circumstances which, in
the case of ordinary vehicles,
would be emergencies. That
is why more observant business
men have chosen Republic
Trucks than any other make.
fdf
asdf
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
1'? 7-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
TRUCKS
Factory Distributors: W. A„ CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.


SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
-12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 6, 4/- ;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
#
/ '
a
-$
KARTELLS
BRANDY^^^H
will appreciate,
the delicate
Bouquet and.
mellow flavour of
SHtPPeo soifir fbom rue ccnmmc ortmtct
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE. •
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Fokler.
1
.4
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Two Wrongs Make Right
by Randolph Bedford
Lemonade barkley is holding his
own and more; for Lemonade is a
bookmaker, and one of the best of them.
Some are greed, meanness, uncleanliness,
plague, pestilence and famine, but Lemonade
is of the kindly type of “sports”—an exe-
crable word but necessary for quick identi-
fication of type—given to fair dealing, as far
as may be in business while roguery sticketh
between buying and selling as a nail between
the joints of the boards; taking all he can
get, but with a kindly grin as he does it;
anxious for money but not avid, and con-
stitutionally unable to close his ears to a
hard-luck story.
Such causes were sufficient for my friend
Whaley, the red-bearded poet, to be greatly
attracted to the bookmaker. He had been
attracted from the beginning of their first
meeting, and had unconsciously flattered)
Lemonade by saying that they were “both
bookmakers—although Barkley got more pay
per thousand words.” And Lemonade Bark-
ley. like many men who live not by books,
had a tremendous admiration for this man
who made music with sentences, although
Barkley’s affection for Whaley was some-
thing more personal than that.
“It’s his eyes,” said Lemonade once, to a
njore material racecourse man who didn’t
like Whaley’s biting satire, and therefore
wondered at Lemonade’s friendship for him.
"Wonderful -eyes, proud and kind they are;
and most times fun in ’em. A good eye
always gets me, man or dog or horse ; and
Whaley’s eye has a light behind iff —it’s
bright brains showing through, that’s what
it is.”
He liked Whaley so much that at
the beginning of their friendship he
cautioned Whaley against betting:
quite unnecessarily, it proved. “You’ve
got no chance,” said Lemonade;
“even if everything’s all right it works-
out in the long run in the booky's
favor. That’s what the punter’s for
—white bait.”
“I know the public is always good
eating, Lemonade,” replied Whaley.
"But I’ve no desires that way. Never
had. Why should a man who’s in-
terested in the miracle that every day
is, and the wonder of night, and the
study of people that have always some-
thing new- in them —why should he waste
time considering whether one horse shall
run faster than another or one jockey be
more straight or more dishonest than the
next? Don’t worry. Lemonade; I’m safe
from that temptation because it doesn’t tempt
me.”
“Well, never let it,” said Lemonade. “I
s pose you think it’s funny for me to turn
custom away from the shop ; but I like you.”
In the same spirit he offered Whaley the
tip of a certainty a year later. And Whaley
grinned and pulled his short beard and said:
“Ah, Lemonade, it would only be a nuisance
to me to win money, even from your
eriemies. Let it go, old man.... But you can
do one thing for me.”
“What’s that?”
“Tell me how you got that nickname of
Lemonade.”
“Well, it was because I never touched
lemonade; but lemonade was my pet name
for whisky, and when I cut it out for keeps
the nickname stayed.”
“For keeps, without a break?”
“One break, and it cost me so much money
I made the next for keeps—abserlootly.”
Naturally, after such protestations at
which Whaley, knowing Barkley’s sore foot
by the nail in his own boot, had smiled,
there came a time when “for keeps abser-
lootly” suffered modification. Whaley, a
month or more after “for keeps abserlootly”
had been declared, found Lemonade in the
great bar-room of the Caravanserai with some
of his nickname in a tall glass; and with
him was a tall, spare, clerkly man introduced
as George Collins. Him Lemonade set
great store by ; in fact, stated that the reason
for his departure from the narrow path of
virtue was the man Collins, and Lemonade s
great love of him.
“There was me,” said Lemonade, ndin
on the water-waggon, driviu’ me little muni-
cipal cart along to lay the dust, and I see
George Collins. So I got down. I’m not
off the waggon for keeps, y’ know, but as
soon as my lamp’s lighted on George I
dropped the whip and got down to pick it up.
To-morrow, back on the waggon for me;
but to-day George is here; so fill 'em up
again!
“Y’ see,” he continued,
“George is a bank manager
out west and doesn’t come
Sydney-side often; but
George an’ me is great
friends, an’ I knew George
when he was teller in the
bank in—oh! never mind
the old suburb —didn’t I,
George?”
Collins flushed a little,
but smiled assent.
“An’ me an’ George ’as
known bad times, an’ good
times, an’ crook places, an’
tight places; an’, that’s what
makes men remember each
other in the soft places. ’S
that so, George? It is, my
oath !”
And George agreed and
they made a night of it —
a quiet, pleasant evening
“ ‘Take a running jump at yourself,’ I ses. 'Give it back to you? Who’s goin’ to
settle for me?' ”
and Lemonade drove Whaley home at the
chimes of midnight.
Next day Lemonade had not climbed to
the waggon again, but he had picked up
the whip; and Collins, being on the return
journey to his western town, and Whaley
remarking on his absence, Lemonade told the
story.
“He’s a white man is George Collins,”
said Lemonade, “an’ I wouldn’t tell you this
only you’re no tattler, an’ you think nothing
the less of a man because of his job or his
temptations. What’s that you said about
temptations?”
“What I did say about it was weak enough
but human —the only way to rid yourself of
temptation is to give way to it, and then it
doesn’t trouble you any more.”
“Well, that’s what Collins did; but there’s
no weakness about him. lie got tempted, and
lie took it and when it went wrong on him he
turned right round and undid it, and then
did it again, and won out. If he’d stopped
lialf-way he’d have gone under. Now I’ll
tell you because I know you won’t take any
notice of it, and it’s too long ago to hurt
him, and he’s too high up now to have it
believed.”
s|c * # s!s *
“Well, first time I see George Collins was
at Randwick. I was too busy to see him
at all until about the fourth time he come up
to bet —a fiver here and a tenner there—-and
about the third or fourth time I took a look
at him, and his clothes looked as if his
limit ought to have been ten bob on the
tote. But people run in all shapes, and I’ve
seen men backin’ horses when they ought to
have been savin’ up to buy new boots. He
was there every race, bettin’ as if he did
it for fun, and didn’t want to win any more
than I wanted him to. And he never did
win either —just came up and did his fivers
and his tenners, and I handed him his tickets
just as a matter of form, an’ he tore ’em up
after every race just as a matter of form,
too. And he looked poorer and sicker and
shabbier every race till the grand smash,
and after the last race I knew I’d got his bit.
I was waiting for a taxi outside to take the
bag home. I lived at Kensington, and it
was the first day of a holiday meeting and
no banks open till Tuesday, and I bad a
little safe at home.
“While I was waitin’ for the taxi up
come George Collins. I could se e lie wanted
to talk and was too shy to start it, so as
he’d been good to me that day I started for
him. ‘Had a bad day?’ I ses. That started
him. ‘lt’s Hell,’ he ses. ‘Ruin. I'm gone.’
‘There’s other days to pick it up,’ I says.
‘Try it Monday.’ ‘There’s no Monday for
me,’ he ses; ‘l’m just gone to the cemetery.'
“Well, I had his money, and it wasn’t
much to cheer him up—so long as I didn’t
have to pay for being kind-hearted. ‘What’d
you go down for?’ I ses. ‘A hundred and
fifty,’ he ses, ‘an’ you were the only man
I betted with.’ An’ he goes on, all of a sud-
den, so you couldn’t get a word in edgeways
—‘For God’s sake,’ he ses, ‘help me out. It's
ruin to me. Gimme’ the hundred and fifty
back for a few days—that’s all, only for a
few days—or I'm ruined.’
“Well, the cheek of it nearly made me
drop the bag. ‘Take a runnin’ jump at
yourself,’ I ses. ‘Give it back to you?
Who’s goin’ to settle for me?’ ‘You’ve got
enough,’ he ses; ‘let me have it only for a
few days!’ ‘A few years is as good to me,’
I ses; ‘go an’ get examined by two doctors.’
An’ up came my taxi and away I went and
left him standin’ there and went home and
locked the money away.
“My name was always Lemonade in them
days, and I was that strong and restless
I had to be doin’ somethin’ even if it was
only mischief. Down I goes to town after
tea and has whips of drinks with the lads
and goes home early Sunday mornin’. I
gets up late in the afternoon, and I opens
the safe to count the cash, and there’s a
hundred and fifty short. It wasn’t much
of a safe and the lock was common enough,
but there’s not a mark on it to show any-
body ever touched it, and my people had
heard nothing all night; but there it is—a
hundred and fifty short, and my license
gone with it. The license made mo think
it must have been some crook who’d use it
somewhere, and I'd nail him then.
“That meeting! was a skinner. I’d a
great day on the Monday. I hated losing
that century and a half, but when you’re
in this business you don’t squeal. Some
chaps in the game talk loud and play up
and get themselves disliked, and hurt the
decent ones; but not me—l’d have been
taken down for twice that and never called
a cop, because, when you’re in a game that
most people are up against in their hearts,
there’s no sense advertising that you’re
alive. So I just cursed the cove who took
me down, and I didn’t know whether I’d
been got at after the stuff was in the safe
or before it got home. I was a hundred
and fifty shy, and that’s all there was to
it —easy got—easy gone. ‘And another thing,’
I ses to meself, ‘good luck to the cow that
got it. He might want it worse than me.’
My oath, money’s got faults, but a few re-
deeming points too. D’ye know one of the
worst things in human nature? A rich man
tryin’ to be richer. Y’know, a man with
money ought to be better than a man with-
out money, because lie’s got no need to go
crook. But you take my word for it, the
best people are the hard workers who just
earn enough to keep ’em strugglin’. Well,
this money was gone, and I'd have forgot it
only the fellow who took it wouldn’t let
me.”
“What? He brought it back to you?”.
“No, lie was too cunnin’ for that. But
there on the Friday I get a letter; typed—
no handwritin’ or signature—just sayin’
that the writer regrets inconvenience, and
took the license in mistake, and there it is
returned to me with a receipt slip for a
hundred and fifty paid into my account.
The pay-in slip’s typed, too, except the signa-
ture, and that’s a name nobody could read.
So I just took it and satisfied myself it' was
in the bank, and had a lemonade and forgot
it.”
“Well, where does George Collins come
in?”
“IH tell y’. About a year after that I
was got at again. I knew the bloke who’d
done it, and he'd made his get-away, but 1
could find him. I was just strugglin’
between whether to put the police on to him,
and my general dislike to ask a policeman
anything—even when the next tram goes to
Bondi. There was two cottages bein’
built for me out in one of the suburbs,
and the contractor ’phoned me to make a
progress payment to his bank account, and
I went into the little bank out there to pay
my cheque in.
“I see the teller look up as if he’d been
stung as soon as I spoke; and I have a cook
at him and can’t place him. But as he’s
(Continued on page 57.)


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAFbANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Prank N. Yauwood ; H. R. Lysaoht, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly. LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
lIPAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of tile World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia . New
1 ° Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Gieat Britain and Ireland, and other- places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or int fi r x e e S d
periods and Iransacts all other usual Banking business*
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
. . £2,000,000
.. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
.. £1,250,000
970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders . . 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians iu
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
aily invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, VV.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne
y [•
i
A ROYAL
SMOKE
Ml Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
each.
&
25 Cigars,
12/6
50,25/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
/ containing two
| cigars, is. Post
free.
Craig sAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
Shipping, etc.
m
1 3
of
m
Mm%sMttoiL
~V-~ -fc
Hawaii
Leave Winter Gladly
For Glorious Honolulu
Picturesque Auckland, favorite
seaport of Northern New Zea-
land; sparkling Suva, glowing
in varied colors, like a gem of
many facets in the silver setting
of a coral reef; far-famed Hono-
lulu, treasure palace of a thou-
sand novel sights and starry
nights: these await Australians!
Return Excursions
(from Sydney)
First Saloon . . £75
Second Saloon. £55
TAHITIAN TOURS
An alternative
winter holiday
in the South Seas
presents itself in
the Union Com-
pany’s excursion
trips to
Rarotonga and
Papeete-
coral sisters in
Tahitian waters.
VERY luxury of sea travel is enjoyed on
•I—< the palatial Canadian-Australasian liners
by excursion passengers to Honolulu. The
round trip costs little more than a city holiday.
The Aorangi will leave Sydney on May 31,
and the Niagara on June 28. The third sailing
is July 26. Particulars and literature from
Union Steamship Co., Union House, 247
George Street, Sydney.
Visit Pacific i s I es !
\ 1 JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait. J
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route
s.
*
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated! only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports «
during a trip of .
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
asdf
Director*:
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Janies M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.O.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office — 29 Threadoeedle Street E C 2
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fii’i Paiius
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bilio
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND ------- 3,950.000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. JAMES ASHTON MT,n •
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, CBE- ’
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E C 3
Br anch e s throughout Queensland. New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia
and Canberra, lederal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all S
parts of the world. otuer
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping* etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings— Circumstances permitting.)
FOR! MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports,
and. at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Ivemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
Sunshine and Flowers Now in
HAWAII ,
Avoid the winter cold by visiting the Islands
of Enchantment. Total cost of round trip from
Sydney in 8 weeks or less (3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii) about £lOO to £l5O. En route to
America or Europe, “stop-over” privilege costs
no more. All modern American conveniences at
good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3 per day.
Tropical scenery; fresh fruits, vegetables;
thrilling melody; golfing, motoring, outrigger
canoeing and surf-board riding; inter-island
cruises. Ask steamship or travel agent, or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-1),
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full description in
colored booklet, attaching this advertisement.
NO EXTRA GOST TO BREAK YOUR
JOURNEY AT
HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WULLONG BAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/*
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Pliilp and Co., Ltd.
me
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
Huddart Parker L
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa,
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Streat, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
Three Day
Tours
Rail & Motor
£4/7/-
Motor all the
Way,
£5/10/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious
Scenery,
Wonderful
Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room
Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Use '^eXCTia
and Prevent
Chilblains, Chapped Hands
and Cold Sores
Chilblains, Chapped Hands and Cold Sores all result from
exposure to the wind and weather, and cause an unnecessary
amount of suffering. Unnecessary because Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, prevents just these discomforts and keeps the hands in
perfect condition throughout the winter months.
There is no better treatment than to get a tin of Rexona and
apply this antiseptic Rapid Healer on retiring.
First wash the hands with warm water and Rexona Medicated
Soap, dry carefully, and then apply Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Your hands will respond to its healing influence and become
soft and flexible, without sores or blemishes.
Rexona is a specially-prepared product, made especially to pre-
vent and overcome all winter skin troubles, and is entirely
different from all other ointments, and infinitely more efficacious.
Rexona is composed of purest vegetable juices and rare medicinal
herbs, which make Rexona an unequalled antiseptic, cooling,
soothing and healing ointment. It is the greatest Skin Remedy
of the age.
Join the throng, many thousands strong, of people who thank
Rexona for Skin Health and Comfort during the winter months.
K&occna
Jhe Rapid
jdealer
A
MEDICINE
CHEST
IN ITSELF
fl
if Cooling
'Soothing -S
Healing
ftmntiseplic Ointment'
JV, jr ifi e -i o Absolutely' 1
‘ Heals Reliable
y-
A Reliable Healer for all Erupfions
and Irritations of Ihe Skin. Eczema. Sores Cuts.
Bums Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insects,
and all kinds of Inflammalion
‘'REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRU 6 C° L TO SYDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
Chocolates'
“I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address fn Australia.
tliiii&A
102-60 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES: '\-
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS ;
CASTLEREAGH STREET i
(Next Theatre Royal) ; )
GEORGE STREET /
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrate:
with reproductions of our
confectionery in colors.
■■
- )
» .Wti
T •
j
■
T
um:
puttin’ the bank stamp on the receipt I has
another cook, and there lie is—the shabby
bloke who lost a hundred and fifty and asked
me to give it back to liim!”
“It was George Collins.”
“George Collins it was. I ses, ‘Been
bettin’ any more lately?’ and lie ses, ‘For
Gord’s sake don’t talk like that here.’ I
see lie’s afraid. So lie took the money from
somewhere!”
“Either from the bank or from you?”
“He took it from both of us. Listen ; I
see lie was afraid, but I’d got nothing on
him, and I wanted to know. ‘I won’t talk
anything here,’ I ses, ‘but you got to see
me.’ ‘Right,’ ses he, ‘I want to. Where’ll
you be after bankin’ hours?’ I told him, and
he ses he’ll come, and for a bit I thought I’d
give him the once-over, and get his manager
in to hear it. But he hadn’t done anything
I knew of except that he was afraid, and
that showed he’d done something.
“So I had another look at him before I
could make up me mind whether to treat
him as a crook or a straight ’un ; and I saw
him there with liis old office coat on, and
there was so much wipe-marks of pens on
the sleeves —red ink and black ink criss-
crossed —you couldn’t see the pattern of the
cloth in places. And he was up against it
in other ways—them banks don’t pay their
men the smell of an oil rag.
“Anyway, after about half-past five he
came to me and I got the strong of him.
Married, and two kids, and been up against
it.
“ ‘The Thursday before I saw you at
Randwick,’ he ses to me, ‘I heard a chap
say he’d won two hundred on the horses. I
was up against it,’ he ses, ‘in debt and
trouble, and never likely to be anywhere else.
The chap that won two hundred gave me tips
for the Saturday; an’,’ he ses, gulpin’ at the
words, ‘I borrowed a hundred and fifty from
the bank.’ ‘Did the bank know it?’ I ses.
And he ses they didn’t. ‘But,’ he ses, ‘it was
only over the Easter holidays and on Tues-
day I’d put it back.’ ‘lf you had it,’ I ses.
‘Yes, if I had it,’ he ses, ‘and I had to have
it to put back.’ ‘But you lost it to me,’ I
ses. ‘Yes,’ he ses, ‘an’ borrowed it from you
on Saturday night!’ ”
“ ‘Well, that beats Hell,’ I ses.”
“ ‘You let me talk,’ he ses. ‘You left y’
safe open, did you know that? Did y’ know
a baby could have opened it if you’d closed
it? Well, I took the notes an’ your license
got mixed up in ’em, an’ as soon’s I got it
I cleared and got to Centennial Park. Then
I ran till I nearly died.’ ”
Whaley could imagine that hunted man;
forced into a second crime to cover the first,
running in the dark, with his heart beating
in his brain with hammer-blows.
“ ‘I had the money,’ he says, ‘but all over
Sunday I was in Hell. My kids climbed all
over me and I didn’t know they were there:
and my poor little wife thought I was sick,
and worried herself and me. On the Monday
I didn’t dare leave the money at home,
and I couldn’t stay at home —too restless —
too afraid—hunting myself from fear to
fear.’ ”
"Afraid till he could get the money back
into the bank again?” said Whaley.
“He didn’t get it back—not that money.
He was moonin’ round town Easter Monday
mornin’ with the hundred an’ fifty in his
kick, when up comes the chap who’d won
the two hundred and says he has a moral and
is goin’ to put a hundred on.
“‘I must be a crook,’ ses Collins, fellin’
me this: ‘l’d had one lesson and I’d burgled
a man’s house, and the money was there
for me to put back, and yet I listened to
that chap and his new tip. ‘D’ye know, Mr.
Barkley,’ he ses to me, ‘I wanted to get all
square. I wanted to square the bank and
square you. You’d won fair, and I’d lost'
fair, and took it back crooked. I knew I
was goin’ up to the fire to be burned again,’
he ses, ‘but it looked like bein’ a cocktail
if there was a ghost of a chance of getting
square with everybody!’
. ‘Well, at the last he went —after chewin’
it over an’ over an’ over again he went. ‘An’
when I got out there,’ he ses, ‘I felt I hated
it all—-the roar an’ the bustle and the expen-
sive skirts, and I wanted to make it or bust
it —quick and lively. So I got with a book-
maker.’
“ ‘Y’ didn’t come to me,’ I ses ! And he ses,
‘Ever see a man in a circus puttin’ his head
in the lion’s mouth? No good to me,’ he ses.
And he tells me how he got fours and put
the whole damn century and a half on, and
the horse romps home. You remember Peri-
cles’s win, don’t you?
“ ‘Thank Gord you didn’t have it on with
me,’ I ses; and Collins ses, ‘That’s another
reason why I wouldn’t come near you. I
couldn’t burgle you and then win off you*
although outside of that I was afraid; an
nex’ day,’ he ses, ‘I chased that hundred and
fifty back to the bank, and breathed a bit
easier. But I wasn’t all easier till I’d paid
that hundred and fifty to your account.’ ”
“And what did he do with the four hun-
dred and fifty? Play it up again?”
“No fear! He’d bought a bit of land, and
got a little house put on it, and .then he went
ahead and got manager, and now he’s as
happy as Larry managin’ a big branch out
west. An’ me an’ him’s great friends. He’s
a man. He had that fright and yet he
risked gaol again to pay me, and I didn’t
have a line on him. ‘I was a crook, but only
once,’ he ses to me, an’ back I ses to him:
‘You a crook? You’re a liar! You’re the
only honest man that’s left on earth. And I
can tell you a real good thing.’
“ ‘No bets for me,’ ses George Collins, ‘I
promised myself that much when I lay awake
the night I’d paid the bank, and my wife
asleep by me, and the kids in the next room,
and knew I’d nearly lost them all. No bets
for me.’ ”
Francesca.
Her eyes are as deep wells of light
Unfathomed, yet she may not see!
She walks at noon with shadowed night,
Unhesitant and tranquilly,
And sightless, yet with seeing hands
Instinct towards all beauty stands,
While her sure fingers’ swift caress
Spies out a green world’s loveliness.
Those small wise hands white butterflies
Most surely are, for all the grace
That holds them poised. No blossom dies,
Nor bud unfolding lifts its face
In eager welcome, but the breath
Of light wings mourns the scented death,
Or bids the gay new-comer tell
Its lineage and its hue as well.
The yellow broom has marched his men
With twice a million dazzling spears
About the cool flagged porch, and, when
She passes by, her fancy hears
The mellow chorus: “Hold, take hold,
Our slim spear-heads are pure sun-gold!
Touch, hold, caress us, Little One,
And, touching us, discern the Sun!”
The big brown bee that blunders by,
Intent to drain his loving-cup,
Gives pause to bid her follow : “Hi,
Make haste,” he rumbles, “here, reach up,
If you would know the very hue
Of Heaven—here is Heaven’s Blue!”
And softly Ipomea seeks
To kiss her hand and fan her cheeks.
Grey lichened walls her feet confine.
Oh, friendly frustrate boundary!
For couched beneath a singing pine
Her dreams, unleashed, go gallantly.
The sifted earth between her hands
Transmuted is to rippled sands,
And in the wind that whistles past
She hears the thrumming of the mast.
She walks at noon with shadowed night.
Nay, midnight is as day to her
Who needs.no lamp to read aright,
Whose sight no darkness can deter,
And dawn and dusk alike impart
Their secrets to her seeing heart.
With certainty her feet are shod
Who walks by faith, and with her God!
S.A.
MADGE R. C.
The Gun.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY CECIL MANN.
IT was not until long after he was attached
to No. 4 gun of the eighteen-pounder
battery on Gallipoli that Hugliie Clarke
knew what a gun was. He had seen guns
before that—hundreds of them —in the
camp at Enoggera, on the boat going
over to Egypt, under the Pyramids at Mena.
He knew guns in that way all right. In
Mena on Boxing Day, 1914, lie had been
tied—spread-eagled— to the wheels of one
of them: stood there in the vicious Egyptian
sun, with his wrists bound to the spokes,
with the ropes making the blood well up in
his veins; stood there for his hour a day
for fourteen days, with Sanderson marching
up and down in front of him, rifle on shoulder,
white bayonet glittering in the sun!
But it was not that which taught him
what a gun was. He stood there with his
boots in the soft sand, his head turning
left and right, watching Sanderson march-
ing up and down. On the white stone roads
between the square encampments camels laden
with burseen and tibbin, G.-S. waggons with
stores, infantry marching behind piercing
bagpipes; all moved about preparing for
Gallipoli. In that fortnight he took no
notice of them. He watched Sanderson, the
under-sized, whita-haired -Scot, trudging
away there. The sergeants on guard knew
they were mates, and gave Sanderson the
ten-till-eleven watch that the pair of them
could be together.
But they did not speak there in that
odd situation. True, what he had been tied
to the gun-wheel for was trivial enough—
going into Cairo without a pass on the one
day Cairo was rigidly out of bounds. But
she had had a strange pansy-blackness about
her eyes and a. queer whiteness about her
face, and the risk in seeing her again had
not seemed great He was like that; always
had been. There had been a girl before he
got away from Brisbane; there had been
another in Melbourne. Pie was a big chap,
with long black hair that sometimes strayed
into his eyes; perhaps that accounted for
it.
They caught him with that one in Cairo.
They took him back to the battery at Mena,
and a lot of evidence was sworn against him
which he assured Sanderson was foully un-
true. Sanderson believed him, too. But
Sanderson was a soldier. There is no
other way of saying it. He was a soldier,
an ex-permanent man, small, a bit grizzled,
36: solid and staunch as—well, as a gun,
but a stickler for the gods that a soldier is
taught to uphold. In his silent Scot’s way he
let the younger, bigger Australian know that
that sort of conduct didn’t suit him. But
when eleven o’clock came, and Clarke was re-
leased, he took him down to the latrines, and
allowed him to have a smoke there before he
escorted him back to the guard tent. And
they were still mates.
They were still mates wdren they went
aboard the vile India coaster that took the
battery to Lemnos. When the pay of ten
sovereigns—not piastre money, but golden
sovereigns—came to each man aboard, they
played hazards together in a way that was
a glory to see. There they sat on the iron
deck, knee to knee; Hughie betting mostly
with the seven, and Sanderson against it;
a great game, with Hughie’s Digger hat
flowing with gold. That is not a figure of
speech. His hat did flow with gold; it
brimmed over with sovereigns, and they
flowed out of it on to the deck. The school
(Continued on next page.)


*One of the oldest occupied parts of Sydney,
adjacent to Sydney Cove.
"€very picture
Zells a Story
\
rs^/;
3*
m
SM"\
\*§j2N
w
'iMH- I*
3§
Help Your Kidneys!
Avoid that wearying backache !
JF THE KIDNEYS are weak, excess uric acid over-
loads the blood. Pains begin to strike across the
small of the back, and rheumatic twinges, headaches,
dizziness and urinary troubles quickly follow. Don’t
neglect these warnings! You should strengthen the
kidneys NOW. There is danger of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, gravel or stone. Let Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help you. Doan s Pills will relieve
your kidney troubles, as surely as earlier treatment would have prevented them.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Frederick Bradd, Crump Street, Mortdale, Sydney,
says: “I caught a severe cold, which settled in my kidneys and
caused severe backache. I suffered intense pain, and could not
stoop or move about freely. I did not know what to do to
get ease, for the remedies I used did me no good. Seeing an
advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills led me to try
them. They gave me relief right from the first dose, and in a
short time I was cured. I have no sign of backache now, and
attribute my cure solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Sixteen years later Mr. Bradd says : “I have been free from
backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me sixteen
years ago. I am still a great believer in this medicine, and
often take a few doses, as I think the kidneys need a tonic
sometimes.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. J. Webb, Sorrell Street, Parramatta, says: “A member
of my family used to suffer a lot' from headache and kidney
trouble. The pains in her back were very severe at times and
almost crippled her. Her general health was very indifferent,
and she often felt too tired and ill to bother about anything. I
am thankful to say, however, that her health troubles have now
disappeared, and this is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. She was advised to take this medicine, and it proved
to be splendid advice, nine bottle§ restoring the kidneys to a
healthy state and driving the pain out of her back entirely.”
Two years later Mrs. Webb says: “The cure referred to
still holds good, no sign of backache and kidney trouble having
returned since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were used over
two years ago. We are all great believers in this remedy, and
always keep a bottle in the house.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all
Chemists and Stores,
or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
sheltered in the lee of a gun, shrouded in
green canvas. . . . But it wasn’t that which
taught Hughie what a gun was.
At Gallipoli they were separated for
awhile. Hughie and a dozen others of his
physique were picked out to carry the shells
up the hills from the beach. That was good,
too—to Hughie. He was strong enough for
it. Most of the others took two shells at
a time—two eighteen-pounder shells. They
weighed only twenty-two pounds each, but
they, are awkward things to carry. Hughie
carried four of them at a time. He strode up
the hills with them, and threw them down in
the gunpit where Sanderson was. Sander-
son, when lie wasn’t fiddling about with the
gun—oiling the breech, polishing the
barrel, as if he were going to take the thing
on parade—used to crush up army biscuits,
and make what he chose to call “parritch.”
The two of them would sit down and cat
it; Hughie leaning back on the trail of the
gun; Sanderson perched on the No. 3 seat.
They were great days for both of them,
those much-abused days of early Gallipoli.
But it was not they that taught Hughie
what a gun was.
Even when he was called off ammunition
carrying and pushed in to take the place of
a chap who funked the No. 4 position,
Hughie didn’t really learn what a gun was.
He used to watch Sanderson putting oil into
the breech, and rubbing it out again with a
bit of rag. He used to watch him polishing
the barrel and the sights till their black
fairly shone again, but he really did not take
much interest in the gun. There was one
thing that occupied most of his thoughts—
there were no women on Gallipoli. The
barrel of that gun jutted out over the front-
line trench, and, looking along it he could
see, a few hundred yards away, the empty
hill, from which little puffs of smoke rose
every now and then. Sometimes a few puffs
would go up from one spot, and they used
to hover over the hidden trench—something
like a woman’s dress, he used to think.
He learned liow to pass the shells quickly
into the gun, but still he took no interest
in the gun as a gun. “Mon, but it’s a guid,
fine thing,” Sanderson was for ever saying;
but that made no difference to Hughie.
And then one day a shell tore through
the iron shield. It was a dud, and it hurt
nobody—nobody except Sanderson; it hurt
him horribly. It did not hit him, or any-
thing like that, but it made a dreadful mess
of the appearance of the gun. Sanderson
found a cold chisel and a hammer some-
where, and spent nearly all the rest of the
day trying to drive back the curled iron, but
even when he was done the rent in the shield
was a thing that nearly made him weep.
The incident worried him a bit in another
way, too; in a way that Hughie knew
nothing about. It filled him with a fear
that the Turks had the range to an inch,
and would blow the gun out of existence
just when it suited them to do so. It was
under the stress of this fear that the little
Scot first opened his heart to Hughie. They
were lying under the waterproof sheet they
had rigged in the back of the pit, with the
darkness thick about them, when Sanderson,
apropos of nothing, mentioned that lie had
a sister in Glasgow. She would be about
18 now, he said. He hadn’t seen her since
she was a youngster, but she was a bonnie
kind of girl. That is how he spoke about
her —frankly, simply, as men do talk some-
times when they have something of which
they must rid their minds. Her name was
Douglas, a queer name for a girl, but it had
been passing down in the family for years
and years.
Then he made a funny sort of request: If*
anything happened to him, would Hughie
look the girl up and tell her about it?
“Yes, I’ll do that all right,” Hughie said.
He took the address that was handed over
to him in the dark, at tbe same time think-
ing it was a good thing he had not taken
an interest in a gun as Sanderson had;
evidently it helped to frighten a man. Poor
old Sanderson and his gun! He made a pet
of the thing, a toy—and it was getting him
down.
But it was Sanderson who was right; and
when the shell did come next day there was
not such a great deal of Sanderson left, and
Hughie was carried down to the beach
with a small hole in his side, They could
not do the necessary operation on the boat,
and by the time he had got to London the
hole was healed up. But they knew there
was a piece of iron in him, and he was
X-rayed. Eventually they got it out; and
there was a queer thing attached to that,
too, because it was not a piece of Turk shell.
It was a small portion of the dial sight of
Sanderson’s gun.
They gave it to him as a grim sort of
souvenir, and months later he showed it to
Doug., when they had practically arranged to
get married some day. He went through a
good deal before they did get married, but
it came off all right, just after the war.
She was a fine girl. He found that out
at the home he took her to on Sydney’s
North Shore line. She made the home; she
handled and caressed the bare little house
until it became a living thing; a quietly
living thing, like—well, in a way, it was
like Sanderson’s gun, which had never been
able to teach him what a gun was. In five
years she had peopled it with two hefty little
lads—something like her, something
him, something, in a way, like Sanderson.
They were immeasurably happy. He was
extraordinarily fond of her; she had no other
god but him. Not so rare as it sounds that,
either. There are thousands of couples placed
like that, linked and bound together with
feather bonds that are strong as steel.
A trouble is that steel snaps—sometimes.
It was in their sixth year that he first
noticed a girl with pansy-black eyes and
white cheeks riding in the trains with him
to and from the city. How that girl
managed it he never bothered to learn,
but she got to know Doug. She came
to the house more and more often, and
Doug., in a motherly way, mothered her.
She was really an accepted friend of theirs,
and he had taken her for granted long before
the night she called when Doug, was out at
the theatre.
The funny part about that was that In
knew the girl knew Doug, was out. But he
did not bother much about it, and when she
hinted rather clearly that she would like
him to see her to her home, which was nearly
a mile away along the tree-lined streets,
ho went with her without troubling much
about that either. He even let her link her
arm through his without bothering, and he
trudged along beside her, talking the ordinary
commonplaces, and pretending in an amused
way to flirt with her. But when they came
, to her gate, and she turned that little face
of hers up to him, the pansy-black eyes
glittered and the white cheeks seemed to
gleam in a queerly reminiscent way.
In a second, as he stood there, he lived
over a good deal of his life, and especially
that part of it that had to do with the girl
in Cairo for whom he was crucified at the
gun-wheel. She had been different from
Doug., that girl, and so was this one.
He stood 'there looking down at her. She
was quite close and seemed to be leaning
towards him. He put a hand on her shoulder,
and she moved closer.
And the steel snapped.
He had been there before with that sort of
girl. He knew what to say, and he said it.
He knew how to act, and he acted. They
walked along past the house, apparently aim-
lessly. They went through a stile and into a
park full of stunted gum-trees. He knew she
was leading, though he was, of course, sup-
posed to be doing that, and he let her lead.
They went in under the trees. It was she
who said, “Will we sit down for awhile? —
the night’s young.” They sat down on a
smooth concrete step. Then, quite sud-
denly, she kissed him —as that girl in Egypt
used to kiss him. And something that the
•easy arrangements of married life had
soothed down in him sprang again into
being.
It was a long time afterwards, quite a long
time, that he was standing up there beside
her in the gloom. He said to her coldly:
“I think you had better go home.” That
made her look at him rather oddly; and
then she went, and left him standing there,
looking at the memorial gun on whose base
they had sat down. He could see it clearly;
the long black muzzle jet in the gloom.
It was that which taught him what a gun
was.
He let his right hand smooth over the
breech, gently, as Sanderson used to do.
He stepped back to the trail and handled
it for a while. Then he went out of the
park and walked home, and when Doug, came
in from the theatre she found him sound
asleep. Or that’s what she thought; for
afterwards, when she was sound asleep, he
went out to the room where the two boys
slept, and from the back of a bookshelf there
he took out a small piece of dial-sight that
had once torn a hole in his side. On it he
swore a quite foolish oath, which does not
matter in the least, except in this way—
that there are thousands of couples placed
just like that, bound together with feather
bonds that are strong as steel; that have
snapped sometime, but have been welded
together again, stronger than they ever were
before.
Eighteen Hundred and Ten.
I went for a walk on the Rocks 1 ' last week,
Old highways and byways through,
An idle fellow with nothing to seek
And nought I fancied to do.
The air was cool and the night was line
As, heedless of time, strolled I,
While, making a wonder of shadow and shine,
The moon climbed up in the sky.
Though every inch of the Rocks, I vow,
I know, and have known from old,
Yet all of a sudden, I knew not how,
All lost and lonesome I strolled.
Like one who walks in an alien town,
Through alley and street I passed;
And strange was the light the moon cast
down,
And strange the shadows it cast.
As wandering on with a tread that woke
Far echoes in lane and street,
Although I met with a-many folk,
Yet ne’er a friend did I meet.
Yes, this I vow, though it meet with scorn,
I saw strange maids and men,
And garbed were they in the garments worn
In Eighteen Hundred and Ten.
As to and fro in their quaint old guise
Through shine and shadow they trod,
They passed me by with unseeing eyes
And never a smile or a nod.
As on I fared, like a man who goes
Through dreams on a mystic quest,
I passed by houses where music rose,
And song and laughter and jest.
In them I glimpsed, as my feet I stayed,
Brave captains, and captains bold,
And dames and damsels in silk arrayed,
And men in scarlet and gold.
And sometimes, as on and on I passed,
An. inn by the way I saw
Where knives flashed sheathless, and dice
were cast.
And men made mock of the Law.
And once, when a wind from the Harbor bore
Salt odors and sweet to me,
I heard a chorus, heard now no more,
Sung loud by men of the sea.
And then right out of my dream I woke
And, wakeful and wise again,
Strolled home from the Rocks and the
shadowy folk
Of Eighteen Hundred and Ten.
N.S.Wj
RRODERIC QUINN.


sdf
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—-
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE DO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents— *iOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. fONfORA WEST N S WALES
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington. tUIHiUKU «•
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” MB5 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
‘‘Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
“Bitumastic ?> Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous Waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers; WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RAY-O-VAC
The Mark of Superior Quality
HERE it is—the electric torch you want —peer into
dark corners with it, use it when walking at night, for
safety's sake. Note these Ray-Q-Lites' advantages
strong, vulcanized fibre case, corrugated for easy grip;
octagon head to prevent rolling when laid down;
heavy brass trimmings, nickel-plated and polished;
patented lock switch to prevent accidental
discharge of battery; also many others. If
used with Ray-0-Vac Torch Batteries, the
Ray-O-Lite will be a dependable com-
panion;— it's built to last a lifetime.
Write our distributor Jor the name
oj the nearest dealer.
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR:
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m, and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY. CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults. 1/6. Children, 6d.
Xeis.: 86276 (4 lines).
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
THE
REMEDY
that
'WiU do
uott good
Know the beneficial effecls of Beecham’s Pills.
Experience in all cases of Sick Headache,
Biliousness, Indigestion and Constipation, has
proved their value. Those who use them
recommend them as “ the remedy that will do
you good.”
Give Beecham’s a trial—-judge them from your
own experience—and you will speedily be con-
vinced of their merit. The defective organs
will be restored—able to perform their proper
functions, and your health established.
rs r \
/&■
Ui&a
OV Constipation, Sick
Headache, Biliousness,
ion, Languor.
PERFORMANCE
Exceptional performance
under trying conditions has
proved conclusively that
dependability and economy
are built-in features of all
Kermath Engines. That
is why over 70% of all lead-
ing boat - builders use Ker-
math-Kermath is supreme.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson's Point
North Sidney, N. S. W.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
16
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
V
if
Oj
3
s 6
ok
t*
( *.0 6 * eV
d e
ill' a C® 6 .••■'" .••'* «{.
k\\ 0 6^ 6 ••"' •-"’
fc®' «<
.•**
.** o*' *o^
*<* ...-*• ..*• *y v?*


//
A
9
BRATSK /
g£S
r
s
m
JohnnielValker
busy meeting old
edustralianfriends
k>ay>
THROUGHOUT
Jvnutyi
mt
FLO2S
PINT
NLT
It is foolish, these
days, to ask merely
for "whisky.” It is
just as easy to say
"Johnnie Walker”
—and much safer.
The Man Outback
<f find it fairly lonely between whiles—
JL not much genial company!”
"Why, Pve the best company in the world—
what with Darky there and yourself—not often in
the flesh, but always in the spirit.”
" Thanks for the compliment! I certainly do my
best to make life brighter and, if I may say so,
modestly, my friends declare I succeed.”
Johnnie Walker has the largest sale
of any whisky throughout the world s.
JOHNNIE
WAfaKER
WHISKY
Born 1820 -
Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., Sydney,
urne,
on 8C Kilmarnock
