

AUSTRALIAN WIRE PRODUCTS
Made at the Works of
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE
MADE FROM
B. H. P.
AUSTRALIAN
STEEL
LIST OF PRODUCTS.
STEEL WIRE.—AII classes and grades for manufacture
ing purposes including Galvanised, Bright and
Coppered Spring, Nail, Welding, etc. “Waratah”
BLACK AND GALVANISED FENCING WIRES - - “Waratah”
WIRE NETTING.—Rabbit and Assorted - - - - “ Waratah”
BARBED WIRES.—“Iowa” or “Waukegan” Pattern “Waratah”
NAILS - “Waratah”
CLOTHES AND GUY LINES “Waratah”
STEEL FENCING POSTS.—Star Pattern - - - B.H.P. “Waratah”
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
MADE FROM
B. H. P.
AUSTRALIAN
FDR ALL CLASSES OF WIRE PRODUCTS
SPECIFY “ WARATAH ” BRAND
kL
■
fiifififivfib
& J V'T, ' '. , > '(/' , v - "\ '. ' '.
■
■
v/v'v- .> •'!
' ; ’'y j
■
■
'' \/•; > , '
, :
WfmiTs^
. ■ <-" <^
■ „
£
gSififi '•■.■:«:»fit?
:■- Sit-fiSfi
-"•“ §gKgS§ SUSS
«-./V,w < -V.. (y/t ? 'V\,>'§S& •<• . ,
jj I
Siliii
Sllft
V: fiE : '' : ' S
.fi m
mm
-
•vi
lliiil
■■■■. T'
I
s
-S]
• :
1
■
-
v %-' y* 's~
i ,\
.E. #Bi
it,
...... t
'
I
nL r . r C Mi
-ollins St, Melbourne
The Bulletin
FOUR STORIES IN THIS NUMBER .
Vol. 49.—N0. 2518.
Wednesday, May 16, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Don't fume and fret when the weather is wet,
But wisely endure the weather you set,
For whether it’s cold or whether it’s hot,
You have to weather it whether or not.
Don’t grieve and scold for a cough or a eold,
Or dally in doubt while symptoms unfold.
Be prompt with relief and you’ll ease assure
When taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Apvt.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation , your New Free
Boohlet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. .
My Name
My Address
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
OUTSTANDING
ACHIEVEMENT
DURING THE
YEAR.
Over THREE
MILLION POUNDS
DIVIDED IN CASH
BONUSES, being
equivalent to rever-
sionary Bonuses of
about £5,270,000.
79th Annual Report Discloses
Following Figures for the Year 1927:-
New Business Completed . .
Paid to Members or Their
Dependents
New Business Effected by
Existing Members
Funds at 31st December, 1927
£19,459,808
4,685,392
5,635,256
67,809,683
CASH BONUS to be distributed amongst Ordinary
Department participating policy-holders on 30th
June next represents an average return of
ELEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
in each pound of participating premiums paid.
Paid to Members and Their Dependents During
the Existence of the Society over £86,000,000
Write or ’Phone for prospectus .
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
0. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
A. 0. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A., Secretary.
Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ’Phone: BW 2354.
Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
e
The best Wool
■ . . 1 • .. ,-v.v., '• •' : j .v ':.i
Underwear that
British Labour
can produce!
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Outerwear for Women
and Pullover*.
Pure Wool Stocking's
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men and } Hose
and Socks for Children,
■TOTOLSEY Pure Wool Underwear next
Vv the skin is the finest protection
against chills the best Wool Under-
wear that skilled British Labour can
produce. It also offers the greatest
value for money in wool garments,
because, no matter how much you
wash it, you will find it unshrinkable.
If you want to be well, com-
fortable and economical, then buy*
and wear, Wolsey at your earliest
opportunity! See the Wolsey Head
Trade Mark on every garment
a guarantee of its genuineness.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
iiiiMiMiiMMwiMiiMiiiMiiiiwiimrniniiw~ ~rr ■ - iifimMMn— rni WHB
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woddger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
K. G. H. joseland, Esq.
Nomina* Capital • £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZOI*
THE y
plum
uk any man vou know who uses a PLUI
ask him if he doesn't think it the
Razor he has ever used. Hear
rf answer, "Why, rather!’*
411
25f
Post Free.
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
mnrnr
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a Sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL.
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
IS
A. The Laiynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea o r
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
o< the Lungs.
The Red Page
This and That
A bright young friend tells me she is at
present reading—in alternate doses and
apparently with equal relish—the poems of
Marlowe and the essays of Walter Pater.
"May good digestion wait on appetite!” I
said, and shuddered behind my beard; for
Marlowe and Pater have no more in com-
mon than the eagle has with the lamb it
swoops to, or the wave with the dull earth
it gnaws at. All very well for Betty to
sit about sipping and nibbling at this and
that; but for me whose eager thirsts are
all spent long since, I must take my
nourishment with more discretion. I must
be politic to my whims and respect the
habits of my mind. But I find that her
little “up-stage” boast, rounded with laugh-
ter as the door closed jealously behind her,
does invite reflection upon a theme that
bears, by way at least .of inference and
implication, much fruity matter.
It must be obvious that the creative
and critical faculties are mutually pre-
clusive ; that the unpredictable raptus
of the poet is the antithesis of that feline,
sceptical perspicacity of regard whereby the
poem is tried and found sometimes accord-
ing to its deserts; that, for a particular
instance, the hand that recreated Kubla
Khan’s pleasure dome is essentially not the
hand that scattered the mingled seed and
dust of the “Biographia Literaria.” An
extreme example, admittedly, because each
performance, incomparable in its kind, is
composed of elements foreign to the other;
yet each was an emission from the self-same
intelligence.
It is possible at times —I suppose in one’s
weaker, more “intellectual” states of mind—
to find oneself arguing that even the purest
poetry is a crude, indiscriminate mode of
expression, a lucky guesswork unsupported
by any of that conscious, if immediately
apprehensible, knowledge upon the mere
display of which your critical writer must
in the nature of the case depend for his
authority. This is a critical age; and much
of the criticism produced in England and
France in almost: any month nowadays is
of such great merit, so abundant in stimu-
lating ideas, so attractively honest in inten-
tion, so brilliantly written, that the reproach
that one spends more time with the critics
than with the “creative writers” is in in-
creasing danger of losing all its point. A
deplorable state of affairs, nevertheless!
For what, after all, is criticism but the
atmosphere into which poetry is breathed?
When the critic’s little stock of omniscience
is exhausted, out he goes with a phut! into
most immediate silence. He has no
undreamt-of constellations up his sleeve, no
fiery pockets to fish salamanders from, no
magic mirrors in his hat. The pronouncing
habit must sooner or later sublimate into a
tacit assumption of superiority his inability
to plunge his pen into his breast and write
with his heart’s blood. He has become too
wise, too regardful of the dece'ncies at any
rate, even to regret that he was not born a
poet. I put it that Wat Pater, who always
wrote as it were in a vacuum, would nearly
have died of embarrassment and priggish
shame at the mere thought that “Tambur-
laine” or “Dr. Faustus” or anything resem-
bling either might ever in any circum-
stances acknowledge him as its author. But
if Marlowe’s place is near the zenith (and
any odds you like it is!), where would you
search for a posthumous Pater but in that
bottomless pit wherein professors of litera-
ture plunge headlong in eternal oblivion?
“Poetry,” one says, meaning of course any
creative definition in emotional imagery.
The novels of Conrad and Hardy have, to
speak mildly, a great deal more right to the
title Poetry than anything that will ever
be written by John Dr ink water or John
Masefield or Alfred Noyes or Robert
Bridges, Laureate of England.
An illuminating distinction, by the
way, between great genius and great
talent is afforded by the publication
of “The Nature of a Crime,” by
Joseph Conrad and F. M. Ford, late
Hueffer. In a “Note on the Compo-
sition of ‘Romance,’ ” included in the volume,
Ford confesses that his chief concern in
those collaborations was always “to key
down” his partner’s richer utterance with
the suave leaven of, his own subtle prose.
jo “Romance,” if it is to stand at all, which
is doubtful, must do so on its secondary
merits as a story; it can have no absolute
value. An artist is authentic or not, accord-
ing to his vision; which is to say, he sees
the world, or fails to see it, as a unity. The
world is his utterance. If another artist
pokes his bib in, as occasionally happens, the
game is up, and the figures in the novel
that might have been men, the divine and
inexplicable men that inhabit only works of
art, are _ reduced to dummies with labels
neatly tied about their necks. And when
the one collaborator is of feminine tem-
perament (F.M.F.) and the other masculine
(J.C.), the psychological disjunctedness will
be as apparent in both the conception and
execution of the work as the fleeting
shadows of a pair of birds winging their way
together in the sunlight.
But everybody inclines either to “key
down” or “key up” his experience. Each
of us is unique, life is infinite in complexity,
and from Pater to Marlowe takes doing,
even when you are a god with a worldful
of souls and all time to play with. “Oh,”
says a fellow, surveying one’s books, “you’re
literary, I see. You’d enjoy meeting So-
and-so; he’s the complete highbrow and has
read everything that ever was printed.”
But of what interest to me is So-
and-so’s interest in literature? He got his
genesis, I soon find, under a star so dif-
ferent from mine that all the energies of
his psyche are opposed to mine, his enthusi-
asms slack where mine are vibrant and
vice versa, the very processes of his reason
dictated by an aesthetic philosophy, so inimi-
cal to mine that it is a heartfelt relief to
find he is musical and will listen to the
gramophone.
In a sane world—a world, that is, in which
they would put out one book where- we
publish about 394—a1l literary criticism
would be done by women. Most women are
good critics.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Art in the Theatre
In the theatre we distinguish between a
show and a work of art. We separate origi-
nal dramatic talent from mimicry, the
artist from the virtuoso. Yet often enough
in man’s uphill climb it has taken the crowd
a generation of time to tell t’other from
which, to estimate sheep and lion.
What is art, and who are the artists?
These are immemorial questions in and out
of the theatre.
Little need to describe or analyse the
sliowhouse, the place where men of business
sell amusement. There, if the entertainment
is : generally pointless, it is also equally
innocuous; and the showmen are perfectly
within their rights. The theatre of art is
found at the opposite pole. Here your
artists do not meet for material gain, but
because they are driven by no small need
to be of some lively service to their own
people and place and time. Not that that
alone could give them entirely to art. For
sincerity, without the special combination
of gifts, is not enough.
Men and women are like the child in this,
that they have a royal contempt for being
preached at. Therefore they seek from the
artist, in any medium, some quaint embroi-
deries on things familiar and unfamiliar.
Also, perhaps unconsciously, they come to
him for a revelation of life. And even for
a criticism of their neighbors, if not of
themselves. But they resent, because they
hardly understand, a naked, and direcj ex-
pression. There remains only one complete
way to address mankind—the way of art,
the way of conjuring into entertainment a
twist towards finer uses. And it was one
nameless artist, some comedian of the
antique -days, who first ■ taught that sages,
might display their wisdom all the more
eloquently through the window of folly*
The theatre of art is far from being the
academy of gloom that so many absentees
imagine it to be. Briefly, the art theatre is
a tent where man’s gay and tragic senses
sparkle and glow more vividly than they
ever could in the plentiful ordinary theatres.
Will the fun be less because the wit is
greater? ' . .
The artist is our teacher turned play-
mate. Every artist is a gentle poet at the
core. His ways are geniaj. He retains
man’s childlike love of play, but on the
anvil of his genius he swots the conscience
of the world. He is your own keener self.
He is the one man among many who dares
to express himself—his own egoism, his
own native truth —throiurh the medium of
some happy gift. He is : chal-
lenger of stale custom and empty authority;
combater of shames and shams with the
pebbles of wit and humor; friend of out-
casts; trumpeter for all patient merit;
reverer of the mighty dead; hater of death;;
supreme lover of life; loser of creeds and
factions; gainer of worlds; reconciler of all.
Great literature and great men have ever
something of the dramatic. The higher we
go the higher the drama. When we reflect
on any field of Time, when we come to sift
out the immortal works and the immortal
men from the myriad strivings of the field,
we are driven to the realisation that on the
peaks are the Greek dramatists; Plautus' in
ancient Rome;, Dante, with his “Divine
Comedy,” in Italy; Shakspeare in England;
Moliere in France; Calderon, Vega and Cer-
vantes in the palmy days of Spain; Ibsen
in Scandinavia. Did not, the world’s Pro-
phetic Genius take to the dramatic form,
the parable, to propound the love that was
universal? Is not the passion of Hamlet
(Continued an vane A>


“Truth in Advertising ** is your g'uarantee and our assurance.
Anthony Horderns
Compare quality for quality and price for price
Shooters’ Needs at Economy Prices
fenßfirßfl
YTI7S
YTI7S. Stevens’ Single-shot “Juoior’
Rifle, Take-down, 22 short, long and long
rifle, 20in. Barrel. Weight 2 fib.
Each
226
YTI76
YTI 76.—Stevens’ Single-shot Rifle, “Fav-
orite,” Take-down, 22 calibre, 24in.
round Barrel. Weight Each
40!-
YT443.—Rabbiter’s Set, with Leather
Sheath and Steel. Each 6/-
on
YT3ol.—Cleaning Rods, best quality three-
piece Redwood, solid Brass Joint, complete
with Mop, Wire Brush and Brass Jag.
1 2G. Per Set
gf j
& m
Same as above. 20G. Per Set .... 5/6
Same as above. 410 G. Per Set .... 5/9
mm
YT3B6.—Best Cowhide Gun Case, lined
with cloth, spring lock, heavy brass corners
and long straps.
Each for 30in. Barrels £5/5/-
Each for 32in. Barrels £5/10/-
w
i i
YTl2l.—Wm. Cashmore 12G. D.B. Ham-
merless Pigeon Gun, Greener Cross Bolt.
Chambered for 2 fin. cartridges. Plain fin-
ish. Proved for Nitro Powders. Weight
about 71b.
Each
£lBllB/-
Gun Repairs.
We undertake repairs of all
kinds to any make of Gun,
Rifle or Revolver. New Barrels
and other parts fitted to Rifles;
Sights fitted and adjusted. As
we have Expert Gunsmiths
constantly employed on re-
pairs, and every appliance
most suitable for the work,
customers sending us repairs
may be quite certain they will
be done in a perfectly satisfac-
tory manner. We are always
prepared to give an exact price,
if required, for any work be-
fore it is put in hand, but it is
necessary for us to have the
firearm (complete if possible)
before we can quote.
YTI67
YTl67.—Remington Repeat-
ing Rifle. Model 1 2A. 22 cali-
bre, chambered for short, long
and long rifle cartridges.
Weight about A I
4*lb. Each. . 3L4/
17/6
YTl4B.—Winchester Repeat-
ing Rifle, 25/20, 32, 38 or 44
calibre. Full or Half Maga-
zine. 24in. octagon Barrel.
Weight about
6 fib.. Each . .
V? T *7 /
at/ / / /-
USE OUR “D.P.S.”
Deposit-Purchase System.
You Pay No Interest.
jMBI
YT7l. 12G. Belgian D.8.8.L. Gun (En-
graved), Top-lever Action, Blue Steel Bar-
rels, Cross Bolt, Engine-turned Rib, Left Full,
Right Modified Choke, Chambered 2fin.,
Rebounding Locks, Deeley Fore-end, Wal-
nut Stock, Half-Pistol
Proof. Each
95 1-
mmm.
. -o
YT74.— 12G. Belgian D.B. Breech-loading
Gun, with Quadruple Webley-Greener Bolt,
Best Rebounding Bar, Action Locks, Best
Quality Steel Barrels, Choke, Matted Rib,
Full Scroll Fence, Neat English Engraving,
Fine Walnut Stock (Checkered), Patent
Fore-end, Nitro Proof.
Each
£6/10/-
YT60.—I. Hollis & Sons’ 12G. Top-lever
D.B.B.L. Gun, Double-bolted Action, Steel
Barrels, Left Choke Bore, good Steel Re-
bounding Backwork Locks, Walnut Heart
Stock, Haif-Pistol Grip, extended Rib Snap,
Fore-end Fastener.
£8/10/-
Without Cross Bolt. Each
With Cross Bolt. Each . .
£9/10/-
YT63.—Chas. Bowerman’s 1 2G. D.B.B.L.
Superior Back-work Action Top-lever
Hammer Gun, Double Bolt, Steel Rebound-
ing Locks, Steel Barrels, Left Choke, Snap
Fore-end Fastener, Thread engraved and
well finished. Nitro Proof.
Each
£6/101-
As above, with Doll’s Head Extension Rib.
Each £7/10/-
As above, with Greener Cross Bolt. Each—
£8/10/-
m
YT441. —The Teddy’’ Stainless Hunting
Knife. In leather sheath. Each .... 10/6
Anthony Horderns'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
11
Postal Address: SYDNEY. Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


e
BEAUTY
COMFORT
POWER
SAFETY
STEERING
ECONOMY
m
I
NEW BEAUTY: New, improved
bodies of more graceful lines —long,
low-swung, lustrous.
NEW COMFORT: A Studebaker
patented one-piece windshield which
permits full ventilation without
drau g h ts or moisture. Shock
absorbers, extra-long springs and
specially designed form-fitting
cushions give floating smoothness.
NEW POWER: An improved 70 h.p.
engine with power increased 55%
gives The Director more power than
69 sedans selling for more.
NEW SAFETY: Advanced elements
of safety include a new full-vision
WELDED steel body, a low centre
of gravity, an amplified-action, four-
wheel brakes, which invite the
exhilarating thrill of speed.
NEW STEERING: An ultra-modern,
thin-grip steering-wheel gives quick,
responsive control, increases your
safety and doubles your ability to
handle the car.
NEW ECONOMY: After first 1000
miles you need renew your oil and
grease only every 2,500 miles,
through new oil filter, crankcase
ventilation, thermostatic heat
control and new magazine high-
pressure greasing system.
STUDE BAKER'S
DIRECTOR SEDAN
Advanced engineering makes it possible for
you to drive the Director 40 miles an hour
Erskine Models from £298 to £448.
Director Models from £378 to £570.
Commander Models from £560 to £650
President Models from £665 to £875
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Limited, Sydney .
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney. Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street;
Christchurch.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
Studebaker holds all the highest Speed and Endurance Pecords for fully equipped
Stock Cars in Australia and America.
STUDEMKER,
WMBB9


iW.
y
X
—so
N
I
David Jones’ have just received a new
shipment of the latest materials for
Men’s Suits from the leading English,
Irish and Scotch Manufacturers.
Patterns are varied —over-check designs—
stripes—and plain colors are fashionable.
Inspect our stocks in the Tailoring
Department, Lower Ground Floor
New Store, or George Street Store.
SUITS-TO-MEASURE from
7 GNS.
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh,
Market and
Elizabeth Streets.
e
Branch
Men’s Store,
opposite G.P.O.
for the theatre but another view of his still
nobler passion for cleansing the world stage
on which we play?
I have been writing here of those works
that are called miracles of human expres-
sion. But there was nothing miraculous
about their authors, unless genius itself be
called miraculous. These men were all
cumulative geniuses, rare sensitives, de-
pending on what they absorbed from elder
and contemporary art. Shakspeare himself
was the outcome of the amateur dramatic
guilds that had been flourishing in Eng-
land for hundreds of years. The amateur
actors of London built his first theatre with
their own hands. .
If, then, dramatic literature is the highest
expression in the realm of art, there is a
pleasure that is not all vanity in remember-
ing that our English dramatic literature is
the most intense, the noblest and the richest
in the world. Pleasant, too, the remem-
brance that our world genius, our Shak-
speare. sprang from a sturdy line of amateur
English writers and actors who might be
stayed, but could not be gainsaid.
Iff however, our British drama is the com-
pletest in the modern world, our theatre,
cur stage, certainly is not. And yet I am
very much in agreement with those who
make point that our theatre material, in
every human and dramatic sense, is second
to none. It only remains for us to encour-
age all our theatre artists—writers, actors,
producers—to build up the playhouse of
their dreams.
DUNCAN MACDOUGALL.
The Poetry of Dick Harris
In her Red Page review of “The Poetry
of Dick Harris” (4/4/’2B) Nettie Palmar
refers to “an unfortunate accident,” the in-
clusion in the book of a rondeau by Austin
Dobson. How did it come there?
I am afraid this must remain a mystery.
The collection I made of Harris’s poems
after his death was drawn from some that
Harris himself had contemplated publish-
ing, from scrap-books and from my own
knowledge of what he had written. The
collection was submitted to two or three
critics before publication. Like myself they
failed to detect the Dobson poem. Can we
be blamed for not noticing it? Well—
blamed as much as editors of big papers
who have unwittingly published as new r and
original the verse of famous poets of the
past. There are some notable cases on
record. These editors have been the vic-
tims of practical jokers or of plagiarists.
Would Harris have included the Dobson
poem as a joke? The last thing in the
world! He had too deep an appreciation of
verse. Poetry was his religion.
Was Harris guilty of plagiarism? Perish
the thought! The writer of “The Cry of
Pan” would not have been driven to the
necessity of cribbing from such a well-
known poet as Dobson. A case of uncon-
scious plagiarism? Although world-famous
writers in a recent symposium in John
O’London’s Weekly gave remarkable
instances of this, such an egregious example
as the rondeau of Dobson’s is almost beyond
the realms of possibility.
For myself I think that Harris, having a
deep appreciation of French verse forms,
typed out the rondeau as a sample of
ingenious rhyming and inadvertently left it
with his own work, leading to its unfortu-
nate inclusion in the memorial volume.
This assumption is borne out by a con-
versation I had with Mr. Charles Wilson
(formerly our M.L. Parliamentary Libra-
rian), who told me that some time before
Harris died he (Wilson) had lent him a
book of Dobson’s poems. When Harris
returned the book Wilson noted the offend-
ing rondeau indicated in pencil. Plainly
Harris was struck with this particular poem,
copied it out and placed it with his papers
and cuttings for future guidance.
Incidentally, I will be grateful if The
Bulletin will allow me to say that all pro-
fits of Harris’s Book of Poems are to go to
his mother. Copies (price 45.) may be had
from myself, Box 965, Wellington, New
Zealand.
PAT LAWLOR.
Lawson’s First Baby
Lawsoniana must have a vogue even in
England where -ana are legion. I recently
acquired from a gentleman, who paid 225.
6d. for it in London, a little paper-covered
volume called “Short Stories in Prose and
Verse,” by Henry Lawson. It was published
in 1894 by “L. Lawson, 402 George-street,
Sydney.” It was Lawson’s first publication
in book form and cost originally one shil-
ling per copy. Amongst other items which
have since become famous the volume con-
tains “The Fire at Ross’s Farm,” “The
Union Buries Its Dead,” and “Macquarie’s
Mate.”
Page 95 of the book is devoted to adver-
tising a certain “The Rosalind” Waltz.
Several press opinions of the waltz are
quoted, disclosing one or two interesting
little scraps of Lawson history. Truth,
August 19, 1894, is quoted as follows: “We
may mention that the young composer is a
brother of Henry Lawson, the poet and
writer, and son of Mrs. L. Lawson, of Dawn.”
Freeman’s Journal, August 25, 1894, is also
quoted: “Already two members of the Law-
son family are well known in literary and
journalistic circles, apd now it seems that
it is t,.0 give a new rheruit to the musical
world in the person of this youthful com-
poser.” Sydney Mail, September 8, 1894,
prophesies: “From this specimen other com-
positions by Mr. B. Lawson will be antici-
pated with pleasure.”
Not many people are aware of the fact
that Harry was the possessor of so famous
a brother. The Bulletin, September 8,
1894, mentioned that “Society heard the
Rosalind Waltz on the orchestra at Hilda
Spong’s benefit, and it has since been
played at Government House.”
T.S.B.
Plain but Sane
Dr. Ellery’s arguments (R.P. 25/4/’2S)
would be brilliantly successful had they any
connection with the discussion I began on
“plain English.” If I had said that plain
English was the only English there might
have been cause for amusement. What I
did say was that it was the surest, the
safest.
My prescription was for two specific dis-
eases —sentimentality and artificiality. Obvi-
ously it was not intended for a universal
regimen. Moreover, if Dr. Ellery per-
sists in reading into my remarks a pro-
posal to return to Defoe, he will surely
allow me to read into his a proposal to
return to Browne? It would be just as fair.
But since it was of offenders among lesser
writers that I spoke, we may leave the
great whimsical, colorful and fantastic
writers out of the question.
I am sorry that the word “plain” has for
Dr. Ellery such unpleasant associations as
plain soap, plain washing, plain women,
business English. My associations are
different. To me the word is suggestive of
purity, strength, symmetry. It suggests
Phidias, Euripides, the Parthenon; or, again,
the great blue-green expanses of the Vic-
torian Western District, or Mount Feather-
top. Plainness to me is “artless as the air,
and candid as the skies.” It lacks neither
softness nor splendor. Bach’s preludes are
plain; folk tunes are plain; so also are
such lovely lines as
On one side lay the ocean, and on one
Lay a great water, and the moon was full.
A noble plainness may or may not be
beauty in its ultimate, expression. Who
would presume to decide between the Greek
and the Gothic? Besides, it is to no pur-
pose. Whatever the decision, both are good.
It would be as stupid to reject the mani-
fest delights of the rich and fantastic as to
deny the loveliness of the classic.
I agree with Victor Kennedy that the
dot-and-dash style can be effective; but it
is apt to become a mannerism. My favorite
passage in the “Forsyte Saga” is that deal-
ing with Old Jolyon’s death. Perhaps there
are not many actual typographical dots and
dashes, but the effect is the same, and here
it is superb. For that reason, if for no
other, we should beware. Such devices re-
quire the master hand. It is disgusting to
see every scribbler travestying a lovely
thing.
LUCILLE M. BLOINK.
A Satchel of Books
The Road to Widgewong, by Leslie Lee
(Cornstalk Co.). One of the Bellbird
series, telling of two youngsters who ran
away from home, and their adventures in the
Australian bush. The sort of literature
that tickles the appetite of youth.
Lane’s Helicon Series. The latest additions
to this new series of single-volume editions
of great poems of moderate length are Spen-
ser’s “Epithalamion” and Keats’s “The Eve
of St. Agnes.” Bound in black boards with
silver lettering and illustrated with woodcuts,
they are attractive little volumes worthy of
their contents.
Domnei, by James Branch Cabell (John
Lane). Offered as a comedy of woman-wor-
ship, the romantic love story of Perion
and Melicent is marked by many passages
of beauty void of the ironic quality which
is characteristic of Cabell’s writings. Joseph
Hergesheimer contributes an introduction.
The Persians, of Aeschylus (Alien, and
Unwin). A translation by C. B. Armstrong
into English verse. The translator, in view
of the play’s defects in dramatic action,
treats it as a poem, in which form he claims
it exhibits the genius of Aeschylus at its
best. The dignity of the original is lost
in a jingle of tinkling rhymes.
England, from Chaucer to Caxton, by H. S.
Bennett (Methuen). One of the “English
Life in English 'Literature” series. The
motive of the book is to present through
its poetry, chronicle, romances and other
literary material the social life of mediaeval
England. A book of deep interest to lovers
of history and literature.
Isolt of Ireland and The Poison Floicer,
by John Todliunter (Dent). The author
gives a new form to the legend that has
attracted the attention of so many writers
by its tragic beauty. The play is divided into
a prologue and three acts, the tragedy closing
with the picture of Isolt of Brittany at the
head of the couch on which rests the body of
Tristram, and Isolt of Ireland passing to the
lower end: —
Lie by thy husband’s side;
Let me, his mistress, at my lover’s feet
Take the great rest of death. Hark how the sea
Mourns more divinely than a thousand harps.
It is the dirge of Tristram and Isolt.
I Think I Remember: Being the Random
Recollections of Sir Wiclcham WooHcomb ,
an Ordinary English Snob and Gentleman
(Thornton Butterworth; Angus and Bober t-
son). The author, Cleone Knox (Magdalen
King-Hall), wrote also “The Diary of a
Young Lady of Fashion,” a practical joke,
which deceived even eminent critics such as
Judge Darling. This time Miss King-Hall
has decided to be entirely frank, and pro-
claims the work to be fiction. It is appa-
rently intended to be a satire on the sort
of reminiscences that people are writing
nowadays. The Englishman’s “divine pre-
rogative of stupidity” rests complacently on
Sir Wickham Woolicomb. Which is, after
all, the only philosophical way of carrying
through life an empty brain-case. Miss King-
Hall is the daughter of a former admiral on
the Australian station. But even that does
not arouse any enthusiasm for her latest
literary adventure.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except oj a hostile character} will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
1.Mc1.: A trifle; but the telling almost
justified it.... Tarago: “Stock” wanted better
droving Duboycee: First, why not let the man
tell his own tale? There are unrealised "possibilities
in it J.A.H.: The defence ought to be stronger
than that.... M. Jayess: The two sides have been
put, and we must let it stand at that T. 5.8.:
Merit in it. But too wordy. And your close typing
is a nightmare P.A.W.: Good work; but we’ve
had a man on the spot.... Spero: The English word
“butter,” according to Webster, followed by modern
lexicographers, is derived from the Greek boutyron
(bous, cow; tyron, cheese) .... Keswick: Thanks. But
the Standard Dictionary spells it “desiccated.” Rhyme
not worth, publishing... .F.R.N.: Sincere, but feeble.
M.A.T.: Sorry; not nearly good enough
Cocky: Mere description can find no place....
C.J.O’S.: Good matter poorly handled... .0.A.J.:
Farewelled “Farewell” without one throb of regret.
....W. Sub: Somehow you don’t make us care what
happens. The yarn is a good basis, but needs
different working... .E.F.D.: Carries no conviction.
... .Queen Mab: Music-hally stuff... .M.E.8.: Bolting
back to y0u....C.F.: Jokes translated from the
French read as if they had originally been translated
from the Australian .Antique: Of the 36 original
Senators only Pearce (vice-pres. Exec. Council) arid
Harney (M.P. South Shields, Eng.) are still Parlia-
mentary hands. Of the defeated candidates (91), all
have vanished from politics except W. A. Watt,
M.H.R. for Balaclava, and H. E. Holland, leader of
the Maoriland Labor party.—H.H. (Bris.) : “Correct-
ing” the story would do no good. It would need
total reconstruction J.B. (New Farm) : Crudely
worked .V.G.W.: Melancholy ode to a hat is not
our size H.W.: Du 11... .8.E.8.: Merely made us
thirsty Dan M.: Your typewriter is a comedian.
“There was hats in her eye,” for example
C.J.C.: The kids’ antipathy to Auntie is crude.—
G.E.S. (London) : Stories about Spain have no appeal
to us; and it’s a poor story, any way.... Rex T.: No
use for your wanderings... .L.M.F.: “Life’s River”
flows back to you... .A.W.L.: You deserve 30 days
C.B Jawell: No sting in the bee yarn... .Joe B.:
Mere description; keep it for some daily at next
Show-time J.M.G.: Returned to its stable....
Cath S.: Glad to hear. One sent to the Mirror.
Fred D.: Good story if you had only worked it
properly .Roy C.: Leads nowhere.... M.L.N.: If
thine “I’s” offend thee, pluck them out of thy manu-
script ; and if they don’t offend thee they should.
Jael E.: P00r... .John P.: Pipped on the post....
Commerce: The first Fuller Ministry stayed in “about
seven hours” of December 20, 1921 —the briefest
period on N.S.W. record. The first Cowper Ministry
lasted one month seven da3 f s in 1856 P.G.L.:
Full of sobs and incoherences.... Cam. D.: Why send
us “The Orphan” ? This isn’t an orphanage
W.J.M.C.: Midwifery poem has the virtue of brevity.
. ...M.M.: Of course, very immature; still you shape
towards storytelling... .W.J.M.: “Camel’s Milk” not
to our taste K.M.: Had to swat “The Flies”....
V.E. and G.F.E.: Did it take two of you to write
that?... .F.A.T.: Dreary affair Jack H.: Verse
about the cooks fell in the soup... .Eileen G.: Pay-
ment for verse usually forwarded on acceptance; if
it isn’t, send a claim in. “Man at the Top” toppled.
~..Phil T. T.: “Life... .certain, then and sure’’ is
one of many faults in your grief-and-pain outburst.
.... H.G.8.: The sort of stuff we don’t want....
E.W.: Bunkered W.J.W.: “The Ghost” won’t
ivalk... .G.E.8.: If all you sent were pars. —which
it is impossible to acknowledge—the answer
was not for you L.C.W.: Can’t suggest
any. The story is all argument... .K.R. (Launces.) :
Rather like a “Wild Cat” item in verse... .D.F.L.:
You can’t make a story of a mere debate about
intentions A. J.H.: “Pirates” walked the plank.
. ...D.D.: Doesn’t quite convince... .E.P.C.: You’re
a rough carpenter in verse....W. Grib: The story
did not need the long apology.... Billy D.: Would
have had a chance could we have guessed the mean-
ing of the last two lines.. . .P.F.P.: Blank-verse
cartridge seldom hits any mark... .Z.V.W.: Reads
awkwardly Dan O’C.: We give “Bellerive” the palm
still... .Edith P.: We wiped away the bride’s tears.
Thomas Q.: Not; at all bad, but, as a story,
fails.. . .Will C.: Your “Quid” is depreciated cur-
rency... .A.F.: Meaningless... .M.C.P.: “Why should
my heart be aching?” Can’t say, but we do know
why our head is. ...P. Rad: “Artist” is a mere
daub.... Mark S.: No poetic beauty in “Where
Beauty Lies”... .H.A.T.: Thank Heaven, there were
only four lines W.McG.: Beer verse went flat
E.S.H.: That cat was chased off the premises....
Norman B.: Mere description, lacking punch....
Bessie D.: Can’t put “The Messenger” on our staff,
although he ran a chance... .L.M.F.: Too weak.
. ...R.D.M.: Both too fragile... .Rrib D.: Marks of
manufacture all over them.... W.H.R.: “Miscue”
won’t get you in qff the read M 55..... J.R.P.: Verse
is never masterly 'if it is schoolmasterly.. . .Annette:
“The pitiful rags of pride betray all the thorns in
my feet” is a. great idea. Do you wear your rags
on your feet, or, if you mean broken boots, how do
busted uppers resemble pride?....Aslier-Bani-Pal:
Your desire to be uphurled fell with a crash... .R.J.8.:
Melodrama carries no conviction.... 8.L.L.: What
would we give you for it? Well, how about six
months? 1.M.P.: You’re right—your rhyme did
raise a groan. . . .G.M.8.: Why “an island that shall
be nameless?” Names are cheap enough... .Colin T.:
We found the flavor not strong enough Pax:
Vobiscum .R.J.R.: Not particularly interested in
your sentimentalist.... V.C.W.: Unattractive....
Chas. M.: Somewhat stilted.... Martyn W.: Morbid
affair.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.C.: Like Isaac, we are wondering what the joke
wa5....H.H.: Mabs and Babs are not tempting
enough. .. .C.E.S.: Feeble full page about a man who
ran into a wasps’ nest... .G.E.W.: You “will be
glad to receive payment for sketches submitted.”
Optimist!... .D.D.D.: Time that old telephone gag
was disconnected E.A.8.: No room for outsiders
in that department... .C.8.P.: Uninteresting ladies
airing anaemic jokes... .T.M.8.: Pemvork wild and
perspective atrocious... .V.N.T.: Heaved 0ut....
H.A.: Nowhere near the mark.... W.11.C.J.: You
haven’t caught the flippant line you are striving
for... .P.P.: Better stuff is turned down every week.
. ...G.S.D.: No good. A. J.M.D.: Impossible.


9
MWBa
k I
.... ..
i
.
• :-v:
I
X; ■
1
.....
■
ma
m
Ik
I
I*ll
■X
k
I
r m illoctl


The Bulletin
VoL 49.—N0. 2518.
May 16, 1938^
ANOTHER GRAND OPERA SEASON OPENS.
“The United States, which has declined to have anything to do with the League of Nations, has made independent proposals for a treaty for the elimination of war.
Sir Austen Chamberlain, speaking for the British Government, said they welcomed the move, and hoped it would be carried to success.”
Uncle Sam (baritone) rescues the heroine from his loathly Peace League rivals (tenors ), while John Bull (basso) voices his approval on general principles,


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Pmoß, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for- The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.m.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J/S.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ids.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Ilusiness Communications to he addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright hy the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Kditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the ropy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission o] MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Aiiy one supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash ,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Alain Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch; 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.fi; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.k;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 16 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” Jillt-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and Ifind Street, New York City; Holaling’s
News Agency, 203 West lilst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Go. ', 70k Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The Neiv Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, sklk South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang. S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, l,k Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby „
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.k.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
.ewspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: koz. to lOoz., l\d.; each
additional koz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: koz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
ffuTfyiillelzo?,,
WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1928.
PROGRESS REAL AND SHAM.
“Australia’s progress during the last century is
second to no country in the world in increase of
population and productivity. Such an increase would
have been quite impossible without a rapid expan-
sion of the public debt for developmental purposes.
In America Australia is regarded as one of the few
countries left with tremendous potentialities.”—
High Commonwealth Hank official just returned from
the United States.
One way to illustrate the progress is by
showing how T far the States pay their way
out of loans and how far they do it out of
taxation. The results for 1925-26, after
which date the figures are less complete as
yet, stand thus:—
Paid out of Taxes and Paid
Federal Subsidy, out of Loans.
N. S. Wales , . £11,704,727 £11,180,482
Victoria 7,270,220 8,001,375
Queensland .. 5,172,500 4,950,848
S. Australia .. 3,345,351 5,551,534
Westralia • • 2,006,561 4,078,686
Tasmania . 1,577,444 540,152
£31,076,803 £34,303,077
If net land revenue, including proceeds of
land sales, were added, the position would
be that the six State Governments paid
about £35,000,000 of their year’s expenses
with their own money and left over
£34,000,000 to be a perpetual burden on
posterity. Whatever else this may be it
certainly doesn’t look like progress.
* * * #
Nor can progress be judged by the State
accounts, which are swollen to a ridiculous
extent by the inclusion of gross railway
revenue and expenditure. These suggest
progress and affluence, but they mean no-
thing. What should really appear on the
revenue side is the surplus of railway and
other earnings over working expenses and
interest, when there is one, which hasn’t
happened in the case of the railways for
14 years. On the expenditure side should
appear only the deficit, when there is one,
which has happened constantly to the rail-
ways for 14 years. When some £52,000,000
of “revenue,” which yields the six
Treasurers nothing, was taken out of the
accounts, the community could make a
better estimate of its monetary importance,
or lack of the same.
:|c :jc * :1c
It is interesting to take the six States’
revenue and loan figures for a few typical
years, avoiding the war years, when high
finance was cribbed, cabined and confined
by force of circumstances. Gross revenues
are shown because, with the limited amount
of available material, really accurate net
figures are impossible:—
Revenues Loans
of Six States. of Six States.
1906-07 . . £33,670,783 £3,894,822
1911-12 .. 41,278,034 16,325,177
1923-24 .. 93,101,428 29,414,190
1925-26 .. 101,418,247 34,303,077
This progression points to two conclusions.
One is that the larger the State incomes
are the more loans the States need, as
their distorted financial methods go. The
other is that the more alleged public works
the States buy with borrowed money, the
more they think, or profess that they think,
they must buy with borrowed money. An
alternative theory is that the amount of
new loans raised corresponds pretty closely
with the amount of interest payable on old
loans, and that the public works policy is,
to a very considerable extent, a fraud and
a swindle. Thus in 1925-26 the interest pay-
able on State debts was £31,373,271, and it
was quite natural that fresh borrowings
should be £34,303,077. When the next two
batches of annual statistics are quite com-
plete they will show both interest and
loan figures as on the up-grade.
* * * *
So far as concerns the last 20 years, or
rather less, which includes the period of
really high razzle, it is difficult to enthuse
whole-heartedly about the “increase which
would have been quite impossible without
a rapid expansion of the public debt for
developmental purposes.” That sort of
discourse may be orthodox, but the facts
are against it. As already mentioned, the
six State railway systems in the aggregate
ceased to be solvent 14 years ago, and the
last two years have been the worst of all.
The aggregate revenue and expenditure
accounts of the six States have been in
a chronic condition of deficit for the same
period, and large accumulated shortages
are in process of being added to the per-
manent debt. The Commonwealth hasn’t
contrived to export anything like enough
to pay for imports and other external lia-
bilities since 1922, and it isn’t wholly cer-
tain that it has done so since 1920. Now
the Federal Treasurer, who has hitherto
contrived to keep his finances looking well,
expects to add a deficit of his own to the
list at the end of June, and the Federal
public works policy is in a state of partial
breakdown.
* * =1: *
Perhaps it is a pleasing fiction that the
Yankee regards Australia as “one of the
few countries left with tremendous potenti-
alities.” Our Uncle has certainly lent this
country some of his superabundant money
of late on Government security, which is
considered the best obtainable, and he sends
us mountains of goods. But he hasn’t
bulked very largely yet in Australian local
industry, and he hasn’t rushed these shores
despite the open door. The census of 1911
showed 6642 residents of U.S. birth, and
there were only 6604 in 1921.
FORTUNES FROM HOT AIR.
One of the sanguine remarks habitually
made by people who want to borrow more
money for their own spending and charge
it to posterity is that “the mineral wealth
of Australia is hardly scratched yet.” In
this connection it is dispiriting to consider
the chain of dead or decayed goldfields
which encircles the country, including the
Palmer, Croydon, Ravenswood, Charters
Towers, Gympie, Canoona, Mount Morgan,
Cobar, Hill End, Hillgrove. Wa'halla,
Ararat, Clunes, Bendigo, Ballarat, Cool-
gardie and plenty more. Kalgoorlie is a
faded survivor and begins to look a trifle
lonesome. It has been frankly admitted, as
a rule, that the dead shows died through
payable gold giving out. But though West-
ralia’s record doesn’t approach that of Vic-
toria as a gold producer, a section of the
population has adopted the theory that if
the great western State shows the usual
signs of ceasing to be a payable goldfield
it should be made payable at the cost
of the States in general. It would be a fine
thing if it could be done without causing
general wreckage, but unfortunately there
is a whole menagerie of lions in the way,
:1c :1c :1c :|c
The West Australian recently gave
space to one more scheme for beating the
lions. It. was based on the proposition that
a 50 per cent, gold reserve is ample pro-
tection for a paper currency, and ip the case
of a currency which is only meant to meet
requirements 50 per cent, is more than
sufficient. The Commonwealth is to print
extra notes to the face value of £4,000,000
every year, and out of this it is to buy
£2,000,000 worth of gold, paying £2,500.000
for it. The bonus would thus be nearly £1
per ounce. Presumably it would have to
apply all over the Commonwealth; if it was
attempted to make Westralian gold worth
£1 per ounce more than that of the Eastern
States, Perth would assuredly hear some-
thing drop. Should the bonus encourage
the production of the yellow metal up to
three or four millions per annum, the Com-
monwealth would have to issue enough
paper to buy the lot. To do the thing by
halves would mean having two kinds of
gold, one fetching more than the other.
Taking, however, £2,000,000 worth of gold
as the annual purchase, the scheme sets
forth that the Federal Government is to
pay the producers £2,500,000 in notes, and
the producers would naturally deposit these
in the banks, as safer than the coal cellar.
It is to lend out the other £1,500,000 of
notes on good security at 5 per cent., and
this would naturally drift back to the banks
also. The banks would grow tired of stor-
ing all this extra paper, especially if the
depositors wanted interest on it, and they
couldn’t send it abroad for investment or
to pay debts, as Australian paper doesn’t
circulate abroad. So presumably they
would present the surplus to the authority
which issued it and ask for gold. And that
authority, having only 10s. of gold in the
. £ and requiring to sit hard on that as
security, could only tell them to depart as
far as Hades. An attempt to borrow regu-
larly the needful gold abroad to cash the
notes not otherwise provided for would be
too much of a shock to the foreign lender,
so the alternative course would be to let
the paper depreciate.
* * * *
At present the export of the gold output
is helpful in a small way; two millions or
so of sovereigns per annum don’t pay much
of the- interest bill in London, but they pay
some of it. This advantage would cease
when the gold output was tied down here
as security for tons of new notes which were
tied down here likewise—because they had
no value anywhere else. Probably banks
and others would try to put the new, super-
abundant and depreciated paper money into
Government loans at 5 or 5i per cent,,
which would double-bank the situation, so
to speak. But after the Governments had
spent the loans the paper which composed
them would still be here, accumulating, de-
preciating and flooding the market. It is
quoted as an argument that sugar sells at
an artificially enhanced price. But the en-
hanced price is paid in cash and the trans-
action ends there.
* * * *
Incidentally, the Constitution provides
that any State may subsidise its own metal
production with its own money as much as
it likes. It almost looks like a hint.
WHAT’S THE MATTER IN CHINA?
There is much more to be said about the
Chinese Revolution than that it is a dog-
fight. Actually, as even an odd “old China
hand” is beginning to observe, it is the
birthpangs of a nation.
Seventeen years ago Chinese National-
ism was feeble, yet had sufficient punch to
knock out the semi-deified Manchus. A
few years later President Yuan Shih-Iv’ai
decided to call himself emperor, but the
word was synonymous in Chinese minds
with foreign domination, which in Yuan’s
case meant foreign loans; so Yuan soon
found himself on the doormat. A little
later Chang Hsun, an unimaginative
brigand, attempted to restore the Manchus.
His coup d’etat lasted barely five minutes.
The Chinese entry into the Great War was
a desire to follow the prevailing fashion
amongst nations. It gave China a free pass
to a seat at the white Peace Conference.
She accepted aid from Russia last year,
not because she was enamored of commu-
nism, but because the Bolshevik slogan was
“China for the Chinese.” As soon as it
altered to “China for the Russians” Boro-
din exchanged his season ticket for a single
to the frontier.
The National movement started in
Canton in the far south, but now luxuriates
amidst the smells of Nanking, in the
middle. All the provinces south of the
Yangtse are now Nationalist. So are the
northern provinces—when the executioner
isn’t looking. Chang Tso-lin, the north-
ern satrap, holds Peking; a good army and
foreign money, manly Jap, keeps him in
possession. But his army, being mercenary,
fights with no relish, and the peasants pay
their taxes with reluctance. In the southern
armies, however, fanaticism has replaced
the normal Chinese hatred of hard knocks
with something closely resembling courage.
It is kept from going off the boil by a
revolutionary propaganda learnt from the
Russians. It has a god called Sun Yat-
sen, previously a doctor’s assistant in a
British university. Sun’s “Three Principles”
provide for Nationalism, democracy and
socialism; but Nationalism to begin with.
Naturally, the foreign Powers view these
tendencies with d # favor. A united Yellow
nation would demand the right to impose
what protective tariff it liked, to try delin-
quent foreigners in its own courts and
control the foreign settlements. This
would be bad for individual foreigners, be-
cause China hasn’t yet got enough honest
officials, impartial judges or municipal ex-
perts to carry on the business. On the
other hand, while the country remains dis-
united, the everlasting uproar and upheaval
is bad for foreign commerce. Last year
the British Government decided that
Nationalism had come to stay and gave up
all its concessions on the Yangtse except
Shanghai. The result was bad for indi-
viduals, but led to a better general under-
standing. Canton is now “playing speaks”
with British Hong Kong, a thing it hadn’t
done for yee.rs; and Shanghai is almost
fulsomely friendly with Nanking. It has
even thrown open its parks to the native;
and the Band Gardens, where I have
drowsed many a sunny winter’s morning
away in gentlemanly seclusion w T hile a nil-
lion Chinamen moiled and toiled without
the gates, is no longer a preserve for club-
footed amahs and their white charges.
Up in the north, amongst the tall Kao-
hang, the Japanese War Office still believes
that Chinese Nationalism is different from
their own variety and can be halted. They
may be right, but they will have to back
up their conviction with large-scale military
operations, and the folks at home are grow-
ing more than restive.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Shall We Be a Nation of Crooks?
These days you can’t open your ear in
Sydney without hearing somebody accused
of being a crook; and he probably is. More-
over, thousands are guilty who are never
accused. The trader is largely to blame: as
a class he never has been over-honest. But
nowadays, while still professing to scorn
the Fat man’s money-making tricks, the
workman not only robs the employer, but
schemes to beat workmen’s compensation
and all such laws made for his benefit.
There was a time when every man didn’t
suspect every other man of being a thief.
If the community thinks it will be happier
living like that, it can just go on as it is
going. But if it thinks that it would be
hapoier if dishonesty shocked it, then it
Lad better lose no time sorting dishonesty
out and treating it with disfavor. If we
go much further we shall certainly not be
able to recognise the thing when we see it.
It is doubtful whether thousands of us can
do it even now.
4
An Earnest Appeal to Bill Watt.
Ex-Treasurer Bill Watt has followed the
lead of ex-Prime Minister Bill Hughes
and appeared as a bitter critic of the
Bruce-Page Government. His major griev-
ance had to do with finance, about • which
he is reported as follows: —
“Maybe for the first time in 20 years the
Commonwealth will have a deficit. I am
not sorry it is coming. It is time we began
to think more earnestly of debts and revenue.
When revenue is flowing freely it is easy
enough for the Treasurer to splash about
millions in either Commonwealth or State
expenditure. But if our revenue begins to
fall then we will have to do as the States
have had to do —consider every pound care-
fully, and not pledge more than the resources
of the people will allow.”
It is perfectly true that the Bruce-Page
Ministry has been a lavish spender, and
has had in addition an uncanny knack of
scattering, or promising to scatter, millions
on State jobs which are none of its business,
while shamefully neglecting the big pro-
vince which it administers itself. The Bul-
letin has set forth these facts so often and
in such detail that Bill Watt might have
entered his protest against extravagance
earlier, and thus looked more original.
The Federal shortage this year appears a
certainty. But there are two deficits in the
case, one being common, spasmodic and
not very hard to remedy, while the other
is specially characteristic of Australia in
recent years, and is a huge and grotesque
anomaly of the worst description: —
No. 1: The casual failure of current
revenue, which is mostly paper money and a
little small change, to equal expenditure.
This, standing by itself, is generally met by
a little more economy and a little more
economy. The amount of this shortage, which
agitates Bill Watt greatly, may be a mil-
lion, or possibly three millions.
No. 2: The now chronic failure of exports
to equal the amount required to pay for
the insanely large mass of imports and to
meet the bill for interest due on external
debts and some sundries. This problem was
dodged or camouflaged in 1923-24 by adding
£51.200,000 to the aggregate external debt,
payable, principal and interest, in gold, and
by adding £39,200,000 in 1925-26. These
were something like deficits, and they can be
relied upon to turn up regularly, though the
amounts vary. The big surpluses in Aus-
tralia for the years mentioned made the
case not a whit better, and the deficit this
year will make it not a whit worse. In
fact, as the deficit will arise through less
imports and, as a consequence, less customs,
the deficit year, which so agitates Bill
Watt, may produce less total deficit than
the surplus years.
The Bulletin makes an earnest appeal to
Bill Watt to bring his mind to bear on
this overwhelming problem, and help with
some suggestions. It has made suggestions
itself which might meet. the .case, and the
ex-Treasurer may have them on applica-
tion to the files of this paper.


Japan’s Expedition to China.
Japan finds herself a long way from home
at Tsinan-fu, where a massacre of Japanese
residents, allegedly by the Chinese Southern
army, occurred the other day,
The real reason, no doubt, for the
Mikado’s solicitude for law and. order in
Tsinan is the rich coalfields of Fangtsze and
Tzuchuan, contiguous to the railway built
bv Germany in 1899 and included in Japan’s
spoils of the Great War. The iron-mines
of Tienshan are also handy, and coal and
iron are two essentials of Japanese industry.
The railway and mines were handed to
China in 1923, but recovered again recently.
Tsinan is the capital of Shantung pro-
vince, which is the Holy Land of China
because Confucius was bom there. It is
also one of the tightest-packed areas in the
world—s2o to the square mile. The Shan-
tungese is more phlegmatic than the average
Celestial, but he is also a great reader and
given to fanaticism, and 26 daily papers
keep him on the boil.
-4
Responsible Government.
“L.C.M.”: But who is to govern the Gov-
ernments —or even to instil a little com-
inonsense into their ways? Three years
ago I travelled from Dorrigo to Glenreagli
(North Coast, N.S.W.) by a recently con-
structed railway line. Scenically it was a
welter; as the little train crept round the
side of the mountain, in its descent you
saw magnificently timbered slopes, deep,
winding valleys, swift little mountain
streams and the distant sea. But it took
almost four hours to travel 50-odd miles.
And on that occasion it needed a good
engine with the brakes full on to keep one
carriage and a brakevan on the line. The
gradient is more suitable for the helter-
skelter of Coney Island than for a sober
railroad. And, anyhow, the line was out
of commission one week in three because
of the washaways, landslides and so on.
Still, one thought tolerantly, Govern-
ments will have their fun—in six months
this experiment will be scrapped or radi-
cally altered. Now, three years later, I
return to find that a mailman has kept a
wife and family for two years on what he
earns by carrying mails when the train
isn’t running. Most of February the line
was out of commission altogether. At the
end of March it closed again, and is closed
at present. It now turns out that the line
runs round and down a rubbly sandstone
mountain whose sides are constantly slip-
ping. Would any business firm in the
world have built an expensive railroad on
such a foundation? Or, if it had, would it
persist in bolstering up the absurdity for
three years, when wliat is obviously needed
is radical deviation? And finally, w T ould it
propose to extend this brilliant piece of
engineering from Dorrigo to Armidale?
The trouble is that this is only an in-
stance of the utter irresponsibility of Gov-
ernments. Their childlike ineptitude in
business matters will continue until we
insist that a man achieve success in some
business or profession before aspiring to
Parliament—or until heaven sends us a
Mussolini with a Cabinet composed en-
tirely of Scotchmen and Jews.
4 —
The Perils of Aristocracy.
A great deal of the kibobbery that is being
raised in union circles against Bruce’s Arbi-
tration Act Amendment is inspired by little
tin gods who don’t want to have their wings
clipped. This would be a much happier
country if their wings were clipped. They
might even be happier tin gods themselves.
Maoriland is much nearer the workers’
paradise than Australia is or ever has been.
There the Registrar scrutinises union rules
and democratically throws out anything
that takes control of union affairs out of
the hands of the rank and file. If an execu-
tive wants to raise a special levy, increase
or reduce the sub., initiate a dispute or
alter a rule, it has to get the support of a
majority of the members, and, in regard to
rules affecting finance, the approval of the
Registrar as well. If it is a question of
conferring with the employers, the members
elect the men who are to represent them.
The result is that union officials have little
pow r er, and a row at a union meeting is a
rarity. But in Australia! The Miners’
Federation is splitting because the executive
has unlimited powers to make levies and
alter rules; the Seamen’s Union is scarcely
more than a ringside gathering around
One-wallop Walsh and Battling Johan-
son; the Sydney Breadcarters, after many
sanguinary battles, have kicked out all their
officers and settled down to scrap with a
fresh set; and the clerks are still panting
with indignation because their secretary
sacked a typist. Absolute monarchs sit on
bomb-packed thrones, and it is about time
the Australian union boss awoke to the
fact. The type of union officer who doesn’t
tiy to be a boss is to be found in many an
Australian union; but the public never
hears anything about those unions.
Any stiffening up of the Arbitration Act
that will reduce the importance of the
funny little windbags who think the conti-
nent ought to quiver when they pound a
table will be welcomed by tens of thou-
sands; and the sincerest unionists will be
the warmest welcomers.
4
“U.S.A. and Us.”
Dear Bulletin, —“Bildad” (B. 2/5/’2B)
misconstrues the letter and the spirit of
my article, “U.S.A. and Us.” I know Aus-
tralia too well to prate about its “bound-
less natural resources,” as he suggests is my
habit. Neither do I aver, as he does, that
Australians “sit down at ease amid a snow-
drift of pawntickets”—because they don’t.
Americans’ commendation of Australia’s
sensible tariff was mentioned not as a sug-
gestion that Aussies should be humbly
grateful therefor, but because the attitude
was in refreshing contrast to the hostility
of British manufacturers.
Australians collectively do not dislike or
disparage Americans. That is the pose of
an occasional writer who obviously supports
individual bias with second-hand informa-
tion. To these mainly, in amity, my recom-
mendation was offered. Such playful boys
prefer to make faces at Uncle Sam from
behind a pseudonym. They mean well, no
doubt. But they are apt to cause people
abroad who are unaware of all the facts
to wonder if Australians are crooked in
mind.—Yours, etc., Ernest Osborne.
4
Who Should Be Gaoled for This?
Railway-Commissioner Molonby’s con-
fession, at the recent Farmers’ convention at
Kerang, of the inability of the Vic. railways
to handle large quantities of wheat for
shipment from Portland surprised the dele-
gates. It should not have done so. One
necessity mentioned was the regrading of
the Tooloondo line. Now, when this line
was being constructed The Bulletin
pointed out that the grades were too heavy
and the rails too light to carry heavy
wheat trains. Now the department admits
the “mistake.”
The Tooloondo line was constructed after
years of agitation as a direct short cut
from the n.-w. wheat-fields to the seaboard
at Portland. Compare it with another
wheat-carrying line—Maroona to the Port
Phillip ports. Advertised before construc-
tion to carry wheat, it now carries it, and
is moreover one of the best built lines in
the State. But in this case the rails were
to carry produce towards the capital;
Tooloondo was to take it away. Who was
responsible for so designing and construct-
ing the line that it could not do its job?
—— ♦
Why Do Ships Run Ashore?
“Blue Water”: “X.N.O.’s” contribution (B.
9/5,/’2S) re ships going ashore through
neglect of the lead is timely. The position
In memory of HERBERT EDWARD PRATTEN, Minister for
Customs of the Commonwealth, who died, suddenly, while address-
ing a public meeting at Sydney on the night of May 7. He devoted
the best years of his life to the service of his country, brought
active patriotism and ripe experience to the counsels of the nation,
and by his faith in Australia and his courage in protecting infant
industries with effective duties, did for the Commonwealth work
at least equal in value to that of any other Australian statesman.
To his public services he added private benevolences, and with his
courage there ran an amiability which surrounded him with friends.
is scandalous and opens up three ques-
tions: (1) As to the sounding appliances
which ships are obliged to carry; (2) as
to the responsibility for seeing that those
appliances are in good order; and (3) as
to the constitution of the courts respon-
sible for holding inquiries.
(1) With regard to appliances the regu-
lations say that vessels must have either
one sounding machine or two hand lead-
lines. As the latter cost about 10s. each
and as a machine might run into £3O or
more, it is not hard to guess which way
the option is exercised. Sounding with a
hand-lead is a very expert job, and with a
ship going anything over nine or ten knots
it would be a matter of the greatest diffi-
culty to get a sounding in. 10 fathoms. In
most places off the eastern coast of Aus-
tralia a sounding even of 15 fathoms should
be a danger signal unless the conditions
are such that the position can be definitely
fixed by cross- or four-point bearings. A
hand-lead would have been of no use to
the Riverina or the Merimbula. A
Thompson’s sounding machine, however,
can take a sounding in 100 fathoms with
the ship going 15 knots, though for naviga-
tion purposes it would never be necessary
to let the lead actually reach the bottom
at such a depth. Its results, moreover, are
absolutely accurate. This machine—or one
equally efficient—should be compulsorily
installed in every ship that goes to sea.
(2) The onus of seeing that the appli-
ances are in good order is on either the
Federal or State Navigation. Department,
one or the other of which wall be icspon-
sible for conducting any subsequent in-
quiry. One cannot get away from the
suggestion—which is here only a suggestion
that questions regarding the efficiency of
appliances may be omitted at such an
inquiry for fear it should be found they
were defective. This again draws attention
to the fact that there are two Navigation
Departments, which naturally do not want,
to expose their weaknesses, if any, to each
other. This duplication, and the fact that
with regard to certificates of seaworthiness
the department involved may have to
inquire into its' own possible laxity, are full
of danger. . .
(3) As to the constitution of the courts
before which a master has to appear “to
show cause why his certificate should not
be dealt with,” usually these consist of a
minor court Judge with no expert know-
ledge of navigation and pilotage, assisted
by two assessors —retired sea captains as a
rule. We are never told to what extent the
Judge consults the assessors, nor what
advice they give him, nor to what extent
the Judge follows that advice. And the
assessors, having apparently no responsi-
bility, are not inclined to worry whether
their advice is accepted or not. Motorists
are clamoring for a special court to deal
with traffic offences; but it is far more
important that a special and better quali-
fied court should be constituted to deal
with marine accidents.
But the first step should be the vesting
of all authority over navigation matters in
one Federal Department. The present
system is cumbersome, expensive and open
to abuse.
4
The Digger in Queensland.
Although Minister Dunstan assured the
November 11, 1926. conference of Queens-
land soldier settlers that “no areas would
be given to civilians until soldiers have liv-
ing areas,” Diggers are still on insufficient
areas and civilians collect vacant forfeited
blocks. Personal residence is a condition,
but it seems to apply only to the Digger.
The other day a Digger made application
for an additional area after toiling 45 miles
from nowhere on a small area for eight
years. A butcher secured the block—a
butcher who can be seen almost daily serv-
ing meat about a stone’s throw from the
Agricultural Bank Inspector’s Office, the
lands agent and staff generally. He is, in
short, about 50 miles from the perpetual-
lease selection upon which the law says
he shall reside continuously and bona fide.
The Digger’s wife cannot hold a block
unless she resides upon it. Yet men who
weren’t Diggers secure blocks (Digger
blocks at that) for their wives and children.
Plainly, in the eyes of some people in
Queensland it is still an offence to have
been a Digger. Premier McCormack is-
not one of those small souls who hold
that view. Nevertheless if he doesn’t soon
do something—Minister Dunstan, poor
fellow, can’t —the Diggers of Queensland
will be driven to the conclusion that he is
prepared to let them all go to the Devil so
long as his political friends get some
pleasure out of it.
Compulsory Wheat Pools.
“G.S.W.”: Queensland has had a compul-
sory wheat pool since 1918. The pool has
been extended, from time to time, for
periods of three years. Growers have had
ballots at every proposed extension, and
by 85 to 90 per cent, majorities have in-
sisted upon control. At the present time
it is proposed to extend the pool for another
five years, and if 500 or more growers want
a ballot they can have it. An overwhelm-
ingly favorable poll will result.
Queensland growers have been paid the
highest prices of all States for each year.
Speculation has been smashed, and local
markets fed as they consumed wheat.
Darling Downs bankers and businessmen
thank the Wheat Pool for overdrafts
reduced and old accounts paid, and are
enthusiastic supporters of this brand of co-
operation. Country millers favor the pool
because they get a fair deal. The oppo-
nents are the big Brisbane millers who
had the growers by the throat in pre-pool
days.
Don’t judge compulsory pooling by the
N.S.W. bungle of ancient histoiy. The
Queensland wheat pool means that all
wheat brings a fair price to the farmers
because there is no slumping; and Victoria,
if she manages her pool (when she gets one)
as Queensland’s pool has been managed,
will bless the name of Hogan.
4
Port Cut-its-Throat.
Scant notice was taken by the Sydney
press of the conference held at Port
Stephens to urge the opening up of the
port as a step towards tbe decentralisation
of essential services in N. S. Wales. When
coal was first discovered at Newcastle it
was thought that the field extended south
rather than north. The opposite turned
out to be the case, and whereas Newcastle
is now at the south-east corner of the fields,
Port Stephens is opposite their very centre.
And it is also much nearer than Sydney to
what, the “Australian Encyclopaedia” de-
scribes as “the chief gap in the divide be-
tween Roma (Q.) and Kilmore (Vic.) —a
distance of 1100 miles.” The Encyclopaedia
further comments re this gateway to the
west: “Yet it is not yet traversed by rail-
ways, which have been built up the steep
Blue Mountains south of it and up the New
England plateau to the north in defiance of
physiographic control.”
The depth of water in the entrance to
Port Stephens is 36ft. with one removable
30ft. patch, while that of Newcastle varies
from 23 to 30 feet only. It is a scandal
and a perpetual reflection on the intelli-
gence of the people of not only N. S.
Wales, but of Australia, that no railway
approaches within 26 miles of such a port,
and that the whole of the produce of
northern N. S. Wales has to be expensively
freighted a further 100-odd miles south to
Sydney.
A magnificent opportunity is there for
creating a harbor city rivalling even Rio
de Janeiro.
It is hard to see why the opening up of
this wonderful natural harbor should cost
the eight or ten millions quoted by Mr.
Bruntnell; but, even so, the cost would
more than earn interest, and at least half
should be borne by the Federal Govern-
ment for defence reasons. A lettei - was read
at the conference from Lieut.-Commander
Rolleston (“X.N.0.” of The Bulletin)
drawing attention to the imperative need
for a dockyard base on the east coast of
Australia and pointing to Port Stephens as
the most appropriate site therefor. Admiral
Henderson and more recently Admiral
Jellicoe advocated this contribution to
naval defence, and, in fact, an area was
reserved for many years at Port Stephens
for the purpose. Why it was abandoned
and the caretaker paid off some five or six
years ago is a mystery.
Every Government that comes into
power in N. S. Wales talks beautifully
about decentralisation. Here is an oppor-
tunity for the present Government to
apply the policy to at least one-third of the
State and to earn the gratitude of every
primary producer in the State north of lati-
tude 33.
4
To Improve Country Schools.
“Country Ped”: Though I have seen coun-
try school children taught in a two-roomed
unlined house, small weatherboard halls,
and tiny country churches, I will say that
the great majority of Vic. country schools
are a tremendous improvement on “Pad-
raic’s” factory in N.S.W. (B. 11/4/’2B).
All the old ones have been remodelled so
that they follow modern practices in regard
to ventilation and lighting. The latest
buildings are warmer in winter and degrees
cooler in summer than the average house;
and it is a very odd school indeed that
has not patent dual desks in it.
These reforms were initiated by the Edu-
cation Department, but it could never have
done half that has been done without the
co-operation of parents in forcing Parlia-
ment to do its duty. It was a shrewd move
on Director Tate’s part when he instituted
the school-committee system. Each com-
mittee is elected by the parents every three
years. Their task is to keep the school in
repair and improve it. The Department
allows each committee so much per annum,
according to the size of the building, to
spend on needful repairs. Funds raised
locally for improvements are subsidised on
the £ for £ basis. Consequently the schools
are always in a state of good repair, while
the surroundings are improved and beauti-
fied.
So keen are school committees that they
have their own association meeting in
annual conference. This keenness is especi-
ally notable in the country districts, where
committees have banded together to
demand higher educational facilities. They
have even gone so far as to induce town
and shire councils to grant sites to the
Education Department, as well as cash
donations towards the cost, of the neces-
sary buildings. As a result there are more
State secondary schools of all types in the
country than in Melbourne.
The Country-Town Infant.
“L.C.M.”: N.S.W. Minister for Health
Arthur distributes apples to city children
who live where fruit and vegetables are sold
at every corner. But I know N.S.W. country
towns, not only in the Far West, but on the
North Coast and its mountains, where fresh
vegetables are almost unprocurable. There
are fortunate children who live in orchard
districts, but there are some inland towns
where the only fruit the youngsters see
is prickly-pear.
In many parts of N.S.W. the prevalence
of endemic goitre amongst school children
shows that their diet is deficient in iodine.
Endemic goitre is never seen in city
children who enjoy an excellent water
supply, containing suitable and sufficient
mineral matter, and to whom fish, fruit and
vegetables are everyday affairs. Trachoma,
the dreaded sandy blight of our country
districts, is partly due to a diet deficient in
fresh fruit and vegetables. In fact, this
disease is receding into the interior as the
wheat belt (and with it decent food)
advances from the tablelands and slopes.
It’s the age-old mistake of pampering the
city dwellers with bread and circuses.
Corned-beef every day in the week and
tinned tongues on Sunday' for the first 14
years of life make many a potential
pioneer turn citywards—and small wonder!


The First East-West
Atlantic Flight
SUCCEEDS
ON
SHELL
OIL
From Ireland to Labrador in 3414 hours—thus is
epitomized the triumphant progress of the Junk-
ers monoplane,"Bremen,” across the grim Atlantic.
The faultless lubrication of the engine through-
out this historic flight, provides the final ptoof of
the overwhelming superiority of the New Shell
Oils recently introduced into Australia with such
extraordinary success.
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
S 497
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth has hustled another
£10,000,000 loan, though the ink is hardly
dry on the previous one. New York is
again the scene of operations. This makes
the fourth external loan inside the financial
year, and, as the year ends on June 30, it
ought to he the last. The excess of imports
to be paid for is going to be less this year
than last; but the amount of old interest
to be paid out of new loans will be a re-
cord, so things won’t be as much better
as they ought to be.
Even in its most robust moments the
Federal Arbitration Court is curiously timor-
ous. Chief Judge Dethridge, having sus-
pended the sea-cooks’ award without pre-
cipitating any cosmic cataclysm, was
emboldened to remark to another and much
less militant union that he’ was in favor
of inserting clauses in all awards giving the
Court power to suspend the award in the
event of any unreasonable strike or job
control on the one hand, or any unreason-
able lock-out on the other. Why “unreason-
able”? A strike or a lock-out of any sort
is an offence against the whole spirit and
intention of legalised arbitration, and the
law should regard it as such. The criminal
code doesn’t specify that only unreasonable
murders and burglaries are to be penalised.
There was a pleasant atmosphere of
universal brotherhood such as should dis-
tinguish such gatherings in the Labor Day
celebration in Brisbane. “Long Live Soviet
Russia!” and “Speed the Revolution!”
were among the genial exhortations on the
banners, while an effigy of Queensland-
Premier McCormack, dangling from a gal-
lows, and placarded “Death to Tyranny,”
completed an attractive ensemble. What
would happen in Soviet Russia if anyone
marched bearing an effigy of, say, M. Stalin,
similarly labelled, does not seem to have
occurred to the down-trodden proletariat of
Queensland, sighing for Soviet liberty.
The Queensland State unemployment
insurance fund is not feeling well, and
another rise in contributions is likely.
At present Government employers and em-
ployees each contribute 4d. weekly, and a
jump to 6d. is expected. And after that,
no doubt, a rise, to 7d. It is a case of every
little drink making another little drink
more inevitable.
Westralia supplies the latest instance of
the utter wrongness of the system of hav-
ing two lots of Arbitration Courts to pick
from. At the bottom of the move of the
Westralian timber workers to disrupt the
affairs of the Federal Union is the desire
to get before President Dwyer of the State
Court, and ensure the 44-hour week, 12
paid holidays (possibly more), and sundry
other things which they think they can’t
get from the Federal Court. Now that
Lukin, Federal J., has told the city saw-
miller that he has (and ever since 1922 has
had) the right to work 48 hours and not
44 the W.A. timber-workers want more than
ever to strike off the Federal shackles and
go to the Law-shop where they can get
the juiciest joint.
Comrade Garden wants an inquiry, to be
followed by an award “declaring a sub-
stantial increase in the basic wage. Simul-
taneously nearly half the vessels m the
inter-State trade are laid up to enforce a
demand that more men shall be employed
than the award in the case provides tor.
In short, for the sake of peace an award
is granted increasing wages and bettering
conditions. Then the Gardens burst into a
bloom of strikes to get something more than
the award. For the sake of peace a new
award gives them what they want. So it
goes on and on. And they call it Arbitra-
tion !
Ex-Lord Mayor Bill Lambert has lost
the West Sydney pre-selection after a con-
test which is said to have combined all the
worst features of Labor pre-selections, and
to be no better than a putrefying cadaver on
the face of the earth. At this crisis Bill
remarked that he was offered £BOOO to hand
his safe seat over to Theodore when that
gentleman was badly in need of one. The
result is violent recrimination of all sorts.
The loftiest attitude, perhaps, was struck by
Graves, president of the A.L.P., who said
that no one who knew Lambert and his
record could imagine him refusing £BOOO.
And if it had been Bill Lambert expressing
an opinion about his adversary in similar
circumstances, the chances are that his ad-
versary would have been accused of refus-
ing the £BOOO because he hoped to make
more by continuing to be a self-sacrificing
patriot "and serving the people.
W. G. Mahony, whose resignation of the
Dailey seat on grounds of ill-health paved
the way for the entrance of E. G. Theodore
into the Federal Parliament, is incensed
at the association of his name with allega-
tions of bribery and corruption made by
W. H. Lambert
Rnd George Cann.
In a statement pub-
lished by the S. M.
Herald he says,
“it is remarkable
that this story
should have been
withheld until I
happen to be in an
almost unassailable
position in the
Labor pre-selection
ballot for the Sen-
ate.” Which recalls
that there’s an-
other remarkable
and unexplained
circumstance to re-
cord. The Labor
Daily announced
recently that
Mahony had asked
to be allowed to
withdraw his Sen-
ate nomination,
giving no reasons,
and the request
was refused by the
A.L.P. executive.
Can’t some dear
Brother make
something out of
that, too.
If the scores of
Diggers who have
taken over copra
plantations in ex-
German Ne w
Guinea pull
through it will
only be by taking
a hole or two in
their belts, mostly.
The foreign buyers’
report is that 1
Rabaul copra is
about the world’s
worst, and that is
because practically
nothing has been,
done with the dry-
ing appliances since the world went mad
in 1914- —and they were not good appliances
then, as a rule. The new owners, smitten
by deductions, etc., for their products, are
putting in new plant wholesale; but it
means a hard struggle for most of them.
Speaking at a banquet at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) Education Minister Drummond
said the State would have to spend over
two millions of loan money on schools in
order to give its children a fair deal. If
he considers it a fair deal to leave the chil-
dren to pay for their school accommoda-
tion with compound interest, this paper
doesn’t. It reckons it more like a fair cow.
Justice Ferguson has given the N.S.W.
Court of Criminal Appeal something to
think over, though it doesn’t follow that it
will say what it thinks. ’Sonali says, in
effect, that a Judge must accept the finding
of the jury on the facts and fix his sentence
accordingly, even though he may believe it
is too little —as “the Crown” says it was
in this case. And this very learned Judge
is right. He has to discharge a man when
the jury says not. guilty; if he schemed to
avoid that verdict he would be merely plot-
ting to defeat trial by jury. And if, by
giving a sentence for, say, murder when
the jury has said it was manslaughter, he
would be equally defeating trial by jury.
Of course, juries have been told a thousand
times that they’ve got nothing to do with
the sentence. But they have—they are con-
cerned that the prisoner shouldn’t be pun-
ished for murder when they have found him
guilty not of that, but of something else.
Sydney’s Labor Daily has at last got the
dinkum oil about the jehad that is being
waged between the Food-Spoilers’ Union and
the Huddart-Parker line. Superficial ob-
servers may have got the impression that
the lads in the white headgear had some-
thing to do with the rumpus. The Daily
corrects the error. When the cooks de-
manded something more than was in any
award, it was “the seamen and waterside
workers at whom the owners attempted to
strike.” In the same way, when Smith steals
Brown’s umbrella, it doesn’t mean that Smith
is a thief: it is only plain proof that Brown
is a bigamist.
The N.S.W. Government has produced its
loan estimates for 1927-28, which year is
nearly finished. They include such perma-
THE THIRD PARTY DOESN’T COUNT.
“General strikes are threatened in the coal and maritime industries.”
PETER PUBLIC: “Heigh! Tell the winchman to get a move on.
I’m getting hungry.”
TTHE MAN BELOW: “The winchman’s fighting with the owner, to
settle who’s boss, and you’ll have to wait till they finish.
nent and reproductive works as schools, hos-
pitals, roads, asylums and bridges; also big
items for turning unpaid-for steam railways
into unpaid-for electric ditto. The amount
is Ilf millions. The City of Sydney also
wants five millions, and the Water and
Sewerage Board three millions. The Bul-
eetin again urges the Federal Statistician
to find a way of including among his tables
one showing the whole debt of each State —
that of the State itself and of all its boards,
trusts, shires and municipalities. N.S.W. is
making good speed towards a three-hundred-
million-pound debt ail told, and with more
detail it would be possible to make a book
on the event.
After telling the commission on railway
management that the show run by Clapp is
largely over-capitalised at £71,000,000, J. A.
Norris, Vic. Auditor-General, suggested
writing off £15,000,000. To provide for
that loss he wants a sinking £u “?
out of general revenue. Also adp nce
reserve fund and no political fiyP
with management for a trial teim | j
years. The Hogans regard non-poUticaj
management with disfavor. And f
right if the politicians provide at o ““ ■ “
any losses—provide, that is for immediate
payment out of taxes. If the people> like
to pay extra taxes for the sake of S . *
political control, well, let them have political
control. But they have no right to meai J
and dishonestly buy it at the next genera
tion’s expense.
Daily newspaper biographies of H. E.
Pratten all failed to recall that his first
attempt to enter Parliament was m defiance
of the party machine —m 1911 Bruce Snntl
had grown extremely occasional m ai.
attendances in the House, and Pratteni’s
vigorous campaign caused him many anxiou.
moments; that Pratten finished third was
due largely to a Labor candidate being m
the field. This was before the introduction
of the preferential ballot in Federal elections.
In 1914 Pratten again stood independently
as a Liberal for the Senate—m those days
his name was anathema to the party pan-
jandrums. A few years more (1917) and
he figured as a selected and successful Nat.
Senate candidate. His services since then
have been such as to reveal the stupidity or
the pre-selection system which kept him out
of Parliament for seven years.
The Bruce-Page roading scheme isn’t work-
ing out according to schedule, and is being
kicked and cuffed, especially m Westralia,
where the Roads Boards say they simply can t
afford to be “helped” like this. There are
three classes of roads: arterial, main, and
feeder. Arterial roads are made and main-
tained at the State expense with a Common-
wealth subsidy, the Roads Boards having no
liability; but, in respect to mam roads,
they have to pay 3-14ths of the cost of con-
struction and half the cost of maintenance.
In the case of feeder roads the boards have
to carry all the load. Under the present sys-
tem, all day-labor construction plus Govern-
ment philanthropy, costs are very heavy—up
to £4500 a mile —and maintenance costs go
as high as £4O a mile per annum. The
Westralian Roads Boards say they will go
bung if they accept many gifts of that sort.
At the Westralian May elections, which
send one-third of the Leg. Council to the
country every second year, it looks as.it the
Labor Government’s gain of a seat m the
West province (Fremantle) might be. coun-
terbalanced by the loss of one Minister
Hickey’s—in the Central (Geraldton and its
hinterland). The crying need for redistribu-
tion of seats, in the Upper as well as the
Lower House, is also emphasised by the
spectacle of the decayed and depopulated
eastern goldfields still returning one-fifth
of the Legislative Council, although on a
one-vote-one-value basis they would be lucky
if they were permitted to retain one M.L.C.
in 10. The rotten borough scandal in Groper-
land smells so rankly to Heaven that it is a
wonder the Opposition doesn’t concentrate
on it, to the exclusion of all other grievances,
for the Collier Government is said to be
determined to fight the next general, election
on the present preposterous boundaries.
There would be many fewer motor acci-
dents in and around Sydney, and less need
for more traffic police and ambulances and
hospitals, if it was made a great deal less
easy to get a license to drive. The motor-
car is a highly dangerous weapon, yet, in
some of the suburbs especially, licenses to
handle it are handed out to utterly incapable
persons. No licenses should be issued in
the suburbs at all. And while they are
about it, every car should be required to
come up for examination before its license
is renewed. Brakes and clutches that were
effective in 1920 may have become merely
death-traps in 1928.
Senator Elliott lately appeared before, the
Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee
to state that fatherly interference has be-
come a joke at Canberra. For instance,
though the authorities allowed him to buy
four blocks from a previous owner, it re-
fused to let him sell three of them to a sub-
sequent owner. They had, he said, adder;
£2OO to the cost of his roof by insisting on
the use of Roman tiles procurable from
only one firm; a demand for bronze window
sills had added a further £1000; and he had
had other unpleasant surprises. One of
them was that his buildings have been
vacant for six months, which probably makes
him sorry that he didn’t cut his loss before
he bought the Roman tiles.
Jim Jelly, Labor leader in the Legislative
Council in S.A., is again talking of retiring
because of ill-health, and this time is not
likely to be persuaded to continue. It will
be a loss to his party, for Jelly is tactful
and has gained respect in all circles. The
seat is a Labor stronghold, and there will
probably be a vigorous contest, for the selec-
tion. Some who have nominated in the
Senate pleb. will be wishing they hadn’t, as
the winner of the Council selection will have
as good as a walk-over.
SEAT-PEDLARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Stormy allegations are being made and denied
in Sydney about the attempted buying of safe Labor
seats from sitting members of the House of Reps.’
If there were seats to sell,
Which would you buy?
Some city suburb swell
Wherein a guy
Of National renown
Might wear secure his crown?
Some rugged citadel
Where Labor voters dwell?
If there were seats to sell,
Which would you buy?
North Sydney—twenty thou.
Majority—
Might bring, you will allow,
A figure high.
Yarra, a safer shop,
Would he a gilt-edged prop.
If there were seats to sell,
As politicians tell—
Hindmarsli or Newcastle —-
Which would you buy?
If there were seats to sell
(Though some will cry
Shame on such stigma fell,
Such frigid lie)
In country or in town
Waiting to be knocked down,
Waiting for bids like—well,
The lease of a hotel,
If there were seats to sell,
And the crier rang the bell,
Which would you buy?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Avril”: One needn’t be Chinese to cherish
the bones or ashes of some departed relative
(B. 2/5/’2B). Not . long ago a wealthy
Australian widow married an eccentric
IN THE VERNACULAR.
SALVATION ARMY CONVERT: “Let me tell yer this, there’s more joy in Eaven over one
sinner that’s seen the light than over all yous blokes that won t take a tumble."
schoolmaster, whose furious temper and
general strangeness of demeanor soon began
to rift the matrimonial lute. A friend in-
quired how she managed to endure the
idiosyncrasies of the second husband. “Well,
my dear,” said the lady in confidence,
“when things get unbearable with George
I just go off for an hour or two and sit
with dear Septimus, and I find it does me
a world of good.” “Rut I thought Septimus
died in England,” said the other bewilderedly.
“So he did, my dear,” agreed the victim of
George’s tempers, “but I have his ashes in
that big brass jar in the library, though
George doesn’t know it; and that jar is my
greatest comfort when things go wrong.”
* * * *
“Yarragundy”: A “clean” pay-hook seems
a curious reward for gallantry, but I recall
one soldier who received no other recom-
pense. The achievement was the capture
of a German general who was going from
Beersheba to conduct the Gaza defence.
The distinguished officer was buzzing off in
a gharri when sighted by a trooper of
the Seventh Regiment, who galloped up and
grabbed him, souveniring his cash and
watch. General Ryrie made him return
the spoil, but announced his intention ol
recommending the trooper for a decoration.
A perusal of the hero’s paybook, however,
showed mostly red ink, and it was decided
to omit the recommendation, and issue him
a clean paybook. The record remained clean
until we fought into the red wine ol
Reichon, where it immediately resumed its
old familiar color.
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide magistrate has
been grappling with the problem of what
constitutes a “town.” A car was being
driven at 30 m.p.h. on the main South-
road, a speed quite legitimate in the
country, but not for what the Prosecution
called the town of O’Halloran Hill, -the
S.M. mentioned that the fool of an Act
omitted to say what a town was, and added
that all the dictionaries he had consulted
specified “a large number of houses con-
tiguous to each other” as the main requiie-
ment —a definition that O’Halloran Hill
doesn’t pretend to comply with. The next
case will possibly hinge on the meaning of
the word “large.”
“Coot”: The first airman to fly across
Bass Strait was A. L. Long; he had served
with the Australian Flying Corps during
the war, and brought his own machine back
with him to the Speck. It measured only
24 feet from wing-tip to wing-tip, and
was about IS feet in length. 1 etrol tanks
had to be improvised to carry 20 more gallons
of petrol in the front seat, from which the
aviator could hand-pump it to the main
tank. Owing to these alterations it was im-
possible for Long’s mechanic to accompany
him. He started from Launceston at b.dO
a.m. on December 17, 1919, and flying oy
wav of Stanley accomplished the pioneer
flight in 6i hours. When half-way across
the strait the release broke, preventing-
additional lubricating oil from being trans-
mitted to the engine; consequently on
arrival over the Victorian coast at Torquay,
Long had to land in a field to adjust the
apparatus. He then resumed the flight and
finished his journey at Carey’s Aerodrome,
Port Melbourne. A memorial to the flight
was erected in the Torquay public reserve by
the Historical Society of Victoria. It reads:
“About one mile south-west of here, on 17tn
December, 1919. Arthur Leonard Long landed
from Tasmania, on the first crossing cf
Bass Strait by air.”
* # . * *
“Windsor”: Quite a departure from con-
ventional wireless programmes was the very
successful broadcasting on a recent Sabbath
afternoon of a string of fluent oaths by a
cockatoo at a private station _at St. Kilda
(Vic.). A well-known local identity, with
an almost human intonation and a vocabu-
lary acquired in a hotel bar, the cockatoo
was advertised to broadcast a few general re-
marks from the studio; but, instead of con-
fining himself to innocuous observations, lie
burst into a storm of profanity suggestive
of an old-style bullock-driver. The sur-
prised owner and the shocked announcer
hastily grabbed the bird by the throat; but
it managed to struggle clear, and protest
very clearly, “What the ar e J' 011
doing? Get out, you !” The item then
came to a sudden conclusion, to the great
disappointment of hundreds of listeners.
* # * *
“E.S.” : Old Bob’s hut, which was situated
in a lonely corner of the sheep-run, was con-
nected with the homestead by telephone.
When I called on him lie showed me his
mechanical mate with evident pride, but
talked about it in whispers, and got well
away from it before he sat down for a yarn.
“That flamin’ thing’s always listenin’,” he
said, “an’ it’s just as well not to let it hear
what we’re sayin’.” Just then a sharp ring
came from the instrument and Bob’s dog
woofed expectantly. “Shut up, you brute,”
muttered its owner, as he drove the animal
outside. “That’s the boss, an’ we’re supposed
to be out on the run.”
* * * *
“P.X.”: “Hop’s” estate has been before
the Chief Judge in Equity in Sydney. The
veteran left £44,000. and tried to forget one
of his daughters when he was making his
will. Though very agreeable to him in
her younger days she greatly angered him
by her first marriage, and, after she had
married comfortably and much more suc-
cessfully at a second attempt, she and her
father never “made friends.” The question
now was whether, being married to a man
who earned about £3O a week, she could
claim anything under the law passed to pre-
vent well-to-do parents leaving dependants
unprovided for. It was pretty evident that
what weighed heavily with ’Sonah was
that the daughter’s early efforts to be recon-
ciled to her father were cold-shouldered ; at
any rate the Court ordered that she be
given £4 a week, £4OOO to be set aside for
VISIBILITY POOR.
“You needn’t get your wool off about Albert. I hate the sight
of him.”
“ Has that why you were in the garden with him to-night for over
an hour?”
“Precisely . It was quite dark there.”
the purpose. The case raises some large
questions. Of course no dependent person
ought to be permitted to become a charge
upon the State if the parents can make pi'o-
vision. But is not a parent entitled to make
very large distinctions between his children,
rewarding those who have been a comfort
to him, reproving in the most practical
way those who have given him pain and
anxiety?
* * * *
“Mild and Bitter”: The magistrate who
tried the George-street (Sydney) hotel-
keeper for keeping open on Anzac Day, 1927.
fined the transgressor £2 and costs. The
hotelkeeper promptly appealed, and his ap-
peal was upheld, the Judge ruling that’ the
Government could not close the hotels for a
portion of a day. Nevertheless, on the occa-
sion of either a Federal or State election,
hotels all over the State are open from 6
a.m. till 8 a.m., and compulsorily closed
for the remainder of the day. There you
are —-where are you?
* -l! * * •
“Ngatik”: The silver
plate from the German
cruisers that is about to
be returned to the Ger-
man Admiralty did not
come from Rabaul (B.
2/5/’2B). Two days be-
fore Britain declared
war, the German Paci-
fic squadron left Rabaul
for Ponape. Here they
remained for over a
fortnight, and absolutely
everything excepting
actual war material,
was put ashore * and
stored in two large “go-
downs.” Even a large
quantity of lifebelts,
life-saving gear and life-
boats w a s dumped
ashore. Natives did a
bit of looting before the
Japs arrived, but the
latter placed a guard
over the “go-downs.” I
was there in January,
1916, on British Government service,
and a local resident (a Spaniard) in-
formed me that the plate, paintings and
other valuables were all in safe keeping.
1 The official version that the plate came
from the Carolines is correct.
He He He
“N’Yoick” : Australians meeting a certain
brassy type of tourist are often puzzled
by the contrast between the much-travelled
appearance of their luggage and the stay-at-
home quality of their general information.
The explanation is simple. Label-collecting
agencies exist to equip the tourist with aii
inclusive set of hotel brands, ranging from
Raffles, in Singapore, to the Anglais, in
Moscow. One envelope, much favored by
New Yorkers who have never been further
than Coney Island, comprehends a de luxe
world tour, stopping at all the best hotels,
including Menzies’ and the Australia. But
this is more for use inside the States than
outside them.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: In suggesting heredity as
the reason why two brothers sustained an
electric shock without damage. “Yufu” (B.
9/5/’2S) goes a long way round to dodge
a simple scientific fact. The human body
is like any. other conductor: the amount
of current it will carry varies in inverse
ratio to its resistance. If it is standing
on concrete, asphalt or rubber, its resistance
will be relatively high, because the circuit
includes everything between it and the
earth or return wire. If it is standing
with bare, sweaty feet on damp wood its
resistance will be low and a high voltage
will frizzle it, whoever happens to be its
grandmother. Having regard to this, ex-
perc linesmen safely toy with 5000 volts,
when laymen and -women run grave risks
with 300.
“X.D.”: An echo of the sinking of the
Lusitania in 1915 is the claim, now being
considered by a board in Melbourne, for
£20,000 general damages, and £l7O loss of
luggage, by George Turton, one-time Aus-
tralian manager of the Royal Insurance
Company. Turton claims to have been a
passenger on the
liner when a Ilun
torpedo sank her,
and, as a direct re-
sult of injuries,
was forced to re-
sign his job. It is
alleged that th e
Commonwealth has
the cash in hand,
money having been
paid by Germany
on account of the
sinking of the ship.
“Mako”: Somet
of the greenstone
meres secured by
early collectors in
Maoriland have
gruesome t. rad i-
tions attached to
them, a notable in-
stance being the
historic weapon of
the famous Te
WheroWhero. This
mere was buried
nine times with
ancestors, and re-
trieved by descend-
ants after a decent
interval had
elapsed. When it
came into the
hands of Te Whero
Whero that
doughty warrior is
alleged to have de-
spatched 250 pris-
oners of war with
it in rapid succes-
sion. According to
Maori tradition,
the old chieftain did
not bungle once,
iach skull was;
cleanly cleft with
a single blow, ami
the whole batch of unfortunates put through
in a day. As the mere had been in constant
use for several centuries it probably had an
edge bn it that would put the average
domestic carver to shame. The weapon, pro-
duced from the kahurangi, or finest green-
stone, is now in the British Museum.
* * * *
“Unity”: It isn’t only in restaurants that
queer things are liable to happen to the
eatables. At a recent fashionable party in
a Brisbane mansion a young relative of the
family wandered down to the kitchen just
before supper-time and found the maids
looking in blank perturbation at the oysters
in the shell, all nicely laid out on plates,
complete with lemon adjunct, and all abso-
lutely black with an invasion of small ants.
As they were the specialty of the night
consternation reigned, but the resourceful
young person recommended prompt action,
and herself assisted to remove the molluscs
from the plates and wash each one under
the kitchen tap. The cleansed delicacies
were then replaced on the plates, carried
into the supper-room, and appreciatively
consumed. No one found anything wrong,
and the relief gang concluded that they had
done their work well, until the host sud-
denly descended into the nether regions. “A
shocking thing has occurred,” he announced
explosively, "I found an ant on my plate.
If such a thing had happened to any of
my guests they might imagine that in this
house ants were allowed access to the food!”
A dutiful kitchen staff listened respectfully
and then went on making coffee.
* ❖ * *
“C.Q.”: If “F.S.” (B. 0/5/'2B) failed
to learn the secrets of sex in liis late-Vic-
torian youth he was an easy misser. Works
on the subject abounded, and they were
mainly printed in America. One, graced
with the title of “Man, the Masterpiece,”
alternated plates depicting glorious young
men languishing over beautiful females
seated at grand pianos with horrific dia-
grams which would make even the famous
V.D. propagandist of the Yarra Bank lose
his customary composure. The letterpress
outstoped Miss Stupes. The difference
in those days was that these silly and often
downright dangerous volumes had to travel
underground, and thus enjoyed the wide
circulation always accorded to the officially
forbidden. Their more scientific descend-
ants nowadays are so accessible that the
real danger is that nobody will worry to
read tliem.
* >» * *
“Bullwhanger”: There is a flavor of Lotos-
land about most of the island groups of the
Pacific, including New Guinea. Even the
Government is not entirely free from the
tired feeling. Their crack ship, the little
steam yacht Franklin, once the pride of the
Naval College, spends most of her time
alongside what is left of the Government
wharf at Rabaul. Most of this wharf was
burnt down years ago and has never been
rebuilt. Occasionally they scrape up enough
coal to raise steam in the Franklin’s boilers
and she takes the Administrator round the
Territory for a look-see. On a recent date
she was all ready for sea with a full head
of steam when somebody on board yanked
at-the whistle cord to see if it would work.
It worked all right, but not until the escap-
ing steam had blown, a bird’s nest out of
the whistle!
* * * *
“Koolonga”: It was on the Yarra bank
find the orator had evidently impressed his
audience. “And what did the men who in-
vented things during the war get?” he thun-
dered. “Nothing. I tell you, nothing.” A
voice from the far edge of the ring quite
spoiled the peroration. “Gam,” it said, “the
bloke who invented housey-housey got the
V.C. and ’e’s one of the nobs in the Fed’ral
Parliament now.”
THE SEA COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Mr. Gullett, M.H.R., said that the grievance of a
single cook had tied up a whole shipping line, thrown
hundreds out of work and restricted the employment
of thousands' of others.”
1 reject the proposition that the hand which
rocks the cradle _
Rules the world as sugary, poetic stuff;
Far more potent is the flipper that expertly
grasps the ladle
Or the digits that manipulate the duff.
Wheresoever ships are manned or sheep are
shorn or timber lumbered,
There's one man can gum the works by
going crook;
For an influence destructive and a source
of woes unnumbered
You may hand it, all too often, to the
cook.
Do incessant contemplation of a range with
saucepans littered
And propinquity to blazing wood and coal
Leave him with a disposition irretrievably
embittered?
Put the acid (and the iron) in his soul?
Is the calmest equanimity inevitably flustered
When soot with salt is in the stewpan
shook?
Do the pungency of pepper or the mordancy
of mustard
React upon the temper of the cook?
Where the Irish stew’s compounded and the
mealy breakfast mushes
Diffuse a mildly appetising smell,
Did they skimp him of offsiders, keep him
short of nimble slushies
Till their parsimony drove him to rebel?
AVere his perks abbreviated in the greasy
realm of dripping
Till his vengeance he incontinently took
By relinquishing his job and tying up a
line of shipping?
AA'ell, a chap can never tell about a cook.
Aye, the hand that rocks the cradle may be
dexterous and dandy,
But it can’t hit such a wallop on the
point
As the bunch of fives that pokes a fork into
the hashmagandy
Or bestows a juicy basting on the joint.
he lured from his allegiance by some
glib-tongued union gabbler?
AA'as there some indignity he wouldn’t
brook?
There appears no means of knowing. But
lie queered the pitch, the babbler,
Put a mighty lot of pots on, did the cook.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Pas Encore”: “Carel’s” nervous bride-
groom (B. !)/5/’2B) reminds me of an
acquaintance who was being inducted into
the holy state of matrimony. He repeated
everything correctly until the parson said,
“I plight thee my troth,” when he chimed
in with, “I plight thee my truth.” The
minister, a stickler for precision, came back
with, “I plight thee my troth” —the loud
pedal on the last word. The victim glared
and mutilated it again. “Troth,” insisted
the parson testily. "Oh, all right. Have it
your own way,” said the ’groom, who had
appai-ehtly never heard the word before. "I
plight thee my troth. It’s all the same, I
suppose,” he added under his breath.
“Shep” : Touching the distinction, between
neurosis’ arid cowardice (Red Page 9/5/’£B).
As a stretcher-bearer in France I came in
closer touch with shell-shock cases than
most A.I.F. men, and it was not difficult
to pick out the genuine cases from the
simulated ones. Most of the worst cases
I saw were those of men who had not
been actually wounded; in fact wounded
men seemed to be more composed. The
shell-shocked were affected in various ways:
some were unable to speak, others could
not hear, a number developed what we
STREET ACCIDENT IN 2000 a.d.
termed the “windmill effect,” swinging
their arms about in all directions; others
shivered violently as with bad malaria; the
worst-stricken of all seemed to have lost
their reason altogether. It was often easier
to get a badly-wounded man out of the line
than a shell-shock case, and at times we
had to resort to tying them down on
stretchers instea/1 of assisting them to walk
out. Yet their bearing showed that their
condition was not due to actual fear; it
was simply that their minds could not get
over the hell they had been through. On
the other hand, doubts would always arise
when an alleged victim of shell-shock in-
sisted on getting put of the line in the
shortest possible time and scorning any
assistance offered which might retard his
progress.
jJ: i':
“Nakhoda”: Tlie Sydney, which hauled
her flag down last week to go on the reserve
list, receives some ungracious notice - from
the pen of Franz Joseph. Prince of Hohen-
zollern, in his just-published story of
the Emden. The Prussian officer roundly ac-
cuses the Australian cruiser of renewing
the bombardment of an enemy known to be
defenceless, but even his own account shows
the charge to be unfounded. After ham-
mering the Emden on the beach at North
Keeling, the Sydney ceased fire (11.20) and
went off after the Buresk, the Emden’s col-
lier. Returning in the afternoon, she found
the Emden’s flag still flying, and, after
signalling the vessel to surrender, put in
another salvo. It was only then that the
white flag replaced the German one. Even
then Franz Joseph claims that there wasi no
surrender, because a ship without weapons
cannot surrender; and Von Muller, in his
report to the German Admiralty, made it
clear that he harbored the illogical notion
that the Sydney would rescue the rem-
nant of his crew without the ship sur-
rendering. Any commander who allowed his
men to walk into such a possible trap
would deserve to be court-martialled.
“Gregor”: The Australian grows darker
almost perceptibly. The other day I counted
the numbers of dark and fair children
respectively in three school classes. In the
first there were 42 definite brunettes as
agaiipst only eight blondes, and two of the
latter were English-born; in the second there
were 50 brunettes and 12 blondes, and in
the third 27 brunettes and six blondes, an
average for the three classes of 82 per cent,
of brunettes. Subsequent inquiry showed
that the majority of the children were Aus-
tralians of the third and fourth generation;
almost every one of them possessed markedly
dark hair and eyes.
* * Sic
“C.Q.”: Undaunted by previous failui-e,
3LO, Vic.’s broadcasting station, is going
to stage another telepathy test. The first
attempt resulted in a frost. Three distin-
guished citizens sat in a room at the studio
and thought steadfastly—or thought they
thought steadfastly—about various objects
displayed before them. Listeners were in-
vited to write down what they were thinking
of. Only a dozen out of 30,000 mentioned
so much as one of the objects in its right
place.
* * ‘Sc
_ “Verri”: Touching the production of a
kick _in beer by unorthodox means (B.
9/5/’2B), I know a farmer in northern
N. S. Wales who instructed his son to pick
up supplies left at the local hotel, among
them a small keg of vinegar. By some
means the youth annexed instead a keg of,
beer. When sampled at the farm the stuff
displayed such unusual potency that investi-
gations were made. It proved to have been
fortified by the addition of two ham-bones,
half a dozen chillies and a handful of
peppercorns. The farm folk are beginning
to understand why that pub has a wide
reputation for the excellence, of its malted
liquors.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: When Clement Wragge was
Queensland’s official meteorologist few
people were taken
unawares by rush-
ing floods, as hap-
pened recently in
the Dawson valley.
I was on the Nive,
Ward and Warrego
(near where the
rivers join) when
a storm forecasted
by him sent bank-
ers rushing down
the rivers, but we
all had timely
warning. But when
Wraggc set out to
rival Binghi as a
rain-maker, during
a big drought, he
lost some of his
prestige with
Queensla nders.
When he told the
people of Charle-
ville that he had
seen the Style-
Vortex instrument
used successfully*
in the mountains
of Italy, and pro-
mised them boun-
teous rains on the
Warrego, they sub-
scribed £lOO for
the outfit on the
spot. One was
erected at each
corner of the town,
and a cloudy day
was chosen for the
great experiment.
The town turned
out with umbrellas
to witness it. The
four rain-producers
were fired simul-
taneously, the blast
being hoard 30 miles
away. Some of the
spectators w e re
knocked over by
t h e concussion,
windows were shat-
tered in all direc-
tions, two of the
guns burst- —and the promising clouds scat-
tered and disappeared. At least one of the
rain-guns is still treasured in Charlesville.
* # * *
“Oilskin”: I’ve found the meanest man
V] J lctor , ia - He recently went bankrupt.
Halt an hour before filing his schedule he
drove to a near-by garage, run by a strug-
gling neighbor lone-handed, and had his
petrol-tank filled to the brim—on tick.
“S.C.M.”: A place called Australind, on
the Lesclienault estuary, in the south-west
of W.A., has a strange history, although
it can hardly be said to exist except upon
the map. In the early forties of last
century the West Australian Company was
formed in London for the purpose of settling
the country discovered by George Grey (ex-
plorer and afterwards pro-consul) in the
neighborhood of Champion Bay, where
Geraldton now is. Before the arrival
of the company’s first shipload of immigrants
the Governor of the period discovered, or
thought he had, that the field for settlement
indicated by Grey was “sterile and water-
less, ’ and consequently diverted the new
settlers to the Lesclienault, with the result
that tire town _of Australind came into
being, seven miles away from Bunbury.
Everything went wrong from the start,
The new-comers were mostly drawn from
the soft-handed classes • the land, owing to
the change of plans, was not even surveyed,
And the immigrants came straight into the
wet_ and cold of a severe winter. Still, for
a time, Australind held several hundred
people, and a desperate attempt was made
to keep them there by an energetic “public
works” policy. The trouble was that the
wages were only 2s. per day, and at Perth
twice that was paid; so the new settle-
SCRATCH POOR POLLY.
POLLY: "I wonder would it be
conceited to tell you that I
made this dress myself?”
MOLLY: “No, not conceited, dear; superfluous.”
ment was soon deserted, and has re-
mained so ever since. Although Aus-
tralind town allotments were valued at
£35 the quarter-acre, and were sold in
London at that price 80 years ago most
of them are still part of the bush.
Inquiries still come, now and again, from
the Old Country as to the “value of my
land in the town of Australind.” Several
of Groperland’s old families, among them the
Johnstons and the Cliftons, have stuck to
the neighborhood, whilst ex-Premier Jimmy
Mitchell traces his descent from a couple
attracted to this country by stories of
Australind’s promise.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: So many members of the
A.I.F. whom i met were obviously British-
born that I often wondered what the exact
proportion might be. I suspect that the
figure was much larger than most of
us conjectured. According to the officer in
charge of Base Records, Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne, 64,221 members of the A.I.F. who
embarked for service abroad were born out-
side of Australia—approximately 20 per cent,
of the total. The overwhelming majority
of these, of course, came from the U.K.,
though there would be a certain number of
Scandinavians, Slavs and other friendly
foreigners.
* % * ❖
“Oxmead” : Talking of unusual pub names,
the quaintest tavern sign I ever encountered
was at Fremantle some 30 years ago—“ His
Lordship’s Larder.” There was a vague tradi-
tion that the original licensee had been a but-
ler in the service of some noble family in
Britain and had adopted this method of indi-
eating to patrons that his dingy hostelry
might be relied upon to furnish meats as
choice and liquors as humming as were
looked for in the commissariat department
of a baronial hall. The ancient inn has long
since been rebuilt and renamed along con-
ventional lines.
* * * *
“Yarragundy”: After the gruelling scrap
at Romani, leave to Alexandria Rest
Camp was being granted to the Light
Horse, one-third at a time, in _ rotation,
The Tommy R.T.O. at Kantara inundated
the brigades with crime-sheets after the first
batcli returned, and, though they were torn
up by the various O’s.C., a lot of ill-feeling
was engendered in the Anzac division. A
major of the First Regiment, with a reputa-
tion for outspokenness, had charge of the
second batch, and, dressed in khaki shirt
and shorts, strolled into the R.T.O.’s office,
and inquired when the train left for Alex-
andria. “Stand to attention when speaking
to an officer, snapoed the R.T.O. “Stand
to attention yourself, you blanketty blank-
ard,” roared our bird ; “I’m Major So-and-so
of the First Regiment.” A chastened R.T.O.
clicked and furnished the information.
* * * *
“Up Top”: Up north there is one vege-
table that a man never gets tired of, any
more than lie would get tired of bread,
This is “sweetbuks.” It is the bread-like
qualities of the tuber that has made it a
favorite throughout the North and the
Islands. Men have been known to live for
months entirely on “sweetbuks” without
suffering ill effects. Shipwrecked crews
have lived for months on fish and crabs
alone. My mate and I did so for five long
months on a mangrove islet. We got as
wiry as savages and as bad tempered: in
fact, we were beginning to develop nigger
characteristics when a Jap pearler took us
off. The greatest hardship was the absence
of tobacco, seaweed proving a very poor
substitute. ; t t
* * * *
“Fana”: At a recent murder trial in Eng-
land it was established that the assassins,
or one of them, shot the victim through the
eyes after he was dead for fear that there
might be retinal images of his assailants
imprinted there. Meanwhile a Cologne bio-
chemist named Duessen has succeeded in
fixing in the retina of a dead dog the “photo-
graph” of a scene at which the animal had
looked in life. By the aid of a compound
known as di-cyanin and other re-agents, the
experimenter preserved these images for
more than 24 hours, but the amazing thing
is that they were not the last sights seen
by the animal in life. The dog, a stray cur,
was chloroformed inside a laboratory, but
when the ocular pictures were examined they
proved to be snaps of something outside the
laboratory. The inference is that these had
been preserved by the eye because they made
a more powerful impression upon the dog’s
mind than the last things at which it looked,
Whatever the explanation, the experiments
seem to be likely to throw some light upon
the mechanism of the brain.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Undoubtedly, as “Berhantu”
(B. 9/5/’2B) remarks, plenty of fair-haired
white men adapt themselves to the tropics,
but the question I asked was whether dark-
haired whites don’t adapt themselves more
quickly and easily. Vague generalisations
about the Eskimos don’t throw any light
on the subject. The present ambiguous
distribution of light- and dark-skinned
peoples is due as much to political as
natural causes. The fair-skinned Hollander
is in Java to-day because some centuries
ago the dark-skinned Portuguese closed
various European ports to him ; if he had
discovered the temperate fertile parts of
Australia he would have become a farmer
instead of a tropical slave-driver. What is
needed is statistics, taken over a long period,
of the incidence of disease amongst the two
classes of Caucasians. The French Govern-
ment has taken some, and claims that blondes
show a greater susceptibility than brunettes,
One reason advanced is that dark sktn
has a cooling effect by absorbing heat more
quickly than a light pelt, and thus stimu-
lating perspiration.
❖ -l- :j; ❖
“Lux”: Speaking of faked antiques (B.
25/4/’2B), is there any fabrication so pre-
posterous that no “collector” will be deluded
by it? M. Charles, a French mathe-
matician of the last century, was an avid
autograph-hunter; and, on his hobby becom-
ing well known, a fertile-minded person
named Vrain-Lucas offered, and eventually
so ld, to him for the sum of 1400 francs,
a mass of “authentic” autographs and
“original” MSS. The packet included a
letter from Alexander the Great to Aris-
totle, in which the philosopher is addressed
as “Mon ami,” a scribble from Cleopatra to
Julius Csesar, informing him that “notre
filsi Cesarion va bien,” a missive from
to Mary Magdalene before the false apostle
Lazarus to St. Peter, and, finally, the full
confession of Judas Iscariot written by him
hanged himself. The whole was written
in a: weird jargon of archaic French. Vrain-
Lucas was tried for the fraud in Paris in
1869, and sentenced to two years’ imprison-
ment.
* * * *
“Centurion” : What seems a slightly-
confused pilgrimage is the reported inten-
tion of the Royal Welsh Ladies’ Choir to
leave England shortly on a tour of English-
speaking countries. The idea is to promote
the cause of peace by singing, friendliness
between nations being,' in the opinion on the
promoters, “greatly developed by songs.”
i doubt it. ' “Die Waclit am Rhine” has
not done much to develop French and Ger-
man affinity, for instance, and I question
if “Boyne Water” hasn’t been responsible
for more fights than fraternisations. A
dozen other instances might be given, but
those two will do to go. ou with,
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A commonsense reform has
been started by the P.M.G. In future the
bare announcement “Post Office,” hung over
village branches, will be supplemented by
the name of the haml&fc. Motorists initiated
the idea for their own: convenience, but it
ought to be welcomed by the townsfolk. The
civic pride of Woftp Woop should be stimn-
lated with the disappearance of its anony-
mity.
* * * *
“Tariff”: Touching those queer drinks (B.
25/4/’2B), there was a time when Adelaide
breweries on cleaning their returned beer
barrels frequently came upon a stick of what
had once been tobacco. Some unscrupulous
Bungs, it seems, made a practice of putting
a pound of honey and a stick of tobacco into
every barrel they received. The honey made
the beer frothy as it came from the pump,
and the tobacco counteracted the sweetness
besides adding a little kick on its own
account.
THE ADVISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though I’m a believer in practisin’ restraint,
An’ I try to wear a grin, blast me if jt
ain’t
’Ard to stick to it when Joe—-’e’s the clever
one-*—
Comes to light with ’is “Jer know wot yer
orter d ne?”
When a feller in a scrap runs across a snag,
’Ow ’e opens up ’is trap an’ puts in ’is mag.
That’s the chance fer ’im to show ’ow ’is
fights were won;
You can bet on ’is “Jer know wot yer
orter done?”
When you’ve ’ad a trot of outs an’ you
feel a mug,
When the ’and of Fortune clouts you upou
the lug,
When yer cake seems mostly dough an’ yer
prospecks none,
Up ’e comes with ’is “Jer know wot yer
orter done?”
Not until it’s time to drop down among
the coals,
An’ ’e’s sittin’ up on top ’mongst the angel
souls,
Waitin’ for a chance to blow ’bou't the ’arp
’e’s won
Will I ’ear ’is last “Jer know wot yer
orter done?”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


&0
m
Hoarseness or throat irri-
tation is quickly and plea-
santly relieved by using
‘Allenbunys’
Black Currant PASTILLES
Your Chemist stocks them.
1/- and 1/9 per box
The Commonwealth Postmaster-General Sanctions
the Discontinuance of Postage Stamps on Letters
AND
HAS APPROVED OF
THE “NEOPOST”
METER MAILING MACHINE
A simple device enabling Business Houses to FRANK DATE and
POST MARK their own letters.
A unique advertising feature is also embodied in the "NEOPOST ”
“NEOPOST” YOUR LETTERS.
Write or ’Phone for a demonstration to
“NEOPOST” (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
McKinney house, 10 o’connell street, Sydney.
’Phone 133511.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, O.S.L.,
forwarded to any part of the
C omnonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addrea?:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
James H. Scullin, born at Trawalla
(Vic.) on September 18, 1876, is the third
Australian-born to be chosen in succession
to lead the Federal Parliamentary Labor
party. All three were natives of Victoria.
Frank Tudor, who was in command from
1917. after the split with Hughes, was born
at Williamstown, and Matthew Charlton,
elected the party leader on Tudor’s death in
1922, is a native of Linton. Watson, Fisher
and “Billy” Hughes, the previous leaders,
were born outside Australia.
H. W. HARRISON, the indefatigable sec-
retary and organiser of the International
Motor Show in Melbourne.
Professor Wilkinson, dean of the
faculty of tooth extraction at Melbourne
Uni., having locked latecomers out of his
lectures, was locked out himself the other
day when he happened to be unpunctual.
He returned in a pet to his study, and on
trying to emerge found his own motor-car
had been lifted off the street and laid across*
the door. It was a rather empurpled peda-
gogue who, after some manoeuvring, suc-
ceeded in driving the vehicle through the
corridors into the street again. What pro-
mised to be a first-class row was settled by
fines all round. The student tooth jerkers
claimed that the Professor, who is an
Englishman, only got what lie was asking
for, because he allegedly bantered them after
the recent conferring of degrees for being
the mildest lot of students he had met.
J. M. Forde, The Bulletin’s Oldest In-
habitant, was 88 last Wednesday. _ Though
the old gentleman’s pen-name is rarely
seen these days, he continues in very fair
health —excellent indeed for his years—and
only last week went to his astonishing
library of early Australian history and dug
up information asked for by an inquirer
of the Bulletin’s “Service Department.”
And there wasn’t a tremor in the firm hand
which wrote the reply.
A. J. McLachlan, who will go to the
next League of Nations conference to repre-
sent Australia, has been at the South Aus-
tralian Bar since 1895, and had the big
advantage of a junior but confidential part-
nership with C. C. Kingston, while that big
man was busy giving Federation a start.
With only three years in the Senate, he has
had quick promotion, as acting Attorney-
General while Latham was away, and
latterly as an hori. Minister, In Adelaide
he has been head of the State’s Liberal
party, chief of the Caledonian Society and
chairman of the Football League.
“Sir Sol”: Charley McGrath, Ballarat’s
burly member in the House of Represen-
tatives, who has raised Cain over the re-
jection of Theodore, has repeatedly run foul
of his colleagues in caucus. One breach
was of years’ duration, through all which
time he and his bosom pal Anstey religiously
refrained from attending party meetings and
even went so far as to decline entering the
party room, and had to be provided with
independent quarters in a secluded portion
of the Parliamentary Library. Unless more
discretion is exercised, there is a possibility
that history may repeat itself.
H. E. Pratten, late Minister for Customs,
was a printer: Pratten Bros, still have
their signboard up in Jamieson street,
Sydney, though of late years one brother
has been much busier with politics than
with proofs and the other with tin than
with type. In a few of the older news-
agents’ shops around Australia you can still
see “The Bulletin” printed on trans-
parent paper affixed to windows. That bit
of printing, a novelty at the time, was
one of the first jobs Pratten had to do when
he started in business —he recalled the order
when he was last in the Sydney office.
A Sydney rep. of a newspaper chain wi rod
four leading journals in other capitals:
“Pratten dead.” Three of the four wired
back: “Send full biographical details.” So
he copied the facts from Johns and sent
them at urgent inter-State rates. Pratten,
during his four years in charge of Customs,
and privately before that, did as much as
any man in Australia to assist this coun-
try’s secondary industries. A native of
Bristol, he came to Sydney as a youth and
established Pratten Bros., printers, but was
Soon doing bigger things in jam and pre-
served fruit and in mining. While the
war was on he went to England, became a
member of the Munitions Parliamentary
Committee, and did work in organising
British labor in munitions making that
earned him a huge reputation. His first
venture into politics was with the Senate in
1917, but he resigned four years later to
get into the Reps, for Parramatta. Among
his best friends were Federal Parliament
reporters: “When in doubt go to Pratten”
was an axiom with them.
The Hogan Labor Government (Vic.)
will complete a year in office on May 20
and the personnel has not changed. The
first Vic. Labor Cabinet, of which Elmslie
(now under the sod) was head, lasted 13
days in December, 1913, and the second,
which was led by Prendergast, was in office
exactly four months —July to November,
1924.
Though a city man, W. 11. Everard,
M.L.A. for Evelyn and a possible for the
Speaker’s chair in the Vic. Assembly, has a
weak spot' for country men. His introduction
to men of the soil came when, as a lad of
17, he worked at the haymarket. conducted
in those days by two of his uncles. Butler
and Moss. To-day, if anyone smelling of
fresh earth happens to turn into St. James-
street, where Everard Bros, wholesale tea,
coffee and cocoa, it is 10 to one that he is
seeking Bill’s assistance in an assault on
one or another of the Government depart-
ments.
At the end of the year author-parson and
school-principal Dr. W. H. F'itchett will bo
retiring from the position of principal of the
Methodist Ladies’ College, Hawthorn (Mel-
bourne). He has given of his best towards
developing that college for nearly 50 years.
T. Macleod, C.P.N. candidate for the
Mitchell (Q.) by-election, is doing his
campaigning by aeroplane. His itinerary
for the first day out included Willoughby,
Ascot, Saltern Creek, Coreena, Leichhardt,
Stainburn and Aramac (160 miles). The
next day’s itinerary included Bowen Downs,
Caledonia, Corinda. Aberfoyle, Uanda and
Rockwood (162 miles), and the thii*d Bar-
enya, Katandra, Lerida, Culloden, Mt.
Cornish, Muttaburra, and return to Long-
reach (188 miles).
“W.1.U.” : Broken Hill Labor is choking
with indignation at the attempt to displace
Blakeley from the deputy leadership in favor
of Theodore, and laugh to scorn any sug-
gestion that if he is forced to a selection
ballot against Considine he will lose. Con-
sidine cuts very litle ice in Broken Hill
nowadays. He was beaten, while actually
in the * job, for the secretaryship of the
Workers Industrial Union, and, though
that union fought all it knew for him in
the recent selection ballot, his tally was 485
below that of Blakeley in the local vote. In
the country he got 20 votes to Blakeley’s
761, and then Blakeley did not have the
J. J. GRAVES, 'president of the N.S.W.
Australian Labor party, and one of the
leading figures in the latest cat-fight.
assistance of the A.W.U. members, as they
were denied a vote because of non-payment
of sustentation fees. The final figures were
2451 for Blakeley and 1225 for Considine.
“Sucker”: Reference to H. M. Chester (B.
14/3/’2B) reminds me. When I was a
youngster in ’97 old-man Chester was then
P.M. at Cooktown. He was, as The Bul-
letin states, a firebrand. Fight! He would
fight, his own shadow! Yet he was a most
lovable old bird. It was he who raised the
flag and proclaimed New Guinea a British
possession.
The cable hints that there is shortly to be
another Jewish accretion to the peerage—
Sir Alfred Mond. Son of a German Jew.
Dr. Ludwig Mond, who settled in England
arid became one of its foremost chemists,
Mond will be 60 this year, and is a barrister,
chemist arid writer on scientific subjects. One
of his daughters is married to Gerald Rufus
Isaacs, Viscount Erleigh, the son of the Earl
of Reading, so there is already a peerage in
the family, so to speak.
“Hamer”: In addition to having had a
shot at pub-keeping (B. 11/4/’2B). taxa-
tion man W. H. Whiddon has been a first-
class musician and was regarded as one of
the best choirmasters in Sydney. J. C.
Williamson once offered him a contract to
appear as comedian in musical comedy, but
Whiddon shunned public appearances, know-
ing that before an audience his knees were
liable to knock and his tongue to become
tied. Even to-day he is a poor and nervous
speeclimaker.
Pratten was the second Minister the
Customs Department lost by death during
the past four years. In the same time it
similarly lost three comptrollers-general—
Percy Whitton, G. Hudson and C. G. Major
Oakley.
The successful contractor for putting the
new £257,000 bridge across the Brisbane
Riycr, M. It. Hornibrook. is a native of
Brisbane and is only 35. He struck out for
himself as contractor when he was 18, and
among other things put through Rockhamp-
ton’s £400.000 water supply. How well he did
that particular job was proved in the recent
floods, when the supply was not affected at
all. The Brisbane bridge is supposed to
keep him busy for two years.
The resignation, on unassigned grounds,
of F. H. Jones, head of the triumvirate that,
under Coates and Providence, controls the
Maoriland railways, has let in H. H. Ster-
ling, who has been released from a seven
years’ engagement as manager of the N.Z.
Co-operative Dairy Co., at the request of
the Government. (Prime Minister Coates
said lie was “essential to the success of the
Railway Department.”) The new chairman
—his appointment hadn’t been gazetted at
time of writing, but there’s only one
vacancy that could have brought him back
to the rails and semaphores—is 42 years of
age. He was born in Christchurch, entered
the service at 15, and studied law in his
spare time at Otago Uni. He was appointed
Law Officer of the Department at the age
of 33, and five years later became general
manager McVilly’s right hand. Eighteen
months later the big dairy eo., which has a
habit of luring bright young men from other
occupations, made him an offer that couldn’t
be resisted.
Dr. A. S. W. Rosenbach, the American
Jew who paid £15,400 at Sotheby’s for the
original MSS. of “Alice in Wonderland,” is
the Jubilee Plunger of book-buyers. He
gave £400,000 for one library in France a
couple of years ago, and in a few years
has spent two millions on book-buying in
England. The original Alice, now Mrs.
Hargreaves and 72 years old, on whose
behalf the treasure was offered, was present
at this latest sale.
The N.S.W. Rifle Association, which was
formed as a sort of civilian demonstration
of preparedness at the time of the Crimean
War, owes a lot to Captain William Foskett,
who was 90 years old last week. Foskett
became secretary to the association in 1877
and was the moving spirit for four decades.
“Aress”: Of the two scarves knitted by
Queen Victoria at the time of the Boer
War, and which were said to be as valuable
as the V.C. (B. 9/5/’2B), the Australian
one was awarded to Alfred Dufrayer, a
one-time station manager near Narrandera
(N.S.W.).
“Honest Jack” Colquhoun, of Granville
(Sydney), who died the other day only three
hours before the time fixed for opening the
park he had given to that district, had to
pad the hoof there from Sydney when he
arrived 50 years back from Scotland. By
doing a few odd jobs about the place he
amassed enough capital to set him up as a
bottle-dealer, and from that beginning he
worked on to wealth. He was a Granville
alderman for 28 years and mayor on four
occasions, and the park, which was opened
with the flag at half-mast, was only one of
his charitable gifts.
After 37 years’ service George Gibbs has
sent in his resignation as sec. of the Vic.
Metropolitan Board of Works. He is 66.
Beginning as a reporter on the Bendigo
Advertiser, he attracted the notice of
Tommy Bent, then Minister for Railways,
who induced him to go into the Railway
Department. He rose to be chief clerk of
the locomotive branch under Alison Smith,
and then Fitzgibbon snapped him for the
Metropolitan Board.
A brilliant young Australian who is
bringing much scientific kudos to his country
is Z. A. Merfield, of Melbourne Uni., who
dabbles in astronomy. His Sumatra eclipse
observations are being published in the
memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society,
and last year he was appointed to the Solar
Physics Commission of the International
Astronomical Union. His latest work centres
on the production of micro-rulings down
to 250,000 lines per inch
CHIEF JUSTICE BLAIR of Queensland,
Chancellor also of the ’Varsity.
The last three volumes of the transactions
of the Medico-Legal Society (Eng.) bear the
name of Everard Dickson, as joint-editor
representing the legal interest. Dickson was
born 35 years ago at Geelong (Vic.), schooled
at Geelong Grammar, and went to London,
where he was called to the Bar from Gray’s
Inn at the commencement of the war, in
which he became a major with an M.C. and
bar. In 1926 he was appointed British sec-
retary to the Anglo-German Mixed Arbitral
Tribunal.
VANISHED TYPES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is the actor who held you fast
And called you “laddie” in bars galore
While he spun tall tales of his triumphs past
And spiced his patter with chestnuts hoar?
Where is the collar of fur he wore,
The cane he’d twiddle, the gloves he’d pack?
Out of our lives, these years a score.
And where is the old-time Cousin Jack?
Where is the teamster whose stormy blast
Of oaths o’er his cattle’s backs would pour
Till they strained and quivered, like beasts
aghast,
And out of the stickiest gluepot tore
The wheels, whatever the waggon bore?
Where is the driver whose whip would crack
On Cobb and Co. or the coach-and-four?
And where is the old-time Cousin Jack?
Where is the bookie Avith bingie A r ast
And diamond rings in a goodly store?
Where is the sailor before the mast?
Now there’s little enough, from shore to
shore,
Excepting funnels to be before.
Where is the whiskered and plaided Mac
We knew so well in the days of yore?
And where is the old-time Cousin Jack?
Is he still a-deh’ing for “wash” or ore
In the generous pants that sag and slack?
Does his tufted chin still wag to the roar
Where pious hymns to the rafters soar.
The chin of the old-time Cousin Jack?
n.s.w.
IFORD.


WHICH COUNTS MOST?
First Cost or Cost of Upkeep?
Buying exactly the right belt for its purpose may cost a little more in the first place, but
it is genuine economy in the long run.
We make a type of Leather Belt for every purpose—each the finest in its class.
PIONEER CHROMOL
COMBINA PLATYPUS
Every belt bearing one of these Ludowici trade-marks is fully guaranteed—and backed by
70 years of belt manufacturing experience.
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers Since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Bums, Pbilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summer*,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles DaviSj Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland ;
Patterson Barr. Ltd., Dunedin.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
IX CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
y&
m
For the executive type of man only, we have
published rather an unusual booklet called
"Forging Ahead in Business.” It contains a
concise description of the Institute’s work,
besides business facts of interest to mature
men. Have your secretary write us for a com-
plimentary copy, or use this advertisement.
Name
Business Address
Bz
Position
Modern
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney) : „ , .
Replacement
year and De-
ended preciation
March. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918 602,290 406,250 815.557 1,068,385
1919 578,830 438,750 955.637 1,313,574
1920 .. 572,349 438,750 1.039,236 1,376,988
Capital returned. £650,000.
1921 . . 781,418 495,625 1,375,029 1,517,130
Capital returned, £1,625,000.
Cash bonus, £203,125.
1922 665,190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
{ 498,590 325,000 ? ?.
Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation;
no accounts issued, and profits and reserves
not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,625,000-
Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
liquidation, £325,000.
| Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 j Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
! 673,639 446,875 1,153,480 1,140,177
1925 . 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
1926 -- 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 . . 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 . . 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
Despite the scattering of £975,000 of bonus
scrip amongst shareholders a year ago, the
12-J p.c. distribution has been maintained
with even greater comfort than hitherto.
The div. called for an extra £121,875 last
year, and net profit sprang £133,831.. reaching
the record figure of £966,628. The co.’s
Maoriland refinery, its extensive interests in
Fiji and earnings from other sources not
subject to Federal income-tax turned in a
net £485,967 compared with £301,463 in
the previous 12 months; while the profit
from Australian sources was £480,661 as
against £531,334 in the preceding year, and
that despite a bigger production and increased
deliveries from the co.’s refineries —the latter
because of the continued absence of the Milla-
quin co. (whose refinery was burnt a little
over a year ago) from the market.
What a wonderful money-spinner the busi-
ness has been is plain when it is remembered
that no call has been made on shareholders
for capital since 1908. The amount they
have put up in cash is £2,425,000, and no
less than £7,325,000 has been handed out in
gift issues. "Of that aggregate of £9,750,000
of capital, £3,900,000 has been returned, so
capital is now £5,850,000. Further, there
were £1,040,853 of formal reserves at March
31; in addition there was £1,723,421 labelled
"replacement and depreciation fund, ’ all of
which is probably true profit. Also there
was £2,835,559 in suspense accounts. These
are mostly contingency reserves, and the
probabilities are that a substantial part of
that sum is genuine profit, too. Further,
the book value of the Fiji business, which is
winning attractive results, has been written
down by £1,625,000 to £1,339,172. And no
doubt ait all there are tidy little piles in safe
hiding-places which make the position even
stronger than it looks.
That the annual amouuts paid in dividends
and bonuses have not thus far exceeded 6
p.c. on the visible cost of the total assets
makes it obvious that even now the co. is
only moderately capitalised. Here is the
book value of the assets at March 31: —
Refineries —Australia and Maoriland . . £2,608,775
Sugar mills and plant, etc.- —-
Commonwealth .. . . - - 2,334,688
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) .. 1,339,172
Ocean steamers .. .. • • • • 100,000
Distillery .. .. •• 114,462
Office premises .. .. .. .. 66,850
Stocks and some book debts . . .. 3,130,656
Other book debts, investments, etc. . . 1,773,543
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. . • 1,548,690
£13,016,836
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors .. £1,158,501
Suspense accounts . . 2,835,559
Final div., 1928 . . 365,625
4,359,685
Net assets .. .. •• £8,657,151
A year ago assets totalled £32,640,253, which
liabilities of £4,446,992, including the sus-
pense accounts, reduced to £8,193,261. Thus
in the last 12 months the co. paid its divs.
and was still visibly £463,890 better off.
The immediate outlook in the industry is
one of bigger tonnages, except on the north
coast of N. S. Wales, where frost and floods
have taken toll of crops.
Nevertheless, despite all this gilded history,
chairman E. W. Knox seldom fails to see
dark possibilities in some aspect of the
business. This time he revived a 22-year-old
fear that the continued drift of C.S.R. scrip
into the hands of trustee cos. would prove
to be a danger to the business; exactly in
what way has not been made clear. The
fact is that after 40 years the trustee cos.
in Australia now hold less than 9 p.c. of
the 292,500 shares on the C.S.R. register,
and voting power is limited to a maximum
of 200 votes. Further, the danger of control
ever going completely into the hands of
the very conservative trustee cos. appears
to be a remote one. However, the passing
of a special resolution —it now T awaits con-
firmation —prohibiting the registration of a
trustee or any other co. as a shareholder,
and forcing on to the register the name of
some person other than the real holder, has
created a knotty problem. It seems unlikely
that the trustee cos. will let the matter rest
in its present quite unsatisfactory state.
The market, which places the scrip in the
forefront of industrial stocks, anticipates the
future and pays £59 for the £2O shares.
The return at that figure is 4.2 p.c. _ on a
12$ p.c. div. basis; the visible backing is £23
11s. 2d. in net tangibles.
* * *
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd., Syd-
ney, which took over the Hordern business
in 1926 for £2,900,000 (preliminary exes.,
£61,793 to begin with, are not treated as
an asset hereunder) :
r Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profit. 7-i p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£>£>£>
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves.
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~ 100,000 40,697 20,414
In addition to the £2,000,000 of paid capital
—£750,000 7$ p.c. cum. prefs. and £1,250,000
ords.—there is £1,000,000 in 7 p.c. deben-
tures with a 20 years’ currency held by the
vendors. These debentures are a first charge
on the assets and are secured by the usual
trust deed and mortgages over the co.’s free-
holds. The co. has the right to redeem the
whole or any part of them after 10 years.
At present they are very helpful in making
the 8 p.c. to the ords. a comfortable matter.
The old business in its last 31 years’ tradin’
made an average annual net profit of
£241,763. In its first 12 months the present
co. made a trading profit of £262,922, which
interest on debentures and the unpaid pur-
chase consideration (the final settlement to
the vendors was made in June, 1926) reduced
to £150,320. Last year’s trading results
improved £4791, reaching £267,714, and after
paying the debenture interest (£70,767.) and
satisfying the prefs., what was left was equal
to 11.3 p.c. on the ord. capital compared with
10.9 p.c. in the previous term.
The £40,697 of visible profits that thus
remained in the business made nominal re-
serves £20,414 —formation exes., which were
written down £20,598 during the year, still •
figure at £20,598. Reserves are described as
nominal because they are subject to good-
will and trade-marks, which appeared in the
prospectus at £272,374, \ but are now lumped
with freehold, plant, etc., at £1,743,657, and
that is £6580 less than the 1927 figure.
Against the intangibles there is the hidden
strength provided by unearned increment in
the freeholds. The Sydney properties stand
in the books at 1920 valuations less what-
ever has been struck off for depreciation
since, and those in London were taken over
on the basis of a valuation made in 1912.
Such increments, of course, though we know
they are there, cannot always be realised.
• •••••
It was not to be expected that the big
business built up by the Horderns during
the past century would make a sudden bound
forward. Nevertheless, satisfactory progress
has been recorded, and changes with a view
to quickening turnover and reducing over-
head have been introduced. These have been
partly forced upon the management by keen
trade competition. Of recent years Lassetters,
which at one stage of its career had a very
extensive business and solid goodwill, failed
to keep abreast of developments and dropped
out of the race. Half-way through the last
term Anthony Horderns’ followed the lead
of some of Sydney’s other retailers and re-
mained open on Friday nights; also they
recently introduced the lay-by system. These
departures were accompanied by a reorganisa-
tion of the staff.
The next comparison shows certain move-
ments that seem significant:—
1927 1928.
Ord. capital £1,246,250 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. •• •• 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures .. .. 1.000,000 1,000,000
Sundry creditors . . . . 249,210 233,880
Freeholds, leaseholds, plant,
goodwill, etc. .. •• 1,750,237 1,743,657
Stocks 1,130,878 1,033,605
Book debts, cash, etc. .. 441,777 605,157
The reduction of £97,273 in stocks and of
£15,330 in sundry creditors, including pro-
vision for taxation, and the growth of
£163,380 in book debts, cash, etc., during
the year, looks like an early response to the
management’s efforts. The co. handles a
big slice of city trade, but its sheet-anchor
is in its strong mail-order connection with
the country. That it has inherited a valu-
able goodwill and is a universal provider are
factors which should strengthen its position.
The market for the scrip is active, and
there has been a good deal of profit-taking by
speculative operators. A year ago the ords.
touched 265. 3d., later the price was around
225.; recent sales were at 245. After allowing
for the div. (Is. 7d.) the return at the latter
price is a shade over 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover amounts to 15s. lid.
in net tangibles. The prefs., which have
a net tangible backing of £2 6s. Bd., and are
well protected as to dividends, are valued
on a 6-1 p.c. basis.
Bon Marche, Ltd., drapers and t.-p.
specialists, of Sydney. in the table the
£60,000 paid for goodwill is not regarded as
an asset: —
/ Dividends. Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit. 7$ p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ ■' £ £ £ £
60.000
1921.. 18,760 6000 7J p.e. - 7500 5,260 54,740
1922.. 14,565 6000 71 „ „ 7500 1,065 53,675
1923.. 18,606 6000 7£ ~ „ 7500 5,106 48,569
1924.. 23,513 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10.013 38,556
1925.. 23,661 6000 7i ~ „ 7500 10.161 28.395
1926.. 23,686 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 1$ „ „ 7.300 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up, £25,000 .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
The rapid increase in the value of city pro-
perties has forced many trading cos. to buy
in order to preserve that goodwill which at-
taches to position. When this drapery off-
shoot of Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., was
floated into separate concern eight years
ago, it took over a 20-years’ lease of pre-
mises at the corner of George and Harris
streets, Sydney. Meantime the pup has
won a growing and profitable connection,
largely on a t.-p. basis. In order to anchor
the goodwill and cater for expanding busi-
ness, the board recently bought the corner
property, with an adjoining block at the
rear. The cost was £59,773, which was
£25,000 below valuation. The latter
amount has been added to the reserve fund,
making it £75,000; thus the property stood
in the books at £84,773 at Jan. 28. To
finance the deal £20,000 of pref. money was
got in, £15,339 was raised on mortgage and
liquids were drawn upon for the balance.
The intention is to rebuild, and what that
is likely to run the co. into has not been
disclosed.
Of the £200.000 of paid capital the public
is directly interested in £lOO.OOO of 7-| p.c.
cum. prefs.; all the ords., including £60,000
for goodwill, are held by the parent, who
agreed to take not more than 7| p.c. on its
holding until a reserve fund of £4OOOO had
been accumulated. The fund reached that
point 12 months go, and the ord. div. was
lifted half a point (to 8 p.c.) last year. And
things had not to be cut fine to do it either:
nearly enough remained to pay another 8
p.c. The prospects of increasing returns
to the parent are bright.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the position :
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.'
Liabilities .. £13,515 £20,258 £21,763 £37,220
Freehold .. .. 2,330 84,773
Plant, etc. . . 3,449 3,557 4,075 3,038
Stock .. .. 34,618 81,933 35,565 39,073
Book debts .. 99,519 146,175 149,831 139,943
Investments, cash,
etc 11,OSS 9,775 12,289 7,229
The more or less liquid surplus (£149,025),
including- stocks. w T as £26,898 lighter, and
the drop of £9BBB in book debts (£139.943),
and an increase of £3508 in stocks (£39,073)
suggests that trade was not quite so brisk.
The prefs., which have priority as to
capital, are covered by net tangibles,
amounting to £2 4s. lid., and last year’s
net profit was nearly three times their an-
nual requirements. The market prices them
at 20s. 6d.; the return at that figure being
7.3 p.c.
The City Electric Light Co. (Bris-
bane) :
Ord. Pref. Total
Jan., Profits. Div. Div. Div. Deficit.
£ £ £
1917.. 10,647 10 p.c. 6 p.c. 25,163 3.806
Reserves.
1918.. 38,378 10 „ 6 „ 31,508 2,974
1919.. 43,054 10 „ 6 „ 35,383 10,645
1920.. 57,284 10 ~ 6 „ 42,503 25,426
Two prefs.
1921.. 62,204 lOp.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 58,234 29,396
1922.. 99.388 10 „6&7„ 77.431 51.353
1923.. 113,270 10 „6&7„ 90,898 73.725
1924.. 132,887 10 „6&7„ 106,392 100,220
1925.. 150,260 10 „ 6 & 7 ~ 100,162 150,318
1926.. 190,078 10 „6&7„ 104.823 235,573
1927.. 217,261 10 „6&7„ 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 „6&7„ 117,273 434^326
The co. operates under nine orders in council
each covering a definite area. Careful
management and a consistently growing de-
mand for current have sent net profits along
in fine style, and margins in excess of dis-
tributions have grown almost corpulent.
Owing to an alteration in the method of tax-
assessment last year the co. had to pay out
no less than £24,t>60 more under that head
than it did in the previous term. Nevertheless
the disclosed profit (£214,479), including
£93,843 put by for renewals, replacements
and contingencies (£453,476) and £3380 sent
to the franchise purchase sinking fund
(£40,540), was only £2782 less than the
1927 figure, and after satisfying the prefs.
and handing the usual 10 p.c. to the ords.
£97,206 remained to further strengthen re-
serves, making them £434,326.
However, because negotiations between the
co. and the Brisbane City Council con-
cerning the purchase of the undertaking came
to nothing, the co. is faced with the prospect
of being squeezed out of business. The
Council, which has a statutory purchase
option over the various franchises as they
fall in, is pushing ahead with the erection
of its own power-house at New Farm. The
most important of the franchises expire in
1940, when the whole of the co.'s under-
taking may be resumed without payment for
goodwill; but the S. Brisbane franchise runs
out in 1931, and meantime an uneconomical
increase of plant is inevitable. A little
over a year ago the co.’s new power-house at
Bulimba came into commission ; and a two
years’ renewal contract for the supply of
current to the Tramways was entered into.
Last year the book value of the main asset,
freehold, plant, stock, etc., increased £46,164,
and now includes an electric railway; but
no further information concerning the addi-
tions has been disclosed. That fixed assets
are in at a conservative figure beciame
evident two years ago when the board turned
down the Council’s offer of £1,500,000 for
the business, partly on the ground that
plant alone was then considered to be worth
approximately £200,000 more than that, and
it is unlikely that provision for deprecia-
tion has been neglected since.
Balance-sheet figures have moved in this
way:—
1921. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. .. £740,648 £1,272, 168 £1,285,210
Liabilities .. .. 42,220 147,484 107,24,
Property, plant, mains,
etc. .. .. 769,184 1,691,819 1,737,983
Cash, public securities,
etc. . . . . 27,629 60,679 89,814
Book debts, etc. .. 47,869 63,418 58,131
Purchase account .. 59,065 62,723 62,723
In addition to the expenditure on plant the
year’s surplus earnings, together with £13,042
of calls paid in advance, enabled the manage-
ment to wipe out the overdraft (£37,776) and
strengthen the cash holding by £29,135. Thus
liquids, which were £23,387 less than liabili-
ties a year ago, are now £40,698 in excess o r
them.
The prefs.—there are 20,000 6 per cents,
and 125,000 7 per cents. —are well protected
as to both dividend and capital, and the
market values them approximately on a
7 p.c. basis. They do not share in surplus
assets. The ords., which have a net tangible
backing of 275. Id. per f.p. £1 share, nearly
all of it in plant, are priced at 265. 3d.; the
return at that figure is 7.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
* * *
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne! :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1916.. 6,979 9 p.c. = 6,682 297 26,882
1t(17.. 8,407 9 ~ „ 6,6a2 1725 28,607
1918.. 12,886 164 ~ „ 12,251 635 29,242
1919.. 9,400 114 „ „ 8,538 862 30,104
Premiums oil new shares, £6439 .. 36,543
1920.. 12,644 14 p.c. = 11,038 1606 38,149
1921.. 11,544 10 ~ „ 10,000 1544 39,693
1922.. 17,143 16 „ ~ 15,000 2143 41,836
1923.. 18,733 124 „ ~12,500 6233 48,069
1924.. 18,118 15 „ ~15,000 3118 51,187
1925.. 24,081 15 „ ~ 15,000 9081 60,268
1926.. 21.395 15 „ ~ 15,000 6395 66,663
1927.. 18,034 15 „,, 15,000 3034 69,697
This co. succeeded the Freehold Assets
Realisation Co., whose jolt was to bury
the Freehold Investment and Banking Co.
But there’s a lot of misery behind those
few cheerful words; and, perhaps, it would
do us good if we made Sunday-afternoon
reading of some of these 30-year-old records.
For many of the “investment and banking'
cos. were not a bit more foolish than other
cos. of to-day. The Freehold I. and B.
arrived in 1892, and so gaily sold on terms
and made advances that almost before it
knew where it was it had borrowed over
a million and a quarter to finance its
transactions. When the crash came three-
fourths of the people who owed it monev
couldn’t pay, so it couldn’t pay either.
Presently depositors offered it its own paper
at a discount, and a lot of it was bought
down to ss. in the £. At this stage de-
positors began to think that, as it was ap-
parently hopeless to expect any more from
the shareholders, they had better fade out
of the picture; so the present co. represents
only the depositors, and they got 3s. in the
£ in shares, and 4s. in the £ in 4 p.c.
interminable debentures. Shareholders, of
course, got nothing. These facts are re-
surrected chiefly for the benefit of the
numerous people who seem to assume that


THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT, PRESENTED AT THE
ANNUAL MEETING
Held WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1928, at 2.30 p.m.,
At the Offices of the Society, No. 316 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ordinary Department
NEW LIFE ASSURANCES, business transacted £5,564,161
ADDITION TO LIFE ASSURANCE FUND (total now £8,199,904) - - 513,428
AVERAGE RATE OF INTEREST over all investments, £5 8 8 per cent.
(after deduction of income tax on interest)
PREMIUM INCOME FOR THE YEAR 1,071,970
CLAIMS BY DEATH (Death rate low—only about 58 per cent, of expecta-
tion) 244,922
BONUSES (Every year a bonus year)—net surplus for the year ----- 380,933
For Life Assurance and Endowment Assurances, Bonuses ranging from £2/4/- per cent, for policies
of short duration, rising to £6 per cent, for policies of longest duration. For Pure Endowments
the Bonus Rate is £l/7/6 per cent.
All Members of 35 years’ standing who, within last year, reached the age of 80 years are exempted from
the payment of any further premiums.
Combined Ordinary Industrial and Accident Departments
NEW POLICIES ISSUED DURING THE YEAR £59,328
ASSURING 9,600,617
TOTAL INCOME FOR THE YEAR 1927 2,044,505
INTEREST INCOME 509,797
TOTAL FUNDS AT DECEMBER 31, 1927 9,817,769
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policy-
holders only. . .
Last year’s operations returned a surplus for the year over claims, expenses and provision tor
the growing liability of policy contracts, to the following extent: —
Percentage of
Year’s Surplus
Surplus of the Year. to Premium Income.
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT £380,933 36
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT 80,480 (with £5164 21
additional, being cost of £ o c ;,° r
Welfare and Nursmg
Services )
ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT £7,536 21
These surpluses, together with undivided surpluses carried forward from the previous year,
have been applied entirely to the benefit of policy "holders. The following shows the application of
the surpluses:—
Undivided
Cost of Rever- Contingency Surplus carried
sionary Bonus. Reserve. to next year.
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT - ----- £353,485 £20,000 £18,651
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT 62,851 15,000 4,616
ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT 7,677
The above figures are the result of SOUND LIFE ASSURANCE PRACTICE. The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render unexceptionable and unexcelled service to the assur-
ing public.
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
GERALD T. BAKER, J.P., Chairman.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P.; HON. H. S. W. LAWSON, M.L.A.; SIR GEORGE KNIBBS, K. 8., C.M.G. ; C. J. HENDERSON.
JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A., A.1.A., F.S.S., Secretary and Actuary. CHARLES E. MELVILLE, Manager.


Sharks Arc About!
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly’s -
object is to give the average man
such expert advice about invest-
ments (including insurance policies)
that he will not lose his money.
MAY NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GP + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has many important advan-
tages. It saves on purchase, transport, installation
and service costs. It has constant capacity, for no
corrosion chokes the flow. It is safe from extremes
of climate- —frost will not crack it, nor electrolysis
harm it. Get full particulars. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry
to Figtree Bridge), N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.-— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The construction of firebreaks and tank drains, also
the clearing of drains in and around watering places,
and from wire-netting fences, can all be effectively
and economically handled by the use of the special
graders which are made by Messrs. Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd. These machines are available in
seven different sizes, either to be hauled by tractor
or horses, the prices ranging from £45 to £lO5
each. There are many properties equipped with these
machines and the results obtained amply demon-
strate the necessity of having a grader available on
the station or large farm. As most people nowadays
possess motor-cars, one of these machines will also
be able to construct and maintain in perfect condition
the private road to the homestead. Full particulars
are available from the manufacturers, Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Mac-
quari e-place, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane. — Advt.
He ❖ '* * *
' Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Read what the “Wild Cat” Monthly says:—•
....“It is a prospecting venture, pure and simple;
but it doesn’t cost much to get a pretty large interest
in what may be a very big prize. That there is a
big prize waiting for somebody—perhaps a good many
somebodies —is not proved beyond all doubt; but
the evidence is so strong -that it will be shockingly
bad luck for somebody and for Australia if nothing
more than the present oil-drenched gas of Roma is
discovered. The bite taken by promoters and vendors
is modest, as the Act requires; and the board is such
as to assure for shareholders a fair run for their
money.”.... See advt. on page 20. — Advt.
Workers’ Compensation.
BEFORE YOU RENEW YOUR POLICY
LET US QUOTE YOU!
SAME OR BETTER SERVICE FOR LESS MONEY IS
A BUSINESS PROPOSITION.
SAVE ON OVERHEAD—OUR LOW PREMIUMS HELP YOU TO DO SO.
WE SPECIALISE IN
WORKERS' COMPENSATION!
COVER NOTES ISSUED TO INQUIRERS IMMEDIATELY, IF REQUIRED.
LIFE, FIRE, ACCIDENT, PLATE-GLASS, MOTOR-CAR
AND ALL BRANCHES OF INSURANCE.
The Community Genera! Assurance Co., Ltd.,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telegrams: “COMMUNITY,” SYDNEY. ’Phone (2 lines) : 8W6562, 8W6586.
May’s Broadcast Fertilizer Spreader.
11:7?
IJI//2
U
a®
Co]
The Machine is attached at rear of
Vehicle and works close to the
ground.
Spreads up to 40 feet. Any
quantity up to 1 ton per acre.
Quantities regulated whilst at
work. No skill required.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
Price—£2o nett f.o.r. Melbourne; £2l nett f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor Lorry attachments.
CALL AND INSPECT.
Agents: GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Sydney.
“deposits” are safe, no matter where yon
put them.
Certainly things have improved vastly,
and those _ who were able to and did hang
on haven’t done so badly. As time went
on, and properties were sold, the co. sought
other investments in the undertaking line,
and bought nearly all the shares in the
Land Mortgage Bank. But it has taken
good care not to put its head in the old
noose, and, apart from its ancient de-
bentures (£69,304), it owes practically
nothing:—
1908. 1918. 1026. 1927.
Liabilities .. .. £89,'954 £84,066 £71,433 £71,807
Realisation suspense
account .. . . 7,460 25,339 35,322 31,163
Property .. .. 76,438 30,407 80,164 79,169
B'iares in other cos. 6,256 114,422 146,864 156,850
Balances owing .. 58,440 30,084 20,561 16,051
Ot her assets .. 46,589 47,260 34,579 29,347
The large reserves- and the cheap debenture
debt enable it so far to pay 15 p.e. com-
fortably, though “rents, interest and divi-
dends” have shrunk seriously—and without
explanation—in the last few years. In
1925 they were £31,748; for the past year
only £23,637.
* * * . *
The recently incubated Australian Iron
and Steel, Ltd., which has a nominal Capital
of £5,000,000 in 1,500,000 7-J p.c. cum. prefs.
and 3,500,000 ords., was the outcome of the
plan patiently developed by the Hoskinses
for the establishment of steelworks on a
large scale at Port Kembla, on the N. S.
Wales South Coast. The new co. will take
over the business of Hoskins Iron and Steel
Co.. Ltd., which has a paid capital of
£1,830,000 in 20,000 10 p.c. “A” prefs.,
10,000 7 p.c. “B” prefs., 300,000 71 p.c. “C”
prefs. and 1,500,000 ords. At Nov. 30 its
assets had a total book value of £2,546,079 ;
of it £1,857,732 was represented by free-
holds and plant, arid £21,504 by patent
rights. Creditors were owed £309 545. The
public is interested only in the “C” prefs.,
holders of which will be entitled to receive
one pref. in the new co. for every “C” share
held. The new T prefs. to be exchanged for
the “A” and “B” shares are 22,000 and
3000 respectively—there seems a discrepancy
about this last figure: and the “Wild Cat”
can’t explain it. It is not Stated on what
basis the ords. in the two cos. are to be
exchanged. Also the shareholdings to be
acquired by Dorman, Long and Co., Ltd.,
the whole of whose Australian business, ex-
cept the Sydney Harbor Bridge contract,
is to be taken over, and by Baldwins, Ltd.
(Eng.), who are supplying a complete steel-
rolling plant, has not been disclosed. Howard
Smith, Ltd., who will attend to the shipping
and agency end of the new business, will
take up a substantial holding of ords. for
cash. Incidentally, they are moving their
headquarters from Melbourne to Sydney to
be in closer touch with this and some of
their other interests. Lithgow will be aban-
doned as a steel-making centre. The coal
will be drawn either from South Coast
mines or from new properties on the South-
ern line - within handy distance when rail
connection is made. The main iron sup-
plies will, according to present plans, come
from Yampi, the enormous deposit on the
n.-w. coast of Westralia. It will mean a
long ocean haul, but the cheapness with
which supplies can be put aboard and the
extraordinarily high quality of the ore are
expected to quite counterbalance that cir-
cumstance.
* =:= * *
- A.J..T.” : “W.E.C.” (“Wild Cat” 2/5/’2B),
entering the controversy on Roma Oil, raises
the important question of water associated
with oil. The water at present associated
with the oil is not top wrnter. The artesian
or top water was successfully shut off, as
was proved by bailing operation, and extra
evidence of this is in the fact that the
artesian water contains (by Government
analysis) 6 grains of sodium chloride
(common salt) per gallon, while the water
accompanying the oil contains 212 grains
phr gallon. There is no reason for assuming
the water is a secondary water, either top
or bottom. Fresh water is the natural enemy
of oil. but brine or salt water is very often
associated with it. There is njiw little
doubt that the water . showing with the oil
at Roma is primary, or in other words a
water within the same stratum as the oil.
Further evidence, if needed, can be found
in the fact that the water has marine origin
and contains (Commonwealth Oil Refinerv
analysis) 1.6 p.c. iodine. The proba-
bility is that the small quantity of salt
water is no greater than that usually asso-
ciated with oil on most fields, and that it
will give out when the well is allowed to
discharge to its utmost capacity. Every
precaution must, nevertheless, be taken to
prevent top or secondary water from enter-
ing the oil sands or oil stratum : if allowed
to do so a whole structure or field may be
ruined as an oil producer.
* * * *
Queensland is staging a mild recrudes-
cence of its former oil boom. Three cos. are
finalising flotation for boring areas around
Roma. Another, a Melbourne groups is
carrying out preliminaries for determining
bore sites near Ruthven. One of the old
bores there gave definite indications of petro-
leum products when it was put down years
ago. In the case of the three Roma cos.
referred to above it is probably a case of
getting in while the going is good. The
chances are that the R.0.C., whose No. 2
bore is now well down, will be testing the
oil sand in a couple of months ; and if re-
sults are poor it will be difficult thereafter
to put off even good prospects. Director Tin-
bury's statements that American oil autho-
rities have declared Roma oil a filtrate have
probably also l'eaetod on the market; but
the Queensland chemists who averred that
the oil is a condensate from a gas pool have
not retracted.
* * * *
The Baralaba State coalmine (C.Q.) has
disappeared. Following the recent phe-
nomenal rainfall the mine collapsed inwards,
carrying offices, plans, etc., to the regions
below, and narrowly escaped taking some of
the staff. Railway fines and coal-trucks
were engulfed and are not likely to see the
light of day again. The loss of the rolling-
stock is more deplored than that of the mine
by the railway authorities, and loco-drivers
in 'Central Queensland have secretly cel-
ebrated thanksgiving for its demise. Baral-
aba anthracite coal has great heating value
when complete combustion is secured, but
the loco men complain that it clinkers badly,
makes top much fine dust and is no good for
loco-engines.
* * ❖ *
Mt. Elliott has removed its churn drill
from Mt. Leyshon, near Charters Towers,
and the old field will not be disturbed, as
the co. declines to exercise its option. The
showings of copper in the drillings were not
up to expectations.
s’,c t- *
A story comes from New Guinea about
one of the many Bulolo shows which started
life with a rich reef with the two pages of a
prospectus for foot and hanging wall and
nothing else. The officials carried on a more
or less profitable existence in an Australian
office for a time, and shut up shop when the
money was spent. The co. made only one
serious mistake. It failed to acquire a mine,
or even a piece of earth that could have
such a title applied to it. It made one
attempt to peg out a lease, but when it got
there found someone else in possession.
Wandering away, it heard of some ground
which was being abandoned by its original
Having announced that it had ac-
quired other areas near the spot where it was
originally intended to set in, it hired some-
body, to inspect and re-peg the abandoned
property. lie didn’t think it was worth
while; and thereupon the co. wearily turned
its face to the wall and died.
if * * *
Guinea Gold, one of the few Bulolo River
flotations which have come within coo-ee of
justifying their existence, has been suffering
from the results of a rather extravagant
valuation, of its assets. However. Broughton
Jensen, now in charge, has put the show on
a better working basis, and production is
proceeding in satisfactory fashion. The
latest report announces the shipment of
900 oz.; gold to Sydney; the April clean up
amounted to only 190 oz.—a poor figure due
to the working out of the old faces and the
delay entailed in setting in on new ones.
* * if *
“Avenart”: Old Uncle “Yanawai,” of
Fiji, brought under the notice of 11. B.
Guppy, a . naturalist in the days when the
South Seas were bubbling, a lode with pos-
sibilities. Australians were attracted, and
went over there with picks and other sticky-
beak implements, and soon the show was
quietly relegated to the cemetery set apart
for feral felines. Somebody has dug it up
again, and with a couple more found lying
around, has offered it to Sydney at fl a
ticket, limited to 8000; though 2000 more
may be “let in'’ later, and £5OOO is to be
given to the archaeologist who found the
things. The talk is of “16,000,000 cubic
yards of alluvial wash unbottomed, worth
from 3s. 6d. t to Bs. sd. per yard, besides a
lode 800 ft.. wide, a mile long, with 1200 ft.
of hacks worth 15s. a ton” —which ensure
quite a decent profit on the £435 per month
that shareholders are to be called on to
provide. Yet with all this for a song, so
to speak, they talk of “extending opera-
tions.” It seems to be almost greedy. Fiji
is a Crown colony, and Britishers have been
delving and scratching all over it for
donkey’s years looking for mines. Have
they missed a fortune lying on the surface?
if * if *
Golden Butterfly’s option over the New
Mararoa at Norseman (W.A.) has had the
effect of giving that show a value of £20,000
based on the market price of Butterfly
shares. The co.’s share issue is 165,000 and
future operations will need to disclose re-
sults much better than have been shown pre-
viously in order to justify present figures.
The mine has been opened up to a depth of
270 ft. on the underlie. At this point the
reef split into two. quartz veins each about
12 inches wide. Gold values, unless excep-
tional, are not material in such conditions.
No driving has been done at the 270 ft. level.
but the 170 ft. level has been opened up for
a length of 300 ft., and in the north end 24
inches of quartz, worth about 20dwt., is
showing. Should driving disclose a new shoot
of payable ore, the co. will have a chance.
Success depends entirely on what future
operations reveal.
* * * *
Something good was missed at old Edna
May Consolidated at Westonia 15 years ago.
McCahon’s co. recently took the show under
option, ana the new lode continues to re-
spond to development in such a way that
the mine now contains quite a satisfactory
reserve of 90s. ore. Five-head of stampers
are operating eight hours daily, showing a
17dwt. recovery by amalgamation, with Bdwt.
left in the sands. It is intended to put the
other five-head in commission shortly with
a view to promptly paying off mine-purchase
consideration. Of course, preparations are
well in hand for floating the usual litter
alongside.
* .. * ijc $
Mt. Magnets had a sudden rise from the
issued price (45.) to 7s. (id., at which point
the underwriters rushed to get out with such
suddenness that they risked being hurt in
the crush. Owners of Hill 60, held by Mt.
Magnet Co. under option, have done fairly
well out of the show, but development work
below 76ft. level did not result as satisfac-
torily as it did above that point. London
has become interested in the option, but
whether London speculators will venture fur-
ther depends on their expert’s report on the
show.
* * * #
A rise in Lake View and Star shares is
due to a report that a lode has been located
in Chaffers as a result of driving from the
Golden Horseshoe at the 2800 ft. level. Width
and value of lode are stated to be satisfac-
tory, but it will be a costly business extract-
ing the ore. Probably a new main shaft will
be necessary.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Phin Soon, the old Chinese-worked open-
cnt proposition which was the first-born of
Malay Siamese, has had a troubled career
since it came into being in 1925. The area,
including that yet. unworked, is over 1000
acres, and the ground tested has yielded high
yardage values. In spite of this the co.
has not been able to make a profit, and
for some time past has actually been work-
ing at a loss. Recently H. V. Seale recom-
mended the purchase of a Diesel-driven
Bucyrus shovel with a light railway for
mining and handling overburden as a solu-
tion of the co.’s difficulties; this to work
in conjunction with the lately reorganised
plant. It is expected that costs will then
be reduced to Bd. per yard (they have been
around the half-crown mark of late),
and that the turnover will be doubled.
Hence the directors have decided to
issue 500 debentures of £5O each; inter-
est, 12 p.c. p.a.; currency, three years. The
money is to be used to buy the new plant
and wipe out liabilities amounting to £9700.
The cost of the plant is estimated at £12,900.
The debentures will be a first charge on
the co.’s assets. The minimum subscription
on which the board may go to allotment is
400 debentures; holders have the right to
convert into shares at par. Paid capital
now stands at £140,000. The parent co.,
Malay Siamese, as the principal creditor,
has agreed to the above arrangement.
With the new installation, the monthly
turnover is figured at 60,000 yards. The
average for the first four months of this
year was 41,445 yards. Output is expected
to reach 60 tons per month (the average
for the last four months was a little over
29 tons), and costs are figured at less than
half the proceeds. The £1 shares have had
rather a bad time in the market, losing as,
much as 75 p.c. of their face value. A
slight recovery set in last week; buyers
were offering 6s. 3d., with sellers hanging out
for Is. more.
* :!= * *
Working costs are becoming a regular and
welcome feature of monthly Malayan dredg-
ing reports.. Consistently low are the fig-
ures for the Alluvial Tin and Austral
Malay interests, though there is a notable
variation, even in these, according to condi-
tions and circumstances. Austral Malay’s
shows, with one exception, are under sd. for
the April recoveries. Kampong Kamunting’s
figures, with No. 2 dredge laid up, were 4.7 d.,
while Asam’s were 4.6 d. and Ulu Yam’s
4.8 d. Thabawleik paid 12.9 d., a startling
difference which is accounted for by the
considerable time lost during the month
owing to water shortage and repairs. Allu
vial Tin’s interests showed less variation,
though the heavier costs of sluicing arc
shown in the 7.70 d. for the Rawang plant;
the yardage cost for the same co.’s dredge
was 5.14 d. Other figures were: Selayang,
4.94 d.; Malim Nawar South, 4.17 d. Kun-
dang, 4.93 d.; Kuala Kampar, 4.66 d.; Tan-
jong Tualong, 3.49 d.; Changkat, 5.48 d.; and
Jelapang, 6.43 d. La rut, with its four
dredges, recorded 4.92 d. In all the above
cases yardages were high and costs corres-
pondingly low.
Malay Siamese has four shows in opera-
tion; a couple of them, Nawng Pet, a sluic-
ing proposition, and Phin Soon, an open
cast, have been at it for some time. Thus
far it has been unable to get witbm coo-ee ol:
the figures recorded by some of the cos.
turning over big yardages. Of the co.’s two
dredging propositions, Haad Yai got through
42,000 yards of ground last month for 2b M
tons. The average, 1.511 b., is excellent, but
working costs were 9.37 d., and these are
the lowest of the group. Over 100 hours were
lost in the first half of the month. No work-
ing costs were furnished for March. Huey
Yot dug 35,400 yards for 16.3 tons, and was
much hampered by debris in the old Chinese
workings which choked the pumps and m-
terfered with the jiggers. The recovery
averaged 1.101 b., and costs were 11.83 d.; tor
March they were as high as Is. 6.95 d. Aver-
ages for both these shows were lower than
for March. Nawng Pet averaged 1.441 b. as
against 1.601 b. for March, while April costs
were 11.08 d. compared with Is. 2.66 d. in
the previous month. Phin Soon got 31.4 tons
from 34,600 yards, an average of better than
2.171 b. Costs were again very high; 32.40 d.
per yard. Previous month’s figures were
20.95 d.


JAPAN AND THE DRAGON.
“Japan has despatched a further 20,000 men to join its army in China.”
THE JAPANESE WARRIOR: “What a wonderful watchdog it would make if I could only catch it and tame it!”


è
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £1,990,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(Q) Tn the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured wall be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from, men of integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Princess Charming”
Royal “Rookery Nook
Criterion “The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith
Palace “Madame X”
Empire “Take the Air
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Opera
Roy \l “The Girl Friend”
King’s “Getting Married’!'
Comedy "Our Betters”
Athen.eu\i “The Laughing Optimist”
Tivoli • • Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“Aida” opened the Williamson-Melba
grand-opera season at His .Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne. Grand panto, is as good a descrip-
tion as any for the spectacular part of the
gorgeous tragedy. In the third act, when the
stage is crowded with Egyptian priests blow-
ing modern band instruments, dancing girls,
Ethiopian slaves, eunuchs and processionists
hearing dog-headed and beetle-faced gods,
it only seems to need the entry of a dame
and a low comedian to complete the panto-
mimic ensemble. Verdi also poured into
“Aida” all the pomp and ardor of his
maturer muse. No scenic artist ever
achieved in paint the flamboyant colors
attained by the priestly choruses in the
vocal sphere, nor the; voluptuousness of the
argument between Ramades and Aida in the
sacred grove beside the ,wrinkled waters of
Father Nile.
* * * *
The general verdict was that “Aida” broke
the back of expectation. A conductor of
evident driving-power is keen-faced Gaetano
Bavagnoli, who seemed to infuse into his
orchestra some of the spirit of Faseismo.
All the principals but high-priest Umberto
di Lelio were new. Arangi Lombardi gave
to Aida no very impressive presence, but a
voice without speck or flaw and torrential in
its crises of emotion. Her wheedling of
Ramades in the- sacred grove of feather-
dusters was clever acting that went hand-
in-liand with exquisitely modulated singing.:
General Ramades, in the person of Francesco
Merli, was a small, dark tabloid of con-
centrated drama equipped with a tenor whose
QUEENIE ASHTON, now with “Rio Ritaat the St. James,
Sydney. Another visitor who has decided that she likes
Australian sunshine—she came to it originally in “Sunny.”
yearning sweetness triumphed over the stage
absurdity of the asphyxiation in the burial
vault. The Australian John Brownlee made
Amonasro, King of Ethiopia, a distinguished
monarch. His pure baritone faultlessly ex-
pressed the anguish of imprisonment. .Giu-
seppina Zinetti provided the disappointed
Queen Amneris with a pleasing appearance
and a capable dramatic mezzo. “The
Barber,” with Toti dal Monte in the lead,
was to come on Monday, “Manon” on Fri-
day and “Lohengrin” on Saturday.
The Gregan McMahon professional reper-
tory company is discussing “Getting Mar-
ried” at Melb. King’s. Shaw’s play is a
passionless and somewhat pedagogic piece,
hut the quips about polyandry, polygamy,
divorce and kindred matters are sure win-
ners with an audience which is either en-
gaged, comfortably wedded, or has the decree
nisi, .in its pocket. The McMahons are
stronger on the trousered side than on the
skirted. Beatrice Day is a composed wife
to Hugh Denham’s effective bishop, but;
Daphne Deane pushes herself rather ob.vi-
osuly through the part of the divorcee Ethel.
Zillah Carter is the girl who wants children
blit objects to the usual biological process
of getting them. As Leo, Pearl Appleton
contributes vivacity and physical energy;
Eardley Turner is the pontifical greengrocer
who advises the bishop's family on social
sanitation; and Compton Coutts brings his
popular low-comedy manner to bear on St.
John without loss to the entertainment.
Margherite Flor of the fair-hair and the
auriferous voice was the Danish magnet
which drew the multitude to “Faust” at Melb.
Princess last week. The Italian members
failed to enlarge their country’s prestige.
Fumagalli presented a Mephisto whose
reckless humor and sinister bitterness would
have passed unnoticed at a Sunday-school
picnic. Dr. Faustus Vannucci renewed his
youth without rejuvenating his vocal organ,
which showed its usual tendency to sag when
stretched unduly; and several of the others
shone less by their own light than reflected
Scandinavian glory.
* * * *
A query by a recent Poverty Point con-
tributor as to where the chorus in “Lucia
di Lammermoor” get their kilts was also an-
swered last week. They copied them from
the Malay sarong. The performance was
notable for capable singing, as well as
curious staging. The absence of Scamuzzi’s
voice from the part of Henry Ashton passed
unnoticed amidst the admiration for Federici.
But the productions still show hastiness
and lack of polish. “Carmen” occurred on
Saturday; “Norma” on Tuesday; and Satur-
day will be devoted to “Un Ballo in
Maschera.” After that the tail of the Gon-
salez comet will be lengthened with revivals.
“The Laughing
Optimist” is ex-
hibit C of the P.
Hutchison season
at Melb. Athen-
aeum, the story of
the girl (Stella
Frances) whose
selfish parent-s
would have her
marry a million-
aire for money
when she would
rather marry the
impecunious Hut-
chison for love. At
the final curtain
the Rev. Reginald
Roberts arrives
and weds the
proper pair, Mr.
Hutchison having
removed all obstac-
les to their union
by making a for-
tune in the second
act himself. In be-
tween there is
plenty of bright
comedy and crisp
dialo g u e. The
robust actor-man-
ager hardly seems
sufficient cause for
the love storm
which sweeps Miss
Frances olf he r
feet. Still, h.e
knows how to get
his laughs.
* * * *
The address of
“The Girl Friend”
is still the Royal,
Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, and the
acquaintance list
of that bright
young person is
swelling visibly. At
the Comedy Miss
Bannerman con-
tinues to hold the mirror up to
Maugham’s ill-nature. At the Tivoli Bert
Errol arrestfe attention in his role of Queen
Elizabeth, but lets it go in his other female
impersonations. His act is saddled with an
ineffective wife and daughter. Stiffy and
Mo have, moved out of the Bijou, and George
Storey has moved in with a strong company.
The affair of Miss Gannon’s chemise con-
tinues to attract large houses to Melbourne
Palace. The garment has made 37 appear-
ances to date, except for visits to the
laundry, when the part has been taken by a
competent understudy.
“Princess Charming,” at Sydney Majesty’s,
is an agreeable entertainment, with enough
dramatic interest to carry the decora-
tio n s. Kathryn
Reece is the Prin-
cess of an Anthony
Hope sort of realm,
who becomes a sub-
ject of the neigh-
boring State of
Sylvania, to whose
king she was affian-
ced by what is re-
garded as a tem-
porary marriage to
a naval officer of
that country (Reg-
inald Dandy) in
order to escape the
virile insurrection-
ary who swash-
buckles in the form
of Peter Gaw-
thorue. The Prin-
cess clings to her
attachment for her
Dandy in prefer-
ence to keeping her
prior appointment
with King Leslie
Holland of Syl-
vania; but the
people wnosc ro-
mance really mat-
ters sing themsel-
ves out of difficul-
ties in a beauti-
fully-painted gar-
den scene. Olive
Sloane, as a gay
adventuress, helps
the aggrieved King
to come to a better
mind. Cecil Kella-
way is provided
with some good
comedy as a hust-
ler who has insured
the royal wedding
for £50,000; one of
his songs, “He’s
Not Old Enough
to Be Old,” looks
to have some stay-
mg power. Lou Vernon does bits of
effective work as the Sylvanian ambassador;
and Victor Gouriet and Donald Stewart give
minor assistance. The music has some good
marching notes.
“The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith” appeared
at Sydney Criterion on Saturday night; if
the Pinero lady is a bit out of date there
was some polished acting. As Amos W inter-
field, Norman McKinnel is not as well suited
as usual, and J. B. Rowe over-acts Lucas
Cleeve, but Irene Vanbrugh, as Agnes, and
Dion Boucicault, as that worldy cynic the
Duke of Olpherts, are artistic delights.
Prudence Vanbrugh has an advance on her
previous parts as Sybil Cleeve; and G. Kay
Souper is an excellent Sir George Brodriek.
Muriel Starr revived the sobful “Madame
X” at Sydney Palace last Saturday. Harvey
Adams makes a very good figure of the
rascal Laroque, with whom Jacqueline re-
turns from her South American misadvan-
tures; Mayne Lynton is inclined to morose
monotony as the unforgiving husband, and
Ellis Irving, although alive and emotional,
puts more fume in his voice than ever. Fred
Coape makes the most of the porter at the
Three Crowns; but Charles Lawrence and
Leonard Stephens miss the sly subtleties of
Parissard and Merival. Roy Russell is the
family friend and physician, Dr. Chesnel.
In “Romeo and Juliet,” at the Newtown
Majestic, Allan Wilkie contented himself
with Friar John, leaving Mercutio to Alex-
ander Marsh. In “The Merry Wives of
Windsor” on Saturday night Wilkie pre-
sented a capital Falstaff; but of the two
merry wives—Lorna Forbes was the other
—Miss Hunter-Watts did not spice her work
with the necessary levity. Dulcie Cherry
was more successful as the young Ann ; Denis
Bax-ry was a rather colorless Fenton;
Arthur Keane a good Slender; and Alexander
Marsh a capable exponent of a husband’s
angry suspicion. This (Wednesday) afternoon
“The Winter’s Tale” will be told; another
change, on Satui'day, will introduce “Henry
VIII.”
“Turandot” is to be the opening bill of
the Williamson-Melba season in Sydney;
the date of the gala performance is July 21.
“Take the Air” will finish its flight at the
Sydney Empire on Saturday night; on the
following Wednesday “Top Hole” will take
possession.
The spectacular “Rio Rita” goes on un-
dimmed at Sydney St. James. “Rookery
Nook” lives, mainly on the humor of Minnie
Rayner, at the Royal. “Three Live Ghosts
has had a short life at the Grand Opera
House; it finished last night, and “The
Honeymoon Wife” is to be welcomed to-
night (Wednesday). “From Morn till Mid-
night” is being repeated every Wednesday
MARGARET BANNERMAN, in “Our Betters” at the Mel-
bourne Comedy. Her subtle acting has gained her an
immediate Australian success.
by McDougall’s players at the Playbox
Theatre, Rowe-street.
❖
The mermaids at Sydney Tivoli who
give examples of water tricks which the sea-
lions imitate are remarkable experts, and the
seals, down to the comedian, who claps his
fins to applaud each act, are genuine enter-
tainers. A new arrival is Claudia Alba,
a strong woman of more than usual capacity.
❖ * * *
This week’s change at Fuller’s Theatre
(Sydney) sees George Wallace hatching
mutiny on a vessel “Off Honolulu.’’ George
retains his habit of falling on liis ear with
rare adroitness.
* * * *
An unusually-impressive war picture is
included in “The One Woman” at the
Crystal Palace (Sydney) ; a high-ground
view of a big liop-over with men along miles
of. trenches, leaping out to the charge
into a maelstrom of shell-fire and bursting
bombs. Capt. Lancaster and Mrs. Keith Mil-
ler appear during the interval. Hoyts
De Luxe is showing “Palaver,” wherein a
lone Englishman carries the White Man’s
burden in a possession where warring tribes
show a tendency to cut one another up.
On Saturday the Regent introduces “Wings ”
a first showing in these parts from which
much is expected.
* * * *
“The Rudd Family” is being given its
first-in-Australia production by William
Anderson at Adelaide Royal. Steele Rudd
(who watched the show from a front stall)
now calls the family “Dickson”; to Dad and
Mum, two loutish sons, and two girls are
added a young squatter as lover, a gentle-
manly crook, a parson and a comic daughter
in-law. Also, there is Dad’s brother, of vast
wealth, who hands out stations as if they
were chocolates at the end. The play is a
collection of episodes, jumping from farce
to melodrama and back. The fun consists
of such homely things as a mouse in the
parson’s trousers, and a boil on Dad’s
neck that turns out to be a burrow-
ing tick. The players had hard work in
competing with memories. Edmund Duggan
lacks Bert Bailey’s incisive chuckle; Tom
Su.tterby gives a creditable imitation of
Fred Macdonald,, but Lucy Adair seems
amateurish after Alfreda Bryan. Roy Her-
bert makes the parson Scotch. Jack
McGowan as Dad-plus-wealtli scores heavily;
but Douglas Drew as the young Australian is
so English that his sneer at the English vil-
lain loses its point.


SYDNEY,
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., io/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 57-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
FOR KEEPING BREAKFAST HOT
ON THESE COLD MORNINGS
£
wm.
Handsome stand, heavily silver-plated on hard white metal. Fitted with two
lamps and removable aluminium hot-plate. As illustrated, 1 Bin. size, £6/6/-
With three lamps, 26in. size, £lO/10/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
PEAPES
~jor men AND their sons.
QUALITY is the keynote of
Peapes’ policy, nothing but
the best of its kind ever
being permitted inclusion in
their carefully selected
stocks.
Yet, because they do not hold
sales, Peapes have to make no
provision for periodical reductions,
and can, therefore, maintain a
consistently low price throughout
the year.
Write for Peapes’ Winter
Catalogue 3 just issued.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney,
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“5.0.” : One of the latest additions to the
known varieties of Australian birds is a
brand of field-wren, a little brownish fellow
which turned up in the Little Desert, about
250 miles north-west of Melbourne and abut-
ting on the S.A. border. The stranger has
been christened Winiam field-wren. The field-
wren common among tussocks and long grass
THE SORROWS OF THE RICH.
JACKY FLOURBAG: “Gibbit tixpence, boss.”
BOSS: “What do you want sixpence for, Jacky?”
JACKY: “My word, boss, this pfella got plurry income-tax yesserday.”
in many parts of N. S. Wales lays a hand-
some purplish-brown egg, which is deposited
in a cosy nest of fine grass lined with soft
feathers. It is unobtrusive and shy in habit,
and skips from tussock to tussock after the
fashion of the flying mouse.
* * * *
“Wingella”: N.T. natives have a deluge
story. They say that there were giants on
tlie earth in those days, and that the beasts
and the birds were “big mob
big pfella.” Also, there were
no droughts nor deserts; the
whole place was a veritable
garden of delights. Then a flood
came. It washed away all the
big giants, all the enormous
kangaroos and bandicoots, and
destroyed all the best of the
trees. Only a remnant of
humans survived —those who
had climbed to the topmost
branches of the tallest trees on
the highest hills and had
strength enough to exist till
the waters abated. But they
were so weakened by their pro-
longed privations that their
children suffered, and never
were able to grow as big, nor
to fight as well as their ancestors. Old gaf-
fers will show you, away up on the rocks
round the Adelaide and Roper rivers, the
tide-marks left by the great flood.
*#* ■ *
“M.L.C.”: An expedition into darkest;
Tasmania was lately undertaken by a party
of three, including J. H. Sticht, a son of the
late general manager of the Mt. Lyell mine.
They penetrated the hitherto unexplored
region that cradles the upper section of the
Gordon River on the West Coast. The party
found that the river runs through deep fis-
sures, narrowing in places to 15 feet in width,
between lofty overhanging cliffs which rise
to 350 ft. There are three of these slits,
of which two can only be entered by means
of ropes, as the water is full of rocks and
whirlpools. Here the flood-water mark is
100 ft. above summer level. The return
journey involved shooting close on 100 rapids.
No valuable minerals were found, but some
fine beds of timber were observed on the
river flats.
* * * *
“Pfella”: “Manuka” (B. 11/4/’2S) re-
minds me. When I was doing special duty in
Groperland’s Nor’-West I had to camp near
a creek for over nine months. My black-
tracker erected the tent, using the dead
trunk of a dwarf river-gum for the back
support. The weather-protected side of the
bole still had small cracked squares of bark
adhering, but one morning, after a week’s
unseasonable rain, they suddenly loosened
and fell to the ground. Investigation showed
that a thin layer of new sap had pushed
them out of position. After a little while
small purple leaves on transparent red lialf-
incli stems appeared, but died aAvay within
a week. That tree had been as dead as a
doornail for over a year. Discussing this
phenomenon with the tracker, I was told a
legend of his tribe. A buck’s gin ran away
with another warrior, hotly pursued by the
lady’s brother —tribe etiquette forbade the
husband to interfere. Coming on the pair
beside a mighty gum-tree, the brother hurled
his spear with such force and bad aim that
it went clean through his sister’s body and
pinned her to the tree. The gin-thief escaped
without hurt. The gum withered and died,
remaining dead for eight years, when sud-
denly it grew green again. That very day the
outcast was slain by the brother.
* * * *
“Mulga Mick”: “B-Gar” (B. ll/4/’28)
talks about corned beef keeping good for four
months. In March, 1917, I hung 401b. of
dry salted beef on a big paper-bark tree about
20 miles south of Powell’s Creek telegraph
station (N.T.). I didn’t come that way again
till the following February, when I was sur-
prised to find the meat-bags intact. The
meat was very dry but still sound. My mate
and I tried some of it after soaking it and
found it excellent. It tasted like ham. I’m
convinced that dry salted beef will remain
sound for years under favorable conditions.
* * * *
‘Caxton s Ghost”: Hori bought a motor-
car. To celebrate the purchase he looked
long upon the waipiro and then made tracks
for the. pah. Ten minutes later friends res-
cued him from the river and dragged his car
out with horses. “What happened, Hori?”
they asked. Quoth Hori: “When I puy te
car I drive wery fas’, wery fas’ for home.
Lhe trees pass me, the houses pass me, the
telegram-posts go by, all going wery fas*.
Then a bridge came wery fas’ towards me—
and I pull to one side to let him go pas’.”
X
Boronia” : Will some Abo. scribe who is
versed in forestry lore explain why a native
tree that leans well out of the perpendicular
is. invariably hollow? If you strike them
with an axe they sound like a drum. In
every case the greatest thickness of timber
will be found on the under side. I have
been told by bushmen that, as most of the
weight of a leaning tree is thrown on to the
side away from the incline, the wood fibres,
unable to stand the excessive strain, arc
continually, breaking down and dry rotting,
which in time causes a large pipe. The ex-
planation isn’t entirely convincing.
(Continued on page 21.)
THE LIGHT ON THE PLAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old-timers knew it in days long ago,
When its sign bore the legend “The Way-
farers’ Rest,”
When the stations were fenceless and teams
travelled slow
On the long, winding tracks leading into
the West.
Built of slabs sawn by hand at the pit in the
bend
Ere the steam-driven “circulars” con-
quered the trees,
'Twas a haven of cheer where the rovers
could spend
Long evenings in rest or in riotous sprees;
With a lantern hung out like a beckoning
star,
Where it shone forth its message in dark-
ness and rain ;
And the fame of that beacon soon travelled
afar,
Till the shanty was known as “The Light
on the Plain.”
They say it began without license at all —
Just supplying a want when the pioneers
came—
But that even the far-ranging troopers would
cal]
And forget to report to headquarters the
same.
Instead they would tarry to taste of its cheer
With the rest of the bushmen, a time-carc-
less crew,
Who had met at the “Light” from the runs
far and near
To commingle ai?d taste the mysterious
brew.
So they jested and raced, pinning faith to
their crocks,
With "drinks on the loser” a standing
refrain ;
And the course was the track from “that big
clump o’ box,”
With the winning-post always the Light
on the Plain.
'Twas a lode-star for drovers the mobs
travelled far
That the stockmen might linger to hit up
the fun.
EXPLICIT.
“How far is it to the next town?”
"Well, that depends. If y’ go backwards it’s three miles and if y’ go forwards it’s five.”
With the hobbled nags feeding in sight of
the bar
And the cattle contented on somebody's
run
(Which was counted no crime in those care-
less old years—•
It was hinted as well that the squatters
supplied
The meat for the board, though the station-
bred steers
That grew it brought never a cent for their
hide!).
Then the glasses were clinked, and the jokes
passed around,
And the tall yarns were spun of wild
losses and gains;
Till the cattle were mustered, the last drinks
were downed,
And they waved their farewells to the
Light on the Plain.
My old dad used to tell how two bushrangers
came
One night to the shanty. They lined up
all hands
it the point of their guns, loudly boasting
their fame
And swearing to shoot if their smallest
commands
Were not briskly obeyed. But a young
trooper raced
Plot-foot on their tracks; and the battle
began
With a crashing of shots as the tall strip-
ling faced
The pair single-handed. One funked it,
and ran
To the trees in the bend where the horses
were tied;
And the other man’s desperate courage
was vain—
The trooper was winged, but the bushranger
died
Where he fell ’neatli the sign of the Light
on the Plain.
But the stations were fenced and turned over
to wool;
The old order pasued—and the old ways
as well—
A township grew up with post-office and
school.
And the “Light” was rebuilt as the “Royal
Hotel.”
A coach rattled in with its mails twice a
week
Or crawled in the months that were
dreary with drought;
Then a sawmiller set up his plant down the
creek
And weatherboard humpies grew up round
about.
The ways became narrow —compared with
the past—
And the greybeairds condemned them in
language profane
As they told of the “days that were too good
to last,” ,
Of uproarious hours at the Light on
the Plain.
And now “progress” has come to the town-
ship—we hear
Loud talk of a railway; the cars lift the
dust
As they flash down the street (’twas “the
road” yesteryear!)
And the straggler is logged when he goes
on the bust.
There are churches—a pair—to compete for
the souls
That might otherwise stray; we’ve “the
pictures” as well
For our mental uplift, and the caller enrolls
In the book as a “guest” at the Royal
Hotel.
So we move swiftly on in an era of
change....
What matter if one to old memories gives
rein
With a shade of regret as his vagrant
thoughts range
’Mid the ghosts of the past at the Light on
the Plain!
maoriband.
RIVERINA.


I f!
!'■
n
m
mill
mi
L
u
jy
a
a
CQ
2
OS
Qrt
<
X
ui
O
Q
<
2
o
a:
' m\y
/mMI
y
ON A OIL
HAY HE AH TO YOU/
r* jp» HE above extract from a local paper proves the increasing interest in Roma Oil,
I and the new company—Queensland Roma Oil, Ltd.—presents an unequalled oppor-
* tunity for investors, large or small, to become shareholders in a proposition
which, according to authoritative reports, has remarkable and unprecedented possibilities
of success. Queensland Roma Oil, Ltd., is now allotting shares as soon as the applica-
tions are received.
Many Thousands of Shares have been sold in record time.
They are only 10 -each, payable at 1/- per share application and 1/- monthly
These reports alone
MUST convince you
To obtain oil in payable quantities at
Roma, it is absolutely necessary that a
favorable structure in the strata be
located.
Dr. KRAHMANN
Chief Geophysicist of the Council
of Scientists of the ELBOF CO.,
Germany, and Professor of
Applied Geology at Berlin Uni-
versity, stated—
“YOU WILL CERTAINLY GET OIL
HERE.”
He stressed the importance of locating
Dome and Anticline formations.
Dr. H. I. JENSEN, D.Sc.,
The Eminent Geologist,
states, in his report on Permit 67 (the Com-
pany’s property), that a perfect dome structure
exists on that area. “In parts of Texas, New
Mexico and Mexico oil is found by boring near
such plugs or domes formed in a similar man-
ner.” He also states that this area could be
tested at one-third of the cost of a similar-sized
area near Roma. This is on account of the shal-
low depth of the oil strata, which are estimated to
exist at a depth of 1700 ft,, against 3700 ft. south
of this Permit,
Capital: £175,000, divided into
150,000 shares of 10/- each.
To be dealt with as follows:
100,000 Ordinary Contributing shares now offered for public sub-
scription, payable 1/- per share on application. 1/- per share on
allotment and the balance in calls not exceeding 1/- per share per
month. 11,250 Paid-up shares to be issued to Vendors as con-
sideration. 2000 Paid-up shares to cover all cash outlay and
initial expenses in connection with the said Petroleum Prospecting
Permits. 36,750 to be held in Reserve.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
MAJOR F. L DAWSON, Director, Spring Vale Colliery, Lithgow;
“Courier” Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
ALEXANDER STAFFORD, Esq., Company Director, 87-89 Eagle
Street, Brisbane.
G. F. LALOR, Esq., Grazier, Gubberamunda Station, Roma.
NEIL O’SULLIVAN, Esq., Solicitor, Albert Street, Brisbane.
T. D. GRIFFITHS, Esq., Builder, 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
BANKERS: A.8.C., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
AUDITORS: Robinson & Jolly, F.A.C.P.A., 1.0. A. Chambers, Queen
Street, Brisbane.
SOLICITOR: Neil O'Sullivan, Queensland Deposit Bank Chambers,
Albert Street, Brisbane.
SECRETARY: E. W. Hammond, A.A.T.S., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
OFFICE: “Courier” Buildings (sth Floor), Queen Street, Brisbane
BROKERS: A Kussman & Co., 165 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Prospectus Also Sent on Application.
Subscribe now for as many as you can!
THE operations of Queensland Roma Oil, Ltd., will begin almost immediately on a
picked position on the same field as the Roma Oil Corporation, whose shares are so
rapidly increasing in value. The new company has secured the services of Dr.
H. I. Jensen, and operations will be carried on under his control. A plant is being
purchased, and work will begin on Permit 67, which, as you will see in Dr. Jensen s
remarks, can be tested at one-third of the cost of a similar-sized area near Roma, and
with far more possibilities of success.
It is well for prospective investors to bear in mind the fact that the vendors are so
confident of success that they have taken the whole of their consideration in shares
and not asked for one penny cash—thus leaving thousands of pounds immediately avail-
able for boring operations—too often swallowed up in big cash payments to vepdors.
Send the form below, with a remittance for as many shares as you can afford—the
minimum number of shares is 20, but they’re so remarkably easy to buy that anyone
can invest!
£1 deposit and £1 per month for 9 months buys you 20 shares,
£5 deposit and £5 per month for 9 months buys you 100 shares.
£lO deposit and £lO per month for 9 months buys you 200 shares.
Send in the form below NOW — to-morrow you may be sorry
you didnt.
Queensland Roma Oil Ltd
c/o A. KUSSMAN & CO., Brokers,
165 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Telegrams: “Kussman,” Brisbane.
o
o
*
*
<?
<9
%
*
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To A. KUSSMAN AND CO.,
165 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,
I hereby apply for (state in words)
shares in the First issue of 100,000 shares of 10/- each in Queensland Roma
Oil, Ltd., upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus.
And I hereby agree to accept the same or such smaller number of
shares as may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as
the holder of such shares.
I enclose herewith £ being 1/- per share on
application, and I agree to pay 1/- per share on allotment, and to - pay
the balance in instalments, each mot to exceed 1/- per share per month,
and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of
the Company.
Dated this day of 192....
NAME {in full )
(State Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS (in full ) .
SIGNATURE
PROFESSION OR OCCUPATION ..


Make
the
Stock
make full market
values. They can do
so. But they must
é
ê
ë
have the necessary assistance to reach that
mark.
Consign your Cattle, Slieep and Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
That step will render their sale at highest possible
prices certain. Energetic, experienced, and compe-
tent, Winchcombe, Carson’s work as salesmen is con-
sistently forceful.
Such a reputation is not won overnight
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9ci .... 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin
Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
ē
The Ideal Truss for the
RUPTURED
Effective sup-
port is tlie first
essential in a
Truss, but
there should be
comfort and
freedom as
well if the
Ruptured person
is to escape
n
I
annoyance and hindrance. Having a patent
water pad, Denver's Elastic Truss ensures
all these qualities. Send for free pamphlet.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
Dept, l, 2S1 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
“R.C.H.”: Maoriland doesn’t particularly
love Bunny, but draws the line at torture.
In Invercargill recently a farm-laborer
skinned a rabbit alive and then let it go.
The victim of fiendish barbarity ran a con-
siderable distance and disappeared in a bur-
row. A fine of £5 was imposed. But in a
similar case in another district a few years
ago, where a couple of trappers skinned a
rabbit apiece and then had a bet on which
one would run the longest before dropping,
the S.M. said scalding things and wound up
with “Six months’ hard labor.”
❖ *
“E.S.S.”: The venerable fat lamp, alias
“slushy” and “greasy,” is still used in hun-
dreds of N.S.W. farmers’ barns, and in some
THE MORAL OF THE COW’S TAIL.
“I thought you’d ha’ got it out easier’n that, Mister — why, I could move it about with
a [?]oupla me fingers.”
“Fes, an' you can move a cotv’s tail about with one finger!”
houses, too. It is cheap and easily made —
an old pannikin or jam-tin half-filled with
sand and topped up with tallow, with a piece
of moleskin rolled round a stick and stood
upright in the centre. Some float the wick
in oil by enclosing it in a tin tube, which
passes through a flat cork capped with tin.
At husking time it is hung from a beam with
wire. In houses the lamp is kept polished
and stands in a clean saucer. Still, its pre-
sence is always smelt. It is a crematorium
for flying insects, especially moths, which
sizzle and bubble and boil when they drop
ill. With most settlers “slushy” was a
pioneer lamp. Later on, in many camps and
huts, it gave way to kerosene-lamps made
from pickle bottles. Some fitted the bottle
into a solid wooden stand and provided a
glass or globe for the light by taking the
bottom off a thin, wide-mouthed bottle. But
in far-back parts oil is too expensive, and
“greasy” is still popular. Candles are not
much good in camps and huts, but lanterns
of various sorts and old coach-lamps are
firm favorites.
Ss * $
“Homfrey Beale”: Some birds and ani-
mals well know the value of camouflage.
On Woorawadian station, near Walgett
(N.S.W.), a shot goanna ran up a tree and
died in a tail-to-mouth position on a fork.
Next year two minahs built *their nest and
reared their brood inside the circle. Near
Condobolin (N.S.W.) I shot three black
snakes in a bunch. Next morning I took my
mate out to see the reptiles, and in the
enclosure made by the corpses I’d kicked
together we found a a family of young field
mice. We called next morning, but the mice
had either moved camp or the meat ants had
eaten them. In Pilliga scrub I saw a ground-
lark dart out of the belly of a dingo skele-
ton, and investigation disclosed a nest con-
taining three young neatly woven into the
bones of the neck.
i[i # $ ❖
“Sea Nomad”: A famous shell rests among
the zogos on hilly Yam Island. It was stolen
from Yam by New Guinea canoe-men. Their
return trip was accursed. Fearful storms
drove the canoe on a sand-bank, from which
the crew refloated it only when all their
food had gone and two of their number were
missing. Then a calm drove them nearly
mad because of thirst. Some of the crew
in desperation leapt overboard, hoping thus
to appease the wrath of the shell spirit and
so save the remainder of their friends. A
remnant in a dying condition finally reached
New Guinea shores. But immediately the
shell was carried into the village a curse fell
upon the people. They were defeated in
battle; many of their young women were
taken ; sickness struck down the children and
their vegetable gardens wilted. Canoes
loaded with tribute were finally despatched
to Yam. But the infuriated chief refused
to touch the shell, and it had to be taken
back again to await the arrival of a Yam
native, who cleansed it of all New Guinea
vices and diseases before it could be re-
claimed by its rightful owners.
“Gumblegubbin”: Sandy McClatter liked
wild duck, and, as there wasn’t much cover
round the swamp
on his selection, ho
enveloped himself
in the skin of a
boomer kangaroo
whenever he went
shooting there.
With the gun held
perpeiidic u lari v
against his side,
and in a crouched
form that made
progress exceed-
ingly hard labor,
he hopped or
jumped along ti U
he got within gun
range of the game.
If the birds were
too far from the
shore, he pretended
to be drinking, or
browsing on the
water grass, while
he waited for them
to swim closer.
His efforts were
fairly successful
until Nat Crisp
came along with a
dog that had been
Used to kangaroo
hunting. Seeing the
huge grey form liop-
pi n g laboriously
towards the swamp,
the dawg took after
it wit h joyful
bounds. McClatter
was slightly deaf,
and wasn’t aware
of his danger until
the dog had laid
hold of his tail.
Then, with the sud-
den fright and the
pull on his appen-
dage, he leaped out
of his skin. That
saved him, but he
was fiercely indig-
nant when .Crisp
came up. “The
stupid beast ought
to be shot,” he
snorted. “I’d ’ave
shot him mes-el’
only ’twould ’ave
used up a good cartridge.”
“Pudden”: Of all the fearsome-looking
objects in this country of ours the sand-hill
devil takes first place. It’s a bit of a lizard,
or seems to belong to that family, and is
found in the shifting sand-hills in the s.-w.
corner of Bananaland. From six to nine
inches in length, it takes the color of its
surroundings. It is covered with rows of
spikes, even to the ridges along its toes, and
has a malignant look. It is dangerous—to
ants, and that’s all. When kept in captivity
it develops into quite an affectionate little
cuss.
“Up Top”: In the tropics, for some un-
explained reason, mosquitoes and March
flies will swarm on a man wearing dark-
colored clothes, whereas white-clad humans
are partially immune. But many creatures
have color preferences. Bees are attracted
by a white cloth, and the effect of a red
rag on a bull is proverbial. Even fish have
their partialities. Kingfish will hungrily
bite at a whirling rag of white or red; other
species prefer green.
sit sit sit $
“Aniraf” : There was a great round-up of
camels in Farina (S.A.) railway trucking
yards lately. They had been roaming on the
common of 50-odd square miles, which,
owing to the drought, iq as bare of grass as
a billiard table. Of the number mustered,
297 had had commonage fees paid on them,
and 125 which had not were taken out a
few miles into a specially-made corral and
shot. The Afghan owners prayed loud and
long for the souls of their dead camels. •
sit Sit Sit *
“Neurone” : “Toki’s” night-bird that makes
a noise like a deer belling (B. 18/4/’2B) is
a brown night heron. When disturbed the
blighter emits a raucous note not easily
forgotten, but when left to himself he can
sing a variety of notes.
“B-Gar”: “I see w’ere a bloke was askin’
in The Bully how to get near enough ter
wild ducks ter shoot ’em,” said Pigweed
Pete. “Ever seen the way the abos. ketches
’em? First they cuts a lot o’ green bushes,
ties ’em all tergether by the stems, ’n’ gets a
lot o’ smaller bits o’ bush an’ puts it on their
’cads. Gettin’ inter the water, they floats
down t-er w’ere the ducks is, keepin’ the big
bushes in front an’ their ’eads out o’ water.
W’en they gets up ter the ducks they jist
grabs ’em one by one be the legs, pulls ’em
under an’ drowns ’em. The ducks don’t wake
up ter the stunt till a good few of ’era's
thrown a seven, an’ then it’s too late. The
SAFETY FIRST.
THE MAN ON TOP: “What did you let go for, you fool, Henare?”
HEN ARE: “By korry, I frightened te rope goin’ to break.”
bloke ’oo’s askin’ The Bullerteen fer infor-
mation oughter give it a go. ’E won’t cop any
fer the first couple o’ dozen tries, o’ course.”
“An’ by that time,” Bluebush Bill chipped
in, “’e’ll be knocked up an’ full of the game.”
*** ' *
“Larrapinta”: This new dodge of feeding
fish-meal to cows to increase milk production
reminds me of the time I took the skipper
and mate of a Swedish windjammer, loading
wheat in Pt. Lincoln (S.A.), out into the
sugar-gum country to show them the sights.
We came across a dejected-looking old cow
chewing bones. “Vy dor bones?” the skipper
asked. I explained, and he understood at
once. “Ah, yes,” he said. “At home it iss
fish dey eats. Dor farder nort’ you goes der
more fishes dey eats, till up in Lapland
dey nearly lives on fishes.” When I asked
if the diet tainted the milk, the skipper
grinned. “Now dot ’pends on' who you iss,”
he replied. “If you iss selling der milk,
you says ‘No!’ If you buys it, you says
‘Yes!’ ”
* * * *
“AdeL.”: White ants in the Gulf country
have sharpened their intelligence. Iron
stands and iron stump-caps are no long>>r a
Barrier to them. When wood is smelt above
iron, scouts are sent out at night or in dull
weather —being blind and deaf how do the
ants know when it is night?—climb over the
iron to reconnoitre, and return with armies
of workers, who make mud 'tunnels around
and over the iron till the wood or other
food is reached. The work goes on at, in-
credible pace. Can the Council tell us some
effective means of protecting our supplies?
Soaking the earth around the posts and
painting them with a strong solution of
arsenic, even when repeated often, does not
keep the ants out.
❖ $
“Nuces” : I have a horse and a dog, each
noted in the neighborhood for disagreeablc-
ness but ordinarily very docile to me. Last
Sunday the dog would not come to me and
snarled -every time I went near him; yet he
became quite friendly with some visitors.
On Monday I attempted to catch the prad ;
lip went for me with his mouth open, though
my mate, who volunteered to bring him in,
did so without trouble. On Tuesday both dog
and horse were friendly with me once more.
What was wrong on those other days? I
had treated neither animal unkindly.
MEET ME. BROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Xow Jane an’ me were extry close w’en she
wuz livin’ ’ere,
Lint things ’ave altered since a bit. She’s
been in town a year
An’ twice she’s been on ’olidays. The first
time wuz orlriglit.
The secon’ time? Well, ’ear me tell wot
’appened me las’ night.
1 ’eard that she wuz ’ome again, an’ as I’d
wrote a lot
I thought I’d like to go an’ see if she ’ad
changed or not.
I pulls me ’orsc up at the gate, an’ soon ’s
I’d clambered down
I sees a cove an Jane. She ses, “Jim, this
is Mister Brown.”
A bloomin’ coot in Oxford bags, a sort o’
blinkin’ swell —
An’ Jane goes on: “A friend o’ mine, ’e’s
stayin’ ’ere a spell.”
At that ’e grins an’ then I sees the way
things seemed to be.
She’d found ’im somew’ere in the town —
that wuz the end o’ me.
“Jim, Dad and Mum ’ave jist gorn out.”
’Strutli! but I felt a fool!
“You’ll find ’em up the track,” she sez. Say,
ain’t it pretty cool
Ter go an’ sling a man like that? Still,
w’en gals get ter town
You’ll find it won’t be long before they meet
a Mr. Brown.
VICTORIA.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
BEERSEEM.
“Bidgee”: In answer to the inquiry of
“B-Gar” (B. 18/4/’2B), beerseem has been
grown with great success in S. Aus., but with
poor results in N. S. Wales. It is not a
lucerne, as “B-Gar” would imply, but a
straight-out clover, and grown under condi-
tions entirely different from those of lucerne.
It is an annual plant, and would provide, at
the most, only three cuttings for the season.
The best growth is made in the autumn and
winter; old Sol soon finds its weak spots in
the summer. The tap-root, in my experience,
is also inferior to that of lucerne. The
N.S.W. Agricultural Department coddled it
like a baby at Yanco and other parts to
produce results similar to those obtained by
Professor Perkins at Roseworthy (S.A.),
and by the Gyppos in Egypt, but its slow
growth has, up to the present, turned the
Riverina farmer against it. Still, as “B-Gar”
asserts, it is a remarkably nutritious and
palatable plant, and some enthusiast may
eventually show how it can be grown to beat
our other winter clovers.-
A GOOD FODDER CROP.
“Agra” : Japanese millet should be grown
more generally by dairymen and others; it
is one of our most valuable fodder crops.
Under favorable weather conditions there is
no other that will make such rapid growth,
a yield of three tons of hay per acre has
been obtained in less than three months.
Millet has wonderful grazing quality if it is
not allowed to grow too high; and after be-
ing eaten off continuously for months, it will
produce a good yield of liay or seed, if stock
are withdrawn.
All classes of stock arc very fond of it as
green stuff, hay or silage. It is safe feed for
cattle and sheep at all stages of its growth.
Analysis shows how closely the composition
of millet resembles that of corn :
Weight, Crude Carbo- Dry
Pounds. Pjotein. hydrate. Pat. Matter.
Millet . . 100 1.0 12.1 0.4 21.3
Corn . . 100 1.0 12.4 0.4 20.7
These considerations, together with the fact
that the cost of raising the crop is much less
than the cost of a corn crop, should induce
more farmers to give millet a trial.
TREE-PLANTING ON THE FARM.
“Country Ped.”: Every farmer should
have his Arbor Day once a year just as the
country schools do. Generally speaking,
July is the best month, and, luckily, farm
work is rather slack at that period. Home-
grown plants are the best, and any Aus-
tralian eucalypt is easily produced from seed.
Select seed-cases from trees of the dis-
trict, whichever variety you prefer. Shake
out the seeds on to white paper, where they
can be easily distinguished from the brown
seed-case dust. Sow the seeds just be-
neath the surface in a seed box—a fruit-
case or petrol-case will do. Use loamy soil,
but no manure, which rots the roots of young
native trees. Cover the box with hessian,
and keep damp in a sunny spot until the
plants germinate. Then remove the hes-
sian, and as soon as the trees are about an
inch high prick them out into pots, or
bottomless tins, filled with the same kind of
soil. After watering, place under an over-
hanging tree, and facing the east. With a
few judicious waterings during the summer
months, by the following July you will have
a splendid array of sturdy native seedlings.
There is no need to dig special holes for
the trees. A ploughed strip is all that is
necessary; but water each tree as it is
planted in order to set the soil well around
the roots. After that nature will do the
rest, and in a few years you will have
shelter belts for stock, firewood and fencing
posts (every year now becoming scarcer),
and your pastures will be protected from the
sweeping winds that dry up the herbage.
STACK ENSILAGE.
“A.Z.A.C.”: The peculiar conditions on
the higher portions of New England
(N.S.W.), where they have a wet summer
and severe winters, -present a problem for
the silage maker. Overhead concrete silos
are out of the question, and the pit silo, com-
mon in the drier districts, though cheap, is
subject to seepage, which spoils the stored
crop. Many farmers around Guyra, Ben
Lomond and other high points have resorted
to building low roofs over their pits of silage,
but this entails as much labor and expense as
would the framework of a stack silo, which
method of making silage could be adopted
with advantage in these parts.
The making of stack silage had its be-
ginning on the N.S.W. North Coast, where
little or no hay is produced, and consequently
no stack-builders are to be found; so the
farmers adopted the idea of stacking the cut
crop inside a framework in parallel rows
instead of crossed bundles. The supporting
framework is necessary to prevent the stack
from slipping, which would mean much
spoilage.
First, estimate the bulk of the proposed
stack and then erect a row of bush poles
(about 4in. diameter) along each side
of the pegged site. Space the poles
2ft. to 3ft. apart, according to the length
of the crop to be ensiled. The height
should be about 20 feet, and the uprights
can be spiked or lashed with wire to hori-
zontal plates (also 4in. poles) at the top.
The two ends can be left open, as the
material is to be stacked lengthwise. More-
over, the open ends facilitate the cutting
out and carting away of the silage when it
is being fed.
A framework 30ft. long x 15ft. wide x
20ft. high will hold about 100 tons. Before
commencing to stack, put down a bedding
of grass or old hay about ISin. deep, and
then stack as quickly as possible so as not
to expose the surface unduly to the action
of the air. Rainy weather, by the way, is
not against silage making; in fact, in some
cases a drop of rain while stacking is bene-
ficial, particularly if the crop is a little
on the mature side. Stack the more mature
material at the bottom and keep the greener
and heavier stuff for the top. Build the
centre of the stack up a little higher than
the ends, so as to avoid the possibility of the
stack sinking in the centre where rain will
settle.
Some method of weighting the top is
desirable. Anything that can be handled
easily will do—loose earth, logs, rocks, bags
of sand. Be careful to distribute the pres-
sure evenly. If some rough framework can
be devised and the weighting material loaded
on top of it, so much the better. The stack
can be further protected from the weather
with a layer of grass, ridged up.
SHEEP V. WHEAT.
“D. J.”: An incentive to sheep-raising may
be found in the precarious position of the
wheat market. Last season, although very
few crops gave good yields and many were
failures, the price of wheat remained low.
It is therefore interesting to compare the
returns from wheat and sheep. Say a wheat-
grower has 500 acres of good red soil. It is
unlikely that he will put in more than 300
acres of wheat annually. From that he may
hope for a six-bag average. He needs exten-
sive machinery, a header, a tractor or team
of horses —probably both —and all the other
cultivating gear. This all means money. Now
if he had sheep he could easily run from
four to five hundred, and by putting a hun-
dred acres or so under lucerne he could con-
siderably increase his carrying capacity.
With no machinery, little work and few run-
ning expenses he should realise an annual
profit of, roughly, £3OO or £4OO.
The wool-grower has also the advantage
of a steady demand, and if he is careful to
conserve fodder he need not fear dry years.
These results seem astounding, yet experience
teaches they are true. Very few wheat-
farmers can show a substantial profit on an
average over the last five seasons. If, instead
of slaving away on a losing game, they turned
their attention to wool-growing, they would
get far better returns for less work.
PLOUGHED-IN RUBBISH.
“Cola”: “Bon Jour’s” plan for getting rid
of “stinking roger” and other tall weeds— -i.e.,
ploughing them in when “three feet high or
more” —is only suitable for millionaires, who
are not numerous on the land. If things like
that are done the land cannot be cropped
next season. Stalky stuff ploughed under
robs the soil of nitrogen, which growing crops
demand. This does not apply to peas and
beans or young weeds, as all three are very
nitrogenous. It would be cheaper in the long
run to cut the tall weeds and cart them away
to rot outside the cultivation paddock than
to plough them in. ( A farmer mustn’t say,
“I can’t get at the weeds now while they
are young.” He must get at them.
THE WAIL OF THE WOOLBROKER.
“Two Seas”: Our woolbrokers are alarmed
concerning the increasing amount of wool
that is sold to speculators who dazzle the
cocky with cash offers for his clip at the
woolshed. Cash is always attractive, par-
ticularly to the cocky who can’t afford to
wait months for a cheque. Certainly, he
might get an advance from his broker, but,
generally, he is shy about a wool lien, and,
as a rule, the local storekeepers are already
eyeing him. The “representative of a Brad-
ford firm who has a special order to fill”
therefore looks good to him with the cash
in his hand, when the woolbroker and his
sales seem away in the dim distance. In
some cases it is the cocky’s incurable sus-
picion of the city that kicks the beam, and
he sells for “cash on the spot.” The wool
dealer is often accompanied on his tour by
a local agent, who consumes time and petrol
in introducing him to likely sellers —just
for the pleasure of seeing them sell their
wool to his friend “at a better price than
the city and no commission and freight to
pay.”
Now and again the cocky who sells m
the shed scores, for all such deals in wool,
wheat or stock are merely bets between
optimists and pessimists; but the wool-
dealer, like the bookmaker, holds the _ best
end of the stick in the long run. He is no
optimist when buying.
No doubt the woolbrokers are much in
earnest concerning the ultimate effect upon
the industry if growers continue to sell their
wool in the shed to speculators. It is a
serious matter to both growers and wool-
brokers. But, like most serious questions,
there is an element of humor about the mat-
ter so far as the woolbrokers are concerned.
It was they who originally financed the
dealers and sent them roaming the bush in
search of cheap wool; but now that the
monster they created has grown strong
enough to operate without their assistance,
they fill the air with their wailing.
TO KILL FLY LARVrE.
“Agra” : Borax, used at the rate of 12oz.
to lOgal. water, and sprinkled over 8 bushels
of garbage, is the most efficient larvsecide,
and also the cheapest. Unfortunately, borax
larvtecide has a very injurious action on plant
growth, and must be employed with caution if
the material treated is to be used for fertilis-
ing- purposes. Powdered hellebore is next
in value, and has the advantage of not being
detrimental to plant growth. Mix a pound
of hellebore in lOgal. of water, and let it
stand for a few days before using.
THE BUSH INFORMATION BUREAU.
“Bosso”: “Drover’s” sheep-droving hints
are 0.K., but he omits one. Never pass a
roadside pub without calling. Bung can often
give useful information concerning any mob
of sheep ahead, and sometimes —especially
if the man in charge did not call —he may
be able to point out a short cut that will
put you ahead on the feed. I once called
on a Bung who had charge of a well-grassed
common, and as I had instructions, to loaf
as much as possible, I put the acid on Bung
for a week’s run. As I had 10 hands with
me, all eligible for the Ancient Order of
Frothblowers, my proposition was eagerly
accepted. On a strange route even a teetotal
“monkey” conductor can’t afford to pass the
bush information bureau.
SHED CLASSING IS BEST.
“Winifred”: Wool-repackers invite sheep-
owners to send their clips direct off shears
for classing in the capital. This means that
all types of fleece wool, with skirts left on,
stained pieces and locks will be pressed to-
gether. It stands to reason that the wool
cannot be attractively classed after such
handling. The cost to the grazier is ap-
proximately 10s. a cwt.
My advice to the grazier is to have
nothing to do with this scheme, which en-
tails double handling, extra cost, and delays
in- selling. The shearing shed is the first
place where the wool is handled, and is the
correct place to class it. You can get the
desired results if you employ a competent
classer, a reliable presser, and good shed
hands.
MOTHERING LAMBS.
“N.M.L.” : Mothering is a very essential
part of lamb-marking, and a common mis-
take made is that of overdoing the job.
Leave ewes and lambs overnight in the yard.
This serves two ends. It puts the lambs
in a fit physical condition to meet the opera-
tion on the morrow and it also allows them
to mother in the yard. When a ewe has
lost her lamb both will make back to the
last place at which they saw each other.
Have the yard in which your sheep stay
the night big enough to allow them to move
freely and to mother properly. That’s one
of the first essentials of successful mother-
ing. Work the ewes in as small mobs as pos-
sible and give each mob a separate yard.
As each flock is done let them stand in the
yard while another mob is being marked in
a separate yard. When the second lot is
done they can be shifted into the yard occu-
pied by the first flock, and _ that lot ana
their lambs can go bush, being put out as
quietly as possible and through the widest
gate the yard affords.
Now comes the art —and it is an art—or
mothering. A number of ewes will have their
lambs when they come out of the yard. Ihe
majority, though, don’t think about mothering,
beyond bleating a bit, till they’ve had a snack
and a drink. Let the mob draw steadily dowm
to the water, let them have their drink m
comfort and then feed about. Now the ewes
begin to mother and some make back with
a run to the yards where last they saw
their lambs. Block them and turn them
in to the mob again. Some authorities ad-
vocate keeping them in hand for hours and
some hold them till sundown. Others let
them go in about one hour. What happens
as soon as a ewe finds her lamb and gives
him a drink? She tries to sneak away on
her own and leave the mob. If she’s turned
back, what happens then? Usually the lamb
lies down to have a sleep and the ewe feeds
about bewildered by the other lambs crying
for their mothers, and she loses her lamb
again.
The best results I’ve seen, and I’ve taken
note of more than a few, is to let the mob
go as early as possible when they’ve
steadied. Those ewes which have their
lambs will take them straight away back
to where they were running before the mus-
ter, and those which haven’t their lambs
will go to where they were last seen —in
the yard.
BORE WATER FOR VEGETABLES.
“Mirwa”: This is 1 our experience on a
Mallee farm where the water contained
magnesia. (After 1 using water from the
bore for a few weeks in the kettle, one
could scrape a half-inch crust of magnesia
off the inside of it.) Using the water on
vegetables, French beans soon wilted and
died, but I have never had better results any-
where with tomatoes. The vegetable garden
was watered every fourth day. The tomatoes
were of Ponderosa variety, and I have
picked choice, firm, well-flavored fruit that
weighed 14oz. One turned the scale at
19oz. Delicious water-melons measured
over 2ft. in length, whilst pie-melon
(citron) weighed from 251 b. upwards.
Silver-beet grew profusely, and radish, let-
tuce, carrot and parsnip made remarkable
growth.
Neighboring farmers grew other vege-
tables, and the general verdict was “Use
bore-water to grow all kinds of vegetables
except French beans and cucumbers.”
ORCHARD cuttings.
“Boronia” : Because the disposal of winter
prunings in orchards of 10 acres and over
entails a considerable amount of work,
many growers avoid it by leaving them on
the ground. This is bad practice, for, in
addition to providing lodgment for numer-
ous orchard pests, the cuttings prove an
unmitigated nuisance during the harrowing
and scarifying.
Get some old galvanised-iron, and, with
a few rivets, make an incinerator about
oft. x 4ft. x 3ft. See that the bottom
has plenty of strips cut out of it to cause
a good draught. When completed, mount
on a frame of light bush poles, and the con-
traption is ready for action. Light a fire
in it, hitch old Dobbin up by longer chains
than for ordinary purposes, and have it
pulled through the orchard, picking up
from two rows of trees.
GARDEN MANURES.
“R.M.” : An essential to successful garden
work is the proper treatment of soils. First
note the kind of soil; then the position and
drainage. Sandy soil should be enriched
with cow manure or decomposed vegetable
matter; light loam and medium soils can
do with cow or horse manure, particularly
if the latter contains bedding straw; while
heavy soils are best when treated with
horse manure only.
The position of the ground also has much
to do with its treatment, and on hilly posi-
tions heavy applications of manure which
contains moisture are necessary. In the
drifts or valleys the soil is always richer, and
less attention is needed.
Too much manuring tends to “sickness of
soil.” For this a heavy dusting of lime is
the cure, and it should be spread and the
ground allowed to sweeten for at least a
week before being dug in.
Manure is best applied after a period of
fallowing. Let the soil be purified by being
rough-broken in the colder months, and then
turn it in. On no account allow it to lie
on the top of the soil or the ammonia will
soon evaporate.
HELP FOR COTTON-GROWERS.
“C.V.”: The chief obstacle in the way of
our cotton crop becoming as valuable as our
wool clip is the high cost of picking. A
(Continued on page 25.^


mmmm
mm
i
1
I
j*»
raw
m
«**
«w
< ; /'
m
V
v?>
BSS
w<
I
I
i
SPiirSS
2/25).
i
. -;*• <7
;• ,t\ •• k • •'
S>N
IW
is
am
m
Wi,
tPi
I
i
K
1
;
.-5^
/
Kg
: ■;
yy /y
rs A'
v-s
Y<r
y
m
afpfiiii
m
m i
i built in. ** tenna ad'
exclusive a ° v i ic b as-
lusttnent deV S £ selective-
] ?,res unusual 8
as ££
SqUC f but without Va\
tured.hut Mria \, *
Ba«e«« <* v detail
ComP' eB . *69a 0 - ,
PRICE ' v,t e as Cabinet
Mso ob , V/riting, Des
ot fttt£ prices:' .
Other It* one D>ai
i Seven 3/sd als° at
Six and ,Kent^ecetV e wUbptt t
MvVS i rt.O to £37:t° ; °’ Radio
C2s:t°‘° pquipnrent- Q an d
s3§*2g£??~
CoWP U , 43; VO : 0
m
. • M
:>•
hi
For latest Free Literature on
Atwater Kent Radio write to
A. O. Healing, Ltd., 167-173
Franklin Street, Melbourne.
27 High Street, Adelaide.
208-10 Castlereagli St., Sydney
T’HERE is Romance in the very name of Radio... Romance
surrounds its discovery and development. "Listening in” even
becomes a romantic adventure, providing your set is a One Dial
Atwater Kent.
With this as your passport, you can embark on a thousand and
one nights of entertainment... each a separate voyage of discovery
bearing you safely and surely into the Harbor of Content.
Atwater Kent One Dial Receivers have revolutionised radio. They
are so simple that a child can operate them with success, yet so
selective that all stations are brought in with the greatest speed
and accuracy. So sensitive are they to “tone” that voices and
music are reproduced with uncanny fidelity.
Ask your radio dealer to demonstrate one of these sets. Make
your own comparisons. Nothing will convince you so conclusively
that here at last, is the one set worthy of inclusion in your home.
Inserted, by the Atwater Kent Manufacturing Co., Pennsylvania, US.A.,
on behalf of Australian A.K. Radio Dealers. Australian Wholesale
Distributors: A. G. Healing Ltd. Dealers Everywhere.
ASK. YOUR, RADIO DEALERTOSHOW YOU NEW MODELS BY ATWATER. KENT


~*)eniorJine
r-
V l \
m
i
0
lE r
(TN
o
J
'J
1
1:
ti
Beautiful in every Setting
Park your Senior where
you will; distinguished
environment accentuates
its refinement and style.
On boulevards, at the
threshold of your club,
beneath the opera’s porte
cochere, the beauty of
Dodge Brothers Senior is
a focus for admiring eyes.
Senior engineers have ob-
tained the pleasing effect
of length and lowness
without any recourse to
extremes in design or
sacrifice of comfort.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Dddbe Broth&Rs
MOTOR CARS


m
For Country Service
An Abbey Cossack with
double sole, upper lined
throughout with soft leather
—no canvas and the
tongue attached by flaps
that keep out dust and grass
seeds besides comfortably
padding the boot.
Supplied in black or tan
—the latter at two prices.
Exactly the same high-grade
leather is used for the soles
of all boots, but, in the
higher-priced tan model,
the upper is made of special
calf.
This' Abbey Cossack, for
all its durability, is flexible
and easy to wear from the
start.
ORDER BY POST
And ask for a supply of quick-shining
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin) with the boots.
TAN WILLOW { 46/6 and
l 41/6 Per pr.
BLACK - - - - 39/6 per pr.
Forty-page colored catalogue post
free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
L. 72.
GROCERS.
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,’’ are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
Meet Jack Wieneke!
ĕ
and glad to meet
you too !
in 1880 1 made the I
first Genuine
Wieneke and issued R
a standing challenge I
co ride any outlaw in my own
saddle— l rode many, but was
never thrown. You can ride
anything on 4 legs in a Wieneke.
MY BOOK OP 150 PICTURES IS FREE
TO ALU “BULLETIN” READERS.
Send for your copy TO-DAY.
Waiting to hear from you,
Yours, always working,
JACK WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT 432 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
/r-
-<m v
•&
The Beauty of Youth
Need Not Be Lost
Cuticura Soap daily, with touches
of the Ointment as needed to
soothe and heal any irritations, will
keep the complexion fresh and clear
and the hair healthy. Cuticura Tal-
cum is the ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: '“R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S.W.”
iSlallfr Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
ė
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every clairr
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
Walker-Welford 2007
For Sheep, Cattle & Horse Paddocks
Ojclone
HIQH TENSILE
SPRING COIL FENCE
In addition to our Cyclone "Special” Spring Coil Fences,
the 5-line (26-in.) and 6-line (36-in.) fences are also made
with line wires of 12£ gauge High Tensile Galvanised Wire
of 1140 lbs. breaking strain. High Tensile Wire is thus
approximately as strong as ordinary 10 gauge fencing wire.
Cyclone Pig Fence (8-line, 30-in.) is also made with line
wires of 12.) gauge High Tensile Galvanised Wire
CYCLONE HIGH TENSILE SPRING COIL IS A STRONG,
DURABLE, LIGHT-WEIGHT SHELP AND CATTLE FENCE
fcK
I
\J ill
\}i
W hen
Ordering
Specify
High Tensile *
Fence
f 5-line, 26-in. Fence - - £l9 10 O per Mile
FKiChb j 6-line, 36-in. Fence- - £25 10 O per M.le
3O-in. Pig Fence £39 O O per Mile
Cyclone Fence and Qate Catalogue is free
on request. Write or Call lor a Copy.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
commerce t>ldg., Ash St. (off 350 George Stj, Sydney
189-191 William Street, Me/bonrnc
Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide
writer in an American journal of recent date
makes the prediction that “within five years’
time—probably sooner, but certainly within
five years—cotton throughout the South-West
will be harvested mechanically.” He admits
that no machine is yet efficient, but declares
that several are approaching perfection.
This reads like the old, old story, but it
is significant that it is corroborated by Arno
S. Pearse, General Secretary of the Inter-
national Federation of Master Cotton.
Spinners, Manchester, in a report on a 1927
survey of the American cotton belt. He
says: “The reduction in the cost of produc-
ing cotton is sure to be further increased by
the introduction of the automatic cotton
picker. The advent of this machine is no
more a dream, and it is likely to be a com-
mercial success during the next three years.
In the not distant future the cotton of the
United States will be largely gathered by
machine. ... The machine will pick from two
to five bales per day, which is equivalent to
the work of two men handpicking during
eight or 15 days.” The advent of a success-
ful mechanical picker would revolutionise
the industry for Australia and put us in the
first rank for quantity—a place we have
already attained for the quality of our lint.
PRIZE POINTS CHANGE.
“Nota Bene”: The Research Department
of the Edinburgh University has found that
many prize-winning Clydesdale stallions
have been more inbred than unplaced com-
petitors—which suggests that the more in-
bred a stallion is the more likely lie is to
appeal to some judges. The department finds,
however, that there have been considerable
changes of ideas in regard to the points of
a show horse. A decade or two ago a point
that was considered essential was that the
pasterns of a Clydesdale should not be too
sloping, but should be fairly upright. Nowa-
days the judges require a distinct slope, as
they say it gives springiness to the step in
walking. Then again, too much white was
counted a defect. Four white stockings
and a “blaze” face were all right, but white
above the knees and hocks was all wrong.
We now see horses that have white well up
the stifle, and even on the' body, take first
prizes.
Incidentally, the writer has a silver tea-
pot which was the first prize for a blood
stallion at Geelong show in 1856. It was
won by a horse called Czar, bred and ex-
hib ted by the writer’s grandfather.
SALT FOR POULTRY.
“Agra”: Many poultry farmers are shy
about giving salt to their fowls. Yet all
grain- and herb-eating animals must have the
mineral, and vegetable foodstuffs are exceed-
ingly deficient in it. But coarse salt should
never be used in dry-mash feeding, as the
fowls will search out and eat the grains to
excess and with harmful results. Very fine
salt should be used—lib. to every 1001 b. Mix
the salt thoroughly with about 101 b. pollard;
then rub through a fine sieve. Add this to
the rest of the mash and mix the whole
thoroughly before filling up the hoppers. For
wet mash the salt can be dissolved in the
water, and thus distributed evenly in the
food.
TOE-PICKING IN CHICKS.
“Jack Point”: This complaint is well
known to poultry farmers, and often ends in
rank cannibalism.. The chicks commence
picking at each others’ toes and keep on until
they get the taste of blood, which spurs them
on to such purpose that some weaker ones
are literally eaten alive. Some ascribe it to
lack of salt in the diet, others to crowding;
the most probable explanation is idleness, and
the obvious remedy is to keep the chicks
busy scratching for food. Precautions
should of course be t*aken to prevent crowd-
ing. This does not mean splitting chicks of
the same age into a lot of little broods, but
having each section of the house cosy and
comfortable and uniformly ventilated.
During the first week the chicks should be
taught that the brooder is the place to go
for warmth, and not to huddle together
outside. A good plan is to have chick netting
right round the brooder, with about eight
inches on all sides, for the first couple of
days, and gradually widening it out until at
the end of the week it can be dispensed
with.
The secret in feeding is to give little and
often. Give five or six feeds a day, and then
give only as much mash as the chicks will
readily clean up. On no account leave the
food to go stale. A small amount of chick
feed scattered in the litter will keep them
busy scratching until it is time for the next
teed of mash. The successful chick rearer is
the one who feeds just enough at the right
time, neither too much nor too little.
BUTTER-FAT IN SKIM MILK.
“Paul C.”: Even after paying the greatest
attention to the cleanliness, adjustment and
operation of the separator, dairymen some-
times find that cream is escaping with the
sknn milk. The cause of this is that the
machine is not immovably fixed, or is not
quite level. If the separator bowl wobbles
when the machine is turned, it will not
separate efficiently, and this may mean that
too much milk serum goes out with the
cream. This quickly sours in hot weather,
and so lowers the quality of the cream, while
at the same time a percentage of cream is
escaping with the skim milk. To find out
if the bowl is running smoothly, it is only
necessary to put it on the spindle and watch
it while turning the handle very gradually
till the correct speed had been attained. If it
rocks or vibrates then, assuming the machine
is level and firmly fixed, the bowl spindle may
be worn or bent, or the bowl itself may
be out of balance. If the fault is in the
bowl, the only thing to do is to get a new
one. In disc separators the discs sometimes
get too close together through wear. In this
case, too, new discs are the only remedy.
FUR-FARMING.
E.S.S.”: One of the world’s best fur-pro-
ducing animals is our silver-grey ’possum
which, through lax administration of the lawj
is rapidly disappearing. Most of the American
chinchilla coats are made from the skins of
these ’possums, the chinchilla being a very
rare creature: recently a real chinchilla sold
for 6000 guineas. Other “chinchilla” coats
(mostly ’possum) range from £lOO to £5OO.
These garments could be made up here just
as well as in America, and the fur committee
now investigating the farming prospects
should focus its attention first on ’possum-
farming. As these animals feed principally
in the tree-tops, the same land -would also
carry rabbits and other stock. In intense
farming, where trees are not plentiful and
boxes would be provided for sleeping quar-
ters, a paddock of lucerne and a patch of
peanuts would keep the marsupials fit. With
boxes and judicious selection, the breed could
be considerably improved, just as the merino
sheep has been.
There are also the Tasmanian black (very
rare), the Herbert River species (nearly
black), the striped ’possum of W.A. and the
spotted cuscus of N.Q. A coat made up of
any of these should realise five-hundred
guineas in London.
Then there is the platypus, which could
occupy the lagoons on the farm. At present
its fur is the most expensive in Australia.
The bilby, or rabbit bandicoot, which is now-
very scarce, also produces a fine fur, fawn-
grey in color, long, and beautifully soft and
silky. It would take some years to breed up
a workable stock of these two animals, but
the proposition ought to pay handsomely.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Fred Rich”: If a dog shows signs of
distemper, such as snuffling or sore eyes, put
a daub of Stockholm tar on his nose. He
will lick it off and be in perfect health within
48 hours.
“Claude W.”: A wonderful protection
and restorative for leather is the white of
an egg. Separate the white from the yolk,
and smear over the rough part of the leather.
Allow time to dry; then give another three
or four coats, with, of course, drying time
in between each. It forms a protecting layer,
which prevents further wear, and makes the
leather smooth again.
“Cowwhit”: “Ascot’s” drench for a horse
with colic (B. 18/4/’2B) would be too
severe—a wdiole bottle of raw linseed oil and
three tablespoonfuls of turpentine! After
such a dose the horse would make a very
slow recovery, and even when recovered would
lack his former stamina. We use the remedy,
but give only of raw linseed oil with
one tablespoonful of turpentine.
“Cowwhit” : Before storing ironbark pump-
kins I get a wax candle, light it, and pour
the melted wax over the pumpkin stem,
thus excluding all air. Sealing up the stem
ensures that the pumpkin will keep at least
two months longer than if left untouched.
“Singer”: Don’t believe anyone who tells
you that a fistula of the wither can be cured
by blistering. A travelling vet. tackled the
job and got no results —except a fee. Later
I commissioned a vet. surgeon to do the
job. With the aid of chloroform he got to
it with the knife, and followed out every pus
burrow to the end. The operation cost me
£6 6s. It was a hideous wound, but a
daily wash in a weak solution of lysol
worked wonders, and it is difficult now to
find the scar.
“Bud-G.”: I’ve seen big upstanding
draught-horses brought to the coastal areas
from the dry West, and in less than no
time they have become mere rakes, simply
because they were worked incessantly on
feed foreign to their usual natural grasses.
To get one’s money worth out of a West-
ern horse it is advisable to let it do no work
at all until it has become accustomed to its
new feed and surroundings, and when once
put into work it will amply repay the time
lost whilst spelling.
“Boronia”: The Ten Commandments
compiled by “H.J.” (B. 11/4/’2B) for the
benefit of fruit-tree planters contain much
sound advice; but I disagree with the third,
which forbids the putting of manure into the
holes at planting time. Good, fine bone-
dust, well mixed with the earth, provides
an easily accessible fertiliser, and ensures
that the tree gets that quick start which
is so essential.
“Silentio”: When green timber is used for
a strainer or gate »ost, cover the top with a
piece of galvanised-iron. The post generally
splits from the sun and allows the water to
run in, and decay soon sets in. Or paint
the top with hot tar and c-'at it with sand.
But the tin lasts longer.
“Biro”: If your farm is “dirty” or in-
fested with take-all, loose smut, or any
other spore-disease that copper carbonate
can’t affect because the germs live in the soil,
the best thing to do is to give up wheat-
growing for a year or two and go in for wool
growing. When you have trucked away your
fat lambs and pocketed your wool-cheque you
will find your land clean again and yourself
well rested. A crop of oats will have the
same cleansing effect on the land; but it may
not pay you and will certainly not enrich
the soil as sheep will.
“J.A.”: Many citrus growers are not
happy unless they have a plough in their
hands, the idea being, as a Cumberland
(N.S.W.) grower told me recently, “to force
the roots down deeper.” But oranges and
mandarins are purely surface feeders and
cannot be forced down. Constant ploughing
accounts for the unproductive yields of many
otherwise carefully handled orchards be-
cause humus, so necessary to tree life, is
destroyed by too frequent ploughing. Plough
to a depth of about seven inches once a
year, and never more than twice, no matter
what the weather. Let the spring-tooth cul-
tivator do the rest.
“Bosso”: To avoid bruising the limb to
be shortened, the blade of the secateurs—
not the hook—-should be held nearest to the
tree. In this way a clean cut is left on the
pruned limb, and the portion bruised by the
hook falls to the ground.
“Pick": When Bibbenluke, on the N. S.
Wales southern tableland, was subdivided,
the wool, instead of deteriorating, improved.
The settlers hold from 500 to 700 acres of
grazing land and run up to 800 sheep. They
don’t attempt to breed or even buy rams.
Their wants are catered for by a settler who
makes a specialty of providing the best studs
on hire. His grades are always high, and
a notable improvement in all the settlement
flocks is the outcome.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d,
CIGARETTES
20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAV ANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packin
ę
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Mothers’ meet is father’s poison.
The first blast of winter: “Blast the
cold!”
* *
In the matter of dress the modern woman
seems to be at heart a Nihilist.
* *
Even lovers have their quai we
mean, their rehearsals.
As the girls have it : Eat, drink and be
merry—and to-morrow you shall diet.
A friend in need is usually just the very
person we are not looking for.
Melbourne Herald heading: “Hug Mails.”
Obviously a misprint. The correct spelling
is “males.”
* *
’Tis a world of contradictions;
All things seem out of joint —
The dullest people bore us;
Blunt ones come to the point.
#
Health may still be wealth, but we notice
our healthy representatives to the Olympic
Games had to travel second-class.
SAD, SAD, SAD!
“Here’sh me like thish and tli’ poor lil
wife’sh home in bed shick.”
“Tha’sh bad. Wife shick; husband shicker.”
One manuscript received for the Bulletin
novel competition feels so exceedingly heavy
that a grave fear has spread among the
judges that someone, by mistake, has sub-
mitted a treasured S. M. Herald leader.
We are informed that it was not in honor
of the execution of a couple of Italians in
America that Mr. W. M. Hughes recently,
munched a stick of chewing-gum in the
Federal House.
The fact that the police recently raided a
place in Melbourne from which false notes
were being issued raises the hope that similar
raids may be carried out on all other places
suspected of harboring broadcasting stations.
The exhibition in Sydney of Segraves
207-miles-an-hour car lias., we understand,
put fresh hope into the two motorists who
haven’t yet run anybody down.
A man was recently fined £lO and costs
for taking off his bathing costume, under
his batligown, on a Sydney beach. Quite
right, too. We should hate to find our suif
girls being influenced by such old-fashioned
modesty.
According to a prospector back from the
Bulolo goldfield, most of the natives m those
parts are honest, generous and industrious.
It is feared, however, that civilisation must
eventually overtake them.
“Bill Bowyang”: A Brisbane paper states
that there will be no wood for burning in our
stoves a million years hence. My back yaid
can beat that hollow —there’s none m it now.
According to the Sydney Sun, there is a
town on the Spanish frontier that has neither
newspaper, cinema, theatre, railway, post
office or income tax. And, Of course, no
lunatic asylum.
SOMETHIN"4 LIKE.
He called for cheese. They brought it, mild,
To have it turned away;
And some they showed him,, ripe and wild-
Hc scoffed,'to their dismay.
And then they tried their worst, a fight-
ing smell it seemed. Alack!
“No use,” he scoffed. “I like to bite
A cheese that bites you back!”
QUEENSLAND. MACESS.
Newspaper heading: “Sydney girl meets
bushranger in Sussex.” This seems to sup-
port the idea of Mr. Randolph Bedford that
England is an unexplored and barbarous
country.
* *
“What,” asks a newspaper, “is the gauge
of the Tasmanian railways?” We don t
know, but after looking at the map guess
three and a half inches.
A Canberra resident recently complained
to the police that 39 devils were following
him about, with the object of operating on
him. Evidently a late Sydney resident
suffering the hallucination that he was still
in Macquarie-street.
“After whom,” asks a newspaper, “were
the Sandwich Islands named?” Unless
our history and geography are defective
we believe we are right in answering that
they were named after some
little-kno'WK seafaring man, who
was once killed and eaten there.
“P says a writer in the
Sydney News, “will clean any-
thing from a motor-car to a
toilet mirror. You can even
use it as a shampoo. _ It is
wonderful for paint, windows
and linoleums. After this atten-
tion to your appearance you can
give undivided attention to your
breakfast.” P»ut on no account
blame P if you get a pain
in your linoleum.
# *
“Golf.” reports the Sydney
Guardian, “has .been adjudged
as beneficial to the insane.” We
cannot accept that. We know
a good many golfers, but have
yet to meet anyone who has
recovered sufficiently to give
the game up.
* *
According to statisticians, Australia at the
close of 1927 had 3,045,031 broadcasting-
stations. The statistician called them
“females.”
Each day the papers tell us that another
ship is laid
Aside, because the cook refuses flatly to be
swayed
lly any regulations but the rules he likes to
make —
He brings the trade of hemispheres to whim-
per at the steak.
The captains and the kings remain—for how
can they depart?
The power of man is stultified ; his engines
o Cl'TtHo~t StO.V't
Until the little stodgy cook his pinny has un-
furled —
Thus proving ’tis the hand that rules the
ladle rocks the world.
* *
In a recent flood the water was knee deep
in Brisbane suburban streets. In some
extreme instances it nearly reached the hem
of the ladies’ dresses.
According to the S. M. Herald, there is
plenty of proof that a policeman’s weaknesses
will find Him out. This rather contradicts
the traditional belief that they will find lnm
in—tlie kitchen.
le •!* *
THE LURE OF GOLD.
In spite of himself Phil Fearless felt his
Heart Sink, as the rope was Drorn over his
Head and the Noose Curded his Neck.
“Now say your prayers, Phil Fearless,
gold thief, for this Hour is your Last!” said
the Slierif with a Sneer in liis Voice.
“I stole no Gold, Dan Dirttin,” Our Hero
retorted scornfully. “No Body Knows that
better than You!”
An angry Skowl Swept the Sinister face
of the Slierif and he would have Struck
IN THE SOUP AGAIN.
“Hurt your thumb, waiter?”
“No, Miss, why?”
“Just wondered. You seem to be bathing
it a lot.”
our Helpless Hero had not two of the Rouft
Miners Interposed. Then he tried to start
the horse on which Our Hero sat, but Again
they Stopt Him.
“No!” they cried, even if he is a Gold
Thief, give him Five Minutes for his
Prayers.” „ ,
Phil was glad of the Respite, for at that
Moment he saw in the Distans a cloud of
Dust which he knew ivas Derrick Deadshott
dashing to the Seen on his Noble Steed. If
Deadshott could arrive in Time his Inno-
scents would be proved !
But Deadshott was still miles away, only
seen because he was on the Cressed of a
High Hill. Phil felt that the Rouff Miners
symperthised with him; but they Hated a
Gold Thief.
Gold had been Stedily Disappenng, and
the Miners were Angry about it. So when
the Sherif sudenly seezed Phil Fearless,
Bound Him, and plunging his Hand in his
Pocket produced a lot of Nuggets they be-
lieved he Should Die, although he was a
Popular Favorite.
The Gold, the Sherif said, Had been
Marked for Identerfiekation. It had that
green Color which you can Sometimes see
on a Gold Watch or other gold jewellry when
it is Taken to a Jeweller’s and he Puts the
Acid on it.
Phil knew he was No Thief, but in face of
the Inkriminating evidence lie was Helpless,
Not a trommer shook his face, but he
Groned in Spirit as, with his Eye on the Dis-
tant Rider, he saw his Horse Falter and
tumble Head over Heels down a steep hill-
So this was the End. Left Penniless as a
Lad when his Father dyed through the Bank
Smash, lie had come to the Goldfields hoping
to make a Fortune, buy back his Ansestral
Home in Sydney and Restore his Mother and
Sister to Prosperity.
But wait! Seemingly unhurt, the horse
has risen to its feet, and the rider has re-
mounted and is spurring forward! The fall
down the hill had saved a long De Tour
by the Road. .
Even as a gleam of Hope Shone in Our
Hero’s Eye the Sherif saw it. Follering
Our Hero’s glans, he, too, saw the Horseman.
“Time is Up !” he cried suddenly. “I am
Sherif and there can be no more Delay.
Before Any could prevent him he struck
the Horse, which sprang away. Dragged
from his seat as it went from under him by
the titening Rope, Our Hero was left swing-
ing in the Air. . TT
But during the time left to him Our Hero
had Not Been Idol. By softly working his
Neck, he had induced the Noose to twist
Round until the Rope Hung in front of his
Face. Drectly he felt the Horse move from
under him he had Seezed the rope between
his Teeth, and hung on Despritly, preventing
the Noose from fastening on his Neck.
Still it was a Terrible Predikament. He
could not hang on thus for Long.
Suddenly a Shot Rang Out, and with a
Leaping Heart Phil rekormsed the voice ot
his friend Derrick Deadshott s rifle. At the
Same Moment he felt himself Hurtling to
the Ground. , , , A
In a moment he knew what had happened.
Seeing his Predikament Derrick Deadshott
had fired, Completely Severing the Rope.
Deadshott was racing at Breakneck speed
to the Scene, with a Telescope Glued to one
Eye, whilst he aimed his Rifle with the other.
With Unerring Aim he Severed the Ropes
binding Our Hero with two lucky shots that
did not even Grase his Flesh.
Two more shots Ripped across the stout
paunch of the Astonished Sherif. Fro™ the
torn clothes Poured out, Not Blood, but
Nuggets and Gold Dust.
The Sherif had always appeared Fat, but
it was at once Plain that his Stoutness wa,
only Asummed to provide a Safe Hidin ß -place
for the stolen Mg , Angel . tlle
miners seezed him. ,
“So you are the Thief and
would have hung Another
Man!” cried one of them.
“Sherif or no Sherif, it is you
Who will hang.”
No sooner said than done.
In another instant the Wicket
Retch was dangling, helpless
from the tree.
Our Hero, who now Realised
that the Sherif must have Him-
self put the Marked Hold into
his pocket to get him out of the
way, turned to meet his Friend
and Deliverer. m T
“I am glad I came Too Late
to save yon Cur,” he said, “for
I am the Sherif now, and I
would have had to Stop the
Hanging. . I came here in Pur-
suit of a Villin who had Rooined
me; and when I found that he
was Posing as the Sherif whilst
he Stole the gold* of you Miners”—for they
had now Gathered Round —“I took iny Inter
masliion in to the Police, leaving Phil tear-
less here to watch. They made me Sherit,
and are sending troopers out; but I Outdis-
tanst them. It seems that M hat I Feared
was True; Guessing he was Watched, the
Sherif tried to Compass the Death of this
Brave Youth.”
With three harty Cheers the Miners thrust
the Gold which had fallen from the Sherif’s
false Stomach on Our Hero, saying he must
take it as a Reward. .
“He is a Brave Chap !” they cried.
“He is my Son!” announced Derrick Dead-
shott Prowdly. t ,
Our Hero gazed in amazement, Suddenly-
Knowing why Deadshott had seemed Fami-
lifl“Yes Phil,” said the old man tenderly,
“when I knew I was Rooined I pretended to
ABOUT THE ONLY THING THEY’VE
LEFT HIM.
Railway Official ( brusquely ): “Not
allowed to smoke!”
Surprised Invalid: “Oh yes, I am; the
doctor says I can have two cigars o
day !”
Die of an Infeckshious desease so that no
One would see My Corpse. Then, disguised
by growing this Beard, I came here in Search
of Revenge. It was that man who forged
the Cheque which led to the Bank Smash
and my Rooin.”
Our Hero looked at the Body swaying
from the tree. Undoubtedly the Villin had
Met his Desert.
Hamer, Junior.
COR OMENING LA IJ GIT TER.
“He laugheth best who laugheih last.
No comic playwright set that test.
His motto’s nailed up to his mast:
"Who laugheth loudest laugheth best.
Yet he who much esteems his art
Relies upon a sounder staff.
Another serves a better part:
“He laughs best who knoivs when to
laugh.’’
S.A.
BILL O’C.


\ih
%
a
1
V \V
Take the bottle in one hand.
NO CORKSCREW
REQUIRED!
Our new screw-cap
and tear-off capsule
A White Horse
bottle may now
be opened in an
instant with the
new aluminium
screw cap and
tear-off capsule.
[Tear off the capsule by pulling this tape
upwards with the other*
We could not
add to the
perfection of
“ White Horse,”
so we improved
the seal.
WHIT
" Scotch
Horse
whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS, LTD.,
Glasgow.
See how easily the cap unscrews and
screws on again. Notice the cork lining
to make the cap airtight and the milled
edge to assist unscrewing.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department. ,
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from tne
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time. ;
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Scot (24) educated, working knowledge of
cars and liorses, wants position N.T. or
Islands.—4ssl.
Boy (16), tall, good appearance, courteous
and obedient, wants apprenticeship in Sydney
as linotype .operator, compositor or other
‘‘clean” trade. —4531.
Young man (24) ex-public school; 3 years
.iaekeroo West Q’land, thorough knowledge
cars, wants job in N.5.W.—4535.
Englishman, ex-officer, requires post on
N.S.W. station as tutor, book-keeper, dtc.,
can teach piano.—4532.
Englishman, (40) ex-officer, well-educated,
lit, 20 years’ experience in East, can keep
books, wants position, preferably in Islands.
(Jood refs.—4s42.
Englishman (60), 18 years in Australia,
seeks good home with English people any-
wiiere in return for light duties. — (To
('has. Twining, c/o P.O. Box 57, Murwil-
lumbah N.S.W.)
Married couple, man (ex-service) com-
petent with horses, wife good cook, want
work in N.S.W.; refs.—4sls.
Englishwoman (31), capable cook and
housewife, requires position as housekeeper
to business couple (N.S.W.) ; good refs. —
4504.
By young.man, position as cadet-journalist,
city or country (N.S.W.). (To H. Quinlan,
71 Cook-road, Centennial Park, Sydney.)
Position in New Guinea or Solomons as
plantation overseer or master of schooner;
16 years’ experience with natives; master’s
ticket. —4558.
Retired accountant, Sydney, seeks occupa-
tion keeping books, few hours daily.—4s63.
Services of strong, active, reliable young
woman, used to farm life, to assist dairy
and market garden. Atherton Tableland,
N. Queensland. State wages required.—44 Bl.
Information concerning Henry Alexander
Head, aged about 70, one-time resident of
M.L. Last seen in Sydney about 1911, when
he was departing for N. Queensland. —4490.
A brief description of the routine of a
cattle-droving trip ; to be used as the basis
of an article on “Cattle Droving” for an
English school magazine.—4548.
To buy, “Adventures of Louis de Eouge-
mont,” new or second hand. (To “D. 1.,”
P.O. Box 185, Launceston, Tas.)
To sell, Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony,
on eight double-sided, H.M.V., black-label
12-in. records, w r ith album; 255. plus
freight.—4ss9.
Words of verse, beginning “Not till the
loom is silent,” name of book in which it
appears, and of any others by same author.
—4303.
To sell, Indian twin-cyl. motor-cycle and
side car, new tyres, needs slight repairs;
£l4 or offer. —-4503.
Author’s MSS. to type, by experienced
typist; Is. 9d. per 1000 words.—4s3o.
To sell, English piano, as new, cost
£100; inspection. (To Mrs. T. Lister, 8
Bussell-avenuc, Lindfield, N.S.W.)
To sell, subdivision (8 allotments, 66ft.
x 165 ft), Carrington. Port Stephens
(N.S.W.) ; £2OO cash.—4slB.
Whereabouts of Leslie D. Gillan; last
heard of at Stanthorpe (Q’land), fruit-
growing with partner named Bedford. —
4519.
To sell, two allotments, Pindimar, Port
Stephens (N.S.W.), close beach and wharf;
£3O; or would exchange for good collection
stamps of Australian States. —4517.
To buy, in Sydney, collie pup, good strain.
To sell, baby grand Hagspiel Rusclipler
piano, cost £350; £l5O. (To 11. Rusclipler,
P. 0., Wagga.)
To sell, furnished guest house, Wagga.
£425. (Mrs. Guest, P. 0., Wagga.)
To sell, collection of curios and weapons
from Solomon, Marshall and Gilbert
Islands. Inspection invited, or list sent. —
4495.
Owner of 1280 acres mixed farming, sheep
and cattle property, 15 miles from Glen
Innes, N.S.W., wants partner to stock pro-
perty on shares. —4482.
Words of song “Shanties by the Way,”
commencing “Rows of bottles standing up-
right.” (To C. A. Hickman, Wonnagatta
Station, Talbotville, Vie.)
English and French words of song version
of “Le Gygne,” by Saint-Saens. (To Miss J.
Neill, P.O. Box 33. Auckland.)
Information Sought.
In a horse race eight out of ten starters
break au ay and run the whole distance, the
event being declared no race. Can you tell
me: (1) Are the horses still in the starter's
hands? (2) How long a spell are the raced
horses entitled, to (a) under A.J.C. rules;
(b) under A.R.C. {pony) rules? —4376.
(1) Yes, under A..T.C. rules. Under
A.R.C. rules the stewards decide. (2) There
is no rule, but 20 minutes is usually al-
lowed by the A.R.C.
Can you give me a recipe for Worcester-
shire sauce? —4442.
Take -} pint treacle, 1 quart vinegar, I
pint mushroom ketchup, 4oz. cayenne pepper,
1 small lemon finely sliced, -Joz. each of salt,
garlic, bruised cloves and ground ginger.
Mix in a china basin, stir with wooden spoon
3 or 4 times a day for 5 days; strain twice,
then bottle and cork tightly.
How can I remove oil and mildew stains
from leather ? —4381-
Rub well with a solution of 2 heaped
tablespoons of oxalic acid (poisonous) to
% pint water. Repeat till clean; then polish
in usual manner.
What is the best method of eradicating
Cape tulip? —42o6.
Small patches should be dug up Defore
seeding and the bulbs collected and burnt.
Land much infested can be successfully
cleaned by continual cultivation for two or
three years. Thick smothering crops should
be sown, in preparation for which the land
should be cultivated as much as possible in
order to disturb and expose the bulbs. After
a crop is harvested the land should not be
left long uncultivated.
I have stores of bran, pollard and grain,
used for fowl food, which have become in-
fested with weevils. (1) How can I rid the
food of the pest ? (2) How can I avoid
future infestation? —4061.
(1) Fumigate with liquid carbon bisul-
phide, which will not injure the food. If the
bins are airtight 4 to 51b. of bisulphide to
every 1000 cub. ft. will suffice ; if they are not,
four times the quantity. Be careful, as the
bisulphide is highly inflammable. (2) See that
the food is kept thoroughly dry; clean the
store-room of all old food, and dust a mixture
of 1 part naphthaline and 20 parts slaked
lime over the floor and well into all corners
and cracks.
How can I (1) stain a hardwood floor?
(2) Brighten up and polish.a bedroom suite?
—4422.
(1) Use a solution of crystals of perman-
ganate of potash in warm water. The
strength of the solution should be adjusted to
the depth of color desired. Apply with brush
or rag. (2) Clean the surfaces with a
mixture of equal parts of raw linseed oil,
turpentine, vinegar and methylated spirits.
Finish off with any good polish having a bees-
wax basis.
Is an employer liable under the N.B.W.
Workers' Compensation Act for injuries
received by a gardener or a female help out-
side working hours? —4sso.
Not unless the injury was sustained dur-
ing the journey to or from work.
How can I burn my name on steel tools
with acid? —4537.
Cover the steel with a thin film of melted
soap or beeswax, trace your name in the
film with a needle, apply a little nitric acid
and let it stay on for five minutes. Then
wipe off the film and the acid.
How can tortoise-shell be polished? —4s47.
Grind the roughness from the outside on a
grindstone, or if too small for this, grind
down with a file till all coarseness has disap-
peared. Then rub, first, with coarse sand-
paper and then with fine, until perfectly
smooth. Dilute spirits of salts slightly with
water and, with a pad or cloth damped with
the mixture, rub the shell until a high
polish is attained; then, with a clean, dry
cloth, rub until every trace of the spirits
has been removed.
How can I kill couch grass on a tennis-
court? Arsenic cannot be used. —4426.
Apply a concentrated solution of hot brine.
Several treatments will probably be neces-
sary.
How should turkey-chickens be fed? —
—4498.
No food for first 36 hours. Then, for two
days, rolled oats or coarse oatmeal. There-
after, a mixture of one part bran and two
parts pollard over which heated milk is
poured to make a mash. To the milk add
salt, 4oz. to the bushel of mash before heat-
ing. Supplement with finely-crushed wheat
or maize for evening feed. If possible diet
should include also finely-chaffed lucerne,
barley, rape, or other succulent green feed.
Carry on with this for five or six weeks,
when an adult diet, principally of grain, may
be introduced.
(1) How can I make all the geranium
buds on one stem bloom together? (2)
How arc large blooms produced? (3) How
can 1 make a plant flower which is over
eight months old and well grown? —443o.
(2) and (3) To get the best results
choose a spot sheltered from cold winds and
open to the morning sun. The best soil
is a sweet sandy loam into which well-
decomposed cow manure has been deeply
worked. (1) Irregular flowering is caused
by too rich a soil. Don’t apply any more
fertiliser till the buds appear, after which
a weekly application of liquid nitrate of
soda will be beneficial.
(1) In what parts of Victoria are rabbits
most plentiful? (2) What is the best way
to stretch rabbit skins? —4454.
(I) In the far western parts, such as
Drik Drik and Dartmoor, and in the
far east, from Orbost to Omeo. (2) Take
30in. of eight-gauge fencing wire and bend
it into U shape until the points are about
five inches apart. The wire should then be
inserted in such a way that one prong will be
down the belly and the other down the back.
Tie back legs together; this prevents fat
from other skins coming into contact with
the fur.
How can I destroy star thistle and pre-
vent it spreading to grass lands? —443s.
Chip it off level with the ground when
the plants are in first bloom. If they re-
cover and put forth new buds, cut them
down again.
(1) Is pig fanning profitable? (2) How
much pollard would it take to feed 30 sows
and a boar for a week, and cost of same?
(3) What food is cheapest? (4) What
are one-month suckers worth? (5) Arc
pigs subject to disease? (6) Is swine-
/ever fatal? (7) What are the Health
Department’s requirements as to sties, etc.?
(8) Are piggeries allowed in the County of
Cum her land ? —4361.
(1) Yes, under proper conditions, where
cheap feed is available or able to be grown.
(2) Pollard is generally used only to supple-
ment other foods. With other foods use
lib. to 21b. pollard to each full-grown pig
per day. Boar not to be kept fat, but in
working condition. (3) Hotel refuse may be
obtainable and used with feed grown.
10s. to £3 each, according to quality. (5) Yes,
if not kept clean and healthy. (6) Yes,
but preventive measures can be taken.
(7) The requirements ar-e not prohibitive
to a beginner. (8) Yes. Leaflet, amplifying
above, posted.
(1) Where will the Kirribilli railway
station he built? (2) Will it be an important,
station? (3) Will Dind’s Hotel remain?
(4) When the new overhead roadway lead-
ing from the bridge on to the north side is
completed it will leave a lot of spare ground
on each side of the new roadway. Will that
be made into a park or gardens? —-4447.
(1) On the northern side of Burton-
street. (2) It will serve the Milson’s
Point and Kirribilli portions of North Syd-
ney, and will be a busy station. (3) and
(4) No decision has been reached.
How can I brighten up discolored broom-
millet?— 4337.
Damp the millet, place loosely in a
closed room or large box, and subject it to
strong sulphur fumes until it is bright. It
should then be dried. Burn the sulphur
in an old iron or earthenware vessel.
How can I prevent oats going mouldy
when being sprouted in a cabinet for poultry
food? Would a weak solution of formalin
render the oats unfit for consumption? —
4072.
Formalin should be effective if used at the
rate of lib. to 40 or 50 gallons of water.
Soak the oats for about five minutes prior
to placing in the sprouting-box. Frequent
waterings afterwards ought to remove any
injurious taint.
How can I put on weight? —4393.
You might try eating food rich in carbo-
hydrates and fats—bread, potatoes, butter,
cream and oils. Unless you are ill and run
down don’t try to put on weight. It will
probably be useless fat instead of healthy
muscle.
Information Supplied.
4106. —One of the best districts in N. S.
Wales for waterfowl is the Murrumbidgee
below Carrathool, and the best time early
summer, when fledglings may be captured
in hundreds. To snare the grown birds select
a feeding ground near to reeds or bushes. On
loosely-driven stakes fasten a length of stout
fishing n-et. From the ends extend ropes
to the places of concealment. Sprinkle grain
alongside the net and allow the birds to
become accustomed to feeding there. Then,
when a mob is jostling for the grain, pull
the net over them. —“Pick.”
4375. —If rabbit skins are hung along the
rafters of a shed with room for plenty of air
to pass between them, they will be little
troubled by attacks from weevils. When
closely packed they should be lightly painted
with an arsenic solution, obtainable from
any skin-buying firm. —“W.R.”
4374. —To preserve lemon juice, squeeze
it into an enamelled vessel, and let stand
for 24 hours. Pour off the clear juice, and
reduce by' heat to one-third its volume,
placing the vessel containing the juice in
a larger one containing water. Bottle when
cool, filling to within one inch of cork,
which must be tied down. Place bottles in
flat-bottomed copper or pot, fill with water
to within one inch of top of bottles and
heat over fire to 170 deg. Fahr., keeping at
that heat for 25 minutes. Then lay the
bottles on their sides until cool. Store in a
cool dark room. —“Science.”
4246. —To remove grease marks from
clothing (1) Wash in hot suds. Alston’s
(Rozellc, Sydney) make an excellent soap
for the purpose, “Snowfoam.” (2) Rub
with benzine. (3) Rub with eucalyptus
extract. (4) Cover with blotting paper or
coarse brown paper and apply a very hot
iron.—-“X.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to exterminate land crabs from
porous coral ground on reclaimed foreshore?
Cyanogas, disinfectants and digging out have
proved unsuccessful.—4472.
(1) Is there any w T ay to locate water in
the bush? (2) Is there any way of ascer-
taining whether it is poisonous or not?
—4539.
Brief Answers.
T.L.: (1) “Golden shadows” in Spanish
is “sombras de oro.” (2 and 3) Awaiting- replies....
M B.: See reply to 4374 E.G.J.: (1) You
would ■ be safe in the hands of any sur-
gical specialist on the honorary staff of
the biggest hospital in your city. (2) Usually two
guineas for a first consultation... .A. 8.: Probably a
combination of lung and stomach worms. Leaflet
on treatment posted... .H. 8.: City Mission, 229
Castlereagh-street; Salvation Army, 140 Elizabeth-
street; Benevolent Society of N.S.W., Thomas St.;
St. Vincent de Paul Society, 3 Spring-street—all of
Sydney.... R.C.: Sydney Weaving Co., 90 Pitt-
street... .A.W.: Write to the Prothonotary, Law
Courts, Melbourne.... Parau: No. The squad did
not fully do its work and the officer completed it,
his duty in such cases... .E.G.K.: The reply given
was correct. See the N.S.W. Local Government Act
1919. The Crown Lands Consolidation Act 1913
empowers the Governor to reserve portions of Crown
lands as sites for cities. The only proclamation yet
issued was one on March 20, 1885, by which the
cities of Goulbum and Grafton were established.
Lismore has not been proclaimed a city.... J.J.0.N.:
Get in touch with Lamson Store Service Co., Ltd.,
Daking House, Rawson-place, or Guyatt and Co.,
257 a George-street —both of Sydney J.K.W.: (1)
Dame Melba was born at Melbourne, May 19, 1865.
(2) Haven’t found out yet; will let you know
when we do. (3) Joseph Tapley was Violet Varley’s
husband. The mistake—not “Hamfat’s” but an
error that crept in in re-dressing the par.—was
corrected in a subsequent par. Mrs. Courtice Pounds
arrived from England in the beginning of 1896 to
join her husband and the Royal Comics. .. .G.C..
Try “Makeshifts, or Home-made Furniture from Kero-
sene Cases,” obtainable from the New » e eis
League, 6a Blizabeth-street, Melbourne (15.)....
J.R.T.: Watts Bros., 243 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
will have laboratory tests made and tannery opinions
taken if you send a sample of the bark, and will advise
vou of the result... .H.M.G.: “Tea tacts and is
ures,” published by F. C. Matheson and Son, 10
Copthall-avenue, London, E.C.2, and the Tea and
Coffee Tiiade Journal, 79 Wall-street, New
York. Don’t know of any Ceylon publica-
tion, but Tea Traders’ Association, Colombo,
might be able to advise y0u.... J.D.W.: Cap
find no record that Lily Elsie succeeded
anybody else in the cast of “The Merry
Widow.” Stage works of reference say that she
appeared as Sonia on the opening night of the
comedy at Daly’s, London, on June 8, 1907....
H.C.S.: (1) Directors of Allied Newspapers are Sir
W. E. Berry, J. Gomer Berry, Sir E. M. Iliffe, J.
P. Jeremiah, Alex. Paterson, Leonard Rees, William
Will, R. J. Barrett and J. M. Allison. The company
owns all the shares of Allied Northern Newspapers
and has an indirect controlling interest in Associated
Scottish Newspapers, Ltd., J. M. Smith, Ltd., and
Newcastle Newspapers. (2) Can’t understand the ques-
tion... Central: Five grains twice a day is usual, but
you ought not to take the extract without medical
supervision, as special dieting is essential to avoid unde-
sirable effects... .S.J.C.: Fawn’s “Tin Deposits of
the World,” published by the Mining Journal,
15 George-street, Mansion House, London, E.C.4,
about 15s. Unprocurable in Sydney, but could be
ordered through any bookseller ... .J.A.W.: Society
of Australian Authors, 22 Rubens-grove, Canterbury,
Vic Townsville Inquirer: Send your name and
address to Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra, which
will advise you when the Federal housing scheme
becomes operative in Queensland... .W.R.H.:
Cooper’s Weedicide, 4s. 6d. per quart tin, will
destroy a rose-tree... .H.8.M.: (1) Shellac polish
or white lead and oil. (2) Fish glue or cooper’s glue
heated by placing container in hot water. If used
on plaster cast it is put on thin and hot. Apply
one or two coats of French polish (white shellac)
for clearness, or white lead ground in oil and
thinned with turps. Apply to Cleveland Parker, 20
Young-street, Sydney, for further information
R. J.T.: Sydney booksellers are unable to determine
their value, nor are they listed in any of the book
sale catalogues. Maggs Bros., 34 Conduit-street, off
New Bond-street, London, W.l, may be able to help
you S.C.M.: (1) The work in the original
French sold a year or two ago at £l, at auction.
Cannot trace the sale of a translation. Might be
worth from ss. to 7s. 6d. (2) “Australia Illus-
trated,” unless in exceptionally good condition, is
worth not more than 6s. to Bs. (3) Martin’s “Brit-
ish Colonies,” in 5 vols., is quoted at £1 ss. in a
London catalogue. Cannot trace a 7-vol. edition.
. ...T.J.W.: “The Airedale Terrier,” by Holland
Buckley, 6s. 6d., and “All About Airedales,” by
Palmer, 65., stocked by Walther and Stevenson,
Ltd., 395 George-street, Sydney... .J.0.G.: Remove
the affected animal to a cool shelter and apply
cold water to its head... .T.L.: (1) The Maure-
tania could not possibly have covered the journey
from Southampton to Capetown in a “little over
seven days.” To do so she would have to average
over 351 knots. She holds the trans-Atlantic
record, on which run her fastest time for
24 hours was at the rate of 27 knots.
(2) Her record for the east passage from New
York to Queenstown is 4 days 13 hours 41 minutes;
westwards, 4 days 10 hours 41 minutes. She has
covered the run from New York to Plymouth in
4 days 21 hours 51 minutes W.L.: Unbound
sets of the “Picturesque Atlas of Australia” are
worth 7s. 6d. to 10s., and bound sets (all three
volumes) about 30s! in Australia and 425. in Lon-
don, the difference representing a sum well under
the cost of shipment... .E.M.: (1) All three good,
bank the strongest, brewery next. (2) If you want
to reduce risk to a minimum, another Common-
wealth loan. After that, one of the banks....
C. : Leave it alone. Not even a decent gamble.
... .F.M.J.: The phrase “On the Wallaby” is usually
applied when a man in search of a job takes a wan-
dering course. Suggestive of the rambling track
of the wallaby in the bush... .H.M.G.: Tool and
Engineering Co., Circular Quay West, Sydney
D. : (1) Not possible from this end. (2) Write
to the Secretary, Services and General Dept., India
Office, Whitehall, London, S.W.I. (3) All candi-
dates for the Indian police service must be un-
married and above 19 and under 21 at the time of
the competitive exam. ; riding and medical tests
held in London about the middle of each year.
(3) The minimum height is sft. 4in. (4) Further
information will be found in the “India Office List,”
to be seen at most public libraries... .W.N.0.: (1)
The question of a municipality’s liability in the event
of drainage flowing from a road on to private land
is one of common law. Action could probably be
successfully taken by the owner. (2) Rates levied
for a particular purpose should be used for that
purpose. Advise you to write to the council....
H.T.: (1) The population of Punta Arenas (Chile)
is 27,000. There are many English residents. Chief
British social institutions are the British Club, other-
wise known as the British Association of Magellanes,
the Overseas Club, and the British Legion. (2) The
South Pacific Mail, published at Valparaiso, is
printed in English. (3) Subscription could be sept
by bank draft or international money order. (4)
The correspondent of the British Chamber of Com-
merce at Punta Arenas or any of the following wool
exporters in that city may be able to help: Bridges
and Reynolds, Hamilton and Saunders, Stanley Wood
and Alexander Morrison.. ..J.D.: Under Victorian
law the keeping of rabbits in captivity without the
permission of the Governor in Council is prohibited.
. ...A.D.P.: Dickens Fellowship (sec. Mrs. W. E.
Benbow) ; Women’s Club, Albert House, Albert-
street; Shakspeare Society (sec. G. A. Whatmore),
Wattle Cafe, Adelaide-street; Lyceum Club (pres.
Mrs. Firmin McKinnon), Rothwell Chambers, Edward-
street; Queensland Authors and Artists’ Associa-
tion (sec. E. Colclough, Box 678) ; Repertory Theatre
Society (sec. Miss Sylvester) ; Hall of the Muses,
393 George-street; Royal Queensland Art Society (sec.
Miss Sheldon, Sefton-road, Clay field), Harris Court,
George-street, all in Brisbane... .W.G.8.: (1) Not
to our knowledge. (2) Nangle’s “Australian Building
Practice” and Riley’s “Carpentry and Joinery,”
Dymock’S, Sydney. (3) Baker’s “Hardwoods of
Australia” and “Cabinet Timbers of Australia,”
Government Printer, Sydney E.A.8.: No. 1 will
probably give you fair returns; the others are not
likely to recover for some years .M.M.M.: Depends
entirely on what you are fitted for. You might get
a small business for the money, but it will depend
entirely on yourself whether you could make a
living out of it.... J.E.R.: (1) See reply to J.D.
(2) Write to Charles Hargreaves, Brisbane-road,
Manly, Queensland... .S.J.: No record of it; and
the Oldest Inhabitants can’t recall it C.T.H.:
Not listed on ’Change.... E.8.F.: Let it go if her
health is good, and get another. The bonuses in a
first-rate office will more than cover the 1055....
Drouin: Leave it alone/... (Many others mailed.)


u
8
PTY
IMITE
\\
&
ft/1
*i*\ \
§r
li'/
v v
r/
HV
Vm
\C
-fin-
$
7?
W R!
k
)
I"" inn
f ft | § m
k,
MIS
V If
fsi^
5^
If l 1
ll
mm
®I®
mm
m
Hi
i
M
OeMeral Utotors Purchases of Australian, Products=
"More tkaic €2.500.000 AuituaJlij
Apart from furnishing in
its five great Australian
assembly plants direct employ-
ment for more than 2000
Australians, General Motors
makes other and very consider-
able contributions to Australian
prosperity and progress.
Purchases made annually in Aus-
tralia total over £2,500,000.
General Motors purchases 99.7
Der cent, of its tyre requirements
rom Australian manufacturers,
while 93 per cent, of the bodies
for General Motors cars are built
in Australia.
To meet the large requirements
which these figures im ply. num-
bers of Australian suppliers are
extending their factories, and
thus also increasing employment
and prosperity. Moreover, all
the experience and knowledge
of the General Motors Technical
Department is freely at the dis-
posal of these suppliers in aiding
them to improve and perfect
their products.
This is a part of General Motors
contribution to Australian
development.
Let Australians judge its value.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY., LTD
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Ha (Melds’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1 Alexandria, pv.dney, K.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch (. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office \ i. & G. Building, Brisbane, C)
HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
Poverty
Point
“Diantlius” : There is many a slip between
the first pencilled draught of a wireless pro-
gramme item and the syllables that fall all
over the world from the announcer’s lips.
For instance, Coleridge Taylor is usually
printed “Col.” and announced in bluff mili-
tary fashion as “Colonel Taylor.” A talk
about pirates was recently printed and broad-
cast “His Pianola” instead of “Hispaniola,”
and lately I heard an item introduced in a
languid voice thus: “The next item will be
a song, ‘When the Ukulele Lady had a Uku-
lele Baby,’ by Mr. X. Y. Blanklcy.”
“Gsesar’s Ghost”: “Banjo” Paterson, who,
the booksellers say, remains the most popu-
lar of Australian verse writers, was once
guilty of an opera. He called it “Club
Life,” and Sydney organist Ernest Truman
supplied the music. It was performed at
the Harbor City’s Lyceum by an amateur
company, and The Bulletin showman of
the day said the co. lynched rather than
executed it.
“L.H.P.”: A strike I would take joy in
supporting would be one by playgoers against
the iniquitous raising of prices on Saturday
nights. What would people think if they
had to pay extra on Saturday for tobacco,
shirts, collars, etc? Who ever invented the
Saturday-night tariff would have been wel-
comed in Ned Kelly’s company.
“Spokeshave”: Recently an American
revue entertainer on the Australian vande.
circuit, introduced a new stunt. Suddenly
stopping th-e performance he advanced to the
footlights and said, “Ladies an’ Gen’lemen.
I’m sarry t’ interrupt, but a lady is making
a serious disturbance in frant of the house.
She says her husband is in here with
another man’s wife. To avoid farther
trarble would the gent kindly step on to
the stage and he will be quietly let out by
the stage door.” When men jumped up from
all parts of the house and rushed on the
stage the audience thoroughly enjoyed the
joke, but the management enjoyed it more.
Only six accomplices had been engaged, but
seven responded to the call.
“Bill Hooks”: Australia’s first theatre
(B. 25/4/’2S). The Whitehall Evening
Rost of July 14, 1798, contained the fol-
lowing par.:—
The theatre at Botany Bay was entirely built
by convicts and cost about one hundred pounds.
With singular propriety the gallery is the largest
part of the house. The admission is one shilling,
paid either in money, flour or meat. A benefit for
the widow of a soldier who was drowned produced
twelve pounds. The admission at whole price to
the theatre is a leg of mutton. Tire pantomime
and dances may be seen by those who furnish the
epper sauce.
“Santander”: Anthony Prinsep, the un-
seen controller of the Bannerman produc-
tions, the divorced husband of Australia’s
Marie Lohr and the new husband of his
leading lady, has won all allowable eminence
as a producer in London. His settings for
“L’Aiglon.” “Woman to Woman,” “Aren’t
We All?” and two or three comedies by
A. A. Milne have secured liim mention in
the despatches of the most pernickety critics,
lie had 10 years—some of them unlucky—
at the London Globe, and I haven’t heard
of one of his shows being kicked for his part
of the work in them. He is a son of the
old A.R.A., Yal Prinsep, who once painted
a pompous picture of royalty at an Indian
Durbar. For a while Anthony, who is just
40, engaged in underwriting at Lloyd’s.
“C.R.”: Napier Waller, the one-armed
Digger painter, has reaped the reward of
specialising in a neglected branch of art.
Following on his mural decoration for Men-
zies’ pub bar, he got the commission for the
17 vast frescoes for the Melbourne Town
Hall’s new concert chamber. Now he is at
work on more wall paintings for the Comedy
Theatre, in Exhibition-street. The Taits
know more about the difficulties confronting
artists than the City Papas, and Waller
hasn’t been asked to run his new job off
in the time required to paint an outhouse.
“C. 8.”: The smallest item in the William-
son opera troupe is Nellie Melba Tornari.
She is Italian, but was born in Melbourne in
the middle of the Firm’s last opera season.
She is four, and made her debut at Verona
as Little Trouble in “Madame Butterfly” a
year ago.
“Craiser” : Only one of Margaret Banner-
man’s crowd now playing in the acidulated
“Our Betters” in Melbourne is an old
acquaintance. He is James Lindsay, and
plays the heavy American sensualist who
buys Margaret a £20,000 hospital in pay-
ment for a hand squeeze. Lindsay toured
with Nellie Stewart in “Sweet Nell” 20 years
ago. After that he found a shop with
Meynell and Gunn, and it lasted a long
time.
“Craiser”: The site of the Firm’s new
Comedy Theatre on the corner of Exhibition
and Lonsdale streets is haunted by theatrical
ghosts. The Iron Pot, one of Melbourne’s
first playhouses, flourished here. It was
made in England of iron and transported in
sections. Australia has made some advance
since then. Now we only import the plays
and the players.
“R.R.” : The following may be added to
“Wog’s” list of Australians who have made
good in the picture business abroad (B.
25/4/’2B) : Fred Esmelton, Wilfred Lucas,
Frank Hagney. J. P. McGowan, Roy D’Are.y
and Rupert Julian. Stunt-man Fred Thomp-
son is under suspicion. There are several
Maorilanders doing well at the same game,
too.
“Flaming Youth”: Recently the musical
column of the Sydney Sunday Sun published
two photographs ; one had the face of O’Shea
and bore under it the name of Alfred Hill,
while Hill’s face was described as that of
O'Shea. The mistake was given poignant
emphasis, when both Hill and O’Shea rushed
to complain of misrepresentation.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Adrien Brunei, who is
now a recognised authority on films and their
making, has put in a strong negative against
the claim that all kinds of pictures can be
successfully made in England by using faked
settings. He points out that American pro-
ducers go from New York to Hollywood or
Florida to get the desired effects even in
studio properties, and asserts that the Eng-
lish producer is much more happily placed
GUSTAVE SLAPOFFSKI, musical directo
for the Firm. He lately has bee
handling the Gilbert and Sullivan Oper
Company.
in being handy to the real French, Spanish,
Italian, Austrian and Scandinavian scenery.
Brunei, who got the scenes for “The Con-
stant Nymph” in the Tyrol, is going to Spain
for his 'next picture. His mother, Madame
Adey Brunei, continues to ply an effective
pen, though recitations are not so popular as
when she lived in Australia.
“L.11.P.”: It was the energetic Eyster
who first produced “Aida” in Australia;
he put it on at Melbourne Opera House on
Sept. 6, 1877. Venosta (now teaching music
in Christchurch, M.L.) was Amneris.
Guadagnini filled the title-role and Camero
was Radames. Maoriland saw it in 1879.
with the Coys, Venosta, Verdi and Temple-
ton in the principal parts. “Aida” was writ-
ten for the opening, in 1869, of the Cairo
Opera House, but the scenery and props
were made in Paris and were held up there
by the Franco-German War. It was not pro-
duced until 1871.
“Spero” : Mention of Royalty’s patronage
of “The Wreckers” (B. 25/4/’2B) recalls
that Arnold Ridley’s earlier effort, “The
Ghost Train,” was introduced here as “the
last play seen by the Duke and Duchess of
York before they left England.” We were
also assured that the King had been de-
lighted with it, and that the Prince of Wales
had seen it twice. How long has Royalty
had a craving for thrillers?
“RIO RITA” AT SYDNEY ST. JAMES.
Jim (John Valentine ) sings of “Rio Rita”;
and Chic Bean (Dave Malien) in a
comedy dance.
“Lud”: Bernard Shaw is probably the
wealthiest playwright living. Probably, also,
he is the most generous. _ He sent along a
cheque the other day in aid of the. fund for
enlarging the premises of the British Royal
Academy of Dramatic Art, founded by Beer-
bohm Tree. The cheque was for £5OOO.
“Adelaide”: The successor to Clive Carey
as a singing teacher in the University Cou-
servatorium at Adelaide is to be Harold
Denton, a young Englishman chosen by Prof.
Harold Davies with Carey’s warm approval.
Denton is a light baritone, trained in the
De Reszke school, with operatic experience
as teacher, singer and producer.
“L.H.P.”: Fullers are talking about hav-
ing a season of English opera—a good idea.
There is plenty of money yet in “Maritana,”
“The Bohemian Girl” and other operas by
English composers, besides foreign operas in
the English dress, like “Faust,” “Carmen,”
etc., which draw like a mustard plaster.
“Adelaide”: A South Australian operatic
society lias been revived, with Lavington
Bonython and other influential citizens be-
hind it. Light opera in English is its special
aim, and the “Quaker Girl” is to be the first
venture, with Seymour Pank as musical
director and Nora Stewart as ballet mistress.
“Hamfat”: May Beatty has been warmly
welcomed back to Australia; her sister
Maude, who loft the stage early, is almost
forgotten. Yet Maude had the greatest
acclaim in her day. Dad Beatty built the
Christchurch (M.L.) Theatre Royal, and
Maude appeared there with Grattan Riggs
at the grand age of seven. At eleven she
played the young Duke of York in G. C.
Miln’s “Richard III.,” and two years later
she joined Pollard’s Lilliputian Opera Co.
She became the leading boy of the company;
Marion Mitchell was the girl. In her
adultage the Williamson and Musgrove firm
captured her.
“Wigs”: “London Pride,” the Cockney
war play by Neil Lyons and Gladys Unger,
which Gerald du Maurier produced in Lon-
don 12 years ago with himself and Mabel
Russell (now Mrs. Hilton Philipson, M.P.)
in the principal parts, was revived for a
charity performance at Drury-lane recently,
and the receipts totted up to more than
£2OOO. It was introduced to Australia when
it had run in London for nearly a year, and
such was its failure at Melbourne Royal
that it came off after a fortnight and
was not tried anywhere else in the Common-
wealth.
“E.T.”: I wonder why Sardou’s “Dip-
lomacy,” the 50-year-old drawing-room drama
which my critical friends assure me is a
piece of theatrical fustian, should still hold
the affection of the public. It is always
being revived somewhere. Recently it w_<is
put up in New York with a cast that in-
cluded Margaret Anglin, one of the most
talented American actresses Australia lias
seen, and it scored all the old points. It mi)
be seen here again shortly, for Margaret
Bannerman has brought the script along witn
her and is anxious to include it in her reper-
tory. By all the rules it should have been
dead years ago. What keeps it alive?
“Ces”: In a large Victorian provincial
town the other day I met a travelling dra-
matic company that was not on speaking terms
with the producer-stage-manager-promoter
He did not even stay in the same pub, and
he made no complaints orally. After eacn
performance he wrote a letter to offending
members of his troupe; they replied in suit-
able terms —also by letter !
“Flaming Youth” : Minnie Raynef, who
does the “daily woman” in “Rookery Nook
at Sydney Royal, celebrated her stage jubilee
since she arrived in Australia; she was just
nine when she made 'her first appearance in
London. The lady has a son in South Aus.
—aviator Captain Jaques, who came to these
parts four years ago.
“L.H.P.”: Puccini’s four-act opera of
“Manon Lescaut,” listed. for the J.C.W.
grand-opera season, was introduced to Aus-
tralia by Tommy Quinlan in 1913. Jeane
Brola played the name part, and Maurice
D’Orsly was the infatuated Chevalier des
Grieux; W. J. Samuel! was Sergeant Les-
caut; and Arthur Wynn, Syd Russell and
Charlie Magrath filled in minor roles.
“L.11.P.” : German’s pretty opera “Merrie
England,” revived lately in Sydney, was
produced at the London Savoy in 1902, but
did not reach Australia till 1922. In the
Fogland cast were Mark Kinghorne (a
comedian here with Marie de Grey) and
Louie Pounds, who figured so well here in
“Chu Chin Chow.” The Firm gave the
opera a great cast, including Strella Wilson,
Pearl Ladd, Byrl Walkely, Ralph Erroll,
Howett-Worster, Charlie Workman and
Victor Prince.
“Peter Pan” : I, for one, hope Margaret
Bannerman includes the drama from Con-
rad’s fine novel “Victory” in her Austra-
lian showings. Australian Marie Lohr did
it in London in 1920 at the Globe. Success
was only moderate (83 nights),, but there
was a very bad slump at the time. Most
of the critics complained that the dramatisa-
tion (by Basil Macdonald Hastings) did
not get enough out of a novel packed with
dramatic possibilities and atmosphere.
“W.E.F.”: Simon Gantillon’s “Maya,”
a frank and symbolical story of a demi-
monde on the waterfront in Marseilles, is
the latest play to run foul of the Wales
Padlock Law in New York. It had a suc-
cessful run in London a few months earlier
at the Gate Theatre studio, which, being
a private subscription institution, saved
it from the wrath of the Censor. The
New York critics were divided over
its withdrawal. One described it as ‘‘a
dirty play” and “a showman’s appeal to
the lascivious minded.” Another asked why
it should be killed and such a piece as
“Shanghai Gesture” allowed to live.
“Craiser”: The failure of the polite' “Mr.
What’s His Name” to attract good houses to
Melbourne Athenaeum is, on first considera-
tion, suprising. The play is bright, well com-
posed, contains an attractive wife and the
usual bed, as well as a couple of aspirant hus-
bands. Yet it doesn’t go, although it is
reasonably well acted. The fact is that it is
too tart, French and unmoral in its attitude
towards the everlasting sex problem. The
present Australian playgoer, doped by the
sentimental American viewpoint, can stand
any amount of double meaning, suggestion
and downright coarseness provided the insti-
tution of matrimony is replaced on her
pedestal after the hurly-burly. In “Mr.
What’s His Name” the heroine is left a biga-
mist. and there is a subtle hint dropped that
in the near future she may carry on with
both husbands. Wherefore the pious theatre-
goer sniffs alarmedly and lets his libido have
a safer run amidst the crudities of “Up in
Mabel’s Room.”
“Cauboy”; Playwright Maugham is an
adept in exciting morbid interest in his
work. His “The Letter” was founded on an
actual murder in Malaya and caused indigna-
tion in those parts. A novel he placed in
and about Hong Kong, where every white
resident’s affairs are known to every other,
contained characters so plainly recognisable
that in a subsequent edition he was con-
strained to print the usual statement that
the people pilloried were fictitious. The
same disingenuous pleading appears on the
programme of “Our Betters,” now at Mel-
bourne Comedy. Still, it is a fact that a
large proportion of its London audiences
indulged in a guessing competition as to
which of their friends the characters repre-
sented. Australian audiences are deprived
of the pleasure of picking out their acquaint-
ances amongst the pretty collection of kept
■ men and kept women; so the show is. seen
for what it really is—smart and sensational,
but dramatically barren.
BALLADE OF THE PROMOTED
BASSOONIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
His Hamlet lacks the psychic touch
And cannot be described as good,
He grasps the skull without that clutch
Which ought to mark the tragic mood :
When I on that same platform stood
i made my audience weep and swoon,
What time he held a tube of wood
And blew into a large bassoon.
His rhetoric is double-Dutch.
Pity he ever thought lie could
Sustain great parts. Alas, how much
Doctors require besides the hood,
Or monks beyond the rope and rood!
As well may mastiffs bay the moon
As he Shakspearean lines exude
Who should be playing the bassoon.
When in the dim orchestral hutch
lie blew discreetly, as he should,
And let no blaring outburst smutch
The maiden’s entrance in a snood,
lint now observe his hardihood.
He stands, poof sentimental loon,
Soliloquising when he would
lie more at home on his bassoon.
Envoy.
Prince, I have always understood,
That he who bears the musketoon
May rise to marshals’ brotherhood ;
lint surely not from a bassoon.
N.S.W.
BYSON AUBERE.


<aJ.
Ot^l
Cl
If you wish to preserve the freshness and
beauty of your complexion, you will find
there is no substitute for Rexona Soap and
water. Rexona Soap cleanses the skin and
beautifies it because it contains all the sooth-
ing properties of Rexona itself. Rexona is
the greatest Skm Remedy of the Age, and
Rexona Soap is medicated with Rexona. This
is what gives it that pure, fresh, out-of-door
fragrance that appeals to so many thousands
of fastidious men and women, who want and
insist on having only the very best and purest
soap, and one which is free of all alkali. If
you would have a natural complexion, a clear,
faultless skin which will stand the closest
inspection, you can never obtain this
quicker or more surely than by the daily ✓
use of Rexona Soap. /(
/
V
<D.
r //y>
it \ {t
mm .
sssssx;
ft
B
litSi
r. < «
'H
Cl
,\V&
K N
Hs
lir
IhIK
yfe'fe-. V i
fall
&
St
'\
\\
>s
•I
-PVT 1 ~p
I
tT 'tj
P <0
O-H
\ , r"& 2
/'/ !VSv
\( \T\iv|'\(\'
LI
/U
' $ I
v <£?
°A tC / ''
Xv
v!
1
MISS
ROW ENA
RONALD.
A lovely
Rexona
Girl.
3. <A\\,
MISS
MADGE WHITE,
A beautiful
Rexona Girl.
2.
MISS DOROTHY
MtUNTON.
A pretty Rexona Girl.
1. “I think there is nothing like Rexona Soap. It is
undoubtedly the best soap for the skin and hair.
MISS ROWENA RONALD.
2. “My motto is Rexona.”
MISS DOROTHY BRUNTON.
3. “I find Rexona Soap incomparable for the skin and
hair, and always use it.”
MISS MADGE WHITE.
4. “Rexona Soap is the best soap I have ever come
across for keeping the complexion and hair in per-
fect condition in all climates.”
MISS ELLEN POLLOCK
4.
MISS ELLEN
POLLOCK.
A dainty Rexona GirL
ě


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AOSTRALIATbaNK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th .June, 1927 .. £18,366,29';
nirectors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Ltsaoht, 0.R.E. ;
George J. Sky, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fajrbairn, Alfred Shepherd. James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Efaland, and at all the Chief Cities of t'ie World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and YVYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 CO I/LI NS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Urent Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
periods and Jiansacts all other usual Banking business.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Qua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
5^
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia add news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtaiu information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne,
THE OUT STANDING
MERITS OF A
GREAT PENCIL/
i
S I
•fcs
S
r*
SjgE ■'
m i
m i
Perfection is the attribute common to ali
VEIN US PENCILS; each one is as good and
true to grade 'as the world’s largest
makers of quality pencils can achieve.
Venus
y Pencils
17 Blacklead Degreessd. each, 4/9 per doz., Super
Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d. each, 5 h per dozen,
Venus Copying 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
“ IT'S THE LiEAD inside
MAKES THE VENUS GLIDE”
Shipping, etc.
v\\\
Across
the
m
<33
1 i
r
r'Oc
'Co CANADA, UNITED STATES, EUROPE.
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons,
.. . 13,415 tons,
MAIiURA ... 8,075 tons,
MAUNGANUI 7,527 tons,
May 31 )
June 28 (
May 17 [
June 14 j
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu,
Victoria and Vancouver.
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti
and San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
* * JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
n
b
fw~
Full Particulars from-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
e
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfnll, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald .T. Black, M.L.O.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Offiee—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papuh
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors —James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq!; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’iness.
è
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—-Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports ; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
Sunshine and Flowers Now in
HAWAII
Avoid the winter cold by visiting the Islands
of Enchantment. Total cost of round trip from
Sydney in 8 weeks or less (3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii) about £lOO to £l5O. En route to
America or Europe, “stop-over” privilege costs
no more. All modern American conveniences at
good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3 per day.
Tropical scenery; fresh fruits, vegetables;
thrilling melody; golfing, motoring, outrigger
canoeing and surf-board riding; inter-island
cruises. Ask steamship or travel agent, or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full description in
colored booklet, attaching this advertisement.
NO EXTRA COST TO BREAK YOUR
JOURNEY AT
HAWAII
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A. combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
♦Anchises .. . 10,000 tons, June 4
i Sue vie 12,500 „ June 20
♦Ascanius .. . 10,000 „ July 23
fDemosthenes 11,500 „ Sept. 11
♦Nestor 15,000 ~ Oct. 15
tOeramic .... 18,500 „ Oct. 10
tThemistoeles 11,500 „ Oct. 30
* Ulysses .... 15,000 1 „ Nov. 12
♦First class only, tFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
via Durban & Capetown
Lo LONDON
Tons.
BALRANAI.D . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BA UADI NK .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
Tons.
BELTANA .. 11,100
BENALLA .. 11.100
808 DA .. 11,100
BERRIMA .. 11.100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
I’el. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS. WUU.ONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.— ,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/•
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co.. Ltd.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamshl;i3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER i_iMire j
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Strest, Sydney.


r PHILOSOPHY
HISTORY
POETRY
BIOGRAPHY
RELIGION
DRAMA
,e
TRAVEL
FICTION
LETTERS
WORLD'S
GREAT BOOKS'
IN OUTLINE
containing outlines’
of 714 great books
in
SEVEN
SUMPTUOUS
VOLUMES
Edited by
J’AHAMMERTON
4043 pages*
867 Illustrations »
including a portrait gallery
in tinted photogravure
of 4-2 of the best known
authors
MI S CEL-
-LAMEOUS
LITE RAT ill RE
i mmmmirm
A COMPLETE LIBRARY
IN ITSELF
THE distinguishing feature of this work is that it offers the
pith and marrow of many famous books in English litera-
ture, ancient classics and foreign masterpieces in con-
densed versions. It is not a collection of "specimen passages.”
The work has a three-fold appeal, and this, briefly stated, may
help the reader to determine in what measure it meets his par-
ticular case.
(1) Young Students of Literature will find it a pleasant
and profitable introduction to a very wide range of booklore.
Books that may still be but names to them, will become so vital
that many readers will seek closer acquaintance with the
originals, confident of being interested.
(2) For Busy Men and Women deficient in the know-
ledge of books, our outlines supply an actual ’’short cut” to
acquaintance with hundreds of books that otherwise might exist
for them in vain.
(3) To the Bookman and Scholar who may have read
the originals of most of the books, it will prove invaluable as an
aid to memory. Though one might read more than a thousand
books in the course of ten years, it is improbable that one could
ever recall some seven hundred of these, but with the help of
this work that becomes easy of achievement. It will be greatly
to your benefit if you cut out and post the coupon below to-day
asking for booklet describing the work.
A io/6 illustrated Edition de luxe of Mr. J.
A. Hammer ton's new book “An Outline of
English Literature" will be presented FREE
to every prompt Subscriber for “ The World's
Great Books in Outline. ’ ’
m
AS FIRST SUBSCRIPTION
SEVEN VOLUMES sent on receipt <;f order
and First Subscription of 5/-. Ten Subsequent
Monthly Instalments: Cloth Binding, 10/-;
Half Leather, 16/6. CARRIAGE EXTRA.
SECURE YOURS TO-DAY
Messrs. GORBOV AND GOTCH (A/sia) LTD., 6 11-515 Lit C !lins St., MELBOURNE,
Educational Book Department (Dept. N.H.9)
Dear Sirs,—Phase forward .free and post free, a copy of the Art Book tr describing''The
World’s Great Books in Outline,” and giving the subscription te in', fo the work.
Name
Address.
IN THE SHADOW OF THE GALLOWS
Conly did it.
Grey was with him —and was caught. {'<
The nub of the story opens with Grey in the condemned cell and only
twenty-four hours to go before the final grim act ill the gaol-yard.
Grey did not mind —much.
Heart trouble and the opinion of a specialist had forecast his doom.
What did a month of life, more or less, matter? —especially when the
price was £lO,OOO to be paid to liis widow and family by Conly.
How Conly behaved, and how Grey re-acted, is told in vivid and
powerful language by France Murphy, one of the leading short-story
writers of Australia, in
“HONOR AMONG THIEVES”
in May 23 issue of
AT ALL NEWSAGENTS, 6d.
Type, Tripe & Co.
“Uramao”: A YTaorilander in Hugh G.
Croll, an ex-pupil of the College in the
Windy City, yanked himself off to ’Murca
seven years ago, and soon found himself
doing art and music criticism for the Cleve-
land Times. Later he joined up with the
Noo Yark Evening Post and Daily Noos.
Information has just reached Wellington
that he has slipped into a sub-editorial
chair on the former.
“Lao-dah”: The latest stage in the
Odyssey of Bruce Lewin, the 65-year-old
pressman mentioned in a recent Bulletin
as having tramped from
Cairns to Melbourne and
back to Sydney to find a
sanctuary, has landed him
in Melbourne. Lewin has
trudged 10,000 miles in
search of a corner in an Old
Men’s Home. He has now
found a private fireplace
where he can warm his
fingers while h.e finishes his
projected book of reminis-
cences of 50 years of the
Inky Way.
“Misty”: I agree with
“Lao-dah” (B. 25/4/’2B)
that Australia has seen no
finer feat of literary ghosting
than Bert Hinkler’s story
of the flight from England
as done by Frank Russell.
Russell himself says that the
most priceless bouquet han-
ded to him over the yarn
was from Mrs. Hinkler, the
airman’s mother. “Oh, Mr.
Russell!” she cooed. “Your
story about Bert is splendid.
It couldn’t have been better
written if Bert had done it
himself 1”
“Kyn”: David Maling
(“Ithuriel”), who retired
from the Argtjs three or
four years ago after 38 years’
service, is living at his ease
out Heidelberg way (Vic.).
He got his training for Mel-
bourne journalism on the
Kyneton Guardian, under
Mitchell King Armstrong.
Beginning as a reporter on
the Mackinnon sheet Maling
rose to be first leader writer.
That his old home town still
prizes him after 41 years was
demonstrated the other Sun-
day by the greetings he got from Ivyne-
tonians at a re-union at Melbourne Botanic
Gardens.
Autumn leaves and leavings:—
The autumn outpouring of the Vic. Artists’
Society is the usual handful of good pictures buried
under a spate of parlous rubbish. Charles Wheeler
is not as efficient as usual with his portrait of
Marie Burke. It is flat, toneless and of a magazine
cover prettiness. Also, it isn’t like her. In “Rocks
in Sunlight” and “Morning, South Yarra,” Ernest
Buekmaster is up to his customary astonishingly
clever tricks—the second would be hard to beat
for sheer virtuosity. F. R. Thompson and Murray
Griffin waltz through half a dozen landscapes in a
poetic frenzy. Edgar Finlay offers “Last Rays of
Setting Sun” in No. 40. The luminary must have
set with a sigh of relief if the version of the
landscape is correct. In “Madame Mireille Wilkin-
son” Colin Colahan immortalises a Japanese kimono,
but his “The Valley” didn’t deserve to be hung
amongst the duds—it would probably be seen to
be a very honest piece of work if the eye could
get far enough away from it. Alfred Coleman’s
“Broken Ti-tree” is an unusual treatment of a
commonplace subject; interest is led from the
barrier of shattered timber to a red-roofed cottage
backed by diagonal clouds. A. Halevy provides a
surprise in a flock of fat-tailed sheep being led by
a shepherd towards Jerusalem, the Holy City look-
ing as if it had been built by a youngster with
toy blocks. There is some remarkably good
sculpture. Margaret Baskerville supplies a clever
little group of sleeping youngsters, cosy as puppies.
Paul Montfort caught Bert Hinkler in a specially
well-groomed moment, but his big memorial to V.
B. Chaffey, a founder of Mildura, is splendidly
rugged and heroic and the difficulty of making a
sac suit look reverent is gracefully overcome. The
still-lifes of John Farmer are, as usual, outstanding.
The sincere searching after visual truth, the patient
exploring of every difference of light and stiade,
shown in his humble roses and gladioli, provide
lessons for about nine-tenths of the other exhibitors,
including some of the most distinguished portrait
painters.
“M ick Paul”: Good
draughtsmen hav-e always
been rare birds, but one
would at least expect the
trained man to show some
knowledge of composition,
design and anatomy. Very
few black-and-white artists
have any beauty of line or
make any attempt to suggest
tone, color, texture or atmo-
sphere, and I doubt if 50
per cent, of them understand
what these terms mean.
The caricatui-ists stand their
victims’ profile in the least
familiar aspect of a person,
but the “easiest to draw,”
and if more than two figures
appear in a composition the
betting is that they will each
be on a different plane.
Hands are hidden as much
as possible, and just examine
the bone structure of the
next knee you see! Asa
matter of fact an art train-
ing is only a hindrance to
the black-and-white worker to-day. Editors
do not want technical excellence.
Professor R. J. A. Berry, whose recent
book, “Brain and Mind,” is circulating
widely in America and Australia, has held
the Chair in Anatomy at the Melbourne
’Varsity for more than 20 years. Before
settling in Melbourne he was an examiner
in anatomy for the Royal College of Sur-
geons. Edinburgh. As well as being a con-
tributor to English and Australian scientific
journals he has written several books on
anatomy, and a fair lump of Cunningham’s
“Textbook of Human Anatomy,” which is
a classic throughout the world, came from
his pen. Incidentally, Berry was the first
lecturer in Melbourne Univex-sity to use
lantern-slides extensively.
Melbourne Art: —
Percy Lindsay is up for inspection for the first
time in Melbourne at the Fine Arts. His charm-
ing oils resemble clear, sharp playing on the piccolo.
His atmosphere is so dry arid clean you can hear
the leaves rustle.
Spain is the keynote of the Melbourne display by
the Vic. Society of Architects of domestic bricks
GONE TO THE DOGS, SIR!
“Bah! Don’t talk to me about modern art! I know
half a dozen studios in the same building, and it
ain’t worth a bottle-oh’s while to call once a year.”
and mortar. Some of them are sensibly adapted
to Australian needs, but others are not. Writer
foresees a future crammed with miles of Andalusian
villas fitted with poky patios and curly Moorish
pilasters and machine-made iron grilles for non-
existent gallants to sigh through to their imprisoned
loves, while Bill and Gert continue to spoon on the
back verandah as of yore. The sad bankruptcy of
the architectural imagination is painfully apparent
in this mottled show. In only about one instance
is there sign of an Australian architecture brewing.
That is the winning design for a £lOOO timber
home, due to Roy B. Grounds. With the archi-
tects setting such an example no wonder institutions
like the State Savings Bank continue complacently
to pack the suburbs with dowdy and pretentious
little homes which look as if they had dropped out
of a kid’s first picture book.
BALLADE OF PRINTERS’
TRAVELLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Printer’s “Rep.” is free from guile,
His infant mind is fresh and pure.
11 I demand some special style
He bids me rest serene and sure
That he, in person, will secure
Btout safeguards that it shall be so,
Though all to him is quite obscure:
He does not know, he does not know.
What wonder that it stirs my bile
When I requii-e some choice brochure
And wait unconscionable while
For proofs, he brings the literature
In type I warned him to abjure?
He waves the outrage to and fro
In pantomimic overtui'e:
He does not know, he does not know.
AFTER THE TIFF.
WEFEY ( very forgiving ): “Here’s a beautiful sentence—
‘Marriage is like the welding of two metals.’”
HUBBY (still sore): “Yes, without removing the temper.”
My protests earn a jovial smile,
As though he deemed that grins might cure
A thing too wanton, gross and vile
For Job’s own patience to endure.
Perhaps he thinks his mirth may lure
The dupe’s attention from his woe
And so feels no discomfiture.
He does not know, he does not know.
Envoy.
I asked one who, though immature,
Yet seemed to make the thing a “go,”
How he obtained his sinecure:
He did not know, he did not know.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


m
m
m
ii
ssa
X /
i
m
m
Q
tSB
■
i
11
3
&
v:
MS
ra
Hi
IMSHi
For Good Shooting You Must
Have Reliable Ammunition.
Be Sure You Use Only
ALL-BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
ELEY & KYNOCH
Proved by the
Most Experienced Shooters
to be the Best.
All British —from Cap to Turnover
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GUNSMITHS AND
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
a
W.
ew4
A GOOD GUN DESERVES
A GOOD CARTRIDGE.
Wholesale Only:
AMMUNITION (NOBEL)
PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne.
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand:
L. H. Labone,
Jervois Quay, Wellington.
NOBE
WestclcoC
Big Ben De luxe
luminous
Big Ben Deluxe
21/
to
Bennur
'2/
Baby Ben Deluxe
2/.
Baby Ben Deluxe
luminous
Handsome New Designs
'T'HESE dependable new Westclox have become immediate
favourites. They are exceptionally good-looking alarm
clocks.
Big Ben De Luxe and Baby Ben De Luxe are designed on
an entirely new principle; they stand firm and solid; hard to
tip over, a feature which adds to their long life. Underneath,
there’s felt cushioning for protection.
There’s a range of reliable Westclox timepieces. Some with
plain dials, others with luminous numerals and hands which
can be seen in darkness and daylight. Prices range from 8/6
to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
The
Battery with the
long working life
Because the lead is 99.99 °/ Q pure;
because the active paste is “ keyed ”
permanently in place; because such
details as separators and anti-corrode
terminals have been designed to do
their jobs; because of its leak-proof,
fire-proof, warp-proof, acid-proof
Dagenite case ; because it is a battery
built for no other purpose than to do
a battery’s job and do it well, the
P„ & R. Accumulator works and
works and WORKS.
There are many things which go to
make the P. & R. Accumulator so
good. Experience, for one thing.
Study of the kind of .conditions a self-
starter battery meets with, for another.
AND
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
fhe beginning and the end in
Powtß
These are all explained
in a special booklet of
ours. Please send a p.c.
to address below for
your copy.
P. 2
é
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.


YOUNG GRIFFO,
The Will o’ the Wisp of the Ring.
HIS LIFE AND BATTLES.
Just off the Press —a book full of human inter-
est—a book with a punch in every one of the
21 chapters. Heaps of interesting photographs
of old-time fighters who were associated with
this quaint character of the roped square. You’ll
cherish these photos as you will the tales of
this great fighter’s escapades.
In addition—3o pages, with 20 full-page illus-
trations, by Young Oriffo, on his “Easy Lessons
on How to Box.”
AH for sl.oo—Parcel Post Prepaid.
Address:
NAT FLEISCHER,
Editor and Publisher "The Ring,”
11 West 42nd Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Money or Express Order must
acoompany each order.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST,
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER,
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
12
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Only two favorites turned up at the War-
wick Farm meeting on Saturday to rescue
backers from financial eclipse, the deliverers
being Leisure Hour and Spruiker, who won
the Farm Stakes and Warwick May Handi-
cap respectively. On the strength of a
moderate performance at the Autumn meet-
ing at Randwick, Goblin (5 to 2) was in-
stalled favorite for the May Steeplechase
but he fell at the first jump. The race went to
Prince Arim (5 to 1), who, incidentally,
was the only proved jumper in the field.
Whitta (5 to 2), favorite for the Prospect
Handicap, was the next to give backers a
shock. She ran to the front at the turn
but could not do better than finish fifth to
Eugia, who went out at 14 to 1. Leisure
Hour (5 to 2) assisted backers considerably
by winning the Farm Stakes. It was a
short-lived triumph, however, for McShort-
odds took the next trick with the 10-to-l
chance, Silver Cord, who downed the oppo-
sition in the St. John’s Park Nursery Handi-
cap. When Spruiker (9 to 4) won the War-
wick May Handicap it looked as though the
servants of chance might get even on the
day, but they were quickly disillusioned.
After leading all the way Bonnie Marjorie
<10 to 1) took out the last race, the
iCasula Handicap, and McShortodds scored
once more.
Those steeped in horse lore hinted freely
just prior to the Farm Stakes that Leisure
Hour would be a good thing for the race,
and the Magpie gelding, who raced in Beau-
ford's colors, was backed like a certainty.
He duly won, but there was not much in it
at the finish. From an outside position at
the tape he did not get away too well,
but when the field settled down Toohey
brought him into fourth position. At the
three furlongs he was third, and on reaching
the turn for home ran into second position
behind Harangue. He took charge on enter-
ing the straight, and although it looked as
if the 33-to-l chance Rose Star might wear
him down he won by three-quarters of a
length. The fact that Leisure Hour ran
Karuma a close second at the previous
Warwick Farm meeting no doubt accounted
for him being backed so solidly, but his
supporters were not displeased when the
struggle was over.
Whitta, who has proved an expensive
mare of late, was again the medium of a
plunge by her connections. A big commis-
sion was unloaded on her in the Prospect
Handicap, and she firmed from fours to
b to 2. Ridden by McCarthy, who claimed
a 71b. allowance, she missed the jump at the
barrier, and had to be ridden hard to reach
the front. Having in mind her rather un-
usual pace, it was thought that she still
might prevail, but she dropped back beaten
to a turn. Her display so disappointed her
connections that she may not now be sent
to Brisbane for the Cup meeting next
month.
The A.J.C. probably had the. approaching
jumping season in view when it decided to
include a steeplechase in its programme at
Warwick Farm, but the result was not en-
couraging. In a field of a dozen runners
only seven completed the course. Follow-
ing on Goblin’s spill at the first fence,
Dottswood took up the running, but he
baulked at the next jump and retired from
the race. Repose headed the remainder past
the stand for the first time round, the only
other steeds to show a liking for the business
being Prince Arim, Cyllene Knight, Absurdee,
and Gunlike. Most of the others were soon
out of the hunt, and dropped out one by
one. Considering the easy type of fences
at Warwick Farm it was a woefully poor
display.
* * * *
The Victorian horse Altimeter upset all
calculations, and, incidentally, equalled the
State record, by winning the Adelaide Cup
in 2min. 44see. The chestnut won by four
lengths from Benoni, with the favorite Fins-
bury in third place. When a furlong or two
had been covered the race developed into a
match between Benoni and Altimeter, who
were always well clear of the field. Finsbury
made a great effort at the furlong post but
could not sustain his run. Some Quality was
fourth. Altimeter races under the dual
ownership of Messrs. H. P. Watson and
It. C. Baker.
* * >:= *
For Randwick next Saturday:—
Hurdle: Burraform ; next, Triplex.
Flying: Whitta ; next, Lesboo.
Tattersall’s Stakes: Divulge; next, Tra-
here.
Two-Year-Old Handicap: Circuline; next
Green Pad.
Winter Stakes: Honan ; next, Beedos.
Welter: Dion; next, Zuleika.
SHORT MEASURE.
DAD (as bell rings ): “Cripes, it’s interval already.”
Weather conditions were decidedly arctic
at Sandown Park (Vic.) on Saturday last,
but the punting brigade are a hardy lot,
and rolled up in goodly numbers. The stable
went’ for a win on Murrumboo in the six-
furlongs Plate, the ex-Sydney performer
finishing up a solid favorite at 9 to 4, with
New Hope, now racing in “Darcy” Eceles’s
colors, next in demand at 3’s. The favorite
was in front two furlongs from home, but
the Wolari mare Waranie (sixes), taking
charge at the distance, gave nothing else
a chance, and won, running aw T ay, by three
lengths from the favorite, with Reputed
King (33’s), who should pick up a race soon,
a length further back. The winner is owned
by “Goodie” Harris. There was a close
finish in the mile Purse, the Burrabadeen
gelding Burra Wallah (12’s), belonging to
Major “Billy” McCulloch, leading all the
way and just lasting long enough to win by
a head from Mahatma (fives), who finished
very fast, with Arcadius (sixes), who should
be something to bet on first time he starts
in a hurdle race, a neck away third. The
speedy Alawa gelding Dancing Master (9 to
2) made an exhibition of the field in the
Brush Steeple (2-J- miles), leading all the
way and winning in a walk from Blarwyn
(B’s) and Derision (10’s). Bird rode the
good thing in excellent style.
The long straight at Sandown is made to
order for Sea Money, and “Tommy” Davis’s
Sea Prince gelding was a firm favorite at
5 to 2 for the 10-furlongs Park Handicap,
Kathaian, 3’s, Elarby, 7 to 2, and Pinker-
ton, 4’s, being others well in the market.
Elarby dashed to the front soon after the
start, setting up a good lead and lasting till
heads were turned for home. However, Sea
Money came on the scene below the distance
and from then on it was no race, the favorite
winning in the easiest style by three lengths
from Kathaian, with Pinkerton next. It
was Sea Money’s first victory since he took
the last Australian Cup, and Ashley Reed
had the mount. There were two divisions
in the 6-furlongs Trial Welter. Coterie (9
to 2) taking the first half and the Rael
Locin gelding Pitfodels (6’s) beating Dun-
can’s mount Pyalong King (4’s) in the
second. Quick Deal has been a most pro-
fitable horse to his connections recently, and
he scored his fourth victory in the 10-fur-
longs Jumpers Plat on Saturday. It was
a near thing, however, the 25-to-l shot
Mooler just failing by half a head to catch
the winner, with Sir Eaton (6’s) third.
With only one favorite successful, punters
were a gloomy lot on their way home —the
majority wishing they had patronised the
boatrace.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There was a thin house at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night when Ernie Izzard, the
English lightweight, got a points verdict
over Maorilander Charlie Purdy. This was
the second meeting between the pair, and
Izzard, boxing smartly and making much
use of a snappy straight left, soon drew
away from his opponent and piled up a big
margin of points by the end of the 15th
round. Purdy shaped well, and made good
headway in the seventh and eighth rounds.
Izzard came again, however, and in the clos-
ing rounds left no doubt of his superiority.
Izzard was 9st. B|lb. and Purdy 9st. 81b.
S«c jj! * *
Foreign' wrestlers started out on their
annual clean-up at Melbourne on Saturday
night; Mike Yokel (13st. 21b.) and
Geo. Zarynoff (12st. 1311 b.) acting as
heralds for the horde that is on its way to
its Mecca. That grappling still has the
public imagination well in its grip was
proved by the biggest crowd at the Stadium
since the mat-artists made their rather
ignominious exit last season. Mike looked
miles above his announced poundage, rolls of
tallow appearing about his ample waist-line,
whilst his opponent appeared to be in the
pink. The Russian scored first fall in the
second frame with a most spectacular double-
arm scissors. After a duel of headlocks,
which gave George a chance to display his
remarkable agility in escape, Mike con-
nected in the fourth with an old-fashioned
full nelson, and forced the Russian down.
When he secured the same hold in the next
session, customers reached for their lids;
but Michael unexpectedly came to the mat
in the underneath position, and the fall and
the match went to George.
Footbrawl
The fortieth match between N.S.W. and
Queensland under Rugby League rules was
played at Sydney Cricket Ground on Satur-
day, and won in hollow fashion by the
Northerners, scores being 25 (5 tries and
5 goals) to 9 (a try and 3 goals). Save
in the first half, when the local men hung
in Queensland territory for a while, and a
spasmodic burst or two later on in the
game, N.S.W. never looked like winning,
and the reconstructed team from which so
much was hoped failed dismally in all de-
partments. However, the chief cause of
their failure was that the Queenslanders were
far better individually, while their combina-
tion and team work, considering that this
was the side’s first game together, were. ex-
cellent. Forwards and backs combined
cleverly in the closing stages when the op-
position was wilting, and some of the pass-
ing bouts, with double-reverse transfers,
were reminiscent of the Waratahs against
the Rest of N.S.W. the other day. The
weak spot in the N.S.W. machine was the
inside-back brigade. Lane was very off at the
scrum, while Brien could do little to repair
his lack of nippiness at five-eighth. Hardy
and Hawthorne at centre were both ham-
pered in consequence, while the wingers
were rarely given an opening, though both
did some good things, the hard-running Free-
ston in particular. D. Hughes, the Blue
full-back, was hopelessly slow, though
his place-kicking was accurate. Kingston,
another country player, was conspicuous in
the N.S.W. pack; but there were several
passengers on the day, who failed to stand
up to the heavy Queensland ruck. Gorman
and Craig, the two veteran Queensland
centres, were an effective combination, and
their display of all-round football would be
hard to beat, Craig in particular playing the
game of his career, and scoring two sensa-
tional tries. Edwards was also clever behind
the Queensland pack, while the Townsville
youngster, King, was fast and determined
on the wing. The forwards made a great
showing, and were as handy ds ladies’
maids. A huge crowd of close on 50,000
people saw the match, which was clean and
good-tempered. If there is anything in form,
the visitors should again get their heads
in front in the second match on Saturday.
* *
Though many of the cracks were playing
in Newcastle with the Waratahs and the
N.S.W. team pitted against them, the
N.S.W. Rugby Union grade matches pro-
vided some high-class football on Saturday.
Randwick’s defeat of Eastern Suburbs by 37
(8 tries, 5 converting goals and a penalty
goal) to 20 (4 tries, 2 penalty goals and
1 converting goal), was meritorious, some
of the new players, notably Caldwell in the
backs and O’Connor, a rattling all round
forward of the Jack Ford type, doing some
fine work for the winners. O’Dea was again
the star of the Easts, whose inside backs
were off-color. North Sydney surprised by
beating the premiers, University, by 12 to
3, or three tries to one.
* * * *
In Melbourne on Saturday the urge was
towards home and fireside, for it was a
beast of a day, but 25,000 braved the wintry
sleet to watch Melbourne and Richmond
battle it out in the mud. Such highmark-
ing as was on tap was mostly Melbourne’s
and they were quicker to the ball, but the
Tigers were solid and game, and at the finish
were only 4 points to the bad —51 to Mel-
bourne’s 55. Carlton, the only other unde-
feated League team, was at home to St.
Ivilda, and in a series of concerted rushes
piled up a Kosciusko of 120 points against
Saints’ 24. ’Wood, also with an eye on per-
centages, slammed up 112 points to Haw-
thorn’s 39. South, which has struck the
same “internal” trouble that has affected
Saints and ’Roy, crashed on its own ground,
the redoubtable Northmen adding 23 strenu-
ous points in the last quarter to South’s 2,
and gaining the day with 70 to South’s
69. ’Roy, as was to be expected, went down
before ’Scray, notching but 64 points to
’Scray’s 77; and Geelong achieved its first
victory this winter over ’Don. It looked
a guinea to a grubby apple on ’Don at lemon
time, but another licking was not to be borne,
so the Hubbites bogged in regardless in the
last quarter, doubled their previous score,
and won by 50 points to ’Don’s 47. The
latter was without its hefty champion Stock-
dale, the penalty for jobbing an opponent
being eight weeks’ suspension.
(Continxoed on page 37.)
Walter Hagen, the American golf profes-
sional, who has won the open championship
of Britain twice before, recorded his third
win on Saturday at Sandwich with a score
of 292. Another American, Gene Sarazen,
was second with 294, and the Englishman
Compston, who so signally defeated Hagen
in a recent match, was third, with 295.
Jurado, an unknown Argentine amateur,
: played wonderful golf all through the tour-
ney, but cracked up in the final round to tie
for fifth place with two others. Rufus
Stewart, the South Australian, was tenth,
with a score of 305, and had such players
as Abe Mitchell, Duncan and Vardon well
; behind him, a performance of high merit.
1 Hagen’s previous wins were in 1922 and
1924. It is on the cards that he may visit
1 Australia with Joe Kirkwood shortly.’
O TEMPORA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is the Sport in a sponge-bag suit
We knew so well in a bygone day?
With the whiskered lover who played the
flute
Time’s hand has spirited him away.
I ask, but the oracles are mute,
Where is the Sport in a sponge-bag suit?
The pantomime jokes on mothers-in-law,
The knock-about turn with the red, red
nose
That used to evoke the loud guffaw,
Are gone, all gone, like the winter’s
snows
Or the autumn leaves or the summer’s fruit.
Where is the Sport in a sponge-bag suit?
The crowds that flock to the football game
Are raucous as ever to say who’ll win,
But their garb is sober and flat and tame
Compared with checks and a horseshoe
pin:
I ask, with a feeling of loss acute,
W 7 here is the Sport in a sponge-bag suit?
There’s little doubt that the crop still blows,
With confidence tricks and a “friendly
hand,”
But the shepherd’s plaids and the indigoes
Make me reiterate my demand.
Though crooks are plenty, beyond dispute,
Where is the Sport in a sponge-hag suit?
Sartorial splendors on Randwick lawn
Display but seldom the major freaks,
And though a “topper” of biscuit fawn
Or pair of black-and-white chequered
breeks
Embellish at times some sprightly “plute,”
Where is the Sport in a sponge-bag suit?
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


By Appointment to H.M.King George V.
M:
:• ' f'C* ' ■
k. mmi
mm
mmt
* ■■ ■
■ ■ - -
Proved on the Big Jobs
Write to Dept.
S 5 for Interest-
ing Leyl a n d
Booklets.
ON jobs where only the strong survive, on schemes
that rigorously tax the calibre of men and
machinery—there you will find some of the biggest
fleets of Leyland Lorries at work.
Hauling capacity loads out of the giant excavations of
the Sydney Metropolitan Railway, carrying material
for the North Shore Bridge, transporting thousands
of bales of wool for the N.S.W. Railways, pioneering
the roads of to-morrow —Leyland Lorries daily prove
their strength and dependability on some of the
biggest undertakings in Australia.
British-built for Australian Requirements
British-built right from the manufacture of steel,
iron and non-ferrous castings, the Leyland Lorry
embodies such features as good ground clearance,
wide wheel tracks and special frames to meet
Australian conditions. To ensure prompt and efficient
servicing the Leyland organisation in Australia carries
spare parts to the value of £40,000.
Thus every Leyland owner’s haulage investment is
amply insured against long and expensive lay-ups.
fevlandMoiQrs
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
* SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951 - 8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
Melbourne Depot: Cor. Villiers & Courtney Streets, North Melbourne.
Brisbane Depot: Grey Street, South Brisbane.
Mick Simmons
for Every
Sporting Need
HIGH-GRADE
Hunting: Knives.
THE "BOWIE” ENG-
LISH HUNTING KNIFE,
made of finest quality
steel; this is a genuine
Bowie pattern knife,
having a stag handle
and double metal
guard, with sheath.
sin. blade .... 0/0
6in. blade .... 7/0
THE "BOONE” ENG-
LISH HUNTING KNIFE,
ideal for sticking, clean-
ing, slicing, etc.; handle
of bakelite, leather and
brass, aluminium tip,
with sheath.
4£-in. blade .... 7/6
6in. blade . 8/6
THE “IDEAL” ENG-
LISH HUNTING KNIFE,
for sticking and skin-
ning, oval ground at
back for chopping
bone; genuine stag,
brass and bakelite
handle, with sheath.
sin. blade .... \Q/ 0
6in. blade . . . . 11/0
(Postage on any one
Knife, 6d.)
mw
WORLD-FAMOUS
Sporting; Rifles.
ë
No. 15 —WINCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 1904
MODEL, for 22 short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; 21 in.
heavy round steel barrel, plain
trigger, bolt action, ladder rear
sight, plain front sight; length
of rifle over all, 37^in.; Af\/
weight, about 41b TtU 7 “
Postage:
N.S.W., 1/9; Other States, 3/2.
No. 17 —WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE, 1906
MODEL, 22cal„ 16 shot, 20in.
round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine holds 15
short, 12 long, or I 1 long-
rifle cartridges; £A/'\€\l
weight, about i v'*
Carriage Paid.
No. 35—BROWNING “TROM-
BONE” . HAMMERLESS RE-
PEATING RIFLE, 22in. round
steel barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cartridges;
screw rear and open front
sights; length over all, "Jf\/
39 inches; weight, 4|lb. m
Carriage Paid.
No. 1 1 STEVENS’
“FAVORITE” RIFLE, 22,
25 or 32 calibre, R.F. or
22 W.R.F., round 24in.
barrel, case - hardened
frame, solid breech block,
take-down action, open
front and sporting .
rear sights; weight,
441 b
Postage: N.S.W., 1/9;
Other States, 3/2.
40/-
TIIE SHOOTING
CATALOGUE
AND GUIDE.
A complete price
list of Mick Sim-
mons’ comprehen-
sive stocks, which
embrace the fore-
most English,
American and Con-
tinental Manufac-
turers of Firearms.
Copy Post Free.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney.
ANI) AT BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.


“TRITON”
Electric Bath Heater
What a joy to the housewife and mother to
know that when a hot bath is needed she has
merely to turn on the “Triton” Electric Bath
Heater tap and the steaming hot water is there.
No dread of explosion or fumes —no carrying
in fuel, no matches, no danger of fire, no clean-
ing out grimy ashpans afterwards. The
“Triton” Electric Bath Heater means a bath-
room fresh and spotlessly clean, and it very
soon pays for itself in the economies it effects.
Full particulars from—
Thos. Abbott &. Co.,
343 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone F 4042.
Cr. Wynyard & Margaret Lanes, Sydney, N.S.W.
11l Taranaki Street, Wellington, N.Z.
AGENCIES — A. C. Clarke, 112 Gawler Place,
Adelaide, S.A.; Harris, Scarfe '& Sandover,
Ltd., Hay Street, Perth, W.A.; W. 11. Knight
& Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Laun-
ceston; James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Creek
Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
w
ē
“WHERE ARE YOU STAYING IN MELBOURNE?”
“P* 1 ; Scott’s, of course! It’s handy to everywhere—right in the heart
ot the city, near offices, wharves, shops, warehouses, railway
stations and theatres. And they look after you well at “Scott’s”*:
you can’t equal it elsewhere for comfort, excel-
lent table and personal attention. And there’s
hot- and cold-water service and direct and inter-
communicating telephones in all bedrooms.”
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and
Breakfast Bate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
sum
MELBOURNE
PECO
8798
Footbrawl
“J.H.” (Lond.) : The Evening Standard
has recently been having a discussion about
the world’s best Rugby teams. Four teams,
including 60 players, have been published in
its pages. Would it be believed that only one
Maorilander appears in the list, and not a
single Australian! Nepia's name is not
mentioned, nor are those of Hunter,
Roberts, Gallagher, “Sim” Mynett, Deans,
Cook, Nicholls or Cyril Brownlie. Aus-
tralians omitted included “Dally” Messen-
ger, Tom Richards, Dr. “Jim” Hughes, S.
A. Middleton and “Paddy” Moran. Alec
Ross can’t find a place as a full-back in
any of the “World’s XV’s” chosen.
* * H=
“8.C.”: Football (a near-Soccer) is a
serious business with the natives of Man-
dated New Guinea; in fact, it is the only
means in some parts of settling inter-tribal
differences. A “kick cross,” as the Raf-
ferty’s rules Soccer is called, will draw a
large audience of partisans and neutrals,
and ends when daylight fades, or one side
is badly in arrears. The damage rarely
amounts to more than a gory nose or two,
and a good hooting is the losers’ send-off.
But a “kick cross” is nothing compared to
a Rugby match, as played by whites. After
a contest in which, to the extreme horror
of the native spectators, a junior clerk had
dumped the District Magistrate, I asked
my “boy’s” opinion of the game. “Boy, he
no can play alia same,” he replied. “Sup-
pose man he capsize me alia same, bel [belly]
belong me hot. Me shoot him along spear!”
* i-c *
“Kaihiku”: The portrait on the sporting
page of W. F. Ilornig, manager of the All
Blacks to tour S. Africa (B. 25/4/’2B),
takes memory back to when he shared a bivvy
with the writer on trek, during the Boer
War. He was one of the 6th M.L. contin-
gent on Plumer’s Column, and has played
Rugby on the veldt, with North Island v.
South Island, and with M.L. against
Queensland on the Column. Incidentally,
Dave Gallagher, captain of the 1904 All
Blacks, belonged to the Sixth. Dave went
tc> France to avenge a brother killed there,
and took the count the first time he hopped
the bags.
H= H= * H:
“Talmat”: That score by a W.A. junior
football team (B. 2/5/’2B) is far short of
a record. Some years ago a club in Carl-
ton, Vic., scored 56 goals, 55 behinds (491
points) against a South Yarra side in
junior competition. The record for a first-
class, or senior, match is held by the Haw-
thorn (Vic.) team, who kicked 30 goals, 31
behinds (211) against Prahran, 6 goals, 7
behinds (43) in 1922.
H= * * H=
“Gate”: One of the effects of the Rugby
Union’s revival has been the increased
attention to country players evidenced by
the N.S.W. Rugby League. This body’s
indifference to anything outside the metro-
politan area led to a semi-rebellion among
the country Leagues a couple of seasons
ago, with the result that the ruling body
was further impelled to a change of heart.
How far this has gone was seen by the
inclusion in the N.S.W. team which met
Queensland in Sydney last Saturday of
five country players, a record for thq
League, though in the old Union days the
country unions had a big share in the per-
sonnel of the State and Australian sides,
year in and out.
* # * *
“Torrens”: South Australian football
followers are bucked at the appointment of
H. Bruce to the vacancy on the State selec-
tion committee caused by the retirement of
J. Hanley. The new selector was one of
the stars of the Sturt club for several sea-
sons after the war, and has represented the
State on several occasions, while he was,
in addition, a first-class amateur runner.
There has been a growing feeling in South
Australia in favor of appointing ex-players
who have . recently given up the game, to
the selection committee in preference to
club and League officials, as has been the
practice in the past.
* * * *
“Capricorn”: The internecine strife be-
tween the various Queensland Rugby Leagues
continues to smoulder. North Queensland is
the latest to follow the example of some of its
Southern cobbers with a threat of secession
unless it gets a larger slice of pie. Particular
resentment is directed at the failure of the
Southrons to include more N.Q. players in
the State team. All the same, there are two
out of the 20 now in Sydney, Purcell
and King, and on a population basis that
seems a fair thing. The abo. players from
the Palm Islands evidently think so, for they
have, given no sign of annoyance over the
non-inclusion of any of their members.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Rugby Union code was
resumed in Queensland with a series of
games between the secondary school grades,
though the A-graders, who comprise the
larger and stronger schools, do not open
their season formally till next Saturday.
The games created a lot of attention, and
press comments were generally favorable.
Though the Union itself has been officially
formed, there is a lot of spade work to be
done before grade games can be undertaken.
In the meantime, clubs are being formed,
and arrangements for securing grounds in
hand. On present indications the Union
should be ready for business in real earnest
by the end of this season, and all set to
begin next year with its full complement
of horse, foot and guns, though it is expected
to make a start with actual play under the
amateur code this season.
Racquet and Bawl
The opening round of the Davis Cup
tourney in Europe saw Australia suffer the
most disastrous defeat inflicted on this
country since America’s 5-0 win at Philadel-
phia in. 1924. Playing, against Italy at Genoa,
we were beaten by 4 matches to 1. After the
collapse of Jack Crawford, when opposed to
De Morpugo in the opening singles, there was
still a hope that Patterson, who defeated
Stefani in the second singles match, would
combine with Hopman, and get the better
of De Morpugo and Gaslini, the Italian
doubles representatives. Crawford had been
ruled out after his showing in the first
match. In spite of fine all-round play by
the veteran Patterson and splashes of effec-
tive support by Hopman, the home side won
a determined five-set struggle, 6-3, 6-4, 1-6,
1-6, 6-2, taking the three sets with 20 games
won as against 21 won by the Australians.
Then when De Morpugo beat Gerald Patter-
son in the first of the final singles, after
another five-set go, taking three of the five
sets and 21 of the 41 games, the numbers
were up. Hopman made a gallant fight
in the final singles match against Stefani,
which could not affect the result, the games
going 7-5, 9-7, 10-8 in the Italian’s favor.
De Morpugo seems to have been superior at
all points to any of his opponents, Patter-
son being the only one of the Australians
able to hold him.
Of the unfortunate Crawford, stricken
by illness, nothing can be said. Hopman
seems to have done a good deal of what
was expected of him. The fact remains
THE WRONG OIL.
JILL: “I hear your football match ended in a free fight.”
JACK: “Free? It cost me two lovely quid and costs next morning.”
that the team as selected was hopelessly
inadequate to the task before it. That it
should have been despatched on such an
important undertaking without reserves
save those which had no official stand-
ing, and were apparently unavailable
when the generally-anticipated emergency
arose, is little short of a disgrace to the
people in charge of the game in Australia.
There has been general dissatisfaction with
their conduct of tennis affairs in this coun-
try for some time past. The unprecedented
failure of the latest Australian Davis Cup
team should prove the final endorsement of
the popular opinion that new blood is badly
needed in the supreme councils of the game
in N.S.W., Victoria, and in the so-called
Australian body, which is nothing more
than a nominee executive controlled by the
two States mentioned.
* Hi :?■ if.
“Rough House”: The little tiff between
that Sydney tennis umpire and a prominent
player (B. 9/5/’2B) threatened to have very
serious consequences, which were mercifully
averted. At the subsequent meeting of the
N.S.W. governing body, one iconoclast is
said to have actually tabled a motion that
umpires be given power to order a mis-
behaving player off the court, just as if he
were a low-down footballer or some similar
person, but of course the notion was scouted.
Even more dreadful were some revelations
of the lawn-tennis underworld made by a
prominent. writer-official who declared that
cheating was common among players where
umpires were not available and when the
conduct of the game was left to the honor
of the players. Beyond remarking that
officials of the association should not use
in the press confidential information which
they obtained in their official capacity, the
junta seems to have done nothing, as is
its invariable custom in all emergencies.
Nevertheless, the extent of the charges made
would seem to justify a Royal Commission.
If such matters are glossed over, Rush-
cutter Bay may soon take rank in public
estimation with Surry Llills, or even Darling-
hurst.
❖ * «!* ❖
“Cut Shot”: The latest advices from
Britain concerning the feminine element in
European tennis are full of gloom, and it
is evident, in many instances, that some of
the heroines of yesterday are one with
Nineveh and Tyre. “Little Betty” Nut-
hall, who, a season or so ago, received a
national welcome on her return from a tour
in America, and for some months crowded
even Royalty and divorcees off the front
pages of the evening papers, is a notable
instance. “At present,” says one tearful
chronicler, “she has lost her genius for
the game.” Work on the “fillums”- is
blamed for the catastrophe, and her decision
to change her method of serving is said
to have materially assisted in the debacle.
But sadder far is the story of the once
all-puissant Suzanne Lenglen, who did not
hesitate to keep the Empress of the greatest
Empire on earth waiting for her. The once
omnipotent star has “lost all interest in
tennis,” and—one hesitates to blurt out the
awful truth—has become an ardent stamp
collector! Ah me! There were always
people who said Suzanne was too big for her
tennis shoes, but even her dearest feminine
tennis rivals will shudder to think of the
doom that lias overtaken the unhappy tennis
queen that was.
The Watermen
“Blade”: One gratifying result of the big
boatrace on the Nepean River has been the
formation of a rowing club at Penrith, where
the inter-State crews for the King’s Cup
were housed prior to the race. The position
on the banks of this fine stretch of rowing
water is unrivalled in Australia, and as there
is an extensive population in the surrounding
district, there should be no trouble in getting
together a strong membership. There were
nearly 100 people present at the preliminary
meeting, and it was stated that three boats
had already been promised to the new club.
The addition of a rowing club, with the
prospect of regattas in the near future,
should mean a lot to Penrith, already an
established holiday resort. More than that
it will mark the beginning of a new era in
modern N.S.W. rowing, for this will be the
first country club established outside Sydney,
with the exception of one in the North Coast
of the State, which is affiliated to the Queens-
land R.A. It has always seemed an anomaly
that N.S.W., with its splendid rivers, has
been unable to parallel the posit'on of all
the other Australian States with their
numerous rowing clubs in the country as
well as the metropolis. It is to be hoped
that the example set by Penrith will prove
infectious, and be fostered, as it deserves
by the N.S.W. Rowing Association.
“Shrewsbury”: H. C. Morphett, of Geelong
Grammar School, has been elected president
of the Oxford University Boat Club, the
highest honor that can be accorded a rowing
man by the Dark Blues. He rowed No. 4 in
this year’s Oxford eight, and is rated by ex-
perts as one of the most accomplished oars
in England, He is believed to be the first
Australian who has ever filled the job at
Oxford, though one or two have done so at
the sister Uni. of Cambridge, one of them,
if memory serves, being the late J. P. Bell,
for long Home Secretary for Queensland
and later Speaker of the State Assembly.
With two brothers, he cut a big figure in
Cambridge rowing in the late 1880's.
❖ $ * ❖
“Glenelg” : With the inter-University boa.‘-
race due on June 2, on the Mannum Diver,
South Australians are beginning to get ready
for a rush of visitors from the sister States.
Mannum itself is even more perturbed, for all
the crews are to be billeted in that not very
considerable town, and as each, following the
usual practice, will have a tail of supporters,
the question of how to house and feed these,
apart from South Australian visitors, pro-
mises to take some solving. It is now certain
that every State University will boat a
crew. Last year’s event, rowed on the Nepean
River (N.S.W.), was won by Westralia, and
the crew is already fancied for this coming
race. If the West wins again, it will repeat
the story of last season, when both the
State eight and the ’Varsity crew earned
off their respective infer-State champion-
ships.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Let Go”: The wonders of civilisation:
Not content with playing football, the Palm
Island binghis (N.Q.) are to be introduced
to golf. A course is to be laid down on
the island, and in the near future there’s
a chance of an Australian golf champion
hailing from the Mission station.
* * if *
“Fluff” : In addition to being represented
in the British amateur and open champion-
ships, Australia can claim a good entry in
the women’s golf championship, which is to
start at Hunstanton on May 14. The trio
who will fight the good fight for this coun-
try are Cecily Lascelles and Mesdames
Bowie and Adams, all of the Royal Mel-
bourne Club. There is a total entry of
168 for the event, and this includes most
of the crackajills of Europe and America.
The title was w r on last year by Simone
de la Chaume, an 18-year-old French lass,
who promises to become the Suzanne Leng-
len of golf. There is nothing to bet on
in the form of the Australian entrants,
though one must admire their pluck. Still,
golf is a queer game, and Mrs. Bowie’s
steadiness may stand her in good stead.
It is a pity that such women players as
Phyllis Jones, of Sydney, and Mona McLeod,
the Victorian, who won last year’s women’s
Australian championship, cannot or will
not test their form against the European
champions. Both are exceptional golfer-
ettes; and given a chance would probably
make a good showing in a game which
women play well, and are better fitted for
than some of the athletic stunts to which
many of them are addicted to-day.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Charlie Campbell, who
has been appointed professional to the
recently-formed N.S.W. Golf Club, with its
headquarters at La Perouse, near Sydney,
like most of his kind in Australia and else-
where, learned the game in his native Scot-
land. One of his first jobs in Australia was
that of “pro” at the Yeerongpilly links in
Queensland, where he was well known to
Northern players in the closing years of
the war. Later he went to the mountain
course at Leura (N.S.W.), where he stayed
some seven years, helping to convert it from
a nine-hole course to one of 18 which is
claimed to be one of the finest country
courses in Australia.
“Sturt” : Kooyonga, the South Australian
Club which sent Rufus Stewart to Britain
to have a cut at the open championship,
lately gave evidence of possessing the true
club spirit on the retirement of its captain,
11. L. Rymill, the founder of the club and
one of its most steadfast supporters. The
veteran voluntarily retired from office at the
last annual meeting in order to give the
younger blood a chance. In spite of protest,
lie stuck to his guns, so the meeting forth-
with altered the rules to permit his appoint-
ment as a permanent ex-officio member of
the committee of management and of all
sub-committees, a rare honor in such cir-
cumstances. Small wonder that, as the re-
port of the meeting adds, “the time-honored
ceremony of ‘firing out’ the old captain and
‘firing in’ the new man, was carried out with
the utmost enthusiasm.”
(Continued on next page.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
13 master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
JOIEHi
im
I
TTjTT
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian (Mice —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Slreef, SYDNEY.
WITH A
W. W. GREENER
GUN
“Calrossie” at Monte
Carlo scored eleven con-
secutive kills 36 yards
rise— 1 9 yards boundary*
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Broken Hill is the latest centre
to be bitten by the speedway bug, and a
small dirt track is now being made there,
the opening meeting being set down for June
16. There is some speculation as to which
State motor-cycling association the B. H.
Club will affiliate with, but as it was
formerly hooked up with the South Austra-
lian body, it is expected that this will
happen again. The new track will be a
duly registered course, and by the nature of
things it looks as if most of the visiting-
riders will hail from South Australia, where
they are furiously addicted to the exciting
game.
“Hotliam.”: The Victorian road-cycling
season opened with two big runs engineered
by the professional League of Wheelmen
and the amateur Cyclists’ Union. The
former body raced over a 20-mile stretch,
and there were 158 starters. Heavy head
winds hampered the return journey, so times
were only fair. S. Smith, a Coburg rider,
won the event off 6 minutes, in 54m. 10sec.,
B. Jack, of Richmond, took fastest time,
clocking 51min. 14sec., with a 2min. 45sec.
start. T. Drew, of South Melbourne, won
the 10-mile amateur event from 150 riders
in 2Smin. 47sec., his handicap being 4min.
15sec. S. Whiteoak (Nortlicote), off
scratch, did the fastest run of the day, with
25min. 46sec. A quaint method of checking
riders at the turn for home, which has been
borrowed from France, proved a great suc-
cess. The turning-point stewards were armed
with rubber-stamps, and as each rider
rounded the bend he was stamped on the
bare hide with his number in the placings.
£ i[i * i'fi
“Shem”: When the Cooma (N.S.W.)
Polo Club moved its quarters to the race-
course, the old ground reverted to the town
common, and soon became a rubbish-tip.
An enthusiast suggested a speedway for the
local cyclists. A couple of days’ hard
work soon had the “track” free from tins,
and every Sunday afternoon the local youth
finds diversion there. Being mountain
bred, the slight irregularities of the course
hold no terrors for these emibyro speedway
kings. On ordinary motor-cycles that take
them to work through the week and over
some extraordinary tracks, too, these lads
manage to do over 60 m.p.h. What will
happen when a rider fails to turn at the
finishing post I hate to think, as the spec-
tators take up their positions about 20
yards from the finishing line.
“Ball Race”: A notable long-distance driv-
ing record was established when “Wizard”
Smith, who recently put up a stack of new
Australian car records on Perkolili lake-bed
in Westfalia, completed his drive from
Perth to Brisbane in 6 days 3 hours and
32 minutes. The distance is over 3000 miles,
and the average daily mileage over all sorts
of roads , and in various descriptions of
weather was close on 500 a day. The Perth-
to-Adelaide hop took him 2 days 15 hours
and 3 minutes. Melbourne was reached in
3 days 10 hours 55 minutes, and Sydney
in 4 days 10 hours 43 minutes. The car
was a Studebaker using Plume spirit.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: America is always inclined to
rate its geese as swans, but if recent reports
are true, Australia’s Andrew Charlton may
find a formidable rival for the distance
swimming events in one Roy Buddy, of New
York, described as the greatest swimming
discovery in the United States since Johnny
Weissmuller swam into Yankee ken. Buddy is
only 16, but has already beaten Norman
Ross’s records for 600, 700, and 800 yards.
These distances do not much interest Aus-
tralians, but the youth is stated to have done
the 500 at Chicago recently in Stain. 35see.
which is_ 2-ssec. better than Arne Borg’s
world’s figures, put up two years ago. He
does not seem to have recorded anything
wonderful over the longer Olympiad dis-
tances, but the Yankees are confident he will
be equal to anything asked of him, since he
has not yet been pushed. Neither has Charl-
ton, for that matter, over his favorite swims,
and it is quite possible that the Australian
will have as much in reserve as any of his
rivals when he enters the water at Amster-
dam.
"Old Q” ; A quaint sort of gymkhana that
has become very popular in Queensland of
late years in camp drafting, with side-lines to
follow. Instead of holding a benefit sing-
song for a needy mate or a hard-up insti-
tution, a camp draft is held, and in many
Queensland towns is,seriously threatening the
bad old church bazaar as a method of raising
funds. One such was held at Jandowae, a
rui ul hamlet in south-eastern Queensland, the
oilier day for the benefit of the local Memo-
rial School of Arts. The drafting events,
held in several heats, included points for
’removing beasts,” “horsework” and “horse-
manship.” The neddie and rider combined in
winning th, points for the first, and the for-
mer was the sole scorer for the second go. The
human- had his chance in the third. Bullock
riding contests, with the usual programme of
mounted events seen in gymkhanas, made up
the rest of the day’s show-, though the motor-
car was given a chance to poke its nose in,
with a final event for cars in a musical-
chairs competition.
“Long Dog”: Reference to the slaughter
of untrained hares at Kensington (N.S.W.)
Plumpton (B. 9/5/’2B) calls attention to
the fact that in South Australia, where
coursing proper has been a leading sport for
many years, and. the tin atrocity is utterly
banned, poor puss is given a much more
sporting chance. In the N.S.W. affair no
attempt seems to have been made to train
the hares to a knowledge of the escapes, with
the result that 16 were killed in one day, an
exceptional number. At Adelaide Plumpton
matters are arranged differently, and in the
trials for young dogs this year only four
hares have been killed to date. The hares
have kept to the middle of the ground, and
have run true to the escapes, this being due
to the boarding round of the wire-netting
enclosure to a height of two feet. Hares
during off days had found outlets through
the fences, a thing they are always prone to
do, and made for these when they were
coursed, being often killed when looking for
an exit which had been blocked. The board-
ing has now taught them that their only
chance is at the escapes end.
“Bamboo”: Particulars to hand of the
Indian Army polo team which is due to
reach Sydney on May 31 indicate that the
players should prove a useful lot, for all
that they will have to accustom themselves
to borrowed mounts. There are six players,
all cavalrymen, four from British regiments
and two from Indian, the two latter being
Captain Prioleau, of the Guides ' Cavalry,
and Captain 11. R. Wordsworth, of the 6th
(Ferozepore) Lancers. The others are
Colonel Melville, of the 17th Lancers, and
Messrs P. W. Dollar (4th Hussars), C. F.
Iveightley (sth Inniskilling Dragoons) and
G. E. Prior-Palmer (9th Lancers). Evidently
the days are gone when infantry regiments
like the Durham Light Infantry used to
rule the roost in Indian polo. All are
described as big and heavy players, a useful
attribute in riding off. The side will pro-
bably travel overland from Adelaide, and
ponies will be available for them on arrival
in Sydney. They will attend the Harden
carnival on June 5 and 6, and will have
plenty of time to settle down for the Dudley
Cup tourney in Sydney in June and July.
Response for the loan of ponies for the
visitors has been unexpectedly generous, not
only from N.S.W. but from other States.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The athletic battle between
St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred Schools in
Adelaide was close this year, being un-
decided till the last event, a mile race; but,
as St. Peter’s had the all-rounder, Ellis,
saved for this, and looked to his beating
the record for it, the result was soon beyond
doubt, St. P. winning by 66 points, to
P.A.’s 57. Ellis did the mile in 4min. 55sec.,
and could, doubtless, have cut that down if
JACK TOOHEY, one of the leading N.S.W.
jockeys, who has piloted winners in
many of the big N.S.W. and Victorian
events.
anyone had been near him, lan Seppelt
did big things for the winners, taking the
Hundred, Hurdles, Weight and Long
Jump. A remarkable boy for the losers
was Jolly, overworked in having to compete
in' a string of the open events, while also
qualified to start in the under-16. He
actually beat the record for the long jump
made by Seppelt last year, yet finished only
second. Seppelt putting it up to 22ft. Sin.
“Pot th’ White”: The professional bil-
liards championship of England, which is,
in reality, an open event for all who indulge
in the English brand of the game, has
changed hands, having been won by Joe
Davis of Chesterfield, a Derbyshire colliery
town. Davis reached his 16,000 points
when his opponent) Tom Newman, of York-
shire, previous holder of the title, had
14,874 up. Chesterfield seems to have taken
the exploit of its noblest son very much to
heart, for the cable records that when he re-
turned in triumph he was accorded a civic
reception, being escorted to the Town Hall
by a procession of 5000, including numerous
brass bands.
K. HUGHES, the Ipswich five-eighth, who
is figuring for Queensland in the inter-
state Rugby League matches in Sydney.
“Orsengig”: “T. the R.’s” ballad of the
urbane game of bowls (B. 29/2/’2B) touches
on the quietude within the rinks. Gener-
ally, the greens are in secluded spots, sur-
rounded by cypress hedges, and the noise
of a far-off train, or the cough of a member
whose cold is not yet cured, causes the man
on the mat to compress his lips and brow
in nerve-jarred patience. In Rupanyup
(Vic.), however, the green is in the middle
of the main street; and the retired and
semi-retired cockies do not seem to be dis-
tracted by passing motors, gazing loungers
or the screams from the dentist’s. I as-
sume that those who can get used to bowls
have it in them to get used to bowls with
noise. Perhaps a quite ordinary team of
railway-shunters, foundry-workers and such
men as these would gain great victories over
the best of teams trained in silence, if the
services of small boys and kerosene-dins
were used at the right times and places.
The Rup. men’s heroic disregard of noisy
distraction is purely mental—the club is
dry.
“Mau”: Some one wrote to The Bul-
letin lately about the esprit de corps of
Brisbane golfers who were turning out on
Sunday mornings and clearing the club
fairways and top-dressing the greens. The
Bananalanders have no need to get up on
their toes about a little thing like that.
Here in Apia, where the climate is a lot
thirstier _ than Brisbane’s, the members of
the. bowling club have been busy top-dressing
their own greens. The figure of the aver-
age bowler is much less adapted to a
stooping position than that of the average
golfer, and to many elderly gentlemen with
a liberal waistline measurement, the job
of raking in and rolling the top-dressing,
to. say nothing of the removal of plan-
tains, etc.,, has been a veritable labor of
love, especially- since it is to be considered
that folk are enjoying all the benefits and
blessings of prohibition in Samoa.
* * *
“Fives”: There seems to be no end of
new championships appearing on the athletic
horizon in this country. Croquet and ping-
pong have duly carried out their annual
contests for whatever supreme rewards they
may entail, and the determining tussles for
the Australian crown in baseball, hockey,
lacrosse, badminton and snakes and ladders
have yet to be finalised. The latest comer
to the galaxy is squash racquets, which
was popularised in this country by Prince
Ned. G. A. Fairbairn, of Victoria, has
presented a trophy for the open squash
championship of Australia, and this will be
played for in Melbourne at the Royal Tennis
Court the week before the next Melbourne
Cup. Squash, has its merits as a convenient
method of inducing perspiration without
tears, but it can hardly be accounted in the
same rank as Royal tennis, racquets, or
even fives, from all of which strenuous
and. sporting forms of athleticism it has
derived something.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Bud-G.”: The recent rise in hides has
sent up the price of saddles as well as boots.
Yet should the hide market drop, there s
no chance of saddlers any more than boot-
makers taking part in the fall. Time was
when a £5 saddle was an almost unheard-
of luxury for a bushman; nowadays a
saddler can’t open his mouth under a tenner.
*$ ■ *
“R.O’H.” The average cost of a passage
to England on a “Bay” ship is £4O, and a
passenger occupies approximately 320 cubic
feet of space, sufficient for 40 tons of
cargo. The freight rate is £3 per ton,
hence 40 tons of cargo would return £l2O
as against £4O received from a passen-
ger, from which has to be deducted wages
for cooks, stewards, etc., plus cost of provi-
sions. In view of the foregoing facts, it
looks possible that a Government-owned and
-controlled line might be made to pay if only
cargo boats were allowed to operate.
* * * *
“Carel”: America can’t lay claim to all
the business hustlers. Recently, the very day
after the announcement of her husband’s
death, a widow in Sydney received a letter
from a firm of dealers in old ware, asking
permission to inspect, and make an offer
for, the deceased man’s clothing and arti-
ficial teeth !
“Meridian”: There had been a very
damaging fire in a country town and the
insurance eo., having found no evidence
whatever to justify their suspicions that it
was not entirely accidental, had coughed up
handsomely. Weeks later an old chap who
used to be the caretaker of the building
where the fire started strolled into the office
and one of the clerks put a feeler. “Pretty
good fire on those premises of yours?” “My
oath!” agreed the other almost enthusiasti-
cally. “They must ’ave lit it on all four
sides, it burned so beautifully even!”
“Bret Vane”: The A.W.U. was once
associated in most minds mainly with
shearers. Here is the list of industries now
covered: Pastoral, agricultural, viticultural,
dairying, fruit-growing, sugar-growing,
rabbit-trapping, timber and sawmilling,
afforestation, silviculture, meat industry,
roadmaking, water and sewerage and rail-
way construction, mining, smelting, coal-
mining, stone-quarrying, land-surveying, fish-
cleaning, netmakirig, fish-trawling, coppei-
bar making, soap and candles, butterine and
margarine, drugs, chemicals and gases, blue,
toys (wooden), paper-making, vegetable-oil
extraction, tea-packing, laundry work and
firemen.
“Ula”: Farthings are being utilised for
advertising purposes by Melbourne shop-
keepers. Gilded and displayed in windows
they look sufficiently like sovereigns to focus
attention. The attraction, of course, is
that customers who buy something labelled
three-farthings receive one of these coins in
change. I have heard of one of these gilded
farthings being successfully palmed off as
a sovereign, which suggests that it is up to
the authorities to discourage the debasing—
what else is it? —of British coinage in this
fashion.
“W.P.D.”: About 6,560,0001 b. of kapok,
valued at £387,689, was imported into Aus-
tralia from Java and the Dutch East Indies
last year, and another 1,000,0001 b., worth
£55,000, came from other sources. The stuff
comes in duty free, although it is grown and
picked by cheap colored labor, possibly under
insanitary conditions. Snap or stripped
cotton can be used for any purposes for
which kapok is now employed, such as
mattresses and pillows, and is in many re-
spects preferable. Queensland cotton-growers
are going to have a bad time this season on
account of the Australian mills being un-
able to take more than a small proportion of
t’-3 crop. A reasonable import duty on
kapok would give them a chance of selling
a good deal of their cotton of lower quality
at a payable price, but with kapok duty
free, they must needs export it for anything
it will bring.
❖ 5c * ❖
“Bon Jour”: “Whaffor” (B. 2/5/’2S)
asks why the difference in prices in Austra-
lia and London for Australian butter. The
reason is that the Australian dairy-farmer
has to pay wages in conformity with a high
standard of living, heavy freight charges,
etc., and he must get a price that will
repay him for the cost of production. The
nearest he can get to this is on his local
market; any surplus must be exported to
London or elsewhere, and offered at competi-
tive prices. Hence the article is cheaper in
London than Sydney. The London price is
nowhere near the cost of production to the
farmer, but it is obviously, better to accept
it than to dump the butter outside Sydney
Heads, which is the only alternative.


\*Your skin Sore
& Ouf-of-CondiNon?
WHATEVER your skin trouble you can rely upon
Zam-Buk to put you right. If you have any soreness,
irritation, itching or “breaking out,” anoint the place gently
with this splendid herbal balm. If it is an ulcer, scald or a
bad sore, spread Zam-Buk on a piece of lint and cover up.
So highly-refined is this herbal Zam-Buk that it readily
soaks through the tiny pores of the skin into underlying
tissues. Zam-Buk thus gets at the roots of' eczema, psoriasis
and ulcers, where ordinary fatty ointments are ineffectual.
The regular use of Zam-Buk makes the whole skin healthy.
Zam-Buk soon stops pain and irritation, it subdues inflam-
mation, kills and excludes poisonous germs, and grows new,
healthy skin. For cuts, bums, scalds, chapped hands,
poisoned wounds, ulcers, scalp diseases, bad legs, piles, etc.,
Zam-Buk is unequalled. Rub it in for muscular rheumatism
and cold-on-the-chest.
Bill
The Great Herbal Balm
For SKIN DISEASES & INJURIES
a.
1
->7).
1
7/
a
r
Get a box of the Zam-Buk soothing
and healing halm to-day. Price 1/6 or
3/6 family size. Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap, 1/- a cake, 2/10 box of three.
Of all dealers and stores.
FREE TRIAL!
Have you had your Free Samples
of Zam-Buk Balm and Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap? If not, send name and address to
Messrs, C. E. Fulford (Avis.), Ltd., Sydney. {Mention
Bulletin 16/5/’28.)
erino't
ways
W"
w
i
. i
MERINO-KNIT
MENS SWEATERS
AND CARDIGANS
'T/ose Golf ‘TJose
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS PTY.LTD.,COLLINGWOOD.VICTORIA
Ask your Mercer
for'Merino-Knil"
Garments
Such freedom of move-
ment ! So snug and com-
fortable, so smart in colour
and shape, so reliable and
durable in wear. In fact,
you will find every satisfac-
tion in "Merino-Knit”
Woollen Sports Garments
and Hose.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE.
Australia’s Popular Science Periodical. APRIL-JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
Contents — At Leading Book Stores and Museum.
Glimpses of Nature in Central Australia.
A Visit to the Mines described by T. Hodge Smith.
Ravages by Marine Animals on our Wharf Structures.
Describing the Life of the Tape Worm, Taenia solium.
A Charming Review of Visits by Museum workers.
Their forms and uses.
THROUGH THE LAND OF LITTLE RAIN...
THE IvINGSGATE MOLYBDENITE MINES
WAR AGAINST PESTS
\N UNWELCOME GUEST OF MAN
BURRAGORANG VALLEY AND BEYOND
ABORIGINAL AXES
COIjONG CAVES A descriptive story.
The Articles are all splendidly illustrated. PER COPY, ONE SHILLING.
To help forward this phase of the educational work of the Museum an appeal for Annual Subscribers
is made. Per annum —-Posted —4s. 4d.
MUSEUM ILLUSTRATED NATURE POSTCARDS. 30 Charming Studies in color of our Australian
Birds. Per Set of 5, with explanatory booklet, Is. Id. Complete Series, posted, 6s. 2d.
JOHN JAMEfON
-¥■ * *
WHISKEY
JOHN jameson * * * Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method —as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference!
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited .... Melbourne Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co. Perth, W.A.


Under
Royal
Warrant
e
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck
ism
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
wr
CHAMpACHt
Otirlesllcidsied^
HEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrsnts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ Mum.” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
è
é
ê
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
The centre of Querns /onc/&
of/sbngufsh&c/ Soc/o/
motel
BRISBANE
ë
Magnificent
room. Palm
B a 11-
Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attaenea. Hot ana cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Tele atoms and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Liner
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
Mr. Pratten, the Federal Minister who
died suddenly last week, was a brother-in-
law of Percy Spence, a contemporary of
Streeton and Longstaff, and as a black-and-
white illustrator the creator of many pretty
fluffy women. They married daughters of
Mr. J. P. Wright, who sat in the State’s
Arbitration Court when that body was an
interesting experiment.
Sixty years ago a gentle old saint
dreamed a vision of architectural glory to
the Lord. The dreamer was Archbishop
Polding, his vision St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Now the sermon in stone is rounded off;
its spires are notes of admiration of the
heavens to which they point. On Sunday,
September 2. the , opening of the completed
cathedral will take place, three days before
the opening of the Eucharistic Congress.
Every archbishop and bishop of Australia and
Maoriland will be in the throng of richly
vestmented prelates. The completed St.
Mary’s will be 850 feet long by SO feet
wide. The central tower will be 127 feet
high; and the front spires rise 232 feet.
The names of Archbishop Vaughan, Car-
dinal Moran and Archbishop Kelly, and of
the architect, W. W. Wardell, are for ever
linked with one of Sydney’s proudest boasts.
Sybil Thorndike says that Maude Hoyden
is her ideal speaker because of “beautiful
diction, sincerity, learning and a marvellous
gift of shaping words,” and America’s Jane
Addams declares her “the greatest and wisest
woman in England.” Well, this prodigy
arrives in Sydney at the end of the month.
At half-past twelve on the 30tli she is to
be welcomed over a chop at the Wentworth
and at three she gives her first lecture in
King’s Hall. Though she’s a frail and lame
little. woman, it is claimed that authority
radiates from her even as from Mussolini.
The executive of her welcome committee in-
cludes the Premier, a bishop, the City’s Chief
Commissioner, a canon, the Vice-Chancellor
of the University and Henry Braddon.
A tiny pink creature—from a Pavlova
ballet, it would seem—was blown on a gust
of music into the very heart of the Sym-
pathy Ball. On a shiny and spreading ex-
panse of floor she shook out her sugar-
plum frills, toyed with her parasol and
spattered the whole show with a few dimpled
curtseys. She was a pretty creature, a little
girl who could see the dazzling lights and
hear the music to which she- danced, yet
other things she will never see, nor will she
hear or speak.
The Vice-Regal's were welcomed to this
hall by the Chief Justice Streets. The one
deb. blushed her way to the Governor and his
lady, to whom she was presented by debonair
Bertie Lloyd, Brig.-General and now poli-
tical aspirant. But something tore a hole
in the Personality dance wiiicli was to have
been a feature of the evening. At the
eleventh hour the ranks were thinned, though
with the excuses that fluttered in came the
salve of neat cheaues. The - American Con-
sular Lawtons, Patricia Lempriere (Mel-
bourne) and Gladys Moncrieff of the dewy-
morning voice came after the theatre in a
charm of rosy frills. Rupert Markham,
Mrs. Osborne England and George Portus
helped launch the success.
The really grand achievement of the Uni.
Pageant was the programme. Within a
characteristic cover, on which a company of
jesters, lords, ladies and scpiires seemed about
to step into the racket of to-day, were 60
pages of clear type on beautiful art paper.
“A History of the Mask,” by Vice-Chancellor
Mungo MacCallum, was an effective opening
and the remainder of the pages was con-
sumed with a list of who’s-who in the merry-
making, a summary of this particular Mask
by Le Gay Brereton and advertisements of
an academic flavor. These last bore £5OO
worth of fruit, and Mrs. Von Tiedemann and
Mrs. W. H. Drew, the canvassers, are going
around with a feeling under their hats as
satisfying as a permanent wave. The Mask
as described, by Lt; Gay Brereton was a
lavish and Magnificent spectacle; At a cost
ol’. say, £50,000, Oscar Aselie find Cecil de
Mille could have made it look as he made
it Sound.
The really and truly nicest bit was when
the Colleges and the Faculties, with banners
flying, walked the length of the Great Hall
and flowed up the stone steps to spread the
cloak of their loyalty under the feet of their
Alma Mater. The amethystine robes and
mediaival head-dress of, Alma Mater were
inhabited by Alathea Solomon. Her lilies
were the dazzling pendant of an otherwise
blurred necklace of words.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite arrived at
the Pageant too late to get a programme.
Her description of what she saw is entirely
without prejudice,
First of all a gold and black cabinet was carried
in, and out of it popped, just as neat as a Tivoli
conjuring turn, Clio, a nice-looking young woman
who was the Muse of History. She had thousands
and thousands of words to say, and whenever there
was a stop long enough she took a rest on a throne
high up and away at the back of the stone dais—
just below the great end window. This throne made
a universal appeal. It was Gothic as to chair,
Egyptian as to canopy and Taronga as to the lions
that sported thereon. There was not so much action
as words in Clio’s part, but she handed them out
in the clear, straightforward manner of the young
Australian girl who feai-s no foe.
Then there was r ii black-out, and a student of
the future, who looked as though she’d strayed from
to-night’s vaudeville, dashed on, seductive in blue and
goldj shorts and patent-leather hair, and sounding as
though she was trying to make up for all the
latchkeys never owned by great-grandmother, granny
and mother. However, at. the end a mere male
student of the present day proved to her that waists
will always, be worn in the same place and indicate
the same methods of attack.
After that the scene flashed to the zoo, where
primeval man lived, and the lady near me explained
that it was the way the first artist looked. I mused
on artists I know and believed her.
The next thing was an Egyptian freeze. This
consisted of a lot of Gyppos looking as if they were
practising six different ways of taking a tip;
also Egyptians juggling with vases kindly loaned
by the Crematorium Co., Ltd.
A nice old gentleman, too, Socrates, roamed on;
but after one glance around he decided that life
was just as little worth living in a.d. 1928 as in
428 b.c., so swallowed a goblet of bootleg whisky
and thudded to the floor. Two medical students
quickly removed the body.
Sappho and a regular schopl-crocodile trickled in.
I used to think Sappho started the first correspond-
ence school of poetry, but she evidently ran a
dancing academy. All her pupils danced front-stage
while she intoned a poem—evidently inspired by
a falling off in fees and a wet week-end by the
/Egean.
A nice girl came on in answer to the cue “Hy-
patia,” but there was some quick dirty work at
the crossroads and on a shuddersome scream she too
joined' the company of They Went. After that
there was a party given by a Mr. Lorenzo, called
the Magnificent for short. He seemed to move
among the best people, including somebody in a cloak
who might have been George Lambert when he was
better looking—if ever. Queen Elizabeth of England
looked in to pass a half-hour between executions
and gave dear old Bill Shakspeare and Raleigh and
Kit Marlow a (certificate of merit.
And still the piano kept on, so various knights
and ladies of the Court, although many of them
hadn’t even time to change their everyday Beef-
eater ruffs, footed a measure. The piano kept on,
saying- as insistently as the gang-plank man on
the Quay: “Mind your heads,' plaise! Mind your
heads!”
Hollywood studio presents Mrs. Harold
Weigall. who was known to war-time Syd-
ney as Hilda Caro, of the cameo-like profile,
and the most successful raider of the public
purse who ever held up Sydney traffic with
a collection-
box. Her pre-
sent activity is
for the Royal
Hospital for
Wom e n at
Paddington,
for which she
is organising
a bridge and
mah - jongg
afternoon in
David Jones's
new rooms on
.Tune 1. No
fewer th a n
750 bridge
players are-
being catered
for, but with
the light of
battle in her
eye the lady
in the picture
says she could easily have secured a thou-
sand. Premier, Bavin’s wife and Mrs. Arthur
Allen j are working hard for the same func-
tion.
Theatrical managements are always ex-
perimenting with novelties to tickle the taste
of a jaded public. “Princess Charming”
has one in the curious finish of the acts,
upon which the curtain comes unexpectedly
without a definite climax. As a matter of
fact, it didn’t come at all in tlie last act
on the opening night. Comedy-king Leslie
Holland had no sooner pronounced his bless-
ing upon the pair of lovers, formerly victims
of his displeasure, before the stage was
invaded by bearers of flowers, who, in this
novel way, proclaimed the satisfactory finish.
The idea might not succeed in a play with
less alluring circumstance; but the new
arrival, Kathryn Reece, charmed rather than
sang her way into the hearts of her audh
ence; and there are collective flashings ot
swords and musical numbers with a martial
lilt which form a satisfying background to
other romantically sentimental songs.
Although it Created nothing like the turbu-
lence of applause that welcomed “Rose
Marie,” “Princess Charming” looks like the
winner of a very fair stake.
“At every party not only every young
man, but, unfortunately, every young woman,
too, carried a hip flask,” Australia’s late
Commissioner in the U.S.A., Hugh Denison,
told the Sun on his arrival home the other
day. Perhaps he was too bashful to tell
everything—or, perhaps again, he didn t
know: how could he? These girls' hip-
flasks have been steadily growing in favor
for two years past. They are made of the
finest “silk rubber,” and are always _ sold
and worn in pairs. They are charmingly
carved, the hips of the Venus de Hollywood
being the model upon which they are made.
In all the most delicate shades, such as
whisky breath and champagne tone, they can
be obtained the exact nuance of the most
filmy lingerie. They are responsible for the
continued popularity of the Charleston; for,
should a hip-flask slip, a girl can unob-
trusively shake it into place. So long as
the hip flask remains in fashion, the Charles-
ton will never die. How do they get at
them? “What’s your idea in bringing that
up?” as the other Black Crow asked.
After four years’ hard work in England
Clifford Lathlean is busy repatriating him-
self. Before leaving Sydney the melodic
basso was
assistant t o
Roland Foster
at the Con.;
now lie is set-
ting up for
himself at the
same old Mac-
quarie - street
address, where
he will give
his fi rs t re-
cital on the
22nd —Tues-
day night.
While in Eng-
land he studied
with Plunkett
Green, and
took parts in
two musical
comedies. Con-
cert work and
private engage-
ments (when will Sydney hostesses rise
to the heights of paying real money for real
music at their parties?) more than paid the
expenses of his trip. The, young man brought
a voice of unusual charm originally from
South A us.
Wunderlich, only son of Dr. and Mrs.
Eva Wunderlich, was married in a whirl
early last week. The girl of his choice was
Ruth Audrey Sundin, of Tonga, and the affair
started when Theo was at King’s and Ruth
a schoolgirl. Theo had got a job in Tonga,
so he thought he might as well take his
bride with him. On Friday they decided,
and on Monday the wadding chimes rang out
from four-square old St. James. There
was time to summon only a few intimate
friends to the church and the reception, but
the winsome bride slipped up the aisle in a
frock and veil fashioned seemingly of moon-
light and mist. Sister-in-law Mrs. Sundin,
who might have been mistaken for a baby
petunia, followed the bride to the altar;
there was toasting later at the Mary Eliza-
beth.
About 40 more family friends answered
Mrs. Wunderlich’s coo-ee to come to the
Australia for a grand farewell tea-drinking
last Friday-—the couple sailed for Suva on
the Saturday. Mrs. Bryant, the bridegroom’s
grandmother, slim and rosy in blue-grey
frocking, helped Mrs. Eva Wunderlich to
entertain. The only male in the gathering
until five o’clock was General Antill, who
spread himself impartially among the ladies
—the dash of Gruyere amid the cream puffs.
Nancy Marsden, the pretty and clever sing-
ing niece of the Spencer Bruntons, who gave
her talents to the furthering of many Syd-
ney causes, will be married in London on
the 21st to Dr. Calvert, an Irishman who
plies his profession in London. The wedding
will take place in All Souls’ Church and
mother is holding the reception at the Lang-
ham. Over 200 invitations have been sent
out to the Australian girl’s friends in Lon-
don alone. Meantime Nancy and mother
have a flat at 7 Park-place, St. James’s,
S.W. In October Mrs. Marsden comes back
to Australia.
The eleventh-hour change-over from the
Royal to Her Majesty’s has caused the hard-
worked committee for the Havilah matinee
to tear out its hair in handfuls, thus retard-
ing the disappearance of the shingle in our
midst by at least two months. Church and
State are taking an equal hand in this C.
of E. charity show on Thursday. As soon
as the vieeregals have been piped to their box
Dr. Micklem will speak on the work of
Havilah and then Prudence Vanbrugh (with
her stocking on) will recite to music home
to Me, Ye Children.” In the interval ot the
comedy “Belinda,” Premier Bavin, it tin-
health continues to improve, will speak tne
committee’s piece of thanks to Irene \ an
brugh, at the same time handing over an
address of appreciation. As the curtain rises
for the last time the whole audience, fol-
lowing Lady de Chair’s lead, will fling on
to the stage the shoulder posy it mn
lately purchased from the Italian brigands
who' will pervade the premises. As the
stems of the posies are to be bound m tin-
foil, the effect, it is claimed, will be as a
“shower of silver rain.”
The Kirribilli Yacht Club is darning up
the holes in its verandah awnings and on the
25th the first dance of the winter will be
held at its picturesque club house.
Sydney folks of the last generation will
remember Sita Devi, who a few weeks back
was awarded £lOOO a year, from the Mahara-
jah of Tikari, to whom she was married m
Calcutta in 1906. She was know to the Syd-
ney stage as Elsie Forrest, and made her
debut on the night that introduced Mrs.
Hugh Ward as a singer to Sydney audiences.
The company, known as the World’s Enter-
tainers, was at the then new Palace Theatre,
and Mrs. Hugh Ward sang in the darkness
songs that were illustrated on a screen with
lantern slides; something very new to this
city then. Elsie, a lissome creature, her
dark hair wound in a heavy plait about each
ear, was the night’s solo dancer; she wore a
violet outfit the exact tone of the eyes that
were the outstanding feature of her beauty.
Later on travelling Australians came back
filled with the vision of her splendid dress-
ing at Colombo, where she stayed for some
time with her rajah. Just before the war
she returned to Sydney and put up at the
Australia. Her Indian secretary and her
lasso of pearls, her arms laden from wrist
to elbow with emeralds and diamond brace-
lets, caused a loud gasp of amazement
whenever she appeared at the theatre.
The journalists of Sydney are blooming
into their first ball. It will be held at the
Wentworth on June 30, and the profits are
to be devoted to the Australian Journalists’
Association Benevolent Fund. Competitions
for the most novel and the prettiest paper
costumes will be a feature of the night. The;
State vice-regals are patronising the flutter,
which they will probably attend. Chief-
Justice Street’s lady is president of the
committee, of which the most strenuous
worker is penwoman Mrs. Liddell.
Mrs. George Vivers, who has been in Lon-
don for the past two years, will be back
in Sydney before the end of the month.
Wynne Whear Roberts, one of Sydney’s
best known amateur actresses made her
curtsey to the professional stage-world, as
Mistress Quickly, with the Allan Wilkie
company on Saturday night in “The Merry
Wives of Windsor.” Wynne has put in good
spade work with the Repertory Society Play-
box and Players’ Club, and has had much
praise for her recent performance of Rosa-
lind with the Shakspeare Society at the
Conservatorium.
Justice Alexander Gordon, the just-retired
senior Puisne Judge, goes off to England
to rejoin his wife and young son and daugh-
ter. They left Australia about four years
ago in search of English and Continental
polish for the offspring. The boy, very
staunch to his native land, put a poser on-'
day to his mother. She had remonstrated
with him about his “Australian” way of say-
ing certain words. “Well, mother,” be said
thoughtfully, “father is a Scotchman and he
has a Scotch accent; you are Welsh and you
say yourself you have a Welsh accent ; I’rn
Australian, so why can’t I have an Aus-
tralian accent?”
Cavalier Mario Carosi, lately Italian con-
sul in Sydney, takes to the same billet in
Melbourne the best wishes of this water-
front. Slim, youthful looking, one of Mus-
solini’s highest of highbrows in the diplo-
matic service, always groomed to a hair and
courteous to the least important callers, Con-
sul Carosi made friends with heaps of harbor-
siders who don’t know Mussolini from a bar
of Italian opera.
Kincoppal, which is the little sister to
Rose Bay Convent, and Loreto Convent at
Kirribilli chose the same night for their
ex-students’ foregaitherings. So both the
Wentworth, where the Loreto girls floated
their sequins and velvets, and the Ambassa-
dors, where the Kincoppals danced for the
benefit of St. Mary’s building fund, had a
back-to-childhood night; dropping their air
of cynical appraisement, they put on that
schoolgirl complexion for the evening. At
the Wentworth the wife of Chief City Com-
missioner Fleming received the young things
in a glitter of silver lame.
In the London taxi that drove Mr. and
Mrs. Lebby to Tilbury the returning Aus-
tralians left a handbag. Its contents were
made up of money and jewellery. And (no.
this is not a fairy story) immediately the
taxi-driver discovered it he drove with it to
Scotland Yard, and the bag was duly sent
to its owners without a hair of its head being
touched.


A. SAUNDERS’
QUALITY” JEWELLERY
SPECIALLY-SELECTED DIAMONDS.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS’
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring,
£l5
I®#®"
A. SAUNDERS’
5 Diamonds,
Oeta gon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
a
Sr*
a»
00
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wrist Watch,
fully jewelled Lever movement, Silk Band,
£3
GUARANTEED.
er.o
A. SAUNDERS’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Elgin Lever
Strap Watch,
£5/10/-
Luminous Dial, £6/10/-
Smaller size, 9ct. Gold, £B/10/*
Luminous Dial, £lO
ALL GUARANTEED.*
A?
A^AUIABfcKS^'-^
Js>
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£6/10/- .
GUARANTEED.
Other fancy shapes—
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster
set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£3O
Larger Diamond,
£4O.
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£65
A. SAUNDERS’
2 Diamonds,
__ Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£5O
1 oi m
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, set
Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
XJU £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5/10/-to £12/10/- £95
WE PAY POSTAGE WRITE FOR FREE GIFT BOOK.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
0
Bra© piv©s
radlain^
Nothing makes you look so vivid, so worth
looking at, as that inner radiance of perfect health.
It sparkles in your eyes. Sets fresh roses bloom-
ing in your cheeks. All the creams and
powders in the world won’t do as much for
your looks as the morning glass of ENO.
Especially is this true in Winter, when
you cannot take all the exercise you
should, and the surf is only a
memory. ENO helps your body,
gently and naturally, to free
itself of the poisonous
waste o f yesterday.
Keep the sunshine
of health with you
-—start the day
with ENO!
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, LTD.
London, England.
i
♦ *
Sales exigents: The
British Harold F.
Ritchie Si Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IN
TWO SIZES
at Chemists
and Stores
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT” AND ENO AND THE LABEL ON THE PACK AG 15
ARE THE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF J. C. ENO, LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ē
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiased
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
5 travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir
f Next G.P.0.).
m
bSv
/ ■'
f sw
*
B sn
3
• / > ;||
K
M »awßi
: | 1M
~js_ -4
1 7
V
&t«f
'•>
. o
%?v<-
1
:. i,M
y
-;l
IfeJ
. 1 .J
•*:•.* ...jjßfc is
*
: -A I
<<f- { ;p
HOME. !
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
162-6 PITT STREET,
v ran ernes ;
OR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET.
(Next. Regent Theatre).
i SYDNEY.


Cable, Wireless
and Tclefiraphio
Address:
u Austrdotel,
Sydney”
-3J
be
cGo’toottefv
—the memories of a stay at The
Australia” • the splendor of its
appointments, the gay crowds and
brilliant social life, the many unex-
pected comforts and pleasures . . •
Yet a notable moderation of tariff
reigns throughout, as our rate-card
indicates. Please write jor it.
UPEnEilgalrai
Capital Paid-up, £ 1)22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
/ The weather promised no favors for the
rowing of the Head-of-tlie-River heats on
Friday. Rain descended steadily on Thursday
evening, and mackintoshes and goloshes were
got ready by prudent barrackers. But our
weather seldom behaves as expected, and
on the day there were not only no showers,
but the sun showed itself at intervals. The
wind blew cold, but not cold enough to daunt
the spirits of the great crowd on the
banks of the canal. Yards of gaily-colored
streamers fluttered everywhere, mascots of
all sorts were brandished, and the groupings
of school caps looked from Prince's Bridge
like beds of blossoms, blue, purple and red.
Motor-cars in thousands flanked the course,
and car-horns added to the roar of human
voices that spurred onward the contestants.
The supporters of Xavier, Scotch apd Wesley
Colleges, Whose crews were left to fight out
the final the following day, achieved especially
astonishing things in the matter of vocal
volume.
A crowd of 70,000 saw Xavier win. The
weather was cold and threatening, with rain
and hail at lunch-tiihe, but at three o’clock
there was a clear spell, and the spectators
were' able to concentrate their attention on
the race. Xavier’s dead-heat with Scotch
in 1919 was the nearest the college had
hitherto come to winning the title, but on
this occasion, sustained by the reflection that
this is their school's jubilee year, the lads in
black and red vanquished their old rivals
amid tumultuous enthusiasm. At night every
theatre gave some recognition to the day’s
great rowing event —even at the King’s,
where Bernard Shaw’s “Getting Married”
was having a first performance, Wesley’s
colors adorned the wedding cake. The pub-
lic dancing resorts were crowded, and many
of the school-boys and -girls accepted invi-
tations from hostesses who gave private
hops. Among those who entertained young
folk were the George Russells. whose Toorak
home was gay with bright lights and lilting
music on Friday night.
The at-home of the Old Xaverians at St.
Kilda Town Hall on Friday night was a
really jolly affair. The school's jubilee was
being celebrated; its crew had won its heat
in the Head-of-the-River contest, and hopes
—very well founded as events proved —ran
high for the morrow. The St. Xavier colors,
red and black, were twined among dull-
green lanterns and over 200 couples jazzed.
Guests of honor were Father Frost, the Rec-
tor, .T. E. Cooke, president of the associa-
tion, Mrs, Cooke, whose black gown glim-
mered with opalescent garniture, Kathleen
Cooke, in pink enriched with silver lace, and
lion. sec. M. Schrader and his wife, the
latter in apricot taffeta with gold lace.
Frank Boileau represented Old Geelong Col-
legians, and Mrs. Boileau accompanied him,
glistening in black and silver sequins. The
dancers were mostly of the younger set, and
there were scores of charmingly-arrayed
maidens.
Boatrace crowds made the Theatre Royal
their rendezvous on Saturday night, and the
house wore a gala dress of garlands, with
masses of white and maroon chrysanthe-
mums piled in front of boxes and d.c.,_ and
balloons fluttering everywhere. An outrigger
decked with the colors of the winners
spanned the top of the proscenium, and a
model skiff marked the centre of the d.c.
The performance of “The Girl Friend” was
supplemented by cinema films of the Ilead-
of-the-River race. Stalls and circle having
been booked weeks ahead, many important
folk had to sit with the gods, amongst these
being Judge Detli ridge, the Newton Lees of
Geelong, Mrs. George Shaw arid the Sam
Whiteheads, all with parties of young people.
Knight Frank Clarke, Justice Mann, Mrs.
Theo Marks’ and Mr. Hartigan >vcre the far-
seeing holders of boxes, and Mrs. Osborne,
Maude Jeffries of stage fame that was, was
also one of those who booked early.
The interior of His Majesty’s has been
done over in green and gold for the grand-
opera season and the lighting has been sub-
dued to a soft golden glow which treats all
complexions nicely—a thoughtful detail in
which the Melba touch is discernible. The
final rehearsal of “Aida” on Friday night
had quite a big audience, arid the dressing
of the piece evoked many murmurs of envy
arid admiration. The stage crowds—2so
performers occupy the boards in some scenes
—were well handled.
Geelong didn’t become Head-of-the-River,
but the town got some reflected glory on the
night of the great race through the ovation
accorded to its most distinguished Menor
John Brownlee, .who, as Amonasro, King* ot
Ethiopia, in “Aida,” took a special call at the
end of the second act. The opening of the
Williamson-Melba opera season was auspic-
ious. The audience took its entertainment
seriously, and applause that conflicted with
the music was sternly repressed. The wealth
of giant chrysanthemums Sand winter blooms
that was waiting for the principals at the
final curtain made its appearance after the
Anthem, which was hastily played to wind
tip a. very late evening, and the effect of the
tribute was rather upset. Lady Somers s
tiara lit up the d.c. front row. and her pink
frock peeped ifrom beneath a gold-tissue coat
embossed with brown velvet; with her were
the Davidsons. Dame Nellie Melba, who was
given ’loud greeting on her appearance in
her box, was in white, with a chinchilla
collared silver coat. Commcndatore and
Donna Grossardi and Major Henty were in
her party. Next door was Toti dal Monte,
wrapped in an ermine coat. The roadway
in front of His Majesty’s was a compact
mass? of Rolls-Royces',' Packards, Daimlers
and other opulent petrol-waggons, and all
Melbourne society seemed Mb be struggling
at the portals. Mrs. Albert Miller, Mrs.
George Blackwood and Hubert Miller were
in the d.c.; also John Longstaff, Florrie
Green and her sister Mrs. Rolls, the last-
named smart in a black- and gold-embroid-
ered gown. The Norton Grimwades and
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Napier were in a
box, and another box housed the Geoffrey
Syme family. Professor A. E. Richardson,
from Adelaide, with his wife, Avho was a
gleam of silver, and Mayor and Mayoress
Morell, with Sheila, were in the throng, and,
of course, John Lemmone, without whom no
show in which Melba is interested would be
complete, was there to beam upon the suc-
cess of the new venture.
The dressing is a big feature of "The
Laughing Optimist,” which opened at the
Athenaeum on Saturday night. The comedy
is of American extraction, but many of the
gowns bear the Bondistreet cachet and were
worn in the London production. Stella
Francis, as a bride-elect, wears lemon-
yellow georgette with insertions of gold lace
amid accordeon pleats, topped by a dinky
little, coat in unison, and a gold lace hat.
For the wedding she dispenses with veil and
train, a wreath of orange-buds top-dressing
her coiffure. Her panniered frock of deep
ivory satin shows glimpses of silver lace,
with gold bands, A gleaming beaded and
sequinned evening gown is part of her trous-
seau. V Frances Dillon’s auburn thatch
chimes harmoniously with a deep apricot
taffeta and silver lace frock, with which is
associated a huge feather fan. Later she
dons a beige lace robe shadowed under a
picture hat that looks like a tropical sunset.
She also introduces something novel in ombre
chiffon velvet evening cloaks. Mary Brack-
ley’s wardrobe, fabricated in Melbourne by
Marie Jeanne, includes a very fetching amber
georgette frock, worn under a coatee of
metal tissue and topped by a turbaned toque
dangling a feather. The Old Scotch Col-
legians commandeered the d.c.
K
This is our Dr. Bowman, who at Scots
Chu r c h
last Wednes-
day evening-
linked her
fortunes with
those of Dr.
J. R. Williams
—his brass-
plate’ hangs
opposite that
of his bride in
Collins - street.
Dr. Bowman
graduated at
the Uni., and
was for a time
on the staff of
Melbourne
Hospi t a 1.
Later she went
to Trinity Cpl-
-1 eg e, Dublin,
-and won a
m u c h - prized
degree of that
institution’s great medical school. Now
the Queen, Victoria Hospital has the benefit
of her professional assistance. There was
a gleam of gold in her bridal gown of ivory
georgette over lame, and her little cousin
Gwynneth Harding was guardian of a train
lavishly strewn with embossed lilies; Dr.
Anne Macleod, as maid of honor, and the
bridegroom’s sister Editli had garnishings
of gold lace on billows of amber ninon. Mr.
and Mrs. A. N. A. Bowman entertained the
company at the Oriental. The bride, their
only daughter, will continue in practice. Alice
Miils made the picture.
Many Melbourne citizens of Danish birth
attended the performance of Gounod’s “Faust”
at the Princess to lend support to their
countrywoman, Margherita Flor, who took
the role of Marguerite, and the colors of
Denmark and Sweden floated from the pile
of bouquets and floral tokens handed to the
singer. Danish Consul Holdenson, Captain
Lyng, president of the Danish Club, and his
wife, and other folk of the same nationality
occupied two boxes, the Arnold Westleys
and the Barry Thomsons having parties of
guests on the opposite side of the stage. The
Premier and Mrs. Hogan, Mrs. H. S. K.
Ward and her daughter-in-law, and Mrs.
Herbert Brookes were other first-night
patrons.
The Stage of late has robbed bur social
circle of some of, its brightest _ ornaments,
and amongst the loot is Beatrice Fischer,
whose pensive face is here pictured by Dick-
inson Monteath. An only child and a favor-
ite of fortune,
there was yet
somethin g
lacking, and
she found it
on the stage.
Amateur
appearances
led to a Reper-
tory training,
followed by a
professional
plunge wi t h
the M o s c o-
vitch company
in “The Fake.”
Chance d e-
creed that she
should be
picked to play
a principal
part at an
hour’s notice,
and she acquit-
ted herself
well. Later slie created a favorable impres-
sion in the “Hamlet” matinees as the Player
Queen. A Melbourne girl, she is an offshoot
on her mother’s side of the Commans family,
old French residents. She is a keen horse-
woman and fond of games, and her one regret
is the loss of country life necessitated by a
stage career.
The Malvern-Armadale Auxiliary of the
Women’s Hospital reviewed its second year
of useful work at the home of the George
Langridges, Armadale. Mrs. T. A. Tabart
ruled over the meeting; and Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, as president of the hospital, gave
the auxiliary the institution’s thanks and
spoke of plans for. the future. The hostess,
who was instrumental in founding the aux-
iliary, poured tea for her fellow-workers,
and Bomola Hallenstein sang. Mayoress
Morell and Sheila, Mrs. James Alston and
Mrs. D. A. Skene were in the party.
The love adventures of Carmen, set to
music, filled the Princess on Saturday
evening. As the temperamental siren, Nina
Algozzino looked seductive in a blue shawl
garnished with roses, draped over a gay
frock. On the other side of the cur-
tain winter reigned, and half the girls were
cuddled into white bunny coats. _ Ronald
Ilillyard’s dark-haired wife sat in a box
sporting a toque of embroidered silver
tissue. Her neighbor showed a rose as big
as a wash-bowl on the back of her wrap.
Dr. Bill Boyd and his two sisters, Dr.
Georgina Sweet and the Arthur Scotts were
in the stalls, Mrs. Scott wrapped in pink
and black velvet.
J. Sutton Crow, of the Uni. Con., and his
wife assembled several members of the
musical profession at Melba Hall the
other night to talk over the formation of
a music-teachers’ association. Mrs. Herbert
Brookes took the opportunity to report the
progress of the Million-shilling Appeal on
behalf of a permanent orchestra, and Esther
Levy, hon. sec. of the movement, told what
the Junior Music-makers had done for the
cause. Editli Kennedy, Kathleen Pearce and
Jack Symons played pianoforte solos.
Air F'orce boys marched into Christ
Church, S. Yarra, in force to see Pilot-officer
Harold Seekamp, eldest son of the F. W.
Seekamps, of Hawthorn, take a flight into
the realm of matrimony. The bride, Stella,
daughter of the late J. O. Smith and Mrs.
Smith, Oak Grove, Brighton, was aflutter
with tulle frills, which climbed up to meet
a velvet bodice showing a slight frost of
silver, over which flowed a mist of veil.
Two of her sisters and the bridegroom's
sister Etliel formed a train of blue girls,
their flounced frocks of georgette being worn
with felt hats to match. There was more
blue —in decorations and uniforms—at No.
9 afterwards.
Marglierita Flor, the Danish operatic
singer whose sunny smile is winning her
many friends in this city, has fixed a
date with an English fiance in Calcutta.
They have agreed that her stage career is
not to be entirely sacrificed, aud she will
appear in opera during the Indian summer,
returning home for the winter seasons.
Angus McPhail’s daughter Lorna, who is
receiving congratulations on her engage-
ment to Charles Seaton, of the Muttaburra
squattage in Bananaland, has been per-
suadecl to name an early date, and her
friends have started the hunt for presents.
Mrs. Tom Clarke, of Quorn Hall, Tassy,
who is taking daughter Honda over to Lon-
don, where Commander Whitehorn is await-
ing’ the damsel with a wedding ring, was
kept busy during her stay in this city, all
her relatives being anxious to entertain
For a farewell luncheon Mrs. Robert Knox
mobilised several members of the family _ at
her Toorak home, which was decorated with
golden blossoms and autumn leaves. Frank
Clarke’s lady, Mrs. Landale, Mrs. Alister
Clark, Mrs. L. E. Hill, W. J. T. Clarke s
widow and daughter Wilma, Aileen Taylor,
Joan Clarke arid Mary Robertson were among
the lnnchers.
Mrs. A. E. Boyes, in black satin, and her
sister, Mrs. C. W. Nodrum, in daliiia-red.
had a tea-party at the Embassy during the
week in honor of Mayoress Morell, their
sister-in-law. Eileen Castles sang, and Mar-
iorie Stedeford and Charles Scrimshaw
danced. The Morell lady wore cigar-brown
georgette and lace, with millinery in har-
mony. The Best lady, Sheila Morell, Flo
Boyes, Mrs. W. M. Robins and Mrs. Charles
Tait were among the guests.
The home of Federal Attorney-Geneiul
J. G. Latham, at Malvern, housed a bridge
party on Wednesday to lend a helping hand
to the St. Martin’s and St. John's Boys’
Home. Mrs. Latham is president of the
Camberwell Auxiliary, which makes this
institution one of its charges, and, aided by
Mrs. H. C. Colville, Mrs. Grout aud Mrs.
A. G. Stephenson, she had no trouble in
tilling 70 tables. Sales of flowers, berries,
autumn foliage, sweets and cakes were
profitable side-lines.
The leading role at the coming-out dance of
Margaret, eldest daughter of the H. G. Allens
of Kew, was shared by Nona, only chick of
Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Riley, of the same
suburb. Holly, winter berries, autumn
foliage and chrysanthemums decorated the
reception-rooms and ballroom, and supper
was bathed in roseate, rays from pink shaded
candles that mingled with baskets, of carna-
tions. Lines of onyx and diamente sparked
on Mrs. Allen’s robe of black, and Mrs.
Riley wore draperies of lace of nut-brown
tone. Margaret Allen wore a simple
frock of white crepe; and her companion
sported many flounces of ivory tulle at-
tached to a bodice of velvet. Mrs. Stanley
Allen’s petunia gown sparkled with crystal.
Mrs. Poulteney Mein was there with
daughter Phyllis, whose frock of deep-pink
hue was embellished with pearl and crystal.
Lavender Stuart was a gleam of silver.
Margaret Bannerman, her fair hair and
fresh complexion set off by a close-fitting
black hat and bois-de-rose fur bordering the
collar of a black coat, was welcomed with
flowers and tea by the Women’s Automobile
Club one afternoon last week. The presi-
dent, Mrs. H. ,T. Robertson, gave the young
actress greeting, and Mr. and Mrs. Cecil
Parkes, songbird Molly Mackay and Mar-
garet Kerr furnished musical and elocu-
tionary entertainment.
The E.S.U. fraternised with Mr. and
Mrs. J. W. Cook and some other visiting
Americans at Scott’s the other afternoon,
and combined with the entente a welcome
home to Prof. Berry, lately returned from
an exploration of some of Uncle Samuel’s
broad domains. Prof. Osborne, as president,
greeted the guests.
The Y.W.C.A. has rented the two upper
floors at 155 Elizabeth-street as club rooms
for its ever-increasing membership. Here
Nora Jervis, the newly-engaged health direc-
tor, will teach the latest physical jerks, and
later on a gymnasium will be provided.
Mayor Morell gave the new quarters a cere-
monial opening on Wednesday afternoon,
when Dr. John Dale, Dr. Florence Cooper,
and Jean Stevenson, gen. sec., talked about
the association’s plans for the future. There
was a sports gathering in the evening, and
Frank Clewlow, the new Repertory director,
gave the girls some intellectual fodder in
a talk about modern drama.
Collectors for the Mayor’s Charity Fund
broke their fine record of last year on Flower
Day, raking in £3OOO, which beats last year s
tally by £5OO. Chrysanthemums and holly
made up the bulk of the floral merchandise,
and home-made jams and preserves were
peddled with relentless energy.
Free trips to Europe offered by certain
steamship companies to distinguished Uni.
students have been accepted by H. G. Poole,
M.Se., whose line is clinical research:
Frances Elizabeth Allan, who secured the
Nanson prize for maths, with her M.Sc.
degree this year ; and Miss B. Hitchcock.
M.A., who is on the teaching staff of Janet
Clarke Hall.
Mrs. George Blanch has received news
that daughter Mona, a graduate of Mel-
bourne Uni, whio has been dioing post-
graduate work in London, has qualified tor
a Fellowship of the Royal College of bur-
geons. It is probable that Dr. Blanch will
return and hang out a brass plate in her
home town; her late father was head ot
Melbourne Grammar School.


FOR PICNICS, LUNCHES & SUPPERS
Kraft Cheese is the clean and whole-
some cheese that cuts so easily into
smooth, golden slices for sandwiches.
IT IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold by weight or
in lib. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
m
m
ch
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Pty., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
THE SENSIBLE GIFT
The Gift that is always appreciated by
reason of the service it renders.
In giving an OMEGA you give more
than a watch, you
life-long
Omega
give
friend.
The Watch that never lets you down.
Legal Notice.
yO WILLIAM THOMAS COOPER for-
A merly of Rosebery in Tasmania whose
address is now unknown.
WHEREAS a. Citation lias issued out of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania in its
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction citing you
to appear and answer the Petition;? of your
wife Myrtle Florence Cooper praying for a
dissolution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion TAKE NOTICE that
unless within thirty days from the publica-
tion hereof you cause an appearance to be
entered in the Registry of the said Court
at Hobart to answer the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear and determine the
said charge your absence notwithstanding.
(L.s.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Albert G. Ogilvie,
Collins House, Collins Street,
Hobart in Tasmania,
Proctor for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
F STATE OF RICHARD BALDWIN
•*“* STAPLES late of Alstonville Rich-
mond River in the State of New South
Wales farmer deceased intestate.
The abovenamed intestate died in New
South Wales on the 7th May 1906 aged 64
years. Any person claiming to be related
to him is referred to the advertisement
appearing in this paper on May 9 and
should immediately communicate with:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Limited) the administrator of the estate
33-39 Hunter Street Sydney New South
Wales Australia.
Missing Friends.
TIM ANDERSON, late of Atherton Table-
J land, communicate Sister, Upper Barron.
Important, Policy not paid.
SYLCOT
CAMBRIC
HANDKERCHIEFS
for
MEN
HAVE MET WITH A WONDERFUL RESPONSE
in Great Britain. That is why you now have the opportunity
of seeing for yourselves the excellence of their quality and
the attractiveness of their appearance.
\
HANDKERCHIEFS
MAY NOW BE OBTAINED FROM MOSI
OF THE LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT]
THE COMMONWEALTH
SI. 2-48
SYLCOT LTD.,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
London Office s 35, Basinghall Street
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
__ The Countess of Kintore and Lady Hilda
Iveith-Falconer have been entertained at
Government House by Colonel and Mrs.
Campbell while Sir John and Lady Goodwin
were absent at Wide Bay. The Countess
has now departed for Tambourine Mountain
and Coochin Coochin, where she will stay
with the Bells. This station was the happy
hunting-ground of Edward P. when he was
in Queensland.
The Countess attended the races with the
Campbells, wearing black and white with
black ospreys in her hat. She had tea with
Pat O’Shea and his sister on the committee-
room verandah. Other racegoers were Mrs.
and Miss Gardiner, from Adelaide; Mrs.
Raymond Jones, in silver grey; and Ella
O’Shea, whose ashes-of-roses frock was worn
with a small felt hat. Many furs made their
appearance, as the weather is growing chilly,
and there was some rain.
The Goodwins were welcomed with bunt-
ing and cheers in Maryborough, and inspected
all the bowling-greens, golf-links and school
children obtainable. The Mayor and alder-
men entertained them at the Royal, and the
Country Women’s Association gave a ball.
One of the treats of the week has been
the performance of Alfred Hill's “Ilinemoa”
at the Exhibition Concert Hall. Brisbane
gave the Australian composer’s work a cor-
dial reception, and lapped up the choral sing-
ing and orchestration of the Austral Choir
with great appetite. Mr. Hill conducted and
Ted England lifted his fine robust voice as
the toliunga. Evelyn Grice’s clear soprano
was well suited to the part of Hinemoa. An
all-Australian programme included works by
Grainger, Percy Brier, E. R. B. Jordan,
Arthur Mason, Roy Agnew, Fritz Hart and
Dailey Scarlett, and George Sampson was
there to conduct his own vocal scena. In
the dress-circle Ella Strom, who is to marry
Percy Grainger, looked demure and rosy in
white brocade. E. R. B. Jordan introduced
her to the audience, and she stood up and
smiled upon us.
Several parties have been given for Ella
Strom, the Swedish poetess and painter, not-
ably one by the members of the Austral
Choir in the Ann Hathaway. Dr. Fowles
made a speech, and Mrs. R. G. Allen, Nance
Smith and Hilda Plobbs made music. Miss
Strom wore grey, girdled in vieux-rose, An-
other party was given by Barbara Sisley at
her studio, where a number of musical
people gathered about the Swedish lady
against a background of roses, and there
was more music-making, by Mabel Zillman,
Gladys _ Frost, Ted England, Fred Homer
and Eric Hayne. The throng included the
Priestle.vs, Llywelyn Lucas, Hal Eyre,
Dailey Scarlett and Arthur Boyle.
A well-known Maryborough resident, Mrs.
Eliza King, died recently at the age of 101.
: She was born in Yorkshire, where her mother
lived to be 105.
This bright girleen is Amy Noel, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Chandler, of Hill End,
who has been
awarded an
exhibition for
elocution by
the Trinity
College of
Music, Lo n-
don. The prize
is one of two
senior exhibi-
tions open to
compet i t i o n
throughout the
whole of the
Do minions
and India, and
is the first
award of t h e
kind to come
to this State.
Miss Chandler
was 15 when
she competed,
and is a pupil
of Nell Douglas-Graham. She has won
many prizes for Shakspearean recitations,
and at the A.N.A. competitions in 1928
was successful in a class in which there
were 60 entrants.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Ribbon counters did a great trade before
boatrace day. Vantage points in the park
were in great demand, and more cars and
motor-bicycles followed the race along
Mounts Bay-road than anybody dreamed
existed, but there were fewer launches.
G.B.C. won after an exciting finish with
Scotch College, making red and black’s third
successive win. A few hours later w e heard
of W.A.’s success on the Nepean River, so
it was a great day in the rowing world.
Count Filippini and his wife have given
two very successful recitals in the Town
Hall recently. The Count sang, tin! Count-
ess conducted, and their well-trained pupils
appeared in a programme of operatic music.
Costumes appropriate to the parts were worn
by the performers. The “Anvil Chorus”
earned special praise, and a delighted
audience produced many .floral offerings.
In a rose-tinted setting was the marriage
°f Bessie Durlacher to Keith Farrington.
The bride wore georgette of palest shell-
pink. gleaming with crystal, with a long
Court train and veil of old Spanish lace.
Freda Lunt and Peggy McDougall ’maided
in shrimp-pink with felt hats a tone lighter.
The • “Home of Peace” ball in Govern-
ment House ballroom was the week’s big
jazz. Some very original costumes were
sported, and an Old Dutch Cleanser set
bagged first prize.
Such a crowd has seldom been seen at any
Perth wedding as that at St. Patrick’s,
Hav-elock-street, when the church was a
bower of rosebuds and white chrysaritlic-
mums for the
marriage of
Doreen, the
eldest of the
James B r e n-
nans’ good-
lookingl batch
of daughters,
to Peter
Vigne, of Cey-
lon. The bride
wore gleaming
white satin,
cut in period
fashion and
embroidered in
pearls and
rhinestones; a
lovely veil of
Limerick lace
worn by the
bride’s mother
at her wedding
floated over a
silver-lame train adorned with water-lilies.
The four ’maids, sisters Norma and Kath-
leen, Judy James and Kathleen Oastieau,
were all in white, with frothy skirts of
silk net, tight-fitting satin corsages, lightly
embroidered in a four-leaf closer design, and
silver turbans. Hundreds pf guests made
merry afterwards in the Y.A.L. Hall. The
Oram a took the young couple to Colombo.
They will keep house on an estate some
miles from Kandy. Bardwell Clarke made
the portrait.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The swearing-in of our new Governor
on Saturday i-obbed the lawn at Morphett-
ville of many of its most notable habitues,
as the liner that brought him did not arrive
till noon. His Ex.’s large domestic staff
landed earlier, and appearances suggest
that the new arrival will shake things up
socially. His experience as A.D.C. to a
Governor-General ought to be an asset to the
new rubber-stamp, and if he is blessed with
a sense of humor he ought to enjoy himself.
Feminine Adelaide —the matronly section
at least —seems to have followed the example
of Melbourne and adopted black as a
livery. The vice-regal box at the Morphett-
ville course on both days of racing housed
Mrs. R. E. H. Hope, acting hostess for W. B.
Carr, and wives of committeemen. All wore
black coats and black felt hats. Mayoress
Bonython donned garb of inky hue to see the
Adelaide Cup run, and there has been a
tremendous increase in the number of black
silk stockings in circulation.
On Cup night there was a dance in the
new Burnside Hall, engineered by funds-
gatherers for the East Torrens branch of the
School for Mothers. The floor was crowded
and the financial return good, circumstances
which consoled the committee for a day so
busily occupied that members had no chance
of racegoing.
A civic reception was given to the Olym-
pic team, which arrived in the Naldera.
They made quite a large party, many of
the athletes being accompanied by their
wives.
The Free Kindergarteners’ queen competi-
tion wound itself up last week with a shivoo
at the Town Hall, where Mayoress Bony-
thon gave a picture to the Keith Sheridan
school, which polled most votes. All the
kindergarten babes and sucklings were there
with their parents, and there were rejoicings
over an addition of close on £l7O to the
bank balance.
Fred Beach and his better half motored
from Sydney last week to celebrate their
golden wedding in this city. At the recep-
tion gifts of gold wrnre numerous, and at the
family dinner gold coins were presented to
the guests. Mrs. Stanley Skipper, /the
Beaches’ only daughter, lives in Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Sky pilots of two sorts have visited us
lately. The annual Synod brought in a flock
of country clergymen and their wives, and
the Red Rose’s crew, Mrs. Miller and Capt.
Lancaster, followed by the great Hinkler,
have been the city’s guests of honor.
Mayor and Mayoress Wignall gave a re-
ception at the Town Hall to Mrs. Miller and
Capt. Lancaster, presenting a posy of scar-
let dahlias to the little flying lady. Mrs.
Miller braved the Strait in a light costume
and silk stockings, to her great discomfort.
The Cox Taylors, Tom Murdochs, J. W.
Evans and his lady, the whole aldermanic
strength of the city and numerous burgesses
rolled up to welcome the aviators.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady were at
the Orchestral Society's first concert of the
season at the Town Hall. The attendance
was good considering the weather, which was
of the sort to make firesides popular. Mrs.
Cecil James, of Launceston, scored as solo-
ist, and the orchestra bathed itself in glory
by its performance of Haydn’s Second Sym-
phony in D minor, heard here for the first
time.
Bishop and Mrs. Snowden Hay enter-
tained the clergy and their wives and a
crowd of other church folk at Bishopscourt
during Synod week. It was rather late in
the year for a garden-party, but the weather
held up and enabled the host and hostess to
receive their friends out of doors.
Mrs. Edith Waterworth, Mrs. Lyndhurst
Giblin and Mrs. Tom Murdoch have been
touring the West Coast towns in the inter-
ests of the Women’s Non-Party League.
They formed groups at Queenstown, Burnie,
Wynyard, Deloraine, Devonport, Launces-
ton and TTverstone, and were well enter-
tained at all points.
A course of repertory plays having moulded
our taste, Gregan McMahon’s company had
a good season at the Theatre Royal. Shaw’s
“Getting Married” was a very successful
offering. The committee of the Rep. Sovietv
gave Mr. McMahon lunch at Highfield Hall.


LJf T| f
OU I '
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a largo industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by tlie
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Re.yular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent oj Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AL'SIRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches’.
Agents throughout New Zealand-
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
L.N.E.K.
Largest Doc k-owning Railway
in the World.
v\
, .x J
/%. .
V-
i
£\S
\ /
\ t.
3)
V,-,r*T-
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a 1& Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
IfiJiUll
,-L
m ■
Address Manager —
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
AT CLANCY'S.
BY
HELEN G. TURNER
WE rode silently up the hill, Jason and
Mallin and I. Jason, as befitted his
official position, was in advance. I felt
that he surreptitiously kept an eye on Mallin
and me, lest he should suddenly find himself
riding alone, and nothing of us visible but a
handful of dust far along the road. For
Mallin and I had just learnt the exact
nature of our journey; and if I, a hard-
bitten forty, were in passive revolt, I knew
that Mallin, many years younger, and of the
stuff from which they made Lancelots and
Galahads —well, Mallin would be in a state
of furious rebellion.
What had been a laconic message passed
In us by a farmhand had become something
far different. “Old Turton’s been murdered,
and the chap’s taken to the bush,” the mes-
senger said. “They think he’s gone up to
Clancy’s. Jason says for you and Mr.
Mallin to meet him at the Outpost Hill and
show him the way. You know Clancy’s and
it takes a bit of finding, Jason’s heard,”
No details were available. Turton, of
Horn Valley, twenty miles out, was little
known to us, but we’d seen him on market
days and he was a sheep farmer, one of “our
crowd,” at least in occupation. So Mallin
and I rode out to meet Jason, who was con-
stable for the district. He would un-
doubtedly, need help in finding Clancy’s ; the
place lay deep in the bush and among the
hills.
Mallin was not enthusiastic. “Beastly
thing, a man hunt,” he muttered.
“That’s right enough,” I said, “but justice
has a claim. What’s old Turton done to be
killed like one of his own sheep?”
“Just what we don’t know,” Mallin per-
sisted.
Jason was waiting at the foot of Outpost
Hill, impatient to be on the way.
“How* far to Clancy’s?” he asked as we
rode up.
“Four hours’ hard going over the pass.
Do' you know anything of the chap you’re
after, Jason?”
He glanced at me. “It’s a woman did it,
Mr. Prender.”
Mallin pulled up violently. “What the
devil”
“One of these women they've got out
from the Old Country. She’s been at Tur-
ton’s for six months, helping. Don’t know
anything about her except that old Turton
was found dead—shot, and this Doyle woman
missing.”
“Where were the rest of the family?”
“Mi's. Turton and the gilds had gone to
town for the Show. She was alone in the
house with Turton.” There was a heavy
pause. “Best get along.”
But Mallin did not stir. He was like a
piece of carving, upright in his saddle. As
if sensing his immobility, his horse made no
move. They stood, welded as one, motion-
less upon the barren road.
Jason frowned. “Man or woman, it’s all
one. I’ve no say in the matter.”
I looked at his face. “Duty” was engraved
on every line of it. At the moment Jason wa's
nothing but a constable, intent on his work.
But. as I knew, he had not been immersed
in the waters of officialdom long enough to
have drowned his humanity and by nature
lie was easily moved to sentiment. I
wondered.
“A woman doesn’t go round shooting for
nothing,” Mallin said gruffly.
.Jason' slapped his reins impatiently on
his horse’s neck.
“Ride on,” I murmured, and he nodded
and cantered off. To Mallin I said: “Go
back; you’re best out of this. I’m enough
for Jason.”
Without waiting or looking at him I
galloped after the constable, who glanced
back at the impassive figure and nodded
again.
“Best send the young chap back,” he
said kindly. “He’s got no stomach for this
work.”
“Can’t say I like it myself, Jasan.”
“Too right; but someone’s got to do it.”
When we reached the bottom of the hill
on the. further side I turned round. High
up against the sky-line man and horse were
visible like a statue upon the ridge. But
as I looked the statue became suddenly alive
and plunged down the steep track to join
ns.
“I’m not going back,” said
Mallin, anu dropped to uie
rear, riding alone. No one
spoke and I resigned myself
to any sort of complication.
We had now to turn aside
and perforce walk our horses
along a narrow track through
the gully, where the thick
forest of black beech came
down steeply on either side.
Soon we were wrapped deep in the moun-
tains, whose shingle-scarred tops were
mantled in a sun-dazzle of snow. The way
was intricate and long; noon was well past
when I called, “Another hundred yards and
we’re there.”
Clancy’s hut stood high above a bawling
mountain stream. The bank was almost a
precipice, steep, festooned with creepers, a
sheer drop to the rock-strewn bed, of the
river. The hut itself leant as if for support
against the cliff. There was but one door
and a small window on the far side.
“Watch the window,” Jason commanded
curtly and rode forward.
In the doorway stood a small man. in-
credibly brown, wrinkled and wiry • like a
hill gnome, with his thick, straggled beard.
His blue eyes were wary and alert. Clancy
himself it was watching our approach.
When we were well in the range of vision
of his near-sighted eyes he called over his
shoulder: “Maggie, here’s Mr. Jason and
his friends come to see us.”
But no Maggie came out to greet us.
Jason and Clancy know each other. It
was generally supposed that some day the
acquaintance would become, so to speak,
more acute. An elusive atmosphere en-
wrapped the little man, and, though
his actions, both in town and in his 1 district,
were entirely blameless, there was a "fancy,
breathed from nowhere, that Clancy was
most intimately connected with a certain
un traced illicit still
away back in the
hills. It was an
indulgent suspicion
on the part of
everyone but the
officials of the law.
and fo r the m
Clancy was alto-
gether too guile-
less
“G o o d - d a y. ■
Clancy,” said the
constable.
“Good - day, Mr.
Jason. Same to
you, Air. Prender
and Mr. Mallin.
You’ll be having a
long ride?”
“I reckon we’ve
come to the end of
it,” Jason rejoined
grimly. “Know
what we’re here
for, Clancy?”
“M c ? How
should I be know-
ing what them
Inspector chaps
sends you up for,”
said Clancy simply.
"T li e Inspector
didn’t send me this
time. Who’s in-
side?”
Jason had dis-
mounted ; he edged
carelessly towards
the: window and stooped suddenly to look
through it into the hut. And as suddenly
the window was blocked by the substantial
form of Mrs. Clancy.
“Maggie’s there. Here, Maggie, come
along out after ye’ve put the kettle on.
You’ll be taking tea, gentlemen, after your
ride?”
Nothing could have exceeded Clancy’s mild
politeness as he spread himself negligently
in the doorway. His lack of interest in the
reason for our visit was too apparent.
Little, smiling Clancy ! I could almost see
his mind preparing itself to lie blandly and
to swear, as seemed expedient, that black
was white and red no color at all.
Maggie joined her husband in the door-
way. hearty and voluble.
“Well, now, sure you’re welcome. It’s a
long way you’ve come and your tea’ll be out
to you before a minute’s gone. And are ye
going far?”
“No further,” said Jason briskly.
“You’ll be stopping here? Now, what can
it be you’re wanting?” inquired Maggie
candidly.
Jason pulled a paper from his pocket. He
read aloud in a high, sing-song voice the
police notice that told of the murder of
Jacob Turton, of
Horn Valley, and de-
manded immediate
production of any in-
formation that would
lead to the arrest of
the murderer.
The Clancys were
interested and terribly
sorry that they kuew nothing.
At that moment, in the dead bush-silence
that seemed to grip us closely at the end
of Jason’s peroration, we all distinctly heard
something from within the hut. It was a
muffled, grieving sound, like sobbing.
Clancy shoved his wife.
“Maggie, ye ould fool, the kettle’s boiling
over.”
Maggie disappeared.
“Stand aside, Clancy; I’m going in.”
Clancy did not stand aside; the long, low
sound came again.
“Me niece; Maggie’s sister’s girl that’s
biding with us. She’s sick,” said Clancy
carelessly.
"For the last time, get out, or I’ll throw
you out. I’m going to search your place.
It’s no niece of yours crying in there. You’re
hiding Turton’s murderer, and we know
it, and you know it.”
The little man’s eyes grew suddenly like
those of a hunted hare. His glance darted
round. No way of escape; no lying out of
this! The big constable was steady-eyed and
determined; also, he had all the machinery
of the law behind him.
Clancy straightened up; before our eyes
he seemed to grow in inches and in grandeur.
He turned his head and spoke in dreadful,
still tones that struck against our ears like
stones :
“You, Maggie, bring out the murderer!”
I felt suddenly sick; Jason’s face crumpled
up like a distressed baby’s ; Mallin whispered,
“My God! O my God!” For she whom
Maggie led gently out was a little, slender
slip of a girl. She had a face like a white
rose, and pansy eyes, wide and terrified.
She was quite beyond belief.
She shrank back against the cliff, her
hands spread out on either side, crucified
upon it. The awfulness of her little face !
Maggie burst into loud sobs. The girl’s
suffering eyes turned to her.
“Maggie Jed gently out a little, slender dig of a girl.”
“Don't cry, Mrs. Clancy; you did all you
could.”
Jason wiped his forehead. His big, puck-
ered face was red with emotion. Poor
Jason, I thought, watching duty and pity at
war. Mallin slid from his horse; he had
never taken his eyes from the girl.
“What is your name?”
“Ensie Doyle,” she whispered.
“Ensie Doyle, did you kill Jacob Turton?”
It was Mallin questioning; Jason started
forward, but fell back. After all
There was a dreadful, tense moment; then
her strangled voice:
“Yes.”
“No ! No ! No !” whispered Mallin.
Again the dead silence of the windless
bush pressed down upon us. I longed to
push it aside.
“Why did you do it?”
“He always watched me. I did not want
to be left alone with that man. I begged
Mrs. Turton to take me with her, and she
would not.”
“The ould divil,” said Maggie vigorously,
amid her sobs.
“Go on, Ensie Doyle.”
“After Mrs. Turton left he sat in his
office, drinking, drinking. I watched him.
T thought. ‘I must go as soon as it get?
• • • • I crept out, and there in the porch
outside ray room he sprang at me. llis eyes
were staring—mad eyes. It was moonlight.”
Her dilated eyes were fixed ahead. We,
too, could see that dread figure spring for-
ward in the moonlight.
“Did he speak to you?”
"Yes.”
Mallin moistened his lips.
"What did he say?”
She cried shrilly: “I won’t tell you.”
Jason interposed. “See here, Mr. Mallin,
you’re taking too much on yourself. You’ve
no rights to be questioning her; she’s not
in court.”
Mallin paid no attention whatever;
Jason’s mouth snapped shut. I went over
to him.
“Give the girl her chance, Jason.”
“Her chance! She’s incriminating her-
self with every word she speaks. That
damned young puppy’s got to shut his mouth.
I’m in charge here.”
“We know it, Jason. Listen, Mallin’s
got it now.”
Mallin was asking, “He threatened "you?”
“He said if I cried out he would shoot.
I did call, and I saw the light glinting on
the revolver. I caught at liis hand and
turned it, and —he fell.”
As relief surged into my heart, Clancy
shouted, “Hoo-roo! Self-defence it was.”
Jason’s puckers smoothed themselves out
a little. “What made you come up here?”
he asked.
“Mrs. Clancy’s the only woman I know.”
Maggie Clancy interposed. Big and red-
faced, with one hand on her spreading hip
and the other round the girl, a fierce protec-
tiveness in her eyes, she wlas primitive
woman in defence of her young. You could
see that Ensie Doyle had, in her defenceless-
ness. leapt into the place of the daughter
Maggie had never possessed.
“Sure, and where else should she be going
then? Haven’t I been along at Turton’s
this every month with honey and what not?
And isn’t it full-hearted I’ve been with the
loneliness of this poor girl here?” She pulled
Ensie closely to her and the girl clung.
Wo understood why she had come to
Clancy’s.
Jason wrote, his notebook propped against
his horse. He shut the book and looked un-
certainly at Ensie Doyle, at Mallin and at me.
“See here,” said Clancy, “you’ll not be
taking her away?”
We were all silent; how could we speak?
Maggie’s glance darted from one to the other.
“They will that,” she cried.
“What will they do to me?” the little
white girl whispered.
“You’ll not hang,” answered Jason, using
brutal words in his extremity. “But 1 must
take you. You must stand trial. It’s the law.”
Stand trial!
"I’m all alone!”
I had a vision of a crowded court; of a
bit of a girl at bay before their curious,
probing eyes.
Mallin, very straight and young and deter-
mined, ranged himself at Ensie’s side. I
thought, “Now for it.”
“The law!” cried Maggie superbly.
“What’s the law, then? Talking, it is. by
a lot of book-dried lawyers with their blood
turned into words, and not daring to recog-
nise a decent act when they meet one. Them
as had any manhood would say it was
well done.”
"And it was well done.”
Mallin was speaking. Ensie’s eyes dwelt
on him for a moment.
“I can’t come,” she said breathlessly. “To
go through that, all by myself—standing up
in the court and telling the world; I’ll die
first!”
“Yes,” said Maggie firmly, “and be that
happier.”
Clancy had moved from the door and was
standing near the horses. I .don’t think it
was my imagination that seemed to catch a
quick look flashing between Maggie and her
husband, but something immediately hap-
pened. A devil entered into Jason’s horse,
which was furthest away. With a snort of
terror it started wildly down the track, the
others following hard on its heels.
Jason, wheeling round, instinctively
dashed after them, and then it was I saw
Maggie push Ensie forward.
"Up the river, child, and hide. Clancy
will find a way. They’ll not take ye.
Ensie sprang forward. Mallin started
after her, then stopped.
“Premier!”
I made after my horse, watching Ensie.
Like an arrow she darted across the little
clearing; like an arrow from the bow she
leapt from the bank above the whirling
boulder-broken river.
“Not there, girl! Not there!” wailed
Maggie shrilly.
Mallin reached her first. He thought her
dead, but presently she opened her eyes and
gave him a smile that wrung even my tough
heart.
“I’m sorry; I meant to end it. Now I
must go through it.”
“Not alone, though,” Mallin said firmly
as we lifted her up.
“You’ll pay for this,” bellowed Jason as
he joined us. But he bellowed hollowly, and
Clancy knew it.


Sporting.
Australian Jockey Club.
WINTER MEETING, 1928.
FIRST DAY, MONDAY, JUNE 4.
THE NOVICE HANDICAP, £4OO added.
For all horses which have not won a race
on the flat (maiden races excepted) exceed-
ing £lOO in value to the winner up to the
time of running. ONE MILE.
THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
HURDLE RACE, £2OOO added. ABOUT
TWO MILES AND THREE FURLONGS.
(Entries closed.)
THE JUNE STAKE, £5OO added. SIX
FURLONGS.
THE FIRST STEEPLECHASE. £5OO
added. ABOUT TWO MILES AND A
QUARTER.
THE FIRST NURSERY HANDICAP.
£5OO added. For two-years-old. SEVEN
FURLONGS.
THE ELLESMERE HANDICAP, £5OO
added. Lowest handicap weight, 7st. ONE
MILE AND A Q CARTER.
SECOND DAY, SATURDAY, JUNE 9.
THE SECOND HURDLE RACE. £5OO
added. ABOUT TWO MILES.
THE FLYING HANDICAP, £5OO added-
SIX FURLONGS.
THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
STEEPLECHASE, £2OOO added. ABOUT
THREE MILES. (Entries closed.)
THE SECOND NURSERY HANDICAP,
£4OO added. For two year-olds. SIX FUR-
LONGS.
THE WINTER STAKES, £6OO added.
ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS-
THE EXETER HANDICAP, £4OO added.
Lowest handicap weight, Bst. ONE MILE.
The General Entries for the above Meet-
ing are to be made with the Secretary of
the A. J.C., Sydney; V.R.C., Melbourne;
Q.T.C., Brisbane; S-.A.JJC., Adelaide;
W.A.T.C.. Perth; W.R.C., Wellington
(N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; or N.J.C.,
Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m., on MON-
DAY, 21st MAY, 1928.
One Pound (Forfeit) must accompany
each Entry.
If Entrie/r are made by telegram the
amount of Forfeit must also be telegraphed.
Weights to be declared as follows: Aus-
tralian Jockey Club Hurdle Race and
Steeplechase, WEDNESDAY, 9th MAY,
at 10.30 a.m. Remaining events: First
day, 9.30 a.m., MONDAY. 28tli May: Second
day. 9.30 a.m. ; TUESDAY, sth JUNE.
The Committee l’eserve the power from
time to time to alter the date of running, to
make any alteration or modification in this
programme, alter the Sequence of the races
and the time for taking entries, declaration
of handicaps, forfeits or acceptances.
The A.J.C. Rules of Racing, By-Laws,
and Regulations to be observed.
C. IV. CROPPER, Secretary.
6 Blisrh Street, Sydney.
Professional.
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LTD.
Queensland forests, limited,
has one vacancy for a Qualified Forest
Technician in its forest operations in Queens-
land. Three years’ practical applied experi-
ence in forest surveying and general field
operations essential. Candidates must have
demonstrated organising capacity and ability
to get things done. Preference given to
applicants under 32 years and single. Salary
£5OO. rising to £6OO by two equal annual
increments.
There are two vacancies for Junior Trained
Foresters. Preference to candidates under
25 and single. Salary £350, rising to £450
by two equal annual increments.
Applications close June 20.
l. macintosh ellis.
Director of Forests,
Queensland Forests, Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 2922NN, Sydney.
L/KOIES
CENTS
Oft
k._
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements ■,
in all suitable •'
materials by ex-
perts, pert edt fit
guaranteed, or money
retund£d.
Send for patterns and
sell measurement forms
I mperial service
ĕ
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY Phone 83991
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Amusements.
C 'I I* I II E T H E A r R E,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
An Airy Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Violet Elliott, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: • 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
YJJN E I S CHIEF THEATRES.
J, C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
PRINCESS CHARMING.
ROYAL: ROOKERY NOOK.
CRITERION:
THE NOTORIOUS MRS. EBBSMITH.
PALACE : MADAME X.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivr.li Theatres. Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
Presents
WINGS
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE,
With CLARA BOW. RICHARD ARLEN and
CHARLES ROGERS.
Commencing SATURDAY, MAY 19.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
, “Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
| C. WILLIA M S O N, LTD..
melroiuine attractions.
HIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MARGARET BANNERMAN CO. in
OUR BETTERS.
KING’S THEATRE:
GETTING MARRIED.
A TH E N LU M THEA T R E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
. Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The, Eminent London Actor Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON
In the Hilarious Three-act Comedy,
TRR LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
HO IT’S J>E LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
THE ROUGH RIDERS,
A PARAMOUNT SPECIAL.
Also
GEORGE O’BRIEN in
SHARP SHOOTERS.
|Y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELIiOURNE.
THE OPENING NIGHT,
with
CLAIRE WINDSOR and JOHN BOWERS.
Box P lf >n at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 ami upwards. Cards of Tariff
arid all posted on application
tc - .;jp The Manager.
\
\ C *A\
tfve
<\'\' e
le'-
N\ e ?
I ■‘S'
p-’e (,*■
<* *. s'^
(GREY
HAIR
WOULD
1 SPOIL
IT
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
Maggie nudged Mallin as we reached the
top and laid Ensie down on the grass.
“Now finish what you were saying down
there, Mr. Mallin, do.”
“I’m marrying Eusie Doyle as soon as we
get back to town.”
“Hoo-roo! I knew ye would,” cried
Clancy.
“And he’ll be standing by ye. And be-
tween you and the prying lot of them there’ll
be this strapping lad. And Maggie Clancy
at the back of liim. Eh, Mr. Proncler?”
Mallin stared hostilely at me, expecting
opposition. I held out my hand.
“That’s all right, Mallin.”
God knows whether these quixotic im-
pulses are for good. At any rate, they have
the value of spontaneity, and I for one
thought this venture worth while. And then
I smiled grimly, thinking of Mallin’s family,
they who considered themselves among the
great ones of their community, and walked
aloofly. Heaven help Mallin when they
knew!
We rode silently down the hill, Jason
and I. Behind us came Mallin, riding
slowly and carefully, bearing before him a
tired slip of a girl like a white rose.'
The Holy Sea.
An illuminating story by S. STEDMAN of life in Mongolia,
where the author lived for many years.
FOR unnumbered generations the ances-
tors of Ombo had lived on the sliore3
of the Holy Sea. Centuries ago the
Russians, in their march of conquest, had
reached the waters of Lake Baikal, and
Ombo’s people, the Buriats, had met them
in a friendly way. Wherefore the Russians
called them Bratski, meaning brotherly. But
though since then they have lived near the
Russians, their habits and mode of life still
differ but little from those of the Mongols
from whom they descend.
Over fifteen hundred feet above sea-level,
the Lake Baikal spreads its clear, fresh
waters over an area of no less than 13,000
square miles. Ombo knew only a small por-
tion of it, where the swift, cold waters of
the Angara mix with those of the Holy Sea.
But he had heard many times from the
Buriats who inhabit the opposite shore, and
who came to his village in winter when the
thick ice forms a bridge which spans the
sixty miles of water; thus they had told
him about other rivers that flow into the
Holy Sea. With pride they spoke of the
Selenga, which abounds with salmon, and
Ombo promised himself a journey thither
some day.
Even when Ombo was too young to help
Ms father with his fishing and sealing he
was not wholly without use to the family.
There was always plenty of (jolomyanka to
gather along the shores, particularly after
storms. The huge waves would throw the
frail little fish far ashore, and Ombo would
spread them on a narrow board and carry
them home. There they were put into
large iron pots over fires, and the oil that
was melted out was sold—all but a very
little of it, which Ombo used on his boots
to make them shiny and soft.
From early childhood he looked upon the
sea as more than the source of their dailv
sustenance; its smooth round pebbles on the
shore were his toys, its waves sang him to
sleep. He could not imagine life apart from
the Holy Sea.
But even with the Holy Sea to bless them,
hie in winter was dreary. There was very
little work to be done save the gathering of
wood. Ice many feet thick covered the
waters, and extreme cold drove the people
into their yurtas and kept them there for
many months. For days on end a whole
family would sit huddled together near the
lire, dressed in sheepskin coats and trousers.
Only now and again would one venture out-
side, oftenest .to see how the horses fared ;
tor a horse is a Buriat’s most treasured
possession.
It was during the winter of 1904 that a
light railway had been constructed over the
ice of Baikal. Russian soldiers, guns and
provisions had been moved across it to save
time in reaching the firing-lines against the
Japanese. Ombo watched men from the
unknown world tramping and polluting the
white snow, and felt resentful. To him it
seemed a profanation. He wandered about
aimlessly when the weather permitted, gazed
at the grey figures and listened to their
strange speech. Only when the Don Cossacks
came with well-trained, beautiful horses did
Ombo show a lively interest. From early
morning lie stood at the railway station
watching the trains arrive and men dis-
embark the horses. Later he followed them
to the Holy Sea to witness their departure
across the ice.
During one of these visits to the station
Ombo saw a horse slip off the platform and
injure a leg. It was a beautiful grey, and
Ombo s heart missed a beat when the oflicer-
m-charge ordered the animal to be destroyed,
bilently Ombo followed the drab figure of the
soldier leading the injured horse beyond the
settlement; and when the man raised his gun
Ombo uttered a cry. “Don’t do it,” he
begged. Give it to me.”
I or some time the soldier remained unde-
cided, as though considering what risk there
was in granting the request. Then he handed
the boy the halter. A few minutes later
they would be on their way to the battle-
field, and no one would ever think of the
horse again.
, With patience and tenderness Ombo’s
it.iier looked after the horse; and when the
animal recovered the man was happy in-
deed. . From early morning till late into
, e night i he was out riding, training the
iorse for his future work and showing it off
betore his neighbors. But Ombo went about
silent, displeased with his father’s action,
tor fie thought the horse really belonged
to him. Often, late at night, he would
crawl out of the yurta and go into the shed,
where he would stand stroking the horse’s
muzzle and murmur words of endearment
ill the cold drove him back to the smoulder-
ing fire.,
Where the snow was not blown away by
the strong winds it flashed and sparkled
now; and Ombo believed that the gods
themselves had woven this marvellous cover
of the purest white silk and threaded it with
diamonds. On either side the Baikal Moun-
tains rose majestically as if in an en-
deavor to reach the skies. Tier upon tier
was covered with impenetrable forests, their
tops hidden under white caps of eternal
snows.
One day when Ombo returned home his
father was dead. The boy’s heart sank;
it meant so much more work and responsi-
bility. He would now be obliged to do the
fishing and hunting and he was only sixteen.
But the father’s death was a small matter
by comparison with what must follow it.
I he dead man’s horse must be tied near
the grave of its master and left to starve.
For such is the tradition, which is the Law.
Long and earnestly did Ombo argue with
his mother, while men built fires to thaw the
ground for the digging of the grave. “It
is not my father’s horse,” repeated Ombo in-
numerable times; “it was given to me.”
But his mother remained implacable. “Thv
father rode it,” she said, “and it must go
with him.”
When the grave was at last sufficiently
deep the body was lowered into it and the
horse tied to a tree near by. Everybody
left but Ombo; he refused to move. It was
more than he could bear to leave his horse
to a slow death.
When dusk fell upon the lonely figure of
the boy, old Galdan approached the horse
and, taking off the strong rope that held it,
he substituted, a light cord. “Go home,
Ombo.” he said, “The Law does not say
a stout rope shall be used and if the horse
can break loose, it’s the gods that will it so.”
Ombo. felt very grateful to old Galdan
and admired the wisdom of the Law, but said
nothing. And on the morrow all the neigh-
bors spoke of Ombo’s horse whom the gods
had set free. Thus Ombo owned a horse.
When the month of April came men got
ready to go shooting the nerpa, and Ombo
must not remain behind. Large cracks had
formed in the ice, and the seals climbed on
to the surface to warm themselves in the
sun ; besides, it is their mating time. Ombo
went alone; for he feared the laughter of
hunters should he make many misses or ruin
the skin. Strapped to his saddle was a thick
board on which he and his horse might cross
the fissures in the ice. He was well aware
of the dangers which beset h'm. Every sea-
son the Holy Sea claims sacrifices of men and
beasts; but Ombo feared not, for he whs now
a hunter. With gun across his shoulder he
rode on,, looking sharply to right and left.
An opening in the ice obstructed liis progress.
He unstrapped the board and threw it across
the chasm; then slowly he led his horse over
the bridge. That done, Ombo remounted,
and with admiration shining through his
narrow, eyes he looked at the water. To
Ombo it was not a mere crack in the ice,
with water showing through it. Instead, he
saw his Holy Sea as a mighty giant who had
turned in his Slumber and broken the strong
fetters which held him fast, and having
thrust them apart now, wide-eyed, gazed
at the blue sky.
Ahead he noticed black spots upon the
white snow. Slowly and cautiously he drew
nearer, holding his gun ready until he could
better see the fat bodies of the seals with
their silvery skins glistening in the sunshine.
Now the time having come he took aim
at the head and fired. Two nerpas disap-
peared! in the opening of the ice, but one
remained motionless. Ombo’s heart jumped
with joy—he had shot a nerpa, and now
would be made welcome among the hunters!
Dismount ng, he pressed nearer to look at
the kill. The seal lay close to the edge of
the crack, which was about a yard wide.
From a wound in the head blood still trickled
and reddened the snow. Ombo felt sick at
heart; the hunter in him had not yet fully
wakened.
The horse stopd still, waiting. Ombo
took his gun and moved forward. The seal
suddenly gathered its last strength and
jumped, and Ombo followed it some distance.
When he looked back he was filled with
horror to see his horse more than half sub-
merged. in the water, holding on to the ic-
with his front legs. Running back, he caught
hold of. the bridle and pulled at it with all
his might. The horse, too, struggled
violently; and then his hoofs and his whole
body was in the water.
Ombo stood as one petrified, unable to
move or utter a sound; then he saw Ins
horse’s eyes, and read the mute appeal for
the help he was unable to give. That pitiful
look was beyond endurance, and Ombo turned
away. When he looked at the crack again
the horse had disappeared. Only the dead
nerpa lay on the very edge.
A great lump rose in Ombo’s throat; his
sobs grew loud; but there was no living being
for many miles to hear him.
In his grief Ombo was suddenly comforted.
He remembered that it was the Holy Sea
that had swallowed his horse. Thereat
he ceased crying and wiped his tears. He
would not complain any more, for this was
his sacrifice to the Sea, his payment for the
food it would give him as it had given his
fathers.
So Ombo made his way home cold and
hungry, but reconciled.
And when people heard his story they
envied him, for the Holy Sea accepts sacri-
fices only from those it loves,
Evening Reverie.
The last pipe lit and the glowing embers
Dim and flare like the fitful fire,
As limbs forget but the mind remembers
Hope’s dear dreams and a Life’s desire.
Hopes that rise like the smoke ascending,
Dreams that form in its hazy trance;
Hopes that end like a smoke-cloud ending,
Dreams that cool in the Great Expanse....
The last pipe lit, may the dying ember
Flare, then dim in a sweet content,
And limbs forget nor the mind Remember
Life’s dear dreams nor the way they went.
MAOBILAND.
A. L. GRIERSON.


*3 '•'-Jiiuii
MM
■ i
'
' •
’ * • sB9i
I. *y. V , -V r*
■P 7m
*
Hi
7
i
' :
IS2I
m
■
m
'mt
1
■
■
i
■ 1
jg * 1
1 • *
* : I Jfarlr I
il
■
■
*
i
m
' |
1... J
;■>. '"I
ffe]
1% i
K»rsi'/
fSi
ft
i m
* 1 ik J'jM
_> %-S' £ . I .I;
m
»■ i ■?!
i a
*
IJIHifR
■
i
iii||pi
:?. \Y' r'K?
p ™ 1 ”
'
■
■ m
I
il
B
; I
RMHHRHMI
ilss
■• Y?-Y.
■ i
: .
m
. tr' ;,' :
i ■■ i
'€k
1
:
i
mm
ftg—^aagi
■ - ■-- j
c.
Y -.;
ft
a- ■■■..■'
■
■
V; ;
■
*?* mp
pi •
mm mw
:
mm
mm
M
m
•or
r
.: hHI
p
Hi
1
cjho’ some may prize, a maiden's eyes,
*7hat shine with love light tender;
°]he sweetest maid may prove a jade,
If you by chance offend her.
] o cure the smart of love’s keen dart,
I fhere’s nothing to my thinking;
%at can compare when deep your car&, i
Wth drinking...drinking...drinking.
LINDSAY LENNOX.
TOOTHS
m
. 1
*
D
□
a true
LAGE
9
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH to CO.. LIMITED.. RENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.


m
Sore Throat
is quickly conquered
by a few tablets of
mRMAMINT
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
At all Chemists.
Genatosan Ltd, Loughborough, England.
frmn/ij
on7ns
LIQUEUR
1 _ ✓ rvr/T) L
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
AMERICAN*
TRADE MARK
New Lantern Type
Flashlight
Exclusive Features*
Telescopic Bail Handle,
Solid Brass-Nickelled,
Ri vetted, No Solder,
Tumbler Switch
Mazda Lamp,
Battery 3 Standard
“American” Unit Cells.
“They last longer.”
IDEAL for Home,
Garden, Camp,
Garage.
Price 21/- complete.
Add postage.
>T2M*9wr
ELLIS & CO. (AusE), Ltd.,
204-6 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GOD BE WITH US.
BY
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
SO long a time it is since Sergeant Bar-
tholomew Lancing was wont to exhort
his troop of horse to their better con-
ception of godliness, farriery, the. use of the
broadsword and pistolet, shock tactics and
the smiting of the Amalekite that memory of
him has passed out. All that has been left of
him is contained in one or two old and ill-
spelled letters, and in certain books, two and
a half centuries out of print, and extremely
difficult of access, that are concerned with
the doings of the Parliamentary cavalry in
the civil war in England of the seventeenth
century. So it will be necessary to say a
word or two about him here, in order to ex-
plain something of the conduct of his remote
descendant, Mr. William Gobius Lancing,
who flourished, some two hundred years later,
at Gobius Plains in New South Wales. Even
the latter gentleman is not much talked
about in these days. He died in 1847, and
is buried in the old churchyard of St. Luke’s
at Scone, in the district of the Upper Hunter,
and there is no one alive now who can even
remember what he looked like.
Briefly, it may be said of old Bartholo-
mew that he was a typical trooper of Crom-
well’s famous regiment of “Ironsides” —a
stark, dour man, with the Word of God ever
on his tongue, and anger with Satan in his
hard heart. He became a sergeant, a cornet-
of-horse, a captain and eventually a lieu-
tenant-colonel in the army with which Oliver
Cromwell temporarily but effectively “paci-
fied” Ireland, and in every rank he held was
the same trusty instrument in the hands of
the great man who saved and soured Merry
England. There was nothing he could not
do with the soldiers he led—all stark and
dour men like himself —-and nothing which
his General would not trust him to attempt
to do. It is high praise of the old bigot to
say this, for a man had to be pretty efficient
before Cromwell had faith in him. He had
much faith in God-be-with-Us Lancing, and
from what we know of the latter it is safe
to assume that the Protector’s faith was
never betrayed. As sergeant, cornet, cap-
tain and colonel Bartholomew Lancing was
exactly the type of man whom Oliver counted
his greatest strength and buttress next to
the Grace of God.
William Lancing, of Gobius Plains, judg-
ing from an oil-painting of him that is still
in existence, was most probably something
of a reproduction in feature and character
of Oliver Cromwell’s henchman, the original
“God-be-with-Us.” About the year 3.840,
when it was painted, people used, as a rule,
to wear their hair long—so long that it
would curl over the collars of their coats.
But not so the owner of Gobius Plains. He
has the characteristic crop of a Roundhead,
and his stern, grim face was, in all likeli-
hood, the same mask that had served his
ancestor. It looks like the face of a man
who would have done the things that Bartho-
lomew Dancing is credited with having
done.
There is a tradition of Colonel “God-be-
with-Us,” that still survives, which has to
do with Cromwell’s campaign in Ireland,
and is probably the keynote to his per-
sonality. His regiment had been detached
on some special duty away from the main
army, and one day he is said to have re-
ceived a message from Cromwell ordering
him to rejoin headquarters tvith his com-
mand as soon as possible. He wrote back
to the Lord-General to say that he had a
number of prisoners—what should he do
with them? A terse reply came that he was
to bring them with him if he could, but if
not he was to “put them to the sword.” _ He
promptly put them to the sword —that is to
say, he had their throats cut —and marched
to join his leader. Prom his portrait one
would have no difficulty at all in believing
that the pioneer of Gobius Plains would
have done just the same thing had a similar
alternative been presented to him. Plard,
stern and upright lie looks, and not at all
a gentleman who would have let any ques-
tion of that sort worry him for very long.
The name Gobius was a traditional one
in the family, and was really a corruption
of “God-be-with-Us,” which was bestowed
upon the eldest son of each generation of
the Lancings since the period of the Restora-
tion, when the full scriptural cognomen
would have been hardly safe to use. When
it might again have been good enough to
use it, “Gobius” had become a tradition.
There is no doubt, however, that the full
title w-ould have very well become the sub-
ject of the present memoir. He would have
rejoiced in it.
Colonel Lancing had been one of the
“planters” settled in Ireland by Cromwell,
and some branches of his progeny are there
still —fierce zealots who sit up at night
to hate the Pope. But William Gobius
Lancing sold his lands in 1830, and came
to New South Wales, where, having some
capital, he was given a grant by Governor
Darling on the Upper Hunter. So now we
can come to the story.
* * * *
The Bench of Magistrates at Scone, in
1838, appears to have been —from a couple
of old books of police records which still
exist—about as ruthless and merciless a
tribunal as there was in the country. Some
of their, doings would seem altogether in-
credible, were they not duly set forth in
these yellow pages in clerkly penmanship, and
signed and attested by the magistrates them-
selves. Those thoroughly respectable gentle-
men could have had little conception of the
fact that they were making for themselves
epitaphs that would give the lie to the
eulogies to be inscribed on their tombstones.
All that they did of tyranny and injustice
in the name of the Law —though not all that
they did outside that name—is set forth
in these old leather-bound tomes, and to-day
makes amazing reading.
Take, for instance, the case of Charles
Stuart, “per ship Lord Lyndoch, 14 years
Middlesex Sessions, Highway Robbery,”
assigned servant of Gobius Plains, who en-
joyed a degree of persecution at the instance
of Mr. Lancing which would be quite un-
“He checked his horse, and beheld a writhing man lying in the roadway."
believable were it not set forth in black and
white in the depositions of the Courts of
Petty Sessions holden at Scone in the year
referred to above. And that, apparently,
for little other reason than that he bore
the name he did, and that William Gobius
had the blood of old “God-be-with-Us” still
coursing in his veins.
It was a pleasant autumn morning towards
the end of April when Messrs. Lancing
and Trehearne sat at breakfast in Scone
at Chiver’s Inn, and discussed the business
that had brought them there the evening
before, so as to be in readiness for its
transaction early on the ensuing day. Mr.
Trehearne was a prosperous landholder on
the Dartbrook, and, like his companion, a
Justice of the Peace. They were both
gentlemen of notability and importance in the
district, who were very conscious of such
importance and notability, and each of them
was fully convinced that only by the efforts
of such men as themselves were Law and
Order and Constitution to be preserved invio-
late against the wicked machinations of
such evilly-disposed persons as those who
toiled for them in the bondage of the
assignment system of convict labor.
“It is my invariable practice, my dear
Trehearne,” Mr. Lancing was saying, “to
deal as severely with insolence as with actual
insubordination. The latter is the inevitable
corollary of the former. The man who dares
to be impertinent towards constituted author-
ity will have few scruples about actively
defying such authority should opportunity
of doing so present itself. Drastic punish-
ment for insolence will save the man himself
from consequences that may lead him to the
gallows in the long run, should he be checked
in time and his first overt act of rebellion
visited with exemplary chastisement. It will
convince him that Authority is not to be
paltered with —that it will not pay him even
to look askance at the attitude of Authority.
I am sure that you will agree with me in
this, my dear Trehearne?”
“Oh, perfectly—perfectly, my dear
William. Absolutely. The dogs must be
kept down; they must be shown their places,
and that it -is imperative that they remain
in them. I am in entire agreement with you.
Have you some particular case in view,
pray? Do you intend to refer to any of the
business which is to occupy our attention
at the Court House this morning?”
“Yes,” Mr. Lancing nodded, as he cracked
his third egg. “As the miscreant to whom I
am about to refer is one of my own
hands, I shall, of course, withdraw
from the bench when his case is
called; but it seems to me advis-
able, since he is a plausible rogue,
that I should make you privately
acquainted with the facts of the
case before you come to deal with
it. You will be alone on the
bench, owing to the absence of our
colleague and Chairman, Mr. Rufus
Wetherby, who is away in the
Liverpool Plains coiintrv. as P>e
Sergeant of Police informed me Iqst night
before your arrival at the inn, and may
not readily grasp the real meaning of this
fellow's outrageous remarks. So I had
better enlighten you. With your permission,
I shall do so.”
“Do, pray—do. What is the man’s
name?”
“His name, sir, to me, at least, is one of
evil omen. Anything might be expected of
a person bearing such a name. Anything.
The most reprehensible conduct.”
Mr. Trehearne smiled. “It is not, by any
chance, the man Stuart, whom I have once
before dealt with at your request—when I
furnished him with seventy-five lashes for
his better encouragement. Would it be this
fellow again?”
_ “It is. This evil dog—who i-s as evil as
his name would imply—has most grossly
and unprovokedly insulted the memory of
my ancestor, Colonel Lancing—intending, of
course, to insult me. I will inform you as
to the facts, and will leave his punishment
to you—since, above all things, I am a be-
liever in impartiality.”
There was nothing unfair about all this
where the conduct of assigned servants was
concerned, in the opinion of Mr. Rufus
Trehearnc. Quite the contrary. When he
had previously .dealt with the man under
discussion, having his brother magistrate’s
account of his disgraceful conduct in his
mind —Stuart had lost two ewes and lambs,
which the blacks had stolen from the mob
he was in charge of at an out-station of
Gobius Plains —he had not troubled to hear
any evidence. It saved time to refrain from
doing such an unnecessary thing as that.
He was, indeed grateful for Mr. Lancing’s
consideration in the present case. The court
room was abominably stuffy, and he liked
to get the business over as soon as possible,
so that he might escape into the fresh air.
“Pray, tell me of it, William,” he said.
“It will expedite matters greatly if I am
familiar with the case beforehand.”
“I will. I was riding round the cultiva-
tion paddocks at Gobius Plains the day be-
fore yesterday, when I came upon this man
Charles Stuart mending a broken panel of
a fence. lie saluted me, of course, but did
it in such a perfunctory—not to say con-
temptuous—manner that I felt constrained
to reprove him. ‘You should not merely
touch your hat, Stuart,’ I said to him, in the
mildest manner; ‘you should remove it from
your head altogethei', when your master
approaches.’ He growled something that
was inaudible to me, snatched the hat from
his head, threw it upon the ground, and spat
on it. ‘You had better be careful, my man,’
I warned him. Whereupon he faced me,
with a most insolent mien, and said, ‘Oh, to
H -1 with you, you crop-head! You think
you can come it over us as your stinking
old ‘God-be-with-Us’ did in Ireland!’ A
few nights previously, I must tell you, I
had lectured to the hands, assembled in the
kitchen, upon Cromwell’s pacification of Ire-
land, and had referred to the part taken in
the good work by my revered ancestor,
Colonel Lancing—mentioning the name
which the piety of the later had earned for
him in the Lord-Protector’s army. You may
imagine my indignation. My overseer was
with me, and he heard the words. He will
give evidence this morning. I do not think
it will be necessary for me to testify—do
you ?”
“Oh no—oh no. Not at all. The over-
seer wall be quite sufficient. Quite. Do yon
wish the fellow to be made an example of.
my dear William? Or shall I be lenient?”
“Leniency is a mistake, Trehearne —a sad
mistake. Should he not be discouraged early
in evil-doing, this man will inevitably end
badly. And, also, I think that his fellows
should be made aware that conduct such as
his cannot for a moment be tolerated. No,
I would not be gentle with him. He is, as
his name indicates, a malignant of the worst
type, and stands sorely in need of chasten-
ing. I would chasten him, if I were in your
place, my dear Trehearne.”
“Very good—l will. Let me see —he had
seventy-five last time. We will make it a
round hundred on this occasion. That may
not sound sufficient to you perhaps, but our
new flagellator is, I am told, extremely effi-
cient. He has had experience at Norfolk
Island, and they do say that a hundred of
his cuts are worth at least two hundred of
the last fellow’s. An artist in corporal
punishment—a real master of the art. And
how about three months on the breakwater
at Newcastle? To give Stuart time to think
things over? A period of reflection might
do him the world of good. How about that,
eh? What do you think, William? It is for
you to say.” <
Mr. Lancing shook his head decidedly.
“No, I don’t think so. Labor is scarce and
hard to get just now. Government is becom-
ing frightfully niggardly in its administra-
tion of the assignment system, and these
free emigrants demand such preposterous
wages. I don’t really think I could spare
the fellow, however useful he would be in
the vicinity of Nobby’s. No—you’d better
send him home to Gobius Plains. There’s
plenty for him to do there.”
So. before ever he came near the fount of
justice at the Court House, was the recal-
citrant and malignant Charles Stuart prose-
cuted, tried and found guilty. His more
famous and distinguished namesake was not
more certain of his doom before he came
into Westminster Hall, two centuries before,
than was the Charles Stuart who was to be
dealt with that morning in Scone.
The overseer’s evidence -was quite con-
vincing— at least it was so to Rufus Tre-
hearne, Esquire, J.P.—and the court pro-
cedure barely occupied five minutes. In
another ten, after sentence had been pro-
nounced, Charles Stuart, “per ship Lord
Lyndock. 14 years, Middlesex Sessions, High-
way Robbery,” found himself tied up in the
yard of the lock-up to the wlu'pping-post.
having his back tickled by the extremely
efficient practitioner who had graduated in
his art at Norfolk Island, and enjoying to
the full the hundred lashes that had been so
thoughtfully and comfortably arranged for
him over the breakfast-table at Chiver’s Inn.
* * *
The road to Gobius Plains, some ten
miles out of Scone, follows a bend of the
(Continued on page 1/9.)


You Want to Know How
These sensational Bargains are possible. In a nutshell—huge cash trading and smallest
overhead expense.
Selling for spot cash saves 5/- in the £, as follows: No cash orders, 2/6; no bad debts, 1/-; no
long credits and no collection expenses, 1/6. The lowest overhead expense of any store in
Australia effects further savings.
The astounding values made possible by these methods have given Fossey s cash-only Stores their
sensational rise to the very top in the Australian retail trade.
FO
“CASH-ONLY” STORES
403-411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY—MaiI Orders Please Add Freight
Men’s Fancy Pullovers
With two pockets in smart mottled color
effects in wool and cotton. Warm and
Hardwearing, as illustrated. Retail value,
12/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
9/11
Men’s All-Wool Pullovers
Heavy Quality all pure wool Pullovers in
tonings of brown, mole and oyster. Retail
value, 21/-
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
15/11
All-Wool Blankets
Fossey’s are famous for them. And no
wonder, when you glance at the prices
below. No one in Sydney can offer such
values!
Size 54 x 72 ..... Per Pair 217-
Size 63 x 81 .... Per Pair 29/6
Size 72 x 90 .... Per Pair 39/6
Size 81 x 99 .... Per Pair 47/6
Cream Flannelette
36 inches wide, free from dressing, a
splendid quality for all uses. Retail value,
8/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE
5/11 doz.
Boz. Duck
72 inches wide, suitable for Motor Covers,
etc. A bargain at 2/11
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
Viiili
Broadway Ties
The smartest ties for men. All the latest
designs. Retail value, 3/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
1111%
Men’s “Police” Braces
Famous Police brand. The very strongest
elastic brace you can get. Neatly finished.
Retail Value, 3/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE ..
I| IIY2 pair
Men’s Singlets
and Underpants. All wool. Very soft quality.
Size 36
38
40
42
Retail.
8/11 each
9/6 „
9/11 „
10/6 „
Fossey’s Price.
7/11 each
8/6 „
8/11 „
9/6 „
Fleecy-lined Singlets
and Underpants. Soft and warm. All sizes.
Retail Value, 4/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE, each
3/6
Mattress Cases
Made from strong Belgian ticking. Well sewn
and finished. Large double-bed size.
Retail Value, 7/6
for
5(11
Large Single-bed Size.
Retail Value, 11/6
for
7/11
SATIN CENTRED
Java Down Quilts
Well filled and covered with good-quality
floral Sateen in a variety of smart designs and
colors. Full double-bed size, 6x5 feet. With
full Satin centre as illustrated. Retail value,
30/-
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
21 1- each
Men’s Golf Shirts
Beautifully made of fancy check Cambric,
with separate stiff collar to match. All
sizes. Retail value, 7/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
5/11 each
Men’s Felt Hats
Wonder Value! In all wool felt with snap
brims and smartest framed shapes. Colors:
Browns, Greys and Fawns, as illustrated.
Retail value, 12/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE ..
8(11 each
Si
«L
\
Honeycomb Quilts
White and Colored; size 54 x 72, exclu-
sive of fringe; splendid, durable quality.
Retail value, 6/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE
4111
Double-bed size, 70 x 90. Retail value,
10/6.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
8/11
Ribbed Ripple Cloth
27 inches wide, in Sky, Rose and Helio;
suitable for making Cosy Kimonos, Child-
ren’s Pyjamas, etc.; a good quality. Retail
value, 1/11.
FOSSEY’S
PRICE . .
1/0% yd.
Fringed Travelling Rugs
All pure wool, in assorted Check designs.
Size 54 x 72.
Size 60 x 80.
Retail 21/-, for. .
Retail 28/6, for. .
15/11
211-


3?
&
i
v
'The
'3u#t
f
1 ime to loJko
'topd Cmia^lk^
Checks C&idd.
24/45 h.p, 6-Cyl. Tourer
THE
INVINCIBLE.
ir
□
Ugi
56
flexibility with top gear
performance of 3 to 60 m.p.h.
Four-speed gear box, right hand
change, low gear axle ratio necessi-
tating change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the Britisher
overseas, who wants a suitable high-
class British car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas condi'ions with
4ft. Bin. track,9Jin.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest cl'mates. Ex-
perts and owners ali
over the world con-
firm t' at in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
Full particulars from
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd..
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
m
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
Registered Trade-mark.
imiTisH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives ;
NORMAN BAKER & LONOHTTRST, LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
No. 1309
Hunter. River round the end of Mulligan’s
Mountain. On the left, as you travel east-
ward the steep basaltic face of the mountain
towers up into the sky, and on a sort of
ledge at its foot there is just room for the
passage of the highway. On the right-
hand side there is a drop of 50 feet or so
into the bed of the curving river. It is just
the sort of place that the old-time bush-
rangers loved to choose for a sticking-up
affair. A tree felled across the roadway
makes as effective a barrier to progress
along it as would a pair of iron gates swing-
ing from massive stone pillars upon either
side. You cannot force even the best of
mountain horses round the precipitous
face of the mountain, which just here ends
in a tumbled chaos of broken blue-metal,
and a goat could hardly negotiate the crumb-
ling steepness of the river bank. If there
is any obstacle in the roadway the passenger
must halt and remove it before he can pro-
ceed upon his journey.
It was here that the sorely lacerated
Charles Stuart had nursed his back and his
anger all the afternoon whilst he awaited
the coming of Mr. William Gobius Lancing,
with murder in his bitter mind and an axe,
which he had stolen from the yard of a
house on the outskirts of Scone, in his
hand. With the blessing of Providence he
hoped that the axe would afford him a
means of evening his account with the owner
of Gobius Plains. The contemplation of
this scheme had been his sole solace during
the hideous 40 minutes he had endured at
the whipping-post in the lock-up yard that
morning—all that he had to comfort him as
the flogger, with deliberate slowness, spun
out the punishment awarded to him by that
obliging gentleman, Mr. Rufus Trehearne.
It was one of the niceties of flogging to
make a long pause between each stroke of
the cat-o’-nine-tails in order that the victim
might suffer the terrors of anticipation of
the next agonising, swishing blow of the
lashes through seconds that seemed to be
minutes. _ A whipping was twice as effec-
tive. administered that way as it was when
blow followed blow in quick succession.
The gentleman who had been at Norfolk
Island knew all these points. He had had
personal experience of them, and well knew
how to make others appreciate them even
better than he had done.
There would not be any great amount
to be gained by killing Mr. Lancing)—
nothing but a trip down the valley, a little
brief notoriety _ during the trial, and then
the inevitable interview with the hangman
outside the new gaol which he himself had
helped to build on the hillside at East Mait-
land. But he would have, this evening at
any rate, the immense satisfaction of mak-
ing a bloodier mess of William Lancing
than had been made of Charles Stuart this
morning at that gentleman’s instigation.
And he was altogether sick of being an Aus-
tralian colonist of the peculiar type to
which he belonged. It would be quite satis-
factory to end it all in this way. He did not
feel that he had the heart or energy to go
bushranging. What he was about to do
seemed, on the to be the most satis-
factory way of bringing his sufferings to an
end.
Over beyond the blue ranges on the other
side of the valley of the Kingdon Ponds,
the little creek that flows down out of the
ranges above Wingen and joins the Hunter
below Scone, the sun had gone down, and the
western sky was a blaze of red and orange,
when the convict, lurking at the corner of
the narrow pass so that he could see who was
coming for at least a quarter of a mile, be-
held his victim, top-hatted and black-coated,
riding towards him. Hastily he drew back
into the shadow of the trees at the foot
of the mountain and walked back to the
narrowest part of the narrow ledge. He
had placed no obstacle in the road. lie
and his axe would serve every purpose as
an obstacle. A quick blow at the horse’s
head—and then the delirious delight of
chopping down the enemy. He would maim
him first and kill him afterwards. He
climbed a little way up the loose detritus
of broken basalt, the better to give impetus
to his body when he should make the sudden
rush he contemplated.
Mr. William Gobius Lancing was looking
down into the river-bed, his eye caught by
the crimson gleam reflected from the
western sky behind him in the placid sur-
face of the big waterhole lying below the
cliff, when his horse suddenly gave a bound
forward, nearly unseating him and spilling
his top-hat into the dust of the road. At
the same time there was a clatter of stones
on his left-hand side, a wild yell that ended
in a scream of pain, and the sound of a
falling body. Then came a succession of
obscene oaths and horrid imprecations. He
checked his horse, wheeled about, and beheld
a writhing man lying in the roodway. What
had happened was that Charles Stuart
had landed in his jump on a round stone,
had twisted and broken his ankle, and n iw
lay, cursing and impotent, upon the ground.
Mr. Lancing dismounted, picked up his
hat, and then led his startled horse, snort-
ing and pulling, back to where his servant
lay.
“You —, . !” the crippled man
spat at him as he approached. “If I’d
not done that you’d ha’ been dead by this
time, you dog!”
Coldly, Mr. Lancing looked down for a
few seconds at the man on the ground be-
fore he spoke. Presently he addressed him.
“You were lying in wait for me, Stuart?”
he asked.
“By H—l, I was that —and I’d ha’ got
ye, too, ye , if this hadn’t happened to
me. Oh, my luck, I never did have
any.”
“You were going to kill me with that
axe?”
“I’ll get you yet, blast ye !”
Mr. William Lancing considered matters
for a little while; then he drew a pistol
from his tail-pocket, cocked it, and aimed it
at the man’s head.
“Charles Stuart,” he said, “you are a
malignant creature, and I think you are
better dead. May the Lord have mercy on
your soul!”
He pulled the trigger, and, mounting his
horse, rode back to Scone to report the at-
tempt upon his life to the authorities there,
and to receive the congratulations" of those
who would commend him for his promptitude
in saving it.
The Angel of Pyrites Creek.
A COMPLETE STORY BY J.. BERNARD TOOHEY.
PYRITES CREEK faced the situation
in a characteristic miners’ way. Men
who had been mates, who had faced
together the dangers of hunger and thirst
prospecting in the centre of Australia, who
had laughed, starved and grown old together,
took opposing sides in the matter and fought
and cursed each other until they stopped
from sheer exhaustion.
There was a lot of talk, much beer drunk
and many brawls, but nothing practical until
Handsome Les had that inspiration of his.
Pyrites Creek at this time had a popula-
tion of six hundred—five hundred and thirty
men and seventy women. That was one of
the main factors of the situation.
No one became fabulously rich at the
Creek. The gold was there, but it took
steady w-orking to get it. After a year the
prospectors were still making as much as
they did when the field first opened. When
the surface gold was worked out shafts were
sunk. As the months passed and the dirt
still paid, men began to think that they
might just as well make themselves com-
fortable. The shanties and tents were re-
placed by pretentious structures of galvan-
ised-iron and wood. The name of Murphy’s
pub was changed to the Pyrites Creek
Hotel. A parson drifted into the town and
decided to stay there. The miners knocked
off work one day and built a church. Men
who had wives sent for them. Those who
hadn’t any found solace in the charms of
the two barmaids of the Pyrites Creek Hotel
and certain other members of the opposite
sex who had drifted into Pyrites Creek from
nowhere and were heading in the same direc-
tion.
The situation arose when the parson, the
married men and the more sanctimonious
single men objected to the presence of these
women in the town and threatened to run
them out. The male remainder of Pyrites
Creek chivalrously refused to see a lady in-
sulted in that way and intimated that there
would be bloodshed if it was attempted.
For six weeks the matter was fought out
with words in the bar and church and in
the streets with bare fists. Pyrites Creek’s
lone trooper was of the opinion that it was
no concern of his what the town decided to
do as long as no one was murdered or robbed.
A few brawls and a lot of talk,did not worry
him in the least.
Brains will out. Handsome Les, who was
so cynical that he would recite Ovid’s Odes
at the miners’ concerts, said that the plight
of Pyrites Creek’s five hundred single men
should be made public through the papers.
A representative should be sent to Sydney
to interview any girl or woman willing
to take a chance and marry one of the
miners. Fares should be subscribed in the
town. A limit of a week should be placed
on courting. That, briefly, was what Hand-
some Les said at the special meeting held to
discuss the grave situation. He emphasised
his arguments with quotations from Shak-
speare and Ruskin. If Pyrites Creek’s
religious half would agree to that, he said,
the other half would agree to the other
women being placed on the next coach and
sent on to annoy the next town.
The idea took on. Even the Sky Pilot
was enthusiastic. The scheme was financed
in a novel way. You put in ten pounds if you
wanted a wife, and that paid her fare to
the town and one week’s lodgings at the
hotel. If she didn’t get married she paid
her own fare back to Sydney or walked.
The first fortnight’s results were very
gratifying. Over seventy women found their
way to Pyrites Creek. Sixty were married
and the other ten sent on. Then there came
a lull in the business. For three consecutive
days the coach arrived without a skirt on
board. On the fourth day it pulled up out-
side the hotel, where the usual crowd were
waiting. They sensed something was wrong
when they saw that Jerry, the driver, had
washed his face. Jerry threw the reins to
one of the idlers and.dashed around to open
the door of the coach. It had only one occu-
pant.
“Pyrites Creek. Mum,” said Jerry.
First a dainty little foot appeared and then
emerged such a vision that it temporarily
dazed the onlookers. She looked no more
than eighteen. Brown curls did their best
to form a fitting background for the beauty
and innocence of the face they surrounded,
and she was dressed in a sweet simplicity
that was quite in keeping with the rest of
her appearance. From two big blue eyes she
surveyed the men and turned to Jerry.
“Where did you say the Pyrites Creek
Hotel was, Coachman?”
“Right here. Mum.” said Jerry and pointed
to the door of the building opposite.
The girl was dismayed. “But I couldn’t
go in> there. That is a saloon.”
,■ Big Bill Murphy, the owner of the hotel,
was standing near by and he stepped for-
ward. “We’re mighty sorry, Miss. We
quite understand the feelings of a girl like
you, but that’s the only gate there is to
the bloomin’ pub. ’Course we could easy
knock a bit of the wall down.” He looked
around and the rest of the spectators nodded
their approval.
The girl shook her head and laid a little
white hand on Big Bill’s hairy arm. “I
would not put you to so much trouble.
There would be nothing to fear if you
escorted me.”
Big Bill’s chest expanded five and a half
inches. He cleared a path to the saloon with
lus eyes. The girl shuddered when she
stepped on the threshold of the bar, but a
look at Big Bill’s massive biceps seemed to
reassure her.
(Continued on next page.)


The Bank of Australasia
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835).
PAID-UP CAPITAL £4,000,000
RESERVE FUND (used in the business of the Bank) .... 3,850,000
RESERVE LIABILITY of Proprietors under the Charter . . 4,000,000
£11,850,000
NINETY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 10th OCTOBER, 1927,
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting held on
Thursday, 29th March, 1928.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 10th October last, with the Profit
Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British, Australian
and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts and other contin-
gencies, the net profit for the year amounted to £654,059/11/1.
To this has to be added £135,508/7/10 brought forward from the previous year’s account, making
a total of £789,567/18/11. From this, £280,000 was paid as an Interim Dividend on 30th September
last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £280,000 to pay a final Dividend of 7/-
per share, making in all £560,000, equal to 14/- per Share, and representing for the year a distribution
at the rate of 14 per cent., free of income tax. The Directors have also transferred £40,000 to the
Reserve Fund, and have appropriated £50,000 in reduction of Bank Premises Account. This will
leave £139,567/18/11 to be carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on 30th March.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: Mr. Frederick V. C. Livingstone-Learmonth, D.S.O.; Mr.
Harold Nelson and Mr. Charles E. Barnett, who, being eligible, offer'themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for re-election.
Since the date of the last Report new Branches have been opened at Northcote, Ripponlea and
Yarraville (suburbs of Melbourne) and Horsham and Warracknabeal in Victoria, at Canberra in the
Federal Capital Territory, and at Newton (Auckland) in New Zealand.
The Proprietors have already been notified by circular that an Extraordinary General Meeting
has been convened for Thursday, 29th inst., to follow the Annual General Meeting to be held on that
day to obtain the authority of the Proprietors to the issue of 100,000 new shares. If the resolution be
duly passed at that meeting it will be submitted, for confirmation, to a further Extraordinary General
Meeting to be subsequently convened. If sanction to the issue be obtained it is the intention of the
Directors to offer the new shares to the Propietors pro rata to their holdings, at a premium of £6
per share, that is, at the price of £11 per share.
JOHN SANDERSON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 19th March, 1928.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from October
Balance brought forward from October, 1926
Profit for the year to October 10, 1927, after de-
ducting Rebate on Bills current at Balance date
( £7909/1/3), and making provision for all bad
and doubtful debts and for other contingencies ..
Less —
I. Charges of Management—-Australasia —Salaries
and allowances to the Staff, including the Super-
intendent’s Department, and 224 Branches and
Agencies
General Expenses, including rent, repairs, sta-
tionery, travelling, etc.
London —Salaries
General Expenses
II. Rates and Taxes —
Australasia .. .. .. £165,061 13 9
London .. .. .. 121,050 7 5
Total amount of net profit for the year to October,
10, 1927
From which deduct:
Dividend paid 30th September, 1927 ...
Transferred to Dividend Account, payable 30th
March, 1928 •. • ■
Transferred to Reserve Fund
Transferred to Bank Premises ..
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet. .
12, 1926, to October 10, 1927.
£135,508 7 10
£1,572,735 1 8
£482,223 15 9
107,808 9 4
33,064 4 4
9,467 0 0
£632,563 9 5
286,112 1 2
—— 918,675 10 7
654,059 11 1
£789,567 18 11
280,000 0 0
280,000 0 0
40,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
650,000 0 0
£139,567 18 11
BALANCE-SHEET, October 10, 1927.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation.. .. •• •• £427,542 0 0
Deposits .. .. •• •• 31,478,756 3 4
Bills Payable and other Liabili-
ties, including provision for
contingencies .. • • • • 4,418,993 11 4
£36,325,291 14 8
Capital.. ..£4,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund (used
in the business
of the bank) 3,850,000 0 0
Dividend, payable
March 30, 1928 280,000 0 0
Profit Account
Balance .. 139,567 18 11
8,269,567 18 11
£44,594,859 13 7
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances .. .. £6,645,233 17 5
Loans at call and at short notice 110,000 0 0
British Government securities . . 2,584,548 1 4
Government securities of Austral-
asia and other investments .. 1,079,900 11 2
Bills receivable and remittances
in transit . . . . • • 4,355,725 110
Advances on securities, and other
assets .. .. ■ . • • 29,689,659 18 5
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London .. .. 129,792 3 5
£44,594,859 13 7
G. CAMERON, Accountant.
E. GODWARD, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified
the transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report
tint in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a
trao and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments were
valued at maiket puce 01 under. DELOITTE. PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
London, 14th March, 1928.
Qtt oi&adu
4o mahA *
cupuA.
am
A Few Stitches and They 're On"
CASH’S NAMES are a great convenience and “trouble-saver.”
No mess or bother as with marking ink, and you can quickly attach
CASH’S NAMES not only to linen, but all other fabrics such as
Woollen Wear, Hose, etc. CASH’S NAMES are distinctive, neat,
fadeless and durable. Any name woven in fast color.
c&.&nYZVllcuriA-
C M WALKER
Actual Size, Style No. 6
Actual Size, Style No. 3
PRICES
12d0z.~74
6 doz. - s'-
3do*. * 3 r 6
-9?-
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. Cash K:
85 CUBITT STREET.
RICHMOND, MELBOURNE.
CASHS NAMES
That was how the town was introduced to
Mary Smith, who was immediately re-
christened the Angel, for beauty and inno-
cence was something new to Pyrites Creek.
But when it was announced that the
Angel had been sent by the town’s matri-
monial representative in Sydney, Pyrites
Creek was staggered. Soap was immediately
at a premium. The local barber that day
worked eighteen hours before he fell down
exhausted. The one and only tailor didn t
stop all night. The next day there was no
work done at the diggings. The whole ot
Pyrites Creek went courting.
Mary Smith did not keep the town long
in suspense. With characteristic simplicity
she chose Fair Cow Roberts. Pyrites Creek
did.not blame her, but they blamed Fair
Cow. They were unanimous that it was a
shame the way he had gone around boasting
that he was the richest man in the town.
Even if he was he should have kept that
sort of thing to himself on an occasion like
this. He pestered the poor girl until she
did not know what to do. Besides that, he
was old enough to be her father. Fair Cow
only shrugged his shoulders. He was a
loud-mouthed little man, and it was rumored
that for abdominal reasons he would never
see his feet again. He also had a long
moustache through which he drained his
beer. The result was that the outer fringe
was dyed a light brown.
The unsuccessful suitors took to drink and
the pub did a roaring trade. Handsome Les
wrote forty sonnets before he got over it..
When Big Bill Murphy spoke to the
Angel in a fatherly way about Fair Cow, she
replied in her simple manner: “Mr. Roberts
said that the other men were a lot of
drunkards, and if I married him I would
be quite safe.”
“The old dingo!” said Big Bill.
The next day was Sunday. The town was
amazed when they saw Fair Cow, dressed
in a new suit, with the beer stains trimmed
from his moustache, escorting the Angel into
church. There was a lot of whispering and
shuffling. Fair Cow hadn’t been inside since
it was built. The Sky Pilot, who was a
kindly little man, took a great interest in
the Angel—both of them seemed out of
place in Pyrites Creek. The sermon was
based on the simple word “Thanks,” and
the Angel was heard to whisper to Fair
Cow that it was a wonderful sermon and
she would never forget it. He was busy
swatting flies and didn’t hear.
When the collection plate was thrust
under Fair Cow’s nose he dug his fingers
into his pockets and produced a threepenny-
bit. In a low voice that was somehow heard
all over the church the Angel reproached
him. “Don’t be so mean, darling. I saw
you with a note a little while ago.”
Fair Cow jumped. “What the
D’ye mean I gotter waste a quid?”
The Angel insisted. For a minute they
argued while the congregation passed re-
marks to the effect that she was such a
sweet girl and what a shame it was that
she was going to marry a mean old devil
like Fair Cow. But Fair Cow gave in and
parted.
After the service was finished the Sky
Pilot said he intended to erect a new church
that would be more in keeping with the
importance of a place like Pyrites Creek,
which would be a second Sydney if it was
nearer the sea. He asked whether the towns-
people would subscribe the money. The
Angel made Fair Cow promise another fiver.
He dropped the Angel at the front door of
the Pyrites Creek Hotel and went, around
the back to drink it. off. Big Bill always
closed his pub on Sunday.
The Angel remained the chief ornament
of Pyrites Creek for the next few days. She
was innocence abroad. The Sky Pilot was
always calling to consult her—more than
once about the coming wedding, which was
to take place within the next few days.
There was nothing sweeter than to see the
Angel and the Sky Pilot walking out of
Murphy’s pub together. Pyrites Creek, as
it looked, grew a little romantic on the
subject.
It was the morning of the wedding when
it was discovered that the Angel was miss-
ing. Big Bill said that she had not slept
in her bed that night. The whole town was
staggered by the news. Different theories
were suggested. “She’s been lost,” said Fair
Cow. Big Bill reckoned that she might
have fallen down one of the shafts. They
looked everywhere. They called in every-
body’s help—except the trooper’s: he was
reported to be on an inspection of the terri-
tory allotted to him and wouldn’t be back
for a week.
Handsome Les decided she had been kid-
napped. But by whom? It was puzzling.
Handsome told a story about a young
girl who was to be married and got kid-
napped by the villain. The hero then
chased the villain and killed him, and then
came back with the girl and married her.
Everybody said what a fine tale it was, and
then they looked at Fair Cow.
Fair Cow scratched his head. “Why
didn’t this here villun kill the other bloke?”
he asked.
Handsome smiled at his stupidity. “They
never do that sort of thing in books.”
“But,” replied Fair Cow, “this ain’t a
book. I’m not gonna get shot fer all th’
gals in tli’ world. If she’s bin kidnapped
she can stay kidnapped until th’ trooper
comes back.”
Handsome passed some remarks that he
wasn’t fit to get married to a girl like
the Angel. And, the search parties returned
in the afternoon without seeing a sign of
anything.
About two o’clock the news spread through
the town that the Sky Pilot was missing
also. Handsome said that it looked as if
they had gone for a walk to discuss some
theological problem and lost their way. Big
Bill told Handsome he oughtn’t to say
things about the girl at a time like this.
They were just setting out to search the
hills again when the coach arrived. “Saw
the Sky Pilot and the Angel driving hell
for leather along the main road,” Jerry
announced as he drew up his horses.
This new information supported Hand-
some’s theory that she had been kidnapped.
“I alius knew that parson was a deep ’un.”
said Fair Cow. Handsome offered to lead
a band of men after her. but Big Bill
pointed out that the Sky Pilot had a twenty-
mile start, and there wasn’t a horse in the
town that could do more than fifteen miles
on its own legs.
The whole town chafed at its helplessness
and expressed its annoyance in a way that
was distinctly Australian. Handsome varied
the monotony by occasionally swearing in
Spanish.
At four o’clock Fair Cow dashed into the
pub with the news that he had been robbed.
“Five hundred pounds’ worth of gold,” he
moaned. “It must have been that damn
Sky Pilot.” The news was received unsym-
pathetically. It was just like Fair Cow to
think of his money when everybody else was
thinking of the poor girl.
At five o’clock Murphy went to the safe
to change a bag of gold into sovereigns.
“Cripes,” he shouted, “the safe’s been
robbed. Close on a thousand gone. There
is a thief here somewhere, and when 1 get
him I’ll knock his brains out. It may be
that parson.”
The bar was shocked into silence. Hand-
some laughed drunkenly. “This is getting
interesting. I’ve got an idea.” Handsome
always got his inspirations when he was
drunk. “Say, Fair Cow, who beside your-
self knew where that money of yours was
kept?”
Fair Cow shook his head. “There ain’t
nobody. I got an idea I told Mary; but,
of course”
Handsome shut him up. “And what about
you, Murphy? Who knew the combination
of that safe?”
Murphy blustered. “Nobody, of course,
you drunken . I’m not as big a fool
as you. I miglita shown it to the Angel,
now I think a bit, because she told me how
interested she was in safes. But if you sug-
gest that she had anything to do with it I’ll
hit you so hard that you’ll forget you was
born.”
“Under the circumstances,” said Hand-
some, “I won’t.”
But the damage was done. A doubt had
been raised in the minds of the reasonably
honest citizens of Pyrites Creek.
The next morning Pyrites Creek was still
discussing the biggest sensation since gold
was discovered. They just could not settl
down to work. Murphy’s pub was crowded.
A new face pushed through the doorway.
“The Sky Pilot’s back!” he announced.
“Just coinin’ in now.”
The Sky Pilot halted his horses when, he
saw the crowd blocking the road and waited
for things to happen. Big Bill, Handsome
and Fair Cow pushed their way to the front.
“Where’s that girl?” asked Big Bill
fiercely.
The Sky Pilot smiled in his face. “On her
way to Sydney, Mr. Murphy.”
“Expect us to believe that?” There, was
no mistaking the tone of Big Bill’s voice.
When the Sky Pilot glanced around and
saw that everyone was looking grim he got
a bit scared. He recovered quickly.
“What! Did you want to force the poor
girl to marry- that dirty drunkard?” He
spoke earnestly, and Pyrites Creek began to
realise that it had been making a big mis-
take. “Anyhow,” said the Sky Pilot, “here’s
a letter addressed to Murphy and Roberts.
It might clear things up a bit.”
Big Bill grabbed it and handed it over to
Handsome to read. Handsome chuckled.
“Dear Mr. Murphy and Mr. Roberts,” he
began, with ironical emphasis on the “Mr.”
each time. “Thank you. The money will
come in handy to see my husband and myself
safely away to the West. Do not blame the
minister. He thinks that I am trying to
escape from my marriage. Yours sincerely.
Mary Smith.”
The Sky Pilot was bewildered.
“Hell!” said Fair Cow.
“Well, I’ll” began Big. Bill.
Handsome smiled. “Well, isn’t that just
like the Angel! Another person wouldn’t
have bothered to thank you at all.”
The Dream-Maid.
When star-pins clasp the hair of night
And sleep has spread her restful pall,
With knapsack filled with gifts for all,
The Dream-maid loiters in her flight.
And here she casts a hero-dream
To this fair freckled boy abed,
And straight he turns his charger’s head
Through battle’s glare to glory’s gleam.
This dimpled girl becomes a queen,
With curls piled under diadem;
And, breast agleam with pearl and gem,
She trails a robe of satin sheen.
For this young thing Death’s hands unclose:
She plays again the mother’s part;
Her babe lies warm against her heart;
Her lips press lips of pallid rose.
Dreams bring a panacea for care.
On ale and fruits of pot and pan
The beggar feasts. The business man
Forgets the wiles of stock and share.
This outcast huddled on a seat,
Drawing her rags about her scars,
Her cold face to the colder stars,
In dream hears not the noisy street.
And this fond lover, youthful, fair,
Hears the sweet voice of love arise,
And, smiling gently as he lies,
Dreams of her lips and wayward hair.
The darkness dims. Day’s star grows bright.
And swiftly from the wakened blue,
Snapping her magic knapsack to,
The Dream-maid follows on the night.
Yawning and blinking at the sun,
The dreamers wake to mortal rule:
The boy and girl trudge off to school;
The toilers set to, one by one.
The mother wakes to that old pain
Of empty cot, and heart grief-filled;
The business man, with conscience drilled,
Connives at trickery for gain.
The beggar and the outcast feel
Their waist-belts slack, and, peering in
At street and backyard garbage-bin,
On debris make their sordid meal.
And past this house of ivory
The lover wends his lonely way,
Marking, through window-curtains gay,
Where She pours out her husband’s tea!
n.s.w.
MUSETTE MOKELL.


m
#
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland agenw—aOL'MES <S CIICHCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
fAMpnnn urrFT m e uri.icc
tUAtUKU W ISM , N. WALLO
Victorian Office—“Chancery House/' 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EIDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
RAYD-VAC
TTERE it is—the electric torch you want—peer into
dark corners with it, use it when walking at night, for
safety's sake. Note these Ray-O-Lites' advantages
strong, vulcanized fibre case, corrugated for easy grip;
octagon head to prevent rolling when laid down;
heavy brass trimmings, nickel-plated and polished
patented lock switch to prevent accidental
discharge of battery; also many others. If
used with Ray-O-Vac Torch Batteries, the
Ray-0 -Lite wall be a dependable com
panion; —it's built to last a lifetime.
U rile our distributor jor the name
oj the nearest dealer. ■
mm
-MM.
——
•i
H
i
i
J
■
j
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR:
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
ex
•• ' - vJjUL.JjI' m ■
mmtwmmmnnim
mm
m\
m
II
m
m
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper,
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rrce
CRAIGS AIIKEN, 654 George Street,Sydney,
Distributors sor Club Reil Cigar Factory.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
TV eather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY . t 3 No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
W-U <4 urn.). ,/C ' “■ Bjdn.y IM.
i<9
cr
X
YOU will look like
qourself again
if you tube *
care to keep your liver active
and digestion in good order.
„ To do this you need Beecham’s
rills. they are an excellent remedy for Constipation and diges-
tive disorders and remove the most frequent cause of sickness,
headache, languor and J l!,!l
e
Sold In boxes
II- & 2/6.
f
Opulence
has
'Little Place
è
in the modern conception of adornment. In both
domestic and personal appointments, simplicity is the
keynote of what is regarded as the best.
Elgin watches embody art as well as craft in their making:
beauty as well as utility has been the manufacturer’s aim.
Therefore, in wearing an Elgin, you have a double
assurance of correctness in both time and taste.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<S>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
Jrade Mark
é
in
*
pr i*
lA*
0°
u'lG® * &V
..."
o*'
s®’ f
' ..•••"
I* -\6' a#* ••*■ .*;
46 .** ,•• AaK
#V»‘ A 6
*;
1
*<■
..." ..•••>,«s»’ '


'atchef*?
0
I "
3
Ilf
?r
«c\
A/
rv<
, , . .;■
|\ % ’ N
■
V!
thToueEnsland timber getter
he helps'.
THE LOGGER
he helps'.
THE CHEMIST in his LABORATORY
he helps.
IBcay'-t
r n
i
A CN
-g—"
girl
THE WHARF! E
he hx
hel
y.
bet
you
She
kelps'.
X 0
o
3Cj
O
jP
*1
D l -
--W
(k
OTHER INDUSTRIES'
(hey help
m
simm
Sg&mmfciMiSi
Uumb
>
THOUSANDS literally thousands
do their bit for the Australian Match
industry, and earn much prosperity there-
from. Besides the six hundred employees
at the Bryant & May factory, there are
axemen in the Queensland bush, chemists
in their laboratories, papermakers,
teamsters, railwaymen, seamen, wharfies
—all helping Australia to strike Austra-
lian matches. It’s worth remembering!
BRYANT NAYS
AUSTRALIAN
MATCHES
