

■m
-
sm
JE
o*3
e
DEWAR’S is really
dependable for it never
varies in quality. Any-
where or any time
DEWAR’S is ever mellow
and mature. And in
stocks of millions of
gallons lies the absolute
guarantee of its unfailing
charm for many a year
to
gSWARDEg
fOMEDAg
✓///
r
T ° "*-»esr» T<<f
w*»
FINE
•IT
<1
SQPPUED TOJhQ
IM?GR|/1L institotc
6 IsdcsrCNi) Clubs
JohriDewaroSons L d
Disfillers PE RTHiScoflajuiU LONDON
PROOuCe OF SCOTLAND
* m,,B «»OI» r* t Supervision Of THE C0«“0NWIAIW «S«*
The Bulletin
<St£o"ZX/
Vcl. 49. —No. 2525.
Wednesday, July 4, 1928,
Price 6d.
Registered at tlie General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


""THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
A 1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The mysteries of life are unexplained,
We know not whence the universe devised,
Our keen research has little yet attained,
Mankind will still with wonders be surprised.
Mere theory and dogma teach us naught,
We still have pains and perils to endure;
At least for colds we know relief is brought
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—-Advt.
Learn
TteelcnM#
Journausm
at HONE
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, cut
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
[LYSAGHT
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
0 1; : :\ »,/: ■ '| ' ■ ( : .V- ’£
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
sd
►USDteSS'J and professional
men an:' women everywhere
constants realise the need of
a pen that Will write under all con-
ditions and maintain that easy flow which,
prevents fatigue ih writing.
That is why “Swan" F|ns find their way
into the hands of busy people all the world over.
The carefully graduated nibs of "Swan " Pens, each
pointed with osmi-iridium., enables you to select
the right point for your style of handwriting.
Select your “ Swan'’ to-day—-it will give you a lifetime
of writing ease. 1
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
“Swan” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., London, W.i
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents & Repair Service Depot :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, “Swan
Ink and “Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Use 'Swan ’ Ink for 'Swan' Pens & all Pens.
fs
df
THE SENSIBLE GIFT
The Gift that is always appreciated by
reason of the service it renders.
In giving an OMEGA you give more
than a watch, you
give a life-long
friend.
The Watch that never lets you down.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston. Eso •
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq. *
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL,
'have dry matches.
??IH WET WEATHER
f It's possible if you have 1
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
sdf
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
Oil Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
sd
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office) : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the .most powerful, safe 'and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMEN.THOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
m
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
the Ciißgit
The Red Page
History as a School Subject
D. A. Riddell’s article (R.P. 6/6/’2B) on
"History as a School Subject” is timely. In
my own experience History is taught as an
alternative to Science, and consequently re-
ceives little support. Nobody wants to
quarrel with the teaching of Science; but
if History is to be an alternative subject,
why not to Classics, which at best are
promptly forgotten when school-days are
over? History, on the other hand, opens
up a wide field for interesting rambling in
later years. But the fault lies in the teach-
ing and in the requirements of examiners,
which make the subject a dull and uninter-
esting recital of facts-and dates not even
intelligently connected.
In the middle forms of his primary school
the boy first learns that Julius Caesar landed
in Britain in 55 b.c., and that Magna Carta
was signed in 1215. Each year he goes up
a form, and each year he learns the same
facts again with perhaps a little more de-
tail; until by the time he has to face-the
Intermediate in his secondary school he is
heartily sick of the whole business. Or per-
haps takes the first opportunity before that
to change the subject for something new.
But there are signs that the times are
changing. A few weeks ago, at a meeting
of the History teachers of Adelaide con-
vened by the youthful Prof. Hancock, a
revolutionary scheme was propounded and
forthwith adopted. British History as such
is no longer to be a subject for the Inter-
mediate in South Australia. In the place
of the usual texts is to be substituted an
interesting little book entitled “Cities and
Their Stories,” by the Misses Power. The
book aims, as its name implies, to tell the
stories of some 20 of the great historical
cities of the world—Athens, Rome, Venice,
Paris, etc.; in a word, .something of the
story of mankind. 'The object of its use
as a textbook is to introduce a wider
outlook and a true historical perspective
into the study of History in our schools.
We have been dragged up for too long on
the story of the little island without knowing
anything of those other civilisations which
have influenced us so much.
It is hoped that British History will be
taught in the Lower Forms prior to the
Intermediate, and again for the Leaving,
when it should once again be a fresh and
interesting subject.
The story of Australian exploration will,
of course, continue its claim to a half-
share in the examination.
Professor Hancock’s new scheme, with the
sympathy of headmasters which it certainly
deserves, should be an excellent tonic to
the teaching of History.
A. P. MUIR.
C. E. Montague
Charles Edward Montague has died at
the age of 61, leaving a slender output of
books. For the greater part of his life he
had been a working journalist, and unless
someone does him the disservice of digging
up his fugitive work, he will be remembered
by only half a dozen volumes. But remem-
bered he will be. If I were to assume the
precarious role of prophet I would predict
that few of Montague’s contemporaries in
English literature will have a longer “sur-
vival of bodily death.” This may seem a
strong claim. But analyse Montague’s
work, and it is found to contain that core
without which no literature lasts—a cri-
terion of truth.
It was a very young gifl who, hearing of
Montague’s death, said: “He had the perfect
spirit of compassion. I could not imagine
anything outside the range of his sympa-
thies.” This is very true, and explains
much of Montague’s appeal. But compas-
sion outweighted by judgment may be a
dangerous grace, as is shown alike by a
fourth-rate writer like Philip Gibbs and a
near-great writer like John Galsworthy.
Montague allow’ed nothing—not even pity—-
to deflect the compass of justice and sanity.
Sir Edmund Gosse, no merely petulant
critic of our time, says that “our habit in
contemporary biography has reached a par-
lous perfection in falsity.” Montague was
the biographer of a period. His essays and
his much less successful novels caught and
pinned down the spirit of our times, and
they came near to perfection in truth, prob-
ably because he never wrote merely for
effect. He did not conceal good truth by
bad epigrams—nor even (like many of his
contemporaries) by good ones. He had
things to say, and because he regarded them
as important he said them in terse and
vivid English, with a remarkable perception
of the right word and an economy of
language which kept the reader’s attention
on the stretch lest he might lose some shade
of meaning.
He believed that the English educational
system failed to do the best with the
material given it—an educational system
which promoted the fashion of thinking
‘hard work bad form,” and attached a
mystic aureole to the easy thing, play. He
believed that the war was prolonged by
the regular army, with its system of social
“pull,” its convention that a new General
“must be a Guardsman,” its resistance to
“every inroad of merely professional ardor
and knowledge.” Montague had a deep
admiration for the Australian soldier and
always a kindly word for him, and he quotes
with apparent approbation the dictum of
one, of them that the regulars were a “lot
of ——. born amerchoores.” Yet he was a
flaming patriot, one who knew England’s
part in the war to be right and inevitable.
Purged of the war, Montague wrote “The
Right Place,” a book of travel and holiday
sketches brimming with enthusiasm and the
joy of ,^ e - He was a mountaineer, but.
familiarity with the Alps did not make him
disdain “Little England” or “the joys of
the street.” His theory indeed was that
any place would be the right, place to the
seeing eye and the unspoiled heart. The
essay “Country Houses” is a delightful
record ok things that are passing; “Free
to the Uttermost,” a beautiful piece of
descriptive writing, touching a deeper philo-
sophic note. This volume, too, exhibits
Montague’s quality of getting things said.
He believed intensely that in clean living,
a vigorous body and a percipient mind lay
not alone the nation’s salvation, but the
individual’s happiness. The ancient marvels
of the earth come with unexhausted fresh-
ness to “the man who is not passion’s
slave.” He deals some acceptable body-
blows to the “half-sane or thrasy-hearted
writers” who have erected into a kind of
philosophy the mess of vague thought that
makes vice synonymous with experience;
“whereas at every loss of self-control you
make some exchange of the spacious light-
some experience of moral autonomy for
the dark and narrow experience of moral
helplessness.” And when he speaks of
youth’s “august and precarious stewardship
of the clean blood of a race,” he has said
all that many lengthy and • unpleasant
volumes of fiction and some plays have tried
and failed to express.
Is there any book of English stories in
the lighter vein to equal “Fiery Particles”?
Kipling’s “Plain Tales,” perhaps? The pure
gaiety of “Hanging Garden Gully” dis-
tracts attention from its masterly crafts-
manship. Montague was, as he said him-
self, “only an Englishman,” but the Irish
temperament and the Irish speech have
never been better expressed than in “All
for Peace and Quiet” and “Another Temple
Gone.”
In one of Montague’s works of fiction he
speaks of the soldiers who “made the
biggest sacrifice of all, and accepted whole-
heartedly the lowly and noble fate of in-
sects who build coral reefs and of men who
build nations—the taking of infinite small
means to great ends which may seem very
distant.” This was Montague’s ideal of
life, and the passing of a man who nobly
expressed it leaves a nation the poorer.
ANNA T. BRENNAN.
Kingsley Fairbridge
There has lately been issued by Humphrey
Milford at the Oxford University Press
a new edition of Veld Verse, by Kingsley
Fairbridge, a slender sheaf of healthy “out-
door” verse which I find uncommonly
interesting. The verse, of its kind, is good.
It, has a peculiar and true South African
flavor. It belongs as unquestionably to that
country and no other as Henry Lawson's
exquisite “The Sliprail and the Spur” be-
longs to Australia—the definite national
poetic note of which, it seems to me, is
rarely struck, if it is even thought of, by
our later-day poets. “Veld Verse” is to a
large extent crude, or rather unpolished,
and much of it. is imitative, especially of
Kipling. But there is an individual poet
in it; a revealing South African—the half-
caste asleep by the fire, the hot sand in the
sun, Ingwi the leopard, the karoo, the red
locust cloud are a few of the signposts.
These things, however, account only in
part for my finding “Veld Verse” uncom-
monly interesting. Much of my interest in
all writing that is not shoddy goes to the
hand behind the pen; and here was one
who left school when he was 11 or so,
hunted, surveyed and farmed into his teens,
literally got himself elected a Rhodes
Scholar, went up to Oxford, and eventually
came to Westralia to found his admirable
Farm School, and to die in 1924, two years
short of 40. Even those bald facts are
fairly, interesting, but there is something
about Fairbridge which intrigues me more.
In an introduction to the present slender
volume (there are only 30 verses in it, none
of them very long),his widow states that
almost all its contents were written before
he went up to Oxford in 1908—that is, before
he was 23. There are plenty examples of
much higher poetry written before 23 to
(Continued on page 5.)


:,(,i.uiiuum
The Guiding Principle of Sydney’s Mammoth Store-“ Truth in Advertising.”
Anthony Horderns’
offer at the lowest prices possible
Munro Portable Broadcasters
The Attachable Type.
The Portable Type.
ZZ2ZZSS
?
a
X
Ik
Q
Vi
«
m
S 3
1
%
2**>
N'\
X 1
The Portable Broadas
waggon. No time los
Portable is always
pull it and one man
levers are within easy
seat gives comfort
the machine may run
The Truck is solidly
is in the hopper.
The following import
The Distributing Tabl:
ample clearance. T 1
wind. The manure is
ter is complete unit. No tying-up a truck or
fitting the machine on, then taking it off. The
eidy for instant use. One horse is sufficient to
in handle it with ease. The regulating and gear
reach of the driver’s hand, a pressed steel saddle
• driving, and in and out gear is fitted so that
free when not sowing.
ponstructed and carries three bags besides what
The Broadcaster Itself.
nt points are to be noted:-—■
is as near the ground as possible, while giving
e low set gives protection against the force of
pread evenly over a strip up to 40 feet in width.
1
Mgar.
mm.
XT 543
-s: <**«**m*BemM'M
“Defiance” Disc Ploughs
These are manufactured throughout, from the very highest-grade
materials, the best and most suitable steel only being used.
Two important features are the set of the discs and the general balance
of the plough.
Exceptional clearance is allowed under the beams and between the
bodies, thereby mininusing the danger of choking when ploughing very
weedy land. 1
“The Defiance” has a coupled form of steerage, the steering, the front
and hind furrow wheel being effected simultaneously by the one steer-
ing lever of the plough, this is a great advantage when turning at
headlands.
Size of Plough.
1 Furrow Defiance , .
2 Furrow ' Defiance . ,
3 Furrow Defiance . .
Widths and Depths
of each furrow in inches.
9 to 1 2 wide x 6 to 10 deep
9 to 1 2 wide x 6 to 10 deep
9 to 1 1 wide x 6 to 10 deep
Average
Weight. Pri~e.
8001 b... £25
9801 b... £35
11301 b... £4O
The Hopper is low, so as to be filled without heavy lifting. The amount
to be sewn can be accurately set. A graded Indicator is provided.
Spring washers are fitted to screws and nuts likely to work loose with
vibration.
The Distributor is large. The greater the diameter the higher the
speed at the rim, and the greater the distance to which the manure
is flung.
At 4 miles per hour in 8 hours 130 acres may be covered; at 8 miles
per hour 260 acres.
Provision is made for complete lubrication. Points are easily accessible.
Portable Mode!, illustrated on left. Complete with truck.
Price, each .
Type suitable for fitting to Motor-lorry, Cart or Waggon.
Price, each *
£2l
Improved
Harrows
From £4/5/-
Ransome’s Improved Chain Harrows
will be found very useful for many
farming duties and will give utmost
satisfaction for clearing soil, dressing
meadows, covering seeds and reducing
clods. Being made entirely of diago-
nal wrought-iron links, which work
loosely in each other, they have the
property of clearing from all accumu-
lation of soil; this gives the harrow a
free and easy movement through rough
or heavy ground.
Stocked in the following sizes:
Sizes. Weight. Price.
sft. x 6ft. 6in. 1521 b. Ea. £4/5/-
6ft. x 7ft. 6in. I 521 b. Ea. £5
Bft. X 7ft. 6in. 2471 b. Ea. £6/7/6
10ft. x 7ft. 6in. 3151 b. Ea. £7/18/6
fs
Buy on our D.P.S.
Any Agricultural Implement or anything else you require may
be bought on Anthony Horderns’ Deposit-Purchase System.
On selection of goods you pay a small deposit, then pay off
the balance in convenient instalments. You pay the cash
price only. No interest is charged.
Anthony Horderns
Phone No. M 2401
Day and Night
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
Anthony Hordern (Si Sons Limited, Sydney


n
12
5 :
VI
v
1
f*-
r\[>i\'-s->r> l Nf\rv
m
\
r
Quality, Value and Style!
Never have Dodge Brothers Qual-
ity and Dodge Brothers Value been
so high as in to-day’s brilliant Four,
True Dodge Brothers sturdiness,
advanced to new high levels*
Famed Dodge Brothers dependability-made
more dependable than ever.
And in addition, new style, new beauty,
amazing new performance that make this car
not only the greatest value Dodge Brothers
have ever offered, but literally the criterion
by which to-morrow’s moderate-priced cars
will be judged.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Dqdee Brothers
MOTOR CARS
P.F. 320


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
df
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SON
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND: WELLINGTON:
N.Z. Insurance Building, Government Life Building
Queen Street. (Next G.P.0.).
prevent any marvelling over that perform-
ance, but i know of no other example of
one writing as well as. this before he was
23 and living on to 38 in fairly good health
without, writing any more. (The fact that
he wrote this in his teens is rather remark-
able in one way; few who leave school at
the age he left it, and rough it as he roughed
it, write, before 23, moderately long verst*
in the classic metre used for some of the
best of this.)
The matter might be left at that —as a
mildly interesting curiosity—if there were
not another work by Fairbridge between
covers. This is his autobiography, published
last, year with a preface by L. S. Amery
and an epilogue by Sir Arthur Lawley.
It heightens the interest with a vengeance.
There—in the “Veld Verse”—is the youth
living with adventure through his teens
and setting up his feelings and experiences
in poetic form; a youth who must have
lived for years with poetry highest and
foremost in his brain, or heart, or soul, or
wherever it is kept. Here—in the “Auto-
biography”—is a man who might never have
written a line of verse in his life! I should
have thought that one who had written
such verse before 23 could not have helped
making much reference to it in an
autobiography which is practically almost
entirely concerned with that part of his
life. He does not mention it; instead, he
takes an inoi’dinate pride in insignificant
things. I read the verse first, and went to
the other book thinking I was going to be
entertained by an intensely literary man
talking in a literary way about his literary
self; I found a physical young man glorying
in jungle dangers and small sporting
achievements.
In style—which, after all, is but the living
hand behind the pen—-the contrast is even
moi’e remarkable. I have mentioned IngwJ
the leopard in his verse; here is that animal
(not his best): —■
Thing from the utter silence of the wild—
Thing from the outer darkness of the night—•
Father of terror, of grey fear the child,
Ingwi (in peace softer than silk ; in fight
Harder than steel) cringing in fear draws nigh
To stay his hunger where the white men 1ie....
The weighted door has closed, and he is trapp’d....
Gods of the Wilderness, what agony!
Dumbly he noses where the wires mapp’d
Against the darkness show where all is free.
Dumbly he strives to stretch a forepaw through
To touch the long grass, bending with the dew.
The same Ingwi in prose is a banality who
fittingly ends his career in these terms: —
Then I fired. And the body of Ingwi slid to the
ground, harmless as a dewdrop, soft as a kitten
playing in the sun.
Which could not be worse.
But turning quite away from prose style,
there is merit in the “Autobiography”
—in its revelation of something attempted,
and done. I cannot quite get the hang of
his Rhodes Scholarship, except that he seems
to have appointed himself; but in him was
born the idea of that farm school which
would help to transplant childi’en from
hopeless circumstances in England to free-
dom, and hope, and sunshine and breadth
in Australia. He came here with only £2OOO
behind him, he gathered about him a few
assistants, he established his school (of
which he says he dreamed as a boy), he
helped to transplant many good lads to
the west State; and then, still progressing,
he returned to England and raised in eight
months £27,000 and came back to lay the
foundations of the permanent school, at
which last year there were more than 200
children who, with those who went before
and will come after, will no doubt be as
good citizens as this or any country may
hope to have. And this is so because (so
it seems) an idealist deserted a promising
career in verse to become an indifferent
practitioner in prose and an imaginative
and useful citizen.
CECIL MANN.
The Fourth Woman
In niches equally exalted in the temple,
George Eliot and Jane Austen; a long way be-
low them, Emily Bronte; and again a long
way below the girl of the moors, Katherine
Mansfield—that is the first of the two pro-
positions which presented themselves to me
after taking the whole of the Maorilander’s
work at a gulp. This by comparison with
the blushing little praises generally bestowed
on her memory may appear rash. It is
merely my personal belief that the beauty
of her best work, together with the sin-
cerity and intensity of her genius, is a sure
passport to immortality. But the second
proposition, that Katherine Mansfield is the
greatest woman short-story writer of all
time, I have found supported by such a
mass of evidence that I affirm it as a simple
truth.
The feminine short-story passed through a
timid and unobtrusive youth in the eighties
and nineties of last century and may be
said only to have reached maturity during
our own time. It happens, therefore, that
nearly all Katherine Mansfield’s rivals are
contemporary writei’S. Sarah Orne Jewett
is a typical mid-Victorian “lady novelist,”
her work genteelly gutsless. May Sinclair is
primarily a novelist, and the texture of her
short stoi’ies, as much as of her novels,
is suggested by the fact that she has writ-
ten two gi'eat tomes in defence of idealism.
In “Uncanny Stories” she has written some
excellent yarns which really are uncanny, the
characters like dim reflections on an ice-
covered pool, the outlines of a vagueness
peculiarly suitable to tales which frequently
voyage into the region of spirits. But there
is not an ounce of flesh and blood from
cover to cover. Willa Cather is a purveyor
of pleasantly superior sentimentalities. Fan-
nie Hurst made something of a hit with
“Gaslight Sonatas”; she has power and indi-
viduality, but the probable calibre of her
achievement in the pure and fine-drawn
medium of the short-story can best be
judged by an extract from “Apassionata.”
An ordinary girl jumps out of bed, stretches
and yawns, as we all do once in the 24
hours—like this:—
“Slow, delicious gyrations of you there on the
bear rug with the urn of body shining, feet in
the luscious white rug, back arched with yawning
and arms snakes, with fists for heads, winding apd
winding.”
The simplicity and self-effacement of
Ethel Colburn Mayne is reminiscent of
Katherine Mansfield. But this simplicity
is here not the result of depth of thought
and soul, but because there is so little
behind to swell her style out. One reads
of little Rosamund in the “Picnic” —and
then thinks of little Ivezia. E. M. Delafield
is a stronger edition of Ethel Colburn
Mayne; or perhaps it would be more accu-
rate to call Ethel Colburn Mayne a vitiated
edition of E. M. Delafield. The stories of
Iv. F. Gerould are clever and delicate, but
seldom give off anything more pungent than
an aroma of life. Zona Gale writes short
stories' competently but without quite fit-
ting into the form of the author of that large
and vital slice of life, “Miss Lulu Bett.”
Far above any of these stands Edna Fereer,
who alone can be regarded as a serious
rival of Katherine Mansfield. She has a
vast amount of magazine cleverness and
magazine vitality, and her touch is equally
deft in the creation of atmosphere and the.
limning of character. Her expression of
masculine personality, always a stumbling-
block to women writers, is wider in scope
and more powerful than that of Katherine
Mansfield. But she lacks the intensity, the
“crystal clearness,” the sincerity of the
Maorilander, and must be placed many
flights below her.
Katherine Mansfield died at the age of
34. It is said—and the saying contains more
truth and less conceit than most aphorisms
—that had there been no Tchekov there
would have been no Katherine Mansfield.
But towards the end of her life she began
to perceive that, powerfully and pitilessly
as Tchekov had diagnosed the soul-sickness
of pre-revolutionary Russia, his form was
as little suited to portray modern English
society as his life-vision was likely to im-
pinge on English mentality. “The Doll’s
House” is a definite point of departure from
her old .“disinterested” philosqphy. The
last years of her life were a time of self-
searching and mental anguish, and she was
already on the threshold of a spiritual re-
naissance when she died. She has written
in her journal:—
“All this that I write, all that I am, is on the
border of the sea. It’s a kind of playing. I want
to put all my force behind it, but somehow I
cannot
And again:—
“What I write seems so petty.”
That, last phrase hits on the very seat of
the trouble. The people and the life which
she writes of in many of her European
stories are -petty; not even unusually and
ludicrously petty, but merely absurd, over-
strained, •superfluous. In “The Doll’s House”
and the “Life of Ma Parker” she has denied
these puppets and set out, gently and with
something of the Russian sense of the sac-
redness of suffering, to lay bare the souls
of simple human beings. Age was bringing
her, along with perfection of technique, a
j uster conception of the purpose of the
short-story which involved a drastic
“humanisation” of her work. The passion,
sorrow and pathos of life was no longer to
be matter for Olympian laughter; but, a
woman saw humbly and felt anguish in
her heart. Had death not opposed the
fusion of the intellect that wrought through
the superb technique of “Prelude” and the
warm human soul that conceived the pure
pathos of “The Doll’s House,” I would have
little reason to qualify as my personal
opinion the assertion that Katherine Mans-
field ranks fourth among the women tale-
tellers of the world.
L. T. LUXTON
A Satchel of Books
The World in Bud, by Gerald Bullett
(Heinemann). Half a dozen short stories,
their substance thin but their manner admir-
able. Mr. Bullett never crowds his stage,
but lie makes the two or three characters
on it very real beings.
The Janitor's Cat, by Theodore Acland
Harper (Cornstalk Co.). Appleton’s, of
New York, published this first in 1927, but
Mrs. Simpson’s Red Page fantasy in the
Christmas Bulletin of 1926 might have
suggested it. Mrs. Simpson pictured the
ghosts of a book-store discussing themselves
and one another by night; in this volume it
is Tony, the janitor’s cat, and Jerry, a
small boy, who meet the people of the popular
children’s books and are told whimsically
about all the strange things they do when
they’re shut up inside the covers. The kiddy
who has this book given to him will know
at least something of the best remembered
of the stories that have been written for him.
The Pre-ioar Mind in Britain, by C. E.
Playne (Allen and Unwin). And, after all,
the only conclusion seems to be that if men
were wiser there would be no war—at any
rate, the Great War would not have been.
But the writer of this review, rich in refer-
ences, does not leave us thus wholly unsatis-
fied. She dissects the pre-war mind to dis-
cover the origins of its unwisdom, and blames
most heavily the misuse of modern scientific,
mechanical and other developments. And
in that connection, of course, a “commercial-
ised’’ press is heavily belabored. The means
of achievement, she complains, are exalted;
the ends are neglected. The gramophone
and the cinematograph are quoted as
examples, and “the means of fast locomo-
tion have eaten up leisure.” A purposeful
book, written with judicial restraint; hope-
less it may seem against the tendencies with
which it battles, yet it is a leaven that cannot
be wholly -without result. ’
Answers to Correspondents.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.S.P. (and others) : When your pars,
appear, send claim to the accountant, identifying
them, and he will remit... .Yetne: Send name; you
forgot to sign your covering letter. .. .Currawa:
Leason did it all with his pen. .. .F.G., Anne F.,
E.B. and L.K.R.: Sorry, finished.... Silentio: Con-
dense, condense!... .Raja: We’ll do what we can.
Copious notes are being made by the judges....
L. : The passage we liked referred to “a huge
wound in liis thigh, where his trousers had been
torn away" MM.: The young man who would
give his pants for her love has been sent home....
Billy D.: We guessed several meanings, but decided
it wasn’t worth while. .. .Lounge L.: No space for a
controversy on the relative attractions of League
and Union Rugby.... Betty S.: Sorry; not in our
line. One or two might suit the S. M. Herald’s
Saturday supplement.... D.McK.: It has a point,
but doesn’t fit in... .Knecks: Not much chop....
D.M.S.: It could be put in a fourth the space....
B.B.: “The Little Blue. Beetle” had to go for its life.
.. . .5.L.8.: Hilary Lofting was right. Feuchtwanger,
who finished “Jew Suss” in 1922, wrote “The Ugly
Duchess” a year later. In Germany, however, “The
Duchess” was published first... .Joan H.: Misty
affair... .D.R.M.: What does “Lament” mean?....
R.L.W.: Merits outweighed by crudities... .Norm
B.: The only thing of real interest is the queer
cricket happening—and that’s only worth a par
Doric: Nothing in the lift. .. .G.P.S.: Nobody cares
for “Old Mr. Jones”... .M.R.A.: The wordy prelude
fails to get the grip necessary to carry the interest
through.... Smick: The wagging end line is like
a dog’s tail —expressive, but at times superfluous.
.... Hubert D.: It made our Austral-Scot blood
boil. If he didn’t want the money, why tear it up ?
... .Chas. T.: Don’t care for the contents of “The
Jug”....Tena P.: A funeral —and a very long one.
. ...E.J.H.: Best forgotten... .Victor M.: Your
fairies shan’t play between these chaste covers....
James M. (Melb.): The “Wanderer” returns....
Clare T.: Nearly... .John W.: Lacks point nowa-
days, but the Religious Editor would have liked to
print it.... Adam: Far from convincing. .. .A. P.R. •
It trembled on the edge. .. .R.L.P.: You don’t explain
how your hero “disguised himself as a criminal.”
.. . .D.A. J.: It would be a nice story if it wasn’t
so unconvincing.... Gus M.: She was afraid her grey
hairs would lose her the love of young England ?
Well, couldn’t she dye for England’s sake?....
M. : “The way was dull and weary.” That’s
exactly what we decided after reading a few of
the 120 lines... .R.T.G.: “‘Merciful Heavens,’ she
cried, ‘where is that basket ?’ ” We found the basket.
.... Tom P. S.: How you mix things! Do you think
Wellington got that name because he wore Wellington
boots?... .Phil S.: Even jingle ought to have some
meaning... .E.M.K.: We like your thanks, but they
don’t get the verses nearer print. Can’t spoil the
ship for a penn’orth of “ta”.... T. F.W.: “Her tomb
is dead” is an amazing phrase.... C.C.L.: Dear lady,
the candor of it charms us: “I have been married five
times....the verse is about my first husband”....
Cam. D.: Not even the purple ink saves it....
R. 5.0.: Morbid... .D.N.G.: Dare you rhyme “Ulm”
with “helm” ?.... Della C.: In what part of Aus-
tralia did you strike “the long, sweet summer days
of June ?.... Bert D.: Merely album verse....
G. J.H.: A crude business, that death scene... .F.C.F.:
Weak. ... Ripponlea: Not quite so good as “To
Althea, from Prison,” but —■
Old valued friends (and new ones), Hail!
Faithful sympathisers with me in
Mine long misunderstanding with The Bulletin !
After two weary years in Gaol
I feel that this inspired sonnet must not hiil
To impress th’ prejudiced editor and win
Laurels, and —if 1 may say so-—tin ;
For my Art I stole and miserably did fail!
During th’ pleasure of our gracious ruler
For two years did they rightly me detain;
And mine Muse did go through merry Hell.
I mended boots within the Coburg Cooler,
But I suppose ’twere ungrateful to complain—
I must admit they treated me pretty well.
.. . .K. 0.: The sort of whimsy that pleases its author
far more than it could the public... .Dan: “Strike”
settled... .R.F.C.: You probably meant. “either” for
“ether”; but neither makes any difference. .. .J.S.J.:
It took four drinks to bring us round after reading
“enclosed poem” B. J.M.: The “public” that verse
would appeal to is one with a beer-pump in it....
8.G.L.: Fearfully prosy... .Jill O.: You’re so gloomy
that even your “halls. . .rise up, tears on tears.”
. ...T.R.: A par. in it 0n1y.... Kotos: You don’t
show a verse faculty... .L.M.8.: You must have sub-
mitted “The Bird” for a lark... .A.8.C.: Your
profit-sharing is without honor. . . .N.W.: Not enough
interest in it.... Rose W.: Mere melodrama. The
time is not yet.... J.A.IL : It’s still “N 0”....
W.R.D.: Yes; old—and weak in facts. Prisoners
don’t serve long sentences at Long Bay, which is a
clearing gaol; and any knowledgeable thief could
have fictitiously banked the money... .H.A.: Not
eonugh in your swag... .D.G.: Childish... .8.C.:
May be original, but there’s nothing in it....
Velia G.: “The Head” nearly got through....
Z.V.Z.: Ghosts chased off the premises—they usually
are.... James H.: The only point we can see in it
is unpleasing.... G.R.: Just description... .L.C.:
Humor p00r.... Oiel C.: Crude in 0ut100k.... Oscar
J.: A tedious rehash... .T.E.L.: Can’t understand
why the savage girl’s eyes should be “filled witli
sentimental tears.” Has she been taking a course
of the pitchers ?... .R.W.K.: Indefinite affairs....
F.R.: Gets close to “Smoke-oh!” but is too long
for its weight in grin.... Truthful Pat: That tool-
handle fight resulted in a draw. Hickory led in
the early rounds, but Spotted Gum came with such
a strong finish that the referee could not separate
them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.H.: Why not try human beings for models, not
concrete posts?... .D.F.: Slight drawings and humor-
less gags. .. .A.M.T.: You might have given the poor
thing a modish hat H.T.W.: Your romantic
sitter is a freak.... D.L.C.: Hopeless, all three....
S.Y.: Try them larger against some background;
also send a joke with the next one... .E.J.C.: No-
thing funny in Rosie’s retort... .L.C.D.: We'd
flatter you if we said it was only middling....
H. : A feeble pun; the other is moth-eaten....
S.D.: Missed by a mile.


sd
m
■H
m
<3?
; Mg g
m mm
Sll
/•
J
■
... j
in
:
;
in
■
a*
»
NuN
iP
f f
®r
iial
i
: s>
j. ■** ~,>■
■ 5 . ...«; "
/
/ n
Pf *:
S**l
JlllSllll^lpMiaillll
;:' • ... k£« -
v/ I
flr if
■
/
/
*
/
<f,l
tw
PI
■
BC
- ,\v- (
•-*
tt*
pm
Wl£.


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2525.
July 4, 1928.
THE CAVE MAN, 1928.
" T he Automobile Associations are becoming alarmed at the increase of hit-and-run motorists, who killed three persons in four days last week in Melbourne.
There have been 12 cases in Vic. alone this year. It is realised that this must react prejudicially on car-users generally.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.’
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Pitwu. of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, tor fV"
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the ofhce ot t-
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.~.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office: 249 Adelaide Street. ,
London Office: 36 Southampton Street, btiana,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only). .
Posted to any address in Australasia, weeKiy.
12 mouths, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, /*;
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10S. ,
months, 13s. 3d.; 3 months, Bs. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to in
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8..
G.P.0., Sydney. .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
refused.
The ‘contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the for in of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short- Tale*
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit ' and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 76-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.1,; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon flouse, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.1,;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.: “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 1,11,-11 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
K C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency , Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban,
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others. .
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
US.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and Ji2nd Street . New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 10i Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The. New Orleans News Man, 105 lloyal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51,1 k South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 513 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.; and from the Barber on Union S.S.
Co.’s and Matson Co-.’s mail boats.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., SI Nanking Road,
Shanyhai. China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. He Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 1,1, Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Padua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby .
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Sara.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15-19 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., l\d.; each
additional Ijoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
ffuTfyxxlleiioi.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 4, 1928.
THE BEAL RED RAGS.
Many shafts of ridicule have been hurled
at the skipper of the Jervis Bay, who sought
the aid of a warship when eight rowdy stow-
aways tried to batter their way out of
their place of detention, endangering in the
process certain vital cables, and again after
they had twice set fire to their beds. The
verdict of 405 passengers, who were in a
better position to judge than the gentle-
men who write the funny bits for the papers,
is that “the commander and his officers
handled a difficult situation with tact,
leniency, patience and ability.” Perhaps
the situation, though indisputably “diffi-
cult” and without modern precedent, was
never grave enough to warrant the summon-
ing of a warship, easy as it is to be wise
after the event. And, although it has been
officially denied that the term “mutiny,
which figured so largely in the newspaper
accounts, was actually used in the wireless
messages from the liner, “mutinous stow-
aways” being the expression employed, the
early messages, it least, were clumsily
worded. But even if it is concluded that
the master lost his head, his part in the
affair was creditable compared with that
played by the sensational press.
**' * *
The Melbourne Argus, which is no friend
to Labor-unionism, showed that the inci-
dent could be reported without imputing
misconduct to the crew, who, as a matter
of fact, did their duty, every man. It in-
dulged in no wild speculations or exagger-
ated headlines, but soberly published the
available facts, together with statements
(some of them given by union leaders)
calculated to allay fears. With nothing
more to go on, and without bothering to
wait 24 or 36 hours for the precise evi-
dence that was on its way, sensational
journals came out with stories which were
outrageously false, and, in certain cases,
slanderous. One paper hung out the poster
“Jervis Bay Captured by Mutineers,” and
yet it was, by no means the most flagrant
offender. That evil distinction was shared
by journals which did not scruple to
suggest that the crew was concerned
in the “mutiny,” the origin of which
was traced to a Communist plot.
Australian seamen have been led into
foolish and harmful strikes, but no
one out of Bedlam believes them capable
of committing the worst crime that a body
of seamen can commit, and in a big pas-
senger steamer at that. Rather could they
be confidently expected to exhibit their best
qualities when trouble came, that being
the Australian way; and the crew of the
Jervis Bay, indeed, showed themselves true
to type. The infamous attacks on these
men will be resentfully remembered for a
long time to come, more especially as there
has been no published withdrawal or ex-
pression of regret; and Australia will suffer,
as in these cases it always does.
’$ * #
Of a piece with this sort of journalism
is the practice of giving acres of publicity to
bellicose Labor-union bosses and their
interminable wrangles, while almost ignor-
ing union leaders of the solid and construc-
tive sort. This practice was complacently
alluded to by Bailey, of the A.W.U., at the
seat-buying inquiry in Sydney. “All the
reporters come to see me every day,” the
witness said. Two days later a similar
boast was made by Garden, of the Trade
and Labor Council. Thege gentlemen are
neither very interesting nor very impor-
tant, but they supply what is considered
exciting “copy,” so they have achieved an
eminence far beyond the reach of persons
like the manager of the Newcastle Steel-
works, or scientists, literary men and directors
of banks. Garden, indeed, gets more space
in the papers than any man in N. S. Wales,
the Premier doubtfully excepted; and the
more he gets the greater his capacity for
mischief. This provocative journalism is
peculiar to Sydney. There is nothing quite
like it anywhere else in Australia, and it
is perhaps the main reason why Sydney is
the industrial storm-centre of the Common-
wealth.
HOW SYDNEY GROWS.
The building and rebuilding of Sydney
proceeds at a great pace. In 1927 the number
of building permits issued in the city and
suburbs was 9038, and the value of the work
done was set down at £13,072,000, about
one-eighth being for alterations. In the
past year—to June 30—the outlay, accord-
ing to the figures of the Water Board, was
£15,293,780. The new buildings erected in 140
country municipalities during"l927 numbered
6463, and the value was £4,647,941. Allow-
ing for construction done in the 132 shires,
concerning which details are lacking,
£19,000,000 appears a moderate estimate of
the total expenditure on N.S.W.’s building
activities in that year. The great bulk of
this belonged to and was financed by private
persons.
Now 19 millions was not very far short
of double what the State Government, ex-
travagant as it might be, laid out on new
works, with something for the patching of
old ones, during the financial year 1926-27.
Yet the small number of people who did
all this private building didn’t get together
and float 15- or 20-millions’ worth of loans
in London and New York as an essential
part of their work. On the other hand,
the 2,400,000 inhabitants of the State,
among whom the builders were included,
borrowed abroad more than the alleged
amount of their public works expenditure,
plus some minor amounts at home, it being
taken as an axiom that the whole com-
munity cpn’t run up a tin shed without the
help of the international money-lender,
while a mere fragment of it can put a new
town together and not ask for his assistance,
Between June- 1926, and June, 1927, the
State of N.S.W. added 14| millions to its
external debt and millions to its local
liabilities. The inevitable inference is that
external borrowing has now no connection
with public works, though the polite fiction
still holds out. It is merely a matter of
raising new loans in gold to cover interest
on old ones in gold, with something over to
pay for the surplus of imports which does
so much damage to local industry. If inter-
est and imports were paid for out of the
nation’s own earnings the State could build
a railway with local paper money just as
well as the individual can build a palatial
pub.
The Commonwealth collects a land-tax
which, in an incidental way, throws some
light on foreign debt matters. It is an
illogical ass of a tax because, while it is
designed to break up big estates, it defines
a big estate as anything over £5OOO worth
of land when the owner is a resident and
any land at all when the owner is an absen-
tee. So the bulk of the “breaking-up”
impost falls now on city properties of 100 ft.
or 50ft. frontage, which can hardly be cut
smaller, instead of on. country properties
of 50,000 acres. But the returns present
this interesting feature:—
Value op Lands Assessed foe Federal Tax.
1920-21. 1924-25.
Owned by residents .. £209,728,050 £238,007,004
Owned by absentees .. 3,903,708 2,978,754
The absentee landowner who is big enough
to attract the notice of the Federal taxation
authorities shrinks to very small dimensions.
Thus it appears that Private Enterprise in
Australia can get along without selling the
country to persons abroad in order to raise
money for “development,” whereas Public
Enterprise in Australia is quite unable to do
any development except by -pawning the
country to persons abroad. It is another
evidence that external loans have nothing
to do with development, but merely fill the
gap caused by insufficient production tc
meet expenses.
TAKING THE BULL BY THE TAIL.
Queensland’s impecunious beef barons will
derive scant comfort from the report of
the Beef Cattle Industry Commission
recently made public. It is a verbose docu-
ment which repeats everything that has
ever been said about the industry, but
fails to suggest anything approaching a
comprehensive remedy. The most definite
impression left upon the reader is that the
body started its investigations from the
wrong end, and never came to grips with
the main issue. Yet it sets the position out
accurately enough. Thanks to a shortage
of about two and a half millions in our
cattle numbers, caused partly by drought
and partly by the suspension of breeding,
cattle are a paying proposition at the
moment. We still have an export surplus
—this season probably 280,000 will be killed
for export—and we are likely to have one
for many years to come. It is very neces-
sary that we should have this surplus; but
it has an unfortunate habit of fixing the
price of the locally consumed article, said
price being an unprofitable one. More-
over, the general quality of the cattle pro-
duced is not as good as it might be.
Having postulated these facts, however,
the Commission goes off at a tangent. Be-
fore production can be increased or quality
bettered, as it recommends, a stable and
profitable market must be found for the
product. The Commission suggests that
better prices should be paid by the exporters
for first-quality beef, with a view to en-
couraging herd improvement. But where is
the exporter to get the money? All that
can be done in that direction is being done
already. For instance, it is doubtful if Mr.
E. E. D. White, a member of the Commis-
sion, ever has to take bare ruling rates
for his Bluff Downs cattle, which are
amongst the best in the State. To extend
the practice considerably and widen the
margin between first and second quality
presupposes a profitable and assured out-
let for the exporter—which he certainly
hasn’t got. Furthermore, it is doubtful if
it would pay to produce first-quality beef
to be dumped spasmodically in a frozen con-
dition upon a market which invariably
reserves its best prices and best clientele for
the more palatable chilled and fresh article.
If we could ship chilled beef to England
all the year round we would still need to
build. up as extensive an organisation as
our competitors have already established,
and even then we would be under enormous
geographical disabilities. Continuity of
supply is almost an impossibility. And our
costs of production are prohibitive in any
case so far as competing with South America
is concerned. The European markets are
mostly closed to us—we have recently lost
Italy and France —owing to trade agree-
ments with South America and prohibitive
tariffs.
Such recommendations as the Commission
makes are confined to the producing end of
the business, and take the form of low
rents, long and assured tenures, the preven-
tion of bruising, better bulls, better stock
routes and railway trucks, centralised killing
in the larger towns, and the consequent
fuller utilisation of by-products. All these
things are very good and very necessary;
but they would automatically come about
if the demand for the product were great
enough and the price profitable. Much is
made of the possibilities of an extensive
chilled-beef trade with the southern capitals,
and something may be accomplished in
that direction. But it must not be forgotten
that the present position is an abnormal
one, nor would it be safe to bank upon this
trade continuing in anything like the pre-
sent volume in normal seasons. If it did
continue, there is no warrahty that it would
be at a profitable price.
Failing the United States—which will
shortly be importing meat and will be
chary of the foot-and-mouth disease-ridden
South Aiperica—our main hope is Britain,
though brisk representation might achieve
other small outlets—for instance, in Asia. In
regard to Britain, direct imperial prefer-
ence would be a very gpod thing, though,
with some £600,000,000 of British capital in-
vested in the South American meat trade,
it can hardly be considered likely. The
importance of Australia as the main source
of supply should war or any other cause
prevent importations from outside the
Empire is sufficient to warrant a straight-
out subsidy; but the guaranteeing to Aus-
tralia of all imperial contracts and all the
requirements of Government and public in-
stitutions at a fixed and remunerative price
would be sufficient without that. One thing
is certain: Britain cannot afford to let our
export trade in meat cease. The moment
we restrict production to local requirements
she is in peril. We are an insurance, and.
like every other form of insurance, should
be maintained even at a price, that price
being the permanent reservation of a defi-
nite and adequate portion of her market to
our product. Such a guaranteed and stable
outlet would enable us to lower the cost of
production and treatment —thereby in time
also lowering the margin of preference—and
would put the industry almost immediately
upon a profitable basis.
HENRY MOSTYN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hot Climate or Cold Feet?
C. P. Conigrave, chief clerk in the Govern-
ment Resident’s department at Darwin,
lately entertained a Sydney audience with
a fragment about “The Problem of Northern
Australia,” whatever that may be. The
burden of his narrative was that this is the
only continent which is trying to develop
its tropical regions exclusively with white
labor, and that the attempt must fail. It
may even end, he suggested, in the loss of
those tropical regions.
This is a frequent and hackneyed remark,
but it presents only one side of the case.
There is another side. Europe is the only
continent which is trying to develop its
temperate regions exclusively with white
labor, and there is still plenty of time for
it to fail. The invaders from across the
Atlantic found the temperate and frozen
parts of North America developing entirely
with colored labor. , The original lot was
mostly killed off by Pilgrim Fathers and
others, but many remain in Northern
Mexico and elsewhere, with some 11 million,
negroes added. Temperate South America
is mixed. Most of India, much of Arabia,
practically all China, and all of Japan,
Afghanistan, Baluchistan, etc., are temperate
or cold, and also colored. Non-tropical
Africa includes Tripoli, Tunis, Algeria,
Morocco, part of Egypt and almost the
entire Union of South Africa, where the
colored person is to the white in the pro-
portion of about four to one. If this array
of examples doesn’t prove that colored
people were meant for temperate climates,
though white people have pushed them out
in places, what does it mean?
There is no “Problem of North Aus-
tralia” despite the existence of unfavorable
spots there, but there is a problem concern-
ing the lamentable and unenterprising
shirkers who manage that region. The
tropical West and the tropical Centre have
petrified for want of railway connection
with big masses of population, and a good
deal of the temperate West and Centre have
done as badly for the same reason. Tropical
Queensland has made encouraging progress
because it has railway connections, but
both it and the territory alongside have
been hindered by the freakish idea of exclu-
sively leasehold tenure. In addition all
three tropical regions have been blighted
by absentee administration.
People who don’t know the unutterable
lack of enterprise which baulks serious and
consistent effort to demonstrate that White
Australia is possible easily drop into the
idea that it is impossible. It isn’t the hot
climate of the North that is the prime
disaster of Empty Australia; it is the cold
feet of the South.
♦
A Stimulant to Immigration.
“Jairtjs” presents another view of it:—
A huge sum is spent annually by the Com-
monwealth Government on the promotion of
desirable emigration from the British Isles.
Results are not commensurate with expendi-
ture. This indicates that our propaganda
campaign is not organised with due regard
to the psychology of the people on whom it
is expected to make a favorable impression.
If we want people to come here we must give
them a faithful picture of Australia. It is
useless to supply intending settlers with
stereotyped guide-book information, and it is.
positively harmful to picture the country as
a modern El Dorado where fortunes are made
without working for them.
Now The Bulletin has adopted an immi-
gration policy that should be productive of
better rpsults than any advertisement issued
by our Federal authorities. I refer to the
offer of large cash prizes for Australian
novels spread over three years. Though all
the winning stories may not be set in Aus-
tralia, the competition is certain to discover
at least three or four high-class novels, pos-
sessing true Australian atmosphere and
world-wide appeal. They will be judged by
men who know Australia and her conditions
thoroughly, and the best novels must be
faithful portraits of life and industry in
this country. They will go into thousands
of homes overseas and they will have the
confidence of the people who read them.
The Bulletin is presenting the Common-
wealth with one of the finest immigration
schemes ever conceived.
*
Maori land as an Honest Trader.
In denying that foreign borrowings are the
principal or underlying cause of adverse
trade balances Federal Treasurer Page did
not need to be very courageous. Adverse


trade balances are primarily due, as every-
one understands, to a country’s inability
to pay for its imports with its exports. It
has to get tick for the balance, and the
more it imports and the less it exports the
greater its indebtedness must become. But
it is also true that the credits established
abroad by a Government affect the trading
situation, and that the larger they are the
more importation will be encouraged.
The position is very well understood in
Maoriland, where trading returns, banking
records and foreign credits are studied in
unison, and where, to some extent, both
domestic credits and foreign borrowings
are regulated by reference to these three
beacons. The old theory that posterity can
pay for anything and everything has been
scrapped by the trading community, if not
by the politicians, in favor of the, theory
that payments to and from a country must
balance on the. average of the years. It is
a rule that has exceptions, of course—some
of the American States in an early stage of
their existence provided an exception by
repudiation of their debts —but it is a
safe guide for an honest nation.
The new gospel of financial rectitude has
been given very striking application in
Maoriland in the last three years. After a
sharp lesson in 1920-21, when the country
had a huge trading deficit, there was a
progressive recovery until the middle of
1925. The restoration of the gold standard
in Britain then began to affect prices. The
value of wool, meat and dairy produce de-
clined, and declined more rapidly than the
value of imports, with the result that from
the beginning of 1926 to the third quarter
in 1927 imports exceeded exports in value.
But the gap was not filled by a policy of
heavy national borrowing. Instead, the
banks raised the overdraft rate to seven per
cent, and looked at importers with a frosty
eye, while the Government did everything
it could to stimulate farming production.
The fruits of this policy have been har-
vested in the last nine months. Exports
have increased substantially in quantity
and imports have decreased. Even had
prices remained stationary the country
would have balanced accounts, but a sharp
rise in wool prices and a substantial im-
provement in prices
of meat and dairy
produce plus a steady
fall in prices of im-
ported goods have
enabled the Domi-
nion to turn its accu-
mulated trading defi-
cits into a substantial
accumulated surplus.
The year ended
March, 1926, showed
a deficit of £4,300,000;
the year ended
March, 1927, a defi-
cit of £2,500,000, a
total set-back of
nearly £7,000,000.
The year ended
March last showed a
surplus of £10,500,000.
Of course the
actual national posi-
tion is not as rosy as
all that. There is
an annual interest
bill of about £6,000,000
and in the three
years under review at least £15,000,000
has been added to the foreign debt.
But the country is in good heart.
It has faith in its future. The millions it
has spent and is spending on the develop-
ment of water-power and on roads and other
communications are adding substantially to
the national earning power, and there are
those who believe the country has rich re-
sources not yet drawn upon. The enthusi-
asts who for some years past have been
scenting natural oil deposits in the North
Island have received very cheering geo-
physical and other reports, and believe
that success is in sight. The day may be
distant when Maoriland will no longer
need to lean on the -pawnshop counter, but
the country has at least learned how to
make its trading accounts look respectable,
and it has quite a lot To show for its
borrowed money.
These Sportsmen!
It is to be expected in a community sealed
to gambling in all its ramifications that it
should contain many who regard matters
relating to gambling from an inverted view-
point. Characteristic of these inversions is
the tendency to look on any means of win-
ning the other fellow’s money as “sport,”
with the consequence that the once clean
and reputable word, formerly confined to
the chase and athletic exercises, is nowa-
days tagged on to all manner of more or
less disreputable gambling devices.
The N.S.W. Government having given
faint evidences of a desire to lop off some
of the less desirable excrescences now dis-
figuring legitimate sport, the multitude of
individuals who have in one way or another
attached themselves to the fungus growths
with more or less profit to themselves have
become apprehensive, and are endeavoring
to band together to protect their self-
assumed “rights.” This is apparent from
an advertisement in the Sydney press call-
ing on the “sports” of the community to
assemble and form an association “to pro-
tect the interests of sport generally, and
to assist the Government in determining a
policy by showing the number of people
interested in sport and especially in the
tin hares.” The last time a Government
was “assisted” in this way in Sydney was
when a crowd of Trades Hall officials and
their heelers forced their way into Parlia-
ment House during a crisis and intimidated
the then Labor Ministry by showing the
number of people “interested” in having
things go the way they wanted them. The
same truculent idea seems to be behind the
formation of the new association.
The assumption, however, that the Bavin
Government is likely to be “assisted” in its
legislation by the discovery of how many
unspeakable or misguided people waste
their time and substance on that most
worthless of gambling media, the tin hare,
is eloquent of the mentality of the people
who have evolved the notion. The genuine
sporting bodies of Australia are too well
organised to require the assistance of any
society of nondescripts. Further, the implied
association of tin-hare gambling with sport,
properly so-called, is an impertinence
directed at every genuine sportsman, just
as the attempt of its invidious supporters
to form an organisation in defence of real
sport is an insult to the intelligence of
the community in general.
♦
Peace Pills for Pale People.
The amended American proposals for the
abolition of war and the inauguration of
universal peace have been “released,” to
speak in the tongue of Hollywood, and once
more to the mountain a mouse has been
born. The “pact,” as outlined in the cables,
amounts to nothing more than that the
contracting nations shall sign an undertaking
to renounce war against each other, and to
use all their influence to prevent outsiders
indulging in the pastime. If any non-signa-
tory does choose to go on the warpath in
spite of good advice, there is no provision
for enforcing discipline on the erring one.
Neither is there any to meet the case of
the signatory who chooses to tear up
the scrap of paper and dig up the toma-
hawk, except that he shall be “denied
the benefits of the treaty.” As these, if any,
are extremely nebulous, the punishment
hardly seems convincing.
In brief, the Universal Peace proposal
seems full sister to that other American
RATS.
“The N.S.W. Government is to be asked to. direct the Royal Commission to. next inquire into the
Sydney City Council coal contracts.”
CITY COMMISSIONERS: “Better leave the cat here, Mr. Bavin. It took more than one
rat to make such a wreck of that cheese.”
idea, the Naval Disarmament Conference,
and, like it, is simply electioneering propa-
ganda for the Republican candidate at the
Presidential elections.
♦—
Sandy Blight.
Highly infectious, and easily transmitted,
it particularly affects bush children, and
in many cases becomes chronic and incur-
able through early ignorance or neglect,
with the result that impaired sight and
perhaps total blindness results. Nowhere
is it more prevalent than in the dry and fly-
infested areas of Western Queensland,'
where medical attention is still out of the
question for many sufferers. Years ago a
Queensland Government made an earnest
attempt to deal with the curse, children
being examined and treated by a doctor
at the public schools, and by the teacher
if no qualified practitioner was within reach.
This duty was even cast upon the travelling
school teacher—another excellent innova-
tion of those far-off days—-whose job it was
to hunt up bush children who were too far
out to attend regular schools.
This system has now been abandoned by
the Queensland Education Department for
reasons which are not very clear. In its
stead a hospital to treat trachoma cases has
been established in Brisbane, while the
Home Secretary’s Department has in-
structed all public hospitals throughout the
State to adopt a charge of Is. per head for
outpatient treatment of trachoma cases. In
a circular sent to The Bulletin from Thar-
gomindah J. B. Hogg, who has had great
experience, condemns the change whole-
heartedly. In his opinion the substitution
of a small hospital in Brisbane, where only
advanced cases can be treated, is a miser-
able substitute for the local treatment of
cases in the earlier stages, when the disease
is most easily cured on the spot. As a result,
many of the slighter cases will develop by
neglect and ignorance into advanced ones,
and the field of infection will be corres-
pondingly extended.
The Government complains that the
former method of treatment broke down.
It certainly had defects, due mainly to the
fact that treatment on the spot was never
made compulsory, as it could easily have
been, with the result that the doctors and
teachers were powerless to enforce con-
tinuous treatment in the case of wayward
children or ignorant and over-indulgent
parents. Compulsory treatment on the
spot, on the old lines, is Mr. Hogg’s solu-
tion of the trouble, and anyone familiar
with the conditions prevailing in the dust-
and fly-cursed Western Queensland sum-
mers will agree with him. Compulsory
legislation has practically wiped out typhoid
in the West, where once it took heavy toll.
It could do the same with trachoma, which
often makes life one long misery to which
even the tender mercies of typhoid seem
preferable.
—♦
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. J. M. Fowler’s
statement that I must be a person of tre-
mendous weight in the political world to
challenge “the opinions of such authorities
as Baker, Holder, Henry Parkes, W. A.
Watt and many more outstanding public
men and students of politics in Australia”
is somewhat irrelevant, I knew two of those
he mentions fairly well, and I knew Lyne,
Barton, O’Connor, Kingston, Turner
and Deakin much better. There was no-
thing Gladstonian about any of them with
the possible exception of Parkes; and if
they believed in the Elective Ministry it
is a pity they made no serious effort to
establish the principle. Men quite as im-
portant as Holder and Watt say that the
Swiss system has grown into a stodgy plan
of control by Ministers who are really
chief clerks or permanent heads of depart-
ments —so permanent that they don’t even
retire on a reasonable age limit.
Australia wants smaller States, as in the
U.S. and most other countries, for the out-
lying fringes of the very big States are
shamefully neglected. It needs to stand-
ardise its railway gauges as the U.S. and
Britain have done. The case calls for a
strenuous movement to make an end of the
overseas loan leprosy, and if an effort was
made to reduce the debt, the kind of effort
that the U.S. and Britain are making, it
wouldn’t be amiss. These are a few out
of many matters which I have advocated
in print after a conservative fashion for
35 years or so.
But I have no great interest in any pro-
ject for drawing fish across all the important
tracks by teaching the community that
everything can be made right provided a
pre-selected Cabinet pretends to be elected
in the open House, or in two open Houses.
It is an easy, lazy, sanguine idea and no-
thing else. Other Swiss methods include
the election of judges whose only essential
qualification is that they are voters; pay-
ment of Federal Upper House politicians
by their constituents; Ministers who have
no Parliamentary votes; and cantons (a
few of them) which have no State Legis-
latures at all, the qualified voters or some
of them simply getting together now and
then and passing a law or two. There is
no real salvation for Australia .in any of
these Swiss devices, nor in any other of
the easy dodges that flesh is heir to.—
Yours, etc., Sol Malaprop.
♦
Queensland Drought Losses.
P. J. Nally, Director of the Queensland
Intelligence Bureau in Sydney, writes:—
The Queensland Registrar-General lias
supplied me with the preliminary live stock
returns for 1927. The figures for 1925 and
1926 are given for comparison:—
Sheep. Cattle. Horses.
1925.. - .. 20,663,323 6,436,645 638,372
1926.. .. 16,860,772 5,464,845 571,622
1927.. .. 16,501,913 5,234,420 542,140
So the rash statements made by pastoralists
and others in June and July last in regard
to disastrous losses of sheep have been
proved unfounded. It was stated that the
losses totalled from 7,000,000 to 12,000,000.-
That the official estimate published by me
during the controversy gave a truer repre-
sentation of the facts is exemplified by the
figures now furnished by the Registrar-
General.
My estimate referred to stated that the
decrease in the flocks was less than 5,000,000,
and the official figures now show that it
totalled only 4,161,410. Included in this
number, however, are about 1,400,000 sheep
which were slaughtered for home consumption
and export during 1926-27, further reducing
the losses to 3,761,410.
+
The Way of the . Navy.
"Blue Water”: “El Marinero’s” reference
(B. 6/6/’2B) to a man-o’-war having “several
spare officers on the bridge” to grapple
with soundings, bearings, plotting on the
chart, etc., shows a forgivable ignorance
of the principles on which the R.N. is run.
Individual responsibility is the keynote, and
in a gun-turret, on the bridge, in the
engine-room or anywhere else in a man-o’-
war there will always be found one officer,
and one only , who is responsible for every-
thing that happens in his particular sphere.
On the bridge this officer is the “officer
of the watch,” and even if the captain
himself were to come on the bridge he does
not “take charge of the ship” unless he
specifically tells the officer of the watch
that he has done so. The same applies to
the navigator who, though directly respon-
sible to the captain for the steering of a
safe course and for working out the day’s
run, cannot alter the course without the
permission of the officer of the watch or
without actually relieving him and taking
his place himself. The idea that “spare
officers” are available is a direct negation
of the principle of individual responsibility,
and would introduce to that sphere the
fatuity of divided control, such as exists in
the relations between a skipper and a pilot,
which are highly dangerous.
The same principle manifests itself in
other ways. ' For example, if a party has
been ashore at the local rifle-range or, as
in the good old Mediterranean days, some
of the officers have had a day’s sport shoot-
ing grouse or partridge at Lemnos or else-
where, it is the duty of the officer of the
watch to see that every gun is unloaded when
brought on board again. . As a 17-year-old
midshipman doing duty as officer of the
watch in harbor on a Sunday evening, I
have been saluted at the top of the gang-
way by a gunnery commander over twice
my age and four times my seniority while
he presented his .12-bore sporting gun
for my inspection with the breech open
and the report “Gun unloaded, Sir.”
Also as a young sub-lieutenant on watch
at 5.30 a.m. I had on one occasion to send
a message to the engineer-commander, a
very senior officer, that I wished “to see
him on the quarter-deck,” the reason being
that the fire-and-bilge pump was not running
satisfactorily and we could not get enough
water for washing decks. The “chief” duly
appeared, saluted, and later knocked verbal
hell out of the engineer officer of the
watch from whom I had failed to get satis-
faction. But he never questioned my
authority. 1 was responsible that the decks
were washed down. He was responsible
for the fire and bilge pump.
♦
A Market in S. America.
An Australian’s letter from Buenos Ayres:
Before the war the firm of H. V. McKay
held undisputed sway over the Argentine so
far as agriculture machinery was concerned ;
but this market is now controlled by North
American firms. This withdrawal has lost
to Australia millions of pounds a year.
Argentine has no coalmines or iron ore, and
is compelled to buy overseas. What is the
Broken Hill Prop, doing that it doesn’t go
after the steel-rail and girder business, and
where are Australia’s.machinery men? Agri-
culture machinery pays no duty to enter, and
heavy motor-lorries come in as tractors free
of duty. Yet, Freetraders may be interested
to learn, prices are higher than in Australia
where they pay 45 per cent, duty! Our prices
here for headers with motors are $6200;
tractors, $6OOO to $8200; five- to seven-ton
motor-lorries without bodies, $14,000 ($11.40
to $l2 = £1). We arc literally crying out
for more machinery.
«
“E. Con.”: Why did we ever suppose Tom
Walsh to be a Red? Nothing was ever
more crazy than the idea that he and
Johanson were birds of a feather. Prob-
ably the first open breach between them
was during the British seamen’s episode.
Some day the inside history of these epi-
sodes may be told, and we shall know that
trade-union officials are not more alike than
politicians or puppies. Meanwhile one
story may be told. When the Australian
unions attempted for the second time to
induce the British seamen to return to their
ships, Jock Garden was to be spokesman.
He fell down on the job, and Walsh told
the brutal truth, with the result that the
seamen were totally defeated. The irony
of this chme in the cry for his deportation
as a menace to Australia!


sdf
Protect your plant from excessive
vibration and useless clatter
BY FITTING—
MANGROVITE
RAW-HIDE GEARS
Raw Hide between steel shrouds makes the perfect
gear fabric, silent, resilient, practically everlasting,
impervious to water, oil,' dust, fumes, etc.
Let us show you what a difference Mangrovite Gears
make in factory efficiency.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
Workers’ Compensation.
BEFORE YOU RENEW YOUR POLICY
LET US QUOTE YOU!
SAME OR BETTER SERVICE FOR LESS MONEY IS
A BUSINESS PROPOSITION .
SAVE ON OVERHEAD—OUR LOW PREMIUMS HELP YOU TO DO SO.
WE SPECIALISE IN
WORKERS' COMPENSATION!
COVER NOTES ISSUED TO INQUIRERS IMMEDIATELY, IF REQUIRED.
LIFE, FIRE, ACCIDENT, PLATE-GLASS, MOTOR-CAR
AND ALL. BRANCHES OF INSURANCE.
The Community General Assurance Co., Ltd.,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telegrams; “COMMUNITY,” SYDNEY. ’Phone (2 lines): 8W6562, 8W6586.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Although the financial year ended on
Saturday, Butler, of South Australia, was
the only Treasurer who had a complete state-
ment ready for Monday’s papers. Butler
budgeted for a surplus of £6BOO and had to
admit a deficit of £272,000. The harvest was
below expectations, and that had a depressing
effect on the income-tax and railway receipts.
The Commonwealth’s debit balance will ex-
ceed £3,000,000, and although the N.S.W.
position has improved during the last few
months, revenue was, roughly, £1,150,000
short of expenditure. Westralia, thanks
chiefly to its 35-million-bushel harvest, is a
bright spot. But the Westralian Treasury
is always a bit tardy with the yearly returns,
though prompt enough with the monthly
figufes.
The decision of the Miners’ Convention
that there shall be no strike pay during
the first two weeks of a strike means that
in the case of a large number of strikes
there will be no pay at all, while in the
rest of the disturbances there will be less
pay. This should have a cooling effect
During the past seven years the Newcastle
men are said to have put up 48 per cent, of
the strike contributions received by the
Miners’ Federation and collected 70 per cent,
of the benefits. The persistence of this habit
has become an annoyance.
Though at the State Premiers’ Conference
the N.S.W. con-
tingent made a half-
hearted attempt to
get the post of
Ag e n t-G eneral
abolished, they lost
no time, after their
defeat, in fixing
George Fuller up
comfortably f o r
three years. The
effect will of course
be to make it very
difficult for anybody
else to succeed
where they failed—
until 1931, anyway.
If any Agent-
General at all is
wanted, it is an
active business
man, young for
choice; but until
the business com-
munity kicks tli e
politicians are not
likely to leave off
regarding the place
N.S.W. Agent-
General Fuller.
as one of the perks of their own profession.
The Queensland sheep and cattle returns
made up to New Year’s Day, 1928, are not
so desolating as was expected, the former
especially. The State has 16,501,913 jum-
bucks left, which is four millions less than
in 1925, but is just about level with 1923,
and better than 1915 or 1916. There has
certainly been a calamity, but, like the row
on the Jervis Bay, it was over-rated.
The alleged ferocious penalties embodied
in the amended Arbitration Bill have been
the subject of much clamor. Prime Minister
Bruce scored a point when he explained to
a Melbourne audience that the penalty for
the illegal striker under his new law was
£5O, while for 22 years the old law had
fixed it as high as £lOO0 —which nobody
evqr collected, of course.
The Hills railway, which carries all the
traffic from Adelaide to the Eastern States
and much of that for the Murray districts
as well, has been duplicated. Quadruplica-
tion is talked of, but there is a snag in the
w£l y—the level crossing on the suburban
Glenelg line. The co. which used to own that
enterprise got £ll,OOO compensation when
the Hills railway crossed it, about 1885, but
it never built the over-way bridge of which
£ll,OOO was the then estimated cost. The
Glenelg lines are to be electrified, icith a
bridge.
Alec Peacock,
likely Vic.
Speaker.
Unless there is a
slip between the cup
and the lip Alec Pea-
cock will be elected to-
day (July 4) to suc-
ceed the late Snow-
ball as Speaker of
Vic. Assembly. He
has been a member of
the House for over 39
years, and has been in
14 Governments, in-
cluding three of which
he was ltead. Nobody
knows the forms of
ihe House better.
Mrs. Glencross has
not forgiven the elec-
tors of Henty and
Brighton for rejecting
her. She says the
reason why women are
not wanted in Parlia-
ment is that the men
don’t desire their cosy
club life to be burst
up. Clubbable members —the few that are
left —sigh and point out that the bar at
Vic. Parliament House is a ghastly failure
commercially, and that the billiard tables
are little used for three parts of the year.
Tasmania’s new McPhee Government,
winch lacks'a majority, is bothered from two
quarters. Pearsall, the Independent, wants
an elective Ministry, with Labor-leader
Lyons at the head. Ockerby, a Nationalist,
known in Launceston as “Sparkling Ock,”
is a prey to gloomy suspicions because a
brewery director has been appointed to the
Ministry, though McPhee is a temperance
man himself. Labor opposition to an elec-
tive Ministry has relieved the situation as
regards Pearsall, but “Sparkling Ock” must
be humored. So six o’clock closing is to be
“strictly enforced” in accordance with
“Sparkling Ock’s” demands.
It has been stated by occasionally reliable
papers that, in view of the bad financial
situation and the tired expression on the face
of the money market, the Federal Govern-
ment’s “policy of restricting borrowing over-
seas to the absolute minimum will be con-
tinued for the‘ensuing year.” It will be
continued! When on earth did it begin?
Boycotting Commonwealth lighthouse ships
has been a mad business from first to last,
and in the final phase it has been very ex-
pensive to the parties who light-heartedly
declared the essential service “black.” The
High Court, sitting at Brisbane, upheld the
convictions of Carrigan, branch secretary of
the Seamen’s Union, and Brown, of the
Waterside Workers. The proceedings were
protracted, and each union’s bill will leave
very little change- out of £lOOO, nor has
either been financially comfortable since
“militancy” became fashionable.
The All-Australian Council of Trades
Unions has issued an appeal to Australian
unionism to put up financial assistance for
30.000 steelworkers in India, said to be on
strike for “better wages and conditions”;
and the N.S.W. Labor Council promptly
decided to respond. The scheme will probably
develop into a levy of some kind. It is a
question whether the export of money for
such a purpose should be permitted.
The U.S. Democratic party made his-
tory last week by choosing A 1 Smith, Gov-
ernor of New York, as its candidate for the
Presidency. He is the first Irish-American
R.C. to receive a Presidential- nomination.
Unfortunately, while rising above certaiu
ancient prejudices, Democrats saw fit to drag
in another—the man who seconded the
motion for Smith accused Hoover, the Re-
publican candidate, of being pro-English,
possibly because he earned his living for a
time in Westralia. Some of Hoover’s friends
will doubtless retort in kind, and the contest
will proceed on lines with which English-
speaking countries are only too familiar.
When a United States party convention
meets to select its Presidential candidate
the proceedings resemble a first-class bear-
garden with thousands of bears all shouting
at once. Cases have been known when a
candidate was cheered for three hours at
a stretch. When the Democrats got to-
gether the other day brass bands made
furious uproar, a girl dressed in red and
mounted on a white horse rode through the
premises and a Prohibitionist waved his
crutches. Fights were frequent, and very
little attention was paid to Marquis of
Huckleberry rules. T-he U.S. political con-
vention is a more picturesque function than
an Australian Labor affair of the same sort,
and it seems to be much more open to the
Press and public. It is pre-selection printed
in the biggest type.
The copra traders who have stirred up so
much trouble among the natives in Samoa
have not been able to convince the Mandates
Commission of the League of Nations that
they are disinterested patriots. O. F. Nelson,
who was deported by General Richardson,
went to Geneva to state the case for the
Mau and the traders, but got a curt recep-
tion. The Commission in its report admin-
isters a severe rebuke to Nelson and his asso-
ciates, and instead of condemning Richardson
for the “tyranny” that so outraged the feel-
ings of Joe Carruthers, the Labor Daily and
the M.L. Labor party, says he was too lenient
and easy-going. With that hint to guide
him, Colonel Allen, the new Administrator,
won’t be disposed to stand much nonsense.
Failure attended the efforts to unite the
fragments which comprise the Opposition in
Vic. Assembly (18 Nats, 10 Cockies, 2
Libs, and 3 Independents), and the Hogans
begin the new session stronger than they
were a year ago. In the absence of Linton,
now travelling abroad, there will be 32 on
each side until the Speaker is elected. Then
there will be a majority of one on the Min-
isterial side, as it is pretty certain that
the Opposition will have to supply a member
for the vacant chair. The four Country
Progs, see no reason for deserting the Labor
28. They think it better to be a force as an
ally on the Ministerial side than a fragment
among other fragments on the Left.
A weak but well-meant endeavor is heard
of in Victoria for the prohibition of woman
and child labor in the cowyard. Between
1916 and 1926 the State’s toilers on the land
diminished from 147,655 to 117,183, on paper
anyhow. But the cow-tending population
(included in the above) moved from 31,699
to 46,025, and of the 46,025 employees women
and girls numbered 14,391. How many boys
are in the business is not known. In the whole
Commonwealth it is officially estimated that
63,454 earn a crust on the land, and the
cow takes up the attention of 49,836.
South Australian Premier Butler has
stated in a sorrowful tone that it would be
cheaper for his Gov-
ernment to buy coal
for its embarrassed
railways from Brit-
ain than to go on using
the N.S.W. article,
which is expensive
both to buy and deli-
ver. Unless a big re-
duction comes to pass
patriotism, he says,
must do the Jonah
act; and, of course,
the private consumer
may go a-Jonahing
also. McDonald,
for, the Col-
liery Owners,
replies that they
haven’t put up
rates for 13
years unless they
have been ordered
to do it by consti-
tuted. authority. But
S.A. Premier
Butler.
constituted authority can be an ass, too; so
that isn’t a complete reply. All the same,
this country doesn’t want to add coal to
its importing sins.
Sydney begins already to be spotted with
placards telling the community how to vote
on Referendum Day, September 1, but there
is still a remarkable lack of interest in the
question of the bill for compensation to
everybody even remotely connected with the
trade if Prohibition wins. In that event
N.S.W. will either borrow the money abroad
or give everybody concerned its bonds for
the amount. However the trick may be
worked, the interest bill is set down, by
varying calculations, at from £500,000 to a
million p.a., to which the loss of drink
revenue must be added. One way out would
be to abolish the referendum, even at the
last hour and the fifty-ninth minute. Then
the Government could start afresh with a
hill providing for a no-compensation refer-
endum if it felt so inclined.
Being in financial straits, the Federal Gov-
ernment is reported as considering the
income-taxation of moneys which Australian
residents derive from investments abroad.
One fevered daily gave four big headlines
to the project, including “Rosy Vista” and
“Immense Sum Involved.” It went on to
say that the investments in question, mostly
of the tin and rubber variety, might be
anything from £20,000,000 downivard. How
much income that capital yields is quite
speculative, but the vista is a brief and
stumpy one. Britain draws a large taxation
revenue from foreign investments because, the
cos. being mostly registered in England, those
investments can be traced. There are many
tin and rubber cos. on Australian stock-
exchange lists ; but the number of dividend-
paying tin and rubber cos. registered in Aus-
tralia is mighty small.
Attorney - General
Boyce has been the
busy N.S.W. Minister
the last week or two.
After the Commission
which raked over a
corner of the Sydney
Town Hall violet-bod
had given him some-
thing to chew over,
Mr. John Garden and
the gentlemen who
have been improving
the breed of dogs by
night betting on tin
hares had to be atten-
ded to. The Govern-
ment had weakly
allowed the betting to
continue while the
matter was dragged
from court to court;
hut when the High
Court turned the
appeal down with a
unanimous hang,
Boyce seems to have
been able to persuade
the Government that
it was time the law
N.S.W. Attorney-
General Boyce.
was enforced. The Town Hall violet-bed is
still under consideration, but Mr. John Gar-
den is awaiting his trial.
Maoriland’s newly-born United party has
fused with the Nationalists —the name taken
by the Liberals just prior to the last election.
There is now a Liberal party of one in the
House, consisting of ex-Priminister Ward.
The United party doesn’t matter very much,
and nobody understands what it stands for.
Hovering on the outskirts of the fray is a
section of discontented farmers under the
banner of W. J. Poison, president of the
Farmers’ Union. If all the anti-Government
sections could get together the Reformers
would have some cause for alarm, but at
present there is no reasonable prospect of
that happening.
The S. M. Herald has published a har-
rowing column about the unemployment and
destitution in such regions as Woolloomooloo
and Surry Hills, a “strange, desperate
world,” where many homes resemble that
attic occupied by the woman in unwomanly
rags who sang while she sewed Tom Hood’s
historic Shirt. When a small community's
imports exceed its exports by as much as
Bl| millions in a year it is obviously giving
that amount of employment to foreigners,
.and that is only half the trouble, the other
half being concerned with the goods which
should be produced and exported (but aren’t)
to cover the interest bill. Yet no one finds
the S. M. Herald or any other Freetrade
organ making an unseemly exhibition of
ferocity on behalf of Australian manufac-
tures. Woolloomooloo and Surry Hills are
plain evidences that it is impossible to im-
port the goods and have the job of making
them at the same time.
The much too obliging Prime Minister
recently tried to get the Customs duty on
foreign films reduced from 2d. per foot—the
figure to which it was raised at the instance
of the late H. E. Pratten —to lfd. Scullin
at once objected, and not being prepared for
an argument so late in the session Bruce
dropped the subject for the time being.
Lang’s attitude to the moving-picture
interest was very different —and let it be
recorded to his credit. Convinced that by
a species of jugglery weakly tolerated
by Commonwealth Governments, vast
film profits were going to America un-
taxed. the N.S.W. Labor Premier clapped
a 25 p.c. impost on the amounts ostensibly
paid for the hire of films by Australian pups
of U.S. cos. A question of territorial juris-
diction is involved, and the matter may drag
on till similar legislation is passed by the
Commonwealth. But last week the N.S.W.
Full Court unanimously upheld the State
Taxation Commissioner’s claim to one-fourth
of £68,000-odd, returned as having been paid
by an “Australian” co. (capital, £lO,OOO, of
which £9708 is held in America) to the
parent show; and to that extent Lang has
scored.
Said John Bailey, president of the. A.W.U.
in N.S.W., to the Royal Commission on
alleged Parliamentary seat-buying:—
The sum of £700,000 was voted by the Russian
Government for v>ropaganda throughout the British
Empire. Part of this money, I am led to believe,
is coming to this country.
And there is every reason to believe that
some previous moneys arrived in this coun
try. and have been working overtime ever
since.
THE HEROES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At a meeting at the Gaiety Theatre, Melbourne,
Mr. J. Fleming interjected that the Council of Trade
Unions would sell other unions as it had sold
the cooks. Mr. Crofts (secretary of the Council)
said: ‘1 have been three times before the High Court
for instigating strikes. What has Mr. Fleming done?’
Mr. Fleming shouted triumphantly: ‘I have been
in gaol.’ ”
“Three times undaunted have I faced the
Court” —
All. the heroic gesture that he flings !-j-
-“ While others went on strike and rations
short,
Three times I dared the tyranny of kings!"
But lo! his dreadful sufferings avail
Him naught; for in the lime’s intensest
glare
Another, the true hero, rises there
And shouts triumphant, “/ have been in
gaol!”
O splendid words! Unanswerable boast!
What boots it now that other’s idle claim,
Who spiked the wheels of progress at the
most?
But this —why, this must mean unending
fame.
With awe w r e hear him and with awe we
hail;
No Abbey burial need set the seal
Upon his greatness who can thus reveal
It simply, curtly—“l have been in gaol !”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bouragi”: Rachel Gillies, a 17-year-old
girl from St. Kilda, a lonely islet lying
far west of the Hebrides, recently visited the
“mainland” for the first time in her life.
To the wonderment of the newspapers, she
refused to be impressed with trains, motors,
aeroplanes, or even the cinema, none of which
she had ever seen before. It is an outstand-
ing trait of primitive folk. When the British
flag was hoisted at Port Moresby, in what
is now Papua, Commander Erskine resolved
to impress Brown Brother with an unan-
nounced display of fireworks. Instead of
fleeing to the hills on the outburst of the
flaming debbil-debbils, as all the whites ex-
pected, the Hanuabadans never blinked an
eyelid—they went on smoking the trade
tobacco distributed among them without even
commenting on the unusual procedure. I
have seen the same thing happen when a
party of hillmen from the Northern Division
were introduced to a phonograph. Whatever
they felt, they looked as bored as a Darling-
hurst flapper would in similar circumstances.
BRIEF.
"I say, girlie, your dress is — well, a bit on the disappearing side, isn’t it? What would
your mother say if she saw it?”
“Lots of things. It belongs to her.”
“C.Q.”: Firemen had an eerie experience
when they had to fight an outbreak in a .bis-
cuit factory during one of the heaviest fogs
Melbourne has ever known. The fire had
been burning strongly before anybody in the
vicinity knew it had broken out. The men
had the greatest difficulty in getting through
the streets, along which traffic was groping
its way with the caution of the blind. Power-
ful rays from 1000-c.p. lights failed to pierce •
the gloom, and the ’fighters had to literally
feel their way about the conflagration. Casu-
alties were numerous, the chief officer’s car
running into a gutter and several men getting
minor hurts. As one man remarked, Lon-
don brigades must be manned by men with
the eyes of cats.
“Two Seas’f: There was another pub
called “His Lordship’s Larder” (B.
20/6/’2B) in Cape Town. I stayed at it
during the diamond rush to Jo’burg, and it
disillusioned me regarding the luxurious
living of our old nobility. The Larder and
a pawnshop near it, with the name “J.
Christ!’ over the door, are the outstanding
memories of my sojourn in Cape Town.
* # =!= ;Jc
• “S.T.S.”: An Adelaide S.M. has handed
£1 and costs, or seven days, to one whom
he called “the luckiest man I ever met.”
An engine-driver on the Port line saw the
gentleman lying between the up and the
down tracks, and stopped to rescue him.
He was rushed to a doctor’s, and there pro-
nounced quite witliqut injury but dead
drunk, so that he must have adopted the
railway line as a bed. A. T. Saunders, who
knows everything that ever happened in
S.A., recalls the case of a man who long
ago went to sleep with a bottle of beer
actually on the track on a local railway.
A train passed over without damaging beer
or man.
* * t- *
“Nakhoda”: The Japanese Navy faith-
fully follows its exemplar, the British, even
in social conventions. In all invitations
issued by the visiting unit from Nippon
the name of his Imperial Highness Prince
Takamatsu appears below that of Vice-
Admiral Seizo Koboyashi. The commander
is superior even to royalty when on active
service. In this case he is' superior even to
the brother of the Emperor-god.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The religious beliefs of the
Maori are as varied as those of his pakelia
brother. Of the 63,670 natives, 21,738 are
C. of E. and 8558 R.O. The Metliodies,
most assiduous of missioners in the early
history of Maoriland, have been able to
keep only 4066 within their fold; while the
Presbyterians hold the allegiance of but
638. Prophet Ratana has herded together
no fewer than ll 5 567. The Mormons, Sever;
Rules of Jehovah, Seventh Day Adventists'
Ilau-haus and other frilled sects have each a
small body of Maori adherents.
* * * *
“Long ’Un”: “Lyn” (B. 13/6/’2B) is in
error when he claims Sunnyside (Vic.) as
the highest village in Australia if. as he
states, it is only 3900 ft. in the clouds. Sev-
eral New England (N.S.W.) settlements
beat Sunnyside. Guyra, for instance, is
perched at 4330 ft., and Ben Lomond at
4442 ft.
* # *
“Lao-dah” : The average urban Australian
never thinks of his business and his home as
one. To come to the city to work and to
leave it when the day is over is the normal
method of existence for him. It is different
with the Chinese. Centuries of dependence
on walled cities as .a protection against ban-
ditry and feudal lawlessness have accustomed
John Chinaman to sleep alongside his job.
If he leaves the city at all it is to till a .
field and return to sleep at nightfall. There
are no bandits or feudal lords in Melbourne,
but the yellow man can’t break himself of
the ancient habit. The other afternoon a
fire broke out in Little Bourke-street, and
in a few seconds a startled horde of men,
women and children came pouring out of
doors and windows, accompanied by a cloud
of weird family treasures. I have several
times wmtehed a similar exodus in China.
* * * *
“Eromeno” : Touching relationship pro-
blems (B. 13/6/’2B), here’s another. Some
years ago in Brisbane two widowers married
each other’s daughters. In course of time
the families increased, and when fathers,
mothers and children were together each
woman could say to her children, looking
towards the two men, “There stand your
father and mv father, vour grandfather and
my husband.” The children of each family
wore aunts and uncles to those of the other
and I’m not sure they -weren’t cousins as
well. Certainly each woman would be step-
mother to the other, but after that it gets
a bit puzzling.
* * * *
“Kerys” : A steady-going Sydney man who
recently bought a second-hand car owns the
last thing in enterprising daughters. While
he and Claribel, aged 1(5, were motoring on
the Mountains a huge blue car turned a
corner behind them, bumped them into the
bank with a crumpled mudguard, and was
gone again, hooting derisively before the
victims could note the number. The indig-
nant citizen collected himself and drove on,
and half an hour later spotted the big car
at a village garage with a mechanic tinker-
ing at the radiator. Parking his old ’bus,
ho went over to give the enemy driver a
candid opinion of his road manners, and
was met with the combined insults of that
NOW, WHAT DID THE WOMAN MEAN?
H IM: “You ARE fond of your little joke, ain't you?"
HER: “M’yes. He’s got his good points.”
individual and six passengers. In a de-
pressed mood he was following in the dust5 r
wake of the offending car, when a turn in
the road revealed it drawn to the side in
difficulties, both back tyres being apparently
punctured. “Yes, I expected that,” said Clari-
bel calmly, “because when those people were
being so rude to you I got out and W'ent
round behind their car and pushed this
into the back tyres.” And she produced from
her bag a stout darning needle.
“P.P.”: Tragedy intrudes itself some-
times by mute signs and tokens. While
on her way home the other day a Ballarat
woman saw a broken bicycle in the gutter
of a street far from where she lived, but
recognised it as that of her young son.
Going to the hospital to see if he had met
wdth an accident and been taken there, she
learnt that he had been admitted, but was
dead when he arrived, having been killed
by the motor-car that bowled him over.
•I* '!* -I*
“Feng-Shui” : The emancipation movement
must be gathering speed wffien the women
of the province of Bihar can demand the
abolition of the pur-
dah. Bihar is reckoned
the most orthodox
Hindu State in India.
Defenders of the sys-
tem paint a pretty pic-
ture, of the charm of
zenana life, but the
fact that 1,000,000
women die of T.B.
annually and that
the female death-rate
is nearly twice that of
the male tells another
story. An interesting
sidelight on the sub-
ject is that many of
the imprisoned crea-
tures, childish as their
ideas about the world
outside must neces-
sarily be, have the
vote, and before an
election candidates
send aeroplanes to
drop propaganda on
their houseroofs. In
Java, where the pur-
dah idea has never got
a grip, the women boss
the men, which pro-
bably explains why the
right-thinkin g II ind :i
husband believes in the system.
“Nakhoda”: A Chinese herbalist, by way
of proving to the satisfaction of a Mel-
bourne Court that he was above receiving
stolen goods, laid claim to a weekly income
of £2OO, and said lie could produce receipts.
The money made out of simple Australians
by wily Celestials on the strength of a sup-
posed knowledge of secret Oriental marvels
•is astonishing. The herbs these gentry use
are as cheaply grown as cabbages, and
several people specialise in the business in a
wholesale way. The addition of an aperient
converts the otherwise useless preparation
into a powerful drench, which has an imme-
diate heartening effect upon the patient, who.
whatever more serious the complaint she—-it
is usually a she —may be suffering from, is
almost certain to be a martyr to constipa-
tion. Precisely the same thing could be
bought at a cliemist’s for a tenth of the
price, but behind the chemist there is not the
mysterious glamor of the Orient.
“Machete”: Fact continues to overtake
iiction. Another Russian scientist, going one
better than Voronoff, announces that he has
discovered a process of making the bodies
of animals and men transparent, or even in-
visible. He claims that transparency, at
least, will aid medical diagnosis. There are
drawbacks to the idea, as readers of PI. G.
Wells’s gruesome yarn of the “Invisible
Man” will recall. That unhappy wight found
that when lie made himself invisible his
clothes did not follow suit, while, when he
discarded them, his latest meal remained
suspended in mid-air, as it were, until assi-
milated. This gave rise to a great deal of
trouble, with a tragic finish. In the same
way, aldermen and politicians wdio have
undergone the treatment to avoid the imper-
tinences of a Royal Commission will find
it difficult to conceal the roll of notes in
the hip pocket, and it will be useless for
the late-homing husband to deny that he has
had more than one beer. On second thoughts,
though, this last aspect does not intrude. The
average wife is able to see through her hus-
band without the aid of science.
“Koala” : “Gregor's” assertion that Young
was the first inland town in Australia to
have electric light (B. 13/G/’2S) calls for
contradiction. Tamworth was the first town
in Australasia to be lighted by electricity;
the ■ plant was installed in 1887. Its first
electrician was O. W. Brain, later chief elec-
trical engineer to the Sydney tramways and
now r one of the N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioners.
❖ >!:
“Verri”: There are few graves as lonely
as that of the unknown woman who is buried
on Campbell Island, in the icy seas south
of Maoriland. In the early part of last
century the lady was brought from Scotland
in a whaler and marooned on the island. Ail
sorts of conjectures as to her origin and the
reason for thus banishing her to the ends of
the earth have been made. One theory is
that she was a Stuart. After an unspeak-
ably lonely existence for years, with only
an old woman attendant, she died, and the
solitary grave, thickly covered with Scottish
heather, the remains of a hut and a shell-
paved path to the sea below are the only re-
maining relics of one of the most enthralling
mysteries of the bad old whaling days.
* * * *
“Sir Sol” : In the Commonwealth Gazette
of June, 28 the following persons are named
as having been fined for breaches of the
Customs Act: Hamidoolali, Somadoolah,
Alamdar, Normoolali, Kahmanoolak. Horma-
tullah, Mahomed Alii, Shamoolah, Saimulah,
Aftarualh, Akramulah, Ilui Row Cilia,
Isoje Matsumota, Taro Nakamura, Ivishiro
Kando and Saiji Ilamano. Who said White
Australia ?
“C.Q.”: Glad to hear from “P.A.M.” (B.
27/6/’2B) that wood-carving is not a lost
art in Melbourne, though I was referring
more to the domestic side than the ecclesi-
astical. The carver I spoke of isn’t Robert
Prenzel, however. He is an old chap named
Kohn, and his Olympus is hard by the
National Gallery. It is only the unco’ rich
nowadays wdio trouble about hand-made deco-
ration in their houses, and they don’t worry
often. An £BOOO home recently erected near
to me proves on inspection merely to be
an enlarged edition of a standard Savings
Bank cottage, stamped with the machine
throughout. The owner could have afforded
to employ a drove of artists, but he didn’t
even engage an architect. He left it to a
contractor, who copied the residence of a
friend.
“T.P/’: Billy, aged six, who keeps my
class of babies in a state of ferment, is my
champion answerer, though his replies are
often unorthodox. Handing him a penny
with Britannia and her trident uppermost,
.1 said, “It’s yours, William, if you tell me
who that is.” “Fanks,” lie answered,
pocketing the coin. “The Devil! I knood
’im by ’is pitchfork.”
WEATHER REPORTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Warm sunshine is enfolding
Our dingy street once more,
And Mrs. Smith is holding
Her levee at the door.
The T.P. men are smiling—
Quick come their divvies through:
The landlord no beguiling
Need use to coax his, too.
Grins mark that sleek collecting mob —
Old Smith has fluked a decent job.
Now black-plumed clouds are weeping
Upon our street so drear,
A dismal wind is leaping
As once again 1 hear
A rat-tat-tat that’s mocking
At hope’s eternal store,
As still that mob keeps knocking
Upon a closed front door,
Then slyly starts a-peeping where
Drawn blinds would hide a dark despair.
Then, lo! the birds start singing,
The sun shines bright again;
The Smith door wide is swinging
To greet his new-born reign.
Cash Orders and Time Payment
Know troubles now are o’er,
For, decked in faith’s bright raiment,
The Smith dame’s at the door
To greet again that oily mob—
Old Smith has fluked another job.
N.S.W.
LEAMINGTON.


“Adelaide” : A serious question about tlic
stability of flying-boats arose on the Port
Adelaide River just before the batch of
four arrived from Singapore, via Westralia.
The very similar “supermarine” No. 1158
had flown over from Melbourne to meet
them, and, while sitting still off the Quar-
antine Station, was blown right over by a
squall, in 12ft. of water. The damage done
is repairable, and the only man on board
was rescued, stunned. The chief visiting air-
man, Captain Cave-Brown-Cave, said
politely, on inspection after his arrival,
that it was “sheer bad luck—might hot
happen again in a century.” But a certain
suspicion must now attach to the type. The
boat cost £17,000, has 470 h.p., and has a
reputed speed in the air of 107 m.p.h.
* '-I: =fc *
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Now that the. pros-
pect of the Prince of Wales marrying is
becoming faint, press photographers and the
like are showing extraordinary interest in
Princess Elizabeth. In the endeavor to
make the public envisage this baby as the
future sovereign of England, they besiege
the approaches to Royal residences, and are
sometimes even beckoned into private apart-
ments. It is exciting work, and invidious
at times. While the camera-men were en-
gaged on a “charming study” in the Duke
of York’s Piccadilly garden, one of Princess
Mary’s sons persistently got into the pic-
ture. Despite the efforts of a nurse to con-
ceal the offending irrfant, his arms and legs
were visible in the Evening Standard re-
production. Before the morning papers
appeared there was time to obliterate the
inconvenient scraps of him, and in the
Daily News and other loyal journals the
retoucher had left Elizabeth with the scene
wholly to herself. Great is the contrast be-
tween the lines of dignified simplicity on
which King George’s children were brought
THE NARK.
“Some people talk a lot in their sleep.
Docs your husband?”
“No, the wretch! Only smiles.”
up and the sort of film-star standard adopted
for little Elizabeth. Her name has been
solemnly included in a Court Circular as
among those who attended the concert of
the Welsh Ladies’ Choir at Windsor Castle
and she is two years old !
* *' * *
“P M.” : When I enlisted in Victoria in
1916 I had a cobber who was very anxious
to «>et away but lie was only 18, and his
father wouid’ not hear of it. The old man
wis o-reatly troubled over the conscription
issue ° and 'lost a lot of sleep over- the fact
that ’his hoy might have to go. When the
lad brought home a rejection certificate the
old man was relieved, and went on the
platform in favor of conscription, pretend-
ing to be sorry his only son was unfit to
serve. I sailed some months befoie 1 1 -
famous referendum,.and gf Jerward?
/asked. “Quite easy,” was the reply; “the
old pot was so pleased I was rejected that
I put the acid on him for a month's holi-
day in: Sydney. So I enlisted in New
South.” “But that rejection certificate?”
I inquired. “Got a cobber to go and get
examined under my name,” he explained.
“That certificate cost me a quid. But it
threw the old man off the scent.”
* * * *
“Nikko”: A burglar demonstrated how
things ought to be done in Auckland (M.L.)
recently, when John Buckley escaped from
Mt. Eden Gaol and returned to a life of
adventure. Selecting the home of a well-
known citizen, he entered and enjoyed a
hearty supper, had a hot bath and a shave,
packed himself several changes of clothing,
annexed! an electric torch and a good supply
of food and cash, and left. On the way
out he threw his old clothes over a wall.
Then he bought a tin of boot polish, shined
his shoes, and with his unwilling host’s
ferry ticket made a free journey to the city.
There lie hired a car and made himself
scarce. In his case Buckley’s chance was
a pretty good one.
“Emsee”: Though “Garel” (B. 20/6/’2B)
may be correct in tracing “Buckley’s chance”
to the Buckley who went bush, I first heard
the expression 30 years ago as “Buckley’s
partner’s chance.” This was a play on
words, referring to the Melbourne drapers,
Buckley and Nunn. The leaving-out of the
word “partner’s” has obscured the joke.
;j; !;! v •!'
“Tec Essbie”: The mysterious disappear-
ance of the foundation-stone of a Sydney
suburban hall brings back memories of what
happened to St. Matthew's church at Wind-
sor (N.S.W.). The foundation-stone of
this church was laid by Governor Macquarie
in 1817. A Spanish dollar with the centre
cut out was placed in a bottle and laid under
the stone. That night the stone was raised,
the bottle broken and the dollar removed.
The Governor conducted the ceremony over
again, putting in other holey dollars, but
these were also removed within two days,
and the walls had to rise without financial
foundation. Even then things went wrong.
Two years later the building had to be pulled
down owing to some constructional defect.
The church built in its place still stands.
:Js ❖ * *
“John Pip”: The A.I.F. paybook is the
official record of every Digger’s career, as
well as of the military machine’s bowelless-
ne.ss. Bed-ink entries have been responsible
for the destruction of many of these brown-
covered records. In my old payhook there are
two green and one red. The red entry is a
fine of five bob for being A-W.L. from hospi-
tal. One green line takes off 4s. 2d. for a
cable to tell my mother that I was wounded
in action. But I really think the Common-
wealth owes me something on the other. A
Turkish sniper pipped me in the groin at
Anzac. I was laid out a cripple for two
years, and had no opportunity of looking-
after my Gallipoli kit. Still, the second green
line in my paybook shows a debit of
fl 18s. lid. for loss of a greatcoat.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The S.A. divorce law proved
surprisingly elastic in a case concerning a
junior member of a well-known family who
married a girl from Coogee (N.S.W.). In
1923 the lady refused him all lights of a
husband”; and, by his own evidence, before
his suspicions of her infidelity were formed
m 1926, he liimselt had been guilty of nus-
conduct, realising that he could do nothing
to restore happiness to his home life. Yet
he was the petitioner. His counsel argued
that “instead of one cause for divorce there
are two,” and that “the interests of morality
and of society” would be better met by a
divorce. Another unusual feature was a con-
fession by a co-respondent, for which he was
admittedly paid £5O, though with a “warning
that if he was suspected of telling untruths
there would be no payment.” The Court took
sev eral weeks to consider the matter, but
ultimately allowed the divorce,
* * * *
■ Another sleep-meter (B
Fo| . a few succe ssive days!
watched a milkman, after filling the family
jug at the house opposite, tug on a string
hanging down from the balcony before rush-
ing back to his cart. The string worried me
till I tackled Milko about it. Upstairs
dwelt a particularly hard sleeper on whom
the alarm-clock didn’t have the desired
effect. After a few cautions for arriving at
STIFF - LUCK!
“I have given you the three best years of my life, and now you treat me like this."
“My God! Were those your three best?”
work late the man seized on Milko as a
solution of the trouble. The string was tied
to the sleeper’s big toe, and one hard tug
was sufficient.
!|! * * *
“John Pip” : Before big Victorian two-up
schools are raided a special type of sleuth
is employed as a scout. Recently a suburban
John Hop was sent down to the Yarra
wharves to see if anything could be done to
stop a big game. He soon had the confidence
of waterside gamblers, and a day was fixed
for the scout to give the signal for a raid.
But the raiding party waited in vain for the
signal, and after two hours of it returned to
headquarters. The explanation was simple.
The constable, posed as a waterside worker,
had been picked up for a job.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The son of a Leopold
(Vic.) farmer recently found a ring hang-
ing to the ploughshare. It turned out
to be the one his father had slipped on his
mother’s finger on their wedding day. His
mother lost it in the cultivation paddock
37 years ago.
“Uramao”: Wellington’s carillon, now
under order, should have a wider range than
Sydney's if size and weight count. The
first 49 bells to be installed will weigh 31
tons 2cwt. 221 b., which is four tons heavier
than Sydney’s little lot. Ultimately the
carillon will comprise 53 bells, and, like the
Sydney one, will be equipped with hand
clavier, practice clavier and automatic
playdr. The largest bell of the 49 will weigh
five tons, but the biggest of the complete
set will be a 10-tonner. The carillon is
the same as Ottawa’s, and is being manu-
factured by the same firm, Gillet and John-
ston, of Croydon.
❖ ❖ * *
“P.M.” : Neville Howse lias stated in the
House of Reps, that of the Senior Cadets
medically examined for transfer to the Citi-
zen Forces, 33 per cent, were found unfit.
It is time the brass-hats woke up to the
fact that the high physical standard is all
nonsense. In modern warfare there are
countless jobs that the so-called unfit can
do —take cooks, batmen, clerks, motor-
drivers and Air Force mechanics, for
example. Motor transport work well be-
hind the lines in France was not particu-
larly arduous, and yet men who drove motor-
lorries for a living in Australia were re-
jected for the A.I.F. • on account of some
trifling physical defect. In the latter years
of the war the British were very glad to
draft B-class men into mechanical and other
jobs. If ever such a crisis comes again
Australia will be glad of the services of
many of the lads who are now excluded
from training. Incidentally, wasn’t Guyne-
mer, greatest of French aces, a 1914 reject?
* ❖ * *
“Bildad”: I thought the claim to the
“Angel 1 Millions” had dropped out of sight,
but Melbourne Age (23/6/’2B) revealed it
as still on deck. How many claimants there
may be outside the Commonwealth it is im-
possible to say, but five are enumerated inside
it—two spinsters, a married woman and two
men, comprising four Ditcliains and a But-
ton. Every orthodox mislaid estate has
claimants in Australia, and the apparent lack
of any heirs in these parts casts a dark sus-
picion on the “untold” and till lately un-
claimed wealth of Sir Francis Drake, con-
sistiug of 66 million dollars, a truckload of
gems, two castles and many priceless articles
of “bigotry and virtue.” John Angell is
said to have died 140 years ago. Barring
his clothes and furniture the poor beggar
seems to have left nothing save 68,400 acres
of the ground that London stands on. The
property is said to be worth £60,000,000,
and the British Government has been bood-
ling the income for many years. The claim
is largely based on a birth certificate genera-
tions old. In a rather worn-out type of melo-
drama it was only necessary to show this
document to the policeman at the corner, and
he put the maltreated heir into immediate
possession of the wealth, but the process of
recovery is more difficult now. Most of these
lost mysterious fortunes were probably, at
their inception, bribes received over coal or
electricity contracts. If the owners died
suddenly leaving them hidden under the
stairs complications might easily set in.
* x * *
“Stellsby”: The last of Victoria’s fire-
brigade horses has befen pensioned off and
given the freedom of one of Wallace’s grass
paddocks at Dingee. The old fellow had
completed 16 years’ continuous service at
Eagleliawk.
x x * *
“X.D.”: An interesting sidelight on the
Campaign against traffic noises in Melbourne
is a letter from a blind woman to Chief
Secretary Prendergast. The sightless lady
implores Prendy not to do anything to lessen
the roar of the electric tram and the clatter
of the motor-lorry, as these are the only
things which make it possible for the blind
to venture abroad when sighted people are
not available as guides. There is something
pathetic in the thought that the insane
uproar of a back-cliatting motor-bike falls on
the ears of the blind like the music of
the spheres.
* x * *
“Sliep” : The Avar gave camouflage experts
wonderful scope. I struck one of the neatest
examples at Yarra Bank, on the Somme.
We got wind of a night raid to be made on
the German front line by men brought in
specially for the job. They did not arrive
till our preliminary bombardment was in
progress, and were right on us before we
could pick them out, coming over the small
gully from the end of the communication
sap, even though Fritz, wildly excited at
seeing his barbed-wire being blown up in all
directions, was sending up Verey lights by
the dozen. The ground was covered with
snow, and the raiders wore white cloth over
their uniforms. Breast-plates were used—
they, too, were in white covers. The greet-
ing" of the advance party identified them as
Australians. To the amazed onlookers came
the call, “ ’Ere yon are—all the ghosts of
the Kellys and Ben Hall’s gang.” Casual-
ties in that raid Avere practically nil.
X X X *
“Mulga”: I use cocaine in my gum-
digging job. My visitor asked if I had any
cast-off hypodermic syringes. No, I hadn't.
Could I let him have some cocaine solu-
tion? Sorry, but I had a deal of respect
for the penal clause of the law in regard
to its sale —what about trying one of the
chemists? He had tried, without success. He
was the Human Pincushion, I learned. Had
his tent and spruiker and worked the coun-
try shows. For a shilling any of his pat-
rons could stick a pin into his. arm or leg.
Yes, he injected the stuff into himself before
his show began. Did he knoAv anything
about a lethal dose, sterile solution, gradual
immunity of dosage, sterilisation of syringe
and needle or pin? No, but he knew he
made good money at the game. When I
asked if he’d made his will he said I was
no sport, and left.
A LAMENT FOR BURNT MEATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“11l a Sydney divorce case a husband was revealed
who had forced his wife to cook his meals with
wood tires. The lady quoted his refusal to let her
use a gas stove as part of the cruelty that had been
put upon her.”
No moan I make for pleasures dead
That it is idle to recall;
The girls once loved are fat —and wed—.
And I could never keep them all.
But 1 would sing a humbler lay:
Where are the roasts of yesterday?
The housewife potters with the gas
To fry some sausages for tea,
Or turns steak to a flabby mass,
Not crisp as decent grills should be.
Bach meal-liour is an era grey:
Where are the chops of yesterday?
No longer do those smells survive
That gave, ahead, a feast's delight—
That made man glad to be alive,
And put an edge on appetite.
Gas stoves have driven them away;
Gone is the food of yesterday!
Perchance within some kinder state
That we may find when this is done,
I’ll make my way to Heaven’s gate
Whilst roast-meat odors lead me on ;
Scorning the meads with flowers gay
I’ll find the feeds of yesterday!
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


M
m
«///
%S
11
1
V T%
I
IP
m
%
M
»z
w
m
1
inn.
m
%
m
V/
k
v ■
r
%
li
m
V
%//
////
'W
*
9 K
#
/■
; a its
wmsm
M «
fv'
■
M
1
i
IB
w
m//r m
w/fi
m
*4
4
m
I
%# I
mI
fc 41 ; #//
w/>
<*
aw
satisfaction': tlie ,same steadily
mat ntain quality.
CAPSTAN
NAVY CUT
CIGARETTES


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addresn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Nut Basket, complete with crackers, 58/-
Choose this
NUT BASKET
as a Wedding Gift
of distinctive grace
Note the charming design and graceful
proportions. Without the nut crackers
it will serve equally well as a cake
basket. It is very heavily silver-plated
on best hard white metal and is speci-
ally made for us in England. Our name,
branded upon it denotes that it is of
our standard, high-grade, silver-plate.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
fs
/ |he best place to
I qo for qournext
holiddu is the^
RANELAGM
where a hundred delights await you.
Golf, Tennis, Dancing. Every pas-
time catered for.
Management—G. M. Lievain Robertson
Inclusive Tariff from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street
’Phone: 86491.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Graham Pratten, new M.P. for Martin,
who pleads guilty to being 29, is by far the
youngest member of the House of Reps.
E. C. Riley (Cook), 37, and F. M. Fordo
(Capricornia), 3S, are among those
to him. The three oldest are E. B. Cursor,
of Wide Bay, 76; Dr. Billy Maloney, 74;
and Richard Whitty Foster (Wakefield),
who, despite his 72 years, has the most
powerful voice in the House. Bruce was 35
when be first won Flinders.
Martin Peter Hansen, who succeeds Frank
Tate as Vic. Director of Education, began
at 13 by winning a scholarship at the tiny
State school at Tooleen, near Heathcote. The
Westralian Premier PHIL COLLIER, who
expects to announce another surplus,
his State having had a good year.
scholarship carried him to Scotch College,
where he had 40 fights a month, in play-
time, and was nicknamed “Crim” because
he was so often before the boys’ court, of
which Saxton, now assistant chief inspec-
tor, was judge. He can fight still, but so
skilfully that the aggressiveness is not
noticed. His father, who is 95, is
still at Tooleen ; he is a Dane who took up
a farm after the Melvor goldfield had ceased
to yield a harvest of nuggets.
The Bishop-to-be of Melanesia, Rev. F.
M. Molyneux, has a link with the diocese.
His great-grand-uncle, Robert Molyneux,
was master of Captain Cook’s Endeavor,
when she visited M.L. in the last years of
the eighteenth century. The Molyneux River
is Maoriland’s reminder of the event.
Father Curran, who died in Sydney last
week, was one of a dozen blackcoats who in
the mining excitement of 30-odd years ago
remembered the science they had enjoyed at
school and returned to the study of geology
or metallurgy. Father Curran was too opti-
mistic, though, to have ever suited a board
of hard-headed Scots. But lie- was a most
entertaining writer and lecturer on his speci-
alty.
Judge Brennan (Q.), in the limelight on
account of his writ against Smith’s, makes
horticulture his hobby; when not on the
Bench he is usually either admiring the
Rockhampton Botanic Gardens or working
his own little plot. Probably the most
accessible Judge in Australia, he takes a
keen interest in students, and when a young-
ster appears before him in Chambers he
frequently gives him a dissertation on some
point of law in order to increase his know-
ledge and give him confidence. One such dis-
course on the evolution of the land laws
ought to have been preserved.
The removal of Professors Sandes and
Chapman to the fields of iCancer Research
left Sydney ’Varsity Senate looking for tem-
porary occupants of the Chairs of Surgery
and Physiology. They selected Dr. Ben
Edye for the surgery job and Professor
Henry Priestly for the other. Edye is a
young man who has been lecturing and
coaching in surgery and pathology for some
years past. He learnt much from the great
MacCormick, whose assistant he once was.
Henry Priestly has filled the Physiology
chair before on a couple of occasions. His
retiring disposition and rather poor lecturing
voice haven’t helped him very much, but
everyone in the Uni. recognises his great
ability.
Dr. Duhig,' the Roman Catholic Archbishop
of Brisbane, is Australia’s pioneer flying
bishop. He came down from Toowoomba
to Brisbane the other day in a Quantas
’plane.
Herbert Raine Curlewis, for some years
on the N.S.W. Industrial Arbitration Bench,
lias been appointed a permanent District
Court Judge. He isn’t a popular map: when
he was chairman of the professional section
under the old wages-board system his tart-
ness once led to a movement to secure his
removal. This and his pernickety ways
have handicapped him; he has not gone
nearly as far in his 59 years as might have
been expected, considering his brilliancy. In
the Daily Telegraph’s best days he showed
some of that brilliancy in a running comment
on legal cases afterwards re-published as
“The Mirror of Justice.” He married Aus-
tralian writer Ethel Turner ; Jean Curlewis
is his daughter, and his son is a Judge’s
associate.
The retirement of Sergeant “Ted” Stan-
ley from the Vic. Police ends a family habit.
Grandfather Edward Stanley was a member
of the force when Batman and Fawkner
were battling for supremacy in the village
on the Yarra. Then his son Edward joined
up and wore the uniform for more than
25 years. Finally young Ted signed on,
and now after 30 years’ experience of the
social amenities of Fitzroy, Collingwood,
Richmond and South Wharf he is content
fo call it a day.
Lord Charles Fitzgerald, uncle of the
Duke of Leinster, died the other day at the
home of his daughter, Mrs. Alan McCracken,
Malvern (Vic.). In the ’nineties he was
for a while a temporary clerk in Vic. Educa-
tion Department’s central administrative
branch, and was good at office work; after
that he mostly kept away from the public
gaze while rusticating at Riddell’s Creek.
An interesting survival is Hugh Cecil
Lowther, Lord Lonsdale, who has just been
presented by the Prince of Wales with a
gold casket, subscribed for by the “sports-
men of fne world,” to celebrate his golden
wedding. The Earl has all his life been
“ohe of the boys.” A pal of Edward VII.
in the golden days when the latter was
Prince of Wales, Lonsdale was uncrowned
King of the Sporting World, from the ex-
alted heights of the Jockey Club to the pur-
lieus of the prize ring. His willingness to
argue out any dispute with the mitts or the
“raw ’uns” endeared him. in old days, to
the great heart of the British people. His
immaculately-clad figure, liis huge cigar, his
unfailing buttonhole and his “side-lever”
whiskers have been palladia of the British
constitution this half-century past.
Many a warrior of the S’African and
Great wars will hear with interest of the
appointment of General Godley—affection-
ately known to his inferiors as “Do it again,
Alec” —as C.-in-U. at Gibraltar. An Imperial
officer, Godley was connected with Austra-
lian and Maoriland troops as a staff offi-
cer in the S’African War, and later was
G.O.C. Maoriland Forces. After the Evacua-
tion he brought a party out to watch the
intensive training of a brigade of Maoriland
infantry. The latter were sent past at the
double under a blazing Egyptian sun, and
one of the fair spectators was so impressed
with the show that, when the perspiring and
blaspheming column came to a halt, she
cried in ecstasy, “How love-lay; Make
them do it again, Alec.” A good soldier,
none the less. Later he was given com-
mand of the English troops occupying the
Rhine. He was born in ’67, so the cushy
job at Gib. will probably be his last as far
as the active list is concerned.
Dave Allison, who was l memb'er for
Borung in Vic. Assembly from 1920 to
1927, when he retired voluntarily, passed
out last week. He was dying by inches for
two years. During the last Parliament he
was carried to the House several times to
vote on important divisions.
A remarkable stickler for the Synagogue
was old Mrs. Jacob Bernstein, of Ballarat,
who at 92 was setting out as usual on Satur-
day morning to attend the service, when a
fall broke her leg;
she died later in
hospital from
shock. She be-
longed to a family
which settled in
Ballarat in the
boom days; the
place then had a
big Jewish congre-
gation, but it has
dwindled very con-
siderably. H e r
son, th(> Rev. Isaac
A. Bernstein, of
Adelaide, was at
one time the gold-
fid d s “Rabbi”;
later he went on
to Bendigo and
then to Christ-
church, and so to
S, Austra li a.
Apart from the
Rev. S. M. Solo-
mon, of Melbourne,
be _is the only
Jewish minister in
Australia who has
not been imported.
W. J. SKEWNS,
appointed chair-
man of the Federal
Public Service
Board in suc-
cession to
Lrudenell White.
Arthur Henry, the first Registrar in Bank-
ruptcy in N.S.W., who has been enjoying
liis pension for 20 years and looks good for
many more, had his ninetieth birthday the
other day. He was his Ex. Earl Belmore’s
private secretary as far back as 1868.
Just-dead Peter Burrows, a former Mayor
of Mosman (Sydney) and for donkey’s years
chairman of the Country Sawmillers’ Asso-
ciation, was one victim of the Nationalist
party’s pre-selection foolishness. A success-
ful business man—lie was a partner in E. D.
Pike and Co. —he offered himself as a candi-
date when business men were very badly
needed; but the machine wanted something
more tractable. It hates independence.
John Cameron McPliee, the Speck's new
Premier, will be 50 on July 4. Born and
reared on his father’s farm at Van Yean
(Vic.), lie managed to acquire a decent
education, and in early manhood drifted into
the business of commercial teaching. Later
lie established the Remington Business Col-
lege and typewriter agency in Hobart, got
into Parliament a dozen years ago, and
stayed tliere. He runs the Iluon Times,
a small but thriving country newspaper,
does a bit of fruit-buying for overseas firms,
and retains some sort of connection with his
old typewriter firm.
Cyril James Miller, who has been fight-
ing Brighton (Vic.) council for years for
the right to keep guinea-pigs, remains in
possession of the field, the State Full Court
having quashed the finding of Irvine, C.J.,
that the anti-guinea-pig by-law was' valid.
Some people have asked why Miller doesn’t
save further bother by shifting his animals;
but liis tenure would be no more secure in
other suburbs. You see, Miller breeds his
stock for vivisection—and that’s the milk in
the cocoanut.
Almost without exception Federal public
servants cheer the appointment of ,T. G. Mac-
laren as second member of the Public Service
Board, consequent on General Brudenell
White throwing in his job. The Secretary of
Home and Territories goes on to the board
primarily as rep. of the public servants
themselves, _ and as a result there is a purr
of satisfaction at Canberra. He used to be
in the Prime Minister’s department, but.
was given the Home and Territories position
in 1921 after Percy Deane had been ad-
vanced over his head to the top place in the
P.M.’s department. Now, at 57, he gets
one of the few plums available for officers —
it is worth £2OOO a year. He is a Parra-
matta native.
The chair in Mathematics at Melbourne
Uni. is about to be vacated by’ Professor
J. H. Micliell. He is one of three professors
at the ’Varsity who got their first academic
tickets in Melbourne. After collecting all
the Maths, exhibitions and the scholar-
ship in his final year, he set out with his
Master of Arts degree for Cambridge, where
he was senior wrangler, an honor shared by
few Australians. World fame came on his
publication of “The Theory of Free Stream-
lines,” which knocked out the accepted
mathematical treatment of fluid motion.
Gathered to his fathers —who lived in
Penzance, where Gilbert’s pirates came from
—John Hosking, one of Maoriland’s great
legal lights. His parents migrated to the
Shivery Isles more than 60 years ago, and
settled in Auckland, where John was articled
as a law clerk at 16. At 21 he was admitted
to the Bar; at 53 he took silk; at 60 they
made him a Judge; at 71 he retired from the
Bench, a K.B. marking the occasion, and
for the last three years of a busy life
he was chairman of the War Pensions Appeal
Board. He was for years the Government’s
most trusted adviser on the legal aspect
of financial affairs. He didn’t play politics,
favored no fads, and had fewer enemies
inside the. Bar and out—and that includes
the folk who came under his criminal juris-
diction—than most Judges acquire in a
long life.
Edward Malcolm Arthur, who died at Tim-
aru (M.L.) a few days ago, was a cousin of
Sir George Compton Archibald Arthur,
Bart., who was private sec. to Kitchener
all the time he was Secretary of War, later
wrote the official biography of his great
chief, and has now been commissioned to do
a like service for Earl Haig. The Maori-
land man, who had been a soldier, too, was
heir to the baronetcy.
The Speck lost one of its most famous
men when Westby Perceval passed out in
London the other day. A Launcestonian, In*
went to Maori land early in life and reached
Parliament as member for Christchurch in
1887. A clever politician, he, went to the
Cold Country as Agent-General for ’tho
Dominion and held the job for six years.
The Vatican honored him, and many other
distinctions came his way. He was 74 when
his name was called.
The appointment of John Aloysius Fitz-
herbert, M.A., to the Chair of Classics, makes
the third Sydney University man on the
professorial staff of the Adelaide University,
the others being Douglas Mawson, ex-
Antarctic explorer, and A. L. Campbell.
Fitzherbert, a Riverview boy, had a brilliant
Uni. career, -and w T ent to Cambridge in time
to enlist with the British Expeditionary
Forces, with which lie was wounded. He
lias been Lecturer in Greek at the Edinburgh
University since lie finished liis Cambridge
course.
JOHN BROWNLEE, the Victorian (Gee-
long) singer, whose Athanael in “Thais’
is judged to be the finest grand-opera
performance yet achieved by any male
Australian. It enraptured the hard-
bitten critics of Paris. In this drawing
he is cursing the too-alluring Alex-
andria.
S.even miles from Robe (S.A.) is a home-
stead with a history. It still resembles
a fortress; and among the buildings which
Adam Lindsay Gordon's rival in love helped
to construct is one inhabited by Gordon
himself when he was employed on the
Station colt-breaking. The rejected lover
swore that he would never marry, and has
kept his pledge. He is now 04.
AND WE FORGET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the hills re-echoed the battle din,
When the shrapnel burst, and the gas-
cloud rolled,
A friendly curse and a cheerful grin
Taught us a faith that a man could hold.
One thing stayed with us when the guff
Of fervid spruikers was faint and dim;
This we remembered —it was enough:
He is my cobber, and I’m with him!
We have forgotten the thing we knew,
The sun lias set, and the stars are pale,
Gone is the mateship that brought us
through
The mud and misery of Passchendaelc.
We built our shrine on a shifting dune,
On & base of sand for the winds to fret,
And life’s futilities importune,
And time goes onward, and we forget.
Where are the honors that once we earned?
The pride and fame of a mateship true?
We have forgotten the things we learned
When you were with me, and I with you.
The altar fires no longer glow,
And we are caught in the fuss and fret:
But somewhere, for you and for me, I know
The faith we’ve forgotten 4 is waiting yet.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


A STIRRING DAY AT THE OFFICE.


MAR
tSSa
>5
Beale & Co.’s Written
Guarantee for 25 Years.
mS
The Beale Factory at
Annandale, N.S.W.
M
life
Paris.
N.S.W. Conservatorium
of Music.
I'M
k'A
* tE
\r*
•V'Ta^r
. 0
Presbyterian Ladies’
College, Croydon.
J Every New Beale that goes into use helps to sell its successors. The more it is played
the greater proof does it give of the superlative quality of the Beale. It lasts far longer
than the 2 5-years’ written guarantee. It withstands the extremes of the variable Aus-
tralian climate that play such havoc with most instruments. It is good because it is
built “good lt stays good because every item of material in it is the best.
2 In 30 years over 60,000 Beale Pianos have been sold. Here are sixty thousand reasons
—reasons, not inducements—\vhy you should augment the list of satisfied owners.
3 In 1908, Beale Pianos gained every award at the Franco-British Exhibition. And they’re
even better to-day.
What do experts think of the Beale? They praise it; they honor it by awards. But
they do more. They buy these instruments! Consider this list:-
4 The N.S.W. State Conservatorium—the “University of Music’’—purchased 19 New
Beales in 1924. Additional Beale Instruments were purchased by this Institution in 1927.
These were bought after close scrutiny and keen comparison by the highest authorities
in the land.
3 Thirty Beales are in use at the Presbyterian Ladies’ Colleges at Pymble, Croydon and
Goulburn—bought on the cold, unemotional advice of experts.
0 Leading musicians of the State—Lindley Evans, E. Bennett North, Frank Hutchens,
Henry Penn, G. Vern Barnett—perform on or own New Beales. And—
-7 Her Majesty Queen Mary purchased at Wembley Exhibition a Beale piano for Bucking-
ham Palace. In a letter to the London representative of Beale & Company, the
Queen’s Treasurer stated: “Her Majesty is much pleased with the tone of the instrument,
and greatly admires the workmanship of the beautiful case.”
What is it gives leadership to the New Beale? Why has it sold itself to this long line of
critical buyers—unhampered by monejf considerations and unlimited in extent of choice?
It is the amazing "singing” tone of the New Beale—the rich, liquid, satisfying tone.
Come in and play one of these instruments yourself—in complete privacy.
‘‘Let the New Beale sing to you.”
mmm
y///ga])iMii»i»inummiH>/M\mt
IniilllTTmrr ~7n m I ’ll' ‘l 'inlfl
»fflf
His
mmmm
Encasements in oak, rosewood, mahogany,
walnut. Special rare timbers, such as syca-
more and satinwood, to order.
Sold on a liberal extended payment plan.
Used pianos taken in part payment.
Descriptive literature post jree on request.
m
COMPANY
IMI T E D
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANCHES; New South Wales —Newcastle, Tamwortli, Lithgow, Bathurst, Cowra, Lismore, Wollongong; Maples, Wagga and Albury.
Victoria —Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs. South Australia —Savery’s Pianos, Ltd., Adelaide. Tasmania Maples,
Hobart and Launceston. Western Australia —Thomsons, Ltd.
Queensland G. ,T. Grice, Ltd., 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane. Also at Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Townsville and Cairns.


F
j j/t
Bottles of 36 - 2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
n
Yeaston
Pure Drieo
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One to four Tablets
Rocke Tompsitt tCo
_ *** i r « M«ibourn«
7TI
All women are who take Yeaston Tablets regularly.
Yeaston Tablets are not a drug nor even a medicine. They
are a natural, health-giving food, a corrective to our modern
over-refined diet and lack of exercise. . They contain only
live (active) yeast cells. Yeastoh Tablets attack constipation,
indigestion, skin disorders and “ below-par ” conditions at
their very root. They are not a cure-all, but a simple means
of removing the causes of ill-health.
No Drugs! No Chemicals! No Preservatives in Genuine
Yeaston Tablets.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE!
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“A clear spotless
s kin denotes health
from within
df
sd
Nature’s
Corrective
Tonic Food
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (commencing Saturday) Grand Opera
Royal “Scandal 1 '
Criterion “Our Betters”
Palace (commencing Saturday) “Within the Law”
Empire “Top Hole’
aivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Opera
|? OVaL “The Girl Friend”
King s “The Patsy”
Cojiedy “Rookery Nook”
Athenaeum “The Luck of the Navy”
1 1 vo U Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
°' T s Moving Pictures
- ♦
It is that Shura Cherkassky, the
pianist who faced his first Australian audi-
ence at Sydney’s Town Hall on Saturday
night, is only 10, and he certainly doesn’t
look older—an amiable, rather gawky
youth who isn’t at ease till he takes his
•seat at the piano. Once there, however, his
age doesn’t matter. He plays with the
authority and assurance of a maestro; his
readings are clear, well-reasoned, and bear
the stamp of originality. He has the same
sort of ptidgy, muscular hands that enabled
Karl lausig to perform miracles of virtu-
osity and he can command a fortissimo that
even Mark Hambourg wouldn’t be ashamed
of. though the youngster uses it more judi-
ciously. In passages of delicacy lie achieves
almost the daintiness of the late Leonard
Borwick. He evidenced complete technical
equipment and a capacity for close analysis
m his playing of the Liszt transcription of
tlie Bach Fantasia and Fuge in G minor
His Beethoven number (supreme test) was
tlie ‘ Appassionata” Sonata, of which a
rather unusual but logical and thoughtful
interpretation was given. Not even Gar-
reho at her best could have delivered the
sonorous second subject more impressively.
He plays Chopin, too, and was heard in the
Barcarolle, a couple of Etudes, and the B
minor Scherzo, the last-named a particularly
brilliant tour dc force that brought down
tlie house. Among minor numbers were a
concert transcription of Strauss’s famous
Blue Danube” waltzes, a piece by Josef
Hofmann, some Debussy, two of the Rach-
maninoff preludes and a Mendelssohn
scherzo. The young man had an ovation
at the finish that equalled anything Sydney
has yet handed out to a pianist.
MILLIE WOLFF, who represents unspoiled American girlhood
Betters.” a great of the other variety in “Our
Grand Opera will come to Sydney Her
Majesty’s on Saturday, opening with
“Aida,” which will be repeated next Wednes-
day and _ Friday. “The Daughter of the
Regiment” will be put on on Monday and
repeated at a matinee on Wednesday. Other
pre-arrangements are “Manon Lescaut” on
Tuesday, “Lohengrin*” on Thursday, and
“Lucia di Lammermoor” on the following
Saturday. This changefulness means a
heavy time for the scene-shifters and the
critics, but it gives the cast a rest.
Robin Hood’ shot in the glades of Sydney
Gonservatorium stage on Saturday night' i
lus adventures were repeated last night (Tues-
day) and are to occur again on Saturday.
i)e Kovens bright, light opera has been kept
in the box since its production under Wii-
Jiamson auspices at the Palace Theatre more
than ..0 years ago. Of the principals Bry-
son Taylor sang attractively as Robin, Gwen
Sena was Maid Marian, and Ambrose
Bourke, as a sheriff of Nottingham, got drunk
veiy completely. Apart from these and some
good chorus work, there was a certain ragged-
ness, but the show can still amuse. Rita Lan-
caster directed.
, $ ' $ $ $
Allan Wilkie dates his really good business
at the Newtown Majestic,from the staging of
Henry VIII., which on the opening day
drew two houses packed to the doors A
10-weeks season finished last Friday, and
\V llkie is adding four weeks for revivals of
plays that have proved popular. “All’s Well
I hat ltmds Well, with Dennis Barry as tln>
disdainful young man who thinks a lady
should wait until she is asked, and Miss
Hunter-Watts, as Helena, made ah interest-
ing entertainment. The play had not been
produced m Sydney within the memory of
men who would be greybeards if they did not
use razors. Allan Wilkie handled Parolles th»
swashbuckling ski ter, excellently. The most
conspicuous support was given by Lorn a
Forbes, as the Countess de Rousillon, and
Alexander Marsh, as the ancient and soured
philosopher Lafeu. . On Saturday Wilkie dis-
carded the motley to lead the noble English
through the breaches in Ilarfleur’s walls. Im-
pressive in most scenes, he was occasionally
somewhat asthmatical because of rushing
some of his fiery speeches. Miss Hunter-Watts
secured a part that particularly suited her in
Katharine _of France. She managed the
comedy, with the assistance of Dulcie Cherry
as Alice, very effectively; and the cast did
its best to look like a. convincing' army when
an army was wanted. “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream goes on to-night (Wednesday).
Romeo and Juliet,” on Saturday, and “An-
tony and Cleopatra,” on Monday and Tues-
day, are the first of the revivals.
.• Th l ?A nk "Scandal” continues to
give thrills at the Sydney Royal, where Leon
Gordon looks nightly as if he is really
going to undress the lady who has declared
herself his wife. “Our Betters” go on dis-
playing their bad morals at the Criterion
“Rio Rita” at the
St. .James shows
no sign of getting
tired, and the Em-
pire, where “Top
Hole” prevails, is
to have a special
“gala” performance
to-night (Wednes-
day), when a num-
ber of Boy Scouts,
who have been
asked to act as
bodyguard to his
Ex. the G.-G., will
get a free show'.
Given notice to
quit Her Majesty’s
to make room for
Grand Opera,
“Princess Charm-
ing” says its fare-
wells to-night.
Muriel Starr is to
stage “Within the
Law” for the final
week of her season
at the Palace,
commen ci n g on
Saturday; on the
following Saturday,
Percy Hutchison
will introduce “The
Laughing Optimist”
there. “The Rudd
Family” will move
on to Newcastle
after, next Friday,
and is subsequently
due in Melbourne;
but Bill Anderson,
whose name on the
bill-boards is a re-
minder of old times,
goes on with an-
other company at
the Grand Opera
House in “When
London Sleeps”—
which old thriller
is likewise a reminder of the past.
Sydney Tivoli management lias no com-
plaint with ‘'Ace High,” and sees no reason
to change a combination which is serving
the box-office so well. The Kelso brothers
aie Australians who enlarged themselves
trom a mere juggling turn in America and
have returned as stars. Their present show
is one of the most successful the Tivoli
has seen.
George Wallace will fall on his ear for
the last time at Fullers’ Theatre on Friday,
and his droll hut clean humor will be missed.’
An effort will be made to fill the gap with
the London Revue Co., which, headed by
Frank O’Brien and Janice Hart, arrives
on Saturday.
If Nevin Tait has anything better in the
box than “The Daughter of the Regiment,”
Melbourne will be surprised. Many who
came to His Majesty’s to seolf at this almost-
forgotten piece stayed
to admire. Toti dal
Monte, as the regimen-
tal mascot, was given
the usual opportunity
of spangling the air
with precious notes,
and when she sang her
farewell to the army
mess the rough sol-
diers broke into melo-
dious sobs, the audi-
ence wept and even
the Akgus critic was
seen to blow his nose.
A tall Daughter of the
Regiment would have
been a tragedy, just
as, earlier in the sea-
son, a short Lucia di
Lammermoor was a
dramatic disaster.
Toti’s small stature
this time stood her in
good stead, all the,
more because it was
contrasted with the
large form of Di Lelio
as her Guardian—in
excellent vocal fettle,
by the way. De Muro
Lomanto wiped out
the taste of some poor
performances in the
past by giving Tonio,
the lover, the gay
charm and the know-
ledge of. voice produc-
tion which operatic
peasants apparently
inherit from their
parents. A joyous
show, but so brief that
all was over by 10.10.
“Madame Butter-
fly” is “East of Suez”
set to music, but not
so logical, A scoun-
drel as unscrupulous
as Pinkerton would
not bring his Ameri-
can wife back to the
scene of his bachelor
irregularities; and,
speaking rationally,
a bounder of his type
should not have the run of the loveliest and
sincerest music in the' piece, nor sing it as
beautifully as Angelo Minghetti-—he ought
to sing flat or out of tune or something. The
two last acts in Butterfly’s intimate apart-
ments were intelligently rendered. Emilio
Ghirardini was an admirably restrained
American Consul in a morning coat, and Ida
Mannarini sang tunefully and showed intense
emotion as Susuki. Nellie Melba Tornari
made a first appearance as Pinkerton’s and
Butterfly’s conjoint infant, and, like most
child actors, was duly paralysed into the
perfect semblance of a Japanese doll by
stage-fright.
To-night (Wednesday), at His Majesty’s,
the Williamson-Melbas lyill stage Monte-
mezzi’s “L’Amore dei Tre Re” for the first
time in Australia, when Miss Scavizzi will
submit to being throttled by a blind father-
in-law for one evening only. The brilliant
and successful season will close with the
matinee on Friday; after which the co. will
flee from Melbourne, leaving more things
undone than done, judging by the demands of
correspondents of the dailies.
The Bulletin went to hear Maude Roy-
den at the Melbourne Town Hall the other
night. What a consummate sliowwoman ! Her
theology is as orthodox as that of Archbishop
Lees. Yet she succeeded in conveying the
impression that as an image-breaker she was
Miss George Bernard Shaw. Her ideas on
the divine origin of the British Empire and
its influence for world peace are as correct
as those of the late Bill Massey, of Maori-
land; yet she thrilled her audience as with
a brand-new evangel. Then came question
time. A few people self-consciously scribbled
down some queries and sent them up. Most
of them were on mouldy aspects of theology,
such as the exact meaning of the Greek word
Logos; and the audience began to fidget.
Then the lady suddenly found something
about contraceptives. Yes, she believed
in contraceptives in certain cases. Then
followed a touching anecdote of dubious
scientific authenticity about a newly-married
couple who denied themselves progeny until
the time came when they wanted offspring—
and they found it was too late. A crowd
whose previous acquaintance with the public
discussion of such subjects was confined to
surreptitious dips into “Married Love” at
the bookshops, breathed hard and felt it was
beginning to get its money’s worth. Next,
in answer to the question as to whether she
approved of sex education for children, the
eloquent spinster drew a charming picture
of the biological processes involved in re-
production—at this point the reporters of
the dailies hastily departed—amongst flowers.
LINA SCAVIZZI, who amongst other things plays the name-
part in “Manon” with the Melba-Williamson Co. If
she could sing as well as she can act she would gain
the world’s loudest cheers.
More than ever did the house feel that il
hadn’t wasted the price charged for admis-
sion. A good show! The orthodox were
not offended and the repressed who hunger
for enlightenment got some hors-d’oeuvres t®
whet their appetite.
On Saturday the Victorian Opera Co. will
rush into the vacuum at His Majesty’s
with an amateur performance of “The
Quaker Girl.” Otherwise the Melbourne
showscape is as usual. Irene Homer
is scoring a well deserved success with “The
Patsy” at the King’s, and the same remark
applies to Annie Croft and “The Girl Friend”
at the Royal. “Rookery Nook” is giving
patrons of the Comedy a good mental sleep,
and at the _ Athenaeum, despite admirable
acting _by Lieut. Percy Hutchison and his
subordinates, “The Luck of the Navy”
should soon come off.
* * * *
Pola Negri is providing her barrackers
with some torrid moments in “The Secret
Hour” at Melbourne Majestic. “Good Time
Charley” provides limelight for the powers
of conviction of Clyde Cook, who, though an
inmate of an old-actors’ home, contrives to
make his daughter, a celebrated actress, be-
lieve that he is starring in a successful comedy.
“Four Arabian Knights,” at Hoyt’s, is the
tale of a sergeant and a private, who, as
prisoners in Turkey, use the war as a
background for some uproarious farce.
* * :!= *
Dion Boucicault, popular in Adelaide
almost from boyhood, had a great reception
at the Royal in “All the King’s Horses.”
At the Prince of Wales the Anderson-
Russell co. has finished a brisk season
of revivals, mainly farcical comedy. Ivej-
way and Carl Lawson do consistently
good work, and Hilda Dorrington gave one
amazing low-comedy show; never before has
this critic seen a woman player so funny.
Adelaide gets a new picture-house in Hoyt’s
Regent, blazing with all the latest improve-
ments. At the opening show (all proceeds to
charities) the audience was filmed while
going in, and saw itself screened an hour or
so later.


8"
When you face a problem
outside your personal experience,—■
that’s where the Alexander Hamilton
Institute comes in!
We invite you to send for this
little booklet, which will tell you all
the details regarding the Alexander
Hamilton Institute. It will cost you
nothing and may mean a great deal
to you in the months to come.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w. b 4
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
{The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia')
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
iasrasrimitef: sjsss?
available for the protection of Clients’ interests. __ • , .
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H ‘,^ laP^ rlan g{ j airma " ’
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. *orayce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
PH AS. R SMTBERT. General Man;isrer ' V ' '
WATSON Manatrer
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand.
Dividends.
“A.” “B”&Ord. Writ-
-10 p.c. 15 p.c. ten
March, Profits. ' Y ' Off. Reserves.
£ £ t
1918. . 386,607 237,500 50,000 2,345,702
1919.. 438,022 237,500 50,000 2,496,224
“A.” “B”&0rd.
10 p.c. 17$ pm.
1920.. 469,049 268,750 50,000 2,646,520
Transferred to capital, £1,125,000 1,521,520
Govt.’s Ord.
divs. 13$ p.c.
1921.. 827,256 112,500 300,000 50,000 1,886,276
1922 682 043 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,819
1923.. 553,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,957
Profit on sale of securities, £148,112 2,395,069
Inner reserves disclosed . . 184,465 2,579,534
Premiums on new shares 3,454 2,582,988
1924.. 735.832 137,436 349,871 2,831,513
1925.. 819,286 162,500 400.000 3,088,299
Premiums on new shares £2311 3,090,610
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO 3,190,610
1926.. 912.160 212,464 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,533,798
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14$ p.c. 7$ p.c.
1927.. 847.671 231,250 537,500 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73,511 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 . . 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Partly because of an increase of £1,279,601
in interest-bearing deposits which was
accompanied by a reduction of £1,176,760 in
advances, the year’s disclosed net profit was
£5793 loss than it was in 1927. After attend-
ing to pref. and mortgage-share requirements,
the balance of the year’s net. earnings was
15 6 p.c. on average ord. capital compared
with 16.4, 18.7, 21.9 and 22.7 p.c. back to
1924. Yet in the face of this pronounced
downward trend in the earning power the
board added a bonus of 1 p.c. to the ords.
in 1927, and it was repeated last year, which
suggests that earnings are better than they
look.
Of course everything is not on view. A
year ago shareholders were told that sub-
stantial provision had been made for possible
future losses, and this year “considerable
provision” was made for doubtful advances.
Moreover, it was hinted that a substantial
part of the amount so provided may not
ultimately be required. The fact that a few
of the inner reserves have been disclosed
(£184,464 in 1923 and £lOO,OOO in. 1925) ,
and that £216,931 profit on the sale of securi-
ties has been added to visible accumula-
tions during the last two years, suggests
that the board is quite satisfied that all the
cracks have been puttied up.
Still it has to be kept in mind that at
March 31 there was £616,210 more capital
to be fed before the ords. were attended to
than there was two years earlier. Of that
amount £175,781 “C” shares call for 6 p.c.
and £440,429 “D” shares for 74 p.c. This
is the capital in the new Ixmg-Term Mort-
gage Department, where loans with curren-
cies up to 36 years are made on the amorti-
sation principle at 6 p.c. The amount so
advanced at March 31 was £319,762; the
balance of the fund (£296,448) was tempo-
rarily transferred to the ordinary branch.
Another factor that has slowed down the
rate of earnings is that £1,125.000 of capital,
issued in April, 1925, was lent to the Gov-
ernment for 10 years at 54 p.c.
The £793,344 handed out in divs. last
year was 7.9 p.c. on shareholders’
funds—capital (£6,241,210) and reserves
(£3,732,525)—at March 31, and the £841,878
netted was 8.7 p.c. on average funds com-
pared with 9.2 p.c. and 10.3 p.c. in the two
preceding years.
Here is a comparison of p. and 1. figures:
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1918 .. £1,106,442 £352,250 £346,385
1919 . . ’ 1,217,153 371,659 386,273
1920 .. 1,376,838 430,109 456,484
1921 .. 1.844.017 510,467 485.095
1922 .. 1,809,256 528,174 577,840
1923 . . 1,546,041 525,532 445,671
1924 .. 1,709,289 562.596 389,661
1925 .. 1,775,324 567,495 367,343
1926 .. 1,888,309 600,068 354,882
1927 .. 1,830,881 611,270 350,740
1928 .. 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
*Less provision for contingencies.
Despite the fact that the overdraft and
discount rate was lifted from 6$ p.c. to 7 p.c.
in April, 1927, gi'oss earnings were £14,012
less than in the previous year. But tlitu
and the climb of £19.183 in exes, was largely
offset by a drop of £27,401 in taxation pay-
ments Of late competition from the bavmgs
Bank has affected the flow of deposits into
the trading banks in Maoriland. To over-
come the difficulty the latter lifted their
deposit rates, and, as stated above, the
advance rates, too. Although the trade
position in the Dominion has been' largely
rectified, the higher rate continues to be
charged; but since the general trend of
interest rates is downward, some relief m
that direction might be expected at an
early date.
The Government’s connection with the
8.N.Z., which does about half the ordinary
banking business of the Dominion, dates
back to the ’nineties, when it guaranteed an
issue of two millions of stock. It now holds
£2,050,781 of the capital, and has a majority
representation on the board. The associa-
tion has unquestionably hastened the bank’s
remarkable acquisition of strength: —
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1918 £3,312,995 £2,329,569 £30,437,937
1919.. 3,728,249 2,860,391 31,716,353
1920.. 5,765,337 3,708,305 37,661,611
1921.. 4,741,492 4,116,574 34,475,655
1922. 4,294,230 3,713,175 28,676,603
1923.. 4,564,695 3,739,310 30,003,927
1924 4,072,101 3,368,426 30,501,720
1925'.’. 4,168,844 3,658,551 30,079.283
] 926 4 444,392 3,721,791 31,121,288
1927 3 765,593. 4,016,265 29,664,024
1928'.'. 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,339,033
Assets.
Liquid. ’ Advances. Premises.
1918 £22,626,103 £17,786,755 £425,824
1919.'. 23,948,301 18,865,538 39.9,867
1920.. 33,120,009 19,431,848 361,108
1921.. 18,922,513 30,506,629 337,469
1922.. 18,250,158 24.783,560 296,473
1923.. 25,423,237 19,341,762 308,379
1924 26.011,290 20,128,292 352,474
1925 26,232,552 20,614,286 437,760
1926.. 26,482,848 22.662,697* 484,103
1927 23,897,114 23,924,980 520,877
1928.'. 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
The comparatively poor net increase in
deposits last year—it was only £675,009 —
was due to a reduction of £604,594 in current
accounts. The Dominion’s healthy trade
position—exports for the 12 months to March
81 expanded over £11,000.000 and exceeded
imports by over £10,000,000 —is reflected in
a growth of £1,958,571 in the bank’s Lon-
don funds (£10,005,132). The reduction of
over £8,500,000 in imports and the increased
revenue from primary products affected ad-
vances. At March 81, 67.9 p.c. of all (out-
side liabilities was held liquid as against
63.8 p.c. in the previous year, and the bank
was holding only £3 12s. 7d. of the public's
money for every £1 of its own funds ; a year
earlier the amount was £3 13s. lid.
The outlook in Maoriland, particularly for
the primary industries, is distinctly bright,
and banks, like other trading concerns, share
in the general prosperity. The market, satis-
fied that the 141 div. will be maintained, pays
595. 3d. for the scrip; at that price the
return is only 4.8 p.c.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
"Paid Capital. Net Profit.
March, £ £
1918 .. 276,005 23,023
1919 .. 276,005 20,309
1920 .. 276,005 51,106
1921 . . 442,489 65,524
Reconstructed and amalgamated with Zetland Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd.
, Dividends. N Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
March, £ £ £ £ £
1923* 139,370 18,675 10 p.c. = 90,850 30,145 30,145
Reserve adjustment . . 456 30,601
1924.. 147,207 15,750 00 p.c. = 77,570 53,887 84,488
1925.. 151,210 15,750 10 „ „ 80,780 54,680 139,168
1926.. 103,799 15,750 10 „ „ 91,094 56,955 196,123
L 927.. 179,365 15,750 10 „ „ 93,044 70,571 266,694
1928. 184,868 15,750 10 „ ~93,048 76,070 342,764
*l4 months.
The success of the new automatic bottle-
making plant, recently installed in each of
the co.’s five Australian factories, and the
duplication of the Auckland (Maoriland)
plant—the Fernland Government gave the
co. a trifle more protection—are mainly re-
sponsible for the spring in last year’s figures.
Gross profit (£398,825) expanded £20,796;
trading exes. (£214,227) 53.7 p.c. of
the gross profit compared with 52.5, 52.7 and
56.4 p.c. in the three preceding years. Thus
the net result, after the prefs., which call
for £15,750 p.a., had been attended to,
climbed to 18.2 p.c. on the ordinary capital
compared with 17.6, 16.3. 16.8 and 16.9 p.c.
back to 1924. The div. has remained steady
at 10 p.c. Against the £342,764 of visible
reserves that had accumulated at March 31
there was £114.500 that the present co. paid
for the goodwill of the amalgamated busi-
nesses in 1922, That is to say, there were
net tangibles with a book value of 265. 3d.
to earn profits for each 20s. of paid capital.
One of the features in the co.’s success
has been a vigorous reorganisation of manu-
facturing methods. At the annual meeting
last week the chairman said:—
When improvements are discovered so we instal
them. Our business and technical connections in
Britain and Europe, combined with periodical visits
abroad by our general manager, and our local experi-
ments, put us in an enviable position to keep our
factories in step with world-wide improvements, so
that to-day. . . .all our works are equipped with the
most modern machinery, for which we have the sole
Australian rights. ,
The success of this war against high pro-
duction costs is largely responsible for the
steady improvement in net earnings. The
co.’s new plant, at Spotswood (Vic.), now
nearing completion —the first unit was at
work in Oct. —is designed to speed up pro-
duction by no less than 75 p.c. in some lines.
Such a policy, of course, means the con-
stant scrapping of plant and a heavy depre-
ciation and replacements bill.
With the exception of £154,743 of new
capital got in three years ago to start a
plate-glass factory, the erection of which has
not been yet proceeded with, all new plant
and the purchase of Crystal Glass, Ltd.
(Sydney), in 1926, and of the Westralian
Glass Works in 1927, have been financed out
of earnings. Despite last year’s extensive
additions the book value of machinery and
plant (£326,483) increased only £26,261, and
was actually £175,676 less than it was live
years earlier. That and the substantial im-
provement in the earning power make plain
the fact that the co.’s position is very con-
servatively stated.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures: 192 i 1928 .
Liabilities ■ .. •• £87,507 £161,194 - £173,799*
Land and buildings.. 206,067 191,608. 189,813
Machinery and plant 451,3.64 300,222 : ]26,483
Stocks ■ • 316,225 387,253 447,786
Book debts .. .. 127,901 144,322 166,994
Cash, investments, etc. 18,816 449,859 430,864
--Includes “provision for taxation."’
The financial position is obviously snug, but
the net liquid movement is obscured. Cash
and investments, including shares in other
cos., are lumped at £430,864, or £18,995 less
than at the previous balance, and liabilities
(£173,799), up £12,605, include provision
for taxation. Although the capacity of the
plant is much greater than the present de-
mand trading stocks have been built up to
insure prompt deliveries in case of emer-
gency. Also ,! a considerable sum of money’
was spent on fuel supplies last year to guard
against possible trouble from that quarter;
thus £60,533 was added to the book value
of stocks of one kind and another.
Owing to inadequate tariff protection,
Crown- Crystal Co., the subsidiary which
handles the new pressed-glass section of the
business, has registered losses for the last
two years, and prospects arc that it will
balance on the wrong side of the ledger
again this year.
The market paid 40s. for the ords. a year
ago, and now offers 445. The return at that
price is only p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis;
the visible backing is 245. lOd. in net tan-
gibles. The 9 p.c. cum. prefs. are well pro-
tected. They have priority as to capital,
are covered by £7 10s. 3d. in net tangibles,
and last year’s net earnings were over 111
times their annual requirements. Buyers
offer 295. 9d.; at which figure the return
is 6.1 p.c.
Automobile and General Finance Co., Ltd.
This Sydney co., which is in the t.p. and
general finance business, registered March 31,
1926, and commenced trading in the follow-
ing July. For the 12 months to March 31
last £60.222 of capital wad got in making
the amount paid up £198,087 m 412,u70 £1
shares. A year earlier 441,845 shares had
been issued, so at least 29,275 shares have
been forfeited. On these £3894, not in-
cluded above, lias been paid. At the close of
accounts share selling had cost the co. no
less than £46.001, including £3OOO paid dur-
ing the year for the cancellation of the share-
hawking contract, and another £3276 of pre-
liminary exes, made the total cost of estab-
lishment £49,277, or 24.8 p.c. of the paid
capital. The shares were not underwritten
in the ordinary sense, and in the circum-
stances the price paid for the cancellation
of the contract was excessive.
At the end of the co.’s first eight months
of trading the board wrote what it thought
to be a net profit of £5932, but which later
turned out to be a loss of £29,562. During
the 12 months to March 31 last bad debts
amounting to no less than £40,714, includ-
ing £11,152 of current and deferred interest,
had to be written off. Last year’s actual
income, after setting aside £6908 belonging
to the current year, was £15,231 as against
£10,681 in the previous term, and exes, were
£8912 as against £4749. Thus the net loss
for the year was £23,243. After the writing
down debtors stand in the books at £148.324,
and there is a reserve of £4494 for doubtful
debts. The auditor’s opinion is that the
book debts as written down are sound, pro-
vided adequate steps are taken in the future
to preserve the full value of the security
against which such advances have been made.
They add that the loss arose through the
value of the security being utterly insufficient
in many instances to cover the total advance
made, with interest and other charges.
The statements of the chairman, C. T.
Elmslie, and the former managing director,
A. C. Hopwood—he. resigned during the year,
but retained his seat on the board make
it plain that the directors accepted business
too freely, satisfied if it was insured. IV hen
bad debts began to show up it was sud-
denly discovered that the terms of the insur-
ance policy called for strict attention on the
part of the co.'s customers, and as this was
not always given the insurance co., of
course, did not overlook the omission and
refused to pay. As this method of providing
against bad debts proved to be an expensive
failure, other arrangements are contemplated,
but no definite plan has been formulated.
The losses have not been confined to t.p. busi-
ness : part was the result of financing build-
ing contracts at Canberra.
During the vear an accommodation-house
near Jenolan Claves fell into the co.’s hands,
and it figures in the books at £4298. I Ul ’. l l l '
ture and cash total £471. On the other side
of the sheet the debt to the bank had been
worked down £15,916 to £9756, and
was coming to sundry creditors. Thus share-
holders could see 11s. sd. in net tangible
assets to represent every £1 put up by them.
Without making a cut in capital the business
will require verv careful nursing and able
management before the position becomes
attractive.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.).
To Re- Re-
bec.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1917 59,425 16 p.c. = 42,400 17,025 65,275
1918 .. 11,783 8 „ „ 21,200 55,858
1919 .. 14,677 Nil 41,181
1920 . . 17,073 Nil 24,108
1921 . . 43°84*2 12 p.c. = 31,800 12,042 36,150
19 9 2 97,299 20 „ ~ 53,000 44,299 80,449
.. 28,431 8 „ „ 21,200 7,231 87,680
1924 . . 31,240 8 „ „ 21,200 10,040 97,720
19 9 5 . 28,793 8 ~ „ 21,200 7,593 105,313
1926 .. 30,484 S „ „ 21,200 9,284 114,59 V
1927 .. 61,698 10 ~ „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
The board says the year’s net profit was
£42,498 as against £23.134 for 1926. But that
was after £19,200 had been Topped off for
the replacement reserve, making it £88,050.
This reserve, which is included with accumu-
lations in the table, has been steadily built
up as profits have permitted since 1912,
and nothing has been visibly withdrawn. The
£61,698 thus netted last year was the
second best result in the co.’s history, being
23,3 p.c. on capital compared with 11.5, 10.9,
11.8 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1923. A bonus
of 2 p.c. was handed out with the S_ p.c.
div., and then more remained in the business
than was distributed. Capital (£265,000)
will be none the worse for the extra support;
the £149.795 visibly accumulated at Dec.
31 was still equal to only 11s. 3d. per share.
Sugar-growing and crushing has been an
erratic industry, and profits have been in and
out according to seasons and prices. Share-
holders have averaged a whisper over 8 p.c.
since the co. took over the A. IT. and E.
Young sugar interests in the Bundaberg and
Isis districts 16 years ago. The figures
suggest a record crushing last year, but the
board is mute as to the tonnage. The base
price for raws was £2l Is., hut the final
figure is expected to he approximately £22 as
against £24 10s. and £l9 10s. in 1926 and
1925 respectively.
During the last few years the co. has
spent a lot of money on plantations and the
extension of its mill and other equipment, as
this comparison shows :
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities . . £58,793 £126,611 £140,481 £88,827
Estates . . . . 176,063 217,930 222,637 223,409
Factories, etc.. . 112,585 164,288 163,341 162,961
Railways, etc... 41,084 52,597 53,434 52,381
Plant " . . . . 40,627 53,377 54,503 43,116
Stores . . . . 5,643 11,265 11,076 16,852
Sugar stocks,
book debts, etc. 46,070 18,667 37,287 31,404
To finance the additions to estates and plant,
debts amounting to more than half the paid
capital had been piled up at Dec. 31, 1926.
But last year’s fat profit enabled the board
to knock £51,654 off the liabilities, reducing
them to £88,827, which was £40,571 in ex-
cess of the more or less liquids (£48,256),
the improvement amounting to £51,547. Also
the book value of plant (£43,116) was re-
duced £11,387. Last month a new sugar
pan, built in Glasgow, was delivered at the
mill, and a new locomotive is to be bought.
The factories, railway, plant, etc., stood in
the books at £258,457 at Dee. 31; this is
£12,820 less than at the previous balance,
but no mention is made of what was the
total set aside out of earnings to cover de-
preciation. On the whole the figures do
not suggest that the co. is doing a great
deal better than it admits.
The outlook for the current vear is bright
enough. Anticipations are that the 1928
crop will considerably exceed last year's,
though, owing to heavy February rains, the
Bundaberg cutting may be a trifle lighter,
but nothing to worry about. The market,
Which does not regard the 10 p.c. as a sure
thing, prices the scrip at 235. 9d. The
return at that figure is 8.4 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, or 6.7 p.c. on the 8 p.c. basis.


CHRYSLER
rj
n
55
//
SEVEN BODY TYPES
Tourer * Two-Seater * Coupe
DeLuxe Coupe * Two-Door Saloon
Four-Door Saloon * DeLuxe Saloon
Two-Seater and DeLuxe Coupe are equipped
with dickey seat
ONLY in Chrysler “52” can you buy
these qualities —
Characteristic Chrysler speed and accelera-
tion, usable with complete comfort because of
unrivaled engine and riding smoothness;
Ease of handling unlike anything ever before
experienced in any low-priced cars;
Full-sized, roomy bodies of exceptional
fineness, equipped with saddle-spring seat
cushions;
Smartness and beauty of line and colour that
set the pace for the industry;
Dependability and long life that result from
a precision of manufacture totally unknown
in the building of any other low-priced car;
The inevitably superior results of that
Chrysler Standardised Quality of engineer-
ing and manufacturing which produces the
Chryslers of higher price—“62,” “72” and
100 h* p* Imperial “80”;
There you have thesmart new Chrysler “52*”
At its sensational values, public preference
acclaims it as more than ever the greatest
car in the low-priced field* See this great car
and ask for a demonstration*
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney
\ ic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Ausi.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Blinders Street, Adelaide,
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd.. 162 Collins Street, Hobart
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,


Financing Factories.
Big Money in it.
This is one of many matters “THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for July
discusses.
Saturation Point:
Has it been reached?
That’s another point discussed.
The Investor can’t do without it.
READY ON FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -4- GP + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* *
For service and saving Pioneer Wood Pipe is
putting up some notable records. This modern wood
product has some big advantages over other types
of pipe. It is very light, weighing only about
one-third as much as metal, therefore it is easy
to handle and simple to instal. It does not corrode,
the capacity remains consistent, and it is safe from
freezing. On every count —purchase, installation and
service —it shows good savings. Particulars from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Yic.
—Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street. Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* # ❖ sk
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
PIONEERS!
Pioneers in the establishment of the making of leather belting in Australia 70 years ago—
and pioneers in every important advance m belting practice since that time.
The four Ludowici Trade-Marks
PIONEER
CHROMOL
COMBINA
PLATYPUS
are guarantees to the user of the best product obtainable.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (& SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers Since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-20 Queens
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John MclCell A Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland;
Patterson ft Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
6^
3 O °N
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
&
DT
j
-Swift & Company Lt»l.. Australasian Agents. 26 SO Clarence St., Sydney
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL,
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT, ATTORNEY OR AGENT.
Established over 41 years,- during which it has successfully handled almost every class of asset.
Directors: Hon. R. J. BLACK, M.L.C. (Chairman) ; T. 11. KELLY ; DR. ROBERT L FAITIIFULL ;
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN; WALTER T. BRUNTON; HERBERT R. LY bAGHT.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
11. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Malley’s, Ltd.
This Sydney co. manufactures builders’
and plumbers’ hardware, etc. Goodwill
(.£22,682) is not reckoned as an asset here-
under :
, Dividends s Towards
Pref. Re-
Aprll, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
iiti rC £
] 925. . 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11,284 21,325
1920.. 15,481 2700 S „ „ 10,918 £1863 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ ~ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ ~ 13,600 5383 7,751
Better might have been expected considering
that the cost of new buildings in the Sydney
metropolitan area reached record figures last
year. Most of the activity, however, so fai-
ns this co. was concerned, appears to have
been in the first half, when the turnover
grew so rapidly that the board got in £30,000
of ord. capital to finance the trading. That
made paid capital £106,473 in 30,000 9 p.c.
cum. profs, and 166,473 ords. But during
the second half business fell away consist-
ently, and the year’s gross profit (£77,008)
was only £3239 better than in the previous
term. Exes. (£55,325) took £2966 of the
improvement; thus the net result, after
handing the prefs. their £2700, was 12.5 p.c.
on average ord. capital compared with 13.7,
9.3 and 7 p.c. back to 1925, when the
public put up the £30,000 of pref. capital
to provide for business expansion.
Nine years ago the co. took over the busi-
ness of Sheet Metal Workers, Ltd., in which
it held a controlling interest, and there was
a deficiency of £15,912 on the deal. Of
this £11,966 was wiped out by writing up
the book value of freeholds; the £4216 that
remained increased the goodwill item to
£22,682. This figure, at which it still
stands, was £7751 in excess of accumulated
profits at April 30. Until that margin is
wiped out and capital gets something sub-
stantial in the way of support, the 9 p.c.
div. cannot be looked upon as a sure thing.
Balance-sheet figures, which are_ moving
in the right direction, reflect the easier trade
conditions at the close of last accounts: —
1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital . . . . £166,473 £166,473 £196,4/3
Liabilities . . • • 30,405 52,838 40,009
Freeholds, buildings, etc. 39,165 42,669 44,122
Leaseholds . . ■ . 20,886 20,321 19,824
Plant etc . . ■ ■ 33,356 35,867 39,213
Stock’ 39,102 60,650 64,061
Investments . . . . 1,193 1,183 1,955
Book debts . . • • 52,187 63,551 62,236
Cash, etc. . . ■ • 7,806 2,244 13,331
The new capital enabled the board to wipe
out the overdraft (£8494), and trade credi-
tors (£40,009) were £4335 lighter. The more
or less liquids (£139,628), including stocks
(£64,061, up £3411), were £13,183 stronger
than at the 1927 balance; thus the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£99,619) was £26,012. Freeholds and
plant are claimed to be in good condition.
During the last two years £10,814 has been
added to their book value, but the chairman
gives his assurance that sufficient has been
written off for depreciation and that stocks
have been valued conservatively. Since the
close of accounts trade is said to have bright-
ened considerably.
The prefs., which have prmnty as to
capital, are covered by net tangibles with a
book value of £6 ss. lid., and last year s
net profit was eight times their annual re-
quirements. The backing for the ords. is
19s. 3d. in net tangibles. The market prices
both classes of scrip at 235. 4d.; the return
at that figure is 7.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis.
The announcement of the Premier of South
Aus. that, unless he can get better treatment
from N. S. Wales, the State’s railways will
be driven to use British coal, which they
can get cheaper, is serious enough to make
the local industry think hard. For certainly
if a Government does this thing scores of
commercial users will follow. The whole
situation is reviewed in the “Wild Cat”
Monthly for July, and an attempt made to
discover what is really wrong. There are
articles also on the Finances of Avia-
tion, the Financing of Factories, and
other things of great interest and value to
investors.
* * * *
The big Imperial Chemical Industries,
Ltd., has turned a bit of its attention to
Maoriland. It has bought 600 acres at
Ngawha Springs, north of Auckland, to in-
vestigate cinnabar deposits there. These de-
posits were spasmodically worked 35 years
ago, but were then too low-grade ore. Cinna-
bar possesses a higher refractive power than
any other known mineral. It is the ore
from which mercury is produced.
,i= * * *
Manna Hill G. M. Co. (N.S.W.) is ask-
ing for £lOOO in £5 debentures for battery
replacement and other mill services. With
the improved plant, etc., crushings are ex-
pected to average 150 oz. gold every six
weeks. Share capital! is £19,875 in ss.
shares. No divs. have been paid.
* * * *
Carrying forward the banner of the Geo-
logical Survey over Queensland’s coast terri-
tories, geologist J. H. Reid and his assistants
have added another potential coalfield to the
northern State’s wealth of fuel. This time
it is the Isaacs River basin, south of the
Bowen River field, and Reid has been able
to prove that the same coal-bearing strata
that are now producing at Collinsville carry
right down almost into the Clermont district
nearly 200 miles south. The main economic
discovery of the work is a 30ft. seam of good
coal, which can be linked up with the Collins-
ville seams. At present the Isaacs is entirely
pastoral country without railway connection,
so for many years the coal will probably
remain where it is, but it adds enormously
to the confidence with which the future of
Queensland can be viewed. Reid almost
traversed Leichhardt’s tracks in the Port
Essington expedition of 1844-45.
* * * *
The only gold that is coming out of
Gympie nowadays is from the cyaniding of
the old Scottish Gympie tailings, and from
2000 to 3000 tons are being treated monthly.
Recovery is only between one and two dwt.,
so there is no fortune in them. Reef mining is
practically extinct, and the Mines Depart-
ment has reaped nothing in return for its
rather generous policy of assisting prospect-
ing groups on new areas that were being
tried for the plumbago slates.
* :'s :1s *
Builders, Ltd., has .just erected the first
diamond-drill plant on the Roma field for oil-
prospecting work. This is intended solely for
testing for structures which may retain oil
pools; holes will be bored to a depth of a
few hundred feet to ascertain dips and,
if possible, index strata which will reveal
the gentle underground folds that exist in the
district. The method is the right one to
follow on the Maranoa field. Many com-
panies are putting down shallow pits five or
ten feet deep. This is a cheap way, but
nasty, for superficial folding follows hydra-
tion of clayey strata and is often falsely im-
posed on the underground structure.
Glenelg Oil Co. (Vic.), which tackled the
job of finding petroleum in diabase rocks
under the superintendence of De Hautpick,
the Russian oil man, has come to the sur-
face for wind. Like many other oil cos. the
Glenelg is wjaiting for Dr. Woolnough s
report on the Lakes Entrance area.
New Long Tunnel and Overseas, Walhalla
(Vic.), are to amalgamate. Because the
State Government will not grant any fur-
ther subsidy the two cos.’ funds are to be
pooled and the development of the Overseas
workings continued. New Long Tunnel is
to increase its capital to £54,000 and give
shareholders in Overseas 11 new shares for
25 held.
A good deal of work is being done at the
Stormont bismuth and gold mine, River
Lea (Tas.), in an extensive bismuth-bearing
area. A tunnel from an open cut has struck
rich ore, which is being paddocked until it is
determined whether there is enough of it to
justify erecting a plant.
Some Perth and a little Adelaide cash has
been raised to try to find marketable
emeralds at Poona (W.A.). Two syndicates
which have already spent money there are
concerned in .the venture, and probably an
early attempt will be made to induce the
public to come in. Qf course, hopes are
entertained of more valuable stones being
found at depth. Tlieir quality so far has
been very poor. It is a pure gamble.
* * * *
Chairman Moreing returned thanks at the
recent Sons of Gwalia meeting for financial
aid rendered by the Westralian Labor Gov-
ernment It advanced £38,000 for mach-
inery at Qi p.c., and £40,000 for develop-
ment. the assistance to be spread over three
to four vears —in the first year £12,000
for plant and £19,000 for development; in
the second £14,000 for development; in the
third £7OOO for development. Should values
continue and development warrant an in-
crease in plant, the balance of the money
for this purpose will be advanced between
the second- and third-year periods. Repay-
ment of the principal begins in the fourth
year and continues in 10 annual instalments
of about £BOOO each. The co. has given an
undertaking to continue another three years
developmental policy at the expiration of the
first triennial term, and has given security
over its leases and plant covering the total
amount advanced.
Lake View Trust’s accounts for last year
show a sufficient expansion of profits to pro-
vide 5 p.c. div. on preference shares issued
as a bonus and to maintain the 121 p.c. dis-
tribution on the ordinary shares. As a con-
sequence of the issue of new capital and de-
benture stock the balance-sheet total has
risen by £223,000 to £1,632,000. Reserve
fund is £250,000 lower than it was a year
ago but £300,000 has meantime been capi-
talised. Co. has 397 different investments,
the market value of which at the end of the
financial year largely exceeded the aggregate
amount of £1,562,000 at which they stand
in the balance-sheet.
Star Explorations, Ltd., which once
carried on operations in Kalgoorlie and now
conducts a financial business, chiefly in,
connection with mining, has done well out of
the rise in Lake Views and Wilunas. Its
holdings are understood to include some
SO,OOO to 40,000 of the former purchased at
a low price, and a block of the latter taken
at Bs. ;i .
Great Boulder (W.A.) has been out of
the div. list for some years, but in view of
last year’s profit of approximately £30,000,
and the monthly surpluses earned since, a
small distribution is expected before very
long. For a time —around 1899 and 1900—
the co. paid over 100 p.c. p.a., and distri-
butions kept up well for many years after
that. At present the co. has a nice liquid
asset in 16,500 Wiluna shares.
A doleful tale was told by chairman Hen-
derson at the Mararoa meeting. The co. has,
lie said, 56,207 forfeited shares and was
burdened with a first and second mortgage
on its effects. Something was also said
about having so many tons of ore worth so
much per ton in sight, and that with a suit-
able plant, etc., a profit could be made. Simi-
lar statements have been made for years,
and still the co. goes from bad to worse.
Among Westralian ventures to be pre-
sently boomed is a find at Cosmo Newbery
Hills, which hitherto has been notorious for
dabs and shallow shoots. Other reputed good
things are at Westonia. Values are very
good per ton ; the trouble is much more likely
to be to get the ton.
“Collins St.” : With regard to the jigs and
classifiers on the Kuala Lumpur dredge (t>.
20/6/’2B), there is still room for argument
as to the merits of these appliances as
compared with sluice boxes. The jig and
classifier method of tin saving is complicated
—the jigs must be carefully adjusted, other-
wise losses are heavy, and it seems doubtful
whether they will come into general use,
unless the whole system _ can be simplified.
Another Melbourne co. is in the same trouble
as Kuala Lumpur. Tujoh Tin, which placed
an order for a dredge last week, specified
for sluice boxes.
In October last it was estimated that there
were still some eight million, yards of
ground to be worked in the Tin Bentong
holding, all averaging something about lib.
per yard, except a patch of some A)
acres estimated at .791 b. At present rate
of digging this should occupy the plant from
five to six years. Like nearly every other
co. in Malaya, Tin Bentong can safely be
said to be looking for other properties, though
no particulars are public. The shares are
good holding. In Gordon Peacock the co.
has one of the most capable and reputable
managers in Malaya; recoveries have, been
consistently high, and will probably maintain
their average.
* * * *
Jelapang Tin is one of Tanah Biji’s flota-
tions, and started digging last October. The
co. kicked off about 10 or 12 thousand
pounds in debt, and so far the recoveries
have not been up to expectation, though
they are not poor, ranging from .651 b. to
,80ib. The capacity of the dredge is
13 000 c.y. per month, and it is expected
that 60 tons of t.o. per month will be re-
covered when the plant runs at full capa-
city. But the results haven’t been anywhere
near that yet. It is difficult to say why. The
most likely reason is the old one that there
isn’t as much recoverable tin as the boring
tests indicated. But the property is well
managed and closts are low; and more
unlikely looking ones are paying dividends.
* * * *
Silaya, a Sydney co., has been hunting
about for properties. The report to Jan.
31 says that options are held on properties
which promise well, and prospecting is going
forward, but that is all. Authorised capital
is £70.000 in £1 shares, and the sheet shows
paid-up capital at £28,01Q. Establishment
account is in at £16,656, and Eastern ex-
penses in proving property, £6428. Pros-
pecting licenses are valued at £123, and cash
balances are £3782. Immediate prospects of
a successful flotation, even if a property
is acquired, are not rosy.
.u ; t; $ *
Kundang made a poor showing for the
year ended Dec. 31. Adverse physical con-
ditions and alterations to the plant were
mainly responsible. The dredge, which has
a capacity of 120,000 c.y. per month,
averaged only 75,000 c.y., and total recoveries
were 238 tons, equal to .6131 b. per c.y. Sales
brought in £40,636. The net result, after
writing off the balance of preliminary exes.,
etc (£2024). was £9835, or 7.8 p.c. on
paid capital (£175,000). No divs. were paid.
These results were won with metallic tin at
an average of £279, London. Last month
forward quotes were as low as £204, but
strengthened to £2l0 —655. below spot—at
the end of the past week. Recoveries for the
six months to June 30 total 147 tons as
against 159 tons for the preceding six months.
June figures were 28 tons from 100,090 c.y ,
average .6271 b.
At Dec. 31 the dredge was in at £54,051
(cost); property, plant, etc., £56,483;
liquids, £4319; intangibles (including £30,000
handed out in fully paids for underwriting
commission) £39,828. The total debt was
£14,842. Sellers are asking 15s. for the
pound shares.
In June Rawang turned over 97,000 yards
for 20 tons, an average of .461 b., with .411 b.
for the quarter’s figures. Costs were 4.9 d.
The sluicing plant recovered 30 tons from
60,000 yards, averaging 1.121 b. for the month
and a trifle over lib. for the quarter. Costs
here were 10.26 d. for the month. The
month’s profit was £1748, of which £583 was
from the dredge and £1165 from the sluicing
plant. There is bound to be a cry presently
to discontinue' dredging pending an improve-
ment in the price of tin. It is urged that
dredges which are making little or no profits
are better closed down, as every ton of tin
that can be kept off the market will help to
improve the price. Kundang did better
with 28 tons from 100,000 yards, averaging
.621 b. Costs, 5.04 d. The Kuala Kampar
amalgamation dug 460,000 yards for 145
tons, or .701 b. per c.y. Quarterly average,
.631 b.; costs for the month, 3.65 d. Changkat
produced 60 tons, but had to turn over 80,000
yards to get it. May’s output was 60 tons
from 66,000 yards, so the June average,
1.681 b., good as it is, shows a drop. The
costs were 7.35d.—5ti1l on the high side.
Average for the quarter, 1.521 b.
Bundi, which cleaned up 86 tons from
179,000 yards for June, averaging 1.071 b.
or a little better than its average for the
last quarter, is so bucked at the improved
recoveries and promise of their continuance,
that an interim 2s. was handed out on June
29, instead of the Is. forecasted. The sudden
resolve is said to be due to a desire to escape
Federal taxation on overseas dividends after
June 30.


Portable Adding Machine
33 6
F 3
*?■ 4 a
<o. G
3. 7
>7. ,A
5. to
-a .4 7
'0 3 _
4 f
-i. /
i 4. J
5. *
IJ 3 -
3 3 -
1. 10.5
t sa. i 7 . s
>X
V?
ym
•m
2
s>A
S>J>
2,
<24
•24
<34
<24
w§>
2i
K'V
2
<si4
24
Ss?l
24
2
<sv
24
a* ftp
<2^4
62
2a
2
•a
<24
24
t. .V
A to*
•400
24
2
*€4
24
eft cat
{s*.
24
24
<4
24
,7s
24
error
-24
24
24
34
24
24
24
2
<24
24
24
24
4
aft
£Tc
2>
with Direct Subtraction
BURROUGHS
MACHINES
are priced from
£32 : 10 : 0
The model illus-
trated is £55 :0:0
for twelve months
terms. Discount
for cash.
Direct subtraction! Merely set the lever in the
“minus” position and the machine is ready for sub-
tracting. Recapitulation is eliminated, subtraction
is reduced to one operation, with still greater saving
in time and labour in such jobs as adding cash
and credit sales, taking out trial balances, making
customers’ statements, etc. Ask to have one de-
monstrated in your office or, better still, write for a
free trial for a week or two on your own work.
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbare
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Rockhampton
Auckland
Dunedin
Christc! urch
Wellington


THE PRIZE STORY COMPETITION.
Entries for the first of three annual “Bulletin” Prize Story Competitions closed on Saturday,
June 30, and the amazing number of 51 7 entries were received; a few others are held up
pending inquiry as to fulfilment of conditions. Out of this number three prize-winners are
to be chosen; the first prize is £3OO and the two others divide £2OO. British, American and
other foreign serial rights remain the property of the writers; also all book and picture rights.
The Australian serial rights will pass to “The Bulletin, which will begin publication or the
first-prize story on September s—the judges hope to have their tremendous job finished beiore
the end of August. The following is a complete list of entries, save for the few before-
mentioned as to which inquiry is being made re fulfilment of conditions:
Title. Mom de plume.
“Chains and Liberty” Combo
“Muruh” Turanganui
“Taeoru” Annys Darrell
“Far North Memories” Poisedon
“Lynette” Wingella
“The Brumby” Glow
“The Sailor” John Herzogin
“Whither the Pates Call” George Woolpack
“Redwing” Cockfighter
“The City that W'as” Borah
“His Diamond Reset” Marcus McPherson
“Saint and Sinner” Tiatucka
“Disenchantment” Lokohu
“The Challenger” W.E.G.H.
“Descent and Distribution” Zoba
“The Cave-men” Cumbelow
“Lucky Maidment” . Good Intent
“He that Hateth His Brother” .... Francia Hope
“What Became of Brown” . . Edmund Beauchamp
“Like the Huia” Bullseye
“Out of the Mist” Willinga W T ard
“Skeleton’s Reef” Brinkan
“Andy Blew” Koala
“Bracken” Charlaura
“The Sulky Bear” M. Le Grand
“Bett” Wonna-Milwa
“The Waggon of Birds” Edro Marney
“The White Grub” Moringa
“Ups and Downs of Ennyntrude Binks”—
Long Road Rainbow
“They Shall Inherit” Pax
“Filamina” Pandora
“When Winter Came” Stumpy
“The Coo-ee of the Hills” Mary Murray
“Life’s Ebb and Flow” Wattle Bark
“The Mirthful Mutineer” . . Go Forth Little Book
“Millstreain” Ballantine Temple
“Quest” Theta
“Inspiring Love” Zarelli
“An Unweeded Garden” Ovid
“Shellfish” Rachel and Norah Ford
“Jean Armour” Caller
“The Open Spaces” Hannam
“Walter Wrexford” Tui Lakemba
“The Waxen Image” Senga
“A Wanderer’s Mate” C.O.S.
“The Impossible Varneys” Winsome Wenona
“Virgin Wives” Winsome Winsome
“A Fresh Start” ? Jarrah
“Little Flower” ... Ivennythe, the Teller of Tales
“Gwenlcen” Ivennythe, the Teller of Tales
“A Child of the Hinterland” Guichen Bay
“Deep River” XYZ
“So We Are Told” T. I. Sabelle
“In Sunny Australia” Gytha Paddle
“Merely Mr. Brown” Matupi
“Men Are Human” Bryan Ward
“The Necklace of El Hoya” Siriol
“Sell’s Stronghold” Ray Dale
“Lu-Lilli-Nuk” W.A.J.
“Riven” David Lord
“Tumbling Acres” Atchel
“Billy Both” Connor Mack
“Red Hibiscus” Maravo
“W’e and Some Others” Bitza
“Circumstance” Margaret Mee
“The Cripple in Black” Disley
“Bulgie Eye” Genive Daton
“Wainui” Turanganui
“The Street of Shame” Triboulet
“The North Easters” Hastings
“Destiny’s Thunder” Taro
“Doctor Dukes” Oocytin
“A New Tale of Sydney” ltoystan Durant
“The Hussy.” ! Rob Roy
“Storm Bradley—Aust.” Australian No. 1
“The Transgressor” AVongabel
“Over the Mountain” Cordeaux
“The Garden of Bitter Sweet” . . Esme Rees Dufrayne
“Born to be Hanged” Edgar Claye
“Bill the Resolute” Harvey Marshall
“Sunshine and Shadow” Damoda
“Dangerous Deductions” Seventy Five
“The Meteran Road” .. 1 Vernon Thomas
“The Mystery of Col. Bright” . . One of the Twelve
“The Captain’s Daughter” Charlemain
“lima” Codex
“Baal Budgeree Bill” Frank Black
“May It Please Your Honor” Nombrea
“From Out of the Fog” Sardonyx
“Lola Sue” Ucannindah
“Chameleon” M. A. Bruce
“Dale Freyar” Murray Horne
“The Road to Tartary” Van Diemen
“Vengeance Is Mine” The Cocky
“Gentlemen, the King” Cornelius
“Mignonette and Minuet” Perarlventure
“A Bride from the Desert” A Trier
“In Our Bewildering” Merivale
“The Spawn of the Devil” Ninion Valda
“Mollie’s Secret” Peter Pickle
“The Old Order Chahgeth” Old Timer
“The Vanishing Horsemen” L’lnconnu
“The Veiled Woman” t Sherrie
“Chapter Thirteen” Runa
“The Lost Brother” Kruger
“Consequences” Kilometre
“The Australian Benefactor” Migrator
“The Disappearance of Eric Daton” ... . . Paul Duane
“Poverty Pot” Koala
“Folk o’ Twilight” * Boobardv
“Cape Farewell” -... S.S.M.
“Marriage of Butterfly” Leslie Sutton
“Merry Christmas” Udanco
“The Unsinkable” George Maitland
“Pokolbin’s Pride” The Imp
“Barbara Vine” Mawhera
“Given in Marriage” Omega
“Sunset Is Red” John Lyoune
“Stunter” Telamon
“When the Northern Streams Ran Gold,” Stringybark
“The Garage Girl” Glaucus
“The Four-sided Triangle” Judith Meril
“Peter and Paul” Te Miharo
“Hugh Blythe” Glenloth
“ ’Oppy Stanton” Jack Frost
“Walls of Splendour” ; Hope
“The Breath of Laamao” • • • Fossil
“The Wild Colonial Boy” Mars
“The Box Room” s . E.H.O.
“The Perfect World” Quantong
“Joan of Jackson’s Crossing” Heck
Title. Isom de plume.
“The Devil's Loom” Willoughby
“Cut Throat” Albus
“By the Light of the Past” Monad
“Circumstance” H.N.
“Some Private Records of Felicity Vernon”.. Moolwa
“Eden Laurimer” Botany Bay
“The Naranghi Boss” Nneilwonga
“Desert Breakers” Gneilpa
“Elouera” L’Enterprise
“Bella Harland” Eesta
“His Glory” Stella Southern
“The Golden City” Princess San Toy
“Many Faces” Aleta Charlton
“The Judas Woman” Dorothy Hamilton
“The Guardian of the Great Temple”..Claire Morrison
“A Fatal Mistake” Mervina Fayne
“Dimples” Princess Pat
“The Golden Cup” Zed
“Under Capricorn” K. Kaywood Burn
“Love’s Garden” Diamond Fish
“He that Endureth” Kaniinbla
“The Twists of Life” Narrawong
“At the Wicket Gate” Ilowlong
“The Extinguished Light” Strathdene
“The Scorn of Wealth ’ Strathdene
“The Lake Woman” Chovahani
“Red Disc” Karma
“Tide Rips” Lakatoi
“Tricking a Wise Lady” Judith Sans Punch
“After the Glory Faded” Judith Sans Punch
“Three Christmas Eves” William
“Homes Across the Southern Sea” Archer
“Beyond” Mary Lindrea
“The Moon Worshippers” Beche Ivirker
“Glamour” Henry Mostyn
“A House is Built” Faith Sydney
“But None Shall Triumph” Georgos
“The Lawless Frontier” Spero
“Donald Macdonald” M.M.C.
“Irresponsible Fan” Daphne Laurimer
“Actor George” Thistle Down
“The Tempering” Brigalow
“The Chain of Circumstance” Woodwyn
“The Gii'l from Blighty” Alfred Thomas
“The Scourge” Pippa
“Corduroy Road” Narre Warren
“The World Intervenes” Adelaide Hope
“A Plausible Rogue” - lan
“The Boomerang” Haka
“Jack Armstrong” A.S.F.
“Brothers All” John Great
“The Mystery of Castle Glen” Kismet
“The Brand of Cain” Boobardy
“Flood Gates” A. J. Demings
“The Romance of a Biscuit Tin” Wonga
“Chimneys” Itaxi
“Washdirt” Bickerstaif
“No Good to Gundy” Gundy
“The Salt of the Earth” Wayfarer
“King’s Come Back” Oregon
“The Impulsive Itinerary” Dorothy Vernon
“Sloper” Square Deal
“God’s Dear Sinners” Wanneroo
“Out Home” Wonga
“Ups and Downs” Bushbug
“Smithy of Boonadool” . Cabbage Squatter
“Eve in the Land of Nod” ■ Jane
“The Phantom” Recco
“The Street Called Queer” Mark Nickles
“Within the Gates” Boomerang
“The Blanket” Marie Malcolm
“Chinaman’s Luck” • • • R- Guise
“Raymond” Sapphira
“The World of John Kingston”
A. Highway and A. Low way
“The Impromptu Wife” Ryllius
“The Smiths and the Browns” .... Crystal Grey
“The Rebel” James 11. Lawes
“The Heart of Australia” K. Watt
“Wild Cat” Gleam
“Crazy Farm” - • Mercury
“Where the Gully Begins” Rayma Randa
“Ko-wee” ' Woolarawee
“Clay” Ripley Denman
“Old Banana” Kurrajong
“Peter” lona
“Fetters” ' Ringer
“The Champion Prince” Mulga
“Wayeta—Queen of the Laloukas” .... Charles Civry
“Two Queenslanders” . .. Edgar Claye
“My Familiar Spirit” Princess Pat
“The Young Australians” Lindisfarne
“Apples of Gold” Laurel
“Ginger for Pluck” Daniel Hamline
“Love’s Light Wings” A. Stroller
“Peter” N-Rav
“Tried” Lone Magpie
“The Decree” Henry Newcoin
“Adventures of Tup Tinkle” Australis
“Creek Waters” Stewart
“The Captain of the Wyandotte" .. Australia Felix
“Sentiment Dethroned” Tinonee
“Back to the North” O Seven O
“Even as You and I” Old Frosty
“The Blue Beyond” Lowan
“The Witch” Toobe
“The Eccentric Bequest” Goer
“The Healist” Digger
“The Banner of Virtue” HZ.>
“Ab Tuc-kaby” Hilary A. Latten
“The Splendid Quest” Riex
“Destinie’s Pieces” Pixie
“Country Cousins” John Arnold
“The Glory of the Heritage” Bukalla
“Laughing Devlin” Septimus
“Bitter Blossom” Arual
“Judge Not” Neta
“The Money Spider” Mos-Lynn
“Les Fantoohes du Sort” ...... Jeanne La Fileuse
“Red Rain” Echo
“The River” Oodna-Datta
“The Clearer Vision” ?. Phileros
“Red Gold” Amie
“Jhe Son of Judas” A.V.Z.
“X Dinkum Australian” St. Omer
“The Light Behind” Connor Mack
“Bill” A2l
“The Call of the Curlew” Martin Dalrymple
“The Striker’s Daughter” Marie Fox
“Me —Myself” A. Gumsucker
“Isa” Normanhurst
“Ora —The Moa Queen” R.W.
“The Priestess of Cai” , G.J.
“The Spirit that Prevails” Penelope
Title. Kom de plurru-
“Houses of Straw’’ Hartwood
“Flower Hemingway's Romance” Wee-ro
“The Gay Crocus” Stella O’Horne
“Second Cousins” Elizabeth Proctor
“Vampires” Chevalier
“Mystery Land” Alcy
“Mountains Over the Sea” Marnwood
“David Morton” Maraget Marrabel
“White Witches” Balmedie
“Stars That Fall” ; Stella Australis
“Five Degrees South” Thomas Gordon
“Grass Orphans” E.R.A.
“The Precious Seed” . . Pauline Dupre
“The Crisis” Jan Darien
“Clare Shielah” Hope Rede It
“The' Latoures” . . ... Please Read Multum in Parvo
“The Cuckold” Hakot
“The Indefinite Widow” . Rupert Charles
“The Glittering Star” Lily Lauder
“Australia’s Dark Hour” Peter the Hermit
“The Colonists” Ellen Bellew
“Sydney Bush” John Joshua Jagger
“The Shepherd King” Marie Verona
“The Gumsuckers” J-N.
“(iross Winds” Carlos Kanyon
“The Intervener” Manat’
“The Commonplace Plains” Manar
“Yellow Money” Rover
“Little Australian Pioneers” Aros
“The New Land of Promise” Patriot
“Myra Marsh” :. . .'. ..... Swastika
“The Black Sheep” Dailac
“Little Mr. Sentiment” Epacris
“Common Wealth” Efmington Kay
“The Antique Mirror” Lantana
“The Discovery” Eta Argus
“Doll’s Clothes” Neath
“For Love or Money” Carbine
“Through the Sliprails” Charles Llywelen
“The Ordeal of Audrey Carstairs” .... Honor Ashby
“Julian the Apostate” Marcus
“Locks” Anne Rutledge
“The Everlasting Arms” Menura
“Beyond the Mountains” Thrypta
“Breaking Bounds” Jack Australia
“The Haunted Bend” Overlander
“A Loaded Legacy” . v Theophilus Gay
“The Dope Destroyer” Wow
“White Sands of Paradise” .... Koraha Nukumai
“Heathen Cain” Lutui
“Hard Shells” J. N. Warrencliffe
“Aluco—A Bush Fantasy” Roadinender
“An Australian Aristocrat” Renier
“A Romance of a Lost Tribe” Boonjie
“The Transit of Glory” Ignatius
“A New Zealand Fantasy” Milford
“The Elusive Ideal” Actor-Manager
“Harlech of Taranaki” A. 0. Te Roa
“The Splendid Animal” Huia
“Queerfeller” Oddfish
“The Checker Board” . Harold Fargher
“The Innocent Fugitive” Manly Vale
“Masks” Talbingo
“Unauthorised” Maude Marion
“Mademoiselle Satan” Ma Jorry
“Wanted a Father” Ma Jorry
“A Melange of the W T est”..A Reporter of the Gallery
“The Old Man Thinks” Beanna Boirehe
“Sue” Pincher
“My Little Western Girl” Blanc
“Riders of the Southern Scrub” Old Dan
“The Keeper of the Vineyard” .-. Carlyle Davidson
“East and West” Carlyle Davidson
“The Prisoner’s Base” Axis
“Blind Revenge” M.B.
“The Smouldering Flame” Roscoe
“The Careless People” Rupert Charles
“The Lure of Gold” Aurum
“The Pathway of Weeds” Doddy
“The Old Good Luck” Cameo
“The Rajah’s Jewel” Vic Emma
“John Melville’s Son” Vic Emma
“Yielded Mouth” Alan Rand
“Flame of Understanding” White Heather
“The Cheap Mystery” Valspa
“Glenrimu” • • Alien
“The Lone Stockman” Silken Lash
“Three Vagabonds” Lillian M. Dale
“Joan” Kookaburra
“The Swallow” Red Gum
“The Unconventional Chief” Bohemian
“Destiny” Optirhus
“The Highest Hill” -■ • 0.8.8.
“Drums of Mer” Lone Pine 358
“Newsia” Till
“Life’s Masquerade” .." Masquerader
“Behind the Grey Curtain” Norrica Season
“Every Man’s Desire” Eve Adams
“To Whom It Is Given” Mancino
“Tommassie” Anne Bennett
“Kitty Cutler” Mallie
“The Bigamist” Pioneer
“John Barniemore, Builder” 1967
“The Nipper” The Faller
“The Disquieting Sex” Rip
“Caprice” Suada
“One Horse Creek” Barkanjee
“Without Sin” Diana Hughes
“Fulfilment” Draneel Keer
“The Wraith Man” The Troglodyte
“Green Portals” Russell Anthony Bell
“Virginia and Co.” Billikin
“Life's Shadow Show” North and South
“The Hell Rake” The Brigand
“The Atoll of Contentment” Edinensis
“Pilgrimage” Carawatha
“The Ardent Idlers” Ambulator
“The Poker Players” Mary Bennett
“Journey’s End” Carbajal
“Casual' Melody” Tristram
“The Unholy Ghost” P*P
“The Painted Goatskin” Laurel
“The Turncoat” Doongara
“Sunnyside” ! Doongara
“The Country Town” Tarawac
“The Elusive Witness” Crapter
“Round the Hub of Life” Vir
“The White Feather” Nora Florence
“Taipo” Johnny Wren
“The Country Doctor” Caloola
“Zovandra” Geoffrey Oswald
“Shifting Sands” Rose Thorne
“Gundi” Ev e Lynn
Title. .Nom <le plume.
“Dukduk” Wentworth
“Stephen Mallard” .... Achilles
“Anna Rosa” G.M.H.
“Out of the Depths” .. Lego
“The Revolutionist” Icarus
“The Difference, to Victoria” Frances Alden
“Children of Adam” Sydney Burke
“Sons of Vambon” Arrow
“The Missing Piece” Dunithen
“Wanted a Wife” Hopetoun
“The Whirlpool” Chigween
“Letty” Wirigoo
“Untrodden Green” Trachyte
“Kerry Doyne” ■_ Lorraine
“Ashes” Jacques
“The Lost Limousine” Dargo
“The Fuller Life” The Notn
“The Fourth Generation” . Ultima
“C-Heart-Three” Yarcommadda
“Fairy Blood” Vanty
“ ’Oppy Stanton —Knight Errant” .... Jack Frost
“The New Law” Hamilton
“Coonardoo” Ashburton Jim
“Trial by Poverty” Enson
“The Greater Gift” Rudolph Remington
“Whither Thou Goest” Danebury
“Squire Crawford’s Daughter” Potoroo
“Flinders” Sealing Wax
“The Destroying Power” G. P. Street
“Vision” Rowena
“Blue Distance” * Argonaut
“The Covenant of the Rainbow”. ."Warrane Stanemore
“The Golden Trail” Clareton
“Red Sands” hlrea Dorth
“Running Creek” Warngal
“Patricia and No Other” Drallom
“Mother Carey’s Chickens” ......... St. Katherine
“One Touch of Nature” Shermont
“Molly’s Mission” Marie R'oze
“The Test” Gregory Bancroft
“A Rogue in Amber” Jads
“The Bejewelled Cross” Emma Candle
“The Impediment” ■ • Wilga
“From the Book of Youth” Nora Leigh
“The Saltbush Plains” Sandbags
“The Blue Lizard” Madder Brown
“Mr. Erg” E.B.L.
“The Maid of the Meuse” J-A.
“Beginnings” Houlfalize
“Those That Follow” D. Turley
“The Refuge of the World” Red Pencil
“Comrades” Alter Ego
“The Little Black Room” Egypt
“The Sneer” Gebedie
“The Shadow” lamaussie
“Sister Ilbery” Murray Waters
“The Sin of Sins” Omega
“Amos Skillycorn” Touri
“Gail” John Que
“Slipped ’ Cables”” Mr. Micawber
“Gartrell 'Granite” Yardea
“The Man from the Ghost Country” Kismet
“What Next” David Dodson
“Branxfleld” Gerontius
“The Wicked Man” Kale Lee
“Hedra Strone” Coolatoo
“Myellan” Kinross
“The Middle Years” Wodenia
“Those Two Impostors” Nigel
“Brief Candle” Bonn O’Shane
“Unbound” Blue Stocking
“The City of Dis” Six Point
“Bread and Dripping” Allie Raye
“Falling in Love in Australia”.. Mrs. Henry Garry
“Malcolm Campbell” G. S. Kemp
“King’s Bush” A. Hartley
“The Queen of Wamberal” Cadenced Prose
“The Neil Hope” Xerxes
“The Misfits” Shamrock
“Human Salvage” Brown Baronia
“Wreath or Crown” J. L. See
“Portals of the Past” Noremac
“The Happy and Successful Immigrants” Phairson
“A—for Anne” Glenariff
“Ngingie-Luo” Puralko
“John Charles Moore-Jones” Namatwinna
“The Paper Chase” Alison Corragh
“The Border Fence” Sundowner
“Like the Pelican” Yaraby
“Seales of Fortune” Jacqueline
“A Husband Superfluous” Roy Purves
“Interlude” Roecoco
“He Who Scoffed” Doo
“Billv Binks” Lily Pool
“The Threshold” - j Mayflower
“The Xeague of Five” Deserreux
“Passion Flower” R.E.L.
“The Dreamers” : . Autolyeus
“Curong” Jem along
“First Command” Sirrius
“The Dudleys of Unowhere” Aussie
“Maurice Clifton” Michael Terry
“The Arrow” Tasman Archer
“Luck at Last” R.B.
“The Unseen” Bob Hamilton
“Christmas in Prison” Jacobs
“D’Arcy’s Jackeroo” Myles O’R’eilly
“Lorna’s Legacy” Bill -the Shingler
“The Canberra Mystery” J.W.A.
“Benno Sculpt” A.H.
“The Toll Gates of Destiny” Lucas
“Tuppence” A.S.
“Saddle Your Dreams” Margaret Clair
“Breffni O’Ruarke” E.R.G.
“Baby Fingers” W.E.Y.
“A Leaf of Gold” Tibbie
“The Loud Silence” B. A. Vinton
“The Kev of Buddha” Daniel Hamline
“The Merry Martyrs” Austral Hope
“The Sign of the Purple Beils” Manson Law*
“Ben Tambo” (No nom de plume)*
“The Beloved Country” (No nom de plume)*
“Iby and I” U. K. Lyptus*
“Calamity Cavern” Efbee*
“Up" the Country” Squatter*
“Gentlemen at Gyang Gyang” . . Australian Born*
“The Land of Sunshine” The Spider*
* These entries do not comply with conditions re
sealed envelopes.


IVnmms Wptel
Brisbane
cph/pp of
Qupens/ancfts
<DishnPuished
Social Li/p.
)
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
df
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Klee trie
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE
telephone cent. 5780 (io lines).
'SwcJi a reputation is not won overnight
I
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ * . . 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin <6 Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
sd
fs
df
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Emel” : One reason for the disappearance
of _ thatched sheds in Northern Yic. (B.
2/5/’2B) is the difficulty in 'these days of
harvesters of obtaining a cheap supply of
straw for repair and renewal jobs. More-
over the straw roof pro-
vides a home for spar-
rows, which multiply
disastrously, in its shelter.
Certainly thatched sheds
are cool in summer, but
they are dirty and far
ALL IN THE POINT OF VIEW.
MINISTER (visiting prisoner): “It grieves me, my friend, to see you so down and out.”
SIKES: “Have a heart, Parson—do you call this being out?”
from weatherproof if they are not well cared
for. Farmers find it cheaper and more
convenient to replace them with corrugated
iron, which harbors no pests.
“Mundowie”: Jack.y had been following
tracks along the dusty road, and was puzzled.
At first they had been those of two broad
bare feet, which he knew belonged to Maggie,
his gin, who had gone on with the baggage
while Jacky was hunting for tobacco at a
mining camp. The footprints stopped under
a tree, and thence the tracks of two big
boots continued down the road. Jacky looked
up the tree and around for signs of the
vanished lubra, and then proceeded with a
vague idea that he was following some vil-
lain who had ‘carried her oft'. When he
reached the creek crossing, however, he saw
Maggie sitting near the water. The first
thing that concerned him was her feet. They
were encased in heavy bluchers, the sight of
which annoyed him. “Where you get them
feller?” lie asked. “Picked ’em up,” said
Maggie. “Somebody bin lose ’em.” “How you
think I know you when you wear boots?”
Jacky demanded. “You gib me them plurry
things —l wear ’em—an’ make it track be :
longa yo’self.”
=!= & * * •
“Morob”: In most parts of New Guinea
the native starts to smoke at an early age.
You can see children of both sexes puffing
away at huge cigarettes made of the coarsest
trade tobacco rolled up in newspaper. Fre-
quently a woman will soothe her crying
infant by putting the end of her cigarette
into its mouth and letting it suck. I once
offered some pipe-tobacco of a popular brand
to a small boy who had informed me that he
“no had tobac.” After a few puffs the gift
was thrown away, it being too weak for an
urchin accustomed to smoking the strongest
black trade tobacco, one pipeful of which
would have made me ill.
# * :J: *
“Drover”: Anyone know the reason why
mules are not used more frequently in Aus-
tralia for coaches, plough-work or in droving
plants? They are not all stubborn, nor all jibs,
and a mule will beat any draught-horse if it
comes to a staihina test. I drove three in the
body of a mail-coach team for three years
when feed was bad, and they outlived at least
50 horses. A well-broken-in mule has no
vice, and I’ve never seen one knock up. Hun-
dreds are still bred in the N.T. and in S.A.,
so scarcity cannot be the reason they are
not used. Any transport driver during the
late war can vouch for the good service they
did. It w T as generally a horse-driven waggon
that heavy-going stopped and mules that
pulled it out.
“E.S.” : Binghi had his hot springs as well
as the Maori. The hottest one is near the
Einasleigh Itiver (Q.) ; it is surrounded by a
great mound of hardened mud that
has gushed up through the ages
from a deep fissure, and now forms
a basin that is always full of
boiling water. There Binghi often
camped, and cooked his fish and
game in the stream that runs? from
it. After a hard day’s hunt he
could appreciate ready-boiled water
that didn’t need pots. Food could
also be cooked in the Ooolgarra
springs, out from Herberton, though
the hot water emerges in the bed of a
running cold-water creek, a curiosity of the
North. One can have a cold plunge jusf
above the outlet, and get scalded a few paces
away.
•‘Mum-Muk”: The bird “Toki” (B.
ls/4/’2S) heard deer-belling was undoubt-
edly a nightjar. It also oepurs in the Straits
Settlements, where the local Chinese spend
many an evening gambling on the number
ot notes the bird will utter during its next
call. The call consists of one to a dozen
staccato notes, with an interval of several
minutes between each call.
“Booraby”: I
have met men on
the track with big
lumps of wood
in their swags,
hewn from the
roots of needle-
wood trees. At the
sheds and huts they
would cut out
pipes for sale, ti
common dtes i g n
being, a lady’s shoe.
Some of the pipes
were beautifully
carved, though the
work was princi-
pally done with a
pocket-knife. Other
woods used in dif-
ferent parts for to-
bacco pipes arc (or
were) laurel-leafed
mahogany, red box,
forest oak, belar,
stringybark and the
butt or rooty part
of red beech. Ring
gidya, which takes
a beautiful polish,
was sometimes
used ; but it is too
hard for pocket-
knife work. Needle-
wood seemed to be
the favorite. The
wandering pip e-
tnaker was generally
found far out back
where suitabb
woods were scarce.
In better-timbered
regions, where
there was plenty of
excellent material
to be got, any
han d y bushman
who wanted a
home-made could
fashion his own.
At White Cliffs
(N.S.W.) miners
and others carved
pipes out of the
chalky substance of
which the local bluff is composed.
“Bilcon”: At Thorgool, 109 miles south-
west from Rockhampton (Q.), I saw a
sweet potato grown on Mick Mclnerney’s
farm that, turned the scale at 26-ilb. Is that
anything like a l'ecord V
“Up North”: Several of the Cape York
Peninsula tribes believe that man lias two
souls —good and bad. At death, the good soul
flies eastward to the Blessed Isle. The
other hovers near the body but finally toddles
off to the mangrove
swamps to join, the
countless evil spirits
of the dead. It is these
chaps who do living
humans much harm,
infecting them with
disease and misfor-
tune. Should anyone
unwarily w ande r
amongst them when
atmospheric and tem-
peramental conditions
are suitable to their
influence, they are
liable to infect him
with disease. Women
have to be specially
careful when digging
for food in the jungles
towards evening, for
evil spirits can enter
into them more easily
than into men. Woman
takes to bad influences
naturally, as it were.
Occasionally an evil
spirit enters into a
man and drives him
mad. I have met soma
of these unfortunates. They were always
well, looked after, but the people are certain
that the death of their spirit-possessed ones
will be violent.
“Pfella”: An unusual abo. was Dicky,
who worked on my brother-in-law's Mur-
chison (W.A.) run. He never made his gin,
Maisie, the beast of burden when he took
his family for a walkabout holiday; it was
always his shoulders that bore the weight
of carrying. Washing day at the water-
hole was his job also. His two children,
Jeeba, the boy, and Blungi, the girl, were
as well cared for, according to Dicky's lights,
as the most favored of white children, but
the lad disgraced himself and the old black
felt it keenly. A quantity of tobacco was
missing and fresh tracks showed up on some
lino, just laid on the storeroom floor. Dicky
WHAT MARRIAGE CAN DO FOR A MAN.
“No, mate; I never knew what happiness was till I married and
(jot a home of me own down in Sydney.”
“Bad hick you lost it alt.”
“Wodjer mean —lorst it? I've come hack to it.”
—he was one of the best native trackers on
the Murchison —was called in to follow
the thief. As soon as he saw the footprints
his whole body appeared to sag and he
lowered his head in silence for a minute or
so. “Jeeba,” he then said in a stricken tone.
“Maisie bin show him how.” My sister took
no further action, and with bowed head an
hour later Dicky returned a portion of the
weed; the rest, he indicated, had gone up
in smoke.
* * * :j:
“Biro”: One would not consider the
scorpion to be far advanced in the evolution-
ary scale; nevertheless, it is more so than
the platypus or porcupine. It brings forth
its young alive. The scorpion is a good
mother and her young ones collect upon
her body in spider fashion. Possibly some
form of nourishment is exuded by both
spider and scorpion mothers for the'benefit
of the brood.
* * *
“0.V.8.”: Why isn't something done to
preserve our native fish, the Murray cod
and perch? Since the systematic stocking
of streams with imported trout and other
inferior fish it is becoming increasingly
difficult to secure cod and perch, as no effort
is made to protect them, beyond a farcical
close season. Netting goes on from the
mouth of the Murray up. while the
tributary rivers are lined with drum nets
and other illegal contrivances, so that there
is no chance of the inland streams becoming
re-stocked. The cod and perch are the
finest edible fish in Australia, and afford
excellent sport for rod fishermen. Only by
prohibiting netting of any kind in the Mur-
ray and its tributaries for at least two years
can their extinction be avoided.
* * * *
Toonooba”: The first discovery of the
remains of extinct giant marsupials in the
Boekhampton (Q.) district was made re-
cently, when a molar from the lower jaw of
a nototherium was retrieved from the allu-
vium of the Ten-Mile Creek. This beast
was a wombat-like animal about the size
of a rhinoceros. It resembled and closely
approached in size the diprotodon, the
largest known marsupial. Each had a simi-
le 1 ' array of teeth, but the nototheriunrs
skull was broader and shorter. These
giants flourished in Pleistocene times, and
geologists assign an age of about 500,000
years to the relic.
(Continued on page 25.)
HERE GOES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your commonsense is telling you your
chances are not bright,
And all the mob are satisfied your top-piece
isn’t right;
But let the doubters have their doubts, arid
let the scoffers scoff,
For this you-know—in spite of all sometimes
it does come off.
Sometimes, somewhere, so you have
the .promises are kept,
And doubt becomes a foolish thing, and fear
aside is swept;
Somewhen, somehow, so you have heard a
tiny whisp of dream
Returns a fairer dividend than does the
best-laid scheme.
And oh ! a man gets tired of the old familiar
dust,
And list’ning to the old, old tales, and tak-
ing things on 'trust;
It’s love, maybe, and happiness lie leaves
behind —but yet
A man gets tired of steering by the course
that others set.
Your commonsense is telling you—but what
have you to do
With commonsense when at your feet there
lies a pathway new?
The doubters doubt, the scoff*rs scoff; but.
then again, who knows?
The new stars rise, the pathway calls, and
once again, Here goes!
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


' 1..
.s*. T. *
s»w»
l|S*«§
i
1
i
a’mm
mm
**«r
*x
i
v:.
m i
f .
*
• ■
Hi iHii
ps
The appeal of
Quality!
More than ever before is
quality appreciated by motorists,
for experience teaches that
the better the quality, the more
satisfactory the service.
Price has a bearing on the auto-
mobile a motorist purchases.
With tyres the position is different
for the finest tyre made...
the DUNLOP...is available
at no extra outlay and with
Dunlop quality goes outstanding
long wear, comfort and dependa-
bility.
Let Dunlop service make your
motoring enjoyable & economical.
5000 Garages stock Dunlop!
S’
m/n
DUNLOP
is the “quality” tyre
; v ~,.
\ i •
PLAY GOLF
for your own
sake
toe l3o eQs -ae
cceofiGßi
i c a D c
uu doll
ICtdDQ G DJ
'tOQDQ DC'
V's ClQD<2^
“ vi u
Joo
for the sake of
your Golf play
DUNLOP


Top
Prices
Jiy
SEND YODR
SKINS
™ 1
11NCHCOMBE J x) ,
f
N
> A
are the attraction. Rabbit, Fox and every
other class of skin make full values at
Winchcombe, Carson’s auctions.
Address Letters;
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
X
/X
N
X
X /I s '
• 4f,
m as v.--'
y
j x
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
PEAPES
—jor men AND their sons.
Merit of goods.—merit of service
—-neither in itself is enough.
It is in the ideal combination of
the two that Peapes’ have won the
complete confidence of so many
men throughout the Commonwealth
and the Islands.
Peapes’ service provides for every
clothing need of men and their
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
“Maunga”: As Ilori breasted the bar of
the Shearers’ Arms he looked like a cot
case. “I want te rum and erove,” he said,
“and not too much te crove. Py corry! I
jus’ had te pad accident. You see, I coming
here wery fas’ in my car when te first thing
I know is te waggon and eight horses racing
wery fas’ towards me, sideways on, I
walk here then.”
*l* »J» ¥
“Pot Permang” : The report of that test
by “X2X” 18. 13/6/’2B) of the ability of
goanna oil to penetrate glass requires look-
ing into. In the first place considerable
skill is called for in hermetically sealing a
test-tube with a - Bunsen flame. Experts
would use a blowpipe. When the tube is.
heated by the flame the pressure of the
vapor passing through the drawn-out neck
refuses to allow the glass to seal, and leaves
a fine capillary passage, discernible with the
microscope, through which some of the con-
“A VUN HUNDRED PER CENT. AUSTRALIAN .”
tained oil would be forced by daily differ-
ences of temperature. It was probably
through some such opening that the oil
exuded.
"Kooragai’’: Bungay Bob told me that a
’possum would not.go up a tree for a long-
time after a blackfellow had climbed it, or
till rain had washed it. "When ’possum
come here,” he said, indicating a tree he
had just been up, “lie smell about, an’ he
■say, ‘My word, blackfeller live
up there!’ an’ he run away find
'notlier place.” As Binghi mostly
climbed naked and, like the
flying-fox, left an odor behind
him, I had no doubt that he was
right.
❖ * *
“Pigcat”: This is the story
as told me by old Joe. He was
annoyed when I didn’t smile,
and wanted to fight me when I
laughed. “I was camped at
Walthro dam one night, and
I seen an old snake with a mob
of babies come over the bank to
have a drink. They come down
to the edge of the water. It was
all boggy there. The old snake
stopped all the little jokers and
glid over the mud and had her
drink. Then she come back.
She left the wrigglers on the
bank, and she fossicked away in
the grass. After a bit she come
back with a mussel-shell in her
mouth. She counted all her
kids, seen they was all there,
and then she picked up her
mussel-shell and went on to
water. She filled the shell and
come back. Eight times she
went over the bog and filled
her shell, and each time the
little snakes come up and lapped
it till it was empty. Then she
put back the shell where she
she’d got all her brood and took ’em away
it, and before I could get a smack at her
she’d got all her brood and took ’em away
in the grass.
: i : t\i
“Don Lee”: There exists a widespread
belief that hqrses are extremely fond of
sugar. I decided to test it on the nine
nags we own. I half-filled a dish with
sugar and Avalked around them offering the
stuff to each in turn. Not one of ’em took
the slightest interest in it. It must be an
acquired taste.
% =1: *
“Sea. Nomad”: The coming of the white
man has entirely changed the habits of the
Hanuabada and Elevala natives.
Nature forced everyone to work
by making the Moresby district
alternately wet and dry. For
six months in the year the two
big villages were hard pressed
to find drinking water, let
alone water for the huge gardens
on whose produce they mostly
lived. The dry belt stops short
up the coast east
and west, and
there the foreign
villagers grew
their vegetables
and fruit all the
year round, liv-
ing in plenty
while the Mores-
by lads were
half-starved. Around Hanuabada
the soil is all clay, and some
native Adam Smith decided that
trade must be the salvation of the
community. Under his tutelage
the Hanuabada crowd developed
a pot-making industry that
lasted for many centuries, right
up tq the advent of the whites.
They traded the pottery along
the coast, returning with suf-
ficient provisions to keep them
throughout the dry months.
Their trading ventures were on
a huge scale, comprising fleets
of hundreds of giant lakatois,
and the sailing and return of the
trade fleets were occasions of
tremendous enthusiasm and re-
joicing. The once-flourishing
industry has gone into limbo;
but Big Guvvamen sits down
’longside, so between odd jobs
and tourists the villagers prob-
ably do better than ever they
did in the old days.
“Clef : Binghi in Westralia’s south-west
stands on his dignity in his dealing with the
whites. Leave out “mister” or “missus” in
addressing buck or gin and you become un-
popular. I still smart under the dignified
reproof banded out to me by a black named
Baillieu—where he got the name nobody
knows. He was shepherd for Bovell, who had
a farm and kept a hotel on the Bun-
bury-Bridgetown road in the old coaching
days. I pulled up at the pub one day, and
THE CO-OPTIMISTS.
“Somewhere the sun is shining ,
Somewhere the skies are blue!”
seeing the shepherd called out, “Hallo, Bail-
lieu, come and have a drink.” “Thank you,
Mr. Clef,” was the reply, “but, Mr. Clef,
don’t I always call you Mr. Clef? Why
don’t you call me Mr. Baillieu?” It may be
added that, though they can’t make the’ “f”
sound, I have never heard a s.-w. abo. speak
pidgin. Their English, but for the one defect,
is excellent.
* * * *
“Jacarandali”: Do cattle possess some
sixth sense? My farm is divided by a creek;
one side is high, ridgy country and the
other a treeless, low-lying flak For three
days preceding the recent Dawson (Q.)
floods, my cattle crossed- the creek to the
ridge, and when turned back to the flat per-
sisted in making for the ridge. The even-
ing before the flood I drove them back again,
and woke in the morning to find them on a
small island of high ground surrounded by
flood waters.
=H * * $
“V.G.”: The law of the survival of the
fittest is exemplified in the plain country
of N.-W. Queensland. The turkey or bus-
tard lays two eggs to the clutch, but I
have never seen two chicks following an
old bird. It is common to find dead newly-
hatched chicks in abandoned nests, and from
this it may be inferred that only the more
vigorous chick of two is fed by the old birds.
Does anyone know if such is the case
throughout the turkey country, or are drought
conditions responsible ?
* * * *
“Mata Iviau”: As one who knows New
Guinea pretty thoroughly, I would advise
“Orokolo” (B. 6/6/’2B) and others whose
boys have slept while holes were gnawed in
their feet by rats and other vermin to send
them along to the nearest medical officer for
examination for leprosy. Boys certainly
sleep like dead men, but the fact that almost
the first sign of leprosy in a tremendous
proportion of cases is a loss of .feeling in
the feet, especially the insteps, has led
me on at least two occasions to the detec-
tion of the disease in boys previously un-
suspected.
* * *
“Old Timer” : Recent pars, about the old
red cover of The Bulletin remind me of
the prettiest and cosiest room I have seen. It
was in a farmhouse at Hernani. The floor
was covered with what appeared at first
glance to be lino., but it was made up of
about 20 layers of newspaper, each layer
pasted down separately. As a top-dressing
Bulletin covers were pasted, bordered with
wine and whisky advertisements all cut to
the same size. Each red cover had the appear-
ance of a tile. The walls were papered with
illustrations cut from The Bulletin, and
I recognised drawings by Phil May, “Hop,”
Vincent and Norman Lindsay. Over walls
and floor was a rosy-colored varnish made
from the gum of the red eucalyptus mixed
with linseed oil and turps. It cost about 2s.
a gallon. The furniture matched the room.
It was home-made, and carved out of red
cedar gathered in the surrounding scrub. A
bush-fire got the homestead, and the loss of
that room nearly broke the old owner’s heart.
“Claude W.”: Tell “Ui> Top” (B.
30/5/’2B) that the only known way of keep-
ing leeches off at night is. to sleep within a
ring of ashes. Leeches won’t cross ashes,
whether hot or cold. My information was
gleaned from an abo. in the thick scrubs out-
side Cooktown (N.Q.), where leeches a foot
long have been seen.
“The Rumpus”: “Up Top” (B. 30/5/’2S)
need not go to the trouble of heating a
needle to make a tropical leech loosen its
grip, even if out of sight in a nostril or ear.
A needle is a. very dangerous weapon to use
in these delicate places. Common salt
or kerosene applied to the nether end of
the brutes will cause a hurried exit.
: i : i\i i’:
“Elgar” : It isn’t only the waybacker who
is liable to be eaten out of house and home.
Yarning to a Doncaster (Yic.) fruitgrower,
I casually leant against a corner of the
house. He swiftly grabbed me and begged
me not to push his house down. It was a
mere shell, riddled with white ants; one
could push a fist right through the Oregon
weatherboards in places. He presently built
a new house, about five chains away. This
time stumps, joists and flooring were of
jarrah, all liberally sprayed with arsenate
of lead. He set a match to the old joint,
and so far has had no more trouble. Another
orchardist, three miles nearer Melbourne, had
a two-roomed Oregon outbuilding eaten in
the same way. His main home, built by his
father long ago, was of yellow-box slabs,
as were the stables and sheds. These still
stand, and look good for another hundred
years.
“Golub”: A curious thing about the
brightly-hucd fish in the waters of Northern
Australia, New Guinea and the Solomons is
that it is only while they are in the water
that they possess such brilliant coloring.
The moment they are removed their gorgeous
iridescence vanishes, and they take on a dull
and leaden hue. Another peculiar thing
about them is that the most brightly colored
fish are usually extremely poisonous. It
would almost seem that nature hung out a
warning signal.
* * # *
“11.E.R.”: The candidate was holding
forth to Dad. who fidgeted at the waste of
time. “Think, my good friend, think,” ex-
claimed Gasbag with dramatic eloquence,
“think of the unborn to-morrow!” “Bin at
that game fer years,” Dad snarled. “Who
the blazes ’ud call the newchum in the
mornin’s if I wasn’t thinkin’ about it the
day before?”.
WAITING FOR THE MAIL.
[Foh The Bulletin.]
She cantered from the eastern side,
And I rode from the west;
The way betAveen Avas lone and Avide,
But in Avild splendor drest.
We sat upon an old gum log
Amid sweet-flowering trees:
Near by we heard the swamp-laud frog ;
Above, the hum of bees.
Some lucky days we waited long,
But time sped quickly there;
The bush was gay with avine song,
And joy was everywhere.
Perhaps it was with more regret
Than pleasure that we suav
The coach-team jog through dust or wet.
And near our siding draAV.
We got the news from up and down,
From all the countryside;
We got our mail from bush and (own,
Then on our ways Ave’d ride.
The day avo Availed for the mail
Was best of all the AA r eek ;
We 'cared for neither wind nor rain,
For drouth nor flooded creek.
Wo loved that bush and road where now
But phantom coach-teams jog;
And better than all else, somehow,
We loved that old gum log.
N.S.AV.
E. S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you arc invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Returned soldier, pensioner, wants job as
watchman or caretaker, Sydney, night or
day work. Wages £2 10s. weekly, with
room ; 10 years in last job. Refs. —5271.
By lady musician, Q’land, steady employ-
ment. Proficient in transposition and accom-
paniment and accurate manuscript writer.
—5266.
By young man, wool-classer, job on sheep
station; knowledge of motor engines and
machinery ; careful stockman. Go anywhere.
—5213.
Youth (19) wants work. Do anything,
go anywhere ; good refs. —5274.
Young man (23), ex-yachtsman, wants
job in Islands, any capacity; used to small
vessels, can run engines ; do splicing, paint-
ing, etc. Small wages for start. —5275.
English youth (18), matriculated in Eng.
lit. and comp., French, maths., geo., hist, and
chem., seeks position in teaching capacity
or as clerk. Q’land preferred.—5286.
Honors graduate in physics and chemistry,
two years’ research experience, now in Can-
berra, desires position in industrial works.
Details on application.—5284.
By trained nurse (widow), N.S.W., late
A.I.F., position as housekeeper to business
couple, or would join obstetric hospital for
small salary. One child, two years.—5321.
By two rabbiters, good turn-out, traps
and equipment, permission to trap on sta-
tion, permanent or otherwise, any State,
own expense.-—5303.
By youth (18) work on N.S.W. station,
jackeroo or other capacity. Can drive car.
Take low wages if prospects good. Nice
home essential. —5305.
By returned soldier, married, job as col-
lector, caretaker, cleaner or position of
trust. Refs, and fidelity bond.- —5306.
By young man, Sydney, tree and stump
pulling, his own machine, contract or
weekly.—5304.
By young man, extensively travelled, cor-
respondents (either sex), living in country
districts of Australia, or in the Pacific
islands. —5230.
By young man (25), used to hard work,
position, anything, anywhere; fair engineer-
ing knowledge; can drive car or tractor. —
5243.
To hear from persons working rutile and
ilmenite deposits in Australia with view to
purchasing products.—5282.
To sell levelled section Eastwood
(N.S.W.), f-mile station, 50 x 151, £100
cash. (To T. O’Connor, 66 Graf ton-street,
Woollalira, Sydney.)
To sell double-fronted w.b. cottage in good
street, large rooms, perfect order. Handy
trams and train. (To 57 Donald-strect,
Brunswick, Yic.)
To sell orchard spray cart (Buzacott),
perfect order. Automatic or hand ; cost £70.
£20.-5319.
To buy Stewart’s “Handbook of the
Pacific Islands.” (To Frank Tolley, Nor-
folk Island.)
To buy old books on Sydney. (To H.
Turner, care Box 11, P.O., Euira, Vic.)
To buy The Bulletin, April 16, 1925.
5s. for clean copy.—5259.
To buy, 1st vol. West’s “History of Tas-
mania,” arid all or any of vols. i to 7 of
Watson’s “Historical Records of Austra-
lia,” Series III. —5294,
Words of child’s recitation beginning, “ T
won’t lay again,’ said the old black hen.”
(To Miss Burbury, 33 Roslysi Gardens,
Elizabeth Bay, Sydney.)
To sell London Times, 3/10/1798 (con-
taining official news of Lord Nelson’s defeat
of French Fleet near Rosetta) and
22/6/1815 (containing Duke of Wellington’s
despatch dated 19/6/1815 reporting defeat/
of the French at Waterloo) .—5255.
To rent cottage or self-contained flat,
Sydney, two rooms, bathroom, el. and gas,
kitchen (no linen or cutlery needed). No
children. —5260.
To buy, hire or exchange for another book,
“The Yellow Dove,” by Gibbs.—5250.
Whereabouts (if alive) of J. R. Yeats,
engineer. Would be about 65, last seen
Auburn (N.S.W.) about 1880. (To E. A.
Phipson, c/o II. Phipson; Broughton House,
King arid Clarence streets, Sydney.)
To sell florist’s business, well established,
North Shore (Sydney) suburb. —5333.
Words of verse “The Whitest Man I
Knew.” (To T. Geraghty, Owanyilla, N.-C.
line, Q’land.)
Superior home, Cremorne (Sydney), near
ferry, has accommodation for few guests, bed
and breakfast. 30s. —5329.
Information Sought.
What is the hest aerial to use with a
crystal receiver? I am 12 miles distant from
an A-class station, and there arc plenty of
tall trees in the vicinity. —5280.
Erect your aerial as far as possible from
any trees, and if a tree is to serve the pur-
pose of an aerial mast, secure the end of
the aerial to the tree by about 50 feet of
cord. Make your aerial as high as pos-
sible. The total length may be anything
up to 140 feet unless you experience undue
interference from static or nearer B-class
stations, in which case it will be necessary
to reduce the length (but not the height)
until interference is minimised.
I hold a promissory note in which the, rate
of interest was fixed, hut no date of repay-
ment. (1) Gan I compel the debtor to pay the
interest due every year and fix a date on
which the note must mature? (2) Has the
debtor the right to alter the original agree-
ment without my consent? (3) Should I put
the amount of interest due every year in my
income-tax return? I have not received any
cash yet. —s2B9.
(1) If no date is specified the note is
payable on demand, and you are entitled to
interest up to date of repayment. (2) No.
(3) No. If you haven’t had the money it
is not income.
Can you suggest four good elementary text-
hooks on aviation? —s2Bl.
“The Aeroplane Speaks” and “Aerobatics,”
by H. Barber (Mcßride, Nast and Cos.) ;
“Practical Flying” (Temple Press, Ltd.) ;
“Royal Air Force Manual,” Part I (11. M.
Stationery Office, London).
I icish to place my son in a hank in Vic-
toria. (1) What age must he he? (2) Will
he have to pass any exams.? (3) What
is the commencing salary? —s229.
_(1) For State Savings Bank of Vic., about
15 or 16; for Associated Banks, from 16
to 171. (2) For State Savings Bank, junior
clerks must pass a competitive exam., unless
they have passed the Intermediate or Leav-
ing. The Associated Banks also accept suc-
cess in Intermediate or Leaving, or the pre-
liminary exam, of the Bankers’ Institute as
sufficient qualification. (3) £75 p.a.
A Vic. hotel licensee threatens to sue my
friend for £ls for “ money borrowed and re-
freshments.” Has he a right to sue? —s2s7.
In respect to money borrowed, yes. In
respect to liquor sold over the bar, a drink
at a time, no.
Can the licensee of a hotel in N.S.W.
successfully sue for board, and liquor
supplied to lodgers otherwise than with
merits? —s26l.
He can sue for board, but not for any
liquor bought in quantities less in value than
20s. at a time.
Is water caught on a duck camp-sheet fit
to use in a halt cry? —s22l.
, Rain water picks up impurities from the
air and should only be used for “topping”
accumulators in cases of extreme emergency.
A wife deserted her husband and three-
year-old child, and is living with another
man. (1) Can the husband obtain a Court
order preventing her from having access to
the child? He doesn’t want a divorce. (2)
In case of divorce, can the husband get such
an order? —s26B.
(1) Having the custody of the child, the
father can restrict the mother’s access to
it to periodical visits. (2) In case of
divorce the Court would give the husband
custody of the child, and could regulate the
right of the mother to have access to it.
How can I rewind a gramophone spring so
that it can he put hack into the casing? —
5247.
Ilook the end to the catch on inside of the
case and wind the spring gradually into the
case. If you clamp the case in a vyce you’ll
find it easier to handle.
Twenty-six years ago my wife and I
parted. Twelve years ago we met in Sydney
for a week. She then posted me a legal
document setting forth that she would make
no further claim on me, nor contest any
will I might make. I have only heard of
her once, indirectly, in 12 years, and have
no idea of her present whereabouts. Would
1 be safe in contracting another marriage?
—5278.
No lapse of time operates as an actual
cancellation of marriage. Your best course
under N.S.W. law would be to seek divorce
on the ground of desertion without reasonable
excuse during three years and upwards.
(1) What salary is earned by an expeii-
enoed journalist? (2) Is journalism profit-
able, and are there many chances of rising?
(3) What are the prospects of a free-lance
journalist? (4) Is a knowledge of shorthand,
typewriting and French necessary to a be-
ginner?—4693.
(1) Australian award rates for journalists
who have served a cadetship or otherwise
qualified range from £4 15s. to £l4 in the
cities, and from £4 2s. 6d. to £ll outside
the cities. (2) Depends entirely on the indi-
vidual. (3) Don’t advise it as a means of
livelihood. (4) Not essential. Shorthand is
very usefultypewriting less so: French,
except as a cultural adjunct, very little use.
I am having trouble with borers in my
orange-trees. They appear to start life on the
bark, and as they fatten they attack the
wood. Can. you tell me the life-history of
these pests, and suggest a means of keeping
them out of the trees?— sl2l.
Sounds like the Longicorn beetle, which is
seldom met with and so far has not war-
ranted special attention. Very little is
known of its life-history. Once the larvae
have entered the bark nothing can be done
except to locate and dig them out. To pre-
vent the adult beetles from laying their eggs
in the stem the trunks should be painted
with Bordeaux (bluestone) paint made
according to posted formula. It is best
applied early in October before the adult
beetles emerge.
How can I put a fine gloss on soft col-
lars? —5269.
Mix 2oz. of starch with 3 gills of cold
water, working out the lumps well. Let
stand overnight. Stir up well and add two
teaspoonfuls of turpentine and half-teaspoon-
ful of powdered borax dissolved in a little
boiling water. Put as many collars in the
starch as it will easily cover and soak them
well. Squeeze them in the starch and wring
as dry as possible. -Rub the collars between
the hands to get the starch well through the
folds of the linen, draw out straight, lay
smoothly on a towel, and roll up tightly for
two hours, taking care that the collars are
not one on top of the other. Rub a little
beeswax or candle on the iron, making sure
the iron is clean and hot. Iron the collars
once or twice across on the wrong side until
slightly dry. then turn over. Iron slowly
at first until the collar gets fairly dry and
smooth; then iron more quickly, backwards
and forwards principally on the outward
side, until it is quite dry and glossy. Lift
the collar occasionally to let the steam
escape, and dry the sheet underneath it with
the iron.
(1) Where can I obtain an a.c. generator
of 1.5 to 3 k.v.a., and what power would be
required to drive same? (2) Would Philips
*4109 valves lit off one Amplion carbonccl
be as efficient as Philips 4.609 valves used
in conjunction with a (j-volt accumulator ?—
5224.
(1) Write to the Machining and Electric
Cos., 62a Goulburn-street, Sydney, stating the
following details: Voltage and amperage of
generator; whether the generator is to be
belt-driven or directly coupled to the engine
shaft; and approximate speed in r.p.m. at
which the generator will be driven. A 7-li.p.
engine will be suitable. (2) Six-volt valves
will deliver greater volume than one-volt
valves. In cases where it is inconvenient to
have accumulators charged at very frequent
intervals, obtain a large-capacity accumula-
tor and use A 609 valves for r.f. detector
and first audio stages, followed by a 8605
for the final stage.
(1) Are there any openings for young men
as traders' assistants in the Islands, prefer-
ably the Solomons? (2) Ilow would one get
in touch with openings? (3) After securing
experience, would it be possible to secure
trading rights in an island and make a decent
living there? —5254.
(1) Very few positions are now offering
in the Islands, and trading opportunities in
the Solomons are very limited and not re-
munerative. (2) Watch the Sydney news-
papers for advertisements. (3) With experi-
ence and a little capital trading sites in
groups other than the Solomons might reason-
ably be tried. The financial result would
depend on the ability and energy of the indi-
vidual and the strength of competition from
other traders.
Can you give me a recipe for butter pre-
servative ? —5326.
Wash the butter in four or five waters,
and to every pound allow loz. of salt. Work
in well and leave till the next day: then
break it up and work well until all the
moisture is out of it. Make a mixture of
4oz. salt, 2oz. white sugar and ioz. salt-
petre. Blend thoroughly and allow 4oz. of
this mixture to each pound of butter.” Pack
firmly in earthenware jars. Put a layer of
salt on top and cover from the air.
How is oxidised copper cleaned? —5325.
Dissolve hoz. camphor in lib. of lard, take
off the scum and mix in as much blacklcad
as will well color the mixture. Bub the
copper with this mixture, leave for 24 hours,
and then rub with a linen cloth.
How can I keep oysters alive for a few
days? —s324.
Put the oysters in a tub and cover with
salt and water, to which a sprinkling of
rolled oats or oatmeal has been added. Let
them remain for 12 hours, then take them
out and allow them to stand for another 12
hours without water. Repeat, using a fresh
mixture for each immersion.
How can I pickle eggs? —s323.
Take 1 dozen eggs and hard-boil them.
Shell when quite cold. Boil together 1
quart of vinegar (preferably white), 1 des-
sertspoonful of slalt, 3 tablelspoonfuls of
sugar, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, 1 tea-
spoonful of cayenne and about half a dozen
cloves. Boil for about five minutes, and
when quite cold pour over eggs. Let stand
for a week or more.
Can you give me a recipe for soap, with
wood-ash as otic of the basic ingredients?—
5322.
Clarify 121 b. fat by rendering down in 13
quarts of water, keeping the lid on until the
water has evaporated. The pieces of fat
should then be stirred with an iron spoon
to keep them from sticking to the saucepan
and burning, and also to press the fat out.
When all the fat is extracted strain care-
fully and press the residue well. Add lib.
14oz. resin and put into the copper to melt.
Mix 211 b. caustic soda with the water and
add after the fat and resin have melted.
Then add 31b. refined wood ashes, well
crushed and sieved. Boil until the soap,
when held up, falls into flakes. Pour into
a well-greased tub and, when cold, cut into
squares and leave to harden, being careful
not to let the pieces touch one another. In
six weeks the soap will be ready for use.
My husband and I have opened a joint
banking account. Should one or the other die
intestate, will the money belong automati-
cally to the survivor? —sl23.
Yes, if the account is on the usual con-
ditions, allowing either of the depositors to
draw upon it.
(1) When was it first decided to take a
prohibition poll in N. S. Wales? (2) Which
Government decided to allow compensation if
prohibition were carried? —5179.
(1) By an Act of December 23, 1919. (2)
The Holman Government, by the same Act.
(1) How long after its formation did the
Citizens' Life Assurance Cos., Ltd., pay a
dividend, and what was the amount? (2)
In what year was the first reversionary
bonus paid? —slß7.
(1) In its second year, £IOOO, 5 per cent,
on paid capital. (2) In its sixth year, after
its first quinquennial valuation.
How can I put a red top on a cement floor
by the copperas and linseed-oil process? —
5186.
Mix six parts of plaster-of-paris with one
part lime. Wet, slake and top-dress the
floor. When it is dry, go over it with solu-
tion of copperas, and repeat this several
times. The surface must be perfectly dry
before each application: After several days’
drying dress the surface with boiled linseed
oil. and finally give a coat of copal varnish.
After several days’ exposure to the air the
surface will become a reddish-brown or a
dark red.
Does Anybody Know?
How to braze a If band-saw with tongs?
—5237.
Has anybody who has had practical
experience with paper mulching in Queens-
land come to any conclusion about it on
figures ? —5200A.
Where tins of “ITerin a lTluile” are obtain-
able in Sydney?—sl2s.
Brief Answers.
J.P.G.: (1) Commonwealth; Senate (36
members), £IOOO p.a. ; House of Reps. (76) £IOOO
p.a. N.S.W. Upper House (101) up salary ; Lower
House (90) £875 p.a. Vic.: Upper House (34)
£2OO p.a. ; Lower House (05) £SOO p.a. Queens-
land: Upper House abolished; Lower House (72)
£750 p.a. S.A.: Upper House (20) £4OO p.a.;
Lower House (46) £4OO p.a. W.A.: Upper House
(30) £6OO p.a. ; Lower House (50) £6OO p.a
Tas.: Upper House (18) £3OO p.a.; Lower House
(30) £3OO p.a. (2) Provided nothing unexpected
happens, general elections for the different Parlia-
ments will occur again as follows: Commonwealth
1928, or early in 1929, N.S.W. 1930, Queens-
land 1929, Vic. 1930, S.A. 1930, W.A. 1930
and Tas. 1931. (3) Asa member of the Senate.
. ...E.M.C.: “Poultry Farming in N.5.W.,” by E.
Hadlington, 4s. 3d. posted, from N.S.W. Government
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney.... Jobber : The third
edition of “Our Antipodes” is worth about
7s. 6d F.S.F.: The transverse-semi-elliptic
springing principle has been retained in the
new model... .8.C.C.: Minimax, Ltd., 49 Clarence-
street, Sydney... .W.C.11.: Tell us what the
sand assays for chrome and iron and how much
silica is associated with it and we will try to
get the information. .. .R. 8.: Feather-eating is
usually due to too much heating food and not enough
exercise. Give your pafrot plenty of grit; a regular
supply of water in an earthenware vessel; canary
seed, millet and maize in winter ; plenty of greenstuff
in summer and ample space to exercise. .. ,J.C.:
Write to the secretary Society of Genealogists, 5
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.I. Do not know
of any Australian branch of the society... .W.J.S.:
The walls should be lightly rubbed down with fine
sandpaper to provide a surface for the finishing coat
of varnish. .. .Cijil: (1) If the Judge made an order
for payment of costs the co-respondent would have
to pay. (2) Question not clear. If you mean the
petitioner’s costs the law has ample powers to compel
payment by the co-respondent... T.W.L.: Gotterdam-
merung” means “the twilight of the gods”. .. . L.M.:
(1) For a travelling table machine, with a 60in. saw,
about 30h.p. (2) For bush use steam-power is most
economical. In a town a crude-oil engine is the
cheapest.... Thinker : N 0... .T.M.M.L.: (1) By mak-
ing application to firms employing such workers.
(2) 'The work comes under the heading of wool
sorting. Under the N.S.W. Storemen and Packers’
Award the rates of pay in woolbrokers’ and wool-
repacking stores are: woolclassers, £ 5 3s. 6d. ; wool-
sorters, £5 9s. 6d. per week. Under the N.S.W.
Textile Workers’ Award, woolsorters in woollen
mills receive £4 14s. 6d. per week.... A.L.D.: (1)
Not available. (2) East to north-east. Westerly in
winter. (3) North-east to south-east. .. .T.L. : (land
2) Pupil overseers are not engaged, and applicants for
oversteers must have had agricultural training. (3)
As regards Papua and Mandated Territory of New
Guinea, write to the Home and Territories Depart-
ment, Canberra. (4) You would do better under
British or Australian administration. (5) Stewart’s
“Handbook of the Pacific Islands”.... G.C.: Harri-
sons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., corner Adelaide and Mac-
rossan streets, Brisbane. .. .M.H.: In “Thrown Away”
one of Kipling’s “Plain Tales from the Hills.” (2)
“Tom Collins’s” (Joseph Furphy’s) published
works comprise “Rigby’s Romance,” “Such Is
Life” and the “Poems of Joseph Furphy”. . . . H.A.W.:
Dymock’s, Sydney, can get it for y0u....
T.C.A.: (1) Training is given in the Teachers’
College, Sydney, and various other schools. Get in
touch with the Department of Education. (2) Educa-
tion up to the standard of at least the Intermediate
Examination of Sydney or Melbourne is required....
R.D,: T’ao T’ich is pronounced Tow (o as in cow)
Tee-er. T’ao means “the way” and is the philo-
sophic basis of the T’aoist religion. Meaning of
“Tuh-Soh” would depend upon the dialect it belonged
to. Can’t tell without the written character....
T.J.8.: “How to Play Five Hundred,” 9d., Sir Robert
Bear Bookshop, Sydney. . . .H.P.E.: Sydney Novelty Cos.,
326 George-street. .. . W.T.: (1) Dr. Syntax’s “Wars
of Wellington,” illustrated by W. Heath, in good
condition, sold at auction a few years ago for £2.
(2) “The Poems of Wm. Cowper,” 2 vols. (1810),
if illustrated by Westall, is sold at about los. (3)
A second-hand copy of the “Children’s Encyclopedia”
can be obtained from Dymock’s for £5. The
“Australian Encyclopedia” can be obtained from Angus
and Robertson.... S.V.: The simplest grey finish is
white French polish into which is dissolved a small
quantity of spirit-soluble nigrosene black.... J.M.1.:
If a married woman dies intestate (Vic.), leaving
a separate estate, the husband is entitled
to one-third, and the children to the remainder,
share and share alike. .. .L.8.G.: Occasionally
pure-bred Jersey cattle have white tongues.
It doesn’t imply any defect in breeding. .. .A.D.:
Carrots and parsnips can be stored for short periods
in a cold climate by placing them in layers with
straw between each layer. Ventilation should be
provided... .A.A.: Cannot advise you without infor-
mation as to type of tank and maker... .J.K.McD.:
(1) Yes, registered as a limited liability co. (2)
The list, is at the Registrar-General’s, Sydney. You
can take a copy for 2s S.H.D.: (1) Good and
likely to do well out of handling the new co.’s
products. See April and June issues of “Wiod Cat”
Monthly. (2) Regret accounts not available....
Nulla: So long as your friend doesn’t pretend to quali-
fications he doesn’t possess, and gives his services free,
N.S.W. law won’t interfere with him... .C.McI.:
Probably not distemper. Let a vet. have a look
at your ferrets, or send one to a bacteriological
institute for a diagnosis. .. .F.H.W.: Get in touch
with IV.A. Airways, Ltd., 35 A.M.P. Buildings, Perth.
. ...E.C.: British Instructional Films, Ltd., Regent
Studio, Park-ioad, Surbiton, Surrey, England. 11
others are wanted, we’ll post you a list... .A.B.C.
Barton.’s “Twentieth Century Commerce and Book
keeping” and Carter’s “Advanced Accounts”....
Ballina: (1) ss. (2) Apply to Commonwealth Copy-
right Office, Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Martin-
place, Sydney, for the forms... ..J.J.P.: Try Austral-
asian Films, Ltd., 251 a Pitt-street, and Phillips Films,
Metropolitan Buildings, 56 Hunter-street —both of Syd-
ney ... .J.S.L.: The Australian agent for J. M. Deni
is S. Jaboor, 497 Collins-street, Melbourne... .A.E.B.
In a straight run of 100 yards the horse ought to win.
....Perplexed: If your agreement stipulates that ill
the event of failure to complete purchase the deposit
shall be forfeited to the vendor, yoij may retain
the deposit. If not, and if you don’t want to take
proceedings, you had better return the deposit ii
called upon to do so. .. . W.C.G.: P. Chutterton
schoolmaster, Port Moresby, Papua, and C. L. Fox,
Senior Inspector of Queensland Government Schools,
could supply first-hand information. .See also
Hambly’s “Origins of Education Among Primitive
People”.... D.C.: Sydney Weaving Mending Cos., 7C
Pitt-street. .. .A.D.R.: Send more details and we’ll
give you an opinion... .D.L.8.: No official quali-
fication or registration required. The Com-
monwealth Copyright Act and regulations can be
obtained from the Vic. Government Printer, Gisborne-
street, Melbourne D.O’D.: Consult a vet. It's
probably a surgical case.... M.R.: The word is
“toss,” an obsolete name for a drinking cup.


*OHC wH lTtytyfy
"WotfmjDays
a
fm
J
/
- ■
>,
m
r%
a
■• :i' '
r\
SilSi
lte*»
-fssSS*
mmm?
S'
%*
. .?
i glil
Mi
1
■
y '.a«tk
rs
■
J
*8
|f|
iS£
N
ip
m
Vi
m
r
s-
m
r\
■
a
m
s s-r .
■
I■ i i
r \
\j
■
1
§1
V %?>
ifr
®7
< ; .
■
'
S*ss?£
Building s.s. Livingstone,
one of two Canadian Lake
Steamers for the Mathews
Steamship Co., Toronto.
Commenced on January 1 6 —launched
on April 3, in spite of bad weather
conditions —66 working days to build
a ship of 2350 tons deadweight, 253
feet in length.
Just one more example of how Arm-
strong Whitworth can meet all
requirements, and fulfil all conditions.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH FOR
SHIPBUILDING.
Sir W. G. Armstrong Whitworth and Co., Limited.
Sales Organisation —
Kinnaird Bouse, Pall Mall East, London, S.W.I.
Works and Shipyards Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Sole Representatives for Australia —
Messrs. Gilbert-Lodge and Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C.703


sdf
P. & C. SUCCESS MEANS
YOUR PROTECTION
Success is seldom un-earned, and the spectacular rise of the
P. & C. to the foremost rank, in' the short space of five (5)
years is due to the special services rendered by the Com-
pany. It keeps policies in force when times are bad; it
sets aside, each year, sums for loans to its members; its
policies are designed to meet the particular needs of the
man on the land. In joining the P. & C. you obtain the
benefit of co-operative assurance and further the need of
the countryman.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
_ producers r citizens
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
114 - ITO CASTLE FIE AG 1-t ST. SYDNEY
2OO
MART
BRANDY
A Household Word "
in Sickness & in Health
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
HOW TO TELL A HORSE’S AGE.
“C.A.”: The following rhyme can be easily
committed to memory :
To tell the age of any horse
Inspect the lower jaw, of course.
The six front teeth the tale will tell
And every fear and doubt dispel.
Two middle nippers you behold,
Before the cplt is two weeks old.
Before eight weeks two more will come.
Eight months, the corners cut tlie gum.
The outside grooves will disappear
From the middle two in just a year;
In two years front the second pair,
In three the corner two are bare.
At two the middle nippers drop,
At three the second pair don’t stop;
When four years old the third pair goes.
At five the full new set he shows.
The black spots now will pass from view—
At six years from the middle two;
The second part at seven years;
At eight the spot each corner clears.
From the middle nipper, upper jaw,
At nine the black spots will withdraw ;
The second pair at ten are white;
Eleven finds the corners light.
As time goes on the horsemen know,
The oval teeth three sided grow ;
They longer get, project before,
Till twenty, when we know no more.
MEASURING EARTHEN TANKS.
“Bosso” : Any beginner who is thinking of
letting a contract for the sinking of a tank
at so much per cubic yard may find these
rules for measurement handy when he comes
to pay for the job. Provided that the tank
has the customary regular sloping sides and
ends, the number of cubic yards in the exca-
vation may be found this way: Multiply the
length by the breadth at the top in feet.
Multiply the length by the breadth at the
bottom in feet. Add together first the top
and bottom lengths and then the top and
bottom breadths, and multiply the two totals.
Add the three results together, multiply by
the depth of the tank and divide by six, and
the final: result will be in cubic feet. Divide
that by 27 and you have the cubic yards, and
no arguments with the tank-sinkers should
be necessary.
RINGBARKING.
“Paul C.”’: For those who have green
timber that calls for the axe, now is a good
time to tackle the work. If thoroughness
is a greater consideration than time or ex-
pense, the old method of cutting a deep
ring right into the red wood is best. If
speed, combined with efficiency, is the first
consideration, poisoning by arsenic is best,
if the work is done properly and the solu-
tion made correctly. The correct propor-
tions are 21b. arsenic, 21b. washing soda
(lib. of caustic soda may be used instead
of the washing soda), and lib. whiting.
The arsenic should be made into a thin
paste. The soda, which should have been
dissolved in hot water, is now poured into
the arsenic, and the mixture then placed on
the fire and boiled for 45 minutes, stirring it
from time to time. When the arsenic is
thoroughly dissolved the mixture will make
eight gallons. Now stir in the whiting—
this is used simply to show what trees
have been treated. The next business is
to “frill” the trees by driving the axe in all
round, leaving no “strings” and giving the
axe-handle a wrench each time the axe is
being withdrawn. In lieavy-barked timber
the axeman needs to put a bit of pep into
his stroke, for each cut must sink into the
timber. When this lias been done the pre-
pared arsenic solution is poured round the
frilled ring. An old teapot whose spout point
has been pinched in with a pair of pliers
answers the purpose excellently, as only a
thin stream is necessary; any more than
the frill easily retains is waste, as well as
being dangerous to stock, should the overflow
fall on grass or herbage at the butts of
the trees.
THE GROSS-CUT SAW.
“Gundy” : Few people seem to be able to
keep this necessary part of the farm outfit
in decent working order. A look along the
teeth will usually show many of them out
of commission through being filed lower than
the rest. The first thing to do is to secure
the saw in a vyce if one is handy; failing
this, make a cut nearly the depth of the
blade in a log and place the saw in it, teeth
upwards. Then work a flat file along the
tips from end to end until the teeth are of
a uniform height. Now sharpen the saw
in the usual way. Some brands have neu-
tral teeth at intervals, whose purpose is to
remove sawdust. These should he filed
slightly below the level or they will. affect
the bite of the cutting teeth. Don't give
too much set, which is as bad as not enough.
As well as removing unnecessary wood, it
is often the cause of an erratic cut, particu-
larly when working on uneven ground. A
five-foot saw is quite formidable enough for
one man to use, and anything over six feet
is too much.
ROUGH FEED AND FIRE.
“D.E.M.”: I endorse all “Bosso” says
(B. 30/5/.’28) re burning old grass. Burn
your rough grass once a year in the very
early spring. Sheep do much better on the
pick they get after a fire than on the old,
dry, frosted grass. A burn of rough grass
about the middle of August (it must be
rough or it will not burn in that month)
sweetens and cleans the ground, and will
not injure the roots of the finer grasses.
If you examine what is left you’ll find that
under the char there is a certain amount of
feed, slightly sappy even in a dry time. The
warmth promotes) growth, and the grass
roots send out new shoots ; in a short time
a green tinge will be noticed, and your
sheep will have black noses. But don’t get
the wind up; they will only improve. If
it rains your burnt country will go right
ahead, aiid the growth is sweet until the
next year. If it doesn’t rain until the late
spring, your sheep will do better than on
unburnt country—they won’t die from dry
bible—and when the rain does come you 11
have grass straight away, even though the
rough" country may not respond. Burn
early and bush fires won’t worry you m
the summer.
GRASS-ROOT FOOD.
“T.W.”: In saying, that closely-cropped
grass contains more nutriment than rank
growth “Te Hipi” (B. 13/6/’2B) gives the
grass all the credit. But a certain amount
of root or the stem just below the earth
forms part of the fare, and the value of
grass-root food was known in England years
ago. It is richer than the actual grass. On
the other hand sheep lick round the outside
of their mouths, and so take in the sand that
is coated thereon. This was adjudged partly
responsible for the “swelled-head” complaint
that took off so many sheep a short time ago.
CIGARETTE TOBACCO CAN BE
GROWN.
“Tuart”: Dr. Darnell Smith, N.S.W.
Government Botanist, in a lecture on his
visit to the tobacco-growing States of North
America last year, mentioned that the bright
aromatic tobacco which A-Ustralia imports in
such vast quantities for its cigarette smokers
is grown in “soil of a very poor sandy
nature,” with very little humus or plant
food. Indeed, “the soil producing the best
tobacco, known as the Old Belt, consists
largely of grey sand or grey sandy loam, with
yellow sand or yellowish sandy clay subsoil.”
These soil conditions are exactly repeated
in parts of South Westralia, especially in
the neighborhood of Perth, as many an
amateur gardener can testify. As for climate,
Dr. Darnell Smith mentions that “the rain-
fall of North Carolina is 36 inches, evenly
distributed, the precipitation being about
three inches a month/' The Perth rainfall
is 34 to 35 inches. Not much of it falls
in summer, but this defect —if it is a defect
could be remedied by sprinkler irrigation.
Humidity, the doctor says, is also of great
advantage in the growing and handling of
this cigarette tobacco; and the Swan River
region though apparently not so humid as
the parts of North Carolina he mentions,
ought to be humid enough.
What’s wrong with giving tobacco-grow-
ing a trial round about Perth? It would not
cost much to finance proper experiments, and
success would be a great thing for a country
which imports from two to three million
pounds’ worth of unmanufactured tobacco
every year.
WEEVILS.
“Spadger": In hot, dry districts where
weevils invade the flour, make a building of
round timber (the one I am describing is
of gidya), iron for the roof being the only
expense involved. Put in four posts—six
if the building is to be large—leaving them
3ft. out of the ground. Cap well with kero-
sene-tins, allowing the tin to project, and
build thereon the skeleton of a house with
studs not more than 9in. apart. Stud floor
and ceiling in the same way, and let the
ridge-pole, wall-plates and tie-beams project
2ft. Gin. all round to carry the overhanging
eaves. Leave a place for the door, which
is made in the same way, and put the roof
on. The room should be high enough for
a man to stand upright under the ridge-pole.
When completed stand your bags of flour
on the floor. Gauze, with fewer studs, of
course, answers the same purpose.
BLIGHT IN POTATOES.
“Arjay”: “C.C.” (B. 13/6/’2B) is right
about the prevalence of Irish blight during
the past season. No grower in his right
senses, however, would attempt to control
the trouble by dipping the tubers in for-
malin. Formalin has some value as a pre-
ventive for scab, but mercury chloride is
better; in any case the solution must be
used only on unsprouted tubers. There is
only one preventive' for blight—Bordeaux
mixture (51b. of freshly-burnt lime, 51b. cop-
per sulphate, 50gal. water). When this is
properly < prepared and adequately applied
Irish blight becomes past history. Still,
most of us are prepared to gamble on the
weather, for unless the season is cold and
wet, the blight fungus is unable to establish
itself. Tomato-growers who have to face the
same problem each year are more alive to
tlieir own interests.
FODDER CONSERVATION.
“Blowfly”: Liverpool Plains (N.S.W.) is
a district of feast or famine. During the
last feast the plain and Mitchell grasses
attained an average height of about 4ft.
On a well-known holding this grass was cut
with a liay-mower, and pressed into bales
in an ordinary lucerne press. These bales
were then stored away in stack formation.
Some of them were opened the other day
to see if the experiment was a. success.
The grass was as sweet and juicy as the
day it was cut.
Surely this is a much easier and better
way of handling silage than the stinking pit-
method. I strongly advise other graziers to
adopt it.
SHEEP V. WHEAT.
“Bud-G.”: “D.J.” (B. 16/5/’2S) suggests
that fanners with 500 acres of good red
soil could with advantage discard wheat and
by lucerne cultivation run four to five hun-
dred sheep. Even with one hundred acres
under lucerne, the farmer is going to have
some trouble to run one sheep to the acre
all the year round. Growing either rape or
lucerne is not cheap (the expenses of the
Metropolitan Board of Works farm at Wer-
ribee in Victoria proves this), and grazing
on rape or lucerne means fat sheep, and
fat sheep mean a close market. The idea
might be all right on river-flat country,
handy to fat-stock markets, as with the
case *of the Werribee farm; but I’ve yet
to hear of a wheat-farmer in any of the best
known wheat districts who with 500 acres
could realise an annual profit of £4OO by
turning to sheep, unless he did it by dealing.
LIVER FLUKE.
“Blowfly”: Liver worm, or fluke, is one
of the most common and troublesome sheep-
parasite troubles, and till lately there was
no known cure for it. Science has, however,
found one in carbon tetrachloride. Its effect
is rapid and the fluke are expelled from the
sheep within a few days. It is not necessary
to prepare the sheep in any way. They may
be brought straight from the paddock and
dosed, either with capsule or drench. In the
latter case the carbon tetrachloride is mixed
with liquid paraffin, about four parts to one.
The capsules may be obtained from manu-
facturing chemists at a penny apiece. It
must be remembered that the dose is only
a cure, and does not make the shep immune
from further infestation.
WOOL “STYLES.”
“R.L.P.”: The number of centres that
compete for the staple increases rapidly, and
each seems to have a style of its own.
There’s the Boston, shafty, free and of high
yield ; the Bradford, shafty and of medium
fineness to strong; the Continental, short,
liungry-looking but superfine; the Japanese,
fine, dense and shafty. Reasons for these
styles vary. In the Yankee case a high
duty is the big factor. For Bradford the
wool must suit the Noble comb, and the
“Cap” and “Flyer” spinning. The Heilmann
comb and the Mule spinning frame, both
general in France, treat the short, fine
wools admirably. The Japanese market
demands fineness of fibre in the fabric.
SHEEP LICKS.
“Blowfly”: I recommend the two follow-
ing sheep-licks to be used if any grazier
wants to keep his sheep in better condition.
They tend to prevent sheep from becoming
wormy : —-
(1) Mix 61b. iron sulphate with the same
weight of slaked lime and lewt. of crushed
salt. Place in a trough where it will not
be exposed to rain.
(2) Salt. 2cwt.; sulphate of iron, 141 b.:
sulphur, 41b.; ginger, 21b. Mix this thor-
oughly the same as the other and put out
in a trough.
WOOL-CLASSING FOR SMALL MEN.
“L. S. Yea”: “Winifred” (B. 16/5/’2B)
advises small growers not to send their wool
to the capital . for re-classing, because
“fleeces, stained pieces, locks, etc., will be
pressed together.” But why send like that?
Fleeces, skirtings, locks,, etd., should,! of
course, be forwarded in separate bales ; and
the fleeces only are classed. The w’ool firm’s
brand on the bales guarantees their contents
and carries a lot of weight witn buyers.
For growers in a small way re-classing has
proved a great boon; while the cost is tri-
vial it ensures much better returns.
COUNTRY 7 WOOL-BUYING.
“Geebee” : A grower was offered 24d. for
a line of N.S.W. Central Tablelands wool
last November. On my advice the. clip was
sent to Sydney and realised 28sd. in Febru-
ary. Where would have been the advantage
of country buying that “Gamma” speaks of
(B. 30/5/’2B) ? Supposing his estimate, of
Id. per lb. selling charges is right, there is
still a big difference between 24d. and 271 d.
In this case the only thing the buyer would
have done was to change the brand. This
is a case I was interested in and I know of
quite a number of similar cases. The average
grower knows little about the value of his
wool and the country buyer is quick to take
advantage of this. I agree with “Gamma
that some buyers do put their heads together
at the sales, but still he can’t deny that,
despite this, there is plenty of competition.
A visit to the saleroom will prove this.
Country buying does not injure the selling
organisation worth mentioning, but it is a
distinct loss to the grower.
FRUIT OR TOBACCO?
“C.J.E.”: To those about to plant fruit-
trees —don’t! Consider what has happened
this season. In spite of a record export and
tens of thousands of cases not harvested, the
local market is hopelessly glutted. Cool
stores are crammed. Prices are ridiculous in
comparison with the cost of production. This
season is described as abnormal; but the
output will in a few years be merely normal
owing to the ever-increasing acreage coming
into bearing. The export markets have about
reached saturation point. Prices over the
season prove that the net profit is small.
The costs are not likely to shrink, while
increased competition from other countries
will eat further into the final payments.
The local markets will be in a state of
chronic glut. What will happen then?
If a man wishes to grow something on a
small area similar to orchard land, let him
consider tobacco. The imports run into a
(Continued on page 31.)
MAKE THE PLACE PAY BETTER.
A month ago we said we wanted to hear from 500 farmers
and graziers during June. Actually we heard from 600; and
as time goes on we are going to hear from more and more.
This “Land” section is a clearing-house for your ideas and
experiences.
We want to hear from more of you wheat farmers.
Be brief.


The residence of Mrs. Duncan S. Ellsworth,
Southampton, Long Island, equipped with
Lister-Lite.
Even the most palatial
American country homes
.
m
?
m m m
■■si,
m
\
The residence and engine-room of J. H. Emery,
Esq., Province Lake, New Hampshire, showing
two 6 k.w. tank-cooled Lister-Lite units.
m
J I
m
m
: ■■■
liriffi'"' 3*
*
«
ms
ippfo'r
■
mm
.'. .''J'*'*' :
The engine-room and power-house at the resi-
dence of Colonel H. H. Rogers, Southampton,
Long Island, showing three 6 k.w. Lister-Lite
units.
are lit and powered by the all-British Lister-Lite
electric lighting plant in preference to all other
makes. This is surely a wonderful triumph for
the British manufacturer—that in a country
which has reason to be more than ordinarily
proud of its own electrical progress, the people
who demand only the very best regardless of
cost select the British-built Lister-Lite. It is an
achievement which alone speaks volumes for the
reliability of the Lister-Lite.
Because Lister-Lite has, by its performance,
become known as the “Rolls-Royce” of lighting
plants and been installed in the houses of mil-
lionaires, it must not be thought that it is an
expensive plant. One of the most pleasing
features of the Lister-Lite is its low initial cost;
it costs very little more than many other sets of
lighter build. Once installed, Lister-Lite gives
no trouble, is extraordinarily economical and
lasts for years without replacements.
Quite a number of Australian homesteads have
Lister-Lite sets of the same size and description
as those shown in these American homes, while
there are hundreds of smaller sets, more suitable
to the average country home, giving daily and
yearly satisfaction to their owners. The Lister-
Lite is built for “outback” conditions.
use
\, * •
JJsTerMte)
j m ggggl «I"I I M
ELECTRIC LIGHTING PLANTS
Send to your State Agent
for till! particulars.
N.S.W.:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Elder, Smith & Co., Limited,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros.,
William Street, Perth.


\
: j: a r +
<x- -5
S'
s
/ ":;■
/ £-»—.'-1...J.
jr;<:
Mg?
<;>... /.> i'j.
r
II
II
II
i g
I
f /v>
vy m ’*y m
r --j
/-;
g ?
I
% 9
% 9
g 9
g 9
I
STAMINA
There are more Republic Trucks on the
road than those of any other exclusive
truck manufacturer in the world. This fact
testifies that Republic keeps ALL its promises.
Republic owners in all parts of the world report
that their trucks pay profits earlier and for a
longer period than any other vehicle they have
tested.
Republic service is the most extensive and com-
prehensive ever offered in connection with any
commercial motor vehicle.
The Republic range is so wide that you can
choose a model so exactly suited to your
requirements that it might have been built for
your special needs.
Wi.
«
i!
5?
m
%
99y£
mm.
-
i
W
&
•s/.
m
\
\
u
n
i
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House,
105 York Street, Sydney.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Go., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
.0* /
fc* /
'x'- /
p /
/
/ &
A
/ *
/ V
*>' / \V
n>°,x ’ / <&
*Ay V J
H?> / 0*
o ! jy / x
s*s■/ *
( .v x S ■ x
#// / /’ .
v*'?/
/// 0
.§■// s#
cX «r /' X>
\fc -O / A^
/#/
,<b o- / &
/// / y
\\V/ / y
Jb
V
Xr
=?


Everything for
comfort
This is an Abbey Boot, specially
designed for ease in everyday wear.
And, because it fits so well—not
straining anywhere—it greatly out-
lasts ordinary kinds.
UPPER Made of the finest calf
or kid. No leather is more pliant
or comfortable.
LACING Arched to lie easily
over the instep. Does up closely
without tightness.
SOLE The strongest obtainable
leather, as used in all Abbey
footwear. Not too heavy, it
flexes easily as you walk.
SIZES-:—Each full and half size
available in narrow, medium and
wide fittings. Correct width sur-
prisingly increases comfort. No
“breaking-in” wanted.
POSTAL ORDERS—Be careful
to specify width as well as size
needed. And ask, also, for a
supply of the correct Abbey
Polish, 6d. per tin.
TAN WILLOW CALF - 57/6
BLACK GLACE KID - 57/6
BLACK BOX CALF - 52/6
■{ \O-Page Colored Catalogue Post Free
on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years ,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St,
L 79. SYDNEY.
A
a
m
j.
fen
M)
'&
Cuticura Soap
Refreshes And Beautifies
The skin and hair. Regular use
of Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuti-
cura Ointment when required, in-
vigorates and preserves the skin
and keeps the scalp in a healthy,
hair-growing condition. Nothing
better for keeping the skin fresh and
clear and the hair live and glossy
Soap ls.,T a l cu m 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
y
\
VS
ITS SO EASY '
to MARK LINEN With
“A FEW STITCHES AND THEY'RE ON ”
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH’S NAMES are destinctive,
yet neat fadeless and durable.
The Prices are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS.
I dtSB.'HSUiaMi i
Actual Size, Style No. 6
Write for Name Style Circular to
I & J. CASH — 85Cubi " s —-
LTD. Richmond, Melb.
J
AIFINE
Jellies, Creams,
Blancmanges
—all your troubles in turning them out can be ended by
using moulds of fine porcelain with the utmost smoothness
of surface, which, by a new mode of production, are of
uniform thickness all over. This obviates the usual difficulty
of getting the pudding out whole.
Shelley “individual” moulds—one to each person—serve dainty sweets
daintily. Fifty different moulds— 14 shapes—to choose from.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowbam,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 23a CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name SheJIeij
on each piece of China
'I
sd
fs
df
sdf
sd
fs
df
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
fJ7 a ’0OBQBfln&IIX»
B.K.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Gollins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
couple of millions sterling. The finished
article does not rot like fruit. If S. Africa
can export tobacco to this country, and if
England can import the raw leaf and manu-
fracture and export at enormous profit, surely
this country can compete in its own land.
SCALE PESTS IN FRUIT TREES.
“Practicus”: As a preventive of scab?
pests in deciduous fruit trees, lime-sulphur
spray should be applied with as little delay
as possible. The spray should be mixed in
the proportion of one gallon of lime-sulphur
to seven gallons of water. Trees badly in-
fested with San Jose scale or with red mite
should receive, in addition to the lime-sul-
phur, an application of miscible spraying oil
(1 part oil to 25 parts water) just before buds
burst in spring. This spray will also prove
efficacious in keeping woolly aphis and peach
aphis in check. When mixing the spraying
oil it is advisable to add a handful of
washing-soda to every four gallons of water.
In mixing the oil, great care must be taken
to produce , a perfect emulsion, as free oil
in the spray is likely to cause damage.
Assuming the grower wishes to make up
12Jgals. of miscible oil spray, he should
measure half a gallon of water, to which
should be added a little washing-soda and
half a gallon of oil. The oil must be poured
into the water, not the water into the oil.
Stir briskly for a few seconds, and then add
the emulsion to 12 gallons of water.
Curl leaf in peach-trees is a fungus dis-
ease, which exacts heavy toll, but is easily
controlled if sprayed in July with lime-
sulphur in the proportion of one part of
lime-sulphur to seven of water. Both lime-
sulphur and miscible spraying oil are obtain-
able at any of the leading stores. For spray-
ing a few trees a bucket pump is suitable,
but for a large orchard a power pump is
necessary. To be effective spraying must
be done thoroughly. The spray should make
contact with all parts of the tree above
ground.
WHEN IS MILK SECRETED?
“To Hipi”: An American experiment has
answered the question whether cows secrete
only a portion of their milk before milking-
time and the rest during the actual milking,
or whether all the milk is secreted prior to
milking. A number of cows were milked regu-
larly twice a day for five days and the milk
weighed. They were then killed at milking-
time, and the milk present in the udders was
found to be practically the same as that
taken during a milking. So the size of a
cow’s udder is an excellent indication of the
quantity of milk she will give, assuming its
texture and condition to be normal.
MILK FEVER IN COWS.
“Vet.”: “Paul’s” cure for milk fever in
cows (B. 30/5/’2B) is not to be recom-
mended. Indeed, it may be a death-trap.
Never under any consideration would I
give a drench in milk fever, as the patient
is often comatose and unable to swallow, in
which case the drench finds its way to the
lungs, with fatal results. Simply strip the
udder out; then pump it up with air fairly
tight, and massage for a few minutes. When
the patient gets up, as she probably will in
a little while, do not be in too much of a
hurry to empty the udder, as this is apt to
bring on a relapse.
A qualified vet. uses hypodermic treat-
ment in conjunction with the other, but that
is of no use to the layman.
Air is cheaper than whisky, and will give
about 90 per cent, more recoveries.
THE CREAM COOLER.
“Paul C.”: As bacterial growth stops at
a temperature of 60 degrees Falir., the lower
the temperature at which cream is kept
the better condition it will be in when it
reaches the butter factory. Hence the cream
cooler should be used by dairy farmers.
The worst one is better than none at all
It has two good effects on the cream: it
lowers the temperature and so retards bac-
terial development, while the process of cool-
ing aerates and improves consistency. The
cream should be cooled immediately it is
separated, and when the cooled cream is
added to cream already in hand the mixture
should be stirred several times a day to
keep the mass uniform. For this use a
metal rod, not an old germ-carrying broom-
handle. When the cooling is finished the
cooler should be thoroughly washed with
warm water and then boiled. When taken
out of the boiling water never mind trying
to dry it with a cloth. The heat will soon
cause evaporation.
DEATHS IN THE SHELL.
If chicks die in the shell, one of the first
matters to consider (the Poultry Expert of
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
writes) is the condition of the breeding stock,
whether they are physically sound and in
good condition or whether the male bird
is getting light or is infested with vermin.
It frequently happens that the male bird
allows the hens to get most of the food, and,
of course, becomes poor. For this reason
it is a good plan to give him a feed by
himself in the middle of the day.
The feeding of the birds is * also often
responsible for the trouble in so far as they
might be over-stimulated by getting too much
protein or condiments. Again, they might
be surfeited with food, or the reverse might
be the case. Careful feeding is essential to
secure the best results in hatching, and the
effects of faulty feeding may be noticeable
for some months; therefore the method of
feeding in vogue long before the eggs are
laid must be taken into consideration. An-
other important factor is the age of the
eggs. The older the eggs are (over one
week) the less the chances of a good hatch,
especially when set in an incubator.
A prevalent idea is that lack of moisture
is the cause of “dead in the shell” because
of the drying of the shell membrane and
parts of the shell sticking to the chickens-
but these conditions usually accompany a
bad hatch, and no amount of moisture would
make any difference in such cases.
CARE OF THE ROOSTERS,
“Agra”: If the roosters are not to become
stale, they should receive very close atten-
tion and care during the breeding season.
Many poultry-farmers are content to throw
down the grain, and trust that the sultan
will obtain sufficient for his needs, in com-
petition with the hens. Many of the best
birds are too gallant to rush this feed ; their
attention is taken up in calling the hens
and fussing around, with the result that
such males are often starved. It is impos-
sible that such birds can do their duty pro-
perly. One of the best ways to ensure pro-
perly fed males is to make it a practice, to
take. them out into the yard every night
and feed them singly. 'A lamp giving a good
bright light is set on the ground, and corn
is thrown down where it can be easily seen
by the rooster. lie should have a string
tied to his leg to prevent him from escaping,
which he will try at first to do, but he gets
used to being handled, and very soon this
precaution is not necessary. Another excel-
lent practice is to give him a holiday once
a week. Put him into a comfortable coop
alone, and let him . have a mash com-
posed of corn gluten, powdered lucerne, oat-
meal and pollard, adding 10 per cent, of
meat meal and a little salt. If skim milk
can be obtained to wet this with, by all
means use it; but in any case let him have
it as wet mash. By this means it will be
found that the usual falling off in fertility
of the eggs towards the end of the season
will be avoided.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Blowfly" : A good sheen drench is made
this way. Boil in a quart of water for
about half an hour loz. of arsenic. Add
to this 2oz. carbonate of soda, with water
to make the whole up to 2gals. Strain the
mixture and pour off the clear filtrate. This
drench should be given in the following-
doses : Grown sheep, 2oz. ; weaners, 1-foz.;
and lambs, loz.
“Steve Hart”: I agree with “Biro” (B.
13/6/’2B) that kerosene with spirits of tar
is a good dressing: for flyblown sheep; but
the crude stuff one gets for “spirits of tar"
sometimes causes injury. This is a very
good dressing . that can be made up. any-
where : Arsenic. 21b.; washing-soda, 111 b.;
soap, 21b.; water, lOOgals. Boil arsenic
and soda together. Slice up soap and boil
in another vessel. Then mix the two solu-
tions together, and make up to lOOgals. with
the water. And hr and it poison.
A new breed of ducks attracting a good
deal of attention is the Khaki Campbell.
In the Geelong competition this year a
single duck scored 235 eggs in 238 days.
Although only of medium size they mature
early.
“The Welkin” : Some horse-breakers work
the youngster for too long a stretch. It’s
cruelty to have the beast drag a weighty log
around for the greater part of a day. Don’t
select a mate that throws -up its head, for
this is the first vice that the youngster will
pick up. Watch his shoulders from the be-
ginning ; dash some cold water on them after
unharnessing for the first few days, and
add a little salt to toughen the skin.
“Emel”: Despite a prevalent belief that
apples fed to milking cows will dry up the
milk supply, we have for several years fed
windfall and rejected apples to our herd for
at least four months of the year. The
apples supplemented the dry grass and chaff
which would otherwise be their only fare at
that season, and, instead of lessening, we
find they maintain and even slightly increase
the milk supply. The cows soon acquire a
taste for the apples, but early in the season,
when the fruit is not fully matured, it is
necessary to feed with caution.
“Boronia”: In advocating the use of the
planting-batten, “C.C.” (B. 23/5/’2B) omit-
ted to state that the notch in the middle
should be cut into and slightly beyond the
centre of the board. Unless this is done the
trees must all be planted from the same side
of the holes, or they will be out of true
line. When filling in, put the top earth
about the roots. This is rich in humus,
which provides an easily accessible source of
plant food.
“Nota Bene" : It very often happens that
a drenching-bit is not available. In that
case put a halter on the horse, and over a
beam or limb of a tree about 7ft. or Bft.
from the ground throw a strong rope, with
a non-slip loop about 24in. in circumference
at the end. Bass this loop under the nose-
band of the halter, over the nose into the
horse’s mouth. Then pull his head up until
it is a little higher than his wither. Now
hold the free end of the rope in one hand, be-
cause if the horse fights much he may do
himself an injury if the rope is secured. The
dose should be already in a bottle, to which
should be fixed about 6in. or Bin. of rubber
hose. If the horse bites on this; no harm
will be done. Now put the hose in his
mouth and pour a little at a time, so that
he can swallow it comfortably. Treat him
gently, taking plenty of time. Stand a little
to one side when pouring, as he may strike.
‘ Bosso ’: When running sheep in broken
country where, the gullies are steep and
numerous* it is well worth while to use
about two per cent, of sheep-bells. They
greatly assist in keeping the sheep more or
less together, as stragglers that have lost
sight of their mates soon learn to rally
to the sound of the bells. They make the
job of mustering much easier, too. More-
over, dingoes are less inclined to chase a
mob of belled sheep. Tliev are scared by
the noise, which instinct warns them Is
likely to attract unwelcome attention.
“Bosso ’: “Sand crack” in horses is gen-
erally caused by the shoer who rasps the
wall of the hoof after shoeing to make it
look pretty. The rasping destroys the pro-
tective gelatinous layers, and produces the
dryness that leads to cracking. The remedy
is .to remove the shoe and cut a A where
the crack touches the sole surface. At the
top of the crack—that is, just below the
coronet —burn a V with a firing-iron. The
hoof should be kept well greased to encour-
age the growth of fresh horn.
“N.M.L.”; “Boronia” (B. 25/4/’2B) states
that modern cattlemen use the pincers for
doctoring bulls. I have been among the big
herds for the past 15 years, and I’ll under-
take to name 10 men or properties that do
not use the pincers to o n e “Boronia” can
name that does use them.


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up —Beautiful
lighting effects —A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chet, from the Caf6 de Tans, Pans,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
~!ease the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
luncheons, afternoon teas,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
Pot Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
afianbn
•»»*(
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
VVM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firn oj Scotch Whisky Distillers.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burirlary, JLive Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
SMOKE-OH!
A woman is a figure of speech.
* *
Boys may come and men may go, hot flap-
pers last for ever.
A MATTER FOR CONSIDERATION.
"How would you like to give me your brother Reggie for a
husband?”
“Depends, Precious. What’s the husband like?”
Tact is the gift of remaining neutral till ing her imagination.
you spot the winner.
It's simply marvellous how a new hat
goes to a woman’s head.
Modern marriage is like a cafeteria; you
grab what looks nice—and pay for it after-
wards.
Someone has suggested that Palm Valley
in Central Australia would make an ideal
tourist resort. The name is ideal, anyway.
A motor-car that was dragged up from the
bottom of Sydney harbor recently had a
garbage tin in the back. Evidently a motherly
Ford clinging loyally to its young.
“Freddie C.”: I knew him for an actor as
soon as I saw him, sitting miserable and do-
iected on the hotel lounge. “Can I lend you
:i pound?” I asked. He did not answer. And
then I knew, poor chap, that in addition to
being an actor he was also deaf.
‘‘Oh, for the icings of a dure!” she trilled
But alas, she has yearned too late!
For she’s now middle-aged and rotund of
build —
1 Zeppelin’s more to her weight.
•‘Miss will be a bridesmaid. .. -but
the color scheme is being kept a close
secret,” savs the gossip-writer of a Sydney
daily. We tip, however, a rosy mist over
black outlook, gathered about deep red bride
gi oom, showing slight yellow streak. 'I n
whole relieved by touches of old flame.
* *
Little Boy Blue, come blow your horn
4 cop’s by the roadside. a cop’s round the
corn-
er, waiting with stopwatch and keenest of
spy sense
To fine you five quid tend endorse your new
lice use.
80. Little Boy Blue, when approaching the
town,
Tootle your horn, and slow down, you clown
* *
From our experience there is nothing to
justify the belief that motor accidents are
becoming more prevalent. in fact, it is
several weeks since our taxi-driver gave us
the correct change.
* *
Gertie had a little lamb,
He took her round all day,
And everywhere that those two went
The lamb was sure to pay!
JUNIOR HOWLERS.
Bagdad is a decision to kid the old man
into Oxfords.
Braw is Scotch economy tor brawl.
Limerick is in Maoriland.
A Mormon is a thirsty Scotchman.
Napoleon is a filling for the stomach.
Mozart is flattery for a well-known Aus-
tralian comedian. ...
The Black Prince was born at Alice
Springs. ...
A sonnet is a very small boy.
A date-palm is a meeting place tor lovers.
Watts Byton Hughes.
Though some may object, they can hare my
assent,
] f women to smoking arc prone;
They may puff to the full of their hearts
content —
If only they’ll purchase their own.
N.S.W. ' D ° RIC -
S sfc
Colien (after effecting a big insurance
against fire on his house) : Miglid I ask,
oud of curiosidy.
vat vould I get if
my house should
catch fire next
veek?”
The Agent:
“Anything from
five to ten years,
Mr. Cohen.”
The fact that a
pottery firm in
England has made
a Toby jug repre-
senting Mr. S. M.
Bruce smoking a
pipe has. we under-
stand. inspired an
opposition firm to
make one repre-
senting a Melbourne
hunter smoking a
fox.
* *
A woman spends
many hours before
her mirror admir-
Advice to Punters: If at first you don t
succeed, don’t try again.
* *
Bedtime stories are little talks given oyer
the wireless while the children are getting
ready to settle, down and enjoy a good
night’s pictures.
*
THE SCEPTIC.
“Old Bill?" says I. “Cone west!” says he.
Lookin' down in the month :
“Gone west?'’ says I. '‘Old Bill!' says he.
A-noddin’ sad as sad could he:
But, spare me dans, they cant kid me —
Tf anywhere. Hell's south !
QUEENSLAND. MACES®.
An old chap who lives in our street is so
mean that he won't even subscribe to a strong
public opinion. We dinna ken his nationality.
The man who continually deceives his
wife is not only a scoundrel —he’s a
magician.
* *
It’s curious that those who answer adver-
tisements that state, “Wanted servant —
treated as one of the family,” go along
optimistically —forgetting that the husband
is one of a family.
THE LAST WORD.
HUBBY: “Well, I suppose I can have an opinion about it. There
are two sides to every question."
WIFE: “Yes, no doubt. But it is unfortunate that you always
take the wrong one.”
All is not bold that titters.
THE DOING.
“ ‘We all know how bribing is done,’ says a
Sydney Judge. ‘They use nods, winks and so on.
They do not speak of these things right out. One
knows quite well how it is done.’ ”
How it is done:
A nod, a wink,
A “Care for one?”
And then a clinic ;
No breath of man.:
Just this —a drink,
A nod, a wink. . . .
And WE are done.'
n.s.w. Macann.
* *
BLACK AND WHITE.
Scene: A road-construction job during din-
ner-hour. Two navvies having a smoke before
the whistle sounds. One (Bill) laboriously
grunting over a week-old newspaper.. Phil
between puffs of smoke is endeavoring to
spit beyond a cart-rut some yards away.
Bill (looking up from his newspaper with
a startled exclamation) : “Crines, wha er
know about this ?”
Phil: “About what?”
Bill: “T h e
Q.T.C. has white-
washed the Bun-
derb e r g Race
Club.”
Phil: “Didn’t
know ’twas black.”
Bill (contemptu-
ously) : “Never
read the papers?”
A mom e n t’s
pause.
Phil, with a sud-
den burst of en-
ergy, starts up as
if to walk down
the road.
Bill: “W here
yer goin’?”
Phil (heatedly) :
“What blarsted
right have them
cows to whitewash
anyone, anyhow?
I'm goin’ ter call a
stop-work meetinV'
Bill: “What
for?”
Phil: “They
can’t take a thing
like that outa the
hands of the
union”
Bill (snorting) : “Don't, be stupid!’
Phil (ferociously) : “Who’s stupid?”
Bill (witheringly) : “The Q.T.C. is the
Queensland Trades Council.”
Phil (in a relieved tone, sinking to liis
seat) : “Struth, I thought ’twas that flamin’
Queensland Turf Club.”
STRANGE.
She told me that she would. She did.
I found it hard to credit —
A modern miss who liked (no kid!)
A quiet life, and led it!
QUEENSLAND. MAC.
SONG OF SUSPENSE.
As the raff crty verdict enrages the jurist,
Or the ' tils O'clock Closing Act hampers
the gurgler; .
As the sundered infinitive maddens the
purist,
And the pitting policeman unsettles the
burglar —
So Clarissa's behavior inclines me to bellow
When her eyes flash a welcome to some other
fellow!
But as blithely as doughbanger juggles a
scovel,
Or a Ford rattles hence when refreshed at
a bowser;
And as gaily as navvies do things with a
shovel, . ....
Or a Yanlc sips his modnshine, outwitting
the wowser—
Does my heart croon its joy, like the Decs
on the briars.
When Clarissa assures me her optics are
liars!
MAORILANU.
C. H. W.
WITH THE BROADCASTERS.
Hello, hello. This is station SHO broad-
casting a description of the wrestling match
between Gougeyesky and Bitearloboff. The
contestants —flue intellectual-looking young
follows, both of
them - are now
getting into the
ring. There are
many celebrities m
the ringside seats,
t. hotui'»T h periling
there are not quite
so many bishops
here as usual.
However, ev e r .v-
-body round the
ring looks as afflu-
ent as if he’d given
himself a testi-
monial, and they’ll
all see a clean,
scientific contest.
There are many
ladies in the audi-
ence—one row of
seats, in fact, is
occupied by the
principals of all
the leading girls’
schools. The men
are now going up
to the centre of
the ring. There
are some who pro-
fess to believe this
sport is uncivil-
ised. I wish they
were here now to
see the way these
young men ap-
proach each other
—for all the world
as if they were
going to offer each
other a A
fine, civilised, manly sport. Ha! Lite-
arloboff has punched his opponent in the
stomach. He has him by the hair. He s
shaking him like a terrier shakes a rat. Now
he’s got his finger into his eye. He s
fastened his teeth on the bridge of his
nose. He’s biting his face all over. _ He s
got his tongue out. He’s kicked him in the
throat. He’s struck the referee. The
referee’s struck the boards. He’s up again.
Ritearloboff has handed him back his nose.
Ah, what’s that? He’s cautioning him.
The referee’s cautioning Ritearloboff. Quite
right, too. Gougeyesky never resorts to
such methods. He goes in for pure wrestling.
Oh ! did you hear the crowd? Gougeyesky
has thrown his opponent out of the ring.
He’s followed him. He’s got him jambed
down between the seats with his leg twisted
round the back of his neck. Oh, beautiful!
It’s certainly a lovely grip he lias on him.
It couldn’t be prettier. If the victim doesn t
give in his back simply must be broken. He
has! He has! Yes, he lias. They’re back
in the ring now. Bitearloboff picks up his
opponent and throws him heavily on his
head. It’s dazed him. They’ve dragged him
to his corner. They’re trying to bring him
HOW THINGS DO CHANGE.
“I remember that over-dressing was considered very bad form
during the war.”
“Yes, and. nowadays underclothing is thought rather worse."
round with smelling-salts. It’s no good. He s
done. He’s dead to the world. Bitearloboff
is the winner. Hello, hello. This is station
5110. You’ve just been listening to the
most scientific exhibition of wrestling seen
for many years. . ..
UNCLE BILLO.


i^Bo^a
i§>ai*h§iii»
J r :
V J
*y»
y
ys
O:
(JC i
%
A-.
ILsr
'fat
yC-^V
fe_y
I i
v;
"■’?
Wv,
•
Jf)
•e>' £f
niH < :; '- - :
'‘■JkH
' s
V--
? .
$ <=r
Now- —Fit the New
Australian Made
Goodyear
—Lower Priced
T he new Australian Made Goodyear
* Tyre offers you a larger, fuller measure
of tyre value.
For today’s Australian Made Goodyear is
the greatest tyre Goodyear ever made.
And that has genuine significance because
. Goodyear has made more than one hum
dred and ten million tyres.
The first cost of Goodyears is now reduced
to that of other tyres —resulting in still ever)
lower cost'per'mile, than ever.
Therefore look to the new Australian
Made Goodyear Balloon with the new type
All Weather Tread. It provides fuller
traction, greater safety and longer, slower
tread wear.
The NEW LOW
PRICES apply to
ALL Sizes and types
of INNER TUBES
and all CASINGS
other than a few
6izes which are in
small demand.
2S'6C


A MAN in
LONDON
needing clothes can visit a “show” shop and
be doped; or he can patronise a West End
establishment where, even after the customary
10 per cent, discount for cash, he will be
helping to pay for those who never do; or he
can find a Tailor whose standing is unquestion-
able who makes clothes for cash payments only.
Mr. Jennings, of Newgate Street, London,
has been in business for a quarter of a cen-
tury, and has a large clientele in Australia.
Only cloth made by reputable manufacturers
from finest Australian tops is countenanced.
The cutters he employs are live men with wide
experience. All clothes supplied by Mi-
Jennings are made by hand, and complete
satisfaction is guaranteed.
His modest prices are based on cash pay-
ments only, Lounge Suits, for instance, costing
from 7 to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
The Federal Mutual
C3QD , i?QQ££,
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors • R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq. ; .1. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Eranch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
MAN.. NEWS
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat■
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf OA /
314 ins. wide will j '*
not sag; High Crown, p OJt p res
will stand all weathers.
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2ueen Street, Brisbane.
Pverty
Point
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A couple of mummers
with Italian names played the comedy police-
men in “The Shamrock and the Rose” when
we staged that old comedy-drama at Cow
Flat. Came the scene where the Irish
comedy hero Dandy Dunraven objected for-
cibly to the eviction of his pore ould mother
aiid the po-lice seized him. “Are ye Irish-
men? Are ye men?” raved Dandy as he
struggled with them. “They’re nayther,
Dandy,” remarked a sympathetic voice in the
audience; “they’re a pair of blanky Dagoes.”
“Ber-lud” : London’s Temple of Blood-and-
Thunder, the Elephant and Castle (B.
l3/6/’28), has been doing so well lately with
its revivals o£ ancient gory melodramas that
West End managers have become quite jeal-
ous. The feeling is understandable, for such
pieces as “Maria Marten” and “Sweeny
Todd” have drawn crowds of the very best
people from over the water, and their Rolls
R.oy,ees have fairly knocked ’em in tjhe
Old Kent-road, near which famed thorough-
fare the Elephant is situated. The upshot
is th»,t the old blood spongje has been
acquired by a West End syndicate with C.
B. Cochran at its head. The playhouse will
he rebuilt, but bellowdrama of the most san-
guinary kind will still provide the bill of
fare. It’s a queer town is London.
“Shoot, Brother”: Alexander Macdonald,
now in North Queensland to take an Aus-
tralian film that will be called “Tanami,”
had something to say of the future of Aus-
tralian-shot films on his way through Bris-
bane. He was responsible for the “Unseeing
Eye,” a Papuan film now running success-
fully at the Rialto, in London, and he has
been commissioned by British Screen Pro-
ductions, Ltd., to do a series of Australian
pictures. He takes the sane view that films
depicting city life are much the same the
world over, and that those showing station
conditions are also not far enough removed
from the rut. He is going after the bushmen
of the Outback, embodied in a romantic film
story, as the most characteristic type Aus-
tralia produces and one, as .he says, that is
far more worthy of attention than the Holly-
wood cowboy, who, if lie ever existed in a
Holly wooden sense at all; has vanished these
40 years past.
“Comisli”: The Gregan McMahon com-
pany concluded its Melbourne season with
O’Neill’s “Anna Christie,” and the per-
formance was distinctly meritorious. The
producer, however, stumbled over that ever-
present difficulty—the plausible stage pre-
sentation of the fallen woman. The action
of the play is about 1010, but the lady in
question appeared wearing both the attire
and the permanent-waved shingle fashion-
able to 1928. The stage prostitute, in fact,
is never accepted as authentic unless con-
temporary.
“Adelaide”: A. G. Wells, a retired Gaw-
ler (S.A.) auctioneer, has been claiming, on
his 80th birthday, to be “Australia’s oldest
living actor.” At any rate, he played small
parts in Joseph Rayner’s “Hamlet” in 1807,
and was for years under William Hoskins,
Charles Young and J. L. Hall. Also he is
among the very few remaining who saw G.
V. Brooke, Joseph Jefferson and Lady Don
on the stage, and Charles Dickens on the
lecture platform.
“C, Ockney”: London’s newest playhouse
is called the Piccadilly, and one wonders
why the name hasn’t been thought of before.
It has opened with what promises to be a
big winner—a musical comedy called “Blue
Eyes.” Evelyn Laye heads a long cast, which
includes two useful mummers seen of recent
years on this side of the world —Barry
Livesey and George V ollaire. Ered Leslie
has looked after the dancing department.
“East Side” : “liio Rita,” which looks like
making a small fortune for the Fuller firm,
recently disappeared from the boards of the
New York Majestic after 402 performances.
It proved itself one of the biggest hits that
that astute entrepreneur Florenz Ziegfeld
ever handled, and he has not had many
failures. “Show Boat,” now coining money
at Drury lane, is another Ziegfeld produc-
tion.
"L.11.P.”: Donizetti’s charming opera,
“The Daughter of the Regiment,” billed for
Dal Monte’s reappearance in Sydney, .was
last seen in this city at the Royal in 1903,
when May Beatty was Maria, Lempnere
Pringle tin' Sergeant, and Henry Dallam
Tonio. The Ilowspns and Carandinis staged
if first in Australia at the old Victoria, Syd-
ney, in the 'forties. Then it drifted into the
Lyster repertoire. Patti and Jenny Lind
revelled in this opera, which on its first pro-
duction in Paris was a holy frost. Only
after all Europe had acclaimed it did 1 arts
take to it. Maggie Moore used to play
Buckstone’s dramatised version, with songs
from the opera, and Lady Don did likewise
with the version from the pen of Fitzball,
the librettist of “Maritana.”
AT THE JOURNALISTS’ BALL.
“I didn’t know Harold wrote for the papers
“Neither did he until his breach-oj-promise case came on.”
“Jaramli”: Mention of the gramophone
record ending “Thank God, that’s done (t>-
G/6/'2B) recalls others bearing irrelevant
stuff. Peter Dawson’s “Room for the I< acto-
tum” opens with a pianissimo ‘ Hurry up,
Mario!” evidently voiced by conductor Byng.
One of Nellie’s records, with orchestral accom-
paniment, closes with a piano faintly tink-
ling in the distance. On another record a
contralto scores by clearing her throat with
a harmonious “Humph !” Still others prove-
that hobnailed boots are worn by artists 01
attendants, as receding footsteps are often
quite audible, while whispers on records
often intrigue the listener, too.
“ J D.”: “Meridian’s celestials (B.
30/5/’2B) recalled to me a Japanese pro-
duction of Eugene O’Neill’s "The Hairy
Ape” in Toldo. That none of the characters
fitted was nothing out of the ordinary, but
most curious was the producer’s notion that
when the upper-crusters of Fifth-avenue
parade (some of the ladies in the sheerest
of summer garb, others in furs; all the men
complete from top-hat to spats), a police
patrol turns out to guard them!
“Ticket Seller”: “Csesar’s Ghost” is mis-
leading in stating that William Anderson
put in £5OO to finance the first production of
“On Our Selection” (B. G/6/’2B). Nor was
Anderson the chief beneficiary of that ven-
ture. Anderson was one of the partners of the
Bert Bailey oo„ launched in 1911; he sold his
interest to Bailey and Grant four or five
years later. This did not include any Selec-
tion- ’ rights, as Steele Rudd in 1911 gave
Bailey personally the sole right to perform
a stage version of his “Selection” books.
“LHP.”: “Coriolanus” has never been a
money-maker on the stage. Irving’s superb
revival at London Lyceum m 1901, witn
scenery from designs by Alma Tadema, ran
only 34 nights, a record for the play. In
the cast were Ellen Terry, Tom Reynolds
(here witli H. B. Irving) and Lionel Bel-
more (here with G. B. lost). Benson
played it the same year at the London
Comedy Theatre, with Oscar Asche as 1 elu-
tus, and Genevieve Ward (here in 1884-eo)
ao Volumnia. Macready’s spectacular pro-
duction at Covent Garden in 1838 was played
only eight times, but was frequently revived
for'one night. Mac, to the detriment of Ins
purse, was against long runs. G. \ Liooke
first introduced “Coriolanus to Australia i
1557 at the Melbourne Royal.
“Mercedes” • My introduction to the Aus-
tralian Amateur Film Club, of Sydney,
comes via the American Photoplay. Ihe
club receives mention for its first produc-
tion “Caste,” and I note with surprise that,
this'being a war picture that involves many
battle scenes, the Commonwealth, authorities
co-operated cheerfully by lending troops.
Our famous New South \\elsh 1 usiliers and
the Federal Foot-sloggers, 1 presume.
“Stellsby” : Memorising? Sybil Thorndike,
the English tragedienne, was on holiday
recently at Dartmouth when she received a
wire from producer Leon M. Lion asking ll:
she could take the leading part in a new play
on very short notice. She wired back, les
—send the script.” It was forwarded, and
next day she attended a rehearsal m London
word perfect. She had studied the part on
the few hours’ train journey from Dartmouth
to London.
“Cine Ma”: “Matahari” (B. 20/6/’2B)
wonders why the Allies didn’t send cinema
photographers into the lines to shoot actual
fighting, in order that we shouldn’t have to
look at faked war pictures now. Perhaps
the Allies thought that winning the war was
a more important thing than catering for the
future requirements of Hollywood. Any-,
how, who wants real war scenes ,on the
screen? The cinema crowds don’t. All
they want is a not too nasty background
for the liuggings of a Los Angeles flapper
disguised as a French girl, and a Los
Angeles bravo disguised as a soldier. A
touch of the real thing would be utterly
out of place.
“Cauboy”: Edna Moncrieff is the solo
dancer of the Williamson-Melba season, and
has leavened many a solid serving of Italian
opera with her graceful movements, The
plump little figure is specially remembered
in Melbourne for making the main street of
Alexandria a thoroughfare worth lingering
in during the “Thais” performances.
“Cauboy” : Looking back on the IN illiam-
son-Melba opera season in Melbourne, my
mind dwells most gratefully on the second
performance of “Thais,” into which I
dropped by way of confirming or otherwise
my rather dubious impression of the first.
The contrast was startling and suggests that
the inveterate first-nighter pays dearly for
his snobbery. Scavizzi’s singing was no
better, for the reason, possibly, that her
singing is never really good; but her acting
showed a magnificent improvement, an im-
provement shared by the Rev. John Brown-
lee. The result was that the vicissitudes of
the monk’s sacred and profane love for the
courtesan developed into enthralling drama.
The differences between the first perform-
ance and the second were probably actually
quite trifling—a mere matter of where one
stood while the other warbled. But anybody
who has watched the way great situations
are built up at rehearsals knows how much
a few inches to the right or left matter.
“Hamfat” : Judge Detliridge, adjudicating
in the Actors’ Union arbitration case recently,
said that there was nothing strenuous about
small-part acting. As a matter of fact the
small-part man, who has merely to fit in the
lines that help the theatrical greatness of
others, is often a great deal more tired with
his ordeal of waiting around than the star
whose “strenuous” work gathers cheering
plaudits. Sometimes, of course, nearly any-
body could do the small part; but there are
small parts which take more acting than the
larger ones, out of which, however badly they
are played, there is always some “fat.” to be
obtained. There are any number of artists
I could name who are all right in their good-
sized parts, where, the continuity of their
lines helps, but who cannot speak single lines
with proper effect. On the other hand, there
are men who, I suspect, are kept in small
parts because of their ability to give them
weight; like the reason, commonly heard at
the war, why some good soldiers failed to get
promotion—officers could be got by the gross,
but really good corporals were hard to find.
“Goldilocks”: Sydney elocutionist Harry
Thomas has done “David Copporfield” into
a drama, and hopes to give a presentation of
it later. The play has four acts and in-
numerable scenes —rather too many for the
modern dramatic idea, which despises the
“front scene” as an easy means of holding
interest while the scene-shifters are busy.
Louis Parker’s dramatisation, which made
a lot of Micawber, is the only one of several
versions to live in any sort of remembrance.
Dickens —who mentions the thieving bitterly
in “Nicholas Nickleby”—had every new book
seized upon by a horde of stage adapters, but
onls “The Tale of Two Cities” (Tom Tay-
lor's adaptation) and a few versions of
“Oliver Twist” and “Bleak House” (“Lady
Deadlock’s Secret” on the bills) have lasted
long. Two songs remain from the numerous
stage attempts with “Dombey and Son” —
“What Are the Wild Waves Saying?” and
the still more melancholy “Florence.” There
ought to be enough Dickens lovers to en-
courage an occasional revival.
“Hamfat”: Although Leon Gordon may be
regarded as a satisfactory substitute for
Frank Harvey, it was a much stronger cast
that put over “Scandal” in the 1921 produc-
tion at Sydney Criterion. Harry Roberts
(now dead) was the elderly Major Thatcher,
and made the part of the senile veteran one
of the hits of the piece. Beatrice Esmond
played the wilful lady, and Mrs. Brough,
Emma Temple, Kenneth Brampton, John
Bedouin and Cyril Mackay were among the
supporting people. The critics, who have
learnt to bear much greater shocks since then
with equanimity, gave yells of horror over
the bedroom scene; judged by present-day
standards, it was presented with remarkable
restraint.
“Goldilocks”: Apparently “Rose Marie”
isn’t finished with yet; the company which
has been playing “Princess Charming” at
Sydney Majesty’s has been rehearsing
the money-spinner—a sort of no-hurry-but-
we’ll-get-it-ready business. It’s pretty hard
to desert a goldmine.
“Cobar”: Is there any good reason why
the J.C.W. people should present the famous
aria “Una Voce poco fa” in the first act of
“The Barber of Seville”? By all ethics of
good taste—and the composer’s choice —it
should be heard in the second phase. As it
is, it quite destroys the rhythm.
“Nero” : A new mystery drama produced
at the Prince of Wales, Manchester, called
“The House with the Purple Stairs,” is
headed by Renee Kelly, and has in the cast
Caleb Porter, John Bedouin, Dorothy Long
and Reg Long, all well known here. The
author has added himself to his mystery by
remaining anonymous.
“Cyrano” (Lond.) : The dancing success
of the Noel Coward show, “This Year of
Grace,” at the Pavilion is Laurie Devine,
who few know is an Australian. Her dad is
Tom Rees, of the Fuller circuit. Another
Australian dancer who has won considerable
publicity is Constance Evans, now working
with Monty Wolf, who used to be on the
Tivoli round.
BALLADE OF THE BANEFUL BEARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first upon the silv.er screen
My godlike features charmed the eye,
I was the doctor in a scene
Where the young star seemed like to die
Till JEsculapius should apply
Such skill that vigor reappeared ;
And, to portray grave wisdom, I
Stuck to my chops a Vandyke beard.
The management approved my mien,
Wh(ich none, indeed, could well deny
Was statelier far than any seen
In the young upstarts, pert and sly.
Who thought to wing their flights on high
By comedy, and rudely jeered
To see me spirit-gum apply
When fixing oil my Vandyke beard.
But in the years which intervene
My fondest hopes have gone awry,
Tlie future’s path, no longer green.
At dreary length seems still to lie;
So that no vista I descry
Of hairy stickinesses cleared.
For always, when my trade I ply,
I have to wear a Vandyke heard.
Envoy.
Prince, none will ever heed my cry
And I must sadly dree my weird,
Known to perdoocers as the guy
You hire to wear a Vandyke board.
N.S.W.
BYSOM AUBERE.


OVER A YEAR OLD—AND STILL A YEAR
AHEAD
M
x
B
1
f
\
\
c
Over a year ago
we prophesied
“This new-type car (Whippet) will
make millions of light cars, not offer-
ing its advantages of economy, safety
and good looks, obsolete.”
Tbdayls trend shows
Whippets tremendous influence
Public Preference has swung to this
Modem Light Car of Proved Superiority
In a little over a year’s time the Whippet
has revolutionized light car design.
With more than2oo,ooo Whippets in
the hands of enthusiastic owners, and
the popularity of this modem car in-
creasing everywhere, other makers
now must follow Whippet’s lead.
Whippet set a wholly new standard
of economy and introduced such
big car advantages into the light car
field as 4-wheel brakes, lower center
of gravity, higher speed, increased
roominess and force-feed lubrication*
Today the Whippet is still a year ahead
of the industry. For Whippet design
has been proved by hundreds of mil-
lions of miles of driving.
Even a short ride in a Whippet will
demonstrate the car’s remarkable
qualities—flashing acceleration, great
power on hills, high speed, easy riding,
convenient handling and parking,
increased safety and economy.
First light car to offer
4 - wheel brakes as
national standard
equipment .
Whippet
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY„, LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE
E» G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.


By Appointment to H.M Kmg George
mm
TI
a
m
4?
IS
urns
It; I
m
V
-SNw
m
Ta
A 5-ton Ley land Lorry supplied to Frank Cridland, Ltd., Sydney.
How Efficient Servicing
Protects Your Haulage Investment
'"'THE prospective lorry-owner should give
1 almost as much consideration to the ques-
tion of after-purchase service as to the initial
quality of the lorry itself.
Unless spare parts and repairs are readily avail-
able, a lorry may be held up for weeks and
even months. Such delay means a loss of
earning power, and also entails a heavy stand-
ing charge on the capital invested in the lorry.
Leyland Lorries are serviced throughout Aus-
tralia by a direct factory organisation. No less
than £40,000 worth of spares, including the
largest parts, are held by the Leyland Service
Stations, which also offer expert repair
facilities. Wherever he is, the Leyland owner
can rest assured that his lorry will not be off
the road an hour longer than necessary.
Add this assurance of service to Leyland
dependability and rugged British strength and
you will appreciate the real meaning of Leyland
economy.
Write tor Valuable
Leyland Booklets
TevlandMotors
fc^o. —i4d——
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
•• SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951• 8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEV
Melbourne Depot and Service Station:
Corner Villiers & Courtney Streets, North Melbourne.
Brisbane Depot: Grey Street, South Brisbane.
WINCHESTER
TRADEMARK.
MODEL 50, Bolt-
action, 5-Shot maga-
zine Rifle, cham-
bered for .22 I,ong-
It i fl e Cartridges.
Round tapered barrel
twenty-two inches in
length. Sights: White
metal bead front
and adjustable flat-
top rear. One-piece
Y.’alnut Pistol - grip
Stock gracefully pro-
portioned and bal-
anced for speedy
handling. Weight.
51b.
Price £5.
POST FREE.
(Or sent V.P.P.
to any address.)
sdf
The Test
that Explains
the Accuracy
of Model 56
Place a cartridge in
the breech and close
the Bolt. Then, with-
out firing, extract the
cartridge and examine
the bullet. Plainly
discernible on its sur-
face will be noted the
marks of the rifling
grooves —positive proof
of the close chamber-
ing and perfect bullet
fit that makes Model
56 the most accurate
and powerful .22
sporting rifle on the
market.
(Write for special leaflet “8.56.' )
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-established Gunmalcers
in Australia'),
453 Kent Street,
'phone: M 3388. Sydney*
oMakss „
Easy
It does away with the drudgery and
dust of a broom and is handier, quicker
and better than any other kind of
cleaning device for the everyday and
many-times-a-day sweeping of carpets
and rugs.
Thumb pressure empties it.
Gets clinging litter.
Instantly ready for use.
Saves carpets.
Lasts for years.
Costs but little, and nothing to run.
Has rubber corner cushions.
Verily, a ball-bearing broom-on-wheels
with its own long-handled dust pans.
Play-size Bissells at trifling cost.
Sold by leading merchants everywhere.
Booklet upon invitation.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dep’t—46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
<5?
5^
TIM
sd
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Cotnmon*
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


we
Big Ben Deluxe
luminous
2 %
Baby Ben Deluxe
America
oigßen
,7 /e
10
Sleep-Meter
Luminous
>6/
Correct Time—Day and Night
LOOK for the name Westclox on the clock you
buy. It’s your assurance of an alarm clock
that is built to give good service and last a long
time.
It makes no difference what you pay for your
Westclox, the quality is uniform. Each clock has
certain features that will appeal to you.
Some Westclox have numerals and hands covered
with a luminous compound that can plainly be seen
in darkness.
There’s a range of Westclox priced from 8/6
to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other JVestclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY PERTH • BRISBANE
Government Insurance Office of N.S.W.
THE MINT BUILDING, MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE
DISCOUNT TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
A DISCOUNT OF TWENTY (20) PER CENT
will be granted by the Office to holders of insurance
(other than in respect of Coal Mining) current on the
30th day of June, 1928; to be calculated on the
adjusted premiums for fully-completed annual periods of
insurance so current.
Allowable as deduction from premiums for the
renewal of insurance following annual premium adjustment.
The Objective of the Office is to Provide Employers
with Insurance at Lowest Possible Cost.
PROMPT QUOTATION OF RATES UPON REQUEST.
Mutual Insurance with Your Own Office.
E 6720 W. N. McFARLANE, General Manager.
m
A
m
m
THE "WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
An Improved High-grade Stock Saddle, designed for
increased comfort to the rider. It has combined flap
and skirt sewn direct on to the seat, thuis giving a
narrower non-chafing grip; and the pads being sot well
up along the rider’s thighs give the greatest security
for rough-riding. The materials and workmanship are
first-class throughout, and it is fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATION.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
K’BURRA” Stockwhips
Guaranteed Kangaroo
Leather Throughout.
KVJ I»/WH 1 PS £>->
Thongs.
12-plait ..
16-plait ..
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
.. 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
.. 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
1-9/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Handles for 9ft. Thongs
are 1/6 extra for loading. Post Free for Cash.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE ST..
SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Kwinana”: Fact quickly overtook fiction
with regard to the radio transmission of
power from super wireless beams. At Ballan,
in Victoria, where the English beam trans-
mitter is located, the owner of a receiver
within five miles and in the direct path of
the concentrated beam can provide free light
and power for himself simply by “tapping”
the ether.
❖ :jc '-’fi :
“L. 0.”: My lengthy experience of back-
country hotels has convinced me that rum
gets more “fixing” than any other liquor (B.
23/5/’2B). It is easily the most profitable
fire-water, as it “makes,” and in the making
I have noted such adjuncts as pineapples,
tobacco and bullock’s liver. The first is sup-
posed to lend flavor, the second strength and
the last body.
“Bosso : There is too much rule of thumb
in the methods adopted by shire councils for
arriving at the unimproved value of land for
shire-rates purposes. Too
often the valuation is mad--
by the shire clerk in his
office, and as his salary, to
a certain extent, is based
upon the revenue collected,
his valuations are apt to be
looked upon with the eye of
disapproval. Even where tin-
job is better done, the method
of determining, the taxable
value of farming and graz
ing lands is to fix their im-
proved value, and then de-
duct the cost of the various
improvements made upon
them. As regards visible im-
provements, such as fencing,
buildings, dams, tanks, etc.,
the task presents no diffi-
culty. But when the land-
slave points out that he had
to remove thousands of use-
less trees to bring his land
to its present state, the
valuer is usually not im-
pressed. He can see the
other improvements, but he
can’t see the vacancies made
by the trees. Hence, the
owner often gets no more
credit for his labor in clear-
ing than he would have done
had his property been a tree-
less plain. Surely some better plan than
this is possible.
“Arthur R”: Recently a pair of copper
wires between Melbourne and Sydney were
made to carry three duplexes (i.e., sending
and receiving simultaneously), two separate
telephone conversations, an automatic re-
peater for another State and a broadcast
programme. The carrier wave system was
used and no interference was experienced in
any of the operations.
=:-• * * *
“Coot”: Walhalla is not the only district
in Vic. where the Douglas fir has been
acclimatised (B. 13/6/’2B) ; it is growing
also in the Macedon ranges. One felled re-
CORROBORATIVE EVIDENCE.
QUIRK, K.C.: “Briggs teas away from his chambers again
to-day. Measles this time, they say.”
MRS. Q.: “Mmm! That agrees with what his wife
told me yesterday. She said he was spotting.”
cently had a base girth of 7ft. 6in. It was
sawn into three milling logs, each of 20ft.,
and yielded 1400 sup. ft. ; the price at the
stump was 10s. per 100 sup. ft., or £7 for
the three logs.
* * * *
“A.H.8.”: The dice are heavily loaded
against the Maori in all land deals with his
Government. At present the Crown is
buying interests in the Taupo Blocks
whenever an owner will sign and take
his cash. Alt the blocks are owned by
hundreds of scattered natives, none of whom
knows his area or its location till the Native
Land Court decides the point. Government
proclamation forbids any dealing or sale
except to the Government. Applications
for partition into individual or family-group
holdings are refused on the ground that
the Crown is still purchasing. Henare can
thus do nothing with his land, and being
always hard-up, he sells to the only legal
bidder at the latter’s price, sometimes as
low as 2s. Gd. an acre.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: A well-known old wind-
jammer has gone into the sliipbreaker’s
hands, the six-masted barquentine E. It.
Sterling. Built at Belfast in 1883 by Har-
land and Wolff, she was originally the Lord
Wolseley ; passing into American hands, she
became successively the Columbia and the
Everett G. Griggs. In 1910 she was pur-
chased by Capt. E. It. Sterling, who gave
her his name and skippered her himself. She
was a frequent visitor to Sydney; and lasi
year she secured a charter from Port Adel-
aide to Falmouth with wheat. It proved
her final one; a Yankee cruiser towed her
into the West Indies, disabled by an Atlantic
NOT SO SOFT AS HE LOOKED.
THE GO-GETTER: “And we don’t ask you for a penny
cash, sir.”
THE NOT-GOT-YET: “Yus, I know, young feller —all 1
goiter do is to sign on the dotty line, don’t I?"
hurricane, and she finished her voyage to
England behind a Dutch tugboat.
. %
“Clerk”: The most, idiotic move in con-
nection with Canberra is the proposal to
shift the War Service Homes staff to the
isolated place. Most of their work concerns
houses built or being built in- or about the
big cities. It takes long enough to get a
reply from the department as it is; when it
is only a sub-branch of a head bureau at
Canberra the delay will be longer. The
position of the men ought to be considered
too. They are all former soldiers and all
temporary employees. Has the Federal
Government any right to ask temporary
men to break up their homes and make fresh
ones?
* :? * *
A Melbourne newspaper correspondent has
been pointing out the fact that the Oregon
pine or Douglas fir can be easily and suc-
cessfully grown in the Macedon ranges of
Victoria. One of these trees recently felled
there contained 42 annular rings and was
7ft. 6in. at the base. In the sawmill it
produced three logs containing 1400 super-
ficial feet of timber apiece. The Oregon has
long been the backbone of the lumber indus-
try in the United States and Canada. In the
last five yeai-s Victoria alone has paid the
U.S.A. for timber, mostly Oregon pine, no
less than £4,190,02(5. One result has been
the practical extermination of the Tasmanian
sawmilling industry.
* * * *
“R.X.8.”: Leason (B. 23/5/’2B) may
help to give the public the impression that
television in other parts of the globe
is now as much an accomplished fact
as broadcasting. While the Yankee
press squeals with the reports that
they are successfully televising every-
thing from an express train dashing
through the Rockies to a slow motion
of the President putting on his slip-
pers, they admit that their results
are confined to outlines and silhou-
ettes. Baird, an Englishman, amazed
a committee headed by Sir Oliver
Lodge with a claim that he could
“broadcast pictures from our station
at Long Acre.” The committee
promptly issued a £lOOO
challenge. Would Baird
undertake to broadcast over
a distance of 25 yards such
simple objects as three
human faces, a clock face
with the hands in, slow
motion, and some geometrical
solids? He shuffled out of
the challenge on a point of
company law. “There is no
need to be unduly pessimis-
tic,” says Lodge, “but an
entirely new method of in-
vestigation must be sought
before television is within
the realms of possibility.'”
The reason is that the pre-
sent methods require the
“searcher” to make so many
thousands of millions of
impressions per second per square centi-
metre that it is mechanically impossible to
do it.
*#* , *
“Avon”: The marked improvement in the
external trade of the Shivery Islands that
commenced last year under the influence of a
stern disciplining of importers’ credits by the
banks has continued steadily. For the
first four months of the present year ex-
ports exceeded imports by £15.370,427.
Compared with the corresponding period
in 1927 exports increased by £8,000,000
and imports decreased by half a • million
For April alone there was a balance of
exports over imports of close on £4.000,000


0/ all dealers
11l
11|
|H‘«"
|M ll
! 'Hill
.
Jill
The “Valet” Blade has not only the sharp-
est edge ever put upon Steel, but there is
also in the “Valet” Razor a self-Stropping
device which revives that super-edge from
day to day. The perfectly designed
frame is rendered more efficient by the
excellence of its blade. The super-keen
blade is kept sharp for 50 or 60 shaves
by juSt ten seconds daily Stropping.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
No. 99 Set. Contains razor,
three blades and strop in
mat case. All the essentials
for the perfect
“ Valet ” shave
*3'6
V^£-
i u^s
S f°ty/?T°P
vaJJ
No. 55 Set. Contains razor,
three blades and strop in
hinged container. In highly
polished nickelled
10/-
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.. 181, CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: Van Slaveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Welling.on, Christchurch.
fsd
WHAT KINO OF RUBBER IS IN U.J.ROYAL CORDS
Pure rubber tapped
from the 10,000,000
rubber trees of the
U.S. Rubber Com-
pany by the 20,000
workers employed
by the builders of
the U.S. ROYAL
CORDS, is the
’'plenty of rubber”
asset which makes
ROYAL CORD
the hardest tyre in
motordom to wear
out.
A
fs
PLENTY OF
RUBBER
There is no "skimping” of materials, no
"scamping” of workmanship in the
building of ROYAL CORDS. The U.S.
Rubber Company is never "short” of
rubber. It uses it unsparin,. in every
stage of ROYAL CORD construction.
By an exclusive process, even the web
cord fabric is impregnated with pure
rubber latex. Any wonder that the
ROYAL CORD gives you more for your
money?
U S. ROYAL CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’ASIA), LTD
439 Kent Street, Sydney. ’Phone M 2031 (4 lines).
102 Victoria Street, Melbourne, N. 3. Cent. 9437.
11l Margaret Street*, Brisbane. ’Phone 4250.
195 Flinders Street, Adelaide. 'Phone 6246.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
89 * Hay Street, Perth, ’Phone A 3 I 5 I (4 lines).
A
BILLABONG ENCASED-GEAR WINDMILL
RESPONDS
TO LIGHTEST BREEZE.
RUNS SAFE IN A GALE.
Just the Windmill for the BUSY
MAN on the land. Requires but
slight attention. Possesses a life-
time of service.
Expert Engineers put the Billabong
FIRST as an engineering achieve-
ment. It is DOUBLE-GEARED,
and the Gears run in an Oil Bath.
The strong Cast-iron Box encasing
the head is the most complete of
all Windmill encasements and is
thoroughly rainproof and dustproof.
The Billabong, with its perfect
lubrication, will give many extra
years of service.
CATALOGUE AND PRICES
Post Free on Request.
m&mskab
M
. :sk
-
fc?*-
■m
m
k&i
rtf*"
J?3E
tarn
SJiff
KV!
Billabong
ssa«
«c
M
!S
S
S^i-
pWKS
Patent
Eire
3
_.v«
4
S'*
” J' /: *' * ' -/. ; :”V r
!&««) -.„
.dla#
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
; • A | ■* ; -r. ■ [ .
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


New LEFEVER Nitro Special HAMMERLESS GUN
LEFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
DOUBLE
BARREL,
£7/15/ ■
POST FREE.
0.K.-ed and Purchased in Quantities by U.S. Navy.
The Lefever Nitro Special is well finished and the best value obtainable. Chambered for 23in.
Cartridges. 30in. barrels. The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gun-
smiths the world over say it is the Ipest-designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was
snapped 77,000 times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was shot 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The United States Navy selects the Lefever Nitro Special from all otl er makes and orders a
quantity to be used by the U.S. Navy men. You may be sure the U.S. Naval experts get the
best gun. LONG RANGE. HARD HITTING. CLOSE PATTERN.
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE.
sd
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
■ For They are Jolly Good Fellows .
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us .
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILIP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND CERALDTON. fi
SPOTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Two hurdlers with decided Grand. National
prospects, Longlands and Biologist, were suc-
cessful over the battens at Williamstown on
Saturday. Longlands, who is owned and
trained by Vin O’Neill, was a 5-to-4 favorite
for the Maiden Hurdle, and the race proved
a match between him and Waranton (9 to
4), who has taken rather kindly to jumping.
The famous old sprinter was in front at the
second last hurdle, but Longlands outstayed
him and was four lengths to the good at
the finish ; Aquaplane (7 to 1) was a poor
third. A four-year-old gelding by the Metro-
politan winner Pershore out of Barley Bree,
Longlands has 9st. in the National.
The Port Phillip Hurdle field was more
numerous (there were 13 of them) and of
much better class on the whole, though
Longlands is good. Woolpack, notwithstand-
ing a big increase in weight, was favorite at
threes, but five others were spiritedly backed.
Sir Alogy and Deauville were in front most
of the time, but Biologist (12 to 1) took
charge half a mile from home, and was well
clear of Sir Alogy, Bligny and Migrant turn-
ing into the straight. Increasing his advant-
age, and jumping the last hurdle well, Bio-
logist won by a couple of lengths from Bligny
(11 to 2), who finished stoutly, Migrant (20
to 1) being three lengths further back. Wool-
pack was in the rear for a considerable part
of the journey, but was running on at the
finish. Deauville fell at the last hurdle and
was killed, and Coybeau lost his rider. Bio-
logist is a five-year-old gelding by Escombe—•
Snap; he is owned by L. K. S. Maekinnon
and is trained by Charlie Cooper, once a
crack jockey. He is in the National with
9st. —71b. less than he won with —and as he
ran a close second to Royan at Flemington
recently and is a proved stayer, the V.R.C.
chairman will have no mean representative in
Saturday’s big race.
Yin O’Neill, who had started the day well
with Longlands, went on to further success
in the Steeple, for which there were eight
starters. He saddled up the Wolaroi gelding
Romeo, who jumped the difficult Williams,
town fences nicely and scored easily by two
lengths from Strath Blith (equal favorite,
at fours, with the winner), a 15-to-l shot,
Lynburn, being a close third. Romeo is not
in the National Steeple. He is owned by
paddock bookmaker Wally Mitchell.
Otway Palkiner’s colt Itagazzo, who bore
the Godby polish, compensated the stable
for many disappointments by running away
with the Point Cook Handicap, for which
he was favorite at 7 to 2. Ashley Reed took
him to the front three furlongs from home,
and the colt won brilliantly by a length from
the fast-finishing Batteryman (4 to 1) ;
Dartmoor, who is earning place money, at
least, for Biggins, was third. Ragazzo
galloped the 10 furlongs in 2min. 7sec.. and
should score again soon. There was a plunge
on Phonic (7 to 4) in the Welter, but the
good thing came undone, one of T. M.
Burke’s, the Eudorus gelding Homerus (9 to
2), winning a great race by a half-head from
Olola (10 to 1) ; Donace (6 to 1) was
three parts of a length away, and Phonic
-was fourth. Ashley Reed was the successful
jockey again.
* sfr H* *
The Grand National Hurdle looks very
difficult to pick. The top weight, Pildin (list.
71b.), is a great hurdler on his day, and
is at his best at Flemington. Johnny
Cake (lOst. lib.) is another who has dis-
tinguished himself at headquarters; and
Woolpack (9st. 131 b.), despite his Williams-
town failure, will have to be reckoned with.
Kenare (9st, 91b.), Biologist (9st.) and
Longlands (9st.) are dangerous lightweights,
and perhaps Henare is the pick of the bunch.
He has had two wins and a second in three
starts, and one of his victories was at Flem-
ington. This All Black gelding is chosen to
win, with Pildin and Biologist next. Rivoli’s
brother Royan (9st.) may be the best of
the long-priced lot. For other races at
Flemington:—
Kensington Steeple: Reviser.
Iramoo Welter: Phonic.
Winter Handicap: Ragazzo.
* * * *
McSliortodds was all smiles after the
£lOOO Cup race, in which Tattsinania had
an interest, at Canterbury Park on Saturday.
Prime Don was a 3-to-l favorite in a field of
35, but his rider could not get him out of
the ruck till the race was nearly over; then
lie came fast and finished third. ' Lucy
Thrice (6 to 1) looked likely to win as they
rushed into the straight, but the going was
a bit too heavy for the little mare, and vic-
tory went to the much more substantial
Hinchinbrook (14 to 1) , but there was only
a neck between, Hinchinbrook had won at
Moorefield the previous week, but the gener-
ality of punters did not think it possible for
a middle-distance horse to win twice in'
succession at this time of the year, so they
left the big mare out of their calculations.
Earlier in the piece a three-year-old called
Benaroon, trained by Peter Riddle, of trot-
OUT OF DATE.
POLO PLAYER: “Why are you disappointed, with the game?"
FLAPPER: “Ponies are so frightfully old-fashioned. I thought you’d use Fords, at
least.”
ting celebrity, for Percy Miller, had given
the Ring a “skinner” in a division of the
Trial Stakes by beating the two horses that
monopolised the betting, Costoboc (4 to 1)
and Chrystal Tray (11 to 8). First Acre’s
success in the Flying Handicap was also
profitable to the Profession, inasmuch as he
accounted for the favorite, Nandillyan (2 to
1), after drifting from threes to eights. Pro-
duced again in the Campsie Handicap, First
Acre beat a poor lot easily, but the bagmen
took no risks with him, 2 to 1 being the
best price laid and 10 to 9 the closing
quote. The hardy customer is from Maori-
land, and is trained by A. D. Webster, whose
son had the mount. Some Sydney trainers
would not dream of racing a horse twice in
one day, but First Acre seems to thrive on
the practice. So did Don Moon when Bailie
had him, and his two races at Rosehill prior
to the Epsom meeting did Vaals no harm.
* * # *
“Don Carew”: “He’s gone,” wailed the
punter, pointing to the upturned kerosene
case upon which the absconding bookie had
stood; “and I believe you were in the joke.”
“Me,” snorted the urger; “what have I got
to do with it? How did I know he was
going to ‘smoke’?” “You knew, all right,”
shouted the punter; “it was you who got me
to bet with him. You said you’d known
him for years: and he was guaranteed.”
“And so he is,” snapped the urger, pointing
to the kerosene case. “If you weren’t
stone-blind you’d see it for yourself.” The
victim turned to the case and scanned the
writing thereon. “All I can see is ‘Hun-
ger’s Kerosene,’ ” he said. “Read what’s
underneath, me lad,” the urger went on,
“ ‘Warranted not to smoke. 7 Ain’t that suf-
ficient guarantee for any man?”
* * * 4>
For Rosehill on Saturday;—
Flying Handicap: First Acre or Fool’s
Paradise; next, Garrula.
Rosehill Handicap: Lucy Thrice; next,
Nobby s.
Maiden Handicap: Prest; next, Valhalla.
Carlingford Mile: Fool’s Paradise or
Anorient; next, New Fire.
* ❖ $
“C.Q.”: Concerning youths who “borrow”
mounts for rural sports meetings (B.
27/6/’2B). A well-known breeder in the
Heidelberg district (Vic.) noted the dis-
appearance of one of his best trotters on
the eve of one of these events. In due
course the horse started under a fictitious
name, and betting, mainly by the syndicate
which had purloined it, was brisk. It didn’t
win, however. At the last moment the
owner entered a sltablel-companjion which
was a second or two faster.
s': sj» *
“Minto”: Con Locke was a “character,”
if there ever was one. One Epsom day at
Rand wick he was accosted by a visiting
English Major who had lost his friends in
the crowd and was anxious to cash a cheque.
Locke, thinking he saw in the Major a
fellow-artist who had mistaken him for a
mug, did not at first warm to the suggestion
that he should find someone to negotiate the
cheque, but presently he escorted the visitor
to the tea-room, where a fountain-pen was
secured. Producing his cheque-book, the
Major inserted the date. “What do you say
to 20 pounds?” he asked. “Do you think
you could manage that for me?” Staggered
at the enormity of the sum, Locke laughed
derisively. “Aw, why not make it a thou-
sand while you are at it,” he jeered. “We’ll
be moetin’ me friend the Rajah of Penny-
pertuca in the members’ stand d’rectly, and
you’ll need a little loose silver when you’re
swappin’ drinks with him.”
!j! * * *
_ “Thormanby”: If Winston Churchill has
his way, it should not be long before Eng-
land sees the tote in operation. In ad-
mitting his failure to collect the antici-
pated revenue under the Betting Taxation
Bill, Winston complained bitterly of or-
ganised evasion on the part of the Ring and
the punter, while it. was difficult to get
evidence for a prosecution, as witnesses
were terrorised—anyone familiar with the
rum an underworld of English racing will
understand what that means. He forecast
an early adoption of the machine as the
only visible remedy. By all accounts,
methods for dodging the Treasury auditors
are many and ingenious. One of the lead-
ing ramps, in a country where “nod” betting
on a big scale is a general practice, is the
use of a code when making bets. Thus the
punter who says with the correct intonation
that he will take 100 to 5, really is laid,
say, 1000 to 50, the smaller figures being
recorded in Ikey’s book for the benefit of
the Inland Revenue officials.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack . Elliott, the English heavyweight
(list. 1211b.), made short work of “Battling”
.Byan (list. 1011b.), from San Francisco,
when they met in a return match at the
Sydney Stadium. There was a poor atten-
dance. After 00 seconds of the first round
had sped Elliott coolly measured the long
streak and walloped a right over to the jaw
that sat Iiyan down like a pile-driver’s mon-
key. Ryan was still listening to the canaries
warbling -when lie got to his feet at the count
of seven. Elliott pursued his advantage,
jolting his mail off with the rigidly-extended
left and banging his jaw and head with heavy
rights till the American was floored for
“nine.” Sheer instinct combined with blind
courage enabled Ryan to see the round out,
despite a heavy fall, along with the English-
man, just as the bell rang. Elliott gave his
man no peace throughout the second, flooring
the lengthy lad as, fast as he got up. Ryan
was on the mar at' “nine” when the bell
saved him. The dead-game ’Frisco youth
was floored three times in the third, and
was a mere punching-bag when Joe Wallis
took pity on him and said “That’ll do!”
* * * *
Ted Tliye (12st. Gib.) had one Jack Win-
row (12st. 51b.) for an opponent at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday night. The dis-
parity in size suggested a much bigger mar-
gin than the lib. alleged to separate them.
Though the unitiated knew that John hadn’t
a 1000-to-l chance of extending the cliam-
peen, Tliye accepted the sarcasm of the few
and played on the susceptibilities of the
many. He took every opportunity of slipping
through the ropes to escape from the appa-
rently deadly holts of tin; Englishman.
Incensed customers howled in indignation,
which was precisely what Edward wanted
them to do. In one of liis excursions through
the ropes, Ted’s elbow came into violent
contact with a pressman’s mouth. A second
visitation split the pressman’s lip, and the
police moved towards the scene; but Ted had
scrambled back into the ring. By an
extraordinary coincidence, the victim was the
writer who gave Mr. T. such a hectic time
through the columns of a now-extinct Mel-
bourne daily. The Englishman scored a fall
in the fourth round, much to the crowd’s
delight. Tliye gained his first fall in the
sixth round and the decider in the seventh.
Footbrawl
In Melbourne on Saturday Footscray eh-
countered the Melbourne team, and 25,000
spectators saw a close and strenuous game.
The Tricolors were superior in marking and
were fast and neat in picking up, but their
system was of the “chance-it” description.
At half-time they were a point to the good,
but in the third term the Fuchsias, with one
damaged man short and two others not much
good, set a pace that ran ’Scray off its legs.
In the end Melbourne had 68 points to Foot-
scray’s 56. Essendon was expected to give
the 20,000 who watched them at Colling-
wood a good run for their money but failed
lamentably, the Magpies finishing with 85
to 57. Fitzroy smashed North Melbourne
with 102 points to 56, Moriarty kicking 12
of ’Roy’s 15 goals; and Hawthorn nearly
achieved its first victory by scoring 95
points to South Melbourne’s 100. Richmond
tackled St. Kilda, always a hard proposi-
tion on its own ground, and the Tigers had
to show all they knew in the last few
minutes, when the scores were level. They
got home by 81 points to Saint’s 65 and
thanked their stars. Carlton, to which defeat
now means disaster, got all over Geelong,
which lost the services of Greeves, Jerram
and Todd, knocked out. The Old Blues scored
132 to Geelong’s 104.
(Continued on page 41.)
“O. Kay”: Faro (B. 20/6/’28) has few
votaries in Melbourne, but roulette joints
are fairly common. I patronised one about
18 months ago, and it was generally crowded.
One of the gamblers must have branched
out on his own account, for I received a
letter a short time - ago asking for my cus-
tom. You never hear of these places being
raided,! although two-uppers are hounded
from scrub to scrub.
DOG’S LUCK.
[For The Bulletin.]
“The N.S.W. Government has robbed us of our
livelihood. Let us all march with the dogs through
the streets to Parliament House.” — Tin-hare item.
No doubt it is hard if your living is barred
By some spasm of moral reform,
And the “heads” it must irk to hunt round
and get work—
That last hateful port in a storm.
While no one will growl if their dolorous
howl
Makes Maequarie-street slip a few cogs,
It’s pretty good betting we’ll all be re-
gretting
The joke they’ve put up on the dogs.
Though a greyhound’s a fool, as a general
rule,
And consorts with all manner of blokes,
He is, at the least, a respectable beast,
With no special love for the jokes
Indulged in by guns for whose protit he runs ;
And the springs of resentment it jogs
That he should be paraded in “circs.” so
degraded—-
It’s jolly tough luck on the dogs.
N.S.W.'
J. B. H.


u
a
WM
WA
IVI OT only ONE model —but now
* every Studebaker model —Presi-
dent Straight Eight, Commander,
Director and Erskine —is a record
breaker —the world’s champion of its
price class. In all these epoch-making
achievements strictly stock models
with regulation equipment were used
—not stripped cars specially tuned for
speed.
To you, these unparalleled feats are
highly significant. They prove not
only that every Studebaker can travel
at high, sustained speed, but that each
can stand the hardest driving and still
retain its youth, not for a year or so,
but for many years.
Only engineering genius combined
with the finest materials and work-
manship could produce cars of such
endurance. Additional proof is found
in the fact that all Studebaker cars
may be driven 40 miles an hour the
day of delivery, and that oil and
grease changes are necessary only
every 2500 miles.
Until your hands have gripped the
steering wheel, until you have felt
Studebaker’s instant obedience, effort-
less speed and smooth power, these
amazing Studebaker achievements
will be—only records.
Erskine Models from £298 to £448
Director Models from £378 to £570
STUDEBJIKER
the only car to hold at the one
time, every Australian ancL
American stock car record.
President Straight Eight.
2000 miles in 1654 consecutive minutes.
Average, 72.525 m.p.h.
Commander Six.
AMERICAN RECORDS:
25,000 miles in 22,968
consecutive minutes.
Average, 65.31 m.p.h.
25,000 miles in 24,200
consecutive minutes.
Average, 61.98 m.p.h.
AUSTRALIAN
RECORDS:
1701 i miles in 24 hours.
Every Australian Speed
and Endurance record
from 1 to 24 hours, and
from 100 to 1700 mile 3.
Fremantle-Adelaide, low-
ered previous record by
6 hours 45 minutes.
Fremantle - Melbourne,
lowered previous record
by 1 5 hours 2 0 minutes.
Fremantle-Sydney, low-
ered previous record by
12 hours 22 minutes.
ESTABLISHES NEW
RECORD.
Fremantle-Brisbane,
Adelaide-Sydney,
Adelaide-Brisbane,
Melboiirne-Brisbane.
Only stock car to climb
Kurrajong in top gear with
an R.A.C.A. official as pas-
senger.
Also holds the best perform-
ance over ‘MOTOR LIFE”
Test Course.
Director Six.
5000 miles in less than 4751 consecutive minutes.
Average, 63.14 m.p.h.
Erskine Six.
1000 miles in 984 consecutive minutes.
Average, 60.97 m.p.h.
By establishing these new world-records, Studebaker
now holds every Australian and American speed and
endurance stock-car record for open and closed cars,
regardless of power or price.
Commander Models from £560 to £650
President Models from £665 to £875
All new models equipped with shock absorbers and jour-wheel brakes.
Prices F.O.R. Sydney.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA :
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle &. Motor Agency (Q>
Ltd., Creek SoAdelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Miilingens. Limited.
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND :
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street.
Christchurch.
WMB92.
STUDEB AKER


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
Or#rE(xPi{ESS
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
Footbrawl
Sunday was a day of humiliation in
Maoriland, for the news came through that
the All Blacks had been walloped by South
Africa by 17 to nil, the worst licking ever
suffered by the wearers of the Silver Fern
in a Test match, though N.S.W. beat them
in 1893 at Sydney by 25 to 3, and at
Christchurch in 1921 by 17-0. Australia s
best win over them was in 1913 at Christ-
church, when scores were 16 to 5 against
Maoriland. The only explanation of the
failure at Durban is that tluv Afrikanders were
too good, though the change in the tradi-
tional M.L. scrum formation may have
thrown the side off its balance. Of nine
matches played to date, the All Blacks have
won six, scoring 108 points to 54. The next
Test is set down for July 21.
* * * *
The Union games in Sydney provided one
thriller in the meeting of Y.M.C.A., leading
in the competition, with University. Uni.
gave a great display of all-round football
and won well by 14 to 5 (four tries and a
goal to a try and a goal). The Y.M. pack
gave the Students a torrid time in the open-
ing stages, but the latter, well led by Rosen-
blum and Waddington, lost nothing by com-
parison, and were the superior vanguard
at the finish. The nippy George was sadly
missed by the losers. Eastern Suburbs got
home by a whisker from Manly, scores being
10-9—two tries and two converting goals to
a try and two penalty goals. St. George
made a good fight with the strong Randwick
back division, going down by five points
only; it was 24-19. St. George’s forwards
again impressed the onlookers. The for-
wards again ruled the roost in the Glebe-
Balmain-Western Suburbs game, won by
Glebe-Balmain by 16 to 9. G.-B.’s team was
curiously shuffled; full-back Stewart went
to five-eighth, while Palmer played alongside
half-back Duncan in the centre.
* X *
“Past Grammar”: The revival of the
Rugby Union in Australia is steadily pro-
gressing. Bathurst (N.S.W.), once a
famous Union centre, has decided to take up
the old game again. The re-formed Queens-
land Union is hard at work organising for the
next season, and a couple of leading N.S.W.
officials are to go north shortly to confer on
the situation. The return of all the big
schools to the amateur code is seriously per-
turbing the League up there. Even the old
Westralian R.U. has come to life again. Its
prospects are not dazzling, but, like the Vic-
torian R.U., it will be able to afford visit-
ing teams from abroad a chance for a game
occasionally, and the West may be the first
to sample the British side of 1930.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League grade games
were carried a stage further in Sydney on
Saturday, the outstanding event being the
defeat of the leaders, Eastern Suburbs, by
St. George; the Illawarra lambs got home
by 14 (2 tries and 4 goals) to 5 (a try
and a goal). They had to thank their for-
wards for their * success-, though the backs,
well supplied with the ball by Justice, sup-
ported the men in front satisfactorily. On
its own ground at Wentworth, Glebe scored
its first win of the season, trouncing Uni-
versity by 15 to 8. The return of Toohey
to the three-quarter line did Glebe a lot of
good. There were some interesting pugilistic
interludes, and a man from each side sought
the shades of the dressing-room at the ref.’s
invitation. Balmain was another that added
to its rather moulted laurels, the Tigers
chewing up Newtown by 17 to 3. North
Sydney, now bracketed with Eastern
Suburbs and St. George at the head of the
table, defeated Western Suburbs by 20
points to 10.
* * * *
The English League players, after defeat-
ing Rockhampton (Q.) by 27 to 11, over-
came Townsville by 30 to 16. A feature of
the Rockhampton game was the appearance
in the C.-Q. side of Sydney’s old acquaint-
ance “Smacker” Blair, now coaching up that
way; in Townsville, Litster, who was in the
South with the Sheffield Shield team last
year, figured at the base of the local serum.
* $ Hs ❖
“Gate” : Nothing in the list of proposals
which the English League football managers
are to put forward in the conference with
the N.S.W. and Q. bodies in July has infuri-
ated the locals more than the English sug-
gestion that Australian teams should only
visit England every eight years. These trips
are the most profitable happenings in a
League footballer’s existence, and since the
Englishmen have been enjoying the benefits
of a visit every four years, the Australian
players can’t see why they also should not
benefit in the same way. The fact is that
the circumscribed English League hasn’t got
the money to enable it to act as host so
frequently. It is fast losing what little
ground it holds. Still, the Australian bodies
would be well advised to seize the earliest
chance of making the trip. In eight years’
time there may not be any English League
worth visiting.
“Cash Amateur’’: The bad impression
caused when the English Rugby League re-
pudiated its agreement not to buy Australian
and Maoriland players has been augmented
by the bumptious behavior of the visiting
team’s officials since landing in Australia.
Encouraged, no doubt, by the humble atti-
tude of the local Leagues, they are follow-
ing up one impertinence with another. They
refused to let their lads play in the first
Test in Brisbane unless the umpire chosen
by their hosts was superseded by one they
selected themselves. That arrogant stand has
been outdistanced by protests against the
use of members’ tickets when their matches
are played on the Agricultural Society’s
ground in Brisbane and the Sydney C. G.
Both these grounds, thanks to the members,
were in flourishing existence years before the
fungus growth of the Rugby League sprang
up in a few Lancashire and Yorkshire towns,
and the suggestion that the members should
surrender their rights to benefit an obscure
English organisation, which already expects
to make £20,000 out of this Australian tour,
is rank impudence. The hide of the visitors
in making it can only be explained by the
miserable manner in which the Australian
Leagues have truckled to them at every turn.
“Bowen Park’’: The Brisbane urchin
seems to be deeply imbued with the true
Rugby League flair for going after the
money. At the recent crowded Test match
dozens- of them, carrying cases, kerosene-
tins and similar aids to vision for the back-
liners, did a roaring trade letting the mov-
able grandstands at 3s. each. The proviso
in each case was that 2s. of this would be
refunded on the return of the box or tin
after the match. Quite a lot of economic-
BR ED IN THE BONE.
FEMALE GOLF ADDICT: “What shall we make oj the little darling, John?”
MALE DITTO: “Well, he ought to grow into a boshter caddie in a jew years’ time.”
ally-minded folk were seen wandering about
the ground, box or tin in hand, after the
game, but none of the other parties to the
contract put in an appearance.
* * * s’s
“Billy the Goose”: I ain’t so sweet on
these ’ere League footballers as I was. I
got no barney with the Queenslan’ mob —
they’re out fer the gonce like orl the rest
of us, but they’re orlways willin’ ter ’and out
a brief ter one of the ’eads if they’re woi'ded
right. W’y, they tell me there was 922 o’
the League’s own privit dead’eads at the
firs’ Test in Brisbin’. Wot’s got me narked
is these English coves; it’s “brass” with
them every time. I come down ter Rocky
ter see the Central Queenslan’ match with
“Smacker” Blair —’e was in a fus’-clars’
kerridge an’ I was underneath the seat.
Owin’ ter bein’ buzzed out on me pink be-
fore w T e pulled inter Rocky I was a bit
late at the groun’ and goes straight in the
gate. A hnportan’-lookin’ cove arsks me for
the label. “Not me,” I says, “I’m a vice-
president of the C.-Q. Goat-Racin’ Associa-
shun.” The cow jist nods ,to a big bloke
beside ’im, an’ the lars’ thing I ’ears as me
dial roots up the gravel is “Sitha, laad;
there’s noa goaats i’ oor team; tim’d oanly
feel loanly, like, i’side.” That’s as near as
I could get to it, not being a perfessor o’
furrin’ langwidges, but the root ’e give me
with ’is number 12- —English soles, too —
c’d be flamin’ well interpreted by a blind
deaf mute.
Racquet and Bawl
All the Australians, men and women alike,
have played creditably at Wimbledon, though
the fourth round of the singles was disastrous
to our main hopes. In that round Brugnon
beat Patterson by 3 sets to one; the Aus-
tralian had had a gruelling match against
Kingsley the previous night. Moon went
down to Boussus by 3 sets to one, while
Jack Crawford put up a splendid five-set fight
against Jean Borotra, the result being in
the balance to the finish. Crawford and
Hopman gave Brugnon and Cochet a great go
in the second round of doubles, the French-
men winning 3-2. Patterson and Hawkes
won their match with Higgs and Wheatley,
while Moon and Cummings took three
straight sets from the Germans Rahe and
Kleinschrothe. Daphne Akhurst was the
only Australienne remaining in the women’s
singles at the close of the fourth round, but
Miss Bickerton reached that stage; the
Spaniard De Alvarez beat her, 9-7, 6-4.
Andrews’s defeat of Hunter was one of the
surprises of the tournament (the young
Maorilander was, however, beaten by Bous-
sus) ; and Hopman w T on golden opinions by
extending Cochct.
“Cut Shot”: After the collapse of the
Davis Cup feam af Genoa orders were sent
that the mob was to come home at once
after Wimbledon. When the showing in the
French championships wasn’t much better
the command was even more imperative, and
a proposed match with France was scouted.
But since the Australians beat England and
did well at Queen’s Park and in the opening
stages at Wimbledon the wind has changed.
The Australian Council has now authorised
the Davis Cup sub-committee to arrange
tours or tournaments for Hopman and Craw-
ford in Europe and America. As a result,
the Australians arc to play France from July
13-15, and Germany from July 20-22, the
teams being Patterson, Hawkes, Crawford
and Hopman in each case. It will be noted
that free-lances Moon and Cummings have
been excluded. Now that some measure of
success has succeeded, the team will pro-
bably play its way home through America.
Much, however, will depend on the financial
side of the question, which, as a writer-
official says, gravely, in the Sydney press, “is
all important,”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Bertha Brassey”: Dear old “Colonel
Damurize” would have needed an ambulance
in place of his bath-chair (B. 27/6/’2B) if
he had been present at the golf match
between teams of men and women on the
Royal Sydney course last week. True, the
girls were beaten by 7 matches to 2, but
they were up against a side which included
the runner-up in the State championship,
Dee Brown, and an ex-champion in Hector
Morrison. The latter was well trounced by
Mrs. Triglone, 3 up and 2 to play, while
C. W. Rundle, after a flying start, was
overhauled and beaten, 1 up, on the last
green by Miss A. Walter. There is to be
a return match shortly, at which the gallant
officer referred to might like to be present;
a lot of associates would like to meet him.
iii * * *
“The McHaggis”: The annual protest
against the qualifying round of stroke play
for the N.S.W. amateur championship has
been raised again, following on the comple-
tion of the State tourney for the title. The
protesters—most of whom prefer match play
to medal—are agitating for the adoption of
an 18-lioles match-play round in place of
the qualifying round of stroke play. That
means that one important method of playing
golf, or rather reaching a decision in a con-
test, will be cut out. A championship of any
kind should be a true test of all depart-
ments of the game, and this can never, be if
stroke play is eliminated.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: America has been in the
throes of big golf during the past fortnight.
In the final of the American open champion-
ship at Chicago, Bobby Jones and Johnny
Farrell fought a great battle to finish with
a tie, Farrell halving the last with a seven-
foot putt. Scores were 294 each for 72
holes —a fraction over 4’s! In the play-off
over 36 holes Farrell won with a score of
143, taking only 61 putts for the 36 holes.
At Kansas City, a few days latex’, Espinosa,
a Cuban professional, captured the mid-
American championship with 289 for 72
holes, Archie Compston, of England, being
second with 294. Joe Kirkwood, erst of
Manly, was fifth. Rufus Stewart, of South
Australia, was 13th. It was Rufus’s best
showing in America to date —one stroke
better than Walter Hagen.
* ❖ H* H*
“Percy Piebald”: Royal Queensland Club’s
championship, just decided, offei'S nothing
particularly promising for the future of the
State’s golf. The winner, R. 11. Cumming,
is in his fiftieth year. Other qualifiers—E.
J. Fitzpatrick, T. Hall, E. Anning, J. Park.
Wallis Hoare and Billy O’Sullivan —-are all
veterans in years, golf or both. Fitpatrick
first annexed the State’s amateur title as
far back as 1911, and has been twice cham-
pion of Royal Queensland and several times
of Brisbane Club. The bright spot was the
effort of young H. Bevan in liis fight with
Fitzpatrick in the semi-final.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane is definitely to get
its long-desired municipal golf course in
Victoria Park. Golfers strove vainly with
the burgesses till some strategist hit on the
brilliant plan of luring Mayor Jolly to be-
come a devotee of the game. After that,
things began to move more quickly, with the
result above recorded.
s}. * *
“N.H.”: Me the lack of municipal golf
courses in Australia (B. 20/6/’2B). Adel-
aide now has eight established courses—
Marino, Glenelg, Kooyonga, Seaton, Grange,
Torrensford, Alt. Osmond and Mt. Lofty—
and two more are mooted. Also, any new
club which is formed soon announces that
its membership lists are full. Yet the Holy
City has only one municipal course —that
at Montefiore Hill. Half an hour’s journey
from the city, in the Belair National Park,
there is a fine site for a public coui-se, with
suitable soil and unlimited water, while, a
few miles away as the crow flies, the Mt.
Lofty links are an object-lesson as to what
could be done.
Sydney polo followers saw the Army-in-
India players in action at Kensington
(N.S.W.) on Saturday, when the soldiers
romped away from a Canberra side by 19 to
2. The winners, though hardly tested,
showed remarkable combination, while the
accuracy of their hitting on the heavy ground
was something for the locals to marvel at,
the skipper, P. W. Dollar, being outstanding
iii this respect. There was a slashing go
between Goulburn and the Sprung Creek
team, a hard-riding side from Queensland.
Slightly superior finish and understanding
brought the N.S.W. club out the winners by
8 goals to 7. R. W. Armstrong and J.
Dalton played fine polo fo£ the .losers, as
did A. Pitty, who is joined with the three
Ashtons this year as the fourth member of
the Goulburn side. The winning goal was
scored right on time by P. S. Ashton.
(Continued on next page. )


DONALD MACKINTOSH
THW (.1 A MAX.
fs
VOUNG
HATCH
SHOOTERS
i.u.j jroni the man who is an expert
proved by test. lie knows a gun.
Match Guns by Greener, Cashmorc,
Webley Scott and Powell, 2J it re-
proof, erossbolt, choke bore, £2l.
Special Match Guns by Cash more,
2 : ? Nitro-proof, crossbolt, dead level
rib, £35, £42/10/-, £75.
11'. W. Greener ditto, at £32/10/-,
r 42/10/-, £7O.
II iyhest-gra.de Match Gun by Purdey,
£155. Cashmore Nitro Special,
£155. Chas. Lancaster, £135. Jas.
Woodward, £75, and Win. Powell,
£ll5. The finest selection of Guns
evil- imported by me for 20 years.
REPAIRS to Cun, Rifle and Revolver by
skilled workmen. Ask your shooting' pals
who have given me a trial, for the last 20 years,
and have seen ray workshop.
32-page Catalogue, with Hints to Shooters,
posted free.
DONALD MACKINTOSH (0F f B a h m ° e o ) t,nc
Gun Maker, 432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, C.l.
ggpaE
L.TT TL.mrrirfii
wm
_mwm
it in b Mmr ,
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
V YV rv / Aw//%/
P
3R
SMOKERS !
Here is something
different to relieve a dry
mouth or tickling throat.
Try
“Allenbur^ys
Block Currant PASTILLES
and be delighted with their
soothing effect and refreshing
flavour.
Your Chemist stocks them.
1 /- and 1/9 per box
Car and Cycle
“Bang”: The rocket-driven Opel car has
ended, like all rockets, in smoke. In the
latest demonstration of its possibilities, the
car was placed on a line of rails. With a
fine prescience, the inventor did not risk
himself in the gadget, but sent along a live
cat in his place, the object being to test
the effect of the air pressure at the cat's
expense. The first run of five kilometres
was covered at 159 m.p.h. At the second
attempt, with more powerful rockets, the
car blew* up. The cat was “picked up in-
jured.” and there would seem to be a job
for the German S.P.C.A. if that country
boasts any institution of the sort.
“Aliasuerus”: America boasts a speed
motor-driver in Erwin (“Cannonball”)
Baker, who seems to have no other reason
for existence than making record journeys
across the eontitnent. In his latest expedi-
tion, from Los Angeles to New York and
back in a Franklin car, lie covered 6693
miles in 6 days, 13 hours, 23 minutes, which
is said to be some 10 hours better than
the previous best. What use the weari-
some performance was it is hard to see. It
cannot be regarded as a genuine test of
car performance or tyre endurance from the
point of view of the every-day driver. In
these cases the most elaborate preparations
are made by the firms interested to ensure
a successful run, and the cars employed are
fitted with all sorts of devices to improve
their performance—devices quite beyond
the reach of the ordinary motorist. Such
stunts are practically on a par with the
speed tests at such places as Daytona
Beach, for which special machines are de-
signed and built.
* * *
“Spare Wheel”: Maoriland, with its fine
roads and well-distributed population, has
now a motor-car for every 10.7 souls, and
stands second only to Uncle Sam, whose
ratio is a car to every 5.1. At the latest
compilation there are 29,600,000 four-wheeled
petrol waggons in the world, and 22,400,000
of them are registered in the United States.
Britain is next on the list with 1,025,000
cars, and Australia comes fifth, following
France and Canada, with 365,650. Germany.
Argentina, Italy, Spain and Maoriland
(123,224) follow in that order. Ellice
Islands tail the list with two cars.
:|: * Hi H:
“Pore du Chemin” : There is an increasing-
demand from Australian motorists for the
establishment of some central authority to
certify and supervise records. Such a body
would appoint efficient timekeepers, checkers
and other officials of the kind, examine cars
entering for record-breaking events, and
issue certificates of performance. Something
of the sort is especially needed if we are to
have any more of those dangerous road
record attempts between Sydney and Mel-
bourne which have aroused hostility to
motorists in many districts. The Royal Auto-
mobile Clubs of N.S.W. and Victoria have
refused to countenance these hazardous
stunts, however.
“Morpheus”: Another bit of absent-
mindedness on the part of the Australian
Olympic officials is conveyed by the cabled
information that only one representative
from each country will be allowed to com-
pete in the 1000 metres cycling race, the big-
bike track event of the Olympiad. Aus-
tralia has sent two men, and a private
trial will be necessary to select flic “pea”:
the other will have to take on the road
race.. But neither Standen nor Gray is a
road racer. Australia had a really great
amateur road man in R. W. Lamb, but petty
jealousies prevented his selection and he
turned professional.
“Ball Race”: Standen and Gray were
given their first competition run in a 1000
metres invitation race at Herne Hill. Both
won their heats and the semi-finals easily:
in the final, after Standen had passed Walls,
the English rider, a quarter of a mile from
home, Gray cut his team-mate down and
won by a length. Owing to what was
styled a “technical offence,” Standen was
placed third, behind Walls, whom he crowded
to the grass. This tendency to wobble
when going all out has brought Standen
under the notice of track officials more
than once in N.S.W., and was one of the
reasons for the hesitation over selecting
him for the Olympiad.
Miscellaneous
“Long Dog”: The N.S.W. Government’s
decision to ban betting at the tin-hare
meetings coincided with sad news from
South Africa relative to “Judge” Swindell,
who made £20,000 in a few months in
N.S.W. by introducing the “sport” here.
As a Bulletin writer predicted at the time,
his Honor’s path in Africa was sown with
pitfalls and gins. He formed a company
aud entered into contracts for building a
course, but, refused betting privileges,
decided to give the enterprise best, only to
be forbidden to leave the country pending an
investigation of the company’s accounts. The
Afrikanders are forthright gentry when it
comes to dealing with such situations. His
Honor evidently judged them by his experi-
ence of Labor politicians in N. S. Wales.
* * :s
“Spike”: News of the Olympic team in
England continues to be Satisfactory.
Winter, it is reported, is covering close up
to 50ft. in some of his.practice jumps. The
liop-step-and-jump man is one of Austra-
lia’s best bets for the Amsterdam contests,
and his fitness puts a reassuring complexion
on things. Pearce is definitely out of the
Diamonds, but is making hay of all and
sundry in practice rows, though some of the
experts are querying the 6f-incli blades of
his sculls. This, the usual Australian width,
is quarter of an inch more than the English
pattern. Charlton is swimming on the
Thames, and the others are still in the
steady-work phase. The team has received
an invitation to return home via Canada
and appear at the National Exhibition in
Toronto on September 1, all exes, being
paid by the Canucks. As it is under pro-
mise to appear in Ireland at the Tailtean
Games from August 8 to August 26, the
Canadian tour will probably have to be
declined.
* * *
“Third Base”: Mighty preparations are
being made for the reception of the Ameri-
can University baseballers, who are to make
a Sydney landfall on July 26. The team com-
prises 13 players, a manager and a coach, and
four pitchers are included in the “line up,”
as the Yanks like to call it. The visitors
will play two matches against Australia on
August 4 and 11. Of special interest should
be their game against Sydney University on
August 6. The visit of the Americans
should give a big lift to baseball in this
country; the vimful game, in which the
value of time is respected, is already gain-
ing adherents from the ranks of those fed
up with marathon cricket.
* * * *
The first Test match between the West
Indians and England saw the Englishmen
win b.V an innings and 58 runs, after mak-
ing 401. Though E. scored a
century, only Hammond and Jardine
showed Test-match form, the majority of
the team exhibiting a marked dislike foi*
the fast bowling of Francis and Constantine
(who took 4 for 72) and the slow deliveries
of Browne. The West Indians tried to play
“correct” cricket instead of their usual
forcing game, and collapsed for 177 and
166. English critics, however, rate the side
a formidable one, and Australia’s .1. W.
Trumble considers the Constantine-Francis
combination the best fast bowling pair since
Macdonald and Jack Gregory.
* * *
“Shrewsbury” : An interesting feature of
the English cricket averages to the end of
the third week in June is the success of
the veteran Hendren, who heads the list
with an average of 109.60 for 21 innings,
while he has scored the highest aggregate,
1644 runs. Hendren has not been men-
tioned as an English eleven possibility, but
it would seem difficult to keep him out,
C. H. FAWCETT, of the Royal Sydney
Club, an ex-Victorian golfer, who is
amateur champion of N.S.W. for 1928.
especially after his heavy scoring in South
Australia last year. Patsy is returning to
Adelaide this season to fulfil his coaching
engagements and attend to his business in-
terests. It may be that the M.C.C. will
arrange to utilise his services, as those of
George Gunn, out here on a health trip,
were utilised by A. O. Jones in 1907-08,
when Gunn headed the batting averages for
the tour, though he had not even been con-
sidered for selection in England.
$ * * *
“W. G. Snort”: That blither about the
relative merits of Chapman and Jardine,
considered as possible captains of the next
English XI (B. 6/6/’2S), is not confined to
English journals. The opinion of an Aus- ,
tralian expert, published in a Sydney paper,
rivals in fatuity anything printed on the
other side. This gentleman is doubtful about
Chapman because he is “light-hearted and
merry” and looks on cricket as a game,
which, of course, it is far from being as
served up to us by the high gods of the
LIEUT-COL. T. P. MELVILL ( left ) and
LIEUT. G. E. PRIOR-PALMER (right),
of the Indian Army polo team now in
Sydney.
dolorous science nowadays. Further, Chap-
man docs not possess “the hard, dour brain
of a tactician,” the inference being that Jar-
dine is a combination of Foch and the elder
Moltke by comparison. Lastly, “when Chap-
man is in doubt he tries to hit a six, while
Jardine in the same position would use a
straight bat, saying, ‘I will play it very
fpiietly; there might be a catch in it.’ ”
Obviously. Chapman shouldn’t be ,in first-
class cricket at all. lie seems as out of
place in it as a variety turn at a funeral.
“Der Jong”: A cricket book full of in ■
terest to followers of the throughout
the Empire of Cricket, and one that should
appeal especially to Australians, is “South
African Cricket, 1919-27.” It is published
by the author, M. W. Luckin, of Johannes-
burg, and the printing and the reproduction
of the numerous, illustrations would be a
credit to any press. The author-publisher
has also been responsible for “The History
of South African Cricket,” which covers the
ground up to the beginning of the war. The
volume under notice is a mine of informa-
tion to those whose interests or inclination
drive them to cricket statistics, as well as
to the acquiring of information about the
game from every possible angle. The book
not only includes valuable records of all the
visits between South Africa, England and
Australia since the war, with the exception
of the English tour under Major Stanyforth,
during the season just ended, but there are
many illuminating chapters which will come
as a surprise even to the close students of
the game in Australia. Those on the deter-
mination of the South Africans to develop
grass wickets in all the principal centres of
the Union, a determination that is now being
rapidly carried into effect, are cases in point.
So is the story of the development of what
we in Australia should call G.P.S. cricket,
with the illustrations of the fine grounds
and pavilions owned by these schools.
* * & ❖
“Geebung” : Major Segrave, former world
motor-speed record-holder, is out after the
world motor-boat record. When he whizzed
along the beach at Daytona at a mere 200
miles or so per hour, he said that he in-
tended to wrest the motor-boat title from
the Yanks. That he was in earnest is shown
by the fact that the engine for the job,.a
Sunbeam-Coatalen, has already been selected
and submitted to stringent tests. The motor-
boat record at present stands to the credit
of “Miss America II..” which lapped at
80.55 ip.p.m. The Major hopes to do over
100 m.p.h.
Type, Tripe & Co.
Daily Mail, Brisbane, in one issue re-
cently contained but four birth notices, the
names of the new-born being Dresche,
Eggersdorff, Lietzow and Schokneclit.
“0.W.W.” : Personal item from a Gisborne
(M.L.) daily:—
This is to say as Olive did not tell the High
School girl, or any other girl that I. had found
hpr Hat, and if there has been any misunderstanding
then we apologise to I. ■. V. and 0.
“Caxton’s Ghost”: H. (’roll, who trod the
Inky Way in M.L.’s windy city, is at present
chief-sub. on the New York Times. He’s
leaving that job at the end of the year to
join the Sydney Sun.
“Cobar”: The last autographed photo of
Queen Alexandra brought £42 when auc-
tioned at a Rotary Club luncheon in London
the other day on behalf of the annual Rose
Day collection. The night previously
Gladys Moncrieff secured £lOO for an auto-
graphed photo of Smith and Ulm—on behalf
of the fliers.
“Cornish”: In the sudden intrusion of
photography to Melbourne Age's make-up
recently there was one gem. It purported
to be a reproduction of the Southern Cross.
Unfortunately the retoucher’s knowledge of
at least one aspect of aviation proved faulty
As depicted, the three engines were each
provided with a three-bladed propeller.
A painter of the Bush :
J. Salvana lias let the red dust of his bush roads
settle a little in a show at the Fine Art Gallery,
Sydney, which exhibits a considerable advance upon
his last lone-hand exhibition. He has developed a
greater freedom and knows better where to put
emphasis. “The Mountain Road” is one of his most
alluring pictures. “Lengthening Shadows” is a
reposeful scene, picturesquely treated.
“A.G.W.” (Loud.): At time of writing
Arthur Baker Clack has an exhibition of
pictures at the Beaux Arts Gallery, which
has aroused much interest among critics
and amateurs. By general agreement Clack’s
work belongs to the modern French sphere,
although his marked individuality is never
denied expression. No less an authority
than Frank Rutter describes him as the
most progressive of all Australian painters.
“Tahune”: Journalism and jam (B.
28/5/’2B). Fred W. Moore, a well-known
pressman in the Spec (he filled an editorial
chair there a decade or two ago), left the
Inky Way for the fruit-preserving track.
The big IXL firm bottled his venture, and
Moore then transferred to London, where he
is a big gun in the apple trade. Both he and
G. B. Edwards filed copy for _ the Hobart
Mebcury before falling into different jam-
pots.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Will Longstaff’s pat-
rons range from the most blatant militar-
ists to mystics of the most ethereal type.
Will himself represents the two extremes to
some extent, being both an accomplished
soldier arid now a psychic enthusiast. Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle has bought his large
picture showing the flight of departed spirits
past their gravestones into eternity. The
fine, prints of “Menin Gate at Midnight” are
having a large sale. Speaking of this picture
the other day the artist said he was certain
it “was painted under direct psychic influ-
ence.”
Sunlight in winter :
Hans Heysen’s facility in dealing with warn? atmo-
sphere made the Sydney Grosvenor Gallery a delight-
ful spot during a wet and cold week. It is not a
large show ; at the prices Hey sen is able to mark
on his catalogue he need not do hurried work. The
National Gallery plumped upon “The Guardian of
Aroona Valley,” for which it paid 135 guineas.
It is a boldly-worked scheme with plenty of quality,
and it is characteristic; but there are better things
in the show. The “Arkaba Range” is an adroitly
worked piece; and there is special elegance and
beauty in such pictures as “The Little White House,”
“Morning in April” (with its delightful mixture
of mists and sunlight), “September Afternoon, Amble-
side,” and “Morning Light,” which shows the glow
of the morning sun gleaming on a finely-wrought
landscape.
AWARD RATES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have suffered, at various times, some ter-
rible prices for rhymes,
But I think the most heinous of crimes is
the rule that the minstrel shall miss
His-payment for half the affair when after
meticulous care
In a rhythm recherche and rare he achieves
results written like this.
Set out in a commonplace way
The metre brings double the pay,
Though no competent critic would say
That the verse was improved by these
tricks
Of triplets that stab at the eye :
Still, they’re lucrative lines to get by
And neglect of such measures is why
1 am poorer by seven and six.
N.S.W.
BILDAO THE BARD.


The Sirin of Superiority
2^5
>vi,
T^Ofi
111
HZ'
“BUY
BRITISH
BEARINGS’*
*0 PER CENT. OF BRITISH CAR
MANUFACTURERS RELY ON
BRITISH
rlm
BRITISH
BALL AND ROLLER BEARINGS.
By reason of their outstanding durability, absolute
precision and unfailing reliability these British
Bearings have proved themselves the ideal bear-
ings for automobile application.
Not only do they mean a quieter and smoother
running car, but they protect the vital parts and
add life to the car.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors:
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. Pty.,Ltd.
MELBOURNE:
481 Flinders Street.
S. AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide Hardware Co., Ltd.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
SYDNEY:
225 Clarence Street.
TASMAN TAN AGENTS—
W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
NEWCASTLE:
Hunter Street West.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS—
Evans, Veakin <£- Co., Ltd.
Brisbane and Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —(Automotive) Coventry Motor
(Industrial) Flower, Davies &
Co., Ltd. Perth.
Johnson, Ltd., Perth.
The
Battery you can
rely on—always
Fit a P. & R. Accumulator to your
car and you won’t find it lacking when
most you need it. The right P. &R.
will turn an engine over against the
stickiest oil or the highest compression.
The reason is simple. The P. &R.
is built to give a powerful and healthy
rush of current to the starter. It is
built with the knowledge that when
the starter button is Jirst depressed the
battery is delivering current through an
almost complete short-circuit .
That is why inter-cell connectors on
the P. &R. are copper-cored. And
that, in turn, is one of the reasons
why the P. & R.‘ lasts in service. ,
R»IV
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below*
P. 4
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne,
dfs
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
BOY HILL & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
df
Mayes’ Australian
Builders and
Contractors*
PRICE. BOOR
Practically Re-written in every Branch of
Construction, greatly enlarged, illustrated
and alphabetically arranged.
NINTH EDITION
Price 15/- Posted 15/4
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE. Invaluable for
ARCHITECTS, SHIRE ENGINEERS AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
ESTIMATES FOR
r n / H ™ Se ? uild ’ ng c Costs, Fitting and Lighting, Wire and other Fencing, Automatic
<3- rp Ga , teS ’ PloUffh «?<* Sco °P Work, Tank and Well Sinking, Excavation, Dam Making,
5S ptl ® Tanks, Pumps, Windmills, Hydraulic Rams, Tractors, Pelton Wheels, Oil and Other Engines,
Stave Pipes, Boring for Water, Tree Rooting and Logging Plants, Felling and Squaring
Trees and Working of Timber, Pneumatic Tools for all classes of Boring, Drilling and Hammer
A? 01 ®- , fferen * Alr Compressors illustrated, with prices. Concrete Mixers, Modern Road-making
t'lant, Modern Construction Tables for Reinforced Concrete Facing of Buildings (Faence) in
Terra-cotta, Sandstone, Ceramic, etc.
AH Building Costs can be checked with the aidf of
MAYES* BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS* PRICE BOOK.
GET AWAY FROM THE <OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
, -Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
Ibe Book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan
. "i*ne main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
lines S^aCe as P 0881^ ; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/- 4d. Postage.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Bookstall Corner, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
JOHN JAMESON
* •¥■ *
WHISKEY
John jameson ** * Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method—as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference!
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited Melbourne Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W.A.


Catanach’s “De Luxe” Watches
You could not choose a better Watch—
whether for lady or gentleman than a
Catanach “De Luxe” Watch.
They are made by expert Watchmakers
for accurate timekeeping and good, solid,
everyday service!
sd
fs
£5
24.D.L.46—Catanaeh’s Lady’s “De Luxe” Gold
Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted fancy dials, £5.
1
09
24,D.L.7- Catanaeh’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 Jewels,
assorted fancy dials, £5.
<N ,[[)
<N
CD
= U O) a t i
£5
24,8. L.3 —Catanach’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch. I. r > Jewels,''
assorted fancy dials, £f>.
Cor. Royal Arcade
and Little Collins
Street,
MELBOURNE.
“De Luxe” Watches are showing in an
immense range of designs Ladies and
Gent.’s Wrist Watches and Gent.’s Pocket
Watches. All have I 5-Jewel Movements
and are guaranteed by Catanach’s.
ORDER BY ROST if you cannot call! “De Luxe”
Watches are obtainable only at Catanach’s.
Gom^rio
S2o)cor<
Choice Diamond Wristlet Watch, £25.
This Exquisite Diamond Wristlet Watch, in White
Gold, is showing at Catanach’s for £25.
Many other choice designs in Diamond-set Watches,
some in Gold, Platinum set, others in White Gold,
at prices ranging from ,£l5, £lB, £2O up to £D>.
Catanach’s are also showing exquisite Diamond-set
Watches with flexible Diamond-set Bracelets, at
£65 to £l3O.
AtcE.
Melbourne
Chatter
There was many a hurried luncheon on
Friday; for all who could hied to St. Kilda
to see the landing of the four Southampton
supermarine "planes of the R.A.F. after
their trip of 1(5,500 miles. A cold, foggy
morning resolved itself into an ideal day with
a sun as warm as the first kiss of spring;
and the fashionable suburb wore gala dress
of flags and greenery. A massed formation
of humans and motor-cars occupied the fore-
shores. A few minutes after two o’clock the
big supermarines appeared on the horizon
with 16 ’planes of the K.A.A.F. as
satellites. Like winged whales, the sturdy-
looking seaplanes splashed down beside the
pier and disgorged many Jonahs, who were
taken in a motor-launch to a pontoon.
Premier Hogan, Mayor Dawkins of St. Kihla
and Defence Minister Glasgow, gave greeting
to Group-captain Cave-Brown-Cave, com-
mander of the squadron and three other
officers. The leader returned thanks briefly
and heartily, and they went back to their
craft to fly to headquarters at Point Cooke.
One of the supermarines refused to budge
from its haven, but the other three arose like
gulls, skimmed over the lines of waving
pennons above the crowds, and disappeared
in the direction of Geelong. The Air Force
was there to a man, with wives, sweethearts,
relations and friends, and the navy and army
were well represented. Genei*al Chauvel,
General and Mrs. Brand, Mrs. Hogan, a
speck of bright blue in the throng; Colonel
and Mrs. Walter Cass, Group-captain and
Mrs. S. J. Goble, the Mayoress of St. Kilda,
and the Masson lady were among invited
guests. The waiting crowd was amused by
the Air Force band and some fancy flying by
Squadron-leader Smart.
Animal Week was ushered in with a child-
ren’s fancy-dress dance at the Green Mill on
Saturday afternoon. Marion Montgomery,
hon. sec. of the picturesque turnout, had the
help of numerous leaders of fashion in vend-
ing a motley selection of wares, and Girl
Guides ran bran pics and dips. Lady
Somers was there with her little daughter
Elizabeth, who was got up as Sairey Gamp.
Mrs. Davidson, president of the lately-formed
Animal Welfare League, introduced her
daughter, who trailed an 1870 gown of grey
silk. Lady Somers, Mrs. Grenbry Outh-
waite and Mrs. Davidson judged the cos-
tumes. Among the winners were Billy
Spowers, a huntsman; Diana Stephen, in
early-Vic. frills; the Henry Jowetts’ two
girls, in crinolines; Mrs. Gell’s girlie, as an
autumn fairy ; Mrs. Simon Fraser’s family,
who made a .dashing Spanish trio ; and the
E. D. Yenc-ken boys, who wore the black
velvet of the princes in the Tower. The
Harry Whitings’ three boys were tin sol-
diers ; and Commander and Mrs. Carr’s! wee
son, as Boy Blue, who was with a pretty
sister, was the most beautiful of a lovely lot
of children. The Chauvels’ daughter Eileen
made a handsome Beau Geste. Dr. and Mrs.
Finn’s girls, Joan and Pat, were fairies, and
were escorted by their aunts, Amy and Eileen
Castles. Vice-Admiral Napier, whose small
daughter was a crusader, took a turn at the
helm with Florrie Green in keeping the young-
folks amused. Items in the programme were
an animal ballet, danced by pupils of Minnie
Everett, and a pretty toy pageant, staged
by National Gallery students. Mrs. James
Furves, Mrs. Frank Andrew, Mrs. Lort
Smith and Mrs. A. Payne were among the
workers.
The directors of the Williamson-Melba
Grand Opera .Company must have realised,
as the crowds clamored for seats for “Madame
Butterfly” on Thursday night, that they had
held a trump too long. A huge house show-
ered applause and flowers on Hina Spani,
who made a rather large Cho-Gho-San. and
the other principals. Wee Nellie Melba
Tornari, who came into this world during
the last J. C. W. opera season, made an
adorable . little Trouble, and was almost
hidden by gifts which she acknowledged with
curtsies given with the air of a prima
donna. In the boxes, besides the usual bevy
of off-stage principals, were James Hay and
Strella Wilson. The d.c. contained, among
others, Italian Consul Carosi, Mayor and
Mayoress Morell, Mrs. Charlie Lyon, Mrs.
Dermot Casey, Betty Shaw, Dr. Davenport,
Dr. and Mrs. Marsden and Dr. and Mrs.
Strong. An attractive collection of evening
wraps brightened the reserved seats, one of
the most arresting being worn by a fair-haired
front-stall patroness who combined with a
silver-and-blue shot coat an Oriental turban
of silvery white. The dressing of the Puc-
cini opera included some beautiful kimonos.
Hopes ran high among opera lovers that
Amy Castles would be selected to take the
name-role of "Madame. Butterfly,” and
there was keen disappointment when the
Australian singer’s name was missing from
the bill on Thursday night. She was
approached by the Fuller-Gonsalez manage-
ment to undertake Puccini rOles, but it
was later discovered that the J.O.W. organ-
isation held exclusive; rights to perform this
composer’s operas in Australia during the
present season.
Miss Oilman Jones, president of the com-
mittee formed to welcome Maude Hoyden, en-
tertained- the famous lady at tea at Merton
Hall, O. of E. Girls' Grammar School,
of which she is principal. There were, no
speeches. Miss Hoyden wore black velvet
beneath a fur coat. The hostess was in
a frock of lilac hue, lit up with gold
embroidery. Chave Oollinson, Miss Hoy-
den’s capable publicity scatterer, and the
lion. sec. of the welcome committee, Mrs.
Hapke, in navy blue costume with a touch
of beige, were well in the limelight. The
Masson lady, Enid Joske, Vida Goldstein
and Mrs. G. G. Henderson were among
those who accepted invitations.
Scott’s was invaded on Thursday afternoon
by 400 women carying brown-paper parcels.
These contained towels, sheets and other
napery for the Queen Victoria Hospital.
The donors, after piling their gifts at the
entrance, passed into the dining-room for tea,
with a musical accompaniment provided by
Liliane Gay, Jean Ilambleton, Phyllis Dick-
enson, Norman Bradshaw, violinist Gertrude
Healy, Frank Hanna and Archie McLean.
The acting-president of the hospital, Miss
Cuthbertson, and the committee rejoiced
greatly at the generous response to their
cry for help. Mrs. Howard Lewis and Adel-
aide Allan, with sundry assistants, pre-
vailed on patrons to buy flowers, and Mrs,
Drake-Broekman snared stray coins for
raffles of silk hosiery and a -doll. The lion,
sec., Mrs. J. Sutherland; Mrs. W. M. Bobins.
patroness; Mrs. Fossett, lion, treas.; Dr.
Margaret Ashton and Mrs. Gilrutli were
workers, and Mayoress Morell and her chick
Sheila were among the bringers of gifts.
This stern and purposeful expression,
caught by Vandyck, belongs to Lyla Ball,
a young musi-
cian who
shows promise
of ability as
a conductor.
Though only
IG, she shakes
the baton over
an orchestra.
It’s true the
oldest member
is only 10, but
most of them
started at five
and have been
liard at it
ever since,
and they make
very good
music. Lately
they have been
heard through
the radio. The
Balls are a
musical fam-
ily. Little sister Gwen plays the ’cello, and
brother Alan toots the cornet in the kiddies’
band. Miss Ball, already a very capable
violinist and a credit to her teacher, Wil-
liam Mallison, is a valued member of the
Malvern Symphony Orchestra.
Mayoral balls are fluttering the suburbs
just now. Malvern’s City Hall stole a bit
of Fern-tree Gully for the setting of the
civic hop on Thursday night at which Mayor
and Mayoress Wilmot received the guests.
Mrs. Wilmot wore powder-blue velvet that
dangled scarf drapery, with a glimpse of
silver. A small army of debutantes provided
a special turn by tripping a stately minuet,
their period frocks of ivory velvet being
appropriate costumes. Mrs. E. F. Creswell,
daughter of the host and hostess, shed a
radiance of gold and amber. Dr. Stanley
Argyle was there with his wife, who wore
a gown of black lace. Dr. and Mrs. Leon
Jona, Mrs. Van Cqoth and her daughter
Margery, and the W. Rogers-Thomsons and
Kathleen, the last in dainty covering of
lettncc-green taffeta and tulle, were dancers.
For the opening of anew dormitory
wing to the Travellers’ Aid Hostel in King-
street the secretary of the T. A. Society,
Nest Malcolm, turned the happening on Fri-
day afternoon to practical advantage. Guests
were asked to bring along a cup and saucer
each, as the crockery supply was low. The
response was liberal. Linda Byron Moore
turned the key in the front door of the new
building, and Dawn Harding and Mary
Kingston lifted their voices in song during
the boiling of kettle and the christening
of the new teacups.
Students of the Albert-street Con. put
on a programme at the Assembly Hall on
Friday night which drew a good audience.
Victoria Wilson’s warm mezzo-soprano voice
was heard in Wagner’s “Dreams,” and
Muriel Sutherland trilled joyously in
“Nymphs ct Sylvans,” by Bemberg. Eunice
Garland scored first honors among the
pianists, and Mary Gaskin, who had the field
to herself as the violinist of the. evening,
did some clever playing in Handel’s Sonata
in 1). Ida Scott, as usual, played accom-
paniments for the maidens, who all wore
shoulder posies of real blooms upon dainty
white gowns.
“Deirdre in Exile,” the Fritz Hart opera,
is evidently to be included in the Sydney
repertoire of the Williamson-Melba G. O.
Cos., for the scenery and props have been
shipped to the Harbor City. While the
director of Albert-street Con. is rejoicing in
the attention paid to his work. Mrs. Hart,
who breeds black and tan English terriers,
is also in the spotlight. At an important
dog-show last week she won a champion-
ship with a wee pup.
Here is painter William Rowell, whose
show is the attraction at the Athenaeum
Gallery this week. Like most of our young
artists he got his training at the National
Gallery
under the late
Fred McCub-
bin and Ber-
nard Hall. He
first dabbled
in paint for
a crust as a
scenic artist
for the Firm
in the pre-
Tait days, and
went back to
the old craft
a few months
ago, when he
journeyed to
Tasmania to
do some
S h a k spearean
settings for
Allan Wilkie.
Mr. Rowell,
whose brother
J o h n lately
resigned from tlie Art School of Ballarat,
is a member of the Twenty Painters Circle
and also the “Three A’s.” Lafayette made
the portrait.
The Austral Salon recompensed those who
left comfortable firesides to attend last week’s
dance by presenting a warm and comfy
appearance with golden-shaded lights and
Iceland poppies among gum-tips. Mrs.
Frank Beavis; who had a dash of green on
an ivory-satin gown, and Alice Richardson,
in dull gold, were the leading lights of the
hop. which was organised to help the Salon’s
finances.
At Greenknowe, the ‘Toorak home of the
Robert Knoxes, last week a bridge party
provided a financial foundation for the Big
Brothers’ Ball, which is to be a Grand
National Week event. Jocelyn Purves
Smith and Pat Lempriere helped with sales
of sweets, cigarettes and bridge accessories.
Players included a whole bevy of titled folk,
including the Fairbairn lady. Mrs. George
Blackwood, some Grimwades and Mrs.
Alister Clark also reserved tables.
Two tennis enthusiasts became partners
in a love set at the Methodist Church, Caul-
field, when Reta, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. Tomasetti, of E. St. Ivilda, exchanged
pledges with William Russell Browning, well
known in banking circles. Billows of white
georgette fringed with silver wrapped the
bride, and yards of tulle garnished with
orange blossom draped the aisle. Two pink-
frocked ’maids, Gwen Jewell and sister Chris,
were in attendance. The new home is set-up
at Alexandra, where the bridegroom is in
command of the State bank.
When Lady Dyer, once Maude Turner, a
Westralian, revisited her native land a few
years ago, her attractive personality and
slick style raised gasps of admiration at
the social functions she attended. A war
widow, well gilded—her husband, a baronet,
held a captaincy in the Scots Guards —she
lias for long proved obdurate to many eli-
gible admirers. The right man, however,
has now come on the scene. He is Louis
Collier, of Singapore, and their marriage
took place in London in the first week in
June. She has two children, the elder of
whom, a son, now 14, succeeded his father
to the baronetcy and estates in 1917.
“The Blue Revue,” which represented
three months’ hard work for producer Nor-
man Lee and lion, organiser Mrs. James
Angus, had a satisfactory premiere at St.
Kilda Town Hall on Saturday night. The
bright show is put on to raise money for the
building of a hostel for blind boys. The
company will do the round of the suburbs.
Molly Mackay, Edward Beachcroft, Marion
Liglitfooot, Mrs. Fleming Dunstan, Marie
Doran, John Hobbs, Clive Cooke, Elsie
Maude and the ballet of Alice Uren’s pupils
are just, a few of the performers. There
were gifts and flowers for all hands. The
College of Music orchestra, under Kevin
Bradley, constituted the band for the first
night.
The establishment of playgrounds in the
poorer suburbs of the city is looked upon here
as the best means of reducing the number of
street accidents to children. The Rotary
Club is interesting itself in the movement,
and will devote the proceeds of its annual
charity ball at St. Kilda Town llall on
Friday night to the good cause. Beryl
Ainslie and Edna Bingeman have given their
services as honorary ticket-sellers, and a
good roll-up is expected.
There’s a lot of destitution in this city
just now. and several soup-kitchens have been
opened where a satisfying meal may be
had for threepence, or for nothing if the
case be desperate. In addition.. St. \ incent's
Hospital provides 100 free meals daily. The
bitterly cold, foggy weather of late has made
the misery of the workless just a little bit
more acute, and there is an urgent need of
gifts of warm clothing.
The Embassy was chosen by the Old
Girls of Geelong C. of E. Grammar for their
annual dance last week. Forty hostesses
officiated, and the present Head, Elsie
Morris, robed in black satin, was a guest of
honor. Mrs. T. J. Cochrane, vice-president
of the association, was there in a black
gown shining with crystal and silver sequins.
Miss E. Sollas was the lion, sec., in a
draped black robe.
L. St. Clare Grondona, once an Australian
penman and now in London, where, among
other things, he sees to the sale of
The Bulletin, is casting an eye in
the direction of the House of Com-
mons. He is to contest the East Camber-
well scat at the next election. His pretty
young wife was presented at the first Court
of this season by Lady Joynson-Hicks, so
it's evident he’ll fly the Baldwin colors.
The Somerses are doubtful stayers at
State Government House. Passages to
Blighty for themselves and child have been
booked for next April; and it may be signi-
ficant that private-sec. Davidson and his
family are going by the same steamer.
Every year a member of the Baillieu clan
sails to Europe with his family to keep an
eye on his firm’s oversea interests, and the
Cilive Baillieus have been busy packing for
the journey. Their daughter June, who was
educated abroad, is delighted with the idea
of greeting old friends. Her cousins the
Edward Shackell girls are expecting her in
London, where she will make a social debut.
Besides many good-bye family parties, her
great friend Joan Syme persuaded her
mother to give a decorative dinner-party at
Blythswood to the departing family.
Roy Shepherd, of this city, who has be e n
at the Royal College of Music in London for
the last two years, has already distinguished
himself, having earned the praise of the
critics as assisting artist at an iEolian Hall
concert recently. The young pianist had
played by command at Windsor Castle. He
gives his first recital this month under Royal
patronage, Princess Victoria having promised
to be present. In April Mrs. Shepherd went
to London to join her son for six months,
and she writes delightedly of his progress.
Trouble has descended on Mrs. Norman
Bayles, once again established with her family
in London. Ayliffe Neil, the bright daughter
of her first matrimonial venture, has been
fighting for life against appendicitis and com-
plications in Douglas Shields’s Hospital.
Many weary weeks will be needed for con-
valescence. Miss Neil was one of this city’s
debutantes last season.
The land which looks over our Great
Barrier Reef has become a busy workshop.
Huts and laboratories are being built for
Dr. C. M. Yonge and his contingent of
scientists. The savant’s pretty young wife
will keep him company during liis exile,
which will last well over a year. Being fully
qualified, Mrs. Yonge is to act as medical
officer of the party. She won’t be the only
woman on the scene. Miss S. M. Marshall, a
zoologist of note, is a member of the expedi-
tion, and Mrs. G. Otter is another.
The James Lauries are slipping quietly
away this week for a year or so abroad in
search of health. He has just relinquished
the management of the N.X. Insurance
Cos. in this city after 52 years of service.
A brief stay will be made in Sydney, and
the couple will then sail to ’Frisco, where a
son has just taken a wife and founded a
home.
Over from Perth to sample our season
is Elaine Parker, a descendant, on her
dad’s side, of Westralia’s pioneers of 1830.
To a maternal ancestress, Mrs. Wells, be-
longs the honor of being the first white
woman to step ashore on Western soil.
Miss Parker intends to publish a book con-
cerning the family’s doings in those early
days.
The Sheppard Grimwades are again on the
wing. The hard winter has frozen them out
of their spacious house in the Geelong dis-
trict, and they are off to Java in search of
sunshine. Daughters Alice and Gertrude are
accompanying their parents.


OHUMMONB S
OEM SETWATCHE
ggs£^
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (30 DIAMONDS) £26-5
ll
iiij
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (26 DIAMONDS) £.30
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (.36 DIAMONDS) £3O
Never has the firm been able to offer
such a lar&e and varied range of Wristlet
Watches. The selection includes many
new and distinctive designs, and it can be
confidently stated that nothing, of finer
quality and value can be obtained anywhere
in the Commonwealth. Mail inquiries
receive prompt attention. Fully-illustrated
Catalogue post free to any address.
WM DMUMMOMD & CO
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
A SAIINDFRS’
STANDARD QUALITY JEWELLERY
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk
Wrist Band, £6/10/-. GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS’
Single-Diamond
Hexagon-shaped
Rlatinum 18et.
Gold Ring, £4.
A. SAUNDERS’
15ct. Gold Links,
set fine Diamond,
£3/10/-
Larger Diamond,
£4/10/-, £5,
w
A. SAUNDERS’
Opal Ring, - 9ct.
Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’ Single-Diamond Hexagon-
shaped Platinum 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, £5.
Larger Diamond, £7/10/*
■uwm
Sr
A. SAUNDERS’ Nickel Keyless Imperial
Lever, 25/-
Higher Grades, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS’
9ct. Gold Links,
20/-
Heavier, 20/-,
30/-. 15ct., Gold,
£2, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 12/0
.lit
A SAUNDERS’ 9ct. Solid Gold Curb Albert, £5/10/-
Heavier, £6, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-. £lO.
Lighter, £3, £3/1.0/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS—WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
COMMONWEALTH LOAN.
Interest HX Issue Price £9B/10/-
7 or 14 years.
Commonwealth 5 p.c. Bonds and Stock Maturing
on 15th September, 1928, may be changed into
Securities of this New Loan.
Persons thus converting will be paid, within two days of
receipt of application, a bonus of £l/1 0/- for each £lOO converted.
Persons having either small or large sums available for invest-
ment are reminded that:—
Money lying idle is wasteful; an immediate invest-
ment should be sought.
As small a sum as £lO can be put into Common-
wealth Loans.
No investments are safer than Commonwealth
Loans.
These investments can be sold at any time on the
Stock Exchange, if necessary.
As the issue price of the Loan now open is
£9B/10/-, an average annual return of
£5/10/3 can be secured for a seven-years*
investment, and £5/8/1 for 14 years.
Interest is Free of State Income Tax and runs
from the date of lodgment of money.
Full particulars from—
Banks, including Savings Banks, Money-Order Post Offices and
Members of Stock Exchanges.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury,
CANBERRA, F.C.T.
Combining rest and recreation in just the right proportion,
the >health'giving sea voyage to Fiji will delight you. In less
than 5 days from Sydney you reach the island port of Suva,
and enjoy 3 full days ashore before the return voyage.
The launch excursions up the Rewa River and inside the
barrier reefs, and the visits to the plantations and quaint
thatclvroofed villages, will prove unique among your travel
experiences. Fishing for fighting sea'fish off the Fiji reefs is
a thrilling sport.
Your days aboard ship will be equally memorable. Commodious and
steady, Matson Oceanic liners are notable for excellence of cuisine
and service. Music for dancing, and novel entertainment features
enliven the voyage.
Fares: Sydney to Suva, first class single from £l7; second class
single from £l3; first class return from £3O; second class return
from £22. Available for six months. Illustrated booklets free on
request.
All Inclusive Tours to Fiji, £42. Folder on Application.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENT URA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
ittili 81MS
Matbom. Lin
T j A \r ti . . w Bridge Street , Sydney. r\
Local Agents: Mcllwraxth M cEacharn Ltd., 94'96 William tm v
VV ill{a ,n St.. M'Mr, Fremantle, Perth


Under
Royal
Warrant
dfs
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
swiau
<y3ISpPIIS3IiPtTj
aMOVdWVHD
1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrsnts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
3SS/ Fruity/
From an old English recipe,
perfected by 60 years of Aus-
tralian experience, Swallow
and Ariell’s Plum Puddings are
made. Their richness, fruiti-
ness and delicious flavor have
made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over half
a century.
ASK YOUR GROCER.
• v-* : s&s(&* £&&&§
SuxMw&tGimUci
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
i®
/3/r
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.16 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OP TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 6.30, 6/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayers
TWIN
HEEL
SILK HOSIER
Kensington, sullen and weeping on the
first day of the Dudley Polo Cup, was almost
ingratiatingly smiling on Saturday after-
noon, and hundreds of shining cars were
drawn up around the enclosure. The fight
that set the spinal cord sparking in every
cylinder was the meeting of the men from
Spring Creek and Goulburn. Another
heartening feature was the array of female
beauty. The girls and women seemed better-
looking than ever. The country’s roses and
those out of the rouge-pot bloomed with
equal effect above topcoats of fur or tweed;
and beneath these occurred the evergreen
jumper suit and above them the small felt
hat to which woman has become addicted.
Lady Mary Herbert, who was in the G.-G.’s
party, wore tailored black, warmed with
only a fur necklet. The State Viking’s
Elaine was tweed coated above the family’s
special brand of green.
There must have been 1300 at the Jour-
nalists’ Ball. Half of Sydney had wanted to
come, and at the first horrified glance from
the head of the stairs it looked as if they
had succeeded. Dancing, of course, was an
impossibility Supper started at ten, and there
were still some of the hungry making for
the fodder-room at one in the morning. The
staff Avas wonderful, and still smiling—a trifle
wearily—when the doors closed. Mrs. Mac-
lurcan had risen to the occasion even as the
war-horse is said to respond to the smoke of
battle. Here was a devastating horde to be
fed, marshalled and managed, and at one
o’clock over a specially-brewed dish of tea
she confessed herself tired but victorious.
Perhaps the Deb. set (“We come out every
day”), made up of newspaper girls, was the
most original, but it was so quiet the fun
of it was missed. Their posies were quaint
affairs designed by the clever Jeans, and
were fashioned of pink blotting-paper
orchids centred about a tiny inkwell sur-
mounted by a poised pen. One real little deb.,
looking like a pink rosebud in a blue and
silver holder, made her bob to the V i-king.
She was Dorothy Webb, the pretty young
daughter of Tiie Bulletin’s Associate-
Editor —a Westralian product by birth.
Another belle of the evening was Betty
Higginson. Bulletin artist Ted Scor-
field brought his blonde Helen Pillenger,
wearing her shining new engagement ring.
Mrs. William Macleod, in black and silver
richness, proved the edge of her wit as keen
as when she Was the brilliant "Akenehi.
The Hugh Poynters, the professorial Mungo
MacCallums, the Harry Budges, the Hugh
Denisons, Mrs. T. It. Bavin and the Chief
Justice Streets were among the well-known
Avho arranged parties. Lalla Mockbell, as a
spreading, pink, ruffled telephone-doll, was
probably the most admired girl in the hust-
ling throng.
The military bird spread liks fdathers
before an array of equally ornate fair at the
Second Division Ball last week. Australia’s
starry emblem and the Union Jack shrouded
the vice-regal dais, and, as usual these cold
nights, the King’s appointed were made very
cosy and comfortable with cushioned chairs
and carpets for the toes. When everybody
got dug in, and the Governor-General and
their State Exes, had been God Saved into
position, the dancing really started, and toes
got a chance to lose their cramp. The
Brigadier-General Gordon Bennett pair
greeted the vice-regals, the lady’s dress com-
bining pale pink georgette and silver with
distinction.
The Town Hall has seen bigger audiences
but not more enthusiastic ones than that
which greeted young Shura Cherkassky. It’s
a little unfair to bill Shura as a sort of
infant prodigy. There is nothing even juven-
ile about his playing, and he stands in no
need of a weiglit-for-age handicap. He man-
aged to make that apparent at the outset.
If you are to be a front-seater at the
Opera you must have a head-dress. Most
of these are deep bandeaux of glinting rhine-
stones set about a closely-fitting head-piece
of net. The net in the ones this Letter saAV
the other day was mostly dark brown, though,
of course, a golden girl must have hers of a
blonde complexion. One band was of closely-
woven fine long beads that gave the effect
of mother of pearl. Mysterious symbols,
seemingly of the rock-painting era, were
worked into the design, of which the front
was like a winged fish. It made you think
of the story of the prehistoric man carving
a letter on an enormous boulder and asking
a shillelagh-clad friend if there were two
or only one fish in "vicissitude. line ot
powder-blue velvet was studded with gold
comets, and one was a swathe of silver lame;
but silver lame is hard and can only be borne
by the impeccable in complexion. The sim-
plest of these head-dresses is built on the
plan of the old motoring gossamer that was
gathered into an elastic and split up the
back. On these, though, the elastic doesn’t
make a little ring on the crown, but con-
fines the width of the material to the fore-
head ; the two ends are bound around the
head and the ends tucked under —the whole
is a severe turban effect. The fabrics used in
these are very glittering. But the important
thing seems to be not to have a hair
bared to the public gaze.
The Tony Horderns’ dance at Retford Hall
was the swish private party of last week.
It was at once, a hospitable gesture to the
polo players and a good-bye to Mrs. Tony,
who leaves this week for London. Red
camellias and poinsettias mingled with wattle
were used lavishly in the ballroom deco-
rations, and the pavilion was reached by way
of a path covered and lined in the colors of
the polo teams. The Parma blue of the
Army-in-India team was emphasised in the
supper-table decorations, and a fine touch
were the rings of violets around the base
of the blue-shaded candlesticks.
Old and not-so-old boys of Sydney High
rolled up to the Wentworth for their annual
jollo last week. These Old Boys follow every
trade; they are soldiers and sailors and
tinkers, too —anatomical- and gum-tinkers,
anyhow. But no matter what tools fate
and inclination have packed into their kit-
bags, they downed them last week and hur-
ried to the dance. Arthur Eedy was presi-
dent and gained a helping hand during the
evening from his grey-georgetted lady. lom
Mutch was there, and ivith him Mrs. Mutch
cloaked in gold. Others were Minister for
Education Drummond and Mrs. Drummond ;
and the medical Oscar Diethelms brought a
party, she in black lace and rhinestones.
Miss McNeil, one of High’s old friends, was
another of the much-pointed-out and sought.
Plcre is a lady who has attended all the
polo carnivals around the country, following
the Gundagai
team, in which
her son is a
player. This
week she is
one of the per-
mane n t. fix-
tures of Ken-
sington, and
will be hostess
of one of the
biggest patties
at the Extra
Chnkka ball
on Thursday.
Besides polo,
Mrs. C. W.
Beveridge has
one absorbing
interest the
Country
Women’s As-
sociation. The
Junee branch
is fortunate in having her for its president,
and her energy and capacity are now being
devoted to the C.W.A. endeavor to build
a new hospital at that busy centre.
Through wutliering winds and sleety rain
1500 joy-hunters made their way to the
Moore Park Palais last week. The movie
houses were holding their annual ball, and
every girl and bov in the trade gave the
same address to the chauffeur and the tram-
guard. The Palais, like an island ot light in
a sea of murk, twinkled as might the ark
on Ararat. And even the Ark could not have
been more congested. F'rorn every silver sheet
the players had stepped for the night. 1 here
were Adorable Outcasts in grass skirts and
hibiscus-decorated hair. Here came the
Gaucho and his friends and enemies, all in
the Spanish style, with hair black as Spanish
liquorice. The passing of the Dove was one
of the procession’s great moments. \\ ltlun
a gilded cage stood white-clad Innocence, who
loosed a flight of white doves which skimmed
low across the shining lagoon of floor and
finally found the olive of peace up among the
high timber. Girls ruffling in ostrich-feather
skirts and tall black hats; a gondola of
golden wattle; girls in black tights with
swinging short shoulder-capes and torch-lit
skull-caps—these flitted about like will-o -the-
wisps. A canoe woven of flowers ; girl aviators
in skyey blue and white flying kit to repicsent
that marvel of realism “Wings ; a huge
scale of blossoms; racecourse touts and
pretty Phyllis Gibbs as a plunger, the fore-
runners of Odds On, were some of the in-
gredients in the pageant —one of the best
the movie colony has shown. The Governor
and Lady de Chair brought daughter Elamo
to the party. (Elaine, as is the newest
London way, always wears a chaperone.)
With the Government House party came the
Major Longfield Lloyds. Stuart Doyle, who
waS president of the ball, and his lady,
v,.ry fair above black velvets, did the honors.
To-morrow (Thursday) night City lattei-
sall's will be at home. For once woman is
not only admitted, hut welcomed. It is a
preliminary gallop for the big fixture at the
Palate mi July '3l, by which the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital benefits. _
Henceforth the Women Painters' rooms in
Queen Victoria Markets will be given over
to the smell of oils and turps. earnest
women in smocks with palettes and brushes
will be their only occupants. Expensive
powders and counter-currents of subtle per-
fumes will no longer suffuse the atmosphere
several afternoons, a week, and the grand
piano has been permanently removed, hor
the Auxiliary, which is the social side ot
the club, has taken its frivolities to another
address It now calls itself the Arts Club,
but its relationship to the Women Painters
is exactly the same. The new rooms, over
Anderson’s seed shop in George-street, are
done in horizon-blue bordered with old gold.
The ceiling- is of the same summer-sky
toning, the carpets and tapestries are in the
same hues, and the light these dull afternoons
streams through large and attractive goal
shades A grand piano, curved, as is the way
of all grands, like a Gargantuan kidney
plaster, adds impressiveness to one alcove.
And card-rooms, writing-room and kitchen
are there complete.
Sydney's high-voltage brains restored the
balance of power by letting out toes and
heels in a night's jazz at the' Ambassadors
last week. The affair was to aid the Uni-
versity Women’s Settlement, and professorial
dons and donnas and all the lesser degrees of
kindred hobnobbed in the Palm Court and
over the festive fruit cup. Undergrads,
were there, and six white debs., like almond
icing figurines, smiled shyly at the Chief
Justice’s lady as they were presented by
Mungo MacCallum’s lady in grey; the other
wore her gold and pink lame with a delicate
air, and rather like a sigh of autumn were
the leaf-brown gem-splashed georgettes worn
by Professor Peden’s wife. The Cecil Pur-
sers, the Bridge Bradfields, Vice-Chancellor
Wallace, the Russell Frenches and Gladys
Marks were others of the erudite who made
merry in the good cause.
The Memorial Carillon had its first melan-
choly task one day last week, when it tolled
the tragic passing of Mrs. Selle, wife of
the registrar of the Uni. Mrs. Selle had
collapsed and died a few hours after the
car in which she and her husband and some
friends were returning from a party plunged
into the Parramatta at the Ryde-punt cross-
ing The immersion in the ice-cold water
proved fatal, though Richard Ashburner,
who was driving, was only a second or two
before he pulled her free of the car and
struggled with her to the shore. This was
the second punt tragedy of the week, t re-
viously two girls had been trapped and
drowned in a car that plunged into the
river at Taren Point, outside Cronulla. ihe
lighting on the approaches to most of these
crossings is lamentably insufficient.
All Sydney of twenty—thirty—-forty years
ago knew Reggie Black, Born 83 years
ago in the Bank of N. S. Wales,
managed then by his father. John Henry
Black, he was one of the ■ first pupils ot
Sydney Grammar, and was long the leader
among its Old Boys. As a small child he
often stood and watched the soldiers, whose
quarters were then in Barrack-square just
about the site of the present Barrack-street ;
and he fished for minnows in the Tank
Stream, which flowed through the banks old
orchard on its way to IV.rt Jackson'. The
keeping and disbursement of moneys was
in Reggie Black’s blood. His father had
been a bank manager; he himself rose to be
the B.N.S.W.’s inspector, left the service
to go into private business, but was for
years and years one of the old bank s
directors. It was Reggie Black that Premier
George Dibbs sent for in the State s
banking crisis of 1893 to draft a plan of
stabilisation. The dashing Zingaris had
him for their president, lie was an original
member of the Union Club and the president
of the Pioneers’ Club. His wife was Eleanor
Rousfe, of the old Mudgee clan.
The J. T. Horrigans, of Trangie, have been
in town on account of a wedding in the
family: at St. Mary’s one night last week
daughter Enid linked up with Sydney Burns,
of Petersham. The meditative dusk of the
cathedral was shot through with the pink
and silver decorations and the bridal cliiftons
that swayed in crystal-encrusted flounces
under a flowing tulle veil. Claire and Joan
B orrigan ’maided in faint pink flecked with
green, and wore droopy pale pink hats in
the softest of velour felt. Mrs. Ilorrigan, in
a do luxe binding of black and gold, did
the honors later at the Ambassadors.
Milk-white satin which drew a gold-lined
train was supported by Kathleen Herbert
at St. James’s last week when she was ush-
ered into matrimony. After Padre Micklem’s
job was completed she was Mrs. M. E. Mac-
Callum, of Mosman. May Herbert and
Nita Roberts wore the two silvered ’maids,
and, later, the bi-ide’s Parents, the D. S.
Herberts, of Forbes, held a reception at the
„ Ambassadors.
Half of Grafton cheered as the Wedding
March sounded arid under a golden bell
“1878 to 1928” stood popular A. Lipman
and his wife. The two original bridesmaids
did the honors again, but sickness prevented
the best man from repeating his job. Mr.
Lipman is one of the old-timers of the
“Rivers” —a good citizen, who helped to
found the local fire brigade and found time
to be president of the Benevolent Home and
has done yeoman work in battling for good
roads and railways to open up the back coun-
try. He was an extra busy man during the
war years, and as organiser for the Com
mercial Travellers’ Association netted £3600
for patriotic funds in one day. A son
earned distinction at the Front.
The dark-haired girl of this Judith Fletcher
picture is
Grace Gossing-
ton Smith,
and she is
hav i n g her
first one-man
exhibition a*
the Grosveno
Galleries o.
July 23. Th ■
vivid Datillo
Rubbo is her
art master, and
she proudly
owns to being
one of th e
little circle
that is named
the New Syd-
ney grou p.
Professor Rad-
cliffe Brown
is opening the
show.
Captain E. A. Fitzroy, who has just suc-
ceeded Mr. Whitley as Speaker of the House
of Commons, is a near blood relation of Mr.
A. H. Fitzroy, an octogenarian of the Single-
ton district, whose bearing distinctly sug-
gests royal ancestry. Another member of
the family was Sir Charles Fitzroy. one
time Governor of N. S. Wales. His, wife
was a daughter of the lady who gave the
historic ball at Brussels on the night before
the battle of Waterloo. Lady Fitzroy was
killed at Parramatta when the horses in her
carriage bolted.
Shura Cherkassky, the boy pianist now
warming, the Town Hall with a golden glow
of sound, was introduced to musical Sydney
over cutlets and coffee the other day. He s
a nice youngster with no inflated ideas of
his own genius and Sydney’s lack of it. He
is so shy that, although Manager Grave-
stock had made him rehearse over and over
again the speech he was to speak in reply
to Frank Hutchens, when the time came he
couldn’t remember a word of it. He didn’t
say so, but stood for several agonising-
seconds trying to capture the elusive words.
His eyes had at once that hunted and hunt-
ing look of a small boy trying to conjugate
a French verb. Then he gave in, added a
final “Thank you” to his opening “Thank
you,” and sat down.
Everybody musical came to the hand-
shaking except just-returned Roy Agnew;
lie couldn’t because of keeping company at
home with influenza. However, his old
teacher, Alfred Hill, told the assembly what
it should do in the matter of subscribing
to a testimonial so that Roy, “Australia’s
most brilliant music writer,” could have
leisure to stalk his Mu'se. A son of Ver-
brugglien’s was at the party, and spoke to
inquiring friends of his father’s nostalgia
for Sydney sunshine. Pianist Trixie Tange,
her red-gold mop very effective under a black
silk velvet tarn, gazed with interested eyes
at Shura; and Mrs. Hugh Ward, Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener, Mrs. Wunderlich and Mrs.
Allard were among the persistent concert-
goers at the welcoming.
Does it take a blonde to wear dead-Avhite
with distinction? Judging by Margaret
Bannerman, the answer seems to be “Yes.’
In the third act the golden-haired, clear-
skinned creature ravishes her audience in a
tea gown of white georgette, heavy with
fluffy white marabout at the hem and the
borders of the wide kimono sleeves. The
line of this is very simple—only saved from
severity by the souffle-like material. The
silver lame of the second act is moulded to
the graceful figure, but the royal china blue
worn against the marvellous red lacquer set-
ting of the first act is cut with a swingingly
full skirt. But surely that bit of _ acting
where the ungentle Pearl of Maugham’s crea-
tion sets out to win back her wealthy lover
by the pretenee of womanly weakness is
too palpably insincere. The biggest dolt
would have known that his Pearl was mak-
ing game of himi if she had sounded so imp-
ish as Miss Bannerman makes her. And.
Fenwick, the lover, was no fool, but a hard-
headed man of business.


Gentlemen prefer Sharwood’s
SURELY life offers nothing better than the
pleasures of congenial company, of
cheerful surroundings, and last, but not
least, the satisfaction of being well and
correctly dressed. It is remarkable, however,
that many splendid young men and beautiful
Australian girls, careful in all other matters,
are careless as to their footwear! Undoubtedly
it is a fact that the shoes you wear will mar
or make your appearance.
Better-class men and women choose their
shoes with discrimination—they do not blindly
accept the first pair that is offered to them,
but emphatically insist on having J. H.
Sharwood’s, knowing full well that the sales-
man who offers some other make alleged to
be * just as good” has his own ends to serve.
First ascertain which of the great range of
Sharwood shapes fits exactly, and then
always ask for that shape. You will be
assured of the same consistent comfort.
Remember, the name is on every pair. Look for it I
df
FAULTLESS
FOOTWEAR
mm.
:
mm
w i
11
3
:■
ill
mm
:
A
'.' : "'' sill
MB—
lllllilllli
sjs ',.
■■■■■
i*
1
hii
■ ft ■
5 ft gft-
-
■ ■ •
‘■Sy
■
#
■P
I!!
.
1
■..•• ._ ;
1
*■' ■■
■
mmmmm
si®
.<■ y- '■ :■■;.■■
Is s
?w
■
H IS
Sit
« D
r
Should you have any
difficulty in purchasing
Sliarwood Shoes you are
cordially invited to write
to Head Offices, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, Vic., when you
will be advised as to the
nearest store from which
they are obtainable. Do
what others do decline
substitutes, and look for the
name on every pair.
and mine are Sharwoocls too


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OH
1 TASMANIA
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To LESLIE WILLIAM CRAOKNELL of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of
this Court citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Gladys Muriel Cracknell for
dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion TAKE NOTICE that
unless within twenty-one days from the pub-
lication hereof you cause an Appearance to
be entered in the Registry of the said Court
at Hobart to answer the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear the said charge
proved and pronounce sentence your absence
notwithstanding.
(Sd.) A. J. BRA MM ALL,
Registrar, of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 01
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
To ANNIE KILPATRICK BROWNLOW
formerly of Jandowne in the State of
Queensland but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane in the
State of Queensland No. 754 of 1927 by
your husband in which he claims a dissolu-
tion of liis marriage with you and custody
of the child the issue of the marriage and
by a Petition filed in the said Court on the
twenty-first day of December 1927 he alleges
that on or about the twentieth day of May
one thousand nine hundred and twenty you
left him and have ever since lived separate
and apart from him arid have never since
returned to cohabit with him and that you
have deserted him without cause continu-
ously for five years and upwards and that
it has been ordered that service of the
Writ of Summons and Petition on you be
effected by filing in the Registry of this
Honorable Court at Brisbane and sticking
up on the Notice Board in the Registry of
this Honorable Court at Brisbane an office
copy of the said Petition and a copy of the
said Writ filed herein and by the insertion
of this advertisement in two issues at inter-
vals of a fortnight in the following nrws-
papers the Queenslander and the Tele-
graph newspapers published at Brisbane in
the State of Queensland and The Bulletin
and the Sydney Morning Herald published
at Sydney in the State of New South Wales
and also by posting in a prepaid registered
letter a copy of this advertisement addressed
to W. K. Thompson at Marnhull Dalby
such service to be deemed effective after the
expiration of thirty days from the date of
th last act done in pursuance of the said
order. If you desire to defend this action
you must within thirty days from such
service enter an appearance at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane and in default of such appearance
judgment may be given in your absence.
Dated this twenty-second day of June
1928.
(1.5.) W. C. WOODIIOUSE,
Acting Deputy Registrar.
I). J. O MAHA & ROBINSON,
Solicitors for Plaintiff, Brisbane.
TN THE ESTATE of EMMA LAMBERT
* late of Clare in the State of South Aus-
tralia widow deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia has pursuant to the Trustee Act 1893
directed that GEORGE JOHNS a brother of
the deceased formerly of Armagh near Clare
in the State of South Australia laborer and
last heard of as proceeding to Victoria in
about the year 1886 and all persons claim-
ing through him to be entitled under the
intestacy of the. abovenamed Emma Lambert
who died on the 10th April 1926 intestate
at Clare aforesaid are to send their full
Christian and surnames and addresses and
full particulars of their claims to PUBLIC
TRUSTEE Supreme Court House Victoria
Square Adelaide the administrator of the
estate of the deceased on or before the Ist
day of February 1929 otherwise they will
be excluded from the distribution of the
estate.
Dated this 25th day of June 1928.
BADGER & HICKS,
44 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
Solicitors for Public Trustee.
Missing Friends.
TIM ANDERSON, late Atherton Table-
J land, communicate sister Upper Barron,
important. Policy not paid.
DUNNE, CHARLES HILDER. Anyone
knowing whereabouts, please communi-
cate Frank Rayment, 418 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Position Vacant.
ft-—_———
Wanted Immediately.
Fully-Qualified Mining Engineer,
with Experience in Tin Lode Mining.
VACANCY exists for first-class man with above
V qualifications to open up and develop the Aber-
foyle Tin Mine, Tasmania.
Salary at the rate of £l5OO per annum will be
paid to a suitable man with the necessary ability,
experience and outlook.
Write with fullest particulars as to age, quali-
fications and experience—applications being received
until 15th July, 1928 —to
JOHN BRANDON & COMPANY,
422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
sdf
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Standard All British Fountain Pen
SELF-FILLING.
THE
CANNOT LEAK.
You can regulate the flow of ink
to suit your handwriting.
When you have finished writing,
a twist with the finger and thumb
seals the reservoir so. that the
ink CANNOT escape until you
yourself release it.
ONOTO INK— Best for all Pens. Obtainable everywh
sd
Opulence
has
Little Place
hi
in the modern conception of adornment. In both
domestic and personal appointments, simplicity is the
keynote of what is regarded as the best.
Elgin watches embody art as well as craft in their making:
beauty as well as utility has been the manufacturer’s aim.
Therefore, in wearing an Elgin, you have a double
assurance of correctness in both time and taste.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<S>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
jhip C [racf.e Mark
fs
in the Watch (are
m
56.
Of- an u Bran ch oP
I national bank
*l/01/ mat/ obtain Copies of its Informative Booklets
' 1 entitled
SERVICES & FACILITIES
V AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey much use Pul
\r[ formation and Indicate the Various
\Vays in Which the BanK may be
helpful to you
They show that the Bank’s Service
covers the Financial side oP Primary
Secondary Production, Land Settle-
ment, Trade & Commerce. Investments,
Loans, Overseas Business & Tourist"
Requirements
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BANK’S BRANCHES
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Capital Paid up 000 , 000
Total Assets in 1918
£17,610,728
Totai Assets in 192 S
£45,622,056
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
npliahtful 25-minutes 1 trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Veligntjui to r RESERVATIONS; Y 3012, 4 Lines.
P. ———————^—
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the liritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
W inter smoon
Dominions Edition.
Oxford Magazine: “A most remarkable book.
An excellent story, full of mature wisdom.
The analysis of motive and insight into char-
acter are subtle and profound. Green Hattery
withers at its touch. It is the true sanity of
modern fiction.”
ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS.
New Vol.
Anthony Trollope
By HUGH WALPOLE. ss. net.
Collected Poems of Thomas
Hardy
With a Portrait. New Edition
(1928), Bs. 6d. net. Thin Paper
Edition. Cloth, Bs. 6d. net.
Leather, 10s. 6d. net.
This new edition contains “Human Shows.”
The last published book of poems.
The Statesman’s Year Book
for 1928
Edited by M. EPSTEIN, M.A.,
Ph.D. With Maps. 20s. net.
The Daily News : “ ‘The Statesman’s Year
Book’ is an inexhaustible store of information
about every country in the world, even to the
smallest islands. There are 1520 pages crammed
full of details.”
A Survey of Socialism:
Analytical, Historical and Critical.
By F. J. C. HEARNSHAW, M.A.,
LL.D. 15s. net.
Daily Mail: “Professor Hearnshaw’s book
deserves the careful attention of all interested
in the welfare of this country. It is forcibly
written, clear, and based on extensive study;
moreover, it is the work of a fair-minded
critic.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
HUPMANNS.COS
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES:—
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
df
A-A-MAR&S l td
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
• AND BRANCHES*
Public Notice.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
'J’HE Accommodation during this period will bt
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at onci
make provision for this. We have arrangements wit!
many hotels and boarding-houses u and arounc
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
' AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS


%
: r
n
ft
J
t?n
jo
ORIENT LINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; F. E.
Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. ,G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of ail general banking business.
Amusements,
P M I* I It E T H E A T It E,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russel!
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beautv Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1 /-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices. •
gI’DNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
(Commencing next Saturday Night.)
ROYAL: SCANDAL.
CRITERION: OUR BETTERS.
PALACE: WITHIN THE LAW.
(Commencing next Saturday Night.)
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivcli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
Presents
WINGS
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE,
With CLARA BOW, RICHARD ARLEN and
CHARLES ROGERS.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
J
C. wILLIA M S O N, LTD.
■ ’MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE-
ROOKERY NOOK.
KING’S THEATRE: THE PATSY.
Amusements.
ATHEN Al U M THEAT 11 E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON,
In the Enthralling Three-Act Play,
THE UUCK OF THE NAVY.
HO Y T’S D E LU X E
MELBOURNE.
THEATRE,
TWO ARABIAN KNIGTS,
With WILLIAM BOYD, MARY ASTOR and
LOUIS WOLHEIM.
Ar.so
BODY AND SOUL,
With NORMAN KERRY, AILEEN PRINGLE and
LIONEL BARRYMORE.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAURA LA PLANTE in
THE UNIVERSAL COMEDY,
THANKS FOR THE BUGGY RIDE.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The first garden party of the year at
Government House had to be put forward
a day on account of wild rains. There was
a good roll up of the bidden, and the lawns
smiled greenly. Camellias and roses blew
on the upper terrace, a band played gaily,
and the native bears in the little koala sanc-
tuary watched approvingly. Sir John and
Lady Goodwin received at the entrance to
the lower lawn, Mrs. Campbell and Miss
Hine-Haycock helping. Lady Goodwin was
in a deep wine-colored coat, and her beige-
Burgundy marietta frock had a collar of
Malines. Her picture hat was of Burgundy
pina straw. Miss Hine-llaycock’s leaf-green
and ivory was worn with a deeper-toned
green hat. Mrs. Campbell was in saxe blue
with squirrel fur and turban-shaped hat
of grey felt. Wattle and Orleans roses
dressed the tea tables on the lower lawn.
Amongst the smart frocks was Mrs.
Whittingham’s Italian face-cloth black,
banded and collared with deep brown fur.
Her black felt hat was trimmed in steel.
Mrs. Espie Dods was in grey, with violet
scarf-vest and brown fox fur. Mrs. F. K.
Brodribb’s white grooved fur coat was worn
over a gold and floral lame, with picture
hat of black velvet. Newly-wed Mrs. George
Mocatta (she was Eve Jeffray) wore blue
with grey fur. Mrs. J. L. Woolcock was a
study in mauves and violet. Mrs. Cadell
Garrick chose black satin with touches of
ivory; daughter Cecily was also in black.
Mrs. Jimmy Blair’s navy silk repp had
touches of pink. The Countess di san Mar-
iano was in navy with white satin collar and
cuffs, and coat of mole banded in smoke-grey.
Anne Blundell was all in rose ; her mother
in beech-brown. Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart wore
grey and Leith Graham sported cherry and
black.
A woman who remembers the time when
North Ipswich was a sheep-run died at the
age of 82 this week—Mrs, Mary Garner, of
Ipswich. She was born in County Cavan
(Ireland), and at 17 came to Queensland by
herself to try her luck. She has survived her
husband by nearly 30 years, and leaves four
children, 24 grandchildren and six great-
grandchildren.
Hamilton Bowling Club had its dance in
Hamilton Town Hall, with decorations in
the club colors, pale and dark blue, with
Palms and poinsettias. Across the stage,
where the band played, the initials of the
club were outlined in electric light.
The marriage of Gladys, daughter of the
J. Henry Hancocks, Scotby, East Brisbane,
tc Guy Both well McCutcheon took place in
the City Congregational Church, which had
been decorated sumptuously. A silver and pink
wedding bell
hung overhead
and the guests’
pews were
done up with
pink and silver
water-lilies.
The bride, who
smiles out of
this window,
wore a Paris
model of
Chinese satin
beaded with
cut crystal.
Her veil of
white tulle,
’broidered in
silver, was
arranged over
pale pink crepe
to f orm a
train, and fin-
ished with lily
of the valley.
Edward and Francis Hancock were train-
bearers, and the bridal bouquet was of snow-
drops, white camellias, eucliarist lilies and
rosebuds. Elspetli Cribb (Sydney), Rose
Ball and Fay Ruthning ’maided in rose-pink
mirior velvet with picture hats of gold and
pink shot-lace, and bouquets of pink roses.
The feasting was at Seotby.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
In spite of unpleasantly bleak weather
there was a good attendance at Tattersall’s
meeting. His Excellency and Lady Ilore-
Ruthven arc keen sports, and they were pre-
sent. P. J. Flannagan (chairman) and Mrs.
Flannagan entertained them at luncheon and
afternoon tea. The Governor’s wife was glad
of her kolinsky coat. Furs were much fea-
tured. Mrs. Fred Tennant sported a mole-
skin trimmed with silver fox, Mrs. A. A.
Markwell wore a marmot coat, Mrs. W. D.
Stoddart a black musquash, Mrs. A. Ran-
kine a squirrel coat, Mrs. K. Milne a nutria
wrap. Two big dividends delighted the
women fortunate enough to strike them.
Mayor and Mayoress Bonython entertained
the British aviators in the reception-room
at the Town Hall. Mrs. Bonython had in-
vited a number of pretty girls to meet them,
and the affair was cheery and informal. The
hostess wore a smart black ensemble, and
her two pretty daughters were in blue and
pink respectively.
Mayoral hospitality was also extended to
the Admiral, officers and cadets of the
Japanese training ships. The Admiral re-
sponded in perfect English to the welcome by
the Mayor, and Mrs. Bonython added an im-
promptu little speech that charmed them.
She is noted for her remarks in witty strain
at mayoral functions. The officers all speak
English with grace, and even the cadets
show that they have a smattering of the lan-
guage. The lovely floral decorations were
admired alike by the British and Japanese
guests.
The elder daughter of Prof. Harold Davies,
of the Elder Con., was married to young
Dr. Lewis Tliyer at the Kent Town Metho-
dist Church. The reception was at the
Piccadilly. The bridegroom was a winner of
the Rhodes Scholarship.
The Aero Ball at the Palais Royal, organ-
ised by the Aero Club in honor of the
R.A.F. officers, headed by Group-Captain 11.
M. Cave-Brown-Cave, was a great success,
as the Bonythons brought along the troop of
pretty girls who had made friends with the
fliers in the morning. The president of the
club, H. C. Richards, received the guests, and
officers of the R.A.A.F. helped to give the
visitors a good time.
WESTRALIA.
• i Perth.
The Historical Society gave an evening
party at the Karrakatta Club in honor of
the ladies of the Old Times Ball Committee,
President Mitchell flourished a cheque worth
£294, profits from the dance, and his lady,
in gold lame, and Mrs. James Cowan, in
black georgette and a black lace coat, did
the welcoming. Mrs. Shelly Barker, Mrs.
Ross Harwood and Mrs. Hunter Taylor were
presented with posies. In the gathering
were vice-presidents Prof. Shaun and Dr.
Battye with their wives, the James lady,
Mr. and Mrs. Solomon, Mrs. Hope, Mrs.
Frank Davies, Mrs. J. Roe and Mrs. T. P.
Draper. The program'me included violin
and piano duets by Winifred Wright and
Miss Ilodd.
This is Bardwell Clarke's portrait of the
James Brennans’ third daughter, Kathleen,
who walked up the aisle of St. Patrick's to
exchange vows with Captain Eric Wilson-
Ilaffenden exactly . seven weeks after her
eldest sister
stepped as a
bride in the
same church.
Iv a t h 1 e e n’s
beautiful gown
of silver lam£
had long, tight-
fitting sleeves
and a long
skirt falling
gracefully over
a panel of
gathered lace.
The silver
train, carried
by small Mar-
jorie Phillips,
was lined with
ivory georgette,
and the veil,
which belonged
to the bride’s
mother, was of
Limerick lace.
Mollie Brennan, Kathleen Piesse and May
Padbury attended in bouffant frocks of apri-
cot taffetas and bandeaux of gold ribbon,
autumn leaves and wallflowers." The bride
cut the cake with her husband’s sword at
the Y.A.L. Hall.
On the same evening Pat Elliott went to
St. Mary’s to keep an appointment with Roy
Saw. Her wedding garment was a multi-
tude of white frills reaching her ankles and
a souffle of white tulle over train and veil.
The three ’maids were in rose-petal pink
georgette, with silver embellishments—Mollie
Lloyd and Loyda Haywood wearing felt hats
to tone, and bridegroom’s sister Valma a
wreath of pastel-tinted blossoms in her hair.
The Repertory Club produced four one-
act plays at the Assembly Hall. Ernest
Cuthbertson scored a triumph by his brilliant
portrayal of the old Colonel in Barrie’s "Bar-
bara's Wedding’’; Maude Dingwall made an
attractive Barbara, and Mrs. R. Braine a
sweet old grannie. Mrs. Mcßostie, who pro-
duced and played tin; name-part in "The Ter-
rible Woman,” had good support from Mar-
jorie Hodgson as Mary. “The Challenge,”
written and produced by 11. E. Flinn, re-
ceived encouraging applause. Nell Anke-
tell’s primrose frock and charming speaking
voice were acquisitions. “The Confederates,”
written in the American dialect, was pro-
duced by Ralph Stoddart.
The Bulletin lias a new home at 33
Barrack-street. General-manager Ken Prior,
who _ came from Sydney to do the house-
hunting and moving-in, has had a long pro-
gramme of entertainments.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The 40tli Battalion Ball at the City Hall
had the patronage of the O'Grady. Other
dancers among 1:1m 500 present were the
Commandant and Mrs. Cox Taylor, Mayor
and Mayoress Wignall, Commander and Mrs.
McFarlane, Capt. and Mrs. Rennie, Nicliolls.
C.J., and his lady, Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. A. P.
Crisp, Col. and Mrs. Payne, Col. and Mrs.
Elliott, Col. and Mrs. .T. E. C. Lord, Col.
and Mrs. Chisholm, Col. and Mrs. Ilum-
phris, Col. and Mrs. R. P. Smith, Major
Legge, Major Turner, Enid Lord, Major
and Mrs. M. D. Williams, Capt. and Mrs.
W. Thirkell, Capt. and Mrs. Richardson,
Major Northcote and Chester Lord. Chief
Justice Nicliolls’s lady was faithful to her
amber shades, and Mrs. Cox Taylor sported
green brocade. There were many charming
black frocks.
Campbell Town brightened its Show week
by social festivities. On Show night a big
dance, secretaried by Mrs. Crosby Lyite, was
given in Powell’s Hall, which was decorated
brilliantly in gold, scarlet and bronze berries,
chrysanthemums and streamers. Guests
came from everywhere. In these days of
big wool-cheques a country dance has no
dowdiness about it. Mrs. Jim Melrose, in
her beautiful wedding dress, was a picture,
and there were numerous other fascinating
frocks, among them Zeerust Clarke’s black
and pink chiffons,' Mrs. .1. ,T. Gatenby’s
mauve taffeta and Mrs. Chesterman’s gold
lame and \\diite fur.
The Repertory Society scored a success ok
its production of Ibsen’s “Enemy of the
People” at the Theatre Royal. L. F. Giblin
paved the way for the uninitiated by lectur-
ettes during the preceding weeks, and the
setting and dressing of the play were excel-
lent. Olive Wilton, the producer, had a right
to a thrill of pride.


Vvv-
-111
rci
rv':
;.1;..;?
•;..>: :**v
ROT*
VJS
r Jones
vj'.;.;.•....
oEstav-<35
(AMlclous
pfefi
You welcome something new for
sandwiches and savouries* Variety
adds interest and appetite to lunches
for work and school, and to party
sandwiches.
REX Salmonelle, the latest REX Sand-
wich Delicacy, is delicious* It is pure,
choice, wholesome fish, prepared as a
sandwich paste, and packed in very
attractive glass jars.
The quality is first-class—the REX
brand is guarantee of this* The word
which best describes the flavour is
“ delicate ” something quite different
from the ordinary fish paste. REX
Salmonelle is indeed one of the
choicest of the many choice REX
products.
Spread REX Salmonelle on fingers
of toast. This is a delicious dainty
for afternoon tea or supper.
Rex SalmoiYelle
Its
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. & 2oz. tins & porcelain jars
REX-PYE, in lib & / 2 lb tins
REX Ham Pate, 2oz. &. 3ioz. tins
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham
REX Ham and Tongue
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
Foggitt Jones Limited
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


2 m a moment
aus have
sd
mthehome
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
16.
BUTTONING UP THE PURSE
is an out-of-date phrase, but the principle holds good; yet
there is a better way of saving money than by merely refrain-
ing from spending it.
Money in your pocket, or your purse, is practically money
spent, for it is too readily available for every whim to buy
this or that unneeded trifle.
Save in the modern way. Open a Commonwealth
Savings Account and let the pounds and the shillings and the
pence work for you.
There is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office.
Commonwealth lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan,
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Hi
Address Manager—"
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors.
BRISBANE.
The Honorable Imogen
by MARY MOLLOY
LADY' BANNERMAN hoisted her lorg-
non and read the telegram aloud:
“Arriving midday train to-morrow love
Mog.” And Miss Bertram and I exclaimed
simultaneously and fatuously, “Oh, then,
she’s coming!”
“She’ll come all right,” said Lady Ban-
nerman. “Nothing else to do with herself
before her boat sails. Bertie, you can take
the closed car and meet her at Waikari.”
Miss Bertram, beatified, acquiesced. She
and I were simmering like singing kettles
at the impending arrival at Auchness-
brauchie station of the Honorable Imogen
Eugenia Victoria Godolphin folljambe-foll-
.iambc. We had found out her full name by
digging up her taproot in Debrett, thus scor-
ing heavily over the varletry in telegraph
offices, to whom Mog might well have meant a
hew cypher for sheep-dip. At the same time we
worked out her age (peerages are base in
some things) with a piece of chalk on the
billiard-room mantelpiece, and, after a lot
of bookkeeping, got our respective totals to
tally at 33.
“Why isn’t her husband with her, dearest
Lady Bann?” Thus the excellent Bertram,
athirst over her embroidery. (Miss Bertie,
when not massaging Lady Bannerman, or
riding for the mail on Patience, or fluttering
after the maids, or pursuing Witherspoon,
the page in brass buttons, was always doing
embroidery. I often wondered wlxat she did
with it all, and how strange it would be if
ever she took to drink or house-breaking for
a change.)
“Her husband? Bertie, you’re a fool!”
Miss Bertram and I, still with the aid of
Debrett, had diagnosed the Hon. Imogen’s
husband as a bird of only faintly dimmer
plumage than his wife’s, whose mother’s
father had been a marquis. “Bankrupt,”
Lady Bannerman informed us; “and a
blackguard.” Well! at the same time we
couldn’t help noticing that in all the Hon.
Imogen’s comings and goings as adorably
illustrated in the Sketch and the Tatleh,
her husband neither came nor w T ent with her.
Their ships either passed in the night by
mistake or else selected different oceans to
go to Cowes and Cannes and "Egypt or The
Lido. “Strange,” we murmured to Lady
Bannerman, who replied, “Strange? Faugh!
Hard-up!”
The Hon. Imogen’s passage through New
Zealand could be marked like a murderer's
with the bodies of the slain. When she was
not shooting velvet-nosed deer she appeared
to be torturing trout." The snapshots of
her, in leathern waders and a flannel shirt,
coquetting wfith a maddened fish on a taut
line were so fine and fashionable and graco-
full and debonair that Miss Bertram and I
forgave her on the spot. Moreover, had not
the society columns informed us practically
every day for weeks that the Hon. Imogen
had come to our country in search of health?
Lady Bannerman said that she shouldn’t
be surprised al that, as old Ursula foll-
jambe (own daughter to the Marquis) hadn’t
as you might say, ever, had any lungs to
speak of, and added, in answer to my inno-
cent prattle, “Brandy, my child —brandy !”
Imagine my chagrin next day when Lady
Bannerman decided she would give me a
sitting after lunch instead of going to sleep
as she usually did as soon as Miss Bertram
had loosened her corsets: which operation,
by the way, always reminded me of the
raising of the lock on a canal and of an
ocean liner surging through. So we went
upstairs to the old school-room that had
been transformed into a ' studio for me:
wdiile Bertie flew on the wings of love to
meet the Hon. Imogen at Waikari.
I whipped the cloths off Lady Banner-
man’s bust with a feeling that I would
knead some of my disappointment into the
accentuation of her she-eaglc’s profile. Need
I tell you that I had abandoned my old-
loves aquarelles and oils, and was now
seduced by this new lover, marble, and his
wet precursor, clay? I had Lady Banner-
man’s head and neck and indestructible
bosom clutched, as it were, in my little
feverish paws. I had manoeuvred the Resto-
ration doublure out of that chin of hers,
but the -droop—ineffable, aristocratic, cyni-
cal, unseizable—in one fine sensual eye was
nearly killing me,
“Shall I put a little harness on, dear
child?” she asked, seeing my pitiable pre-
liminary writhings. By harness she meant
her diamonds, and she pronounced ‘child’
almost to rhyme with “hailed.”
“You won’t,” 1 cried madly, making coffee-
colored snowballs ; “they make you too hard.”
She said she was: hard as nails. And having
with that word, as it were, struck gold for
me, I seized my pickaxe and dug.
The vein prospered: sitter and sittee we
grew absorbed: exactly like a sleep-walker
I watched Lady Bannerman leave the room
some seons later, and only made a descent
to earth and the grand-daughters of mar-
quises when Miss Bertram tumbled tre-
mendously in,
“Oh, Ceapha. she’s got spats!”
“Spats! Bertie, go on! Suede?”
“Absolutely. lively. Fawn. And her
ankles; and her hands; and her skin. And
her voice!
Whew! Even the snapshots and all the
social chatter the newspapers had not
completely broken Bertie’s fall before the
original. Strenuously whispering (although
the drawing-room was a good three minutes’
walk away) she told me that the Hon.
Imogen Avas the very image of her photo-
graphs, only ever so much better; how she
had kissed her (Bertie), giving her a
heavenly whiff of lavender; how the station-
master had stared ; how his wife had more
powerfully stared through the window, and
pushing the curtain quite an inch aside on
its little trolley of tape; how the blue-serge
clutch of schoolgirls, erupted from the train,
had most passionately stared; how all the
customers in Brannigan’s bar had spilled
“The spoons had been found in Tilly’s tin trunk....but not a sign was
there of the necklace.”
into the road as one man, and stared; how
Mrs. Brannigan and Katie, with two brooms
and two buckets, had planted themselves in
the middle of the balcony flagrantly to
stare; and how old Brannigan, inebriated
and a bouncing democrat, had pranced over
to the platform and shaken hands with the
Hon. Imogen in her fawn-colored spats. And
finally, as Witherspoon was bringing up
her things, and Drapper, her maid, in the
luggage waggonette, would I, darling, come
down and help hand round tea?
Would .1 what?
You will, I think, admit that I showed
sound strategy in leaving my sculptor’s
smock over my afternoon dress. Though
blotched and exuding turpentine, it invested
and hallowed my nakedness with an honor-
able uniform like an ambassador at a levee,
and thus accoutred I felt I could stand
up to a hundred grand-daughters of a hun-
dred marquises, the whole lot of ’em bank-
rupt.
Bertram, still shattered by the review at
the station, dived off to her bedroom to
dredge on powder.
“Didn’t kuow you had a daughter,
Isabella,” drawled an excellent, indifferent
high-bred voice as I entered the great draw-
ing-room, with its cream carpet and rose
brocade hangings all shimmering in filtered
sunlight through the green sunblinds.
“Neither I have, thank God. I’m having
a bust”
“Darling!”
“Done, silly. This poor child is carving
it for me. Ceapha, this is Mrs. folljambe.”
The Hon. Imogen said she was delighted,
she was sure, and flicked out one super-
latively satin hand, all crawling with dia-
monds, for me to do what I dashed-well
liked with. She crossed and uncrossed her
fawn-colored spats, and I furtively examined
her ankles. Oh, exquisite, incredible emacia-
tion ! She smiled. I smiled back, enchanted
but abashed. I was no longer a complacent
self-sufficient artist, but a poor little nobody
from nowhere confronting a grande dame. I
realised that I knew nothing, never had
known anything, and never would know any-
thing ; that I was a boor, and a barbarian,
and a blunderer, and gentility wasn’t in me.
I was a hack! We were all hacks ! And our
hackdom was most dismally illuminated by
the juxtaposition of this lounging, inactive,
but indubitable and glorious racehorse. The
Hon. Imogen was the ultimate efflorescence of
centuries of cultured blooms. She was
wrought and chiselled to a miracle of finished
workmanship. Bathing deep in her demea-
nour as a pilgrim immerses in the Ganges, I
realised in a flash that all my past life had
been a mistake and a ridiculous worry over
such trivialities as death, disease, disgrace
or bailiffs in the house; nothing mattered,
nothing had ever mattered or could ever pos
sibly matter. Poof! A lady is serene.
She gently scratched my ears just as if
I had been Omar the Persian cat when I
handed her another cup of tea, and I felt
content to lie on hearthrugs and lap up cream
for the rest of my natural life.
Lady Bannerman, scenting my subjection,
rather cattishly asked her how Woffington,
her husband, was?
The Hon. Imogen, lounging still deeper in
the black ottoman, replied that —thank you,
dearest Isabella—old Woffie was ding-dong.
That night at an indignation meeting in
my bedroom Miss Bertram and I carried
a resolution to send straight to Christchurch
for two pairs of spats.
We soon resumed our baronial regime at
Auchnessbrauchie. Lady Bannerman always
had breakfast in bed, and after being bathed
and massaged by Miss Bertram, attended to
her correspondence (with Bertie as amanu-
ensis) and accorded audiences to the station
manager in the library. The Hon. Imogen
and I commandeered Atalanta and Ariadne,
two of the hunters who were summering in
the home paddocks, and spent glorious days
riding, riding, riding, right out into the sky-
line, through the golden, curtseying, flowing
rivers of the tussocks. The Hon. Imogen,
with the seat of a Spanish Infanta, rode
side-saddle, her belltopper faintly aslant on
her classic head, and treated a refractory
or even a furious mount as if he were a
baby crying with a pain.
After holding out for a week I capitulated
and worshipped her openly. Bertram was
abject—a case of total collapse. The ser-
vants, even those of the post-war and Trotsky
periods, gave her feudal homage.
Lady Bannerman said h’mm!
“I thought you said she was poor,” I re-
proached Lady Bannerman one night after a
bridge party at the Oakshotts, where the
Hon. Imogen had lost fifty pounds exactly as
if she had mislaid her buttonhook. Lady
Bannerman said so she was: poor as mice.
I instanced the frocks and the emeralds
she had dazzled us with at dinner; even old
Ughtred Oakshott’s eyes had flickered out
of their stagnation and bulged.
Lady B. said ha!
It was the following week-end that the
Oakshotts gave their historic dance at Cold-
stream Park. They had buzzed, assiduous
and adoring as bees, around the Hon. Imogen
ever since her arrival, which made Miss Ber-
tram and me jealous of our idol and made
Lady Bannerman say that Grizel Oakshott
must want some of the ugly Oakshott girls
Piloted About At Home. -
Though I was palpitating to go to the
dance and had been duly invited, yet—sad.
perverse and strategical—l decided to torture
Charlie Oakshott (arid myself still worse) by
staying at home. Besides, I would have
another thorough hunt for the golden Apostle
spoons which had been missing ‘from their
plush nest in the plate-chest and putting the
household staff under distressing obloquy.
“Come in, my dear, come in,” sang the
Hon. Imogen’s scimitar voice as I knocked
at her door on the night of the ball.
I went in. breathing a blissful “Ah!” as
my lungs filled with the heavenly decadence
of Parisian perfumery and cosmetics. The
Hon. Imogen, in a flesli-colored ner/lifje that
seemed barely restrained from dissolving into
impalpability by strands of swansdown, was
delivered up into the hands of Drapper like
a white stag under the rose-shaded lights.
Drapper was a veritable empress-dowag°r in
the dynasty of ladies’ maids, having been
own tirewoman to notorious old Lady Ursula
and having nursed the Hon. Imogen in her
long-clothes. She dropped me a curtsey, her
expert hands all the time dancing a measure
in the pale golden w r eb of her mistress’s
hair. Then she plunged a haresfoot impaled
on a long ivory stick into a rouge-pot with
a jewelled crest embossed on the lid. and
lo! the rosy dawn just faintly flushed the
Sierra Nevadas! I held my breath, and
Drapper, fluttering down a top-dressing of
snow from the powder-sifter, bent suddenly
and kissed the Hon. Imogen’s indescribable
nape.
The Hon. Imogen, faintly winking at me
over one beautiful new blush, declared that
Drapper led her a Dog’s Life.
I kissed her with all due precautions and
went out.
I must have been half-way down the pas-
sage when I remembered that I had smoked
my last cigarette while wrestling with Lady
Bannerman’s left eyelid that morning, and
turned back: but the sudden sound of sobs,
monotonous and hard, like small funeral
drums, impaled me to the carpet. Through
these horrid primeval hiccoughs of grief
sounded something like, “My own angel—oh.
Miss Mogsie”—and then the descent of
the Hon. Imogen’s chiselled voice like a
sword-blade in the air:—
“Hold your tongue!”'
It was an oath smoking-hot from the
barrack-room, unprintable, full-flavored,
affectionate, obscene. I shook from head to
foot, and the funeral drum died away in the
hills.
Our ladies xesplendently departed—the
Hon. Imogen. Mary Stuart-wise in black
velvet and pearls, and Lady B. with the
Bannerman diamonds blazing on that unde-
feated neck of hers and impaled like lost
stars in her hair. My poor -dear Bertram,
in white tulle (of all things!), looked like
an anxious orpington between two birds of
paradise.
I went thoughtfully to bed, strangely
callous as to the twelve golden Apostles. All
(Continued on page 53.)


\
*»•
<
iii
Oil pump very accessible, can
be removed without breaking
any pipe connection.
N
Tappets, very accessible for
adjustment. If necessary they
can be removed in blocks of
4 without disturbing any
other component.
<S=>
<£3
£)
©
Neat Instrument Panel com-
prising clock, speedometer,
oil pressure gauge, ammeter
starter button and inspection
lamp plug—concealed
Ugh ting.,
Underslung worm of btgb
efficiency in oil bath.
Metal Universal Joints with
oil tight covers. Provide
smooth transmission, a great
Improvement over the fabric
Joint.
Front wheel brakes of ample
size with accessible adjust-
ment.
Some Outstanding i
Features of the Ne\o
9 h.p. Standard
UNIT CONSTRUCTION. —Engine, Clutch, and
Gearbox with centre control in one unit.
CHASSIS. —A strong channel section, straight line
design with kick-up over rear anxle rigidly braced
by cross members.
ENGINE. —Four-cylinder, 9 h.p., side by side valves
detachable head, pressure lubrication by gear-
pump, magneto ignition. Electric lighting and
starting.
CLUTCH. —Single dry plate asbestos lined—
exceptionally light in operation.
BRAKES. —Powerful—mechanically operated —Four-
wheel brakes, internal expanding type on large
drums totally enclosed.
SPRINGS. —Long half elliptic springs are fitted at
front and rear. The springs are fitted with two
re-bound leaves on top of the main leaf.
REAR AXLE.—Underslung worm type—absolutely
silent and running in bath of oil.
FRONT AXLE.—H, section beam of ample strength
fitted with adjustable roller bearings to front
wheels.
STEERING. —Irreversible screw and nut type, giving
easy and accurate steering.
Factory Representative :
ROBERT F. LEE, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ALL BRITISH MOTOR HOUSE LTD.
Russell Street, Melbourne
Disti ibutors:
CARS OF BRITAIN LTD.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
MORTLOCK BROS. PTY. LTD,
Hay Street, Perth
Agencies availabe in New South Wales and South Australia
%* STANDARD MOTOR C? COVENTRY
ENGLAND


w.
m
WELL - DRESSED
=* man pays particu-
lar attention to his hat.
It is the most distinc-
tive feature of his
apparel.
Battersby Hats have
that unobtrusiv’e
smartness which
always characterises
really good style. They
are unequalled for
workmanship and
value.
&
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD SBY
THE BEST
HATTERS
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further 'particulars, write —
SYDNEY:
BOX 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
BOX 763.
Tammalite for (Jrcy Hair —all ekts.—Advt.
my dreams were haunted by the persistent
beat —beat —beat of a fist which even in the
vague apprehension and dim terror of sleep
I could identify with the sound of sobbing.
When Tilly, our favorite housemaid,
brought me in my breakfast in the morning,
I noticed at once a marked change in her
pleasant starehed-muslin perkiness. She
looked what the French call Overthrown.
Standing transfixed with my tray, and with
horror, and the base bliss with which dis-
aster somehow saturates the best of us, she
told me that her Ladyship had lost l>er dia-
mond necklace or else it had been “pinched”
at Mrs. Oakshott’s, and that none of the
maids—wirelessly apprised of tragedy—had
wunk an eye all night. Miss Bertram, it
appears, had already telephoned to town
for a D.
“A what?” I cried.
“A detective, Miss Ceapha,” breathed
Tilly, and the poached eggs danced again.
(Here my poor Bertram stole in and
closed the door behind her as one closes the
door in a room containing a coffin.)
That was a seismatic morning at Auch-
nessbraucliie. I think it was one of the two
occasions when, in spite of Miss Bertram’s
massage and her own philosophy, Lady Ban-
nerman really looked her age. Among other
phenomena, the Hon. Imogen had got up at
the unearthly hour of nine o’clock, and in
the usefulness of her sympathy was attend-
ing to the incessant ringing of the telephone.
She reported that the detective from Christ-
church had already descended on Coldstream
and was searching the house and the gar-
dens and all the guests of the house party.
Grizel Oakshott had taken to her bed with
chagrin, and old Ughtred had practically
never ceased to drink whisky and adjure
God to bless his soul.
“This is the Female Searcher, your Lady-
ship, and will investigate the ladies.’ ap-art-
ments,” said Mr. Quinn, the detective from
Christchurch, “Miss da Plata,” he proceeded
briskly, as if lie were an usher and Miss
d. P. a little girl at a party.
Miss Bertram gasped! aloud and Lady
Bannerman, hoisting the good flag of her
lorgnon to the topmost mast, said proudly
and kindly that she simply, wouldn’t dream
of such a thing’. Her guests and her people!
Stuff and nonsense, < her dear, good man!
I know I felt exactly as very sick and very
poor and very cold people must feel on a
wet morning when the doctor tells them they
must have an operation. But the Hon.
Imogen was all sweetness and good sense.
Certainly we must, she insisted, if only as
as a matter of form and deference to the
feelings of poor Mrs. Oakshott (now in
bed). Laughing, she lifted her white arms
above her head and suggested that the —
er—young lady should begin on her.
The Female Searcher, massive, motionless,
inarticulate, opened and shut the catch of
her reticule with a loud report. On her vast
hands were black kid gloves.
Lady Bannerman was giving details to
Mr. Quinn, whose dwarf telegraph-post
fingers whizzed at a surprising rate in a note-
book wearing wide elastic garters. It had
been chilly in the ballroom, she recounted,
and Bertie—ah yes, to be sure, Grace Anna
Mary Edith Bertram, her companion—had
put her fur wrap over her shoulders. The
necklace must have come unfastened and
dropped somewhere, as she did not. miss it
till she got home, and no one had accom-
panied her to and from Coldstream but
darling Bertie and Mrs folljambe. How-
ever, the whole affair was too tiresome and
regrettable and disgusting for anything; it
was finished.
Still, the Hon. Imogen’s suave persis-
tence carried the search party forward, and
Mr. Quinn and his acolyte, convoyed by
Witherspoon, the page, spread sinisterly
abroad in the house. After what seemed
years, I wandered distractedly upstairs.
The Hon. Imogen’s bedroom door stood
wide open and I went in. The beautiful
nest was still ruffled by the recent gale.
Drawers and boxes as well as the Sheraton
escritoire stood open frothily vomiting
contents. Even the noble white bed
had been manhandled by lewd, unhallowed
members. By the shoe cabinet stood
Drapper, the gaunt, the grim. All
through the desecration of the shrine she
must have gone calmly on attending to her
mistress’s fawn-colored spats, and was still
cleaning one of them with French chalk.
I noticed that its pretty twin was strag-
gling untidily close by at the foot of an arm-
chair just where it must have been kicked
off. I remember wondering vaguely at such
an oversight on the part of Drapper, the
incomparable woman of the bedchamber,
and, stooping, I picked it up. How heavy
it was, and hard, hard! Were they, then,
wearing them padded in England? But un-
necessary, surely, with the Hon. Imogen’s
patrician instep—Drapper sprang and
swooped. Tlje next instant the elegant
suede appendage was in her bony talons,
and she immediately started massaging
chalk into its skin with a composure that
was a staggering contrast to her mad eagle’s
dip on to my wrist.
“Have the police gone?” I whispered.
She nodded, and the disciplined Roman
veteran in the old servant whipped me out
a curtsey like a salute on parade.
Back in the drawing-room Mr. Quinn had
mustered his pack. To my horror and sur-
prise I saw Tilly, our prettiest and gentlest
maid, encircled in their midst, an obvious
and agonised captive. The female Searcher
held her steadily by the elbow with one
hand, and in the other held just as steadily
a small bundle of slim gold twigs. The
twelve Apostles!
It was fully a minute before I could take
in the evidence. The spoons had been found
in Tilly’s tin trunk underneath an assorted
pile of her fiance’s photographs, but not a
sign was there of the necklace, though the
policewoman had stripped her bare. Miss
Bertram and I were stricken and even the
Hon. Imogen raised her eyebrows with a
pretty gesture of concern and distress.
Tilly broke away from her captors and
flew to Lady Bannerman in a frenzy.
Strangling her sobs, she declared she knew
nothing of the spoons. She had not been
well yesterday, she gasped, and had stayed
in her room, where Miss Drapper had been
so kind as to go and shingle her hair for
hex*.
Lady Bannerman, who knew better -than
any of us the implacable color-line drawn by
august upper servants, seemed abruptly
reined in on her haunches by this proof of
Miss Drapper’s condescension.
Half-masting her lorgnon, she stared for
a moment with strange intentness over the
top of it, not at Tilly, but at the Hon.
Imogen. The imperceptible droop in her
fatigued haughty eyelid seemed to focus and
intensify that piercing glance.
The next instant Lady Bannerman burst
out laughing. She would forget her own
head next, she told us. Of course this child
(Tilly received a benign prod with the
tortoiseshell handle) was getting married
shortly, and she had included those silly
spoons in her wedding present. How stupid
of her to forget them! But really we had
all been so upset
Mr. Quin rammed the piston of his pencil
home into its leather cylinder and buttoned
his notebook securely away against all
women and fools generally, remarking that
as her Ladyship gave golden wedding pre-
sents to her gerrels, she probably threw in
a few diamond strings for good measure.
Her Ladyship, still laughing, said Ah,
yes, she dared say, and that Mr. Quin and
the—ah—the young lady must certainly
stay and have luncheon with us. Mr. Quin,
becoming a sudden courtier, accepted with
homage, but the —ah the yoyng lady, subtly
disintegrated by the divine graciousness of
the Hon. Imogen, took her kid gloves and
her detonating reticule back to Christchurch
in the service car.
We were an almost hilarious lunch party;
Lady Bannerman bland, Miss Bertram and
I hysterical, Mr. Quin anecdotal, and, if 1
did not love the Hon. Imogen as much as
I do, I would tell you point blank that she
flirted with him.
Alas, very soon after she went up to the
North Island to join the Niagara at Auck-
land, and thus our radiant star sank from
us into the sea and dipped, glittering, back
into its own orbit. We are still savoring
the heavenly whiff of lavender in her good-
bye kiss. She looked so lovely in a travel-
ling costume of ash-grey and those delicate
fawn spats. Only the other day we read
in the cables that she is going to make a
non-stop flight from London to Pekin accom-
panied by twjo army officers—'neither of
whom appears to be Woffie. Bertie and I
were vastly puzzled at this. Was not Woffie
ding-dong? Lady Bannerman said he was
ding-dong as a church steeple. But (bless
our hearts !) No Petrol!
. Tilly’s wedding took place resoundingly
just after shearing. Sentimentalists like
myself and Miss B. bestowed all sorts of
daverdy knick-knacks, and Lady Bannerman
gave her a remarkably comely cheque. Her
Ladyship likewise attended the wedding
with her longest lorgnon, and at the subse-
quent bacchanalia drank almost as much
beer as the bridegroom,
. It was that same night while she was en-
joying herself immensely that she chuckled.
I think it w 7 as Witherspoon offering her
caviare that reminded her of something.
“My dear child,” she chuckled, and whispered
into my ear the one word—“paste.”
Midnight Garden Phantasy.
Moonbeams shine o’er the chimneys tall;
Moonbeams over my garden wall,
Shim’ring down on the shadowy grass,
Light on white roses as they pass.
Come, 0 come!
Come to me, dairies!
Come, 0 come!
Gome, little fairies
Nested in the flowers.
Come from your bowers!
Come, pretty fairies, and dance for me!
Tripping, skipping,
Gaily slipping
Over the grass-blades merrily,
Dancing, prancing,
Sweet, entrancing—
'Come! Dance under my apricot-tree!
Here they come like the winded leaves,
Gliding and twirling in a mazy swirling;
Hiding; hurling through the mists lipcurling •
Threading through the mazes that the gay
moon weaves.
All join hands in a silv’ry ring —
Laughing, laughing, laughing sing!
Dear woodland treasures,
Treading your measures,
Merry, merry, merry, merrily sing!
Fly as you sing,
Dance on the wing —
Merry, merry, merry, merrily sing!
Look! there’s one on a full-blown rose
Loosing petals with a terrible shaking;
See! Petals fall, and a soft, white flaking
Over the ring of dancers goes !
Faces peep from the petals’ whiteness—
Small fists shake in elfin glee;
Off they fly with an aery lightness
After the culprit merrily.
Catch him!
Snatch him!
Bring him back to earth!
Pinch him
Clinch him!
Doubled■ up in mirth ;
Press him deep in the rosy bed!
Jump on his feet! Jump on his head!
Ah! He weeps with an elfin guile!
Off! He’s away with a swaggering smile!
Why, there’s two set apart from the dance!
What is the meaning, the meaning of this?
We have come unawares on Romance
Look how these tiny foresters kiss!
Wicked little sprites! What are you about?
Come and join the others in the fairy rout!
Dancing, prancing,
Sweet, entrancing,
Skipping, tripping ,
O’er the grasses slipping,
Dancing, skipping,
Prancing, tripping;
Dancing under my apricot-tree —
Fading, fading
Into the shading!
Ah, fairy sprites, arc you leaving mef
Going, going ■
Wheref No knowing!
Gone—Schubert’s gone from that balcony r
Violin’s stopped on that balcony.
N.S.W.
RONALD MCGUAIC.
Introducing to You
Miss Queenie Ashton.
(By HELEN JEAN BEEGLING.)
THEY always say that when you meet a
person your mind sub-consciously picks
out characteristics, etc.—that is, if you
are a mind reader, or perhaps I should say,
a character reader. 1 am neither, but the
two things I remember when I first met Miss
Queenie Ashton were her wonderful teeth and
her retrousse nose. Possibly, I might say
probably, she will laugh when she reads this,
as that nose seems to be a sensitive point
with her, but I’m chancing that; personally
I think it’s the most adorable nose I have
seen for a long time.
I wonder dare I offer you a description
of Queenie. She dresses well, in good taste,
nothing showy, quiet, and good clothes. Her
feet were well shod; her hat was the essence
of good taste, too; and.she has one of those
tall, willowy figures which are the envy of so
many. She has a sweet face —and when I
say that I mean a sweet expression—her
eyes are kind, her skin is good (why
shouldn’t it be, when she admits she always
uses Mercolized Wax?), her teeth are pearly
and perfect, her mouth is pretty, and her
nose—well, her nose just “got me,” so to
speak. You know, expression is all-important
in a face, such a great deal depends on it;
a whole character can be correctly read by
the face.
Well, I guess now you know so much of ;
Miss Ashton that you feel I ought co con-
tinue. All right then. Queenie is an English
-girl and was born in T,ondcn. She came *
out here over a year ago to appear in the.
Empire Theatre’s oponiifjj production j
“Sunny,” and she now ) is it leading part-.,/
in “Rio Rita.” She *■ ..nod • her tln-nl rrcul {
career by learning to V a ballet da.iMr. at
the early age of three, mostly toe d< wing,
continuing this, with school as well, of
course, till the age of 34. At' the l2
she was in “Pinkie and the Fair
at 14 in the production of “.Peter .Pan/*
At 14 she decided to give up effineing and .
train an already good voice, s< decided to go
to the Guildhall School cf Music, later
learning from the well-known fee-Av-t Dinh-
Gilly, who had great l opes for .her and
taught her purely operatic roles.
Now I am going to let Miss Ashton con-
tinue herself. “Well, Miss Beegling, about
this time I was pretty wayward and inde-
pendent, and I decided I wanted a taste
of musical comedy; so up I went to an
audition at the Winterga rclen Theatre, and
was picked for the chorus. As a matter of
fact, I was taken on at this time just as
a sort of fill-in in case someone was wanted,
and the only reason I got it was because I
could both sing and dance. The production
was ‘Primrose.’ I was in a quartette, quite
a pretty thing, a bathing scene, when one
night the leading soprano fell ill and I was
asked to take her place. • This was really
my first chance and I made good, as in their
next show*, ‘Kid Boots,’. I was given the
lead. At the time I was asked to come to
Australia I was under contract to Sir Alfred
Butt. The idea of coming didn’t appeal to
me a bit at first, but when we finally fixed
things up so that I could take the trip I
was pleased. 1 admit it was my first voyage,
and although I was just as sea-sick as you
could possibly imagine I nevertheless loved it
all.”
“Well, that’s all very interesting, Miss
Ashton, but now I want to ask you a few
questions on my own account. Do you
mind?”
“Of course I don't, Miss Beegling; I’m
only too happy to tell you anything you
want to know.”
“All right then. The first is, what do
you like most in life?”
“Now, Miss Beegling. that’s a winner ; but
I think I am truthful if I say travelling and
good music.”
“Then we at least have something in com-
mon, because I, too, just adore those two
things. Are you fond of jewellery, Miss
Ashton? I don’t imagine you are.”
“No, as a matter of fact, I’m not.”
“Tell me candidly, Miss Ashton, do you
like Sydney audiences?”
Without a moment’s hesitation she replied :
“I certainly do. I think they are most
sympathetic; but unfortunately my roles
have been mostly vamps, and a vamp rarely,
if ever, has the sympathy of her audience.
Y~ou understand what I mean, don’t you?”
“Yes, I do indeed. I should imagine you
were the last person in the world to have
any vampish tendencies, Miss Ashton.”
By the way, it might interest you to know
that this charming girl is well known from
the London broadcasting station 2LO, she
having sung many times there.
“What about diet, Miss Ashton?” said 1.
gazing longingly at her straight, willowy
figure.
“Well, really, I might say that I eat
sparingly of everything. I never eat break-
fast; just a cup of coffee. My meals are
often irregular. I have no set diet, but I do
not like very much meat. I prefer salads,
and I avoid all starchy foods, white bread,
much butter and things of. that kind. I am
not a heavy eater; I really am a very light
one.
“Before you go. Miss Beegling, let me tell
you that my favorite face cream is Mercolized
Wax. It is wonderful as a skin cleanser.
I use Barri-Agar orange blossom face powder
regularly, and I find' Piienta soap is sweet
and refreshing to the skin. I can "thoroughly
recommend them to you.”
It was a pleasure to meet Miss Ashton:
and I hope you, too, have enjoyed this little
chat with her. She is honestly one of tin
dearest, sweetest girls. There is just “some-
thing” about her that makes you love her.
and I am sure that you all, with me, hope
she will stay with us in Australia for a
long time.


Sergeant-Major Multiple.
A STORY OF EARLY SYDNEY BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Sergeant-major multiple stood
in tlie Barrack Square in Sydney on a
summer afternoon in that year of grace
1816 —the cessation of the Napoleonic men-
ace during the preceding twelve months had
made itssando —and harangued with great vigor
a squad of defaulters of lI.M. 46th Regi-
ment of Foot who were about to be exer-
cised in various penal forms of “fatigue.”
A fine figure of a man was the sergeant-
major—a fine man, within certain limita-
tions, in every way. His was a stalwart,
upright stature, with a phenomenally broad
and flat back, a lean waist, legs that were
towers of strength, biceps that filled out
the tight sleeves of his red jacket, a shapely
head beneath his shako well poised upon
an arrogant neck, large and capable hands
and a handsome, tanned, clean-cut face with
steely-grey eyes in it that missed nothing
that they looked upon. A strong man, a
determined man, a brave man, a choleric
man, a wise man—that was the impression
you or I would have had of Sergeant-
Major Multiple could we have stood close
by that day—as Mr. Pilkington, of the
Commissariat, and Lieutenant Gregory
Wicks, R.N., were doing—and heard him
deliver his fatherly though comminatory
address to the delinquents paraded before
him in a stiff, canvas-clad double line of
young and old soldiers, who would have
shivered, had they dared, beneath the scath-
ing sarcasm of his eloquence. We would
him realised what the Iron Duke really
meant who- he pronounced the non-commis-
sioned ofli er to be the backbone of the
British Army. If there was one thing
above all others that the aspect of Ser-
geaut-Major John Multiple suggested, it
was Backbone.
Without seemim? effort his clear voice—
sharp and effectiv rather than harsh —car-
ried itsiH' to the tour corners of the great
quadrangle, and echoed back from the front
bf tin- all main buildings of the barracks
on the crest of the gentle slope. Out in
••George-street foot passengers heard it and
marvelled. It penetrated the officers’ mess,
it rang through the open windows of each
barrack-room. It might almost have been
heard across, the hill in Cockle Bay. To
Moser Wicks and Pilkington, awaiting the
comir •• of Ensign Calder in the verandah
putside his quarters, it was a revelation,
an entertainment and a prodigy. Truly it
was such a voice as might almost have
climbed to the very cloudlets drifting slowly
overhead across the blue sky in front of
the soft nor-caster. Loud as a drum, clear
as a bugle, it vibrated through the very
being of whosoever hearkened to it —and
none within a radius of a quarter of a mile
could fail to do that.
“Splendid fellows” —it trumpeted at the
dozen sorry soldiers standing stiff and
motionless live yards in front of its source
—“splendid, splendid fellows! In all my
sarvice—from drummer to sar’nt-major—
I’ve never seen your like. Models. Perfect
models. Wonderful specimens of the King’s
soldiers. God bless you. God bless you
all. A pleasure to look upon you—a real
pleasure!”
He paused a moment and turned hard,
bright eyes upon the right-hand man—a
somewhat pot-bellied, red-faced old soldier
with a bottle nose colored purple by gallons
and gallons of malt and spirituous liquors
which it had sniffed during three decades in
the four quarters of the earth.
“Private Jenkins!” he bellowed.
“Sir!” ahd Mr. Jenkins protruded his
chest and drew in his paunch still further
to display the anxiety, deference and soli-
citude that filled his wilting soul. Often
before had he wilted under the sergeant-
major’s scathing criticism, but always the
process of receiving it anew was full of
terror.
“One pace forward, march!”
The unhappy Jenkins proceeded to
advance thirty inches, halted, brought his
heels together with a click, and stood
rigidly to “attention.” The terrible voice
addressed him with opprobrium.
“Yes. there you are, drunk and a.w.l. —
the four hundred and fifty-first time. Or
something like it. Look at yourself. You’ve
a face like a boiled lobster and a_ nose like
a bit of maggotty raw beef. You’re knock-
kneed. You’re pigeon-toed. You’re bottle-
shouldered. . You’re big-bellied. You’re an
eyesore. You make me sick. Fall out, you
scarecrow and clean out the latrines. ’Tis
all you’re fit for in the way of soldiering.
You were born there —and you’ll die there.
Like the d —d manure you are!”
The miserable Jenkins took a side step
to the right and broke away from the for-
lorn parade. He shambled, off to the execu-
tion of the disgusting task which was in-
variably his after one of his vinous lapses.
Sergeant-Major Multiple proceeded to exhort
his rear-rank man.
“Private O'Malley!”
“Sir!”
“Three paces forward — march!”
A young soldier stepped into the position
lately occupied by the departing Jenkins.
With great contempt the autocrat looked
him up and down for a few moments be-
fore proceeding to revile him.
“You wretched recruit! Improperly
dressed when mounting guard. I crimed you
myself, you d —d savage from the woods.
What’s the use of giving you clothing to
wear when you won’t wear it? Answer me
that! You were without your stock. Your
neck was naked. Indecent! Damnable!
By heavens, though, ’twon’t always be so.
We’ll see you a-wearing the one that best
becomes you some of these days on Gallows
Hill. Jack Ketch—he’ll put your proper
neckwear on you before so very long unless
you mend your ways. Out of this, and get
on with your shot-drill! And do it at the
double, you disgraceful swine.”
So Mr. O'Malley betook himself in front
of the canteen to the pleasing task of shift-
ing, one by one, a pyramid of 82-pounder
cannon balls to a designated spot thirty
yards away. When all the heavy projectiles
had been piled in their new position, he
would move them back to their original one,
and would continue this strenuous task until
the bugles sounded the “retreat” at sunset.
So eleven of the squad were dealt with,
and the sergeant-major came to the last
man remaining out of the dozen who had
left undone those tilings they ought to have
done, or had done tliQge things they ought
not to have done.
“Private Martineau!”
The soldier —a middle-aged man —stood
stock still and made no response of the cus-
tomary “Sir!”
“Martineau, three paces forward, march!
The man did not move, but stood stiffly
to attention, glaring at the sergeant-major
with a white, set face. For a moment or
two Multiple glared back at him in silence.
Then lie roared. “Do you refuse to obey
orders?”
In a forced shout that was almost as
loud as the sergeant-major's effortless
adjurations, and could be heard in every
corner of the barracks, the last of the de-
faulters yelled defiance at authority—a defi-
ance, it would seem, that was dared rather
for personal than any other reasons.
“ISarn’t-Major Multiple, you leave my wife
alone—an! he damned to ye!”
A strange hush came over all the bar-
racks. Men stood rooted to the ground.
The sentry at the gateway dropped his
musket and hastily picked it up. For ten
tense seconds a silence that was awful
seemed to descend upon the universe. The
very sun appeared to pause on its journey
down the western sky. Noises of traffic
outside the walls seemed to accentuate them-
selves. Mr. Wicks and Mr. Pilkington felt
all this as they looked on from Patrick
Calder’s quarters.
And then the spell was broken. Turning
towards the guardroom, calm, collected and
unperturbed, Sergeant-Major Multiple dealt
with the situation. Mr. Calder returned to
barracks as he did so.
“Corporal of the Guard!” his magnificent
voice commanded, “bring one file and make
this man a prisoner.”
Private Samuel Martineau, pale and un-
resisting, was presently marched into dur-
ance between fixed bayonets. Sergeant-
Major Multiple walked across the parade-
ground to his quarters. The world resumed
its activities. It was three o’clock in the
afternoon.
** * *
“What,” inquired Mr. Calder as lie un-
buckled his sword-belt and hung the weapon
over the back of a chair, “what the devil
did the sergeant-major send that man to
the guardroom for? Gad. I could hear him
yell for the corporal of the guard as I
turned the corner of Hunter-street.”
“My dear Patwick,” ob-
served Mr. Pilkington with
some awe, “what a voitlie!
My goodnethgwathiouth, what
a voithe! I attliure you,
Panthy and I have tliimply
thtood out
there in the
vewan dah.
fwothen with
amathement,
whiltht your
the a rgen t-
major ecth-
pwethed hith
opinion of
THE LESS OF TWO EVILS.
“I hate playing cards with anybody who
is a bad loser, don’t you?”
“M — yes. But still I’d rather play with a
bad loser than a good winner."
tlie unfortunate beggarth. Atlitounding!
Lord! Thimply tioemendouth!”
Mr. Calder, unbottoning liis jacket and
throwing it on the bed, laughed amusedly.
“God bless my soul, Brummell, haven’t
you ever heard Whispering .Tack in action
before? Most remarkable feature of the
battalion We think a good deal of the
band, but the band’s a mere circumstance
to the regimental sergeant-major. Most
remarkable man in the army, Sergeant-Major
Multiple.”
“Gad, Patsy,” said Mr. Wicks, a note of
genuine admiration in his voice, “if that
fellow was a bos’n in our service ’twouldu't
be safe to allow him to sing out an order
below deck. That voice’d rip up the plank-
ing an’ bring down all the standing rigging,
lie’s immense! Simply immense /”
“What did you thay hith name wath,
l'atwick?” inquired Mr. Pilkington.
“Multiple—John Multiple, regimental
sergeant-major.”
“Peculiar name, ithn’t it? But. at any-
wate, no one could accuwately dethcwibe
him atli the Leatht Common Multiple, could
they now?”
“Ha, ha, not so bad. Brum, my boy—
not so bad,” laughed Mr. Calder. “But
you haven’t told me what that chap Mar-
tincau —lie’s in my company, and not a bad
sort of fellow—what he got sent to the clink
for. What was it all about?”
“We couldn’t quite make out, Patrick.
He was the last of the boat’s crew left after
your Mr. Multiple had been giving ’em simple
Bell, turn about.” responded Mr. Wicks.
“One down t’other come up, so to speak,
and no favors. Well, he orders him to step
forward, and the fellow simply kept his
anchor down. Wouldn’t take station where
the sergeant-major wanted him. So Mul-
tiple inquires in that gentle voice didn’t he
intend to obey orders? With that, the man
yells as loud' as he’d been yelled at, ‘Yon
leave my wife alone, and be damned to you.’
Then Multiple sings out for the ship’s cor-
poral. That’s all we could make of it.
Looks as if there was some sort of story
behind it. don’t it now?”
Mr. Calder whistled.
“Lord! That’s it, is it? A woman in it.
Well, our Whispering Jack’s probably the
best soldier in the regiment. He could buy
and sell any of us in what he knows about
the game —the officers, I mean. Hut I v e
heard rumors that he’s a bit of a boy with
the long-haired lot. Good luck to him !
Still I have heard that once or twice he s
only' dodged bad trouble in that direction
by a hair’s breadth. There was Mrs. Molle s
maid, you know; the doctor stuck to him
over that, but —hullo, here’s Muldoon. Per-
haps Michael can enlighten us concerning
this scandal in high life. Michael!”
Mr. Calder’s servant, guardian angel and
friend, Private Michael Muldoon, had just
appeared in the doorway, his master’s laun-
dry under his arm. He sprang to attention
as he heard! himself addressed.
“Sorr!”
“What the devil’s up between Whispering
Jack and Sam Martineau’s missus, Michael?
D’ye know anything about it?”
Private Muldoon stepped into the big bare
room and laid the bundle of clean linen on
the table. Then lie drew himself up and
faced the three young gentlemen. Mr.
Calder was seated in his shirt sleeves on
the bed, whilst the other two straddled
wooden chairs, their arms resting on the backs.
“Pour us all out a drink first, Michael,
and have a glass of grog yourself. There’s
some rum on the sideboard, and you know
where the glasses are. If anyone can en-
lighten us as to the guts of this affair, I
assure you fellows ’tis Mike Muldoon. What
he don’t know about regimental gossip isn t
worth knowing. Have a glass of rum and
water, Brummel —Pansy.”
Private Muldoon opened the cupboard in
the basement of the sideboard and brought
forth glasses. Pie handed them round and
followed with the rum decanter and a carafe
of water from the washstand. He then
poured himself out a stiff nip and marched
back to his* position in front of the trinity.
Holding up his glass to each of them in
turn, he said, “Good luck, gmtlemm! and
gulped down the fiery Bengal neat.
“Well, then, what about it, Muldoon?
asked Mr. Wicks.
Pway, enlighten uth,
Midhael,” murmur-
ed Mr. Pilkington.
“Well, thin, Mis-
ther Calder an’ gintle-
min, ye must know
that Misther Jawn
Multiple’s th’ divil av
a wan f’r th’ ladies, so
lie is. ’Tis well known.
Well, it seems Sam
Martineau come back
the other day from
bein’ on detachment
at Parrymatty this
month past, on th'
Gov’nor’s gyard, an
ould Biddy Moriarty
—Bob Moriarty, th’
p r o v o s t-sergeant’s
missus—she bein’ a
long-tongued ould
bitch, savin’ y’r
honors’ prisince—she
ups an’ informs Sam
there’s been goin’s on
whilst lie’s bin up th’
river. Nothin’ th’ ould
gur-rl could say for
sartain, but jist what
she’d seen o’ Whisper-
in’ Jack talkin’ to
Mrs. Sam in th’ mar-
rit quarthers —an’ once
or twoice in th’ square
af tlier dark. Well,
anyone that’s well
acquaint with Jawn
Multiple knows well he
ain’t no time-wasther in these
little affairs, just as well as
they knows, so far’s he’s con-
sarhed, ’tis sartin sure there’s
roarin’ hot fire where there’s
smoke. I’d take me affydavy
to that much, so I wud. Yis,
I wud, indade!”
“But about to-day’s business,
Michael? What was Martin-
eau put on the peg for?”
“I’ll tell ye, sorr. ’Tis all
th’ same slitory, so it is. Day
afore yistiddy Sam’l comes off
gyard at ten o’clock in th’ mornin’. He’d
bin down at tli’ battli’ry at Dawes Pint.
When he’s dismissed in th’ sqnare out be-
yant he walks acrost to his quarthers, an’
there he comes on Molly a-tyin’ Jawn Mul-
tiple’s sash on for him. an’ he hears him
call her ‘Molly, dear.’ Well, Sam bein’ a
quiet man, he says nothin’ at th’ toime,
but th’ next marnin’ —yistiddy that was—-
when he’s a-gettin’ ready for p’rade, polish-
in’ up his buttons an whit’nin’ his belts
an’ so on—havin’ chewed th’ matther over,
this way an’ that, for twinty-four hours —
he ups an’ tolls Molly she’s no betther nor
an etcetery, an’ she chucks a cup o’ tay
over ’im, just as lie’s a-gettin’ into his jacket.
Tli’ drums starts for to bate tli’ assimbly.
an’ lie’s no more time than for to wipe his
jacket wid a liangcher an’ hurry out on
p’rade. Av coorse, he gits crimed be his
sergeant for bein’ dirthy, an’s for ord’ly-
room this marnin’. Well, now, Sam Mar-
tineau, he’s as clane a souldier as is in
th’ ould rig’mint —'a rale smart souldier.
always. So I suppose it hurts his feelin’s
bein’ crimed on account o’ what that slut
done to him wid tli’ cup o’ tay. an’ lie’s
ill-timpered whin lie’s p’raded wid th’ day-
faulters in front o’ Whisp’rin Jack, an’
felt he didn’t slitand the tellin’ off what
.Tawn was a-goin’ for to give him. That’s
all there is to it, y’r honors. I’ve no doubt
tli’ Colonel’l dale har-rd wid poor Sam.
Sure his luck’s out now., isn’t it. sorr?”
“By Heaventh,” remarked Mr. Pilkington,
indignantly—“what d —d fearful injuthtithe!
Good Gad, Patwick —and you, Panthy—l
motht thintherely thank God I belong to a
thervitlie where thutcli infernal thingth
don’t happen. By Gad. I do! Why, if I
watli thith man Martineau I’d tliend a ball
tliwougli the head of thith pwethiouth thar-
geant-major. Demme. I would!”
Strangely enough, it was Mr. Pilkington
alone who witnessed the private and par-
ticular sequel to this affair between Sergeant-
Major Multiple and the injured soldier, Mar-
tineau, a week later. The public side of it
he and Mr. Wicks had heard from Ensign
Calder. That gentleman had informed them
that the Adjutant’s pleading alone had pre-
vented Colonel Molle from punishing Mar-
tinean’s insubordination with the lash, for,
on the face of things, in the C.O.’s estimation,
it had been very gross indeed. However, in
view of the offender’s exemplary character
—and perhaps influenced by the fact that the
man had made no defence by a plea of pro-
vocation —the Colonel had at length con-
tented himself with awarding the prisoner
fourteen days’ cells on bread and water.
It was a couple of days over two weeks
after the incident he had witnessed in the
barracks square, when Mr. Pilkington, having
purchased a hack from Mr. Gregory -Blax-
land of South Creek, rode out one afternoon,
to take the air, in the direction of the Surry
Hills, by way of the new highway round
the Outer Domain which the Governor had
named Mrs. Macquarie’s Road. He passed
by Mr. John Palmer’s house at Wallamoula,
and struck up towards the range of sand-
hills intervening between the watershed of
the Tank Stream and the long slopes that
led down towards the Botany Swamps.
Putting it in terms of these days, he directed
his course to a point a little south of
Darlinghurs't, which was far out of the Syd-
ney of those years and well in the country.
It was a wilderness of scrub and sandhills.
A glorious day it was, cloudless and sunny,,
and the paces of his new purchase were
perfection, so that Mr. Pilkington felt well
content with all things as lie drew rein on
the crest of the low range of hills to admire
the glorious view—even yet unspoiled—that
spread itself before his gratified eyes. The
wide blue sheet of Botany Bay and the
distant ranges of the Illawarra —there is
nothing much better in the neighborhood of
Sydney.
He sat upon his horse —elegantly apparelled,
of course, in the most correct of costumes for
the equestrian—at the head of a little gully
which opened out between two huge hum-
mocks of scrub-covered sandhills. _ The low
bushes grew to the height of his mount’s
wither, so that, from a little distance, only
the very presentable bust of the Acting-
Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-General would
have been visible to a beholder. So absorbed
was lie on his first coming, there, entranced
by the loveliness of the wide panorama in
front of him in all its beauties, that he
neither heard the voices nor saw the figures
of the two men down below him in a little
open grassy, level glen between the flanks
of the sandhills. They were so intent upon
their own affair that they had not observed
him at all, which, since he was hidden from
them by a ragged ti-tree, was not remark-
able. He first realised tlieir presence when
he heard a voice that he recognised pro-
nounce a name he remembered.
“Martineau !”
It was the voice of Sergeant-Major Mul-
tiple.
Startled, Mr. Pilkington directed his gaze
down the gully to where the sounds came
from. There he beheld, facing one another
on the grass, the regimental sergeant-major
of the 46th and Private Samuel Martineau,
the man whose domestic infelicities, as related
by Private Muldoon, had so moved his sym-
pathy. And this is what he saw and heard.
Pie did not wish to play the eavesdropper,
but curiosity and interest in the story he
had been told so dominated his subconscious
personality that it never occurred to him to
rein back out of sight and hearing of this
purely private affair between the two men.
“Sam Martineau,” Multiple was saying in
his clear fashion of speech, “I want ye to
understand that I got ye out here to meet
me to-day in no other way than as man to
man. I’m John Multiple this afternoon, and
you’re Samuel Martineau, an’ there’s no
difference in rank between us. If ye’ll take
your jacket off, as I do mine, it’ll seem more
like what I say.”
Martineau veas scowling horribly at the
sergeant-major, but his face lit up at this
suggestion, which he evidently took to mean
that the other was offering him satisfaction
for his outraged honor as a husband, with
his fists. Pie tore off Ids jacket and began
to roll up his shirt sleeves. Then Multiple
held up his hand to check him, and shook
his handsome head.
“No, no, Sam. I don’t mean that,” he
said. “I can lick the head off you with
the mauleys—or off any man in the regi-
ment, for the matter o’ that. ’Tis something
different.”
“I doan’t care so be as you can, Ser’nt-
Major. All I axes is a fair go at ye. Dom
me heyes, Mister Multiple, ye owes me that
much —sliorely ye do !”
“Aye, Sam, and much more,” said the
sergeant-major in a low tone. “And I’m
here to pay it. Listen. For the fourteen
days—and you ought to have been flogged,
you know —I take no blame. But I visited
your missus, when you were away at Parra-
matta —and I beg ye not to think too badly
of her. ’Twas my doin’s entirely. ’Tis for
that I wish to give ye satisfaction. But I’ll
not fight ye, because I’d kill ye, and that’d
make the score more uneven yet. Here,” he
stooped to his jacket, and took a small pistol
from its breast pocket —“take this, and deal
with me as you will.”
He stepped forward, and thrust the weapon
into Martineau’s hand. Then he stood beside
his jacket again, folded his arms across his
broad chest and stared calmly at the other.
Martineau said nothing, but with a grim
earnestness looked to the priming in the
pan, cocked the flint-tipped hammer, and
slowly raised the pistol till it covered Mul-
tiple’s head.
“Gad, you fellowth,” said Mr. Pilkington
afterwards —“I jutht that there and thivered
—pawalythed I watli. Cool —that man Mul-
tiple ! I thould tliay tlio !”
“Shoot!” said Sergeant-Major Multiple.
Martineau’s features were convulsed with
hatred. Mr. Pilkington thought that he
delayed so as to torture the sergeant-major.
Seconds went by, he said, whilst he sat
frozen with horror in the scrub, incapable
even of calling out. Pie closed his eyes.
And then the shot rang out.
When Mr. Pilkington looked again, Private
Martineau stood blubbering, his face buried
in his hands, and Sergeant-Major Multiple
was in the act of picking up the pistol from
the grass at his feet.
“Well, Sam,” he was saying, “I’ve given
you your chance. ’Tis not my fault that
you fired into the ground. I didn’t ask
you to. Now, d —n you, get back to Bar-
racks.”


WE ARE THE AGENTS.
TH£
" BULLDOG "
HAMMER LESS
df
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £8/10/*
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel" barrels*
guaranteed Government tested for any charge It
r perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard
carry far, throwing surprising patterns Prize
winners everywhere. £11 to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances £ l q a• £ 15
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £0. Great field guns!
Special concessions to promising shots. A week's Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY LTD
HARDWARE MERCHANTS, *’
262 Queen Street, Melbourne; & Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
HEINZ
Cream of Tomato Soup
Made of rich, dairy cream and
fresh, red-ripe tomatoes. A
delicious soup that makes the
entire meal taste better.
Also, Heinz Cream of Green
Pea Soup, Heinz Cream of
Celery Soup.
1369
one of the
57
Varieties
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.,
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 600.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
THE JUSTICE
OF SKIPPER HOLMAN.
By D. EXTON BUTCHART.
THEY’VE found a snake.in the copra off
the Jeannette Cohen to-day,” I re-
marked as I closed the paper at the
end of the day’s quota of reading. If I
didn't space it out carefully we would find
that, long before next mail day came round,
we would have finished the consignment—and
there was nothing that old Adam Bray loved
better than to sit out under the solitary triad
ot palms, when I’d finished for the day at the
packing-sheds, and have me read to him.
Heading was about the only thing those
old sightless eyes of his couldn’t do. It was
uncanny the way he could guess your
thoughts. A sort of sixth and seventh senses
combined it seemed to be. But, reading didn’t
come under the same category.
. “A snake in the copra, oh?” he said, shak-
ing his head. “That’s bad. Anyone get bit-
ten ?”
I shook my head.
lie seemed to sense my answer, for he
nodded as though at good news, and then let
his sightless eyes stray out to their favorite
spot, the line that jumped and danced in the
heat-waves lifting from the ocean, where
water and the heavens met. The sun had
long since gone out of our sight behind the
island, and the blood-red flecks that were
clouds on the western horizon told me that
soon tlie tropic dusk would be upon us. A
gentle breeze, which had sprung up to set
the palm-tops rustling and chuckling amongst
themselves, was added confirmation of the
hour.
“Nugent was a snake in the grass, too,”
the old man said presently, communing with
himself rather than addressing mi'.
I folded the paper as noiselessly as I could,
so as not to disturb the old man’s train of
thought. YVlion <i mail lias spent fifty years
or so on blue water under bluer 'skies—
except when they get inky black and the mer-
cury falls with a nasty rush—he gets to be
a storehouse of all sorts and sizes of tales,
good, bad or indifferent, about all sorts and
conditions of men —and women, too. Tales
ot love and hate, of heroism and cowardice,
the hundred and one things that never get
into official logs; facts of real life that beat
notion hollow and get the zest that comes
from knowledge that they are real—sordid
gruesome even, but always real, so real that
even old Adam Bray’s way of telling them
cannot take away from their reality. And
Adam is the most diffident and lovable old
chap who ever took a well-earned rest at
the end of a long, clean life.
Old Adam Bray, one-time skipper and part-
owner of the Alice Wynyard, now a rusty,
asthmatic old “bag o’ bones,” but which was
once the pride and joy of the Group. She
had been the first steam trader in the Group
and Adam Bray had been her first skipper.
And now, in the evening of life, he loved
to talk at times, letting his mind wander
back through the years; and I was always
a sympathetic and eager listener. Gloaming
seemed to bring old Adam Bray out of his
shell, and many an hour I’ve spent, just com-
fortably weary after a long day in the pack-
ing-sheds, listening to what old Adam calls
his unofficial log.
I ’was Second on the poor old Ilermione
at the time—-just turned twenty; perhaps
that is why it lias stuck in my mind so
clearly, lie said a few moments later. “Byram
Holman was skipper, and it was my second
trip with him. Naturally he did not take
much notice of me—l was only a kid—but
I had sort of laid my soul at his feet. I
absolutely worshipped him after the first
two or three days out on my first trip with
him. The justest man I had ever met, I
thought him —and I still do. Altogether I
sailed with him three and a half years, and
in all that time I never once knew him to
do an unjust thing. Never once!” he added
and turned his sightless eyes on me.
I nodded, and it seemed that that was
what he had been expecting of me, for he
went straight on as though satisfied.
“The justest man I have ever met —and
the saddest. lie always seemed to me to be
more suited for the Judge’s bench than the
•skippers cabin. He was one of those
strangely preoccupied men one meets every
now and again whose eyes seem to say that
they have plumbed the depths of human
misery and vice and squalor, and, while con-
demuing can still sympathise. I could swear
that Holman himself had never done a mean
or dirty or vicious thing in his life—l didn't
mean that his eyes looked as if he had
plumbed those depths by personal experi-
ence, he added quickly.
“Well, one day on our second trip I
plucked up the courage to ask the Chief—
Holloway his name was—if he knew what
made the Old Man seem so unhappy It
was a rash thing to do, but 1 think that
Holloway knew just how I felt towards Hol-
man, and I know that lie felt the same way
himself. So, instead of giving me what would
have been only a well-deserved snub, he
took up my question in the spirit in which
it had been made and told me part at least
of the skipper’s story. If anything could,
it was that that made me more than ever
devoted to him.”
The old man paused a moment to knock
the dottle from his beloved stumpy. He
seemed to be marshalling his facts.
‘‘The Chief told me,” he went on, “that
about ten years before the Old Man had got
married, and for a while everything had gone
well. Then one day, when lie came back
from a three months’ trip, lie found that she
had gone—cleared out with another man;
supposed to have been a mutual friend! But
what had broken Holman up altogether had
been the note she had left; for him. telling
him that it was really this other man—
Nugent his name was—that she loved. I
think, if it }iad not been for that, Holman
would have given up his command there
You are guilty of murder!’ he said slowly and coldly.”
and then, and spent the rest of his days
looking for them. But that note altered
things completely. Holman said that if his
wife loved the other man she should have
him and have peace to enjoy him, and all
that the Chief could say—they had been
shipmates then for many years—could not
alter his decision. He simply went back
to his job again, and except that his eyes
lost the twinkle they used to have, one would
never have known that he had been married.
Ilis wife’s name was never mentioned, and
all his affections were divided between his
ship and his chief officer.”
The old man shook his head.
‘‘Fate is a curious thing, son. Very
curious. It takes us up and flings us apart,
and then, just as suddenly, just when we
are least expecting it, it chooses a setting
for us where the best or the worst must
come out, anid brings us face to face again.
We were four days out from Manga-toa
when it happened. We were putting in there
to discharge a ton of dried swamp-turf
J rom Harding g island. That stuff used to
be the wonder of the Group in the days
before superphosphates and all the rest of
* hose things were discovered. At one t ime
Ola-maha, Harding's island, must have been
a burial-ground of some sort —prehistoric
perhaps—-and apparently the swamp land
contained something or other which managed
to convert its contents into a most remark-
able fertiliser. Harding made a fortune out
ol it. At first lie used to sell it at so much
a ton, and then, when supplies were begin-
to get exhausted, at so much a pound.
Weil, we had this ton to drop at Manga-
toa—we had to make a detour to do ii
and then our next port was three hundred
miles due south. If it. had not been for
Manga-toa we would have been heading to-
wards the Southern Cross at the moment
instead of keeping it two points astern of
our starboard light standard.
“There were a good many uncharted
islands about in those days. ‘ and I was
keeping a pretty slick watch out one morn-
ing about four bells when I sighted what I
took to be an empty bulk just off our port
bow. We were doing only about four knots
«it the time, so I shortened snil and came up
as close alongside as I dared to. It was a
ten-ton yacht, and not, as I had at first
thought, deserted. There was a man in it
—almost dead I thought at first, but it
turned out that he was only sleeping* he
had been standing a watch for forty-eight
hours and was tuckered right in. I suppose
I should have awakened the Old Man
straight away, but for some reason I de-
cided, when I found that the chap was all
right, to leave it till the morning. 1 had
to take him on board, of course, and I sent
a Kanaka aboard the yacht to bend on a
tow rope and keep her on an even keel for
the rest of the night.
As a matter of fact I gave the chap
my bunk, as I was standing a double watch.
It was about two bells when. I at last
reported it to the Old Man—the Chief had
just gone up on the bridge; we didn’t always
stick to routine in those days, and fairly
often I would stand a double watch at
night. I used to like it, what is more.
Hie Old Man himself was still in bed, and
he had made no objections when I suggested
I should bring the chap along about six
bells.
The old man broke off for a moment, as
though visualising the scene, and then went
on :
“Well, promptly at six bells I reported
myself at the door of the skipper’s cabin.
It struck me at once that something was
wrong. The Chief was leaning forward, hands
on the table, and he had apparently just
finished saying something which had upset
the OJd Maa, for, as I poked a»y head round
the door, he started to speak: ‘Good God,
Charlie, that’s terrible! We’ll have to’ ,
and then he caught sight of me, and stopped
abruptly. ‘Later,’ he said to Holloway, and
then told me to bring in my discovery.
“As I said. Fate is a queer thing, and it
has always struck me that the Master Pilot
has our courses all pricked out long before
we ever step aboard our vessel. You can’t
explain these things otherwise. As soon as
the newcomer put his head inside the door I
saw the skipper start. My companion, too,
seemed, to get a shock. I heard him mutter
something that sounded like ‘Mv God !’ and
then he made as though to get out of the
cabin.
“ ‘Wait!’ cried Holman in a voice that sent
a shudder down my back. Even in the ex-
citement of this unexpected development the
thought flashed across my mind that the
Old Man only needed a wig and gown to
be a Judge. His lips were tight set, and his
finger, pointing at the man, was trembling
slightly.
;;‘Your name?’ the Old Man asked.
‘Pile other seemed hypnotised, and then he
found his tongue. ‘Carruthers,’ he said, in
a voice scarcely above a whisper.
“The Old Man’s voice seemed like the
rumbling of thunder below a purple horizon
as he spoke again. ‘You lie!’ he said—
there was no hesitation in his voice; only
the cold certainty of conviction. ‘You are
Nugent!’
“The Chief started forward with a cry
but Holman waved him back. ‘Wait, Harry,
the cur shall have justice.’ He turned again
to Nugent. ‘You know me?’ he asked, and
the other nodded dumbly, lie seemed com-
pletely under the domination of the Old
Han’s eyes. He did not even shuffle. Simply
stood there, mute, almost expressionless.
1 lie Old Man bent worwurd. ‘Where is mv
wife ?’ he said.
“The other spread bis hands in a gesture
ot helplessness. ‘She dead.’ His voice
was a mere croak, a .mm! of terror.
lelt. her three days a; in ]<«>i* grave. Tjj
buried her and then I away' 1 could
stand it no longer.” He shook ir hew?
as though in bewilde mt, 'She
suddenly. I had no to .take h< to'
help.’
His voice stopped, am pregnant silence
tilled tlio cabin. Outsnir, noises came and
went as usual the every-day routine noises.
if s * a l». slap of the iyards with the
roll of the vessel; the gentle clip clop of the
water; the voices of the Kanaka crew ; the
rattling of pans in the galley. The same
monotonous noises of every day; and yet
somehow they seemed unreal, artificial, a
theatrical setting by some stage manager
trying to give the effect of the sea.
"It all seemed unreal to me. I could
scarcely believe that there, before me—
don’t forget 1 was only twenty at the time,
and my knowledge of life was culled from
books mainly, almost solely—l could scarcely
believe that there before me was being
enacted the age-old drama, the eternal
triangle, only in a different setting; and one
of the angles was gone. There remained only
th(‘ two men, drifted together at last over
courses pricked out by the Master Pilot,
mi * ru”? 8 ? sat thorn staring at Nugent,
the Chief was fuming and cursing under
his breath.
“Holman broke the silence. ‘So she is
dead ?
Nugent nodded dumbly.
Holman raised that trembling linger
again. How did she die?’
“Nugent shrugged. ‘The n’goma bit her.’
1 shuddered. I had learnt of that grislv
creature, half spider, half bat, that occasion-
idl.v appeared, apparently from nowhere to
deal death and terror to its victims. It was
almost a legendary animal, so rare were its
appearances. Once in the lifetime of a man
one n goma might be seen by one member
ot a whole tribe. Legend said that they bred
only in the corpses of seventh sons of seventh
sons, so rare they were.
was a look a ffo«y in the Old
Mans face as he spoke again. ‘I hold von
responsible for her death, even though
what you say about the n’goma be true.
Cod hath delivered mine enemy into mine
hands. An c ye for an eye, a tooth for a
tooth He fixed the cowering Nugent
with his gleaming eyes. ‘I should hang you
I i°in the yardarm!” he said—remember,
son, that was fifty years ago, and in those
days skippers had the right to do it—‘but
that I would pollute the ship!’ He signed
to Holloway. ‘Take him away a while,
Harry, he said. ‘I must think what I must
do. P>ut do not hurt him.’ Tlis eye caught
miue, as I stood there dumb with sympathy
He nodded kindly, and said in a gentle voice’
lake a trick on the bridge for a while*
son.
“It was about an hour later that the
skipper again summoned us to the cabin. It
had been an unhappy hour for all of us but
worst, I think, for Byram Holman. It is
not pleasant to have the life of a fellow-
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,29*
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.li.H., Chairman,
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysaoht, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rot-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Ghiej Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICIO, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving' Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgnte, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
n. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banting Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE ami, WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Tefl/i Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
BP Oll Australia, New
Vl\ iiA I O /ealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
GRANTS
Ik Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
lead met: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGES TERRACE.
Alj FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELROURN;’ OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY rFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authoiis’. Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Subscril e . Capital .. .. • • 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
. . £1,250,000
970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail aud cable news
iront Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New’ Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, YV.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 850 George Street, Sydney:
or 484 Collins Street. Melbourne..
vviui
ACTUAL SIZf
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to. ans
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG gAITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors ft
Club Reii
Cigar
Factory.
Shipping, etc.
Welcome to Hawaii!
Swiftly and steadily the mighty
Canadian-Australasian Liners carry
Australians away from Winter s
chill into the radiant warmth of
Hawaiian shores.
Washed by Sparkling Surf
and sun, curtained by deep-fronded
palms, and wreathed with gorgeous
blossoms, Hawaii lies, a vivid spot
on the vast Pacific, welcoming
travellers from every land.
Visit Pacific Isles!
The Aorangi leaves Sydney on
July 26.
Return Excursions (from Sydney)
First Saloon £75
Second Saloon . . £55
For particulars and literature write:
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY,
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
'((M
W
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popular
steamers “MARELLA” and “MALABAR” from
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, via Queensland
Ports, Torres Strait, Darwin, etc.
South Sea Island Tours
Solomon Islands—
S.S. “MATARAM ”
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
New Guinea —
S.S. “MONTORO,”
Visiting 16 Island
Ports.
m ms
For Reservations and Information apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 18X7.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
sdf
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tiireadoeedie Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. .TAMES ASHTON M
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
0 0
•L.C.;
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birehin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting-)
FOR! MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and othei
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard SmiUi,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
Mcllwraith,
Mcßacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., lOßridgeSt.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
MeEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
FOK BRISBANE MACIvAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVIM.E and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
ORUNGAL
KAN OWN A
ORMISTON
CANBERRA
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,Kcmblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather, in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms and Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing
and outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui and
Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal islands.
A vacation that’s different. Good hotels fiom
12/- to £3 per day, with meals. Ho extia
charges for stop-over privilege when en route
to America or Europe. Round-trip, Sydney and
return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 1 weeks
Hawaii) can be made for about £lOO to £ioU,
inclusive. Ask nearest travel or steamship
agent; or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept.
2(5, Box 241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full
information, attractive booklet, attaching
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WuLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Ihursday afteinoon.
Roth vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
EARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return,
Steamer and first-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single,
£4
£7/5/-
£3/15/-
£3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
HAIIR
WOUL©
SPOIL
IT#
\
\e»
A\e
Ocve
\\ey
'o* * M
» ? #
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES I HE GREY


Girls! There is Only One
Soap for Health and Beauty
—Rexona Soap
To keep your skin clear, fresh and radiant, use only Rexona Soap. It is
the purest of the pure and will do more to improve your skin than you
ever thought a soap could do. Being medicated on the same principle as
the famous Rexona Ointment, which is so widely used for all skin affec-
tions, it is able to exert the hygienic efforts of Rexona upon the skin with
every cleansing operation. Rexona Soap prevents roughness, relieves
clogged pores, reduces the tendency to pimples, blotches, blackheads,
redness and oiliness, and thus gives you a clear and beautiful complexion.
Miss GLADYS MON CRIEFF,
beautiful star of
“Rio Rita,’’ writes:
“I always use Rexona
Soap, for I consider it
the one and only soap
for the skin and hair,”
Kexonct
ofoap
f
Wealth
or
and
Oextutu
m
< 'ill!
m!* 9
o\>«"
1
m
Chocolates
U I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
.The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address fn Australia.
Hiliici
™
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
OR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrate
with reproductions of our
confectionery in colors.
«*»
*****
If
im
14 . 'I
m
mm*’*
L.
w
=*
1
BBMililMlll
IS
1 ■■' II
■
a s»t ■
:
Ilf
■ m
- , .
human in one’s hands; I’ve had the ex-
perience once or twice, son” —the old man
shuddered slightly as he made the interpo-
lation —“and I hated it! I can understand
only too well what Holman was feeling. He
had already said that Nugent was his wife’s
murderer, and Holman never went back on
his word. He had already decided that
Nugent must pay the penalty, and it was
only the manner of it that was troubling
him.
“We were a silent trio as we filed into the
cabin. Holloway was still grumbling—if
he had had his way Nugent would have had
short shrift and no shroud. That hour on
deck with Nugent in his charge must have
tried his honest, clean soul to the limit.
“Nugent was silent; save for an occasional
suppressed sound as he tried to moisten
his parched lips. He looked guilty—person-
ally, even then, I doubted his story about the
n’goma. Holman, too, sat silent, liis eyes
fixed on the table, for some time after we
had entered. At length he spoke, and his
voice sounded harsh and unnatural, with the
monotone of self-restraint only with difficulty
imposed.
“ ‘You are guilty of murder!’ he said
slowly and coldly.
“I saw, or rather felt, Nugent start. The
Old Man bent forward, leaning half-across
the table. ‘Confess, you cur!’ he said in a
tone now vibrant.
“Nugent seemed to be half-hypnotised. At
any rate, the naked soul of the man revealed
itself in the cringing words that came.
“ ‘Yes, I killed her. But have mercy—l
was mad ! It was awful—the loneliness —
just she and I—and’ The voice rose to
the strained high pitch of hysteria—‘she
hated me—she loved you !’ The voice sank
back to its half-cringing, half-whining pitch
again. ‘Have mercy—have mercy !’
“There was a long silence in the cabin
after that, and again the outside sounds
seemed to penetrate with a startling un-
reality. I think the three of us were ex-
periencing the same sensation —a nauseat-
ing mixture of horror and loathing.
“At last Holman spoke again. ‘Had you
not confessed—even if your lies about the
n’goma had been the truth—l should still
have deemed you guilty of murder.’ He
paused and shook his head. ‘And yet I
cannot bring myself to hang you as you
deserve. You shall have your chance—if
you will take it.’
“‘Yes, yes!’ cried Nugent, trembling with
the coward’s fear of death. ‘Yes, yes, any-
thing !’
“ ‘Listen, then,’ said Holman. ‘And listen
well ! You may have your choice. Death
by hanging, or the risk of a solitary trip.
Your yacht is still astern—l have decided,
if you care to go, to put you once more on
board. I will give you food and water on
one condition—that you make sail for
Manga-toa and endeavor to reach there so
as to deliver for us a cargo of soil.’ I saw
the Chief start. ‘lt is seven days’ sail
in your boat, and you shall have provisions
for ten days, but’—he shrugged significantly,
‘the glass is falling—the typhoon may break
within a day or so. And there are other
dangers.’
“We looked at Nugent. ‘You will not
poison the food or the water?” he said.
“At these words coming from Nugent the
Chief let out a roar. ‘You rotten scum!’
lie yelled, and was about to hit him, when
Holman’s voice cut the air. ‘Harry, let
be ! lie will have troubles enough.’
/‘The Chief's fist dropped to his side.
‘Yes, that is so. Troubles enough. Thousands
of them.’
“ ‘Well,’ said ‘wh,at is your
choice?’
“Nugent’s voice was stronger as he made
reply. ‘I will go.’
/‘The skipper nodded as though satisfied,
‘(let him away as quick as you can,’ he
said to Holloway, and then signalled that
we might return to the deck.”
The old man paused again and filled and
lighted his pipe with a hand that trembled
slightly.
“Well, we. saw Nugent safely into the
yacht, and transferred the soil into the tiny
after-hold —it just took it and no more. We
had had it stowed in crates, but the Chief
insisted that it should be packed loosely into
the hold of the yacht. When it was aboard
no time was lost in casting off. Not two
hours after Nugent had received his sentence
we three leant against the after-rail, our
bow now headed due south, and watched the
tiny craft as it tacked away in the direc-
tion of Manga-toa.
“At length the Old Man turned forward
towards the bridge, but as lie left he nodded
towards me, and said to Holloway ‘Tell
him, Harry.’ ”
The old man turned his sightless eyes
towards me and laid a gnarled hand on my
arm.
“Son,” he said, “what Holloway told me
was not a great deal, but —-you remember I
told you that when I first took Nugent to
the Old Man’s cabin Holloway had appa-
rently just broken some news to the skipper.
It was then I learnt for the first time why
it was they all fought shy of carrying any
of Harding’s soil. It seemed that every
now and then a load of it would be a
whole breeding ground of- —scorpions ! That
morning Holloway had killed a scorpion,
and found the surface earth of one of the
crates riddled with thousands of eggs just
ready to burst. One day in an open hatch
would bring them to life! There would be
thousands of them aboard the yacht by the
third day!”
He shuddered as he pictured what Nugent
must have awakened to find on that morn-
ing—if the typhoon had not mercifully burst
beforehand.
“But Nugent was a snake in the grass,
and all he got was justice from the justest
man” —he nodded as though in confirmation
of his own opinion-7-“the justest man that
ever sailed blue water.”
Heedless All.
While soft, silken breezes fan
Hillside palms and pines,
Unbelield by maid or man
Beauty radiant shines.
While she casts dew-pearls, that gem
Blade and bud and tree—
“ Folk abed,” she calls to them—-
“Rise, and look on me!”
Not a window at her word
Opens south or north ;
East or west, from slumber stirred,
Not a face peers forth.
Over lawns with shadows strewed,
Over moonlit ways,
All in lovely solitude
Through the night she strays.
As her feet through gleam and glow,
Shine and shadow, tread,
Shame it is to slight her so,
Hugging Sleep instead.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Beauty Abides.
Out of the flame and the dust
Of the ruthless years
I have gathered a little trust
And many tears.
But the mornings, the mornings dim,
Their splendors spill
Over the high hill’s rim,
Beautiful still!
I have cupped my hands for the flow
Of the waters of dream,
But mine alone is the woe
Of a broken gleam.
Yet over beyond the place
Where grey griefs crawl
Dawn stabs my heart with the grace
Of its filmy fall.
And I think that the years were well
Since this is their leaven—
That I who have walked in Hell
May yet grasp Heaven.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Frivolous Recommendations Rejected.
A GRAPHI C LITTLE SKETCH OF AN ARMY SIGNALLER’S EXPERIENCE
By W. TEARE- WATSON.
EXTRACT from Divisional Signal Com-
pany diary:—
Offensive heavy. H.Q. to far-forward line
broken at a distance several times and repaired
under difficulties by Sapper Harkis, now struck off
strength to B clearing station.
And another at a later date:—
Rec n posthumous M.M. for Sapper l Ha'rkis rejected.
* * * *
The man in the shell-hole strained his
eyes to see through the darkness ahead and
listened for a repetition of the rustling noise
that had just disturbed him. Ever since he
had come up from Divisional H.Q. that
morning, with only a faint idea of the work
he had to do, his nerves had been on edge;
and when the Intelligence Officer of the
battalion which was now directly behind
him had gone into details, he had stared un
believingly. “An expert signaller, with a
knowledge of scouting, for a dangerous job,”
had been the request of the Brigade Adjutant,
and the Major in charge of the Signal Com-
pany had asked him to take it on. Not
ordered, but asked! That was what had
caused the windy feeling all the way up
here to the front line.
Oh well, in the signal game it had to come
sooner or later. Just as well there were no
dependants; his cousins would get the pro-
perty. AVould they stick to sheep? he
wondered.
The rustling came again, close and to his
left. He swung round and found two spots
of green glaring into his face— and then
there was a swift patter as the cat, one of
the scavengers of No Man’s Land, took
fright and ran.
He felt relieved as he sank into the shell-
hole again and his heart resumed its normal
beating. Pensively he went over the day's
happenings. That muddy Hell of a front-
line trencli —no wonder there were so many
sick hack at the clearing stations and the
base! The stench of it would win the war
if only the wind would turn. The greeny-
brown hessian suit he had bori’owed from
the Intelligence man for the iirst stage of
his crawl towards the enemy line must have
been the goods, because he had covered the
nfty yards to the shell-hole objective without
being spotted. Dragging the Fullerphone
and the two lines had made things risky,
too. When darkness came the next fifty
yards had been comparatively easy, though
occasional bursts of rifle and machine-gun
hre had startled him a bit.
An annoying little thought about the
artillery kept running through his head.
What if their barrage should get him’ lie
was only thirty yards from the German
line! A dozen shells could drop on that
spot without anyone being the wiser Well
ins job finished with the commencement of
tlie b&irage, and that was all that the army
heads considered. All they cared was that
the enemy scouting parties did not. leave
the German trenches without being reported
so the approaching stunt must be a nrettv
big one.
He picked up the head-receiver of the
Fullerphone felt for the key and called up
-Brigade H.Q.
“How’s the time, Watty?”
The twanging in his ear as the answer
came through made him momentarily forget
everything but the work he loved. “0105
Bill. Having a nuiet rest?”
He cautiously looked over the edge of the
shell-hole for a few minutes; everythin"
vas quiet. He bent over the instrument
agam and was sending “All well” when
a sudden increase of the twanging in the
receiver told him that the line that moment
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
“La Gloire.”
In this fascinating story J. H. M.
Abbott tells how one of Napoleon’s
men broke up a party at Govern
rnent House in Macquarie’s day.
“Yoho and Kidney Stew.”
One of the best sea-stories ever
written in Australia.
AND OTHERS.
Adjusted in a moment
and what a tremendous saving in time and
trouble.
When roads are sandy, wet, soft, muddy or
boggy,you should put on WEED TYRE CHAINS.
They provide the traction —“grip on the road’*
—so imperatively needed, and thus prevent loss
of power, delays and possible serious accident
from skidding.
Weed Tyre Chains are made for all tyres.
They are easily identified by their brass-plated,
hardened steel cross chains “galvanized side
chains—and red lever-locking connecting hooks
with the name “WEED” stamped on them*
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Standard of quality for over a quarter of a century
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
1499
*
Feeling overstrained?
"CANATOGEN has a direct
U favourable influence on the whole
nervous system and in all cases acts
as a powerful stimulant to the
nervous system,”
writes a physician in the “Medical Press
& Circular.”
Nerves, brains, blood and muscles, every cell of
them is charged with new energy and vitality by
Sanatogen.
Get back to splendid health and vitality by starting
your course of Sanatogen now.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food ™
At all Chemists —from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD,
LOUGHBOROUGH.
ENGLAND.
laid been cut. His heart stood still. Surely
an enemy party hadn’t got past without
beiug seen? If that had happened they
wafald follow the wires back, and—Well,
he’d fight it out, anyhow!
Cautiously he climbed from the shell-
hole, and, holding a wire in each hanld,
crept towards the Australian lines, feeling
carefl illy for a break or short-circuit as he
went. Twenty yards that had seemed as
many miles sufficed to reach the spot wnere
one vire was almost completely 1 severed.
Lying on his belly, he felt, the wire thought-
fully. “H’m! Chewed through, he mut-
tered. “Must’ve been a rat. Curse these
metallic circuits! The beast mightn t have
found a single wire.”
As he repaired the break another thought
flew into his head. “Only a few minutes
after one! Hell! Nearly three hours yet!”
Half-way back to> the shell-hole a sudden
flash of light froze him. “Those Vereys are
the devil!” he told 1 the mud. But he reached
the hole in; safety and sent the rest of the
message back to Brigade, reporting the rea-
son for the cessation.
It must have been nearly an hour later
that a barrage of lights and crackle of rifle
fire from straight in front made him duck
quickly 1 to> the bottom of the hole. A
machine-gun joined in, and then came the
“bash” of a bomb.
“Good-bye, Scouts,” lie muttered through
clenched teeth.
When the firing ceased lie bent again
to his instrument and called the brigade.
Despite repeated efforts there was no
answer, and lie realised that the line had
gone again.
He was frightened this time, but it was
a fear of showing fear that drove him over
the lip of the shell-hole to crawl slowly
along the line.
He had nearly reached the shell-hole that
had been half-way house to him, and was
going along steadily with his head well
down when a peculiar odor crept into his
nostrils, and it is face struck something that
was soft and warm and sticky. He stopped
dead and had risen to his knees before he
regained control of himself and lay flat
'gain, to scare at the thing that had stopped
him. Slowly the outlines came into view
—a huddl 'd body. He looked closer, and
saw that a bomb had blown the head to
rvieces.y. IBs hand went to his own smeared
face. Tortured nerves gave a little, and his
lomaeli heaved till tears ran down his
cheeks.
This time both the lines had been broken,
and the break took a long time to repair.
It was while lie was crawling back to
the shell-liolc that a blow on the left shoul-
der turned him over on to his back. The
shoulder went mlmb, and then a terrific
pain shot through it. lie lay with clenched
teeth and tightly-closed right hand for five
minutes before laboriously and painfully
resuming his crawl. Every yard now was
a separate Hell, and as he rolled into the
shell-hole he fainted.
Returning consciousness brought with it
a realisation of duty. Fear had gone utterly:
all he felt was pain and a desire to kill.
To kill gorily and terribly.
The searching fingers of his right hand
touched the instrument, and he adjusted the
head-receiver and called up the Brigade.
His report was long, confused and broken,
but the reader at the other end took the
message perfectly and sent back condol-
ences and the time.
“Good Lord !”' he muttered—“nearly four
o’clock! Will the barrage get me?” But.
lie reassured the Brigade that he could stick
to liis position.
A shell-burst away to his right brought
a smile to his lips. They’d all start now.
Good old artillery! They’d give these
Bodies something to go on with.... A
spasm of pain sent him into another spell
of unconsciousness.
When he came-to the barrage was well
under way. Shells seemed to be bursting
all round him, and the air was thick with
noise and the stink of explosives. The
head-receiver was still on. and the twanging
in his ear told him that Brigade was call-
ing. He answered and reported that all
was going well. “Nine minutes to the hop-
over,” the Morse told him, and he smiled
with twisted lips as he looked up at the
continuous flashing in the sky. Then every-
thing was a sudden blur of red and yellow
flame....
He was staring up at a sky dawn-grey and
barely visible through the smoke that floated
overhead. He seemed to have been staring
at that sky for an eternity. Just a ring
of it; a round piece of sky bordered by—
ah. now he remembered! This was a shell-
hole; but why was there a fire under him?
He tried to move away from it—it was
burning his left side horribly—but the effort
brought on a spasm of intolerable agony.
He relapsed into unconsciousness.
Once again the sky came into view. It
was brighter this time and appeared illimit-
able. It also had a gentle sway from side
to side. Then he screamed as pain again
dominated his senses.
“There now, old chap! You’ll be all
right,” a gruff voice spoke in his ear.
“God!” lie cried as lie tried to move his
left arm and left leg. The agony was
frightful. Why didn’t someone put the fire
out? Terror seized him. and he screamed
again.
“What’s the matter, Dig?” The gruff
voice broke in again, and his sight of the
sky was abruptly blotted out by the lined
face of the stretcher-bearer. ,
“It’s burning my side! For Christs
sake put the fire out!”
He strove desperately to shriek of Ins
pain, but the sound would not come. The
voice of the stretcher-bearer broke in on
his consciousness again. “What fire, Dig.'
There ain’t no fire.”
“My left side. God, it’s burning my
arm and leg ! Put it out!’ :
“Cobber,” said the bearer quietly, “you
’aven’t got a left arm or a left leg, an
your left side’s shot to ’ell!”
Tom’s Gone to Hilo.
Stretch her leech and show her clew,
On\e more pull and that tvill do —
Hurrah, Hilo!
One more pull and that will do —
Tom's gone to Hilo. '
A drab old wooden barque I knew,
Kbe bad a lialf-Kanaka crew;
We berthed her by Dalgety’s pier,
Gone thirty-eight or forty year,
And Tommy Brown, her third, with me
In friendship joined eternally.
The Days of Life danced merrily,
The world was then our oyster; we,
With Youth for our belaying-pin,
Had stove the cask of pleasure in,
And found its liquor, on the brink
Of Hell, a pleasant draught to drink.
The skipper was a portly man
Named Thomas Francis Mulligan,
A shellback of the olden school,
An Irishman from Liverpool
Transplanted, but a sailor born
Who, when in port, on Sunday morn
Would go to mass; to vespers, too,
And edify a godless crew,
Which was, as Tom explained to me,
No more than eccentricity;
For when at sea another man
Was Captain T. F. Mulligan.
He’d call ’em up, he’d call ’em down,
And if they murmured —white or brown —-
Old Tom was handy with his fists ;
He boasted two revolver wrists,
Could throw a knife upon a pinch
Just where he wanted to an inch.
Young Tom explained his master’s ways
To me upon a day of days,
When one ashore and one from sea
Two cubs awakened from a spree:
With broken leave and jobs forgot
They wakened in—a certain spot;
A certain spot on Miller’s Point
Which seemed o’ernight a pleasant joint,
But in the morn, the cold grey morn.
Appeared unpleasant as Cape Horn —
Cape Horn in winter time, interned,
With all one’s blessed lifeboats burned I
To save the job, to get aboard,
Oh, help us now, O Lord, O Lord!
We will be good, so good we’ll be
That on the land or on the sea
No human voice shall e’er attest
We were not equal to the best.
And well I mind, young Tom insists?
Despite those two revolver wrists,
We’ll go together as we can
And face the skipper Mulligan.
We’d rather face the Devil in
Ills mansion of ancestral sin.
Ilowbeit, as the gang-plank we
('limbed slowly up unsteadily,
With bristling beard and Irish hair
Old Tom was waiting glumly there.
I doffed my hat; my trembling knees
Did give me to a great unease.
“Sir,” I began. “To Hell wid you!"
He turned my shrinking mate unto.
He looked him up, he looked him down.
“So you’ve been out about the town!
Your soul,” said he, “is more to me
Than all the ships that sail the sea.
“Your mother was my sweetheart when
I went my ways with younger men ;
Your mother was my cousin, and
I’ll see yon through by sea and land....
And whin I get you out to sea
’Tis God help you....and God help me!”
He turned to me a livid face—
“A Protestant and out of grace
No doubt ye are, but what ye did
Was friendly to the foolish kid.
I’ll tell ye w.liat / mane to do” —
He took a forward step or two.
I saw the quiver of his lip.
“Get off, get off me sacred ship
Before I pull yer windpipe out!”
The grinning wharfies heard the shout
And dropped their hooks intrigued to see
An early morning tragedy.
I took the gangway at a stride
And landed breathless overside.
Though full of pride and young and fond
I beat it hard for Towns’s Bond,
With, in my vision, as I ran,
The fearsome face of Mulligan.
Though long old Tom is in his place,
I never can forget that face!
But still I own a dandy man
Was Captain T. F. Mulligan,
As fine a sailor of his school
As ever hailed from Liverpool.
# * * *
Old Tom went to Hilo. Belay!
His soul is sailing far away.
Old Tom’s gone to Hilo. Avast!
For that will be our port at last!
’Tis Hilo for the watches and
’Tis Hilo for the ship’s command.
Oli-hey, Hilo!
Old Tom went to Hilo.
Young Tommy settled down,
Raising ducks and chickens
Out west from Campbelltown.
Stretch her leech and, show her cleic!
One more pull and that will do.
Hurrah, Hilo!
One more pull and that will do —
Tom's gone to Hilo!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


sdf
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-—HOLMES CHURCH, Brisbane. PAUfADh WUCT u p mit re
N.Z. Office—l)3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. bUIIIUKU fftil, PI, o. WALfto
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
IT>«
st>K
y
Per
ce
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it ha 3
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL .& CAMERON, LTD., 206-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l. y
Cables; “SUBE AMOCO,” London. /
s
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear and
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men, and f _ Hose
and Socks for Children.
YouVe safe
if Wolsey
clad!
WOLSEY Pure Wool Underwear
is the finest protection you can
possibly adopt! Pure Wool from
first stitch to last, produced by skilled
British labour, Wolsey preserves an
even bodily temperature and makes
you proof against chill and cold. In
your own interests buy some and wear
it regularly. You need have no fear as
to whether it will wash well —it is abso-
lutely unshrinkable ! See the Wolsey
Head Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
THE
REMEDY
that
•wifi do
you good
Know the beneficial effects of Beecham's Pills.
Experience in all cases of Sick Headache,
Biliousness, Indigestion and Constipation, has
proved their value. Those who use them
recommend them as “ the remedy that will do
you good.”
Give Beecham’s a trial—judge them from your
own experience—and you will speedily be con-
vinced of their merit. The defective organs
will be restored—able to perform their proper
functions, and your health established.
A
XT)
m
fov Constipatio . . >
Headache, Bili
Indigestion, L
CHOOSE
A KERMATH
A little care in choosing
your marine engine will
assure better and safer
boating performance. That
is why over 70% of the
world’s best boat-builders
install Kermath Marine
Engines. They demand
the best.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
13 to ISO H. P
I to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
I
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Miison's Point
North Sidney, N.S.W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
marine engines
• *
• •
22
If any illustration in * THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
I N ONE
RAZOR
Guaranteed xKepf
in order for two years free.
CRAIG &
m
to
m
V
shave after shave of satin smooth
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
JO
dfs
0^
O’*
0°
6)
e
2
'c« ~. r ... .
\ s e * *♦*....•••••;
+\o ft <- s .-••■" ••••■" .•••;'<*
*,.* S'
, .-••■ s: •&%>?**


u
a
*
VWWW
k.
H v'TN'XO
fft
///
//
J
n;
ll
l
//
7
/I
R
c
\V
(l
i
The New Chum
"W ell . how’s the new country treating you?”
"Fine! Could’nt be better. It’s a land of
great opportunity.”
"And are you making plenty of friends?”
"I am that, and what’s more, I’m delighted to be
meeting many old friends. The very first time I
took a drink they introduced me to a whisky I’d
always known and preferred.”
"Oh yes, Australia always has a welcome hand for newcomers
but she never forgets the tried and trusted friends that have
stood by her for years.”
JOHNNIE
WALKER
WHISKY
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
busy making new
(AustralianJriends
mm
fLOH
PI WT
The friends of
"Johnnie Walker” in
Australia are legion.
They know they can
tru§t this rare old
Scotch Spirit .
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock
Of Prohibition beware! Put your Xin the BOTTOM square.
