

.
i/
m
t <
: '
am
V.'
mA mmmmm ?
.
: : . i
SHI
if
Cnn)
3>
3*l
u^nJ
m
■
<s=>)
EK
(&d
m
Xwm
■
Si
V.
V .
\ •
mwsmmm
,_*SdL. \: ... Il
The Bulletin
effort feu/rife Xfoy U/rt/dd /S&ot’ dWlffbC JUouea
Vol. 49.—N0. 2521.
Wednesday, June 6, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’T’HE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
A 1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
apnlication to
DYMOCK’S BOOR ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Don’t bo too haughty, exclusive and proud.
He Who would progress must move with the crowd.
Honor true worth in a lout or a lord ;
He is a fool who despises a “Ford.”
Even a king in the hour of pain
Does not the humblest assistance disdain.
When a “bad cold” or a cough you endure,
Send for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
lit
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Boohlet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
J-YSAGHT
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
12
10
SSn.
a s
An Ideal Gift
■pOK an enduring and beautiful friendship
you need an enduring and beautiful
symbol—and what more perfect in these
qualities than an Elgin Watch ?
The artistry of design, waler-like daintiness,
durable strength, and unvarying accuracy of
an Elgin make it pre-eminent.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
ajsdgfsdf
/M
m
in the Watch Case
The delicious Fish Paste
Ho tiu
Just try them ! Give them Ancho*
vette sandwiches for their school
lunch and see their eyes sparkle !
It’s good for them, too, and so little
trouble to prepare. Get a jar from your
grocer to-day.
Holds 50 € More Ink
Lr©o3
SSLf-RLUNC
Safety
'd r s////jOY///ss///ssssss/ss//s///s/s/s////sss/sss/r/r*nmk
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row. London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
dB
Juj
■sino
•ms
KOSt
MMTSMaW
nSASMfT
•isiMCAL. «*xrm!
Mcraemc
IMS
wwm
MttVT
YO^
' >-'-■i
ON
' 25
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or-other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; o. forward 1/6 in stamp*
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
The Ugly Duchess
Popular first books have played an im-
portant, part in the structure of letters,
though the books themselves may be neglig-
ible as letters. The artist who wrote “David
Copperfield,” and particularly the tech-
nician who wrote “A Tale of Two Cities,”
must have had a very sidelong eye on
“Oliver Twist” as literature, for instance.
But “Oliver Twist” achieved a twofold job
with great success: it worked a deal of pon-
derous rot out of Dickens’s mind, cleaning
and sweetening it for “David Copperfield.”
and it made him technically confident for
“A Tale of Two Cities.” “A Deal with the
Devil” opened the wide spaces of Dartmoor
for Eden Phillpotts; “Three Men in a
Boat” made “Paul Kelver” a possibility;
“The Silver King” started the delicate
journey of Henry Arthur Jones’s comedies.
And so on.
Often these first efforts are not inferior
to the following books; “Three Men in a
Boat” is not inferior to “Paul Kelver,” for
example. The riotous story of the fort-
night on the Thames merely drained an
exuberance of farce out of Jerome’s mind
and steadied its control for serious work,
in much the same way that “Jew Suss”
drained the German over-richness out of
Lion Feuchtwanger’s remarkable historical
vision. The Vgly Duchess (Seeker; Dy-
mock’s) is an embodiment of this vision
unobscured by those preoccupations of ex-
'travagant world-flesh-and-devil which made
the first book so radiantly popular.
Most critics say that “The Ugly Duchess”
is not a patch on “Jew Suss”; but I think
that is a narrow view. The story of Josef
Suss Oppenheimer is certainly the better
melodrama, if we take the author as a
sort of fulminating Hall Caine with a trick
of style-control. But why should we so
take him, any more than we take the author
of “The Passing of the Third Floor Back”
as a slapstick humorist?
“Jew Suss” is not true to the life of those
days. It is the dramatised essence of the
gossip of those days. It has the cruelty
of gossip and its license, its snobbishness
and its insistent permeating popularity.
Feuchtwanger did not, I think, see in that
first translated book beyond the envious
records of contemporary celibates or the
like. To take one point: though the days
were rough and half-heroic, is it feasible
that the prince was a sex-obsessed drunkard
all his life and yet, at 60 or so, at the end
of the drained, abused life, an eager
ravisher? And could he take also in
his stride the control and direction of a
fighting duchy and'keep it alive under the
eyes of a dozen murderous neighbors while
he whored and got drunk every day? But
what brilliant “copy” the accumulated
absurd gossip of a couple of centuries can
make! In the hands of a historian steeped
to the ears in his period, how convincing
it can become!
“The Ugly Duchess” is a much cleaner,
more austere and more permanent job. The
famously ugly Duchess of Carinthia has her
story of dry public triumph and private de-
feat, ending in the bleak indifference of her
abdication with all the money in her
pocket; but she is part of a tapestry of four-
teenth-century history, rather a tragic
heroine. And a tapestry of history which
can show us truly the blind King of Bo-
hemia and the boon companions that were
his, show us Albert the Lame and Agnes
von Flavon, Johannes of Viktring, the
Frauenberger, and a dozen other grabbing
yokels, is more to the point than an imag-
ined emotional destiny of the poor sack-
mouth duchess. Imagined emotional des-
tinies such as that of Josef Suss are not rare
in letters; every generation has half a
dozen artists who can consistently imagine
and relate such pathetic or terrifying or
beautiful stories of the chosen historical
figures. But the historical tapestry which
holds together and definitely re-creates for
us the times that are vanished for ever is
veiy rare indeed.
The glassless windows, the irritating
arrival of some superior fop from the south,
the Margrave’s trick of cracking his joints
and falling asleep—a number of unim-
portant luminous things show us that Feucht-
wanger has truly walked in those times
in spirit. His yarn is only history: the
Maultasch kicks out her first husband, dis-
covers that Agnes von Flavon is the mis-
tress of her second and of her lover, goes
all out for vengeance, achieves it, and is
finally weary of the whole show. Because
she was ugly and famous, gossip called her
the German Messalina, a stupidity which
this clearer-sighted Feuchtwanger treats with
silent scorn. He could have made a much
more popular melodrama of her than even
the lush ecstasies of Suss. But he didn’t;
he preferred a clean job in his own
rare and difficult medium. So we feel the
picture of a life that has gone; we touch
hands with a vanished past that we know
to be true, a rich experience for the mind
of mankind.
HILARY LOFTING
The Story Writers
On what curious grounds, I wonder, did
Steele Rudd (R.P. 9/5/’2B) make his
decision that 0. Henry is the most skilful
of all short-story writers, that Balzac may
not be classed as a short-story writer, and
that Kipling introduced nothing but old-
age obsession and decadence into English
literature?
May I be excused for believing that the
creator of our old friend Dad was (a) try-
ing his hand at a well-known national
pastime, or (6) exercising in the field of
criticism his gift of inciting the multitude
to loud laughter? Favoring the first,
assumption, I tender a tentative leg by
asking, for a start, on what evidence he
found Balzac wanting? That Balzac wrote
enormously in the novel form and but
minutely in the other? Does that not also
disqualify Shakspeare as a lyricist and Poe
as either a short-story writer or a poet?
My reason for recently mentioning Bal-
zac among " the world’s greatest short-story
writers was that he wrote a dozen short
stories equal to any dozen written by any-
one else, that he wrote one that cannot be
excluded from the world’s best dozen and
that he wrote perhaps two others that
would give pause to any discerning selector
of the greatest 30. For the form itself he
did even more. One of the earliest writers
of the modern short story, he made the
form compatible with the highest liter-
ary expression; made models in it which
have stood for more than a century, and
are still models.
Steele Rudd, who so lightly dismisses a
writer of this calibre, considers O. Henry
the supremely skilful. If by skilful he
means skilful, not trickful, I should be
interested to know what he finds particu-
larly clumsy in “El Verdugo,” “The Mys-
terious Mansion,” “The Passion in the
Desert” or “Christ in Flanders.” Of course,
in a sense, a confidence man is skilful; 0.
Henry is the leading confidence, man of
literature. True, he wrote a dozen short
stories to Balzac’s one, but for skill alone
“El Verdugo,” in addition to decapitating
his family, seriously threatens the neck of
O. Henry’s loudest claim to a habitation in
the same street.
But perhaps Steele Rudd’s most intrigu-
ing statement is that touching upon Kip-
ling. I love that sort of sweeping of the
board; there is something delightfully in-
consequent about it, like George’Moore the
other day wiping out all his contemporaries
by simply saying they were no good.
Generous in the pleasure it gives me, I
offer gratis to Mr. Rudd my opinion that if
he examines his hoard a little more closely
he will find that the coin he has collected
is spurious. Surely if Kipling has qualities
more outstanding than any others they are
virility and youth! Why, it was with those
qualities alone that he did for the short
story in English what Balzac did for it in
French—broke it from decadent influence
and made it _ a vigorous, a sublime and a
complete vehicle of literary expression.
What if he was political, and if his politics
seem stale? What percentage of his work
is politics? What percentage undefiled
literature? Surely if must have been the
lesser Imperialist bombast that Steele Rudd
had in mind when he dismissed the great,
young, virile artist! The things Kipling is so
casually accused of having brought into
English - literature are the very things he
cast out! Perhaps never before had Eng-
lish prose looked so like having gone to old
age than when his essentially young hands
took hold of the mummy rags that had
been wrapped round it, stripped them away,
and revealed it again in its true and ever-
lasting youthfulness. Decadence! “Plain
Tales”; “Life’s Handicap”; “Soldiers
Three”? Old-age obsession! “The Jungle
Book”; “Rewards and Fairies”? Well,
well; the meanings of words are become
elastic as a jockey’s conscience.
CECIL MANN.
History as a School Subject
To most of us the history that we learnt
at school has remained in our memories as
a mass of elusive dates and inconsequent
actions. We know that the battle of Has-
tings was fought in 1066, and that King
Charles I. was executed in 1649. We may
remember that the Black Prince won his
spurs at Crecy, and that Robert Clive
attempted to kill himself when a clerk in
the East India Company. But how many
of us are competent to trace the growth
(Continued on page 5.)


hTruth in Advertising ” is the basis of sound merchandising methods
Anthony Horderns'
Horse Rugs and Clothing
Compare quality for quality
and price for price
Made in our own Factory
The felt used in the lining of rugs
this season has been specially
reinforced to prevent tearing.
These rugs are designed and
made in our own factory, speci-
ally for local conditions. Our
policy of buying the material
direct from reliable English and
Australian Mills enables us to
offer such high-grade quality at
exceptionally low prices.
881 XA
Horse and Cow Rugs, fitted with Cross Web Belly Straps
and Fillet Rope and Breast Strap. When ordering, measure
the Horse to be fitted from centre of chest along the side
to full length required.
“The Universal,” Special Heavy Jute Canvas, lined with
White Felt
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in. 7ft.
16/6 17/- 17/6 IS/- 18/3 19/- 19/9
“The Guardian,” Navy Canvas, lined with White Felt—-
4ft. 6in.
20/-
sft.
21/-
sft. 6in.
21/6
sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in. 7ft.
22/- 22/6 23/- 24/-
“The Hordernia,” Extra Heavy Navy Canvas, lined with
special White Felt. (YX 133) -
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in. 7ft.
22/6 24/- 25/- 25/3 25/6 26/3 27/-
“The Dreadnought,” Special Heavy White Flax Canvas, lined
with special White Felt
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft.
25/9 27/9 29/9 31/6 32/-
Birkmyre “Genuine,” O.M. Green Waterproof, lined with
special White Felt
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft.
31/- 32/- 33/- 34/- 35/-
Birkmyre “Genuine,” O.M. Khaki Waterproof, lined with
special White Felt
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
32/- 33/- 34/- 35/6 36/- 38/-
Leather Cross Belly or Leg Straps. Each, extia. .
Extra Breast Straps. Each .
(Carriage not paid on these goods.)
6ft. 6in.
34/-
6ft. 6in.
35/9
7ft.
36/-
7ft.
38/-
7 ft.
39/-
4/6
1/3
Use Our
Deposit - Purchase
System
You Pay No Interest or
extra charge. Simply
leave a small deposit.
Pay the balance in in-
stalments to suit your-
self. Goods are carefully
stored until fully paid
for.
You Pay No
Interest.
Open Until 9 p.m.
Every Friday.
Illustrated
Catalogues
of Saddlery, Coach-
builders’ Requisites
and Poultry and
Animal Medicines
Post Free on request.
Reliable Stock Saddles
A
from
£6/10/-
r
o m
. jasSST:
YX 506— The Wieneke Pattern Stock
Saddle, Kip Seat and Flaps, Capped
Knee Pads, Victoria Facings, extra long
Skeleton Flaps, specially-selected Tree,
narrow Waist, neatly finished.. Un-
mounted. Each £9, £lO/10/-
Fittings. Each extra 28/6
YX 65—The “Squatter” Stock Saddle,
built on best Steel-plated Tree, with Hog-
skin or Rough-out Sunken Seat, Bag
Pads, Capped Knee Pad, Victoria Panel,
Skeleton. Each £6/10/-
Fittings. Extra, each .......... 28/-
Anthony Horderns’
Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd., Sydney
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
Incubators
f ÜBATOR 0> ,^. f
IB
cp jLii',npgfi
rirrinr 5 * 88^"
&JH 1
Cyphers’ Incubators.
Cyphers’ Non-Moisture Incubators. Self-
ventilating, self-regulating and fireproof.
Capacity: 140 eggs. 240 eggs. 390 eggs.
Each.. £l7/10/- £25 £3O
Special Incubators, for hatching Ostrich
Eggs. Approximate capacity, 36 eggs.
Each £27/17/6
Locally made Incubators, similar to the
Cyphers’ No. 1: 140 eggs, approx, capacity.
Each £l3/10/-
No. 2: 240 eggs, approx, capacity.
Each £l9/10/-
327 —-' Q?
_1
iSV
New Buffalo Incubators.
The New Buffalo Incubator. In the construc-
tion of the new Buffalo Incubator little wood
is used. The casing is of galvanised iron
and can never rust.
Capacity: 120 eggs. 240 eggs. 360 eggs.
Each £l4 £lB £22/5/-
The “Hordern,” locally made. Similar to
the Buffalo.
No. 1 : approx. 120 eggs. Each £lO
No. 2: approx. 240 eggs. Each .. £l3/5/-
.£l%BibTblr ■ «'
mm
m£B
m
mmrnm
■
mmm
mms
Colony Hover, £7/10/-
The heat dome is substantially constructed
of heavy galvanised iron. It is made solid,
without doors or sliding sections, thus pre-
venting the escape of heat. The dome is per-
fectly balanced by the counter-weight on the
wall. Regulator is reliable and automatic.
The Hover Stove or Heater is provided with
a damper of special design located at the top
of the stove. Small heater, with 42-inch
dome. Weight, 1851 b.
Each
£7llOl
Larger Heater, with 60-inch dome. Weight,
2121 b. Each £9/10/-
Complete with six feet of stove pipe. Dupli-
cate parts always on hand. Carriage not paid.
The “Reliable” Hatcher. A machine made
specially for those who want to hatch a
small quantity of chicks. This machine is
made entirely of metal, is safe and reliable,
and has been tested with satisfactory results.
A thermometer of best quality is sent with
each one. Made in two sizes.
25-egg capacity. Each 26/6
50-egg capacity. Each 50/-
Brooder for 40 chicks. Each .... 35/-
( Carriage not paid on these goods.)


sdf
DEPENDABLE
01
Brother.
~)eniorfine
■A
What The Eye
Cannot See
The beauty of Dodge Brothers Senior Line is apparent at
a glance —but there is in these distinguished cars genuine
quality beneath the surface —quality which the eye
cannot see.
It is quality where quality counts in terms of long life,
smooth, economical operation, comfort and ease of
handling.
The springs, for example, are unusually long, like all Dodge
Brothers springs—each and every leaf of chrome vana-
dium steel.
And the crankshaft, machined all over and weighing
sixty-nine pounds, is supported on seven bearings—
generously oversize for the demands made upon them.
These are but two in a long list of engineering features
which contribute to day-in and day-out satisfaction in the
ownership of Dodge Brothers Six.
Canada Cycle &. Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
e/6/’28.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
sdfsd
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
i*69 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
of the English judicial system the de
velopment of the British Constitution, the
evolution of the British working man from
a position of political and economic im-
potence to the status he enjoys o- < ■
History, in fact, as taught at the schools,
is of little or no value to the average boy
or girl
Perhaps I may be forgiven if I cite my
own particular case. When I went up o
Cambridge I chose history as my ripos
subject. The course certainly included in-
ternational law and a certain amount ot
economics, but history was the fundamen-
tal structure of my studies. I immediate y
found that all the so-called history 1 had
learnt at school was of no more use to me
than the fairy-tales of the brothers Giirnin.
The two or three periods a week, extending
over some 10 years of school life, which 1
had spent in spasmodic attempts to master
the, to me, quite illogical story of the
past were thus practically wasted.
After taking my degree, I set sail on the
seas of the scholastic world, determined, m
my innocence, to challenge the ancient
methods of historical instruction. I might
as well have tilted at a windmill! During
the last five years I have taught in good
schools both in England and in this country,
and I have found that history receives an
amazing lack of consideration at the hands
of headmasters. If one is fortunate, one
may receive three teaching periods per
week—two for English history, one for Aus-
tralian—while at the same time small boys
Gf nine and ten are forced to spend at least
six periods a week in an attempt to memor-
ise the declension of mensa, dominus and
the rest of those elusive Latin nouns.
I am far from denying the advantages
—up to a point—of the good old classical
education. But there is a limit to every-
thing. Personally—and I feel that many
parents will agree—l would rather that my
son could live again with Charles Sturt as
he sailed down the unknown waters of the
Murray than that he knew the stem of
some obscure Latin noun; I would rather
he could follow Eyre and Burke as they
blazed a trail through the trackless bush
or sail with Flinders around the perilous
coasts of a new land than that he should
know the cube root of 27.
I would, in fact, prefer that he should
reach manhood, not merely the possessor
of a certain amount of superficial and super-
fluous knowledge, but aware of, and valuing
exceedingly, the fact that he is a descendant
of Pitt, of Nelson, of Wentworth, of all that
great band of freedom-lovers who made
Australia and the British Empire what they
are to-day.
D. A. RIDDELL.
War Films
A bloodless battle is being waged over
war films in Europe, and so far there
doesn’t seem to be any sign of a decisive
victory. The Romantics say that the
Realists’ films are dull and devoid of inter-
est, and the Realists reply that they
depict war as the soldier sees it and
not as those behind the lines imagine it
Of the two methods that of the Realists
is to be preferred; in showing war without
its covering of glory it is doing much to
instil a hatred of it, which is good for the
future.
From a historical viewpoint, however,
it is doubtful if anything is gained by the
production of these war films, and much
harm to international good-feeling is cer-
tainly done. The difficulty is to present
two or more different viewpoints in one
historical whole, and this has been neither
attempted nor performed. An Australian
is impressed by this difficulty when he
hears, with a shock of surprise, tales of
Allied deeds of horror and cruelty during
the war, and realises that the German
people were fed on them as we were on
Hun devilishnesses. We all got our hate-
food from the same bowl. Take the in-
tance of the U-boat. The German looked
on this as a legitimate weapon to break a
blockade which was starving a people. The
Allies looked on it as a murderous weapon
used to break a perfectly legitimate form
of warfare—the blockade. It is a case of
an irresistible force meeting an immovable
object, and the result is—deadlock. This
is becoming more apparent during the con-
troversy over “Dawn,” the Nurse Cavell
film, and a new film, “Victory,” which is
said to show the German in even a more
unfavorable light. Each war film brings its
own crop of complaints from the other side,
both on historical grounds and on the
damage done to international goodwill.
When Germany objected to “Dawn” on
both of these grounds, it was not a case of
people in glass houses throwing stones,
because at that very time “The People’s
Need,” the second part of Germany’s offi-
cial war film, “Der Weltkrieg,” was being
shown in Berlin, and in it is nothing at
which anyone could take offence. This is
proved by the fact that, at the time the
war-film controversy was raging in London,
the first part of this film was being shown
there, under the title “The World War
through German Spectacles,” and caused
no outcry at all. As the Manchester Guar-
dian said: “It would be difficult to level
any criticism against the film on the ground
of unfairness or national bitterness.”
This film deals with the anxious years
1915-16, when Germany had every prospect
of winning, or, at least, of not losing. Far
from glorifying war into a romantic adven-
ture, the viewpoint taken is that of the
soldier, and in scenes of the front-line
trenches one is shown the misery and re-
volting butchery, rather than individual
heroism. In long stretches of drab, soul-
killing monotony, broken by moments oi
sudden, stark horror; in the endless shell-
bursting; in the impressionistic picture of
the bombardment on the Somme, which
left men running round insane after seven
days of it, there is no feeling but a hatred
of massacre. This feeling was continued by
the audience, which applauded but three
times when I saw it, and then only at
popular figures such as Hindenburg. Even
in those few cases the applause was sub-
dued. The horrors caused by the blockade
were not exploited as they might have been,
but it was inferred that here was the cause
of the U-boat campaign. Here the diffi-
culty of the two points cropped up again,
for, as one critic pointed out, no mention
of the Lusitania was made, whereas this
incident would be certain of a prominent
place in any Allied film, just, as the effect
of the blockade on German women and
children would not be emphasised in an
English film.
However, the German has the ability, in
a small degree, of taking a detached view
of the war and has shown it in this film,
which is free from hatred and malice, and
is an honest attempt to portray, admittedly
through German eyes, the horrors of war.
leaving no feeling of elation in its audience,
but rather one of depression, though the
old romantic side of war is shown in the
expressionistic pictures of flying wheels,
racing trains and the rush of the munition
factories.
Whether war films are useful or not, if •
they were all like this film there would be
more hope for the future, and less need
for the peace-pacts which the past has
proved to be too often the seeds of war.
BERLIN.
R. S. PANTON.
The Two Wallaces
“J.E” (R.P. 23/5/’2B) considers that Wal-
lace, the ancient Scottish patriot, is of more
importance in the Australian school-
curriculum than A. R. Wallace, the great
scientist. It may be “J.E.” was a vic-
tim of the sort of school curriculum I
labelled “barbaric.” At any rate, he knows
the second Wallace only as a “bug-
hunter.” Actually, with Darwin, he was
the great forerunner of the evolutionary
theory. In Australia, possibly because
most private schools are appanages of re-
ligious denominations, evolution is barely
touched on. Botany, physiology, biology,
chemistry and' history are taught in a
scrappy fashion, but the common thread
connecting them is left to the postprandial
curiosity—if any—of the student.
As for Blind Harry’s fables of the first
Wallace being accepted as history, they
were so regarded even by Scotch historians
of the nineteenth century, one of whom,
Dr. Jamieson, wrote to the British Museum
asking if that institution had any docu-
ments corroborating William’s “Mona
Vanna” interview with the English queen.
F. S.
A Satchel of Books
An Historical Account of the Church
Hymnary, by T. F. Kinloch (Heffer). The
hymns known familiarly to churchgoers
reach but a few score, yet we are assured
by the author of this interesting history that
they aggregate at least 400,000. In the
author’s opinion the three greatest hymns
of the nineteenth century are _ Nearer My
God to Thee,” written by a Unitarian; Our
Blest Redeemer,” by Harriet Auber; and
Charlotte Elliott’s “Just as I Am. But
any trinity that does not include Uead
Kindly Light” will not find acceptance with
an immense body of worshippers.
The Flaw in the Economic System, by «/•
Taylor Peddie (John Murray). Mr. Peddle
contends that in returning to the gold stan-
dard after the war moneyed interests imposed
on productive industry and commerce in
Britain a heavy burden of taxation without
a hope of compensation, and only by securing
a stable industrial system which subordi-
nates money to its rightful function of being
the servant of production and not its master
can prosperity be restored. How to bring
about this new economic system is dealt witn
in detail, and the reforms outlined, it not
convincing of their efficacy, furnish material
for reflection.
Driftwood Spars, by P. C. Wren (John
Murray). The author of “Beau Geste,
“Beau Sabreur” and other Foreign Legion
stories has recourse to some of his earlier
experiences. This tale, written in 1.112,
concerns the doings, principally, of Jan
Ilali-bin-Ras el-Isan, which being translated
is John Robin Ross-Ellison, the son of a
Scotch father and a Pathan mother. A
Scots Pathan brought up by an Australian
girl in India would be a rare bird.” remarks
one of the characters; and round this rarn
avis Mr. Wren lias woven a story full of
action and color.
“Spare Sub.”: To his fulminations
against the wholesale importation of serial
and other alleged literary matter by news-
papers which pay fat dividends from profits
made in Australia (B. 23/5/’2S), “Ces”
might add a few curses for those which im-
port syndicated illustrations, for the most
part from America. The subject matter
of these is usually quite foreign to Aus-
tralians, and they are often outrageously mal
apropos. One of a regular series published
in a Sydney daily last week shows a family
man in a snow-covered street laden with
Christmas presents, while a bachelor looks
enviously on. As an example of a topical
subject for an Australian May, this draw-
ing of an American December seems to lack
quite a lot. Yet that journal, like its con-
temporaries which follow the same economi-
cal practice, is always protesting its Aus-
tralian sentiment.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
James F.: Nonsense. The Scot who
wrote it knew that, though a Scot might make a
declaratory marriage in Edinburgh, he couldn’t in
London... .8.L.T.: Not a yarn; a yawn L.G.C.:
The vegetable lacks literary vitamines Harry J.:
“Morning” breaks dully... .L.R.G.: It is much easier
for us to believe it to be true than believe it is a
story... .Ghost: Avaunt! Lou E. S.: Not enough
in one; in the other, too much effort for the sobs.
Tee E.: Wearying... .M.N.L.: You were going
into your finances when a girl passed. You looked
out of the window and lost your balance... .E.P.A.:
Didn’t the bright crippled child die? They usually
do, you know E.C.: Mouldy that chestnut is
Dor. H.: Can’t believe it, and the repeated whiskies
made us thirsty. ...J.P.C.: Jimmy was no gentleman.
... .Toni M.: Rhythmically untidy. .. .Robert S.:
Hymn of praise to your car sparks p00r1y.... R.E.:
Fantasy again fails... .J.T.L.: Nothing convincing
about it Catchpool: Unimpressive R.D.C.:
Overwrought Thelma S.: The story is immature.
In the verso the rhymes are very rocky... .W.W.:
“Convict 21” sentenced to death... .W.G.H.: Far too
long for its interest... .W.G.S.: There might be a few
paragraphs in it, but it is too long as it stands....
Edmund C.: Dry C.C. (Auckland): The spooks
may not haunt this establishment R.R.P.: It’s a
miss that isn’t good for this paper’s smile
T.W.S.: Melodramatic episode just fails Leone:
Over-used properties spoil it —see if you can’t do
without them... .M.G.: Feeble... .Peter P.: Men-
tion the dates. It’s impossible to recall from
memory R.E.8.: The suggestion that the poet
got all his luxury from verse-writing makes the thing
unreal D.McK.: “Wasted Years” is wasted
smears... .B.O.B.: Your “Cat” is a Manx—it carries
no tale. ...Guthrick: You mistake sordidness for
strength L.0.R.: For serious verse, a fine descrip-
tion of the lady:—
Her body it was lissome made, of grace full and
Her face a forehead had that showed her
marked ability.
.0.A.J.: Carcase disposed of, as requested....
Gordon J.: In this instance “Still Waters” run
shallow Jean S.: The metre is so dreadfully un-
even it loosened our teeth...-M.8.T.: Sorry cant
accept your invitation to come to the vale of sleep...
r.L.P. : Almost a good idea R.R.: You don’t get
the full strength of it H.E.8.: Doesn’t quite
catch H M C.: One or two hovered on the border
of acceptance....P.A.P.: “And now the grave doth
yawn.” Well, vve felt that way, too F.C.: Pre-
tentious—and cheap. Titbits might take them
Macscott: Poor plot poorly exploited C.A.H.:
Her lips are not of general interest Bee Gee:
Putting a note of interrogation at the end of every
line is a questionable habit of yours... .Biffkins.
Your “Axe” cuts no ice... .D.M.G.: One may do.
Gerald M.: Bless your kindly heart, you killed
only five of your characters! D.L.D.: Only sob
stuff Laurel: We decline to sit in gloom in the
shadow of her tomb. These winter days the sun-
light is better Joan C. M.: Threepence a line—some-
times more. . . .P.L.S.: Dull. .. .F.C.8.: Very ordi-
nary 5t0ry.... H.G.0.: Might suit a daily with a
taste for vignettes of life Vera P.: You haven
improved it.... James H.: Nearly... • -Stella S.
Poor W.S.: No life in either J. 0.: Com-
foiling comfortless moon” was amngst its
queer properties.... Derek J.: Your criminal
has gone into Smoke-oh. .. .Peggy C.: Calls
for no harsh treatment.... Joy W.: Dramatic
yarn; but, unless you build up reasons for the old
people’s callous villainy, unbelievable David L.:
Claim for pars, published, quoting date and name.
The story is spoilt by crude inconsistencies
Austin N.: “Outcast” dealt with accordingly
M.A.N.: We like that line about your friends who “go
thundering to their g0a1”... .P.J.R.: Oh, ‘Death,
where is thy sting?... .W.H.T.: Doesn’t get near a
place Skeeta: Nothing but a sob H.P.: We’ll
admit that it’s original L.T.L.: The long intro-
duction ruins the effect of the well-described end.
. ...A.R.T.: The joke would make a par.; it isn’t
substantial enough for a story.... E.M.: It would
be much better completely rhymed K.M.D.:
Tedious E.S.L. : Amusing, but not amusing enough.
Bellerive: Your reflections are very timely:—
There’s daring flights in aeroplanes,
And stunts by motor car’s;
And predicted that they yet will solve
The mysteries of the star’s.
They’d be welcome to their wondrous feats
Unto their heart’s content,
If lessened were the unemployed
And the poor had cheaper rent.
Life is but a glowing flame
Which consumeth to a spark;
A secret of the great divine
Is our exit in the dark.
The wretched outcast in the cold
Without a home or bed.
Not wanted while he’s living
And forgotten when he’s Dead.
G.R.A.B.: More bark than bite in “The Dog.”
.... Anomyma: It failed to pass the final exam
E.E.S.: Frailly pathetic... . H.C.C5.: The rmoon,’s
light is too pale H.P.: Certainly clever —for his
age Eug. S.: Might have been written for an
American “smart” mag Ben T. S.: It might
be a story if it had a plot D.V.K.: Trombone
blown out... .E.R.E.: Melodrama.... E.R.: Nothing
new on the subject. .. .E.J.G.: Too long; and some
horribly flat notes in it... .C.J.C.: That’s a good
refrain in “Vindication,” but the rest is not up
to standard... .A.M.C.: Heavy job-work.... 1.5.8.:
No snap in either Ron C.: The copy was returned
so that you might see how it was varied ; claim for
it “Envoi”: Not suitable for the form you em-
ployed V.P.: There’s a good idea in it and the
rhyme is at least passable, but the metre jolts ter-
ribly. .. .J.S.: “Comeback” has the bad luck to
strike an idea used in a story in print.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Ock: The top half is well done. But it’s a
labored joke T.K.: If your next sketch is twice
as good and you go on getting better like that, we’ll
print your 42nd... .R.A.S.: Drawing not good
enough; joke 01d... .E.J.P.: Sorry, it misses..
C.J.C.: Don’t like the way you shape your ladi
C.A.W.: Gag has had its day... .L.J.M.I
They could be reproduced, but they won’t be, her
.C.G.: Those badly-drawn arms!. .. .L.L.: Ug
figures F.A.: Not worth the space you give to


9
r
mm j
. ■
-
m
mmmW'-
mm.
■
i \\
m
I I
wm
LI
I *
'■ i §■
'
n
c
" 11
( 1
ik
■ ■
»v
'
mm
%, -ft S '— ** ' !
■ iT- • l *2sn
:■$ .mi
m
a- I
rliifi
I «
MR
.
.j i ; glgl ,11 -, m
1I I : II 1 ■ : ■ 'II I % I
.
Hi m I
n w
■PR
*■■ 'I
Hi
■ ■ -v* r ■ ■ ■ ■ • „/• ■ .:■


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2521.
June 6, 1928.
WATCHING FOR THEIR WORMS.
“Rains in Westralia have relieved the tension there. The season in the farming districts of the Eastern States is now being watched by city interests with great
anxiety.” —Commercial report for May.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for tlie White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henkv Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the othce of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Austualasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, Its, (id.; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £ 1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to he addressed to box 2521 b.b.,
(J.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, but
no MS. will be returned or preserved tinless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin origin/, 1
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Alsc
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdor-
Street, London, E.C.h ; and W. Dawson and Sons
Cannon House, breams buildings, London, E.C.h,
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, J/b Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” hlh-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Uliodesia News Agency, Salisbury; benoni Nen’S
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
utheis.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
A venue and Jplnd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West hist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 7Oh Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La. : The Wide World News
Stand, 5h 1 4 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Kaywr.—Jacques, Horn arid Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China.— Breicer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Platt, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, hh Chatham Street,
Fori Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York,
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort' Colombo.
I‘apua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby,
Fur. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.h.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional hoz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 9.0 z .. Id.
TJuTj&ulZelzn..
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 1928.
COMMISSIONS AND COMIC OPERA.
The Royal Commission which is consider-
ing Victoria’s railways sits with a stolid
countenance listening to evidence that
should make it laugh, if Royal Commis-
sions ever laugh. One recent witness
reeled off a list of coal freights: 3s. 10d.
a ton for miles, 3s. Bd. for 411 miles;
Bs. 3d. for 71f miles, and ss. 6d. for 78i
miles. The last is, of course, the freight
to Melbourne, devised so that the city
manufacturer may get his fuel at a mini-
mum rate and blight his small-town rival
off the earth. If the small-town factory-
owner surmounts this hurdle he finds plenty
more ahead. A sample one is a rate on
furniture of under 3|d. per ton per mile
from Melbourne to Mildura (3514 miles),
and over 7d. from Maryborough to Mil-
dura (239 miles). The witness explained
that a trader in Ouyen, a remote country
town, could save £2 2s. 3d. per ton on high-
freight goods by having them carried past
his own station and then brought back,
thus adding 126 miles to the haulage.
❖ *
It is a widespread and long-established
Australian institution, this deliberate effort
to retard or destroy existing country towns
and to prevent the establishment of new
ones, and of new seaports more especially.
No one has yet offered an even moderately
lucid explanation as to why the Australian,
alone among civilised men, should have
developed this curious turn of mind.
Whether viewed with his clothes on or in
the nude, he looks much the same as other
men, and that makes the position all the
more unaccountable. Yet in no other coun-
try is “decentralisation” so much talked
about and in no other country is it a plank
in so many platforms; but it isn’t supposed
that any politician who is big enough to
count means real business by his protests.
Even Bavin, with all his good qualities,
doesn’t seem to amount to anything in this
connection, and doubts begin to be enter-
tained concerning Hogan. Royal Commis-
sions are suspicious circumstances, though
one might be commendable here and there
if it was appointed to pry into the more
obscure aspects of a public question while
Parliament tackled the glaringly obvious
ones itself. Perdition is paved with the
reports of Royal Commissions.
«!» 'l* : 1*
If Australia gains anything through cul-
tivating, by strange railway devices and
other dodgy proceedings, the policy of one
big city per State, each city set in a care-
fully cherished emptiness, no one has
shown where it gains, or how. The typical
State railway has one end at the invariable
monopoly port and the other jmd sticking
out into space, and the railway systems
have developed into intensely disappoint-
ing financial propositions. Private Enter-
prise, having to earn interest on its money
or go without, would almost certainly en-
courage ports and towns wherever they
showed promise of development and
money-earning possibilities, but that is no
reason why Public Enterprise should have
gone off its head and done the opposite for
so many years. The policy of accepting
less money for the privilege of dragging
heavy loads further was bad in days when
distances were comparatively short, and it
hasn’t improved with time and expansion.
The existing methods seem incapable of
producing sufficient healthy patriotism to
keep the country out of an international
insolvency court. Australia’s minor towns
develop little in the way of civic pride, for
they have little to be proud of, and they
haven’t much ambition, for when there are
practically no prospects ambition is a
waste product. It might not be amiss if
a Chair of Literary Research was founded
at some university to inquire how the
nation wandered into this state of stagna-
tion and how it may emerge from the
same. But unfortunately the appointee
would probably be Professor Hasbeen, pro-
foundly learned in Adam SMiTH-ism and
similar Ancient British lore of which Mod-
ern Britain itself grows weary. There is no
familiar text-book in England urging that
railways shouldn’t be wholly built with
money borrowed abroad, and pointing out
the folly of the line from London stopping
10 miles short of Liverpool, and of goods
for that town (if it existed at all in the
circumstances) being send round by Stirl-
ing to save freight charges. In the absence
of such a text-book Professor Hasbeen
might miss the point.
WATCH YOUR STEP, COLLIER!
In 1927-28 344 million bushels of wheat
were harvested in Westralia as against 27
million bushels in N. S. Wales, 24 million
bushels in S. Aus. and 21f million bushels in
Victoria, as near as can be ascertained.
Granted that the season was above the
average in Westralia and well below the
average in the other three wheatgrowing
States (in N. S. Wales, as the Government
Statistician reports, 568,600 acres of the
3,006,700 sown for grain “failed entirely”),
the Westralian achievement was very fine,
considering how few years it is since a nor-
mal yield was insufficient for the small local
requirements. In its exultation, the Col-
lier Government talked of a 50-million-
bushel harvest for 1928-29 and came out with
enthusiastic proposals for planting a thou-
sand or more potential wheatgrowers in the
country south and south-east of Southern
Cross, the funds to be furnished by Britain
in the form of “migration loans.”
* * * *
Present indications are that there will
be no 50-million-bushel harvest as Collier
hoped for, nor anything like it. The rain-
fall in April and three weeks of May was
not nearly so good as in the corresponding
period of 1927 and other heavy-yielding
years, though downpours last week improved
the position. The Primary Producer, the
Country party’s weekly, advises “new set-
tlers who are not financially strong not
to gamble on a late season, but to go
ahead with clearing and fallow for 1929”;
and it is good advice. The importance of
fallow was singularly emphasised in N. S.
Wales last year, when 1,771,208 acres sown
on fallowed land averaged 11.2 bushels,
whereas 5.9 bushels was the average from
1,119,586 acres sown on stubble and 4.1
bushels from 115,971 acres of new land.
❖ * *
When Jimmy Mitchell was in his glory
17 years ago, the late M. H. Jacoby, then
Speaker of the Leg. Assembly, warned the
Government that it was “pushing out settle-
ment too fast and too far.” Events justi-
fied him in a melancholy way, for a poor
season in 1911 and a drought in 1914 re-
duced 90 p.c. of the new settlers to desperate
straits. The Government had to take con-
trol of their affairs and give them everything
they wanted, weekly wages included, for
several years. And even then many hund-
reds of holdings were abandoned to the
State Agricultural Bank. It is hardly pos-
sible to conceive of a season so bad that
the doleful story of 1914 would be repeated.
Water supplies and transport are far better
than they were then, the settlers are much
solider financially, and their methods oi
farming have improved with knowledge of
the land and the conditions. All the same,
even a moderately bad season in a good
district is a shockingly bad season in an
arid district; and that is what this Southern
Cross country is, prolific though the growth
may be in a lush season. John
Gunn, of the Migration and Development
Commission, has been through the region
and says he is favorably impressed with it.
Some of it—especially the forest country—
is as good as the tjest parts of the recog-
nised wheat belt north-west and west; but
the rainfall is much less certain. It is a
10-inch district at best. Good farmers with
capital would probably make the pick of
it pay, but it is no place for novices with
little or no capital behind them.
it * *
For some years past Westralia has been
getting a considerable number of first-class
settlers from the Eastern States. Some ol
them, pastoralists from S. Aus. and the
Western District of Victoria, have invested
heaps of money in sheep-runs on aban-
doned goldfields; others, farmers from the
same States, have bought many improved
and partly-improved properties in estab-
lished wheat-growing districts, good wheat
land being cheaper than in the Eastern
States and a lot nearer the European
market. This kind of settlement has not
cost the State a penny, and it is still going
on. Indeed, it is morally certain that ex-
perienced farmers, Westerners and Eastern-
ers alike, would take a chance in the
Southern Cross-Ravdnsthorpe country at
their own expense if they were allowed to
select fairly big blocks and promised rail-
way communication within a reasonable
time. So there is really no occasion for the
Government to embark on another adven-
ture in settlement for which it would have
to carry a heavy financial responsibility.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Night Express.
In these days of dangerous decadence,
When all is measured in pounds and pence,
And men on opposite sides of the fence
Are facing each other in bitterness,
It is well to consider the night express.
To make you think as an optimist can
That the world is as good as the day it
began,
To fill you with faith in your fellow man,
Consider the night express.
With pick and shovel in rain and sun
The fettlers toil on their length of run,
And the work that they do is honestly
done;
They ask their wages, no more, no less,
On the treacherous track of the night
express.
The cleaners down in the loco, shed
May talk in a language that’s startling red,
But they do their job on the engine-bed
For sake of the night express.
The driver steps to his engine plate
With a nod to his junior-fireman mate,
And never a thought that their work is
great,
As with gentle word and a soft caress
He lays his hand on the night express.
There is faithful work in wood and steel,
From the cabin roof to the driving wheel,
And he knows the temper from head to heel
Of his idol, the night express.
The guard has counted his bags of mail
And glanced to see that the brakes won’t
fail
Should there happen to be a twisted rail,
A. stone the more, or a bolt the less
On the sinuous track of the night express,
Or a signalman somewhere along the line.
Weary with watching from nine to nine,
Who has left his points a shade too fine
For the thundering night express.
At ease in their bunks the sleepers lie,
While the sitters watch as the night slips
b y
With perfect trust in their hand and eye,
However sudden may be the stress
On the well-tried crew of the night
express.
She roars to the rise and goes ripping
through
With a shout to the hills as if she knew
That is just what they waited for her to
do
And whisper “The Night Express.”
As day comes up like a rising tide,
The dew of night on her glistening side,
She swings to the turns in a glorious pride,
Which scorns to admit that weariness
Could ever come down on the night ex-
press,
With sparks aglow in her tossing crest,
Till, breathing softly, she comes to rest
Like a sleeping babe on its mother’s breast—
The work-stained night express!
For proof supreme that our men to-day,
Whatever the dismal croakers say,
Are as good as the men who paved the way,
Just look at the clean-cut thoroughness
That is shown in a run of the night ex-
press.
Whenever you’re feeling that things are
wrong,
That the rotten old world has lived too
long, t
That there’s nothing in work and there s
less in song,
Consider the night express.
n.s.w. W. M. Fleming.
4
The Clump Point Covenant.
It is refreshing in a complex and dis-
illusioned age to find a man who knows
exactly what is needed to reset the joints
of the world and who can write out the recipe
in 45 words. Such a man is L. M. Cutten,
of Clump Point, N.Q., and he is the hon.
sec. of a Union of Covenanters pledged to
implant in the midriff of the Australian
Constitution the following assertion:—
“it is the inalienable right of every person
to earn his living by his labor, and any per-
son interfering with or obstructing or pre-
venting any other person from earning his
living by his labor shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and be punishable at law."
The poor man found out very early in
the factory era that unless he and his
cobbers got together and mitigated the
rather cruel operation of the law of supply
and demand by occasionally controlling
supply, he and they wouldn’t get much con-
sideration. About the same time it was
noticed that almost everybody who works
is a wage-earner, and it was a matter of
fatally simple logic to assume that if all
the wage-earners got together and formed a
solemn league and covenant they would be
as well off as their masters—whoever they
might be.
In its essence the idea meant civil war.
and since civil war, like any other kind o!
war, is a brutal and messy business, men
of peace and goodwill cast around for some
means of creating a state of truce.
“We are all reasonable beings,” they said,
“so let those workers who direct and those
workers who are directed take counsel to-
gether, that justice may be done.” The
wage-earners who directed other workers
objected at first. “How can we hobnob
with the men who do as we tell them to,
and discuss their share of the profits of
our undertaking, without undermining our
authority?” they asked. “That’s your busi-
ness,” said the reformers. ‘You can either
negotiate or fight, and if you elect to
fight the world will perish.” The directors
of work didn’t want the world to perish,
bo they took the tip. They agreed to
negotiate with representatives of the
directed workers. When they felt they
could make a concession they made it. If
they couldn’t or wouldn’t make a conces-
sion or a compromise that seemed just to
the men on the other side, there was a
strike, and both sides were heavy losers.
Then somebody invented the idea of an
independent arbitrator. It took a lot of
responsibility off the shoulders of the
leaders on both sides in countries where
it was adopted. The decisions of the
arbitrator, who was usually a lawyer who
knew next to nothing of the trades for which
he had to legislate, were often unjust, to
one side or the other, but the errors
balanced each other on a rough average.
So long as an arbitration award was re-
garded with respect the system worked.
The right of a man to earn his own living
was preserved.
But an accompanying development was
the seizure of political power by the directed
workers, and the administration of indus-
trial law was paralysed. A new right was
established—the right of any little coterie
of directed workers to take all that arbi-
tration awards would give them and then
hold up an entire industry at the pistol’s
point in an attempt to gain more. This
is the last stage. At the time of writing
the illegal refusal of 200 sea-cooks to per-
form their duties has denied to 4000 seamen,
3000 wharf-laborers, 750 stewards and 400
storemen and packers the right to earn a
living. And the 200 sea-cooks are not act-
ing on their own initiative. They are do-
ing what they have been told to do by their
paid servant, a person named Tudehope,
whose only supporters appear to be Jake
Johanson, whose right to be an officer of
his own union is strongly disputed by the
membership, and Jock Garden, an indi-
vidual whose position in the trades union
movement is still a matter of mystery to
the shrewdest of Labor Senators.
L. M. Cutten’s addition to the Consti-
tution of Australia may look like a joke
to a generation inured to the idea that the
working man has a right to break any
industrial law that doesn’t suit him; but
it isn’t half so much of a joke as the fact
that three men can keep 8350 from earning
a living, against their will.
♦-
What Is News?
Some queer ideas about news float around
the Postmaster-General’s Department, and
they found expression in a bill which
honorary Minister McLachlan had the bad
luck to be required to introduce to the
Senate. That Senators tore it to tatters
was no more nor less than it deserved.
Newspapers are, as most people know,
carried by post at a cheap rate, the argu-
ment being, presumably, that the spread of
knowledge is a good thing. This bill, how-


ever proposed to so define “news” that
The Bulletins useful sister the
Woman’s Mirror would not be entitled to
hi Tarried as a newspaper. The position
quite dear/ If, say, the Woman's
Mbbob, or any paper of that extremely
serviceable class, chose to leave off being
reallv serviceable, and filled its pages with
renorts of divorce cases and criminal court
proceedings, all salacious and degrading, the
flpmrtment would welcome it as a news-
Ser But if it dares to help the struggling
bushwoman with her household problems
with the health, education, clothing and
training of her children, then, though what
it prints may be all very welcome news to
the bushwoman, it is not a newspaper and
may not be carried as such.
So too if a publication discusses the
performances of some wretched ponies and
the lads who ride them, it is a newspaper;
if it merely discusses books, and tries to
inform people about poets, it is no news-
paper, and so far as the State is concerned
should be penalised.
It no doubt is perfectly true that the
public is disposed to rush the news of the
pony race, the list of the latest puces in the
betting, the story of yesterday’s divorce
scandal and last night’s rape. The question
is whether the Government of the country
ought to offer special facilities for spreading
this precious “news” —facilities at any rate
superior to those offered to decent publi-
cations which have an idea that, aftei all,
the community might be happier and the
country better off if the domestic virtues
were encouraged a little more.
The bill has not yet left the Senate. It
is to be hoped it never will in its present
form.
+ ■
To Stop Juggernauting.
A motor-car is not only a means of trans-
port; it is also a lethal weapon, capable
of wholesale slaughter. That is an aspect
of the case that the Law seems slow to
grasp. Killing or maiming by car is too
often excused as accidental, though, as
every motoring magistrate knows, good
drivers don’t have accidents.
The daily tally of motoring casualties m
any of the cities of this continent provides
ample evidence that there are a great many
drivers who are not good drivers, and that
mail}-' good drivers take too much whisky
and impair their judgment. A stiffening
up of the tests imposed on candidates for
driving licenses —in some cases, and especi-
ally in some suburbs, people seem .to become
possessed of licenses without any test at all
—would remove one fertile cause of “acci-
dents,” and the infliction of really savage
penalties on the type of young hoodlum
who gets drunk, steals the first unattended
car he sees, and tears through the streets
at night on what he calls a joy-ride, would
do much to decrease the popularity of such
pleasures. Chief-Secretary Bruntnell says
that if he had his way drunken drivers
w r ould go to gaol without the option. That
would help a lot, too.
Finally, the Law ought to impress on all
drivers that pedestrians have a right to the
use of the roads. The average Australian
motorist seems to think that any person afoot
is an excrescence and a blot that ought to
be wiped out if it doesn’t exercise a great
deal of agility. That notion is bad for
him, and very bad for the rest of the popu-
lation. And no body of men need to have
the pedestrian’s rights more clearly im-
pressed on them than the traffic officers of
Mr. Bruntnell’s own department.
♦-
“Make Marriage More Difficult!”
“Dom Lee”: “Marko” (B. 23/5/’2B) wants
to make marriage, not. divorce, more diffi-
cult. Plainly, along with thousands of
others, he has never taken the trouble to
inquire into the real meaning of marriage.
If asked for a definition of the word, he
would probably reply, “The uniting of two
persons in wedlock,” or, as the parson
defined it, “A ceremony to sanction and
legalise the love and mateship of two per-
sons of opposite sexes.” Both definitions
are thoroughly unsatisfactory.
Marriage came, not to legalise love, but
to improve the quality of life as a whole;
and its benefits are mainly for the children
and for the race. Why, then, should
“Marko” and his kind be allowed to rush
to the divorce courts because the gravy
has been burned, or the wife has forgotten
to sew a button on his shirt?
Nature has made it plain that man was
meant to suffer. Let him suffer then, and
sacrifice himself to his children. “Any-
thing would be better for the children than
to be brought up in a home where the
parents are continually fighting.” They are
“Marko’s” words, not mine.
1 ♦
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —Some outstanding troubles
are that Australia does too little work, that
it imports far too much to make up for
local non-production, that it borrows as
much as £50,000,000 abroad in a year to pay
for the things it should make, and that it
is so dominated by Labor bosses that self-
government has become a very doubtful
quantity. I have heard of many alleged
remedies, Single-tax and Theosophy among
them. Mr. J. M. Fowler (B. 23/5/’2B)
still pins his faith to Elective Ministries.
I have a slight preference for Theosophy
myself.
Mr. Fowler holds that his plan would be
an improvement because the House would
vote for each Minister separately; but I
believe Labor caucuses have done that, and
the result was good, bad or indifferent as
chance had it. He adds that “not even a
Labor member could afford to vote openly
for a pal who would be likely to make a
mess of his job of administration.” About
that he is remarkably sanguine. When once
the Labor caucus has made up its mind
every pal is officially qualified for any job,
and no man could afford not to vote for
him. As for the assurance that the elective
system “abolishes the unconstitutional
clique called a Cabinet,” it seems to me
that the Ministers, if elected by a Labor
majority on strict party lines, would be a
Cabinet just the same, provided they re-
mained in Parliament.
The Swiss elective system is the model
—much quoted, and not so much under-
stood. In Switzerland any person eligible
to sit in either Chamber may be appointed
a Minister. If he is a member he goes
out in the sense that he ceases to have
a vote, though he may talk in either House
till the cows come home. If he isn’t a
member he is the same talking, but not
voting, creature. Supposing a party which
worked wholly jor the party, as Labor does,
had a majority of two, it could elect a
Ministry of its own. But it would be too
much to risk a dozen seats, so it, might
be necessary to fill up with external sup-
porters, including defeated candidates,
from outside — Walsh, Johanson and
others, who would talk to Parliament more
than enough even if they couldn’t vote.
Whether any outsiders would offer a trifling
consideration for their appointments I have
no idea. Swiss Ministers are almost in-
variably members to start with, but Aus-
tralian'ones might vary. Swiss Ministers
are shot out when an election comes round,
no matter how it comes, but the Switzer
is so patient and passionless that he has
been known to elect the same Minister for
THE WILL O’ THE WISP.
“The disillusionment of the Russian people is rapidly extending, in spite of the exhortations of
the soviet lea ders that to reach the results foretoid is necossary to Dersist in the Daths chaseil.”
London DAILY EXPBESS.
30 years. Still this doesn’t prove that, say,
N.S.W. wouldn’t have a jolly row and a
fresh deal any day.
A possibility seems to be that there might
be a sort of Cabinet inside Parliament ;
in other words, a committee chosen by the
majority caucus, which would run the busi-
ness and swindles of Parliament even if it
didn’t run the departments. But this is
a side issue.—Yours, etc., Solomon Mala-
prop.
«
Australia and Singapore.
Lieut-Commander Rolleston, writing in
the Navy League Journal, analyses pretty
completely the naval situation in this part
of the world when the Singapore Base has
been completed. He points out that no
fleet could come down from Singapore in
war time to relieve any direct attack on the
east coast of Australia for three main
reasons: (1) A modern fleet cannot light
far from a dockyard base; (2) the fleet
will have to thread its way through the
islands, whence its movements will be re-
ported to the enemy and where it will be
very open to attack by mine and torpedo;
and (3) it will be asked to steam 3000 or
4000 miles and then engage an enemy who
has, practically speaking, been resting for
a week or more.
The arguments are quite sound, and it is
just as well the Australian public which pro-
vides the money for cruisers and sub-
marines should realise that these cannot
protect Australia from an enemy with a
battle fleet; also that the Singapore Base,
though vital to Empire defence as a whole,
cannot directly defend the most important
part of this country. The fact, of course,
is that the Admiralty has never said the
Singapore Base would guarantee Australia
from bombardment or even invasion. A
base somewhere in the vicinity is essential
to India’s security and to the protection
of commerce in general. In other words,
it is required for the defence of the Empire
as a whole. But in providing for this the
Admiralty does not and cannot guarantee
absolute immunity from attack for every
foot of the Empire’s coast line. It would
be foolish to expect it.
The outlook is of course unpleasant for
this country, but it is just as well that the
position should be realised now. All Aus-
tralia can do —and what it should do —is to
carry out Admiral Henderson’s and
Admiral Jellicoe’s recommendation and
build a dockyard base on the east coast,
preferably at Port Stephens.
♦-
Why Ships Run Ashore.
“El Marinero”: “X.N.O.’s” idea of the
master being to blame for whatever hap-
pens is much the same as saying that any
man ashore is to blame if liis house gets
burnt down, because he did not keep a
private fire-brigade on the premises. It is
all very well for naval gentlemen to talk
about taking bearings and soundings and
plotting off on the chart, etc. These things
can be done on a man-o’-war with several
spare officers on the bridge; but on a
merchant vessel, with only one mate on
watch, to take bearings first, then sound-
ings, and then plot on the chart, and mean-
time keep a lookout for other vessels to
avoid collision, some time must elapse
before everything is done.
The point to be made clear is that every
possible precaution can only be taken by
piling up costs. The accidents could be
greatly reduced, if not avoided, by charging
much more for all services and spending the
money on safeguards. That that is not
practicable is not the fault of the master
and his officers; and so they should not be
held always to blame when the adopted
safeguards prove insufficient and an accident
happens.
U.S.A. and Us.
Dear Bulletin, —Ernest Osborne (B.
18/4/’2B) sounds a note worth echoing.
The U.S.A. as misrepresented by the cable
news, the movies and the tourist is not the
only U.S.A. I spent some time in that
country after the war—reaching there three
years after the Armistice —and a large pro-
portion of the Americans I met and worked
with were young men who had been in
France in ’lB. There was only one opinion
to be heard from them about the war —
that they had got in late, and there was
a general feeling of regret that this was so.
As to claiming that they had won the war,
none of that type ever suggested it.
■Few Americans that I met knew much oi
Australia, but, on the whole, they were
well disposed. Of England and the Empire
generally one heard a good deal of criticism,
jocular and otherwise, but in many cases
there was an underlying feeling of respect,
if nothing warmer. I was present at a con-
versation between two New York Jews one
day. They had been enthusiastically
criticising England for her action in acquir-
ing certain foreign oil fields to the appa-
rent detriment of the U.S.A. Then they
passed on to discuss other matters —inter
alia, the bona fides of a mutual acquaint-
ance with whom some deal was pending.
Says Ike: “What about him?” Saj'-s Mo:
“Oh, he’s as safe as the Bank of England!”
As to the security of the Pacific, no
authoritative announcement of American
policy has been made; but one of the
definite impressions which I brought away
was that the United States could not see
Australia or Maoriland seriously threatened
without taking action to preserve the
status quo.
Bile Thompson is only one type of
American as Jack Lang is only one type
of Australian. The educated—and particu-
larly the educated and travelled—American
is a first-class chap; it is hard to find a
better one. His friendship is worth culti-
vating for many reasons, selfish and other-
wise, and if presently he finds himself able
to make his voice heard above the clamor
of the unfortunate type of democracy which
afflicts the U.S.A., we may be glad, for
selfish and other reasons, that we avoided
prodding his susceptibilities unnecessarily.
—Yours, Aobangi.
♦
Diggers’ Mortgages in Bananaland.
Diggers on the land in Queensland have
grievances against the State’s Agricultural
Bank. To start off with, the bank’s mort-
gage form looks as if it had been drawn
up by 10 Philadelphia lawyers. It gives the
bank a first-class stranglehold on everything
the Digger possesses or may subsequently
possess. Federal Attorney-General Groom
thought the provisions were too stiff and
pleaded for a revision on ordinary commer-
cial lines, but the reply was that the Diggers
had nothing to fear. But they do fear,
because the attitude of the bank towards
them is, so they say, unfriendly and over-
bearing.
Of course they have a right of appeal.
There is a Revaluation Board which is sup-
posed to give prompt attention to com-
plaints. It consists of the Chief Clerk of
the bank, one of the bank’s inspectors,
and a third Government officer, one of the
Land Commissioners. The Diggers say
they don’t get a fair deal under this remark-
able arrangement, and that it doesn’t con-
duce to good management and fair dealing.
They ask for a board of appeal that shall
be unconnected with the management of
the bank, and it is surely a very reasonable
request.
—
Climate and Discontent.
“J.S.L.” (Darwin): It may be easier, as
a correspondent lately said (B. 22/2/’2B),
to start a revolution in Darwin than in
Hobart, but the climate cannot be held
responsible. It is still easier to start a
revolution in Russia, and Ireland has not
been anything but a hot-bed of discontent
for centuries.
Colored men can get work here while
white men are refused jobs, and no reasons
are given for the refusal. It is these colored
men who are the breeders of revolution,
aided and abetted by a few worthless
whites, who find that sponging on the igno-
rant and unlettered alien is a cheap and
easy of living without working.
As for .the sun fostering gloominess, one
has only to study the original inhabitants
of this place to see how mistaken that
idea is. No people are happier or jollier
than these niggers. Every small incident
provides them with a song; there is danc-
ing in their camps almost every night;
corroborees ring out gaily; there is always
laughter and dancing.
Maybe Hobart, for all its law-abidingness,
would be just as apt to start a revolution
as Darwin were it as badly mismanaged
and ill-treated. A bad master makes a
bad servant; that applies as truly to Hobart
as to Darwin.
♦
“Trei.or” : Some remarks re Queensland
grazing selections (B. 23/5/’2B) need quali-
fying. Although it is correct that these
leases are for 28 years, the application of
the lessee carries priority over all other
applications in regard to one portion when
the area is re-opened to selection at the
expiry of the 28 years. As blocks are opened
in areas sufficient to run not less than 5-8000
sheep, this means that, on expiry, a selec-
tion carrying that number will not be sub-
divided, thus in practice giving a lease in
perpetuity to the lessee. If the lease is
of an area to permit subdivision, then the
lessee has priority over one portion. He
has the right of choice.
♦
From a soldier settlement at Nanago (Q.):
Insufficient areas and continuous residence
are not the only disadvantages under which
we labor. When this settlement was opened
for selection the unimproved capital value
on which our rent is based ranged froni ±-
to £5 per acre. The price is exorbitant. The
shire valuation of the £5 blocks is £1 7s. 6d.,
which is about correct. Last February an
abandoned block was selected by a man
who is not a returned soldier and the capital
valuation was reduced from £5 to £2. The
blocks adjoining, which are occupied by
soldier settlers, remain at £5. If it is not
an offence to have been a Digger, in the
eyes of the Government of Queensland, any-
one might easily think that it is.


A MAN in
LONDON
needing clothes can visit a “show” shop and
be duped; or he can patronise a West End
establishment where, even after the customary
10 per cent, discount for cash, he will be
helping to pay for those who never do ; or he
can find a Tailor whose standing is unquestion-
able who makes clothes for cash payments only.
Mr. Jennings, of Newgate Street, London,
has been in business for a quarter of a cen-
tury, and has a large client'-le in Australia.
Only cloth made by reputable manufacturers
from finest Australian tops is countenanced.
The cutters he employs are live men with wide
experience. All clothes supplied by Mr.
Jennings are made by hand, and complete
satisfaction is guaranteed.
His modest prices are based on cash pay-
ments only, Lounge Suits, for instance, costing
from 7 to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
■ii i t !
V
f» p
As a defence against destructive vibration
fit your machines with
MANGROVITE
RAW-HIDE GEARS
These absorb shock, minimising wear and tear, and
quieten useless clatter.
Raw hide cushioned between steel shrouds gives prac-
tically everlasting gear-wear. It is impervious to
harm from grit, oil, water or fumes.
Let us demonstrate the improvement these gears effect.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leal
wide will
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
30/-
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In sueen Street, Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is 14 years since Labor won a Federal
election in Tasmania, and the four Senators
and five Representatives chosen in 1925 were
all Nationalists. But in State politics the
electors are almost equally divided between
the two parties. Labor was a few hundred
votes to the good in 1925; it was a few
hundred votes to the bad at last week’s poll.
Its hopes of preserving its majority of one
on the floor of the House faded when B. ,J.
Pearsall, an Independent, beat Laborite
Sheridan in Franklin. In the result Pears-
all may be placed in a position to make and
unmake Governments of a party complexion.
But that will be a blessing in disguise if the
parties decide upon an Elective Ministry.
As in 1925, Tas. Premier Lyons topped
the poll for Wilmot and will carry two other
Laborites in with him. One of the two on
this occasion may be Jens August Jensen,
who was in Hughes’s Labor Conscriptionist
Ministry, and in the succeeding “Nationalist”
Government also until a little unpleasant-
ness occurred. Jensen’s return to politics
is not important in itself, but it may con-
ceivably have important results. Having re-
admitted Hughes’s former subordinate, the
A.L.P. can’t logically keep “Billy” out if he
wants to come in again on the usual con-
ditions.
Nats, and Cockies of Vic. Assembly are
about to begin negotiations for an alliance.
It is hoped to rope in 30 —18 Nats., 10
Cockies, one Lib. and one Progressive Lib.
Gray, Everard and McLachlan prefer to re-
main outside the rink. The Nat.-Cockies
would naturally prefer to scoop up the whole
of the 37 non-Laborites in the House —there
are only 28 Laborites —but that idea seems
more like a dream at present, though any-
thing is possible in Vic. politics after the
sudden arrival of O’Loghlen (1881-83), Bent
(1904-09), Prendergast (1924) and Allan
(1924-27).
The Bruce-Pages announced last week that
they had arranged with the Government at
Rome for the restriction of Italian immigra-
tion to these parts to 3000 for the next 12
months, the 3000 ■ to be relatives, mostly
female, of Italians resident in Australia.
The negotiations were conducted in a friendly
spirit, and the agreement is heaps better
than any possible outcome of abusive gin-
case oratory or petty persecution ; but there
was the customary snarling from the Labor
benches, though Lazzarini and Theodor'
were noticeably silent. The party didn’t
stand for an embargo on immigration from
Italy and the Balkans when their fathers
arrived.
The end of the widespread marine dis-
turbance may come suddenly if seamen, fire-
men and watersiders arrive at an informal
decision to assault sea cooks on sight. The
bone of contention has been the insistence
by the union, or the man or men who keep
the same in subjection, that every ship must
engage the first man on the list, or else
get no man at all and lie up. And it doesn’t
signify if the first individual is uncivil, in-
toxicated, slightly off his head or ignorant
of his art, for the union is concerned only
with supplying men who wear the union
label and pay whatever is demanded of them.
The other bodies dragged into the fight have
never felt it an inspiring cause.
A brisk newspaper controversy, with
Archdeacon Boyce fighting in the front rank,
has been raging about Sydney being the
second biggest city in the Empire. Bays
the good man in black: —
Why detract from the honor of our loved city ?
To think that she has risen to the position of the
second city of our wonderful Empire should be
applauded.
Yet some people don’t applaud. They are
more concerned because Australia has, in the
Northern Territory, the second biggest
empty space in the Empire, and that is
saying nothing of the vast blankness of
Northern Westralia. They even suggest
that the overgrown cities are the cause of
the overgrown wildernesses.
Postmaster-General Gibson is making an
unholy mess of the wireless broadcasting
business. The immediate result of his de-
mand for “co-ordination” was that the larger
A-class companies set out to absorb the
smaller companies, though the Adelaide co.
strenuously objected. Then his department
discovered that people were so dissatisfied
with A-class programmes that they switched
on to the B-class stations, which do not
share in the receiving-license revenue, for
relief. The danger is that the co-ordination
policy will end in the establishment of one
big company with irresistible opportunities
of taking it out of performers and public.
Then there will be a cry for “nationali-
sation”—the very thing Gibson says he is
striving to prevent.
“Australia’s Trade Is Good” was the head-
line in a Sydney daily when 10 months’ com-
mercial returns for the whole Commonwealth
were published, and other dailies spoke in
the same strain. Yet if the remaining two
months are similar Australia will require for
the year about £37,000,000 of new gold loans
raised abroad—£2,7oo,ooo to pay for surplus
imports and the rest for interest, sinking
fund, etc. In any other country a similar
position might lead to the remark that trade
is dashed damnable. Premier Hogan of Vic-
toria has again been imploring his people
to buy Australian goods, but until a flat and
stern Federal prohibition puts a lot of foreign
superfluities out of their reach, Hogan is
wasted, like many other patriots.
Good autumn rains have brightened the
outlook in South Aus., and Westralia has
also had its share of moisture, albeit much
later than usual. Fortune has beamed
fairly consistently on the Collier Govern-
ment, but the Butler Administration is due
for a turn of the wheel. It took over from
its predecessors a shortage of tax-revenue,
an unpayable railway system, and a mob of
unemployed given to making nasty remarks
in public; and it has had an agitating time
ever since.
Monstrous as it is that 47 members of a
so-called electoral conference should have the
power to prevent ex-I'remier Holman coming
out as an accredited Nationalist for Martin,
in which there were 53,259 electors when
the late H. E. Pratten was returned in 1925.
Holman deserves no sympathy. He has been
a champion of pre-selection all his political
life. When Jaques, M.L.A., stood for Bondi
against the Nat. Fed. nominee, who had been
“selected” by a dozen acquaintances, none so
indignant as Holman. He ought to have
learned something from Jaques’s sweeping-
majority, but the lesson was wasted on him.
Probably the Nat. Fed. bosses recalled Hol-
man’s denunciation of Jaques when they con-
sidered the demand that pre-selection’s
brightest star should be nominated for Mar-
tin as well as Graham Pratten. Anyway,
they decided that it would be too hot.
The strangers’ gallery of S.A. Assembly
has been closed by order of the Speaker,
G. R. Laffer, following on recent interrup-
tions of the debates by unemployed. It is
to remain closed “until such time as it
shall prove unnecessary to safeguard the
rights of members,” says the stern man in
the Chair.
Of the six Vic. Leg. Councillors who
sought re-election on Saturday, only R. 11. S.
Abbott (Northern) will be missing from the
next Parliament; but McGregor (Gippsland)
and Angliss (Southern) had close calls.
Abbott was b'aten by Dick Kilpatrick, who
also belongs to the Country party; and a
Country Prog, in W. J. McCann is ahead
of the Country-party man, R. D. Elliott, in
North-Western. Norman Falkiner (Mel-
bourne South) and G. V. Lansell (Bendigo)
were also in good positions when the count
ing of No. 1 votes ceased. George Swin-
burne settled R. G. Menzies’s pretensions in
East Yarra with ease. “We’ll win if there’s
a big poll,” said the Menzies party; but the
poll was not quite 24 p.c.
S. M. Bruce throws a bouquet with uner-
ring aim—even at himself. The Newspaper
Proprietors’ Conference gave him a chance,
and he told it that “we have been amazinglv
courageous; we have essayed great experi-
ments with great ideals.” and "w T e are fortu-
nate in having a wonderful country on which
mistakes have not, so far, had disastrous
results.” If the spectacle of the Govern
ment spending its bright young life on the
doorstep of British and United States pawn-
shops isn’t a disastrous result it resembles
one very closely.
“II.M.”: “Fitzwilliam” (B. 30/5/’2B)
questions the validity of sec. 57 of the
N.S.W. Liquor Act, as being an interference
with inter-State trade. But section 113 of
the Federal Constitution says: “All fer-
mented, distilled or other intoxicating liquids
passing into any State or remaining therein
for use, consumption, sale or storage, shall
be subject to the laws of the State as if
such liquids had been produced in the State.”
This section effectively gives a State the
power to interfere with inter-State trade
and commerce as far as alcoholic liquors
are concerned.
Prime Minister Bruce remarked to a
group of daily-newspaper managers at Can-
berra that “some people think I have gone
too far in deciding what are national pro-
blems.” But, then, other people think that
Mr. Bruce has appointed Royal Commissions
to make up his mind for him about all man-
ner of questions, and that even then he has
shown an incurable disinclination to make
use of the mind when made up. Now a'
certain “Big Four” will in course of time
be hither bound to advise him all round.
Is that furious driving, or what?
The Vic. Hogans managed to hold a meet-
ing of the Executive Council last week with-
out appointing a solitary J.P. As 326 have
been gazetted since the Government took
office on May 20. 1927, there will be no
shortage for a week or two.
R. S. Sampson and C. G. Latham, West-
ralian M’s.L.A., have been visiting Malta,
and a proud Valetta gentleman sends The
Bulletin a newspaper report of their re-
marks on the natives, considered as
“migrants.” Said Sampson :
In Malta, although the population is so large, the
people seem to be extraordinarily healthy and of
fine stamina. These are the men we want. Let
Maltese go out. in great numbers and settle per-
manently in Australia. They will be extremely
welcome, as they are eminently the right type of
settler.
Well, let Sampson argue it out with the
Labor people in Perth.
Tales of the sea cooks and their roster
have been numerous and varied. One con-
cerned an individual who was put on board
a ship despite his doubtful sanity. The
only reply from union headquarters was that
it was his turn. Another case, was that of a
man who held his vessel up for two days at a
small port by simply refusing to cook. Ilis
trouble was that he wasn’t admitted to the
officers’ table. His discharge led to the ship
being laid up for two months. The roster
system is apparently not embodied in any
award, and one chief cook states that the idea
was once put to a union ballot and rejected.
The executive, however, just went on roster-
ing as if nothing had happened.
Being always ready for a conversational
effort, the Bruce Government promises that
Parliament shall have an opportunity to dis-
cuss the U.S. proposals to “outlaw war.”
There is no harm in outlawing war, past and
present and future, likewise in outlawing
crime in general, and the Arctic regions, and
even the man who struck Buckley. The pro-
posed bargain is that six Great Powers,
Russia and China being absent, promise
that one shall not get into holts with the
other without previous arbitration. If two
of them batter each other in spite of this
the remaining four promises not to stop them,
but merely to look on. So far as the agree-
ment goes small Powers are left to their fate.
Australia should sign, as a matter of course,
by way of politeness to an important neigh-
bor and by way of catching at a straw, but
without any foolish confidence in the exist-
ence of the straw.
With a lordly contempt for section 15 of
the Constitution, which says that temporary
appointments to the Senate must be made
by “the Houses of Parliament for the State”
concerned “voting together,” or by the Gov-
ernor on the advice of the Executive Council
until the Houses can act, the Sydney A.L.P.
called for applications for the N. S. Wales
vacancy, just as if it were advertising for
a junior clerk. Out of the mob of aspirants
it picked Arthur Rac, who, a Labor Senator
from 1910 to 1914, stood against the Labor
team in 1922 and has been in very queer
Communist company since. “Jupp” Gar-
diner, who was an easy first among the
defeated Labor candidates in 191-0 (he got
379,925 votes), after having been a Labor
Senator for 15 years, wasn’t even considered,
having committed the unpardonable crime
of “criticising the actions of the executive.
Then, by way of cracking the whip over
State Labor Parliamentarians suspected Ol
favoring Gardiner, “the executive” put up
Willis to demand that there should be open
voting at the joint sitting instead of the
customary secret ballot. Insolence, ingrati-
tude and intolerance were never more con-
temptibly combined.
N.S.W. Full Court has increased the sen-
tence passed by Justice Ferguson on a
prisoner from one year to five. The Judge
had, as he told his learned brothers, drawn
certain deductions from the jury’s verdict-
in short, that they had disbelieved certain
evidence. The Judge, therefore, decided that
he must proceed as if that evidence was not
acceptable, whether he himself believed it
or not, and he fixed the sentence accordingly.
The Full Court decided that this principle
was wrong. And presumably it is ; but the
result is liable to be that juries will now
say “Not Guilty” more than ever.
When Federal Parliamentarians are freed
from the chains of party, as happens now
and then, they show themselves capable of
quite intelligent and useful criticism. A
case in point was the debate in the House
of Reps, on the Bruce-Page proposal to
vote £500,000 towards a Sydney exhibition
in Centennial Park —it was introduced as
a non-party measure. The project received
a thorough overhauling at the hands of repre-
sentatives of all three parties and almost
all States, N.S.W. members being most
outspoken in their condemnation. In the
result there will be no exhibition, as the
N.S.W. Government says it won’t carry the
baby alone.
To minimise the packing of House of
Reps, electorates witlx casual laborers, especi-
ally under the Federal-aid roads scheme,
the select committee on electoral reform
recommended (or the majority did) that the
residential qualification for enrolment be
extended from four weeks to three months.
Thompson, Cocky M.H.R. for New England,
moved to this effect when the amending
Electoral Bill was in committee of the
House. But the proposal was defeated at the
instance of the Prime Minister, who said it
would interfere with the negotiations for
uniform electoral laws, although the Queens-
land Government has stated again and again
that in no circumstances will it let the
Commonwealth make up the State electoral
rolls which have served the Labor party
so well. The Bruce-Pages also let redistribu-
tion-of-seats slide, although it would be all
in favor of their party, and the lawful occa-
sion exists. The other side is never so
confiding or careless.
Treasurer Page has furnished some details
of the recent Yankee loan. The Common-
wealth gave its lOU for £10,000,000, but
received £9,240,000. By the time the loan
falls due, 28 years hence, Australia will
have paid £12,945,000 and will still owe the
£10,000,000, making £22,945,000 for the
use of £9,240,000. But it wasn’t a full
statement of the case, for the custom is now
to borrow money to pay the interest, and
then to borrow more to pay interest on the
money which was borrowed to pay the in-
terest. Half a million of the loan was left
in N’York towards interest and sinking
fund, so the compound process is already
working there. The rest went to London for
a similar purpose.
Sydney’s Labor Daily has a pretty taste
in invective. Under the heading “Cowardly
Doings in Samoa,” it accuses the Maoriland
Government of “a foul crime against civili-
sation,” and refers to “New Zealand butchers
in Samoa” and “systematised and cruel
oppression.” The cause of all this indigna-
tion is a report that 200 Samoan natives
of the Man faction attacked 30 of the
Maoriland police, and that two of the attack-
ers are in hospital.
Those Vic. police strikers of 1923 who
thought they would be sure of reinstate-
ment under Labor rule have become pessi-
mistic. Two Labor Ministries have failed
them, and now some of them are appealing
to the Nats, to try to get them posts in
other branches of the service. McPhairson
has promised to do what he can. A few of
the 636 are in the railway and penal
departments; others keep pubs. Meantime
the men who filled the gaps in the force are
becoming more and more efficient, and re-
cruiting, suspended for a year, has been re-
sumed.
The railways of Maoriland continue to
show the influence of motor competition.
For the last financial year, even after a
subsidy of £459,568 had been paid out of the
Consolidated Fund to cover losses on “de-
velopmental” lines, there was a deficit of
£293,479 on the remainder of the system.
All sorts of changes have been made in
organisation and management in recent
years, but the losses continue.
OVER THE ODDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Washington (U.S.A.) paper has announced
its intention of publishing the name of any Pro-
hibitionist Congressman or Senator who appears in
the legislative halls under the influence of liquor.”
Drunk, was he drunk? Or open to suspicion
Of having stopped just one too many a
tot,
And being in that invidious condition
Termed euphemistically “stung” or “shot”?
Was there about his eyes a glazed appear-
ance,
A hint of wobblesomeness in his pins,
Suggesting too protracted an adherence
To smuggled Scotch or surreptitious gins?
Then let his lapse be blazoned far and high,
That is, if his electors deemed him Dry.
Foxed, was he well-nigh foxed —the state
that sinful
Old Pepys owned to once? Did accents
thick
Suggest the carriage of a load or skinful?
Denote him sozzled, blithered, corned or
shick?
When for the Volstead Act he swore to stick
up
Till every rum-runner was sunk or
beached,
Did an inadequately strangled hiccup
Convey he didn't practise all he preached:
Then let him in the pillory be set,
The Dry who didn’t stickle at a wet.
Sprung, was he sprung or pickled, soused or
squiffy?
In jovial Bacchus’s insidious clutch?
Were he a Wet one well might wink, but if
he
Were Dry—on paper—’tis a bit too much !
Denouncing drink, with vine-leaves in his
biggins,
I.et him awake after a muddled night
To find himself more infamous than Stiggins,
And none to say it didn’t serve him right.
Dry, was he Dry? So dry that he forgot
He stood upon the slogan “Out, damned
spot!”
N.S.W.
MIDFGRD.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Boronia”: “Cripes!” said Billjim re-
cently returned from his first visit to the
city, “them cocktails is pretty strong. Me’n'
another bloke ’ad a couple, an’ blime I nearly
got knocked. W’en we got inter th’ street,
me ’at blew orf, ’n’ o’ course, I went ’ell-fer-
leather after it. Some bloke stopped it, ’n’
I thought ’e looked kinder funny w’en I
grabbed th’ lid from ’im and went to put it
on. I s’pose I muster looked funny, too,
becos it wasn’t my flamin' ’at at all. Mine
wuz still on me ’ead! Yairs, they’s strong
awright.”
* * a* *
“Sol. M.”: Among the myths and move-
ments of the passing hour are the uprising
of two claimants to the Blake Millions (this
neglected property seems to be a new arrival
in the field, and the applicants are a married
woman in S.A. and a spinster in Victoria),
the appearance in Maoriland of more claim-
ants to the Hobbs Millions, and the uprising
in Canada of 400 alleged heirs and heiresses to
the Drake Millions. There are said to be about
14 Drake Millions, also two castles and gems
Of “untold value,” the whole being the enor-
mous fortune which the admiral left when he
STILL A FLAPPER.
“Why the chains, Bill?”
“Skiddin ’ a bit.”
“Cripes, you’d think her jazzin’ days were over, wouldn’t yeh?”
died in Elizabeth’s time (1596). The mis-
fortunes of his last great expedition against
Spain led him to go ashore and become a
member of Parliament; then he went to sea
again on a small and inefficient looting ex-
pedition, had more bad luck, died, and was
dropped overboard. How Drake. M.P., came
to leave unclaimed millions 332 years ago
isn’t known. The Clark Millions and the
much more exciting Humbert Millions are
almost forgotten now. About 1910 a mild
flutter was made over King Solomon’s Mil-
lions, but it was badly staged, and the
scenery collapsed in the first act to the
damage of some of the performers.
* * * *
“Mango-Mungo” : “Triple Bob’s” par about
the Sydney carillon is correct in the main,
but I can assure him that the “high-brow”
musicians are as disappointed about the
carrying power of the bells as the ordinary
public. What is making a lot of University
people mad is that the authorities who glibly
asserted that the carillon would have great
carrying power from the University tower
are now denying that they even suggested
that you would be able to hear the balls at
the bottom of fcb* University park. What
was overlooked is that the park, surrounded
as it is by two main arterial roads along
which pours incessant screaming traffic, is no
fit place in which to house a carillon. The
Loughborough affair, about which a certain
professor talked so confidently, is on the out-
skirts of its village, and most of the Belgian
ones are in sleepy old cathedral cities where
traffic as we have it here, is unknown. The
one really sensible suggestion made was that
the city should give a tower and the Univer-
sity the carillon; if that scheme had been
approved the combined war-memorial could
have been erected on the shore of the harbor,
preferably in the Botanical Gardens. No
better situation exists anywhere in the world.
* * * *
“Returned Empty” : Several of the para-,
graphists who have been _ commenting in
recent issues about a whisky-laden vessel
that once went ashore on the Queensland
coast have confused two different wrecks.
It was the Scottish Prince which, when
becalmed off Southport some 40 years ago,
drifted into the incoming tide-rip and went
aground on the bar, opposite the town, be-
fore she could get her anchors out. A
south-east gale settled her fate in u few
hours. Cases of whisky strewed the beach
for miles, and a good deal was lifted or
cached, but more went down with the ship.
A few years later the Cambuswallace was
wrecked at Jumpin-pin, on Stradbroke, about
15 miles north of Southport, and was visible
in the surf until the sea broke through into
Morcton Bay some 30 years ago. She, too,
was a Scotch ship, and some of the whisky
was salved. The Customs officers were more
alert on this occasion, but six of the crew
were drowned on the beach while sleeping
it off.
* * * *
“Berhantu”: “Feng-Sliui” suggests that
statistics, so far as they exist, support his
contention that dark-haired whites show
more resistance to tropical conditions than
fair-haired ones (B. 16/5/’2B). There lias
been considerable investigation in the Philip-
pines, Java and Queensland, and, if any
conclusion has been arrived at, it is that color
is quite useless as a guide. In a hybrid popu-
lation like our own, “dark” and “fair” mean
nothing. The “dominant” dark has a “re-
cessive” fair strain, and vice versa. Is a
black-haired man with blue eyes dark, or a
fair-haired woman with brown eyes fair?
* * * *
“Taltingan”: A witness who was before
the Commission which is forking over the
roseleaves left behind by the late Sydney City
Council told of £l5OO in notes buried under
a flooring-board in an ex-alderman’s house
and kept there for years. They told much
more complete stories in the days when N.S.W.
squatters were hard at work dummying their
best country to keep it out of the hands of
selectors. No would-be selector ever came
before a land board but he was asked,
“Where did you get the money to make this
application?” and after he had explained that
it was . his own, he generally went on to
explain that he had accumulated it little by
little and kept it in a tin buried in the floor
of his hut. But there were careful men who
were prepared to go into details; and at
Menindie once a selector offered to the Land
Board a statement he’d got the manager of
the old A.J.S. Bank to sign that when he’d
brought in the money to bank it was still
in a rusty sardine-tin. The Sydney alder-
man probably didn’t know how incredulous
people are, or he might have put his little
lot in a sardine-tin, too.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: These Noise Abatement Leagues
proceed on the assumption that the average
normal citizen dislikes a row. But does he?
Absolutely the most popular items on the
vaudeville circuits are the rowdiest. A quiet
character study by a genuine comedian is
received with moderate enthusiasm, whereas
the hellish uproar of a gang of negro jazz
fiends will pack any theatre to its doors,
If the populace really wanted peace it could
get it on Saturday afternoons and Sun-
daYS‘ , Inatead - even when it rushes into the
solitude of the bush it is largely addicted to
taking a gramophone with it. I know one
I a^ an ' V K) haunts the secluded
I reac | ies Yarra Wlt 1 a P° rt able wire-
loss ‘
“Barangkali”: Recent paragraphs about
the Emden and her end give full credit to
Von Muller as a chivalrous opponent. There
was another German officer who showed
good sporting qualities, too. This was Von
Mucke, the leader of the landing party at
Cocos Islands. The easiest method of blow-
ing up the wireless mast would have re-
sulted in the wreck of the concrete tennis-
courts, and on this being pointed out to
Yon Mucke he considerately revised his
original plan so that the courts should
escape injury. Indeed, the German landing
party during their occupancy of the islands
THE VICIOUS CIRCLE (MORE OR LESS).
MAMIE: “What a sad face that sheik’s got!”
PEGGY: “Yes, but I don’t think anyone could help being sad with a face like that?”
treated the staff with all the consideration
that could be expected from an occupying
enemy. While watching the progress of the
Sydney-Emden engagement one of the cable-
men offered Von Mucke five to one in
pounds on the Sydney and the bet was
promptly accepted. The loser duly paid
just before he left the island in the com-
mandeered schooner Ayesha.
* * * *
“Gouger”: I often wonder if any of our
poor old Light Horse neddies are alive in
Egypt; there were never gamer animals or
stauncher mates. My last
fell stone dead during the
hectic weeks of the great
final Palestine “push.”
He had three shrapnel
bullets in his back, and
must have carried them
for a week at least with-
out my knowing it. Dur-
ing that dreadful desert
ride from El Katie, at
long intervals a wailing
howl would float down
the plodding column,
“Dis-mount!” Men would
just fall off, horses would
sink to their knees and
then stretch straight out
with the man coiled up
between their legs for
warmth, till the whole
column lay like a huge
snaky cloud shadow up
and around and over the
white sandhills. What
agony it was for horses
and men to flounder up
when that wail floated
along, “Mo-unt!” Poor
prads! Luckier those
that fell in action than
they that fell into alien hands.
:J: * ❖ *
“H.V.H.”: A Perth hotelkeeper notified
our law office that he wished to make a
claim under the Workers’ Compensation
Act on account of an accident to his cook.
This is how he summarised the occurrence :
Whilst dishing up dinner the cook was accidentally
cut on the ear by one of his fellow workmen who
was throwing cutlery to him. The accident was
caused by the injured person failing to catch the
instrument correctly.
I’m still wondering if dexterity in catching
thrown cutlery is an essential part of a
cook’s accomplishments.
* * * *
“A.E.Y.” : “I see,” said Bill the Bullocky,
“the Bullerteen’s givin’ a prize o’ five
hunnerd jim fer the best Orstralian novel.
I could write a novel, if I on’y ’ad the
edgercation. I got the experiences, an’ I
got the imagination.” I said something
about, the necessity for a plot. “I got one
worked out,” I was assured, “an’ it’s a
snifter. It’s about a broken-down swell
that comes out ter the mulga country
carryin’ his knot. The boss gives him a
start an’ pushes him on ter me, as awff-
sider, an’ he tells me one night about how
he come ter be carryin’ the knot. Seems lie’s
an author, down in the city, an’ he finds
that authors are treated like dirt till they
are dead, an’ then they make pots of money,
if you understand, me. So he arranges with
his missus to go dead an’ boost the book
he’s just finished. She’s ter collect the
dough from the publisher. He leaves his
hat an’ coat on a cliff, an’ the papers all
publishes the fact that he was so disgusted
at the rotten spin the residin’ public give
him, that he’s committed suicide, d’yer see?”
I said I thought I did. “And I suppose he
turns up again to find himself wealthy and
famous.” Bill looked at me disgustedly.
“You’ve gotter have wot they call sex in-
terest in a novel,” lie reminded me. “He
comes back all right, but he finds his wife’s
married the publisher on the dough the
book's made, an' they both give him in
charge fer tryin’ ter obtain money under
false pretences. He gets six monce. When
lie comes out he rolls his bluey for keeps,
* * * *
“Wollard”: When Launceston (Las.)
City Council bought J. W. Beattie s collec-
tion of Port Arthur relics, the fancy ot
most people turned lightly to rusty leg-
11'0n,s > a *- s 0 ama ’j ll , s a ! other lion 01.-.
°I system. But the first exhibits have
proved a surprise, consisting mainly ot
handsome plate, furniture and personal; be-
longings of Tasmania’s earliest Governors
and free se ttlers. This section includes a
chandelier of Sheffield plate presented to a
prominent official of the Anti-Transportation
}, eaguc a nd valued at £5OO, and full dinner-
sets j) o ulton ware. The very chairs pro-
vided for visitors to the room were formerly
I)art 0 f a su it e of Lady Franklin, wife of an
~a ri y Governor. One painting, depicting
•‘ ,, p} ie Abduction of Proserpina,” by Cipriani,
was so j ( ] f Ol . a thousand guineas in the
s ; x teenth century—and the I.aunceston Coun-
cd g 0(; the whole lot for £4500.
* * * *
“Micux”: The charge was keeping a
disorderly house and the prosecution was
trying to damage the credibility of a witness
for the defence by assailing her character.
Belinda Blank didn’t fence much, either.
Emitting under cross-examination that she
j )a d lived with Silas Soandso for six months
and w jth David Dash for the following six.
p nt to you> sa id the sergeant
j n j ds b es t court manner, ‘‘that for the past
year you have been living in a state of
a d u it e ry.” ‘‘Oh, no,” responded the witness
brightly, “I only lived with one at a time.”
V * * *
“C. Ockney” : The phrase “On his own,”
9/y/‘2S), however derived, did not come
j n t 0 general use until it was popularised b.y
a music-hall comedian. The song was the
coster ballad “ ’E Dunno Were ’e Are,” sung
originally about 35 years ago by the English
rival to Albert Chevalier, Gus Elen, in the
character of a Covent Garden fruit and
vegetable porter who had suddenly become
affluent and swanky. The opening lines
of the chorus are:—
When ’e’s up at Coving Garding,
F a . n ® ee im standin’ all alone;
Won t join in a game o Tommy Dodd —
prinkin’ Scotch-an’-soda on ’is own.
...
u , . »
* erri : Touching the recent purchase of
a green diamond for the merest fraction of
its real value in a Sydney pawnbroker's
shop. Some time ago a girl was looking i xfiy
into the window of a Darlinghurst sCcond-
hand dealer when a seedy individual along-
side pointed out a ring marked at £lO, and.
mentioning that he had once been a jeweller,
? aid that he would give twice that for it
lf h , e °nly had the money. The remark made
such an impression on the girl that she told
her family, and later took a brother down to
inspect the ring. They finally collected the
money and purchased it, though the £lO
seemed a fairly high figure for two emeralds
and one small diamond. But the seedy indi-
vidual was right, one emerald alone realising
three times the purchase money, while both
the other stones proved to be exceptionally
good ones.
* * * *
“Scotia” : Scotch College, Melbourne, with
an attendance of 1180 boys, is easily the
biggest school of its class in Australia. To re-
lievc the crush it is proposed to establish sub-
sidiary schools —inter-dependent Scotch Col-
leges—in Melbourne suburbs. These will at
first take youths up to about 14, but ulti-
mately they are expected to develop and be-
come complete in themselves, always in
association with the parent school.
THE CONSIDERATE DOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Daphne, I dote on you ; no girlish charms
Ever awakened such cardiac twitterings:
Near-gold at best were all previous glit-
terings.
Yet, ere you rush to my arms,
Stop, look and listen! For rumblings afar
Hint of the onrush of grim possibilities -
Though, should you wish it, I’ll grant all
facilities
For your return to your ma.
Xow, in the moonlight, you love me, no
doubt.
But will you do so when gross adiposity
Makes my slim figure a waddling mon-
strosity?
When I’m bald, bandy and stout?
Will you be true when my nerve has gone
phut,
When, having lost all my pristine ur-
banity,
Venting my spleen I give way to profanity.
Rending the air with “Tut, tut” ?
Angel-plum, think of it, lest you deplore
When you are shackled with bonds
matrimonial
Nights wan and waste with a blaring,
trombonial,
Brazen connubial snore.
VICTORIA.
WAWHKRESH.


“Chinta-Hati”: The quaintest currency I
have ever seen was in the island of Yap,
where, until a few years ago at all events,
the coins consisted of objects, resembling flat
millstones with circles bored in the centre
to enable them to be carried on poles. Mostly
they -\vere about two feet in diameter, but
there were larger denominations and one
financial magnate possessed an 11-foot coin,
reputed to be worth about 255. A three-
foot coin would purchase a small pig. The
money isn’t banked; it is mostly propped
against the elevated stone platforms of the
homes of leading citizens,, who may be
seen complacently resting their backs against
their stone threepences, while they discuss
the latest village scandal. There is little
fear of robbers; it would take two men
with a pole to get away with the equivalent
of ten shillings of our money.
:!: * * *
“Kerys”: I found the fourth floor of a
big city building buzzing like a hive of dis-
turb-d bees. Tenants and typists were
gathered into excited groups, and a stray
charwoman was remarking that she had
never seen the like, and why didn’t some-
body send for the police? Presently I found
myself, with the rest, gazing bewilderedly
at an apparition that might have stepped
straight from Hollywood. Posed at the door
of the small room occupied by an elderly
working jeweller was a stalwart young man
in the blue uniform of a chauffeur, with a
■shining revolver in each hand. He surveyed
the crowd nonchalantly, and vouchsafed no
answer to various confused inquiries as to
A LABOR OF LOVE.
“Harold is awfully obstinate.”
“In what way?”
“It’s the hardest thing in the world to make him admit I’m
right when he knows I’m wrong.”
what the trouble was about. Presently the
caretaker, who had evidently been requisi-
tioned by somebody, strode into the picture,
and with the armed chauffeur disappeared
into the jeweller’s room. After a breathless
five minutes, out sailed a large Jewess, be-
dizened with jewellery, and swept downstairs
escorted by her armed guard. The care-
taker emerged a moment later and enlight-
ened the still mystified crowd. “It’s only
Mrs. Showoffski, from Potts Point, bringin’
in her five-thousand-pound diamond bracelet
to be fixed up. That bloke with the revolvers
stands around just in case. But the jeweller
says it’s her pearls the old girl’s reely fussy
about.” I could only conclude that when
the pearls went abroad the young man held
a revolver in his mouth as well.
* * * *
“Avon”: The M.L. Statistician has been
analysing the Dominion’s divorce records. He
finds that the average age at time of marriage
of those judicially put asunder is, wife 23.6
years; husband, 27.6 years. They file their
petitions at an average cost of 37.2 years
for the wife and 41.2 years for the husband,
which gives them an average of 13.6 years
of wedlock before breaking-strain is reached.
The highest proportion of divorces occurs
in cases where the wives were very young
when married; where the husband was much
older than the wife, and where the wife
was older than the husband. In 60 per cent,
of the divorce cases last year the wife was
under 23 when she married.
Hs * * *
“Nakhoda”: I once travelled with the late
Rajah of Pudukota, whose death has made a
widow of the lady who was once Molly Fink,
of Melbourne. He was an extraordinarily
sensitive man, and had his cabin changed
because he objected to the noises my baby
made at night. A big, ponderously-built but
excitable Indian, he was typical of the new
and rather useless sort of Asiatic potentate
created by the security of the pax Britan-
nica. The Pudukota family goes back into
dim antiquity, and, until the Rajah found life
in Paris more congenial, lie ruled over
400,000 poverty-stricken ryots. Fighting days
being over, he had no martial outlet for his
sporting spirit, and he was too romantic an
Oriental to be interested in improving the
sanitation, health and habits of his loyal
subjects—even supposing they are capable of
improvement.
* * * *
“Gregor” : A German Lutheran missionary
who had lived for years among the blacks
of Central Australia once told me that,
although lie had studied many tongues in
Eastern Europe and Asia, as well as the
Pacific Islands, none of them presented
such difficulties to a would-be learner as the
Australian native’s. These difficulties, lie
added, were intensified by the scarcity of
dictionaries or vocabularies and the almost
total absence from the language of any
grammatical structure in the ordinary sense.
Inflections and intonations seemed to take
the place of various other things.
* * >i= *
“G.F.”: What is the smallest gold claim
ever worked in Australia? Neeld. the pioneer
of Wyalong (N.S.W.), used to tell a yarn
of Mount Alexander (Vic), where the
gold was found in pockets, sometimes very
rich. One day, when two diggers were
crossing Red Hill, one of them said he would
go down to the post office to see if there
was a letter for him. While his mate was
awaiting his return he lay down, began to
chip the ground with his knife, and turned up
some gold. He was soon observed, and there
was a rush to peg out. When the prospector
realised this he spread-eagled himself on
the ground, and called out “I claim this
portion,” and although the pegging went on
right up to his fingers and the heels of
his boots, he was allowed by the commis-
sioner the scrap of auriferous soil he had
actually covered with his body.
* * * *
“Moe”: Rabaul, the capital of New
Britain and the
Mandated Terri-
tory, stands at the
very foot of the
dormant but far
from extinct vol-
cano known as the
Mother. Ever since
the town has ex-
isted the Mother
has been giving
occasional remind-
ers of her presence
in the form of
rumblings and
murmurings, and
during the last 10
or 12 years these
warnings have be-
come distinct
enough to recall
the fate of Pom-
peii and Hercula-
neum. What influ-
enced the original
founders of the
settlement to place
it where they did
is unknown, for it
has nothing to re-
commend it from
the health view-
point or that of
convenience to
shipping. It stands
at the head of a
long and narrow
bay, full of ob-
stacles to naviga-
tion. The Germans
long since realised
the disabilities of
the capital, and
when the war
broke out they
were on the point
of moving it, lock,
stock and barrel,
to the more healthy
and accessible Her-
bertshohe, now
known as Kokopo,
some 20 miles or
so down Gazelle
Bay. When the
mandate was ob-
tained by Australia
there was some talk of carrying this plan
into execution, but apparently the idea has
been abandoned.
* =:= * *
“Oxmead”: With the heavy black-letter
heading ‘‘Civic Graft Commission” appearing
in the S. M. Herald morning after morning,
one may presume! that another Americanism
has been acclimatised in Australia, possibly to
meet a want. As for the local word “graft” as
a colloquial synonym for “hard work,” doubt-
less that will rapidly become obsolete, if it
isn’t so already. It has more than once
proved a puzzle to visitors from Uncle’s coun-
try. I still recall the amazement of some
officers of the U.S. fleet which visited Aus-
tralia 20 years ago when they encountered
our idiom. They had been tendered a recep-
tion during one of their dashes inland by a
W.A. goldfields municipality, and after the
speeches were partaking of a final glass in
the Mayor’s parlor. Presently his Worship
glanced at his watch and apologised for hand-
ing the guests over to the senior councillor.
“I’ve got a bit of graft to do that won’t
wait,” he added in explanation. All of the
visitors looked dazed at such brutal frank-
ness, as it must have appeared to them, and
one couldn’t restrain a soft whistle, but they
pulled themselves together sufficiently to
shake hands with their departing host. A
humorless pressman, jealous for his country’s
reputation, tried to enlighten them later, but
I doubt if he altogether succeeded.
QUITE BEYOND HER.
PRIVATE TOMKINS : “And, Miss Betsy, I’ve lad great news. I’m to be made a corporal.”
BETSY PALMER: “How splendid for you! But alas for poor me! For of course I could
never walk out with one of those higher ranks.”
“Hermes”: Some quaint addresses meet
the postal officials’ eyes occasionally. Was
recently shown an envelope for “Mr. Blank,
use to have a butcher shop at Dashville,
now I think runs a pig-farm at Dotburn.
Fine them, please.” We showed the address
to the lad who delivers the mail. “Yes, I
know the old bloke,” he assured the post
master. “He always carries a white-handled
pocket-knife to slit his letters open.”
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”: Touching stage th-emes
in real life. This Shavian satire on the
romantic view of marriage was enacted
in Melbourne. Blank, a business man,
obtained a divorce from his wife, who, as a
single girl, had passed through a commercial
college. After the breeze had subsided a
mutual friend happened to call on the di-
vorced man at his city office. He was shown
into an ante-room. A smart young steno-
grapher was typing from a dictaphone. The
visitor noted casually that the voice emerg-
ing from the instrument was that of the man
he had come to see. The shape of the girl
also seemed familiar. She turned and dis-
closed the face of the former Mrs. Blank.
“Good God, woman,” shouted the astonished
visitor, “do you know where you are?” “Of
course I do,” smiled Mrs. Blank. “But do
you know 7 who’s in there?” “Certainly I do.
It’s Jack. He always said I w 7 as a bad wife,
but a splendid typist, and I always said he
w r as a rotten husband but a rattling boss,
so we came to an arrangement. Arid there's
one good point about Jack as an employer,”
she added. “I know he’ll never try to make
love to me!”
* * * *
“Regency”: A sporting old custom of our
forefathers is showing some signs of revival
in Britain. This is the Gretna Green mar-
riage once so popular with great-grandpapa
and his beloved when a cruel parent or a
grasping guardian forbade the amalgamation
of two hearts that beat as one. Though
most people imagine that special legislation
wiped out the blacksmith parsons of Gretna,
this is not so, Scottish law still standing
where it did in that respect. Recently,
Richard Rennison, present incumbent of the
office, wedded 16 couples, a one-day record
for 100 years. However, the old mad gallop
north in a post-chaise, with the unreasonable
parent or the jilted lover emitting curses and
pistol shots from another chaise behind, is
a thing of the past. The latest guardian
who pursued his ward and her lover did it
in a taxi-cab, after forbidding the ceremony
by telegraph. That seems to cut the romance
right out of Gretna Green.
* * * *
“Erua”: The story of sleeping powders
taken by mistake (B. 30/5/’2B) brings back
to my memory a small Maoriland schoolboy
who arrived one afternoon with a bottle of
round, white sweets, which he generously
shared with most of his classmates. Half
an hour later a teacher who was taking the
juniors for singing remarked on the feeble
volume of sound produced by the class. Ten
minutes later she was regarding with alarm
a cluster of small boys of whom only two
were awake, these two having been at tem-
porary enmity with the donor of the sweets
and therefore precluded from participation.
A hastily-summoned headmaster secured the
nearest doctor, who, after hearing the evi-
dence of the wideawake couple, raided the
distributor’s schoolbag and found the bottle.
He traced the ownership of the sugar-coated
soporific to a maid suffering from insomnia,
from whose pantry the bottle had been pur-
loined. Most of the youngsters awakened
after a few hours, but one terrified lus rela-
fives by sleeping on for a day and a half,
He was a favorite pal who had been pre-
sented with a double ration,
* *
“Towallum”: The amount of phosgene
used by Fritz (B. 30/5/'2S) was small com-
pared with that used by the British, largely
because the prevailing wind during the
warmer months was from the west. The
method of sending over the gas in cloud form
was very little used after 1916, though iso-
lated attacks were made by both sides—par-
ticularly in the neighborhood of Loos and
Vimy Ridge. The R.E. special brigade fired
ghs from the Stokes mortar and the “pro-
jector,” the latter hurling a gas-container up
to the distance of a mile. Our artillery,
too, fired enormous quantities. Fritz relied
mainly on artillery for his “mustard gas,”
which was probably his most effective weapon
in the war. Phosgene, not being very vola-
tile, was always mixed with 40 per cent,
chlorine.
* * * *
“Digger” : Those who advocate the removal
of the Sydney Cenotaph from Martin-place
(B. 30/5/’2S) might at least wait until it is
completed. At present it is an unfinished
job. Before next Armistice Day the bronze
figures should be placed in position and the
granite base surrounded by an area of white
tiling—or some other conspicuous material
that will give the completed work a suitable
setting. When that is done it will perhaps
be recognised that nowhere in Sydney could
the Cenotaph more fitly be placed.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: The expression “eaten out of
house and home” has sometimes a very
literal meaning in North Queensland. _ I
knew a selector who went on a droving
trip, leaving his hut untenanted. After an
absence of many months, he returned one
afternoon, and threw himself down in a
big easy chair that stood against a draped
packing-case in his bedroom. The chair
crumpled under him, and he dropped to the
floor in a pile of dust, cement and white
ants. The termites had started operations
under the floor, eaten their way up through
the legs of the chair, and, getting into the
packing-case, bored up through a two-foot
stack of newspapers and thence up into
the wall-plates.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The Commonwealth Serum
Laboratory at Royal Park (Vic.) has been
engaged on a new anti-diphtheritic potion.
The serum used so disastrously at Bunda-
berg included a virulent poison which con-
ferred immunity from diphtheritic infection,
plus an anti-poison which prevented tli p
poison harming the subject. Failure of the
anti-poison to do its job obviously left the
victim a prey to- a possibly deadly dose of
toxin. The new 7 serum is to be called anatox.
and experiment and use elsewhere have
tended to show that its toxic properties
cannot hurt its host. Nevertheless, the public
will take a lot of reassuring before it re-
accepts immunisation with the old
even though the annual diphtheria epidemic
is already well under w 7 ay.
i'fi * ❖ *
“40Iv”: Some items of news travel
quickly these times. The other night a fire
broke out in a large building next 311
studio, Melbourne. The brigade had the
blaze under in less than half an hour, at
which stage an enterprising 3LO n) an
fought through the crowd, captured Chief-
Officer Wilkins and induced that worthy,
still panting with his exertions, to deliver
a brief account of the brigade’s latest
activity, along with some salutary comments
on fireproof buildings, burglar- (and fireman-)
resistin' 7 - doors and otlr-r pertinent matters.
After the fire chief had run down th e
“Vagabonds” resumed their jazzing.
STRUTH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. McMahon, P.M., at the Sydney Central
Police Court, said his experience of the feminine sex
was that they were as frank and vulgar in their
speech to-day as men.”
Maiden of the modest glance,
Say, ah, say you’ve been maligned
By this strange intemperance
Of the sober legal mind!
Vision of soft elegance,
Calm the panic of my soul!
Eh ? “Cut out the song an’ dance!
Him ! He’s up the flamin’ pole!”
Lady of the languid grace
Goddesses might copy in vain,
Lift, I beg, your blushing face,
Treat such slander with disdain.
That of truth it owns no trace
All must understand, I vow.
What is that? “Gee! In his place
I’d soon put the silly cow!”
Modest maid and graceful miss,
Drooping heroines of old,
What dread metamorphosis
So has shaped your gentler mould?
Lips that held the sum of bliss
Now, when I behold you, purse.
What a troubling thought is this:
Do you pout to kiss —or curse? '
EEN'S!..A MI),
HASEN.


'7-1!
m
mmu4
. HR
i I
m
1
'
s* 00fc»
V/
n
»»«*<» pM
nr
MM
IYI \
MS
»**
*****
M»
H**
* **
!!*"*«*;
-
THE DI/TILLER/* AGENCY LTD.
EDINBURGH SCOTLAND
mmmm
*%?
ll **


USHER'S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.’'
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
FINEST QUALITY
RUSTLESS
KNIVES
Made by the famous Sheffield
cutlers
Joseph Rodgers & Sons.
1 2 Stainless Dinner Knives and
12 Dessert Knives. Complete
in fitted case
£3
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
X
Kt
Occidental Mine
Machinery for Sale
COMPRISING—
Babcock Boilers, 1426 and 2690 sq.
ft. heating surface.
Winding Engine, 1 6in. Cylinders.
Beilis Morcom Cross Compound Air
Compressor, 2500 cubic ft.
Two Beilis Morcom Generating Sets.
Four Rockbreakers.
Six Tube Mills.
Twenty Head Stamper Batteries.
Quantity of other Plant.
WRITE FOR FULL DETAILS.
Goodall & Co., Ltd.,
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-305 Kent Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Add to the peacetime performances of
limbless soldiers the yacht Sonia, now ready
for launching at the Brighton Yacht Club
(Vic.). The Sonia is as sweet an example
of yacht-designing and -building as Hobson’s
Bay seen, though
actually she was
built in a back yard
at Surrey Hills and
transported to the
water by horse
lorry. She is 41
feet o.a„ 27 feet
along the waterline,
and her displace-
ment will be
tons. Harold Flem-
ing, the builder
left a leg at the
Somme, but he had
always been keen
on making boats
and that did not
deter him.
GRAHAM
PRATTEN,
who beat Holman
by two votes for
the Nationalist
selection for the
Martin seat,
formerly held by
his uncle.
It may have happened in the U.S.A.,
where Judges hop on and off the bench, but
in Australia ex-Judge Webb, of the Federal
Arbitration Court, is the first who has ever
appeared as counsel to tell the Court what
he meant by an order made while he was
on the bench. But the timber-workers who
engaged him didn’t get much satisfaction;
in fact, Lukin, J., spoke quite unkindly
about some of the ways of his ex-Honor's
clients.
“Morita”: Henri Tovell, recently killed
in Melbourne (B. 30/5/’2B), was the
youngest of A.I.F. human mascots, but I
reckon I met the oldest on the way to
Egypt in the Orsova in 1915. At Fremantle
half the troops on board broke leave, and
one of the town’s elderly business men got
mixed up in a party celebrating its depar-
ture from Australia. Before lapsing into
Dreamland he was so distressed at leaving
his new-found friends that they decided to
take him on board as a souvenir, disguised
in a military overcoat and hat. When he
came-to next morning he was a hundred
miles at sea, and the wireless operator
woi’ked at full pressure sending explanations
back to Fremantle. The mascot lived the
life of the troops as far as Egypt, and liked
it so well he wanted to go on with the game,
but was barred through old age.
Kingsford Smith, the game Australian
who, with his countryman Ulm and two
Americans, Lyon and Warner, headed a
'plane on the perilous flight from America
to his own land the other day, went to the
war as a motor-cycle despatch rider, but
gained his commission and transferred to the
Air wing. lie gathered a reputation, an M.O.
and a shattered foot in France. Since the
war, in commercial aviation in England,
Australia and America, he has had a lot
of bad luck; a series of crashes depleted the
fleet of ’planes he and his partners wer.'
running in England. One of his finest per-
formances was his flight round Australia
in 10 days.
Isaac Isaacs, who has a Iv.C.M.G. from
the Birthday honors, might have had a handle
to his name long ago, but didn’t want it;
in his political days he was opposed to
titles. Those days began in 1892, when he
entered the Victorian Parliament as member
for Bogong. He was Attorney-General for
six years. One of the big men in the
framing of the Federal Constitution, he
passed over to Federal politics and stayed
there as a strong supporter of Deakin until
the institution of the High Court. He was
one of the three Judges originally appointed
and is now the Senior Judge. He will be
73 in August. The only other knighthood in
the Federal list went to George 11. Wilkins,
who recently took his ’plane over the North
Pole.
Ecidith Walker, who is named Dame Com-
mander of the British Empire in the Birth-
day honors, keeps a secretary for the special
purpose of dispensing her charity. The habit
came from Thomas Walker, her adopted
father, a mighty benefactor of the Univer-
sity and the founder (with £100,000) of the
Thomas Walker Convalescent Home. He
left her all his wealth. James Murdoch,
K.8.E., who has made a fortune out of a big
mercery business, holds the honorary rank
of lieutenant-colonel for services rendered
during the war as Red Cross Commissioner
in Egypt and France. He has mixed in
public affairs mainly as a civic reformer;
the appointment of a Civic Commission in
Sydney was largely the result of his efforts.
Clifford Hay, C.8.E., is the official M.C.
for N.S.W. on all big occasions; he 'made,
among others, the arrangements for the visit
of the Duke and Duchess. W. 11. Ifould,
0.8. E., began to look after books in the
Adelaide Public Library in 1892, and secured
his present job of Principal Public Librarian
in N.S.W. in 1912.
The fortune which the late Mrs. Mary
Scales, of Sydney, stated she founded oil
soap-suds has for probate purposes been de-
clared at £50,362. Mrs. Scales went into
business as a washerwoman, her husband
carting the clothes to and from customers,
and buying and selling bottles and bags in
spare time. In an action she took to upset
her husband’s will, Mrs. Scales claimed that
all the money her husband had invested in
land which became valuable was dug out in
hundreds by her from places in the back yard,
where, distrusting banks, she had buried it.
The litigation went as far as the Privy
Council; but for that and the money she
did not get back from the husband’s estate,
her fortune would have been considerably
larger.
Before the present week is out Francis
Birtles is duo back in Australia after having
driven a motor-car all the way from London,
except for occasional patches of water. For
a score of years, from the time he pushed
a bike across Australia, Birtles has been
steadily in the newspapers. Probably no
other man has done so much lone wander-
ing.
Hal Colebatch, who was for three long
weeks Premier of Westralia, has fathered a
songbird in Lindsay Gordon Colebatch. Sing-
ing Turiddu in “Cavalleria Rusticana” at the
National Theatre, Rome, he brought the
house down with a voice which the critics
praised unanimously for its warmth and
richness.
Australian missionary J. Thomas Mathew-
son, after having been missing from the
wild, woolly, Mohammedan province of
Kansu, in China, has turned up in Northern
India, after an amazing struggle through
snow, ice. bandits and civil warfare. It was
under similar conditions during the Boxer
upheaval that Dr. Morrison made the same
journey in the opposite direction. When he
reached Shanghai he found that city in a
state of siege and the English cable being
worked from a barge anchored in the river.
Hiring a sampan, he pushed off to this ark
of refuge, and it was a surprised and sus-
picious telegraph-operator who ignored his
outstretched hand and offered to throw him
overboard. In the joy of seeing one of his
own race again Morrison had forgotten his
make-up, a perfect one, too —that of a bar-
row coolie.
Dunlop’s, by offering a big salary, has
lured F. 11. Wickham, accountant and
special duties officer, away from Vic. Pre-
mier’s office. Hogan lamented the fact that
the State was losing a brilliant man, but as
he could not offer anything like the Dunlop
bait, he could only wish him success. Wick-
ham’s report on the Black Sunday bush-fires
in February, 1926, was so stirring and con-
vincing that it made the public subscribe
freely to the fund, which reached close on
£200,000.
The cable the
other day an-
nounced to a
new generation
in Maori land
the death of a
man unknown
to it. Falconer
Larkworthy, dead
in England at 95.
reached the Shiver p
Isles by way of
Mauritius and Mel-
bourne in 1860,
and wound up the
Oriental Bank
there for the pessi-
mistic directors in
London, who de-
cided M.L. was no
place for such a
civilised institu-
tion. More opti-
mistic, Larkworthy
remained and joined
the Bank of N.Z.,
opening a branch
in Dunedin in 1861,
to rake in the glit-
tering metal from
the goldfields.
J. N. TAIT, of
the Tait-
Williamsons.
Alfred B. Monks, the Aus. Navy’s first
“sparks,” has packed his trunk for London.
He has collared the big job of engineer to the
British Broadcasting Co.
Adelaide University has decided to bring
J. A. Fitzherbert, of the Speck, back from
Edinburgh as Professor of Classics, to re-
place Darnley Naylor (resigned and settled
in England). Fitzherbert was born in
Launceston, took his degree in Sydney at
21, and then went to Cambridge, where the
war found him. After earning the M.G. in
France, he went back and took a first class
in liis pet subjects. Latterly he has been
Lecturer in Greek at Edinburgh.
The South Australian Geographical
Society’s president, Alan Simpson, stated
the other day that there is an unexplored
area of Centralia “equal in size to Tas-
mania,” and that an expedition is intended.
T. E. Day, Surveyor-General of S.A., haz-
arded a guess that in the 10,000 square miles
awaiting exploration the remains of Leich-
hardt’s party may be found.
M.H.R. Roland Green has been hit again
by the shell which made him do his election-
eering on one leg. Altogether he has suf-
fered 18 operations, and this frequent surgery
has worn out his nerves. He has had to
go to the Prince of Wales Hospital at
Randwick.
Rev. J. W. Grove, M.A., LL.B., succeeds
the late Dr. F'itchett as principal of the
Methodist Ladies’ College, Hawthorn (Vic.).
Grove proved a brilliant scholar at Melbourne
Uni., where he was a philosophy exhibitioner.
Before taking charge of the Central Mission
in Perth he was a leading parson in the
Victorian capital.
Just passed out in Maoriland James
Rutherford, who fathered a distinguished son
in Ernest, knight and Cavendish Professor
of Experimental Physics at Cambridge Uni-
versity. Ernest left his Maoriland home to
do research work in England, and his re-
searches on the structure of the atom made
him world-famous.
F. A. Bowen, who has just resigned the
managing-directorship of the Burford soap-
making co. in Adelaide, is a grandson of
its founder. He started with the firm at
14, and has had 55 years in harness. He
has seen it extend to candles, blacking and
starch, and to oils and grease of every kind ;
seen factories established at Port Pirie
(S.A.), Fremantle and Broken Hill, and
watched the whole Adelaide factory go up in
flames twice, in 1880 and 1918, a move being
made each time to a far bigger site.
Another Father Damien, Father Francis
Xavier Nicouleau, has paid for devotion to
the lepers on Makogai Island, in the Fiji
group. In 1913 he volunteered to fill the
place of Father Schneider, who was lost at
sea, and after nine years’ work discovered
he had contracted the disease. When the
doctors made the announcement, he chanted
the Magnificat, and then went among his
flock, maintaining his religious duties and
conducting a workshop in which he made
artificial limbs for his companions. The
Marist Mission has not run out of martyrs :
Father Marcel volunteered to fill the gap
directly he heard of the recent death of the
religious hero.
Maude Royden, the woman preacher who
has burst upon Australia after giving M.L.
a stir up, is the daughter of Sir Thomas
Royden and sister of the present chairman
of the Cunard Line. She was assistant
preacher at the City Temple, London, and
was the greatest argument the Anglicans had
to contest in opposing women occupying
pulpits. Now she is travelling the world in
the interests of the British Commonwealth
League.
Adelaide has lost a veteran bookseller,
J. M. Clarke, dead very suddenly at 76. He
went from Scotch College, Melbourne, to the
George Robertson firm, was sent to open
their South Aus. branch about 1876, and
later took over Cole’s book business in
Rundle Street.
Nearly 40 years ago Vic. Education Dept,
began (with C. A. Topp and G. W. Brown)
supplying men for big tasks in kindred de-
partments and outside jobs, and has been at
it ever since. Among those now going strong
who came from the teaching or administra-
tive branches of the E.D. are Isaacs, J.;
McPherson, Public Service Commissioner:
Skcwes, Public Service Board; Akeroyd,
Inspec.-Gen. of Prisons; Thomas, boss of
Children’s Welfare branch; Rae, ruler of
Melbourne Botanic Gardens; Eltham, first
president of the Apprenticeship Commis-
sion ; Schwieger, Melbourne Royal Agricul.
Society; Gale, the brain of Hogan’s office;
Gay, one of the Forest Commissioners;
three Assembly members (Hughes, Bond,
and Moncurl ; and Mac Lean, who runs the
National Federation.
“Claude W.”: The long-service record of
“S.ll.’s” town clerk (P>. 23/s’/28) is three
years short of that of Danny Jones, Avho has
kept the moths out of the rabbit skins at
Goomeri (Q.) for 55 years.
The cane farmers on the lower Burdekin
(N.Q.) lost a good friend when John Drys-
dale passed along recently. The Pioneer
and Inkerman sugar-mills were controlled by
him, and scores of suppliers to them remem-
ber him as the man responsible for their
start. A good judge of men, he rarely made
a mistake when he gave a cane farmer a
chance to work for himself.
NORMAN H. TAYLOR, president of the
National Roads Association of South
Australia.
A parish of 100,000 square miles was
handed over to the charge of a Presbyterian
minister, Rev. G. M. Scott, the other day.
The spiritual paddock is Central Queensland,
the appointment being supplementary to that
made by the Australian Inland- Mission of a
flying doctor, whom the minister will soar
with as occasion offers. Scott has had an
adventurous life. He was a seaman and then
a venturer in Alaska before he became a
Salvation Army officer and eventually a
meenister.
J. M. T. Butler, who was admitted to
practise at the Bar in Hobart recently, is the
seventh legal practitioner of the family in
the Speck. His grandfather was enrolled over
a century ago.
THE TEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘How old was Shakspeare when he died?’ asks
a daily paper in the ‘See How Much You Know’
section.”
Say, in what tongue did Adam first address
His blushing Eve beneath the Eden trees?
What was it Jael on Sisera would press,
Butter or junket, curds-and-whey or
cheese?
Who was it found that there were Seven
Seas?
Whose visage ’neath the Iron Mask did hide?
Nuts just a bit too tough to crack, are
these?
Well, then, how old was Shakspeare when he
died ?
How does the baby ’roo first gain access
To this glad world? Stay, that obstetric
wheeze
Is, the most argumentative confess,
Settled at last, the gods be thanked and
please
The pigs! But by what Druid chief’s de-
crees
Did Stonehenge rise in neolithic pride?
Who was the bloke that patented fusees?
Yes, and how old was Shakspeare when he
died ?
Who wrote the various letters that express
The views of Junius? What deciduous
trees
Live longest? And what colored eyes had
Tess ?
What were John Knox’s pet frivolities?
How can you make sulphuric acid freeze?
Did Perkin Warbeclc ever have a bride?
What is a lakh, in shillings, of rupees?
How long did Shakspeare live before he
died ?
Brother, your store of lore I would assess,
But posers intricate I place aside ;
This makes the line ’twixt failure and
success:
How old was William Shakspeare when he
died?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE ISLAND OF DREAMS.
“Candidates in the Tasmanian elections last week, especially in country districts, found it difficult to get electors to attend meetings, a number of which had to
be abandoned.”
THE SPEAKER OF THE NEW PARLIAMENT (leading members in): “Here, wake up! I want to introduce myself. I'm the new chap come to make your
laws.”
TASMANIA (rousing herself): “Dear me! I must have been dozing. I didn’t even know there was an election.”


fs
MEN’S and WOMEN’S
BOOTS and SHOES
m
I
p
'M
M
am
%
■
i m*
** V 4
m
mm
, i
¥'
m
A
J
- >'
anm
m
X
Ifr
§v'
llr
.-7
Wkjh&.
v
111
MM*
■r
iyl
~ «g* -
Br
MfiggHlH
- ■ :^S?
-4« u , "%fl
flffiSSß f: »f 3» IS
- i mmm fa
m^X;X
<: ' wm&nr ■' fill 'mm
■ -. 1 %jtfS
*-«. , i mri
v. - «g# v 4aJ?
■
: ",.:■ ;?'■
- • ••••' 1
■A
' ; v' : . .:.'
PS®*:
iFll
1
lillillili
§m
} ■Hkl -
■
1%
am
m
m
iiltlii M Wz
M - *
f % -
iHI
m®m
mm
J
ll§§;: ~
* ..-
Si
1
*
- '•
9H
■
-
*
■
§lll§
®gfg
I
:■
iiilli
Hi
I I
:i '.-;y ;
HK
■
■ .
mSm
HH
"'SSI
■
D
G
|tj
FAULTLESS
FOOTWEAR
Obtainable at all leading stores
throughout Australia. Agencies in
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Sydney.
If any difficulty in procuring, com-
municate with Head Offices,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
People
of Class*


\
X
\
. w
3k?
Yeaston
Pure Dried
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One to four Tablets
Rocke Tompsitt B.CO
7T,
Bottles of 36 - 2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
Good health depends on the purity of the blood'
stream and regular elimination of waste. Yeaston
Tablets Strong provide a natural remedy for con-
stipation. In these tablets purest living yeast is
combined with a safe, efficient laxative which
positively restores normal habits.
Aftemvards plain Yeaston Tablets should
suffice to maintain perfect health .
Yeaston Tablets contain no drugs, chemicals or
preservatives. ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
ROCICE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“A . clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within
v e
pV
v V c
%
A°
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Princess Charming’
royal “The Man Upstairs^
Criterion . “Thark ’
Palace “The Last Warning
Empire . “Top Hole”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's Grand Opera
royal “The Girl Friend |
King’s “Anna Christie
Comedy “Diplomacy’
AtheNjEum “The Laughing Optimist”
Txvoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“The Man Upstairs,” written Leon
Gordon and produced by him at the Sydney
Theatre Royal on Saturday, starts, like most
mystery plays, with a series of shocks to
the reason as well as to the nerves. It soon
becomes apparent, however, that the horrors
of Act I, including a corpse which leaves
the room wherein it has been locked and
wanders about the house, are only device.s
to scare the other occupants of Broome Hall
away in order that a gang of nefarious per-
sons may have a clear field to discuss a
prophetic writing with which an anti-British
Indian chieftain wants to stir his fanatical
countrymen to a blood orgy that will sur-
pass the Indian Mutiny. The play becomes
brisker after the first act, with Leon Gordon,
as Robert Brett, pervading the proceedings
in the silly-ass character which is the favorite
pose of stage secret-service men. B. A.
Lewin is the walking corpse who turns out
to be a particularly malevolent crook, Camp-
bell Copelin gets the right atmosphere for
the devilish Hassan, and Edwin Lester pro-
vides some comedy as the village constable.
May Collins, a new arrival, might have had
a better part for her first appearance in Syd-
ney ; as Mary McGregor she fails to make
an impression. Henrietta Cavendish, as
Nanny, Mary’s maid, endeavoring to soothe
her shattered nerves with a little whisky,
gets sozzled in a manner which earns her
applause at every exit; and John Fernside
catches the eye as a villainous butler.
Shakspeare continues to lmvo a very
good innings at the Newtown Majestic,
where Allan Wilkie revived “Henry VIII.”
for an extra three nights last week —
“Twelfth Night,” will be re-staged next
Saturday for a similar season, On Saturday
EDITH MURRAY, star vocalist of the Fullers’ “Good News”
Company, which opens at MMelbourne Princess’s on June 16.
night the sanguinary Macbeth was goaded
along his nefarious path by Eady Macbeth
Hunter-Watts, who, unable to sustain the
tradition of heavyweight female was more
vixenish than dominating, and did her
best work in her moments of scared peni-
tence. Wilkie makes an excellent Macbeth,
reluctant at first to take the path of dis-
honor, and then blundering along it, torn
between ruthless determination and super-
stitious fears. Alexander Marsh again shone
as Banquo; Lorna Scott deserved a special
word of praise as Lady MacDufl.
Tempest” will rage to-iuglit (W ednesday)
mid tlie next two nights.
J.C.W., Ltd., opened its heart to the
Picton Lakes T.B. Settlement Fund, letting
it have a loan of the Sydney Criterion
Theatre for five days, and the properties of
“The Arcadians.” It was a definitely
amateur production, many things being toi-
given for the excellence of the cause. I* lo
chorus, opening remarkably well, showed a
tendency to lose itself, but \ lolet Rogers
was a recompense for many detects.
She was the Sombra of the produc-
tion \rtist Percy Bennison, Charles Liddell
as the James Smith who becomes Simpli-
citas, Dick Hahn as Bobby, and the dress
worn by Gwladys Rowling as Mrs. Smith
did their best to lift the show to the level
of light gaiety.
The nights of “Tliark” are numbered,
Margaret Bannerman being due to intro-
duce “Our Betters” to the Sydney Criterion
on Saturday week. “The Princess Charm-
ing” continues to hold court at Her
Majesty’s and the hungers and crackers ot
revolutionary rifle fire explode oft stage for
the delectation of large audiences; Rio
Rita,” at the St. James looks like imposing
on the Fullers the obligation of replenish-
itig tlie expensive wardrobe of' dress crea-
tions,” and at the Empire “Top Hole” keeps
up a merry dance round a melodramatic
plot. “The Last Warning” will probably be
Muriel Starr’s last Sydney play for this
season, which ends shortly; and Steele
Rudd’s hopes of getting from The Rudtl
Family” the profits he let others reap from
“On Our Selection” are being flattered at
the Grand Opera House.
A succession of accidents to non-com-
missioned trainers of four-footed vaudeville
performers provides the Kelso brothers with
material for jest at Sydney Tivoli; but when
Captain Smitliley enters the cage to have his
nightly spar with the only one of Ins three
lions that has not yet learnt manners, there
is no doubt about orders being obeyed. .Joe
and Harry Kelso provide some easy humor,
and Howard Nicholls, wlio is part ot the
many-sided Kelso team, does some ieali>
remarkable juggling. Yvonne Banvard
pleases moderately in a straight singing act,
and Mcazza and Adrienne dance rather
nicely.
In revue all things are possible, so
Fuller is being gratified with the spectacle
of a Sultan of
Hawaii who is
losing his 100 or so
wives one at a time
by the depreda-
tions of the Oojah
bird. Instead of
being thankful, the
potentate enlists
the aid of George
Wallace to destroy
the monster, which
George proceeds to
do by his old habit
of falling on his
ear and making
rollicking jests.
The vaudeville half
of the programme
has been side-
tracked to enable
“The Oojah Bird”
to spread its wings
over the whole
show.
There have been
several film ve r-
sio n s of “Uncle
Tom”; but none
lias been worked
out with the
wealth of detail of
one now at Sydney
Crystal Palace,
which includes a
complete recon-
struction of the
river boats and the
life "of the period.
The Capitol has
struck an unusually
pleasant picture in
“T li a t ’s M y
Daddy,’;’ which in-
troduces a remark-
ably natural infant
in Pudge. The acting of Reginald Denny
and Barbara Kent is first-rate ; “Wings” is
flying well at the Regent; and “The King
of Kings” still rules at the Prince Edward.
The grand-opera producer has been going
to the movies. “Tosea” was staged at Melb.
Majesty’s last week with a degree of grisly
intensity hitherto only attained by the poets
of Hollywood. The first act was a brilliant
mixture of stately church ritual, sex appeal
and Tom Mix rapidity of action. As Cavara-
dossi, Browning Mummery, the Victorian,
made a first appearance. His tenor would
not appear to have the future of the Brown-
lee baritone, but it is sweet, clear and artis-
tic. He was a graceful portrait-painter and
a self-convinced lover. When Scarpia
entered in his sable duds the music and the
drama deepened. Rossi Morelli gave to the
Roman Commissioner of Police a terrifying
vocal roar and a bestial directness of pur-
pose. His laugh
of sensual triumph
would be invalu-
able to housewives
for searing away
Afghan hawkers.
Scarpia worked
hard for his night
of love, and then
only got a bread-
knife in the brisket.
He fell very realis-
tically dead, though
his stomach con-
tinued to heave till
the falling of the
curtain. La Sca-
vizzi Tosca then de-
parted with her
colorless voice and
her colorful person-
ality to rescue her
lover. The last
act lacks interest
after the. tremen-
dous excitement of
the second, but the
music is better.
The orchestra,
under the second
and lesser conduc-
tor Fugazzola, an-
ti ci p a ted Mum-
mery’s execution
by smothering him
in the beautiful “E
Lucevan le Stelle”
solo. Otherwise,
the agreement be-
tween actors and
inst rumentalists
was general. Mum-
mery died splen-
didly, but Scavizzi
ran behind the
scenes to throw
herself from the
battlements. Still,
only an audience really gluttonous for
horrors could complain that it had been
cheated.
“Rigoletto” brought the musically crime-
struck in droves. This is the second time
within a fortnight that Verdi’s bellow-drama
has been received in Melbourne. Count Mon-
terone’s curse was uttered with more sheer
ferocity by Alfieri, of the Gonsalez gang,
than Satariano, of the Williamson-Melba
push, was able to invest it with. Similarly,
the malignancy of the hunchbacked jester of
the name part got more fervent expression
from Izal than Apollo Granforte gave it.
And Angelo Minghetti also raised suspicions
that he was qualifying for membership of
the Mantua branch of the Y.M.C.A. by
toning down the profligacy of the Duke.
Taking them by and large, however, the
principals of the Williamson crowd are
vocally head, shoulders and lungs over the
Gonsalez stars, and the only living prima
donna who can Toti is Dal Monte. Her
singing of “Caro Nome” was the usual in-
credible performance on the vocal tightrope,
followed by the usual bursting of the dam
of popular approval. Sparafucile was a
successful hired assassin in the. hands of
Fernando Autori and the comic incident of
the voluble Body in the Bag. brought the
evening’s crime wave to a satisfactory con-
clusion.
* * ❖ ❖
“Turandot will be the big event on Satur-
day.
The tail-end of the Gonsalez season is
attracting small houses —almost huts, in
cases—-to Melb. Princess. “Mignon,” how-
ever, drew a considerable throng, which was
rewarded by an adequate performance, deco-
rated physically and musically by Miss Flor.
Another event was “Da Favorita.” The
Pfrimmer lady was a dainty-looking Leonora,
but her voice was lamentably insufficient for
the needs of the courtesan who hurls defi-
ance at a king. "La F.” is .a more than
usually atrocious story, even for grand opera,
and the intervention of the Pope of the
period in a trashy melodrama would exceed
the demands of probability, if probability
entered into grand opera.
The McMahons will stage Eugene O'NeiH’s
“Anna Christie” for the first time in Mel-
bourne at the King’s on Saturday, when F.
Neil will also invite audiences to “Please
Get Married” at the Palace. Miss Banner-
man is still practising “Diplomacy” at the
comedy, “The Girl Friend” is in bright occu-
pation of the Royal, and Hutchison is scor-
ing a success at the Athenaeum with “The
Laughing Box-office,” or something of the
sort. »
At Melb. Tivoli, Captain Winston mixes
1* ton of sea lion in 18 tons of water, to
which are added 19 stone of attractive-looking
girl in pink tights; the whole making a
sloppy but agreeable evening’s entertain-
ment.
A mixed bag in Adelaide theatres. Leon
DULCIE CHERRY, the Melbourne girl who has scored with the
Allan Wilkie Shakspearean Co.; occasionally she replaces
Miss Hunter-Watts as lead.
Gordon put up a new play of his own ; but
as he candidly claimed that it had hail
no more than four rehearsals, the only criti-
cism that need be offered is that Adelaide is
getting a little tired of being the dog.
The G. and S. co. made a sudden one-
week raid on the Royal with a “Lilac Time
revival. Leo Darnton had to substitute for
Ralston in the lead, acting finely and
managing his light voice Avell. James Hay
and Strella Wilson (a robust heroine) sang
commendably, hut the absence of Stigant
from the chief comic part was notable. The
p. of Wales is just re-opening with “Spooks.’
Pictures are unusually strong. Animals are
always the most effective film actors, and the
jungle scenes of “Chang” are crowding the
York; while at the Pav. is Syd Chaplin with
an ape in one of those intensely funny
pictures that sometimes come along almost
unpuffed.
Clemence Dane’s repute brought three big
houses to Adelaide Repertory for “Granite.”
Judith (Catherine Neill) is shut up in the
tiny isle of Lundy with a husband she hates
(Basil Harford). His young half-brother'
Prosper is there on a visit, and on a night
of storm she prays impartially to God or
Devil to keep him there. So out of the sea
comes a nameless one (Ray Walsh) content
mainly to sit by the fire and laugh, but
with moments of power in which he swears to
carry out her every wish; and over the cliffs
goes the husband. After a year of marriage
with Prosper, Judith’s ever-ready temper
breaks on him; so over the cliffs he goes,
too. With great skill the author has left
it so that, though Judith firmly believes
the stranger to he the Devil, he may just as
well be a reckless man who thus gets all he
wants—the. Isle and the Woman. The three
players named were fine; the others, just
good amateurs.
“Santander”: London’s growing fondness
for the colored artist has led to Afred Butt
engaging a large party of Sambos for the
Drury-lane production of “Show Boat,” the
American music-bomb which hit Broadway
in a tender place. A special engagement is
that of Paul Robeson, the remarkable black
actor who brought all London flocking to the
Ambassador’s when he gave his extra-
ordinary impersonation of the name part in
O’Neill’s “Emperor Jones.” Robeson played
this character all over America, and with
the late Florence Mills, herself a fine little
revue actress of taste, compelled the white
critics of Broadway to recognise that Uncle
Tom left a lot of intelligent descendants.


6
a
When you face a problem
outside your personal experience,—.
that’s where the Alexander Hamilton
Institute comes in!
We invite you to send for this
little booklet, which will tell you all
the details regarding the Alexander
Hamilton Institute. It will cost you
nothing and may mean a great deal
to you in the months to come.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w. b 4
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor.
The Trustees,Executors# Agency Company Limited
("The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia,)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 49 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wkles and Victoria.
Equal attention given to small and large Estates.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT, General Manager V. G. WATSON, Manager.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900. £406,428 £218,526 £77,735 £67,969 £42,198
1905.. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,175 202,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
1919.. 790,102 434,797 129,775 5,580 219,950
1920.. 880.031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1921.. 932,177 424,255 160,840 14,340 332,742
1922.. 972,331 446,662 154,156 4,283 367,230
1923. .1,042,210 481,770 164,880 1.817 393,743
1924. .1,123,881 513,690 196,823 9,723 403,645
1925. .1,251,689 568,113 226,659 2,047 i 441 870
Superannuation Fund, £13,000. . ‘ ’
1926. .1,428,152 591,843 242,131 2,875 ) rqf) nn „
Superannuation fund, £l3OO .. ) ’
1927. .1,509,097 621,418 270,181 3,494 ) f l , 704
Superannuation fund, £l3OO .. )
The Colonial Mutual started in Victoria 54
years back. Income passed the million mark
in 1920; last year it was £2.033,618. That
is to say, in seven years it has doubled the
income which was the result of nearly a half-
century’s earlier endeavor. The manage-
ment expects that the three-million mark
will be reached about 1931.
In the Ordinary department nearly half
the income is gathered in England, S. Africa
and Maoriland; whether it is got at the
same cost as the Australian income is an-
other matter. Here is a comparison of new
business figures for the last two years with
those of 1911: —
1911. 1926. 1927.
Policies .. .. 14,538 10,166 11,120
Amount .. .. £3,093,798 £4,357,407 £5,510,161
New premiums . . 95,017 176,554 213,885
Average policy . . 213 428 496
Average premium,
p.c. .. .. £3/1/5 £4/0/1 £3/17/7
Fewer policies were taken out last year than
in. 1911, but the sum assured was over
£2,400,000 more, and the average policy more
than double. For the most part the bigger
figures represent the decrease in the pur-
chasing power of money. To-day £176 is
worth no more than £lOO -was in 1911. A
satisfactory feature of last year’s new busi-
ness was that 51 p.c. was whole of life and
only 41 p.c. endowment.
The cost of putting the year’s new policies
on the books dropped to 98.6 p.c. compared
with 115 p.c., 115 p.c.- and 114 p.c. in the
three previous terms. That is on the arbi-
trary basis that it cost 7 p.c. of the renewal
premiums to handle old policies. But it is
doubtful whether old business could be
handled so cheaply now, in which case new
business costs would be less. The next
comparison shows the cost of running the
department as a whole: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income (Ord.).
1905 .. £2l 17-10 p.c. 1921 ..£l7 5 1 p.c.
1910 .. 20 16 4 „ 1922 .. 15 17 1 „
1912 .. 29 14 5 „ 1923 . . 15 16 5 „
1914 . . 19 19 3 „ 1924 . . 17 10 3 „
1916 .. 15 7 0 „ 1925 . . 18 2 2 „
1918 .. 15 0 4 „ 1926 .. 16 19 1 „
1920 .. 16 810 „ 1927 . . 17 18 0 „
The rise in last year’s rate was mainly due
to a smaller surplus from realisations. The
ratio of exes, to premium income was 25.3
p.c. as against 25.8 p.c. and 26.4 p.c. in 1928
and 1925 respectively.
The excess of income over outgo was
£612,704 as against £590,003 in 1926; and
funds had climbed to £8,300,693 at Dec. 31.
The average rate of interest earned was a
trifle less:—
Net Interest on Average Funds.
1905 .. £3 17 11 p.c. | 1922 . . £5 2 6 p.c.
1910 .. 4 3 10 „ | 1923 . . 5 2 11 „
1915 . . 4 9 11 .. | 1924 . . 5 1 5 „
1919 . . 4 16 0 ~ | 1925 . . 5 4 7 „
1920 . . 4 17 9 „ | 1926 . . 5 7 0,,
1921 .5 0 5 „ | 1927 .. 5 510 „
But it was well above the 34 p.c. on which
the Actuary figures. The general improve-
ment is partly the result of the sale of old
securities at enhanced prices and reinvest-
ment of the proceeds at higher rates.
The higher-than-estimated earnings, the
very favorable mortality experience—only 58
p.c. of expectation last year—and a moderate
expense rate have provided comfortable mar-
gins for bonuses. The surplus was £407,566
compared with £440,356 in 1926; of this
£353,485 is to be immediately distributed as
against £307,806 in the previous term. The
amount to be divided will provide reversion-
ary bonuses totalling £605,000.
The co. pays a good deal of attention to
Industrial business, which is confined to Aus
tralasia. Established as a feeder to the
Ordinary department in 1909, it was an ex-
pensive youngster for a while, but recent
figures have been remarkably good:—
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1917 .. 138,458 21,530 48,284 179,621
1918 .. 155,253 20,158 50.595 204,121
1919 . . 174,605 20,096 57,405 361,225
1920 . . 211,184 14,156 65,030 493.224
1921 .. 225.847 27,848 76,585 614,638
1922 .. 251,453 43,962 77,718 744.410
1923 .. 297,983 61,912 106,608 873,873
1924 .. 340,929 79,436 128,337 1,007,029
1925 .. 390,572 93,834 143,016
Superannuation Fund, £6500.. ( ’ ’"
1926 .. 448,495 133,349 155,139 )
Superannuation Fund, £650 .. ) ’
1927 .. 484,272 187,208 I(i4 - 060 l l 445 901
Superannuation Fund, £650 .. ) ’
Exes, consumed 38.9 p.c. of the year’s pre-
mium income compared with 40.6 p.c. and
41.8 p.c in the two preceding years. Bonuses
are paid on Industrial policies; £62,851 of
last year’s net surplus (£80,480) went that
way, and will provide reversionary additions
totalling £96,800. Of funds totalling
£1,445,961, as much as £251,000 represents
reserves against bonuses already granted.
The nursing service, which is helpful on the
goodwill side, lias cost the co. about £27.000
in the last six years.
In the Accident Department, which was
started 20 yeai-s ago, steady progress con-
tinues :
Accident. Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1917 .. 13,550 4,451 6,438 2,661
1918 . . 13,971 4,578 6,498 2,895
1919 . . 15,917 6,045 7,063 2,809
1920 . . 17,620 6,231 8,174 3,215
1921 .. 18.817 5,193 9,215 4,409
1922 .. 18,575 6,774 8,641 3,160
1923 . . 21,380 5,981 10,739 4,660
1924 . . 27,290 7,599 14,329 5,362
1925 .. 31,588 9,923 15,821 ) . , 0 44
Superannuation Fund, £5OO .. ) ’’
1920 .. 37,994 10,444 17,008 ) 10409
Superannuation Fund, £5O . . ) ’
1927 .. 40,249 14,680 19,498 ) G {)2l
Superannuation Fund, £5O . . )
Funds total £74.095, of which £35,424 is
accumulated profit, and out of that £7678
was earmarked last year for an addition of
2 p.c. to accident policy benefits.
The £9,686,518 of funds belonging to
policy-holders, and a trifle more, is in this
form.:—
1915. 1920. 1926. 1927.
Public securities
and debentures 26.8 p.c. 63.5 p.c. 52.8 p.c. 51.4 p.c.
Mortgages . . 34.9 ~ 13.4 „ 21.1 ~ 20.9 ~
Freeholds, etc.. . 20.4 ~ 12.6 „ 14.5 ~ 14.2 „
Cash and deposits 6.3 ~ 1.6 ~ 1.8 „ 3.2 „
Other assets . . 11.6 „ 8.9 „ 9.8 „ 10.3 • „
There was little change in the disposition
of investments last year. Since 1925
£468,358 lias been added to the book value
of freeholds (£1,343,819). The increase is
chiefly represented by the purchase of the
Mercantile Mutual’s recent home in Martin-
place, Sydney, and by an imposing block in
Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Since the accounts closed the directors
have undertaken the Australian business of
the Mutual Life of New York, one of the
three big American offices which sold insur-
ance at great cost 30-odd years ago, but
drifted out of this field when home legis-
lation, in effect, severely limited the expense
rate. For a good many years past the co.
has maintaind an office here merely for
liquidation purposes. The Colonial Mutual
will doubtless find a few pickings in this
business, though not enough to make a fuss
about.
:!: * * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney), who
sell musical instruments, etc.—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., ’lB.. 8,037 10 p.c. = 6,998 1039 48,720
Mar.. ’19.. 7,970 10 „ „ 6,998 972 49,692
Sept., ’19.. 8,212 10 „ „ 6,998 1214 50,906
Mar., ’20.. 9,821 10 „ „ 6,998 2823 53,729
Sept., ’20.. 10,093 10 ~ „ 6,998 3095 56,824
Reserves capitalised, £52,587 . . 4,237
Mar., ’21.. 11,184 10 p.c. = 9,641 1543 5,750
Sept., ’21.. 10,413 10 „ „ 9,622 791 6,571
Mar., ’22.. 10.748 10 „ „ 9,603 1145 7,716
Sept., ’22.. 10,054 10 „ „ 9,622 1032 8,748
Mar., ’23.. 10,703 10 „ „ 9,622 1081 9,829
Sept., ’23.. 11.714 10 „ ~ 9,641 2073 11.902
Mar., ’24.. 12,097 10 „ „ 9.641 2456 14,358
Sept., ’24.. 12,493 10 „ „ 9,641 2852 17.210
Mar., ’25.. 12,569 10 „ ~ 9,641 2928 20.138
Sept., ’25.. 13,138 10 „ ~10,167 2971 23,109
Mar., ’26.. 13,003 10 „ ~ 10,956 2047 25.156
Sept., ’26.. 12,134 10 „ ~10,956 1178 26,334
Mar., ’27.. 12,983 10 ~ ~ 10,956 2027 28,361
Sept., ’27.. 12,547 10 „ ~10,956 1591 29,952
Mar., ’28.. 9,086 8 „ „ 8,764 322 30,274
Trading became more difficult last year, par-
ticularly in the second half. All things con-
sidered, it was a very good season; but the
Commonwealth and State Governments drew
in their horns a little in the matter of loan
expenditure, and the banks kept a tight reiu
on advances, especially for financing t.p.
sales. So this co., which handles mostly
luxury lines on a t.p. basis, found that in
order to improve its turnover business had to
be pursued with greater vigor, and was,
therefore, more costly to win.
Gross profits for the 12 months to March
31 improved £2084, reaching £113,297, but
exes. (£91,665), which were £5589 heavier,
ate up 80.9 p.c. of the total compared with
only 76.4 p.c. two years ago. The net re-
sult was that profit shrank to 9.8 p.c. on
capital compared with 11.4, 12.3 and 12.9
p.c. in the three preceding years. The £9086
netted in the March half was at the rate of
only 8.2 p.c. p.a., so rather than weaken the
support by drawing upon the rather slender
reserves (£30,274 = 2s. 9d. per fully paid
share), the board clipped a couple of points
off the div. rate. Even then the distribution,
which had hitherto been at a steady 10 p.c,
since 1917, called for all but a shadow of the
declared net earnings.
What provision, if any, has been made for
contingencies before writing the figures into
the sheet it is impossible to say. The co.
passed through the 1921 slump without a
falter; and it seemsi unlikely that the £9755
put by last year to cover depreciation and
taxation is also the only provision against
things going wrong with stocks and hire
agreements of a book value of £331.848.
The book value of stocks and hire agree-
ments —an untidy entry—increased £28,369
during the year, and their total exceeds paid
capital and reserves combined by £82,460.
To do that, carry £11,885 of other book debts,
hold property and plant (£199,998), and
shares (£12,272) the co. is necessarily a
large borrower: —
Mur., ’2s. Mar., ’26. Mar., ’27. Mar.,’2B.
Paid capital.. £192,820 £219,114 £219,114 £219,114
Mortgage . . 28,500 105,000 105,000 105,000
Overdraft . . 43,499 604 1,477 3,243
Other liabilities 152,548 171,998 169,627 191,439
Stocks, hire
a g reements,
book debts 325,518 318,439 315,853 343,733
Plant, etc. . . 5,056 5,129 3,339 2,475
Freeholds .. 94,199 192,911 200,751 197,523
Sundry assets 22,873 16,849 15,092 14,004
Last year £27,392 was added to the debt,
mostly on account of trade creditors, etc.
Nevertheless there was nothing uneasy in the
financial position. To meet . liabilities of
£298,682, including the mortgage (£105,000),
there were more or less liquids totalling
£346,065 at March 31; thus leaving a surplus
of £46,383, which was £3814 stronger than
it was a year earlier.
The outlook for the current year generally
is bright, but whether the co. will find it
less costly to win business remains to be
seen. The problem of the second-hand piano
and of the second-hand car is not likely
to make the management’s task any easier.
The market prices the fully paids at 225. 9d.
The return at that price is 8 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis.
* * * *
The New Zealand Farmers’ Fertiliser
Co., Ltd., which has big works at Auckland
and New Plymouth :
Towards
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 15,916 Nil 50,041
Share forfeitures, £2383 .. .. 47,658
Profit.
1923.. 7,247 Nil 7,247 40,411
Share forfeitures, £11,061 . . . . 29,350
1924.. 24,106 Nil 24,106 5,244
Additions to reserves, £2186 .. 3,058
Reserves.
1925.. 25,724 7$ p.c. = .19,650 6,074 3,016
Written back from taxation, £1,824 4,840
1926.. 27,156 7j p.c. = 19,650 7,506 12,346
1927.. 25,187 7| „ „ 19,650 5,537 17,883
1928.. 17,626 6 „ „ 15,720 1,906 19,789
Again output was a record, but owing to
price-cutting the co. got no benefit from
the bigger trading. Indeed, gross profit
(£79,809) fell away £8931. The manage-
ment was, however, able to keep exes, under
control, and the net shrinkage was reduced
to £7561. The profit (£17,626) was the
poorest in the last five years, being only
6.7 p.c. on average capital compared witii
9.6, 10.4, 9.8 and 9.2 p.c. back to 1924.
But quarrels in the trade have been patched
up, and with the return to higher prices it
is reasonable to expect that the current-
year’s results will make a better showing.
The board takes a cheery view of the posi-
tion and talks of dividends at least equal
to those of previous years. Shareholders
can do with a run of prosperity: they
have averaged only a whisper over 4 p.c.
since the beginning.
The co. started off with bad luck. In its
first producing year it found the market so
glutted with imported fertiliser that prices
fell and stocks had to be written back ; and,
after that, poor returns from primary pro-
ducts affected the demand. That and the
cost of establishing a large-scale industry
scared some of the weaker spirits, and a
good many partly-paid shares had to be for-
feited. Nevertheless the board had a large
faith in the co.’s future, so it bought the
Taranaki co.’s freezing works, New Ply-
mouth, in Oct., 1924, and therein installed
a super, plant. It was a bold move; but the
bank stuck to the co., the overdraft climbins
to £178,623 at March 31. 1926. When pro-
duction commenced at Taranaki, Dec. 10,
1925, prices were cut. The output, however,
lias since annually increased, and the plant
is reported efficient. It had to be extended
last year in order to cope with the demand ;
although that involved much capital outlay,
the book value of the fixed assets (£411,551)
decreased £12,827, which suggests that de-
preciation has not been overlooked. The
amount so provided is not disclosed, but
regularly the board claims that the sum
struck oft' earnings is adequate, and much
depends upon that.
Although the balance-sheet position at
March 31 was not the brightest, the figures
are moving the right way:—
1922. 1927. 1928.
Capital £261,942 £261,995 £261,955
Bank overdraft . . .. 125,382 181,221 168,502
Other liabilities . . 4,894 45,788 43,679
Land, buildings, plant. . 309,810 424,378 411,551
Stocks 19,968 64,824 42,680
Book debts . . . . 11,514 37,265 55,385
Stores, etc. .. .. 885 70 70
The heavy debt (£212,181), mostly to the
bank, was lightened by £14,828 during the
year. That reduced the excess over more or
less liquids (£98,135) to £114,046, which
was £26,271 less than it was two years ago.
Over the same period the book value of fixed
assets was reduced £22,756.
A good season, healthy markets and
economy in imports have greatly improved
prospects generally in the Dominion. There
is talk also of a reduction in the bank rate.
These things should instantly affect this
co., which is very sensitive to all such
movements.
The market, which priced the scrip at £3
Bs. a year ago, now pays £4 4s. The return
at that price is a shade over 7 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis, or 8 p.c. if a 74 p.c. dis-
tribution is assumed. The backing, 21s. 6d.
per £1 paid capital, is mostly in plant, etc.,
worth what it can earn. Hitherto the shares
have been of the £5 denomination ; they are
to be multiplied and made pound-paids.
4: * *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 9,039 9,039 9,039
1923.. 11,092 11,092 20,131
1924.. 10,603 10,603 30,734
1925.. 15,207 0 p.c. = 5361 9.846 40,580
V 926. . 15,811 7 „ „ 6295 9,516 50,096
1927.. 18,145 7 „ „ 6312 11,833 61,929
1928.. 21,271 7 „ ~, 6452 14,819 76,748
The £8934 that came from investments last
year was £1314 more than in the previous
term and Sufficient to give shareholders 94
p.c. Still the div. was kept at 7 p.c., and
the £2482 that thus remained, together with
the whole of the year’s underwriting surplus
(£12,337), was kept in the business. Since
policy writing commenced, seven years ago,
the co. has paid a total of 27 p.c. in divi-
dends, accumulated reserves £21,748 in excess
of £55,000 specifically set apart to cover
unexpired risks, and paid for establishment,
furniture and stationery out of revenue.
The declared policy of the board, which con-
sists chiefly of the directors and executive
officers of the very successful Queensland
Insurance Co., is to build up strength during
the co.’s infancy, and discerning shareholders
are not likely to quarrel with that.
The reserve for unexpired risks was only
34.9 p.c. of the year’s net premium income,
but nine months of the* co.’s risks under the
N. S. Wales Workers’ Compensation law
had expired when the books were ruled off,
so the 40 p.c. usually looked for was not
necessary.
The co. scatters its risks throughout the
Australian States, Southern Asia and the
South Sea Islands. It also has an office in
Montreal and another in London. This
comparison of underwriting figures illustrates
the expansion of the business: —
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
L 922. . £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0p.c. 39.7p.c.
1923.. 40,049 18,240 15,583 45.5 „ 38.9 „
1924.. 58,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.5 „
1925.. 73,375 41,052 23,940 55.9 „ 32.6 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1927.. 132,600 85,683 36,392 64.6 „ 27.4 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7 „
The results of the wide policy-writing show
up sharply in the loss rate; you must take
a good deal on chance when you go afield
on "a vigorous business-getting campaign.
But if you can’t avoid a high loss rate, you
can expect a low expense rate, and the 30
p.c. shown under the latter head is only
moderately satisfactory. In 1923 the under-
writing surplus was 15.3 p.c.; in 1927, 8.3
p.c.; last year 7.8 p.c. But owing to the
large increase in the business written, last
year’s 7.8 p.c. was worth £1212 more than
the 8.3 p.c. of 1927.
Assets are a solid lot, and in addition
policy-holders have the protection of £92,175
of uncalled capital:—
1922. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. .. £75,000 £89,925 £90,174 £92,175
Liabilities.. .. 8,028 63,342 82,116 91,i38
Govt, securities .. 40,260 121,454 120,515 121,775
Fixed deposits .. 31,500 26,000 26,000 27,000
Cash, etc. .. 13,209 8,886 5,634 7,297
Book debt's, etc... 7,098 17,294 29,570 36,755
Freehold . . . . 35,995 58,814 73,986
Over 58 p.c. of the total is in Government
securities and cash. During the year the
co.’s new Collins-street, Melbourne, premises


vz
%
m
r\
mm
f'
suet
M
IT'
a*r
i?r.
«JJi
e
w,
x.
>3,
TT
m
x
m
m
m
~\\
£
tk
'K
ft
%
S 2
'T>
B
~fi
mm
s ZI
w
YiSr.
-31,.
srr:
Ml
//7<W
T
RS:
I
i^rj
M
m
ftiwii
*
si»
s
m
fl&«B
SSS:
Bmwwmm
hJfMv&AtmvM K
P*
LWBRV
-/
T ;
88
MM
5.*
■ &
m
XW
iw,
m
IM
4 #s§
«
p
%
3Smm&
i
M
wMmm
m
ah
m
I
x(
y 5 x
mi
mm
b
iH
V =
P L D
.
ses
ss
%
«s
d«
Tht- Key to thr lMarkets
s>
The fruits of enterprise come to
those whose energy is directed
towards sane and logical success.
If the business man of vision will
invite the co-operation of the
advertising and merchandising
adviser, the probability of success
is infinitely enhanced.
Our own standing is a measure
of the success we have helped
businesses in all parts of Austra-
lia and New Zealand to attain.
We seek an opportunity to talk with you.
A small time investment on your part
entails no obligation but may be of ultimate
benefit.
Our literature will be sent you on request—again
without the least implied commitment.
ADVERTISING HEADQUARTERS FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Warwick Buildings, Hamilton Street, SYDNEY.
And at
Eastern telegraph Buildings, 341 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ADVERTISING HEADQUARTERS FOR
NEW ZEALAND.
National Bank Chambers, Featherston Street,
WELLINGTON.
And at
AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH and DUNEDIN


Know Anything Good?
Thirty-odd Companies*
Accounts Dissected.
Prospectuses Examined by Experts.
WHAT’S BEST TO BUY?
Practical Help for the Investor.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for June,
still further improved.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock GP -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* * * *
Here is a good record for Pioneer Wood Pipe, as
reported by a landowner. He says: “I have had, ami
am still getting, the best of service from wood pipe.
I placed one line, of about a mile, from a well to
convey water to various paddocks some seven years
ago—the water was of the most mineralised class- -
and have had no trouble whatever. I have moved the
line at various times to other sites, and have always
found the pipes in perfect order and very convenient
to disconnect and reconnect.” Full particulars from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* si; ❖ *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.—Advt.
* * * *
iNVENToiiS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
=!= * * *
The construction of firebreaks and tank drains, also
the clearing of drains in and around watering places,
and from wire-netting fences, can all be effectively
and economically handled by the use of the special
graders which are made by Messrs. Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd. These machines are available in
seven different sizes, either to be hauled by tractor
or horses, the prices ranging from £45 to £lO5
each. There are many properties equipped with these
machines and the results obtained amplv demon-
strate the necessity of having a grader available on
the station or large farm. As most people nowadays
possess motor-cars, one of these machines will also
be able to construct and maintain in perfect condition
the private road to the homestead. Full particulars
are available from the manufacturers, Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane.— Advt.
WHICH COUNTS MOST?
First Cost or Cost of Upkeep?
Buying exactly the right belt for its purpose may cost a little more in the first place, but
it is genuine economy in the long run.
We make a type of Leather Belt for every purpose—each the finest in its class.
PIONEER CHROMOL
COMBINA PLATYPUS
Every belt bearing one of these Ludowici trade-marks is fully guaranteed—and backed by
70 years of belt manufacturing experience.
J. C. LUDOWICI (Si SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers Since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane ;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland ;
Patterson tSc Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
r
W
&
YG
rOORD & SON
LOUDON, ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
-Swift & Comimny .Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., S.vtiney
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL,
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT, ATTORNEY OR AGENT.
Established over 41 years, during which it has successfully handled almost every class of asset.
Directors: Hon. R. J. BLACK, M.L.C. (Chairman) ; T. H. KELLY; DR. ROBERT L. FAITHFULL;
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN ; WALTER T. BRUNTON ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT.
R. COPLAND. LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
were completed and £15,172 added to the
book value of freeholds (£73,986). The co.
occupies the ground floor, and is still look-
ing for tenants for some of the other well-
placed offices.
The market, which heavily discounts the
future, prices the scrip at about 30s. The
return at that price is only 2.3 p.c ; on a
7 p.c. div. basis. It is very flattering to
the skipper and crew.
* * * *
Tambo Oil Corp., Ltd., is a Brisbane
float with a nominal capital of £50,000 in
£1 shares; 20,000 are offered; 5750 go to
the vendor and 500 are to be used in the
flotation. The balance (23,750) are in
pickle. The co. is to take over petroleum
permit No. .104, which gives it two years'
prospecting rights over 10,000 acres about
midway between Roma and Longreach. Dr.
Jensen, who examined it in 1923, said: “1
felt that, structurally, Caldervale was suit-
able for oil. prospecting, and I reported to
that effect.” He added: “If a private syndi-
cate can manage to put down some prospect-
ing holes, I strongly recommend that course.”
The all-in cost of a year’s drilling is figured
at £9OOO. On the board are E. G. Illume,
on whose run the prospecting is to be done,
F. O. Meyer, and J. E. S. Plumridge.
*'* * *
Shares in the Queensland Roma Oil, Ltd.,
a Brisbane flotation on the easy terms of
Is. per month, were quickly over-subscribed.
The co. has taken over prospecting permits
67 and 99, the former 20 miles north of
Roma and the latter 16 miles east of the
town. The former is reported on by Dr.
Jensen, and his geological plan shows a per-
fectly-enclosed dome in the Middle Walloon
surrounding a volcanic plug. On the strength
of this, the structure seems right; but vol-
canic plugs and accompanying sills are some-
times wayward, and may produce unexpected
results —both favorable and adverse.
* * * *
Mt. Isa accounts for the 12 months to Dec.
31 cover the period since the Anglo-American
Corp. turned it down and W. 11. Corbould
negotiated the agreement with Russo-Asiatic.
The report details developments to Dec. 31,
but much has been done since then. Over
41 million tons of ore has been already proved
in the carbonate zinc alone; it is yet too
early even to guess at the size of the certainly
bigger sulphide body, on which some seven
diamond drills are still at work. Indications
are that tin 1 property will be much more
valuable than was originally thought.
The erection of the first reduction plant,
to treat about 2000 tons oxides daily, has
been pushed on. If all goes well part of it
will be at work next year and the whole in
1930. Output is estimated at from 60,000
to 65,000 tons lead and 24 million ounces
silver p.a., and with lead at £2O a profit
of over £500.000 p:a. is estimated. Nothing
is mentioned about electrolytic treatment,
but if profits from zinc at £26 were included
Leslie Urquhart recently said that a further
£230,000 p.a. would be earned. What is to
be done with the zinc concentrates meantime
is not stated.
During the year the co. received £4395 in
interest, etc., and spent £47,711. including,
depreciation (£2711) and experiments
(£2189). The difference (£43,316) was
charged to development—£3B,3sl was
so spent in the previous year—making the
total outlay under that head £158,462. The
mine is in at £491,311, the same as in 1926;
plant, £28,930; stores, etc., £4603; cash,
£108,158. Paid capital was £790,150 (it
was £679,507 a year earlier), and there was
only £1285 coming to creditors.
A good deal more plant will be required
when the co. starts to handle the sulphide
ores, but financial arrangements envisage
equipment of the property to this stage
without increasing capital beyond the present
authorised £1.500,000. Russo-Asiatic has to
pay for its last 350.000 shares within 18
months of last year’s agreement, and also
has a two years’ option over a further
200,000 £1 shares at £2 each.
Isa scrip is now around 295. on the market.
* * * :Jt
During May the Great Northern, at Her-
berton (Q.), came into its own again, after
a lean period, with the discovery of a body
of very high-grade ore on the 400 ft. level
of the Gaily lode. The drive, which was
following a small seam of tin, burst into the
makings of a bonanza, and as far as opened
shows solid ore 12ft. wide, 7ft. high and
12ft. long. Manager Sam Day deserves
shareholders’ thanks for his persistence in
prospecting round the porphyry body, for
the new shoot, like its predecessor, is nest-
ling against it. The ore is crushing 20 to
25 p.c. concentrates, and the remarkable
output of 12 tons of concentrates has been
obtained from the preliminary workings in
a fortnight. Day thinks this body is richer
than the last shoot that yielded nearly 300
tons of black tin. Old John Newell has been
down to look at the discovery, and considers
prospects the best he has ever seen in the
old mine. _On the figures quoted there should
be something like 25 to 30 tons of tin in
sight in the level.
Recent operations of the Glen Aplin
dredge, near Stanthorpe (Q.), have quite
borne out the dissection of the flotation pros-
pectus which appeared in the “Wild Cat"
at the inception of operations. The esti-
mates were glowing, but the bold facts
sombre. The last return shows a recovery
of scwt, of concentrates from 1700 yards,
and the co. has been forced to discontinue
operations until further capital can be pro-
cured to treat ground near by, where good
results are hoped for. And some good results
may be got. The area has rich patches and
good pockets may still be available.
.fl: ❖ : i : *
“Prospector”: “Claim"-working on Edie
Creek is now almost unknown. Most of
the “claims” advocates whose forceful objec-
tion to the granting of leases led to tin*
appointment of a Royal Commission became
lease-applicants themselves long before the
decision of the Commissioner was announced.
Now the map of the field resembles a crazy
patchwork quilt, with dredging and sluicing
leases covering it at all angles and running
in every direction, while, following on the
discovery of lode near the falls on Glasson’s
lease, a rush of gold-mining lcjuse applica-
tions occurred and were squeezed into every
nook and interstice. The overlapping of
areas is pitiful, for when the boundaries come
to be surveyed in order of application,
the surveyors will have a fearful job in dis-
entangling the overlaps. No doubt there will
be much heart-burning and disappointment,
as most of the pegs were fixed by “stepping
off” over country consisting of steep ridges
covered with thick, thorny scrub and moss-
hung aerial roots. Indeed, it is doubtful if
many of the applicants could now find their
way to the pegs they put in. The most
recent map of the field (17/2/’2B) shows
some of the areas applied for, or even
granted, overlapped by as many as six
others.
* * * *
New Guinea Goldsficlds Exploration, of
Bulolo, has issued a report in which O. 8.
Lucas, mine manager, announces that he
has started to test values, but has been
able to put only a few boys on, most of the
native labor being on the road carrying
stores. They were only a couple of days
on the sluice box, during which but six
cubic yards were treated. From this he is
satisfied that values will go 10s. to the yard.
The lease experimented upon was Golden
Chance No. 1. The value is high compared
with averages thereabouts, but no opinion
worth having can be formed on such a run.
The report also treats of the co.’s interests
in the much discussed lode formation at the
head of Karangie and Namie Creeks. From
“general appearances” this formation can be
traced for over- a mile. In dish prospects
panned off from roughly crushed lode material
a fine trail of coated gold was got, but
values cannot be guessed until sampling has
been done and assays made. The lode is
said to be easily workable by cross-cutting,
while wood and water-power are plentiful
and accessible. The leases are close to the
Wau aerodrome and it is claimed that a
good road can be made to the coast, 35
miles away.
It seems very queer that this lode,
which has been discovered for some months,
hag not yet been seriously tested, though
half a dozen cos. have been applying for
leases on what is supposed to be its run,
while somfe of them have actually been
working on it, with no apparent results,
beyond glowing estimates of its extent and
richness. A well-known mining engineer
who spent some time on this field recently
told The Bulletin that the continuity of
the lode was far from proved, and that all
that had been done in the way of testing it
was perfunctory sampling of a few outcrops
along the line.
It is about time a lot of these sur-
viving N.G. shows got down to real work.
So far, only one has made any serious
attempt to do so, and is, in consequence,
the' only one to inspire confidence.
* * * #
Kangaroo Flat appears to have been the
“receiving ground” of the Vegetable Creek
tinfield streams before the tremendous flow
of lava filled the stream beds and diverted
the rivers to their present channels. Veget-
able Creek, at an early period carrying rich
deposits of stream tin, formed the deposits
of tin wash worked from 1878 to 1882 by
Hall Bros., and now being exploited
by a Brisbane co. known as Hall’s
Lead, Limited. That this lead was
formed before the fault occurred at the Two
Mile, and the subsequent functioning of
Vegetable Creek with the Graveyard lead,
seems to be proved by the fact that no de-
composed granite is to be found in the wash,
while thei'e is only one layer of gravel. The
wash constituents are decomposed porphyry
and claystone, while the tin carries no im-
purities. such as are found in the Grave-
vard lead. The gravels in Foley’s lead, shown
in Professor David’s geological survey map
as being directly in the course of the com-
bined Vegetable Creek and Graveyard leads,
consist, on the other hand, of a mixture of
decomposed granite and claystone, while the
tin contains impurities known to exist in
the Graveyard lead. The deposit at Foley's
has so far been found not to contain sufficient
values to warrant mining by hand. The
Avoca lead carries tin wash consisting of
decomposed granite, with basalt and granite
wash stones, and obviously is the original
course of Glen Creek. So far no wash has
been found that can be profitably worked
by hand at the Avoca. The co. proposes to
treat the accessible portions of these two
leads by gravitation sluicing, while mining
bv hand the rich deposits proved at Hall’s
lead.
* * *
Aberfoyle Tin Co. (Tas.) seems to be up
against it. A shareholders’ meeting to raise
the capital to £50,000 by increasing the
nominal amount of the 1000 shares from £25
to £5O had to be adjourned because two-
thirds of the shareholders were not repre-
sented. Expenditure to date has totalled
£11,528, of which £5208 has gone in pro-
specting and development; but it hasn’t been
enough to carry the show to the production
stage. So far the co. has failed from the
usual cause —want of sufficient capital. When
will investors insist on seeing that no money
is spent until enough to finish the job is
visible?
jJs ❖ ❖ *
A new concern, New Consolidated Gold-
fields, with London, Perth and Adelaide
backing, has been formed to take over the
Horseshoe (W..A.). Working capital to the
extent of £lOO.OOO is to be provided and
there is talk of a big Government advance.
Also the new co. is to purchase 100,000 Lake
View 4s. shares at 155., and guarantees the
subscription of a further 100,000 shares,
which will be offered to Lake View share-
holders at 155., one for 15 held. In addi-
tion the new co. has a six months’ option
over 50,000 shares at 17s. 6d._. and a 12
months’ option over a further 50,000 at £1
each. Owing to the introduction of a new
treatment process, which, it is claimed, makes
the sulphides as amenable as free milling
ore, Horseshoe will now treat its own ore
instead of sending it to Lake View.
Hs * * *
Lake View and Star scrip touched 19s.
3d. in London last week; less than a month
ago sales were marked at 4s. The issued
shares total 1,500,000, so the market has
added £1,200,000 to its estimate of the
value of the property within a few weeks.
Horseshoe scrip jumped from 3s. 6d. to over
Bs. within the last three weeks.
* * *
Flotation having been declared a success
at Wiluna, a London crowd is now consider-
ing the advisableness of trying its luck with
the old Lancefield, near Laverton. Years
ago hundreds of thousands of pounds were
raised by Hoover, the late F, A. Govett
and others to work the show. Nearly a
million’s worth of bullion was won, but
shareholders got nothing; refractory ore,
expensive treatment, and (at times) indiffer-
ent management ruined the original co.
and its reconstructed successors. A syndi-
cate of Kalgoorlie mine managers then took
a hand and did well for a time, but ulti-
mately the proposition beat them. Then
the lease and plant were purchased for very
little by a machinery co. which has waited
for something to turn up and left the old
surface plant intact. The Lancefield shoot
is one of the longest in the West, but, in
the words of an ex-manager, it is “going to
be Hell to mine it at a profit.”
$ % * *
Wiluna Gold Corporation has decided, as
already mentioned, to install a treatment
plant with a monthly capacity of 40,000 tons
on its southern blocks. So far all develop-
ment has been done on these areas, which
are expected to provide the output mentioned
for many years. The co. holds all the leases
on the ore channel for two miles, and on its
northern blocks sufficient work was done in
the early days to give convincing proof that
ore of similar grade to that in the southern
end will be exposed in the course of develop-
ment. All the chances seem in favor of
Wiluna ranking in a few years among the
largest of the world’s gold-producers. Cash
resources of the co. now amount to about
£300,000.
* * * *
Tributors are steadily increasing on the
Kalgoorlie mines. They have now got a
footing on every property except one, and
on some they are numerous. Some, as in the
Great Boulder, follow small veins and dis-
jointed ore bodies with (in many instances)
great success, while others, as in the Ivanhoe,
take out pillars and blocks of ground which
are said to be too expensive for company men
to remove. Managers reckon that the stan-
dard of efficiency of company men has been
lowered of late owing to many of the best
miners becoming tributors.
jJi v ijc
Associated (W.A.) is lasting well. Eight-
een years ago, when most of the best tellu-
ride patches had been gouged out and poor
to unpayable stuff was visible nearly every-
where, a depressing official report stated that
profitable ore reserves were practically nil
and that the mine looked as if it wouldn't
ii ve long. Yet in the years that have passed
since then a million and a half tons of ore
ba Y<? been extracted and treated, the co has
Pf ld wa >’ and la f « operations
sbowed a profit of a few thousands. The
show is not yet worked out, and may last
f °r years, but the selective mining now m
progress will hasten the end.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound announces yet an-
other deal. A Melbourne prospecting con-
cern is passing over its Lamley property,
also in Takuapa, and estimated to contain
13,000,000 c.y. of ,91b. dirt. The price is
£lO,OOO cash and £33,000 in fully-paids. A
new co., Tongkah Compound No. 4, is being
floated to handle the proposition. Tongkah
Compound has contracted to subscribe for
81,875 shares, and shareholders in Eastern
Tin are to be offered 35,125—25. application
and the balance as required. Thus the
parent co., which has now a paid capital of
£166,666 m 200,000 £1 shares paid to 16s.
Bd., will have two dredges at work on its
own properties, and substantial holdings in
Tongkah Compound Nos. 2, 3 and 4. The
Setul and Mantin dredges are now profit-
earners. Rast week the scrip touched 545.,
but after profit taking sold back to 455., ex
fights, to the new issue, one m four The
J ast div. (Is. 6d.) was paid on May 19.


x.fw iJi
:\
n
(MMh
Cm
mm
a
I
«
Vi.
r .
f M -
==■ 7
"vnrri
luilllltllll
fe
i
in uui
«L-
-mil HU
—"Mi'll l
Commences To-morrow, June 7th
Definitely the big store’s greatest sale. The need for
space is so urgent that everything (a few proprietary lines excepted) in Men’s and
Boys’Wear, Sports, Radio, Cutlery and Travel Goods is reduced at least 10%,
while some lines have been reduced as low as Half-Price!
neat Winter
SALE
A £77'- Pure Wool Worsted
or Serge Suit
to Measure for
(Hand-finished)
Money saved is money earned a fact that is fully
exemplified in Murdoch’s Sale. This remarkable offer includes All-Wool
Worsted, comprising the latest shades of Powder Blues, Light, Medium, and
Dark Greys, new Plum tones, Fawns, Browns, and Navys. Latest designs in
Fancy Weaves, Dice Checks, Basket Weaves, Herringbones, Fancy Stripes, and
Distinctive Pinheads. Also Pure Indigo Fine Twill Serges
in Herringbones and Dice Checks. A F aultlessly-
tailored £7/7/- Suit to your own measure and Hand-
finished for . .
-L LS3
Other Suits-to-measure at Winter Sale Prices:
£ 4'B'll, £s'2's, £6'ls', £7'l3'-, and £B'IV-
Some More of the
Bargains!
USUALLY
32/6
12/6
25/-
75/-
19/6
6/11
7/6
Men’s Pure Fur Felt Hats.
“Prince” and “Lounge Brim”
shapes
Men’s Heavy-weight Twill Flan-
nelette Pyjamas. Broad colored
stripes
Men’s Fancy All-Wool Coat
Sweaters, with fancy Marl bands.
Sizes 34 to 40 inches .
Youths’ Navy Cheviot Serge
Suits. Coat, Vest and Trousers.
Ready to wear * •
Youths’ Fur Felt Hats. Cut or
Bound edge in Slate, Steel or
Fawn
Boys’ Repp Goflin Shirts. Neat
Black stripes, collar to match. .
Boys’ Flannelette Pyjamas. In
neat stripe effects
SALE
PRICE
22/6
8/11
18/6
626
153
3/11
4/11
D.B. Style,
as illustration,
5/- Extra.
■
•mmvmm
V
W\
\i >
Write for a
copy of the Big
Money - Saving
Catalogue.
Address your
letter to Desk
H
dfs
Simply fiU in your name and
address , and receive complete
range of Suiting Patterns at
Sale Prices.
Desk ft.
Murdoch's in Park-street, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Please send me —free of all cost —a complete
range of Suiting Patterns at Sale Prices, also measure
form outfit.
Name
Address
e/6/28
Send to Desk R for the Sale Catalogue, which describes
fully Bargains such as these —
-21- Men’s All-Wool Coat Sweaters, 17/6; 3/6 Men’s Braces, 1/9;
6/11 Men’s Golf Shirts, 4/6; 27/6 Men’s Shoes, 19/11; 27/6 All-Wool
Rugs, 23/6; 55/- Men’s Overcoats, 43/9; 58/6 Tennis Racquets, 43/6;
£27/10/- Radio Sets, 3-valve, £l3/10/-; and thousands of others.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
When ordering kindly address your letter to Desk R
COPYRIGHT.
MURDOCH S IN PARK ST LT? SYDNEY
“The World's Largest Men's and Boys' Wear Store"


FOSSEY’S
GREAT UNIVERSAL CASH STORES
403-411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY : : MAIL ORDERS PLEASE ADD FREIGHT
Big Savings on Winter Needs !
Save Pounds on Your Winter
Overcoat!
dfs
dfs
Mens Tweed Overcoats
In Fancy Tweeds with over-check designs on
light and medium grounds. Raglan cut, with
vertical through pockets. Half-lined with
taped seams. A beautifully-finished coat of
distinction.
Retail Value, 6 guineas.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each
79/6
Double-breasted Overcoats
Smart Raglan cut Overcoats of Heavy Dark
Grey Tweed, Belted waist. A very warm
coat.
Retail Value, 39/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each
25 1-
Gabardine Overcoats
Men’s Overcoats, in Fawn, All-Wool Gabar-
dine. We have an extremely large stock,
ranging from a Tweed Overcoat at 25/- to
beautiful examples of the best English make,
all marked at Fossey’s Famous Prices. The
Gabardine Overcoat is sold
Retail at 75/-
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each. .
496
Men’s Raincoats
Black Rubber Waterproof Coats, with belted
waist. Best make. The rubber is perfect.
You can defy the worst storm in one of
these coats.
Retail Value, 37/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each
21/-
Sample Overcoats
A great assortment of manufacturers’ Sample Tweed Over-
coats, in various styles of Plain and Fancy All-Wool Tweed.
Retail Value ranges from 49/6 to 79/6.
FOSSEY’S SENSATIONAL PRICE, each
30/-
Half-belted back and inverted pleats, as illustrated.
Men’s and Boys’ Wear
Men’s Pyjamas
We Have sold thousands and thousands
of these heavy-weight Flannelette
Pyjamas. and hard-wearing-
Assorted stripes.
Retail Value, 6/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each
4/11
Men’s Winter Singlets
Fleecy-lined Singlets. Very warm and
comfortable, soft finish.
Retail Value, 4/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each
36
Men’s Pull-overs
An All Pure Wool Pull-over, in plain
and fancy designs. Some very attrac-
tive subdued effects. An essential pio
tection against dangerous chills.
Retail Value, 16/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each . .
911
Men’s Golf Shirts
With Separate Collar to Match
Well made, of woven striped Poplin
de Luxe, in assorted patterns. A good,
every-day shirt.
Sold in Sydney for 6/11 and
7/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each . .
4/11
Navy Drill Overalls
Extra strong Navy Bib and Brace Over-
alls. All sizes.
Retail Value, 6/11.
FGSSEY’S SPECIAL PRICE
3/11
Grey Work Shirts
Very strongly made of Heavy Grey
Zephyr with collar and pocket. You
couldn’t get a longer-wearing shirt.
Retail Va’ue, 4/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, each
3/11
Men’s Felt Hats
A Smart Fur Felt Hat with snap brim.
The felt is particularly good, and will
stand up to many cleanings.
Retail Value, 25/-
FOSSEY’S SPECIAL PRICE
16/11
Black Cashmere Sox
Men’s Neat Black All-Wool Cashmere
Half-Hose. Warm, soft, long-wearing
Ordinary Retail Price, 2/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, pair . . .
nn
Boys’ Pyjamas
Strong, Warm, Striped Flannelette
Pyjamas. A very good fit, in all sizes.
Retail Value, 5/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, suit . .
311
Boys’ Tweed Knickers
Beautifully finished All-Wool Tweed
nickers, lined with the best material.
Very smart and warm for the Winter.
Assorted sizes.
Retail Value, 5/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, pair
3/11
Men’s Tweed Trousers
All-Wool Tweed Trousers in dark grey.
Permanent turn-up bottoms and side
pockets.
Retail Value, 13/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, pair
9/11
Hosiery and Gloves
Ladies’ Silk Hose
Of Fine, Synthetic Silk, always mistaken for pure Silk, but
with greater wearing quality. Mock fashioned. Assorted
Shades.
Retail Value, 4/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, pair
2/111
Ladies’ Pure Silk Hose
Of the celebrated ' Blue Moon’ Brand. Fully fashioned and
showing in all the leading shades. A perfect quality stock-
ing, in all sizes.
Retail Value, 16/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
9/11
Ladies’ Singlets
Made from Strong Silk Mixture. Full women :
size, with
lace or silk straps.
Usually sold at 2/11 and 3/3.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
1/114
%
Ladies’ Warm Singlets
Ideal for Winter wear. Made from heavy-
weight Ribbed Cotton. Shaped waist and
ribbon tops.
Retail Value, 2/9.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
1/44
Ladies’ Suede Fabric Gloves
A good quality, in all shades, finished with
fancy, turned-back embroidered cuffs, as
illustrated. All sizes.
Retail Value, 2/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
1161
Blanket Special
Beautiful White All-Wool Blankets, with a fleecy fin-
ish. Wonderfully warm. Extra large double-bed size,
81 x 99.
Retail Value, 59/6.
FOSSEY’S SPECIAL PRICE for
Pair—
This Week
45/-
fi&I"
Beautiful Coats & Smart
Millinery in the Showroom
Ladies’ Smart Felts
In a large range of exceptionally
becoming shapes and shades. All
neatly and smartly trimmed.
Splendid value at 12/11
FOSSEY’S PRICE-
5/11
Fur Chokers
A large assortment of Thibet and Goat skins in assorted
Shades, as illustrated.
Retail Value, 25/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
1811
Ladies’ Black Fur Coats
Specially made for slim figures from specially-selected
skins. Large cosy collar. Lined with brocade. Full
length, 36in.
Retail Value, 5 guineas.
FOSSEY’S PRICE . . .
62/6
Ladies’ Seal Coney Coats
In Black only. Made from carefully-chosen
skins. Vertical strandings on hips and sleeves.
Winter
Full
length 36in. Lined with brocaded silk.
Retail Value, 15 guineas.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
9 gns.
Ladies’ Velour Coats
In All-Wool Velour, smartly cut and made, finished with
fur collar, as illustrated. All carefully selected colors.
Retail Value, 59/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
37/6
Ladies’ Cardigans
Knitted in Pure Wool of the best quality, in
a range of
novelty designs and colors.
Retail, 19/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE
Assorted
13/11
HR
111
n
m
"•y
m
m
.vi


CA
Vfcp ce>nfr>e> of
Qupenslandb
<Vishn Puished
Social Life.
dfsdf
ƒdď
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
d
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE.
f TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
“Such a reputation is not won overnight”
\r
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d * ... 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin <& Co., London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
mSk A 4k
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
HAVING A GOOD SPELL.
‘‘C. Coral”: I came across an old friend
in the Tori-es Strait islands the other day.
High up in a cocoanut palm there was a loud
“caw!” and glacing upwards I spotted the
black-coated carrion-eater who is one of
the biggest enemies of the wheat-farmer
down south. “Ah, a crow!” I exclaimed.
“What name you call him?” “That pfella, we
call him kua [kwa],” responded one of
the local nature students; “’cause he sing
‘kwa, kwa,’ all time. He proper good friend
belong we. That pfella he dig along ground
and kai-kai that worm what spoil our
banana plant. He no spoil our garden, he
only kai-kai worm, snake and some dead
meat. Only this island [on the west side
of Torres Strait] got him —them nother
island on east side he no got this kum
And yet there is a matter of only 40 or 50
miles between them, as the crow flies, though
apparently up here he doesn’t care about
flying far. The Mallee cocky may be inter-
ested to know that there is someone who
has a good word for the sly old bird that
manages to dodge poison-baits and is un-
afraid of scarecrows.
* * * *
“Sylvan”: The will to live of some Aus-
tralian trees is tremendously strong. In
Maria Island, off the Speck, a seed of black-
wood ( Acacia melanoxylon) fell into the
roof-gutter of an old brick ruin, just inside
a spot where two walls made a right angle.
There was enough soil in the gutter to
germinate the seed, and the l’oots grew down-
wards 10 feet till they reached, the ground.
But that wasn’t all. When the tree had
attaiiied a fair growth somebody lopped it
off six feet above the gutter. Undiscouraged,
it at once set to work to grow a new crop
of branches and leaves. It now stands 15ft.
high above the guttei-, with a trunk 9in.
through and a main root Gin. in diameter.
$ •!> •!-
“Up North” : Amongst the mai-ine curses
that lay in wait for those who frequent the
coral reefs is the huge black sea-
egg, with its porcupine-like
spikes. Occasionally a native
treads on one and the needle-
like prickles snap oft', where-
upon the injured man will
calmly sit down, rest liis foot
upon his knee, and, with a
piece of glass, cut right into the
bone, if necessary, to remove the
encumbrance. The stone-fish is
another poisonous lurkcr.
Thump his ugly head on a rock
and it expands, while the lancet-
like spike rises and emits a
cloudy vapor. This may be the
poison that causes such agony.
Then there’s the catfish, whose
spikes have microscopic barbs.
Vigorous lancing and an appli-
cation of Condy’s crystals are
the only known treatment for
stabs from catfish or stone-fish.
Worse still is a species of Por-
tuguese man-o’-war that floats
periodically into these waters. It leaves ter-
rible weals on a swimmer’s body, and there
are no known means of alleviating the pain.
H* • H* * H*
“Wang”: Larry the Liar rose suddenly
from his seat, and striding across the bar-
room smote with great vehemence a small
black spider that was stalking a fly on the
wall. “I’ve got a dex-ry on them insects,”
he remarked, resuming his seat, “ever since
—but I’ll tell yer. Me an’ me mate, Bill
Dobbs, come across a pore ole bloke lyin’
under a tree out in the ranges. He was all
in. We did what we could fer him, but he
was a goner. Before he snuffs out he
manages ter tell us of a wonderful rich
reef he’d located ’way back in th’ hills,
’bout 20 mile away, an’ he ban’s us a plan
showin’ where it is. Th’ reef is marked
with a dot. an’ there is lines showin’ tracks
through th’ bush. We buries th’ pore ole
cove decent, an’ hoofs it back to our hut.
After tea we gets th’ plan out an’ studies
it. Bill gets a pen an’ ink an’ starts ter
make a few notes an’ calcerlations. In th’
middle of our studyin’ th’ dogs starts up a
devil of a row outside, an’ our horses gets
scared. We rushes out ter see what th’
row is about, an’ finds th’ dogs lias treed a
native-cat. After half an hour’s foolin’
about we gets th’ little devil down, an’ then
MONEY TO BURN.
SANDY: “Ye smoke an awfu’ lot. Mactavish.”
MAC: “Ah’ve smoked a’ ma life, Sandy. But no’ the same pipe, mind ye—no’ the
same pipe.”
goes back to th’ hut. Bill’s in first, an’ I
hear him let out a hori-ible yell. I rushes
across to the table, an’, strike me pink, I
nearly drops; Th’ plan is thei’e orl right,
but crawlin’ all ever it makin’ inky blots an’
lines, is a damn big black spider. Th’ cow
had fallen from th’ ceilin’ inter th’ ink
bottle, an’ crawled out ter dry himself on
our plan. Even then we mighter managed
ter pick out th’ right markin’s; but Bill gets
mad an’ makes a swipe at th’ spider an’
upsets th’ ink bottle all over th’ plan. We’d
’ave both been rich men now on’y fer that
dam’ spider !”
* * * *
“Lex”: A Vic. commercial traveller called
at a Winton farm, which he found to bear
an appearance of utter desolation. The cows
had not been milked, pigs and fowls were
clamoring for food, and the homestead was
locked up. Going round the dwelling, lie
saw a small face peei’ing through a side
window. Asking the child if anything was
wrong, he was reassured by hearing a gruff
voice, emanating from an adjoining bedroom,
say: “Tell ’im there’s nothin’ doin’ _ ’ere
to-day. We’re takin’ no charnces an’ all
stayin’ a-bed —it’s Friday tli’ 13th !”
:!= * * *
“Orokolo”: The case of the Papuan who
slept soundly while a rat gnawed at his
big toe is not an isolated one (B. l/2/’2B).
An old native pensioner named Navo, who
was reputed to have been valet to Sir Wil-
liam Macgregor, had a hole about the size
of a sixpence in the instep of his
foot. As I knew he hadn’t had it a day or
so before I asked about it, and was assured
that “Cock-a-rose lie bittern me I sleep.” I
looked inside his house and there were cer-
tainly enough cockroaches there to have
eaten the whole of him.
* * * *
“Mei”: Talking of a hare fighting a pup
reminds me of a boxing match I once wit-
nessed between a cat and a mouse. The
cat was nearly full grown and was a good
mouser. but this mouse stood up on its hind
legs when the cat approached and fought
back for a minute or more. The cat was
so astonished that it let the mouse escape.
:!: sf * *
“Gouger”: The nose of the wild abo.
is acutely developed. He will crawl sniffing
over cracks and among boulders, and by
smell 'alone locate the presence of any
hidden animal, and tell its species. In
many trees, between branches spreading from
the trunk, lies often a little deposit of loam.
This holds the scent of any animal that
may have passed up the tree. Binghi, by
a sniff at the burrow of any animal, can
instantly tell whether the occupant is at home,
and by prodding with a cane that twists
, around corners lie will dislodge the creature.
In rocky country a small animal will often
hide far in a deep crack. Binghi will station
liis gin so that she looks down a wider part
of the crack, spear in hand. Binghi with
a supple sapling or cane gets in touch with
the animal and patiently prods it further
and further along the crack towards the
Amazon with the spear. An animal taking
refuge in a hollow log is easily captured.
A piccaninny rushes to block up one
end of the log, and the gin at the other
end, armed with a sapling, prods the hunted
thing as far down the log as she can,
while hubby tomahawks a hole above the
beast.
* * * *
“E.S.” : Correspondence is a casual matter
in country districts, and anybody, or any-
thing, is a letter-carrier —even Binghi and
the bullock team. A ’possum hole in a tree
is often a lovers’ post-office. Sometimes the
repository is a stone near the front-paddock
gate, and sometimes a jam-tin under a log,
where the old man is not likely to go poking
about after native cats. The biscuit-tins
and candle-boxes along mail routes are well
known; but a Richmond River (N.S.W.)
farmer introduced me to another kind of
post-office. A two-railed fence ran from the
house to the water where a split slab did
duty for a wharf. When lie corresponded
with anybody he put the letter in the cleft
of a long stick, thrust the other end of the
stick in the mortise-hole of the last post of
the fence, and hoisted a white flag. The
skipper of the little river steamer grabbed
the letter as he passed and took it on to
town.
* * * *
“Salambo”: The featliei-s of the huia,
rarest of Maoriland birds, used to be worn
by Maoris of high tribal rank as part of
their head-dress, and many Maoris —not all
of them strictly entitled to the decoration —
to-day proudly display the emblem in their
hat-bands. The late Timi Kara (James
CaiToll), who was of rangatira blood and
initiated as a tohunga, always wore one;
the plume he so greatly prized has been
presented by his widow to Norma Wilson,
one of Maoriland’s Olympic team. The gift
was accompanied by two fine examples of
native craft, a beautifully dyed feather mat
and a woven belt of rare design, articles
carrying great mana. They were valued pos-
sessions of the Ngatikahongonu tribe.
(Continued on page 25A
POOR FELLER ME !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the cypress
I made me a fire,
And there came an abo.
In scanty attire
And heavy of heart with
A lifelong desire.
“Baal got it towri,”
Thus mumbled lie,
“Can’t find ’em myalls.
Poor feller me!”
He saw in the embers,
The flame and the smoke
The forms of armed legions
From coverts that broke
For the battue and foray
When bushlands awoke.
His boomerang by him,
His nulla and spears.
The symbols of hunters
Of long-vanished years,
That made his eyes sparkle,
Yet dimmed them with tears.
“Baai find it ’possum
In coolabah-tree,
Baal got it lubra.
Poor feller me!”
The howl of the dingo
From far up the hill,
The cry of the cui’lew.
Long, lonely and shrill,
Seemed a dirge for his kinsmen
Whose voices were still.
From far-away ages,
From battle and chase,
The cries seemed to echo
Through deserts of space,
And sound to the dreamer
The knell of his race.
And lowly he chanted
The weird songs they sang
By the fires in the shadow
Of wild Tallarang.
And cried as the memory
Stabbed with a pang:
“All about blackman,
Towri and tree,
All gone for ever,
Poor feller me!”
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


m
8H
St P
m
ft
T
- run
-i3
l^i
o
_
r'>
Wfl
tfftj
158
A
~fc
I
\\
5000 Garages in Australia
sell Dunlop Tyres!
and the principal reason is-
that experience has proved that
their customers are pleased with
DUNIiOP
quality mileage dependability
m
p?* e
v et
ccv°
\>V
a\
VC
Qp
otP
oP
ec
\OY
Y)V©
ppj:
o*
p
o*
\OY
ose $ e w et^
DUNLOP, RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States and N.Z.
PLAY GOLF
for your own
sake
’it) O D EJ o
c«ro
so
BP
03
o a
04 0
a no
for the sake of
your Golf play
DUNLOP


The
Stock
Owner
£
sv
i
who consigns Cattle, Calves, Pigs, Sheep
or Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
for sale takes a step which safeguards his interests
to the utmost, assuring him top values for his con-
signments and thorough care for his business in
every particular.
Rail or Ship Stock to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
SALESMEN,
Homebush Yards, or Encggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
X: X
V..-
1
/\
W '
/X....
>'-'N
s
■J E 7* !:
A
C->
s*. s, ...
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
PEAPES
—jor men AND their sons.
To buy at Peapes’ is to buy in
comfort, under ideal conditions of
convenience. Winter Underwear,
Overcoats and Sweaters may be
selected there from large and
varied stocks, while experienced
and courteous salesmen assure
helpful though unobtrusive service.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
“Sebrof”: Does any other part of the
world show a feathered paradise like the
swamps West of the Darling? The centre
of any swamp is the domain of the black
swans. Here they build their nests, bring
up their young, and spend their time floating
about and looking graceful. Next to the
centre and in a circle around it the various
species of wild duck have their habitat, while
closer to the shore the little waterhens dart
WELL PROVIDED FOR.
MRS. POPPEM: “What! You’re going to sell out and marry that ’ard-up lodger of
yours! But what on earth are you going to live on?”
MRS. FLYNN: “Sure we’ll be all right. The poor fellow owes me enough to keep us
in comfort for years.”
in and out of the lignum bushes, like tiny
black minoreas in a flooded farmyard. In
the shallow* waters the dog-birds paddle and
lay their eggs on minute islands. They, like
the plover, waste no effort on nest construc-
tion. The shores arc frequented by the spur-
wing plover, the sandpiper, quail and snipe.
Each variety of bird has its own territory,
and none preys on the other. Man is
their only enemy, and he rarely appears with
a shotgun. He is only greatly to be feared
in the laying season, when, if he happens to
be camped near a swamp, he relishes eggs
as a welcome addition to camp tucker.
* * * *
“Pfella”: Mention by “Murrungurry”
of Binglii and his annual gift-blanket (B.
28/3/’2B) reminds me of Loppy, a Banana-
land coastal nigger who used to
camp with his gin on the banks
of Figtree Creek in the early
'nineties. On distribution day all
the blacks of the locality turned
up in the police-station yard, and
before the blankets were handed
out the John Hop made a little
speech and then called for three
cheers for Queen Victoria, which
were always heartily given. One
year a fencer approached Loppy
and offered him two shillings for
his blanket, providing lie brought
it straight to the buyer’s camp
without using it himself. Loppy
and his gin held a consultation,
and it was decided to close on
the deal. When the blanket was
received Loppy went direct to
the fencer’s camp, but within
half an hour he was back to his
hut still clutching the Govern-
ment gift. “Whata matter?”
shrilled his gin; “that pfella no
gibbit two chillings?” “Aw, gib-
bit two chillings orl right,” said
Loppy, “but that no good belonga
this pfella. I tellit him gibbit
t’ree cheer for Queen Picatoria,
and lie say, ‘No fear, not this
pfella.’ By cripes, I no gibbit
him, blanket. I show that pfella.’
“The Pedaller”: A bucketful of molasses
and water, a fire and a towel spread over
the bucket to catch the steam comprised a
primitive still I once saw in action near
Bundaberg (Q.). The distiller, an old-age
pensioner, squeezed the accumulated mois-
ture from the towel into a second bucket, re-
placing the towel after each wringing. When
sufficient liquid had been distilled, the juice
of several lemons and a modicum of methy-
lated spirits were stirred in. The soupy mix-
ture was eagerly lapped up by the pensioners
and swaggies who formed the old chap’s cus-
tomers. It was the most revolting tipple I
ever sampled, and I’ve tried a few.
* :[c * sf
‘‘Claude Weston” : The world over there is
not a nettle or tree whose sting is as
severe as that of the “Gympie-gympie,”
which may be found in tlie dense scrubs
near Cooktown (N.Q.). These trees grow to
any height up to 100 feet, their trunks
being covered with soft hair and a fine yellow
dust. The leaves are about nine inches in
diameter and are plate-shaped ; these also are
covered with the hair and dust. As soon
as a single hair touches the bare skin, the
agony begins. Large white lumps rise and
begin to itch. Generally the itch lasts for
about two months, and if at any time during
that period the injured part is allowed to
touch water, hot or cold, the agony begins
afresh. Recently while we were taking a
survey line through one of these infested
scrubs three axemen had to be replaced;
they were in hospital for two weeks.
* :]: *
“Gouger”: I doubt if there are a dozen
survivors of the once fierce Yardigan tribe,
THE WHY AND THE WHEREFORE.
THE BENCH: “But how came this mere youth to steal all this wireless material?”
SERGEANT O’HARA: “He got mixed up with a receiving set, y’r Worship.”
which held the settlement of Somerset in
terror when Somerset was hailed in London
as the commencement of a second Singapore.
The Yardigan, whose tribal grounds lay 25
miles to the south, could then put 400 young
fighting men in the field. To guard against
them, Jardine’s marines kept nightly watch
for years. Native police were also drilled
at the settlement, and there was nothing
the black troopers loved more than shooting
down their wild cobbers. One lonely house
is now all that remains of Somerset’s past
glory. It is the homestead of a cocoanut
plantation, the biggest in Australia.
* =s= *
“Pick” : Though their hunting nowadays
is mostly with the gun, the abos. of Wallaga
f N.S.W ) have not forgotten horv to make
the primitive weapons of their tribe. Hav-
ing carved the implements out of selected
spotted gun or ironbark, they place them
under water in the black ooze of the lake.
When taken out after months of immersion,
the timber has become black through and
through, and, when rubbed down with
pumice-stone and polished, it takes on the
lustre of ebony. The process renders the
wood exceedingly tough. Huntsmen still use
the spears for securing fish, and the boom-
erangs for stopping the flight of ducks.
Seeing the implements whirled aloft, the
birds, mistaking them' for hawks, dart to
the water, where they are easily shot.
* * * *
“Meeka” : “Keppel’s” suggestion of putting
a few grains of rice in the match-box to keep
matches dry in damp weather (B. 4/4/’2B)
may be effective; but I know a better one.
Just simply rub the head of the match
sharply to and fro on the hair of the head,
where it is short, for 20 or 30 seconds. I
have tried this on matches that had been sub-
merged in water for a minute, and never
failed to obtain a light.
* * * *
“AdeL.” : Who knows a tree that harbors
a greater variety of birds’ cradles than the
pandanus spiralis? These trees, growing
in the rocky gorges on the sea side of the
coastal ranges west of Burketown (N.Q.),
look like huge parasols with corkscrew
handles. I have seen the cavities be-
tween the long, prickly leaves of a single
tree occupied at the same time by doves,
finches, wrens, flycatchers and honey-eaters.
The happy little communities were com-
pletely sheltered from the sun, the tropical
rains and the preying hawks and kestrels.
t. in * *
“Up Top”: While horse hunting in the
ranges towards the head of the Mitchell
(N.Q.) we came on a myalls’ storehouse.
It was a cleft in a granite ravine, and pos-
sible raiders were warned off by a symbolical
heap of ochre-daubed stone. Inside were
bunk-like arrangements of saplings, forked
up to three tiers, neatly packed with dilly-
hags, sea-shells, coolamons, fish-spears,
paper-bark, bundles of ochres, rasp-leaves
and bottle fragments in broken-down stages
from the shaving rasp to the finished glass
spear-point. The storehouse undoubtedly
represented an accumulation of traded goods,
and out of curiosity we tried to make friends
with the bucks, but they weren't having
any.
i\s :Jc ❖ #
“Innisfailure”: “Bluey” and “Snowy”
are much commoner bush nicknames than
“Cock” (B. 11/4/’2S), and “Ginger” is a
good runner-up. As for “Cock,” I have
never heard a native-born Australian who
answered to the sobriquet; most of the
“Cocks” of miy acquaintance originally came
from Shoreditch or Iloxton or regions
adjacent.
:j! $ * ❖
“Sea Nomad”: Fish snooze at times, but
always with one eye open. Deep down in a
coral crevice, their body camouflaged by
plant growths, they will stay moveless for
hours. In a river, under a ledge of rock, a
fish Will regularly take his siesta in the one
spot, pressed almost invisible against the
rock by the current. On the coral islets
when the tide goes out they swarm in the
shallow waterlioles, and, jambing themselves
in amongst the countless mangrove roots,
stay ther.e with only the faintest tremble of
side fins, just like the gentle swaying of
leaves under water. Should a shark or sting-
ray dash across the pool, there is instant
commotion. But as the tide creeps in every
fish awakes, for soon the waterways will
be flooded, and hungry bellies will call for
food.
•I' $ $ $
“R.G.W.” : A member of the Eel Club at
Okoke < M.L.) was telling a Maori how he
had caught an eel that scaled over 501 b.
“Him t’ big one, boss,” Ilcnare observed,
“but t’ere’s bigger in t’ Urenui. Bigger, an’
with a big scar down t’ back, too.” “How
do they get the scar?” the fisherman asked.
“Why, every spring they have t’ go up-
stream,” Henare said, “and they wear t’
skin off tryin’ t’ scrape under t’ raihvay
bridge.”
THE BLOKE I USETER KNOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a bloke I useter know, a clever
kind of chap;
I useter reckon that ’e would be well upo i
the map.
I useter say that ’ere’s a bloke that s sure
ter get ahead,
But I ain’t ’card from ’im for years; I ope
’e isn’t dead.
I useter know ’im well. It was ter me ’e
useter tell
The things that ’e was goin’ ter do; ’e
’ad it mapped out well.
I useter reckon that ’e was the pick of all
the bunch,
An’ cripes! I wouldn’t like ter ’ear that ’e
’as lost ’is punch.
’E useter cobber up with me, ’e useter like
me best;
’E useter say I understood ’im better than
the rest.
The way ’e useter talk I knew that if ’e ever
got
A dinkum go ’e’d bo the one ter make the
goin’ ’ot.
But I ain’t ’eard from ’im for years; I
reckon that it’s more,
’An likely that ’e missed the chance that
’c was waitin’ for.
For I know well enough that if he got
the word ter go
Twould take a mighty lot ter stop the
bloke I useter know.
There was a bloke I useter know, ’e stuck
with me a while,
A clever bloke who useter wear a knowin’
kind of smile.
I wonder does ’e wear it now; I wonder,
too, does ’e
Remember all the clever things ’e useter
tell ter me.
Some day perhaps ’e’ll come ter light, some
day ’e’ll make ’is run.
Then, take my tip, the mob’ll see the way
things should be done.
I’m tryin’ still ter kid mesclf that ’e’ll
come back, although
I know too well ’e’s gone for good, the bloke
I useter know.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Boy (18) wants job on N.S.W. farm or
sheep-station; 14 months’ experience on
W.-Q. cattle-station; can drive car find
cook; knowledge of metalwork and carpen-
try ; -ex. refs.—4B6o.
Young man, manager petrol- and oil-filling
station, Melbourne, desires similar position
Adelaide, Sydney or Brisbane. Good refs. —
4858.
Young lady, Sydney, wants spare-time
typing MSS., correspondence; own machine.
—4836.
Young man, strong, experience blade-
shearing, wants a pen as learner with
machines on good run.—4B22.
Advertising expert of proved ability seeks
engagement.—4Bl7.
Lady pianist, Rockhampton (Q.), pro-
ficient in transposition and manuscript work,
wants position. Ex. refs. —4900.
Youth (17), intermediate tech, cert., wants
job as jackeroo, any part of Australia. Refs.
—4873.
Young man, clerk, wants position, Sydney,
experienced in all kinds of office routine. —
4891.
Young man seeks position as jackeroo,
book-keeper or secretary, W. Q’land. —4894.
Couple, well educated, 35, experienced in
farming and storekeeping, at present in
Brisbane, want position on station, or will
go share-farming. Good refs.—4B99.
To buy second issue of Bill Bowyang’s
Magazine; original price. (To C. Beale,
Leeton, N.S.W.)
To buy “The Sailor,” by J. C. Snaitli.—
4859.
To buy used Papuan stamps, on envelopes
only. Face value given. (To T. P. Hayes,
Roxburgh, Central Otago, N.Z.)
To buy, in good condition, “Cardillac,” by
Barr; “The Mark of Uraye,” by Somerville;
“The Blue Bird's Eye” and “Swift Nick
of the York Road,” by Edgar; “Dialstone
Lane,” “The Skipper’s Wooing,” “At Sun-
wich Port,” by Jacobs; “Red o’ the Fend”
and “Shameless Wayne.” (To C. L. Hall,
3 George-street, Caulfield, Vic.)
To sell set of native weapons, or will
exchange for good collection Australian
stamps.—4B46.
To sell allotment, Pindimar, Port
Stephens, N.S.W., close beach and wharf,
£3O cash, or exchange for collection Aus-
tralian stamps of catalogue value of £6O.
—4845.
To sell collection of 363 air mail stamps
in loose-leaf album, mostly unused, many
scarce.—4Bo6.
To buy reproduction of “The Jackeroo Is
Suit to Fetch the Horses,” by Douglas Fry;
also print of “The Landing at Gallipoli. - ’
—4805.
To hear from persons having good pictures
illustrating the osmiridium mining industry,
rabbit or opossum catching, and Sydney
Harbor Bridge. (To “Revile,” P.O. Box 23,
Pahiatua, M.L.)
The French words of the Song “Si vous
Varies compris,” by Denza. (To Bruce
Davies. Myola, Tomingley, N.S.W.)
To buy “The Red Pagan,” by A. G.
Stephens.—4B6s.
To sell sand deposit, handy Brisbane, over
15,000 cub. yds., £3OO. —4871.
To buy, second-hand, “The Australian
Encyclopaedia.” State price.—4B77.
To sell Ford light chassis, new tyres, fair
running order, £l2 10s., Sydney.—4BBB.
Words of verse “My Old Brown Hat,”
appeared about August, 1917, in Blighty.
—4907.
Words of verse entitled “Ambition,” about
a man who jumped over a cliff so that he
could see what the face of the cliff looked
like. —4890.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it possible by any means (priming
for. instance ) to lift water by suction with
a pump which is 40 ft. above the water level?
(2) In lifting water 100/t. is more power
required having a long suction pipe and short
delivery than a very short suction pipe and
long delivery? (3) Is more power required
for a 4 in. pump to deliver through 100 ft. of
Sin. pipe than through the same length of
2 in. pipe, stroke being the same?— 473s.
(1) No; 25ft. is the maximum. (2)
Slightly more power is required when suction
pip;: is long and delivery short. The former
should, for several reasons, be as short as
possible. (3) The smaller the pipe the
greater the power required.
What process in cooking is followed to
reduce . the bones of fish to the con sistency
found in the canned article? —4642.
It is a matter of adjusting steam pressure,
temperature and time of cooking according
to the Aveight of the fish. At 101 b. pressure,
240 degrees F., a 51b. fish would have to be
cooked 100 minutes to make the bones. quite
soft, while a 101 b. fish would have to be
cooked for two hours. Over-cooking hardens
the bones again.
Can you, tell me a sure, simple and in-
expensive way of getting rid of bugs in a
wooden cottage P—4829.
The simplest and easiest way is to burn
4oz. sulphur in each room, making each
apartment as air-tight as possible. Take
out metal articles, as these will be discolored.
Burn the sulphur in a saucer placed in a
tin basin to avoid fire risks. Leave for five
hours after the sulphur has been set alight.
Can you give me a formula for a - general
all-round feed for both young and old pigs—
a meal that could be used all the year round?
—4691.
When the young pigs are about three or
four weeks old turn the old sow out for, an
hour or two in the middle of each day ; dur-
ing her absence give them some skim milk in
a trough. They will soon learn to feed.
By degrees add some pollard and give a
few whole peas or some wheat. At wean-
ing-time a little barley-meal may be given
in addition to the pollard, and at 10 weeks
old they may have about one-fourth meal
and three-fourths pollard. Gradually in-
crease quantities of barley-meal until equal
parts meal and pollard are being fed. This
should be mixed with three parts, by weight,
of skim milk or water, the former for pre-
ference, to one of the meal-pollard mixture.
The ration should equal approximately 3
per cent, of, live weight daily. One table-
spoonful of bonemeal per pig should be
added daily to the food. Plenty of clean
drinking water should always be available.
A little bran may be added as a safeguard
against constipation.
(1) What are the possibilities of jute (Cor-
chorus capsular is) growing in Australia? (2)
Is any grown here now commercially? (3)
In what form do the Dundee factories receive
it, from Calcutta, and price to producers? (4)
What process is necessary before product is
saleable to factory? (5) What is the value
of jute goods imported into Australia annu-
ally? (6) What is the present duty on im-
ported jute goods? (7) Could you give a
rough idea of cost of factory to produce such
goods if jute were grown here?-— 4701.
(1) No doubt it could be grown in cer-
tain localities in Q’land, but it would be im-
possible to make a commercial success of it.
(2) No. (3) The jute is put up in bales of
different qualities and shipped to Dundee.
Price varies with quality. First-mark jute
has been worth about £3O per ton in Dundee
for the past three years. (4) The process of
rotting or steeping in water which is mostly
foetid takes 10 to 20 days. The Indian worker
standing up to his waist in the water, does
the cleaning of the fibre from the stalks. It
is then put in the sun to dry. It is such a
filthy job that no one in Australia would
attempt it, and no machinery has been in-
vented that will do the work. A green crop
weighs about 13 tons per acre and yields
about 12cwt. of dry fibre. (5) £4,000,000
to £5,000,000, according to requirements. (6)
None. (7) About £200,000 for a 400-loom
mill.
Can you tell me if the mother of Jesus
had any sons to her husband Joseph? If so, in
what book of the New Testament can it be
found? —4Bol.
See Matthew xiii, 55-56.
Can you give me a recipe for making a
concentrated solution of tobacco, such as
is used for spraying plants?-— 4185.
The tobacco leaves are placed in a still
similar to that which is used for the steam
distillation of eucalyptus. Milk of lime is
added in sufficient quantity to make the
charge alkaline. About 51b. of quick-lime
mixed to a thin paste with water should
be enough to add to lqwt of leaves. The
charge is then steam distilled and the nico-
tine and other volatile materials passing
oyer with the steam are condensed in the
distillate. _ Sulphuric acid is added to the
distillate in sufficient quantity to change the
whole of the alkaloids to sulphates. The acid
distillate may then be concentrated in an
aHd-rcsistant vessel without loss of nico-
tine.
Can you give me a recipe for outside
whitewash?: —4798.
Take half-bushel freshly-burned lime, slake
with boiling water, keeping well covered
during the process so as to hold in the
steftm, and strain through fine sieve. Then
add 71b. salt previously dissolved in warm
water, 41b. whiting and lib. clean glue, pre-
viously dissolved by soaking well and then
hanging over a slow fire in small kettle con-
tained within a larger vessel filled with
water. Add 5 gallons hot water to the mix-
ture and stir well, and then let stand for
some days, covered up. It should be applied
hot.
Can you tell me how to make a compo-
sition which can be used to take impressions
from type-written or pen-written originals,
and reproduce them on paper? —l796.
Melt together 1 part glue, 2 parts water,
4 parts glycerine (all by weight), evaporate
some of the water by gentle heat and then
temper the mixture with more glue or
glycerine. Test the consistency by pouring
a small quantity into a shallow dish and
allowing it to set. The mixture must be
strained. Best results are obtained by using
an ink made as follows: methyl violet 2
parts, alcohol 2 parts, sugar 1 part, glycer-
ine 4 parts, water 24 parts. Dissolve the
violet in the alcohol mixed with the glycer-
ine. Then dissolve the sugar in the water
and mix both solutions. After shaking well
allow to stand for some hours before using.
(1) How can I qualify for a position as
shire clerk secretary or collector in Vic.?
(2) What are the prospects of obtaining
employment if qualified? (3) Where can I
obtain text-books or course of instruction? —
4492.
(1) You must pass the examination pre-
scribed by the Municipal Clerks’ Board —sub-
jects, local government law and accountancy-
to secure a certificate of competency. If you
have held the office of municipal clerk in Vic.
for a period of five years you can apply to
the board, without examination, for a cer-
tificate of qualification. (2) Good. (3) There
are no set text-books. Candidates should
study the Local Government Act, the Country
Itoads Act, the Health Act and the “Guide
to Book-keeping for -Municipal Officers,”
issued by the Public Works Dept. Many
business colleges in Melbourne coach students
for the competency exam., and there are
many private coaches.
If a bullock is sold at Ilomebush as
health;/, but after being killed is found to be
diseased and condemned by the inspector ,
what compensation is given to the pur-
chaser? —4727.
Depends upon whether condemnation is
partial or total. The stockowners have a
“condemned fund” out of which compensa-
tion is paid. Your agents could doubtless
give you details of the basis of compensa-
tion in any specific case. 1
Could you tell me the name of a broad-
casting station, transmitting on a wave-
length a feiv metres below 2BL and heard
occasionally after this station closes down,
shortly before midnight. The announce-
ments are made in a foreign language.
—4(566.
2BL. transmits on a wave-length of 353
metres. The Japanese station JODIv at
Keijo transmits on a wave-length of 345
metres at 11.30 p.m. Hobart time, corres-
ponding to 10,30 p.m. Jqpanestj time. This
is probably the station you hear.
How is seed-wheat dry-dressed? —-4555.
To apply the dry method of treatment to
prevent bunt or bail-smut, add 2oz. of copper
carbonate powder to each bushel of wheat
and thoroughly mix to ensure that every
grain is coated with the powder. There
are several machines on the market for the
treatment of seed, but a home-made con-
trivance could be made to sijit the purpose.
A cask fitted with slats inside to agitate
the wheat, and mounted so that it can be
revolved, or even an old box-churn would
be satisfactory. It is important, however,
that the dusting appliance should be dust-
proof, as inhalation of the powder will cause
sickness.
Some months ago I asked if I could be
prosecuted for shooting rabbits on unfenced
■ land. The reply you gave me was that J
could not. Later an oivner of unfenced
property asked the, same question ana was
told that he could proceed Under common
law. Which reply is correct?—- 4719.
You could not be prosecuted—that was the
question you asked ; but the owner of the
unfenced property could bring an action
at common law against you for any damage
caused by your trespass, a point upon
which you made no inquiry.
What is the life history of the silver-fish?
Do they hatch straight from eggs or go
through changes like moths? —4716.
The lai-vm are hatched from eggs deposited
either singly in cracks or crannies of bark,
rock, etc., or in masses in suitable holes in
the ground. The young larva is very similar
to the adult in form. You will fin'd a
description in “Insects of Australia and
New Zealand,” by R. J. Tillyard, and in
the N.Z. Journal of Science and Tech-
nology for November, 1924.
Information Supplied.
4283.—The only way to cure a hard corn
is to keep it from pressing against any-
thing. To get rid of it, shield it—and it
will drop off. For instance, if the corn is
on top of a toe, cut some washers of
soft leather —boot-tongues are excellent —and
attach them so that the corn is in the
centre. Have the washers large and thick
enough to keep fhe corn absolutely free from
any pressure of the boot. The worst of
corns will answer to this treatment readily,
as long as you don’t cut at them or apply
acids, etc.—“Yufu.”
4206.—T0 eradicate cape tulip, take one
paddock at a time, and cultivate thoroughly,
working as long as you can into the sumnibr.
Leave as bare fallow all the summer, and in
the autumn sow subterranean clover. Do
not graze until the clover is well established.
Use as grazing land for a .couple of years,
top-dressing annually, and ! then break up
and crop. On all land too steep, rough or
heavily timbered to cultivate, broadcast
wattle seed thickly and then fire the grass.
Keep stock off the young wattles until they
are big enough to cut and strip. As soon as
the wattles are off the ground broadcast
mixed fodder-grass seed on the bare ground
when the first winter rain comes. Keep the
grubber going along the fences and other
places. Avhere implements can’t reach. The
wattles, when close, prevent the tulip: from
groAving at all.—“ Lucerne Flea.”
4162. —To cement glass tubing into iron
elbows, clean thoroughly with petrol and use
litharge (a red oxide of lead) mixed with
glycerine to the consistency of thick cream.
Use as soon as mixed, as it soon hardens.
—“F.C.B.”
Does Anybody Know?
How can a house-tank be cleaned by
syphon ?—4857.
Brief Answers.
G.C.: Wormald Bros., Ltdo 19 Bligh-
street (“Pyrene”) ; Alinimax, Ltd., 49 Clarence-street
(“Minimax”) ; Storey Bros., Ltd., Crown-street,
Glebe (“Childs”) : and Motor Specialties, Ltd., 15
Raglan-street, Darlington (“Kar Care”) —all of
Sydney. Campbell and Co. Pty!, Ltd., 278 Queen-
street (“Igon” and “Fire Gun”) ; Mail- and Co. Pty.,
119 Elizabeth-street (“Fyrfyter”) ; Prest Air Devices
Pty., Ltd., 99 Queen-street (“Prest-Air”) ; AValter
G. Scott, 309 King-street (“Ideal”) —all of Mel-
bourne. AVm. Hudd and Co., Ltd., 21 Roper-street,
Adelaide (“La France”)... .Mrs. D.: AVrite to the
Registrar-General, General Registry Office, Dublin,
Ireland. .. .A.A.M.: Oh your account of it you are
entitled to a pension.. Apply to the Deputy Com-
missioner, Department of Repatriation, Brisbane....
8.R.H.: Travelling concessions are granted by the
N.S.W. Government to ex-soldiers suffering from
amputation of a leg, an arm, loss of an eye or the
sight of an eye, or a disability to a leg or an arm
equivalent to amputation. In other cases, passes are
granted only if theex-soldier is classified as totally
incapacitated. (2) The passes are only available
when the disability has been accepted as due to war
service... .J.H.: (1) The “shingle” is not on the
wane in Sydney, but at present there is general
slackness In the hairdressing trade. (2) A copy of
the N.S.W. award and variation of award for lady
hairdressers can be obtained from the Government
Printer, 4d. each. (3) Permanent waving is done
extensively in Sydney. (4) Very difficult to say
definitely, but the practice is dying 0ut....8.1. :
Write to E. ltoos, 76 Pitt-street, Sydney... .V.S.:
“E.P.F.” can be obtained from Complete Fertilisers,
Ltd., T. and G. Building, Adelaide, S.A., price £l6
per ton f.o.r. Adelaide... .C.J.S.: The N.S.W. Child
Welfare Department might be able to place the girl
in a suitable home.... W. 8.: There are no set rules.
The dimensions of the originals of the four drawings
in the Abo. pages this week are: Glover’s, 13Jin.
by 12in. ; Paul’s, 12Jin. by 14in. ; Scorfield’s, 16jin.
by 14-Jin. ; Waring’s, 12Jin. by 14jin J.K.:
Schopenhauer’s Essays, various titUs, in the Modern
Library series, can be got from the itoycroft Library,
11 Rowe-street, Sydney, 6s. per volume.... A. J.W.:
The N.S.W. Pastoral Employees Award prescribes
that “where a married couple is engaged to work
on any station, the sum total of their remuneration
shall not be less than at the rate of £2OO per year
and keep.” The Industrial Registrar, Sydney, will
give you further particulars A.C.T.: The firm is
a reputable English one, and makes good guns. But
make sure that the second-hand offering is in good
condition before purchasing... .G.R.: Consult the
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau, Sydney.... Jj(s.:
Apply to the Chief Secretary’s Department, Sydney,
for a license to kill. N.S.W. law provides for a
penalty not exceeding £5O in the case of any person
who poisons or attempts to poison a wallaby without
a license. .. .H.G.F.: (1) Things are slack in Darwin
and there are many unemployed. Only a few white
men are employed on the stations in the cattle area,
most of the stock work being done by abos. (2)
By train from Adelaide to Qodnadatta, about £5 ; ;
from Oodnadatta to Darwin by motor, about £l5.
.(3) H. Nelson, M.H.R., Canberra; Secretary of the
North Australia Commission, Darwin. (4) A job
might be obtained on the Oodnadatta-Alice Springs
railway construction. .. .A.C.: The electrical trade in
Australia is somewhat depressed just now, but a
competent electrical machanic or wireman pos-
sessing a N.Z. wireman’s license would stand
a chance if he could wait a while. N.S.W.
award rate is: Weekly, £5 155.; hourly, 2s.
Bd. to 2s. lid Pioneer: Fur farming is
not permitted in N.S.W., but a commission is
inquiring into the subject. AVrite to the Secretary,
Fur Farming Commission, Department of Agriculture,
Sydney... .N.T.N.: George Baker, operatic baritone,
first appeared in Sydney at the Theatre Royal on
August 3, 1922, in a revue “The Peep Show.” ■ In
February of 1923 he appeared in “Sally” at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. He returned to England after
the tour. .. .L.M.: The gang-gang (Callocephalon
fimbriatum) is one of the most distinctive of our
cockatoos. It is restricted to the South of Australia.
. ...S.N.N.: (1) Yes, but they must be sheltered
from cold. (2) Each pair should have an area to
themselves not less than sft. by sft., including
herbage of some kind A.K.8.: Unless the com-
plainant could show some specific damage
action against A would probably be futile. Further,
the Government department concerned can claim
privilege under law in refusing to disclose the source
of its information. . . .F.. 1. : Wood-inlay transfers,
inlays and stock carvings can be got from F. H.
Powell and Co., 13 Parker-street, Sydney ; cannot trace
anybody who stocks wood-veneer papers... .L.C.: D
would be responsible; see Sec. 18 Contractors’ Debts
Act, 1897 (N.5.W.)... .F.P.: Spare parts are not
stocked in Sydney. Cowles and Dunn, 453 Kent-
street, Sydney, might be able to make them....
E.J.M.1.: (1) If British Solomons, write to the
Resident Commissioner at Tulagi. If Mandated Ter-
ritory, write to Home and Territories Dept., Can-
berra. (2) Colonial Secretary, Government Offices,
Suva, Fiji. (3) Deputy Commissioner for the West-
ern Pacific, Nukualofa, Friendly Islands. (4) Home
and Territories Dept., Canberra. (5) Resident Com-
missioner, Vila, New Hebrides. (6) Stewart’s
“Handbook of the Pacific Islands” gives a list of
the principal business firms... .H.A.D.: There is a
limited market for antimony in Australia and a
general market in London. The latest London
quote is £59 15s. per ton for English, or equal,
and £42 ss. for foreign (mostly Chinese)
C.E.8.: (1) Advised that it is safer to send in a
return, adding a note of the circumstances. (2)
Yes; though the ords. may presently be as good
a gamble. .. . W. 8.: The “Imperial,” Rutledge and
Co., Wingello House, Angel-place, Sydney, and “Bar-
lock,” from Fred K. Staples, 84a Hunter-street,
Sydney.... J.W.: (1) Immersion of the whole move-
ment in benzine would not clean a watch thoroughly.
It should be dismantled piece by piece and care-
fully oiled after being re-assembled—a job for an
expert. (2) Benzine is preferable to methylated
spirits. .. .F.P.G.: The result of the 1910 N.S.AA'.
Local Option Poll was—Continuance, 342,973 ; reduc-
tion, 38,856 ; no license, 212,889. Seventjj-six
electorates were in favor of continuance, 14 in
favor of reduction and none in favor of no license
In 1913 the figures were—Continuance, 380,707 ; reduc-
tion, 44,553 ; no license, 245.202 ; 75 electorates
voted continuance, 15 reduction, none no license....
K.L.8.; The weight of the latest “Chevrolet” model
is 22401 b D.M.1.: First National Pictures, 383
Madison-avenue; Universal Pictures Corp., 730 Fifth-
avenue ; Famous Players’ Lasky Corp., 485 Fifth-
avenue —all New York... .J.K.: Consult the “Navy
List” at the Public Library... .F.A.F.: Valkyrie was
one of the maidens of Odin, god of War, who hover
over the field of battle, choosing those to be slain and
conducting the worthy heroes to Valhalla... .Rahuana :
Miss Newton Russell, Public School, Glenmore-road,
Paddington... .V.A’.AV.; (l) Mrs. Mabel Forrest was
born at Darling Downs, Zora Cross at Brisbane,
Dorothea Mackellar at Rose Bay, Sydney. (2) Edward
A. yidler, 187 Collins-street, Melbourne. .. .AV.B.:
The reference was not to a U-shaped rabbit-trap but
to a method of stretching rabbit skins. .. .R.J.8.:
(1) See reply to 4811. (2) The dyeing process is
a trade secret. Send the skin to Tost and Rohu,
Martin-place, Sydney... .E.M.: The dog’s condition
may be due to chronic dyspepsia or constipation.
Pending an examination by a veterinary surgeon,
wash out his mouth and throat with weak solutions
of hydrogen peroxide, and brush his teeth with the
same solution.. . .AV.R. (S.A.) : Turn up review, B.
19/l/’28... .F.R.U.: If you want safety first, no;
returns are a long way off, and many things may
happen meantime... .W.H.W.: Ditto; and another
trouble is that, there being no Exchange quotation,
you would probably have difficulty in getting out
if you needed the money. . . .A.S.F.: The other stock
seems to be a bit less unsteady... .P. F.P.: Don’t be
stampeded into selling. If they drop below ss. it
might pay to buy a few to bring your average down.
.... Ernest M.: A game of chance. If you can’t
afford to gamble, take your money... .J.T.M.: You
couldn’t get par for them. Solid prospects, but you
would have to wait, perhaps some years. Reviewed
B. 12/1 /’2B. . . .G.A.C.: It’s not the right investment
for a man in your position. Get out if you can,
though we don’t know whether they’ll let y0u....
(Many others mailed.)


(6)Al^(IR
" f> <*>.
£3!
fx
i
!)/•
i
<f
Now—Fit the New
Australian Made
Goodyear Tyre
—Lower Priced
THE new Australian Made Goodyear
Tyre offers you a larger, fuller measure
of tyre value.
For today's Australian Made Goodyear is
the greatest tyre Goodyear ever made.
And that has genuine significance because
Goodyear has made more than one hum
dred and ten million tyres.
The first cost of Goodyears is now reduced
to that of other tyres —resulting in still even
lower cost-per-mile, than ever.
Therefore look to the new Australian-
Made Goodyear Balloon with the hew type
All Weather Tread. It provides fuller
traction, greater safety and longer, slower
tread wear.
The NEW LOW
PRICES apply to
ALL Sizes and types
of INNER TUBES
and all CASINGS
other than a few
sizes which are in
small demand.
28-6 C


as
LIFE ASSURANCE IS A
DUTY THAT CANNOT WAIT
Most men intend to protect their dependents with Life
Assurance, but many delay until too late, or at best, until
their premiums have become needlessly high. If you too,
are in their position, accept this duty now and act upon it.
There is a P. &C C. policy to meet your case —a policy
that gives you the benefits of co-operative assurance and
one that provides absolute security.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD^
114 - lIQ CASTLE RE AQM ST. SYDNEY
-.MJUWWMa&QOOWOW^g
-TV nfWXVPWWWWWKV^rT?
FRANCE v
„ /
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
\lartell’s comes from Cognac only•
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELL'S
BRANDY
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PREPARING THE LUCERNE
PADDOCK.
“Hatter”: There are two conditions fatal
to the growth of lucerne. One is bad drain-
age, and the other a very acid soil. Water
must not he reached within six feet of the
surface, nor must it lie on the ground, when
flooded, for more than a couple of days.
Neither will the plant flourish on ground
where possibly successive crops of maize
have exhausted the lime contents.
It is advisable to look ahead and lay
plans many months before seeding. The
simplest method of introducing the necessary
bacteria into the soil is to sow a few pounds
of lucerne with the previous crop. If it is
too late to do this, another plan is to feed
lucerne chaff to stock in the paddock, or to
broadcast soil taken from a lucerne stand
before seeding. Although crops are often
raised without this precaution it is well
worth while to make a thorough job of it
and ensure a luxuriant stand.
It is essential that the ground should be
fallowed and well worked until all weeds are
eradicated, and it should finally be cultivated
to a fine tilth and allowed to firm before the
sowing. If sown in loose ground the small
seeds do not make close contact with the
particles of soil and the sprouts shrivel
with the heat. Lucerne can be sown in
spring or autumn, but in America autumn
sowing is more usual, as it is considered to
produce a cleaner crop. The artificials re-
quired are nitrogen, potash and phosphorus:
but nitrogen is only used at the start, as
the plant later on absorbs it from the atmo-
sphere and stores it in the soil.
HARNESS PRESERVATIVE.
“Boyanga”: “Keystring” (P». 9/5/’2B)
appears to be having trouble in finding a
suitable preservative for his harness. Try this.
Add to every gallon of draft castor oil one
pint of good neatsfoot oil. Wash the harness
with soft soap and warm water, allow to
dry, then take a rag and rub the mixture
on the leather; it does no harm to place
the harness in the sun until the mixture has
been absorbed. I treated harness and saddles
in this manner seven years ago and the
leather is still uncracked and the stitching
sound.
Another advantage of this preparation is
that, if properly applied, the oil does not
remain on the outside of the leather on a
saddle, and so spoil the user’s trousers.
If “Keystring” has a small bottle of castor
oil on hand I would advise him to try it
on some old harness just to see the differ-
ence it makes, even though he may have no
neatsfoot oil to put with it; the latter
has a softening effect which is essential on
such parts of the harness as girths and col-
lars.
I use the same preparation on the belt of
the engine in the woolshcd to prevent slip-
ping.
LIME AS A FERTILISER.
“Paul C.”: Get unslaked lime and slake
it in the field. This process is best accom-
plished by adding to the heap one-third its
weight' in water and then cover with an
inch or two of earth. Air-slaked lime is
practically the same as quicklime, only that
it has been allowed to slake without the
addition of water; having taken longer to
break down, it will have lost some of its
potency, so that it would require half as
much again to give the same result as quick-
lime. Taking these points into considera-
tion quicklime comes first; air-slaked lime
next, and carbonate of lime, or ground
limestone, last. One advantage of carbonate
of lime, however, is that it is much milder
in its action than the other forms, and con-
sequently it is the best to use on light, sandy
soils. These soils are not rich in organic
matter, and the action of freshly slaked
lime is too drastic on the little organic
matter they do contain. Where soils are
heavy and clayey, freshly slaked lime may
be used with advantage. The amount of
lime to use depends on the nature of the
soil and its degree of acidity. On light soils
that are not very acid a ton of quicklime
or double the weight of carbonate of lime
per acre is usually sufficient, but on heavy
clay soils that show the presence of acid when
the litmus-paper test is applied, very much
heavier dressings may be applied.
GRASS-EATING CATERPILLARS.
“Ruffy”: Small moths have been in
myriads over large areas in Victoria, and
assuredly they mean trouble. Indeed, already
some districts are complaining of a plague
of grass-eating caterpillars. 1 remember a
plague of these caterpillars in 1899. In
different parts of the district they were in
moving myriads, cleaning up the grass in a
remarkable manner, and after they had
passed, any uneaten grass had the appear-
ance of being blasted by a lire. Hot, muggy
weather (in the spring) set in, and in a
few days the plague was done with. The
creatures became infested with some fungus,
and would erawl up rushes, grass stems,
posts, or stumps of trees. They would com-
mence to rot from the rear end, the head
portion being still alive after the lower part
had become a putrefying mass. I brought
the matter under the notice of the Govern-
ment entomologist, and have often regretted
that steps were not taken to cultivate this
fungus, and try its efficacy against the
codlin-moth larva. It must have been pretty
well spread, as I found it in north-eastern
Victoria, Brittlebank noted its effects at
Bacchus Marsh, and it was reported from
the Mallee. But the fungus requires warm,
muggy weather to ensure its spread, and, of
course, unless infection takes place very soon,
that can scarcely be experienced this year
before October. In the meantime enormous
damage may be done. Poisoned bait.—4olb.
bran, 101 b." pollard, 121 b. arsenic and 81b.
molasses—-laid liberally, would destroy very
considerable numbers, as would a flock of
sheep driven over. affected country.
CARING FOR STAKED HORSES.
“B-Gar”: In all classes of country horses
are liable to become staked; and wherever
there is scrub it can be depended upon that
many will receive a prod. Pulling the stake
out is not sufficient, for the danger will lie
with any broken-off particle. Never be cer-
tain the whole of the stake has been with-
drawn ; use something to draw out any
foreign matter. Venice “turps” is good; in
the absence of that, use a poultice of soap
and sugar, or even flour and treacle. Unless
the piece left in is deeply and firmly em-
bedded, any of these should draw it out; if
it won’t, a knife will have to be used. After
the stake has been withdrawn, wash or
syringe with a weak antiseptic. If it is a
bad case, keep the horse in the yard and
treat three times a day, until certain the
wound is on the mend. Surgical pliers are
handy tools to have.
THE PRINCIPLES OF CULLING.
“Gamma”: Too frequently this work is
performed perfunctorily, and often “on the
gate,” which is only playing with it. The
objects of culling may be stated as follows:
(1) To eliminate the unprofitable animal.
(2) To make the flock even in quality, color and
length of wool, and so enable the sale of bigger
and more even lines of wool in the bale.
(3) To produce a line of sheep even in size, shape
and appearance, which will enhance their value to
the buyer of a breeding flock when the time for
selling comes.
(4) To ensure for the coming generation of lambs
a similar uniformity.
This work can only be efficiently performed
by a skilled classer. Wool must be the basis
worked from, and any system of sheep-
classing or culling which does not accept this
as an axiom must fail in its objective. Due
consideration must always be given to con-
formity, but quantity and quality of wool
will always be the determining factor.
To those graziers who do not themselves
possess the technical knowledge and experi-
ence required, a classer will prove a profit-
able investment. Charges are about the
same as for wool-classing, with a minimum
fee for small flocks j, and the first cost should
be more than repaid in the improvement in
the first subsequent wool-clip.
There appears to be a general disposition
on the part of the growers to regard further
improvement of their flocks by the process
of culling (except in the matter of occasion-
ally running off a few blacks to the killing
paddock) as unnecessary, and the employ-
ment of a sheep-classer as an unwarranted
expense. Nor is this the attitude of only
the smaller sheep man, with his one or two
thousand sheep. Many graziers with 10 and
20 times that number, who would not dream
of commencing shearing without a classer in
the shed, will cheerfully neglect the classing
of their sheep. Yet it is surely obvious that
the classing of the wool affects only the
wool, whereas the classing of the sheep
affects the flock production for the remainder
of the life of the flock, and, further, of all
future generations of the flock.
It is in the writer’s experience that the
wool of a big line of station-bred ewes of
one mark was classed into nine different
lines of fleece wool before the classing of the
flock. In the following year, and after the
sheep had been thoroughly gone through,
three lines only of fleece wool were made, the
six inferior lines having been eliminated.
There was also an increase in weight cut
per head, and the prices- were much improved
upon. In this case it was estimated that a
net improvement of a shilling per head was
made in the annual value of these sheep,
quite apart from the improvement in the
progeny.
FOOTROT.
“Blowfly” : In the winter of 1926 I had
a number of young wethers attacked badly
by footrot. Their feet grew to an abnormal
size, and many became lame. At first we
tried paring down their feet to the natural
size, being careful not to draw blood. We
then turned them out again into a paddock
which was on a slight slope, but this was
found to be an insufficient cure. We then
drafted them all into a small paddock near
the yards. A trough was filled measuring
20ft. long, 2ft. wide and 6in. deep. This
was fitted into a race, and filled with a
strong solution of bluestone (copper sul-
phate). The sheep 'were' then made to walk
slowly through it, and thence to a drying
yard. We repeated this for about 10 days,
when we found the sheep to be almost sound
again. Care had to be taken that the sheep
were not “blown,” as the smell of the rot
attracted more flies. Another dip which we
tried was arsenious acid, 31b.; carbonate
of potash, 21b.; and water, 14 gallons. This,
however, did not prove nearly as beneficial
as the bluestone dip, and was more expensive.
SHEEP AND NEW WATER.
“N.M.E.”: It pays to put animals, especi-
ally sheep, in a yard and hold them over-
night to create a thirst before letting them
go on a new water. That ensures a good
drink, and they’ll come back to it then,
knowing where it is. If they don’t go there
thirsty, and merely look at the water and
have a casual sip, they remember only the
water from which you have brought them,
and when they feel thirsty again they’ll try
to make back to it. . .
With new sheep on a new water it is
advisable to hold them a day and feed them
out from the new water. That makes
fresh pads, and nothing can read the writing
on the ground so well as sheep.
KHAKI WEED.
“Boyanga” : Keep a good look out fdr p
new importation, Altcrnnntlicra acliyantha
or khaki weed. This burr spreads over the,
ground in a thick mass, the stems being
woolly-haired and branch frequently, a -so
rooting at the joints. The leaves are abovu
an inch long, oval-shaped and light green,
the flowers consist of small, stiff, straw-
colored bunches at each joint. The scei.s
are three-spiked and carried easily by stocK
as they leave the plant readily.
The weed seems thickest at woolsheds.
which suggests that motor-lorries are re-
sponsible for its rapid spread. Jhe seed
having spikes is picked up in the tread ol
the tyres, and it is mainly when the lorry
stops and starts that it is dislodged.
It has been declared noxious in Soutn
Africa, from which country it probably came
here; but the plant is supposed to be a
native of South America.
WORKING THE DOG.
“Bourri”: When you’re breaking-in a
pup, don’t make him come to heel after
every little run. Instead of saying “Gome
behind,” tell him “That wall do.” If the
game’s bred in him he’ll soon savvy, and
stay on his own side of the tail when he’s
done the particular job you sent him out
on. The advantages are well worth the time
spent teaching it. You save your dog miles
of useless travelling, give your own lungs
a rest, and also save the sheep. Constantly
sending a dog full belt round the wing for
the sake of a handful of unruly leaders is
bad. A quiet tyke moving slowly and if
necessary constantly from tail to wing does
twice the work with half the knocking about.
At the same time, make your hound keep
his own side. That is, never let him cross
between the sheep and you. If you want
him on the opposite wing, bring him behind
and cast him out afresh.
FEEDING CALVES.
“P.M.” : It is all nonsense for “Lex” (B.
9/5/’2B) to say you shouldn’t feed calves
together in a trough. Some of them may
get a little more than others, and if they
are bigger they need it. A gallon and
a quarter is a good meal for a calf; if you
put in a gallon and a half each, you leave
plenty of margin. Besides, you can hunt
off the quick drinkers if they tend to make
it a welter. In. large dairy farms of 100 to
120 cows, where they rear every calf, and
the cows all calve in the one month of the
year, it would be a hopelessly unprofitable
proposition to try to feed calves individually.
In dairying, as in everything else nowa-
days, expenses must be kept down, and
trough-feeding of poddies is one way.
The best way to drive out air bubbles
and prevent scours is to use an anti-scour
preparation. There is one on sale in Vic-
toria consisting chiefly of cod-liver oil and
linseed oil. As soon as the skim milk com-
mences to run from the separator, put some
in the skim-milk tank —a tablespoonful for
every 40 gallons is plenty—and there will
not be a drop of froth on the milk. Another
good way to prevent scours is to brown flour
in the oven and mix about a tablespoonful to
15 or 20 gallons of milk.
Another important point is the age to
wean poddies off milk. Fourteen weeks is
quite young enough; 16 or 17 weeks is
better. In the cooler parts of Victoria a
calf weaned, too young stands a poor chance
in a rough winter.
MILKING MACHINES.
“Paul C.” : There are many on the market,
and a few points must be kept in mind by
the buyer if he would have first-class cream.
He should select the machine that has all
piping, both milk and vacuum, in lengths and.
junctions that are easily dismantled. The
same thing applies to the vacuum tank;
where the junctions exist they should be
exactly the same diameter inside as the tub-
ing they join, for all recesses lead to con-
tamination. Indeed, the very best type of
machine, so far as cleanliness is concerned,
is the one that dispenses with unions alto-
gether, and depends on rubber rings and
vacuum action to keep the joints intact.
The inflations should be of short sections of
rubber tubing, so that they can be easily
cleaned. The rest depends' mainly on the
farmer himself.
The reason of the former prejudice against
machines was that they were not properly
cleaned after each milking, and the conse-
quence was contaminated cream that the
factories had to class as second grade. An-
other fault was that certain rubber parts
were kept in use long after they should have
been replaced. When inflations or rubber
tubing become spongy, at each squeeze
bacteria are exuded into the fresh milk from
this decaying rubber. No amount of clean-
ing is any use when rubber parts get into
this condition. Regular and thorough clean-
ing from the outset is the only way to keep
milking machines in a sanitary condition,
and the farmer should either do this work
himself , or superintend it.
The machines should be cleaned before the
milk has a chance to dry in the tubes. Each
set of cups should be well brushed in luke-
warm water, and then, starting at the far
(Continued on page 31.)
MAKE THE PLACE PAY BETTER
During May 420 graziers, farmers and orchardists wrote to
this page, telling us things they thought other graziers, farmers or
orchardists ought to know.
This month we want 500 to write to us.
We can’t undertake to print everything, but we will publish the
most practical letters, AND PAY FOR THEM.
That neighbor of yours has had a lot of experience, and is
pretty well educated. Will you tell him about it?


OVER A YEAR OLD—AND STILL A YEAR
AHEAD
\
A*;
S'
B
A
\
c
Over a year ago
we prophesied
“This new-type car (Whippet) will
make millions of light cars, not offer-
ing its advantages of economy, safety
' and good looks, obsolete. 1 ’
Todays trend shows
Whippets tremendous influence
Public Preference has swung to this
Modem Light Car of Proved Superiority
In a little over a year’s dme the Whippet
has revolutionized light car design.
With more than2oo,ooo Whippets in
the hands of enthusiastic owners, and
the popularity of this modem car in-
creasing everywhere, other makers
now must follow Whippet’s lead.
Whippet set a wholly new standard
of economy and introduced such
big car advantages into the light car
field as 4-wheel brakes, lower center
of gravity, higher speed, increased
roominess and force-feed lubrication*
Today the Whippet is still a year ahead
of the industry. For Whippet design
has been proved by hundreds of mil-
lions of miles of driving.
Even a short ride in a Whippet will
demonstrate the car’s remarkable
qualities—flashing acceleration, great
power on hills, high speed, easy riding,
convenient handling and parking,
increased safety and economy*
First light car to offer
4 - wheel brakes as
national standard
equipment •
IY7L • ±
Whippet
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E, G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE!.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 5 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.


or
H
o
M
62
%
W'/,
•?>«■
vmax
WM
7-m
m
mm
m$
m
m
QTO
m
*2
¥A
*fl
dk
.-
wm
zsSs
73
LOOK INTO, AS WELL AS AT, THE IMPROVED 'FIVE-THREE’
When comparing any other players with the Improved r Five-Three’insist
on seeing them dismantled. It’s the only way to compare finish for finish
THERE are two separate units in a
player-piano—the piano itself and
the player action. And in each of them
the real value lies in the internal struc-
ture. The only sure way to judge an
instrument is to see the inside. In our
showrooms you will
find one of our Im-
proved 'Five-Three’
Players dismantled.
Every detail of design,
workman-
ship, and finish is there
for you to examine.
When comparing
other instruments with
the 'Five-Three,’ insist
on seeing them also
dismantled. Refuse to
buy where you are not
granted this opportunity. After all, you
are the most concerned in the purchase,
you are the best judge as to what you
are buying. To choose an instrument
on outward appearances only is buying
in the dark. You owe it to yourself,
In comparing other
instruments with the
Improved 'Five-Three’
only compare instrn-
ments in the highest-
priced class. The 'Five-
Three’ was designed to
compete with this class
and this only, notwith-
standing the low price
for which it is sold.
to your purse, to your home, to insist
on facilities for inspection equal to
those afforded you in regard to the
'Five-Three.’ Among other features of
the improved model is the indestructible
lacquer finish, not the old time French
polish. It is guaranteed
not to crack, check, go
white, sink into the
wood or grow dull.
When visiting our
showroom, ask to see
the hot-water test. It
is the most amazing
proof of confidence.
The case-work is wal-
nut veneer, laid verti-
cally. Top and bottom
doors, new flush type.
The player action con-
tains every proved, device for perfect
expression, and the tonal richness of
the Improved 'Five-Three’ equals that
of a concert piano of highest quality.
Full descriptive matter sent post
free anywhere. Terms, easiest possible.
The
Improved ‘Fiv e-Three*
Player at the old price*
£ 205
shows a saving of any-
thing up to £7O.
The Beale is also available in
combination with the Ampico
—the world’s most wonderful
reproducing medium. Ask to
hear the superb Beale-Ampicok
BEALE & COMPANY
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories ?
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandalt
.. "V
Branches —New South Wales: Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth, and Maples at Wagga and Albury.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia:
Savery’.l Pianos, Limited, Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s, Limited. Queensland: G. J. Grice, Limited, Bris-
bane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Gairns.
15.F.p.28.


THESPORTING BROGUE
Light and Pliant.
An Abbey shoe designed for
the active man’s comfort—
thick-soled and durable for all
its lightness and flexibility. ft
is broad-welted, with full
brogued upper.
Low-cut sides make it fit the
ankle closely without the least
tightness. Its non-chafing heel
snugly grips the foot. The toe
is smartly patterned and roomy.
Order by post—3 widths
for every size
No difficulty about measure
—you can choose a narrow,
medium or wide fitting in any
size. State which you need and
ask for a supply of the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin) with
your order.
Tan Willow Calf - - - 43/6
Black Box Calf - - - 37/6
40-Page Colored Catalogue
Post Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St & 224 Pitt St.,
L 75 SYDNEY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
M ED! C | Na
Toilet
The Refreshing
Fragrance
Of a newly opened cake of
Cuticura Soap, combined
with its purity and emollient
properties, make it the ideal
Soap for all toilet uses. It
cleanses and purifies the skin
and helps to keep it clear, fresh
and youthful.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney .N.S.W.”
gjfigr* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Cjfub
lynt
Save Trouble
and a Mix upof Apparel
Which often nappens at the Laundry,
when Linen or Woollen Articles are not
plainly marked—so, be wise, save trouble
and loss, and
Mark all Linen with
df
They are “BEST BY TEST” • absolutely
Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on. j;
<&.&!lt±££casru i-
Actual Size. Style No 6
PRICES
12 dot. ik
6 do?.
3 do?. 3k
v-T:,
Sold by all Best Drapers
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street.. Richmond,
Melbourne
Gainsborough Shajoe
Ladies lose their hearts
to the beautiful Shelley Tea Sets. To lift a Shelley cup is to
feel the quality in it. Only inherited craftsmanship, genera-
tions old, and the jealously guarded secrets of the Shelley
potteries can make China like this—so feathery light that you
could hardly believe it so strong. When their quality is con-
sidered, Shelley Tea and Coffee Sets cannot be deemed expensive.
Ask. to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds —all British. In ease
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: —T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look tor the name Shellei] on each piece of China
asdf
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq. *
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
end of the bails, each set of cups should
have a couple of gallons of lukewarm water
drawn through them, lifting them in and
out occasionally to let air be drawn into the
tubes with the water. When this has been
done, the whole process should be gone over
again, this time with scalding water to
which has been added a little soda. Then
the milk pipe should be cleaned with the
brush provided. About a gallon of clean
scalding water should be drawn through each
set of cups to remove traces of the soda. r lhe
teat-cups and rubber should now be taken
apart, and soaked for a couple of minutes
in a bath of 3oz. of formalin to 10 gallons
of water. Lime-water is sometimes used,
but the action of the lime makes the metal
parts of the teat cups black. When the next
milking is about to commence, the teat-cups
and pipes should be flushed out with clean
water to remove any traces of formalin.
Once each day all small metal pipes, in-
flations, rubbers and claws should be taken
apart, and thoroughly brushed out with hot
soda water.
All this means work, but it pays, for, given
proper care and cleanliness, milk taken by
machine has less chance of contamination
than that drawn by hand.
GRINDSTONE LORE.
“Bert the Carpenter”: The small emery-
wheel is a far better implement for the farm
than the old-type grindstone; but some men
never seem to put anything, from an axe to
a pair of shears, near an emery-wheel with-
out drawing the temper. For them the old
grindstone is best. When mounting the stone
put a piece of wood across in front of it
to act as a rest. This enables you to grind
cutting edges with an even bevel, quite dif-
ferent from the rounded-off one which results
when the tool is held in the hands alone.
If the stone wears “out of true,” get a
short piece of steel tube from an old bicycle
frame, and turn the stone steadily towards
you. Place the tube firmly on the grinding
rest, and press one end slowly towards one
edge of the stone. As soon as the stone
begins to scrape against the tube, turn the
tube around in your hands, so as to keep
bringing a fresh edge against the stone,
which must be dry. The stone will cut away
so rapidly that a few minutes’ work brings
it true again.
Now a word of warning. If you turn your
grindstone by engine-power, be sure that
the stone does not make more than 150
revolutions per minute. If you run it any
faster than that, it is liable to burst in
pieces and cause serious injury. The same
applies to emery-wheels, for which 1000
revolutions per minute are sufficient. I saw
an emery-wheel burst in a sawmill at Clare
(S.A.) a couple of years ago, and bits of the
wheel went through the galvanised-iron roof
as if .it had been paper. Had anyone been
using that wheel at the time, the local
coroner would have had a job.
HORSES V. TRACTORS.
“Nota Bene” : At the last meeting of the
Melbourne Royal Agricultural Society it
was decided to provide a prize of £5O for the
best district exhibit of Clydesdales. The
society’s belief is that many farmers are
giving up motor-tractors in favor of Clydes-
dales, and that more will do so if the breed
can be improved.
TO BEAT WHITE ANTS.
“W.D.C.”: If “AdeL.” (B. 18/5/’2S)
beds his posts on 2in. to 3in. of salt, and
packs about 2in. round them at ground-
level, he will find that the white ants will
leave them alone. Bed-logs for machinery
treated on these lines in the N.T. lasted for
as many years as they did months when pro-
tected by any other means.
PATERSON ORANGES.
“XSA”: Recently I visited one of the
finest citrus orchards in the famous Paterson
district. Nothing better could be found any-
where. Trees vigorous and in great heart.
Crop magnificent. Yet the whole concern
was a challenge to every tradition.
Firstly, the trees were planted out before;
stumps were disposed of, and much of the
fallen timber was actually burnt off after
planting out had been concluded. The stuff
was pulled aside to allow the rows to take
shape. Then from the date of planting the
trees have never been cultivated. I wit-
nessed the annual once-over, which consisted
of slashing down the dense undergrowth per
billhook. All this rubbish lies on the
ground to rot. Wild vines had in many
instances climbed and almost enveloped trees
over 16 feet in height. Rocks and boulders
had been gathered and piled around the
butts, simply, as the owner explained, to
enable the vans to collect the fruit. Not a
single case is packed: the whole crop is dis-
patched in dumps to an enterprising mer-
chant who completes the marketing opera-
tions—strange to say, to the complete satis-
faction of the grower.
Having interests in a district where to
permit one weed is to gain a most unen-
viable reputation, I have made up my mind
that when I locate the proper situation and
soil, I shall throw a few hundred Paterson
seedlings into the ground, buy a billhook
and retire.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“G.H.F.: Many boundary-riders will be
making their daily round among the lambing
ewes, and, sooner or later, will find it
necessary to help a ewe in trouble —no
pleasant job. Last year I had a few nasty
cases, so this season I purchased a pair of
rubber gloves. They’ve been a Heaven-sent
blessing, and they cost only a few shillings.
“Hackensmith”: Sheep-owners, especially
those in the southern districts, will notice
an improvement in the health of their sheep
if, instead of putting out plain salt, they
use the following mixture. To each bag of
salt add 151 b. tobacco dust, 71b. sulphate of
iron, 41b. slacked lime, and in a dry season
21b. Epsom salts. Mix well, and put out in
sheltered troughs. When using for the first
time, it is a good plan to add a few pounds
only of the tobacco dust, increasing the
quantity as the sheep acquire the taste.
“Hugh Calyptus”: When bore water is
the only kind available, there is a method
of minimising its ill effects. Apply the
waterings only in furrows at a little _ dis-
tance from the plants. Overhead waterings,
in wetting the foliage, tend to encrust it
w T ith saline matter, and this contributes to
a form of sunburn, parching the leaves.
Let the waterings along the furrows be soak-
ing ones, in well-drained soil, to encourage
the surplus “salts” to fall below the root
level of the plants, arid thus be drained
away. Then mulch the soil a few inches
deep with straw, etc. Tall growing crops,
and any that tend to shade the soil, contri-
bute to the purpose. When the patch becomes
sterile in course of time, shift.
“Tomjoey” : An incinerator, as mentioned
by “Boronia” (B. 16/5/’2S), is by far the
best thing to get rid of orchard or vine-
yard prunings; but there are incinerators
and incinerators. The sides should slope in
towards the bottom, which should be no
more than IS inches in width. Otherwise
the cuttings burn only in the centre and
choke the contrivance; with sloping sides all
the short ends fall to the bottom and are
burnt completely. Mount it on an old cul-
tivator frame —putting it on poles, as
‘■‘Boronia” directs, makes it hard for old
Nugget to tow along.
“Bulan”: When commencing to feed sil-
age to stock, send out only a small quantity,
and that in the evenings, if large quanti
ties are put out in the morning and the
sheep do not take to it, it will dry out in
the hot sun in a few hours, and then will
certainly not be touched. Also see that a
supply of salt is available.
“Max”: Graziers will be strengthened in
their objections to the introduction of Alsa-
tian wolf-hounds by a paragraph in a recent
English paper. Seventy-seven sheep in a
Surrey meadow were attacked early one
morning by two Alsatians. Ten of the
sheep were killed outright, and 36 were so
badly injured that they had to be destroyed.
Of the remainder, huddled together in a
corner, everv one bore a bite of- some sort.
“Tariff”: "An acid etch (B. 2/5/’2B) is
good criough for tools like saws
and plane-irons, where a file erasure would
be seen, but is useless with heavier items,
such as hammers, bars, etc. On these, prick
out your mark by deep dots with a sharp
centre punch.
“Breed”: Many stockowners pay too little
attention to their paddock gates, especially
to those near a stock route. Stock inclined
to wander soon find the weak spots _ in a
fence, and wire gates especially come in for
their attention. At every gate used for the
passing of stock there should be rails on
each side for half a dozen panels to prevent
crowding stock going through the wires.
“Tractor Mac”: What time some cockies
do waste over makeshifts! Take those
champion abominations, the wire gate and
sliprails. Recently I gave a tractor a start
on a farm where on the way to the paddock
five minutes w r ere wasted just in opening
wire panels and taking down rails. At 10
minutes a day, this means an hour a week at
the busy season. I could make up and hang
a first-class iron gate in the time Cocky has
wasted in a month over his makeshifts.
“Neurone” : The surest way to stop fowls
from laying is to feed them on fruit. Not
only does it lower the egg supply, but it is
liable to set up serious intestinal troubles.
“H.M.”: Where crops are infested with
grasshoppers, mix lib. paris green dry with
241 b. of bran; work into a dry, crumbly
mash with three gallons of water in which
41b. of molasses or treacle has been dis-
solved. Scatter lightly in strips and keep
stock off for at least two months.
“Risdonfens”: For warts on cows’ teats, l
have found a weak solution of acetic acid,
or vinegar, used alternately with castor oil,
very effective. Apply acetic acid in the
morriing and castor oil at night, or vice
versa. If warts do not yield to this treat-
ment, touch them with a nitrate-of-silver
pencil—can be bought at any chemist’s for
Is.—being careful not to let the pericil touch
the soft parts of the teats. Moisten the
tip of the pencil with water or bathe the
wart with water before applying.
“B-Gar” : The best remedy for fowls suf-
fering from worms is a pinch of ground
areca-nut mixed with butter and made into a
pill. Isolate the cases and give no food for a
day prior to the pill, nor for a day after.
Make the birds’ first meal a soft mash
“C.C.”: When calves are noticed as not
doing well, with staring coats and frequent
diarrhoea, the trouble is most likely worms.
Put them where they are not exposed to
rain and cold winds. Feed them well, and
for young calves from two to four months
old a dose of 15 grains of copper sulphate
dissolved in a pint of rain water will be
found effective. For older animals—to six
months—the dose may be increased to 20
grains, and repeated about once a month
until the animal recovers. A lick composed
of 60 parts coarse salt, 20 parts of ground
bonemeal and 10 parts flower of sulphur is
a good preventive.
“B-Gar”: Far-West Q’land can produce
superfine merino wools all right. Byrne
Bros., Julia Creek, near Cloncurry, obtained
51id. per lb. for their best lot in Brisbane.
The wool, and the manner in which it was
scoured, received very favorable attention
from both brokers and buyers. Winchcombe,
Carson. Ltd., auctioned the clip.
“Mick Q.”: During the drought dairy-
farmers residing near brackish-water creeks
in the East Moreton district kept their stock
in good condition on mangrove leaves. Two
of them would skirt the mangroves in a
dinghy, one rowing, the other cutting the
overhanging branches with a reaping-hook.
It was the general opinion that the man-
grove made much better feed than boiled
prickly-pear, and I know from personal ex-
perience that it was 10 times easier to
handle.
“T.P.” : I have planted thousands of trees
with a minimum of failure by adopting the
simplest of plans. I throw a number of jam-
tins into the fire; solder melts; bottoms fall
out, and the cylinders open at the sides. I
fill with earth, knotting a piece of string
around each tin. I plant three or four seeds
or seedlings in each; later on remove all but
the strongest one and plant the whole con-
traption. The tin forms a reservoir to hold
moisture; the plant gets its start in good
soil, and failures are practically nil.


mm
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
!■ EUlin’Tim
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
•srcooH oox
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SMOKE-OH!
After a man has taken a wife he is still
free to go where she pleases.
* *
When an extravagant wife puts her hand
out it is no sign that she is going to stop.
*
An estate agent differs from an invalid
in that the invalid has to lie in bed.
* *
"Brains win always,” says an advertiser.
Still, politicians are not exactly also-rans.
* *
Sydney News heading: “Fine Motor
Hogs on the Spot.” A good idea; and
make it stiff —say, a tenner for every spot.
Before he went into the barbering biz.
Oh, a hirsute one was Roarer,
With forests of hair on Ids head and phiz.,
But. . . .he used his own restorer.
* *
The thief who. disguised in plus-fours,
has raided several Sydney golf clubs, has
our sympathy. It must be awful to have
to wear that sort of thing for professional
reasons.
if *
There are very definite statistics to prove
that many people arc kidded, into matri-
mony.
Those who feel they need stirring up
should try a spoon.
* *
Fortune-telling Madame: “I'm afraid, sir,
that you are going to meet a dreadful mis-
fortune.”
Henpeck (absently) : “I know —and I
suppose she’ll be late, as usual.”
ENGLISH SPOKEN HERE.
THE LAW: “Now then, come on! What’s
your name?”
SPEED FIEND: “Demetrius Aloysius Hepple-
waite.”
THE LAW: “None o’ that, now. It’s your
name I want, not the family motter.”
The difference between a fat woman and
a policeman lies in the fact that the latter
skirts a crowd.
“What,‘buy this place!” roared the ex-
city editor, who was thinking of going on
the land. “Buy this! Why, it wouldn’t
run one poet to the acre!”
A statistician states that most musicians
are married. Still, music hath charms.
Many a husband wears himself out in order
to buy what his wife wears out.
A WOWSER’S DEFINITIONS.
Smoke-oh: Time to take tea.
A night out: Sleeping on the verandah.
Spots: Rain drops.
Cards: Wall texts.
Two-up: Nursing twins.
* *
“What —does Bill like beer?" he demanded.
“Well, it’s only seven now. and the pubs
have been shut
only an hour; and
there he is lean-
ing up against the
v e r a n <1 a h - post
waiting for the
pub to open in the
morning!”
The fact that
the president of
the British Chris-
tian Endeavor
Union recently
spoke in a Mel-
bourne c h u r c h
whilst arrayed in
vivid plus-fours
seems another good
reason for every-
body joining in
prayers for the
failure of tele-
vision.
According to the
S. M. Herald.
eight caterpillar
trucks which left a
railhead in Algeria
on October 28, 102 b,
reached their desti-
nation on June 26,
1925. The explana-
tion, we understand, is that the trucks
travelled backwards.
* *
The way of the transgressor is hard —to
find out.
if *
Some women carry their hearts on the
sleeves of their sleeveless dresses.
Little 80-peep has lost her sheep
And doesn’t know where to find him.
But little 80-peep cares never a dam —
What has become of her last lost lamb,
For — he’s left all his fleece behind him.
:J: if
According to the Sydney News, Jews are
extremely fond of fried food. One of the
most popular dishes, we understand from the
comic artists, is fried fireman on toast.
if * ,
Giving evidence before a public committee,
an architect stated that no provision had
been made to attract skilled labor to Can-
berra. That, however, may be rectified on
September 1.
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL.
Patent Cure Manufacturers, Ltd.
Dear sirs,
Before your Patent Cure came into my
house my life was a misery. After a couple
of bottles had been taken, however, I lost
the complaint I had had for 20 years. She
died.- —Yours very sincerely,
Sandy Bottomley.
“Isn’t the secret of happiness just to
possess certainty of security?” asks a news-
paper. We say it is; moreover, as bachelors
we know what from.
Her carmine lips attracted. me,
Her cheeks of rosy hue,
Her red-gold hair, her dimpled knee —
This maid I did pursue.
1 spoke. She smiled through coat of fur,
Them drew back with a jroicn,
And said, “I really thought yon were
My grandson, come to town!"
n.r.w. Doric.
The typist told the visitor that Mr. Boosite
was at lunch, but the caller knew his man.
“Which bar does he lunch at?” ho asked.
Fall into a woman’s arms, and you fall
into her hands.
a*
“When mosquitoes are troublesome,” says
an advertisement, “ , sprayed lightly on
exposed parts, will keep them off.” A
gallon, we understand, is about the right
quantity to do a well-dressed woman.
“For a good row,” says a leading sculler,
“give me a skiff on the-river on a pleasant
Sunday morning.” “On the other hand,”
retorts a leading dyspeptic, “for a good
row give me a biff on the liver any old morn-
ing.”
* *
In Boston, U.S.A., a dog has learnt to
speak the purest English. This should be
some encouragement to the writers of film
titles.
Newspaper heading: "Baby falls three
flights. Bursts into tears.” She should have
been spanked for being so emotional.
&
A RAUING TRAGEDY.
“She is a racer sure enough —
How splendidly she paces!
Well race her as the Dollar Bed;
She is so good,” the ohl man said,
“On. her I’ll stake me braces.”
Home from the races do ice plml,
As glum as any wowsers,
Dad’s cusses arc of many brands,
.Us- with, upholding, frenzied hands
lie grimly grips his trousers.
N.S.W.
RON C.
THE BRIGGAND.
The Banting Man huried through the Gay
Throwng and Touching the Handsome Young
Man on the arm, slipped Something Into
his Hand.
SHE’D HAD REVERSES, TOO.
“You’ve no idea how it feels to be refused
by the girl you want to marry!”
“Oh, I don’t know—I once had a cheque dishonored!”
Instently Rudolpho Righthando Recker-
nised his ring—the ring he had given to the
Beutiful English Maddam-mozzle. Admiring
her Beuty, lie had Throne liis Cloke on the
ground to prevent her walking in a Puddle,
and had been Rewarded with a Dazzling
Smile. That led to him learning that she
was the Honnerable Janet de Grannit.
and Meeting her Farther, Lord Guy
de Grannit. He had insistered on Acting
as their Escort; and when he Learnt
that they intendered to visit the Swiss Alps
which Loomed behind that Quaint Albanian
town on the Coast of Greese he had Warned
them against the Dangers to be Encounted.
“Take this Ring,” He said, seeing they
were Objurate, “and if you are Ever in
need of Assistence send it to Me.”
Then thrusting his Sword through two
Roughuns who were trying to Jostle her, at
the Same Time as he carelesly tossed his
Purse to a wayside Begar, and gracefully
Bowed his Addews, he dissapeared, Follered
by her admiring Eyes.
Now the Call of Danger had come to him.
The Ballroom was two stories off the Pave-
ment, but Scorning in his Haste to use the
Stares, Our Hero lept, to fall Lightly into
the Saddle of the Horse below, which he
always kept handy for Emergencies.
But let us see what has Hapened to the
Brave Janet and her Staitly Farther.
Hardly had they reached a Dangerous
Spot in the mountains before with loud
Yells they were Surrounded by a villinous
looking crew, with long knives and beards
on their Faces. Pistols hung in the Sashes
of their Quaint Albanian Costumes.
“What is it you want?” said Lord Guy
in his Dignerfied way. “A ransum I pre-
soom ?”
He addressed himself to a Burley Ruffin
who was Obviously the leader, because he
was uglier than the Others and had a Black
Patch over a Missing Eye.
“A million pounds,” said the Ruffin brut-
ally.
Lord Guy startled and went pail.
“I have not that amount on me,” he said
hortily. “Besides it would rooin me. I am
not a Rich Man.”
"You belong to England,” said the Chief,
gruffly. “Your country can float a War
Loan to pay your Ransum.”
They were Powerless to Resist; so they
Ackeompanied their Captors Unresistingly
Whilst the Chief, Who they now knew to
be the Dredded Polligenes Axemoff, stayed
to send Messengers about the Ransum.
Sudenly Janet was Startled to hear a
wisper from One of their Captors, who had
Crept to her Side.
“Fear Not. Signorita,” he wispered. “I
am Not really a Servant of this Wicket
Briggand, but of Another! Help may be
at Hand.”
Janet took One look at his Face ana
saw that In spite of its Evil Look, he had
Truthful Blue Eyes. Resolved to trust
him, she Slipped the Ring into his hand and
Bad him take it to Rudolpho Righthando.
“He is my Master.” The man gave this
Surprising luformasliun as he slipped into
the Darkness.
A Grate Hope swole in Janet’s boosum,
but it was disserpated when Polligenes came
up, his Leering Eyes fixed upon her.
"I have Changed my Mind,” quoth lie.
“I will Honor the English lady by making
her my Bride, If she does not marry me by
Sundown To-morrow, her Father will die.”
“You dare not!” Janet vencliured defi-
antly. “We have Friends in this country.”
"Aha, Rudolplio Righthando, eli?’ he
sneered. “Do you think lie will Save You,
even if He Dared? Why, lie is a Briggand,
too!”
Janet’s heart sank at this Intellergens,
which was confirmed by the Chief’s Leften-
ants.
But Sudenly there was a Comotion. A
man rushed in Gestickularating and Shout-
ing, but Janet ascertained that Rudolplio had
been Sited riding desperately in the Distans.
“Courage, Farther!” she said, bravely, to
the proud old man, who was counting his
Check-Buts to see if, by Any Chans, he still
had a Million in the Bank.
But how was One Man to force his way
into that Natcheral Fourtress? The Odds
seemed too Uneven.
But wait! Brave as he was, Our Hero
had No intention of Throwing away his Life
on a desprite Frontell Attack. No. Instead
he Rode his Horse up Higher, and Amazed
the Briggands by Apearing on the Rocks
above them.
They were given -No Time to Guess his
intentions. Rudolpho loved his Horse, but
seeing No Other Way, he resolved to make
the Supreme Sacltrifice. Polligenes had
gathered his Most Intermate Followers
around him in Conferrens, leaving only the
Gards on Duty. Into this heap of men
Rudolpho lept his horse, before they could
Escape from under him.
It was a Daring Deed, but it Succeeded.
The yells of Pain told how many were
crushed to Death, whilst they Cushioned the
Fall of Our Hero.
Then to Janet’s Amazement, Many of the
Gards set on their Companions, and after
killing them all, Cheered Rudolpho as their
Leader.
“Will you Marry me?” were the first
words Rudolpho said to her.
“But you are a Briggand, too,” she said,
coldly.
“I am giving it up, having made my For-
chin,” lie replied. “I’m going Back to Aus-
tralia. Besides, I am a properly licenced
Briggand Chief, not a base ruffin like Polli-
genes.”
“I never thought you a Ruffin,” she said
with downcast eyes.
“You see,” explained Our Hero, “toorists
who Come to this Country expect to be Held
Up by Briggands, so the King gives his
Licens to one, and gets a Commission from
him. We are Forced by the Law to be
Moderate in our Charges; but the Bisness
Pays. I met the King in London, at the
end of the War; he was a Waiter in a Soho
Resterong but he was Expecting to get his
Kingdom back. He said to me: ‘I have
nottised you Australian Soldiers; will you
Come with me and be my Offishal Briggand?’
SAME COMPLAINT.
“Where are you going, dear?”
“Aw, just up the street to buy some
smokes.”
“It must be the fish we had. I feel thirsty,
too.”
and, as I had no Money, I thort it a good
job to accept. But now I am prepared to
Retire from Bisness, and would like you for
my Wife.”
For answer she Fell into his Outstretched
arms, whilst Sir Guy sat down and wrote a
Chock for all he had Left in the Bank as
a Wedding Present.
HAMER JUNIOR.


m
:mm
\\ \
X'A
wng
Up"*" v^'v
„ ,"7^1 —-
m j
m
«
/ir «
m
i
\1
ml
UL
A
\
'"I
mi x w
«
sc
I ' 1 «a»
l 'I
* »\i
ik-
P
&
&
VI
/>
(ft®
''fa?
f
I
#
ifej 1
mini
m
iiM
Illimu
f.
m,s
mrm
Id "l|i
■*l
§i
ii 1
-c
>4
,fF
c
'' \
/
u
-v
vywhem
ever
Here in the city when the strain of the day’s activities is felt
—when the need for something to refresh, to invigorate, becomes insis-
tent —men turn instinctively to "K. 8.” Lager.
There in the country when vigorous toil breeds a thirst that
demands immediate quenching —or when the long hours of work have
drawn to a close —the demand for a beverage which satisfies, stimulates,
and sustains is met by a glass of sparkling "K. 8.” Lager.
Everywhere are men who find the utmost enjoyment in"K.B.”
—a glass at a welcome break in the day, or a bottle or two taken homt
(or the hours of leisure.
TOOTH’S
KB
a true LAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & Co. LIMITED, Kent Brewery , Sydney .
OF
PROHIBITION
BEWARE
—Put Your
X
in the Bottom
Square.


The Federal Mutual
CKWGDAfV,
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
[.licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, wsq.
Victorian Branch; 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
(Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE. Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
THRIFTY DON’TS.
Don’t fail to plan your expenditure, and keep within the limit you set.
Don’t be whamed of saving pennies they soon make pounds.
Don’t let false pride cost you money—there is no happiness in that.
Don’t think spendthrifts need be capitalists. You can be a spendthrift
with a shilling.
Don’t forget that peace of mind is better than things you cannot afford.
Don’t forget that the Savings Bank is the best thrift aid.
Don’t forget there is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office in
Australia.
famonwealtb lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Poverty
Point
“Hamfat” : Allan Wilkie’s season in New-
town has given inspiration to the adver-
tising genius of at least one ratepayer. A
pub adjacent to the Majestic Theatre bears
a large sign which announces that “Sliak-
speare Quality Rum” is retailed within.
“Meridian”; Watching poor, tired Moisei-
witsch autographing programmes after one
of his concerts, I was reminded of a trick
an .American storekeeper played on Kipling
when Rudyard was in that hospitable country
with his wife. A bill that had been.paid by
him was repeatedly presented. He wrote to
the storekeeper tersely advising him to be
more businesslike. Still the bill came in.
Kipling wrote again, and again, until lie dis-
covered his gen-u-ine autographs were being
sold (bill and all) at a high price to the
local snobs.
“Hamfat”: The smash of Phillips Film
Productions, Ltd., which planned to make
three pictures in its first year and six in
its second, but succeeded in -making only
“The Romance of Runnibede,” gives Eva
Novak the American rights of that picture.
She claims she is owed £4900. The co.
reckoned on a profit of £15,000 per film, and
had a vision, therefore, of £45,000 profit on
the first year, but the Australian takings did
not approach the estimate, and the probable
American earnings • are put down now as
£lBOO. It is much easier to make a pros-
pectus than an income.
“Ca s sar’s Ghost”: Steele Rudd didn’t
gather as many shekels from “On Our Selec-
tion” as some think, although an Australian
dramatist who makes a few thousands out
of a play has to feel that he is doing well.
William Anderson, who put in £5OO to finance
the first production, was the chief beneficiary
of that venture; he made something over
£7OOO out of it. Bert Bailey and Jules Grant,
to whom Rudd subsequently let the copyright
go, made several times that and seem able
to get more cash from the piece whenever
they want it. Incidentally, Williamson’s
beld the script for 18 months without making
a venture with it.
“Kerys”: The recent error of the Sydney
Sun in confusing the pictures (and iden-
tities) of Alfred Hill and Alfred O'Shea (P>.
16/5/’2B) didn’t occasion half the com-
motion that happened when an evening paper
not long ago published the picture of a
shingled young woman, wearing frivolous
clothes and a come-hither smile, over a note
mentioning that most of her life had been
given to good works of a particularly solid
variety and that her present occupation was
secretary to a mission fund. On the same
page appeared the portrait of an elderly
lady, wearing an expression of uncompromis-
ing goodness, a hopelessly out-of-date hat
and a feather boa, who was announced as
one of the committee of the Gay Girls’
Cabaret and a dancer of more than common
merit. Two infuriated ladies sent in their
cards to the editor almost simultaneously.
“Lao-dah”: The other afteimoon I was
lured into a women’s club in Melbourne to
listen to a lecture; subject, “Michael Angelo,
His Life and Work” ; lecturer, a pale spin-
ster lately returned from the European tour
via America. The droning discourse, the
slides of the Sistine Chapel and the “Last
Judgment.” the little joke about what the
guide said when the speaker mistook a mem-
ber of the Swiss Guard for the Pope—
they had not gone far when it all came back
to me. I had heard precisely the same
address, illustrated with the same pictures
and the same joke about the Pope, at a
women’s club in Sydney, delivered by an-
other pale spinster also newly returned from
Europe via America. Discreet inqiury eluci-
dated the mystery. The canned lecture on
any subject under the sun, complete with
slides and funny personal experiences, is
obtainable in the United States from almost
any large bookseller. The two Australian
travellers had had the bad luck to hit on
the same subject.
“SpokeshaVe”: After the tumultous recep-
tion John Brownlee received on his first
appearance in “Aida,” there were no further
doubts of the success of the Williamson-
Melba grand-opera season. And the en-
thusiasm was not simply the pardonable
pride of Victorians at seeing their own man
in the august company of the musical aris-
tocracy of La Scala. It. was a genuine tribute
to his singing. Therein the Melbourne
Infatuated, Duncan McDougaV pinches 60,000 francs
for Freda McGhee.
Throws the dough about while the going's good.
And finishes his drama in the grand manner.
“FROM MORN TILL MIDNIGHT,” AT SYDNEY PLAYBOX THEATRE.
Duncan McDougall, as an embezzler, has a busy day.
audience was in full agreement with the
musicagentsia of Paris. The Opera House
in that cultured city had empty seats during
portion of the last season, hut it always
filled up when Brownlee, of Geelong, was
singing.
“Cauboy”: When Melbourne opened its
paper the other morning and found the
Fuller-Gonsalez programme printed in
Italian it decided it had at length achieved
culture. Actually what the phenomenon
indicated was that the city had reached
the first stage on its way to being a cos-
mopolis. That advt. wasn’t aimed so much
at impressing the Uncultivated as attract-
ing resident Italians. The compatriots of
Mussolini have provided the backbone of the
grand-opera season, except* the portion sup-
plied by the Scandinavian population when
Margherita Flor has been billed.
“Spot Light” : The Gilbert and Sullivans
have wound up as such at Perth, after a
successful run of 26 months. The combina-
tion is not breaking up, but has restarted in
“Lilac Time,” and, judging by the opening
performance in Perth, it is on to another
winner.
“C. 8.”: The Williamson production ol
“Lohengrin” in Italian did not touch the
limits of polyglotism by any means. Twenty
years ago an amateur performance of the
German opera was given at the Princess,
Melbourne. The principals were severally
an Australian, a Teuton, two Italians and a
Frenchman —and they all sang in their native
tongues.
“Spokeshave”: Stage fights are always
ridiculous affairs, even when put on with
the utmost possible realism, as in “Is Zat
So!” where a professional pugilist, after
chasing the obviously incompetent hero
round the ring, allowed himself to be knocked
out with a simple biff on the hardest por-
tion of the chest. They are doubly absurd
when the weapons are doublehanded broad-
swords whose wield ers should obviously
cleave their adversaries from to
chin to obtain a satisfactory decision. When
the Gonsalez people staged “Lohengrin” and
allowed Frederick to fall dead when the
champion merely waved his claymore in
the air, the critics violently objected; and it
was doubtless in deference to their ill-
informed clamor that the Williamson-
Melbas permitted Cesabianchi to give
Morelli a genuine poke in the stomach whiph
obviously interfered with the villain’s wind.
Nevertheless, the Gonsalez people were right,
and the critics were mistaken. Wagner’s
text makes it clear that Lohengrin’s sword
is a magic weapon. It has only to be
pointed, like the Australian abo.’s ncilgheri,
for the doughtiest adversary to hit the
boards. And that is how Gonsalez viewed it.
“Cauboy”: I withdraw what I said about
the good taste of the Firm’s new Comedy
Theatre, in Melbourne. I saw it before the
hangings had been added. They are garish
and pretentious and contradict the archi-
tect’s mural decorations. Still, you are sure
of a comfortable seat in the cosy little play-
house —if you don’t break your neck getting
down the d.c. steps to it.
“Pas Encore”: When making his first
record for H.M.V., Browning Mummery, the
Australian singer, managed to get through it
only after the greatest effort to control his
nervousness. Immediately it was over he
sighed with relief, “Thank God that’s done.”
Then lie had to do it all over again—the
comment went on to the disc.
“L. de R.”: Bellini’s Druidical opera
“Norma” is not a first production, as asser-
ted in some quarters. It was done 72 years
ago at Coppin’s Olympic Theatre, which
occupied the piece of Melbourne now covered
by the Comedy. What is more, one of the
performers—Fanny Wiseman —is still living
in Melbourne. She took the part of one
of Norma's two irregular offspring.
“L.H.P.”: Until Wilkie put it on recently
Sydney had not seen “Henry VIII.” for 50
years; the previous revival was at the old
Victoria Theatre in March, 1878. Creswick
was Wolsey, Adelaide Bowring the Queen
and J. ,T. Bartlett the King. The piece ran
two weeks, and was revived on Creswick's
benefit night in June.
“Hamfat” : Sydney has not seen Ed-mund
Duggan as an actor on one of its city stages
for years; he reappears in the new Steele
Rudd show, “The Rudd Family.” Ned dates
back to the Rignold period, and was after-
wards a standby with William Anderson.
lie is a solid act-or of the old schoo , and
*ip S “Cyrano Henry "tee,'
who came to Australia to play it, had killed
his chances by slang-whanging, at the Syd-
ney Palace, an Andersonian audience that
couldn’t understand the blank verse. He
a „ T „n „ 'n, o nia' rwi nf tlin new nlnv
does weli as the Old Dad f the new play
Cauboy . Spero asks (B. 16/5/28)
how long lias the House of \\ indsor had a
craving for thrillers. The answer is another
“LOHENGRIN” AT HIS MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Possible effect of too much German opera
on an Italian prima donna.
question—when did it have a craving for
anything higher? Inspection of the Court
chronicles covering a generation shows that
when Wagnerian opera was available in one
part- of London, and Ibsen, Strindberg or
Shaw was obtainable in others, royalty
preferred the Dolly Sisters. When MoliCre
and Voltaire were available in Pans visiting
members of the British ruling family attended
the Folies. There is nothing remarkable in
this. In the days of absolutism royalty P atr °"
nised Art with a capital A because that was
expected of it. The spectacle of democratic
monarchy lending the light of its countenance
to Pirandello would excite the incredulous
laughter of the world. Vice-royalty ditto.
Out of half a dozen shows in Melbourne re-
cently the State Governor selected for ins
Saturday night relaxation a crude shooting
melodrama.
“Cine Ma”: Rufe Naylor’s proposal to
give Melbourne the boon of another theatre
for vaudeville has run up against the grow-
ing popularity of the films and the diminish-
ing vogue of variety. The old Morning
Post site which he purchased has been resold
to Union Theatres. The new edifice will rival
in gorgeousness anything previously at-
tempted and will cost, with the land, over
£300,000.
“Craiser”: Some of the more tawdry of the
Italian operas in the Fuller repertoire could
be easily spared for an English specimen or
two. Although English composers have pro-
duced bad imitations of the European schools,
where they have stuck to their native heath
they have done some extraordinarily interest-
ing work. Ethel Smyth, for instance, set
music racy of the English soil to a storv
by W. W. Jacobs. Julius Benedict founded
another on, Boucicault’s drama, “The Colleen
Dawn.” Vaughan Williams’s “Hugh the
Drover” is placed in a Cotswold village in the
days when Boney contemplated invading
Britain. Many of these works have been
revived in London since the War and are
Steadily growing in popularity. Some critics
prophesy that it will not be long before they
rival the vogue of Italian opera. A refresh-
ing quality of all of them is their Englisli-
ness. In “Hugh the Drover” the hero and
the villain fight with fists instead of stilettos.
“Cauboy”: “Meridian” (B. 23/5/’2S)=
earns one concert-goer’s thanks for his re{:
marks on the idiot who bursts into tint
middle of a sonata with his gratuitous;
applause. Exactly the same thing applies:
to grand opera. A Wagner or Verdi score
is as much a unity between one curtain and
another as a symphony or sonata; yet the
audience is not only allowed to break in on
a prima donna every time she pauses to get
her wind, but is given every encouragement
to do so by the lady herself. The little strut
forward and the raising of the arm at the
end of a number and you know what is
expected of you. The present lyilliamson-
Melba collection are the worst offenders on
record, on the Italian side at any rate.
Australian John Brownlee is an honorable
exception.
“C. 8.” ; If what “J.A.” says (B. 23/5/’2B)
is correct, that there is no discomfort in
Queensland; theatres where smoking is
allowed, then John Fuller had to go abroad
to find out what smoking in theatres really
means. I attended the Folies in Paris one
nigllt to see the great event of the year,
the ballet. By half-time it was almost
impossible to distinguish the features of the
people on the stage—from the back seats,
at any rate. I left before the end. but
next morning had a concertina head, de-
ranged vision and dry throat, though I
am a smoker myself.
“Cauboy”: If the Firm doesn’t buy
Margherita Flor from the Fullers, or at any
rate catch her before she leaves, it will
be missing a particularly good chance.
Judging by her performance as the page
in “Faust,” the bright, slim. Danish maiden
would do even better in musical comedy than
she has done in opera. Like her sister Nordic,
Beppie de Vries, who is shortly departing,
she speaks English far more attractively
than nine out of ten of the American song-
’n-dance artistes Australian entrepreneurs
have lost money over lately.
“Craiser”: Although Maorilanders May
and Maude Beatty made their frontal attack
on Australia’s affections together in the dear,
dead days gone by, the ways of the two
sisters have lain far apart since. May is
still raising laughs at the Royal, Melbourne.
Maude is helping her husband —one of the
Hordern clan —to raise sheep in the Argen-
tine.
FINALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curtain falls and lifts again,
Applause comes patt'ring in like rain,
And flowers strew the stage;
The hero, who, a moment since,
Was acting like a gallant prince,
Is fuming in a rage.
The leading lady takes his hand ;
Unwillingly he has to stand
And hear her say her bit.
He knows it all, from smile to bow,
He’s heard it countless times by now,
And oh ! lie’s sick of it.
He’s not as young as once lie was,
And gets a touch of gout, because
All men must have their fun;
He’s tired and cross and far from well,
His shoes are hurting him like hell—
(Good God, she’s just begun !).
He hears the end, “I love you all”
(Will that darn curtain never fall?) ;
At last her say is said.
Of greasepaint free, with aching eyes,
And vicious corns which paralyse,
A hero goes to bed!
VICTORIA.
DOWNSTAGK.


VfHlWotfy
m
JgOK
a
P ktf
ift
II
■
. ■
.. ms*
J*"
■ •?
ar
m*
vm
16 SHIPS BUILDING!
YARDS AND MARINE ENGINE
WORKS BUSY—THANKS TO A
REPUTATION FOR FIRST-CLASS
WORKMANSHIP, KEEN PRICES
AND QUICK DELIVERIES.
Our yard facilities have recently been further
augmented by the purchase of the Tyne Iron
Shipyard at Willington Quay-on-Tyne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & Co., Ltd.,
SALES ORGANISATION:
KINNAIRD HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON, ENG.
Works and Shipyards, NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE.
Sole Representatives for Australia: Messrs. Gilbert-Lodge & Co., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney & Adelaide.
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C.702


E/WTMREM.W
NEW-
STUDEBAKER'S ERSKINE SIX
CLUB SEDAN
MORE ROOM-MORE POWER-MORE BEAUTY
In this NEW ERSKINE SIX Club
Sedan, with greater head and leg
room, added beauty and increased
power, Studebaker offers at an amaz-
ingly low price many features hither-
to associated only with cars costing
twice as much.
Studebaker’s advanced engineering
enables you to drive it 40 miles an
hour the day it is delivered to you,
with consistent mile-a-minute speed
after the first 500 miles. No monoto-
nous breaking-in at 20 miles an hour.
It will purr up I -in-1 0 grades in top or
idle silently and smoothly in traffic,
while oil and grease need be changed
only once every 2500 miles after the
first 1000 miles.
Luxurious riding ease results from
springs which cradle four-fifths of the
entire wheel-base, shock absorbers,
deep cushions richly upholstered, arm-
rests, and front seats adjustable to
individual preference. The new dash,
with all instruments grouped under
glass, is indirectly lighted.
Amplified-action four-wheel brakes,
perfected steering, low centre of
gravity and welded steel body provide
a full measure of safety.
Erskine Models from £298 to £448
Director Models from £378 to £570
Commander Models from £560 to £650
President Models from £665 to £875
All Netc Models equipped with shock absorbers and Jour-wheel brakes.
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street*
Christchurch.
SlflgjglSgroisggqsg
wt*A
ir v wm*
v niM T*rJi«|
r mate *•**•*> gw f#iJ
mmt.> .%-mk mm * am nr
mm \ «®W.
m'liitNiif
*✓ *•&.'<* iw«*f"
M
mmtm*
tit
1
V*'f»
j^rt
5*
D=?a
r
!•»
cc
&
M
f'k •» f r
P;s
w
K
LtutJ
f r 4**tfby
pmm_ mm
»-'4<9« »■>* > ■>&>■
l
K&l
3
£
/=
<*
ft?
2C
&
r j*m
**
■i»<a" J ..«l«tt
IS« #*
The New Erskine
Six Club Sedan
£398
F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Studebaker holds all the highest Speed and
Endurance Records for fully equipped
Stock Cars in Australia and America,
\ WEB4I


WestclcoC
fig Ben De Luxe
y/
Big Ben
luminous
25L y
America
10
Baby Ben DeLuxe
5- 2/.
25/.
Baby Ben
Luminous
Faithful Timekeepers
WESTCLOX for years have been known all
over the world as thoroughly reliable alarm
clocks.
The newest Westclox —Big Ben De Luxe and
Baby Ben De Luxe set an even higher standard of
beauty and excellence among alarm clocks.
They have many features that will appeal to you.
Designed on an entirely new principle, they stand
firm and solid —hard to tip over, which adds to
their long life. Underneath there’s felt cushioning
for protection. There’s a range of reliable Westclox
priced from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
Mt. Cook Is Calling!
On Mount Sebastopol, near Mount Cook Hermitage.
The Southern Alps of New Zealand, where the
Hermitage stands! offer unrivalled snowfields for
winter sports, reaching from the door of this modern,
fully equipped hotel away into the silent places
where the great peaks soar. A revelation in Romance.
Dry, Sunny Days. Never Too Cold. Roaring Fires and Jolly Parties at Night.
SPECIAL WINTER TOUR FROM SYDNEY, covering All Fares
and Hotel Expenses for 26 Days, for £6O.
Write for Booklets.
MOUNT COOK MOTOR CO., TIMARU, N.Z.
Sydney Agents:
C. AICKIN & SONS, 255 a George Street, near the Union Company’s Offices.
AND ALL TOURIST BOOKING OFFICES.
AM
Wa
THE “WINTON’
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
An Improved High-grade Stock Saddle, designed for
increased comfort to the rider. It has combined flap
and skirt sewn direct on to the seat, thus giving a
narrower non-cliafing grip; and the pads being set well
np along the rider’s thighs give the greatest security
for rough-riding. The materials and workmanship are
first-class throughout, and it is fitted with folded girth,
bevellc 1 leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATION.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
“K’BURRA” Stockwhips
Guaranteed Kangaroo
Leather Throughout.
ip>
Thongs.
12-plait ..
16-plait ..
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
.. 18/6 21 1- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
.. 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 10-plait, 17/-: 94-plait,
19/- ; 32-plait, 22/-. Handles for 9ft. Thongs
are 1/6 extra for loading. Post Free for Cash.
WALTHER § STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
Type. Tripe & Co.
“D.8.0'C.”: A. K. Murray, the Federal
Parliament House messenger who is about to
claim a baronetcy, was not responsible for
Canberra’s first magazine. The carcase of
my ewe lamb, Canberra Illustrated, rests
in the Mitchell Library. Unfortunately it
was shorn too early and too frequently to
stand the bitter F.C. climate.
“Old Hand”: A notable feature of the
audience that packed Sydney Grand Opera
House to greet “The Rudd Family” was
the absence of the chief critics of the daily
papers. That Saturday saw four first nights,
but the other three were merely changes of
plays by familiar companies. By all the
rules the G.O.H. should have been treated
as the event of the evening; the fact that
it wasn’t (except by The Bulletin)
throws a light on the professed desire of
these journals to encourage Australian work.
“Caxton’s Ghost”: Frank Utting, well-
known scribe and president of the ML.
Journalists’ Association, first left Australia
to take up a position on the Auckland
Star. Next he became leader-writer on the
Auckland Sun, and now he has accepted the
editorship of the Wanganui Chronicle.
Brother Philip is on the Wellington
Dominion. The Utting family have been
journalists for three generations.
Paths of romance :
Even in those pictures which are merely illustra-
tive, James R. Jackson, whose show is at the
Macquarie Sydney, is interesting; he has
trodden the paths of romance which lead to “St.
Simione, Venice” or to battlemented cities from
which steel-clad knights once sallied out to seek
adventure and returned with fish tales about con-
quests of dragons and other queer animals. Jackson
revels in his treatment of stone masses; there is a
feeling of strength and solidity about it; but
there is also an inclination to a sameness in his paint-
ing that makes the collective show less impressive
than some of the individual pictures. “The Bridge
of Sighs” is one of the few exhibits in which
gloomy shadows lurk, but it is expertly handled.
“Knib”: W. H. Fitcbett, parson, educa-
tionist and publicist, just gone aloft at 86,
was editor of the Daily Telegraph, Melb.,
35 years ago or thereabouts, and when the
McKinley crowd had the upper hand with the
shareholders he was for a little while editor
DESPERATE.
“They say he’s making quite a lot of money out of
these etchings.”
“Don’t you believe it, my dear. The poor fellow is
starving. I looked him up at lunch-time yester-
day and he told me that wchen I came in he was
just going to bite a plate.”
of the Herald. There was always a literary
finish about Fitcliett’s sermons and addresses.
He was always readable even when he was
only re-writing something. His concentra-
tion was commensurate with his amazing in-
dustry. The fact was that it was recreation
for him to weave w’ords or dabble in litera-
ture as a relief from schoolmastering and
pulpiteering. And, besides, he was a good
business man and knew how to market his
wares.
“Sobk”: There are many overseas pub-
lications on which newsagents must make a
much larger profit than the 20 to 25 per
cent, assigned them by “Omega” (B.
2/5/’2B), judging by the disparity between
retail published prices (on which, of course,
the newsagent receives a discount) and the
prices charged here in Perth. For instance,
the American Mercury and the Dial, pub-
lished at 2s. Id., sell here for 3s. 6d. Popu-
tar Mechanics (Is. brings 2s. 6d.,
and the Sunday editions of the N.Y. Times,
N.Y. World and ’Frisco Examiner (2Jd. in
c publication, sd. elsewhere in
America) bring Is. 6d. a copy. The over-
geas e( jjti o ns of the London Daily Mirror
an(J the SKETCH (6d.) sell at Is., and all the
i s . weeklies (Sphere, Tatler, etc.) cost
Is. fid. Even these prices are moderate
compared with what one enterprising vendor
as ß s f or “bootleg” periodicals—4s. 6d. a copy
f or l a y IE Parisienne (it costs about Bd.
j n England) and 7s. 6d. a time for copies of
an American magazine, Arts, which is pub-
fished at 20 cents, and specialises in the
nude.
“Vraidex”: Every week for nearly 12
years the Daily Mail, Brisbane, has been
receiving from an anonymous contributor
criticism of all the shows running in Sydney
theatres. There is no clue to the authorship
0 f the stuff, a collection of puff pars writ-
ten j n lead-pencil, and in all these years
OTHER TIMES, OTHER MANNERS.
THE OLD ’UN: “I never see a blush on a
girl’s face now. In my day it was very
different!”
THE YOUNG ’UN: “Oh, GRAND-dad! What
DID you say to them?”
it has never been once used, but as it is
unsigned the paper can’t very well inform
the contributor that “the editor regrets,”
etc. Recently the unknown writer fell foul
of the Postal Department by putting a jagged
paper-fastener in the envelope, and it was
sent to the Sydney dead-letter office for re-
turn to the sender. But lack of signature pre-
vented this, and so the paper received the
reprimand.
“H.M.”: Sydney’s most reverend journal
nearly allowed this to go into its sacred
pages:—
Blank —-In memory of my beloved Carlo, who
departed this life, May 2nd, 1927:
Oh cruel fate, oh dreadful blow,
That laid my darling Carlo low.
Inserted by his sorrowing Mother.
It was only at 11.45, so to speak, that some-
one remembered Mrs. Blank as a childless
social butterfly who lavished the fondness
which should go to children upon her pet
dogs, and the tragedy was stopped. But the
officii is still shuddering.
“Bill O’C.” : The late H. H. Champion was
the most ingratiating and friendly fraud
(speaking in a Pickwickian sense) that I
had the luck to meet. A few years before
the war he converted himself into “The
Australasian Authors’ Association,” and
undertook the criticism, revision and publi-
cation of literary masterpieces. Of course,
the author had to supply all the oil for the
machinery, but it seemed worth while, if only
to receive Champion’s blandishments. He
onto published a play for
me, or, more strictly, for
himself at my expense, allur-
ing me with the impression
that he had the ear of the
booksellers and cognoscenti.
Everything went wrong. War
broke out, the printers rang
in inferior paper, the job-
bers struck and the uncon-
scionably delayed issue
appeared at last with obvious
and easily avoidable defects.
Champion rode the storm
serenely and sent copies to
newspapers, Governors,
mayors and similar, patrons
of culture, but if he had the
car of the booksellers he
failed to bite it. I subse-
quently made a tour of
most of the inter-State book-
shops, often to discover my
magnum opus reposing on
a shelf in its original pack-
age. At one shop, which I
visited three or four times,
on each occasion buying an
unnecessary copy as camou-
flage, I finally asked the
assistant if the book was
selling well. He answered
quite innocently, “No; you
seem to be the only one
who’s buying it.” For the
encouragement of his dis-
coveries. or “creations,”
Champion also issued a little
monthly journal, the Book-
lover, which blew the harm-
less necessary trumpets of his brand of
genii. Incidentally, and here the genuine
Champion touch came in, the rising authors
contributed most of the matter— -gratis, of
course.
“Mulgo”: The Currency Lad, born on
August 25, 1832, was the first newspaper
designed to foster a purely Australian patri-
otism. It was a Saturday-afternoon paper,
price 7d., "edited, printed and published by
Horatio Wills, an Australian, joint pro-
prietor with the executors and execturix of
the late R. Howe, at the Gazette office,
George-street, Sydney.” “Our principal en-
deavor.” wrote the editor, “shall be to pre-
serve our countrymen as a distinct body of
the Commonwealth. It is to her sons alone
that Australia will hereafter depend for that
eminence by which other nations have been
distinguished.”
PALATIAL PREMISES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Daily Gamp is now installed in its new
magnificent building, the finest newspaper office in
Australia.”
The Office is formal and cold
Which used to be friendly and old,
You could once get a quid
At the Editor’s bid.
But lie’s gone, as a tale that is told.
There’s a stately and slippery stair
Of terrazzo, and signs everywhere.
Pert lads gallivanting
In neckties enchanting
With gallons of gum on their hair.
There arc notices saying “Keep Out!”
Young ladies who simper and pout
As they squint in a glass
Behind railings of brass
And indigent free-lances flout.
You wait in a queue for your pay
Till after a weary delay
(Not forgetting the ramp
For a twopenny stamp)
They languidly push it your way.
And if with a story one dares
To seek the Northcliffian lairs
They send you and your work
To some damn junior “clurk.”
And there’s a nice state of affairs!
N.s.w.
SOLLY MACEFINRELSTEIN.


Stiff beards need die
“VALET”
Safety Razor
A stiff beard needs a masterful razor blade. Not a blade
that will bend and give way to the bristles, but a solid
blade of rigid, tempered steel with some strength behind
it. Such a blade is the “Valet” Auto Strop.
The “ Valet ” Auto Strop Safety Razor is a joint concern
made up of blade, stropping device and strop. The
stropping device is actually built into the head of the
razor. The strop slips through the razor’s head. All
conspire together to give you a perfect shave. Ten seconds
for stropping—ten seconds for cleaning without removal
of blade—4o or 50 perfect shaves with a single blade.
sdfsdsd
fs
No. 50 de Luxe Set. Contains
heavily silvered razor, twelve tested
“ Valet ” blades and strop of good
quality. Complete in highly polished
nickel case, with special container for
the strop.
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J\ew Zea’and /I gents:
Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., ,/luck'an-', Wellington, Christchu'ch.
01
i
Shaving G«eam
7 his is the Shaving
Cream to get th
best out of
vour rayrr
10,000.000 RUBBER TREES
10,000 WORKERS~SUPPLY the RUBBER
*
MORE FOR
YOUR MONEY
Plenty of rubber —not only where you can
see it, but deep down in the invisible cord
fabric of the tyres. Pure rubber —plenty
of rubber —at every point of stress and
strain. U.S. ROYAL CORDS live extra-
ordinarily long lives because they are more
than a match for the drawn out ordeal of
months and months of rough roads.
U.S. ROYAL
CORD
BALLOONS
DISTRIBUTORS—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.,
439 Kent Street, Sydney. ’Phone M 2031 (4 lines).
102 Victoria Street, Melbourne, N. 3. Cent. 943 7.
11l Margaret Street, Brisbane. ’Phone 4250.
195 Flinders Street, Adelaide. ’Phone 6246.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth, ’Phone A 3 15 1 (4 lines).
at
BkACKBIRD
SELF-FILLER
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., 133 & i3s,.Oxtord St.,London, W.X
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181. Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“ Swan " -Pens, “ Blackbird ” Pens, “ Swan ” Ink and “ byne-Poynt ” Pencils.
YOU cannot buy a better
pen for the money than
this sturdy, good - looking
“Blackbird.” Each part is shaped
and finished with the care and
precision not usually found in
pens of similar price.
SELF-
FILLING
BLACKBIRD”
9 /-
OF STATIONERS
AND
JEWELLERS
C. 7
THE CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4-J- Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
SPECIAL
p.
SUNDAY
at 1 p.m.
DINNER
Delightful 25-minutes’ trip from,
Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4
City by
Lines.


New LEFEVER Nitro Special HAMMERLESS GUN
LEFEVER NITBQ SPECIAL
DOUBLE
BARREL,
£7/15/-
POST FREE.
0.K.-ed and Purchased in Quantities by U.S. Navy.
The Lefever Nitro Special is well finished and the best value obtainable. Chambered for 2gin.
Cartridges. 30in. barrels. The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gun-
smiths the world over say it is the best-designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was
snapped 77,000 times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was shot 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The United States Navy selects the Lefever Nitro Special from all other makes and orders a
quantity to be used by the U.S. Navy men. You may be sure the U.S. Naval Experts get the
best gun. LONG RANGE. HARD HITTING. CLOSE PATTERN.
LEFEVERS STAND T'SE AND ABUSE.
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILJP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND CIERALDTON.
[l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A greatly-improved Sydney sprinter is
Colmera (Colugo—Halmera). Backed from
sevens to fives, the nuggety chestnut came
fast at the right end of the Flying Handicap
at Canterbury Park on Saturday, and won
comfortably from Goodstead (5 to 1) and
Chrystal Tray (5 to 1) —a creditable per-
formance, as he was not well placed in the
earlier stages and ran out wide at the turn.
The Higliweight Handicap had to be divided,
and each division furnished a very fine race;
Gounod (4 to 1) and Resorby (12 to 1)
dead-heated in the first division, and in the
ether Sir Allan (2 to 1) beat Gold Brick
(7 to 2) by a short head. There was never
more than that between them in a stirring-
struggle from the home turn.
Chilo (7 to 1), who has performed rather
well of late (he has scored two wins and
three minor places in seven starts), out-
stayed a rather poor lot in the Canterbury
Handicap. Sofia and Sweet Auburn dis-
puted favoritism at threes. Sofia went to
the front right away, but the exasperatingly
in-and-out mare hauled down her colors at
the foot of the hill and faded awav to last;
Chilo led into the straight and romped
home from Lovebox (6 to 1) and Sweet
Auburn. He is a five-year-old gelding by
imported Cicero—L’Amour, and Nobbys (7
to 2), who deprived Deferential ( 5 to 2) of
victory in the last few strides of the race for
the Ashbury Handicap, is also by an Eng-
lish sire, Ludovitch, Revolving Light being
her dam. All Home (12 to 1) was a fair
third in this race, and would have done
better had lie not been started in the Can-
terbury Handicap. Bartle, the leading
jockey, _ rode a double on Sir Allan and
Magnetic (10 to 9 on), a very promising
youngster by imported Rossendale —Crag-
rose.
* * # *
Jumping rather better than in the race he
cleared out with at Randwick on May 19,
and staying the extra three furlongs with
invincible stoutness, Anorient has added his
name to the list of winners of the A.J.C.’s£2ooo
Hurdle Race). His price was returned at 9 to 2,
though fives could have been got. Hurra-
form . and Mowamba were in the places.
Anorient is a six-year-old gelding by Sands
of the Orient—ldyia, and is useful on the
fiat as well as over hurdles. Useful also is
Padicol, who won the June Stakes, at tens,
with Nandillyan second again and Adjong
third. Padicol is one of Wolaroi’s offspring.
For the second day at Randwick on Satur-
lay:—
Flying Handicap: Gounod; next, Adjong.
Steeplechase; Burraform.
Winter Stakes: Firefly; next, Lauder or
Flinders.
Exeter Handicap: Sir Allan; next, Som-
nolent.
* * * *
Ilenare, who had impressed the critics by
good work over hurdles and on the flat at Wil-
iiamstown, scored again in respectable com-
pany in the York Hurdle at Flemington on
Saturday. There were 14 starters and betting
took a very wide range; Bligny and Henare
closed equal favorites at sto 1. Sandhurst (7
to 1) ran to the front at the nine-furlongs post,
and turned into the straight two lengths
clear of I-lenare. They were together at the
last obstacle, however; then Henare drew
away and beat Sandhurst comfortably by
a length and a half; Kendler (14 to 1) was
five lengths further back. An All Black—
Fobcliain gelding, Henare has 9st. 91b. in
the Grand National —31b. less than he car-
ried on Saturday—and with Cairns likely to
ride him isi sure to be a popular fancy. His
owner, J. Fell, has another highly-thought-
of hurdler in Urbani engaged, however.
The nine starters for the Hopetoun
Steeple were a n ordinary lot, Glentronie (5
to 1) excepted. He went to the front early
in the piece, and, fencing beautifully, never
looked like being beaten; he won, pulling
up, by four lengths from Derision (9 to 4),
who jumped indifferently, a. rough one in
Last Ball (25 to 1) being third. Glen-
tronic, who carried lOst. 41b., has 81b. less
in the National. That, of course, is a dif-
ferent proposition, but a candidate that can
jump the Flemington timber as cleverly as
lie does is not to be despised.
Eric Connolly went for a win on his
“Seremond or Rivoli” filly Broken Doll, who
started at 5 to 2 (sixes had betn bet) for
OF THE BREED.
THE BOY : “Gripes, Dad, he must take the car fer a tin hare!”
the Princess Handicap. The good thing
arrived, but only after a spirited race with
an outsider, Torlonia (33 to 1). Then the
stewards became inquisitive about Broken
Doll’s improvement on her display at Aspen-
dale, the inquiry being adjourned. Con-
nolly had another punt on Attraction in the
Royal Handicap, but the imported gelding,
favorite at 9 to 4, failed him again, Elwood
Fisher’s Quantock gelding Zanibar (5 to 2)
beating Attraction by half a neck. Nearly
everything in the race had backing for the
Sandringham Handicap, but only a privi-
leged few thought of the St. Anton gelding
St. Lazar (16 to 1), whose record was poor.
He won decisively from Ataman (8 to 1)
and Bombard (5 to 1), who finished well,
as usual, after being a long way back, also as
usual. It took 2min. llfsec. to traverse the
10 furlongs, the course being heavy ; in fact,
drizzling rain fell all the afternoon.
* * ❖
Bought out of William Booth’s Roseliill
(N.S.W.) stable by a Queenslander with
designs on the Q.T.C. Stradbroke Han-
dicap, and backed down to twos —it was 8
to 1 bar one—Killarney failed dismally at
Eagle Farm on Saturday. Though he had
every chance to come on he was beaten out
of a place; a thing called Sarlind (25 1 to 1)
bobbed up to the delight of the bagmen, with
Miss Wolowa (16 to 1) second and Lady
Field (14 to 1) third. Magdaff (5 to 1)
kept. Sydney’s enld up by beating a fair-to-
middling w.f.a. field in the King’s Plate;
he galloped the 10 furlongs in 2min. s|sec.
To N.S.W. visitors’ surprise All Mag was
sent out a 5-to-4 favorite, only to run a
shocking race. High Syce (4 to 1 on), the
Queensland champion, had only half a
length’s advantage over Soulton at the finish
of the St. Leger, and apparently could not
have gone any faster. It was a rather
slovenly performance, considering that he
has 9st. 41b. in the Brisbane Cup.
sis * * *
Scobie has saddled up, and Lewis has
ridden, another winner of an important S.
Aus. race —Epilogue, favorite for the A.R.C.
Birthday Cup. The son of Comedy King—
Afterglow has the reputation of being rather
capricious, but he galloped honestly for the
veteran, a twisted plate notwithstanding,
and there were lengths between Epilogue and
Mentellini, and between that consistent fel-
low and Miss Disraeli, at the end of the
13 furlongs, which were covered in 2min.
47|sec. Epilogue’s backers collected £2 15s.
for £1; Mentellini’s div. was £2 4s. The
Melbourne horse was the only favorite to
succeed; one winner, Stargat, returned his
supporters £26 Bs., while there were other
divs. of £lO 10s. and £lO 2s.
* * *■ *
“Adelaide”: Isn’t this the shortest price
ever returned in so big a field? Place,
Mannum (S.A.), 30/5/’2B; event, a Novice
Plate’; starters, 21; winner, Kambull (Two
—Killarney Rose) ; dividend, 245. = 5 to 1
on. The second horse paid £9 4s.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tommy Fairhall, formerly the pride of
Newcastle, but settled nowadays at Wollon-
gong, gets so few opportunities to sparkle
in the ring that he caused considerable sur-
prise and much admiration by comnletejv- -mt-
pointing Ernie Izzard, the crack English
lightweight, at the Sydney Stadium on oa.ur-
day night. Izzard boxed with his accustomed
skill, but the Australian overwhelmed aim by
the sheer force and consistency of liis attack.
“Nutty” never let up from the moment he
made his first cyclonic assault till the final
bell, and he well earned the decision awarded
him even before that had ceased ringing.
Some of those heavy swings and hooks and
drives that assailed the Englishman in the
first and second rounds did more damage
than was observed by the onlookers; anyhow,
lie was over-cautious thenceforward. As is
always the case, his countering was admir-
able, but he did not seem able to hit hard
enough to slow Fairhall down. Surely the
Australian will get more opportunities after
his fine display. Weights: Fairhall, 9st. 91b.;
Izzard. 9st. 7^lb.
* * :!: *
Melbourne Stadium was packed to the
doors when Ad. Santel (12st. 131 b.) made
his first appearance at that haunt of grapple
and stoush, opposed to Mike Yokel (13st.
lib.). Despite long periods of inactivity, he
proved much the superior wrestler. The only
time Michael appeared to have anything
like a chance was in the second round, ivhen
ho secured a step-over toehold that made
the other grimace; on other occasions, Ad.
broke free with ease and countered effec-
tively, coming from the underneath position
with a wicked wristlock. In the fourth
round he trapped Yokel in a perfectly-applied
arm scissors and forced him down. Michael
unavailingly tried everything in his bag of
tricks to even the score. In the sixth, Sau-
tel again secured his sliort-arm scissors, sat
stolidly while Mike played himself out like
a hooked fish, and then pressed home the
fall.
Footbrawl
In spite of steady rain that ceased only
with the fading daylight, nearly 30,000
thrilled barrackers stood round the Carlton
oval on Saturday and roared as fortune fav-
ored the Blues or Collingwood’s Magpies.
Latter were without Syd. Coventry, but
Carlton was minus Clover, both injured, so
honors were even. For three-quarters the
Magpies were quicker and surer, though in-
ferior in marking, and their system being in
fair order they gained a 29-point lead. But
the last term saw the Blues let loose a
series of drives that produced 4 goals 5
behinds, while the others could snap but 3
points. In the gathering gloom the local
team sent the ball down to a waiting for-
ward. He missed ; and the bell rang : ’Wood,
87; Carlton', 84. Richmond v. Geelong was
another hard, exciting struggle, the Seasider-s
having all the best of it towards the end ;
but they also failed by 3 points—9o to
Richmond’s 93. St. Kilda, on its own ground,
had another tremendous battle with Foot-
scray, latter managing to get home by just
one point—72 to 71. Melbourne beat North
Melbourne by 100 points to 37; Essendon
disposed of Hawthorn by 98 points to 57;
and Fitxroy achieved its first win this sea-
son at the expense of South Melbourne.
There didn’t .seem to be anything wrong with
South, but the score-board said ’Roy, 113;
South, 77.
* * *
The English Rugby League team made an
inauspicious start at Cootamundra, where it
was hard put to it to draw, 14—14, with
a South-Western Districts XIII. Certainly
there are some fine players among tile coun-
trymen, notably Weissell and Kingston, and
the Englishmen were only two days off the
boat (touring League footballers are ex-
pected to earn their oats without any dashed
nonsense about time for putting on condi-
tion) ; but their showing must have dis-
appointed their own management as well as
the Sydney League. In a burst of confidence
one of their officials had informed a Mel-
bourne reporter that “We expect to do even
better than last time, when we cleared over
£7000,” and the League had thoughtfully
put up the tariff for the matches on the
Sydney C. G. to 4s. and 2s. As in the first
game against N. S. Wales in 1924, an
English player—Bowman this time —was
sent off for misconduct. After some rough
work “spectators saw a foot shoot out from
the English side of the scrum” (this is the
Sydney Guardian’s account) ; “a second
later Torpy, of Cootamundra, reeled out
and collapsed on the field, blood streaming
from his mouth.” A police-sergeant took the
offender’s name, but there were no further
proceedings, so the danger of “international
complications” (suggested by an alarmed
newspaper) was averted.
A crowd of 53,556 paid £5049 to see
England go down by 20 to 15 to the State’s
XIII on Saturday. Considering that nearly
all of them had arrived on Thursday, having
come round from Melbourne by boat, the
Whites proved a fine side. The game opened
with promising gentleness; it hadn’t been
going long before an Englishman ran off the
field to tell the team’s manager that he had
been kicked in the stomach. After that there
was a lot of hooting and groaning among the
crowd over alleged rough play by the Whites,
but, apart from making a certainty of get-
ting a man when they went for him, thqy
really played a pretty clean game. A sound
lot'altogether, the tourists have in Ellaby a
winger with brains and pace; his try, which
ended a grand run from his own twenty-five,
was the best thing of the day. Rees is as
good a five-eighth as has been seen in the
League world for years, and the full-back,
Gowers, as well as being a strong defender,
has a boot that makes the ball literally
whistle through the air. He kicked three
goals, the other scores being put on by
Thompson and Evans. For N.S.W. Hardy
did better than anyone else, and miles better
than the other backs. In the last quarter of
an hour, when the Englishmen were coming
harder than ever, he converted attack into
defence time after time. The English for-
wards, breaking out of the scrums with a
swiftness the local pack couldn’t equal, wor-
ried Busch so much that the best he could
do was to pass the ball as soon he got his
hands on it. Treweeke, who crossed the line
twice, and Cavanough kept more than thmr
weight of English forwards quiet. The
State’s other scorers Hardy and King-
ston, with four goals by Wearing.
(Continued on paqe 41.)
EX FUMO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Melbourne Hunt Club’s meet at Berwick,
a fox which had taken refuge in a hollow tree -was
smoked out and killed within a few minutes.”
Clear sounds the huntsman’s horn, as clear
and racy
As when it thrills our British kin and
kith,
Awakening thoughts of Jorrocks and of
Facey
Romford, of Soapy Sponge and Assheton
Smith.
On to the chase! —the same which sends the
thrusters
Through Pytchley hedges and o’er Belvoir
vales
With zest the keener for the spills and busters
That make life lively for the Prince of
Wales.
Here, though it be in diff’rent hemispheric
Surroundings, Reynard bold is still our
Joss;
Behind his brush we whoop at loud at Ber-
wick
As ever good old Pigg at Handley Cross.
Observe the well-groomed steeds aglow with
ardor,
The sinewy hounds whom no exertion
tires,
The booted Nimrods —gamer men or harder
Whyte-Melville ne’er depicted in "The
Shires.”
The wiry whips are brave with spit and
polish
As any Quorn or Badminton could show.
Mount, and the fastest fox we’ll soon
demolish
With ringing shouts of “Yoicks!” and
“Tally Ho!”
Are you all set? And nothing that attaches
To what’s the Sport of Kings, beyond a
doubt,
o’erlooked? Then.mount, and luck to him
who catches
The envied brush! But don’t forget the
matches
In case we have to smoke the varmint out.
N.S.W.
T. THE E.


Jj
tt
ilf/hhi
'K..,
I,
' 'Wit I
s'-r
a
£f
4
' V V
kM
I HI '
'}
Vi
Comnade. _
-toe Good die young’
i
JEUY
FOODS
PURE
REX-PYE
In lib. and }4lb hygienic cans
Foggitt Jones Limited —Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon.
Always say REX-PYE
We use only choicest
raw materials.
Finest quality meats, spiced according to a
recipe in our sole possession, cooked en cas-
serole in clear jelly in perfectly hygienic solder-
less cans —thus we account for the delicious
flavour and delicate aroma of REX-PYE. The
very appearance of the meat as you turn it out
of the can, tells of wholesomeness and quality.
It is economical meat, too; for you eat every
morsel.
We could pack an inferior article, like the imi-
tations of REX-PYE which are sold at a lower
price, but we will not do so ; for it is bad policy
for both buyer and seller, especially where food
is concerned, to sacrifice quality for cheapness.
.The enormous sale of REX-PYE is due to its
'excellent quality. It is the finest meat in the
world.
Other REX Pure Foods
lib and ' 2 lb TINS
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
lib TINS ONLY
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice
beef and vegetables
—a ready meal


‘Allenburys’
Black Currant PASTILLES
Protect the mouth and J
throat against infections,
allay irritating coughs
and clear the voice. Jilt
#
Your Chemist stocks
them. II- and 1/9
am
per box
§
ft
y
#
9
i
n
BEAKI WIRELESS
C]ke (jreatestffriumfh of Science OOer'Distance,
HIGH-SPEED TELEGRAPH SERVICE AT REDUCED RATES TO GREAT
BRITAIN, IRELAND, AND THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE.
RATES TO ALL PARTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM:—
Week-end Messages .... sd. per word (minimum 20 words).
Daily Letter Telegrams .. 6d. per word (minimum 20 words).
Deferred Telegrams 1 Od. per word (no minimum).
Ordinary Telegrams 1/8 per word (no minimum).
TELEPHONE 8W2211 (15 lines)
and a Beam messenger will collect your message, or lodge same at any
Post Office throughout Australia
or at
THE BEAM WIRELESS OFFICE,
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY (top Wynyard St.), one minute G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES: 59 LIVERPOOL STREET AND
ROYAL EXCHANGE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A 1 A.W 1
fa
sdf
DONALD MACKINTOSH
THE GUN MAN.
YOUNG
MATCH
SHOOTERS
want to know how to win
some of the £5OOO prize on July
2, and all shooters want to know
how to improve their shooting. The
Doctor, Lawyer, Chemist, Architect,
Musician, Atlilete, Farmer or
Shooter must lay a foundation. Let
your foundation commence with a
reliable Gun, and finish with my
personal advice when buying it.
I stock Purdey, Greener, Powell,
Cashmere, Hollis, Woodward, Webley
and Scott, Boswell, Lancaster, 8.5. A.,
Crawford, Bayard and others.
REPAIRS to Gun, Rifle and Revolver by
skilled workmen. Ask your shooting pals
who have given me a trial, for the last 20 years,
and have seen my workshop.
32-page Catalogue, with Hints to Shooters,
posted free.
DONALD MACKINTOSH
(OF SHOOTING FAME),
Gun Maker,
432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Footbrawl
A much more stirring exhibition of foot-
ball than the professionals’ match at the
Sydney C. G. was given by University
and Randwiek, Rugby Union teams, at the
University Oval. It ended in a draw, 27
points each, and it had been level pegging
also (11-11) at half-time. “Wee Ahlick”
Uoss, the Waratah full-back, scored a won-
derful try for Uni., starting the movement
on his own goal line. He is miles ahead of
any League full-back in the business.
J*C ❖ s|! $
“Parnell” ; The All Blacks won their first
match in South Africa, beating a West-
ern Province team by 11 to 3, but a much
stronger combination from the Western
Province towns defeated them, 7 to 3, in
the second match. They have been saying
in Maoriland that this band of tourists
is better than the famous 1924 combina-
tion. The assertion can hardly be put to
the proof, but the Springboks will help to
make comparisons more illuminating.
❖ * * ❖
“Scout”; There is room for a grin in the
virtuous attitude assumed by the N.S.W.
llugby League Council when the Newcastle
League protested against the “filching” of
players by Sydney clubs. The council
assured the Novocastrians that it strongly
disapproved of such practices. Lovely!
Busch, from the Northern Rivers, is now
with East Sydney, and Maher, from the
same locality, wdio captained the N.S.W. side
which defeated Queensland in the second
match, is to play with South Sydney. These
are only two topical instances, but it is
good betting that the other country players
who distinguished themselves in the recent
inter-State matches in Sydney will shortly
see their way clear to settle in the metro-
polis, as many of their kind have done be-
fore them. Meanwhile, the League council
will presumably go on disapproving.
❖ =!= # ❖
“Coot”: The irony of Fitzroy’s score of
27 behinds and only two goals against Gee-
long _ (B. 30/5/’2B) was that Moriarty
Roy’s crack goal-kicker, who had declined to
play in preceding matches, was again in the
team. He got one of the two goals. In the
'nineties, when behinds did not count, Gee-
long once kicked 4 goals 3 behinds to Fitz-
roy’s 3 goals 24 behinds and won the match.
* * sK *
“Adelaide”; J. J. Quinn, S.A.’s leading
football umpire, has suddenly retired,
through knee trouble, and will become a
sporting journalist for Adelaide Register.
Quinn introduced a short and spirited indica-
tion, whenever a mark was given against a
player, of just what the fault was. This
dramatic touch, which at first caused de-
rision, has become highly popular.
Racquet and Bawl
Australia’s luckless Davis Cup team suf-
fered another stroke of misfortune in the
French liard-courts championships, Patter-
son breaking down when playing young
Boussus. A painful form of “tennis elbow”
-s the trouble, and the big man may not be
able to appear at Wimbledon. Crawford
shaped creditably in beating Gentien, who
is not far from the front rank, but proved
no match for Lacoste in the next round.
Ilawkes, however, entered the semi-finals,
along with Lacoste, Cochet and Borotra, by
trouncing Brugnon in a hot five-sets match —
the best performance by an Australian in
Europe this year. Two of the girls did
well in the early stages, Miss Boyd defeating
Mrs. Mallory, the once-famous American,
and Miss Akhurst accounting for England's
Joan Fry, but they were fated not to reach
the semi-finals.
* ❖ * ❖
“Rev. Knucklebone”: As a tennis critic
of some literary eminence myself, I am con-
strained to admit that one of the com-
muniques received from J. B. Hawkes indi-
cating the state of affairs on the Western
tennis front fills me with reluctant admira-
ion. Its keynote is the modesty of the
writer —not modesty of that self-conscious
type which affects to hide its light under a
bushel, but that which frankly admits its
own merit. Indeed, the writer’s aplomb
sometimes over-rides his grammatical con-
struction, as when he writes that Cochet
“defeated Gerald Patterson and I.” But
that is only a detail and is redeemed by the
disarming frankness of his self-appreciation
in such passages as “We played fine tennis
.... We were forcing the game and combin-
ing beautifully.... Our service was always
troubling our opponents.... We were still
playing well and staged many marvellous
rallies.” It was disconcerting to find, at
the end of the bulletin, that the engaging
young gentleman and his partner had been
licked, in spite of it all.
* # *
“Shrewsbury”: I am sorry for “Leonta”
(B. 30/5/’2B) if he cannot perceive that
tennis is fostering a spirit of fractious child-
ishness. The recent row between a leading
N.S.W. player and an umpire is only one of
many cases, as the remarks on the tennis
temperament by a leading English referee
(B. 23/5,/’2B) indicate. Detailed accounts
of the Davis Cup matches at Genoa show
that the game was completely “out of control”
in the doubles, so much so that another
umpire able to keep the performers in hand
had to be appointed. Even in professional
football or boxing such drastic measures are
seldom necessary. And lawn tennis used to
be such a ladylike sport!
;J; :J: iji ❖
“Lond”: There is money in tennis all right.
This year, with four guineas being charged
for a seat by the centre court in Wimbledon
Week, the L.T.A. announced, early in
March, that it was not only sold out, but
had returned £40,000 to the applicants who
were not successful.
“Kewpie” : Maoriland disposed of Portugal,
four matches to one, in the first round of the
Davis Cup competition. The first string of
the team was E. D. Andrews, national singles
champion and runner-up in the Australasian
singles of two years back; his partner was
Russell Young. Both boys are Cambridge
undergrads. Apparently they could not get
further leave, for the match with Czecho-
slovakia could not be played.
The Watermen
The Perth ’Varsity eight, stroked by O.
F. Fry, won the boatracc for the Oxford and
Cambridge Cup at Mannum, on the Murray.
The Victorians led for a mile and a half;
then the Swan River lads shot to the front,
and were never afterwards in trouble. At the
end of the journey they were two lengths
“FOUR.”
OLD DAN: “Y’ve nearly knocked me eye out — it’s goin’ to cost yer jive quid!"
McPHOOZLE: “But I called out ‘Fore’ as loud as I could.”
OLD DAN: “I didn’t hear yer. Well, I’ll take four.”
ahead of the Victorians, who just beat S.
Aus.; Tasmania, N. S. Wales and Queens-
land finished at intervals in that order, the
time being lGmin. 4£sec. Thus for two
successive years Westralian crews have cap-
tured the inter-State and inter-Uni. races,
and on unfamiliar water in each case. It
is an achievement that deepens the regret
that Australia is not to be represented at
Amsterdam by a Jarrahland crew.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The threatened split
over the decision of the Olympic Games
committee to allow payment for “broken
time” to Soccer footballers has been patched
up temporarily, the committee having
announced that the indulgence will be ex-
tended to these football players only. At
one time it began to look as if Britain, at
least, would withdraw from the Games, but
a loophole is now offered. The British Ama-
teur Rowing Association has decided to
allow its crews to compete, and the other
amateur controlling bodies have been heard
from to the same effect. Only the English
Rowing Association maintains an ominous
silence. This venerable body is so sacredly
amateur in thought and deed -that it scorns
to include the word “amateur” in its title.
For years it refused to regard any person
who earns his living by manual labor as an
amateur in any circumstances, though it has
unwillingly unbent of late years.
The Nineteenth Hole
Rufus Stewart made a decent showing
in the open golf championship of Ire-
land without quite getting among the
prize-winners. Ernest Whitcombe won with
the splendid aggregate of 288, Compston
being second with 292; Stewart, after an-
other indifferent first round, finished with
312. The best of the Americans and British
are obviously a bit too good for Rufus, but,
being an observant young man, he has doubt-
less learned a lot and should be able to
impart some of his acquired knowledge on
his return to South Aus.
* * * *
“Betty Bunker”: Though Simone de la
Chaume, the French golf championette, took
the knock from English Molly Gourlay in
the first round of the British championship,
the trophy went eventually to the other side
of the Channel, being won by Mile. Nanette
Leblanc. The Australian entrants, Miss
Cecily Lascelles and Mesdames Bowie and
Adams, all of the Royal Melbourne Club,
went under early in the piece.
* :!: * *
“Mrs. Niblick”: What a crotchety
old soul is “Colonel Damurize”! On
behalf of my downtrodden sex, I must point
out to him and many others that if “the
feminine element” is “an enervating influ-
ence” in golf (B. 23/5/’2B), the fault lies
mostly with the men, and with the misguided
soul who first used the word “associate”
instead of “woman member.” Many if not
all -of the clubs treat their associates with
an air of resigned tolerance. While medals,
cups and shields are lavished on the men, and
every week-end sees them competing happily,
the associates are lucky if a day a month
is set aside for their particular benefit. The
mixed foursomes is regarded as a painful
social duty or a joke. Small wonder that
the average woman golfer does not take the
game very seriously ; and small wonder, too,
if she becomes disgruntled when she re-
alises that, to the lords of creation, her sole
function on the links is to stand aside and let
the men go through.
;Jc j|c '!•
“The McPhairson” : Someone whose vera-
city I doubt wrote to The Bulletin hot
long ago to say that Harry Lauder had
once played a three-and-sixpenny ball into a
lake hazard on an American course, and
passed on, after no more than three hours’
delay in trying to recover it, without asking
the club committee to have, the lake drained.
Against that I have to set a story received
from a fellow-golfer in Queensland, who tells
me that, on his last visit to Australia, Harry
arrived at Cairns (N.Q.) with his clubs and
three golf balls, the latter only slightly
used. Before he reached Melbourne he had
lost all three, and acting, as he said, on
medical advice, played no more golf in
Australia. The happening seemed to amuse
my friend, who is an Englisher, but pairson-
ally A canna see onything extra-ordinar’
aboot it.
* * * *
“H.J.K.” : The annals of the now-defunct
Surrey Hills Golf Club (Vic.) record an
instance of a hole being done in one that
was not celebrated at the 19th. Playing at
the short 14th hole, a member was discon-
certed by seeing a crow seize his ball and
carry it to a tree overhanging the 17th
putting-green. Saluted with a vigorous
fusillade of golf clubs, the sable fowl made
off after dropping the gutty within a few
inches of the hole. A few seconds later
the approach shot of another player bounced
on to the green, struck the crow-borne ball,
and cannoned it into the tin ! As the dis-
tance between the tee and the green was
over S6O yards, this may also be counted
as a record “carry.”
* *
“The McHaggis”: It has often been my
lot to call attention to the amazing tangle
which the Royal and Antient Club of St.
Andrew’s still persists in describing as the
rules of golf. The utter inability of the
average player to penetrate the arcanum
is well illustrated in an example recently
quoted in a British golfing journal, where a ,
player, though he only made one stroke, in-
curred 10 penalty strokes in one bunker.
Here is the list. In the bunker, he removed
a fallen tree branch which was in the way
of his swing; penalty, 2 strokes. Then he
spotted a stone near his ball and kicked
it out of the way; penalty, 2 strokes'.
Addressing his ball lie moved it; penalty,
one stroke. Then ho played the ball, but it
bounced back from the bunker face and hit
his foot; penalty, yet another stroke. The
ball fell on the spot where the tree branch
which originated the trouble had lain ; thus
lie was hit again under the rule which says
that nothing shall be done which shall im-
prove the lie of the ball (in bunker play)—- .
another 2-stroke penalty. I trust I make
myself clear to my readers. I’m not too
certain about it myself, but it appears to be
the law.
* * * *
“Panicum” : I cannot claim the 40 years'
playing experience of “The McMug” (B.
11/4/’2B), but the subject is my business.
Alister Mackenzie definitely preaches that
the majority of golf courses have far too
many bunkers, and I instance the 31 pot-
holes guarding the last green at Kensington
(Sydney) as a pretty fair example of the
sort of bunkering which irritates “McMug’s”
mugocracy. Mackenzie would convert at
least half of them into grassy hollows. Mac-
kenzie axioms: (1) “No hazard is unfair
wherever it is placed.” (2) “It is possible
to make a hole sufficiently interesting with
one or two bunkers at the most.” (3)
“The object of hazards is to make the
game interesting.” Golf grousing is an off-
shoot of the accursed handicap.
* ❖ * *
“Te Kooti”: The Maoriland golf cham-
pionships are to be held this year on the
Balmacewan links, near Dunedin, from
October 10 to October 20. In addition to
the regular series of championship events,
there will be three handicap competitions.
Australian players, especially the N.S.W.
contingent, have figured prominently in the
Dominion championships of late, especially
at the last meeting. This year it is hoped
that the entry will be greatly increased by
players eager to take the Maoriland blue-
ribbon back over the Tasman, as the Kirk-
Windeyer Cup was reclaimed some months
ago.
(Continued on nc.rt pane.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of hi? art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
frritnGf
LI Q U EU”
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm oj Scotch Whisky Distillers.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc,, etc.
Car and Cycle
“Garry”: A few years ago it looked as if
the motor-car had reached the limits of de-
velopment, but now a number of new vistas
are opening up. The supercharging system,
found so efficient on racing cars, is likely
to be applied to tourers; the four-speed gear
is getting a lot of attention, and the system
of springing each wheel independently, cither
on springs or pneumatic cylinders, is making
headway. Big cars of the future will almost
certainly have six wheels —four grouped
closely at rear, bogey-fashion. It’s almost
impossible to skid with six wheels. In re-
gard to motors, it is probable that the Diesel
principle will be very generally adopted, both
for cars and aeroplanes. Oil fuel is safer
and cheaper than petrol, and there's no
electrical ignition to worry about. Problems
of lubrication will have to be solved before
aircraft Diesel motors are practicable, but
there’s already a Diesel lorry on the market.
* * *.* *
“Clievroford”: There is a move in Mel-
bourne to lower the age at which motor-
cyclists can qualify for a license from 18
years to 10. The objection advanced against
the youthful motor-cyclist is that he is
more reckless than the adult. Against this
may be placed his superior nerve. There are
probably as many motorists who are too old
as too young, and excessive caution, always
liable to break out into panic, is no sub-
stitute for a keen eye. a quick mind and a
ready hand. The other day in Melbourne a
car stalled on an intersection. When the
traffic cop went over to investigate he found
the veteran inside in a state of collapse. The
slight misadventure had been sufficient to
use up all his available vital force.
is * *
“Rnv”: The late Thomas Dixon Scott (B.
30/5/!2S) was a real pioneer of cycle- and
motor-racing in Australia. lie and his part-
ner, Bob Morton, were the first to import
the modern style of bicycle, and Tom Scott
rode one from Adelaide to Melbourne- —no
mean achievement 30 years ago. In 1002,
as secretary of the Automobile Club (now
the K.A.C.A.), he fan. at Kensington
(N.S.W.) racecourse, the first motor-race to
be held in Australia, and also an event for
motor-cycles (he introduced them , too) ; this
was won by R. A. Mills on a Sydney-built
machine. For several years Tom was man-
ager for the motor firm of Garratfs. Ltd.
The orchard about: his house at Colston
(NS.W.) was long a favorite haunt of
motoring friends—you could find hundreds of
them there some Sundays.
s|: * *
“Plugger”: Eighth in the road race from
Paris to Rennes on May IT, Hubert Opper-
inan was third in the Paris-Brussels affair
10 days later. This Avas a fine performance
on the Victorian cyclist’s part, for he was
opposed to the best long-distance men in
France and Belgium (Rousse, the Belgian
champion, won), and he can hardly be at his
top yet. The French agree that he Avill be
a hard man to beat in the Tour de France.
* * * *
“Ula": Does anybody remember Frank
Ilagney, who was pushing a bike ivitii
success some 15 years ago in Sydney?
I often see him “hcavying” in Hollywood
thrillers, and to iny knowledge he has
played the same distasteful villain in the
best part of a hundred films. Frank is
billed as one of the world's best all-round
athletes, and it’s a true bill. Yet he
has to be the screen’s greatest coward. It’s
tough when (lie perjuicer decrees -that he
must take a biding. Frank could clean up
a paddock-full of Hollywood heroes and come
back for more.
Miscellaneous
“Kolby”: For 12 months Johnny Taylor
lias had a cruel spin with his old war-time
illness. Noav that he has been discharged
cured from RandAvick Military Hospital, the
matter of the captaincy of the next Aus-
tralian XI becomes more complicated still.
If he can regain the batting form that meant
so much to Australia when Gilligan’s team
was here, his selection for the next eleven
will be beyond doubt, and as a captain he
has had more experience than Woodfull, at
least. During the years that he has skippered
the Sydney ’Varsity team, every grade cap-
tain in the State has at some time or other
testified to Taylor's able powers of leadership.
Never for a moment does lie lose his grip
of the game, and his close-in fielding is as
brilliant as his more famous work in the
outfield.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: English cricket writers
are again insisting on the importance of
appointing a combination of Machiavelli
and Mussolini as captain for the Australian
toui\ not to mention a mixture of Foch and
the late Larry Foley. An impassioned
argument has been raging over the respective
merits of Jardine and Chapman, and Jar-
dine seems to have the better press. Quoth
one profound analyst, “Chapman is a de-
lightful cricketer, but is he a strategist in
the deepest sense of the word?” Evidently
he is not, in the writer’s opinion, for it is ex-
plained that Jardine “lias the right tempera-
ment, and, moreover, the real cricket sense."
Also, Jardine is more of a social luminary
than Australia’s old acquaintance (Chappy
travels for a brewery, I believe), a fact
which counts mightily when it comes to
choosing a captain in England, though the
scribe in question does not stress the point.
I 'D.C.”: Westralian by birth are the
Landrum brothers, who have been entertain-
ing Sydney with delightful displays of all-
round billiards. Both get well down to their
shot, the chin almost touching the cue;
but there the likeness ends. Walter plays
his stroke with an apparently careless ease ;
Fred, on the other hand, is stern and busi-
nesslike. To see Walter piling up points
is enough to make the ordinary billiardist
renounce the game for good. One stab from
the cue, and the ball, as though at the beck
of some invisible director, cannons and runs
into position. Seldom is the young master
obliged to play a difficult shot. On the rare
occasions when the balls become unruly,
two or three strokes bring them into posi-
tion ; and so it goes on until the marker
offers up silent prayer for a rniscne. so that
lie may have time to drop a throat lozenge
into lfis mouth.
* * * *
“Caxtou's Ghost": Uncle Joe lleenan, of
Maoriland. who found—too late —that a shil-
ling would take a member of the Olympic
team three miles on the way to Amsterdam,
and that a pound would take 10 representa-
tives three miles, is turning his attention to
the next Olympic Games, which are booked
for Los Angeles in 1932. Joseph now
announces that if every athlete in M.L.
would put in a penny per week and sixpence
at Christmas for four years, there would bi-
no necessity for a public appeal. There may
be a Haw in the arithmetic, but indisputably
the plan, if acted upon, would give better
results in every way than the belated pleas
for contributions customary in Maoriland
and the Commonwealth.
:>c :|: :Jc
“Wallaby": The ."450 miles go-as-you-
please race from Los Angeles to New York
was won by a 17-year-old lad named Payne,
who hails from Oklahoma ; his running time
was 578 hrs. 4min. 34sec., or so it is alleged.
Of the 300 who started from Los Angeles
only 55 finished. In 85 stages the Okla-
homa youth averaged over 41 miles a
day, which seems uncommonly good going.
I take it for granted that he did it all on
foot, though accounts of the race are full
of references to runners being disqualified
for accepting lifts from kindly motorists,
and possibly they were not all caught.
“Blade Sight": The King’s Empire trophy
for miniature rifle shooting has- this year
gone to Canada, whose team averaged -.79.21
points out of a possible 100. South Africa
was a good second, Britain third and Maori-
land fourth; Australia, which used to cut a
worthy figure in the competition, did not
even qualify. Only 320 S entered from this
BRIAN PALMER, Glebe-Balmain wing
three-quarter. A probability for the
team to visit Maoriland.
country as compared with 13.000 from South
Africa’s small white population. However,
the Newcastle (N.S.W.) Naval Reserve , won
the Senior Imperial Challenge Shield, and
that is some consolation.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Over 150 ladies and gentle-
men, mounted on reliable horses and pre-
ceded by a pack of powerful hounds, went in
pursuit of foxes in the outskirts of Mel-
bourne the other day. Putting a vixen up,
they had an excellent chase after it, the
animal giving them a run for their money
which earned the unstinted admiration of
the hunters. Finally it ran into a dead tree.
Sturdy fellows dismounted, lighted a fire,
and tried to smoke it out. The creature
managed to climb out at the top of the tree,
where its photograph was taken for the
illustrated press, after which, being poked
back by a Nimrod with a stick, it fell down
exhausted inside the tree. A hunter there-
upon seized it by the tail and dragged it
out. and when it had recovered sufficiently
several sportsmen chased it away at a
lumbering trot. The hunt was then resumed,
the savage creature caught, decapitated, and
its head handed to a lady so that she could
be photographed with it for the illustrated
papers.
SOL GREEN, owner of Comedy King in
other days and Gothic to-day.
‘•F.S.” : Victoria’s Aerial Derby was flown
over a circular course, arranged so that the
competitors might be in sight of the spec-
tators all the time. Unfortunately the trans-
mission lines of the State Electricity Com-
mission cut a segment out of the circle, the
wires spanning the undulations of the plain
at a height of 60 to 80 feet from the ground.
The favorite for the race was Flight-Lieut.
Wells, a veteran of the Royal Air Force and
one of the finest fliers in Australia. Wells
wasn’t long in the air before he realised that,
as far as speed went, his DH9A was no
match for Captain Matthews’s De Havilland
type 4, and he attempted to make up for it
by flying low and cornering rapidly. He
clouted the transmission line and crashed
on the Bulla-road. The line consists of three
wires carrying 120,000 volts; providentially,
he hit the neutral third wire, otherwise it
would have meant certain death. The in-
trepid fellow wasn’t so badly hurt as was
at first feared, and the affair has in no way
cooled off amateur enthusiasm for flying.
Worse accidents happen on the road every
week-end.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: “Ironbark” (B. 25/4/’2S) com-
plains that Australians haven’t followed
Maorilanders in acclimatising game. Per-
haps it is because they are longer-sighted.
Some of the bigger brands of deer intro-
duced into the Shivery Islands are becoming
a dashed nuisance. These Southern climes
seem to be peculiarly adapted for turning
normallv inoffensive species into pests.
The pair of domestic water-buffaloes which
escaped from Melville Island. N.T., have
parented enormous herds of wild ones. The
buffalo is furious enough when attacked,
but, luckily, is not aggressive. A pair of
tigers might have begun a different chapter
in our calm island story. Acclimatising
tigers was actually suggested by early Eng-
lish sportsmen possessed of more enthusiasm
than sense.
* * # . *
“Garbut” : An innovation that appears to
have boundless possibilities, and in these
days of sport madness can hardly fail, has
just been introduced by an enterprising firm
of Brisbane rag merchants. The staff has
been divided into two teams with captains
and a referee. For a month the opposing
sides, known as the Reds and the Blues,
will do their darnedest to extract more cash
from the pockets of the public than their
opponents. Colored ribbons at present dis-
tinguish the players, but doubtless when the
new game gets properly going a more spec-
tacular uniform will be adopted. Strongly
supported by the various prohibitionist
organisations, the Blues have, at the moment,
a slight lead in the betting. However, the
local Trades Hall is reported to be strongly
behind the Reds, and a reversal of the posi-
tion is confidently expected.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Busted Flush”: The British Treasury has
punctured the popular fallacy that enormous
sums of money lie in Chancery waiting to
be claimed by the rightful heirs. A Govern-
ment Gazette supplement of 91 pages- re-
cently published shows that the grand total
of all of the unclaimed balances is only
£550,000. There are only 1300 accounts
altogether, half of which are less than *loo
and only l-20th of them exceed £lOOO. Most
of the amounts bear a later date than ISSO.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: Recent duties on imported
softwoods haven’t yet caused as much as a
ripple on the pool of imports. Month by
month the Customs returns show that the
normal figure of about 400,000,000 super-
feet per annum is being maintained. There
would be a heap of work among the country
sawmills if only half of this timber were
produced here, but 44-hour fetiches and other
handicaps looming on the horizon suggest
that there is very little hope of the Aus-
tralian sawmiller overtaking the cheap
foreign product.
* * * *
“Tc Anau”: Melbourne shopkeepers ex-
hibiting gilded farthings for change on
goods ticketed with the odd fd. are digging
up an old dodge that James Marshall long
ago worked effectively in his Adelaide
drapery. The first to introduce farthings
into the holy city—£2oo worth imported,
like most of his wares, from England—he
■advertised,, “Correct change given,” and
raked in many shillings on his llfd. lines.
Every time bread costs an odd farthing for
the half-pound loaf, there is a mild agitation
to coin farthings, but when Australia did
mint such tiny tokens many years ago, col-
lection plates got most of them.
* * * *
“Gwy”: One of the petty dishonesties
of the rag trade is the use of the term “art
silk” to describe artificial silk. “Art. silk”
is perhaps a justifiable abbreviation, but
when the full-point is dropped the material,
useful enough in itself, is masquerading as a
silk fabric. A commendable movement to
call it “rayon” has met with only moderate
success.
$ * * *
“Let Go”: Something of a record lift
was taken from the holds of the s.s. Fort
Nicholson at Fort Adelaide the other day,
when two Pullman-car models, each weighing
55 tons and 84 feet in length, were success-
fully landed on the wharf. From these
models additional cars will be built for ser-
vice on the Adelaide-Melbourne railway.
* * * *
“Let Go”: Within a few miles of Cairns
(N.Q.) there is plenty of the best red cedar.
A few years ago there used to be a big
southern demand for it for cabinet and other
decorative work, but for some reason Ameri-
can maple has largely taken its place. The
Australian cedar may not have the strength
of imported maple, but for all purposes of
panel work, and for decorative and cabinet
use, it stands up to the best imported.
* * * *
“N.M.L.”: That Mt. Isa (Q.) line may
not stop at the new silver-lead mines when
it gets there. West of Isa to Camooweal
lessees have been paying rent for the past
25 years. It is all rolling downs, equal to
the best on the Barkly Tableland, for at
least 80 miles on the Isa side of Camooweal;
and Glencoe, Bushy Park, Glcnroy, West-
bank, Yelvertoft, Carlton Hills and other
bits of stations have been knocking out a
living for years past.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Yallourn, Victoria’s reply to the
striking coalminers of Newcastle, will see
enormous developments shortly, if the Hogan
Government agrees to the proposed expendi-
ture of over two and a half millions. The
idea is to enlarge the briquetting factory anc
replace with a dredge the huge electrk
shovel which bites the brown-coal deposit
The power on which three-quarters of the
State now works is already centralised at
Yallourn. By 1931 the remaining quarter,
including Bendigo and Ballarat, will get its
juice from the same address. Over 100
towns now light their lamps with it.
* * * *
“Garbut” : “Whaffor” grumbles at having
to pay sd. per lb. more for butter in Sydney
than he did in London; what he overlooks is
that on top of the profits of the cow-cocky,
the factory and the grocer, lie shoulders the
loss on a similar lump of cow-grease sold to
somebody in London. He shouldn't grumble,
for, apart from decreased production, there
seems no other way to keep the industry
going. But what, in my opinion, does war-
rant a kick is that here, in the shadow of
a butter factory, in the heart of the Queens-
land cow country, we pay 2s. Id. for butter
(the grocer only gets 3d.), yet Brisbane
firms 200 miles away retail a similar article
from the same factory at Is. 8-ld.


In the Di fferential
In the Gearbox
In the Universal
In the
Rearwheels
lnmefanDwe
E__
*
In the
Front Wheels
In the Engine
The Importance of the Bearings
in the most vital and inaccessible parts of your car
%
sdf
BECAUSE you cannot see the part they
play, you are apt to discount the
importance of the bearings in your
car.
You must realise, however, that they are
responsible for the smooth working of the
most vital and inaccessible parts of the
engine and cmssis.
The presence of R & M British Bear-
ings adds longer life and greater running
smoothness to your car.
BRITISH R&M BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
are so reliable and efficient that they are
used by more than 80 per cent, of Brit-
ish Motor-car Manufacturers.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors: —
GARDNER WAERN g CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. A US. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS TTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
WEST. AUS. AGENTS: (Automotive) COVENTRY
MOTOR CO., LTD., PERTH.
Melbourne Gun Club, Tottenham, Victoria.
FOR TRAP-SHOOTERS
£5OOO £5OOO
HANDICAP
AT LIVE PIGEONS and
WORLD’S CHAMPIONSHIP
AT LIVE PIGEONS (G.C.A. RULES)
July 3 to July 8, 1928.
OPEN TO APPROVED SHOOTERS FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD.
£5OOO HANDICAP £5OOO
CONDITIONS: Two Nominations, £35; Single Nomination, £2O. Competitors
missing first bird on either or both nominations may re-enter on payment of £ 15
for one Nomination, or £3O for two. Handicaps from 23 to 33 yards’ rise.
PRIZES:
Ist Prize .... £3OOO 4th Prize ....
2nd Prize .... 750 sth Prize ....
3rd Prize .... 350 6th Prize ....
(Guaranteed by the Melbourne Gun Club.)
£2OO 7th Prize .... £lOO
100 and
100 8 Prizes of £5O each.
Acceptance on Day of Event.
WORLD’S CHAMPIONSHIP
A Sweepstake of £lO and Cup Presented by tha “Sporting Globe."
The Sweepstake to be divided—First, 60 per cent.; Second, 30 per cent.;
Third, 10 per cent.
CONDITIONS: 25 Birds off 30 yards; Three Misses retire conditionally. In the
event o ties, tieists to shoot 5 additional birds until Championship is decided.
Entries, accompanied by Nomination Fee, must be in Secretary’s hands by
6 p.m. on July 3, 1928.
Two Grounds will be in use during the meeting, and many minor events will
be decided.
Bankers: Union Bank of Australia, Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia
and all Branches.
For any further information apply to Secretary, or to the Editor the “Sporting
Globe," Flinders Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
J. M. ALLAN, F. A. TUBB, Secretary,
President. Salisbury Street, Canterbury, Vic.
The whole meeting will follow on the lines of the original shoot, which was success-
fully carried out on these splendidly equipped Grounds in 1926, when approximately
£BOOO was paid out in prize money.
PLUMBERS
and STEAM FITTERS
A PRACTICAL TRADE ASSISTANT.
Ayoetsi;
P CUMBERS!
Steam !
fSTTERSi
QU(D£- ;
\ I
\
*SATHfMATt<S
PHYSICS !
MATfRiAtS]
. tools ;
LEAD
WORK’ 4
Aui-cl-i : AUD&SI
PIUMBEf# PiUM|IB|
_ AND , :
i STEAMS
? -
GUIDE
2 v
'WATER I
SUPPLY I
ORAiN/.GE
ROUGH 1
1 W-WK , i
TESTS 'if
' Amb
SYEf PM
i iTT*, ■■.-■
Gl'iDl
' 3 i
\
WE 1
FITTIM&I
HEATtH®*
GAS
, STEAM *
£>rlt
M,
wimp
grata
\r>
A®
PRICE,
COMPLETE SET
OF 4 VOLS.,
30!-
POST
FREE
ASK
THE
GUIDE
The right answer
to every problem
is at your finger-
tips.
EVERYTHING AN ELECTRICIAN WANTS TO KNOW.
HAWKINS’ ELECTRICAL GUIDE,
Complete Set of 10 Volumes,
Price 50/-. Postage 2 6 extra.
Write for Lists. The Best House for Technical Books.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
DASPYL
AUSTRALIAN MADE
BRASSWORK
DASPYL
LEAD AND BRASS WORK
And all Plumbers’ Supplies.
If you want real money’s worth in
Plumbers’ Brass and Lead Work—get
the DASPYL Brand. All lines that
bear the name DASPYL are fav-
ored by the leading craftsmen through-
out the Commonwealth, and the high
reputation they hold in this Country
has spread to beyond the shores of
this Big Australia.
A fully-illustrated Catalogue dealing with
Daspyl I*lumbers’ Supplies is Post Free
on request.
iJiiu'iiiminfin
1 JOHN
aimmmiiiiiiiiii?
>rD
pTy-
iiiiiiiiiiiiinii(t
&SON1
'.imimmmiimiif?
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Diamonds and CatanacH’s
i'/. • ■ - '
24,841 —Pretty, fancy
Cluster, 11 Diamonds,
18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Settings,
£lO/10/-
ÜBI
24,849 All-Platinum
Cluster with Diamond-
set shoulders, set with
fine quality, brilliant
Diamonds, from
£4O.
24,833 —Popular design,
with 3 fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Settings,
£l5.
24,853- —Dainty 6-StOne
Ring. 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Setting, set
with fine double-cut
brilliant Diamonds,
from
£l2/10/-
Two Names Which Are Synonymous.
So well and so widely are Catanach’s known as Diamond Special-
ists that to think of one is to think of the other!
A Catanach Engagement Ring gives highest pleasure and greatest
satisfaction. It carries a WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
DIAMOND RING CATALOG POST FREE ON REQUEST.
Cor. Royal Arcade & Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
24,844 —Distinctive de-
sign, 17 Diamonds,
18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Settings,
£2O.
24,855 Dainty 6-
Stone Ring, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Setting,
set with fine quality,
double - cut brilliant
Diamonds, from
£lO/10/-
24,826 —4 fine Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Settings,
£25.
24,852 — Dainty all-
Platinum 7-Stone Ring,
set with fine quality,
double - cut brilliant
Diamond, from
£35.
W.McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
Flemiiigton is a dreary place on a wet
day, and there was only a meagre attend-
ance on Saturday, the first day of the
V.R.C. Birthday meeting. Though there
was but little rain during the afternoon the
before-luncheon downpours made the lawns
squelchy, and the flagged area round the
ring was full of pools. Feminine sports
of the sensible kind went out in raincoats
and goloshes; but lots of the fair ones re-
gard over-shoes as dowdy. Though condi-
tions were damp and dispiriting the air was
not cold, and topcoats were shed between
showers, generally displaying- trim tailored
suits. Bright colored felt hats were in
great favor, and they made a cheerful glow
on the sparsely-populated members’ strand.
The Governor-General arrived before ’ the
first race, to partake of meat and drink with
chairman L. Iv. S. Mackinnon and the com-
mittee. The committee ladies’ box was
almost deserted, Mrs. L. Iv. S. Mackinnon,
in grey tweed coat and skirt with felt hat
of the same shade, and Mona Officer, a study
in nigger brown, being about the only repre-
sentatives. Secretary A. V. Kewney’s wife
hostessed a luncheon and afternoon tea-
party. Mr. and Mrs. Rogers Thomson, Mrs.
Alec McCracken, Mrs. J. B. McArthur and
Hazel Martin were some of the brave souls
who defied the weather, and Effie Ball, Mrs.
Long. Bea Fischer, who was looking very
pretty, and the James Turves couple were
also seen between showers.
The city was bathed in fog when the
special train put out for Melbourne Hunt
Club’s first meet of the season at Berwick
last week. At Caulfield, Oakleigh and Dan-
denong Dianas and hunters waited to be
picked up, and at Oakleigh the hounds, under
huntsman Norman Wood were taken aboard.
Mr. Wood, who has been secretary and
huntsman for close on 17 years, looks after
the comfort of everybody, and before the
last hound had scampered up the ramp he
was busy circulating sandwiches and thermos-
flasks of coffee among the hungry hunters.
The day was not an ideal one for the chase,
being rather warm, but the country looked
fresh and beautiful.
At the Princess on Saturday night the
action of “Ernani” was held up at intervals
while the principals acknowledged the cheers.
The handsome Signofina Sylvestri was the
tragic Elvira. Her bonnet-effect wedding
veil cascaded over a deep ivory-brocaded robe.
The young prima donna and tenor Tam-
burini bowed at the last curtain from a
stage strewn with flowers and daggers, the
latter relics of the suicides that end the
story. Mrs. Fleming Dunstan’s ermine cape
gave an air of luxury to one box, and Mrs.
Barry Thomson, across the way, balanced the
effect with another display of the royal
fur. Mrs. M. Roberts, the C. W. Wren
couple, Colonel Shaw and tenor \ ictor Bax-
ter were also in the audience.
The Governor and Lady Somers hied them
to His Majesty’s to hear Browning Mummery,
formerly of Melbourne, sing the role of Mario
in “La Tosca.” A crowded audience gave
the Australian star a great reception. To
the matinee of “Aida” in the afternoon, a
special train brought hundreds of John
Brownlee’s admirers from his home town,
Geelong;.so Victoria’s operatic males had a
perfect day.
The Firm transferred the usual first-night
performance to the holiday Monday, and
“Aida” was once more the house-filler at
His Majesty’s on Saturday night, with Hina
Spani and Giuseppina Zinetti as leading
ladies.
Toti dal Monte, as the unfortunate Gilda
of “Rigoletto,” clothed the part in blue. Sky
hue was her velvet gown of the first act.
glimpsing a coral-pink petticoat beneath, and
in the third act her flowing gown showed
three cerulean shades, with a trimming ot
oxidised silver lace. She made an attractive
fair-haired boy in her black velvet
of the final scene. Her singing of Caro
Nome” hypnotised the house, and piles _ot
flowers rewarded her and the other feminin i
principals. Lord and Lady Somers sat in the
centre d.c.. her Ex. receiving a posy dangling
black, white and green ribbons. Near by
were the Maudsley lady; Mrs. Harry Emmev-
ton, wrapped in ermine; and Mrs. C. R.
Cowper. in black and white, her coiffure
crowned with a wreath of wee roses. Mrs.
Richard Fitchcr, whose heavy gold lace
mepliisto cap is the latest word in Parisian
millinery. was also i n ie vicinity, likewise
Mrs. Leigh Falkiner and Mrs. Fred Grim-
ly ade, sporting smart fur wraps, the Lort
Smiths and Marion Montgomery.
Slightly under six years ago John Brown-
lee tremblingly sang for Dame Nellie Melba
and awaited with trepidation the divas
advice as to whether it was worth while to
take his voice abroad for training. On
Thursday afternoon the pair met again at thp
Albert-street Con., when students, past and
present, welcomed back the baritone who has
made himself so higlr a niche in the operatic
world. Dame Nellie, immensely proud
of her protege, told the crowd that he
would develop into Australia’s male Melba,
“and he’ll go on* as long as I will, too !’’ she
added. The star, who had to stand a regular
battery of cheers, mostly from feminine
throats, made a very good speech in reply,
expressing his deep gratitude to the Dame,
who sent him to Dink (Silly, in London, to
study, and later gave him advice and put
him in the right way of getting a hearing
at the Paris Opera House. The young man
—lie isn’t 30 yet—delighted her assembled
proteges by calmly kissing his “fairy god-
mother" as lie stepped down from the plat-
form. Some outsiders who attended Wei-
the parents and sister of the guest of honor;
Mrs. George Armstrong and her brother ; Dr.
Doyle, John LOiimone, Mrs. Harry Emmet-■
ton, and Mrs. Fritz Hart.
The Embassy was handed over last week
for a cabaret evening organised by the
newly-formed Hawthorn-Ivew Auxiliary of
St. Vincent’s Hospital. President Marie
de Bavay played hostess in a white fur
coat worn over a pale pink frock fringed
witji sparkles. Artists from the Firm’s com-
panies and 3LO gave of their best, and
Charles Scrimshaw and Marjorie Stedeford
swayed gracefully in the latest ballroom
gyrations. The lady’s black georgette frock
of straying hem-line had a crimson-and-gold-
tailed bird spreading its plumage at the hip
line. Amongst those who danced or looked
on were Justice Cussen and his lady •
Jennie Brenan, whose silver-grey brocade
coat was cast over a filmy black robe
brightened with gold stripes; Mrs. W. R.
Burston, lion. sec. of St. Vincent’s Nurses’
Association, in black, topdressed with silver
beads ; Dr. and Mrs. Leo Doyle, the George
Bowcliers, and Italian Consul Cavalier
Carosi. Of many nice lassies who flitted
around, Ninette Turck. all white tulle
flounces and camellias; Valerie Purves, with
gold sequins bordering a scalloped black
frock; Cath Cooke, whose black taffeta
raiment had embossing of cubist flowers;
and Sybil Irvine, arrayed in black lace,
caught the eye.
As Sarah Bernhardt demonstrated, age
can’t keep a good actress down. Meta Pel-
ham, the delightful Mrs. Coade in “Dear
Brutus,” has
passed h e r
r <Sth milestone,
but she is as
aecom p 1 i s h e d
as eve r, and
a remarkably
quick study.
She was given
her pai't—the
first she has
had since her
appearance in
“Paddy the
Next Best
Thing” on
a Saturday
night, and she
arrived for re-
hearsal word-
arid business-
perfect on
Monday morn-
ing. A player
of many roles both in England and Aus-
tralia, she did not take up the stage as a
profession until after her marriage, and
she learnt most of the art from Mrs. J. B.
Lewis. Johnstone, Q’Shannessy and Falk
made the picture.
The Big Business Ball, to whose success
46 emporiums contributed, was one of last
week’s happenings at the Town Hall. It was
a benefit affair for the Austin Hospital,
which will receive a substantial addition to
its funds. The organising committee had W. B.
Disher as president, and Miss M. McKenzie,
who danced in spnrkiing white raiment, as
•mi. sec. The State Governor and Lady
Somers showed their sympathy with the
cause by stepping in on their way home
from the opera. Her Ex., who wore a georg-
ette frock of burgundy hue, was given a posy
that harmonised nicely.
The womenfolk of the Jewish community
of Melbourne fell in line with their sisters in
other States at the end of last year by form*
ing a philanthropic body, under the presi-
dency of Mrs. Maurice Patkin, to assist not
only the charities of their own religion but
many other good causes. A first endeavor
to raise funds was a bridge party at the
London Stores’ big tea rendezvous last week,
the firm lending the room and providing tea
and cakes for the players. The takings were
added to by raffles and the vending ot
flowers and other trifles.
The A. E. Kimptons’ Toorak mansion, El
Mirador, wore an air of festivity on Friday
night when the couple gave a dance for their
daughters’ friends. The hostess was m
drapings of black lace; her elder cluck
Marjorie’s raiment was a blending of many
small flounces of shaded tulle of wine tones
attached to a ruby-hued velvet bodice, and
white chiffon sprinkled with rhinestones was
the choice of the younger daughter, Bea.
Among the many attractive maidens in the
gay throng were Alison Clarke, iii green
with additions of gold lace; the always-
smart Eucy Stogdale, whose fairness was
set off by black and crystal; Margot Best,
and Betty Dickson.
Buskin here pictures artist Ethel Bur-
rows. now a partner of Margaret Tompkins
in the Ormond studio, which is tucked avyay
at the rear of a Collins-street building.
There one
finds lovel.v
specimens of
china, hand
painted with
Australian
themes. The
ware is im-
ported fro in
France and
B a v a r i a, as
English china
is too frail for
the process,
and when the
design is fin-
ished it is
burnt in a kiln
at taC h c d to
the stii cl io.
Miss Bur-
rows’s love of
ceramics i s
drob a b 1 y in-
herited from
her grandfather, Law Oldfield, an early-Aus-
tralian collector. Ills descendant still
cherishes a few of liis rare pieces of china.
The clever craftswomen are now busy pre-
paring for their annual display at the Arts
Club exhibition.
Nice-looking Marie Breinner, who won a
scholarship at Albert State Con., and now
is a much-liked addition to J. C. Williamson
musical shows, played the role of bride at
Wattletree-road kirk, Malvern, on Satur-
day night, when she exchanged vows with
Ewart Chappel, a well-known pianist of the
Harbor City.
St. Paul’s Cathedral was brightly illum-
inated one evening last week when Dr.
Robert Southby, of North Melbourne, entered
into a matrimonial partnership with Marie-
Whyte, who hails from Maoriland. The
bride was enveloped in a cloud of white
georgette gleaming with silver; and a faint
pink tulle veil festooned with orange blos-
soms floated around her. Shirley Southby,
in blue georgette with silver trimmings, was
her attendant. After the ceremony the
bride’s aunt, Mrs. Brook, of Moonee Ponds,
held a reception at the Windsor.
At the hour of sunset on a recent evening
the South Yarra kirk opened up a deco-
rated interior, and Ruth May, only daughter
of the late Philip and Mrs. Jane Belton,
stepped up the aisle to meet Maurice Vin-
cent Anderson, second son of the late
Thomas and Mrs. Meta Anderson, of
Palmer’s Green, London. The bride was
surrounded by a mass of tiny georgette
frills, fastened to a fitting ivory bodice
sparkling with crystal, and a veil of old
lace flowed into a train. Bridesmaid Mona
Gordon Gumming showed a lace hem to
period frock of salmon-pink taffetas and
cuddled a pink and blue posy.
One of the most popular girls in this
city is Patsey Kenny, always ready and
willing to lend a helping hand to any de-
serving cause. When her engagement to
Maxwell Bowden was announced, her mother,
Mrs. T. J. Kenny, celebrated the event with
a pleasant party. Mrs. Kenny is a P.L.C.
old girl, like her daughter, and both are
keen workers when their old house hoists
an SOS. Miss Kenny is now a student at
the School of Domestic Economy. The lucky
man is a son of the J. W. Bowdens, of
Brighton.
Frank Clarke took an hour off on a busy
day last week to launch Aileen Dent’s
show of oils and Water-colors at the Athe-
naeum Gallery. The big room was decorated
with masses of gorgeous gladioli, sent by
Harold Hitchcock from Geelong. He paid
the exhibition a visit, accompanied by John
Brownlee, whose unfinished portrait is one
of Miss Dent’s best efforts. The Clarke lady
was there wearing a brown fur c at and nig-
ger-brown felt hat, and Cara Barrett. Mrs.
Scott. Signorina Zinetti, Hilda Walsh and
artists John Longstaff and Rupert Bunny
were others who participated in the private
peep.
Muriel Campbell summoned members OL
the Music Club to hear a group of Jilt
modern melodies and harmonies Certruue
llealy brought her fiddle and jomed pianist
Riddv Allen in a sonata by Albeit lioussei.
Ft appears probable that the players gave
the composer a fair deal, but wha
all about eluded any plain intelligence. _ Tim
pianist, gleaming in white and ciy » - es
preted some rather more understandable pmc
by Granados and Debussy. A Mozart fan
tasie was on the programme, but it was de
cided at the last moment that Wolfgang
Amadeus wouldn’t fit into such a highD
rarefied atmosphere, though he was legaldtd
as quite a daring innovator in his time.
Lyric-soprano Rita Coonan, who was
handicapped by throat trouble,
songs by Debussy, Dupaic and De Saveiac,
accompanied by Miss M. Turner Shaw.
Harry Emmerton and her niece Mary to-
merton, Mrs. Ernest Scott, artist May Vak
Gilfillan and Mrs. Edmund Collins were
among the listeners.
Despite the fact that grand opera was
raging pianist Edward Goll and violinist
Bernard Heinze attracted a goodly audience
for a sonata programme. The offerings in-
cluded the Cesar Franck violin sonata,
Brahms in G, and the “Ivreutzer, all admir-
ably played.
The National Gallery is slowly taking
shape under the hands of the renovators as
a series of fine rooms with inlaid blackwood
floors. The latest ideas in lighting and
heating have been applied, and the walls
are toned soft grey, bois-de-rose, buff and
other restful tints, guaranteed not to swear
at the color scheme of any picture, the
public was given a glimpse of some of the
improvements last week, and approval was
expressed on all sides at the excellent way
in which the canvases are being arranged.
Under the new dispensation, wherever prac-
ticable, the works of each painter are groupe
together. After a long absence in the hall
of Federal Government House, John Long-
staff’s picture, “The Sirens,” has been re-
turned to its rightful abode.
The Countess of Kintore, mother of our
G.-G.’s wife, with her daughter. Lady Hilda
Keith-Falconer, have ended their Australian
tour, and are returning hy Avay of America.
J. H. Curie, author of “The Shadow
Show” and a string of other novels, slipped
quietly ashore from the Dupleix. He
is a shy bird, pressmen throw him into a
panic, and he has no taste for social life.
His time here will be devoted to the acqui-
sition of more local atmosphere. South
Africa will next claim his attention.
The daily papers have been caught in an
English family tangle which has had an out-
ing through the death of the Duke of New-
castle and the succession of the late Duke’s
brother, Lord Francis Hope. This Hope
really wasn’t a Hope at all; he was a
Pelham-Clinton, like his late brother the
Duke a son of Adela, a daughter of the
Hopes of Deepdene. The Hopes of Deep-
dene, in Surrey, having at one time been
immensely rich, young Francis Clinton took
by letters patent the name of his mother, and
succeeded to an estate still worth over a mil-
lion, though his father and grandfather had
cut it down from about three. Among their
other extravagances was the Hope diamond,
about which such a long story of ill-luck is
told. Francis Hope called in May Yohe to
help him run through what was left of the
family fortune, and she answered to the call
magnificently. To-day both Deepdene and
the Hope diamond are “out of the family” ;
lovely Deepdene has been struggling to earn
1 p.c. as a “guest house.” Lord Francis hung
on to a castle in Ireland, but has had the
courage to live in a small house with'n
sight of Deepdene. His second wife —he
divorced May—was a Miss Thompson,
daughter of George Horatio, a Melbourne
bank manager of the long ago ; he was her
secokid husband. They had a son, now 21,
heir to the dukedom. The mother died in
1912.
The Tolliurst family are giving house-
room to Dr. Masters, who has come across
the ocean to look in on his sister and her
girls. Though a full-fledged medico he has
given up practice and, being a foot-free
bachelor of comfortable means, he leads a
life of travel.
The Orvieto is unloading here Lieutenant
G. H. Roberts, whom the Royal Navy is
lending us for two years’ service. His job
will be aboard the aircraft-carrier Albatross,
still undergoing final polishings. Until she is
ready room will be found for the newcomer
on 11.M.5. Penguin. As an extra dancing
man is as welcome in our midst as rain in
the desert, the social set are ready to receive
him with the warm welcome ever accorded to
a uniform.
The .T. B. Overells, of Toorak, are inviting
their circle to inspect the new daughter-in-
law. who sailed over in the Cathay with her
bridegroom. She is a daughter of Com-
mander F. G. Cooper, R.N.. of Sutton Court,
and was made Mrs. L. W. Overell quite
lately in London.


FINE QUALITY
©urm o
D
w rss\ o
PiiJiiiiiatitt -
No. 306—£25 '
§[jjj3D
No. 301—£31/10/- \
No. 302—£25
No. 303—£55
(Z33'.,-8
UK
No. 300—£20
No. 309—£30
i \ <325
Ifgggp^
No. 307—£65
No. 305—£40
No. 304—£25
No. 303—£45
The Diamond Rirt&s illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s rin&
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Rin& Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
.DRUMMOND 6 CO
DIAMOND ‘AND-PEARL-SPECIALI STS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
M E LB OURNE
A. SAUNDERS' CLOCKS
yu
s*
m
t
%
A. SAUNDERS’ Solid Oak
strikes hours and half-hours
tone gong'. Visible pendulum, 8
37/6
Mantel Clock,
on cathedral-
day movemen.t
We
Guarantee
Satisfaction
A. SAUNDERS' Bedroom
Clock, solid Oak Case,
Luminous Dial, 20/-
Alann
17/6
<5 5
A. SAUNDERS’ ' Gilded
Clock, porcelain dial, silent
proof. Revolving pendulum
shade,
400-day
and dust-
in glass
I
All
Clocks
are Oiled
and
Regulated
Before
Leaving
Our
Showrooms.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
sdf
Si ►
. SAUNDERS’ “Cuckoo” Clock, with chain and
eights. Cuckoo calls every hour and half-hour.
Handsomely carved case, similar to illustration.
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician.
805-SI3 OkORCR STREET (opposite Railway Station). SYDNEY.
Aeroplane Expeffence Mds
-PlantV
I
5^
£
SSSy,'
m
■+*?*
#
■m W
&
\ c />
S- o
v '<f
<£*>
°vT O
o' cS-- O
■. °o
<>
o
cy
\
Ar
s
< B/‘
'o HM THE KING
BOULTON &. PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
HOME LIGHTING
AND POWER PLANT
WHEN you know that one of the world s largest aeroplane
makers also builds an electric light and power plant, you
know that it must be something different—vastly superior. You
expect that it will be built with the same precision and care
that are exercised in aircraft manufacture. And when you
examine Electolite, you re not disappointed!
All the experience gained in building about six thousand aero-
planes during the past twelve years, and of manufacturing
numbers of Electolite plants for the British War Office for
arduous war-time service, is incorporated in Electolite.
It is the strongest, simplest, longest-lasting plant ever offered in
Australia. It supplies ample power not only for lighting, but
also for operating an electric iron, vacuum cleaner, refrigerator,
milk ng machine, separator, churn and many other labor-saving
devices both in the home and on the farm.
And, above all, it is low in price, and so economical that many
users claim it to cost less than city electricity. Let us send you
literature giving complete details, without obligation on your part.
generous terms MAKE purchasing easy
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 683.
154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney: 3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
Box D 147 G.P.0., Perth. Box U39P G.P.0., Brisbane.
Resident Factory Representative : ft. ft. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ASfjo3<)
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
mmwmm
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
GiarleslleidsieO'-
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
The GALLOPING GAME!
The Sporting and Social Event
of the Year!
Countess of Dudley Cup
Polo Tournament,
Saturday, 30th June, to
Saturday, 7th July Next, at
KENSINGTON RACECOURSE
as
A British Army-in-India Team will compete, also teams trom Vic. & Q land.
All Reservations and Tickets will be available only
at Nicholson’s Box Office on and after 13th June.
For the benefit of Country Patrons a section of the Reserved Motor Plan will be held pending
leceipt of then apphcatums. RESERV ATIONS AND SEASON TICKETS:
RESERVED CAR STANDS, entitling holder to use of Stand and Garden Seat during
entire Tournament, £6, £5, £2/10/-. . . . „ •
SEASON TlCKETS—Gentleman’s £2/2/-. (With one Lady’s Ticket). Lady s Single Season
GENERAL DAILY ADMISSION to Ground, 5/-. Motors, 6/- (driver of car admitted free).
ASSOCIATION PAYS AMUSEMENT TAX. Apply NICHOLSON’S BOX OFFICE,
KEN AUSTIN, Hon. Sec. N.S.W.P.A. George Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 6, */-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 D.m. Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Maude lloyden, whose London address is
the pulpit of the City Temple, is the centre
of this week’s social willy-willy. On the day
the Marama convoyed the lady to those
shores she was rent by photographers and
interviewers, she was lunched at the Queen’s
Club, sustained an afternoon reception at the
Town Hall and took the final count over
a serving of Sydney’s upper-crust at the Rose
Bay Golf Club in the evening. The pro-
gramme might have knocked out a prize-
fighter, but Miss Royden apparently is made
of sterner stuff. She turned up to the recep-
tion in her honor at the Town Hall looking
as fresh as paint, though really she had used
only powder in her make-up, which was pale
and threw into relief the dark hazel eves
which are her magnets. After she has drawn
you with them she holds you with nice little
gold rivets of speech.
At the reception Miss Royden’s dress, of
heavyweight black marocain, had what might
be described as a scarf frill lined with milk-
white that drooped from the right shoulder
down the front of the dress. The whole
looked like a Maison Arthur model. Her
right hand knew what her left was doing, for
the scent of the pink rosebud posy held there-
in would not be suppressed. The visitor must
have been amazed at the furs that purred
about every woman in the gathering, for she
found it just like summer —-“such a mild
day and such quantities of flowers every-
where.”
Mrs. Fleming, wife of the city’s Chief Civic
Commissioner (in some quarters now known
as the Lord High Executioner), stood on Miss
Royden’s left hand coated in black musquash
and crowned by a black and gold toque.
Mrs. Garlick and Mrs. Morton, wives of the
other two civic fathers-in-law, sat in lowly
fashion to the right. Mr. Layton stood with-
out the reception-room doors bestowing the
accolade upon old friends ; and, within, Mr.
Horsfall did the presentations in a style
worthy of Buckingham Palace. Mrs. Albert
Littlejohn, who is as an acolyte before the
steps of the preacher, hovered proudly near
at hand; her toque of upstanding clipped
feathers suggested sprouting wings. The
Hugh Denison lady was smart in grey that
went to the rich accompaniment of silver
fox. Black velvet and ermine were brought
by the Waley lady. Surgeon MacCormick's
wife wore nut-browns and daughter Mrs.
John Martin the black that is the popular
wear this season. Another who brought black
of the smartest tailoring was Mrs. John
McKelvey. Caramel browns swathed Mel-
bourne’s Mayoress Morell. who brought
daughter Sheila to the affair, which was
many-womaned, yellow-chrysanthemumcd ami
elaborately sandwiched.
Mrs Littlejohn and Mrs. Ken Street
beckoned the mighty to the Rose Bay Golf
Club for a private hand-shake with Miss
Royden, and on Wednesday the proletariat,
so to speak, was allowed to pay its own
whack at the lunch in her honor at the
Wentworth. Chief Justice Street’s lady
presided, and Minister for Health Dr.
Arthur seconded her Gloria to the guest.
Later on, Hunter-street outside the King’s
Hall was a place of tumult and genteel
strife. More of the city and suburbs’
thousands strove to cleave a passage to the
hall; but the arm of the Law barred the way
to many. Yet apart from her voice, which
is of great beauty, there was nothing of out-
standing quality about her initial address
on “Sex and Commonsense.”
If the judges don’t find a great novel to
carry off The Bulletin’s £5OO it won’t be
for want of goods to select from. There’s
a room in The Bulletin buildings these
days that nobody dare enter; it is sacred to
the judges who are wrestling with the 12 mil-
lion words that have already been poured in
upon them —and it's still more than three
weeks before the competition close. One hun-
dred and forty full-sized novels are already in
their hands, and daily the library is being
added to. Of course the five judges don't
know whose work they are reading, so they
don’t give you much of a lead when they tel!
you that one-third are quite passable, fO per-
cent. good and “a few” outstanding. When
they will be able to finish their task they
don’t know, but they think The Bulletin
ought to be able to publish the first chapter
of the winning story either late in August or
on Sept. 5.
There’s another newly returned from
Europe tolling the Sydney flapper that for
the street she must wear flat-lieeled skin or
calf walking shoes with appropriately thick
soles, or else she cannot keep in step with
th; well-dressed women of the world. Now,
“the well dressed women of the world,” to
this fashion dictator as to every other anxious
to set Australia right, means the women o,'
London, New York and Paris, all cities
where for nine months of the year the
pavements are so cold that most of the time
the poor old hoof would be frozen stiff if no:
protected by a good solid leather sole.
Climate always will determine the styles of
a country. The Sydney girl wears her l.ght
slipper shoe because her dresses and hats
are for eight or nine months of the year of
summery fabric with which the thick shoes
of old England would seem as incongruous
as her own black-satin one-straps would
appear with the Harris twCeds and the Bur-
berries of the British climate. A young
matron of this Letter's friendship who spends
a fortune in clothes utterly refused last sum-
mer to wear the übiquitous coat with her
frocks. “Right enough for the countries
where the weather demands them,” she
wisely said. And Mrs. T. .1. Ryan, of Bris-
bane, is smartly shod in white buckskin the
summer through whether fashion says it is
“out” or not. Some day Australia will have
its own fashion designers, and our blue
skies, clear atmosphere and high tempera-
tures will be the corner-stones on which
they’ll build the temple to fashion.
The University pageant raised a cosy
£1550. The doubloons, ducats and sprats
were handed over by Professor MacCallum s
lady to her husband —less a small cheque to
Don Finley in recognition of his efforts in
the production. The purring took place in
the Union Refectory, and Professor Holm.'
purred the loudest. Then everybody lapped
up tea with a smile in the eye and a nic"
comfortable feeling of “Well, that s over,
thank Heaven !”
Who remembers Carrie Lancely singing
“Keep the Home Fires Burning”? Well,
the gifted and popular North Sydney soprano
has a father and mother who have never let
those fires die down for over 50 years. The
happy couple celebrated their diamond wed
ding last week, arid had the luck to have
all their children around them for the cele-
bration. Carrie came specially from London,
For half a century the family roof-tree has
been in North Sydney, and Mr. Lancely
was for many years one of Willoughby’s
aldermen.
This is Ethelwyn Kirk, of Maoriland, who
is designing the costumes and tableaux for
the Dream of Fair Women pageant. This
is to be the
star turn of
the ball in aid
of the fund for
more milk and
better m ilk
for Sydney
babi e s, on
July 1 4.
Eth elwy n’s
father is Pro-
fessor of Geo-
logy at the
University of
Wellington,
and she her-
self was iden-
tified with the
musical an d
dramatic life
of that wind-
swept capital.
The pageant
is creating
great interest, as the Enzed girl simply
insists that the live human of her cast
shall be of the same type of architecture
as the historic character she wishes to
represent. A Queen-of-Beauty election dur-
ing the evening is expected to add to the
social amenities of the rest of the season.
The picture is from May Moore’s studio.
Dorothy Moates, who has been seeing
England and the Continent with her mother
for the past IS months, sends news to her
father, E. F. Moates, Noyes Bros.’ director,
of her engagement to Surgeon-Lieut. Alexan-
der Sinclair Nicol, R.N., of H.M.S. Hood,
the flagship on the occasion of the last
visit of a British fleet to Australia. The
bride-to-be is very young and inherits her
father’s tall inches and her mother’s sloe-
black hair and clear complexion. The
wedding will most likely take place in
August; meanwhile Dorothy and her mother
are visiting her betrothed’s family in Scot-
land.
A pretty bride of the week was Marjorie
Joyce Rice, daughter of the Rices of Peak
Hill, who floated to the altar of St. Mark’s
on a billow of tulle and silver lace to marry
Harry Maas, of Darling Point—he is one
of the Harry Rickards family connections.
White blossoms garlanded the aisles, along
which four bridesmaids, like drifting pink
almond blossoms in their petalled-pink chif-
fons and pink felt hats, followed the glitter-
ingly white bride. At the Australia Mrs.
Itiee hostessed in black lace and red roses,
while the ’groom’s mother shone in black
velvet. Later the new Mrs. Maas reaped
the orthodox harvest of good wishes looking
like a snow maiden in a silver coat collared
in white fur.
The impressive ceremony of a Nuptial
Mass surrounded the matrimonial plunge of
I’hyllis Grogan, of Strathfield, and Raymond
Grovenor. of Rose Bay. St. Martha s of
Strathfield, the bride’s parish church,
blessed the vows, and of the four priests to
fix the gyves one was a cousin of the bride,
another an uncle of the bridegroom. Vellum
velvet arid Chantilly lace were allied in the
wedding garment, which was misted over by
a tulle veil arid drew a moonlit wash of
train. This same was followed by one maul
hatted and frockcd and muffed in palest
lilac and another in gold velvet. Mr. and
Mrs. Grogan did the right thing by all the
guests at the Wentworth.
Herewith Mrs. John McKelvey—wife
of the surgeon
who has helped
thousands of
Sydney people
make both
ends meet
after he had
cut out their
bankrupt bit
of tissue, or
whatever the
trouble was.
Mrs. McKel-
vey, like so
many young
matrons of
this city, is
busied about
barity. Hos-
pitals, natu-
rally, and day-
lurseries are
iier specialty.
She is, too,
one of Sydney's best dressed and most popu-
lar women. Falk made the picture.
There was no boredom. about Moree when
Nell Seriven. of Mungindi, flashed her wed-
ding tinery up the aisle of St. Francis
Xavier’s. Money had been stitched into
every line of the white velvet frock that
was draped in the early-Italian style, and
wore its sleeves in the Juliet manner. The
train was a scintillating wonder of silver
lace with a wavy design of rhinestones
and a border of real ermine. A tulle veil and
a bouquet of orchids were the last notes ot
splendor. Mrs. Telford Murray, in a velvet
frock like a Malmaison rose bedewed with
diamente and rhinestones, and with a beret of
pink and silver followed her sister s glit-
tersomo trail up an avenue of great palms
and sheaves of pink erica and arum-lilies.
John Kirkpatrick, of Mcnderoo, Wagga, was
the other party to the contract, and was sus-
tained during the transfer by brother
Robert. The Imperial Hotel housed the
congratulations, Mrs. J. E. Seriven smiling
above black ring velvet bordered with fur
and embroidered in the übiquitous but ever-
beautiful rhinestone.
Just as many uninvited as invited guests
went to see Lois Greene married at St.
Jam Cs’s on Friday night. This bride neither
dangled crystal like a chandelier nor swung
a train like an iridescent fish. Her frock
was of unadorned milk-white chiffon, ankle-
length, and enveloped in a white tulle veil,
which in turn was meshed by the filmy Brus-
sels-lace veil worn by the ’groom’s grand-
mother and great-grandmother. The ’groom
was Richard Macarthur-Onslow, son of the
A. J. Macarthur-Onslows, and aunt Mac-
arthur-Onslow had loaned the heirloom.
There were three ’maids in pink georgette
and gold lace—the bride’s little sister Ann ;
Rosalind, the ’groom’s small sister; and the
grown-up Mary Cordeaux, of Bowral. The
reception was decorously held at the Queen s
Club, where Mrs. Greene’s ivory laces and
yellow roses were seen to* advantage.
A bride of the week who will need no
help in planning her home is Eugenie Kirk-
patrick. She is a daughter of the Robert
Kirkpatricks, of Callan Park, and a full-
fledged architect. The bridegroom was Dr.
0. H, Wickham Lawes, of Hunter’s Hill,
and St. Stephen’s, in Phillip-street, saw to
the knot-tying.
Marie Bremner, the Melbourne girl who
has made remarkable progress, in five years
with Williamson cos. and has sto<xl_ in
Harriett Bennet's shoes on several occasions
both in “Lilac Time” and “Rose Marie” —
she is now understudy to Kathleen Reece
in “Princess Charming”—has responded “I
will” to a qnestioH asked her by a parson
concerning Ewart Chappel. The ’groom
the musical manager for Broadcasters, Ltd.,
Sydney. The pair tripped over to Melbourne
so that the wedding could take place from
the home of Marie’s parents.
The Bulletin’s old friend A. P. Herbert,
of London Punch; captured one phrase in
his tour of Australia with the mildewed
Press delegation. “Too right!” his heroine
Topsy exclaims again and again in the letters
to her friend Trix in which she described
the re-actions of Twenty-one to the burning
questions of the day. Of course, “The Trials
of Topsy” is satire, buh beaten up into sucn
a souffle of fun that one can imagine Gilbert
bribing the keeper of the celestial circulat-
ing library for a first copy. Topsy will
travel about the Empiah like a ray of its un-
setting sun bringing light and cheer to the
woman sick of the ’flu, her lover, her hus-
band, her clothes or the smallness ot Her
alimony.
It was Christmas on Saturday to the old
men who live at the Lidcombe State Hospi-
tal; the King’s Birthday is feast day with
them, and for the occasion there was killed
a pudding which took 1501 b. of raisins anil
4001 b. of flour, some 24 pigs were stuffed and
roasted, and casks containing 250 gallons
of beer were broached. Only one man in
the 1500 who shared the feast declined the
beer. After the dinner, which was a great
deal more than pork, pudding and beer, the
King's present of tobacco and pipes was
handed round. It must come expensive be-
ing Majesty to wide dominions when the
cost of gifts to a multitude of such bean-
feasts has to be met.
Leon Gordon has sugared his own mystery
play, “The Man Upstairs,” with compli-
merits about Australia, but. some of them
missed fire on the opening night. Ihe hero-
ine is an Australian girl, into whose moutli
Gordon has put the remark, “Women in
Australia don’t worry much about nerves.
It brought laughter—and it was not only
masculine laughter either. Still, at the end
of the performance the audience gave some
warm approval to the author-actor, who
added a few pleasant compliments not in-
cluded in his script.
David Jones had its 00th birthday last
week, and celebrated amid the Italian wal-
nut, the marble and the lacquer of the rest-
aurant in the new building. This party
will be historic, for it was the first dance
in the firm’s new home, in which, going on
the David Jones record, our children s chil-
dren will make merry. The whole staff, or so
it seemed, had come with greetings to the
new establishment, and surely, though it have
as long a life as Mr. J. Walker, the hall will
never gather finer plumage. Smooth, spark-
ling, not a feather out of place, whole flights
of pretty girls lighted for an instant only
to take wing on a wind of jazz. Directors
Clarence Edwards and D. T Bradford
brought their wives, Miss O Keefe brought
a rose and gold symphony to the color
orchestration, and a blonde beauty gained
fame in a night by a new brand of hair-
dressing—the hair was brought closely about
the head and worn in a plait around one
ear, while the other was kept warm by a
small pearl earring.
Hats by train and taxi and car; large
hats, small hats, funny hats, pretty hats—
all were rushed along Sydney streets to tne
vestibule of Her Majesty’s the. other day.
They were part of the decorations ot the
Artists’ ball, and about two dozen girls
were kept busy unwrapping them, laughing
over them and trying them on. One, an
enormous rush hat, caused a traffic block
in Pitt-strect when a pretty actress posed
under it for the press photographer. A dear
little mushroom hat, as worn by Alice. m
Wonderland, won the prize for the prettiest
headgear. So far only two of the seven
thousand lids required for the ball have been
harvested.
Allison Price, a youngster from Croydon,
deserved the honor pinned on her Red Cross
uniform at the Junior Red Cross pageau..
Moved by sympathy for the children of sick
ex-Diggers and for the war orphan this
energetic girl has earned £lOO for the Cause.
The ninth exhibition at the Town Hall, where
the little ceremony took place, was as fine
an example as ever of patient stitchery
by little hands that no doubt many times
ached to put aside the seam and play a
game As a conquest over self, and as an
example of thought for others, the exlnbi
tion was its usual success, and proved that
there’s not much wrong with the kiddies or
to-day and the girls of to-morrow, after all.
Cranbrook Old Boys chose Friday night
for their seventh yearly prance in the old
ballroom. In between the dances there was
the terrace and a perfectly ripping moon,
not to speak of the gleam of Port Jackson
in the distance. Red, white and blue lights
and the silver gleam of Cups were the only
adornment of the ballroom excepting th
butterfly and flower-border froeking of tlv
girls. In the variegated pattern Barbara
Littlejohn arose a slim violet . and Rachel
Joy Morton a jocund daffodil in tulle, and
Betty Robinson’s vivid green and black
with silver might have been inspired by a
Ivuranda butterfly. Very fair and shining
looked Althea Wallace’s head above milk
white; another young thing’s attire was
pewter grey and reds and beaten silver; and
Marjorie Macdonald, in spreading green vel-
vets with a conventional design of purple
iris about its unconventional hem. might have
been a lady in a Morris decoration.


“Do you know, constable, that every second barbers
shop in the land is acting as agent for a certain unlawful
consultation
“And that the G.P.O. is a party to the unlawfulness by
allowing the mails to be used to carry on the ‘sweep’
“ That unlicensed racecourses are nfe with the worst
aspects of gambling
“And that hundreds of pounds are gambled nightly over
the card-tables at the club yonder—
•* 'That in our stately horpes bridgeds being played nightly
for high stakes' --
‘‘And that Ah Pong has re-opened his fan-tan school at
.the back of His laundry in Little Rook Street!”
THAT WOKE HIM!


mu
wmm
IS A WOMAN
AS OLD AS SHE LOOKS?
Those tiny lines about the eyes, the flaccid throat, the drooping lips,
the little hollows in the cheeks! Not always may they be translated into
years gone by, . £
Often, they are signals of wear, not years the outward signs ot a
body prematurely aged by Pyorrhea.
Pyorrhea is a disease of the gums which affects four out of five people
over forty, and many under that age also. It begins with tender an
bleeding gums, then the gums recede, the teeth decay and loosen, or
must be extracted to rid the system of the Pyorrhea germs which ree in
little pockets about them. . , . , ,
It is to these infecting germs that medical science has trace r
untimely ills of thousands of men and women who should be in the prime
of life to-day. Their low resistance to disease, their many aches and pains
are the result of Pyorrhea not Age.
Keep your beauty and your health. Do not let Pyorrhea get estab
lished in your mouth. Visit your dentist regularly for tooth and gum
inspection, and start using Forhan’s for the Gums to-day.
Forhan’s for the Gums will prevent Pyorrhea or check its progress
if used in time and used consistently. Ordinary dentifrices will not do
this. Forhan’s keeps the gums healthy, the teeth clean and white.
HOW TO USE FORHAN’S.
Use it twice daily, year in and year out. Wet your brush * n co
water, place a half-inch of the refreshing, healing paste on it, then brush
your teeth up and down. Use a rolling motion to cleanse the crevices.
Brush the grinding and back surfaces of the teeth. Massage your gums
with your Forhan-coated brush gently at first until the gums harden,
then more vigorously. If the gums are very tender, massage with the
fineer instead of the brush. If gum shrinkage has already set in, use
Forhan’s according to directions, and consult a dentist immediately for
special treatment. Price 2/- and 3/6. Obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores, or will be sent post free upon receipt ot
the price by the Australasian Agents,
Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd..
1 3 1 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
N.S.W.
Forharfs
FOR THE GUMS
Checks Pyorrhea
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
1
♦
m
'■■p’PJP'WBP’I
> mjrn k pi:
1 ■JR W'W 'HM
~. 7 7->*v'. i.^Vr^v
The exact time
for life.
&
%
WM
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
I*
(8S&
a> an u Bran ch oP
™ NATIONAL BANK
r (/ou maiy obtain Copies of its Informative footdets
7 7 entitled
SERVICES & FACILITIES
V AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey nmch useful
\r[ Formation and Indicate the Various
Ways in Which the Banly may be
helpful to you
They show that the Bank’s Service,
covers the Financial side oP Primary
&, Secondary Production, Land Settle-
ment, Trade & Commerce. Investments,
Loans , Overseas Business & Tourist"
Recjuirenpents
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BANK’S BRANCHES
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Capita/ Paid up 5 , 000 , 000
Total Assets in 1918
£17,610,728
Totail Assets in 1928
£45,622,056
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors- —James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and
97 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
£>'
i.:':
Sis
ite
G&
r~
£»•*
Cm#
ss£■ mm P
* **<2 sc
- %i £
fsfsa
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully!
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.


sb
V
BP
W '
ir
if'
I
rT
<n
THE ORIENT LINE ROUTE
THE Orient Liners follow a very
interesting route to England, call-
ing at Colombo, Suez, Port Said,
Naples, Toulon and Gibraltar. The
many attractive features to be seen at
each of these places make the voyage
a source of continual enjoyment.
ORIENT LINE
Aniiisomoiits.
p MI’I It E T H E A T It E.
& Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays &• Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOPE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russell
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Ponv Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/S, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices. ,
gYIIXEEs CHIEF THEATRES
J, C. WIT.LTAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
PRINCESS CHARMING.
ROYAL: THE MAN UPSTAIRS.
CRITERION: THARK.
PALACE: THE LAST WARNING.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards' Tivr li theatres. Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELKIMMTY VACI)K\ 11.1 F
The World's Best.
EGENT THEATRE. SYDNEY.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
Presents
WINGS
A, PARAMOUNT PICTURE,
With CLARA BOW, RICHARD ARLEN and
CHARLES ROGERS.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
T HE O U TSTA N DING CONCERT
ATTRACTION OF THE YEAR.
TOWN HALL.
Direction: E. J. Gravestock, Ltd.
JUNE 30, JULY 3,5, 7.
WORLD’S GREATEST BOY PIANIST.
SHURA CHERKASSKY
SHURA CHERKASSKY
SHURA CHERKASSKY
who has created such a furore in the world of music
by his extraordinary talents and phenomenal
pianistic ability’.
“It may be said at once that in this boy is lodged
a talent for piano playing hardly equalled by any
but one, or perhaps two, virtuosi now before the
public.” —New York- World.
J. C. WILLIA M S O N, LTD.
ELIUUIIt \ E \TTIt ACTIONS
HIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MARGARET BANNERMAN CO. in
DIPLOMACY.
KING’S THEATRE: ANNA CHRISTIE.
Amusements.
A T H E N Ai U M T H E A T 11 E,
** MELBOURNE.
Pfopriitors: Frank Talbot Pty., l.td.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON
In the Hilarious Thrie-act Comedy,
THE LAUGHING OUT'HIST.
U() V T’S I) E 1, l \ L THEATRE,
.MELIIOI ll.\K.
KARL DANE AND GEO. K. ARTHUR in
BABY MINE.
Also
DAREDEVIL’S REWARD.
with NATALIE JOYCE.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE TIGRESS.
Featuring
DOROTHY REVIER and JACK HOLT.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WiLlvlE and .HISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
Missing' Friends.
ADDRESS wanted of MRS. NORA
MUELLER (nee McGrath) by Executor
Trustee and Agency Company of South
Australia, Limited, 22 Grenfell Street, Adel-
aide.
Legal Notice.
IN the matter of the Public Curator Acts
of 1914-25 and in the matter of the
estate of ALFRED JOHN TEAS late of
Cairns, Laborer, deceased.
Notice is hereby given that the children
of the late MATILDA WEBB, a daughter of
the abovenamed deceased, or any person
knowing their whereabouts, are requested to
communicate with the Public Curator, Bris-
bane,. on or before the fifth day of Sep-
tember, 1928, and that after the expiration
of that date the Public Curator will proceed
to distribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, without
regard to any claim by the said children of
the late Matilda Webb..
R. J. S. BARNETT, Official Solicitor to
The Public Curator, Brisbane, Q’land.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original..
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLANI).
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to the
Mad Hatters’ Ball, held in South Brisbane
City Hall to aid the cancer campaign funds.
lan Mcßain’s poster designs from “Alice
in Wonderland’’ decorated the walls, and the
Mad Hatter had a place of honor on the
stage, where the orchestra played. From a
vividly decorated four-sided lantern in the
centre of the ceiling descended a canopy of
red, black and yellow streamers. Playing
cards illustrative of “Alice” made a dado
round the hall, and scarlet poinsettia and
fern wreathed the lattice that screened the
vice-regal lounge. Red tulle and crystal
vases of roses decked his Ex.’s supper table.
Fred Derrick, in a huge Mexican sombrero,
was honorary organiser. His pretty wife
wore black taffetas and rose. Lady Goodwin
wore a midnight-blue sequined frock and
ermine stole, and received a bunch of red
and white roses. Roses in a silver holder
were handed to Miss Hine-llaycock, who
wore amethyst crepe de Chine. Irma Dear-
den chose black net and Mrs. Campbell a
gown of Paris lace. Their Exes, judged the
hats, and awarded the prize for most original
to Miss D. Emmett. There was a big roll
up and the fund should benefit substantially,
though the night was wet and cold.
The Brisbane Thousand at Albion Park
was run in fine weather. The Governor
attended, and Lady Goodwin, accompanieJ
by Mrs. Campbell and Miss Hine-llaycock,
viewed the races from Mrs. Cecil Palmer’s
verandah at Palmerosa, where, in honor of
Mrs. Arthur Feez, a tea was arranged.
The delegates to the Conference of Uni-
versity women have been entertained.
Mayor Jolly kicked off with a civic recep-
tion ; there was a lunch at Rowe’s, given
by Mrs. E. Rowe, a dinner at the Bellevue,
arranged by the Uni.’s Women Graduates'
Association, and a party at the Brisbane
Women’s Club, when the club members, the
National Council of Women and the Lyceum
Club combined in greetings and tea. At the
last mentioned function, Mrs. Cumbrae
Stewart, Mrs. Firmin McKinnon and Mrs.
Sydney Martin received the guests, and there
was a background of red poinsettias and
roses. In the Botanic Gardens the Uni.
Senate gave the delegates morning tea, Freda
Bage, who has been elected president of the
Uni. Women’s Federation, acting as hostess.
Dr. Robertson did the welcoming.
The conference came to an end with a
reception in the Uni. main hall, by the
Women Graduates’ Association. Miss B.
B. Steedman received the visitors in black
ring-velvet with wine liued and grey shawl.
Freda Bage wore black mariette with Chan-
tilly lace; the Philp lady was in black;
Gladys Marks chose peach pink; Mrs.
Clunies Ross rose-pink with a gold lame
cloak; handsome Dora Lockington wore
daffodil; Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart was in
. pearl grey moire; Mrs. Firmin McKinnon
in blue; and Dr. Marie Bentivoglio in amber.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Both Launceston and Hobart public
schools celebrated the beginning of the early
winter holidays with dances. The Broadland
Home Old Girls engineered the northern
jollo, which was a very pleasant affair, and
the Collegiate School Old Girls stage-managed
the Hobart hop, for which the City Hall was
prettily decorated, supper being set on long
tables ’on the stage. Margaret O’Grady’s
frock was of white georgette with uneven
hem, the bodice embroidered in a grape
design of pearl, crystal and coral. Mrs. L.
Gibson, head of the ball committee, sported
mauve georgette and silver, and the Nicholls
lady was in hyacinth blue. His Ex-, put in
an appearance, the v.-r. party including the
C. and his lady, Bishop Hay and his wife,
Mr. and Mrs. Stops, the Leslie Gibsons, Mrs.
F. C. Wolfhagen, Nora Perkins, Grace Stops
and Brendan Clarke.
This kindly countenance belongs to Ruby
Piesse, a well-known figure in our musical
and philan-
thropic circles,
who is leav-
us to take up
work at 2 GB,
Sydney, where
her head-
quarters will
be at Adyar
Hall. Miss
Piesse is a
born organiser,
and her ser-
vices will be
sorely missed
by the Re-
turned So l-
diers’ Associa-
tion and the
Repat. Hospi-
tal, to which
she has been
a tower of
strength, find-
ing time, more-
over, to engineer concerts, dances and fairs
for any deserving cause that might crop up.
For the last two years she has been a
member of the staff of 7ZL.
Captain’s Day at the Kingston Beach Golf
Links drew a big crowd of players and guests
to that attractive spot. The day was a
perfect specimen of our very best early
winter variety, calm and bright, with lovely
effects of light and shadow on mountain and
river. The club captain, S. T. Chancellor,
and his wife entertained about 100 guests
at tea in the Club House. Mrs. C. E. Web-
ster and P. Shadforth won the mixed four-
some competition from a very large field.
Mrs. Hastwell was hostess at the Astor
when a number of friends said their good-
byes to Ruby Piesse. There were music,
recitations and tea in the billiard-room.
Joan Dodds gave a couple of dramatic items
with great intensity and Miss Piesse made a
little farewell speech.
WESTEALIA.
Perth.
A cloudy sky and the fresh smell of rain-
soaked earth made a perfect afternoon for the
i opening meet of the Hunt Club. Tea was
spread at Canning Bridge for the hunters
and scores of visitors who came to watch
the field move off. Cunning old ’roo left
blind tracks for the pack, but his chasers
had some jolly gallops. The Master, J._ P.
Durack, president W. A. Smily and vice-
president A. E. Joyner were well to the
fore, and Cajptain Davidson-llouston, Cap-
tain V. C. Secombe and Mrs. Pelloe were
among the mounted. Lady Campion, with
her son Wilfred and Miss K. M. Wilson, par-
ticipated in a motor-car.
Repertory Club musical afternoons always
draw appreciative audiences, and the latest
of these, engineered by Mrs. J. N. Thomson,
was particularly successful. Winifred
Wright and Miss Hodd gave piano and vio-
lin duets, Vi Poet sang in a clear soprano,
Mrs. Rraine recited, and Sheila Ryan plied
the bow of her ’cello. Baritone Wicks, the
only man present, contributed some solos.
Among the listeners were Mrs. A. Green
Newman in a suit of rose beige rep; Mrs.
Cecil Mason, in a shggbark tailor-made:
Mrs. Gordon Clifton, in cornflower-blue
jersey suiting; Dorothy Mark in navy vel-
vet; and Mrs. John Nicholson, in black
trimmed with scarlet bauds.
This purposeful face belongs to the Beith
Wilsons’ only daughter, Jean, our pioneer
in the field of eurhythmies. She had nearly
completed her
kind ergarten
training when
Miss Driver
invaded Perth
as an evangel
jf the Dalcroze
method, and
Miss Wilson
whs so capti-
vated by its
p o s s i b ilities
that she for-
s o o k her
kind ergarten
career an d
journeyed t o
London and
the Dalcroze
school. She
went through
a three years’
course wit h
flying colors
and has re-
turned to Perth and a studio of her own.
prepared to propagate the doctrine of intri-
cate rhythm to the utmost of her very Con-
siderable ability.
Among- Westralians returning from vol-
untary exile are E. S. Lazarus, president of
the Chamber of Commerce, who has spent
the last year in England, and Mrs. W. P.
Seed and her eldest son, medico Walter, who
have been visiting friends in Melbourne.
Mrs. Tim Morrison, from the Soudan, has
been staying with her parents, Dr. and
Mrs. William Trethowan.
Sir John Russell, of the famous Rotham-
steed experimental station in the Old Dart,
has paid us a whirlwind visit. He gave a
couple of lectures and did some rapid motor-
ing, visiting Muresk College, Merridan State
Farm, Muiidaring Forestry Reserve and the
W. N. Hedge property at Koolberin.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The first of the season’s A.R.C. meetings
was a vice-regal affair twice over. In
addition to our own Government House
party, which includes at all social gather-
ings two young women, Mrs. Verney and
Miss Denise Daly, Lord Somers and his pri-
vate secretary, Col. Davidson, were there.
The win of the Victorian Vice-Regent’s horse
Fourth Hand was such a foregone conclusion
that there was no excitement when it came
up the straight. Everyone was on it. Mayor
Bonython, who is rarely a racegoer, was pre-
sent with his charming wife. The v.-r. and
mayoral ladies favored tailor-mades, Lady
llore-Ruthven being in navy and the others
in black. The severe black felt hat was much
in evidence. Chairman James Hall and his
pretty daughter Gwen entertained the Gover-
nors and their entourage and other import-
ant citizens at lunch and afternoon tea.
On a recent afternoon the Settlers’ Wel-
come Committee gave a garden party at
the Zoo, where they entertained several
hundreds of the young women who
have come from overseas to make their
home in South Australia. Tea was served
to all and sundry in the rotunda. Lady llore-
Ruthven was present, and after Mrs. Edgar
Browne had welcomed the guests on behalf
of the Victoria League, under whose aus-
pices the party was given, the Governor’s
wife made a pleasant speech, in which she
claimed to also be a settler, and concluded
by asking to be decorated with a badge in
recognition of her claim. The introduction
to the guests of an infant lion and a delight-
ful monkey gave a spice of originality to- the
party. Miss Murray and Mayoress Bony-
thon looked on approvingly.
The Municipal Golf House, lately opened
by the Mayoress, can beat every other in
the State in the matter of view, and boasts
a chef who provides luncheons that attract
more than golfers. The game threatens to
become the paramount pastime of our city ;
nearly every spare open space is given over
to it.
There is a purr of satisfaction in all
women’s-movement circles over the appoint-
ment of Mrs. Carlile McDonnell, of this
city, as Australia’s woman delegate to the
League of Nations Assembly. The lady has
learning, geniality and tact, and has had
some experience of organisation. She is hon.
sec. to our League of Nations Union, and
has solved the problem of securing a good
attendance at meetings by instituting weekly
luncheons.


CAN YOU PAY
fTIU MOREIAXEf ?
Compensation of all whose
interests would be affected
by the introduction of NO
LICENSE will cost at least.
0.000.000
600.000
to compensate for the loss of Federal
Customs and Excise Duties. To this
must be added £1,100,000 interest
and £3,500,000 cost of enforcement.
This means a burden of at least an-
other £20,000,000 capital expendi-
ture and £8,100,000 annually on the
shoulders of the already overloaded
taxpayers of N.S.W.
Can you pay? Do you WANT to
pay? Is it worth while handing out
twenty million pounds in return for
an unworkable destruction-dealing
fad which is unworthy of the name
“law”?
■
V/
Is it worth while curtailing your pleasure and your children’s oppor-
tunities in order to find money for a measure which has proved a dis-
astrous failure wherever it has been tried?
Do not be misled by the vague sentimentalisms of unpractical agitators.
Prohibition is wrong in principle and BECAUSE it is wrong in principle
it can never succeed. To state that the introduction of Prohibition would
help N.S.W. is OBVIOUSLY untrue. You can best help your State and
the principle of temperance by smashing the Prohibition fad!
VOTE'NO'
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Free Jom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
TRADE-MARK.
MODEL 56, Bolt-
action, 5-Shot maga-
zine Rifle, cham-
bered for .22 Long-
It i fl e Cartridges.
Round tapered barrel
twenty-two inches in
length. Sights: White
metal bead front
and adjustable flat-
top rear. One-piece
V.'alnut Pistol - grip
Stock gracefully pro-
portioned and ha I
anccd for speedy
handling. Weight,
51b.
Price £5.
POST PRICE.
(Or sent V.P.I 1
to any address.)
(Write jor special leaflet “8.56.")
COWLES & DUNN
('the Oldest-established Gunmakers
in Australia),
453 Kent Street,
PHONE : M 3388
Sydney.
The Test
that Explains
the Accuracy
of Model 56
Place a cartridge in
the breech and close
the Bolt. Then, with-
out firing, extract the
cartridge and examine
the bullet. Plainly
discernible on its sur-
face will be noted the
marks of the rifling
grooves —positive proof
of the close chamber-
ing and perfect bullet
fit that makes Model
56 the most accurate
and powerful .22
sporting rifle on the
market.
GREY
HAIR
WOULD
1 SPOIL
IT
Si
\
\e*
r\'W e
s% e
V e
«ev
o^ e
\\ey
s?<f>
-A*'" /
ct° T
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
womans paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know r . Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TTHOMAS McLAUGHLIN, formerly of
Cowies Creek, near Geelong (brother
of William McLaughlin and the late Daniel
Edward McLaughlin), or anyone knowing
his address is requested to communicate
with PHILIP R. FRASER, Solicitor, Yarra-
street, Geelong.
"THE next-of-kin of JOSEPH WILLIAMS.
a laborer who died at Sydney Hospital.
October 16, 1927, and whose parents are
believed to have been William Williams and
Bridget Phelan, of Inverell, are requested
to communicate with the Public Trustee,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Jfor a good
night's rest
lake "
fs
it will
a
In 4 si
of all Chemists
and Stores
good day 's
tm work
-ft
rTPjfvetX Unexpected
' (j nests' (j[rrive — 1
you need never feel that your table
lacks a desirable dish. Swallow and Ariel!
have provided for -the occasion 1 All yon
need do is to be sure that your pantry is
never without at least ONE Plum Pudding
—those rich, fruity, flavorsome pud-
dings that Swallow and Ariell make— /
\ and everyone enjoys. Ask your grocer
r J.
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder
1.1!!
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors.
BRISBANE.
Mr. Appleyard Gets a Job
by Margaret fane
& Hilary Lofling
OLD Simeon Nubbs, on this his 77th
birthday, pulled the gate of St. Ald-
helm’s Old Men’s Horne carefully to
behind him. They ivere always told to be
careful, he remembered, feeling the usual
touch of panic though he was out of sight
from the building. The gate shut, his frail
shoulders straightened. Until six o’clock lie
Avas his own man. And this monthly after-
noon-out had fallen on his birthday—that
was lucky. He must make the best of it; you
could never tell, at 77.
Going down the street towards the tram-
line he Avas conscious of the rising of that
blessed sense of solitude. Until six that
evening he wasn’t one of a herd of shuffling
old men doing the same thing—.eating, sleep-
ing, making beds, even sitting in the sun
to get a bit of warmth. Six years of living
like one of the pack, one of a mob of sheep
doing the same thing together every hour of
the day, had more than got on his nerves;
it had put a sort of terror and hatred into
CA'ery hour of the day. You couldn’t help
Avon dering what Avas the good of it, if you
had to do it in this sort of way.
But now he Avas alone. And in that com-
fortable silence where he could follow out
his own thoughts instead of tagging after
other people’s. A warm silence Ayhere he
could remember at peace, and change the
world in any way he had a mind to.
Supposing, now, that for to-day his name
Avas Appleyard—Mister Appleyard. He had
seen the name in a book out of the library,
and liked it. It was so fresh and bright—
like a picture, the name was; and he had de-
cided then that it should be his name on this
afternoon-out. And here Avas Mr. Appleyard
bowling along in his tram, a gentleman going
to spend the afternoon at a quiet, lonely
beach that he knew. At six old Simmy Nubbs
would come back tired and a bit narky to
bis tea —lie shivered suddenly at the thought
—but what was that to Mr. Appleyard?
He could imagine the young lady in the
seat opposite saying to the other young lady
beside her: “I haven’t seen Mr. Appleyard
lately. Have you?” And the other young
lady replying: “No. It’s wonderful how you
miss him Avhen you don’t see him about, isn’t
it? I hope he isn’t ill.”
He wasn’t too well lately, as a matter
of fact, and this concern for his health
would be no more than his due. Not because
Mr. Appleyard Avas important, but because
be Avas a man who was, say, well liked in
a rather large circle of friends. He would
naturally relieve these young ladies’ minds
by glancing over and smiling at them. And
the first one would turn to the second and
say excitedly: “Why. there is Mr. Appleyard !
lloav nice—and we were only just talking
about him! llow do you do, Mr. Apple-
yard?”
And he would smile again and bow in his
well-known way.
It Avasn’t out of the way to suppose that a
good many of these people would start and
nudge each other Avfaen they saw him, saying:
“Look —there’s Mr. Appleyard ! He’s looking
avcll, isn’t he?”
Mr. Appleyard wasn’t rich, but he Avas
comfortably off —enough to keep things nice
and snug Avithout being flash. And a bit over
for a party for his friends every now and
again. He was never so happy as when his
friends were round his table; and they had
no cause to complain of their tucker either.
The living-room of his little place had a big
scat in the window, something like Mr.
Maltby’s window-seat at Bowral; and the
way the scent of the sweetbriar used to come
in at that window when they Avere all at
table would make you open your eyes.
“What a beautiful garden you’ve got, Mr.
Appleyard,” they’d say. “There ahvays
seems to be something bright or full of scent
in it.”
Be would smile at them and tell them
that he deserved no praise; he only had to
scratch the ground and he couldn’t stop the
things from growing. That was what he
would say; but in his heart he knew all the
time that it ivas a good garden. Walking
beside the hedge in his seat in the tram he
bad that feeling that it was a garden at. the
md of the world. It Avas a real garden, too —
more real than many a garden he’d known
and looked after. Why, he could take you
to -every twig in it. show you where every
rose had fallen ; and that was more than he
could do in any real garden, even in Mr.
Maltby’s.
These young ladies were not taking any
notice of old Simmy Nubbs; but that was
because they didn't know that lie was really
Mr. Appleyard. If he kept on thinking about
his garden and the sweetbriar, perhaps
they’d suddenly wake up to who he was.
Mr. Maltby was an affable gentleman. For
a moment old Simmy Nubbs’s eyes looked
bleak and frail. A job like Mr. Maltby’s
at Bowral was a prize; you couldn’t look for
more than one of them in a lifetime. But
you never knew, he reminded himself. Here
he was on his afternoon-out. and his birth-
day, and before he’d reached the tram he
had become Mr. Appleyard, with a whole
host of friends and people glad to see him
and anxious to know that he was well. You
never could tell the way things turned out.
Take Mr. Maltby, for one. That had been
a long shot, if ever there was one. He had
been going to swag it back to Sydney when
he heard the ladies were going abroad, and
just on the off-chance he had gone up and
asked, as bold as brass, to see Mr. Maltby.
And the man he was talking to by the gate
was Mr. Maltby himself!
And he did want a caretaker who could
keep the garden in shape and give an eye to
the fowls and clean up every now and then.
He was going to live at his club while his
wife and daughter were in and
wouldn’t be up much. So within a week old
Simmy Nubbs was there, and remained there,
boss of the whole show, for nigh on two
years.
The bleak, faded eyes watching the young
ladies and the deep blue of the sea behind
their heads softened and half smiled. Mr.
Maltby was dead now, but wliat an affable
gentleman he had been ! The way he wore
“‘A bit chilly in the
water? he inquired
diffidently, at last.”
his square bowler a bit on one side, and
that trick he had of smiling at you and yet
sizing you up—oh, lie was sharp, was Mr.
Maltby. But always affable and polite,
always the gentleman. It was never “Nubbs"
or “Simmy”—always “Mister Nubbs,” as it
might be “Mister Appleyard” if he should
meet one of his many friends to-day. He’d
never known anyone he thought so much of
as Mr. Maltby.
And what a job it had been! Between
his eyes and the deep blue of the sea the
place at Bowral seemed to float for a long
moment. There was his room at the built-
in end of the verandah, with his bit of a
bed and all his tools and junk, but neat as
a new pin ; always neat, he was. And, for
all, he was there for two years, and. Mr.
Maltby not coming up but three times, the
family could have walked in any day and
settled down as if they’d left it yesterday.
Aye, and with their fresh eggs and fresh
milk for breakfast, and as many flowers on
the table as they wished.
Then' was the fowl-run. and the long
liedg ■ of sweetbriar—the smell that used to
wake him up of a morning—and the bails
down in the lioilow with old Jenny nosing
about and grumbling till she was milked.
There ivas the big bank of rose-trees behind
the tennis-court, and the narrow beds that
ran up to it, where he used to do his
bedding-out. There was the sundial thing
on the lawn, and the house quiet and trim
behind it. And the sloping paddock and the
creek, the staghorns on the wall, the round
verbena bed. And the silence, the blessed
loneliness. You could think you were out
of it for good —up there at Mr. Maltby s
place. . ,
And it wasn't like a job—not work, as
you might say. He Avas the boss of it, boss
of the Avliole slioav. Only those three times
in tAA'o years did Mr. Maltby so much as put.
Ids nose into the place, taking a quick look
round in his sharp smiling way with an
affable “Mister Nubbs” here and “Mister
Nubbs” there, just as if Mr. Nubbs really
ivas the boss. The family wouldn’t be com-
ing up yet awhile, he had said, tilting his
square bowler a bit more; and lie had
wondered if his face had shoAved Avhat he
thought. Not for the job, but to feel every
morning when the sweetbriar woke him up
that here was another long lonely day of
himself as boss of the place. He could
stand a time or two more at the window-
seat and look down over the garden and the
creek, the roses moving lazily in a bit of
a wind, the long hedge, the paddock—all
alone and quiet, and boss of the lot!
Week after Aveek, month after month, it
Avent on, until the letter had come, and
he’d had to go down and see the lawyers
in the township. Mr. Maltby had dropped
down dead in his warehouse, and the place
Avas going to be sold. That was six years
ago, that Avas. The ladies were kind;
they’d got him into St: Aldhelm’s. But,
Lord, Avhat a prize of a job it had been!
In a sort of a way he could smell the sweet-
briar now.
* * * *
The tram stopped at the terminus, and
lie got stiffly out of his seat and started
down the slope for the beach. As lie had
hoped, there wasn’t a soul to be seen; there
was only the beach and the big house on
the bluff and the sea. He sat down in the
sand at peace. Nothing could be lonelier
than this. And it Avas warm, too, under
the heel of the cliff. lie hadn’t been feeling
too good of late, and a bit of warmth was
welcome.
Waking from a doze lie glanced at the
sun. It wouldn't be more than two o'clock
or thereabouts; he’d got a good four hours
yet. A vague idea that Mr. Maltby was
somewhere about confused him a bit at first,
but he got his bearings pretty soon, and could
see tbe boulders and the big house and the
stretch of Scind find sc<i.
Four hours. A lot could happen in four
hours ; any amount of adventure could be
tackled in that time. Nothing rough, of
course; he’d beeu a bit too tired lately for
that —not crook, you know, but tired.
The sun wheeled slowly to the west, his
great eye watching the old man a-dream in
liis solitude of sand and sea. Sometimes
the old man glanced up at the eye, a shadow
of panic flickering across his face. It was
getting on, getting on; the clatter of cups
and plates seemed to sound nearer and
nearer, and the whisper of shuffling old
voices. One of a herd of old useless men;
there was a sort of terror you couldn’t put
a name to in that. Every now and again it
shook you up till you wanted to down tools
and walk out for good.
A voice broke into the stillness, the voice
of a boy shouting as he ran down the cliff
from the house, a brown boy in a swimming-
suit, who shouted again as he plunged into
the sea.
Simmy Nubbs looked lazily at the boy
tumbling about in the waves. He was only
one boy, and he was in the sea; he couldn’ t
do much to disturb the silence and the
loneliness. He stared at the boy bobbing
about; he was enjoying himself—-Uo doubt
of that.
Supposing, now, lie got out of his depth
or got cramp or something. It was a fine
big house he lived in; people like that
would be wanting to go on a trip or abroad
for a spell every now and then. And who
was to look after the place while they were
away ?
If this boy did get into trouble in the sea,
and he, Mr. Appleyard, slipped off his boots
and socks and waded in after him, and
saved him from drowning. .. . Oh, lie could
be spry enough when he had to, tired as he
w r as. And people did get cramp....
Presently he had forgotten the real boy in
the sea, and was watching himself, Mr.
Appleyard, as the leading character in a
scene on the verandah of the big house. A
lady was crying and calling down blessings
on liis head as the saviour of her only child ;
a gentleman who could hardly hide his
emotion wms shaking his hand. They were
going abroad for two years next week, the
gentleman said, and would Mr. Appleyard. as
a great favor to them, accept the position of
caretaker of the place while they were
away? He was smiling and bowing in his
polite way, and saying that the saving ,f
their son’s life hadn’t been so hard as they
thought, and they mustn't take on about it.
Anyone would have done it. And, yes he
was at liberty at the moment and could con-
sider their offer. He was well known, if
they wished any references— out they
wouldn’t hear of this, and begged him to take
on the job as a reward fo* his ga flant re .cue
of their only son.
They were very nice people, affable and
polite, and soon he was comfortably fixed as
the trusted caretaker of their property. Tb .
garden had been let go a bit, but lv could
get that to rights pretty quick working
steadily in the quiet. The house was roomy :
it didn’t come up to Mr. Maltby’s, of course,
but it Avas a nouse anyone would be proud
to look aftc/.
Walking about the house on the,first day
of his taking-over, he became conscious once
more of the real boy, coming out of the sea
now, blowing his hands and shivering a bit.
He came across the narrow beach and threw
himself on the sand not far from Mr. Nubbs
Mr. Nubbs looked at the boy, at the house
on the bluff, at the sea, and back at the
boy. ,
“A bit chilly in the water?’ he inquired
diffidently at last.
“Yairs,” the boy said without looking at
him.
“That’s your house up on the cliff there,
isn’t it?”
“No. I’m only down
for the day. Why V”
“Oh nothing.” Mr.
Xubhs paused. “Per-
haps it’s your father's
house?” he went on.
The boy turned and
looked at him. “Do T
look it?” he asked ris-
ing to his feet again
and dusting the sand
from his knees. “Me
mother's cook there, if yer must know.”
With a flurry of sand from his heels he ran
across the beach to a tongue of rock, slipped
up on to it, and dived from its point.
A black despair shrivelled Mr. Nubbs. The
clatter of cups and plates became a menacing
thunder pausing only for the sniggering of a
herd of dotards. His face, old and terrified,
stared out to sea. that was the hopeless way
of it; you felt a thing warm in your hands,
and suddenly your hands were empty and
you were back in the old frightening times —
one of a herd going round and round in fear.
This might be his last afternoon-out; they
might think he was too tired to go out alone
any more. And that meant the herd for
ever....
And it was his birthday. Seventy-seven
years was a long time; more than three-
quarters of a century, when you came to think
of it. That was a good long time to be alive,
that was; and it wasn’t much to ask for, to
be alone and in silence; most people wanted
a bit of a racket and a good time. And
there was the sun, low down in the sky... .
A cry broke into the silence, a cry with
a wild note of terror in it. Mr. Nubbs sat
up. liis minirl fumbling towards the urgency
in the cry. Something had gone amiss.
Beyond the point of the tongue of rock he
could see the boy flinging his arms about
and disappearing under water every now'
and then. As he watched, a second call from
the boy's lips smote upon his ears.
The boy was in trouble. He’d got caught
in the undertow or something. Mr. Nubbs
had been a bit of a swimmer in his day,
but....he looked round the beach and the
(Continued on page 53.)


The
Battery made to do
a BATTERY'S |oh
Healthy rush of power into the
starter ; steady supply of current to
your lights ; remarkably little loss
between charge and discharge ; a
battery which lets your dynamo do its
best and gives your starter a chance
to show what it’s made of: a
BATTERY—that’s a P. & R.
A battery in which everything which
could possibly make for a better
battery has been embodied. The
battery with the heat-proof, leak-
proof, acid-proof, almost unbreakable
Dagenite case. The battery you will
eventually come to, and about which
you will say it’s a BATTERY.
Pndß^
PETO &- RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below.
ď
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degrea ves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. U. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
lue fsmliiyj
Emio !
Good health is the greatest prize in the world, and it
often depends upon one small but very important
thing; the regular clearance from the system of
the waste products of digestion. The neglect of
your “inner health” may lead to the most
serious illness.
Yet how easily and pleasantly ENO over-
comes this danger. For generations the
pleasant, health-giving practice of taking
a glass of water sparkling with a dash of
ENO first thing every morning has been
passed down from father to son, and
from mother to daughter. Keep good
health in your family; have a botde
of ENO always in the house.
Prepared ontv by
]. C. ENO, LTD.
London, England.
I
♦ •
♦ ♦
0
Salts SSgents: The
British Harold F.
Ritchie & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IN
TWO SIZES
at Chemists
and Stores
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT” AND ENO AND THE LABEL ON THE PACKAGE
ARE THE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF J. C. ENO, LTD, LONDON, ENGLAND
1
m
m
is m
y . [ ■ ::
Bm
H ■Hi
Hi
Hi |SI:|S
Iflltl®
m
m
a
■
1 H
■H
■
111
Piano notes like this
on
: r
The astounding
6dU>onic
THE LATEST INVENTION OF THOMAS A. EDISON
pUREST piano tone, silvery
treble and rhythmic bass —a
sparkling realism and naturalness
never before attained by a phono-
graph—that is what awaits you in
the astounding Edisonic.
Already impartial tests have de-
monstrated Mr. Edison’s invention
to be a remarkable advance in
acoustic science—already amazing
popularity and interest have come
to the New Edisonic.
In your home there is a place for
this gifted musician—it is waiting
to give your family happier hours
than they have dreamt of. See it
and hear it for yourself—or write
for illustrated folder.
Catalogues and Demonstrations at
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh St.
MELBOURNE: The Edison Shop, 238 Collins St.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen St.
ADELAIDE: S.A. Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert
Buildings, Gilbert Place.
Metropolitan Distributors:
Wertheims, 84 Rundle St.
PERTH: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay St.
LAUNCESTON: Wills & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
HOBART: A. Paton & Sons, 136 Liverpool St.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
Wholesale only: THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


A t Harrow, hats
conserve tradition —
elsewhere they make
or mar the whole
appearance of a man
by their style, finish,
quality and, above
all, individuality.
In buying a
<3attei%
either Soft Felt or
Bowler, you will
get a Hat worn all
over the world as
the best style and
value, the result of
60 years’ leadership
in hat-making.
High-class Felt Hats
are made from the
pure fur of Rabbit,
Beaver, etc.
S
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD $Y
THE BEST
HATTERS
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further particulars, write—
SYDNEY, BOX 1845 K, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE, BOX 364. G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH,N.Z., BOX 763.
Ladies! Meet Janette
Gilmore
By HELEN JEAN BEEGLING.
HELLO, everybody! Forget all your
troubles for a few moments now
and come with me, will you?
What for?
Why I’m going to have you meet Miss
Janette Gilmore —you all know who she
is, don't you? You don’t? Well, it’s easily
seen you haven’t been to “Rio Rita.” Wli3 r
she’s the little lady all Sydney is talking
about; she’s just fine, and you’ll love her
skating number. But wait. I’m going to
tell you all about how she learned to do
that number. Come with me now, and
we’ll go see Miss Gilmore in her dressing-
room.
No, you won't find her hard to talk to,
not a bit of it, just as nice and sweet as
you could imagine. Now, are we all ready?
“Miss Gilmore, these ladies would like
to have a little chat with you, do you
mind?”
“Why, no, certainly not; come right in.”
Just close your eyes now, folks, and
imagine you are in Janette’s dressing-room
with her. You see a rather small girl, with
smiling eyes, a happy laughing face, and
a mass of blonde curls (is it any wonder
gentlemen prefer blondes!). You do not
feel a bit nervous about talking to her,
because she is just as natural as can be,
sort of makes you feel at ease; and so we
start our little chat “Well, Miss Gil-
more, you just talk; we are here to listen
to you.” And right away she tells us: “I
guess you want to know where I was born.
Well, Maryland was my birthplace, and J
went on the stage at the age of 15. But
first, before I continue, I must tell you all
how I came to be a dancer. I have an in-
valid sister, in a chair, who has taught me
every step I can do, and naturally every
time I get applause I feel I want to let her
know of it so as she can share it with me.
She used to teach me from books she’d
read, from steps she’d see. Then, having
taught me a number of steps, one day she
said to me, “Go get a pair of skates and
put them on and come back to me.”
“After this, life was just one long practice
with me, on roller skates along the cement
sidewalk of our home; how I did not bash
my brains out is a mystery.
“Then she started teaching me the back-
ward bend, till finally one day my head
reached the ground—not content with this
she sent me into the garden for a flower,
I could not find one at the time, and so
brought back one out of Mother’s hat!
Back into the kitchen I went, and my
sister then got me practising this bend and
picking the flower up. I did it 48 times
before she’d let, me stop, and honestly, Miss
Bcegling, by that time I was more com-
fortable bent back than up straight!
“I would like you all to know just how
much I owe my sister, and how much my
success means to me, because I can give the
folks and her so much happiness by sending
her the press clippings and my photos.”
Miss Gilmore has fair curls, and, ladies —
she is letting her hair grow. Her favorite
color is powder blue, and this color pre-
dominates everywhere in her dressing-room.
My next question was, “Tell me what, up
to date, has been one of the most anxious
moments in your life?”
“I guess,” she replied with a smile, “that
that was the opening night of ‘Rio Rita’
here. It meant so much to me after having
come such a distance to know if I was go-
ing to make good, if the public of Sydney
would. like me.”
At this moment a bell rang, and I had a
feeling that my time was drawing close,
when a hasty exit would be necessary, so
as a parting shot I said, “All my listeners
on the air are interested in diet, Miss Gil-
more: can you tell me a good one to give
them?”
This is her recipe, ladies: On rising, two
glasses of hot water into which you may
put a squeeze of lemon, followed in about
half an hour’s time with a half-glass of
orange juice. For breakfast, an omelette,
with toast and tea, nothing else.
“Nothing else.” I said—till dinner time,
when she eats practically, what she wants.
“Miss Gilmore, I can see a tin of Mcr-
colized Wax by your mirror there; might
I ask do you, too, use this wonderful skin
beautifier?”
“Why. certainly I do. I think it is just
fine, and have been using it for over a year
now. It suits my skin and is a splendid
face dressing. Can see you are admiring
my hair, so guess I had better tell you that
I keep it soft, and fluffy with Stallax Sham-
poo. Where do I get it? Why, it’s a
Dearborn preparation. I was going to ask
you, Miss Beegling, what it is you use
which gives your nails such a fine polish.”
“What a funny thing you should ask me
that. I always use Calcitrum, and it, too,
is one of Dearborn’s preparations.”
Miss Gilmore was, by this time, all made
up ready to go on. She is a clever girl,
with a natural gift for comedy, and a
wonderfully sweet winning way with her.
This, combined with her ability as an actress
and a dancer, explains why the public of
Sydney have taken her to their hearts.
—Advt.
rocks once more, and up at the house. Not
a soul; not a sign of life but that struggling
boy and himself.
He slipped off his boots and socks and
stood up. He was nearly out of breath from
excitement when he reached the rock. He
was only a bit of a boy, the son of the cook
up at the house —and here was the sea suck-
ing and gurgling round the rock. Not deep
here, though; not more than up to his knees.
If only his eyes were better and he could see
where he was stepping. The lad wasn’t more
than a few yards from the rock, but he
seemed to be shifting out all the time.
“All right, me boy. I’ll get to yer in a
minute,” he called. “Keep a hold o’ yer
nerve.”
The sea came surging hungrily at him,
well over Ids knees. There’d be a row about
his trousers, as likely as not. Every now
and again he could see the boy’s face, and
that made him shut his teeth and try with
all Ills might. Somehow he’d get to him....
Yes, he could feel the current; it was carry-
ing him out to the boy. The sea was above
his waist now.
At last he caught one of the flinging hands,
and tried to stand firm in the sand. He’d
been a swimmer in his time. And by some
bit of luck or strength or sudden effort he
seemed to be able to pull the boy against the
heavy undertow.
Like a flash the boy swarmed up and was
standing on the rock. He gasped once, and
threw himself prone on the rock, reaching
a hand down to Mr. Nubbs. Again the sky
and the sea swept over as Mr. Nubbs tried
to take the hand. He slipped and went
under, but was on his feet again gasping for
breath in an instant. But he was a bit fur-
ther out now; the boy’s hand was beyond
reach. There was a blur, too ; and the spring
seemed to have gone out of his legs. That
would be the cold; it was bitter cold. Queer
how the boy on the rock seemed to be get-
ting smaller. And it got dark and noisy all
of a sudden. Then it was quiet and bitter
cold again before tremendous noises came
once more. Then quiet.
But not cold. The smell of sweetbriar was
soft and strong; in the moving light he could
see a long, long hedge. It was warm and
very sunny. Someone in a tilted square
bowler was smiling at him and sizing him up.
Would that be Mr. MaltbyV; It was like
him, but it wasn’t him. Bigger, for one
thing; and he seemed to be all round you
as well as smiling there in front of you.
Over a vast shoulder he saw a place, as
natty and trim a place as you could wish.
Roses were shifting softly in the wind, and
on the edge of the paddock the cow-bails
were as snug as Mr. Maltby’s. The house
was small and perfect; it seemed to be wait-
ing for you to take over. And all so friendly
you wanted nothing else ever.
And a voice that was warm, and very
polite too, was saying: “Yes, Mr. Appleyard,
I think you’ll do me for the job.”
And Mr. Appleyard sighed in deep con-
tent. “Thankee, sir,” he said happily.
Beefsteaks and a Brummy.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY HARRY PAULL.
LIKE a host of modern Argonauts tlie
stomach-worshipping citizens of Mel-
bourne cruise about from year to year
in quest of the ideal beefsteak. In their
dreams they have beheld it, a sizzling, lus
cions brown thing, so tender and succulent
that it weeps for a knife to discover its
riches. If the seekers have not found Con’s,
the ideal steak remains a dream. If they
have found Con’s, they hasten at least once
a day around two corners and over two
crossings, and anon, passing beneath a black-
lettered door-sign proclaiming “Grills at all
hours,” they seat themselves and await their
hearts’ desire.
At Con’s are only eight small tables lack-
ing both cloths and flowers. There you may
ply your tools while sitting opposite an out-
of-elbows man or one whose six-cylinder car
is parked elsewhere in the city. For Con’s
is an actual democracy in the heart of an
alleged one. Worldly distinction remains
outside the door; two shillings and a love
for beefsteak is your twofold passport
within.
Con himself, he has told me, hails from a
suburb in Athens. He is elderly, patriarchal
with a heavy moustache, and speaks English
as correctly as you or I. Ilis profession is
the production of ideal beefsteaks; his hobby
is literature. No one calls Con a dago.
A few months ago a swarthy-visaged, hand-
some young Greek whose English was abomin-
able collected your order, placed your plate
before you and assisted Con in all things
save the actual grilling. Behind a tiny coun-
ter on your left as you went out, Con’s dusky-
eyed daughter collared your silver and smiled
you away. Her smile was her benediction.
On her pjothcr’s side Nina was Australian,
and apart from beefsteaks was the most de-
licious thing in the cafe.
So beautiful was Nina that the big broad-
shouldered young man from the garage fur-
ther down the street, who daily sat at the
table opposite mine, carefully divided his
time between his steak and the girl. Motion-
less, sometimes, he would sit, with a piece
of steak on a poised fork, and stare across
the cafe at her, until her roving eyes encoun-
tered his, when he would lower a face like
a Riverina sunset, and eat as though he were
starving.
Had you accosted him in the street after
leaving the cafe and asked him if lie' had
paid for his meal, he would, strictly speak-
ing, have been unable to answer affirmatively.
But, having a flaming memory of a counter
and a bewitching smile and a voice that
rivalled Anne Laurie’s, he would probably
affirm that he had paid. For nothing but
the inexorable necessity of paying two shil-
lings could have inveigled him to that counter.
In the garage, as I found out one day, he
was a man exuding stern purpose; placed
near the girl, he became a spineless, hope-
less thing. Week after week it was the same ;
he blundered in, ate his steak and worshipped,
blundered to the counter, and so back to
his work.
His manner was so obvious that I, being
a friend of Con’s, assumed one day the task
of sounding Nina.
“Oh, golly, that dope!” she squealed. “He’s
a perfect scream. He’s some sheik. I die
laughing at him. He comes up like a slice
of bread to a fire, ready to be toasted. He
wants his mummy with him to hold his hand.
Rotten weather, isn’t it?”
That is how Romance, utterly shocked, took
flight.
“I say,” said Nina, after that, “what do
you think of this?”
“Ah !” I said, inspecting, “that is what I
term beautiful scenery. Have you ever
dreamed of a mountain made of Hello!”
“I thought you’d notice, being Scotch,”
said the girl. “It’s well done, though, isn’t
it?”
It was a pity, I thought afterwards. Why
should a man who felt no fear when con-
fronted with a pre-war Ford shudder at the
bare idea of approaching a talkative chit?
One, two, three, four weeks passed, and
the craven-hearted young man’s antics no
longer interested me. Let him blunder about
as he may—l had rejected him.
Fidgeting and crimson, he forced his feet
to the counter one day, just as I was dreamily
regarding my emptied plate. I also rose to
depart.
“Here, what’s the little game?” Indig-
nantly from the counter came Nina’s voice.
“M-m-moo,” brayed the young man.
Flushed and scornful, she waved her arm
at him. In abject terror he reeled from her
gesture. “You don’t do them tricks for
nothing here,” she cried, hastening from be-
hind the counter. “But I know where you
come from. Just you wait a minute. Oh,
Mr. Scott!”
Stepping forward, I stared from Nina to
the dumbfounded wretch who cowered before
her.
“What’s happened?” I asked.
“I don’t want a scene here,” said Nina,
loftily. “This man will be wise if he gives
a private explanation. _ He tried to. put this
crook note over on me.”
The culprit leaped a foot into the air.
“Me?” he choked. “Is that what you’re talk-
about? A brummy! A brummy—why, T
was paid that note in my wages! Paul it!
O God, but this is ridiculous. It’s a —a
good pound-note!”
With dignity Nina said to me: “Will you
please examine this note?”
I took it and inspected it. I looked in-
tently at the young man. "It is certainly
a dud. Surely you must have seen”
“I never noticed it. 1 swear to God I”-
He rubbed his hand on his forehead. "What
a thing to happen !”
Nina again addressed me. “The customers
are all looking,” she said. “Would you mind
bringing him through into the living-room? I
don’t want to have the customers all hearing,
and I’m sure he doesn’t want notoriety.”
Head up, she walked across the cafe and
passed through the rear door.
“Young man,” I said, “I really advise you
to talk this over. It’s a serious matter. By
your bewilderment I judge you perfectly
innocent: but do you know that the police
are searching for the man who is circulating
those notes?”
Calm and assured he answered me; such
a difference did Nina’s absence make. “Yes,
I remember reading that. But to connect me
with such roguery is utter rot. In fact, it’s
beyond me how I didn’t notice the crook
note. Damn the thing! That’s all I have
on me. I’ll borrow two bob at the garage.
But what else can I do? I can’t say any
more.”
“You’d better go and tell the girl frankly,
at any rate.”
He trembled. “Oh. but I simply can’t!”
“It seems to me—are you really as innocent
as you look?”
“I’ll knock your Oh, you don't under-
stand !”
“But you must give an honest expla-
nation, or how can you blame her if she
notifies the police?”
lie was snow-white and quivering. “Where
is she?” he asked sombrely. “I see it is
necessary.”
I led him through the cafe. As we reached
the inner room lie struggled. But he was too
late; the door was open, and I propelled
him on to the carpet square.
Nina clutched his coat lapels. “You
didn’t really mean to, did you?” she cried.
“I swear I”——
“I had cruel suspicions,” she said sadly.
“I shouldn’t have gone on like I did. But I
lost my head for the moment. Forgive me.
It upset me terribly—and—l’m only a girl—
and—-oh, look out! I’m going to f-faint”
He made a wild grab at her swaying
shoulders, like a wrestler diving for a grip.
I sneaked away and closed the door to the
sound of his broken voice calling her back to
life.
* * * *
“Yes,” said Nina, when I saw her again,
“we’re engaged. Jack’s shy but lie’s human.
Didn’t it seem a long time before Jack put a
pound-note over the counter? Nearly five
weeks it was—and me waiting with the
brummy all that time !”
Sanctuary.
Strange flowers blossom and nod
In the garden of God;
Terribly branches croon
Under the moon;
And a sound as of low tears
Falls on the grey years.
Angels shining and tall
Look over the wall.
Hearing the pain that drips,
Laughter is stayed on their iips;
For always in at the gate
Some soul goes late.
The dreadful lilies fade,
White beyond white iu the shade;
And there is no speaking.
But only a dim seeking
For the sweetness heavy and cold
And all it may hold.
Haste! Let us haste from sin
And the place of the lilies win !
Madeline of the woes
Through the solemn shadow goes
To the rest that is no rest:
For the lilies feed on her breast.
DAVID McKEE WBIGHT.


GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
£l7OO
PRIZE COMPETITION
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., having succeeded in establishing the short story in
Australia, is now out to produce the great Australian novel.
To this end it offers £l7OO in prizes spread over three years.
The first competition will close on June 30, 1 928.
First Prize - - ■ £5OO
Second Prize- - - - £125
Third Prize - - - £75
The winners will retain all rights except those of first serial publication in Australia
and Maoriland.
Serial Publication of the £5OO
Prize Story will commence
in “ The Bulletin ” in August.
THE GREATEST LITERARY EVENT IN AUSTRALIAN JOURNALISM
The Competition is open to all persons born in Australia, New Zealand or the
islands of the South Pacific, and to persons bona fide resident therein.
The receipt of the following entries is acknowledged to June 2:—
Title. Nom tie plume.
“Chains and Liberty” Combo
“Marah” Turanganui
“Taeo.ru” Annys Darrell
“Far North Memories” Poisedon
“Lynette” Wingella
“The Brumby” -. Glow
“The Lady of Lansdovvne Crescent”. .John Herzogin
“Whither the Fates Call” George Woolpack
“Redwing” Cockfighter
“The City that Was” Borah
“His Diamond Reset” Marcus McPherson
“Saint and Sinner” Tiatucka
“Disenchantment” Lokohu
“The Challenger” W.E.G.H.
“Descent and Distribution” Zoba
“Tlie Cave-men” Cumbelow
“Lucky Maidment” Good Intent
“He that Hatcth His Brother” .... Francia Hope
“What Became of Brown” . . Edmund Beauchamp
“Like the Huia” Bullseye
“Out of the Mist” Willinga Ward
“Skeleton’s Reef” Brinkan
“Andy Blew” Koala
“Bracken” Charlaura
“The Sulky Bear” M. Le Grand
“Bett” Wonna-Milwa
“The Waggon of Birds” Edro Marnry
“The White Grub” Moringa
“Ups and Downs of Ermyntrude Binks”—
Long Road Rainbow
“They Shall Inherit” Pax
“Filamina” Pandora
“When Winter Came” Stumpy
“The Coo-ee of the Hills” Mary Murray
“Life’s Ebb and Flow” Wattle Baris
“The Mirthful Mutineer” . . Go Forth Kittle Book
“Millstream” Ballantine Temple
“Guest” Theta
“Inspiring Love” Zarelli
“An Unweeded Garden” Ovid
“Shellfish” Radicl and Norah Ford
“Jean Armour” Caller
“The Open Spaces” Hannam
“Walter Wrexford” Tui Lakemb'
“The Waxen Image” Senga
Title. Nom de plume.
“A Wanderer’s Mate” C.O.S.
“The Impossible Varneys” Winsome Wenona
“Virgin Wives” Winsome Winsome
“A Fresh Start” Jarrali
“Little Flower” .. . Ivennythe, the Teller of Tales
“Gwenken” Ivennythe, the Teller of Tal-s
“A Child of the Hinterland ’ Guichen Bay
“Deep River” XYZ
“So We Are Told” T. I. Sabelle
“In Sunny Australia” Gytlja Paddle
“Merely Mr. Brown” Matum
“Men Are Human” Bryan Ward
“The Necklace of El Hoya”' Siriol
“Sell’s Stronghold” Ray Dale
“Lu-Lilli-Nuk” W.A.J.
“Riven” David Lord
“Tumbling Acres” Atchel
“Billy Both” Connor Mack
“Red Hibiscus” Maravo
“We and Some Others” B’t'.i
“Circumstance” Margaret Mee
“The Cripple in Black” Disley
“Bulgie Eye” Genive Da tor.
“Wainui” Turan.ganui
“The Street of Shame” Triboulet
“The North Easters” Ha tings
“Destiny’s Thunder” ... Taro
“Doctor Dukes” Oocytin
“A New Tale of Sydney” Rovstan Durant
“The Hussy” Rob Roy
“Storm Bradley—Aust.” Australian No. 1
“The Transgressor” Wongabel
“Over the Mountain” Cordcaux
“The Garden of Bitter Sweet” . . Esme Rees Dufrayne
“Born to be Hanged” Edgar Clave
“Bill the Resolute” Harvey Marshall
“Sunshine and Shadow” ... Damoda
“Dangerous Deductions” Seventy Five
“The Meteran Road” Vernon Thomar
“The Mystery of Col. Bright” . . One of the Twe 1 : e
“The Captain’s Daughter” Charlemain
“Uma” Codex
“Baal Budgeree Bill” Frank Black
“May It Please Your Honor” Nombrea
“From Out of the Fog” Sardonyx
“Lola Slue” Ucannindah
Title. Nom de plume.
“Chameleon” M. A. Bruce
“Dale Freyar” Murray Horne
“The Road to Tartary” Van Diemen
“Vengeance Is Mine” The Cocky
“Gentlemen, the King” Cornelius
“Mignonette and Minuet” Peradventure
“A Bride from the Dese.t A Trier
“In Our Bewildering” ] Merivale
“A Spawn of the Devil” Ninion
“Mollie’s Secret” Peter Pickle
“The Old Order Changeth” Old Timer
“The Vanishing Horsemen” L’lnconnu
“The Veiled Woman” Sherrie
“Chapter Thirteen” Run.i
“The Lost Brother” Kruger
“Consequences” Kilometre
“The Australian Benefactor” Migrator
: The Disappearance of Eric Daton” .... Paul Duane
“Poverty Pot” Koala
Folk o’ Twilight” Boobardy
“Cape Farewell” S.S.M.
“Marriage of Butterfly” Leslie Sutton
“Merry Christmas” Ucjanco
“The Unsinkable” George Maitland
“Pokolbin’s Pride” .. The Imp
“Barbara Vine” Maw'iera
“Given in Marriage” Omega
“Sunset Is Red” John Lyoune
“Stunter” Telamon
“When the Northern Streams Ran Gold,” Stringybark
“The Garage Girl” Glaucus
“The Four-sided Triangle” Judith Merit
“Peter and Paul” Te Miharo
“Hugh Blythe” Glenloth
“ ’Oppv Stanton” Jack Frost
“A Romance of Ancient Media” Hope
“The Breath of Laamao” Fossil
“The Wild Colonial Boy” Mars
“Out Home” F.A.T.*
“The Box Room” E.H.O.*
“The Beloved Country” .... (No nom de plume)*
* These entries do net comply with conditions re
sealed envelopes.
In addition to the winning stories The Bulletin” will contain all those features
which have made it known the world over.
Obtainable from all newsagents and bookstalls; or direct from The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George Street, Sydney; 1 1 4 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
For 24/- in advance The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., will send you, post free, 52
numbers containing the new series of short stories and the three prize stories in
the Great Australian Novel Competition.


AGENTS.
WE
ARE
THE
BULLDOG
HAMMER LESS
THE
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne; & Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
HEINZ
Quality Food Products
Heinz Oven Baked
Beans
Heinz Peanut
Butter
Heinz Cooked
Spaghetti
Heinz Cream
Soups
Heinz Ketchup Heinz Sweet Pickles
(Tomato Sauce) (Gherkins)
Heinz Pure Vinegars and Relishes
1374
among the
57
Varieties
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
Sergeant O'Hell
by
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
“f MUST confess,” said Captain William
I Blake, adjutant of lI.M. 40th Regi-
ment, dining at the rectory in Parra-
matta with the Rev. Samuel Marsden,
senior-chaplain to the colony of New South
Wales—“l really must admit that, in the
whole course of my career as a soldier, I
have never come across anyone to equal him.
Sergeant Dansy is unique—positively unique.
I am sure there has never been any drill-
instructor in the British Army—between,
the battle of Hastings and Lord Wellington’s
glorious affair in Flanders last year —who
could quite compare with him. He has a
genius for it—a positive genius for cursing.
Profanity is, as it were, raised to the emin-
ence of an art by Sergeant Dansy. But
there's one thing about him, Padre —he’s
never obscene. Some men in his position
can’t express themselves without filth and
muck of the lowest sort. Not so this one —
lie’s never dirty. He will, of course, reflect
upon the legitimacy of anybody, but he
doesn’t do it nastily—if you know what I
mean ?”
The senior-chaplain smiled. “Aye—l
understand ye, Mr. Blake.”
“One of the strange gifts he is endowed
with is that of being able to take quite
printable objurgatory language—such as
even a member of your own sacred calling
might make use of, Mr. Marsden —and turn
it into the most blistering species of rcvile-
meiit imaginable, sometimes without using
a single conventional oath of any sort. He
gets the effect of employing the most fear-
ful imprecations without really making use
of them at all. I heard him, in Sydney the
other day, call a man a fool —just that —and
from the way he did it you'd have convinced
yourself he’d called him everything vile he
could lay his tongue to. The fellow wilted —
that’s just the word ; he positively drooped
under it. But that was all lie told him he
was—just a fool. Oh, it’s a gift, a veritable
gift, with which Nature has endowed our
Sergeant O’Hell.”
Mr. Marsden sat back in his chair and
shook with laughter. “And that’s what you
call him, eh?”
“ ’Tis what the regiment calls him. And
I think ’tis more in a complimentary sense
than any other.”
“And Parramatta is to be honored by the
presence of this remarkable man for some
time, I understand you to say, do I, my dear
Captain Blake?”
“Yes. And Parramatta will not soon for-
get him, I promise ye, Mr. Marsden. ’Tis
at his own request he has come here —en-
tirely. An affair of the heart, I fancy ; in-
deed, I know. There is a female prisoner
in the factory in whom Dansy is interested.
Knew her at home in England some years
ago. Quite a romance, it seems to be.
Though I shouldn’t have thought there was
any romance at all—except as regards his
language—about our Sergeant O’Hell. How-
ever, he came to me the other day in the
orderly-room at Sydney and requested to be
transferred from Captain Arbutlinot’s com-
pany to Captain Harrison’s, which, as you
know, has been in garrison here at Parra-
matta for some little time. I asked him, his
reasons for so desiring a change and he
told me.”
“Ah, he was candid enough to admit the
real reason, was he? Well, I like candor.
’Tis so d d uncommon in New South
Wales, both amongst high and low, at the
present time that one is inclined to include
it amongst the cardinal virtues. He told
you all about this woman and himself, did
he?”
“Oh yes. I don’t think the fellow has a
he in him. So I consented to his changing
place with another sergeant of Harrison’s,
who wished to be nearer his family in Syd-
ney, where his wife has a cottage in Essex-
street. But I had another reason also.
One of my own.”
‘Pray, what was that?”
“You know young Calder of ours—Ensign
Patrick Calder ?”
“That young ruffian! Oh yes, I know
him. I must say, Mr. Adjutant, that I
can’t help liking the fellow, though well I
know his talent for
disreput a b i 1 i t y.
And what of him,
pray? What has he
been doing now?”
“Oh. nothing in
particular. Nothing
worse than usual.
But Colonel Molle does not make the
same allowance for our Patrick’s exuber-
ance that most of us do, and I happen to
know that, just at present, he’s particularly
in disfavor. His name—ah —stinks to
Heaven in the C.O.’s nostrils. Now, all our
subalterns have a most tremendous respect
for Sergeant Dansy, not merely for his lin-
guistic abilities, but mostly for the reason
that he’s the man who’s taught ’em all their
drill, and for his good-natured willingness
always to help them out of any difficulty of
routine and the like that may from time to
time confront them. They take much more
notice of Dansy than they do of me, or of
any of the senior officers of the battalion, and
he has a really extraordinary influence over
them. Young Calder’s just been sent up
here from headquarters, and I have a mortal
dread that he may do some outrageous thing
from the consequences of which it may be
impossible to save him. Pilkington—the
young commissary officer —exercises a cer-
tain amount of restraint upon him in Syd-
ney and I do what I can, but here lie’s got
no one. Harrison—well, you know Harri-
son. A good fellow, but a somewhat bigoted
martinet, who has much more interest in the
letter than in the.spirit of soldiering. He’s
the sort of company commander who’d be
likely to provoke Pat Calder into indiscre-
tions, rather than to check him. But Ser-
“‘What’s to be clone, Sir —in God’s name, what’s to be done?’”
geant Dansy will ride the young colt—after
all, that’s all he is—on a light rein. He’ll
keep him under control whether he realises
it or not. That’s why I found the ser-
geant’s application for transfer to another
company, stationed here, easy to comply with.
He’ll save that young idiot from himself,
as much as he can be 'saved. I’m really
very fond of Calder, and so is Mrs. Mac-
quarie, though his Excellency’s a little doubt-
ful about him. However, I’ve few fears
whilst John Dansy’s close at hand.”
“I trust that the sergeant will keep him in
his place”—Mr. Marsden nodded agreement
with Captain Blake’s motives. “He’ll have
his hands full. But what of this woman
in the factory, my dear Mr. Blake? I know
them all—the wretches. What may be the
name of the lady whom your cursing paragon
of a sergeant is interested in? I’d like to
know.”
“Let me see. It has escaped me for the
moment. Lydia? Letitia? No, that’s not
it. It’s in my pocket-book down at the bar-
racks. Do you care to stroll down there
with me, Mr. Marsden? ’Tis a pleasant
evening; and maybe a bowl of punch in
the mess and a pipe of tobacco”-
Mr. Marsden nodded and rose to his feet.
“Certainly, certainly, Mr. Blake. We’ll take
a stroll down George-street. A little exer-
cise in the cool of the evening will do neither
of us any harm.”
It was close to sunset as the adjutant
and the chaplain entered the barrack gates,
and in the long shadows stretching across
the level parade-ground a tall drill-sergeant
was admonishing before dismissing a squad
of recruits who looked as if, above every-
thing else in the world, they washed to escape
from the tongue-lashing he was giving them.
Captain Blake laid a hand on Mr. Marsden’s
sleeve and whispered:
“ ’Tis Sergeant Dansy. Pray, stop a
moment and listen to him. I pity these
young men. They are recruits from the
Ilawkesbury. Dansy is breaking them in.
Pray, hearken to him. Mr. Marsden. He is
well worth your attention.”
Stiff as the proverbial ramrod, the sergeant
stood with his flat back to the gate, and
expressed his opinion of the dejected youths
in front of him. His crisp, clear tones
echoed back from the barrack buildings, and,
it seemed to the chaplain, must have almost
been audible at Castle Hill. There was no
exaggeration, he felt, in the adjutant’s recent
description of his powers of invective as
“withering.” The six young men were splen-
did specimens of the youthful colonial of
the first generation, but evidently they did
not meet with the approval of Sergeant
Dansy.
With a final curse for their execution of
the command to dismiss the sergeant sent
his unhappy pupils slinking to their barrack-
room. He was turning towards his own
quarters when the adjutant’s voice checked
him.
“A moment, Sergeant Dansy, if you
please,” called Captain Blake.
The sergeant halted and wheeled about,
and then came marching across the gravelled
parade. Two paces from them he brought
his heels together with a click and saluted
smartly. “Sir !” lie said.
“Those young fellows from Windsor, I
suppose, Sergeant Dansy? What do you
make of them, pray? Are they likely to
do the regiment credit, d’ye think?”
To the chaplain’s astonishment the drill-
sergeant became warmly enthusiastic about
the youths lie had just been abusing.
“Splendid, sir! Fine young fellows. I’ve
never handled better. It does a man good
to teach such rookies. They’re quick and
active, intelligent, and willing to learn.
They’ll certainly be a credit to the regiment,
sir. I wish we could get more like them. I
do, indeed, sir.”
“Why, bless my soul, Sergeant,” observed
Mr. Marsden, “I’d have supposed that you’d
never met with worse. Certainly, you’re no
believer in flattery!”
“Ah,” laughed the adjutant, “Sergeant
Dansy barks worse than he means—don’t
you, Sergeant?”
“Well, sir. it never does to let recruits
think they're anything else but the scum o’
the earth. ’Twould ruin them to do other-
wise. But they’re good lads, those —as good
a lot as I’ve seen join the colors this many
a day.”
“Sergeant,” said Captain Blake, as though
something had just occurred to him, “I’ve
recently been telling Mr. Marsden of your
reason for wishing to join Captain Harri-
son’s company here in Parramatta —how
that you’re interested in a young woman who
is at present an inmate of the factory. Mr.
Marsden has been good enough to express
some sympathy, and would like to know her
name. Although you mentioned it to me the
other day in Sydney I’ve quite forgotten it,
though I made a note of it at the time. What
is her name, Sergeant Dansy?”
The sergeant reddened a little, and glanced
at the chaplain doubtfully. After a moment’s
hesitation he cleared his throat nervously
and replied to Captain Blake.
“Her name, sir? Her name’s Letitia Fair-
fax.”
Mr. Marsden gave a little gasp of astonish-
ment and stared with deeper interest at the
line-looking man standing erect before him.
There was something of commiseration in his
rugged countenance, which Captain Blake
could not fail to notice. For a moment or
two the chaplain said nothing. When he
spoke, it was as though he experienced some
feeling of regret for the non-commissioned
officer.
“Tell me, Sergeant, do you wish this
woman well—or —or the other thing? I
think you understand me. You know what I
mean, Sergeant?”
“Aye, y’r Rev’rence, I know what ye mean,
sir. If I can obtain permission and she
her ticket-o’-leave, I’m wishful for to marry
Mistress Fairfax. That is what I mean, y’r
Honor.”
“Very commendable very commendable
indeed.” He seemed to fidget a little, as
though this interview with the sergeant em-
barrassed him, and he would like to escape
from it. “Yes, yes—l’m glad to hear it.
Well, well.”
Captain Blake noticed that something was
wrong, that the chaplain was not at his
ease, and hastened to dismiss the sergeant.
“Come, let’s go into the mess, Mr. Mars-
den. That is all, Sergeant Dansy. I’m glad
those boys from the Hawkesbury are likely to
be of some use to us. Good
evening to you, Sergeant.”
“Good evening, sir.” Ser-
geant Dausy saluted again,
swung about on his heels and
marched across the parade-
ground, the complete, imma-
culate and perfect soldier.
The adjutant led Mr. Mars-
den into the officers’ quarters.
They were alone in the
mess, and when some cold
rum-punch had been set
before them, together with
churchwarden pipes and a
jar of tobacco, the adjutant
reverted to the love affair of
Sergeant Dansy.
“I assumed from your man-
ner just now, Mr. Marsden,”
he said as he lit his pipe at
one of the candles the mess-
servant had placed on the
round table between them.
“I seemed to gather that you
know something of this
woman in whom our Ser-
geant O’Hell takes an
interest? May I ask what
sort of woman she is? D’ye
think she’ll make him a good
wife? He’s a decent man—
a very good man—and I'd
like to see him happy. One
of the best sergeants in the
regiment.”
He held a candle to Mr.
Marsden’s. pipe. When it
was well aliglit-t-he chaplain
„ sa t back in his chair, and
purred several heavy clouds of smoke towards
the ceiling before he replied.
“Well, then, my dear Mr. Blake, to tell
you the truth I don’t know what to say. All
1 can say for certain about the woman is
that she hath the temper of a she-devil and
is what I’d be inclined to consider—well, to
put it mildly, a virago. Indeed, I might go
further, perhaps, and characterise her as
something of a hell-cat. I’m sorry to say it,
but that’s what she seems to me to be. A
very devil of a woman. If your Sergeant
(J Hell, as you call him, is the good fellow
lie seems to be, and were a personal friend
of mine, why, I think I’d sooner see him
wedded to a tigress than to the woman we’re
speaking of. A tigress of a woman—that’s
what she is, of a verity.”
“Is there anything against her moral
character, may I ask?
.Ob no, no —I was not hinting at any-
thing of that sort. Indeed, I wasn’t. But
she s a woman, I think, who’ll be likely to
lead the man she marries a pretty dance. A
very pretty dance. She has been assigned
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Smu, don, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yakwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
George, J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Ollioes at 27 places in
Queensland.
MET,BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every descrintion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374^197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.009,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
~ ..... Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Gieat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or int ® r x e e s ‘
periods and Iransacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUtH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGES TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
.. £1,250,000
970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.G.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtaiu information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney •
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
M
wviJi
Um
ACTUAL SIZf
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler liox,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG g AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors fc-
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Shipping', etc.
&
r'T»|
IT -
m
fa
W.T*
m
VUVv
Through Auckland and
Suva to Honolulu
Warmly hospitable and naively joyous, Hawaii
wreathes the garland of welcome for every
pilgrim to its sunny shores.
On June 28 and July 26 the giant liners Niagara
and Aorangi will make stately tours to Hono-
lulu, carrying Australians out of Winter s reach
into the endless Summer of Pacific Isles.
Auckland, Suva, Hawaii, then back again—yet
the whole trip costs little more than a city
holiday.
Another Delightful
Winter Trip
is suggested by Union
Company’s Tahitian
Excursions to
fascinating
Rarotonga and
Papeete.
Visit
Pacific Isles!
Return Excursions
(from Sydney)
First Saloon . . £75
Second' Saloon £55
Niagara leaves June 28
Aorangi leaves July 26
Particulars and literature from
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
U oL idAY&«
\ 1 JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
40*
HA
Directors:
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.G.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tiireadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.:
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E. •
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Bircliin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather, in novel setting
ot tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms and Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing
and outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovelv islands of Kauai, llaui and
Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal islands.
A vacation that’s different. Good hotels from
12/- to £3 per day, with meals. No extra
charges for stop-over privilege when en routs
to America or Europe. Round-trip, Sydney and
return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 4 weeks in
Hawaii) can be made for about £lOO to £l5O,
inclusive. Ask nearest travel or steamship
agent • or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept.
26, Box 241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full
information, attractive booklet, attaching
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WoLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Botli vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
HAVE DRY MATCHES
ffi IH WET WEATHER .
It’s possible if you have
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
✓V'Vn
The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE ----3 d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
Three Day
Tours
Rail & Motor
£4/7/-
Motor all the
Way,
£5/10/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious
Scenery,
Wonderful
Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room
Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Chaliis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


“For twenty years I suf-
fered from Piles and spent
quite a fortune on doctors
and remedies, but could
get no relief until 1 tried
Rexona Ointment. I only
used two Sj- tins and four
1/6 tins of Rexona Oint-
ment, and I am now quite
cured. I have not had a
return of the complaint
for two years, and I am
now seventy years old.”
Mr. 0. Lees,
10 The Boulevard,
Dulwich Hill, N.S.W.
m
/
""US
Here’s the Remedy for
Piles-REXONA, the
Rapid Healer
There is no comfort to the sufferer from Piles burning, boring pain,
uneasy feeling, the vague wonder whether the pain is worse sitting, standing
or lying.
They drag all the comfort out of life it is foolish to allow Piles to
spoil your life.
Rexona, “The Rapid Healer,”
takes the pain away heals the tis-
sues and renovates the muscles.
Read the full directions on the
pamphlet around the tin of Rexona
and apply as directed a littie
patience will result in the disappear-
ance of all the distressing symptoms
and you can know the feeling of
body comfort and ease.
REXONA—The
RAPID HEALER
/ /#. Cooling
B //i /#\soolhinQ-A
1 /f-t /f — Healina „
f: x v/ iWlnliseplic OinlmenP
rDiirifi es -? Absolutely N
* £ Heals Reliable
» /
•=*=. fm
S 1/
A Reliable Healer for all Erupfions
and irritations of the Skin. Eczema. Sores. Cuts.
Bums. Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles. Stings of Inscch.
and all kinds of Inflammation
"REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG C° L TO SYDNEY.^
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
m
m
X
*Bm *
. i
■* —
: m
DADDY 5
HILUERS
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
Einzdt tililUA
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET,
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
to three masters since she came here, who
have all returned her to the factory on
account of her tantrums. But she is, as far
as I know, quite a virtuous female. ’Tis her
ill temper alone that gets her into trouble.”
“For what crime, may I ask, was she
transported?”
“Murder, I understand. She was respited,
and they sent her here for life.”
"Murder! Good Gad! What a pity! Can
nothing be done to help”
Captain Blake was interrupted by the re-
appearance of the mess-servant, who stood,
hesitating, in the doorway.
"If you please, sir?”
“Well, what is it, Miles?” asked the
adjutant, taking the stem of his pipe from
his mouth. “What’s the matter?”
“ ’Tis Sergeant O’ I mean Sergeant
Dansy, sir. He begs if he might speak to
you a moment on the verandah, sir. Says
‘tis very partic’lar, if it please y’r Honor, and
he’d be greatly obliged if you could see him.”
Captain Blake stood up and laid his pipe
on the table. He made his excuses to his
guest.
“If you’ll pardon me, Mr. Marsden —I
won’t be long. Something to do with regi-
mental affairs, no doubt. I’m returning to
Sydney at daylight, and the sergeant knows
this. I know he’d not trouble me for no-
thing. Pray excuse me, if you’ll be so good.”
“Certainly, Mr. Blake. I’m quite com-
fortable here.”
The adjutant went out, and through the
open door the chaplain could hear a murmur
of conversation that lasted for a minute or
so. Then Mr. Marsden’s host returned,
looking a little troubled. He came and
stood looking down at the chaplain, and
spoke to him in a low tone.
“ ’Tis Sergeant Dansy,” he said, “and he
wishes to speak with you, Mr. Marsden. I
hope you won’t mind. He’s very anxious
and upset. I hope you won’t mind seeing
him.”
“Why, of course, my dear Mr. Blake —
I’ll be only too glad to do so. Pray, is it
about this woman at the factory?”
The adjutant nodded. “Yes, it is. A most
astonishing thing. You’ll be amazed. But
I’ll leave it to him to tell you himself.
Shall I call him in?”
“Do, I’ll be only too pleased to see him.”
Captain Blake went to the door, and
called the sergeant into the room. He fol-
lowed the adjutant into the feeble ring of
light cast by the two candles on the table,
stood stiffly to attention, his shako on his
head, and saluted the chaplain. Captain
Blake placed himself on the other side of the
table, the knuckles of one hand resting upon
its polished surface, and regarded the two of
them with wonder and concern in his face.
Evidently whatever the sergeant had com-
municated to him on the verandah had ex-
cited his deep' interest.
“You wish to speak to me, my man?” said
the chaplain, sitting up in his armchair and
laying down his pipe. “Pray, proceed.”
With the same nervous clearing of his
throat that the chaplain had remarked on
the parade-ground, the sergeant told his tale.
It was obvious that strong emotion possessed
him.
“Y’r rev’rend Honor—Mr. Marsden, sir,”
he said. “ ’Tis some time now I’ve been a-
thinkin’ of seekin’ y’r Honor’s confidence, and
placin’ me trust in ye, sir. I humbly ask
yr Honor’s pardon for my presumptuous
conduct, but ’tis of that poor Letty Fair-
fax I wish for to speak to ye. Captain
Blake has told me I may trust in you, sir,
and it come to me just now I’d better tell
you what I must whilst Captain Blake is
“®£ e - ’Tis not an easy thing, y’r Honor.
What I want for to say is that Mrs. Fair-
fax has been for two year and more paying
for a wrong I done. She’s innocent o tli
crime they sent her here for, y’r Rev rence.
Her useless, worthless, drunken husband was
killed one night in a by-street in Rochester,
at his own door, by a blow on th’ head that
broke his skull. She was taken up, and said
she done it —and would persist in saying so.
But ’twas me done it. We sailed next day,
and I never heard tell what happened until
the regiment arrived in New South Wales.
And then I learned she was here, and all
about her husband’s death, and how she’d
took th’ blame. Well, sir, you are the Chief
Magistrate in Parramatta. ’Tis to you I
must come with this confession. That is
all, sir. I’d take it kind if you'd say what
you think about it all —what I should do to
get her release. All her mis’ry’s changed
her, sir. They say she’s got the temper of a
devil now; but that’s not her nature pro-
perly. What’s to be done, sir—in God's
name, what’s to be done?”
The senior-chaplain’s round red face was
a study in bewilderment. He stared at the
sergeant as though lie doubted whether he
had heard him. Then he looked at Captain
Blake’s grave face. Presently he rose to his
feet and, with hands clasped behind him,
began to pace up and down the length of the
dimly-lit room, deep in thought. At last he
halted, a little way from the table, and
looked the tall, erect figure of Sergeant
Dansy up and down. After a little while
he spoke.
“Sergeant,” he said, “they call you Ser-
geant O’Hell, don’t they?”
“Yes, y’r Rev’rence, I believe they do.”
“On account of your swearing, is it not?”
“Well, yes, sir. I think it is.”
“Well, then, Sergeant, if you’ll make me a
promise that you’ll swear no more, I’ll give
you my advice—l’ll tell you what I think
you’d better do. Will you promise?”
Sergeant Dansy hesitated. At last he
nodded slowly. “I’ll try, y’r rev’rend Honor.
I’ll do my best.”
“Well, then, Sergeant, my advice to you
is this. The day after to-morrow, meet this
woman at the door of the factory. She’ll
have her ticket-of-leave—l’ll see to that.
And then, at noon precisely, come to St.
John’s Church with her. There I’ll marry
you to her. And from what I’ve heard of
her —though I hope her proper self is other-
wise than evil-tempered, as you say —may
the Lord have mercy on your soul!”
The Quenching of a Flame.
“Kill him and let him lie,
For his words are ill.
Better the man should die,
And the voice be still.
“Better to cast him out,
Than a thousand heed
Discomforting and doubt.
Better one should bleed!’’
So the old wisdom saith,
That is scarcely wise.
What silence is in death
When a dreamer dies?
Set up the dreamer now
By a king, a crown,
And the multitude shall bow,
And the dream fall down.
The voice of the hated cause
On his lips full fed
Is lost in a loud applause,
And the dream is dead.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
All Square.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY NINA LOWE.
BRUCE CAREW swung himself over the
garden gate whistling cheerfully. He
stood for a minute while he gave
another rub to the tobacco which lay in his
palm, filled his pipe and set off. There
was even more length than usual in his
brisk stride.
He was interested in this job, his “colos-
sal task,” as the little schoolmaster had
called it. To his amazement everyone was
talking about it. They chaffed him, but in
the chaff was an undercurrent of approval
and sometimes a straight-out compliment.
Even Bess, who never gave him credit for
doing anything worth while on the property,
had taken to kissing him quite tender good-
byes, and his sandwiches were carefully cur
instead of being just wads slapped together;
be even found little unexpected delicacies in
bis tucker-bag.
He thought of all this as he strode through
the long grass, and at the top of the rise in
the horse paddock he paused for a second or
two. From there he could see practically
over the whole property, and jolly well it
looked. His stud ewes with their 90 per cent,
of lambs stood belly-deep in clover. Further
on he could see the Talbragar winding its
black length across the flats and knew that
water still flowed in its thirsty bed. He
could see the fine old river gums, wide and
spreading upon either bank, and beneath
them a solid scrub of olive green—Bathurst-
burr swept down and carried by the spread-
ing waters all over the rich black flats.
Before anyone could walk over the boggy
land the seeds had sprung to life and thrust
deep roots into the warm, moist loam. When
the young plants should have been tackled
there were miles of fencing to be lifted;
even the strainers were out of plum. On
top of that had come shearing, and by the
time that was over the burr had become
an impenetrable thicket.
Carew boasted cheerfully of his bad luck.
“By Golly, you never saw anything like
them! They’re got trunks as thick as my
wrist. You’ve jolly well got to lop the bot-
tom branches before you can get at them.”
Some of the men rode down and found that
he was not exaggerating. “Must have come
from starved country and likes the Tal-
bragar mud,” they said ; and with pride in
their district they added: “Given the rain-
fall, these flats ’d grow anything!”
* * * *
In the Kulooloo bar, Perkins, the little
schoolmaster, said: “He’s a man in a
thousand! You Kulooloo folks don’t half
appreciate Bruce Carew. He’s everlastingly
out to help someone. If a pup gets poisoned
it’s ‘Send for Carew.’ If any old cow
gets bogged down the river, it’s ‘Get Carew’;
and there he is, on the end of a pole prizing
her out. If Catholics or Protestants give
a dance for the church, there he is up on a
ladder decorating the shed, or down among
the women carving the ham. The rifle club
’d be dead if he wasn’t president, let alone
being the only shot that gives us a look-in
at a challenge; and what would Kulooloo
be without the rifle club? Think of the
great soul of the man,” he said, thoroughly
warmed up to his subject. “When old Don-
kin died, after going to law with him on
every damned excuse he could find for the
last ten years, up gets Carew and digs his
grave, at 2 a.m., by lamplight, because it
was shearing time and none of the boys
would do it under two quid.”
Storer laughed. “Yes, and instead of a
thank you old Mother Donkin says, ‘I reckon
that giv’ him satisfaction !’ ”
“Oh, she’s no worse than the rest of you,”
said the schoolmaster, too earnest to join
in the general laugh. “You all get all you
can out of him and then say he neglects his
place.”
“What do you expect us to do?” asked
Moore, the publican, seriously.
“Help him with this colossal task! Get
together and make a day of it. If it was
his funeral you’d all down tools, sadde up
and spend the day and half the night muck-
ing round ‘out of respect’ to him. Yet you’ll
watch the man kill himself slogging into
miles of these damn burrs and never do a
tap to help him. Let’s all get to work!
Make it a Saturday, so as I can come. We
could get young Scott to keep him out of
the way and not let him get wind of it
until the job was finished. With a good
gang we could get through the lot on Satur-
day.”
He paused and, seeing that the idea was
not received unfavorably, he turned to the
publican. “How about your letting us have
a keg of beer for the lunch, Mr. Moore?”
“That’s all right,” said the publican,
“but let it get round that there’s free beer
and you’ll have every old boozer in the dis-
trict asleep under the trees and mighty
little burr cutting.”
“Look here,” —the excitable little school-
master was on his feet—“l’ve an idea. This
happened at Wagga, in the early days, when
(Conilii.uK.i2 on next page.).


WEED TYRE CHAINS grip and
hold in mud, sand and slippery
clay. They give traction so that power is
used, not wasted. They save fuel, add
safety in braking, reduce the possibility
of accident, prevent unnecessary and
costly delays. They get you through
safely and on time.
Made for all passenger car, truck or
bus tyres. Look for their brass-plated,
hardened steel cross chains, galvanized
side chains and red lever-locking con-
necting hooks with the name “WEED”
stamped on them. Order from your
dealer.
Standard of quality for over a quarter of a century
d
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N.Y..U.S.A.
1501
WEED TYRE CHAINS
I feel so
tired..
yOU. must conquer that state of weakened
health by toning up your nerves and
restoring their power of resistance —
with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is the ideal combination of
exactly those two elements — phosphorus
and albumin — which build up lasting
health in the body.
A few weeks’ use of Sanatogen will take
away that feeling of listlessness and
nervous debility.
Get your tin of Sanatogen to-day. Your nearest
Chemist sells it from 3/9 per tin.
SANATOGEN
fete
GENATOSAN LTD,, Loughborough, England.
there was only a punt to cross the Murrum-
bklgec. Well, it went down. They kept on
writing about it and at last the Department
sent up some tackling and £5. They had as
much hope of raising that punt for five
quid as they had of flying, so someone hit
on an idea. They sent invitations to all
the country-side: "Come and see the punt
raised. Free beer.’ At eleven o’clock there
were close on two hundred men on the bank
of the river, in their best clothes, waiting
to see the sight and drink the beer. Then
up gets the Mayor or boss cocky. ‘Boys,’
he says, ‘we’ve put the money the Govern-
ment sent us into beer. Here it is and
here’s the tackling and there’s the punt.
Raise it and the beer’s yours! It didn't take
long. There was a boat and everything
ready. The whole crowd got on to the
ropes and up she comes like a fairy. We
could work on those lines. ‘Here’s the beer,
there’s the burrs!’ Maybe they’d stay in
for a social that night. You’d do well out
of it, Moore!”
Moore chose to ignore the financial ad-
vantages likely to accrue. “Seeing as it’s
Bruce Carew, I’ll supply the beer!,” he
said.
“Well, then, ‘Burrs first and then beer’ is
the slogan—and keep it dark.” And mop-
ping his brow the schoolmaster sat down.
They deputed young Morris Scott, his
cousin, to keep Carew away. He promised
sulkily; he wished they had given the job
to someone else He looked regretfully at
his big muscular arms. He would have en-
joyed making the pace and seeing how many
of them lie could bust!
He hadn’t the heart for elaborate subter-
fuge. He merely said : “I say, ride over to
Connor’s paddock with me, will you?”
Carew, as usual, was cheerfully willing to
oblige. “All right!” he said. “Tree on the
fence ?”
“Oh, no!”
Carew looked at him curiously and then
a light broke over his face. He grinned.
Bess, bless her heart, had been telling
Scotty that he’d been over-working! Oh,
well, the burrs would keep! He saddled
Nettie and rode off.
They rode to Connor’s paddock and round
tho fence, freed an old ewe from a trap and
swore indiscriminately at all rabbits, rabbit-
traps and rabbiters. They finished up near
the Blue Spring for lunch.
From time to time Carew glanced curi-
ously at his cousin. He knew Scott for a
spoilt young devil, but he could not assign
any reason for the more or less sulky mood,
the short answers, the pessimistic tendency
to refer to future droughts instead of dilating,
as Carew himself did, upon the present
bounteous season. He wondered if the boy
was in some sort of trouble, and taking him
out to confess it to him. So he, too, became
quieter than usual and the men rode silently
mile upon mile. Scott’s thoughts were with
the burr cutters down on the river. Silly
old woman Perkins was making a secret of
the thing, as though Old Bruce was a kid!
No one would have better enjoyed being in
the thick of it. They’d have had a great
time down there swapping lies about worse
thickets they’d cut through—prickly'-pcar,
blackberry, malice. They’d get on to the topic
of Bruce attempting to clear the lot himself
and of other one-man efforts they remembered,
and above the cheerful hum of voices there
would be the ceaseless chop! chop! of hoes
along the whole length, and the swish of the
falling burrs.
“You’re pretty quiet,” broke in Carew
cheerfully, and to open a conversation on the
subject nearest to his heart he threw the
rein over his arm and stretched out his
hands. “Those beggarin’ thorns,” he said—
“by cripes, they’re poisonous.” He produced
a big clasp-knife and carefully opening the
fruit blade, began to pry into the blisters.
“There,'” lie said, extending the blade with
a long thorn on it. “Couldn’t get that chap
last night! Beaut, isn’t he?” He wiped
the blade on Nettie’s neck and then replaced
it in his pocket.
Scott broke out. “Dunno what it is, but
something keeps reminding me of the day
Keith Mac got married. I was best man
and for some dashed foolery they wouldn’t
let him see Molly till the wedding in the
evening. The train got to Grenfell at mid-
day and after dinner we walked out to the
company’s dam. Then all round the town.
We were bored stiff and Keith was as wet
as whisky and a tenth as cheerful. ’Nother
day I had something the same sort of job
when Wally Burke’s first kid came. Old
Mrs. Finn came squealing up to me “Oh, Mr.
Scott, do take Wally away and amuse him
and don’t let him get drunk!’ And Wally’s
only amusement is drinking. I was dashed
glad when I saw old Mother Finn’s petticoat
run up the verandah pole. That meant —
‘All’s well, come home !’ ”
“Another time,” he continued reminis-
cently, “was when poor old German Charlie’s
wife died and we took her in to ’Coota to
bury her and there was another funeral
first and”
Carew reined in. “Look here, Top,” he
said, “what’s eating you? I’m not going to
get married and Bess isn’t having any kids
as far as I know —and she isn’t thinking of
being buried. What’s the matter with you?”
“Oh nothing,” said Scott, and added
mysteriously, “but we’d better not go up
the Trig.”
The hill in front of them, the Trig, com-
a panoramic view of the district
from Kulooloo to Kirroo, and scarcely a
man in a hundred rode over the log paddock
without making the easy ascent of the Trig.
It gave a splendid view of Carew’s own
property and it was a time-honored custom
for both Scott and he to rein in on the
summit and wait there and fill pipes until
some one from the homestead saw them and
waved.
“Not go up the Trig!” exclaimed Carew
as though such a thing couldn’t be.
“Oh well, have it your own way. I’ve
tried to stop you !”
“Stop me?” queried Carew. He dug his
spurs in and Nettie’s subsequent performance
probably constituted a record for the ascent
of the hill. Scott followed, not far behind.
“What the devil Cripes! What are
they doing to my burrs?” -
“Well now you've found out, we might
as well go and see,” Scott replied.
* * * *
Everyone was more or less glad to be
caught at the good work. They were on the
last patch and tackling it from all sides
when Carew and Scott rode up. They gave
him three cheers, led by the schoolmaster.
“We’ll finish that bit in a minute.” they said,
and swarmed round the casks with pint-pots
to drink his health.
Carew laughed gloriously, his deep, splen-
did laugh; for a great minute he enjoyed
to the full the name given him in joke—
King of Kulooloo. Except for Scott, he wa <
the one man mounted, and it was good to
ha"ve them all pressing round liis stirrup-
leathers, their foaming pints held high. "By
Jove,” lie said, “it’s good of you.”
His eye fell on old Hungry Gowd. >V no
would have thought that old Hungry wpuld
have done anything for anyone for nothing.
He nodded cheerfully to him and the old
fellow pressed nearer. “I ain’t forgot, lie
said, “what you done when them sheep ot
mine got into the thistle and everyone else
was scared to come near them, because they
thought it was anthrax. I reckon I owed
you a day, and now we’re square.”
Old l’oppleton was determined to be the
next speaker, and his high-pitched voice rose
above the rest. “I don’t like to be in no
man’s debt neither,” he said, “and I haven t
forgot how you rode seven mile and then
stayed beatiii’ at that lire until mornin . 1
reckon the liouse’d ha’ gone but for you, and
I’m real glad to return it.” Poppleton was
the most unpopular man in Kulooloo, but
lie had voiced a sentiment.
Shehau, the lazy man of the district, spoke
next. “I don't like to see a fellah tacklin
a job ’at’s too big for him I reckon
it was up to us to give you a lift.”
Hurriedly the schoolmaster broke in. lie
took off liis hat as if in some way that would
constitute him spokesman for all. Mr.
Carew,” he began, “it was not so much that
we thought you needed help on the job as an
opportunity to show you that we appreciate
the way in which you are always ready to
hold out a helping hand and come to the
assistance of everyone in the district who is
in any kind of difficulty. It is an oppor-
tunity to assure you of our friendship and
appreciation.” lie stopped speaking as he
realised that the others had moved off find
were again trying to fill their pannikins,
and liis effort at a speech had become a
rather intimate tete-a-tete.
Then Martin, a stinking little rabbiter. to
whom Carew had always refused trapping-
land, came up. “I reckon you haven’t a
bad little place here, Bruce,” he said. ‘Needs
workin’, that’s all.”
Bruce! What damn hide! And yet a
man could scarcely kick the little runt off
his property after he’d been supplying tree
labor all day. It was just his way of
“squaring things.”
Suddenly it struck him that he was sit-
ting alone on Nettie, and the rest had gath-
ered round the casks. Others were saddling
or harnessing their horses. Slowly they
melted away, and, the last burr fallen, the
workers piled themselves and their hoes on
top of the casks on the hotel dray and drove
off; and Carew was alone.
He looked at the cleared patch where he
had himself worked, methodically piling and
burning with the help of the driftwood as
soon as the stems showed signs of yellowing.
Then he walked his mare over the mile or
so covered by the day’s operations. Bits
of burr lay everywhere, some already well
bedded by heavy boots in the crumbling
chocolate soil. Sometimes he found an inch
or so of sturdy stump all ready to shoot
again. He shook his head. They’d done
their best, but what a crop he’d have next
year—with fallen burr everywhere! Get to
it early would be the only way; but if there
was another wet spring, Lord help him!
He wondered what had possessed them.
He hadn’t grumbled to anybody. It was a
big job, but burr-cutting wasn’t the worst
in the world; he usually managed to keep
his pipe going. And —and they were “all
square!”
Lorimer, whose hundred-guinea polo pony
he had nursed through tetanus, staying with
her all night to soothe the fretting, fevered
thing—he grinned when he remembered how
he had got Constable Marsh to run old Mo
in for the night because he was drunk and
would come round the back of the stable
frightening her! When the vet. came, after
a delay of forty-eight hours, he would not
believe she had had tetanus until he found
the whole village was willing to swear to
the head and eye retraction, the general
stiffening of the muscles. And to-day Lori-
mer had shaken his hand and said: “It’s
good to be able to even things up, Bruce.”
Only old Murphy, his wheezy voice lost in
his beard, had said: “We couldn’t pay you,
Mr. Bruce, not if we worked for a month.”
Decent old beggar he was! Poor old Murphy.
And, by Jove, he’d promised to prune those
vines for Mrs. Murphy.
Still, something that he could not under-
stand was oppressing him. It was not the
fact that they had come on to his property
and brought their own beer. He could
scarcely resent their doing his job. He was
no psychologist, but he was oppressed with
a sense of loss. He tried to capture it, buv
it evaded him ; yet, although he could not re-
cast the heavy thought into words, he knew.
He knew that for the years of friendship
and service in this, his little self-constituted
monarchy, he had been paid. He was no
longer King of Kulooloo! They were “all
square!”
It was his practice to tie the reins to the
stirrup and let Nettie make her own way
to the water-trough, and then canter to the
stable while he followed on foot; but to-night
he felt unaccountably weary. So he sat
heavily in the saddle, and the little mare
carried him slowly home.
Song.
A thin moon as white as pearl
Hung above a crooked tree
Is a most bewitching thing
To a dreaming fool like me.
When I see an emerald hill
With the blue flower of the sky
Blooming on it, my heart soars
Like a bright bird heaven high.
When the little fragrant spring
Lights the land with blossom-fire,
I would say no lovelier thing
Any fool’s heart could desire.
MAOBILAND.
IVY GIBBS.


m
f i
IH
2*
ii
.
MS
MM: ft
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES ® CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— “Chancery House,” 485 Bonrke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH A CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
lb*
.
Per
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l. *
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London. /
SDFSD
Wolsey
will protect
you
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear for
Women, Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half Hose
for Men and } Hose
and Socks for Children.
IF you want to be well, wear Wolsey,
the finest unshrinkable wool under •
wear. It is made in Leicester, Eng-
land, by skilled British labour. It
is pure, comfortable, and will protect
your health no matter how the tem-
perature varies. Buy one garment
and wear it to-day, and notice how
mtich warmer you are, how much
better fitted to battle against
chills. Look for the Wolsey Head
Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 316, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
*>s~
a
s
< '
WHEN feeling
far from wetl
ffoii are
advised
to take
WKen your interest in work or recreation
diminishes—lose your appetite—feel irrit-
able—know something is wrong but can’t
tell what—it’s your digestion that is out
of order. Take BEECHAM’S PILLS
They influence naturally and effectively
the organs of digestion, and establish
health on a sound basis.
“A KERMATH
These dependable marine
engines are built with ex-
ceptional care, all parts are,
evenly balanced, and the
completed engine is minute-
ly tested by the most
exacting experts.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
KERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
/ y\ Detroit. Mich.
(i {/
ICable Address
r
D
Marine
Engines
17
,v. : \ ■ , *
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SATISFYING SHAVES ,NbNE
0
RAZOR
that
Throughout
RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
shave after shave of satin smooth-
i users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
station Case
5/Post Free
Ar
*vs*o
tv
to
V
liT'Jflß
Guaranteed* _
in order for two years free
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNE
fsd
6)
e
:
<)3
S®
f
s 6
, 4e t'V .
* K 0 -•• •• 0^
**j
s ft#
*<* ..*•* *


12
11
10
2
3
9
S
5
7
6
ycar| 0 <
A Republic Truck will work all round the
clock and yet keep young for more years
than the average truck lives.
Why?
Because Republic frames are the strongest, the toughest, the sturdiest that
money can buy. Republic springs are made from the highest-grade
chrome steel obtainable; Republic rear axles are the most efficient in the
world: the engines deliver the utmost power to the rear wheels: the brakes
are admittedly superlative. Republic is the UNMATCHED Truck,
There are more Republics on the road than the makes of any
other exclusive truck manufacturer.
If you are unable to visit your local State showrooms write
to nearest Republic distributor for Republic Booklets.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymoyth Street, Adelaide.
fs
Western Australia!
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
TRUCKS
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.
GRI4
