

B.H.P. WIRE PRODUCTS
Made at the Works of
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD., NEWCASTLE
GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY RELIABLE.
STEE
LIST OF PRODUCTS.
STEEL WIRE. —All classes and grades for manufactur-
ing purposes including Galvanised, Bright and
Coppered Spring, Nail, Welding, etc. - -
BLACK AND GALVANISED FENCING WIRES - -
WIRE NETTING.—Rabbit and Assorted
BARBED WIRES. —“Iowa” or “Waukegan”
NAILS - - - -
CLOTHES AND GUY LINES -
FENCING POSTS.—Star Pattern - - B.H.P.
FENCING DROPPERS - -
“ Waratah” Brand
“Waratah” Brand
“W aratah” Brand
“Waratah” Brand
“Waratah” Brand
“Waratah” Brand
“Waratah” Brand
- - “Flexo” Brand
MADE FROM
B. H. P.
STEEL
For All Classes of Wire Products
SPECIFY “WAR AT AH” BRAND
B H P
IRON & STEEL PRODUCTS
MANUFACTURED AT
NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS.
LIST OF PRODUCTS.
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BARS
CHANNELS
ANGLES
TEES
LOCKING & JOINT
RING BARS
ROUNDS
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS & BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
TOLUOL
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
SUBLIMED
NAPHTHALINE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
CREOSOTE OIL
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
BRANCHES—SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LONDON.
HEAD OFFICE—422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
St€ l .wcasiU=«. Ironstone Quarries —Iron Knob, S.A.
The Bulletin
M&MJfy PtxAj/ui AW-'— o(jvic pyy/udv
Vol. 49.—N0. 2545.
Wednesday, November 21, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


XMAS GIFTS—BOOKS AND STATIONERY. Send
for our 24-page Xmas Catalogue. Post free
Robertson & Mullens, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne'
THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.'
Learn - i. _
TrcelcnvccJournahsm
at HOME
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence CoUeae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. V ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit at
advertised in the Sydney Bullet™. ' * ,
My Name
My Address
I-Ysaght?
O
R
B
am
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
* t • • ;
1
a
m .
TO KEEP IN TOUCH
WITH ABSENT FRIENDS
Send them “SWANS”
There is satisfaction in
knowing that you have
sent just the right gifts
to friends or relatives by
whom you wish to be
remembered.
The “Swan” Pen is a
worthy ambassador of
friendship, delicately sug-
gestive of good taste and
perfect understanding,
Its lasting qualities will
place permanently on
record a kindly thought,
eloquently expressed.
Self-Filling “ Swans ”
from 17/6 (Black or Mottled)
Also in Artistic Colours from 22/6
(Other “Swans” from 12/6)
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/.
niutlralti Catalogue “Pott Free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depit t
PH IPS ON & COMPANY, LTD.,
iBi, Clarence Street, Sydney.
OF
STATIONERS
AND
JEWELLERS
I*
Swan
c
PEN
Ask to see the New Coloured “Swans”
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; fact. e T I
Animals and M.
NOT A GEH3 ■ ■ YDFiH.
Sold Every whe rm? */-
m*
. \
b>>
Al:
to t EM
ERS
CP
The Red Page
Old Stuff
I saw the old gods in the streets to-day....
Mars of the lowering mien and mighty
limb
(He’d just a moment since dropped off his
dray
To start a private war, bloody and grim) ;
And black-uprising from the riven clay,
A muddy Pluto at a sewer's brim;
And Bacchus, minus laurel, plus a cray;
And Pan—nymph-hunting Pan —they lum-
bered him !
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.
Prophets in Their Country
In my opinion one of the most important
of the several services that The Bulletin
is rendering Australian literature by con-
ducting its Novel Competitions is that it
is popularising this country’s writers and
their work among Australian readers.
The apathy of Australian readers towards
novels about modern Australia has been re-
markable. There seems to be an idea that all
the drama and romance went out of the
country with the bushrangers and horse-
poets. Louis Stone, one of whose plays
has just been accepted for a London theatre,
wrote a most penetrating study of Sydney
life some years ago. He is a stylist and a
born storyteller. Yet the sales in N. S.
Wales did not run to 500 copies. Frank
Russell wrote an equally competent and
fascinating book about life in Melbourne.
It was full of insight and humor, and would
certainly have done well in London if it
had been published there. It sold no better
in Melbourne than Louis Stone’s book did
in Sydney.
Part of the blame lies with the book-
sellers. There are no bookshops in Englanc
so good as some of those in Australia, ii
certain respects. Take Dymock’s in Sydney
Its lending library is as large and catholi
as any Mudie library in England, and th
range of books it offers for sale is abou
five times bigger than that of, say
Hatchard’s ip Piccadilly, which has beer
world-renowned for a century. But thi
phenomenon offers no encouragement to th
Australian author. Unless a local book
seller is prepared to gamble on the popu
larity of a local writer’s London-publishec
work, the public will get no opportunity
to buy it in this country. It is a matter o
business. If I were in London when “Coon
ardoo” is published, I' could walk into the
nearest bookshop and would probably be
told I would receive it that day. ‘ The
bookseller would then send a boy to the
publisher’s, stamp the book with his name
and address, and pass it on to me. Londoi
booksellers rarely carry more than a few
copies of any book. If they take more, ant.
are left by the public with books on thei
hands, they can always find a secondary
market. The remainder-men, for example
will take anything that looks like a book—
at their own price.
It is a risk for an Australian booksellei
to import as many as 500 copies of a novel
by an unknown writer, and it is not entirely
safe to back to that extent even a writer
with a name. There are booksellers all
over the Commonwealth who have scores of
books by well-known authors that will never
be sold. When the market is dead here, it
is very dead.
But, giving all that in, it has to be
admitted that, apart from joining in move-
ments of the Australian Literature Week
type, which have an advertising as well as
a patriotic appeal, our booksellers do not
go out of their way to push Australian
books. In making statements of this kind,
personal experiences are always the best
arguments. At the beginning of the year
John Long published a book of mine which
went into its third edition in England inside
three weeks. It arrived simultaneously in
Sydney, where it sold well, though not
nearly so well as in London. The Mel-
bourne bookshops were notified as to where
copies were to be had in Sydney, and the
Melbourne papers published long reviews.
Yet a leading Melbourne bookshop never
troubled to get in so much as one copy,
though various friends and relatives of mine
asked for the book at this establishment,
and it may be assumed, in view of the
publicity given to it, that a certain number
of strangers also asked. Not till last
August six months after publication, and
when the vogue of the book was dying or
d f aC t^ id this firm abandon its attitude
of chilly aloofness and consent to take a
couple of dozen copies.
If every Australian bookshop could be
relied on to do, wherever possible, ivhat
every London bookshop does—namely, stock
a few copies of every work that is well
1 eviewed, and punctiliously get other copies
immediately they are asked for—the effect
would be beneficial to Australian writers
m at least two directions. The writers
would be encouraged to produce with an
eye to the local market, and Australian
firms wouiu be encouraged to back local
writers by buying editions from London
publishers for disposal here. As things are,
a writer can rarely look for sales in more
than one city, and often he can look for
them oply in one shop of that city.
JOHN DALLEY.
The Music of Henry Tate
When I read Nettie Palmer’s Red Pag
article, ‘‘The Poems of Henry Tate,” som
weeks ago. I could not help wishing tha
someone would do the same service fo
Tate’s music; for it is by his music anc
his message as a musician, rather than b
his poetry, that he is likely to b
remembered.
Tate’s booklet, “Australian Musical Re
sources,” published in 1917, is a terse outlin
of suggestions, interspersed with musica
illustrations, based on the author’s experi
once as a musician—mainly composer anc
teacher, for he was no virtuoso, perhaps be
cause he never aspired to be one. In hi
take-it-or-leave-it manner, he submits “
scheme., .which tentatively breaks grr.unc
in the principal divisions of practical compo
sition,” and the basis of which is a deflec
tion of the major scale with cadences anc
chord progressions derived from this, ana
with emphasis on contrapuntal methods
which “seem in accord with the mystery o
our bush with its hidden past, and with th
complexity of modern psychologic stimuli.
This scheme includes also “figure anc
melody developed from Australian birc
calls.” Another book, “Australian Musiea
Possibilities,” published in 1924, is a col
lection of Tate’s writings expanding the
technical ideas of the earlier publication anc
dealing more with subject matter. Appendoc
to it is a useful catalogue of the composi
tions in which Tate sought to fix the idiom
of his country according to the theory he
expounds. Taken together, these two book
give a clear and complete exposition of his
aims.
One of the tenets of Tate’s scheme is the
use (of course not exclusively) of the cycle
form. The sixteen piano pieces which he
links together under the title of “The Aus-
tralian” show what he was driving at—“a
wide developmental scope combined with
ample freedom and a large structural unity.’
The programme of this cycle is the life of
an Australian, from his birth in the bush to
his death at Gallipoli. “The separate
numbers,” explained Tate, speaking of the
use of the cycle, “might assume any known
or unknown form. The important point is
the linking of the numbers by themes anc
transformed themes carried out throughoui
the cycle.” He himself puts this into effecl
skilfully in “The Australian.” The motives
of the parts are woven coherently into the
fabric of the whole, and are summarised in
a threnody of noble harmonies at the end
The moods are consecutive and have a wide
emotional range.
In his big symphonic work, “Dawn,” Tate
expressed in music the ideas which are
printed as a sort of prose rhapsody under
the title of “Bush Orchestration” in “Aus-
tralian Musical Possibilities.” The expres-
sion of these ideas in words seems rather
extravagant, but the music takes them into
the proper sphere of a less defined symbolry.
This work, which is scored for full orchestra,
was performed (very successfully, I am told)
two or three years ago in Melbourhe. but
I can speak of it only from distant recol-
lections of occasions when Tate sat at his
piano to give me some idea of how it went.
I am inclined to think his proper metier
was the lyrical. This is not because of any
lack of the bigger constructive faculty or
want of skill or knowledge. Tate had these
qualities abundantly, and he was indefatig-
able—indeed, he wore himself out before his
time. But here and there his bigger works
seem somehow to lack body. Ideas are
there in plenty, but they want filling out.
The ribs, so to speak, show through. His
compositions have frequently reminded me
of the thin angular themes and rhythms
that Brahms, in some of his shorter
pieces, puts for contrast after graver
passages. Something more than the
material of such incidental excellence,
a more epic robustness, is needed for
symphonic success. There may have
been some innate recognition of this limi-
tation (if it is a real one) in Tate’s pre-
dilection for the cycle form; for, notwith-
standing a cycle’s thematic inter-relation
of parts, each part has its own separate
completeness, and the unity of the whole is
not the close massiveness of the symphony.
The cantabile quality, however, makes
for success in Tate’s songs. Besides his own
verses, he gave settings to some by other
Australian poets. The “Songs of Reverie”
catch exactly the mood of Furnley Maurice’s
two little poems, especially the Curious
combination of directness and evasiveness
(Continued on page 5.)


I ‘Truth in Advertising,” the basis of sound merchandising methods.
Anthony Horderns'
Sole Ag'ents for
‘White” Sewing' Machines
TENSION
INDICATOR^
WHITE
PINCH
TENSION
'Art
i =1
EH
ACORN
DUST CUPS
AUTOMATIC
RELEASE
IL CUPS
SM67 (Illustrated above). —A four-drawer Automatic Drophead of straight design, made of Polished Ameri-
can Oak. The drawers are enclosed in casement, mounted on short ribbon-type Stand, with Ball Bearings,
Wheel and Pitman. Complete with full set of attachments. The roominess of stand makes it easy to dust.
Vibrator No. B—Price,8 —Price, each £l3/10/-
Rotary—Price, each £l4/10/-
SM7 1. SMBB.
DINING-ROOM CABINET.
SM7l.—Handsome Dining-room Automatic
Drophead Cabinet, fully enclosed. Inside of
door are two drawers for holding sewing requi-
sites. The cabinet is made in our own factory
from specially selected woods, and can be
supplied ip any color to harmonise with furni-
ture. By means of the automatic lift it is
momentarily closed, and by the mere raising
of the extension table it is readily brought out
with belt on wheel ready for sewing. Supplied
in Maple or Oak, finished in Fumed Jacobean
Mission, Mole or Silver Grey, with full set of
attachments. Polished
Fumed, any Color.
Vibrator—Price, each . .£l7/10/- £lB/10/-
Rotary —Price, each . .£lB/10/- £l9/10/-
“SIT-STRATE” DESIGN.
SMBB. A finely-constructed Machine on short,
rigid stand, firmly braced together, it makes a
solid, smooth-running and altogether desirable
Machine. Has Six Drawers, which are fully
encased at sides, swinging centre panel, which
opens upon hinges automatically with the raising
of machine head, giving ample room for the
stoutest person to sit right up to her work.
Complete with full set of attachments. Supplied
in best American Polished Walnut Rotary
Mechanism only. Illustrated above.
Price £l6/1 0/-
Dept.—First Floor. Free Delivery in City and
Suburbs only.
Buy a Sewing Machine
On Our “D.P.S.”
( Deposit-Purchase System )
Simply leave a small deposit
and pay the balance in instal-
ments to suit yourself. When
final payment has been made
the goods are delivered in the
usual way. You pay no inter-
est or extra charge whatever *
and, on the contrary, you have
the advantage of Anthony
Horderns' “FAMOUS LOW
PRICES”
When You Think of It,
’Phone, M 2401.
At any hour, day and night, you may
’phone Anthony Horderns’ usual
number, M 2401, and leave your
order or make any inquiries. Country
customers may also benefit by this
service. Trunk line calls half-rate
between 7 p.m. and 8 a.m.
SM6I.
SM4 1.
ELECTRIC WHITE ROTARY MACHINE.
SM4 1. Rotary Shuttle movement only, includ-
ing 240-volt D-C. A.C. Motor and Cover. This
is the standard size of White Rotary Machine
Head equipped with a compactly-built and
practical working Electric Motor, which is
screwed firmly to the rear of the arm of
machine, specially reinforced and operated by
a foot control. Complete with full set of attach-
ments. Price, each £l5/10/-
Electric Motors, 240 voltage, as used on White
Rotary Machine. Price, each .... £6/5/-
Electric Motors, Jack Rabbit Style, can be used
on other machines. Price, each, £5/15/-
“SIT-STRATE” DESIGN.
SM6I. —A 4-drawer, fully enclosed automatic
drophead in Polished Oak. In the ordinary Treadle
Sewing Machine there is a space of only 19in.
between the machine legs; in the White “SIT-
STRATE” the space is increased to 24in.;
furthermore, there is an increase of 3£in. of
space between the treadle plate and table of the
“Sit-Strate” machine, giving ample knee room
for even the tallest person. The White “Sit-
Strate” stands firmer and runs smoother by
reason of its construction, and is the only
genuine "Sit-Strate” on the Australian market.
Complete with full set of attachments. Illus-
trated above.
Vibrator—Price, each £ 14/5/*
Rotary Mechanism—Price, each .... £l5/5/-
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


FIVE - FIFTY
By the end of this year Sir W.
G, Armstrong Whitworth &
Co., Ltd., will have delivered
fifty of the above tank engines
to the Great Western Railway.
The photograph shows the first
consignment of five locomotives
leaving for Swindon.
BUILDERS FOR THE
WORLD’S GREATEST
RAILWAYS.
i
SHIPS
Sm W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
SALES ORGANISATION;
KINNAIR!) HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON, ENGLAND
WORKS AND SHIPYARDS - - - NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE
Agents: Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & CO., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney & Adelaide.
MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
e
WAGONS-LITS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
I By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir.ff
(Next G.P.0.).
of the one that the poet calls “Friends.
“The Australian Thrush” gets the quail y
of the bird’s song without merely repeating
& cadent and “it has a wistful
such as belongs to memories of bird-ca.b
in the bush. The mopoke’s cry m the
Splitter,” the warbling of the magge m
“Summer Time,” even the not altogether
successful glissando that is meant o s R f
gest a lash-like note m The Coachwhip
Bird,” are all proper to their respective con-
texts. Local effect is never introduced
obtrusively from lack of taste, but rathe
in the spirit in which Whistler, in his pro-
pagandist days, exhibited a drawing ot a
girl with the face roughly crossed out to
divert attention from the type to the pic-
torial qualities he wished to emphasise.
The question of a “national” quality in
art need not be raised. In effect, 1 ate said
there is new material here in Australia for
the composer, and that it calls for a new
line of expression; and he indicated a direc-
tion that this line could take. Say what
you like, music can be derived from a par-
ticular atmosphere and does reflect it.
So I suggest that it is time I ate s thesis
was carefully examined in relation to his
compositions and for those compositions to
be learnt and performed.
FREDERICK T. MACRTNEY.
This Australian Bush
It is a little perplexing to observe the
unmitigated scunner against the bush felt
and expressed by “Solomon Malaprop” (R.P.
24/10/’2B). If he dislikes the bush and
would rather not live there, or grow wheat
there, why must he refuse to believe that
others like it? I know a man who, though
fearfully loyal, has sometimes failed to lift
his hat at “God Save the King”; he could
not recognise the air! It was that man who
confided in me that all this enthusiasm
about Beethoven was sheer affectation;
people were all pretending to admire the
Fifth Symphony.
Mr. “Malaprop” is unfair, to say the least,
in first sneering at people for enjoying
the bush and then snorting at them for
taking his advice and keeping away from it.
As for the bread from the bush, his dates
have simply slipped. If the scientist who
said wheat would not grow in the Bathurst
district had remained there a few decades,
he would have had to eat his words, spread
like a depressing kind of jam on Bathurst
bread. Wheat has grown west of the Darl-
ing Downs in Queensland, in the “useless”
Mallee of Victoria, in sandy plains of West-
ern Australia. But is “Solomon Malaprop”
annoyed because it won’t grow or because
it will? He does not make it clear.
Of course our few large cities are from
several causes too big and too full; but
it’s hard to see how a hatred for the bush,
as formulated and stimulated by “Solomon
Malaprop,” will succeed in making them
smaller.
LALAGE.
A Book of True Adventure
There are two ways of writing a book of
adventure. There is the artful, literary
method. Colors are heightened, there is
careful selection of events, and incidents
are manipulated until the story takes on
unmistakably the semblance of melodrama.
This was the method adopted by Lawrence
in “Revolt in the Desert,” and the present
writer, despite the popular and reviewsical
enthusiasm with which it was received, found
that “book of the year” very nearly un-
readable. On the other hand, in Guests
of the Unspeakable (Hamilton: Robert-
son and Mullens), Colonel Tom White, of
Melbourne, has allowed his story to tell
itself, and it is a story well worth the
telling.
White joined the Australian militia at 13.
He was one of the first four airmen who
left Point Cook in 1915 to join General
Townshend’s army, then pushing the Turks
up the valley of the Tigris-Euphrates.
In those days they flew ’buses which modern
aviators would regard as interesting museum-
pieces. They were glorified box-kites, driven
like stern-wheelers, and the pilot and
observer sat exposed like hawks in a cage,
hoping that the next cough wouldn’t make
the thing turn turtle. In some slight
improvement upon this, White landed
behind the Turks’ lines at Bagdad in
November, 1915, to interrupt telegraphic
communications. He accidentally crashed
into a post, was captured by Arabs for
slaughtering purposes, and rescued by the
Turks, though with no particularly generous
intentions. After two and a half years
of durance uniformly vile, White escaped to
Odessa, to find that city in the hands of
Austro-Germanic troops and himself still
only a free man by virtue of his superior
cunning. His final escape was into the
British lines at Salonika, where he arrived
almost simultaneously with the first news
of the Armistice.
White reached Mesopotamia with a mind
virgin to the ancient history of a land
littered with the ruins of former empires
and bedewed with the blood of former sol-
diers. All the vigilance of his brutal cap-
tors could not keep his mind from roving,
and the romantic past they were unable
to comprehend provided the spacious back-
ground to their prisoner’s story. By the
straightforwardness of his narration he
makes the incredible credible. Without
indulging in purple patches he completely
demolishes the Turk’s claim to be a
civilised being. Long before and after the
Armistice reports that the Turk was dis-
tinguished above all of the other com-
batants for sweet mercy and reasonableness
were current, and they influenced the atti-
tude of the Allies at many conferences.
The way the Turk did it was to place officer
prisoners who were ready to give their
parole, in return for respite from the filth,
vermin and disease of the ordinary prison,
in camps de luxe, from which they were
encouraged to write glowingly to their re-
lations about their treatment. This extract
from White’s diary gives the other side of
the picture: —
About 300 men of the Kut garrison arrived last
night, and this morning I saw some... .making their
way to the town. They were very wasted and
weak, and when I shouted to them seemed too dazed
to reply. One man who seemed weaker than the
others had a portion of a sack for an upper gar-
ment and a dilapidated pair of drawers about his
legs. He was carrying a mess-tin and a small
calico bag, which evidently contained all his effects.
These things dropped from his weak fingers as we
watched him totter and fall upon his face on the
road. His companions, evidently only too cogni-
sant of the treatment meted out to stragglers or
because they were not strong enough to help him,
staggered on their way. After a little while the
fallen man rose painfully and, picking up his
precious tin and bag, stumbled after his comrades,
swaying heavily from fide to side.
Thus the survivors of a British army passed
to virtual extermination. It is reckoned
that of 10,000 barely 3000 survived the
march over the desert and their subsequent
incarceration (sometimes 40 to a room
10ft. by 10) in Turkish prisons.
White, who actually succeeded in con-
tinuing his contributions to The Bulletin
from prison, has woven his narrative from
the minute diaries he concealed in the
soles of his boots and other hiding-places.
Because of its simplicity and sincerity, it
steadily attains the dimensions of an epic
culminating in the breathless excitement; of
White’s escape during a railway accident
in Constantinople. Almost inadvertently,
he has written a great book, not unworthy
to repose in the same library with those of
men like Burton, Lockhart and Ibn Batuta.
A Satchel of Books
The Beehive , by Elizabeth Powell (Corn-
stalk). The “Beehive” is a home by the sea,
named after the four B’s who are its chief
inhabitants —Bob, Barby, Brenda and
Bubbles. The father, an ex-major and scien-
tist, goes on what is to be his last expedi-
tion in the Pacific, and mysteriously dis-
appears, leaving Mum to guide the little
destinies of the youngsters through childhood
complications and a good deal of fun. A
happy, wholesome and entertaining book for
adolescence.
The Case of Constance Kent, by John
Rhode (Bles). A book that collectors of
the “Famous Trials” series and students of
criminology will eagerly add to their shelves.
It is the story, reconstructed from detective
investigations and various evidence, of the
murder in Somerset of a small boy, and the
sheeting home of this crime to a 16-year-old
girl. The girl, Constance Kent, so success-
fully maintained that she was innocent that
one of the greatest detectives of Scotland
Yard, Jonathan Whicher, had his career
ruined by the public and press outcry against
his persecution of the poor child. Years
later, when the case was more or less for-
gotten, she confessed and went to gaol. An
intriguing crime yarn. Incidentally, a
brother of the girl was in Queensland years
ago, and wrote one of the first, if not the
first, good books on the Barrier Reef.
The Scarlet Herring, Katawampus and
Gamble Gold, by Edward Abbott Parry
(Heinemann). The Bulletin’s mailbag has
brought in nothing quite so good in the way of
fascinating, chucklesome stories for children
as these three books by the English County
Court Judge who is gifted with such a whim-
sical twist of humor that he is able to turn
away from his duties on the Bench to pen
such an opening paragraph as this: —
Once upon a time, a long, long time ago, there
lived a little hoy named Gamble Gold. When 1 say
a long, long time ago, I really mean a long, long
time ahead, for this story has not really happened
yet, but it will happen. For, of course, if I were
not sure that it was going to be a true story some
day, I should not tell it. But you will find before
you reach the end of it, that it is just as true as
any story I ever v T rote —and now and then it is more
so.
“Gamble Gold” has 15 exciting semi-con-
nected stories; “The Scarlet Herring” has
six much longer ones, equally exciting; and
“Katawampus” runs to 10 chapters. Each
is freely illustrated; Harry Furniss’s draw-
ings in “Gamble Gold” are particularly good.
Collected Poems, by Arthur Conan Doyle
(Murray). The man who brought Sherlock
Holmes back to Baker-street in response to
public outcry against the untimely end of
that picturesque person is well enough
known as one of the greatest of all writers
of detective stories. He is not so well known,
in Australia, at any rate, as a fairly prolific
writer of swinging verse admirably suited
for recitation (if reciters are still encouraged
in the land). His muse ranges over ship-
wreck, war, advice to authors, cricket (he
was a fine cricketer in his day), songs of the
road and other things that lend themselves to
vigorous treatment in verse. He seldom
attempts to write poetry, and never does
write it, but he fashions uncommonly enter-
taining verse, fairly rich in humor.
A Mirror for Witches, by Esther Forbes
(Heinemann). Women writers (and readers)
do not as a rule favor satire, a fact that
makes this charming adventure into that
select realm all the more notable. Miss
Forbes, who has obviously read deeply into
Cabell and liked him, takes a child whose
mother was burned in France for witchcraft
and translates her, with an English foster-
father, to a small, Devil-fearing, superstition-
ridden community in America. There she
brings the child up, with the shadow of her
mother’s fate hanging over her and with her
most commonplace actions and words being
misconstrued by the narrow-minded commu-
nity into evidences of supernatural dealings
and powers, until the girl herself believes
she has such powers, and pays the inevitable
penalty. Witty, cynical, satirical, and at
the same time a cleverly constructed tale
told in good English. Twelve fine woodcuts
enhance the well-made volume.
Answers to Correspondents.
notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
N. 0.5.: There is a neat idea in it, at any
rate.... W.T.W.: You haven’t got far enough away
from a hundred others... .Frigid, A.S., Jobber and
others: Thanks for the correction, which has rattled
in from all quarters... .8.F.L.: The bard who thinks
“galore” rhymes with “law” ought to see a specialist.
....Whacker: Dreary. Villainously illegible, too.
Better go on poisoning pears... .Nuff Sed: But it is
only what we’ve been saying for years and years....
Campbell Street: “Pounds” hung in the balance; but
bits of it are hard to swallow... .Worth N.: No; still
don’t care for it M.T.: “Privilege” runs in a
rut deep enough to bury it. The writing is fair.
. ...M.C.M.: Hate to return so generally sincere
a thing; but conversion through looking at a picture
is too hard to gulp down... .P.K.P.; Yes, and we
don’t think you’re far wrong. .. .Jonah II.: No copy
in “Dibble”.... Wye: Your pessimism was justifiable.
For all that, there is a gleam of promise in “On
with the Dance” J.G.: We wouldn’t have “Bargo
Bill” at a gift. A writer who rhymes “cram”
with “man” and “Perth” with “Bourke” is past
paying for... . Johnno: Immature. Good verse is
rarely written until long after fifteen.... Llewnar:
Why take literally what is obviously persiflage ?....
J.O’N.: You’re the 27th the bush has been calling
this week —mostly from places like Paddington....
L.L.L.: Fact that Sydney has a harbor duly entered
in the secret records.. . .E.G.: Most of ’em don’t
look for “threefold promise,” but for freehold... .
Tut: Your illustrious forebear was an infant long after
that thought was born. . . .A.R.: You strain like
another Strephon—after rhymes, instead of a cup.
M.B.S.: Can’t take your homely “Hints”
Sard: Yes, we enjoyed that joke—the first time we
heard it Maeve: You do your namesake an in-
justice... .The Battlers: Who are you, anyway?....
8.G.5.: Admire your cleverness in dodging a rhyme
for “Ypres” S.T.: If, as you say four times, you
did write that, you deserve to be haunted by it....
V.G.W.: Apology to Macaulay quite superfluous; at
his worst he wasn’t quite as bad as that... .A.S.:
There might be a market for it somewhere. There
is for almost anything... .11. G.: We’d like to know
why yon people who are always so anxious to go
somewhere don’t g 0... . Dakuwaqu : You’re another of
’em... .G.F.: When it read your poem, the w.p.b. went
berserk and ate the 1 office b0y.... W.T-W.: De-dum-
te-dum de-dum-te-dum, and rhymes as obvious as rum.
....Gyp: Including photo with verse is a good
idea; you look quite intelligent.... Tom H.: Heavy
lines forwarded to street-levelling company... .R.J.1.:
Have seen worse, but not often... .R.G.: Don’t say
so much about your verse; make it say something.
... .Jimmigrant: Baldwin is 61, Chamberlain 65, Bal-
four 80, Churchill 54, Joynson Hicks 63, Amery 55,
Birkenhead 56, Cunliffe-Lister 44, Neville Chamber-
lain 59, Cushendun 67, Peel 61. Baldwin came in
on November 5, 1924. .. .Bardi: Though a cook-lady
may get more here and there, the Perth barmaids
are probably the highest-paid body of union women
on weekly wages. Their award rate is £5 35.,
without board and lodging... .Eesti: None of your
Cockney rhymes A.L.8.: Missed by an eyelash.
M.L.: “Eve” not quite interesting enough....
Twilight: Merged into midnight... .C.H.8.: Has the
material if you had the skill to handle it. .. .
lvamballie: It calls itself the Union of Socialist Soviet
Republics, the constituent Republics being the
R.S.F.S.R. (Russian Socialist Federal Soviet Repub-
lic), White Russia, the Ukraine, Transcaucasia, Tur-
koman and Uzbek. The R.S.F.S.R. contains 11
autonomous Republics (the Germans on the Volga
have one, and there are others for Tartars and the
like) and 12 autonomous regions. Armenia is part
of the Transcaucasian Republic.... Antiq: Adelaide
St. Leger, 1855; Victoria Derby, 1856; V.R.C. St.
Leger, 1859; S.A.J.O. Derby, 1860 ; Melbourne Cup,
1861... .Tamar (1) William Gosse Hay wrote “An
Australian Rip Van Winkle."’ (2) A South Aus-
tralian .... Liner; Of course we want personal pars.,
provided they are not chopped out of daily papers.
Too many dull persons just chop ’em out, wasting
their time and ours. ... Frankwil: Number of trade-
unionists, 1927, 911,652 ; number of Federal electors,
1928, 3,416,355 —exclusive of changes and additions in
supplementary r 0115... .N.L.D.: Outed in the second
round F.C.M.; “A Sunday-evening Race Against
Storm’’ is about as inspired as its title... .William
C.: You can’t do your wretched sobbing on our
shoulder.... Sunset: A dreary list of commonplace
observations... .A. A.: Ditto.... Ole Blue: Heaven
knows D.H.J.: It’s no g00d....L.R.8.: Verse
about wandering around with memory won’t do.
C.B.C.: —
Oh, is it the sound of a distant drum,
Or a bugle calling clear,
Sounding the rally: Come, oh come!
What is the sound I hear ?
Do you think it would be cats?. .. .M.S.: Suggest
you get a job as a ship’s cook if the sea’s calling
that hard. . . .W.P.G.: Afraid it must be w.p.b. this
time. .. .S.N.; Quotations you work into your verse
are all right. .. .T.J.: Might have been suggested by
a journey; it wasn’t inspired. .. .D. 8.: “But a love-
lorn line of heartstrings cracked with many aches and
pains.” ’ Sounds like a movie orchestra.... Rondeau:
Rather jerky A.S.; Both empty W.D.:
“Glimpses of Old Sydney,” 3s. 6d., Art in Aus-
tralia, Ltd., Bond-street, Sydney. Other book is sold
0ut.... Quad: He was elected Governor of New York
State for another term, 1927-29 ; the salary is 10,000
dollars p.a. State population, 11 i millions ; it has its
own National Guard of 20,000 men... .J.A.V.: A pri-
vate records club was started in Melbourne, but closed
its membership; the business threatened to grow
too big... .W. 8.: More sentiment than sense.... Joi:
Martian idea overdone.... Naphtali: There are more
things in trams than are dreamt of in your philo-
sophy .... D.0.L.: Your true joke doesn’t entrance us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
O. St.: Joke amused Queen Victoria... .J.K.L.:
Try for a firm, clean line and pay more attention to
perspective... .F.J.: Cricket cartoon c. and b
C.F.A.: Gags and sketches both deadly.... J. 8.:
Couldn’t find a corner in the paper for them; found
one in the w.p.b V.G.M.: Agree with you that
sketch is not the work of an artist; neither is joke
the work of a humorist D.W.S.: Drawing lifeless ;
wit stale... .R.C.: Sympathise with the radio
announcer, but dare not print his rejoinder
W.P.: No use for illustrated parable about poli-
tician and flea F.A.C.: Your traffic cop is para-
lysed from the knees down.


m
mi
•v ./■,
1
111111
~'. :> .
STATESMAN.
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1928.
Owner - - - William Kelso.
Trainer - - - William Kelso.
Jockey - - - J. Munro.
Weight - - - Bst.
Age - - - - 4 years.
Time - - - - 3min. 23^sec.


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2545.
November 21, 1928.
THE POOR COWS.
STRAWBERRY: “I wonder what they made all that fuss about last week!”
SPOT: “Oh, that was only to decide who should milk us—Stan and Tom or Bill and Jim.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
00DTH Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
\ London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
weekly? it r " ADDI!ESS > » Australasia,
3 months. 7s *’ £1 ; 6 months ' 12s ' 6d '>
6 month, °/ e,,se as: 12 months, £1 10s.;
o months, los. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Fifi n9 looz C Td S ' ~ C ° m ™"™™lth, New Zealand and
each additinmni 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
BiitishpZ U - AU Sea Foute: 16oz„ lid.
Id. Elsewhere, 0 7oz™ld U ' S ' A "‘ ° T P<lrt thereot ’
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2 5
answers to correspondents . . ’5
The Poor Cows
—A cartoon by Scorfield. n
EDITORIAL g - 7
Save Your Country! s
The New Zealand Election 8
A Modern Prison System 8
Women in the Courts n
THE RIVAL SHOWS
A cartoon by Percival .. q
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. -.Y .
PERSONAL .. .. ..
Oswald Pryor Goes Back Home 17
POVERTY POINT .. “ ”
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.)
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. " nV
The C S R "
(with drawings) .. 19 90
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT ’ oa
MAN ON THE LAND . . ‘' 2 ' 2 ] 25
Wheat-growing up to Date . 99
SMOKE-OH .. . . •' ll
PEN AND PICTURE Ji
new movies ; ;; 33
Sporting (illustrated) .. 35 37 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . ’4O
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER ’ ' 49
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. " "43
“COONARDOO” .. .. 30,40,50
COMPLETE STORY—
“When Henry Played His Part”
By Lilia Gormhuille McKay . . .. 44 47
“Bracken” starts Dec. 5.
ffuTtfeulZetz/ri
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1928.
SAVE YOUR COUNTRY!
The trade statistics of the Commonwealth
for July, August and September, the first
three months of the financial year, have
been issued, and so have the revenue and
expenditure figures, Federal and State, for
four months up to the end of October. The
State returns vary somewhat in the frank-
ness of their revelations, but there is pretty
general agreement on the fact that the
great financial landslide which became so
marked after June, 1920, still continues.
* * * $
The situation, so far as concerns Treasurer
Earle Page and his voluble Federal col-
league, is that there is a deficit for the
four months of £1,494,713, while there was
a surplus of £231,638 at the similar date
12 months ago. Therefore the position is
already over £1,700,000 worse than it was
at October, 1927. That year closed with a
deficit of over £2,600,000, and a much bigger
one seems to be in preparation for June 30,
1929, though some measure of recovery is
still possible. In 1927-28 customs
fell heavily because imports couldn’t by any
possibility keep up to the level of 1926-27,
and so far they are falling further because
it is impossible for the imports of 1928-29
to keep up to the reduced level of 1927-28.
Ihe sad and simple story of the revenue
boom may be thus set forth:—
Customs Revenue.
1921- ..£17,328,310 I 1924-25 ..£26,405,161
1922- .. 22,597,306 | 1925-26 .. 27,839,889
1923- . . 25,177,882 [ 1926-27 . . 31,832,600
Though the customs revenue grew by over
14 millions, excise receipts increased by
only millions, because the local produc-
tion of beer, spirits, tobacco, etc., didn’t
prosper in any corresponding degree.
* * * *
In the six years quoted above over
£143,000,000 was added to the overseas debt
of Australia (principal and interest payable
in gold), because the impossible mass of
imported wares from which the Federal
Treasury drew so much paper wealth had
to be paid for somehow. Now the inflow of
goods from overseas has diminished con-
siderably, for the time at least, and the
public income has diminished likewise, yet
for the three months July-September Aus-
tralia purchased abroad £16,000,000 or
£17,000,000 worth more than it could pay
for without going further into debt to
capitalists over the water. That is unlikely
to be a true sample of the whole year,
but 1928-29 is certainly going to be an-
other remarkable year. Roughly speaking,
there is a necessity to reduce imports by
£40,000,000 to £60,000,000 per annum in order
to stop the drift towards insolvency. If
the desired result or something approaching
it is achieved, probably by an extensive
prohibition of imports, the Bruce-Page's
biggest source of income, and almost the
only elastic source, may drop to the level
of 1921-22 or thereabouts, on the present
tariff basis. That will mean a dire necessity
to raise the duties on such imports as
remain, and to cut out foolish and frilly
items of expenditure till the national health
is somewhat restored.
* * * *
There should be an earnest search for
other possible savings. Even the baby bonus
should be reconsidered except in cases of
necessity. Like the old-age and invalid
pensions it might be granted where the
money is really required, but as a device
for increasing the birthrate it has failed
badly and ought to be abandoned. The
States for their part should put their rail-
way policies on a different basis. It is a
quaint feature of such a body as the N.S.W.
Public Works Committee that it habitually
recommends the construction of new lines,
mere dead-enders, which supply no way to
a new port, and no shorter way to an old
port, nor do they serve to complete any old
undertaking and give it a chance to become
a payable proposition. They are put for-
ward with a frank assurance that the income
is expected to be small and the loss con-
siderable, and as the cost of construction is
out of all proportion to the estimate the loss
always is more than considerable. Where
a dead-end line is involved the deficit often
promises to endure for ever, like the heap
mentioned in Deuteronomy xm, 16. This
appears to be a matter of the State being
anxious to get rid of money at any price,
yet no Stide has any spare money to get
rid of.
$ * * #
It would bo advisable also to review the
offer of the British Government to lend,
at a temporarily reduced rate, £34,000,000
for approved public works, provided the
borrowing States receive direct from Britain
and “satisfactorily settle” one emigrant for
each £75 of loan. The reduction of interest
will be only temporary; the works may not
pay even the reduced interest; they won’t
pay it when it ceases to be reduced, and
453,333 immigrants may prove a burden.
This will be especially so if the bulk of
them arrive about the time the works are
finished, and when the men for whom the
big cheap loan found employment are being
thrown on the labor market again, and are
shouting for more works and loans.
“THE BOYS.”
The N. S. Wales prison system may not be
perfect, but for a quarter of a century, at
any rate, it has been very soundly and effec-
tively reformed from what it was in the
bad old days of Cockatoo Island and Ber-
rima. And if it is not perfect, it may at
least be said of it that it is better than any
other in Australia, and, very possibly, better
than any other in the British Empire. Its
outstanding features are classification, em-
ployment of prisoners and medical super-
vision. (Discipline, of course, goes without
saying.) And to them may be added the
humane and invaluable work done by the
Prisoners’ Aid Society in assisting discharged
persons to rehabilitate themselves.
Of the three perhaps classification is the
most important. The principal aim here is
to keep the “newchum” away from the “old
hand.” In its last annual report, alluding to
the first reforms in this direction, instituted
many years ago, the Department says:—
“The plan was designated the restricted
association system, and is the basis of the
existing intra-mural methods; but from time
to time _ there have been developments of
reformative measures in connection with
educational and library facilities, the appoint-
ment of competent trades overseers, intro-
auction of modern machinery, the opening-up
of reproductive forms of labor for prison-
ers, payment for work properly performed,
and rational recreation, with the object of
improving the moral condition of prisoners.
The means of segregating the first offenders
at afforestation and farm work under most
healthy, character-building conditions has
contributed unquestionably to our prison re-
formative agencies, which, it is claimed, have
kept reasonably in step with those outside
forces that have conduced so much to the
moral good of the community.”
There are two establishments amongst the
dozen or so penal institutions of N. S.
Wales—exclusive of local police gaols—
which it is interesting to compare. In Par-
ramatta Gaol are confined over 300 prison-
ers who may be termed “graduates” in
crime; and at Emu Plains, on the left bank
of the Nepean, “freshmen” are undergoing
a course of training whose main object is to
keep them from ever taking the “degrees”
which are necessary qualifications for resi-
dence in the “college” at Parramatta. The
big prison on the north side of Australia’s
second-oldest town is mostly populated by
men to whom the term “gaol-bird” carries
no libel in its application. On the farm at
Emu Plains are young men, very few of
whom will ever find themselves behind stone
walls again. Parramatta’s main function is
the protection of society; at Emu Plains
the State is being saved from the loss of
potentially good citizens. As a matter of
fact, it is getting more than that—men are
being given back to it who, in some cases,
had no chance of real manhood before they
went there. There is nothing more striking
about the two places than the hopefulness
of the one compared with the hopelessness
of the other in the personal aspect of their
inhabitants.
It is from what is known as the seventh-
class (“male prisoners under 25 at the time
of their conviction”) that the “boys” are
selected for Emu Plains. Nothing more effec-
tive than the treatment they receive has
been attempted in prison administration,
and nothing has ever succeeded better.
Apart from the useful training in farm work
—supervised by an officer of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture—which helps to find
them employment at the expiration of their
sentences, the building-up of character that
is possible here, and almost impossible in
an ordinary prison, is invaluable. Physical
drill, games, sympathetic supervision and
frequent opportunities of receiving visits
from friends and relatives are effective factors
in this. And essential discipline is inevitably
preserved by the understanding that the
youths are here only on good behavior.
They are placed upon their honor not to
attempt to escape, and although there are
many chances of doing so, only in rare in-
stances has this pledge been broken. Above
all, they do not look like prisoners, and it
is possible for them almost to feel that they
are not—a condition utterly unknown be-
hind the walls of such places as Long Bay,
Parramatta, Goulburn, Bathurst and Mait-
land gaols. “I am satisfied,” says the offider-
in-charge at Emu Plains, “we are working
on right lines, and if those who pass through
here do not make good in after life, it is
because they do not want to do so. It is
quite true, as one prisoner said here, ‘lf
we don’t want to reform, you can’t reform
us.’ But that attitude is not adopted by
very many. If it was, it would only be
waste of time keeping this establishment in
existence.”
J. H. M. A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Maoriland’a Election Tangle.
The course of Mabl'iland politics has been
full lately of mysteries an d surprises. A
dense smoke-sereen veiled the genesis, on
the eve of a general election, of the United
party, wh ;h claimed to have enlisted
Nationalists, Reformers and Laborites be-
neath its banner, and there was astonish-
ment when Joe Ward, inheritor of the
mantle of Seddon, who disdained the title
of Nationalist and continued to call himself
a Liberal—“the only one in the House”—
accepted the leadership of what looked like
a very unmanageable conglomeration. But
it became apparent at a very early stage
that the Uniteds were well disciplined, and
had plenty of financial backing and many
influential friends. Candidates, many of
them young and able men, new to politics,
were nominated in 58 of the 80 electorates!
Everywhere there were evidences that the
commercial community, irritated by the re-
strictions on credit imposed by the Gov-
ernment, through the Bank of New Zealand,
in a recent period of depression, had re-
solved to get rid of young Mr. Coates
from Kaipara.
When the numbers went up it looked as if
the desired result had been obtained. The
weakness of the Reform party has always
been its reliance on the 28 per cent, load-
ing given to rural votes. Even in 1925,
when Coates returned as captain of an
army of 55 in a House of 80 members, the
party had not polled a majority of the
votes cast. In last week’s election the Re-
formers lost 28 seats, including three held
by Ministers, the Uniteds {nee Nationalists,
nee Liberals) were returned in equal force
to the Government, and Labor, though it
won a few more seats than at last election,
can no longer figure as the Opposition.
Ward’s programme was astutely framed.
It held a bait for the mercantile interests,
the farmers and the working folk, who in
recent years have suffered so much through
unemployment. He promised to borrow
£70,000,000, mainly for loans to farmers
and wage-earners, without adding a penny
to taxation, and his reputation as a very
adroit financier made the promise impres-
sive to many.
Two things may now happen. The Re-
form and United parties may build a coali-
tion, as they did in 1915, or it may prove
impossible to form a Ministry, which will
involve a new election. A United-Labor
coalition is not practicable so long as Hol-
land leads the Labor party, though many
moderate-minded and intelligent Labor
members and many of the older Liberals,
including Ward, would welcome the alliance’
which, if it could be maintained, would
give the very democratically-minded Fern-
landers the most congenial %m of govern-
ment.
Labor and Redistribution.
With only 28 members in a House of 65,
the Vic. Labor party was in office for 18
months, during which time it did nothing in
particular and did it fairly well. But in
the end it could not save itself from its
friends. Egged on by the Age, it brought
in a Redistribution of Seats Bill, which it
would much rather have kept for another
year. It hoped that the Age would grate-
fully support Scullin, the Federal Labor
leader; but when the Government had
bound itself to introduce the redistribution
measure by the end of October, it found its
exuberant press champion declaring that
Scullin was “impossible.” So the Hjogans
not only got on to the rocks themselves,
but failed to save anything for their Federal
friends out of the wreck. Worse, indeed,
while it was the Country Progressives who
had brought on the no-confidence motion,
Labor had guaranteed support in the Federal
sphere for the Progs, against Minister Hill
in Echuca and for the Progs.’ Federal leader,
ex-Minister Stewart, in Wimmera. A sad
mix-up altogether!
But Hogan’s is not the only Labor Gov-
ernment which has struck trouble over a
Redistribution of Seats Bill. In Westralia,
where electoral reform is years overdue, the
Collier Government has introduced a
scheme providing for 17 metropolitan elec-
torates with an average of 6400 electors, 21
agricultural (average 4000), eight mining-
pastoral (average 2000) and four north-
west (average 800); boundaries to be fixed
by a Supreme Court Judge, the Surveyor-
General and the Chief Electoral Officer. The
Government has shown courage in admitting
that one vote one value is out of the ques-
tion in a State where more than half the
electors live in and about Perth and the
rest are scattered over nearly a mil-
lion square miles of territory, and its
proposals seem honest and workable; but
it is being attacked by city Nationalists for
giving Perth too little representation and by
out-back Labor members for giving Perth
too much. But in this case, though the
measure may not survive the attacks, the
Ministry probably will.
4.
Faint Echoes of a Last-century Boom,
‘‘Sol Malaprop”: In The Bulletin of
31/10/’2B a correspondent stated that
a bit of land in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, had realised a price which
exceeded the record figure of the old
land boom—that most remembersome affair
which did its ultimate fizzle in 1893. This
local recovery has, therefore, been a matter
of 25 years.
Australia has conjured up a boom of
sorts in the past few years, though child-
like faith and mixed circumstances may
have obscured the fact. State revenues
increased from 70 millions in 1920 to 111
millions in 1927, the result being partly
explained by the fact that direct taxation
rose from under 18 millions in the first year
to over 28 millions in the second. It has
been added to since 1927, and the difficulty
of adding much more becomes apparent.
The State interest bill (debts incurred for
reproductive works) grew by 16 millions
per annum between 1920 and 1928 (17 mil-
lions to 33 millions), and the addition of
over 10 millions to direct taxation was
because the reproductive works failed so
badly to reproduce. The position had be-
come worse by June, 1928, and it is still
worsening, for the State interest bill is rising
by two millions per annum.
The six States in the aggregate haven't
managed to make revenue cover expendi-
ture once in the last 14 years, and the
deficit for 1927-28 is a particularly robust
one. The surplus of exports over imports
was nearly 51 millions in 1920, that being
the balance available to meet State and
Federal interest bills, war expenses and
sundries over the water. The surplus of
imports over exports was millions in
1927-28, so that there was more to pay and
57-2- millions less to pay with, and no balance
to meet anything. Lxports of merchandise
diminished, and exports of gold have a
steady downward tendency because the pro-
duction of that metal is less than one-
seventh the figure of 25 years ago. The
gold finds of Westralia, which yielded
£421,385 in 1893 and climbed to £8,770,719
in 1903, broke the fall when the boom of
25 years ago went to its long home, and
on that has been built the legend of “the
wonderful recuperative powers of the
country.”
Permanent hope lies only in doing more
work, doing with much fewer public works
unless we can pay for them out of our own
resources, and doing something severe and
repressive with the big importing craze.
4
Should Judges Advise Parliament?
Justice Piddington, of the N. S. Wales
Industrial Commission, lately responded to
Premier Bavin’s “courteous intimation”
that forensic suggestions concerning the liv-
ing wage would be considered. His Honor’s
response resulted in a detailed warning to
the present political incumbents that the
11s. drop to follow the Living Wage (De-
claration) Act would leave the toilers under-
fed and the retailers overstocked. “And,”
his Honor proceeded, “unless action is
taken, control of industrial arbitration will
pass away from the State Parliament to the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court.” To
many of us the latter part of the judicial
utterance may sound more like a promise
than a threat; yet it is problematical if any-
thing that “good old Piddo” could say would
weigh more heavily with both the Bavin-
Nationalist party and the LANG-and-Labor
idolators than his fear of being lifted out
of the front seat of the industrial flivver.
The junior pair of the triumvirate, how-
ever, Street and Cantor, JJ., bearing in
mind that silence is golden, contented them-
selves with briefly and conjointly pointing
out that “to make suggestions as to the
form of legislation which Parliament migh*
adopt would be to exceed the proper limits
of the Commission’s authority, and to
trench upon ground which belonged solely
to Parliament. Our clear duty is to admin-
ister the law as we find it.” All of which


THE RIVAL SHOWS.
"One remarkable feature of the election campaign was the absence of young people from candidates' meetings. Audiences were composed for the most part of men and
women of mature years; apparently youth took very little interest in the contest."
is quite consistent with the beatified doc-
trine of one man one job, but can only stir
up in the average citizen a vague wonder
why it is inconsistent with their “clear duty”
for two presumably expert industrialists to
offer the Legislature “suggestions” upon that
law which every day and in every way they
must study in spirit and letter.
If it were a question of legal etiquette
there is a precedent, to mention only one;
as long ago as 1843 the House of Lords
invited and took the opinion of the Judges
upon certain abstract questions of law pro-
pounded to them. It is a fair presumption
that the then Chief Justice Tindal and his
learned brothers held, at the least, a con-
ception of their duty equal in its
clarity with that now cherished by their
Honors Street and Cantor.
+ •
Women in the Courts.
Last week the S. M. Herald reported the
case of a woman whose mysterious dis-
appearance from her home had led to
police investigations. It turned out that
she was at Long Bay doing a sentence for
shop-lifting. “She had stolen articles of
clothing for her children worth only a few
shillings, and upon her arrest was too
ashamed to give her correct name. It was
her first offence.” At about the same time
the dailies were reporting various cases of
women upon whom criminal outrages had
been committed or attempted. This class
of offence has become epidemic in certain
Sydney suburbs of late—as one S.M. put
it in the Campsie Court, “women and
children in many cases go about in fear
and trembling.” Here and there the
victims are persuaded not only to make
statements but to appear later as Crown
witnesses. Usually, however, they bear their
wrongs in complete silence, or they refuse
to tell a Court the stories they have told
the police; or they flee the jurisdiction, as
happened a few days ago with two girls
who complained of being assaulted at North
Ryde last month. Every woman knows
what will happen if she goes on with one
of these matters. Her name will be blazoned
in the papers. Professional mudslingers
will “test her credit” by suggesting that
she has led a life of infamy. The Law,
which has failed to protect her from phy-
sical outrage, will look on placidly while she
is subjected to another form of outrage.
Small wonder the police have to admit over
and over again that they “can offer no
evidence, having lost touch with their
witnesses,” and that sexual assaults have
become the safest of all crimes. It was
said of one offender recently that he “was
known to have committed six outrages in
the district before his arrest.”
Feminine shame is the shield of such
men—the emotion which impelled the
offender of the S. M. Herald report to go
to gaol rather than have her misfortune
made public. The cure is a system which
is operating successfully in the U.K., where,
if in a Judge’s opinion the interests of
justice demand it, complainants’ names
may not be mentioned in court or pub-
lished in the press. Secrecy of the sort,
would congest the business of the Criminal
Courts for a while, but it would lay some
dangerous characters by the heels, and it
would bring an unaccustomed sense of
security to thousands of lonely women.
The Education of Snobs.
“Yetne”: The Public Service Commis-
sioner of Queensland has discovered that
his State has been spending large sums
of money on a form of education which few
folks need. He is alarmed at the few
who remain in at the finish of a High
School course; and the urbane Smith, of
the Ma State, ineffectively tries to stem the
criticism as far as it affects his own
domain.
The pith of the trouble seems to be
that secondary education, as such, is too
specialised. The child of 12 or thereabouts
is expected to know whether he is going to
join a profession (High School), be an arti-
san (Trade School) or what not. Just now
nine out of ten boys of that age will want
to be Kingsford Smiths or ‘•electricians.”
Take any boys of 12 to 14 you know inti-
mately and try to decide what occupation
they are really fitted for. Therein lies
the failure of the whole elaborate “one-way
traffic” scheme of the bureaucrats at present
in control of our semi-military scheme of
education.
The remedy is to open the street to
general traffic. Cut out the fantastic idea
of a broad highway labelled “Kindergarten
to University,” and label it “To Life.” We
need secondary education along general
lines till the child is at least 16. Such a
course should include, among other things,
a study of current topics of economic or
social value. Citizenship, social hygiene, a
connected history course (not a patchwork
quilt like the present N.S.W. system), a
detailed course in world geography, and,
above all, a more definite training in the
mother tongue. After this course is com-
pleted the child could specialise in what-
ever else is desired or suitable. High
School square holes would not then receive
so many round pegs, nor would so much time
be wasted building without foundations.
The waste of the present system is well
exemplified in the case of a High School
with 11 masters which secured 11 passes
in the intermediate. In masters’ salaries
alone each pass cost the State £1500!
Another and more serious menace is that
the system is breeding a race of “Been to
High School” snobs who, like the “failed
8.A.” of Bengal, despise so-called menial
labor and want a stiff-collar job or none
at all.
♦
Self- determination.
The result of the Newfoundland elections
has been a sweeping victory for the Oppo-
sition. And the Opposition is committed
to a scheme for selling Labrador to a U.S.
syndicate. Indeed, one of the two leaders
of the party has openly expressed himself
as strongly in favor of the absorption of
Newfoundland by the United States.
In view of the “self-determination” ruling
laid down at the last Imperial Conference,
a change of government in Newfoundland
may have far-reaching consequences for the
Empire in general. The passing of Labrador,
with its coal, mineral and fishing wealth,
to American control is hardly likely to be
welcomed by Britain, while the possibility
of Newfoundland deciding to hand itself
over to the tender mercies of the American
Eagle is even more distasteful. Neverthe-
less. if Newfoundland chooses to take the
steps hinted at, there would seem to be
nothing to stop the colony' from doing so.
South Africa has shown signs of asserting
its lately-bestowed rights, also. The infec-
tion may spread; and by that time it will
be necessary to review the idea of the
Empire as we know it to-day.
4
Wanted, Brooms.
“L.C.M.”: Sydney, says a Plain English-
man, is a very dirty and an extremely un-
tidy city. And worse, the same may be
said of almost every town in N. S. Wales
and Queensland, at any rate.
Newcastle, built on the wonderful wind-
swept hill that crowns the rocky cliffs and
beaches of the Hunter estuary, is oppressed
by the grime and untidiness of its streets
and the squalor of its unlovely swamp-
ridden suburbs. Cessnock and Lithgow
claim to be next in size, and for dirt,
ugliness and lack of paint have not their
equal. Maitland is a prosperous old place,
set in a wealthy and verdant district, but
the view from the Hunter bridge in the
centre of the town reveals a dismal array
of backyards strewn with refuse. The reward
it reaps for its apathy is the biggest annual
outbreak of typhoid in N. S. Wales. Werris
Creek, a thriving railway settlement, con-
sists of of heartbreaking little wooden
houses, planted in rank forests of marsh-
mallows full of evil-smelling pumpkin
beetles. Goulburn has the makings of a
fine town, but in its back streets waste
water lies in malodorous, disease-producing
pools. One could multiply the list indefi-
nitely.
The same untidiness extends beyond the
larger villages. Of course there are some
wonderfully kept station homesteads, some
immaculate dairy farms and impeccable
orchards, but the prevailing impression left
by six thousand miles of back country roads
is of unpainted gates and verandahs, garden-
less houses, and dilapidated letter-boxes,
insecure and crooked and mostly made of
rusty kerosene-tins. My first trip away from
Australia was to Maoriland; and one of
the first things I noticed there was the
neatness of the letter-boxes in the most
remote country districts. Motoring from
the Bluff to Kingston, and from Queens-
town down through Central Otago, one
passes neat farm homesteads, with straight
rows of poplars, spick and span as a French
landscape, and to each immaculate gate
there is attached a white-painted, specially-
constructed, locked and bolted letter-box.
Only a small sign, but an outward evidence
of the inner and spiritual grace of tidiness.
Of course, no sweeping condemnation is
entirely true. We can be justly proud of
Bathurst and Orange; and Grafton with
its wide, clean streets lined by magnificent
trees, and with its stately blue river, is
a city to rejoice the heart, especially when
the misty mauve of jacarandas shimmers
about its old stone buildings. But there
is not anywhere in N. S. Wales the careful
tidiness of Dunedin, where the poorest
houses are thriftily painted and the so-
called slums have •window boxes or gardens.
Why the difference? Are those pessimists
right, who assert that the morale of white
races inevitably deteriorates in a semi-
tropical climate? Is it their annual dose
of frost and snow that keeps those Maori-
landers so smart and neat? Comparisons
are odious, yet one hopes our boasted
heavenly sunshine will not turn out to be at
once our glory and our downfall, by making
a slovenly sun-baking nation of us.
4
News from Nippon.
“Feng-Shui” : With what simple faith do
Australian papers print the news they
receive from Japan! Sometimes they head
it “From Our Special Correspondent,” as if
that conferred authenticity on it. Actually,
though the Western idea of news is gaining
ground, it is quite alien to Japanese thought.
News in Japan was and to a great extent
still is something given out, not found out.
The first newspaper was a Government
translation of a Dutch journal which arrived
in the country about 1867. It gave the key-
note to Nippon’s press which has been
maintained to the present day. Private
newspapers arose later, but the idea that
they were little more than Government
Gazettes remained. After trying suppres-
sion the Government tried subsidisation,
and the scheme worked like a charm.
One of the first aims of the rulers who
stood behind the Mikado’s rehabilitated
throne was to consolidate the people by a
new religion in which the State should be
supreme. In this pious enterprise, the native
newspapers were invited to join. Editors
girded up their loins, dipped their brushes
in the ink and responded nobly to the
call. In a short time a national history was
provided which looked well, hung splendidly
together and had all the appearance of
being the creation of thousands of years
instead of thousands of paragraphists.
The success of the first newspaper-created
faith in history awakened the Government
more than ever to the value of the press.
For export purposes it established various
subsidised sheets under American and
English direction. It was the advent of
party government which gave birth to
what quasi-free journalism the country has
to-day. Ministers established their own
sheets, and when they went out of office
and into Opposition their journal of en-
lightenment went with them and became
to a certain extent critical of the party in
power. The Government, however, had an-
other card to play in a censorship which
has no parallel even in wartime in Western
lands.
There is also what the Japanese call
“inner loyalty.” Every patriotic citizen
strives at creating a pleasing impression
about his country for export. A rickshaw
coolie once lied to me about his earnings
because he dimly understood I came from
a country where the standard of living was
higher. The censorship extends to news
leaving Nippon, and it is this pleasing im-
pression which is most likely to be expe-
dited. The system is even extended to meet
criticism originating abroad. In every
world-centre of importance there is a faith-
ful son of Nippon whose duty it is to reply
to comments on his country appearing in
the local press. He is probably a private
merchant and his consulate officially knows
him not; but he is appointed as definitely as
a trade commissioner.
The truth about what Japan is thinking
and doing is vital to Australia, and it is a
pity Australian newspapers do not wake up
to their responsibility. It is a long time
since a British journalist was gaoled in
Nippon for making a nuisance of himself.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Company of Australasia, Ltd.
Authorised Capital, £200,000.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
BRANCHES:
N.S.W.: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
H :
PRECISION DRIVING
Continually Maintained
with
Mangrovite Leather
or Raw-hide Belting
Factory efficiency and minimum transmission plant overhaul follow the
installation of Mangrovite Belting. Sure grip correct pliability positive
straight drive capacity to carry all loads with least power loss these are
Mangrovite qualities which earn your approval.
Let us give you full information and technical advice on types of belting
available.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
e
■ft* Fine/t Inland Golf'
Unk/inAu/tnlid
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
POLITICAL
POINTS
When ex-Premier Slang came out against
the State Debts referendum The Bulletin
felt that it was sure to be carried; and car-
r-e? it is going to be. Yes has a substan-
tial lead, not only in the Commonwealth but
in every State; and if the general verdict is
favorable it wouldn’t matter if the noes won
in two States. Some of the majorities are
magnificent: 2 to 1 in Tasmania, 7 to 1 in
Victoria and 8 to 1 in Queensland. It is a
resounding victory for nationalism over the
cantankerous sort of provincialism of which
Slang is the type.
Counting Stewart (Wimmera) and Wat-
son (Fremantle) as Independents, the
Bruce-Page Government had 24 votes to the
good on critical divisions in the last House
of Reps. Naturally it lost seats at the
general election, but it will have a comfort-
able majority in the next House if the asso-
ciated parties continue to pull together. The
Labor Opposition made no headway in Vic-
toria, but it ousted Ley (Barton), Manning
(Macquarie) and Elliot Johnson (Lang) in
N. S. Wales, where working-class voters
were patently influenced by the cry that
“Bavin is going to take 11 bob a week from
the basic wage,” and middle-class voters by
the piratical State income-tax measure. The
Opposition has also apparently regained Ken-
nedy and Herbert (Queensland), Boothby
(S. Aus.), Denison (Tas.) and Fremantle.
Including the Indi fluke, it will have 32 seats
out of 75, with a possibility of 33.
William Wilson
Killen won Riverina
for the Country party
in 1922. Federal Labor
promised him a beat-
ing three years ago,
and Theodore talked
last week as if all were
over bar the scalping,
but on Monday Bill’s
head was neither
bloody nor bowed. He
is a pastoralist, with
honest doubts about
the duty on sheep dip ;
withal, he is a firm be-
liever in Protection
for the rice-growers in
his electorate.
With its command-
ing vote in the cities,
where nearly half the
population abides. Fed-
eral Labor has a better
chanc e of captur-
Killen, M.H.R.
ing the Senate than the House of Reps.
This was strikingly shown after the double
dissolution in 1914, when 31 Labor Sena-
tors were elected —and 32 would have been
but for Gregor McGregor’s death after nomi-
nation day. On the present occasion Scul-
lin’s party has evidently carried N. S. Wales
and South Australia. But it doesn’t look
like getting a seat in Queensland (four
vacancies), Westralia or Tasmania, and
seemingly it would have gone down in Vic-
toria also but for the sudden passing of
Major-General Forsyth; as it is, one Vic.
Labor Senator must win, and Nationalist
cross voting may put another in. Even so,
Labor won’t fare as well as it did six years
ago, when it elected 11 Senators—two in
N. S. Wales, three in South Australia, three
in Vic., two in Westralia and one (the sole
candidate) in the Speck.
A belated effort by Federal Deputy-Labor-
leader Blakeley previous to the election was
that if the Bruce-Pages won they would
“probably” lease the Northern Territory to
a company and give it the right to bring
in indentured colored labor. This draggled
apparition is negotiated with difficulty since
the Left Wing declared for extending a com-
prehensive welcome to “black, brown and
brindle” folk, not as temporary indentured
sojourners but as brethren qualified to have
white people working for them or apprenticed
to them.
lOUseph Ward’s glittering loan promises
have apparently done the trick in Maoriland.
The Coatesites have been stripped of more
than half their seats and face the Wardites
on level terms, Labor has made headway,
but it is no longer the second party in Parlia-
ment. Ward is pledged to side with Labor
in a no-confidence vote against Coates, but
Labor-leader Holland has put an emphatic
veto on the idea of a Lib.-Lab. coalition, so
the position is more than a bit obscure.
Lacey, M.H.R.
The S. Aus'. Minis-
terialists gave them-
selves a fair chance of
beating Andy Lacey in
the Grey division, but
Lacey looks perfectly
safe, though the col-
lection of votes in his
scattered electorate—■
it takes in a wide
sweep of country be-
tween Spencer’s Gulf
and the Westralian
border —is a slow pro-
cess. Lacey ousted old
Alick Poynton, one of
Hughes’s Ministers, in
1922. He belongs to
the A.W.U., which
will be strongly repre-
sented in the new
Parliament.
In a House of 61
out of a possible 64,
the Speakercock in the
chair being the 65th,
Victoria’s Hogan Min-
istry was defeated
by a majority of one, which presumably ends
its reign of 18 months’. It lost on a motion
that members were vaguely dissatisfied with
its proposed redistribution of seats, and there
was also a half-eaten motion that they
weren’t pleased with its management of the
waterside disturbance. It is to be assumed
that there will be another election on the old
muddled system, under which Lower House
constituencies vary from 8000 to 25,000
electors and Upper House ones from 11,000
to 52,000. When the existing Assembly
began it was described as consisting of 28
Labor, 19 National party, 10 Country party,
4 Country Progressive party, 2 Liberal and 2
Independent Liberal. So the Hogan Govern-
ment was defeated by Hash.
Speacock would have been placed in an
awkward position had Jimmy McLachlan,
the Gippsland North Independent, decided to
vote with the Hogans on the no-confidence
motion in Vic. Assembly, instead of walking
out when the division was taken. With
Jimmy among his old pals again, a casting
vote would have been necessary. Speacock
would probably have given it to the noes,
on the ground that the House could have an-
other opportunity as soon as it liked to
decide whether the Government should be
turned out.
Some very inaccurate political news comes
out of Westralia. A Great Daily’s version
of the Collier redistribution-of-seats scheme
was that Perth-Fremantle, with 108,866 elec-
tors, was to get 17 Assembly seats, while the
agricultural region, with 86,749 electors, was
to be fobbed off with 13 seats; and this was
here said to be grossly unfair to agriculture.
Agriculture is really to have 21 seats. The
Bulletin begs the Collier Government’s
pardon.
That lingering futility, the statute which
demands the signing of newspaper para-
graphs on political matters published be-
tween the issue and return of writs for a
Federal election, gave this country another,
poor advertisement when a paper was hauled
up at Sydney Central for commenting on
S. M. Bruce. Yet over and over again
Bruce and others had their words made in-
audible for an hour at a time through
unsigned comment of the most profane
description, and the arm of the Law was as
helpless as if it had been amputated.
When a year ago Maoriland clapped a
tariff of 35 per cent, on farm implements
there were the usual gloomy predictions that
prices would rise. But comparison of price-
lists issued by overseas implement manufac-
turers 18 months before the tariff was im-
posed and this year show that in not one
instance has there been an increase. In
short, Australian experience has been re-
peated, though Foreign-traders continue to
trot out their old tarradiddles in both coun-
tries.
Dr. Arthur, N.S.W. Minister for Health,
who is generally interesting whatever his
shortcomings may be, states as a recognised
fact that a prolific cause of sudden death
is decayed teeth. This shows that candidates
should be dentally examined before receiving
the party nomination. When the party loses
a sure seat at a difficult moment through
the demise of a nominee, whose replacement
the law doesn’t provide for, it is aggravating.
If the loss of another sure seat through un-
punctuality with the nomination paper is
also connected with the candidate’s teeth, it
is extra aggravating, even maddening.
The Bavin Government’s expenditure is
growing nine times as fast as its revenue. Th e
shipping trade shows a falling off. Premier
Butler of S.A. has again intimated that he
can get coal from England at 10s. per ton
less than Newcastle prices, but he will be
content if Newcastle reduces its charge by
ss. 9d.; otherwise his order for 900,000 tons
per annum will be lost. All Bavin’s attempts
to negotiate have so far failed. If he had
to tear round like a hunted fiend to borrow
£20,000,000 beer-compensation money—well,
qiiiet-seeming men have broken up the home
with an axe for less. The prohibition gun
wasn’t loaded, but it might have been.
The American Navy Department having
announced that a greatly increased fleet is
imperative for the country's saf*..y, the old
question intrudes —where are the men to come
from? Before and since the war the Ameri-
can Navy has at no time had a complete
establishment—the annual average has been
as low as GO per cent, of requirements, in
spite of short service and high pay, plus free
teaching of trades after discharge. The
result has been that a large proportion of
craft spend the greater part of the time
tied up in naval dockyards, and that is almost
as destructive to a vessel as wading into
the thick of a general action.
Just as misguided wars produce kings in
exile, so misguided strikes ruin union sec-
retaries, who are the royalties of “the move-
ment.” At Adelaide secretary Woodsford, of
the local branch of the Seamen’s Union, has
abdicated to an “advanced” gentleman from
Sydney, and is now in a sort of S. Aus.
Doom scheming to create another empire
for himself. King Thomas Walsh is still
on the throne at King-street, Sydney, and in
receipt of his civil list (10 guineas a week),
but the fickle mob is howling for his official
head and may get it at any moment. And
a similar position exists in Newcastle, where
the old dictatorship is menaced by a new
one with h.q. in another part of the town.
An encouraging feature is that in union as
in international affairs a disastrous conflict
transforms former militants into pacifists.
And it often makes the raging usurper less
furious than he was, on the principle that
a well-paid job-holder dreads to be fired.
The death of Major-Gen. Forsyth reduced
the Vic. Nat.-Gocky organisations to the
necessity of asking their followers to vote
The late J. K. Forsyth.
for one of the
Labor candidates
for the Senate.
When S. Aus.
Senator McGregor
died after nomina-
tions had closed in
1914, the A.L.P.
instructed its sup-
porters to give
their sixth vote (it
was the double-
dissolution e lec-
tion) to Shannon,
who was expected
to top the Liberal
poll; and they
obeyed the injunc-
tion so faithfully
that Shannon and
five Laborites got in, the fifth Laborite beat-
ing the next Liberal by just on 18,000. But
there was a gap of 23 days between McGre-
gor’s passing and polling-day, whereas the
associated Vic. parties had only four days
in which to re-arrange their plans. They
chose Senator Jack Barnes, president of the
A.W.U., for the third vote. Which shows
how serious the flaw is in the present sys-
tem ; for, very decent chap though Jack
Barnes is, he certainly doesn’t represent the
people who have been driven to vote for him.
The Reds of Broken Hill celebrated the
anniversary of the Russian revolution by
marching in procession and making speeches
demanding the Sovietising of everything by
“revolutionary action.” None of the gentlemen
suffered anything worse than a sore throat,
though an anti-Soviet demonstration in Mos-
cow would result in the obliteration of the
demonstrators. Australia under the capi-
talistic oppressor is a place in which even
vaporing asses are protected, so long as they
don’t practise the Red foolery they preach.
One of many rows happened recently at
a Sydney Labor Council meeting, when the
delegate of the Clerks’ Union was ordered
to. withdraw, an attempt was made amid
wild uproar to carry him out, his union was
ordered to choose another delegate and at
last proceedings were hurriedly adjourned to
prevent him taking part in business. Defend-
ant .was accused of exercising sufficient free-
dom of speech to disapprove. of “Jock”
Garden’s statement that non-striking marine
cooks might be singularly liable to fall Over-
board, and that “dead men tell no tales.”
This episode lends point to ex-Premier
Slang’s recent assertion that “the Australian
workers are in a worse state of slavery than
ever before.”
T. W. Crawford
headed the Queens-
land Senate poll in
1917 and ’22, and has
done it again this
time, thereby equal-
ling the achievement
of the late Tom
Givens, who was first
in Queensland in 1910,
T 4 and ’25. Pearce,
of Westralia, has five
firsts to his credit; no
other Senator, past
or present, has more
than two. Crawford
has been bon. Minis-
ter in the Bruce-Page
Government since its
formation, and placidly
accepted the promo-
tion of Glasgow in
1926. lie is an accepted
authority on the cane-
sugar industry, in
which he has large
interests.
In Maoriland, as
in Australia, public
Senator Crawford.
opinion is hardening against national pro-
hibition. Nine years ago the Drys out-voted
the straight-out Wets by 29,000, but 32,000
State-control votes prevented their getting the
necessary absolute majority. In 1922 the Drys
beat the Continuance people by 18,000, but
the State-controllers polled 35,700. In 1925
Prohibition’s margin over Continuance had
shrunk to 10,800, and there were 56,000
State-control votes. This year Derrink has
beaten Drouth by 58,000, so the State-control
votes (65,000) don’t matter. f
On the eleventh anniversary of the Red
Revolution there was the usual ordered fuss,
and the watchword was given, “Prepare
against Imperialist attacks.” But empires
are almost extinct now, and the only attacks
are internal—that is to say, in the stomach.
Extra activity on the part of the Russian
Anti-God Society is supposed to mean some-
thing, but the people wish there was more
need for an Anti-Fat Society.
Communist preaching of violence is begin-
ning to have its effect on the so-called “indus-
trialist.” Time was when he would give the
other side a fair go, confining himself to
interjections, often humorous. In the elec-
tion campaign in Melbourne the interruptions
were continuous and organised. Bruce was
followed from one suburban hall to another
by lorryloads of Labor partisans, many of
them women. Sometimes the number of
excited females who professed to be wives
of Waterside workers who had been shot
about equalled the membership of the steve-
dores’ union. There was a constant and
noisy demand for Bruce to enunciate his
policy, but rarely was that mild statesman
allowed to get the whole of it off his chest,
even in his own electorate. With the honor-
able exception of Dr. Maloney, the Labor
people were afraid to denounce the ruffian-
ism, and they paid dearly for their weak-
ness. Except in its own strongholds their
party polled no better in Victoria than in
its black year, 1925, and the voting in divi-
sions like Fawkner shows that thousands of
steady-going unionists must have gone
against it.
With a general election in view, Winston
Churchill has made some resounding remarks
to the Ram MacDonaldites, who never leave off
wailing about the collapse of the Old Man
in London because they are not in office.
And he had no bad case. Britain spent more
money on the Great War than any other
Power. It lost the most shipping because
it had most to lose, and because its merchant
fleet had to take all risks in bringing food
from abroad. It lost' more than anyone else
by the failure of its debtors to pay. It has
replaced its lost fleet by a bigger one. It
is meeting all its foreign war obligations in
full. It isn’t incurring new debts since the
war, not even to develop its “great natural
resources.” It finds millions to lend to coun-
tries like Australia. And if it is short of the
Protection which is so badly required it is
moving in the right direction, and may move
faster when the community loses its faith
in dreary Lib. and Lab. doctrinaires.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
PECKSNIFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
President Coolidge, in an Armistice Day address,
denied that America had made a profit out of the
war. Her benefits from the conflict were not
material, but spiritual.”
Seth Pecksniff was a moral sage
Whose speech distilled in verbal honey,
His conscience was a virgin page
Unsoiled by sordid greed for money.
Moral superiority
Was liis monopoly and topic,
Though cynicism might decry
That saintly pose with leer myopic.
The wheel returns; and Calvin’s frown
Chides Europe’s mean and sordid bent.
Idealism broadens down
From President to President.
Though lesser breeds may join the fray
Through unregenerate love of squabbles,
Behold the sainted D.S.A.
Intent to right a world that wobbles!
Regard the self-awarded wreath
Of sanctity. Though windy scoffers
May cast his dollars in his teeth,
No gain accrued to Uncle’s coffers.
Yet . Gratitude on halting thigh
Limps tardily; and, smiling sadly,
I cannot help but wonder why
The sinners treat the saints so badly?
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS"
“W.H.D.J.”: The alderman who was paci-
fied after being given the lie by his accuser
“reiterating” the statement (B. 7/11/28)
reminds me of a transport sergeant in Egypt
who was instructed to dispatch a four-horse
limber to the orderly-room. While the job
was being executed an orderly trooper arrived
with a note enjoining the n.c.o. to “expedite
that limber.” Sarge. read it through, blinked
over it a moment and then translated for
our benefit: “Unhook the blanky thing; it’s
cancelled.”
“WHAT’S YOUR WEIGHT TO-DAY, DEAR?”
FIRST PICTURE-SHOWMAN: “Well, how’s hire?”
SECOND SHOWMAN: “Oh, fair! We’re getting the overflow from the weighing machines.”
“S.T.S.”: Try asking your friends what
they know of Ulimaroa—the place after
which a stSamer is named 1 . I admit never
having heard of it till this week, and the
answers I have already received include:
(1) “A station on the Darling,” (2) “Some-
where in the Islands,” (3) “A place m
M 8.,” (4) “A comic opera that Lauri and
Bracy used to play in.” As a fact it is one
of the oldest names for our continent. 1
found it in two maps, both German and
both modern enough to know Tasmania as
an island. That of 1806 calls it “Ulimaroa.
oder Neu Holland.” That of 1817 draws a
line down the middle of the continent. The
w’estern half is “Neu Holland, sonst [for-
merly] Ulimaroa”; the eastern half offers
a choice between the names “Neu Sud
Wallis” and “Sydney-Oove.” The name
sounds like good Maori, and Cook appa-
rently heard it in MX., as a vague indica-
tion of something big to be found away to
the north-west!
$ * * *
“Horatio Halfpint”: The queerest of all
the repercussions of the N.S.W. Prohibition
referendum has occurred at Narrandera. ihe
local ice-manufacturer does not believe m
beer, and during the referendum campaign
he said so pointedly on the public platform.
The remark not unnaturally annoyed the
publicans, who are among his best customers,
and they determined to retaliate by getting
their ice from outside, even though it should
cost more. Thereupon the icemaker, who is
a member of the local Labor League, called
in his fellow-unionists to his aid, with the
result that every pub in the town except one,
which has abandoned the boycott, has been
declared black. The rumpus suggests that
the beer-consumer is a keener stickler for
principle than the teetotaller; the humorous
aspect of the business is that a Prohibitionist
should he able to urge liquor-drinkers into
battle for his sacred right to ice their beer
for th T- * * *
“Bibulus”; “Adamant” puts forward the
phrase “Gig whip” as an infallible tongue-
twister for inebriated persons who seek to
disguise their condition (B. 14/11 /’2B) ; my
preference is for biscuits. Thoie
never was a drunk by land or sea who could
say that twice, let alone six times.
* * * *
“Gustave”: The hardest sobriety test I
ever heard put to a motorist (B. 31/10/’2B)
was “The Leith police dismisseth us.” This
absolutely floored nine out of ten, and it sub-
sequently proved the undoing of one man who
had successfully negotiated it. After knocking
a pedestrian down and finishing up against
a lamp-post, he assured the policeman that
he was quite sober, as he could easily articu-
late that “the Leith police dismisseth us.
The effect was anything but what he antici-
pated, for next morning the constable stated
in court that if the accused hadn’t been
drunk he wouldn’t have wanted to say such
gibberish. The beak nodded sagely and
entered a conviction.
# ❖
“8.C.5.5.”: It really has happened this
time, and in a Gippsland hospital.
The ’ matron, while escorting the doctor
through the wards, stopped to ask a nurse
to bath and put to bed in the female ward
a patient who was sitting in the hall, another
nurse who had previously been detailed for
the job being over-busy. The second nurse
buzzed off to the hall, and with a cheery
“Come along” conducted the waiting one into
the bathroom, and subsequently put her to
bed. Half an hour later the doctor, still
accompanied by the matron, came to look
over the female patients, and asked the latest
arrival what she was suffering from. “No-
thing,” was the reply in a mystified, voice.
“I only came to get my father’s medicine.”
* * * *
“K.D.S.” : Seldom does a relic of pioneer-
ing, when once removed from its setting,
get’ a chance to return to its former habitat
and resume duty. But this has happened to
a ship’s bell. At the end of the ’thirties,
when Cowie and Stead took up a run out-
side of what is now Geelong, the blacks
proved hostile and treacherous. The bell was
set up on a hill—Bell Post Hill —and its
ring was a call to shepherds to hurry in to
the homestead. When Mr.. Stead (who was
the grandfather of the present Viscountess
Mandeville) left Victoria in 1859, the bell
was sent to Hobart for repair, and was then
returned to Strachan and Co., Geelong,
where it remained in bond for years. It
has been presented, by another generation
of Strachans and Steads, to the new Presby-
terian girls’ school which lias acquired Bell
Post Hill; it will once more send out its
warning call —to laggard young ladies.
* X % *
“The Rumpus” : I was riding along a West-
ralian road just after dark when I came upon
a couple of men fighting their hardest. Blow
after blow went home, and as a k.o. looked
imminent, I dismounted and stood by. The
encounter ended with one combatant tottering
backward and crumpling into an untidy heap.
“That’ll teach yer a lesson,” rapped out the
victor. “I’ve been BO years in the, bush an
yer’re the first blankard that wouldn t answer
when I said ‘Good-night.’ ” Then he saw me.
“I don’t know who he is or who you are, he
added, “but when a bloke doesn’t answer my
‘good-night’ he’s lookin’ for trouble. Where s
me bike?” He found it behind a bush, and,
SHOT.
“And where have you been, pray, until this hour?
“Shusht been ’posshum-shooting, m’ dear.”
“Yes, but what were you doing up in the tree?”
as he mounted, casually bade me good-night.
I answered quick and lively before helping
the loser to his feet.
:jc ❖
“Sixenate”: In a recent divorce case in
Sydney it was mentioned in evidence that the
estranged pair had lived in the same house
for six years without speaking to one an-
other. But this is far from being a record.
A prominent Sydney Jew and his spouse
lived together for 37 years without exchang-
ing a single word. lie was a prosperous and
in the main a reputable citizen; it was a re-
mark by the lady (his second wife) on the
subject of his detestation of soap that broke
off oral communications. Perhaps the wife
was not displeased; a good Jewess herself,
she would never entertain the idea of a
divorce, and she brought up her own and the
previous wife’s children, and attended to the
household duties in an amicable spirt, despite
the dumbness on either side. The old man
lived to the age of 92.
* * * *
“Mullarula” : I was> at a training-camp in
the early days of the war where the C.O.
was a stickler for whatever was laid down in
the textbooks, and insisted that guard duties
should be carried out according to regula-
tions, though no sentry was provided with
ball cartridge. Big Mick, who had no more
fondness for the ceremonial side of soldier-
ing than when, later, he won a D.C.M. on
Gallipoli, was guarding a magazine known
to be empty, when the Colonel descended
on him. “For Heaven’s sake,” said the mar-
tinet, “give, me that rifle, man, till I show
you how to handle it.” And Mick promptly
handed the harmless toy over. “Now,”
shouted the Colonel, “don’t you know that
you are not permitted to hand your rifle
over to anyone when on guard? What would
you have done if I’d turned out to be a
German after you’d given me your , rifle?”
Mick looked his superior over calmly.
“Done?” he said. “I’d have kicked your
blanky guts < ut.”
H= * *
“Brady’s Lookout”: The American “bo"
may be an abbreviation of hobo, but the Aus-
tralian term, as used by Gabbett in “The
Term of His Natural Life,” certainly isn't.
Marcus Clarke made no mistake, for in my
youth I often heard it used as a form of
address in Tasmania. But I always under-
stood it to be a contraction of “boy,” not
“brother.”
* * * *
“P.X\”: The story that “Spadassin”
heard from a South Carolinan (B. 14/11/’2B)
reminds me of an ex-Judge from that State;
he had left the bench and was on the board
of a big N«w York co. with Australian
connections when I met him —the brightest
thing I ever found in the great soulless
city. There was a cullud person before him
charged with theft. A witness was called,
who gave evidence that the accused was
industrious and a model “provider.” “Yes,”
said the Judge, “but it’s his honesty that’s
in question now—as you’re on the stand,
you’re bound to tell us what you know
’bout that.” “Wal, Judge,” the witness
drawled, “ef I got to tell you ’bout thet,
ahl I’ve got to say ez ef I was a chicken
and that darky was hangin’ round—wal,
I’d roost high.”
* * * *
“Retired Volt”: The’fourteenth anniver-
sary of the Sydney-Emden affair recalls what
was perhaps the biggest scoop in wartime
journalism. The news of the German raider’s
descent on Cocos to destroy its cable commu-
nication arrived in Condon by those very
same cables a few minutes after Yon Muller
was sighted. The newspapers were agog to
get the story, but naturally none had repre-
sentatives on that tiny coral freckle on the
face of the Indian Ocean. A member of the
staff of one London paper, however, remem-
bered that he had a brother on Cocos. The
Government, the War Office, the censorship
and the cable company were all approached,
and a message went forth authorising him
to send the story. When the afternoon
editions came out this paper was the only
one to feature an exclusive story “From Our
Own Correspondent.” The irony of it was
the cable through which the yarn reached
the outside world was one which the Emdcn’s
landing-party had not had time to cut, after
sawing through shore ends deceptively laid
a few hundred yards out to sea by the station
electricians.
* # * *
“Lao-dah”: A new method of opposing the
blighting propaganda of Marie Stopes was
adopted recently by a maternity hospital at
Brighton (Vic.). A baby competition was
held, open only to the products of the insti-
tution during the previous five years. Prizes
were awarded in the three-months, one-year,
two-year sections and so on. There was
one section to which a prize might have
been allocated. It was this hospital which
claimed a few years back to have delivered
the smallest baby in the world. It was
cradled in a cigar-box, fed from an eye-
dropper, and successfully reared.
H*
“W.1.U.” The Digger is a critical beggar
when it comes to a sculptured presentment
of himself, but there is at least one statue
that he passes as faultless, viz., the figure of
a bomber poised for a throw which forms
Broken Hill’s war memorial. From Monash
downwards no A.I.F. man who has run an
eye over it has suggested a defect in pose,
equipment or figure, and when it is plas-
tered with mud made from dust through
which rain has fallen, it becomes so lifelike
that one instinctively ducks out of the way.
The late Web Gilbert was its maker'.
$ •!>
“FY7”: One of the favorite fictions of
the Outback is that of frogs born in drought-
time which have been drowned when the rain
came at last because they had never learned
to swim. Something very like the hoary
wheeze appears in a recent matter-of-fact
report by a Queensland Land Court inspector
who has been touring the Far West of Cen-
tral Queensland, which has been in the grip
of a drought that hasn’t broken for years. He
officially asserts that in the Boulia country
and adjoining districts there are boys and
girls six years of age who have not “the
slightest idea what rain is. They have never
seen it; they have never heard it.”
$ $ & $
“Carel”: My neighbor in the ’bus was
elderly, fat and garrulous, and as we lurched
along she discoursed, among other things, of
the unattractive qualities of doctors. “They’re
a mean lot,” she asserted emphatically. “Why,
more than two years ago me sister’s baby
was sick at my place and we had Dr. Blank
to it. She left me the money to pay him —
two guineas it was—but me havin’ me hands
full and me husband being out of work, of
course I forgot all about it. Well, only last
week what did I come across but one of his
old bills —he sent in three or four altogether
—and havin’ a few’pounds to the good, and
bein’ tired of me sister always slingin’ off
about the receipt she hadn’t got, I went along
with the money to him. And would you
believe it —he actually took it! Wouldn’t
anyone have thought that after all that
time he’d have told me to keep it for me
honesty? I wouldn’t have gone near him,”
she concluded disconsolately, “if I’d have
thought he could be so paltry.”
DIC MIHI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Let politics to blazes go!
I do not care a jot
If Billy Hughes’s cake is dough
Or Hogan’s bolt is shot.
They fail to wake my noble rage,
In fact they merely bore, .
The gibes that Scullin hurls at rage
Or Bruce at Theodore 1 .
I do not crave to listen in—
The bare suggestion jars—
To Pernambuco or Pekin,
To Marlborough or Mars.
Though Doyle should raise up Adam s
ghost
To broadcast an address
I wouldn’t eat a slice of toast
Or sink a beer the less.
I wouldn’t give a round of drinks
To hear ten divas sing,
Or learn what Mussolini thinks
On this or that—or Inge.
I care not who’ll be next to blaze
New trails across the skies;
Upon the Harbor Bridge I gaze
With cold lacklustre eyes.
Spare to inform me, I entreat,
Of Lauder’s latest jests,
Or who will make the teams to meet
Each other :n the Tests,
Or how the champions that were
Opine the games will go.
For these be things I do not care
A dusty brown to know.
If beef should rise, or wheat, or wool,
Or oil in gushers come
’Twould doubtless be a topic full
Of interest to some.
But where’s the thrill in an event
That doesn’t touch your purse?
I shouldn’t gather in a cent
Or care a tinker’s curse.
Tell me—and I shall be content —
Tell me a humorous incident
That lends itself to verse.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


W.I.U. : Somebody stated in a recent
Bulletin that electric shocks from wireless
receiving sets will not kill. When dust
envelops the Barrier so much electricity is
created by the friction of the particles that
aerials have to be earthed and a pyrotechnic
display is given by sparks leaping three or
tour inches around the set. I know that
such sparks are supposed to be watt-less
and not dangerous, but when the lightning
is spit out with such venom that a non-
conducting mica disc is punctured and metal
electrodes are welded together, as has been
known to happen here, what would happen
if it hit a man on the ear when he was listen-
ing in?
~ * * _ *
Listinsect” : The broadcasting of the Mel-
bourne Cup result established another Aus-
tralian record in world dissemination.
Reports received at 3LO showed that the
names of the winners were clearly received,
not only all over this continent, but also in
Singapore, India and Great Britain. The
daylight range of the station is officially sup-
posed to be 2000 miles, so the ether must
have been unusually complaisant.
* * * *
“Mephisto”: The other night Benjamin
Disraeli, afterwards Lord Beaconsfield, was
broadcasted by 4QG, the Queensland Govern-
ment radio station. The distinguished states-
man of 50 years ago gave his views on cur-
rent topics through the mouth of one of Bris-
bane’s woman spiritualists, who sat- in a
trance before the microphone. He was pain-
fully slow, feeble and hackneyed, and occa-
sionally he made grammatical lapses. After
suggesting that the employer and employee
should co-operate in industry, Dizzy got on
to the subject of oil in Queensland, which, he
declared, will certainly be found. Turning
to politics, he urged electors “in a few weeks’
time to put the right men in the right place.”
He omitted to say, however, who were the
right men.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: One of the worst things an
Australian who has lived in the tropics has
to face, on returning to his native land, is
the Australian conception of curry—generally
ALL THE DIFF. IN THE WORLD.
MERCY: “They’re not much alike for twins, are they?”
PERCY: “Not a bit! Mollie’s good and Gladys good-o.”
mutton stew r into which an explosive com-
pound known as curry powder has been
thrown prior to its being served with pulpy
rice and eaten with knife and fork. The
true curry of the Orient ranges from the
somewhat gross guzzle of the Dutch, known
as rystafel, to the dry curry of India, and it
is negotiated Avith the fingers or a spoon.
Malay curries have their own idiosyncrasies.
One favored in Patani contains, among
other things, toads, red ants and grass-
hoppers. This, however, is only for robust
stomachs. The choicest Malay curries are
best likened to a Beethoven symphony. The
poets of the race have risen to the occasion.
“The Smiling Sarifa and the Laughing Sai-
yid” is a good curry, and “The AVidow
Shrieking at Midnight” isn’t half as unplea-
sant as it sounds. The Malay cook grinds
liis spices afresh for each confection, and as
his country is the original home of spices
he is always achieving new and surprising
effects. The preparation of the rice is most
important, and is not regarded as successful
unless each globule remains absolutely inde-
pendent of its neighbor. No Australian cook
appears to be able to attain to this per-
fection.
* * ❖
“G.F.”: Now that Mr. Justice Piddington
and his colleagues loom so large in the public
eye, it is interesting to recall the first effort
at fixing prices and wages in Sydney. An
official order published in Sydney Gazette
on Saturday. July 31, 1813, and signed by
Ellis Bent, Judge-Advocate; W. Broughton,
J.P.; A. Riley, J.P.; W. Wentworth, J.P.;
and S. Lord, J.P., provided that “from and
after August 1, 1813, only one description
of bread shall be made of such flour as is
produced by taking 121 b. of bran from each
bushel of wheat; the assize loaf to weigh
21b. when cold and to be sold for 71d.” It
was also decreed that masons, carpenters,
joiners, smiths and quarrymen should be
paid 6s. per day of 10 hours; plasterers and
plumbers, ss. 6d. ; laborers, 3s. 61.; cooks,
55.: field laborers, 3s. per week and rations,
consisting of 101 b. flour and 71b. of meat.
* * * *
“Trapper”; The latest invention received
by Sydney Uni. from London is an apparatus
for trapping radio emanations. Hitherto the
precious stuff has been giving away its sub-
stance freely, to vanish into the unknown.
The new gadget stops this. When the radium
particle flies off from the original stock it is
caught by the trap; when the atmosphere
in this trap is of the right consistency it
is drawn out by a vacuum pump and stored
in sealed glass tubes. Though not so power-
ful as the mother radium, the used particles
are quite as efficacious as a used car, and
their recovery will mean the saving of a
great deal of money. It is almost unneces-
sary to add that the trap is the invention of
a Scottish scientist.
■l' ;|{
“Verri” : Maoriland is well provided with
memorials to Cook, natural and otherwise,
chief among them being the Dominion’s
highest mountain, known to the Maori as
Aorangi, while Mercury Bay, Cape Kidnap-
pers, Cape Turnagain, Poverty Bay, Bay of
Plenty and Young Nick’s Head record actual
experiences of the voyage, and Endeavor,
Banks and Solander preserve the names of
Cook’s ship and of two of her company.
Although Cook sailed into the Hauraki Gulf
and named the Thames, he missed the Wai-
temata, now Auckland Harbor, wherefore the
oft-drawn picture of the impression its beau-
ties must have made on the famous navigator
is purely imaginary. Of erected memorials
Maoriland has a trio, at Endeavor Inlet,
Poverty Bay and Ship’s Cove, and an anony-
mous benefactor has just given Christchurch
£5OO for something to commemorate the Cook
centenary. Young Nick’s Head, by the way,
is a tribute to the keen eyesight of Nicholas
Young, the cabin-boy, who first sighted the
shores of Poverty Bay, the first landing-place.
* * * :is
“Gad”: The King has directed the re-’
moval of the remains of certain minor royal-
ties from the overcrowded St. George Chapel
at Windsor. No burial place has ever been
more carefully screened from the public
eye. Here it was that in 1813 some work-
men came upon a nameless coffin, which, on
being opened, was found to contain the
remains of Charles I. It bore, inside and
underneath the pall, “King Charles, 1648.’’
The face of the Royal Martyr was found to
be in a marvellous state of preservation, and
the hair on the head was still thick, save
near the back of the neck, where it had been
cut short to give the executioner an easier
job. The detached head was lifted un and
shown to those present, among whom was
the Prince Regent. Identity being estab-
lished, the head was replaced, and the coffin
soldered down. It was not disturbed again
until the winter of 1888, when the Prince of
Wales (afterwards Edward VII.) privately
visited the vault. The coffin was re-opened,
something w T as placed inside and the coffin
re-soldered. The “something’’ consisted of
some fragments of bone. It seems that,
when the coffin was opened in ISI3 and the
skeleton moved, a portion of the vertebrae
was picked up by Sir Henry Halford, an
eminent physician, who begged the Prince
Regent to allow him to keep it. And as
anybody else’s vertebra was of small account
to the first gentleman in Europe, the permis-
sion was lightly given, and the physician
added the treasure to his collection. It
THE RIGHT WAY UP.
DADDY: “Why do you keep Dick at arm’s length — he’s head over heels in love with
you?”
ANGELA: “Yes, Daddy dear—I know. I’m waiting till he gets on his feet.”
remained in the family until about 1876,
when Sir Henry’s grandson presented it to
the Prince of Wales, who had it decently
returned to the coffin of his ancestor.
* * * *
“Morkrum”: Recently I received a tele-
giam with inverted commas ai: each end of
t 'u h° use - nam ®- R nils, as telegraphists
call them, count as an extra word, and count
ing them in this message was one over tin-
quota. So it is. tapped back the distant
operator when I mentioned it. •loud better
shave off those side-levers.
<iTTI „ ‘ ‘ ~ „
Ula : Touching Cabbage-tree Neds
/,5, e , vlne s 1 70-passenger coach (B.
31/10/ 28), Cobb and Co.’s “Great Levia-
than” was built to accommodate 72 persons
and licensed to carry 75. Frequently it was
known to carry 100. The Leviathan ran
between Ballarat and Geelong in the ’sixties,
and an eight-horse team made light of the job ;
single fare was ss. I have seen a picture
of it taken when it was packed, half the
human cargo being Chinese. It may be that
Devine once drove this coach:
ri * * " *
Bally Rogan : Talking of queer guards
ill the A.I.F. (B. 31/10/’2B). When I was
in camp at Enoggera (Q.) it was discovered
that certain occupants of the boob who
were about to be shanghaied on to a trooper
had not completed the necessary musketry
course. Accordingly, they were marched out
of the birdcage under a strong guard to the
rifle range to fire the necessary rounds.
Every prisoner had ball cartridge issued to
lum before starting but the guard hadn’t
even ajilank cartridge among cm.
((tt " „ m . ~ r
Hamer ; The old ferry-boat Narrabeen,
after being relegated for six years to cargo-
cauymg between Sydney and Manly, is to find
a new sphere of utility in Westernport
; phVin"; Tr '/ "mV C xT ry hobday-makers
to Ihi 111 p Island. The Narrabeen s history
goes back to the period when Manly first
2s. 6d.; and, although that was ‘presently
reduced, the old paddle-wheelers Brighton
Brightside and FairlDht were eTnmnim
craft to travel bv But the arrival in the
•nineties, of the New Manly Ferry Co. was
the si°mal for a fare war which ™ W ri tstlh,
SSSS ?haf for a briefseaSlt
possible to go to Man,ly and back for six-
pence—the one-way fare was fourpence. The
two companies finally amalgamated, but not
before the cheap fares had put Manly on
the map for keeps. '
* v * * *
“P.M.”: Talking of the men in the back
lines in France, “Fleur” (B. 31/10/’2B) says
that “their lives were as safe as if they had
stayed at home.” During the shelling of
Bailleul in 1918 an equipment officer was
packing machinery, with four mechanics, and
had two of his men killed and the other two
seriously wounded; I was working in an
office 30 yards away, and had the tabulator-
bar of my typewriter broken by shrapnel,
True, these things happened but rarely, but
a man dies only once, and my experience is
that the mechanic who was killed by a bomb
or a shell in the back areas was just as
™ ar L aß the man who was killed by rifle-fire,
The fact that a man served in the infantry is
no proof that he was a hero. We had a
motor-lorry driver whose drunkenness and
laziness were a source of annoyance to the
C.O. The orthodox way would have been
to send him back to Australia, but the C.O.
was shrewd enough to see that this was
exactly what the leadswinger wanted, so he
adopted different tactics. He recommended
Mr. Nuisance for a commission in the infan-
try, and his nibs duly arrived in the front line
in time to get in a fortnight’s service and a
slight wound in the leg before the cessation
of hostilities. He now walks with a bit of a
limp—“ Due to war service, you know”—and
it is a hobby of his to make disparaging re-
marks about “back-area soldiers.”
* * * 4-
“Gustave”: Unlike N. S. Wales, West
Australia made certain conditions about the
convicts it was prepared to receive in 1850
(11. 31/10/’2B), and the Imperial Govern-
ment accepted the same. The transportees
were all to be able-bodied, under 45 years of
age, and having at least half their sentences
to run, such sentences having been for not
less than seven years. It was also stipulated
that no criminals of a reckless or dangerous
type or possessed of bad prison records were
to be sent out. Convicts from Irish gaols
were also barred, and so were female offen-
ders. The last two conditions were the only
ones that were faithfully adhered to by the
English authorities,
* * * *
“Mako”: Magistrates hear some curious
pleas for leniency, but the limit was surely
i;eached by a Maoriland offender who asked for
leniency the other day on the ground that
his career of, theft had been entirely unre-
munerative. Among other extenuating dr-
cumstanees (from his viewpoint) he men-
tioned a specific case in which £5OO was
involved that did not return him a penny,
An unsympathetic Bench, after ascertaining
that the unlucky crook had a record of 17
previous convictions, handed him two years
and declared him an habitual,
* * * *
“Jacques”: One frequently reads of a man
who has been seriously injured asking for a
cigarette, but, according to the evidence given
a coroner's court last week, a new note
was struck by a poor devil who had fallen
down a steep flight of stairs in Sydney. When
picked up and asked if he wanted anything
he replied, “Yes. give me a couple of pints
of beer.” He died before it was possible to
get him a drink of any sort,
* * * *
. :‘ < ?': mcnt ?• {CUppe”: Spectacles sold in
' Vb” M/10/’2Bi TTl?'
r • i, n (-4/10/ -8) , nevertheless all the
village patriarchs of my youth bought their
glasses at tli e local store, strewing the coun-
ir W t o t len «» until a
P an to suit. Most of them were avid news-
L aper too i , aTld th T werc
days of can ' leS an(l kero,s< !le lamps,
* * *
“Tamata”: The arrival of a Swed-
ish sailing-ship in Melbourne with half
her crew down with beri-beri is a re-
minder that not so far back the affliction
was looked on as the champion mystery
disease. A generation ago gold-mining
operations in Papua were held up for long
periods owing to the heavy death-rate among
native laborers and carriers from this cans;',
The boys were well fed, and wherever pos-
sible native vegetables were supplied to them,
without staying the scourge. Their chief
food was rice, and the epidemic was at last
traced to the fact that the cereal was not
only husked but “polished.” in the trade par-
lance, to improve its appearance. This polisli-
ing process removed certain essential “ines”
between the husk and the body of the grain,
and opened the door to beri-beri. Unpolished
rice became the order of the day for native
rations, and with this and other minor
changes in the dietary the disease vanished.
YARNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s varns an’ varus” sain mvir tn mo
“an> y TN°> a n L ™ et), 4 ’
A mastin’ mm nio Mint C P m?ta . i
w’ito ’nt tiro C 1 ' lound
An’ I'™ m 4.1 2' • ,
" }. vt ® tales that parsons spin wen
» > f y .+ l * < l° wn ter dine
An yet, it seems, the choicest ones are ones
list past the line.
“rpimvm’c nnn ain „ ,
vmf’vo ’ oa m 'f' nL usetei ave per aps
if ™ „ , ,
® round the myall log ter Bert an
t j. , e a . n Jin P ~ ,
It wuzn t crook, it-wuznt good an some
T , *t call it rot.
It told you why the parson blushed. But
wait an ear the 10t....
“t a ,
m W CrampS Ud
Thmurii uf -A ,
J’,, f ai ? e ,t he tlin S m e maiden aunt ud
T, i , -
mg itn t take where angels sing, so
tt i„ am t ter mine
Un ss theres someone there to tell some
yams jist past the line.
VICTORIA.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
A DAINTY WRISTLET WATCH
OF THIS ACTUAL SIZE
—AND IN WHITE GOLD.
Attractively finished with moire ribbon band and white gold fastener. The
watch has a thoroughly reliable lever movement with 15 jewels, and is
complete with all the latest improvements to withstand hard wear.
e
Guaranteed for 15
years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted)
for 12 months.
Price, £9/9 7 -
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,'*
PLAIN FIGURES. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melbourne University, which has been
offering jobs to Australians with more enthu-
siasm lately, has handed the Ritchie chair of
economics to a picturesque Tasmanian in
C. M. C.
SHANNON,
General Manager
Aus. Bank of
Commerce.
L. F. Giblin. Gov-
ernment Statisti-
cian in that islet
and a first-class
man, as The Bul-
letin can testify.
Son of a former
Premier of th e
Speck, Giblin has
assiduously mixed
scholarship wit h
adventure. He has
been a digger on
the Ivlondyke and a
Digger at Armaged-
don, where he
rose to the
rank of major and
was mentioned in
dispatches. Among
other features of
a varied existence
are a double blue
for Rugby and row-
ing at Cambridge,
and a second in
mathematical tripos
at the same seat of
learning.
Numbered among the political slain is
Elliot Johnson, the only candidate who
described himself as an artist. He was
assistant to his father, a scene-painter at
Covent Garden, before he came to Australia.
Johnson, who first won Lang in 1903, has
had protracted terms as Chairman of Com-
mittees and Speaker. But he hung on too
long, and the Nationalists hadn’t gumption
enough to run a younger man.
John Keatly Forsyth went through Gallip-
oli unscathed only to die of pneumonia while
campaigning as a Vic. Nationalist candidate
for the Senate. Born at Brisbane 61 years
ago, Forsyth joined the Bananaland Mounted
Infantry at 18, and became a staff officer
w r hen the defence forces were federaliscd.
He organised the Ist Light Horse Brigade in
1914 and accompanied it to Egypt as' com-
mander ; but in Gallipoli and France he com-
manded infantry brigades. In 1922 he re-
tired from the C.M.F. with the rank of
Major-General and became secretary to the
National Federation. Besides being a
capable soldier, Forsyth was a warm-hearted
old boy, who got on well with even the
Laborites with whom he was brought in
touch, and it was reserved for Sculliti to
pay the most moving tribute to his memory.
While Vic. Parliamentarians were recover-
ing from the excitement of the Hogan
Government’s defeat, they learned with real
regret of the death of Walter Manifold, who
helped to maintain the best legislative tradi-
tions during the 23 years he was in the Plush
House. Manifold was a lawyer, but never
practised ; his pastoral interests in Vic. and
Bananaland were sufficient to occupy liis
time. After serving as unofficial leader of
the Council he was President for four years,
1919-23. As host, he made his guests envy
his exquisite courtesy and friendliness; lie
had a knack of making them feel their pres-
ence had made him their debtor. The Mani-
fold type is almost extinct in Parliament,
and it is Parliament’s loss.
Rev. Stanley Jarvis, Methodist missionary,
is leading the demand for an inquiry into the
killing of 17 Centralian blacks by policemen
out after the murderers of a white man, and
for a native reservation in that part of the
continent. lie is no limeligliter, and few
know their Australia better. His early
labors as a travelling parson were among the
hardy toilers on a big Westralian construc-
tion job, where the week-end recreations were
beer and two-up. The navvies thought him
the greenest thing that ever came out of
Perth, but they changed their opinion when
they found out how well lie could take care
of himself.
Few shipwrecks occur without an Aus-
tralian on board, and there was one on the
Vestris, the big liner which sank when her
cargo shifted in the Atlantic, drowning 100.
He was W. W. Davies, former Melbourne
journalist and son of a foundation member
of the Bendigo Stock Exchange. Davies is
U.S. representative of La Nacion and other
South American newspapers. Though fully
dressed, he swam to an overturned lifeboat
and clung to it till picked up.
One of the .skirted candidates in the
Maoriland general election was Mrs. Maguire,
wife of the head of Auckland Hospital. At
one of her meetings, noticing that some of
the women seemed more interested in her
dress than her politics, she obligingly re-
volved like a mannequin, and the chattering
ceased. “I should like to see every worker
with his little motor-car,” she said. “More
work for the doctors!” a critic interposed.
“Self interest again.” She didn’t get in.
Tom Shakespeare’s post as secretary to the
N.S.W. Country Press Association —he has
others—-goes to E. W. Brander, who was
next in order of succession. Brander was
practically born into country newspaper life;
his father, who ran the Yass Tribune, gave
him a job as soon as he could carry copy,
and he was an editor at 21. He owned and
edited the Ballina Beacon before he came
to Sydney.
R. Y. Langdon, dead in Adelaide, was one
of the many brilliant engineers who have
come from Australian universities. He gradu-
ated as a mining engineer from Adelaide
Uni. when only 19, and went thence to Port
Pirie, and later to the Golden Horseshoe mine
(W.A.). Then the war came, and Langdon
served with the Tunnelling Corps, winning
the M.C. Going to Malaya, he managed the
Nai Hoot tin dredging co. and the Nawng
Pet, a sluicing proposition. He returned five
months ago, broken in health, to await the
inevitable hour in his own country.
George Judah Cohen, who is rising 87,
bids fair to become Sydney’s most-painted
citizen. The Lambert portrait of the pat-
riarch is hung in the head office of the Com-
mercial Bank; now the United Insurance
Co. has decided to have a portrait on its
own account, and furnish a replica to be
hung in the Royal Exchange. The old mer-
chant-financier has been a director of the
U.I.C. for 47 years, and chairman since 1905.
Passed over recently, at Heidelberg (Vic.),
Emily Mary Stanistreet, whose husband was
the stationmaster at Glenrowan when Ned
Kelly made that town the theatre for his
picturesque exit. Ned and his bold comrades
prepared for the incoming train loaded With
police by tearing up some of the permanent
way; then he instructed Stanistreet to set
the' “all clear” signal. Stanistreet braved
Ned’s threats to shoot and refused to do it.
Ned didn’t shoot him; consequently the
plucky fellow and his family were witnesses
of the subsequent hectic proceedings.
Three Maoriland Ministers lost their seats
in the landslide that dislodged the Coates
Government. The most serious loss is
Alec McLeod. Minister of Lands, the
strongest man in the Cabinet and the Reform
organisation’s chief political engineer; a
United-party candidate. Colonel McDonald,
defeated him for Wairarapa. Frank Rol-
leston. Attorney-General, lost Timaru to a
Laborite; he is a son of the famous “Gloomy
Bill,” of Canterbury’s pioneering days.
Oswald Hawken, Minister of Agriculture, is
a farmer whose political career has been
short and undistinguished. An Independent
put him out.
O. Bartels, dead in Brisbane, was a
famous orchid-grower and naturalist. His
collection of orchids was accounted the best
in the Commonwealth, and his aviaries were
a Mecca for all visiting ornithologists. He
was the first private collector in Australia
to succeed in keeping birds of paradise in
captivity, as well as the great crested Goura
pigeon from New Guinea.
Quorn (8.A.) has just celebrated its 50th
year as a corporate town ; it is also the 50th
year of residence of Bobbie Thompson, who
SYDNEY URE SMITH, chief spokesman
for the artists of Sydney; he is himself
best known for his drawings of Old
Sydney.
has been Mayor for 27 years. Son Bill Thomp-
son, formerly town clerk and now S.A.J.C.
stipendiary steward, was general secretary of
the show, and several other members of the
family were among the 600 old-timers who
shook hands, swapped recollections and
slipped £l2OO into the collection-boxes.
T. J. Coen, a former St. Ignatius (Syd-
ney) student, who gave up doctoring to
take up a musical career, has played his last
piece in Indiana —he had been settled in
the U.'S.A. for many years. He was a fine
pianist and did much orchestral conducting
in Chicago and other American cities. Born
in Dubbo (N.S.W.) 56 years ago, he was
the last of a brilliant trio of brothers. Major
Coen, M.C., and Father Alphonsus, of the
Passionist Order, Marrickville, were the
others.
lan Matheson Edwards, the N.S.W.
Rhodes scholar for 1929, is a many-sided
young man. Coming from Scots' College, he
has taken an Arts course with distinction
at Sydney Uni.; the G. S. Caird scholarship
was one of his captures. He has been a
member of the Uni. XI for two years, and
last season was centre-threequarter for the
’Varsity Rugby side that won the Union
premiership; he was also a member of the
Uni. team when it carried off the inter-
’Varsity athletic championships. As lie is
only 21, the new rule as to the age of
Rhodes scholars in sports at Oxford will not
debar him frqm playing Rugby and cricket.
On top of all that he has a literary bent ;
he is editor of Hermes, the Uni. magazine.
C. J. Danahey was one of those who
cradled the N.S.W. Labor party in the early
nineties of last century, and for a term he
was M.L.A. for Canterbury. Danahey went
to the Boer War with the Bushman’s Con-
tingent. Recently, 71 years of age and
penniless, he asked the S’African War Vet-
erans in Maoriland to negotiate in his in-
terest for some assistance from the N.S.W.
Government, but before anything could be
done he died.
Westralians who knew Hoover in the roar-
ing ’nineties are exchanging reminiscences of
the man who is U.S. President-elect. J. W.
Kirwan, of the Kalgoorlie Miner (now pre-
sident of the Leg. Council), remembers him
as a quiet, thin, badly-dressed youngster who
belied his apparent physical Weakness by
showing a great capacity for roughing it —
his beat extended from Norseman to Lake
Way and from Southern Cross to Lancefield.
Jock Morrison, of Rankin and Morrison,
who was Hoover’s camp-mate, says that,
though reserved with strangers and
strictly t.t., the young man could be
voluble among friends; at times he talked
Jock to sleep. And ex-Premier A. E.
Morgans, who used to be a mining engineer
in Central America, recalls that it was from
Bewick, Moreing’s Perth office, that Hoover
sent a message to a certain Miss Lou Henry,
of California—a cablegram bearing the
words “Will you marry me?” The lady re-
plied that she would; and she will be mistress
of the White House.
J. G. Aikman, sometime M.L.C. and Lord
Mayor of Melbourne, left slightly more than
£170,000, mainly to his son. He made a lot
of it by buying up insolvent stocks of drapery
and selling them at bargain sales —he ran
shops anywhere and everywhere'. And from
the wreck of the liner Australia, which he
bought for a few hundreds, lie harvested
thousands.
Australia has acquired a Chilean Consul,
Don Pedro Pacheco, who intends to make
his job a perambulating one, visiting all the
big centres of population and delivering lec-
tures. One of his ambitions is to see a
regular steamship service between Australia
and Chile. At one time direct passages to
South America could be secured in coal
freighters from Newcastle; nowadays people
wanting to visit Valparaiso or Buenos Ayres
have to go by way of England or Panama.
Herbert Harris, who was a Crown Prose-
cutor in N.S.W. for over 30 years, died on
Friday. He was an Englishman and an
Oxonian, an intimate friend of Barton and
Wise, and a frequenter of the now defunct
Athenaeum Club. He was a sound Prosecu-
tor of the severe but scrupulously impartial
C. G. Wade type, and his judicial mind
coupled with his popularity in official circles
earned him one acting-judgeship after an-
other until 1919, when he retired.
“Rounds”; Chatting with fellow-members
in the Vic. Parliamentary lobbies about
notabilities he had met in or about the
Houses, one of the old hands said he had
seen Pitt, Fox and Chatham. When the
others looked incredulous he explained that
he meant the Under-Treasurer, a former
leader of the Age gallery staff, and an ex-
member for Grenville. “You’re too modern,”
another veteran chipped in ; “I’ve seen Adam
and Cain.” Adam was formerly Age leader-
writer in the gallery, and is now associate
editor of Melb. Herald ; Cain is Assistant
Minister for Agriculture. If he had crossed
the border 30 years ago he might have met
Eve in the N.S.W. Assembly, sitting for
Canterbury.
A distinguished Melburnian will return
to his native town when Dr. T. M. Cherry
takes up the job of professor of mathematics
at Melbourne University in succession to
Prof. Mitchell.
Cherry romped
through Scotch Col-
lege in brilliant
fashion, and then
went overseas to
capture fresh
laurels. He has
done a lot of origi-
nal research, and
each year since
1925 the course of
advanced lectures
on mathematics at
Cambridge has been
delivered by him.
DAVID
GORDON, knight
and M.L.C.,
formerly a
distinguished
Adelaide
newspaper
reporter, now a
mere director of
many cos.—he has
just joined the
board of S. A.
Cheney Motors.
“Sea Nomad”: Dr. Vernon, who is in
charge of the little hospital on Thursday
Island, has about the most polyglot collec-
tion of patients in the Commonwealth.
Whites of many nationalities, Japs, China-
men, Malays, abos., Papuans, Rotomah men,
Tongans—in fact, natives from most of the
Pacific, have been treated in the cool little
wards for all sorts of troubles, includ-
ing little-known “native” diseases, divers’
maladies, stonefish poison and alligator- and
shark-bites. The • engaging “Treacle,” who
gouged the eyes of a shark when his head
to the shoulders was down the monster’s
throat, was fixed up at the T. I. Hospital, and
emerged with a cheerful grin. Dr. Vernon
served in Palestine and neighboring parts
with Cliauvel’s men, and has travelled widely
besides. His father was N.S.W. Govern-
ment Architect; the son is handier with
the pen in writing short stories. And what
material he has!
THE LASTING VISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When last we came by Pozieres the snow
was piling high, , , „
A sodden earth lay desolate beneath a leaden
The shattered walls were crumbling like the
ruined hopes of men.
“Thank Christ,” said one, “well never see
this rotten place again.”
Old pictures darken with the years, and
memories fainter grow,
But still I look on Pozieres beneath its garb
of snow ; . . .....
And backward yet the vision goes, and till
my sight is done
I’ll see another Pozieres beneath a summer
sun.
Old cobber of the heavy days of toil and
agony,
Have you forgotten Pozieres? Can you no
longer see '
The little straggling, broken town that men
had made their goal
Where you and I first found the depths of
man’s immortal soul?
There’s more than miles between us now
and there is more than years,
But still to you, full well I know, that
little town appears.
Still we remember Pozieres, and I remember,
too,
A dawn that came to Pozieres—a dawn you
never knew.
And men have built the town again, and men
will soon forget
The ruined town of Pozieres that we remem-
ber yet.
But should we ever meet again I know
before our eyes
Jf’rom out the ruthless waste of w T ar that
broken town will rise.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Longer Service, Better Service, Cheaper Service
è
These are the three essentials you expect from
your belting equipment—and where sheer effi-
ciency is the goal, the best belting is always the
most economical.
You can instal
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
throughout your plant with the full assurance that it will give 100 per cent, satisfactory
service, provided the right belt is used on every drive. Our expert advice is always at your
disposal.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane ;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HAVE YOU MADE YOUR WILL?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Limited) is specially qualified to act
as Executor and Trustee. Among its advantages are SECURITY, CON-
TINUITY OF MANAGEMENT (it does not die), ACCESSIBILITY (it is
always available to its clients), EXPERIENCE (it has handled almost every
class of asset). Its CHARGES ARE MODERATE.
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman).
Dr. R. L. FAITHFULL.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN.
WALTER T. BRUNTON.
HERBERT R. LYSAGHT.
SHEPHEARD E. LAIDLEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Write For Booklet. Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept.,’lB. .137,816 64 p.c. =105,625 32,191 463,070
Mar., ’19..147,611 8i ~ „ 138,125 9,486 472,556
Sept., ’l9. .130,012 64 „ „ 105,625 24,387 496,943
Mar., ’20.. 159,553 8| ~ „ 138,125 21,428 518,371
Sept., ’2O. .171,642 81,, „ 138,125 33,517 551,888
Mar., ’21.. 155,297 9.37 „ 121,875 33,422 585,310
Sept.,’2l. .206,201 9.37 „ 121,875 84,326 669,636
Mar., ’22. .245,990 124 „„ 162,500 83,490 753,126
Sept., ’22. .247,195 124 „„ 162,500 84,695 837,821
Mar., ’23. .251,395 124 „ „ 162,500 88,895 926,716
Mar., ’24f.673,639 10 „ „ 446,875 226,764 1,153,480
Sept.,’24. .324,978 10 ~,, 243,750 81,228 1,234,708
Mar., '25. . 435,676 124 „ „ 304,688 130,987 1,365,095
Sept., ’25. .404,628 121 „ „ 304,688 99,940 1,465,635
Mar., ’26. .396,104 12J „ „ 304,687 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 12J „ ~ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27. .424,353 121 „ „ 304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 805,475
Sept., ’27. .476,516 121 p.c.=365,625 110,891 916,366
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 „ „ 365,625 124,487 1,040,853
Sept.,’2B. .469,157 121 „ „ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
‘Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund,
fPeriod covered 12 months. Fiji and Maoriland
cos. in process of liquidation. No Sept, balance-sheet
issued.
A sharp drop in the world’s price of sugar
affected the eo.’s earnings outside Australia.
The declared profit from its Maoriland re-
finery, its extensive interests in Fiji and
other investments not subject to Federal in-
come-tax was £209,984 for the half-year to
September 30, or £43,621 less than in the
previous half, when the Fiji production
exceeded expectations. But that shrinkage
was partly offset by an increase of £22,666
in the profit from Australian sources, which
mounted to £259,173; notwithstanding the
fact that the Millaquin co. (whose refinery
was burnt about IS months ago) is on the
market again with its fines. However, only
in the two preceding halves, when conditions
were specially favorable, lias the £469,157
of profit claimed ever been bettered; and, of
course, the 12| p.c. distribution, remained
a comfortable matter, though it called for
£60,938 more than the same rate did IS
months earlier. That was because the re-
serve fund was in eruption in May, 1927,
when £975,000 of bonus scrip was emitted
and fell into shareholders’ pockets in the pro-
portion of one fully-paid £2O share for every
five held.
Since Federation the co.’s record has been
one of unbroken progress. What a wonder-
ful money-spinner the business has been is
plain from the fact that bonus distributions
total £7,325,000. Add £2,425,000 subscribed
in cash, and you get a total of £9,750,000;
but £3,900,000 of that was returned when
the business of the Fiji and Maoriland sub-
sidiary was re-absorbed by the parent after
the war, so the register now totals
£5,850,000. And in addition to the
£1.144,385 of formal reserves shown in the
table there was a replacement and depre-
ciation fund, to which £224,089 was added
during the last 12 months, making it
£1,761,712 at September 30; and the pro-
babilities are that that amount, or most of it,
is true profit. Nor is that all. When the books
were last ruled off there was £2,875,571 in
suspense accounts. These are largely con-
tingency reserves, and it is very likely that
big hunks of them are genuine profit, too.
Also, it can be taken for granted that there
are tidy piles in less obtrusive corners.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
disclosed at September 30: —
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland .. £2,644,816
Sugar mills and plant, etc. —•
Commonwealth . . . . . . 2,345,381
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) . . 1,252,278
Ocean steamers . . . . . . . . 100,000
Distillery .. .. .. .. ~ 114,566
Office premises . . .. .. .. 66,850
Stocks and some book debts . . .. 3,104,274
Other book debts, investments, etc. .. 1,996,830
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. .. 1,065,852
£12,690,847
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors .. £657,637
Suspense accounts .. 2,875,571
Interim div., 1928 . . 365,625
3,898,833
£8,792,014
In order to get the business into better focus,
let us look at the more-or-less liquid position
apart from the fixed assets. The real value
of the latter, of course, is governed by what
they dan earn. At the meeting on November
7 the chairman neatly summed up the situa-
tion in this way :
Any outside liabilities we may incur are for a
short term and are discharged by the sale of sugar
stocks, so that your business stands on its own
feet. It does not, therefore, matter whether the
factories or other fixed assets appear in the balance-
sheet at something under cost—as is our practice—
or, as in the case of 411 important Dutch co., carry-
ing on a similar trade, each factory is put down in
the assets as valued at £l. The point to be borne
in mind is that the capital needed for the extension
of the trade should always be provided by the
shareholders, or from undistributed profits, so that
you may continue to really own this business, as
is now the case.
In other words, if this business for any
reason had to close down, many of the fixed
assets would be worth nothing or there-
abouts; wherefore they should be provided,
not out of share or borrowed capital, but
out of profits made, expended in these works,
etc., and then preferably written off. The
“Wild Cat” congratulates Mr. Knox upon
having a business to run where such a policy
is to a large extent practicable. It doesn't
know many others where such a policy even
begins to be practicable.
The next comparison shows how snug the
position really is :
Sept.,’26. Mar.,’2B. Sept.,’2B.
Liquid assets . . £5,232,917 £6,452,889 £6,166,956
Liabilities . . 3,233,373 3,994,059 3,533,208
Liquid surplus .. £1,999,544 £2,458,830 £2,633,748
Liabilities include the suspense accounts, but
not the employees’ provident and benefit
funds (£35,010 at September 30). Thus,
in addition to a heavy outlay on fixed
assets, including the purchase of a freehold
in Westralia, where a new refinery is being
built, shareholders are visibly £031,204 better
off than they were two years ago.
Although early estimates for the current
season’s erushings have been modified
slightly, mainly on account of the position in
Fiji, the co.’s outlook is still very bright.
The Queensland crop promises well. The
embargo on the importation of black-grown
foreign sugar has been renewed for another
three years, from August 28 last; at the
refineries the technical staff has been able
to save a bit more of the sugar in process,
and further cuts in costs are expected to
follow changes now being made in the plant.
Incidentally, research work is said to cost
the co. over £20,000 p.a. ; it certainly saves
the co. many times that much. But, of
course, it isn’t only the C.S.R. which is doing
research work. Great progress has been
made not only in .Cuba and elsewhere, but
also in the technique of the beet industry;
and the future is likely to hold fiercer com-
petition for the foreign markets, to which
the C.S.R. has to turn in times of plenty.
The market, which sees no cloud in the
sky where this scrip is concerned, anticipates
further fat bonuses, and pays £6O 10s. for
the £2O shares. The immediate return at
that figure is only 3.8 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing amounts to £29
11s. 7d. per share in net tangibles, including
the replacement and depreciation fund. But
on this question of the book value of physical
assets one has to remember the words of
the chairman, quoted above.
The D.I.C.
All Maoriland knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand, Ltd.,
by those initials.
Bonus
Pref. Ord. to Share- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. p.c. holders, serves.
£> £> £>£,£/
1918.. 22,884 7,500 8= 9,357 922 86,343
Premiums on new shares, £52 .. 86,395
1919.. 30,853 7,500 10= 11,708 969 97,071
Premiums on new shares, £43 .. 97,114
1920.. 37,166 7,950 10= 11,766 1126 113,438
Transferred to capital, £59,000.. 54,438
Premiums on new shares, £6O .. 54,498
Loss.
1921.. 6,314 14,784 Nil f 34,400
Reserve additions, £lO9 .. .. 34,509
Profit.
1922.. 19,242 15,000 5 = 8,855 ? 29,896
Premiums on new shares, £ll .. 29,907
1923.. 37,785 15,000 7 = 12,405 ? 40,287
Reserve additions, £149 . . . . 40,436
1924.. 42,823 15,000 9 = 15,977 ? 62,282
1925.. 51,155 15,000 10 „ 17,781 ? 70,656
Premiums on new shares, £6B . . 70,724
1926.. 48,982 15,000 10= 17,802 ? 86.904
1927.. 46,905 15,000 10 = 17.827 ? 100,982
1928.. 42,790 15,000 10 = 17,852 ? 110,920
The D.I.C. runs a chain of retail shops on
semi-co-operative lines, shareholders receiving
a bonus of 2J p.c. on purchases in additiou
to divs. Headquarters are in Dunedin, and
have been ever since Bendix Hallenstein
established the business there 44 years ago:
but the management has built up strong con-
nections in Wellington, Wanganui and
Christchurch, where branches have been set
up.
The trade depression and disturbed condi-
tions that prevailed during the 1927 term
were followed last year by a splendid
season and good prices for all staple ex-
ports. Nevertheless this co.’s gross profit
(£242,915) fell away £10.659; a cut of
£6500-odd in exes. (£200,204) reduced the
drop in net earnings to £41151 Chief cause
was dislocation and disturbance of business
which resulted from extensive rebuilding
operations in Wellington, where the co. is
putting up a fine seven-storeyed building with
frontages to three streets. Since January
last operations have been conducted in less
than half the space formerly available, and
without show windows in the main street.
Moreover, earnings had to bear a good deal
of non-recurring expenses in connection with
temporary arrangements. Turnover else-
where improved, though the public did not
dip into its pockets for its cash and its
lOU’s as freely as was anticipated. How-
ever, the year's result was quite satisfactory.
After attending to the prefs.—they call for
£15,000 p.a.—the balance of the year’s profit
was 15.6 p.c. on the average ord. capital
compared with 17.9, 19.1, 20.3 and 15.7 p.c.
back to 1924.
One factor that helps to make the 10 p.c.
to the ords. a relatively easy matter is that
£250,000 of the £428,549 of paid capital is
prof, money, carrying only 6 p.c. On the
other hand, retail prices have eased of recent
years, while distribution and other overhead
costs have steadily increased. That and
keener competition spell narrower margins,
so the management set to work to liven turn-
over, which may be expected to further im-
prove as additional display and other facili-
ties become available.
Building and other activities are reflected
in balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Pref. capital. . £236,795 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital.. 117,792 178,036 178,337 178,549
Liabilities .. 215,707 93,439 99,326 114,915
Stocks .. 298,073 230,770 213,287 200,934
Book debts . . 91,801 82,178 80,344 80,317
Premises,, plant,
etc. . . 134,834 239,126 226,954 323,266
Investments and
cash . . 176,115 81,606 133,386 75,218
During the year £106,312 was added to the
book value of property and plant, and the
board went outside for only £15,588 of the
money; the more or less liquids were drawn
upon for the balance. Still the financial posi-
tion was comfortable enough. The more or
legs liquid surplus, including stocks, amounted
to £241,554 at Aug. 20. Stocks, which had
swelled to £330,906 in 1924, mainly as the
result of the purchase of two Dunedin busi-
nesses, have been worked down to £200,934;
the reduction last year being £12,353. They
are reported clean and carefully valued, and
much depends upon that.
The market prices the pound prefs. at
21s. The return at that price is 5.7 p.c.;
the backing amounts to 235. 2d. in net tan-
gibles, and last year’s profit was over 24
times their annual requirements. The fully
paid 10s. ords. command a premium of lls.;
at which price the return, after allowing for
the final div. (Is.), is 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 16s. 2d. per share
in net tangibles.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney).
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1918.. 7,516 10 p.c. = 5000 2516 46,907
1919.. 8,386 10 „ „ 5000 3386 50,293
Transferred to capita!, £50.000 .. 293
1920.. 8,437 6 p.c. = 5800 2637 2,930
1921.. 9,528 6 „ „ 6600 2928 5,858
1922 . 14,104 9 „ „ 9900 4204 10,062
1923.. 12,512 7i „ „ 8250 4262 14,324
1924.. 14,025 7i „ „ 8250 5775 20,099
1925.. 14,558 8 „ „ 8800 5758 25,857
1926.. 15,572 9 „ „ 9900 5672 31,529
1927.. 16,333 9 „ „ 9900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 „ „ 9900 3786 41,748
The volume of business handled was a
record, but so were exes. ; hence the year’s
net result shrank to 12.4 p.c. on paid capital
compared with 14.5, 14.1, 13.2, 12.7 and 11.4
p.c. back to 1923. Still the 9 p.c. div. was
in no danger, and unless something unfor-
seen happens there should be a better show-
ing at next balance. Despite the fact that
last year the co. gathered its biggest harvest:
of trusts (£1,160,606), and that more of its
own funds than hitherto were in interest-
bearing securities, the return from interest,
commissions and rents (£52.374) advanced
only £1206, or less than half the previous
year’s increase. Maybe some big business
came into the office late in the term. What-
ever the explanation, the steadily-mounting
total of trust funds augurs well for future
profits.
But what the investor needs to keep in
mind is that the earnings of trustee cos. have
been greatly assisted by the rapid rise in
values of recent years, and this rapid rise
has been due in great part to the lavish
expenditure of loans—expenditure which can-
not be continued indefinitely. The same fac-
tors are reflected in steadily-mounting costs,
and one of the difficulties will be to make
an adequate cut in costs when the loans are
not any longer available on the old scale and
the inevitable slump in values happens.
The next table clearly illustrates the pre-
sent tendency for costs to get out of hand:—
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1923.. 8,001,351 37,182 24,169 65.0 „
1924.. 8,955,624 39,584 24,921 63.0 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1926.. 10,850,424 47,654 31,462 66.0 „
1927.. 11,712,983 51.168 34,235 66.9 „
1928.. 12,873,589 52,374 38,088 72.5 „
The sudden leap in last year’s expense rate
was largely due to a bigger bite for taxation
(£8448, up £1069) ; management charges
(£29,640) were £2784 heavier compared with
an increase of £2581 in the previous year.
Trust and other earnings are not separated
in the accounts, but assuming that the co/s
own funds return an average of 6 p.c., it
looks as though the trust business is bring-
ing in between 6s. Od. and 7s. per £lOO.
Assets are a solid lot: they usually are
in a trustee eo.:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £109,945 £llO,OOO £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities .. 933 4,114 6,662 8,674
Treasury deposit 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages, etc. 26,804 46,144 57,573 73,768
Premises . . 66,271 62,741 62,121 61,521
Sundry debtors 858 393 350 342
Cash . . . . 3,996 23,585 21,781 11,992
Owing to the disappearance of tax-free issues
from the market, and the easier tendency of
interest rates on Government stocks, more
money is now being put into mortgages. The
item, which includes an unspecified amount
of war loan, amounted to 48.6 p.c. of share-
holders’ funds at September 30 as against
23.7 p.c. eight years ago.
Capital is in 200,000 £5 shares paid to
11s. each. The market, which is content to
wait for its benefits, prices the stock at
245. 9d. The immediate return at that figure
is only 4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. basis. The backing
is 15s. Id. per share in net tangibles.
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd.
Towards
Net Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 12,167 15 p.c. = 5,407 6,760 4,050
1919.. 9,760 10 ~ „ 4,000 5,760 9,810
Reserves capitalised, £13,334
7 p.c. Ordinaries. [ 10,102
1920.. 22.059 933 15 p.c. = 7500 13,626 !
Reserves disclosed (approx. £19,300).
Assets written up; two ordinaries issued for
one; goodwill (£5000) disappears.
. To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921. .17,761 | 7* 1’,400 j 6,736 6,736
1922. .53,112 ] pref. *7* ”’’ ( 39,337 46 > 073
Pref. capital returned.
Ordinaries.
1923.. 28.627 Hi p.c.=13,333 15,294 61,367
1924.. 29,735 lli ~,,13,500 16,235 77,602
1925.. 18,225 lli ~ ~13,500 4,725 82,327
1926.. 23.495 Lli ~ ~13,547 9,948 92,275
Reserves capitalised, £24,500 .. 67,776
1927.. 36.354 124 p.c.=18,375 17,979 85,754
1928.. 40.408 15 ~,,22,425 17,983103,737
This co. has had a wonderful year'. It
makes cardboard box, carton and corrugated*
fibre containers. The accounts, however,
do not claim the handsome results shown
in the table. They state the year’s net
profit at £30,408, but that was after a clear
£lO,OOO had been dropped into “specific
reserves,” making them £54,564. A couple
of years back this store was dipped into
for all but £5600 of the £24,500 of bonus
scrip then handed out, and previously sweets
had been provided from the same source. The
“Wild Cat” believes that this accumulation,
or most of it, is a lay-by of genuine profit,
and treats it accordingly.
In fact, it is doubtful whether even then
the £40,408 is the full measure of the year’s
net earnings. Only once has a better figure
been disclosed, and only once in the last
seven years have profits been less than last
year’s 15 p.c. distribution called for. It
included an extra 6d., and then enough of
the year’s takings remained to pay another
12 p.c. To maintain last year’s div. (10
p.c.) and bonus (5 p.c.) total funds at
September 30 (capital and reserves com-
bined) will have to earn only 8.8 p.c. Actually
the return on average funds was 16.5 p.c.
compared with 16.2, 11.3, 9.1, 15.6 and 16.6
p.c. back to 1923. when the position had
grown so comfortable that £20,000 of 7 p.c.
pref. capital, which had been got in only
four years earlier, was returned.
It is only 23 years ago since the enter-
prising James Fielding bought out the
Sydney Cardboard Box Co. for £1650. For
many years he had a struggle to get the
infant industry on its feet. The co. got its
opportunity -curing the war, when costs re-
stricted the use of metal containers. Field-
ing’s, which had spent a good deal of money
on experiment and research, stepped into
the breach with substitutes, and has since
greatly widened and strengthened its con-
nections. American experience and the co.’s
remarkable progress suggest that the indus-
try here has a very promising future. With
protection extended to certain lines, a lot
more capital could be employed.
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows the co.’s comfortable position
and suggests that liberal provision has been
made internally for depreciation and other
contingencies:—
1919. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £40,000 £122,500 £147,000 £149,500
Liabilities . . 51,982 7,529 13,253 8,266
Premises ~ 31,324 51,967 56,068 50,462
Plant, etc. . . 21,230 56,636 51,784 44,568
Stocks.. .. 42,416 25,115 30,045 25,829
Book debts, cash
and investments 19,778 96,133 119,136 151,856
Compared with the previous balance the
book value of plant shrank £7216. despite
additions and alterations during the year,
and £5606 more was written off than was
spent upon premises. Including stocks, down
£4216, the more or less liquid surplus
(£169,419) was £33,491 stronger than it was


SOUTHERN CROSS
OIL CORPORATION, LIMITED
Registered under the Queensland Companies Act 1863-1913.
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - - £300,000
Divided into 600,000 shares of 10/- each.
£lOO,OOO 200,000 Shares of 10/- each are now offered for subscription payable 1/- each on application, 1/- each on allotment, and the
balance in calls of not more than 1/- each at intervals of not less than one month.
£5,000 10,000 fully-paid shares will be issued to the Promoter in terms of the agreement hereinafter mentioned.
£195,000 390,000 Shares will be held in reserve for future issues.
£300,000
DIRECTORS:
MAJOR FREDERICK LIONEL DAWSON, Courier Buildings, Brisbane,
Company Director.
RICHARD MANUEL HORNIBROOK, ESQ., Grey Street, South Brisbane, Contractor.
JAMES JARDINE GRAHAM, ESQ., Childs Street, Clayfield, Retired Manager
Bank of N. S. Wales, Brisbane.
JAMES MAURICE GRAYE-BUCHANAN, ESQ., Ascot, Retired Grazier.
ALEXANDER McKEE, F.SQ., Commerce House, Brisbane, Company Director.
JACOB GOODMAN, ESQ., 264-6 Sussex Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING GEOLOGIST:
H. I. JENSEN, D.Sc., Nundah, Brisbane.
BANKERS:
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS' BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Edward Street, Brisbane. (
AUDITORS:
HALL, CHADWICK & CO., Edward Street, Brisbane.
SOLICITORS:
TULLY & WILSON, London Bank Chambers, Creek Street, Brisbane.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
C. ROSS PATTERSON, Ascot Chambers, Edward Street, Brisbane.
OBJECTS.
The objects of the Company are to acquire for its shareholders individually interests
in Mining and other Companies, but it is not the intention of the Company at present
to engage in Mining operations or to acquire permits >or leases. It is proposed to finance
and perform services for such other Companies and, incidentally, to obtain from them
options over their assets in favor of the individual shareholders of this Company.
Such individual shareholders to be entitled to such options in proportion to their share-
holdings in this Company.
COMPANY OPERATIONS.
The operations of the Company will not be confined to any one State or district. To
date its business has been to negotiate for its shareholders individually interests m
Oil Companies on every defined anticline in the best oil fields, e.g., Roma, Mooga, Amby,
Mitchell, Longreach, Boonali, Lakes Entrance, Victoria, and other areas. The permits
of every area dealt with carry full geologists, reports by the Company s geologists and
other eminent geologists, and are on speci ally-selected strategic positions, adjoining
permits where deep boring is now going on, and in some instances surrounded by
such permits. The executive and administrative ability and technical knowledge or
the Board of Management guarantees the sound management of a proposition with
immense possibilities.
GENERAL.
As soon as the necessary capital is available the Company will commence, in the inter-
ests of its shareholders individually, to finance and to perform services for certain Com-
panies on whose permits Dr. Jensen and other geologists have recommended immediate
deep boring. Others, where geological reports indicate that Geophysical survey can
be employed to advantage, wili be so assisted. The. Directors are giving concentrated
attention under the most expert advice to the selection of those boring methods which
will be at once most effective and economical for each particular area, so that share-
holders may expect results in the very near future. A Company that can secure for its
shareholders individually interests in not only one 'but a large and increasing number
of Companies engaged in active search for oil offers an .opportunity that must com-
mend itself to every thinking investor.
EMINENT AUTHORITIES STATE
“That there is no doubt that there is Oil in Roma Oilfields. It is now to locate it
in commercial quantities.”
Dr. Jensen says: “My own opinions have been definite since I completed my geologi-
cal’ reconnaissance in 1922. Speculating in oil can no longer be regarded in the same
category as gambling in lotteries and betting on horses.” And Dr. Jensen is backing his
opinions by co-operation in having a search for oil carried out on the permit he selected
for himself, “Roma Dome.”
Archbishop Duliig, preaching at Roma, said: “Oil is going to be found in abundance at
Roma —i hope to be able to pay off the debt on the new Cathedral in Brisbane by
the oil from the Mooga Bore.”
Dr. Woolnougli considers Longreach chances for oil equal to anything in Australia.
OPERATIONS TO DATE.
Negotiations are being finalised in the interests of the individual shareholders With
regard to the following: —
1. A Company holding two permits on the direct Roma anticline, adjacent to permits
on which deep boring is now in process.
2. A Company holding two permits on the Amby anticline, of which Dr. Jensen writes:
“I consider these two permits so good that I recommend the formation of a strong Com-
pany to work them.” Dr. Jensen has selected three bore sites on these permits.
(See plan in Prospectus.) . , TT .
3 Two Companies holding three special permits on the Mitchell Forest Vale anti-
cline, one of which is reported on as geologically equal to anything on the whole field,
and a bore site selected by Mr. Saint Smith on this. (See plan in Prospectus.)
4. A Company holding one permit on the Roma-Mooga area, taking in the Karl Marx
anticline and only three miles from the Warooby Boi'e on the adjoining permit
where gas and traces of oil were found by the Public Estates Improvement Branch
in 1912, and one permit removed from Archbishop Duhig’s .53 on the same anticline.
5. A Company holding a permit adjoining the present Longreach Oil Wells area on
which a Bore is now being sunk. The American Driller at present boring at
L.0.W., Ltd., states that the wax forming in the town bore (which adjoins this Com-
pany’s permit) is the same as in the Commodora Bore, Patagonia, where 3000 tons
of oil have been taken daily since 1917.
6. A Company holding one permit on the Lakes Entrance, Victoria, where the Mines
Department is now boring and where crude oil has been actually found. Gas
is burning freely on this area.
NEED FOR OIL.
If oil be discovered on any one of these areas the results for the individual share-
holders in this Company must be enormous, and every area is favorably reported on.
These do not limit the Company’s intentions for operations on behalf of the share-
holders. In the interests of State and Commonwealth the co-operation of the Com-
pany’s geologist has been secured to survey an entirely new field when his present com-
mitments permit. To-day oil is a national necessity. Annually we send over £12,000,000
for petrol out of Australia, and this is increasing with every car we put on the road,
every piece of oil-using machinery we use. Oil discovery would mean the retention
of this money in the country, cheap fuel, cheap transit, the establishment of more
secondary industries, elimination to a great extent of unemployment.
“A STILL MORE VITAL FACT.” —We have no natural oil supply on British soil
this side of the equator, not a gallon of natural oil for our Merchant Fleet, our Navy,
our Air Force, our internal communications if war came in the Pacific. And war has
come before to-day out of a clear sky. It therefore behoves every Australian to see
that keen search for oil is made, money found to carry out the search and an oil
industry established in the known Australian oilfields without delay.
Prospectus, together with plans, maps, diagrams, application forms and full particulars
of the Company’s operations may be obtained from the Secretary, Ascot Chambers,
Queen and Edward Streets, Brisbane, or application may be made direct on the form
here given.
APPLICATION FORM.
To the Directors
SOUTHERN CROSS OIL CORPORATION, LIMITED,
Ascot Chambers, Brisbane.
Dear Sirs, —I hereby apply for shares of 10/- each in the Southern
Cross Oil Corporation, Limited, in terms of the Prospectus dated November 1, and
I herewith enclose the sum. of £ being 1/- per share on application,
and I agree to pay 1/- per share on allotment and to pay the balance in terms of the
Prospectus, and I hereby agree to accept the said shares or any less number that
may be allotted to me.
Dated this day of 1928•
Name in full
Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
Occupation
Address (for service of letters)
Signature
All cheques should be crossed and made payable to the Southern Cross Oil Corportion, Limited, or the
Company will not be responsible for any loss of same. Deposits on any shares not allotted will be
returned in full. * 225.C.0.C.
NOT ONE. CHANCE IN TEN
for the individual shareholders
BUT TEN CHANCES IN ONE
and more as the company’s operations extend.


The White Enamel
that stays white!
Berger’s
ENAMELAC
Hie Whitest of White Enamels
"It Keeps on Keeping" on /"
% ■ " tiiimmi ■ ■ ■ —'. ,-j>— —i. ■
Obtainable Everywhere.
“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth.—A dvt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
4s * *
Portable Spray Painting Units. “The Arnold.”
One operator equals live to ten hands. Australian
made. Write for Booklet “0” to K. W. Cameron
and Co. Inc., 24 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * * *
You can instal Pioneer Wood Pipe and forget it.
Irrespective of the ground conditions or the liquid
you are carrying, it will give you unvarying service
for a long period of years. The knowledge that
Pioneer Wood Pipe is low in first cost and in
installation charges, and is free from all the besetting
evils of metal pipes, is sufficient to justify a thorough
investigation. Our booklet will give you complete
information and is available on request. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
•t * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereag!
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreigi
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * sfc s}e
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
e
B OORD Sl SON
M V LONDON, EMGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
è
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St..
Sydney .
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia')
■412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., EL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT. General Manager V. G. WATSON, Manager.
a year earlier. All the spare money went
into “sundry debtors, investments, etc.”
(£144,187, up £35,714). the greater part of
which is probably making- handsome con-
tributions to the pool. Amongst other things
the item includes the co.’s holding in Cor-
rugated Fibre Containers Pty., Ltd., which
nas been operating in Melbourne since 1923.
Incidentally, Fielding's may not yet have re-
ceived all the profit they are entitled to from
this source.
The market expresses its confidence in the
management by paying 535. 6d. for the
pound shares; a week or so ago they were
at 50s 1 ., and 12 months back could be had
for 41s. At 535. 6d. the return is 5.6 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis'. The visible backing
amounts to 33s lid. in net tangibles, of
which only 12s. Bd. is represented by fixed
assets.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd.
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1922. . £19,640 10 p.e. = £12,861 £6,785 £28,123
Premium on shares . . 10,000 38,123
1923.. 18,501 10 p.c. = 16,911 1,590 39,713
1924.. 23,762 10 „ „ 16,911 6,85 l 46,564
1925.. 28,100 121 „ „ 21,138 6,962 53,526
1926.. 28,989 121 „ „ 21.138 7,85 l 61,377
1927.. 28,757 12) „ „ 22,896 5,861 67,238
1928.. 32,337 12) „ „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
This Sydney co. is in the dry-goods trade, and
it turns out several well-established pro-
prietary lines. Last year prices in the co.’s
raw-material market were not unfavorable,
and, although trade generally was quieter,
groceries and foodstuffs were in steady
demand. So, after setting aside £B5OO for
taxation and £5OO for doubtful debts, the
accounts claimed a net profit £3580 better
than the 1927 figure and equal to 15.7 p.c. on
average capital compared with 15.6, 17.1,
16.6, 14 and 10.9 p.c. back to 1923. They are
healthy results, leaving a comfortable margin
over the 124 p.c. div.
But the full measure of the year’s net
earnings may be, probably is, better than those
ratios indicated. In addition to the lay-by
shown in the table there was a reserve for
contingencies, depreciation, etc. (£87,173),
up £7078, and another for insurance (£5140),
up £390, and some or all of these amounts
may be true profit. If they were all pi-ofit,
then the year’s net result was 19.4 p.c. on
average capital as against 18.3 p.e. and 27.7
p.c. in the two preceding years. It is rather
surprising that the co. was able to show
any improvement at all considering the year's
difficult conditions, which were added to by
the fact that most of the new capital that
was got in (£42,276 over the last two years)
was represented by the new seven-storeyed
building, which was only out of the contrac-
tors hands a month before the close of last
accounts. The benefits of the increased office
and factory space should be felt at next
balance; thus making the 124 p.c. distri-
bution, which is the fourth of its kind, more
secure.
Since the Close of accounts trade generally
has brightened a little, and country orders
are reported to be coming forward in better
volume. Wheat harvesting has begun in the
earlier districts of N. S. Wales, and the
reports from most centres are that there is
more in the ear than the eye reckoned on.
The -shift into the new premises is reflected
in a heavy increase of £32,270 in stocks, and
the addition of £29,807 to the book value
of freeholds. Here are balance-sheet figures:
1922. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. . . £128,607 £202,310 £211,383
Mortgages and overdraft 47,027 20,433 31,074
Trading debts . . . . 17,351 32,636 18,624
Properties . . . . 66,265 110,479 140,286
Machinery, plant, et'c... 59,541 113,589 118,779
Stocks 43,347 48,355 80,625
Book debts ~ . . 32,540 49,093 30,530
Cash and sundries . . 5,285 35,997 8,752
Goodwill, etc 54,517 72,500 72,500
Not a great deal of importance need be
attached to the contraction of £18,563 in book
debts, which was accompanied by a decrease
of £14,012 in the amount coming to trade
creditors. It may be only an alteration in
the method of book-keeping. There is nothing
uneasy in the financial position. At Sept.
30 there were more or less liquids, includ-
ing stocks, totalling £119,907 to meet liabili-
ties of £49,698, including an unspecified
amount on mortgage. The surplus (£70,209)
was £10,167 poorer than at the previous bal-
ance ; but the drain there should ease with
the completion of payments in connection
with the new premises.
The market sums up the position by pay-
ing 395. 6d. for the scrip. After allowing
for the final div. (Is. 6d.), the return at
that price is 64 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div. basis.
Excluding the depreciation, contingency and
insurance reserves, equal to Bs. 9d. per share,
the net tangible backing amounts to 275., of
which 13s. 4d. is in properties and 11s 2d.
in plant.
Salt Domes Oil Co., Ltd.
On this co.’s oil permit, which is in the
Fassifern district, Queensland South Coast,
natural gas has been met in two holes at
461 ft. and 525 ft. respectively. Dr. Jensen
says the area is very promising and well
worth searching. He adds that the lower
Walloon beds, as in the Roma district, are
exceedingly rich in organic matter, and have
all the features of an oil series except actual
oil seepages. The co. intends to put down a
bore to test these beds, which are expected to
be met between 900 ft. and 1500 ft. To raise
the money it is offering 150,000 fl shares,
to be called to ss. The vendor is entitled to
115,000 in paids in the proportion of 7i p.c.
of the shares taken up by the public. There
are 50,000 shares in reserve.
A feature of the present issue is that no
call beyond ss. is to be made except by reso-
lution of the shareholders in general meeting.
Southern Cross Oil Corp.
The capital of this Brisbane holding and
finance co. is in 600,000 10s. shares, of which
200,000 are offered, 2s. down and Is. calls;
19,000 paids go to the promoters and 390,000
shares are in cold store. The idea is to
acquire share and other interests in Aus-
tralian oil-prospecting ventures which the
board considers most likely to be successful.
It is not intended to take up leases and
engage in boring operations. Thus far nego-
tiations are being conducted with five cos.
holding permits on the West Queensland field,
and with one whose permit is at Lakes
Entrance (Vic.).
“Tomac”; Re “Barsac’s” suggestion (B.
31/10/’2S) that the R.O.C. tests should be
made under Government supervision, the later
tests have tdl been so made, and a Govern-
ment representative is constantly on the spot.
The actual result of the recent absorption test
was 8.4 pints per unit. The published re-
port allowed 20 per cent, for a margin of
error, although a subsequent analysis showed
that 2 per cent, would have been a sufficient
allowance. Moreover, the petrol produced is
two degrees higher in quality than that used
by Hinkler in his overseas flight. However,
the natural pessimism of the average Aus-
tralian is such that he will not be convinced
of the value of the Roma field until it is able
to supply the whole of Australia’s petrol
requirements. Then he’ll want to know why
the field was not exploited earlier.
* =!= * *
Mid-Continental Mines, Ltd., and Inter-
State Mines and Petroleum. Ltd., operating
on option permits 82 and 83 and 58 and 59
fit Roma, are examples of economy ' and
expedition. Mid-Continental No. 1 well
started drilling a week or so ago, and the
cost of the plant, believed to be capable of
drilling to 6000 ft., at the time of spudding
in was £3250. Inter-State No. 1 on Block
59 began drilling last week at a cost of
£3OOO.
* =u * *
Importations of South African fluorspar
have hit the struggling fluor industry of the
Chillagoe district (N.Q.) severely. Three
mines out of four have practically ceased pro-
duction because the local price at railhead
now works out at 30s. per ton, which barely
covers wages. The output for the year will
only just get over 2000 tons. The district,
which is rich in high-grade fluorspar, could
put out 500 tons monthly without a strain.
* * * *
The power transition from coal to oil at
the Broken Hill mines may be taken for
granted. Fred Mars, who nursed the scheme
to its present stage, is on the way to Europe
to look into contracts for the machinery.
England, France, Switzerland, Belgium and
Germany are all to be given a chance to
land the job. The Sulphide Corporation
could not wait for the general power scheme,
which has been designed to first serve the
North and South properties and the Zinc
Corp., and has asked Mars, while away, to
watch the assembling and trial runs of its
two 2000-h.p. Diesel generators, which have
already been ordered.
* *
The Tasman and Crown Lyell Extended
co.’s property at Comstock is under option
to Block 14 Exploration Co., an offshoot of
the old Broken Hill Block 14 Co. The
workings have been cleaned out, and at 135 ft.
an ore body 12ft. wide and of good quality
is being developed. A winze is being sunk
to prove the extent of the lode between the
135 ft. and 253 ft. levels. Prospects are
encouraging.
* * * *
Radium and Rare Earths Treatment Co.,
Radium Hill (S.A.), has decided to manu-
facture titanium white paint on a cotnmercial
scale. The co. claims to have a big deposit
of titanium, which, used with zinc, makes a
non-poisonous pigment.
* :i! * *
Arrangements were made some time ago for
the taking over of the New Guinea Gold
and Osmiridium Co.’s properties in New
Guinea by N. G. Goldfields Exploration. The
vendor co.’s shareholders are now urging
Exploration to get a move on, instead of
negotiating with “London interests” (pro-
bably those with whom W. H. Corbould is
connected) to take an option over the shares
on the co.’s Australian register. The idea
behind the last move is a wholesale amalga-
mation of New Guinea leases. A co. with
n eam'tal of £3,000,000 is spoken of for the
purpose.
There was a rush to take up the 80,000
2s. 6d. contribs. recently offered by Mount
Lawson (New Guinea) Gold Lands, N.L. The
promoters collared 18,000 paids; in addition
the prospectors, J. A. Miller and Gordon
Coghill, get 20,000 paids when an area is
acquired for the co. Mt. Lawson is a 0000 ft.
peak on the dividing range between Papua
and New Guinea, and is the source of the
Lakekamu River, a famous Papuan alluvial
field some 18 years ago. The prospectors
in this instance are understood to have
ascended the Lakekamu from the Gulf of
Papua, but whether their find is on the
Papuan or New Guinea side of the water-
shed has not been made clear to the public.
Gold valued from £3 17s. to £4 an ounce
is said to have been taken from the find.
This corresponds with gold values previously
won on the Lakekamu, the Yodda and the
(lira fields on the Papuan side; whereas the
Bulolo and Edie 'Creek gold averages are
worth little over £2, except in one or two
small and isolated patches.
* * * *
Greenbushes tinfield (W.A.), which has a
production of over a million sterling to its
credit, was recently bored by a Government
drill. Sections of the cores contained tin,
but not in payable quantities. Still there
was sufficient to justify the hope that, when
the lodes penetrated are opened up and
stoped, there may be enough of the bunches
of richer ore in them to render the whole
profitable to work. So far the field has never
been properly tested at depth.
* * * *
A London syndicate recently grabbed all
available tin-mining areas at Moolyella, Wod-
gina and Coolgeglong, on the Pilbara field.
Years ago the three centres mentioned pre-
sented vigorous scenes, and a few working
parties of miners still potter about some of
the old claims scratching out a generally
rather precarious existence.
:>c !|! :|s *
Every gold find in the West helps nowa-
days. Recently at Broad Arrow some rich
stuff was dug out of the Oversight and Tara
mines, in which good patches have been
struck in the past. On one occasion a fall-
ing bucket knocked a piece of rock off the
side of a prospecting shaft and exposed ore
to the value of a thousand or two.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Hidden Secret is again being
talked about. Years ago a party of fossick-
ers, mostly Italians, struck a rich telluride
shoot in shallow ground which yielded nearly
£lOO,OOO worth of silver and gold, and then
petered out. Several unsuccessful attempts
were made to find more wealth at depth.
Recently three local optimists decided to
have another try, and now report the dis-
covery of ore similar in appearance and value
to that out of which the original owners of
the property made their rise. The Secret is
near where Paddy Hannan first specked gold
at the north end of Kalgoorlie.
H®
Associated Northern’s Iron Duke, at the
northern end of Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, has
been let on tribute to a Swedish geophysicist.
The Iron Duke had a big lump of the won-
derful Oroya Brownhill shoot and for years
was a big gold-producer. When its section
of the shoot was supposed to have been
worked out tributors were allowed to come
in, and some made fortunes out of what the
co. missed.
jjt '!* •!*
Associated, Kalgoorlie, after working for
years mostly at a loss, is now showing a
small but regular monthly profit. At present
insufficient is being earned to give share-
holders anything, but the position of the
property is such that there is always a
chance of some rich development occurring
that might put the co. again on the dividend
list.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly reports 7ft. of ore in
bottom of No. 4 winze, No. 1 level, New
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.). If the gold
content be satisfactory, the width will be.
Where this mine is in need of develop-
ments is in the bottom of the main shaft
being deepened from No. 2 level. The co.
has about 350 tons of ore at grass, and there
is a public, battery about a mile distant.
The treatment of 100 tons or more of.this
ore would give shareholders a good idea of
the value of developments to date.
* !|: * *
During November a 6d. call will remind
shareholders that McCahons Co. (W.A.) in-
tends exercising its option on the Edna May
Consolidated. The co. will commence its
ownership of the show with a clpan sheet
so far as liabilities are concerned. Early
next year the duty of the treatment plant
will be increased, and then the question for
scripholders will be —is it better to take pro-
fits or hold for divs. ?
* * * *
Brown’s Reward (W.A.) is resuming
where it left off 12 months ago. Previous
to that it occasionally put a crushing through
and made a call now and then. Shoots
worked so far have been good, but too
small and narrow for a co. to make money
out of. Shareholders have received nothing.
An interesting feature of the big deal
wherein Alluvial Tin disposed of a number
of its properties to a London co. for £500,000
cash and a large parcel of shares is that
the buyers were content to accept the values
and boring estimates of the Australian co.
without entering into any arrangements for
field checking or other verification. It is a
fine tribute not only to Alluvial’s reputation,
but to that of Australian technical men.
$ $ $ *
Itawang Concessions was launched by
Alluvial Tin in January, 1827, to take over
from Itawang about 1000 acres of 141 b.
ground. Accounts to May 31 of this year
show paid capital £199,500, and there was
only £1354 coming to creditors. No mention is
made of anything owing on the dredge, which
is an electrically-driven bucket machine with
a monthly capacity of 150,000 c.y., on which
£13,672 had been spent. The property had
swallowed £135,907, and development, etc.,
£2480. A few odd items of equipment were
in at £4609, and there was £44,129 waiting
in deposits and cash. The dredge is not
expected to commence digging until May.
❖ ❖ ❖ sfc
Commonwealth Malaya Tin has given an
extension of option for six months to Malay-
sian Interests, Ltd., which has bored the
area and has taken options over neighboring
areas at Renong (Siam). Commonwealth
Malaya is entering on oil-well drilling, and
is securing an area at Longreach.


Poverty
Point
THE “BACK-TO-BOGTOWN” WEEK OPENS.
“Craiser”: Some idea of the difficulties
confronting production of grand opera can
be gathered from the fact that while the
total attendance on the late J.C.W. season
in all States approximated 250,000, about
half a million paid their duits to see “Rio
Rita” in Sydney alone. Another half-
million should be added in other capitals
and irt Melbourne, where the piece will begin
at the Princess in December, so that four
times the grand opera total should be reached
without a solitary change of bill. Yet to
keep his houses boiling Nevin Tait had to
make about four changes a week.
“Craiser” : The reactions of the Melbourne
dailies to Betty M. Davies’s remarkable play,
"The Touch of Silk,” at the Playhouse, were
interesting. The Argus patronised it, the
Sun attacked it on the moral issue, and the
Age, ever most vocal in supporting the
claims of Australian socks and singlets,
called it “melodrama.” On the other hand,
the Herald devoted three-quarters of a
column to unstinted praises l . The explana-
tion probably is that all the most experienced
critics were busy, as was to be expected, at
the Palace, burning incense to an average
imported English farce comedy. The Herald
notice was written by Hugh Adam, not one
of the regular dramatic midwives, but the
paper’s chief leader-writer and a man of
intelligence. A non-literary verdict is that
of a leading theatrical proprietor who went
to learn the truth for himself. He described
it to me as “no good for the commercial stage,
but not o.nly the finest thing of its sort yet
written in Australia, bat finer than anything
imported for donkey’s years.”
“P.R.”: The tattooed lady, advertised at
Hobart’s recent agricultural show with
posters of a decided Parisian flavor,
brought in a prolific harvest of shillings from
artistic (and other) sightseers. But it
was the last exhibition of the day that
broke all records. It was advertised as “a
special exhibition for married men only.”
The aesthetic-minded fairly fought their way
into the tent, to find the lady arrayed in her
usual rigout.
“Morita” : Next year will see British films
making their strongest bid for popularity in
Australia. Dion Boucicault’s play “Colleen
Bawn” will be here under the title of “Lily
of Killarney”; Compton Mackenzie will be
represented by “Varsity” ; Sir Philip Gibbs
by “Paradise”: Warwick Deeping by
“Kitty”; and Hall Caine by “Manxman.”
Eve Gray will be seen in “The Silver
Lining,” “Moulin Rouge” and “Poppies of
Flanders.” This last has been proclaimed by
military critics the most realistic war picture
yet released.
“Goldilocks” : The Tom Katz saxophonists
have established a Sydney Tivoli circuit
record by giving 204 performances within
months. The purely Australian combina-
tion has beaten to a frazzle all the expensive
jazz bands the Tivoli has imported; and it
was started by accident. A billed artist
failed to turn up, and one of the orchestra
was brought up from his pit to fill a gap
with the saxophone. He got such a good
hearing that next week he was on the pro-
gramme, and the following week starred.
He suggested the band, and it was an in-
stantaneous success. It is to go on now
to South Africa and England.
“Craiser”: The Bulletin Show-man’s
excellent review of Gregan McMahon’s per-
formance of “Rutherford and Son” (7/11/’2B)
reminds me that the drama has been part
of the stock-in-trade of Australian repertory
societies as far back as I can remember, and
therein, I fancy, lies a reason for the languid
public interest in amateur theatricals. What
is McMahon doing pottering around with
Rutherford and his dour family when plays
like O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude” remain
still to be vouchsafed us? O’Neill’s method
in this play is quite unconventional. The
new psychology is put on the stage, but
dramatically, not pseudo-scientifically. The
old-fashioned Shakspearean soliloquy is re-
stored, but so changed that it would not
know itself. Read, the play is enormously
effective, and it is exasperating to think that
we may have to wait another decade to know
how it works dramatically. It has already
had a long run in New York to crowded
houses.
“Whitehall”: Miles Mander, the film direc-
tor, said the .other day, apropos Britain’s
first talking film: “Nothing will convince me
that the English will tolerate, this device.”
But nothing is surer than that they will, and
that millions sterling will be lost by movie
magnates in consequence*. Restless science is
constantly engineering these catastrophes. In
Britain up-to-date cars, in collaboration with
up-to-date roads, are playing the devil with
railway dividends- —as a preliminary to fall-
ing down on some of the essential services
performed by the railways. So it will
almost certainly be with the talkies.
Immediately the pictures start to talk, their
chief interest will disappear, for millions
of Indians, Chinese, Japanese, Javanese,
Malays, etc., who are addressed at present
in a perfectly intelligible language.
“Senior-Constable Flannigan”: I have
heard a great deal about this Mb. William
Shakspeare and how he knows all there is
to know about mobs. Indade. now, and I’d
like to have a few words with the gossoon
who first said ut! Consider this Roman
mob for an instant —the wan that voted
J. Csesar in power just previous to the
worthy gintleman’s assassination. Does that
mob behave like a reasonable mob? It does
not. First you see ut goin’ to the Capitol
barrackin’ loudly for Mark Antony and
clamorin’ for the blood of his guilty mur-
derers. Then Brutus gits up in the Forim
and no sooner does he throw forty lines of
blank verse off his patrician chest than it
starts cheerin’ him and howlin’ for the
gore of the opposition. Then Mr. Antony
upends himself, spits on his eloquince anil
comminces to point out the manifold virtues
of his inimies, meaning to be sarcastic.
What does the mob do? It starts yellin’ for
Antony and demandin’ the ’earts and plucks
of his political opponents. Now, did the
miners go to Mr. Bruce’s meeting at Won-
tliaggi longin’ passionately to hear a reas-
oned statement about the cryin’ national
need for cheapen coal? They did not.
They wint to heave chunks of it at
him. Did the Labor mob go to Docther
Page’s addresses ’oping to be converted to
the dire necessity for saner unionism? They
did not. They wint to t’row iggs at him.
Did the mob o’ capitalists attend Mr.
Scullin’s rallies, burstin’ to learn the trut’
about the crool enslavement of the prole-
tariat? They did not. The stayed at home
writin’ letters to the Abgus prayin’ that
the counthry might be spared the horrors of
Bolshevism. No, take it from me, Mr. Shaks-
peare may have been a gr-reat dramatist,
but he was never on police duty at an
election meeting!
“W.EIF.”: Miles Maleson, whose “Four
People,” a three-act comedy, will be Sydney
Playbox’s last offering for this year, goes
back to the Elizabethan tradition in that
lie learnt his stagecraft as an actor 1 . He
first appeared with the Liverpool Reper-
•torians in 1912, and next year faced a
London audience at the Royalty. In “Four
People” he uses the old, old triangle, but
has knocked it into a square, in which a
scientist and a man-about-town, a young
actress and a leisured lady get themselves
into a very “modern” emotional maze.
“O. Kay”: “Huffin-Guffin’s” moving-pic
ture which he claims to have viewed in Aus-
tralia before 1882 (B. 7/11/’2B) must have
been crude, to say the least. Edison came
to light with his kinetoscope (a crudity) in
1891, when other inventors were in the field
with rudely-fashioned machines, but it was
not until 1895 that moving pictures (films)
were any way successful. In that year
Lumiere introduced his cinematographe, and
this type of bioscope was the first, with any
semblance to worthiness, to come to Aus-
tralia. A fellow-Frenchman brought a
Lumiere to Sydney in the year of its intro-
duction, and he exhibited films for the first
time in this country. Soon afterwards, in
the same year, this same bioscope was used
by the American sleight-of-hand vaudevillain
Carl Hertz, in Harry Rickards’s Opera House,
Melbourne. “Huffin-Guffin” probably saw an
exhibition of toy-slides, each having a num-
ber of scenes —moving pictures, true, but not
motion films.
“R.R.F.”: Despite “Heard Off” to the
contrary (B. 7/11/’2B), Gregan McMahon
was the first to stage Arthur Adams’s “Mrs.
Pretty and the Premier” in Australia. He
did it in Melbourne on September 26, 1914.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : A revival of
“The Constant Nymph” provides the latest
vehicle for the fine giijts of Jean Forbes-
Robertson. Edna Best made a great success
as “Tessa” when the play was first pro-
duced, and it was only recently withdrawn
after a long run. To follow closely a fav-
orite actress in an original part of which she
has made a success is a very trying ordeal,
especially in London; but Jean took the
house by storm: after the second act the
enthusiasm was overwhelming. The Daily
Telegraph remarked that, “alone of all our
younger actresses, she has the Heaven-sent
power of exalting everything she touches.
Beside her all the other characters in the
play dwindle.”
“M.G.S.”: A great ballyhoo is being
kicked up in England at the moment over the
speaking film. It is excitedly contended that
owing to. the superior beauty and purity of
the English accent Hollywood will lose her
supremacy and all future films be made in
the Cold Land. Granting that the English
accent is as pure and beautiful as English-
men believe, the logical reply is that Holly-
wood can buy the best English elocutionists
just as she has hitherto bought the best
English actors. It is Australia that will
have to look to herself if the flamboyant
claims made for the speakies justify them-
selves. The struggling Australian industry
cannot afford to import foreign actors, and
the Australian accent, however acceptable in
field or street, does not appeal to an Aus-
tralian theatre audience. Practically all
the radio announcers in this country use
Oxford English when on duty, whatever they
employ in private.
“A.E.G.”: London has recently ex-
perienced something new in the way of
anonymous donors. The anti-war play, “The
Enemy,” at the Strand, so appealed to
someone that he weighed in to make all
seats free for one performance. The first
• applicant secured the Royal box.
“L.H.P.”: Billy Russell promises the
panto. “Dick Whittington and His Cat” for
Christmas at the Sydney Opera House. The
legend has been twice used already at this
theatre, Carrie Moore and Amy Rochelle
being the previous Dicks. Billy Le Brun was
the cat in the second outburst, but Stiffy
and Mo were the real draw. Dan Thomas,
who wore the skirts as Dame in the first
• show, will don them again this year.
THE TALKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“It is suggested [in England] that the new talking
films will result in British producers and performers
cornering this branch of theatrical enterprise, the
English voice being the most beautiful in the world,
whereas the Hollywood article is admittedly hideous.”
Watch out, you Hollywood sylphs aud
sheiks.
You two-gun stalwarts and two-piece stars!
You can pose and gesture like ancient
Greeks,
You are gods and goddesses out of cars,
And in them, too; but your accent jars,
Your way o’ pronouncing wakes a pang.
Wliv, even a visitor from Mars
Would shudder and shy at your Yankee
twang.
The movies set you on dizzy peaks,
You were queens o’ the screens, you were
filmland czars,
But these talkies, eh? When a fellow speaks
And not dumbly woos or frivols or spars?
Smoke this, you Mixes, in your cigars,
Try it, Mary Minters, with a meringue:
Your reign is ending. Your voice debars
And your frankly horrible nasal twang.
You were well-enough birds with tight-closed
beaks.
When mute as milestones or calendars
You won panegyrical critiques
And revelled in eulogistic pars.
Nightly you thrilled the regulars,
Film fans a-million your praises sang;
But your wines would turn to vinegars
If we heard yon speak with a Yankee twang.
There are scowling foreheads and paling
cheeks
Where Hollywood heads their casts har-
angue.
For the talking films are the latest freaks
And how will they muffle the Yankee
twang?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. 0. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the ev<mt of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond King”
Royal (com. Saturday) . “On Approval”
Ciuteiuon “The Patsy”
Empire “A Turf Secret”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Royal (com. Saturday) “Interference”
King's “Cheating Cheaters”
Athenaeum “The Family Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
Fritz Hart placed another laurel on his
smiling brow on Saturday at Melbourne
Playhouse with a generally meritorious pro-
duction—for the first, time in Australia—
•of Mozart’s “Cosi fan tutte.” At first sight
it is a trifle hard to understand why the
piece had to wait for Fritz to put it on the
amateur stage, instead of, say, Nevin Tait
putting it on the commercial boards. It is
a cheerful thing; the equal, if not the
superior, of a score of others that turn up
in the grand opera repertoire as regularly as
the fish-vendor on Fridays. A light, bustling
comedy of intrigue, it puts no burden on
(lie musical or dramatic digestion. It is full
of the inveterate melodiousness of Mozart,
and it contains numerous lyrical purple
patches for prima donnas, for any of which
a Toti dal Monte would be only too pleased
to take a dozen curtain calls and a couple
of tons of flowers and chocolate creams.
* * * *
The trouble about it as far as the Nevih
Taits are concerned is that it was written
before the star system came into vogue. It
contains two parts for leading ladies, each
of equal importance, and two parts for male
principals, each of. the same bulk. The
Nevin Taits are discreet people who prefer
a quiet life and have no desire to be torn
to pieces by braces of Italian tenors or bitten
to death by rival queens of song. “Cosi” is
a simple, unsophisticated play which lacks
the barnyard throb the Italians put into
music. It concerns an elderly, interfering
don who for a wager induces two affianced
officers to test the constancy of their several
ladies by ostensibly going off to the wars,
to return, immediately inadequately disguised
as Albanians. In due course each lady trans-
fers her affections to the other’s lover, the
NELLIE DEAN, wearing her gossamer raiment daintily in
“Good News.”
final reconciliations being postponed until the
composer has given a further and somewhat
unnecessary demonstration of his ability to
invent variations on an already well-exploited
theme.
* * * *
The two leading ladies fell a trifle short
of the girlish vivacity demanded by their
parts, though in this respect the distance tra-
versed by Mary Hotham, the small mezzo,
was not as great as that covered by Mary
Kingston, the tall soprano. Both are pos-
sessed of powerful voices, and showed a
patriotic ambition to advertise this sunny
land as conducive to good lung development.
Meryl Holliday, as their maid Despina, con-
tributed some sympathetic acting to the gen-
eral fund, and exercised a smaller vocal
organ with a larger art. Alban Whitehead,
the possessor of a big, bulgy bass and a habit
of standing as if he were under the shower,
and Clifford Creighton, the guardian of a
pleasant tenor, were two unmilitary lovers
who parked themselves about the stage
according to directions. Lennox Brewer, as
Don Ferrando, looked young for a venerable
cynic, but gave an intelligent performance.
The excellent chorus had not much to do.
Mozart died before the merits of the Austra-
lian chorus were generally known.
* * *
Is there anything in the way of theatrical
curiosities quainter than Allan Wilkie’s Shak-
spearean productions, notably his “Othello,”
at Melbourne Princess? His band of heroes
gives you every variety of acting, from tlie
tuppence-colored romantic to the penny-plain
realistic. Dennis Barry’s Cassio is by Beau
Geste from Ethel M. Dell, yet when he puts
an enemy in his mouth to steal away his
brains, his imitation of a drunk could not
be bettered by the most noted exponents of
the golf clubs. Hunter-Watts’s Desdemona
is as mystical as a fairy queen in a panto.,
while the Emilia of Lorna Forbes is a
thoroughly normal person thrown into awk-
ward situations by the machinations of a
mystery-play villain-husband. The lago of
Alexander Marsh gabbles his lines and fol-
lows convention. On the other hand, Wilkie
presents a Moor in the grand manner, though
suffering from inefficient elocution. Never-
theless, the mixture, queer as it is, is re-
markably effective. “Twelfth Night” turned
up on Thursday, the seldom-heard “Measure
for Measure” on Friday, and Saturday was
reserved for the Prince of Denmark.
* ¥ *
The supreme test of a pianist’s ability is
probably Beethoven’s “Appassionata.” There
are longer and more tortuous pieces, but
none more full of technical gins and pitfalls.
Even Paderewski usually threw a few wrong
notes into it, possibly through irritation at
having to play it so often. Young Cher-
kassky’s rendering at Melbourne Town Hall
last week appeared to be note-perfect. It
was also a fine exposition of musical light
and color. The tremendous background to
the picture should be physically beyond the
powers of Shura’s small digits, yet he com-
passed it in a fashion that could only be
described as masterly. The four concerts
announced proved
insufficient to meet
the demands for
the infant prodigy,
whose cherubic
smile will now be
available on two
further occasions.
* *
The mystery of
“The Ringer” was
reintroduced to
Melbourne Royal
patrons by Maurice
Mos c o vitch on
Saturday, and
scores of people
who find beyond
them the effort to
mark a ballot-
paper correctly
bent their intelli-
gence to the task of
picking the fantas-
tic desperado from
a multitude of con-
radictory clues.
The Edgar Wal-
lace bag of tricks
was no more con-
vincing in its latest
presentation than
in the first, but
George Blunt’s
'phone conversa-
tion with the lady
who wishes to re-
port the loss of a
Pekinese remains
as rich a piece of
comedy as ever.
But “The Ringer”
is essentially
humorless, and the
most humorless
item in it is the
spectacle of the
serious Moscovitch
lavishing on the un-
real part of Maurice Meister the realism
that would be in place in a performance of
Shylock or Othello.
* * *
In a setting as frigid and uncongenial as
a spinster iceberg—that is to say, the
Sydney Town Hall platform—Xenia Belmas
sang her way gamely through a long list
of operatic arias last Thursday night. Her
voice, for a soprano, is curiously rounded and
rich, though it does not hold well on the
upper register, where she tends to sacrifice
tone for fervor. She is an enthusiastic
striver after dramatic effect; a singer who
puts feeling before everything. She inter-
preted the spirit of her music so well that
even the background of bare and ugly tiers
of empty seats could easily be overlooked.
Her endurance also is remarkable: “Ritorna
vincitor,” from “Aida”; “Tacea la notte,”
from “II Trovatore” ; “Voi la sapete,” from
“Cavalleria Rusticana”; and “Mi chiamano
Mimi,” from “La* Boheme,” she sang with
scarcely a breath
between them, and
the second half of
her concert was
quite as heavy and
quite as comfort-
ably carried off. Dr.
Alexander Kitchin
did more than
merely accompany
the lady well; the
glares he gave the
audience for enthu-
siastically ignoring
his closing touches
after each song
added some quiet
but necessary com-
edy. It was neces-
sary ; a Belmas
concert has one
fa u 11—it is too
much of a Belmas ;
too much of a much-
ness.
* *
A better-balanced
show, and one that
drew a great crowd,
was Angelo Min-
ghetti’s second fare-
well concert at the
same address on
Saturday night.
The idea of peop-
ling the intermin-
able tiers lent some
color to the dreary
platform, and Min-
ghetti, who sang
just enough to
ma k e the crowd
clamor for more,
was provided with
breathing spaces
while Ernest Tru-
man played some
organ pieces;
Frank Hutchens
(whose style re-
minded this Show-
man of Phil Mead
working himself up
to hit a one)
played his Stein-
way attractively,
and Louise Hayes
(Madame Min-
ghetti), not-so-very
dramatic soprano,
translated “Mighty Like a Rose” into
straight English and sang sweetly, enough
several other little things of the kind that
Dame Melba probably had in mind when
she did not say “Sing ’em muck.” Ming-
hetti’s operatic items included “Un di,” from
“Andrea Chenier” ; “La Fleur,” from “Car-
men” ; a serenade, with violin obligato by
Vincent Asprey; and “Ah, F'uyez!” from
“Manon.” He contributed personally to the
variety by trying a few English songs with-
out conspicuous success. However, his “La
Fleur” and “Ah, Fuyez!” were more than
good enough to make that unhappy experi-
ment insignificant.
* * *
The reappearance of those representative
Australian citizens Stiffy and Mo, after an
exile of some months in Maoriland, packed
Sydney Fullers unusually tight on Saturday
when Nat Phillips (the nom d’ordinaire of
the immortal Stiffy) presented the usual
combination of vaudeville and revue. The
latter, entitled “The Huntsman,” is calculated
to make the late lamented Mr. Jorrocks
revolve rapidly in his sepulchre; seeing that
Stiffy and Mo figure as the Huntsmen. Amy
Rochelle’s fine voice managed several opera-
tic selections with Peter Brook, while the
Radio Six provided some attractive dancing.
Sadie Gale, the principal comedienne,, was
prevented from appearing by an accident.
The vaudeville turns included, in addition to
those already cited, the Terry Sisters, Jack
Kelleway (disguised as “Erb”), Dan Well-
don and Dan Dunbar. Bertini’s Stars of
Syncopation provided the inevitable jazz ele-
ment without arousing any indications of
homicidal mania in the audience.
¥ ¥■ %
Sydney Tivoli, which for a long time has
clung faithfully to its reputation of being
the one downright vaudeville house within
coo-ee of the Harbor, has at last gone the
way of filling in half its programme with
revue. The Midnight Follies, who, led by
Clem Dawe, have tickled the fancy of the
Bananaland capital with great success, are
the purveyors. Their show is bright and
airy, with plenty of fun in it. The Tiv.’s
variety is always pretty good, but this inno-
vation, limiting the other turns to four or
five, should even improve it.
To-night (Wednesday) Sydney Empire,
which seems to have been scratching aD
in an endeavor to find out what its cro^' < , s
really do like, and has given some pat -
work programmes meanwhile, is vepummg l .
picture and vaudeville bill with A -tmv
Secret,” a three-act musical comedy wmen
boasts a cast of 40 or so. After to-morrow
night Leon Gordon carries his “\y hue
Cargo” out of the Royal, and tw r o nights
ELSIE PRINCE, whose vivacious personality is just now
brightening Sydney St. James.
later the Vanboucicaults enter into residence
there with the Frederick Lonsdale comedy.
“On Approval,” for what is billed as their
final season. At the moment the Palace is
merely a hoarding for J.C.W. poster’s, but
“The Family Upstairs,” at present squab-
bling in Melbourne, will bring it. to life again
in another week or two. “Good News” looks
set for a fair score at Sydney St. James, and
“The Vagabond King” is drawing the crowds
it deserves (and needs) at Her Majesty’s.
‘‘Chicago,” the Playbox’s best attraction to
date, ends next Wednesday, and from Decem-
ber 5 the Macdougallites will break with
weekly routine by running Miles Mallison’s
“Four People” nightly for a week. At the
Grand Opera House, where there is talk of
pantomime invasion shortly, “Bertie’s Cave
Woman” continues her industrious wooing.
The cardboard-and-strings movie of the
Russian revolt called “Tempest,” which has
been rather lucky to run for a few weeks
at Sydney Prince Edward, gives way on
Friday night to the picture “Two Lovers.”
It will be supported by a strong-looking bill
of stage items. The Regent has lately given
up trying to get runs out of anything, and
changes its pictures and variety acts weekly.
The pictures for this week are “Love” and
“Bare Knees.” “The Legion of the Con-
demned” is still running at the Crystal
Palace : the Capitol has “The Big Killing” ;
the Haymarket, “Huntingtower”; the
Lyceum, “The Wright Idea” and “Into the
Night”; the Lyric, “Ramona” and “The
Wright Idea”; Hoyt’s De Luxe, “Wicked-
ness Preferred.”
# * *
A Cabinet Minister, a flapper, a parson,
a country storekeeper, a newspaper director
and 18 barmaids have asked this Showman
if he had seen “The Patsy” at Sydney Cri-
terion, and urged him not to miss it. Irene
Homer is the most fascinating piece of mul-
tum in parvo in femininity Sydney has seen
for a long time. Moreover, she can act, and her
leading fault —speaking too low —is at any
rate preferable to the voice that stabs through
the head like a chain of forked razor-blades.
“The Patsy” is now in its seventh week, aad
the J.C.W.’s are whispering loudly of taking
it to London.


“STONEWALL”
SHOES FOR MEN
m
Walking Boot.
81208.—1 n High-grade Black
Calf, Crepe Rubber Welted Soles,
30 1-
Postage, 1/-; Interstate, 1/8
Write Desk B for catalogue.
JACKSON'S C?
STONEWALC stores
CnrPihhf.Goalburn S¥ Sydney
e
Jhe purest tobacco only ,
wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made <<c Che Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for gd. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Keystring”: Mention by “Murrungurry”
(B. 24/10/’2B) that the abos. Quirian and
Dimon were concerned in a murder on Bonalbo
THE DISEMBARKATION.
NOAH: “Now where on earth did I put those two ladybirds?”
(N.S.W.) reminds me that many years after
the murder I went there as “spare boy” with
some bullockies to get cedar from the Hay-
stack scrub. We had been told that for a
few bob and some tobacco Dimon would show
us plenty of.timber. One of the men took
me with him when looking for the abos.’
camp. Dimon’s gin was the only person
visible. “Where Dimon?” my boss inquired,
but the lady asked: “What you want that
pfella? You boliceman?” “Baal, only look
out cedar-tree,” my man replied. This seemed
to satisfy the old girl, and in reply
to her loudly-yelled “Nyeh,” Dimon appeared
from some brush near the camp. Although
years had elapsed since the murder, he still
held the belief that the police were after him,
and was rarely seen in the open. When we
met him next morning to go cedar-hunting,
the old sinner objected to one of the bul-
lockies carrying a gun, and we had to pacify
him with an extra plug of tobacco. I noticed
that the man with the firearm kept behind
Dimon all day. We heard afterwards that
no white man who knew Dimon would allow
the black to walk behind him in the scrub.
“Apex”: Golfers in TJlulah Park, Mary-
borough (Q.), recently saw a black swan
swimming in the lagoon attacked by a huge
fresli-water eel. The swan battled gamely
for its life. Several times its graceful neck,
with feathers ruffled in anger and surprise,
was drawn beneath the surface of the water.
Only once did the powerful bird succeed in
gaining mastery over its adversary, when
it lifted part of the body of the eel out of
the water. But it was only a momentary
victory, for the creature, tightening its coils
round the bird’s neck, drew its head again
and again beneath the surface. The swap’s
death calls attracted its mate from the far
end of the lagoon, but assistance came too
late. It was a tragedy, for a wild swan
that loses its companion never mates again.
:i: * *
“Breed”: In the latter part of 1911, when
I was punching cattle down the Birdsville
road, two of the plant horses strayed. The
country for miles around was composed
of gibbers, and the growth of Mitchell
grass made tracking almost impossible for
whites. Our two abos. failed to pick up
the tracks, and the boss in desperation
was for going on. Somebody for a joke
and to rile the abos. suggested getting a
gin. The boss took the hint and, riding
over to a near-by camp, enlisted the services
of the youngest, who for promises of flour
and tobacco started out at daylight and
within two hours guided the boss and one
of the abos. to where the prads had followed
a gully. The rest was easy and we used
the pair that night on camp.
*!• * # *
“C. Coral”: An old sextant carried by
skipper Dick Reynolds, of the trader Aramia,
running between Thursday Island and Papua,
has a history. It carries the inscription, “Pre-
sented to Michael Reynolds for his skill and
exertions while in command of the whaling
brig Maid of Erin, April, 1859,” and be-
longed to Dick’s father, Who on the occasion
referred to saved the ship and her company
by superb seamanship. The brig was wrecked
some 20 years later off Tasmania, and her
figurehead, recently dug out of the sand,
now adorns the exterior of a Hobart curio
shop.
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTOOD PHILANTHROPIST.
CONSTABLE: “This gent says he caught you picking his pocket."
PICKPOCKET: “What, me? Gor blime, no! I was only seein’ if his wife had give him
a letter he’d forgot to post !”
“Murrungurry”: “We were raftin’ logs at
Big Hole,” said Joe, “an’ had one ready
send down the slope when Abe spotted out
a junk of wood about half-way down that’d
been dislodged from the scrubby side by the
last log. We held on while he jogged down
the shoot, but just as he’d removed the
obstruction the log slipped away from us an’
bounded down as if it had a special mission to
flatten out poor Abe. Seemed to whiz round
an’ jump more’n any other log that ’ad rolled
down that skidway. We let out a yell, an’
he shot one look at the revolvin’ horror,
then shifted slicker than I’d ever seen Abe
shift himself before. There bein’ a bank an’
thick brush on each side of him, he rushed
straight down an’ dived in the river; an’
that big cedar plunged with a mighty splash
fair on to him. We took our hats off, an’
was thinkin’ of the old mother that he kept
when he was sober, when up lie popped as
right as the log, ’cept he was lookin a bit
sick. He said the log ’ad struck him on
the soles of his boots an’ drove him like a
pile to the bottom. He always reckoned that
his bluchers, actin’ as shock-absorbers, saved
him from bein’ telescoped.
* -i: * *
“Mullarula”: I know something about the
force of returning boomerangs, having been
nearly orphaned by one when a
child. My father was explain-
ing to some visitors from the
city how the weapon came back,
and threw one into the wind to
demonstrate. Seeing it return-
ing more truly that he had ex-
pected, he told the visitors to
get under cover of the verandah,
and did so himself. When the
boomerang sliced through the
iron roof as if it had been
brown paper it missed his head
by inches. In spite of the dam-
age to the iron there was hardly
a mark on the edge of the
weapon.
“Gooramin”: Two notable places on the
Darling Downs are Eton Vale and Harrow.
At first the whole territory was one huge
cattle-run, taken up by Arthur Hodgson,
afterwards Queensland Premier and K.C.M.G.,
who named it Eton Vale because a penknife
on which the name Eton was engraved was
picked up on the run. The knife had pro-
bably been dropped by Allan Cunningham’s
party, for Pat Leslie, the first Downs squat-
ter, followed Cunningham’s tracks, and Hodg-
son followed Leslie, going farther on. Sub-
sequently Ramsay became part-owner of Eton
Yale, and when the run was divided between
them Ramsay called his half Harrow.
Another of the early bunch who became
Queensland Premier and a knight was Hugh
Nelson, who commenced as a jackeroo on
Eton Vale. After his pastoral apprentice-
ship he took up a run in the same locality
in partnership with Watts, M.L.A. Watts
was the man who declared that the Darling
Downs would never grow a cabbage. If he
could only see what they are growing to-day!
“Pfella”: That big station in the North
where Binghi won’t pinch live mutton when
the chance offers (B. 17/10/’2B) makes me
shake my head. The honor system has been
tried with the blacks many times in the
nor’-west of W.A., but it never turned out a
success. Niggers can’t understand why a
handful of whites require such large flocks,
arguing that the sheep are multiplying afl
the time while their owners remain the same
in numbers for years. Though in most cases
the breakdown of the system could be ascribed
to the action of white game-shooters, it was
always pretty certain that Black Brother
offended first. You can’t beat a nigger for
cunning in his native bush.
si: * * *
“Dulya”: The Alsatian wolf-hound may
not be as black as he is painted, but isn’t
it time the breeding of all such crosses was
stopped? They’re all nuisances. Take the
kangaroo-dog. These queer animals, a cross
between a dog and a ’roo, are notorious
sheep-killers and also have a taste for
green's. They hop on to my crops from my
neighbors’ farms at night, and besides eating
quantities of the growing wheat they sweep
down bushels more with their thick heavy
tails whenever they turn round. A horse
was recently badly gored near here by a
bull-dog, and tlie poms, kill so many lambs
each season that the prosperity of the coun-
try is endangered. There ought to be a law.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: The blue barracouta is a
sober, calculating fish, which refrains from
rushing open-mouthed at the shoals of pil-
chards that often appear in Port Phillip
and thereabouts. ’Couta picks a good sample
and chases it relentlessly until near enough
to bite off its tail. Left helpless, the pil-
chard is then leisurely assimilated. If the
barracouta be caught and opened soon after
he has finished a meal, his victims will be
found methodically stowed away like sardines
in a tin —the heads all one way, the tails
mutilated or missing.
WITH MB ELBOW ON THE COUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m driftin’ down the Terrace, an’ I’m
suckin’ at a fag,
An’ me feet are sore as blazes, an’ me
collar’s like a rag,
When I meet old Paddy Nolan, who was. lost
the same as me,
Like a bit of wreckage driftin’ in a silly
sort of sea.
An’ we quick forget the city with its never-
endin’ roar,
An’ old Pat an’ me are makin’ for the
spinit’ex once more,
We forget the tootin’ motors, an’ the
scramblin’, rushin’ mob,
With our elbows on the counter an’ the
barman on his job.
An’ we knock round Meekatharra, an’ we
cut across to Cue,
An’ we go out past The Finish, where we
know there’s somethin’ new.
An’ we wink at one another —we’re a
knowin’ pair of men
With our elbows on the counter an’ the pots
filled up again.
An’ the motors keep on tootin’, an’ the
crowd goes rushin’ by,
But old Pat an’ me don’t heed them as we
tilt our pewters high,
We are dodgin’ other perils, we are after
bigger game,
With our elbows on the counter an’ the
curt command “The same !”
Maybe there’s no perfect pleasure in this
world where most is wrong;
Of the many I have sampled there were
few that lasted long,
But I get the nearest to it that I, ever yet
have got
With me elbow on the counter, an’ a cobber,
an’ a pot.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


PEAPES
0 lot he men AND their sons.
It is at the busy time before
Christinas that one most appreci-
ates the quiet, unobtrusive service,
the apt suggestions, the leisurely
peace of buying at Peapes’.
There one may choose, under ideal
conditions, every holiday neces-
sity for men and boys, or gifts
certain of appreciation.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artelVs comes from Cognac only .
Martell's for Age and Quality.
MARTELL S -
BRANDY
rua
FRANCE
Stockmen!
f J UuJc 'tyomJcUs
fftMtAccfalt. Cu/iSon
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, and 99-101 Eagle Street,
Bridge Street, Sydney, Brisbane.
“El V”: A newly-adopted ordinance com-
pels the natives of ex-German New Guinea
to wear shirts, but I have my misgivings as
to the success of this reform. For quite a
long time the female of the species has been
compelled to wear a blouse. She appears to
put it on at the legal age and retain it till
death steps in. As the first years after her
investiture are years of growth, there is soon
a strip of unclad Mary between the bottom
of the blouse and the top of her nether gar-
ment. : so that it is easy with a little experience
to calculate her age from the width of the
exposed region. The general effect is a lot
more indecent than nakedness.
*s*
“S.T.S.” : The western extremity of Kan-
garoo Island (off the S.A. coast), which is
a wild-life sanctuary, is now the home of
five duck-billed platypus, imported from Wyn-
yard (Tas.L The Flora and Fauna Board
of S.A. paid the expenses. Lyre-birds are
now being sought for.
"Eureka”: Numerous instances have been
related where men have- cut off a finger that
had been bitten bv a snake. To do that is
both foolish and dangerous. Amputation is
no more effective than scarification of the
area, and while in the latter process there is
no danger the amputation of a
linger may result in death from
bleeding. In any case, lingers
are valuable; and there is
always the possibility of a false
alarm. Recently on the N.S.W.
South Coast a man found after
he had cut his finger off that
what had bitten him was a bull-
ant.
£ # *
“Mundowie”: A scheming old
sundowner was Owen Barkfeet,
who got his name through
tramping into Hay (N.S.W.)
with pieces of gum-bark lashed
to his boots for soles. Some
drovers there sent the hat round,
and next morning Owen departed
in new bluchers. He had been
genuinely hard up on that occa-
sion, and had worn his old boots
through on the hard roads; but
thereafter he canned the wrecks
about with him, and when
approaching any place where lie
was likely to find sympathy he
put them on, with new bark
soles, and rolled his good pair
in his swag. That went on for
six months, by which time Owen
had scored four pairs of boots. ,
One he swapped for a new shirt
and a decent hat, and another
for a pair of trousers. Unfortu-
nately he stuck to one circuit,
and ultimately landed among
some men who had previously
helped him. “Look here, Bark-
feet,” said one, “you’ve played that game too
far. Yon clear out or you’ll get some bark
on your head.” Then, that same afternoon,
another old hum named Belar, having noted
Barkfeet’s success, dropped in, similarly
shod. Five minutes later he was dropped in
the river.
* * iji £
“Meum et Tuum”: The most beautifully
grained and most durable of Australian tim-
bers is the pear-tree that grows on sandy
spinifex country in the Maranoa (Q.). I
have seen a 20-year-old table made from this
tree, and it beats silky-oak or maple in
appearance. Used for the tail and fans of
a windmill, it has given good service for over
10 years, and looks good for another 10.
TEE REAL PROBLEM.
“What do you think your poor wife is going to say when she sees you in this state?”
“I know, Father, what she’s going to shay (hie), but queshion ish what’m I going
to shay?”
DAD’S HANDICAP.
OLDEST INHABITANT: “Aye, I’m ninety-nine. Dad, died when he was one hundred and six
But he smoked. I doan’t.”
“GumbLegubbin”: Some hard nuts are
met on the waltzing tracks of Matilda.
Daddy Pintpot, a Dawson River squatter
who always handed out a pannikin of flour
to travellers, used to tell of one who called
on him for rations and gave him a shock
from which he never recovered. When he
had dipped up the usual pint measure and
stopped, Hardnut exclaimed: “’Ere, you
dunno -how to dip up flour. Lemme show
yer.” Grabbing the pannikin, he dipped
201 b. into his bag in half a minute. “There,”
he said, “that’s the way to dip up flour!”
And swinging the bag across his shoulder
he was gone before Daddy had recovered
his breath. As the old gentleman carefully
shut down the bin-lid, he muttered: “The
last! The last!” and last it was.
* x * #
“Up North”: The evolution of the abo.
fish-spear during the last thousand years can
be seen in three'*months’ travel in the North.
Some of the inland tribesmen, not much more
than intelligent animals, use a sharp-pointed
stick as a jabbing spear. More advanced
tribes use a one-pronged spear, the tip fire-
hardened and sometimes barbed. The barb-
was a great invention, but the coastal tribes
have advanced so. far that they have almost
entirely discarded barbs on their fish spears
for a good reason. The next step forward
was the two-prong spear, which doubles the
chance of impaling a fish. The next step,
the three-prong spear, achieved almost per-
fect efficiency. The prongs are 18 inches
long, of smoke-hardened hardwood. Finality
was reached on the coast with the four-
pronged spear, which gave a slightly surer
balance to the weapon and a steadying effect
on the aim. It is now the universal fish
weapon. A five-pronged spear has been tried,
but it balanced badly.
* # * *
“M.M.E.”: How do crows conceal their
nests, and bow and where do they teach
their young to fly? I have lived for some
time on the fringe of Westralia’s jarrah
country, where birds are numerous, and I
have come across the nests of many different
varieties of birds, and spent many a pleasant
half-hour watching proud parents teaching
their young to fly. But never has it been my
lot to see a crow’s nest in the district, nor
to see a young one learning to use its wings,
though crows are plentiful enough.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : Chinese remedies are not
to be sneered at. Many out-back mothers in
the early days blessed Ah Sin when a white
doctor wasn’t handy. A Chow was always
available, and he generally thought out some
remedy and put the sick child on its feet.
I once witnessed a surprising cure on a far
Nor’-Westralian sheep-station. Word was
brought in from an out-fence that the bon*
dary-rider was dying in his hut, cau:*
unknown. When the yellow cook heard tbs
news he hurried un the midday meal an;
asked me to drive him to the sick man.
Before climbing aboard the old buckboard In
dug up some half-shrivelled yammish-looking
things from his old cane basket and signified
his readiness to go. The rider was bad —so
bad that I had already decided where to dig
his grave. But the Chinaman smiled at my
fears. He made various slits in a yam and
filled them with a white powder taken from a
straw husk out of a cane-wrapped case.
Placed on a billy-lid, the inside of the yam
dissolved into a dark green liquid, which the
cook emptied down the neck of the patient.
Two hours later the sick man was on his
feet making us a billy of tea. I learned
later he owed the cook a fiver.
* * * *
“Selma”: Is this memory or arithmetic:
On a Maoriland farm during the last dry
spell an old mare was used to draw a tank
on a sledge to a spring, where the tank was
filled by means of a bucket. Fifteen buckets
filled it. Directly the 15th was poured in
old Polly started for home. To test her the
bucket was one day only half-filled each
time. At the 15th splash Polly was off.
Then another time a long pause was made
between the two last buckets. She waited
patiently, but as soon as No. 15 arrived
she was off like a shot.
* * * *
“J. Vincent” : Two swaggies, one a new-
chum on the track, the other an old hand,
started out from Bathurst, making west.
Everything went well till they reached a
large station beyond Nyngan. It was the
newchum’s turn to word the station-owner.
He got a knock-back. “I don’t believe you
tried at all,” sneered his mate on his return.
“I’ll try them.” Whereupon he made off for
the homestead. Arriving at the kitchen, lie
found no one there, but sighted a large pie,
which he seized and made off with. Rejoin-
ing his mate, he exclaimed: “Look what they
gave me!” They made short work of the
pie. "Now,” said the old-timer, “you will
have to take the dish back.” And the new-
chum could never understand why the sta-
tion cook put the dogs on him when he
thanked him for the pie.
*•* i’fi
“Boronia”: The blowfly, despite its bad
reputation, often does valuable service by
cross-pollinating fruit-tree blossoms. Much
of this is normally performed by bees, but
in unfavorable seasons, when forest blossoms
are scarce, their numbers are greatly re-
duced owing to starvation. When this
occurs blowflies get on to the job.
SONG OF THE NIGHT SHIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are they that are married to the spell-
wife, Night,
To the dark road, and the deep shaft;
Bed and board betraying, and the warm, lit
hearth
For the cramped skip, and the steep shaft,
The dim slope, and the pick haft.
We are they that are handfasted to the
Night.
Our womenkind are patient. Would it serve
them else?
(Does thy love weep? Is a lass fair?)
We are men that are married to an old,
old love,
With her low voice, and her cloud hair
That is trailed smoke. And she waits
there.
“Bid you love a lass, and leave her,” says
the Night!
We are sturdy folk that serve her as our
fathers did.
(Do ’ee fear, lass? Set thy lamp so!)
There be vigils kept a-plenty while the dark
wears on,
And the gates click, and the feet flow
Down the long road.... and the men
go
There be vigils—oh ! a-many—to the tramp
.... 0f... . feet!
(Shall us see, Loard, light o’ morning any
more ?)
S.A.
MADGE R. O.


i
/ jiJJLUiIi j |Ui^l
MjIA
IX iloi lilli ly au v
Vf'.p.T*.
JL%sjl IX L V4L I IVyVJL % J
X,\
w
e
Miss ZILLAH BATEMAN, a beautiful Rexona Girl, who appeared
with such marked success in the drama Interference at the
Theatre Royal, Sydney, writes: “Rexona Soap stands alone as a
Skin and Hair beautifier. 1 use it exclusively.
Two
Charming
studies
of
Mins
ZILLAH
BATEMAN
Si
mM
Jr ■* -
imam
I-
• : .V
*
1
*
[[so Onli[ Mom Soq>
NOTHING adds to a girl’s charm and beauty more than an
exquisite skin and perfect complexion. To obtain this and
to retain it there is nothing to equal Rexona Soap. If your
skin is sallow, tanned or blotchy, you will be both surprised and
delighted with the good results obtained from the daily use of
Rexona Soap for the toilet and bath. Eight out of every ten women
in the better walks of life have adopted Rexona Soap for their
personal hygiene and know there can be no real beauty without a
clear skin and a perfect complexion, and it is only by daily and
continuous use of Rexona Soap that the bloom of youth can be
retained even until, and past, middle age.
w
e
lijmjaCfpiip i|)pa|^jaf
ch>o§ tmov^v


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
w
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, MX.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS £/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
114-120 CASTLEREAqH ST. SYDNEY qi§
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
'Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing '4'les
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS HOTEL WINDSOR CR PARK & CASTLEREGH [?] SYDNEY
WHEAT-GROWING UP TO DATE.
“Glenfield” : “P.M.” (P>. 31/10./’2B) has evi-
dently never seen an up-to-date wheat-farm,
or he wouldn’t say “the nearest the wheat-
grower gets to hard work is when he sits
on his implement and dreams about his imagi-
nary grievances all day.”
I’m a wheat-grower in the Mallee. Pic-
ture me entering my office next the cliaff-shed
at five o’clock on a winter morning. I make a
mental note that the caretaker has not run
the electric vacuum-cleaner over my costly
Axminster carpet, then I seat myself in my
padded armchair before a huge switchboard
and press one of many buttons, and pull a
lever. Immediately a bell rings, and eight
fine Clydesdales come galloping to the stable
from a paddock a mile away. The lever
lias placed in the manger of each horse a
feed of chaff in tabloid form. While swal-
lowing their concentrated food, the horses
are automatically groomed and harnessed.
On pressing another button on the switch-
board, a waggon appears loaded with bags
of superphosphate and ready-pickled wheat.
The horses, knowing their work, attach them-
selves to the waggon and pull it to the fallow-
paddock. As I chew the end of my half-
crown Corona I watch through a periscope
the team harnessing itself to a self-oiling
and self-filling drill, on which is fixed a
wireless-receiver set and loud-speaker. Into
the transmitter at my elbow I whisper “Get
up,” “Gee off” or “Whoa.” Harvesting and
fallowing are done on the same principles.
The days of sitting on the implement and
dreaming belong to that forgotten era when
man was the slave of the soil.
If the season has been a good one; the
bank manager rings me up to say that he
has written off the debts of the past two
bad seasons, including the overdraft, so that
I can devote the proceeds of this year’s crop
to “luxuries and comforts beyond the wildest
dreams of the ordinary wage-earner.’’
I may add that the fag of repairing sheep-
proof fences is now entirely eliminated. We
grow frozen mutton. With the advent of
the new research farm about to be estab-
lished in the Mallee we are hoping that a
breed of self-sowing and self-harvesting
wheat will be evolved. That will eliminate
the need for any supervision.
THE USEFUL TRACTOR.
“Silentio” : My next-door neighbor had one
of the best teams in the district, but could
never get all his cultivation done. If he
let anyone else handle his horses he knew
they would spoil them, so he had to fall
back on contract work, and found that most
unsatisfactory. So in disgust he bought a
tractor. He can keep the machine going
all day, and his 13-year-old son gets on
the seat at half-past four, when school’s out,
and keeps on till dark. At daybreak the
other son, 15, does a bit before he goes off
to school. Call it child-slavery if you like,
but the boys revel in it, and Dad pays them
a man’s wages for their time. They are too
young to handle a team of horses, but they
manage the tractor as well as the expert who
brought it to the farm. For the last three
Sundays the tractor has been doing duty
with the harvester. All the wood is cut
with it, and when required the chaff cutter
is switched on, too. All the work Dobbin
did, and a lot more, is done by the tractor,
Since my neighbor bought it he has put an-
other 50 acres under cultivation. Another
farm a few miles off had 200 acres under
the plough when horses were used. When
a tractor was bought 60 acres were added to
the cultivated area.
NITROGEN AND THE SOIL.
“Hatter”: Nitrogen is the most important
element necessary to plant growth and the
most difficult to control. No nitrogen means
no growth ; too much in proportion to other
foods conduces to rank growth of flag and
leaf, which are liable to “burn” in hot weather
and to “lodge” in storms. Nitrogen is chiefly
a stimulant to what might be called the
digestive functions of a plant, enabling it to
absorb nourishment to the limit of its capa-
city. When phosphates and other food sup-
plies are scarce the plant, to appease its
hunger, absorbs an extra amount of carbon,
always available in the atmosphere, and con-
sequently runs to leaf. When there is an
adequate supply of proper food an excess of
nitrogen does no harm, but is merely waste-
ful. Experiments at Rothamsted (England)
with wheat resulted as follows:—
Nitrogen. Yield per acre.
None. 18,3 bushels.
43 lb. per acre. 28.0
80 „ „ „ 37.1
129 „ „ „ 39.0
172 „ „ „ 39.0
A certain amount of nitrogen is always
present in. the soil owing to the decompo-
sition of humus or animal matter, which
transforms the ammonia into soluble nitrates.
A certain amount also is carried down by
rain, particularly after thunderstorms, but
for good results these supplies must be
augmented. Nitrogen is applied in the form
of ammonia and nitric acid, commercially
known as sulphate of ammonia, and the
nitrates of soda, lime and potash. Sulphate
of ammonia is not suitable for soils con-
taining much lime, nor should it bo mixed
with Thomas’s phosphate (basic slag), which
contains free lime. It is very powerful in
its action, but since it has to undergo nitri-
fication in the soil it is less speedy than
nitrate of soda, which contains nitrogen in a
direct form and may be mixed with lime.
When nitrogen is supplied in the form of
organic matter, as in blood manure, the
bone meal used in conjunction should be
very finely ground, otherwise the phosphates
required will not be available in time. Blood
and phosphatic guano is a better combina-
tion, as the phosphates in guano are twice
as rapid in action as those in fine bone
meal.
The cheapest and most satisfactory method
of supplying nitrogen is by green manuring
with leguminous crops. Legumes have the
faculty of absorbing nitrogen from the air.
They do not need nitrogen in the soil, but
require phosphates, lime and potash, which
in this family, in contrast to other plants,
stimulate a hunger for nitrogen. Practically
barren land, treated with phosphates, lime
and potash, will, with an average rainfall,
yield a good crop if a suitable legume be
chosen. After this has been fed off to stock
the residue should be turned in to supply
humus and nitrogen to the soil. Then, if
the land be again suitably manured, a grain
crop of good quality may be taken off it.
White and red clovers are suitable for good
land: crimson and alsike for poorer patches;
peas for medium loams; vetches and beans
for clays'; sainfoin for poor calcareous soils;
yellow lupin for sandy patches deficient in
lime, and white lupin for heavy loams. The
nitrogen stored by these means is gradually
released and does not force growth as chemi-
cals and blood do.
NIGHT REAPING.
“Grandchester”: With the approach of
the annual monsoonal rains and their
accompaniment of wind, thunder- and hail-
storms, those in charge of Gatton (Q.)
Agricultural College started getting in the
College’s considerable crop of wheat, and to
save time worked on the cutting by night
as well as day with the aid of electric spot
lights carried on the machines. The idea
is one that might commend itself to the
average farmer. The question of the extra
cost of night work will intrude, but the
greatly improved chance of saving the crop
should offset this.
WHEAT WITHOUT FERTILISER.
“Agronom”: In discussing Mr. Tonkin's
wheat crop that won the competition at
Moree (B. 7/11/’2B), prominence was given
to the fact that he used no fertiliser. This
omission of fertiliser is all right in the
fertile north-west of N.S.W., but farmers
in other parts of the State can’t safely
follow Mr. Tonkin’s example. The Riverina,
south-western slopes and western-district
soils are, as a rule, deficient in phosphoric
acid, and therefore respond to the use of
superphosphate. The lands along the south-
ern border are most deficient, and wheat
in some places cannot be grown without the
use of super., but as one goes north the
deficiency becomes gradually less until, in
the western districts, only light dressings
are needed (401 b. to 501 b. per acre), and
in the North-West there are soils, usually
heavy, which arc so well supplied that no
super, is needed. Even there some of the
country needs super, in small quantities to
get the best results.
NABAWA WHEAT.
“Valerin”; In the south and south-western
N.S.W. crop competitions the Westralian
wheat Nabawa has been very prominent.
It promises to be an excellent yielder, and is
practically immune from disease. Whilst
all other varieties showed in varying degrees
the ravages of flag smut, Nabawa proved
highly resistant, and this is the more remark-
able because both its parents —Gluyas Early
and Bunyip—-are very susceptible to this
disease.
CATCH CROPS FOR COW-COCKIES.
“R.X.8.” (writing from Burradoo, N. S.
Wales) : Cabbage and peas are the best
catch crops for the dairy-farmer. With one
eye on the market and the other on the herd,
cabbages, which must be grown in rotation
with peas, are a profitable proposition. Being
an all-tlie-year-round crop they provide a
handy cheque when the market is good, and
excellent and cheap feed when prices are
low'. Peas, too, fetch a paying price in
season and provide excellent feed tor cows
and pigs.
The best cabbage to grow is Henderson’s
American Succession. Prepare a seed bed,
and scatter the seed through a tea-strainer.
Choose the strongest seedlings—those show-
ing a bluish tinge in the leaves—-and snip
off the thinnest part of the tap root and the
tops of the leaves. To get the best results
cabbage land should be well ploughed and
thoroughly pulverised with the roller and disc
harrow. Open a furrow with a 12-inch
mouldboard plough and sow fertiliser (a
prepared fertiliser will give better results
than super.). Then come back with the
plough and close the furrow. On the next
trip drop a seedling at each step, or every
three feet, and on the return, plant it. Just
poke your finger into the ground, drop the
seedling in, close the earth around it with
the fingers and draw a circle around it with
one finger. That is to hold the cupful of
water you must give each plant before you
knock off work. A 100-gallon tank on a
sledge is the easiest, way of getting the water
along. After that the crop needs little atten-
tion if the land between the rows is kept
open, but it pays to chip around each plant
with a hoe once in a while. Two men can
do an acre a day comfortably.
The “fly” is the only pest the cabbage-
grower need fear. It is the grub of the
cabbage moth. Dusting affected plants with
tobacco dust when the leaves are wet with
dew will end the trouble, which will only be
present before the plant hearts.
Cabbages for market should be cut in the
early morning with a small meat-chopper.
About 350 will go to the ton, but they are
sold by the dozen. If you are sending by
rail give the stationmaster notice in ad-
vance, and he must provide a louvred van
for you. Choose a corner of the van and
put the bottom row with hearts up, and the
rest on top with hearts down.
If you intend to pick peas, give first pre-
ference to Greenfcast and next to Richard
Seddoh. Cut chaff-bags in halves so that
each holds two bushels, or 501 b. If the
sample is right the price will pay you. and
the sample won’t be right if it includes
immature pods, so empty each picker’s buc-
ket and examine the contents before you
bag the peas. If you are not growing the
peas with an e.Ve on the market, any kind of
pea or vetch will do. Broadcast the seed
and harrow it in, and if you are not short
of feed, turn the whole crop in when the
pods are flat, and save the cost of cabbage
fertiliser next season.
FOOD VALUE OF SILAGE.
“Paul C.”: I helped to cut out and feed
lucerne and maize ensilage to 60 cows that
were put in a 40-acre paddock practically
bare of pasture. They were given as much
silage as they could clean up twice a day.
They had abundance <of pure water and
plenty of shade. Their milk yield increased,
their cream test improved, and the cows kept
in good condition. As it was necessary to
continue the feeding for a month only, I
would not claim that cows could be fed
indefinitely on silage alone with satisfactory
results. Stock need variety to properly
balance the ration. But cows will milk
well and 1 keep healthy longer on silage alone
than on hay alone, for dry hay causes com-
paction.
Evidence that silage is suitable fodder for
sheep is given by W. E. Taylor, of Parkes,
N.S.W. He writes: “I commenced to feed
1000 ewes in lamb in the middle of Febru-
ary at the rate of half a ton of silage
per day (barely 18oz. per sheep). They were
running on about 800 acres of stubble, wirh
no grass or herbage. The silage, with plenty
of salt lick, kept them in good condition for
about six weeks, when a rainstorm of about
40 points destroyed the stubble altogether.
I then increased the ration to 21b. of silage
and ilb. of maize or wheat per sheep per day.
The ration was given up to the end of June.
The sheep did fairly well and dropped 50
p.c. of lambs.”
LUCERNE FOR GRAZING.
“Deejay”: In far too many districts
lucerne is grown only for hay; yet it is
suitable for grazing, and should do well on
much poor country that is at present
neglected. With care it.can be stocked safely
most of the year, and will carry more head
per acre than any other pasture. The land
should be worked as finely as possible. If
the whole paddock cannot be ploughed, try
the most likely patches. Let the plant get
a stand before grazing, and it will give at
least five years’ good service. In the spring
a good harrowing will soon result in new
growth, which some farmers prefer to save
for hay-making. This crop is generally
pretty clean, and from then on it can be
used for pasture. Care should be taken to
see that in a dry time the crown or heart of
the plant is not eaten right out.
Dairy cows should be allowed a few hours’
grazing daily, but not when the lucerne is
wet, because that causes “blowing.” For
lambing ewes, fattening lambs or topping-
off for market, lucerne stands alone, and it
isn’t difficult, if commonsense is used, to pre-
vent the plant being eaten out.
On a Queensland farm, where the owner
has spent weeks in hand-planting, in rough,
hilly paddocks, the carrying capacity of the
land has been doubled. Might up the side
of the mountain he has worked up areas,
limed them well, and got a growth equal to
that on his best fiats. By this system none
of the stock got too much lucerne. When-
ever this farmer clears a new section or burns
out a stump, he plants lucerne, and he
reckons that eventually his pasture will be
all lucerne, and his stock so used to it that
no damage will result from feeding on it,
wet or dry. I have seen that farm in many
dry spells, and the stock always look in
good condition. The quick growth of lucerne
after rain makes feed long before the natural
grasses.
SHEEP ON THE N.S.W. SOUTH COAST.
“Eureka”: “Pick’s” statement (B.
31/10/’2B) that a 200-acre. N.S.W. South
Coast dairy farm can produce 1960 per
annum is utter nonsense. A family cannot
drag a living off a 200-acre dairy farm, and
in cases where the attempt is made the
farmer lias to leave his family to run the
dairy and seek employment himself either
on another farm or at rabbit-trapping, strip-
ping wattle-bark, etc., in order to keep the
pot boiling. A big percentage of the farms
are in the grip of the banks, and that is
why I recommended sheep. If, as “Pick” sug-
gests, sheep will produce £3OO per annum
off 200 acres, then 99 p.c. of the Bega dis-
trict and South Coast farmers generally are
assured of a comfortable living if they con-
vert their dairy farms into sheep runs.
FIGHTING BUSH-FIRES.
“D. J.H.”: The dry conditions in many
parts make bush-fires inevitable during the
coming months, and it is wise to do a little
organising in advance. In many country-
centres volunteer fire-brigades are formed. A
meeting is held, and while no written rules
are adopted there is an understanding as to
the responsibilities of members. A leader is
elected, preferably a man with a telephone
and a motor-car, who can call up assistance
and travel quickly. Teams are formed of
men living in one locality, under the charge
of one of their number. They quell any minor
outbreaks in their area. If they need help
they call up the leader, who gets in touch
with the other teams or draws on the nearest
town for assistance. In case of a big out-
break such an organisation can generally con-
fine the blaze to a reasonable area.
In many districts the property owners club
together and buy a water-cart and hose. A
motor-lorry tows the cart and takes a small
tank of water as well. Equipment includes
bags, buckets, small axes, a, few rakes, long-
handled shovels for clearing small breaks,
chemical fire-extinguishers, pliers and wire-
cutters (so that stock can be liberated if
caught in a corner), and a supply of matches
(so that if a man is hemmed in by the blaze
he can burn an area to stand or lie down
in).
GOOD RETURNS FROM SMALL
DAIRY HERDS.
A notable feature of the Maoriland dairy
industry is the wonderfully good returns
obtained by some owners of comparatively
small holdings. A case in point is that of
J. L. Clark, of Manawaru, winner of this
year's competition of the N.Z. Co-operative
Herd-testing Association, in which 75,689
cows were entered. He has a herd of only 32
cows, mostly Jerseys, and his average for
263 days was 3811 b. of butter-fat per cow.
One of his Jersey cows gave 773.071 b. in the
period, heading the list. There was a drought
in the late summer, or the returns would have
been higher.
Clark’s pastures are English grasses, top-
dressed every year with two to three cwt.
of a special fertiliser to the acre. The pro-
perty is divided into three-acre paddocks,
each of which is given a rest for a period.
Good shelter is provided by hedges. Abso-
lute regularity of milking times is main-
tained. Clark likes big cows, and culls all
undersized heifers. He has a well-bred
pedigree bull. The leading cow, Violet, had
her grass diet supplemented by 31b. to 51b.
each of moose nuts and bran each day, and
Clark intends to give all his cows an allow-
ance in future.
(Continued on page 25.)


m
m
Er
w
| % f *
v
' Ilf„
The detail, design and manufacture of the structure of this stupendous airship are being carried out in the workshops
of Boulton and Paul, the great engineering house established one hundred and thirty years ago, the famous all-metal
aircraft manufacturers, Norwich, England, and makers of ELECTOLITE.
V
6*9
M 0«
By appointment to H.M. the King,
The RlOl
This giant dirigible will carry 100
passengers in addition to a crew of
50, and is fitted with exceptionally
complete arrangement for their
comfort. The latter includes a
dining-room to seat 50 at a time,
lounge and smoke rooms, pro-
menade decks, and 50 double
sleeping berths. An idea of its size
will be gained from the following
details:——
Length 730 feet.
Maximum diameter .... 132 feet
Capacity .... 5,000,000 cubic feet
Horse-power of engines .... 3,300
Maximum speed, 70 miles per hour
Range . 4,000 miles
e
It is the last word in up-to-the minute British Construction—and the
outcome of twenty years experience in the building of light and
power plants.
Needless to say, when this famous engineering house of BOULTON
PAUL set out to make a flawless and trouble-free Electric
Lighting and Power plant for country houses, as well as for the
arduous field-service requirements of the British War Office, the
problem was attacked with the same unhurried, meticujous care
and skill as the master-minds of this colossal organisation
attacked the problem of air-craft manufacture.
Boulton & Paul s ELECTOLITE is the strongest, simplest, and
most convenient country electric lighting and power plant ever
offered to the Australian consumer and, on Edmunds Bros.’ sugges-
tion during a recent visit to the Norwich factory, it has been
equipped with certain clever additional features which make it
The Electric Plant Par Excellence
for Australian Rural Conditions
With its cheerful advent into the home, the terrors of ironing day
disappear, copper fires vanish from the country housewife’s thorny
path, and the nightmare of washing day is unheard of.
The vacuum cleaner can replace the old-fashioned broom and the
delicious refreshment of an electric fan can disturb the breathless
stillness of mid-summer heat.
w
Electric Light & Power
at your command Day & Night!
with
“ELECTOLITE”
Reduces first cost of electric light and
power as well as maintenance.
Vibrationless, practically noiseless,
foolproof.;
Is so simple—a child can operate it,
and is built to last a lifetime.
Can be used for driving machinery,
as well as supplying light.
Economical, efficient, compact and
clean.
THE PRICES FOR ELECTOLITE
are no higher than those charged for
inferior and much less reliable plants.
EASY TERMS MAY BE ARRANGED.
EDMUNDS Bros. & Co.
Offices:
M* Clarence Street *B7 Flinders Lane
SYDNEY MELBOURNE
5» Gilbert Place, ADELAIDE
■
u
Resident Factory Representative:
R. R. FOULSER, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney


r
\r
ITT lull Wu
A
i
navel the happiness trail
BMFF SPRI/SGS HOTEL,
Most steamer trails lead to Great
Britain —but experienced travellers
wisely advise the intending voyager
to take the best route of all.
The Canadian Pacific way —the
famous "All Red Route” —gives
the greatest joy and enchantment.
The train trip across Canada makes a pleasant break in the long
sea journey . . . stop-overs can be arranged at scenic wonder-
places like Banff and Lake Louise . . . and the delightful witchery
of Old Quebec awaits to welcome
and charm you on the Atlantic
side.
For illustrated literature and interesting free
booklets write to any office of the Union S.S.
Co. of N.Z., any Tourist Booking Agency, or
J. Sclater, Traffic Manager for Australia and
New Zealand, Canadian Pacific Railway Com-
pany, Union House, 247 George St., Sydney,
Canadian
Big 7
m
CAATfciu FROMEAAC
Pacific
IT SPANS THE WORLD Jf(ss
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars ot this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A FEW moments
spent in attaching
WEED CHAINS to your
tyres — before trouble
is encountered —will
prevent danger and long
delays on the road.
Weed Chains grip
give positive traction
in mud or sand.
Standard of quality for
over a quarter of
a century
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1505
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq,; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. "S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
e
Ease
i with
Elegance
e
w
For headache or a * liver,’
For nerves and stomach ills
For bile and indigestion,
Rely on
e
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
People with an active liver never have
these complaints. You, too, can avoid
them by taking Cockle’s Pills occasion-
ally to ensure the regular working of
your own system. They overcome
constipation, they keep the liver active
and ensure complete cleansing away
of all surplus bile which undermines
the health and causes that tired, de-
pressed feeling. Take Cockle’s Pills
and you will need no other tonic.
Get a box to-day without fail!
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO.. LTD.. LONDON.
w
A* **¥ ***
It is as unpossible for an Onoto
to leak as a tightly corked bottle,
because it is constructed on the
same principle. A simple turn
and the valve is closed, making
any escape of ink an impossi-
bility. Does your pen possess
this refinement ?
e
ENTIRELY
ENGLISH
Besides its superlative writing qualities
PERFECT SAFETY U the unique feature of
PLUNGER FILLING
From 15/-
OP ALL STATIONERS & STORES
Thomas -Oe La Rue & Go., Ltd., London.
Reo • WwSalter &. Longhurst. Ltd., ; Sydney, Melbourne, WeHttngtoei.
ONOTO INK FOR ALL PENS
**' * - r ■


f»
"""i 1 y
mm
it|3
The favored shape
Squared of toe, with the neatly-flat-
tened cap most popular with men,
this Abbey shoe yet preserves the
roominess essential for comfort. It
adjusts itself at once to the foot
simply because it is built to curve
properly at the lacing to set
snugly at heel. Low-cut sides allow
fullest freedom. It's made, too, in
the best four leathers available.
Order by Post.
You get your measure exactly
every half-size is available in three
fittings, narrow, medium and wide.
State width when writing and ask,
also, for a supply of the correct
Abbey Dark Tan, Black or Latent
Leather Polish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow or Glace Kid 52/6
Black Box Calf 50/-
Patent Leather 60/-
Enlarged new Catalogue now ready.
ABBEY
Estab/ished over 80 years,
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
L 99. SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY», LTD
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
CHOOSE
with care
The soap you use
Tor your skin
must have
| definite qualifi-
cations for the
results you wish
to attain.
Cuticura
Soap
Has been the choice of mil-
lions for 50 years for its de-
lightfully medicated, sanative
and prophylactic efficiency
in cleansing, purifying and
beautifying the Skin and
Hair.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sold everywhere. Sample eachfree. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N, S. W.
SPBBT* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
£235,586
£2,750,000
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
Saves tOO Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
ir,
- M %m. :
i/ti * ’i\ J
HSV
u ne New.
and
The Old Way
w
OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
PRICE
£35
B.K.
PAY AS YOU_ GO BY CHEQUE -
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
WJf?
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
® p of ’Jftusfralti %
HEAD OFFICE; 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
CATTLE SHORTAGE.
“FY7”: The long drought in N.-W. Q’land
has had a curious effect on the cattle indus-
try there. For a long time Queensland
growers have been suffering from the effects
of poor oversea markets, circumscribed de-
mand and pinched prices). Now, though the
market abroad has not improved appreciably,
the heavy cattle losses in the drought have
sent the prices paid by the meatworks soar-
ing. This pleasant state of things is offset
by the extreme scarcity of marketable cattle
in the North. A reliable Queensland authority
recently said that in the huge area which
includes N. Q’land’s cattle-breeding territory
it would be difficult to find 10,000 bullocks
of fattening age. There is a shortage of
spayed cows also, and unless heavy brandings
are the order within the next few months
there will be a considerable shortage in the
number of cattle sent south next season.
There is a move in S. Q’land, where most
of the Northern cattle are topped up before
sale to the meatworks, to arrange for annual
purchase for a period of years of a number
of cattle from the Gulf runs, with the .idea
of building up a nucleus of supply. Nothing
has been heard of any agreement on the
matter of prices, and this may prove a
difficult question.
RINGWORM IN CALVES.
“Fred Rich”: Prevention is the best means
of dealing with ringworm in calves. The
disease is nearly always caused through damp
and dirty surroundings, and the calf-house
should be thoroughly cleaned out and painted
with whitewash containing one- part com-
pound creosal solution in 30 parts of water.
Light and .ventilation should also be attended
to.
The best remedy is to soften the crusts
of the sores with olive oil until they can
be easily removed, then paint each spot with
tincture of iodine or rub in iodine ointment,
repeating at frequent intervals. When the
rings are near the beast’s eyes, and there is
a danger of the iodine injuring the sight, use
of hypochlorite of soda in one quart of
boiled water. If there are many diseased
spots it is better to apply once or twice a
week 4oz. blucstone dissolved in one pint
of boiling water. Apply warm. Care must
be taken in handling the calves, as the dis-
ease is contagious.
SECRETION OF MILK.
“P.M.”: The theory about milk being-
secreted at milking-time is all rot. If you
milk at 7 a.m. and 3 p.m. the morning’s milk
wall weigh twice the afternoon’s, and so on.
I have milked at 5 a.m. and 5 p.m. regularly
and weighed the milk from each cow for a
week, and the morning and evening weigh-
ings of each beast were even. Then I milked
at 4 a.m. and 8 p.m., and the weights varied
in exact proportion to the variation in hours.
I milked 18 to 23 cows and separated from
a 40-gallon vat, and always measured the
milk in the vat before separating. In five
years the proportions did not vary from the
rule by more than a gallon or so on ;-u'.y
occasion.
PRODUCING CLEAN EGGS.
“Jack Point” : The Queensland Egg Board,
reporting recently that its shipments of eggs
had arrived in London in excellent condition
and were bringing satisfactory prices, found
it necessary to again remind egg-farmers that
far too large a proportion of eggs were arriv-
ing in the board’s stores dirty, useless for
anything but immediate local sale at third-
rate prices. It is no use cleaning the eggs,
as washing reduces keeping qualities. The
remedy is not to let the eggs get dirty, and
this is not very hard. The nests must be
kept clean and the eggs gathered at least
three times a day. Straw, fine shell-grit or
sand can be used for nests. Where the hens
are on range or have a yard, all the eggs will
get dirty in wet weather. The houses, there-
fore, should be on the intensive or semi-
intensive system, so that the birds can be
confined to their houses on days when it is
muddy outside, the floor being covered with
litter, where they may scratch for grain, and
thus get necessary exercise.
APRICOT BY-PRODUCTS.
During this apricot season in Australia at
least 5000 tons of valuable by-products will
be wasted. Most, of the stones or pits will
not even be used as fuel. Yet, according (o
World’s Business, a New York industrial
paper, a “million-dollar industry” has been
developed in Santa Clara Valley, California,
for the transformation into valuable com-
mercial commodities of this debris of can-
neries and drier cutting-sheds. I rapidly
has the industry grown that more than 8000
tons of pits were turned into beauty parlor,
kitchen and medicine-kit necessities last year.
And so valuable have these pits become that
growers are paid as high as 70 dollars
(£l4 11s. Sd.) a ton for them.
Briefly, the products of the apricot ker-
nel are these: —
Fixed oils.—Used for salad and cooking oils
and in the manufacture of drugs and cosmetics.
Oil of bitter almonds.—Used in the manufacture
of medicine, as a flavoring extract and in cosmetics
and perfumes.
Apricot kernel meal.—Used in the manufacture
of face, creams, bath meals and similar preparations.
Macaroon paste.—Used in making candy centres,
macaroons and cake fillings.
Stock feed. —Made from kernel residue.
Machines wash the pits and grade them,
passing them on to a machine cracker.
Cracked pits and kernels are then emptied
into a brine solution in which the kernels
float off and the pits sink to the bottom.
The kernels are skimmed off and graded, the
more perfect ones being saved for export
trade. The remainder are pressed.
Extracted oil is stored in tanks to permit
the formation of free fatty acids and their
subsequent removal. Then by chemical pro-
cesses the oil is refined and broken up into
the various trade products.
Most of the uncrushed kernels are shipped
to Europe, where, so it is alleged, the bitter-
ness is removed, the tastier meats being
then reshipped to the United States as
almonds.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Nota Bene”: A sure way to avoid mis-
taking a poison bottle for another is to push
two ordinary pins crossways through the
top part of the cork at right angles, with
the points projecting. That identifies the
bottle even in the dark.
“Silentio”: Try sinking an old kerosene
tin, with holes punched in the bottom and
sides, in the centre of the mound for melons
or pumpkins. About half fill it with manure
and keep filled with water. This provides, a
plentiful supply of liquid manure for the roots.
“Cuchulain”: Baking-soda (bicarbonate)
is a well-tested remedy for blown stock.
About a tablespoonful is the dose, to be
slapped on the beast's tongue. It is a safer
cure for the amateur cowman than sticking
the knife in.
“Invalid”: That onion grass can be eradi-
cated by top-dressing the infested area with
superphosphate has been amply demonstrated
near Melton (Vic.), where, on roads, com-
mons and private property not so treated
the grass flourishes, while adjoining paddocks
which have been treated with super, are
entirely free.
“Redraw”: To make a rough estimate of
the dressed weight of a live pig, measure its
length from between tin 1 ears to tie- butt of the
tail, and its girth just behind the shoulders.
Multiply one measurement by the other in
inches and divide by 12. This gives the
dressed weight in pounds. To ascertain the
live weight, add 201 b. or 251 b.
“Choker”: Nasturtiums, which grow
rapidly and prolificacy, make good poultry
food. Last year I put four posts at the
corners of a 4ft. square, planted the ground
with nasturtiums and netted it in. They
soon grew up over the top and trailed down
supplying the fowls with all the green feed
they wanted. Later the seeds were eaten
in preference to corn.
“Taveta”: Greenhide makes a very com-
fortable mattress. After soaking well, cut
it into strips of suitable lengths about 14
inch wide. Fasten the ends about 4 inches
apart with good, strong, clout-headed tacks
to a stretcher-frame, lengthwise, then inter-
lace with cross strips in the same manner.
When the hide dries the mattress will have
plenty of spring.
“Claude W.”: A great help to fowls in-
clined to leg-weakness is bonedust. It should
be ground from clean dry bones to the con-
sistency of oatmeal and mixed with the soft
meal. Growing chickens given fresh-cut green
bone show few cases of leg-weakness. Plenty
of cod-liver oil and lime will be also found
beneficial.
“Oldog”: An easy way to calculate the
cubic contents of a dam or ensilage pit with
sloping ends and sides is to add together the
area in sq. ft. or sq. yds. of the top, the
area of the bottom, and four times the
area of the cross section half-way down;
multiply the total by the depth and divide
the result by six. If the calculation is in
feet and cubic capacity in yards is wanted,
divide by 27.
“Keystring”: I accidentally discovered the
cheapest and most reliable cure for mange in
horses I have tried. With a mate I was
camped on the beach, and as our old sulky-
horse, which was as mangy as a blackfellow’s
dog, was always close by, we used to take the
old fellow into the surf for fun. When we
left at the end of a fortnight I noticed the
nag’s coat was much cleaner; so I put a
couple of pounds of salt into a kerosene-tin
of water and boiled it. After it cooled I
mopped him over with the mixture every day.
In six weeks’ time the old moke’s coat shone
like Mollison’s. Though I keep a number of
horses, mange doesn’t now trouble me nor
them.
“Norba”: It pays to set up a small black-
smith’s shop on the farm. All that is needed
is a forge (bellows or fan), anvil, vyce,
drilling-machine, two pairs of tongs, hand
and sledge-hammer, set of taps and dies and
some spanners. With these tools many
others, such as chisels, punches, etc., can be
made, and the handy man can perform many
jobs, saving the time and cost involved in
sending repair work to town.
“Paul 0.”: Maize, like lucerne, loses in
nutriment and weight if allowed to go be-
yond the right stage for cutting. As soon as
the grain begins to pass out of the milk
stage the bottoms of the stalks begin to
lose their sap content and to harden as the
strength passes upwards to the grain. It
follows that the crop is at its best for silage-
making when the grain is passing from the
milk to the dough stage.
“Degilbo”: While other feed is plentiful
cattle may not indulge in the habit of eating
prickly-pear, but as soon as adverse weather
sets in, which usually occurs in Q’land be-
tween June and the end of September, pear-
eating cattle follow their desires. The moment
arsenic pentoxide begins to take effect the
pear droops and the spines become soft, re-
sembling pear that has been scorched by a
grass-fire. Practically all cattle will eat
pear that has been scorched. The moral is
that pear should not be poisoned between the
cud of May and the beginning of October if
cattle are running in the paddocks.
“G.D.M.”: A fodder plant that should
be worth a trial in drought-ridden places is
spek-boem, a native of S’Africa. It is a
member of the pig-weed family, but grows
into a fine shrubby tree of about 10ft. in
height. In suitable country it matures in
about five years. It i 3 the natural food of
African elephants, and is not affected by
drought. An ex-Queenslander now resident
in S’Africa says he had cattle on spek-boem
country for over 12 months without water,
and his 75 imported Queensland horses
waxed fat on the plant without coining to
the dam for a drink. Spek-boem is food
and drink combined.
“Orn”: The queerest method by which
grazing land was ever developed from dense
bush was applied to the forest east of
Queenstown (Tas.). Some years ago the
Mt. Lyell company was smelting 1000 tons
a day of copper ore which was about one-
third sulphur. That meant that vast quan-
tities of sulphur dioxide gas were poured
daily into the atmosphere. This drifted to
the east and killed every particle of vege-
tation for miles. Next came the hot winds
of summer and bush-fires that made a clean
sweep of everything. Followed a change in
smelting methods and a vast reduction in
the output of sulphur gases. Some of the
residents scattered grass seed broadcast, and
soon cattle were ranging over the land in
hundreds.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
- The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Returned soldier, married, 10 years’ experi-
ence sheep and cattle, Queensland, wants
position anywhere ; five years last j0b.—7420.
Domesticated young man desires general
housework, able wash and ir0n. —7436.
By reliable man, organising ability, com-
mercial training, position with good em-
ployer.—74ss.
Two young men, experienced horse, sheep
and cattle, want station work, Northern
Territory preferred. (To W. Nightingale, 2
Second-street, Clyde, Sydney.)
By tradesman with wide experience in
furniture, pianos, joinery, also good French-
polisher, engagement on a share basis, Aus-
tralia or N.Z. —7423.
By motor mechanic, seven years’ experi-
ence stationary engines, tractors and wind-
mills, position as station mechanic in N.
Queensland. Good driver; own tools. —7412.
By young lady, position as companion-help,
anywhere in the country, N.S.W. —7413.
.Young woman (23) would like corres-
pondents in New Guinea, Java, Singapore;
interested books, general topics.—74o9.
Lady, competent to manage residential
hotel or apartment building, seeks engage-
ment, Sydney.—7s46.
Lady, three children, wants board and re-
sidence seaside, near Sydney, or N.S.W.
South Coast, February.—7s3l.
Situation as housekeeper, city or country,
N.S.W.; good references. (To Mrs. Mac-
Ciusky, .328 Ililey-street, City.)
Gentlewoman (25) would act as com-
panion or secretary in return for passage to
England, 1929.—7518.
Trained nurse wants charge of child in
her own home, country; £2 10s. weekly.—
7258.
By married man. childless, position as
engineer, station preferred, conversant inter-
nal-combustion steam engines, water-raising,
refrigerating.—74l4.
Young man, G.P.S. education, wishes to
correspond with people with literary attain-
ments or ambitions. (To Goring Tanqueray,
G.P.0., Brisbane.)
Young man wants mate with good sea
boat, view trip round North Australia, work-
ing cn route; will put up £lOO. —7488.
Young man, undergraduate, wants position
as tutor subsidised or prep, school (N.S.W.).
—7491.
Motor-driver, fair mechanic, wants job
N.S.W. or Queensland station, experienced
pumps and mills and general farm machinery.
—7494.
Orders for trousseau needlework, embroid-
ered linens, designs for embroidery.—72ll.
To sell strong, open-grown tree lucerne
plants, ss. doz., 100 for 30s. —7517.
To sell English made “Reliance” banjo-
mandolin, unused, with extra strings and
tutor ; take £2 10s. —7450.
To sell first-aid medicine chest; £2. (To
G. Flemming, 26 Ebley-street, Waverley,
N.S.W.) *
To sell Jubilee mug (1887) and Corona-
tion mugs (1902 and 1912) ; also collection
china, 70 pieces, 66 crests. —7466.
To buy copy “Room Forty” or some such
title (it was written by O. in C. room 40,
Admiralty House, during the war). —7390.
To buy Part 6, Vol. VI, Matthews’ “Birds
of Australia.” (To C. Barnard, Coomoo-
boolaroo, Duaringa, Queensland.)
To buy copies Harper’s mag., 1906 to
1911 inclusive. —7427.
Second-hand centrifugal pump, must be in
good working order; foot valve included if
available. (Price to F. Lowe, Mossgiel P. 0.,
N.S.W.)
Loan of revised edition of Henley’s “Twen-
tieth Century Book of Formulas, Recipes aud
Processes.” (To W. Hine, Villeneuve, Kil-
coy Line.)
To exchange, Ansco U. P. camera, cost
£5, for early Australian or N.Z. books, or
first editions Stevenson, Conrad or Kipling.
—7499.
To exchange about 5000 mixed English,
colonial, foreign stamps for equal number
mixed Australian. (To O. Burth, 4 North-
terrace, Kent Town, Adelaide, S.A.)
Address of a club for exchange of gramo-
phone records in Melbourne.—7392.
Name of firm dealing in sea-shells. (To
H. Turner, c/o Box 11, Euroa, Victoria.)
To correspond with reader wishing to ex-
change Australian stamps for stamps Irish
Free State. (To Fred Wiese, 84 Bridge-
street, Lisburn, Ireland.)
To correspond with anyone interested in
British military cap badges and helmet
plates, uniforms and head-dresses, view dis-
persing fine collection. (To A. G. Miller,
Mt. Lofty, S. Australia.)
Lost in July, 5-stone diamond ring; great
sentimental value; reward. (To W. Pen-
nington, 4 Garling-street, Lane Cove.
N.S.W.)
Copy of “Phil May in Australia.”—74s9.
Second-hand copy “The Realities of War,”
by Philip Gibbs. —7457.
Copies of verses, “Because You Were an
Old Sweetheart of Mine” and “The Girl on
the Stairs.” Will pay. (To Miss M. 11.
Smith, 53 Outram-street, West Perth, W.A.)
Words of Eugene Lee-Hamilton’s “Sonnet
on the Sonnet”; William Watson’s “The
Purple East,” “For England,” “Glimpse”
and “Leave-taking”; and Matthew Arnold’s
“Marguerite.” (To Miss M. Lane, Quan-
tong, Vic.)
Joke ideas for illustration; also ideas for
cartoons, advertisements. Payment on
acceptance. —7 411.
Whereabouts John Mackie, formerly of
N.Z., native of Peterhead, Scotland, aged
about 70. (To A. C. Park, 5 Beaufort-
street, Croydon, N.S.W.)
Whereabouts John Brown, who left Scot-
land for Australia in the ’seventies, now
about 80. Brother lived at Kirkfield Bank,
Lanarkshire, Scotland. (To William C.
Phillips, Box 165, Centralia, Illinois, U.S.A.)
Information Sought.
Where can an amateur clay-modeller (Syd-
ney) have work baked? Approximate charge?
—7381.
Commercial potteries in the neighborhood
of Sydney have recently decided to refuse
all craft work for firing, owing to the diffi-
culty of reconciling the required tempera-
tures with those which suit their own work.
Some of the leading craft potters have their
own kilns, but will not accept outside work.
A good gas kiln is costly, and amateur
modellers in Sydney are at present interested
in the possibility of buying one on a co-
operative basis. Get in touch with Miss
H. G. Hirst, Room 175, Strand Arcade,
Sydney, who is interested in the project,
and can assist you temporarily to have a
few pieces fired.
How to remove persimmon stains from
white linen?- —7388.
Soak the linen in cold water for two hours,
stretch the stained part over a large basin,
and pour over the stain boiling water. If
very obstinate, add a little borax to the
water.
(1) A debt is contracted in Queensland;
creditor secures a verdict through Petty
Debts Court. Can he garnishee debtor’s em-
ployer in another State? (2) What period
does the Statute of Limitations cover? —
7380.
(1) Yes; provision is made under Federal
legislation. (2) Under Statute of Frauds
and Limitations (Q.) action for debt must be
taken within six years; if under seal, within
20 years.
Method < of making polish for leather? —•
7402.
lib. dark beeswax, curd soap, 2 pints
turpentine. Shred the wax, add the turpen-
tine and shredded soap, and stir over heat.
Stand it in a vessel of hot water on a closed
stove, as it is highly inflammable. If too
thick, add warm boiled water. May be
colored by any good brown wood stain pro-
curable from paint shops.
Recipe for a good oil to be used on mop
for polishing floors? —7537.
Take 2oz. yellow wax, 2 drachms white
wax and 2 drachms Castille soap; cut into
thin slices, put in a jar and add about
cup boiling water. Stand mixture near the
fire till thoroughly dissolved; then take it
into the open air and pour on sufficient oil
of turpentine to make it of the consistency
of oil; stir till thoroughly blended. A little
oil of cloves will give it a pleasant odor.
Put a tablespoonful in the mop container
and allow the mop to soak till oil is
absorbed.
(1) Is calomel a purgative? (2) What
did the No. 9 pill given to soldiers consist
0f?— 6825.
(1) Yes?. (2) Colocynthidis and hyos-
cyami.
What is wrong with a cow which develops
hard quarters at times, and yields hard,
cloddy milk? —7268.
Obviously mammitis, an inflammatory con-
dition of the udder; it may be caused by a
chill, injury or dyerstocking of the udder.
Treatment: (1) A purgative such as 11b.
Epsom salts dissolved in water. (2)
Frequent bathing of the gland, taking care
to dry well afterwards. (3) Frequent
stripping.
Apropos of tobacco-growing would it be
Wurth the farmer's while to market Ms leaf
in a manufactured state? —7076.
It would be impracticable. The manufac-
ture of tobacco into the finished article is
a very involved process demanding, for one
thing, considerable experience in a factory.
Then a £5O A license would need to be
taken out from the Collector of Customs.
Also there would be a heavy duty to pay on
all tobacco manufactured.
(1) Incapacitated, I am receiving £5 p.w.
under the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Act; is my wife (three children) entitled
to motherhood endowment? (2) If the in-
surance co. paid d lump sum in commutation
of my claim would she become entitled?
(3) What might I expect for such commu-
tation?—'7l64.
(1) It depends how long you have been
receiving the £5 p.w.; no endowment is pay-
able if you have been getting it for 12
months, even if the., children are under 14
years of age. (2) A lump-sum payment
under the Compensation Act is not taken
into consideration in determining the rate
of endowment, provided the payment has
been approved and registered by the Compen-
sation Commission- (3) It -would depend
upon the assessment of future incapacity.
(1) Cheapest fare from Sydney to Buenos
Ayres? (2) Is there much English spoken
in the Argentine? (3) What wages are paid
on wheatfarms and cattle-ranches? (4) Fare
to Santiago? (5) Could letters be addressed
c/o The Bulletin agent in Buenos Ayres?
—7463.
(1) There is no regular service, although
a direct passage can sometimes be got in
a tramp. From Sydney to N.Z. by local
steamer, fare is £6 10s.; from N.Z. to
Panama Canal by Shaw, Savill and Albion
or N.Z. Shipping Co. steamer, third-class
fare, £25; from Panama Canal to Valparaiso
by Pacific Steam or Grace line vessel, third-
class fare, £l3 Bs.; from Valparaiso to
Buenos Ayres, second-class rail fare, £l3
17s. 2d. Alternately, from Sydney to Eng-
land, third-class, £37; from England to Bue-
nos Ayres, by Royal Mail Steam or Pacific
Steam, £2l. Passenger would have to main-
tain himself whilst awaiting transhipment.
(2) English is sufficient in most of the popu-
lous centres. (3) There are no fixed rates,
but skilled stockmen are in demand. (4)
Santiago could be reached via Panama; fare
about £l6. No agent there.
How should a seaman who served during
the war and is entitled to money from the
Prize Fund go about collecting? —73o3.
Submit claim, ■ with full details of service,
to Accountant-General of the Navy, Corn-
wall House, Stamford-street, London, E.C-.1.
You should forward your service certificate.
Call at or write to Naval Staff Office. Ray-
street, Port Melbourne, where you will get
any further advice necessary.
How to prepare yeast and bake bread? —
7267.
For yeast, take three fair-sized potatoes,
1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, |oz.
hops, 11 quart water. Boil together until
the potatoes are cooked; strain when cool.
Mix 1 heaped tablespoon of flour to a paste
and stir into the yeast; then bottle—it is
ready for use in two days. If baking in
the morning, set the “sponge” the afternoon
before by mixing together 1 quarter-cup of
yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon salt,
2 or 3 cooked potatoes, 2 cups flour, 1 quart
lukewarm water. Stand in a warm place.
It takes about three hours to rise. Have
ready in a baking dish 61b. flour; pour
“sponge” into centre, and, with a little luke-
warm water, mix all to a stiff dough and
knead until it will not stick to the hands.
Cover well, and leave in a warm place till
morning. Lift on to well-floured board,
cut into loaves, put into tins and leave in
a warm place about one hour. Cut a cross
on the top of each loaf, place in a moderate
»ven and bake about 11 hour. This quantity
will make six 21b. loaves.
Could the State of California (1) prohibit
the export of vast over-production of raisins,
and (2) order it to be. put to other use?
(1) The Federal Government could, no
doubt; the State would be powerless as re-
gards overseas exports. (2) It is question-
able; in any case, enforcement would be vir-
tually impossible. Though prohibition is
Federal law authority does not ban the sale
of Californian wine grapes or forbid private
buyers to use them for wine-making. It is
difficult to set limits to the legislative powers
of Governments, but their powers of en-
forcing legislation are limited. The question
of dumping Californian dried fruits in Aus-
tralia is now receiving attention at this end,
and effective action has been promised.
(1) The six finest baritone solos in grand
opera? (2 )Six songs suitable for a bari-
tone? (3) A first-class singing master's
fees? (4) Can any one use an assumed
name without legal formalities? (5) Is there
any postal singing course? —6595.
(1) Matter of opinion: perhaps Prologue
(“Pagliacci”), “The Term’s Expired” (“Fly-
ing Dutchman”), “Vision Fugitive” (“Hero-
diade”), “Credo” (“Otello”), “Largo al
Factotum” (“Barber of Seville”), “Mono-
logue of Boris” (“Boris Godounoff”) and
“O Star of Eve (“Tannhauser”). (2) “The
Two. Grenadiers,” “It Is Enough”(“Elijah”),
“Non * But the Lonely Heart,” “The Erl
King,” “Oh, Ruddier than the Cherry” and
“To Anthea.” (3) In Australia, 10s. 6d. to
15s. per lesson. (4) For professional pur-
poses, yes. (5) Singing cannot be taught
by correspondence.
I owned C.P. land in N.S.W. The first
mortgagee sold my place; the second mort-
gagee bought it. Prior to the sale I felled
about 20,000 feet of milling timber, which
the second mortgagee would not allow me to
shift; he note refuses to pay me the cost of
cutting this timber, claiming it himself. Is
he legally warranted? —7424.
In the usual mortgage of C.P. land the
standing timber forms part of the security.
To ascertain your right to cut and appro-
priate the timber it would be necessary to
peruse the mortgage. In any circumstances
it is difficult to see what claim you can have
against the second mortgagee, the purchaser,
for the cost of cutting it.
Does Anybody Know?
Does the tanning of cotton fishing-nets
have any preservative effect on the fibre?
If not, a method of treating them?—74oB.
A most satisfactory way of making a
tennis court out of antbed? Thirty tons are
available; the site is on black soil, with
plenty of w’ater near by.—7406.
How to prevent swallows from building
nests under verandah roofs? —7503.
Information Supplied.
7112. —To remove “Silvafros” from a
stove, sponge the painted parts with caustic
soda. Make a pad out of a cloth, being care-
ful not to get any caustic on the hands, and
apply the soda —slightly dampened—in
smooth, circular movements. When all the
“Silvafros” is removed, wash the parts in
warm water and washing soda, using- a mop.
Be careful to wash off all traces of the
caustic.
7057. —To clean a razor hone, boil it in
clean water until the grease and particles
of metal are removed; a little washing soda
may be added if the hone is very dirty. It
can be refaced in any engineering shop—
“Baff”
7121. —To clean the burner of a primus
lamp, unscrew the nipple and clean it out
from the back with a sharp instrument,
such as a nail flattened to chisel shape;
or place in a vyce and drill out the carbon.—
“X.”
7095. —To prevent ants from making
nests in the roots of delphiniums, pack the
soil round the roots so that no interstices
occur, mulch with cow manure, and water
heavily and regularly. Ants hate water.—
“B.”
7213.—T0 cut off the necks of square
bottles for jam-jars, etc., get a blacksmith
to make an iron ring to fit the shoulders
of the bottles, with a long handle attached
to it. Heat the ring in the fire till it is red
hot, quickly fit in on the bottles, and hold
for a few seconds. Remove the ring, dip the
treated bottle into cold water, and the top
should fall neatly off. A little practice will
produce expert cuttings.—“ Mary.”
Brief Answers.
J.R.: Depends entirely upon yourselves.
Of itself the capital wouldn’t earn enough to keep
you in bread and dripping. You could buy the lease of
a residential for the money; which, of course, means
risking your capital to pay the rent... -H.S.M.:
Suggest that you write first to Migration and Develop-
ment Commission, Commonwealth Offices, Melbourne.
M.C. (F.0.T.): If you want safety for your
small means, don’t; they are only for those who can
afford to gamble... .D.H.R.: Well, you know how
entirely dependent they are on a high tariff. The
directors believe that, with competition, the neces-
sary tariff can be more easily got and maintained.
. ...G.C.8.: Recipe to which you refer is a secret
formula; see reply to 7537... .A.S.R.: Of no value.
....William W.: Send specimens to Chief Ento-
mologist, Department of Agriculture, Brisbane. .. .
W.E.T.: Write Buzacott and Co., engineers, Market-
street, Sydney.... Pat F.: Copies can be obtained
at this office R.W.: The only one of any value
is the 10s. pink and purple N.S.W. stamp ; it’s worth
a few shillings. .. .H.P.W.: Try Penfold and Co.,
Pitt-,street, or John Sands, George-street—both of
Sydney L.M.: He died a few weeks ago. No
particulars have yet heeu given....H.B.S.: The period
of suspension having expired, you can apply to
Registrar for certificate... .J.V.: (1) No. (2) No.
L.R.T.: A matter on which it is impossible
to give advice; the remedy has a good reputation.
. ...C.P.8.: There are different forms of paralysis,
and it would be impossible to offer an opinion without
a close examination. Consult a specialist... .F.S.E.:
(1) The cure is in your own hands; it is only a
matter of exercising self-control. (2) Yes, but only
if done by a medical man. . . .R.W.C.: Try a firm
dealing in such goods, such as S. Walder and Co.,
340 Pitt-street, Sydney.... C.S.W.: 0. K. Elliott
and Co., Parramatta-road, Camperdown, make
camphor-wood boxes... .K.G.: Stamp-dealers sell on
half catalogue price or a shade lower. Impossible
to state the value of collection without seeing it.
... .J.A.S.: About 250 copies of Calvert’s “Australian
Eleven” were printed. No special value... .H.S.L.:
Do not advise the course... .Janet N.: David Unia-
pon’s address is c/o Bible House, Grenfell-street,
Adelaide... .F.H.P.: Considered from all points, No.
1 would be best. .. . 8.W.: Present value is a few
pence, but it will increase. ... Hopalong: No; those
two were “Tom Collins’s” only books... .R.E.P.:
Cumming’s “Handbook of Electroplating,” Dymock’s,
Sydney, 6s D.F.O’R.: (1) and (2) Write sec.,
Brisbane Stock Exchange. (3) Sharebrokers confine
themselves to that business. (4) It would be diffi-
cult. The business is one in which experience is
everything.... Tasmanian Timber : The timber is pre-
ferred in seasoned planks ; firms are Beard and Co.,
49 Parramatta Road, Glebe; Federal Furniture Co.,
Beeson-street, Leichhardt; Cannon and Jackson, Ada-
lane, Erskineville; Relton and Griffin, Consett-street,
Dulwich Hill —a ll of Sydney.... George McL.: (1)
Price of “Burke’s Peerage” is £3 35., but a
secondhand copy might be picked up. Dymock’s
would supply information. (2) The only surviving
member of the family would appear to be Major
P. S. Rowane. Address, Junior United Service Club,
London. .. .1.C.A.: The address of Professor Steinach
is Berlin, N.W., 23 Lessingstrasse 1. A doctor in
Westralia tried the thing but has declined to have
his name published. .. .E.K.L.: Sugar mills in S’Africa
employ, roughly, 600 white men in technical and
managerial positions. A man with Q. experience
would have a good chance, but cost of living is
high. Director, Glen Agricultural College, Orange
Free State, would give you a iist of mills and advice.
....John K. T.: Please give all details.... M.J.0.:
Depends on what rules the club works under. It
might be best to form a new club and enter into
arrangement for use of court.... Bushman: Most ants
have serviceable eyes; one species has a blind race
of workers and another with sight... .L.J.H.: Appli-
cants are required to be between 16 and 23, to be
up to intermediate standard, and to pass medical
exam. No more applications this year (they closed
October 31) ; there will be another call next year.
No fee. . . .G.R.C. : Principal banks in Singapore are
the Chartered of India, the Australia and China
(London), Hongkong and Shanghai, Mercantile of
India, Nederlandsche Indische Handelsbank, Inter-
national Banking Corporation. Apply to any of the
head offices... .D.P.M.: (1) A euealypt at Colac
(Vic.), 347 feet, was the tallest known Australian
tree; a Californian redwood, 390 feet, is supposed
to have been the tallest tree known. (2) Yes; see
the district warden.... D.C.: (1) The last convict
ship was the Hougomont, which reached Westralia
in 1868; the last to arrive in N.S.W. came in
1849, transportation officially ceasing the following
year; it ceased in Tasmania in 1853. (2) Marcus
Clark came to Australia to an uncle who was a
magistrate; he w'ent to Tasmania for the Australian
Journal. (3) Born in Bunbury, the son of a free
settler... ,E.T.: Replies will be forwarded....
D.8.0’C.: Purely a matter of taste; the second
has a wider appeal.. . .N.L.M.: Write Motor Powe?
Transmitters, 76 Pitt-street, Sydney... .R.J.S.: No.
Repat. w'ill only consider commutation if amount of
pension granted shows at least 30 per cent, in-
capacity. .. .S.S.C.: If your property has been put in
your wife’s name you have no redress, unless there
are special circumstances. A solicitor would advise
you on those... .M.F.H.: A 20-year-old girl, sft.
lin. in height, should be about Bst. 21b A.McM.:
The rainfall between 9 a.m. Sept. 13 and 9 a.m.
Oct. 13 reached lin. only at Crookhaven. Complete
returns for October 14 (a Sunday) not available.
....Hells Bells: One man claimed to have gone 45
days without food, but these records are clouded
with doubt. .. .M.E.H.: Try A. E. Smith, violin
makers, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney... .L. 8.W.: Get
in touch with American Trade Commissioner, York-
shire House, Spring-street, Sydney.... Boric: (1)
Boric acid is not used in butter in N.S.W. or
Queensland; its use is permissible under State law
for consumption in Australia. (2) No. (3) Butter
manufactured in January, held in cold store in
Sydney until June, shipped to England and examined
in the middle of August, scored 94 points, London
grading. This is a typical case. (4) N 0....
A.J.M.N.: Prints of Longstaff’s “Menin Gate at
Midnight” can be obtained from Swain’s, 123 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .W.P.L.: (1) The ribbons mentioned
are not now manufactured, machines being obsolete.
(2) Smith Premier typewriters are still being made;
latest model is a single keyboard. (3) Sydney
agents are United Typewriter and Supplies, 4 Niths-
dale-street. .. .8.J.: In addition to those mentioned,
Stephen Leacock has written “Literary Lapses,”
“Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town,” “Frenzied
Fiction,” “Further Foolishness,” “My Discovery of
England” and “College Days,” all collections of
humorous sketches... .S.K.: The furniture belonged
to her separate estate and may be disposed of in
her will; the husband has no legal claim... .G.J.L.:
An ex-member of the A.I.F. can draw only one
gratuity—camp gratuity if he did not serve outside
the Commonwealth, or overseas gratuity if he served
abroad. Maximum camp gratuity payable is £9
4s. (184 days at Is. p.d.) ; a man who served
abroad is entitled to a gratuity of Is. 6d. p.d.....
(Many others mailed.)


K
y*.
m
Vr,
&
/A
mk
©
>5! I P
A Brilliant Performer
Dodge Brothers Victory Six possesses
all the best performance features of a
thoroughly modern car.
In addition, its unit construction and
unique chassis give it new qualities
never before offered in any car.
Riding comfort is increased, while un-
necessary weight is eliminated. Econo-
my is joined to acceleration and
flexibility. Speed is made safe by basic
engineering advancements.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six .
Harden and Johnston, Limited, Sydney .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville,
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide,
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth,
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. E. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
DDD G E B R.CDTH ER.S
VICT□ R. Y 5I X
GE
21/U/’2B


wmmmm
:
:
m
K&
n
R &
'i - *
tels
VI
m
m
%
m
m
W
TUt PERFECT
IVORY TIP
333
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO
Ca,ITCL, LONDON
SMOKE-OH!
CRICKET IN 2001.
Yesterday, the 149th day of the Test
match between England and Australia, saw
an attendance estimated at 150,760, even the
sixth-storey stands having their occupants.
The special attraction was the likelihood of
England reaching a score of 31,000, a third-
innings record, and of Chapmond completing
his 5000 —the - 100th time he has reached
that total. Both anticipations were realised,
although, after the fall of Date’s wicket,
with Heeman in, it looked doubtful whether
the champion would be successful. Heeman,
although no bat, managed to keep his wicket
intact whilst .Chapmond made the runs, and
then fell a victim to a tricky ball from Bad-
man, Chapmond being n.o. 5003, and Eng-
land’s total 31,017. Although Heeman could
CARRIED AWAY.
“Do you believe in love at first sight?”
“No, I don’t. The first time I met Harry he was in a Rolls Royce ,
and after we became engaged I found out he’d only hired it.”
make no more than 147, his was a very ser-
viceable knock under the circumstances, and
he was loudly cheered as he returned to the
pavilion. Date, who was not out the pre-
vious 1 day, made a carefully-compiled 351, a
useful enough contribution from a player
who has his place in the team as a bowler.
Requiring only 21,819 to win, Australia’s
task seemed an easy one, but the start was
disastrous, two star batsmen in Ponsful and
Moodford being out before the close of play.
The former was unable to make more than
128, whilst the latter’s contribution was a
feeble 105, the score being 2 wickets for 296
—a very unpromising start. It is hoped that
Pickaxe and Backson. who both started con-
fidently, will put a different complexion on
the game during the next few weeks. Eng-
land, after all. made an equally disastrous
start in the first innings, when the mighty
Yobbs went for 107 and Rutcliff could make
no more than 160; yet the team finished with
the fair total of 18,962, largely through
Chapmond’s 5088. This is the first occasion
on which a batsman has contributed 5000 in
each innings of a Test match.
Bregory again bowled well, coming out
with the excellent average of five wickets for
4827, making his total for the match nine
for 8960, a performance that is a complete
answer to those who considered that he
should not be in the team.
P. Mobewicket.
THE BELATED EXPLANATION.
“Mornin’, George.”
“Mornin’, Alby.”
“Wodidger give yer ’orse when ’e was crook
that time?”
“Kerosene.”
(A fortnight, later.)
“Mornin’, George.”
“Mornin’, Alby.”
“Wodidger say yer give yer ’orse when ’e
was crook that time?”
“Kerosene.”
(Three weeks later.)
“Mornin’, George.”
“Mornin’, Alby.”
“Me ’orse died; an’ I give him kerosene
just like you gave yours.”
“Yairs. Mine died, too.”
R. L.
TWENTY YEARS ONWARDS.
“If gang warfare increases at its present rate,
Surry Hills will soon be unsafe for inoffensive
pedestrians.” —Sydney paper.
Sydney in 1948 and the velvet dusk falling-
like a brick.
Reginald de Clurkke, an inoffensive pedes-
trian, is walking home to his 27th-storey
flatette in Potts Point. As he approaches
the airship masts in Hyde Park a sound
of shooting reaches him from the valley
below. Absently, for his mind is occupied
with the knock which has developed in his
new T.P. ’plane, he loads his 16-chambered
“Anti-Thugge” revolver, and fixes his gas-
mask at “the ready.” A corpse drops from
an upper window of the Rcfeenment Lauu-
dry. Pausing only
to note that its
throat bears the
distinctive marks
of the Gashers’
Razor Gang, he
strolls on.
A woman dashes
from a house pur-
sued by a man
with an axe. “The
pinched my
cocaine,” ex-
plains the latter,
and Mr, de Clurkke
nods understand-
ingly. The woman
—poor as regards
speed, though tem-
porarily rich in
cocaine—is quickly
overtake n, and
pays the penalty of
her lapse.
And now there is
evidence that the
dead woman and
the even deader
laundryman were,
in life, not without
s u pporter s. A
policeman rashly
inquisitive falls
riddled with bul-
lets which appear
to come from No.
27. Simultaneous-
ly No. 2 6 is
wrecked by a bomb.
At the top of the
street someone is
operating a trench-
mortar. A wave
of phosgene swirl?
down from the direction of Oxford-
street, and a couple of children who
are playing without their masks, suc-
cumb. A gangster in a doorway makes an
unprovoked prod at Mr. de Clurkke’s mask
with a jagged bottle; and the wearer, who
boasts one of the quickest trigger-fingers in
the men’s underwear trade, places four well-
directed bullets in his assailant’s abdomen.
.... And so home.
“A nice walk, dear?” asks his wife as she
relieves him of gas-mask, steel bowler, revol-
ver and bullet-proof waistcoat, and puts his
liand-greuades within easy reach.
“Very pleasant—though uneventful. And
now, if you’ll give the bedroom machine-gun
an oiling, I’ll read you a pungent leader
from to-night’s paper criticising the Judge
who said that members of razor gangs should
be flogged on conviction.” j j)
* *
Love moves in a hysterious way its blun-
ders to perform ; it fills with gladness all the
day, but after that there’s storm. It makes
a husband beat his wife because he thinks
she’s frisky; it makes her wage a wordy
strife until he takes to whisky. Sometimes
volcanic flames it wakes; it sometimes starts
a blizzard. A carving knife the jilted takes
to slit her darling's gizzard; or she, with
jilted thoughts intent to injure and to out
him, tales of his misdeeds will invent and
tell the world about him. Oh. Love! ere
NOT A TIME TO TAKE RISKS.
“There's no reason why I shouldn’t wear this dress
even if I have a cold.”
“All right, all right! But don’t sneeze, that’s all.”
yielding to your sway wise men should
pause. Yet tarry—l got divorced but yes-
terday ; to-morrow I shall marry !
n.s.w. Percy Pawnticket.
* *
TESTY TRIFLES.
There are no Hammond eggs for the
cricketers.
Is Oldfield worth his place? Batsmen
are stumped for an answer!
Looks as if England has us on the runs,
Gregory is bound to find a catch in it
somewhere.
Batsmen will have to score faster if they
want gait money.
H. M.
“COPY.”
I have no sordid thirst for gore,
And yet it gives me joy
To learn that in a lonely lane
A thug has slain a hoy,
Or that sonic fiend in human shape
Has choked an infant with a tape.
I would not harm a fig myself,
And yet I long to hear
Of inoffensive dames whose throats
Were slit from ear to car;
Of men's insides kicked cleanly out
In Hurry tlills or thereabout.
/ hate the heartless motor-hog,
Yet when he kills and flees
/ feel that ] must shake Iris hand
And murmur, "Encore, please!
You've done your hit to sec us through,
And we are much obliged to you.”
Thus sang a daily editor
As I went by his den;
He was the mildest, mirthf idlest,
Least murderous of men.
N.s.w.
O'MIKE.
He used to teach her lots of sport.
When driving off the tee
( They'd done the seventh) he would ex-
hort,—
“Look, darling, just watch me!”
At tennis, too, he’d have his spoke—
“ Now, let your arm swing free!”
When showing her a swimming stroke,
“It’s this way, dear —watch me!”
But now they’re wed, and hubby eyes
The flappers, neat and trim,
The fact he does not advertise,
But cripes / she watches him!
N.S.W.
DORIC.
THE TURN OF THE WEAL.
(Another Thrilling Event in the Career of a
King of Adventurers.)
Richard Rekless was returning with Bit-
erness in his Hart from Sydney’s Zoo. He
had arskt for a Job amongst the Lions, but
the Business Manerger had merely said Sik-
arstically, “Nothing doing—but catch me a
Shark and we’ll give you a fiver.”
Dick would have thort nothing of catch-
ing a Shark, but he had spent all his Money
and so could not afford to Buy Bait. Sadly
he refleekted on his Parsed Life. He had
shot Tigers and Lions and Ellefants in the
Wild Jungle where no Foot had ever Trod-
den ; lie had even shot a number of Fabulus
Animals. To what avail? Merely to find
the Corpses Unsalable!
On the strength of his War Service, where
he had disarmed a German Army Corps
single-handed, using his pipe as a Revolver,
a deed which won him the M.B.E. and bar,
a shopkeeper had given him a Job. But
after the Brave Lad had knocked down three
Customers who had made unmanly attempts
on the Virtue of the Shopgirls he had been
Discharged. The shopkeeper said Richard’s
Methods were Bad for Business, and that
the Customers in falling w T ere apt to Damage
His Goods. A Paltry Sole if ever there
was one!
Richard had gone to the Zoo as a Last
Resauce; and now, as the Ferry made its
way back to Sydney, he felt it was the End.
But what is this Excitement abaft the
engine-room ?
Two Ferocious-looking sharks are swim-
ming Alongside.
A cry rings out —“Man Overboral.
Strictly speaking, it is a female, a little
girl who, while admiring the Sharks, has
toppled oVerbord. . „
Her father Rung his hands m despair, ana
a Thrill of Horror went threw the Crowd.
Rut the Moment of Danger Found the
Man. ... . , ~
“Fear not! I’ll Save her!” cried Our
Hero. _ . , .
In a flash he was in the Briny, and in
Another he had Seized the Unconscious form
in his Storlwort Arms.
The Crowd gave a Cheer; but then it
Groaned. Oh Horror! The Sharks were
Rushing upon their Prey. .
It seemed that Nothing Could
vSave the Prey.
But our Hero, who had shot
Fabulus Animals and knocked
down Insulters of shop-girls,
was not to be cowed by a brace
of Sharks. With Undaunted
Mean he watched the Monsters
of the Deep Approach.
A cry of Dispair went up
from the Onlookers. And* then
came a Garsp of Amazement.
Tredding water, Our Hero
had lightly flung the Form of
the girl into the air so as to
get it out of Harm’s way. In
each hand he held a short, stout
piece of wood which he had had
the Fourthort to pick up be-
fore diving overboard.
The crowd closed its eyes in
Horror. When it opened them
again what a sight did it see!
The two sharks were thrashing
the seas in Omnipotent Fury,
each with a piece of wood
jambed in its Distended and
now Perfickly harmless Jaws.
And simerltaneously the falling
Form of the child was Deffly
Caught, in the Young Man's
arms. With a wild cheer a rope
Whistled through the air, and
the little girl was quickly hailed
abord by it, and Clasped to the Bosom of
the Father.
But why does Our Hero still linger?
“Throw me two ropes!” he shouts; and
is obeyed.
When Richard Rekless climbed abord
amid the cheers of the people, who- had
watched a Deed that can only be called
Intreppid, the two Monsters were firmly
Secured by ropes tied round their tales'.
Much against their will they were Towed
back to the Zoo, to which the ferry returned
at Richard’s request; for everybody Felt
they could not do Two Much for him.
But the First to Shake Our Hero’s hand
was the Grateful Father. To his surprise
Our Hero recognised the Business Manerger
of the ZOo.
“Nobel Man !” eckselaimed the B.M. “How
can I thank you? I reconise you, and I
am Conscens Stricken that I refused to give
you a Job. But I will make Amends. I
have long thought of retiring, and now I
will do so, and you can have my Position.
And, later on, when she lias grown up, you
HOT-WEATHER ITEM.
“Waiter! This worm has turned!”
can Marry my Daughter, Whose Life You
have Saved. She is Heir to the Entira
Zoo!!”
As Richard Rekless looked at the fair
but Fragile Girl, smiling gratefully up at
him with a look which spoke of Love at
First Sight, he felt that the Weal of For-
tune had indeed brought its Own Revenges.
HAMER JUNIOR.


DUNLOP
is first choice
with so many motorists—because
experience has proved that the
durability of Dunlop is exception*
ally good —and can be relied on.
Dunlop builds tyres to with-
stand the hardest of driving
conditions and their quality
& toughness ensure
reliable tyre service that
makes motoring enjoyable
and profitable.
5000 GARAGES
STOCK AND
RECOMMEND
DUNLOP
—/or real tyre
satisfaction
fit Dunlop!
y/m
W///////Z.
"////////■
cr,
1
'L
1
!(
this new
TENNIS BALL
,s TRULV
ex cept‘ onM -'
79
DEPOTS
SPORTS
M-L
■ golf
VOUt «-n safce
'^° r the snkc
° f Go If
play (jp j
GlJhJlOpF' ti
XFLI


THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £5OO PRIZE STORY.
4%
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, 3|% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO.
Society Accounts, 4% on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose. Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses, Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
Prom one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose Accounts may be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the x
teiHonwealtl) Savmoslank of Australia
V
T\
Ik
\ i
N K. v„.
‘lts Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
COONARDOO.
By-Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
0. E. PERCIVAL.
“‘You. know about asbestos’, Billy said, ‘how it’ll stand fire, drought and rain—any
old thing. And the harder you use it the better it’ll be. That’s me for you, Phyllis.’ ”
w
AT five o’clock, when Hugh came off his
go, he wakened the camp. Chitali
and Mick went after the day horses,
Hugh made a waggon wheel of damper. He
was faddy about his damper and liked to
mix it himself. Coonardo brought the tins
of water, put one down beside Hugh’s pack
and another beside Phyllis’s. Phyllis washed
in her tin of water as Hughie did, combed
back her wet hair and was ready to eat and
drink with Hugh and Billy Gale.
Gale was going 'with Hugh as far as the
boundary of Nuniewarra. He insisted on
taking a go at night; the cattle were rest-
less, would not settle at all; the boys had
a busy time with them. Phyllis had
wakened to hear the crack of the stock-
whips like rifleshots, in the starlit night,
She had seen Winni streaking after a white-
faced bullock which had mooched off look-
ing for his mother, watched the runaway
brought back to the mob and heard Billy
Gale go on with the boys. He sang some
of the songs Cock-eyed Bob had sawed out
of his violin a few nights before, as he
went round the cattle.
In and out of the camp for ten days
Phyllis saw the tall, rakish figure of Sam
Geary’s stockman. • He sprawled by the fire
with Hugh in the evening. They ate, and
drank their hot tea together; but Bill was
off with Chitali and the boys all day, and
took a watch at night before Phyllis went
on with Coonardoo and Winni. She admired
the easy, unconscious grace with which he
swung about, riding and walking, or stand-
ing to light his pipe, and liked to watch him
move off in the morning on the Blackguard,
exclaiming with the blacks when the big
gelding bucked and disported himself in the
keen air.
“They’re well matched,” Hugh said. “A
pair of them, I reck’n.”
“What?” Phyllis asked.
“Blackguards!”
“You don’t like him?”
“No. I don’t like him,” Hugh said.
He did not seem to dislike Billy Gale
when they yarned beside the fire in the
evening, and Phyllis lay on her back smok-
ing and listening to them. She threw a
word into the talk now and then. But Gale
rarely spoke to her; if she found his eyes on
her he averted them quickly, like a black
of her own age.
Phyllis did not wish to be aware of him,
of that queer faunish gaze of his, although
she liked to listen while he was going round
the cattle at night. There were notes in
his voice, which came to her through the
darkness—that dim light from the stars—
and dropped into her.
“Till the sajids of the desert grow cold,
And its infinite numbers are told,”
Bill sang. And:
‘■Hot sands burning
Fire my veins with passion bold;
Love, I’ll love thee
Till desert sands grow cold.
Love me, I’ll love thee,
Till sands of the desert grow c01d”...
Every night he sang those words, his
voice low and murmuring, as if he were
thinking to himself, half-singing, half-
talking. Phyllis wondered about the woman
in Roebourne.
“You’ve got a great collection of songs,
Bill,” she said one evening when she and
Billy were alone
beside the
.camp-fire for
awhile.
Billy grinned
lazily. “Sam’s
gramophone,”
he draw 1 e and.
“He bought it
couple of years
ago when he
was in Karrara.
We got a lot of
fun out of it
till he poured a
bottle of whisky
down it one
night. It’s been
a, bit, rusty ever
since. That’s
where I get
most of my
songs.”
“Not the one
About women
being change-
able?”
“No.” He
looked at her
with queer nar-
rowing eyes.
"How did you know?”
“Cock-eyed Bob! The Dago woman in
Roebourne, Bill-—was she a plume swaying
in the summer w'ind?”
“Gripes!” Billy pulled himself up on to
his long legs. “I’ll screw Cock-eye’s neck
when I see him.”
Phyllis did not see him again that night.
She unfolded her ground-sheet, looked
around to see there were no mingas, and
went to sleep until she heard Billy singing
in the small hours. Why on earth should
she always waken when Bill was going
round the cattle, PhyHlis wondered, disturbed
and vexed with herself.”
Billy v r as singing:
“Till the sands of the desert grow cold,
And its infinite numbers are t01d” ....
Over and over again he sang the love song,
with its reiterated refrain. He sang no-
thing else during his last nights in camp.
Time flowed, from the coolwenda’s first
notes, before dawn; breakfast of coffee,
damper and salt meat; mustering all the
morning, with stretch and quartpot of tea
under bare blue sky and a vertical sun at
mid-day... .to the cut-out in the afternoon
.... off-saddle and meal when a rosy glow
was on hills and plains; turning out of
day-horses and bringing in of ‘the night-
horses. .. .a sprawl, smoking and yarning
beside the camp-fire for an hour or 50....
then sleep under the stars until your call
came to go on watch round the cattle.
Then the tramp round the mob, restless and
unbroken to the road still, singing softly
and watching the big-horned four-year-old
bullocks, calves of spayed cows, who were
giving all the trouble.
Phyllis swayed sleepily as she sang some-
times. She had liked to take up the song
of the man she was following, tried to.
imitate Coonardoo or Winni, teased Hugh
by singing the “Gipsy’s Daughter” all flat
and out of tune as he did, and lightly,
mockingly, for Bill’s benefit, burbled “La
Donna e Mobile”:
“Plume in the summer wind,
Waywardly playing, ne’er one way swaying,
Each whim obeying. This heart of woman-
kind everyway bendeth;
Woe who dependeth on joy she spendeth.”
She had no idea that Bill watched through
her watch until the white-faced bullock got
away one night. Phyllis went after him,
but not before she had heard the flash and
jerk outwards of the long figure from Bill
Gale’s fireside. He flashed past her on
his night horse, headed and turned the
beast.
“Damned swine!” Phyllis gasped, venting
her rage and chagrin.
“He’ll get away yet,” Billy declared
cheerily. “These suckers ’re more bother
than they’re worth. We should have kept
his mother in the mob. Better let me go
on with you.”
Phjdlis shook her head. She could not
have endured the beast to get away, yet
she wished Bill had let her manage by
herself.
“Hugh’d sack me if he didn’t think I was
up to the job.”
Billy went back to his rug and fireside.
Phyllis looked after him, troubled and a
little afraid. Happy to be sex-free, to be
living in the rough, hard way of men. with
a sense of independence and serenity, she
had sunk into her place in the camp. Even
Hugh was beginning to forget she was a
girl. She took her watch with the men,
worked all night when the bullocks rushed
at. Perry’s Pool, and stuck it when the
watches were double-banked for two or three
nights afterwards.
CHAPTER XXVII.
“We’re mustering on Nuniewarra twenty-
eighth,” Bill said when he was turning off
through the pass by the Nungarra rock.
“Sain said to tell you, and say you’re
welcome to come over.”
“Thanks.” Hugh was remembering the
number of S4G calves running with his
cows. “We’ll send a couple of boys—if I
can’t get.”
Gale’s eyes were following the mob Chitali
and the boys had moving over the plains,
feeding as they went, Phyllis riding with
them on her chestnut. Hugh’s resentment
went deeper. He understood the dazed,
dreamy stare Gale put after his daughter.
Helpless with rage, he glared at Billy.
“I’m all in, Hugh,” Bill said steadily,
earnestly. “Rough as bags .and all that,
but”
“Nothing doing, Bill,” Hugh stopped him.
“By cripes, isn’t there?” Billy Gale’s
eyes slewed to him. Hugh looked short and
stoutish nowadays, dour and bossy. “We’ll
see isn’t there !”
Billy lifted his reins, rose in his stirrups
and cantered to where Phyllis was riding.
Hugh saw him pull in his horse, rock-to
beside her. A moment later Bill was canter-
ing across the plains to where the boys were
streaking towards the tumbled masses of
Nungarra rocks.
“Curse him! Curse his damned impu-
dence!” Hugh smouldered, following his
own beasts.
He had a presentiment that Gale was
right. He would see that lathy good-for-
nothing walk off with Phyllis—walk off with
her under his nose! And there was nothing
to do; that was the worst of it. Wasn’t
there, though? Hugh went over the tales
he could tell Phyllis about Gale.
There was the woman in Roebourne
Geary had talked of; but she was mad
about Bill, and married after all. And the
girl in Karrara
No, that wouldn’t do. Hugh could not
see himself tale-telling, spouting and moral-
ising. But by hook or by crook he intended
to prevent Geary’s stockman from marry-
ing his daughter. He was not going to see
his girl taken possession of by a man who
took orders from Sam Geary—a man Sam
Geary took orders from was what the
countryside was saying. Still, who was he,
Bill Gale? “Phyllis Watt, eldest daughter of
Hugh Watt, of Wytaliba Station, to Bill
Gale, by God knows who or the Devil knows
what, and cares less.” No!
(Continued on page 49.)


fos 9 -
tosfg*'
y
V.
\
V////M
■'////A
y/M.
mm
HATEVER may be your holi-r
day mood ... fishing; game I
w ® hunting; alpine climbing;!
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled <
by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
-^je^
- ltt ;A.f uase '
pet<* u
>Sci^ e „...
-
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
e
* £5/15/-
Price of Travelling Type complete
with Hose Connection,
£6/15/-
Descriptive Folder Post Free on
Request.
c
Spectacular Travelling Type
Spectacular Stationary Type
<s!
I JOHN I
shiiiiiiiiihhiiiiii?
&SONI
miiimimniiimr?
Price of Stationary Type, com
plete with Stand and Hose Con
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
GUARD
WELL-
ijour AmilifW
health /
All Models Porcelain
Lined.
Write for Prices
and Terms.
(23
m
>
V'UL
UW9J* HI
sJL&A&O:.
“Freeze with Ease.”
v-i
y
m.
m
klxJjS
I riy
Damp, fluctuating temperatures
constitute a breeding ground for
that serious menace to health—
bacteria. The insidious thing
about these micro-organisms is
that they contaminate food
before you realise it.
With ElectrlCE electrical re-
frigeration, a dry, constant tem-
perature, well below the danger
line (50 degrees F.) is auto-
matically maintained at all
times, providing ice day in and
day out —free from germs and
dust.
ElectrlCE is quiet, dependable
and automatic; it takes care of
itself and—the family health.
Call to-day, see one working,
and inspect our Model Electric
Kitchen.
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd.,
137-39 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUGDEN PLACE, MELBOURNE.
(Zl
m
AN EMMCO
PRODUCT
Made by
Electricity Meter Mfg. Co.,
Ltd.
F
A/j Smmco Product- Te/a. 8M.13Z8
MANUFACTURERS PRODUCTS PTT U 5
137 CLARENCE S T SYDNEY
PLEASE SEND FREE YOUR ELECTRIGE
TO
Street.
j- C/ fr
State.
£3


r. uikino. public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5.000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £3.369,005
Aggregate Assets at 30th .Tune, 1928.. £18.623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. R. LYSAOHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Cal. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH: G 2 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shaves .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia > New
UJVH.iI i d UAN JA.I; 10 Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS tL
and transacts all other usual Banking
interest for
periods
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUIH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. i 1,250,000
Reserve Fund 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to StlCCC£<t —— . THINK OF
n
£
SCHUTE,
BELL& C °td.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
*~ x should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
aud obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street,.Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Agister
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone 7i'.0J87.
O. N. BERN ALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
OWHERE in the blue Pacific is there such enchantment and
1 V health as in the coral-circled islands now within your reach at
the cost of a city holiday. Palm-shaded lagoons and turquoise
sea \, surf foaming on to a wide white heach, tropical beauty of flower and
fern and forest, quaint native villages, heights catching the ocean breeze
—these can be yours!
And with an ocean
holiday on giant
trans-Pacific Liners
/,
W;
m
f '■' ’
<i>*
RU
At the Cost of a City Holiday
RETURN EXCURSIONS
Honolulu
From Sydney: £75 first, £55 second.
Aorangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Feb. 7.
Niagara, Dec. 13.
Tahiti
From Sydney: £55 first, £4O second.
Tahiti, Nov. 29. Tahiti, Jan. 24.
Makura, Dec. 27. Makura, Feb.2l.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
47 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melb., C.l.
m
mkmm
mm
ImSbli
m
9m
rr
: .
Attractive Trips of from S\ to 7 'Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings;
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
, PHILP&> COMPANY LIP
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ,
RESERVE LIABILITY
a,
£7,500,000
6,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors :
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Janies Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 ThreadDeedle Street, E.C 2
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075 000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739;<)12 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman) • Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND -
ED WARD RITCHIE KNOX. ’
General Manager: J, R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia' and Canberra
lederal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, e«c.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Sydney Agents.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
Mclltvraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.TJ.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Mellwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkcrLi
j... Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
w


One Safety
THERE is but one safety with
one blade. That is a Rolls
Razor, Scientists in the
laboratory and craftsmen in the
factory have laboured to transform
the safety from a mere holder of
stamped out wafer blades to a one
bladed satisfactory razor. The result
is the Rolls Razor, the supreme
safety of the century. Its one blade
is hollow ground from tested steel.
The edge of this blade Is kept keen
by automatic honing and stropping
in its case. Years and years of
clean, smooth shaves are assured
with a Rolls Razor. Buy one—and
be finished with the nuisance of
wafer blades.
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade Safety
SOLE AGENTS:
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
e
ADD AT is the world’s most practical small adding and
calculating machine. Weighs-less than 71b.
Anyone can operate; just pull down the dial. Full instructions and written
guarantee. Suits the pocket, too. £l5 Cash with order; free delivery in Aus-
tralia. Capacity with farthings, £lO,OOO. Used in small stores, offices
and garages all over the country. Machines slightly used,. £B/15/-.
! Full cost allowed if exchanged for new make within 3 “months.
ADDAC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY, (Agents ■ wanted.)
-
0
¥
3
LX
.
m
m
tif
5^L
W 33
V &*yZ* y.m*v *9. x*
tvex &SSO.
j//f,»x*;. v w/. m sffsazßvsxx
up. v * my. m*»/ c v. e >r«*? 0/ a z
/yip x «;<»** xa * «>•«if ff /«>: /»
W ;< # x « x e*e * tf it«;* e >? tf * * x * a
kmftßxmxgy.mi'.mxiiHxmzmxeiitl
esexifixtitiKiiUffZiexexßiingx**'
is >7«s?exjexiexi*w*xiPX(*
sav.itmxazm?.9X9Xtt's.w£»x*z
/*>r«i?e/sexei?«tfwx«xi*w«x»,
«*(Prc>rc;-:fl;*tf >:*;■? iPtfiff^axav
Yto * ffl x fl) ;? 0 >: # w 0 V. «af4P * * aW
; / ->
.' > • s»*
&££
The famous
AER TEX open weave'. .
THE cool comfort and protection from
sudden changes of temperature so essential
in. tropical underwear, are to be found in
every AERTEX garment.
Through the porous open mesh of AERTEX
the skin breathes freely and the extreme heat of
the day or the sudden chill of the night finds
the body adequately protected by the AERTEX
wonder weave.
w
Obtainable from all Hosiers,Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
'ammssmsge
CL OT h
AERTEX
5-ONDOt*
3E
i Label on all Garments |.£v»
See this label on all garments
A. 4
Pen and Picture.
Shadow Shows
“Odds On” (Australasian Films) is en-
tirely and absolutely Australian. If it were
translated into Swahili and from Swahili
into Malay and then into Sanskrit it would
still reek of Australia. The moving chronicle
of the turf is genuinely thrilling, and the
incidental indictment of the sport of crooks
is crushing. The descent of the jockey-liero
and his friend the magsman on a country
course, where they gather in the rural har-
vest, is beautiful comedy. Some of the plot
is wrung out, and some of it is mangled,
and the acceptance of a delieensed rider as
his prospective son-in-law by a plutocratic
station-owner strains even democratic credu-
lity. But these simplicities are easily for-
given a picture so full of localised good
humor.
“Good morning, Judge” (Universal) is
about as convincing as an office-boy’s dead
grandmother; still, as it is not offered as a
fertiliser for the reasoning vegetable, but as
Mary Nolan,
of “Good Morning, Judge.”
a tickler for
the ribs, that
is not such a
serious defect.
Freddie Grey,
a wealthy
young man,
does not appear
to be very
severely mauled
in a ringside
brawl, but he
wakes up next
morning in
gaol with his
clothes so com-
pletely wrecked
that he looks
as if his life-
occupation had
been deputy-
general pull-
through to a
firm of drain-
pipe cleaners.
Adopting the
original pseu-
donym of John
Smith, he is
fined, and when
he feels for his wallet to pay up discovers
that it must l ave been removed during the
stadium disturbance. The sum is paid by
a blonde, who is so good-looking that she
ought to be on the pictures instead of run-
ning a slum mission. He goes to the mis-
sion to work off the debt, to fall in love with
the girl and to discover that her secretary,
a supposedly-reformed crook, is up to his
dirty old dodges of surreptitiously getting
away with the silver. The girl turns out
to be a close personal friend of Freddie’s
sister, and Freddie is eventually invited to a
mission evening held at his own home, where
he catches some of the other guests of dis-
honor getting away with the necklaces of the
society dames. A fine old brawl follows, and
Freddie, whose identity has not been revealed
to the girl, emerges triumphant, and all is
forgiven. The farce ripples along and there
are even laughs in it, mostly raised by Regi-
nald Denny in embarrassing situations. Mary
Nolan is the girl, and Otis Harlan is not bad
as an O. Henryish beery-looking grafter.
That the Salvation Army does great work
in London’s slums no one who has lived in
those wretched places will deny, but whether
that is sufficient excuse for putting forward
five reels or so of Army propaganda as a
screen entertainment is debatable. The set-
ting is excellent, and so is the institution,
for making a picture of the human as dis-
tinct from the puppet variety, but both would
need to be threaded through with a much
stronger and more original story than is
contained in “The Street of Sin” (Para-
mount) before all that this picture is in-
tended to be would be realised. There is
first-class acting by Emil Jannings in the
offering, and, though that is about all, it is
much. He is Sledgehammer Bill, a beefy
thug who allows himself to be reformed. He
has a woman of his own who also joins the
colors, but he discovers an admiration in
his 7f>Jin. chest for a lassie who seem-
ingly constitutes both the rank and the file
of the Army in the locality. Presently he
falls from the straight and narrow, and is
industriously drowning recollection of the
lassie when his woman breaks into the
drinkery with the news that the Army build-
ing is well alight. After rescuing the lass,
and while she lies unconscious, he assures
Lleaven that he will stand by the Army for
ever if she is allowed to recover. This
making of oral conditions with the Deity is
always very touching, though not always
so effectual: in this instance, however, the
terms evidently give satisfaction, for the
girl recovers without Bill being even asked
to sign on the dotted line. Then the girl
suggests that Bill, some of whose conditional
arrangements with “them that is above”
she has overheard, ought to do the decent'
thing by his woman. So Bill proposes,
much to his woman’s amazement, and is
spontaneously accepted. There is the germ
of a quite passable dramatic idea in the
piece, but it is all so hurried over that even
Jannings’s good acting fails to make it as
convincing as it needs to be.
“A Harp in Hock” (P.D.C.) is made a
really good picture by sheer brilliant acting.
“Hock,” in Uncle Sam’s argot, is a pawn-
shop ; “harp” is Ould Ireland. During an
illness the Jew pawnbroker is aided by an
Irish girl who had left a son behind her
when she crossed over to New York, and
when she in turn becomes ill, and he acci-
dentally discovers the boy’s address, he sends
for the lad, enclosing the fare out of his till.
The boy arrives just after the mother’s
death, and the pawnbroker admirably carries
out the duties of foster-father until the gos-
sipy dames of the locality convince Uncle
Sam’s apparently comic-opera police that
the Jew is unfitted for the job. Without
any such formality as an inquiry, the child
is shanghaied to an orphanage, from which
he is about to be adopted by a farmer when
he bolts and returns to “hock,” unknown to
LTncJe. A magistrate decides that the Jew
is a fit and proper person to have charge
of the bov. and the “harp” duly returns to
The story, if it* detail* are right,
is a trenchant criticism of Uncle Sam s
police. Overlooking the improbability
involved there, it is sound and human. It
is, however, for the choice acting of Rudolph
Schildraut that it is here commended : his
study of the Jew is as fine a piece of sus-
tained character-acting as this Shadow Show-
man has seen for months.
The Palette
Carl Hampel (New Gallery, Melbourne)
has nothing to remark in water-color that
he has not already said five times better in
oils.
“F.S.”: Napier Waller, the one-armed Dig-
ger painter, continues to enjoy a monopoly
of mural art in Melbourne. Ilis latest is a
large decoration for the vestibule of the new
T. and G. Building. Waller’s classical props
are here put to illustrating “Thrift,” in the
person of a well-nourished widow whose hus-
band’s timely capitulation to the blandish-
ments of an insurance agent (no doubt
belonging to the T. and G. of ancient Greece)
enables her to provide a family of three
healthy children, a white-haired father and
a parrot with a daily plate of fruit (placed
conspicuously in the left-hand corner). The
picture is richly but restrain tfully colored,
the sole dash of brilliance being the bird,
and there is better and more sensitive draw-
ing in the figures than went to the hastily-
executed heroes and goddesses who display
their uncertain anatomy at the Town Hall.
While grateful for Waller’s talent, one can-
not help regretting that he does not occa-
sionally throw off an Australian theme. Even
Thrift might be illustrated in a Mallee
cockie’s home. Look how he knocks up the
bedroom furniture out of kero, cases in order
to buy a Safety Stutz!
An oil painting of the late Dick Butler,
sometime Premier and Speaker, has been
added to. S. Aus. Assembly’s collection of
portraits; it is the fourth picture in this
gallery from the brush of Geo. Webb, who
also painted Dick Baker for the Leg. Council
gallery of ex-Presidents. The Assembly’s
gallery now contains, besides the Butler por-
trait, counterfeit presentments of Governors
Hindmarsh and Gawler; Speakers Kingston
(C.C.’s father), Hawker, Ross, Bray and
Coles; Premiers Peake and Holder (first
Federal Speaker) ; and Robert Torrens,
author of the Real Property Act.
“•S.T.S.”: “No sense of buoyancy” in the
toy balloons in a Dora Meeson painting (B.
10/10/’2B) ? Well, how about rendering that
buoyancy in clay? In London last year, I
was shown over a little Chelsea studio where
the artists, a young married couple, specialise
in plaster figures of London characters; and
the balloon-seller with her delicate wares was
quite the best of them. . With true profes-
sional rancor they pointed out that a
famous pottery-making firm had copied their
idea, .but made the balloons look “like bags
of lard.”
The Inky Way
“Lao-dah”: An ingenious method of pro-
moting art and literature in the Dominion
is the N.Z. Artists’ Annual, conducted by
Pat Lawlor, of Wellington. Most enter-
prises of the kind usually crash on the
financial rocks early in their career, but
Lawlor gets over the need of funds by run-
ning his sheet on a communal basis. Con-
tributions are not paid for on acceptance,
but when the edition is sold out the profits—
if any—are divided pro rata amongst the
writers and black-and-white men. By this
means Lawlor has collected offerings from
Maorilanders scattered all over the globe.
Some day somebody will write the aston-
ishing story of Jack Lindsay, Norman s
Jack Lindsay.
eldest sou,
now in Lon-
don, and mak-
ing himself as
much talked
of there as his
father was at
the same age
in Australia —
he is 28. Jack
never -cared
for art, but he
might be a
great artist if
he tried. His
powers of
absorption are
uncanny. He
has shown
himself able
to knock up
a working
acquaint-
ance with
any langu-
age in a
couple of
months. He knew no Russian when
the war started (he was then at Bris-
bane Uni.), but, the Censor’s office running
out of a Russian interpreter, he undertook
to fill the bill in six weeks—and did! In
London he has published unblushing trans-
lations of Petronius and Aristophanes that
have compelled the attention of scholars, he
has been editing some Elizabethan reprints,
and now there is talk of a new literary
monthly, the London Aphbodite, in which
he will be joined by I J . R. Stephenson, the
rebellious Queensland Rhodes scholar.
“W.E.M.”: Touching the hand-written
numbers of Fawkner’s Melbourne Adver-
tiser, referred to by “R.J.R.” (B. 2G/9/’2S)
there should be little difficulty in proving
whether they are in Fawkner’s writing or
not. I have a copy of the “London Cata-
logue of Books,” 1835, used by Fawkner in
his bookselling business. In three different
places Fawkner has apparently written his
name in. full, but on other pages there are
entries in a fine copper-plate handwriting
bearing no resemblance to Fawkner’s. This
suggests that Fawkner had an assistant who
every week wrote the 30 copies of the
Advertiser. Searching for Australiana, 1
picked up this “London Catalogue” in a
second-band bookshop in Perth.


stnujsu(n)l
m* sdivpMQ
r*
m
in
6\
&
as
R?
a>
m
??
»\r
«v
S«?«
a®
BHW
(W
*> e
ft?*
o)*'
n(l 0
Vvv>'
VV S ’ o* .
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/-,
30/- and 37/6.
but be sure they’re
miller's
Ask to see Hillier s fine
range of Beautiful Fancy
Boxes, Baskets
and Caskets up to £5/5/-
&ne6ti&(tUA
162-166 PITT STREET.
Radiant
Health
and Vigour
Strong and energetic, she enjoys
work and play alike, and sleeps like
a baby when the day is over. No
wonder she looks so happy. The
secret is her regular use of Sanatogen
When you feel depressed and every
little task seems a mountain of trouble,
your system is crying out for
Sanatogen
Sanatogen is a wonderful strength
and energy producing food for the
weak and ailing. It gives nerve*
strength and health to those who
suffer from debility and lassitude.
Determine to try Sanatogen. It is obtain•
able at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
sanatogen
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise.
Wilfred is slaying the sewing-
machine,
While I sit and enjoy the view,
He runs each seam with a boyish
beam
As the handiest husbands do;
His helpful schemes and inventive
dreams
Have silvered my shingled hairs
Will he next succumb to the urge
to plumb ?
Or carpenter crazy chairs?
>1 %
I J
Wilfred has wrecked little Clara’s
frock,
And puckered each silken pleat,
But I merely smile with true wifely
guile —
“You clever Old Boy—how sweet! ”
He’s a handy way that is wise
and gay
Of producing ABDULLA’S Best,
So I calmly smoke while the Baby’s
cloak
Is bungled like all the rest.
—F. R. Holmis.
THE HANDY HUSBAND
SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


mlMm
i
mmm
UJLII I 111
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
i
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Well-backed old-stagers in Golden Voice
and Resource won the principal races at
Randwick on Saturday, and enabled hun-
dreds of punters to show a profit on what
was, for most of the brotherhood, a bad day.
At his previous start on the course Golden
Voice had been placed second in the Flying
Handicap after finishing first, the stewards
upholding a protest on the ground of inter-
ference with Beckwith. Interference there
was undoubtedly, but most, people decided
that Golden Voice would have won anyhow.
Meeting Beckwith on 21b. better terms in the
Flying Handicap, Golden Voice donkey-licked
that ’orse and 11 others in lmin. He
went out at 9 to 2 —in the circumstances a
good price. Greenwich, a son of Greenstead,
separated the Demosthenes —Golden Shoe
gelding and Beckwith.
Resource, now owned by Dan Lewis, out-
stayed his field in the November Handicap,
but he had nothing much to beat except Vala-
mita, who looked jaded—ns well he might
after all the racing he has had —and Lady
Constance, who may have grown tricky.
Sally Blue, a mare from Newcastle (she is
a daughter of Salitros, the A.J.C. Derby
winner, out of Sky Blue) and New Sweet
looked dangerous in the straight, but when
Crowley brought Resource along the old
follow soon settled them. He was favorite
at 4 to 1. The 12 furlongs took him 2min.
ÜBlsec.
Loquacious, a sister to Windbag, was
backed for the Three-year-old Handicap, but
took no part in the finish, which was con-
tested by Raceland, Cleave and the favorite,
King’s Arms; Raceland (12 to 1), a chest-
nut gelding by Three —Poor Lorna, just got
there from Cleave. The useful Somnolent (5
to 1) scored in the High weight Handicap
from Leadight (tens) and Lovebox. Ihere
was little backing for Leadight, who made
his fast run too late. Perhaps a mile is
not far enough for this fellow, who may be
worth watching for one of the Christmas
handicaps.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Maiden Handicap: Loquacious.
Varroville Handicap: Greenwich; next,
Canberra Florin.
Homebusli Handicap: Illuminate or
Gwillian G.; next, Luddenham.
Farm Stakes: Illuminate or The Grind-
stone ; next, Valhalla.
Macquarie Grove Handicap: Bawn-na-
Glas ; next, Somnolent.
* * * *
Despite all the racing Melbourne has had
recently, punters were in strong force at
Caulfield on Saturday. Most of them found
winners very hard to pick, and looked par-
ticularly rueful after the Armadale Handi-
cap, the principal race. For this Bombard,
on his second to Amounis in the Williams-
town Cup, was a firm favorite at threes,
others well in the market being the Wil-
liamstown November Handicap winner
Kenney (5 to 1), “Jimmy” Wilson’s gelding
Mutcha (11 to 2), Finsbury and Yodelist (6
to 1).
Those who don’t bet found the race very
exciting. Affirm (25 to 1) ran to the front
at the mile post, and was joined in the
straight by another outsider, Prince Viol (20
to 1). For a furlong or more they had a
desperate tussle, nothing else being in the
picture; with a last effort Affirm snatched
the verdict by half a head. Madom (15 to
1) was third, and Bombard, who ran a fair
PLACED HIM IN ONE.
TOMMY: “I gotta double. I gotta”
AGGRIEVED PUNTER: “Too right y’ have—in ther Zoo.”
race without ever looking like a winner, was
fourth. Affirm was one of the unlucky horses
last spring, being placed in both Caulfield
and Williamstown Cups, and this season he
had shown no form, while Harold Jones,
the jockey, had also been out of luck. The
time, 2min. 181 sec., was a course record for
11 furlongs.
Jack Corteen’s imported gelding Faircroft
had been beaten out of a place, when
favorite, in the Final Handicap at Fleming-
ton, but there was plenty of money for him
—at fives mostly—in the Ormond Stakes,
only Martimah (7 to 2) being preferred
to him in the betting. Getting a run on the
rails, thanks to young Howes, Faircroft
caught Marsias (6 to 1) a short distance
from the post, and the decision was half a
length in his favor, Coromandel (7 to 1)
being a neck further back. Punters went
home sadly after the last race, in which
stockbroker A. T. Clarke’s chestnut mare
Lucie Manette (15 to 1) got up in the last
stride to beat St. Ardent (10 to 2), who
had made all the running. There was some
hooting when Lucie’s number went up, but
to unprejudiced people near the post the deci-
sion seemed correct. Scanlon rode a strong
finish on the winner.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: A horrible impediment to true
sportsmanship has been revealed in Mel-
bourne. The railway commissioners charged
three shillings return to Flemington during
the recent horse frenzy, although their price
for the same distance to the Showground
during Show fortnight was ninepence.
Moreover, when the discrepancy was pointed
out to them they had the temerity to justify
their action on the ground that the annual
show was of national importance and the
annual betting orgy wasn’t. A league of
punters pledged to have the iniquity re-
moved is foreshadowed.
❖
“Adelaide”: South Australia has always
been more famous for breeding racehorses
than for winning- with them, and the re-
moval of the Richmond Park stud is a bad
blow. The suburban land has become so valu-
that the estate is to be cut up into building
blocks; the owners, Leslie Aldridge and
Dan Cudmore, will transfer the stud to Sun-
bury (Vic.). James Aldridge built it up last
century with Carlyon and then Pistol —one
of the best of the Carbines. The two younger
men have done well with St. Anton and
Lucknow and have quite lately added Whit-
tier and Manfred as sires. Les Aldridge
will probably move to Victoria with them.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Bad match-making was responsible for a
very inauspicious ushering in of boxing at
Melbourne on Saturday, Tom Cribb (list.
611 b.) being lined up against Don McLeod
(12st. 3|lb.) ; the discrepancy appeared to
be even greater than that announced. Tom
was obliged to leave the ground to have any
chance of landing, but somehow he managed
to open Don’s eye in the third round. With
everything in his favor, Don made heavy
going of it; his efforts to stop the compara-
tively diminutive Cribb provided an unin-
spiring spectacle. It was not until the
N. S. Welshman had waged the uneven
battle for 11 rounds that Val Quirk called a
halt.
* * * *
Sydney Stadium put on a boxing and
vaudeville programme on Saturday night, the
main event being a 15-round bout between
Norman Gillespie (9st. 71b.), the ex-feather
champion of Victoria, and Syd Sampson
(9st. 91b.), of Sydney. Sampson opened
well; but from the fifth round Gillespie cut
loose and gave his man such a pasting, prin-
cipally with solid rights, that the referee
stopped the mill after Sampson had been
floored twice in the tenth round. A ten-
rounder between Darby O’Connor and Spen-
cer James went the limit for a draw.
Ins and Outs
For once in a way the bowlers had a bit
the better of the batsmen in the England v.
an Australian Eleven match which began
at Sydney Cricket Cround on Friday last.
Conditions were all in favor of the batsmen,
but at no time did either batting side show
signs of mastering the bowling. The much-
criticised Australian team began with 231,
being unable to do much with White, a left-
hand slow bowler of great accuracy and
puzzling flight. Andrews looked set for a
big score at last, but dragged a ball
from White on to his wicket when he was
39. D. G. Bradman again came to the
rescue with a stubborn 58 n. 0., and was
helped by R. H. Bettington, who ran up an
attractive 34. Larwood, Tate and White
each took three wickets, the slow bowler being
the most effective, though Larwood showed
pace and Tate has evidently his old skill
at command. The Australian bowling in Eng-
land’s first innings was much better than that
seen in the N.S.W. match. Scott looked much
more dangerous than Gregory was, though he
faded away at the finish. Bettington, unable
to get a length at first, did his side fine
service in bowling the formidable Jardine
for 6, and later got White for a duck.
Hooker bowled in even better form than in
the first match, and collected two wickets.
The best trundling of the innings came from
the Queenslander Nothling, whose length,
spin and variation of pace kept the foe quiet.
Sutcliffe opened with Hobbs, and after an
indifferent display for 42, went to a catch by
Oldfield off Nothling at 93. Jardine was
bowled and Hobbs (,58) went l.b.w. to Scott, 3
being down for 112. Mead (58) and Tyldes-
ley (69) stopped the rot, but Ilendren (4),
Larwood (10) and White (0) saw 7
down for 27(J. The English innings closed
for 357 on Monday, Tate (59) and Geary
(33) making a good stand. Richardson and
Harris started Australia’s second innings
136 in arrears, rain interrupting play.
“Mid Off”: The inclusion of R. 11. Bet-
tington in the Eleven of Australia against
the Englishmen has created a precedent as
far as Australia is concerned, for though
his birth qualification permits his selection,
a similar case has never arisen before in this
country. A triple Blue at Oxford (cricket,
golf and Rugby football), he made 1078
runs in first-class cricket in England last
year and took 74 wickets.
❖ * ❖ *
“G.F.”: Who remembers the first match
between Eleven of All England and
Twenty-two of New South Wales, which
took place on Wednesday, January 29, 1862,
in the Sydney Domain? “From 10 o’clock
in the morning,” says a x-eport of the
match, “a continuous stream of people poured
from the city into the Domain. Many brought
tents and camp-stools, while booths and
stalls, beflagged and decorated with the
colors of the contesting teams, had been put
up for the sale of refreshments.” The match
lasted three days, All England winning by
49 runs.
*** * *
“Bally Rogan” : I was at the England v.
Victoria match on the last day, when
not a ball was bowled. I, with several
thousands of others, waited from noon till
4 p.m. in the eighteen-penny pen, hoping
against hope. During those four hours of
bleak dullness not once did the criaket
serangs deign to post a hint on the scoring
board as to what was doing. Even when
the match was> abandoned we outsiders were
left to guess the position. As we filed out
we were given a pass-out check. “Good
only for Friday,” barked the issuer. On
Friday an inter-State match (admission
Im.) was begun, but 1 couldn’t go, so I am
scaled for 18 wing. What theatre pirate
would have the gall to treat his patrons
like that? On the pass-out check is printed,
“To sell this ticket is a fi-aud.” I cordially
concur.
# * * *
“Lansdowne” : After all, was it the Aus-
tralian cricketers who went down before
England in 1926 or the Australian selectors
whose judgment was at fault? The three
most-criticiscd omissions from the side cap-
tained by Collins were those of Kippax,
Kelleway and Vic. Richardson. None of
these is exactly young and each is 2i years
older than when he was backgrounded, yet
Richardson opened against the visiting Eng-
lishmen last month with a magnificent innings
of 231, Kippax scored 64 and 136 n'.o., while
Kelleway made 93 n.o. and admittedly
shaped better than any other N.S.W. bowler
whose deliveries helped to swell that mam-
moth total of 734 for 7 wickets. If Kelle-
way had been selected in 1926 instead of
Everett (a disastrous expei’iment), and if
Kippax and Richardson had got the call
before the waning Taylor and Andrews,
things might have gone differently in
England.
(Continued orb page 37.)
ON THE HILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
If an erudite professor chose his time away
to fritter
’Mong the watchers at a first-class cricket
match
And should chance to see a fieldsman pitiably
muff a sitter,
1.e., through his hands let slip an easy
catch.
He might silently reflect that a receptacle of
sacking
Would help to obviate another spill;
But some in such periphrasis and reticence
are lacking—
They bellow “Get a Bag!” upon the Hill.
If some literary chap to tales of chivalry
addicted
Noted second slip or cover moving slow
As if his manly ribs by steel or whalebone
were constricted
(A trait that beauty actors sometimes
show),
He might possibly compare him to some
knight of old romances
Whose shirt-of-mail impaired his speed and
skill.
But the frankly brutal barrackers possess
less cultured fancies —
“Take off yer Stays!” they tell him from
the Hill.
If we saw some wretched bowler being mer-
cilessly pasted
While the sun went westering adown the
sky
And never get a wicket, we might think
his time was wasted
And our sympathy extend him, you and I.
We might hazard the suggestion that less
arduous employment
His working hours would profitably fill;
But this is what they hurl at him, with
palpable enjoyment,
It’s “Go Home and Take in Boarders!” —
from the Hill.
See, they’re piling up the total, while the
weary out-fields labor
After bound’ries, and the bowlers strain
and sweat,
And you murmur your impressions to a
philosophic neighbor
That the batting twain seem fairly, firmly
set.
But the verdict of the groundlings is a
trifle more decisive,
Hear it ever rising skywards, wild and
shrill,
Hear it in a sad crescendo, half-despairing,
half-derisive,
The “You’ll Never Get ’em Out!” from
off the Hill.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


11l
II
91
PRICE
16|-
POSTED
H ODGS ON’S
Modern
Carpentry
(&L Joinery
2 VOLS.
Elementary and Advanced.
A new and complete Guide contain-
ing hundreds of quick methods for
performing work in Carpentry,
Joinery and General Woodwork, written
in a simple, everyday style that does
not bewilder the working man.
Illustrated with hundreds of diagrams
which are especially made so that
anyone can follow them without diffi-
culty. These two volumes show the
most modern and practical methods
known in the Arts of CARPENTRY
AND JOINERY.
Please add exchange on inter-State and Country Cheques.
w
BRITISH
m
BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
RANSOME & MARLES BEARING CO., LTD. (ENG-
LAND), has always produced only one quality
bearing the best.
These British Bearings are used by more than 80 %
of British Motor-Car Manufacturers.
R. & M. Ball and Roller Bearings are made of the
finest materials obtainable, with the same care and
precision as the works of a fine watch, and are guar-
anteed against defects in material and workmanship.
Made in 300 types and over 3000 sizes to fit British,
American and Continental Cars.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and
Distributors ;
GARDNER, WAERN S CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARD-
WARE CO., LTD., Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., Brisbane and Townsville.
West Australian Agents: ( Automotive )
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
.
r&s-
-v ' *
W&WS&
m
e
ersons
For all Kinds of Pumps
w
Rotex” Lift and Force Pumps
'S?
©
With fast and loose pulleys, A power rotary
force pump, on iron frame, designed for the use
of oil refiners, distillers, creameries, breweries,
wine-producers, varnish-makers, meat-packers,
etc.; in fact, wherever water or other liquid
must be rapidly elevated by power. This pump
will force water against a total head of 80
feet, which renders it particularly useful for
discharging into an elevated tank; also as a
fire-pump, for use about factories, warehouses,
etc. We also make these in gunmetal for pump-
ing salt water, etc. Made in four sizes. Send
for particulars.
“Rapid Centrifugal Pumps”
Bowls
on
‘ • liapid”
Pumps
can be
Swivelled.
e
Gland Nut remains
stationary when Bowl
is swivelled, thus per-
mitting effective oiling.
A feature of our Centrifugal Pumps is
that the bowl swivels to any angle and
the suction-bend swivels independently
of the howl, which reduces the cost of
the piping.
For pumping acids and chemicals we
manufacture pumps of suitable metal
to withstand the action.
“Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps are manu-
factured at our own works, and include
many distinct improvements on other
makes. We carry a large range of these
pumps and have a size for every purpose.
Particulars on request.
w
Proprictanj limited
Established 1860.
51-65 Bathurst Street SYDNEY
554-566 and 582-592 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
116-130 Waymouth Street ADELAIDE


Exceptional Stock Saddle Values
. . .. V /:
The
DANDALOO
at
£6/15/-
value for the price, and will give
good and lengthy service. The tree
in each is a' good one, with plated
bars and steel stirrup bars.
The "DANDALOO” is made as illustrated, with a Pigskin Seat, Kip Flaps,
extended Leather Facings to back of panel, and Leather Points to side 3
of panel.
The “WALLAROO” is exactly the same in seat and flaps. The panel is full
stuffed without the extended facings, and the tail of skirt is carried round
seat.
The “TANDAROO” is also the same shape, but it has a short skirt tail and
full stuffed panel. The seat is of good Kip Leather.
Each Saddle is fitted with Leathers, Girth and N.P. Stirrups, and for Cash
with Order we will Pay Freight to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
LYMAN
e
SIGHTS
for practically
every gun made
w
e
Ideal Tool No. 4. Popular Tool, complete
in itself for C.F. Cartridges, such as
.25-20,: ,32-20', .38-40, .38 S.&W. Special
.44-40> Casts standard bullet. Without
double adjust. Chamber. Price 32/6 ea.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for
literature to our exclusive representatives :
Your Favorite Cartridge Reloaded at small cost
with Ideal Reloading Tools.
Enjoy frequent shooting with reloaded ammuni-
tion. Accuracy equal to factory-loaded ammunition.
Best results from Ideal Tools, standard with re-
loaders for 35 years. Send for new Ideal Handbook
of instructions, tables and complete description of
the line. Mailed on receipt of
2/6 »*ch, or Free Folder.
w
IDEAL N 94
No. 6 Tool. For Reloading C.F. Cart-
ridges such as .25-35, .32-40, .30-30,
.38-55, etc. With double adj. chamber.
Casts standard bullet. Price 37/6 ea.
e
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P.O.
TJiE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP.
Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
West Street, Middlefield, Conn. U.S.A.
1
Quality Counts
SALES OF
ELEY & KYNOCH
All British Cartridges
exceed those of all other makes
of cartridges in Australia.
283
9lfc>o
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
THE "BULLDOG"
HAMMER LESS
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents tor Catalogue.
COHEN’S HARDWARE PTY., LTD.,
Successors to S. Cohen, Sons & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
452-460 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
Agents wanted where not represented,
When Things “Get
on Your Nerves”
When you feel so depressed and irritated you could
smash something—just try a couple of tablets of
Cream of Yeast. These will give you back your
good spirits in surprisingly quick time; they’re
good for headaches, sleeplessness, “tired feeling”
and poor complexion, too. Just get a package of
Cream of Yeast from the nearest chemist—the cost
is trifling, and the cheery smile that will soon light
up your mirror will show the benefit you’ve gained.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
-TO ALISTAIR PETER ST. LEDGER
1 STUKELEY formerly of Taranaki New
Zealand sheep-station employee but now
believed to be in the Commonwealth of
Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation lias been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Dunedin CITING YOU to appear
and answer the Petition of Margaret Rose-
mary Stukeley of Preston in the County of
Devon England wherein she prays for a dis-
solution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion AND such Citation in-
timates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence NOW THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose afore-
said you are within forty days after the
date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Dunedin and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not he
allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Peti-
tion will be supplied to you on your apply-
ing for the same at the Supreme Court
Office at Dunedin.
DATED at Dunedin this seventh day of
November 1928.
(Seal) D. C. E. WEBSTER,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
John Norman Thompson is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the offices of Messrs. Brasch & Thomp-
son, Solicitors, Bank of Australasia Build-
ings, Bond Street. Dunedin.
Wanted.
YY7ANTED for invalid, a small fertile
™ Farmlet earning from £2OO to £3OO
per year, fully equipped, 1000 ft. above sea-
level ; handy to rail and school: preference
given to sable and Angora-rabbit farms.
Price and terms to Robert Bruce, 22 Upper
Bay View Street, Lavender Bay, Sydney.
The Ins and Outs
Victoria had little trouble in defeating S.
Australia in their Sheffield match in Mel-
bourne, the locals running out winners by
310 runs. Victoria’s second knock brought
464, the innings being closed with four wic-
kets down. Ryder did well again with 50,
and young Rigg pleased with a sterling 90,
but Ponsford overshadowed his mates with
215 n.o. Nine South Australians (Grimmett
was a sick man) fell for 295 in the second
innings, “Nip” Pellew contributing a spark-
ling 76, and J. D. Scott, whose century
against Queensland a few years ago seems
to have been forgotten, astonishing everyone
with 86 n.o. Blackie had the best bowling-
average—4 for 89.
H: * ❖ ❖
The English Eleven played their fourth
match and notched their fourth draw in
their game against N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket
last week. After 3 had fallen for 115
in the second spell, Kippax (136 n. 0.) and
Bradman (132 n. 0.) held the fort till stumps.
Freeman (5 for 136) bowled well for Eng-
land in the N.S.W 1 . first innings, as did
Tate and Hammond. Larwood, in this
match at least, did not impress as a fast
bowler. On present form, the Tests look
like being a long-drawn-out battle between
two sets of batsmen, the side that suc-
cumbs to exhaustion first going to the wall.
s|: * * *
“Shrewsbury” : Jardine’s appearance in the
field against N.S.W. wearing a panama hat
—and the customary flannels, of course —■
leads one to wonder why the wearing of the
old-time white linen cricket-lrat has gone
out of fashion. Suited to the climate, it
was universally worn by local and oversea
cricketers in the days before the war. Now,
players turn out in the hot and ridiculous
cap headgear which was designed to meet
the requirements of an English summer.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Patsy Ilendren has been duly
installed by press and public as the low
comedian of the visiting team, and got in
some very effective business with newspapers
and ball kicking in the match against N.S.W.
He has a long way to go, however, before
lie can hope to rival that mighty midget
Johnny Briggs, who, in his turn, succeeded
a great artist in Tom Emmett, of Yorkshire.
Australia has never boasted a really good
clown, though Arthur Ooningham Worked
hard in the part. Arthur lacked that
spontaneity which marks your truly great
artist.
* * * *
“Matting” : Stirred by the deeds of fellow-
townsman Bradman, the inhabitants of Bow-
ral (N.S.W.) are calling attention to the per-
formances of another local marvel in R.
Brown, who originally hailed from Nowra.
As an opening batsman in. Bowral’s A-grade
JOE KIRKWOOD, the ex-caddy from
Manly (N.S.W.), who recently arrived
in Sydney from America, where he
now ranks as one of the country’s lead-
ing professional golfers.
competition, he has so far an average of 146,
his scores being 137 n. 0., 84 run out, 96 and
122. He is also a good field and a useful
bowler.
* * * *
“Arold Ardupp”: “Funny ’ow many
‘haitches’ there are in the teams,” said the
commentator on the Hill. “There’s ’Ammond,
’Obbs, ’Endren, ’Endry, ’Ack, ’Arris, ’Ooker,
Ilames and Handrews. An’ I was nearly
forgettin’ Iloxen’am.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The N.S.W. tennis
authorities stand alone in the way they hawk
their wares—in this instance the reserved
seats at the tig matches—in public. When
the Frenchmen were here the press was
full of impassioned appeals from writer-
officials imploring a jaded public to roll up
and buy seats, and the visit of the English
players has started the vociferous business
again. Why don’t they hire “barkers” to
stand outside the Rushcutters Bay courts,
and the Pitt-street office, and be done with
it?
* * * *
“Selby”: Dr. J. C. Gregory, who captains
the English tennis team now in Australia,
is a Yorkshireman, who has won the North
of England championship on several occa-
sions, on both hard and grass courts. He
represented England in the Davis Cup
matches against Denmark and Sweden in
1926, and in all Davis Cup matches this
year. He owns a particularly severe service.
* * ❖ *
“Rough House” : I’d like some Bulletin
correspondents who continually deny that
tennis is a dangerous game to see the sort
of stuff we put over at Burrowa (N.S.W.).
Only the other day one of our players broke
an arm during a game, and another had a
rib broken by a bang from a tennis ball.
They were lady members, too, so you can
imagine what the men have got to stand up
to.
“Ad”: South Australia has worked off
its local tennis championships without the
upsetting by visitors that attends the usual
championship meeting in March. There were
no surprises. Rowe had a good fight with
young Turnbull, but won in straight
sets. These two were beaten in the doubles
by G. M. and R. B. Hone. 8 to 1. Miss Le
Messurier retained both titles in the women’s
events.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Budge”: “Wingella’s” remarks on the
rubber-stamp invention for painting the play-
er’s name on golf balls (B. 31/10/’2B) re-
mind me of what happened in my club when
we tried out a similar idea. We had a
machine for stamping the name on the elusive
ball. The practice was quickly stopped when
one of the committee found a ball on the
fairway with the following inscription on it:
“Izzy Isaacs, Moneylender, street,
Hours 10-5.”
“Ekib” : Golf on the Mittagong (N.S.W.)
links appeals strongly.to the nature-lover as
as to the golf fiend, for the landscape
now boasts a particularly fine showing of
waratahs. In order to have something un-
usual about their course, the committee for
the last three years have protected the plants
and have now got their reward.
* * * #
“Niblick”: Lewis (“Mo”) Collen, who ran
away with the Moore Park caddies’ cham-
pionship, can command a big gallery already.
The 16-year-old youngster is regarded as a
possible future world champion; a couple
of months ago he astonished the veterans by
equalling the course record of 61. He is by
way of being a veteran in caddying himself;
he first lumped a bag for players when he was
seven, and from the profits he bought clubs
for himself a few years ago. 11 is elder
brother, Joe, is already in tin 1 ranks of the
professionals, and Lewis is following in his
steps.
:|s * * *
“Marino”: Rufus Stewart, the Kooyonga
(S.A.) professional, won the Victorian pro-
fess’ional championship last week at King-
ston Heath, one of the most difficult courses
in Australia, with a total of 314 for the 72
holes. W. Bolger, the ID-year-old N.S.W.
player from Concord club, gave the winner a
good race, finishing only a couple of strokes
worse. Stewart is expected to figure in the
N.S.W. professional championships this
month, and there should be a rare battle
between him and the local cracks.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Who wouldn’t be a crack
professional golfer? Percy Alls, the man in
charge at the huge Wannsec Club, near Ber-
lin, earns over £3OOO a year. He has a screw
of £BOO p.a., while the club pays for his
house rent, gas and electric light; the
balance of his yearly turnover comes from
teaching and coaching fees. Percy, it should
be said, is a Yorkshiteman.
if * * *
“Brassey”: Joe Kirkwood had no sooner
set foot on dry land at Sydney than he was
on his way to the links. In Ameifica he has
been playing seven days a week for some
years past; he came to Sydney for rest and
change. On the way across from the States
he played at the two stopping-places, Hono-
lulu and Suva, and if there had been any
chance of golf on board ship he would pro-
bably have indulged in a similar ’busman’s
holiday there. It was hoped that he would
be able to figure in the N.S.W. professional
championships in Sydney at the end of this
month, but prior engagements in Melbourne
prevent him from doing so.
* * * *
“Back Spin”: Miss Nell _ Morgan, left-
handed golfer and several times champion
of the. Northern (Vic.) Club, is tackling the
problem of putting in a new way. She winks
at the hole! After addressing the ball in
the usual manner, she closes one eye and
gets her line with the other. The shut-eye
business continues until the ball is well on
the way to its resting-place. Miss Morgan
sights the hole as a rifleman does the target;
Tommy Howard gazes thoughtfully at the
cup while actually hitting his putts; a well-
known legal man, a member of Royal Mel-
bourne, plays all liis shots of a yard and less
with one hand and between his legs, his
back being turned to the hole. Yes, it’s a
rum game.
*!» 'K
“Claypan” : The Armistice Cup, an annual
Brisbane golfing event for returned soldiers,
was won by Dr. J. E. Streeter, who, with an
allowance of 16, recorded a net 70 for the
18 holes. An interesting competitor was A.
Gemmell, whose war injuries compel him to
hold his clubs with his hands in the reverse
position to that usually employed; neverthe-
less he is a mighty driver and a plus- 1
marker. His score was 83.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : Czecho-Slovakia has just taken
action which entitles it to be considered, in
the eyes of golfers, at least, as one of the
most enlightened countries on the face of the
globe. The Government has decided to allot
£lO,OOO to the development of golf. State-
aided golf is as yet unknown in other lands,
though the British Government some time ago
threw open two areas in Richmond Park,
near London, as public courses.
❖ ❖ * Hi
“Der Jong”; A Johannesburg acquaintance
of long ago made a good thing out of locating
missing pills. He had a spaniel specially
broken for the work, and going out early
every morning invariably collected a hatful.
Golf balls, like everything else in and about
Jo’burg, were so outrageously dear, even in
those pre-war days, that players were more
than willing to pay the finder anything from
a shilling to a “Scotchman” for a ball thus
recovered, according to its condition.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : According to Joe Kirk-
wood, American golfers are determined to
adopt the larger and lighter ball which St.
Andrews has refused to consider. This will
mean a further widening of the gap between
British and American golf, Australia, which
adheres to the British rulings, being also
concerned. As it is, the American rules per-
mit steel shafts and heavily-faced clubs, both
of which are banned according to the gospel
of St. Andrews; so this is only one of several
steps in the direction of a breakaway.


w
//
//
n
er 6s 75
li
1
New Chrysler "65” 4-door Saloon
AT LAST—The Modem
Car Style for the Modem Age
THE NEW Chrysler Sixes
“65” and “75” —are so far
ahead from every point of view
that Chrysler once more out-styles
everything else that runs.
For sheer artistry of design, for
luxury of grooming, for behaviour
that out - Chryslers even Chrysler,
for downright value at their lower
prices Chrysler has once more
wiped out every existing standard
by which motor cars have been
judged.
At a single bold stroke, it has
initiated the style that re-styles all
motor cars.
(Shriller
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne ,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


Onlx) a few
weeks to
Christmas.
ORDER NOW
AND SECURE
AN
/
//
\
✓
/
ms V6/6S J 0 -/s/83?
to Measure
for
JSm
MURDOCHS BIG PURCHASE
FROM THE MILL
w
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: European communities
are on the whole more stay-at-home than
ours so the “Back to Blanktown movement,
so profitable to Australian country store-
keepers, would bring little fresh money into
municipalities in the Cold World. In its
place they have invented the motor-car rally.
It consists of a go-more-or-less-as-you-
please race from any part of the Continent
you like towards the town promoting the
rally. Starting times from each centre are
set to schedule so that the finish will be
fairly close, and handsome prizes are
awarded. The winner of a recent rally
held at Le Toquet, France, started in
Bucharest, while his runner-up hailed from
Britain. Afterwards there is a parade ot
cars, and prizes are awarded for utility and
elegance; whereupon contestants are invited
to stay as long as they like, at tlieir own
expense. The idea couid easily be adapted
to Australia.
* $ * *
“Chevroford”: The Bulletin has fre-
quently predicted that some day someone
would have an unholy smash trying to reduce
the Sydney-Melbourne motoring record, and
the smash duly happened. The other day,
Arnaldo Varini, an Italian racing driver, hit
a stump near Seymour (Vic.) while travel-
ling at SO miles p.h. in the direction of
Sydney. He got. off lightly, in the cir-
cumstances, with three broken ribs and a
crushed chest 1 . He was even luckier in that
a stump interrupted his record-breaking and
not a family party in a cart, or a char-a-banc
full of school children.
* * * *
“Marathon”: The transcontinental trip is
becoming so popular with car-drivers that
between 50 and 60 cars now pass east and
west across the continent every month. Some
of them are hampered by the dead-weight of
cased petrol carried, but this is not in the
least necessary nowadays. One of the big
oil companies has established regular depots
and issued a map. Petrol costs 35st a case
at Eucla and 30s. at Balladonia. Motorists
who are fed-up with the stereotyped routes
might try the great open spaces for a change.
“M.P.H.”: Sydney’s big concrete motor-
racing track at Maroubra, opened nearly
three years ago, has not seen a race-meeting
for several months. There have been many
changes of ownership at smaller and smaller
prices each time, and the capitalisation is
now so low that it is reckoned there is a
fair chance of making racing pay. A series
C. F. GRIMMETT, the South Australian
slow bowler, on whose performances in
the coming Tests with England a great
deal will depend.
of fortnightly meetings will be commenced
on December 1, under the auspices of the
Maroubra Motor-racing Club, when car and
motor-cycle events will figure on the pro-
gramme.
* * # %
> “Trembler”: Sydney Bicycle and Motor
Club provided some fun for members the
other day with one of those grass hill-climb-
ing contests which are becoming popular
with car drivers. The hill tackled is at
Prospect, and has grades varying from 1 in
8 to 1 in 3| in its length of 500 yards.
Two tracks were marked off, and the cars,
after doing their time trials as a guide for
the handicapping, raced in pairs up the hill.
The best time in the trials was 28i|sec. by
a 1496-c.c. Bugatti, driven by W. Thompson,
which started off scratch in the racing con-
tests. The final went to E. J. Dorahy’s
1548-c.c. Morris Cowley, which, with a
handicap of 30sec., beat T. F. Lord’s 747-c.c.
Austin, which had a 94sec. handicap ; but, as
both competitors broke their trial times, the
results were withheld.
Miscellaneous
“Shrewsbury” : Geelong’s Hurtle Morphett,
who is this year captain of the Oxford Boat
Club, with the idea of stemming the long
run of Light Blue victories has taken a revo-
lutionary step by inviting a famous stroke
of other days, Harcourt Gold, to take over
the work of selecting and handling the
Dark Blue crew. Gold has accepted on con-
dition that he is given a free hand in all
particulars. Morphett has made another
change. Instead of picking equally balanced
crews for the trials, he has chosen what he
considers the best eight, which will be pitted
against a second crew. The first eight in-
cludes three Australians besides the captain.
These are McCulloch, of Sydney Uni. and
N.S.W. crews, at No. 2; Ingles, of Hobart,
No. 6; and R. Ashburton, last year’s N.S.W.
Rhodes Scholar, who will cox the crew.
* * * *
“Blade”: After the Olympiad, The
Bulletin commented on the fact that the
Australian and Olympic sculling champion.
Bobby Pearce, had been invited to visit
America and compete in races. Russell John-
ston, backer of Pearce’s American rival at
the Olympiad, has repeated the invitation,
and in addition to offering the usual ex-
penses has undertaken to find Pearce a good
billet in America, and to arrange for his
taking out American naturalisation papers
in the event of his accepting*. Pearce has
said that he will probably accept the invi-
tation, for the visit at least. It would be
no surprise to see him enter the profes-
sional ranks with a challenge to Barry or
Goodsell. Under the Olympic agreement,
which all the Australian team subscribed to,
Pearce is bound not to turn professional j
within two years after returning to Aus- \
tralia. No penalty is provided for infringe-
ment save disqualification, and that would
weigh lightly on an absentee in America.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Some of the Sydney base-
ball heads are strongly opposed to the
Board of Control which was formed
recently to take charge of the game through-
out Australia. It is curious that opposition
to a Federal authority of the kind is general
in N.S.W.; it is particularly noticeable in
cricket. Yet Federal control is essential to
the progress of a game played in common by
the various States 1 . The cricket Board of
Control saved the game in Australia from
falling to the lowest depths of commercial
exploitation by players and others, whose
only thought was the amount of money they
would be able to make out of it. But for
the Board, Australian cricket might have
shared the fate which overtook professional
pedestrianism and cycle-racing. The prin-
ciple of a central controlling body wall pro-
bably stand the baseballers in equally good
stead.
“Spinnaker”: Owing to a dispute between
the Brisbane exponents of open-boat sailing
and their confr&res of Sydney and Perth,
the 18ft. championship of Australia
may lapse. The trouble has arisen from
Queensland’s refusal to adopt a beam limit,
which N.S.W. succeeded in getting through
at the last inter-State sailing confer-
ence. The Northerners assert that the
limit was purposely fixed so as to exclude
one or two of their crack boats. Unless the
dispute is settled, Queensland will not appear
at Perth, where the next championship is
to be held in January. That would be re-
grettable, for the Queenslanders are past-
masters of open-boat sailing.
* * * *
“Kitty”: It is all very well for “Mat”
(B. 7/11/’2B) and other old bowling bar-
nacles like him to sneer at the social side
of bowls. As a matter of fact it is the
only part of the alleged game which is
endurable to folk who are not cantankerous
old eremites with what affections they have
equally divided between their “woods” and
their “woodsers.” Bowls, delightful enough
in itself, is as tragical as golf when taken
seriously. Most of the objections to the
social side come from the fact that women
are forcing their way into the game in
Sydney as in Victoria. Many of them are
proving quite the equals of many of the male
players, and naturally the poor old buffers
don’t like it, and hide their confusion under
the cloak of the game’s “best interests.”
* * *
“Splash”: Something like a palace revolu-
tion is raging in Australian swimming circles
over the determination of the swimming
female of the species to cut loose from affilia-
tion with the State bodies and link up direct
with the Australian Swimming Union, the
Federal body controlling the sport. Hitherto,
the women's swimming associations in the
various States have had to honor and obey
the State organisations founded and run
by mere , males, and they state frankly that
they are fed up, and could do better for
themselves. Certainly they could hardly do
worse than some of the State bodies, notably
that in N.S.W., and in anycase the suggested
change is advisable. Woman in sport is an
anomaly when figuring on the same pro-
grammes as men. By all means let the mer-
maids run their own show and perform
by themselves for their own edification'.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: A Rugby Union light of
other days, Alex. Henderson, passed out
suddenly in Sydney the other day at the
early age of 43. Though he weighed but
eight stone he was one of. the best club
halves of his time, and by reason of his
elusiveness was generally known to the fol-
lowers of Glebe-Balmain, for which club lie
played, as “The Flea.” His small size and
light weight kept him from representative
honors, the N'.S.W. selectors overlooking the
fact that a half-back of almost the same
inches and weight, A. E. Humphries of
Taranaki, was the star scrum-worker of the
All Black sides of 1807, 1001 and 1903.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Croquet, once re-
garded as an exciting recreation for tame
curates and middle-aged spinsters, has
changed. Iconoclasts have succeeded in lessen-
ing the width of the hoops, so that the ball
has only a fractional margin of space over
that necessary to get through. The call for in-
creased skill has revived the popularity of
the old pastime, and sports dealers mention
that there is a brisk demand for sets.
Another revival is archery, a craze of early
Victorian days, when many a village in Eng-
land had its club, and the Sydney Archery
Club held shoots in the Domain.
“Swing the Boot”: The ethics of profes-
sional football were never so clearly illus-
trated as in the remarks of the North of
England Rugby League players, who toured
N.S.W., Queensland and Maoriland last
season, on their return to their native North.
One gentleman wailed bitterly because the
referees always picked on him after he him-
self had been assaulted and was “getting
a bit of his own back.” The gem of
the symposium came from Brough, a one-
time Rugby Union “cap.” “It was just
this,” he explained in answer to a
question as to the complaints of his side’s ;
dubious tactics, “we mucked up in the
Tests, and they went down. It was a case
of that or being beaten ourselves.” That
candid admission epitomises the whole out-
look of professional sport. No wonder the
speaker left the Rugby Union for the more
congenial atmosphere of the professional
code. His style must have been horribly
cramped among the amateurs.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
A-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
%fet International
’Phones ;
FWim-S
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
in New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of .Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
BONDI
/Os
't t«; j* r i i m
US DOB"
BEACH
Telegrams ;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
100 Bedrooms.
e
Hot Water in
Rooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Piper’s
Hotel Richmond
128*130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
Melbourne
Chatter
Socially the V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield
on Saturday was disappointing, though there
was a decidedly cheery note about the dress-
ing, a tribute to the warmth and sunshine
of the day. Materials in favor were crepe
de Chines with small all-over patterns, and
chiffons and voiles splashed with larger de-
signs in flowers. In the committee ladies’
box there was a preponderance of figured
frocks in blends of brown and fawn. Mayor-
ess Luxton had a touch of red mingled with
biscuit and brown in her gown, which was
topped by a cinnamon lace straw hat. Mrs.
Claude Grice’s frock blended grey, orange and
nigger tones, and Mrs. H. P. Willis rang
another change with fawn and coffee-colored
spotted raiment. Mrs. Ben Chaffey wore
distinctive garb of draped black satin with
unusual embroidery in steel and ruby beads.
Navy blue lifted above the ordinary with
beautiful trimming was sported by Mrs. T.
A. Tabart. The Moulden lady, who returned
to Adelaide this week, wore petunia georg-
ette and same-hued millinery'. Barbara
Giles was another visitor from South Aus-
tralia. Mr. and Mrs. James Purves, the
Richard Lintons and Llazel Martin were
some of the Melbourne folk who were look-
ing for winners.
The Williamstown Racing Club’s Cup is
a perfectly plain gold urn of Grecian pat-
tern, a graceful piece of plate that contrasts
refreshingly with the pot-bellied chalices that
usually do duty as sporting trophies. The
club's meeting last week was marked by
heat, wind and dust, the course, with its
green lawns and beds of flowers, being an
oasis in a desert of dried-up pastures’. In
the members’ stand were Mi's. L. K. S.
McKinnon, wife of the chairman of the
V.R.C.; Mona Officer, Mrs. A. V. Kewney,
the Albion Walkleys apd the Fred Scarletts.
Lorna Helms was there in floral chiffon with
a lemon-hued felt hat, accompanying her
being her fiance,. Squadron-Leader Thomp-
son. Anne Willis and Kathleen Rogers
Thomson were two nicely-frocked members
of the younger set.
The Herbert Brookeses held a party at
Winwick to welcome home their son Wilfred
and his English bride. The chief entertain-
ment was a recital of French and German
lyrics and old and modern English songs
by tenor James Hay; Elsie Fraser furnished
worthy accompaniments. Joseph Cook, as
gently bland as ever, conveyed the good wishes
of the guests to the newly-weds. The chate-
laine of Winwick extended hand of greeting
in a saxe-blue _ gown that had embellishment
of beads, sequins and a fringe. Her school-
girl daughter Jessie wore her two plaits
upon a white frock embroidered in pink and
blue. Mrs. Wilfred Brookes, very young
and slim, with light brown waved shingle and
beautiful hazel eyes, was in an exquisite
white lace frock 1 . Mrs. Alfred Deakin, her
sister-in-law Miss Deakin and Lieut-Colonel
White and Mrs. White, she in a frock of
coral-pink, were relatives of the hostess
present.
The reception-rooms were thronged. James
Elder was there with his lady; the Morell
lady came in filmy black lace; Mrs. W.
Watt, clad in pale-green lace, brought her
daughter; and Mrs. Wischer introduced her
daughter, Mrs. Ryan, just arrived from the
Malay States. Robert Best and his lady,
the Robert Knoxes, Edward Goll, Sutton
('row. the Percy Bussells; Mrs. Gepp, a
glimmer of silver sequins ; and the Hennessy
lady were guests, and there was a bunch of
the younger set headed by Esther Levy.
About 2000 citizens accepted the invitation
of the Maoriland Trade Commissioner to
attend the Town Hall on Friday night, when
cinema films depicting the scenic and other
attractions of the island Dominion were
shown. Lord Stonehaven was there, in his
party being Mayor and Mayoress Luxton,
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Manson and their daugh-
ter Myrtle, and Miss Gillett. It was a
smartly-dressed assembly, and several arrest-
ing evening coats were seen. One of these,
of gold lame, patterned with pink roses, had
long, almost-tight sleeves, and dipped to
points at the hem-line in front.
The Vicar-General, Dean Aicken, and
members of the Synod of the diocese had a
garden-party at Bishopscourt one afternoon
last week to welcome home Archbishop Har-
rington Lees: and his bride. The city’s best
people were represented in the 800 who
strolled upon the daisy-scattered lawns, and
a string orchestra gave a gala air to a very
brightly-dressed show, the weather being per-
fect. Mrs. Lees looked charming in an en-
semble turnout of fawn satin and lace, with
a ballibuntal straw hat, and she carried a
wee posy of pink and blue blossoms. Mrs.
Aicken’s navy-blue frock was topped by black
bonnet-shaped millinery. Premier Hogan
was accompanied by his wife, who was in
beige with pink blossoms on a shady hat.
Mayor and Mayoress Luxton (she chose
beige, too), General Chauvel and his lady
and Nicholas Lockyer and his lady, she in
filmy black lace and crinoline straw hat,
were others who paid their respects. Mr.
and Mrs Courtney Dix, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, who introduced her son Wilfred
Brookes and his bride from oversea, John
Grice and his lady and the J. K. Merritts
were also guests.
The dignified-looking War Memorial Hall
of Melbourne Grammar School was offi-
cially opened by the G.-G. last week. A gift
to their Alma Mater by old Melburnians to
commemorate their school’s share in the
Great War, the building follows the archi-
tectural lines of the school buildings, and,
like' them, is of blue stone. An honor roll
bearing the names of the 1300 ex-students
who joined up, those who did not return
being distinguished by letters of silver, adorns
the interior, and this was also unveiled.
Archbishop Lees conducted a preliminary
service, and after speeches there was tea.
Lady Stonehaven accompanied his Ex. Also
present were Mayor and Mayoress Luxton.
He is one of the old boys whose names
appear on the honor roll.
Another memorial unveiled last week was
at St. Mark’s, Camberwell, in the form
of a Crusader’s sword attached to the outer
wall. It is a replica of the weapon of
Edward 111. which stands beside the corona-
tion chair in Westminster Abbey. Major-
General “Pompey” Elliott uncovered the mar-
tial symbol.
Bridge was played at the Town Hall the
other day to raise the wind for the Minister-
ing Children’s League’s Cottage-by-the-Sea.
The Morell lady organised the party, and
Mrs. J. H. Hewison and Mrs. Howard Lewis
were hon. secs. There were the usual sales
of flowers, sweets and smokes, and the attend-
ance and takings were large.
The National Council of Women sponsored
a morning-tea drinking at the Lyceum Club
to say good-bye to the wives of the Big Four.
Mrs. Andrew Glencross, the president of the
Council, gave the guests hail and farewell,
and Lady Hirst replied for herself and her
fellow-guests, the Hon. Mrs. N. E. Archer
and Lady Clarke.
Nancy Margaret, the pretty young daugh-
ter of the late Arthur Barlow, Police Magis-
trate, and Mrs. Elsie Barlow, well known in
art circles, said “I will” to Alec White,
of Cressy, Western District, at St. John’s,
Camberwell. The bride wore a powder-blue
frock touched up with grey, and a grey hat;
and her schoolgirl cousin Marjorie Barlow
attended in pink georgette. The after-party
was at the M. HI Barlows’ at Balwyn.
This is Melbourne’s new Mayor, Harold
Luxton, who is the first Digger to wear the
chain of office and the youngest member of
the council ever elected to the chair. He
went to the
Great War
with the 4th
Australian
Field Artillery
Brigade, and
later transfer-
red to the
Royal Air
Force. He is
an ex-student
of Melbourne
Grammar
School and
knows a good
deal about row-
ing, a sport
also followed
by his eldest
son, who was
stroke of his
school’s crew
at last year’s
Head - of - the-
River con-
tests. Municipal service runs in the
family, tlie father of our new civic head,
the late Thomas Luxton, M.L.C., having
been Mayor of Prahran. Mayor Luxton the
Second is chairman of directors of McEwan
and Co., Ltd., and other firms, and as a hobby
breeds Jersey cattle at Whittlesea.
Katherine Elizabeth Arthur, known as
Betty, who has pushed a pen for the social
pages of both Pictorial Sun and Argus,
was matrimonially linked with scribe Curtis
H. Wilson on Saturday. The bride is the
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. J l . A.
Arthur, of this city. The lucky man is
son of the X. E. Wilsons, of Kew.
Edith Treacy Dickenson, known to her
friends as “Chic,” was a pretty bride of the
week, the happy man being Wilfred Alex-
ander Walker, whose parents reside in
S’Africa. She wore white satin and tulle,
and tulle formed her pearl-edged train and
veil. Her attending trio of ’maids and train-
bearer blended in their attire blue, violet, rose
and yellow. The ceremony was followed by
a supper and dance at Mucklebar, the home
of the leading lady’s parents, the W. Dicken-
sons of Middle Brighton.
The wedding of Ena, daughter of Brigadier-
(ieneral and Mrs. W. K. Bolton, with John
Walter Blyth, son of the late John Blyth
and Mrs. Blyth, of Ballarat, was quietly
celebrated at the Bolton home at Brighton
Beach. The leading lady wore a veil of
Brussels lace over a white lace and tulle
gown.
This is Elsie Preston, who, having grown up
in a university atmosphere—her father, W. L.
Preston, has
been connected
with the medi-
cal school here
for over 30
years con-
siders that a
career isn’t to
be lightly set
aside. So,
although she
has become eri-
gaged to C.
Morrison
Dabbs, of Gee-
long. her work
as an instruc-
to r at the
Rural Practice
School at
Prince’s Hill,
where they
train teachers,
will continue.
A serious stu-
dent of elocution and an Associate of the
L.G.M., she has appeared on the concert
platform with considerable success both in
this State and Tassy. Ruskin made the
portrait.
James Leigh Russell, only son of the Percy
Russells of Cliveden Mansions, is being con-
gratulated on his engagement to Beth Mac-
key, younger daughter of the late John
Mackey, once Speaker of the Assembly; her
mother is the popular lady of Narong-road,
Caulfield, who was his wife. Miss Mackey was
on the stage for a while under the J.C.W.
banner, and made her most-recent, appearance
with the lately disbanded “Rookery Nook”
company. The young mummer intends to
continue her professional career, since the
marriage is not likely to take place for a
year.
Leo Cussen looked in at the Atlienseum
Gallery on Thursday afternoon and, intro-
duced by president John Longstaff, opened
the show of the Australian Art Association,
known familiarly as the “Three A’s.” There
was a good attendance of first-viewers, the
throng including the Maudsley lady, the Rus-
sell Grimwades, Mrs. Ivan Gutmann, Canon
and Mrs. E % Snodgrass and Mrs. W. Cass,
the last-named smart in biscuit-colored em-
broidered in white, and trimmed with pleated
frills.
Though handicapped by too large an audi-
torium —Malvern City Hall —and the prac-
tising of a choral society in an adjacent room,
the Loreto Abbey Players made a promising
first appearance in the Australian premiere
of Laurence Housman’s “The Chinese Lan-
tern.” The Oriental settings and costumes
were charming. Howard Edie directed the
mummers, who included Doris Winter, Mar-
garet Gleeson, Maie Hoban, Launcelot
Nicholls, Digby Marriott and Almon Clark.
A crowd of young people formed the Chinese
populace. The audience was large and appre-
ciative. Profits went to the Loreto Free
Kindergarten.
Mayoress Luxton last week presided at her
first meeting since her husband’s installation,
a gathering to organise a cafe chantant and
bridge party, so that patients of St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital shall not lack Christmas fare.
The promoters have set out to raise £l2OO.
A good start was made with the booking of
200 tables by bridge players. Mrs. Merson
Cooper was appointed president of the com-
mittee, and Marie de Bavay, Mrs. George
Bowclier and Mrs. J. J. Daly undertook to
share secretarial chores.
The first shop-window displays of Christ-
mas gifts greatly lack variety. Fully
tliree-fourtlis of the goods shown are re-
ceptacles for face powder. The newest glass-
container for the dressing-table is as large
as a salad bowl, and a daintily-garbed doll
with wide silken skirts is perched on the
huge puff that forms the lid. The ordinary
cardboard boxes of powder are prinked up
with covers of gold and silken net, floral
trimming and brocade. Lavender sachets
appear in flowered covers of chiffon and
organdie, with cushion-like centres filled with
the dried perfume; and there are baskets,
hags of every shape and myriads of other
forms. The ' latest style of coat-hanger
dangles a scented sachet, and there are orna-
mental circular and boomerang-shaped con-
trivances which are destined to be draped
with stockings.
Henry Schwieger, for many years secretary
of the R.A.S., has received unexpected
recognition of his work in the shape of a
cheque for £lOOO. The gift, which was
accompanied by leave of absence for six
months, was earmarked by the society for
a holiday in England, with a return by way of
the United States. Mrs. Schwieger, who has
for some time directed the women’s section
of the show, was requested to pack her cabin-
trunk, too.
The Mongolia came in with flag half-mast
as a mark of respect to the late Mrs. Roland
Wettenhall, who died on board as the liner
was coming up the hay. With her medico
husband and two schoolboy sons, Mrs. Wet-
tenhall, who was a daughter of pastoralist A.
T. Creswick, was returning from a health
tour of the Continent and England.
Back here on a visit are Mrs. Menzies, who
as Dorothy Vane tripped daintily in a
J.C.W. Gilbert and Sullivan co. in bygone
years, and her son Archie. Archie has been
writing for the stage, and one of his efforts
is to be produced in Berlin.
Rowena Ronald, who made a short but
highly successful appearance with the Bou-
cieault-Vanbrugh co. during the season of
“Belinda” at the Comedy Theatre, has taken
over the roles formerly played by Gwynne
Whitby. She made her first bow in “On
Approval.”
Helen Boulnois, who is continuing on her
travels, chatted at the Lyceum Club one
night last week about her journey across Cen-
tral Africa. Among other interesting-if-true
assertions, she said that no wild animal will
attack a person who sleeps beneath a mos-
quito-net—which shows you that a mosquito
is either no animal or a tame one. She will
have a look at Sydney this week before
returning to her home in South Africa.
Two of society’s younger set, Nancy Jones
and brother Dsmonde, are the latest recruits
to the stage, having joined the Boucicault-
Vanbrugh co. for the Sydney and Maoriland
seasons. Both have made successful appear-
ances here in amateur performances as mem-
bers of' the Optimists. Nancy is a pretty
blonde, not long out of the schoolroom. Her
full-length portrait, painted by George Bell,
is one of the noteworthy canvases of the Aus-
tralian Art Association’s current show. The
parents of the newly-fledged professionals are
Dr. and Mrs. W. E. Jones, of this city—
he is Inspector-General of the Insane.
An Australian recently enlisted by the
Firm is Romola Hanstcin, just back from
her trip to England with renewed health
and an improved voice. She will understudy
Virginia Perry in “The Desert Song.”
Alex. Landale’s widow has been spending
the months since her departure inhaling the
breezes that flutter over the Italian lakes.
When the last mail left she had reached
Como. After finishing with the. Continent
she goes to London to visit her daughter,
Mrs. Ronald Murray.
Mary Buckley will not keep Colonel Percy
and Mrs. Buckley company on their trip to
this country, as she spenj; last Christmas
in her homeland. When they left London
Miss Buckley was planning an Egyptian
expedition, with a halt at Cairo.
The Laverack boys are rejoicing, as there
is more than a possibility that their parents
will return to them before the New Year’s
educational term claims their attention.
Colonel and Mrs. Laverack have been in
England for the past year, gunnery know-
ledge being his quest. Whilst he was test-
ing some of his own ideas his wife called on
relatives settled in the overcrowded island,
after which, accompanied by her husband
and cousin Babs Laverack, she enjoyed a
summer holiday in France.
Another nice girl has been filched from
our younger set to adorn a tropical bunga-
low. She is the J. B. Wards’ only daughter
Edith, who will wave good-bye to her Brigh-
ton home to board the Port Adelaide for
Singapore, where R. G. Tyler, whose home
is in Borneo, is awaiting her coming. The
bridegroom’s parents, the E. G. Tylers, are
at present sailing home from Europe, and
will not be able to be present at the wed-
ding, which is to happen on December 11.
“A.Q.M'.’s” note from London:—
Mrs. Josef Cohn, once a very prominent Melbourne
amateur who played Lady Teazle to the Sir Peter
of James Cathcart, is completing a book for which
two publishers have made oifers. It deals with
biology as involved in the health-giving physical
exercises through which she made a small fortune
in London, and the basis of which was made known
to her by Professor McCoy, of Melbourne Uni. She
now lives in Fitzjohn’s-avenue, Hampstead. Mrs.
Cohn, who in days gone by won a beauty prize at
a Melbourne fancy ball, still preserves her good
looks, but there is left no resemblance to her sister,
Mrs. li. S. Whiting, of Toorak. The name is now
spelled Conn. For Australian friends the Conns
keep open house.
Melbourne’s old friend Robert Sievier, the “Bob
Sutton” of days gone by, has succumbed to the
general craze and is now in the movie world. Not
as an actor, but as the author of the story “Warned
Of?,’’ which Walter West is shortly to produce. A
feature of the picture will be the Grand National
Steeplechase, and all the exciting jumps will be
actually filmed at Aintree. Sievier can write very
crisp and dramatic English, and as he knows all
there is to know about the sporting world, this new
English film should be very interesting. Asshed, the
ex-jockey, is to be the villain of the piece.


©
m rv
□
m
Axnvao
4&,
fr
No. 306—£25
577
No. 303—£55
No. 309-£3O
No. 307—£65
No. 304- £25
No. 303—£45
D 578
No. 300—£20
No. 305—£40
The Diamond Rings illustrated above
represent tbe finest value offered in
Australia. All tbe diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond's ring,
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
w
fot 9-
* *1 *
Pimv • j
■
w/,m
Wmtm *
ywwmm..
m
WHATEVER may be your holi-
day mood ... fishing; game
hunting; alpine climbing;
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
- ab° lv
pet^ vls
•NSa^ e "'
aM' oss
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
©lf? Spirit of Australia’
HELPS THE
LIMBS
OS
PROVIDENT
FUND
(&rmt Austral No. 5 Art Union
(By Permission of the Attorney-General, N.S. IV.)
Captain Hurley Helps
THIS IS WHAT HE SAYS:
“We are taking with us a supply of tickets in the Limbless Sol-
diers’ Art Union.
“While we are endeavouring to do something for Australia in
the way of development of aviation, we think of our comrades who
have given so much in order that our great Empire may be intact
to develop. They need your help, and anything we can do will be
gladly done.
“The tickets we are taking will be disposed of in every country
we visit, and we hope to be back at the drawing on the 27th Novem-
ber with our butts for the barrel.
“We leave a message to the citizens of our country: ‘Let the
spirit of Australia help these men and make a success of their No.
5 Art Union.’
“FRANK HURLEY ’’
SEND YOUR BUTTS IN NOW
3 FIRST PRIZES—Ist, 2nd, 3rd, HUDSON COACH £499
and 131 other Valuable Prizes Totalling £3333
TICKETS II-
e
b TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
0. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
w
,^=x*.
R
/ 'i
/ i ; .a<
'Of-:*
9
¥X
M
>1
-Ht
&
JAMES
JJ tc
**
\, iU-'<
e


Under
lioyal
Vairant
w
ToH.NL
Kin^
GeorgeV
1 I
Vintage 1920. /
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck)
wmim®
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
o>arl£slleidsico^
REIMS
Smarmy
PELLISSO N
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Auatralaalan Agerita—
SWIFT fc COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/0
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/0
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: H 4131.
ANAEMIA
Steals your health—spoils your
charm.
What woman can feel well or be charming
with the pallor of sickness in her cheeks and
the thinning grip of anaemia marring her
attractiveness of figure? Health, the most
important thing in her life, is at stake. No
wohder she looks worried.
Wise women are turning to
LIVER EXTRACT
to check Anaemia.
No matter how anaemic you are a few spoonfuls
of Kama Vita taken, mixed with your food,
will give you back renewed vitality and the
confidence of radiant health. "When you take
Kama Vita you can actually SEE the dif-
ference —
Send at once for free literature.
KARNA VITA COMPANY,
226 a George Street, Sydney.
7he centre of Queens /onc/s
Oy/|^ / c/t'stt'nputsffocf Soc/o/ Z//&.
€cm\om
Wok I
c = - ’BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
e
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
HAF HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
The Arts Club was an aviary without
one discordant note the other afternoon
when dramatic-soprano Strella Wilson, Mrs.
Minghetti (Louise Hayes) and Xenia Belmas
fluttered there in festive plumage. Sharing
the perch of honor with them were Ailsa
Cullen and Bethia Anderson. It was one of
the smartest afternoon parties of the week.
Ben Fuller's lady hostessed in terracotta-red
georgettes, the uneven hemline of the frock
outlined in China blues; and Mrs. Taylor
and Mrs. Hyman were other of the club
chieftainesses who turned on a pretty show
of dress-goods. The Lieut.-Governor’s Ailsa,
about to make another plunge into the drama,
clothed her ambitions in her favorite shade
of spring-leaj green topped by a pale pink
hat. Navy blue splashed with red was effec-
tively worn by Strella Wilson, the magnifi-
cent Australian-grown lead in “The Vaga-
bond King.” Xenia Belmas expressed her-
self in emerald-green, and the golden-haired
Venetian-American Mrs. Minghetti was like
a delicious peach in a georgette setting. That
Mrs. Roland Foster had spent both time
and thought on the programme was evident
in the cooling fountain of music with which
her group of artists sprayed the afternoon.
Strella Wilson’s father, by the way, was
the most handsome bird in the flock of
American mining engineers and chemists
who flew to Australia in the late ’eighties
and throughout the ’nineties, and included
the new President of the U.S.A. Mr. Hoover
was really one of the smaller items of the
flight; he wasn’t anything like so commanding
a figure as old John Howell, for instance,
nor did he have anything like the mana of
W. H. Patton, who had done very great
things at Comstock before ever lie looked this
way. Most of them when they had finished
their job booked their passage and left few
traces behind them. Harry Wilson, a mill-
ing expert, married and settled down to life
in Melbourne.
A husband of 22, a wife of 20 and a girl
in the case not yet 16 were three who tried,
with the help of Justice Halse Rogers, to
find a way out of the age-old triangle last
week. Surely it is a record among youth-
ful divorce-seekers ! The husband was ask-
ing for the restitution of rights, and the 15-
year-old was the reason the wife gave for
refusing to share his home. Jazzing with
the girl at a “tap” dance was acknowledged
by the just-beginning husband. In answer
to learned counsel, a “tap” dance was ex-
plained to be one in which you tap a girl
on the shoulder and dance with her until
someone else taps her and takes her as a
partner. The Americans call this “cutting
in,” and “cutting in” adds to the fun of their
private parties. At a private dance on one
of their warboats while the American Navy
was in Sydney, one of the admirals was
dancing with the wife of an Important Per-
son. There was need of the Admiral else-
where ; also the lady was not a very good
dancer. Everybody else, however, was en-
joying the waltz so much that it threatened
to last a good half-hour. The Admiral flung
an SOS to a mere commander, and with
the lightning brain developed by a life of
danger on the deep, the commander reviewed
the situation. The Important Person was
very important, so a commander was useless
as a “cutter-in.” It would smack too much
of the hand-you-down. Then his eye caught
that of a mere ensign mooning by a gang-
way for a girl who was ashore. “If ft
passes the Admiral it will do for the ensign,”
he muttered, and going up to the handsome
youngster the commander said : “Cut in on
Admiral when he comes round.” The
youngster gasped; but when the Admiral and
his lady steered that way, the ensign saw
the light, cut in and swung the lady off into
the dance of her life. Sheer impudence of
it carried it off. Thus was Noblesse obliged,
and an apparently chagrined Admiral got
a chance to ease his corns.
Twenty-five women arrested last Friday
evening for shop-lifting—surely it is a record.
Yet the reason may be not so much the degen-
eration of Eve’s morals as the greater num-
ber of her temptations. Never in this Let-
ter’s knowledge have the counters and tables
of the big stores been laden with such gaily-
patterned bits of china, charming trifles of
powder-boxes, handbags, art jewellery. To
walk through the ground floor of any of
our department stores is to walk through
avenues of things desirable to the well-to-do,
hypnotically fascinating to many a starved-
for-beauty poor sister.
The serpent again entered into last week’s
wholesale downfall of Eve. A pair of snake-
skin shoes were among the loot of a pathetic
woman of 60. She had taken them for her
daughter.
The ink was hardly dry on these moral-
isings when the Girl in the Flat Opposite
looked in. Her remark was cryptic. "They
caught 25 ? Oh the poor things! But, of
course, the dresses are so short and skimpy
now! No place to hide anything.” And
that’s still another point of view.
One of Cardinal Cerretti’s last acts on
the wharf before he left Australia by the
Aorangi on the first stages of his journey
back to Rome was to bless an eagerly-
extended rosary. Surely among the 72 car-
dinals none has a wider smile or a more
childlike heart. Like some gentle scarlet
lamb he went through a list of farewell visits
that would stagger the ordinary lay ambas-
sador. At St. Vincent’s Hospital he said
Mass, and then sat down to breakfast with
the great institution’s honorary and resident
medical staff and John Lane Mullins. And,
presently blessing them as he passed, he
made his exit down a long avenue of nurses
in snowy caps and aprons and check uni-
forms.
The Catholic Women’s Association fare-
welled him at the club in Oxford-street, and
here the crowd was so great it was almost
impossible for a breath of air to push its way
up the stair. Mrs. John Barlow, clothed in
some of the family’s priceless black Spanish
lace, welcomed his Eminence and his retinue,
among whom walked the gently-impressive
Monsignor O’Haran. Peter Clark, a pro-
digy from Golden Grove who conducted that
convent’s orchestra, caught the Cardinal’s
eye and fancy, so Peter got his meed of
praise from the great man, who misses no-
thing. His old friend the Mater Hospital,
on the north side of the Harbor, claimed
him for a whole afternoon.
Harry Moir, till a few weeks ago band-
master of the Ist Battalion of the King’s
Own at Aldershot, arrived in Sydney the
other day, and it looks as though Bulletin
Associate-Editor Webb’s-dream of good bands
for all occasions is at least in the bud. For,
of course, ex-warrant-officer Harry Moir
means to form a military band. But don’t
think this means a band of soldier-men ; a
military band is simply a band composed of
brasses and reeds. At 20 Mr. Moir joined
the Highland Light Infantry band, the mas-
ter of which was R. G. Evans, now Director
of Music of the Coldstream Guards. When
he was transferred to the Artillery band in
Plymouth he took Mr. Moir with him. After
that came some years of study at Kneller
Hall, at Twickenham, the Military School of
Music. Here there are always 50 students
for the job of bandmaster and 120 others
learning to be better bandsmen—this to keep
up a constant supply for the 300-odd bands
in the English Army.
Love of cricket notoriously runs in fami-
lies, and an outstanding example is the
Lowry tribe, of Maoriland, whose head is
also a keen racing man—he acquired merit
as the owner
of that equine
idol of yester-
year, Desert
Gold. Son T.C.
played cricket
for Cambridge
and captained
the Maoriland
team in Eng-
land last year.
The daughters
of the house
have carried
their enthusi-
asm for the
game still fur-
ther. One of
them is the
wife of Percy
Chapman, cap-
tain of the
visiting Eng-
lish XI, and it
is now an-
nounced that another is engaged to Dr. R.
H. Bettington, the ex-King’s School athlete
who captained Oxford at cricket and Rugby
football, and has now returned to Australia.
The astonishing “Betters” while at Oxford
got his blue for cricket, football, tennis and
golf.
Theo Cowan has painted the spot where
Brian Pockley fell just after the landing in
German New Guinea, * and the canvas is
attracting all-comers to the artist’s intimate
show in Swain’s gallery. Another that calls
the visitor is “The Boong,” where the Marys
sit in a circle and sell their green vegetables;
it holds you with its slim green palms pushed
aside by long fingers of sunlight, its glimpse
of sea and its human interest. It’s a pretty
little show, made all the prettier on the open-
ing day by armfuls of flowers borne in by
arriving friends—flowers that overflowed the
vases and bowls and had to find accommo-
dation in little baskets made with one grace-
ful sweep of the pandanus-leaf. The native
hoys and Marys use just such baskets for
carrying fruit. Pluck one, and in the twink-
ling of an eye you can make something that
bears a close resemblance to the classic cornu-
copia.
What to eat, what to wear and how to
equip a home for health and comfort are
being demonstrated every day and night this
week at the Town Hall. This comprehensive
exhibition has been organised by the Health
Week executive, under the chairmanship of
Minister Dr. Richard Arthur. Besides, the
little doctor has just launched himself on a
campaign: he has set for himself the task
of converting his colleagues to a million hos-
pital loan. This Letter does hope that the
little Minister isn’t saving up all his child-
ren’s doctors’ bills to pass on to them for
payment presently.
Herewith a
Dayne study
of Mrs. A. P.
F. Chapman,
wife of the
English cricket
captain. Mrs.
Chapman left
by the Aorangi
last Thursday
for her old
home in
Ilawkes Bay,
M a o r i 1 a nd,
with her went
newly-engaged
sister Miss
Lowry. After
the Tests are
over the tall
Chapman will
join his wife
in Enzed.
The afternoon wedding threatens soon to
run a dead-heat in Sydney with the evening
show. The matrimonial station of St. James
putting out the all-clear signal one afternoon
last week, Phyllis Mander Davey and Irwin
Alderson, of Neutral Bay, gaily set out on
their life-tour. Canon E. C. Beck and Dr.
Micklem blew the whistle and waved the
starting-flag against a stately background of
November lilies. A beige lace ensemble and
a wide-brimmed hat crescendoed to an armlet
of deep-red roses in the bride’s outfit, while
deep yellow roses and a gojden frock flashed
as ’maid Helen Osbourne stepped in the
procession. The bride’s mother later did the
honors at the Australia.
Chief-Secretary Albert Bruntnell said
“Bless you, my children,” to youngest daugh-
ter Joy and Frederick Max Wolf, of Kil-
lara, some time ago. But the engagement
was only family knowledge till last week,
when the ring was slipped into place and the
North Shore suburbs in which the pair live
were taken into confidence. Joy is tall like
her sister Lucille; but whereas Lucille feels
she wants to conquer the world with her art,
Joy is happiest amid the comfortable every-
day things of her home life.
Joan Kelly, from Port Darwin, was one
of the brides who sought the benefits of St.
Mary’s on a warm, still morning last week.
White Chantilly-lace fashioned in the 1830
mode billowed and swayed as the procession
made its progress up thedong aisle. A foam of
tulle and an armful of Madonna lilies were
Ruskin-like decorations. Two ’maids, in
anemone-pink georgettes, floated after the
bride. Joseph Marks waited with the ring;
and Father Hurley tied the invisible knot.
The bride’s aunt, Miss Mason, directed the
Subsequent celebrations at Romano’s, helped
by cousin Fanny Durack.
Kathleen, widow of the late Commander
E. N. Mortimer, R.N., and originally Kath-
leen Toohey, of Strathfield, was married
again last Saturday. Under the direction of
padre Hugh Paton she became Mrs. William
McKone, of Mosman, in Mrs. J. T. Toohey’s
flat at Manar. Small niece Patricia Cos-
grove strewed rose petals in the path of the
pinkly-clad bride, whose hands were filled
with pink roses and lily of the valley.
A warm, still night enwrapped the nup-
tials of Enid Vickery and Alan C. Swales, of
Woodlands, Uralla —just as well, because the
reception was held in a great marquee on the
lawns of the Joseph Vickery home at Strath-
field. The young man passed over the ring
and the usual promises in the local Methodist
chapel. The bridal raiment was of the effec-
tive macrame lace, white in hue, through
which came the rose glow of pink chiffons.
Layers and layers of tulle formed the veil
and the long train. This was followed by
’maids Isabel Swales and Doris Vickery in
delft-blue georgettes and hats, blue delphin-
iums and cornflowers streaming from pretty
floral armlets. Black lace at its choicest was
noted on Mrs. Vickery, and also on the bride-
groom’s mother at the subsequent cheerio,
where Dorothy Perkins rioted in her most
raffish moodt
Mrs. Cecil Tindale, formerly Mrs. Lubrano,
is off to spend her second honeymoon in
Europe. The new Mrs. Tindale is one of
Sydney’s prettiest women. She is cast in'
the sweet Kitty Bellairs mould, and has a
wit as sparkling and an eye as bright as that
one-time Queen of Bath.
Another about-to-be-marrried who has been
much entertained this month is Dorothy
Roberts. She was the subject of a monster
tea-drinking set among a riot of Dorothy,
Perkins roses at the Wentworth the other
afternoon. This was hostessed by
MeCorquodale. The young man in the case
is Malcolm Houghtort.
W. C. Wentworth, who has been distin-
guishing himself at Oxford as an athlete—he
is the fastest half-miler they have had there
of recent years—is the eldest son
Wentworth, the Sydney barrister. 1 helamily
owned Burrabogie station, which usea 1:0 13
described as “the largest area in the pos-
session of any private person m the world.
The source of its present affluence is a legacy
from an Anglicised uncle who, after leaving
the Imperial Army, settled on his estate
near Bnde in Cornwall. Darcy Wentworth,
the Norfolk Island surgeon, founded the Aus-
tralian branch of this family, but its most
eminent member was, of course, his son
William Charles—great-grandfather ot the
present-day Oxonian.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London :
The quite considerable Australian colony in
Florence was all agog over the marriage of Patricia,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Kelly, to Gualtiero
Volterra, which took place in his home town on
October 15. The bridegroom is young, dark and
presentable, speaks English quite well, and is an
exceptionally fine pianist. Last year he gave recitals
in the Wigmore Hall, London. He is the son of
a famous art and antique connoisseur, whose galleries
are always visited by the crowd who flobk to see
Bernini’s masterpiece near by.
A very readable kiddies’ book from the
pen of Mrs. W. A. Holman is “Elka-Reva-
Ree.” It concerns the comfortable, every-
day things that happen to two happy babies
named Molly and Teddy, and Molly’s dog
whose name is Frisk. There are jolly illus-
trations through the pages, and “Elka-Reva-
Ree” will be welcome in many a Christmas
stocking.
The Ambassadors reopened on Saturday
after its spring cleaning. But it wasn’t gilt
that was so much in Stewart Dawson s eye
as the remodelling of the kitchens, which are
now on the level of the ballroom and are
electrically equipped. From now on the ser-
vice, except on Saturday nights, will be a la
carte.
On Saturday the Wentworth shrouded its
lights for a wholesale redecoration, and will
reopen with a bang for the American cele-
brations on Thanksgiving Night.
Surgeon Alexander MacCormick is appear-
ing in a new role—as a patron of music.
He is befriending the recital of Emily Sky-
ring on the 26th in the Royal Colonial Insti-
tute Hall. But, then, Emily Skyring is
handing over the proceeds to the funds of
the great surgeon’s own Scottish hospital.
Kambala fete will brighten the gardens
about the school on the 24th. It will be in
aid of the sports grounds.
Jenner, the hospital at Potts Point where
surgeon Herbert Maitland worked many of
his miracles, is to be sold by auction on the
28th. It was built by John Thomas Neale in
the days when spreading architecture didn’t
matter.
In dressing-table outfits the newest idea
is enamel and silver. They are really beauti-
ful. One set of brushes and mirror in daffo-
dil-gold and silver that would make the
ideal gift for a blonde beauty was modestly
priced by this page’s diamond merchant
at 30 guineas; other sets in pink and blue
ranged up to £6O. A complete ivory-backed
set at £llO was being packed up for some
lucky creature; and the salesman, very
pleased over the deal, confided that an
onyx-and-gold set at £l5B had been snapped
up by a back-country woman an hour after
it was put on view. (Conclusion: This
writing game isn’t all it’s cracked up to he.)
The Millions Club is threatened with a
serious rival. A new club known as the
Hundreds and Thousands is springing into
existence. There are two conditions to its
membership: you must be just a little one,
and you must pay a shilling. The first meet-
ing will be held at the Wentworth on Novem-
ber 10, and intending members should send
names, addresses and shillings to Mrs
Osborne England at the office of the Deaf
• and Dumb and Blind Appeal, 114 Castle-
reagh-street. On December 4 club members
will have a chance of getting acquainted at
the Mad Hatter Tea Party, organised by
Ruth Beale.
Muriel Swain, of the Department of Labor
and Industry, fascinated members of the
Feminist Club the other day when she put
up her argument for—well, what was it for?
“Round-Table Conferences for Progressive
Group Thinking” she named her discourse,
and it all -sounded practicable as the small
brown-eyed didactician urged it. At any
rate, nobody in that crowded room contra-
dicted her or murmured a dissent. Perhaps
nobody had the courage to do so; certainly
this Letter had not. Muriel Swain has just
returned from delegating at the Canned
Specific Conference (or is it the Pan Pacific?) ;
she is one of the highest-salaried women in
this State’s Government employ, because she
has persuaded somebody that her knowledge
of economics is as deep as a well. And maybe
it is. Certainly she has passed as many
examinations as Napoleon won battles, and
has never met her Waterloo except at a
popular ’biffl stop.


PLEASURE CRUISES
ORIENT line Pleasure Cruises are
the most delightful means of seeing
Europe. The Cruises vary in length
from 14 days to 34 days, visiting the
Mediterranean and Adriatic (Malta,
Cyprus, Venice, etc.); Norway and the
Northern Capitals (Copenhagen, Stock-
holm, Oslo, the Fjords, etc.); and the
Canaries and Madeira.
The 1929 Cruises will be made by the
Orford, Otranto and Ormonde, com-
mencing in April and continuing until
November.
ORIENT LINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
Amusements.
£MP I R E THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
A TURF SECRET.
A Play in Three Acts with a Brilliant Cast of 40
Artists.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6.
Matinee: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6. Children half-price.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S :
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: ON APPROVAL.
COMMENCING SATURDAY.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
A Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: INTERFERENCE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
theatre,
MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDV
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
H OYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
With CORINNE GRIFFITH.
ALSO
WICKEDNESS PREFERRED.
With AILEEN PRINGLE.
Amusements.
{RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MURIEL STARR in
CHEATING cheaters.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
MARGARET LIVINGSTON in the Master Picture,
A WOMAN’S WAY.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
W IRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS, LTD.,
OLYMPIA.
Record Business has been the rule at Wirth
Bros Circus at Olympia for the past week. Grand
Holiday Programme has been arranged for the rest
of season, when all the new artists will appear and
the large zoo, which includes the only Black Panthers
ever seen in Australia, also the Three Baby Leopards.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Legal Notice.
TO WILLIAM HAROLD ACRES, for-
merly of Baulkham Hills near Parra-
matta, last heard of when he left for Boulia
in the State of Queensland.
You are hereby notified that your wife
Maud Elizabeth Archdall Acres is making
application to the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its Equity Jurisdiction for
an order vesting in her the proceeds of Policy
No. 72659 effected by you with the National
Mutual Life Association of Australasia
Limited. Will you please communicate with
™ l T l^ )rs ’ Messrs - BIDDULPH AND
SALENGER, of 174 Phillip Street, Sydney,
on the matter.
Missing Friends.
AY/ILL anyone knowing the address of MRS.
MABEL LOUISE PEARSON (the
widow of Isaac Selby Drape, of North
Melbourne), kindly send it to the EQUITY
I RESELLS CO., §5 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
Don’t Fear Pain
After Eating
Pain after eating is only serious if vou neglect it
or persist in wrong treatment. Don’t take anti-acids
or bismuthated magnesia—get relief quickly and
take a real step to total banishment of the disorder
by taking Para-Pepsin. This maintains the correct
balance of healthy stomach acidity; prevents excess
acid, and stops pain. Nothing harsh; nothing
harmful; forms no habit. Para-Pepsin is the remedy
for digestive troubles a doctor would recommend—
your chemist sells it, at trifling cost.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The fancy-dress ball for kiddies given by
Mayor and Mayoress Barber, of Launceston,
in the Albert Hall was a very elaborate
affair. Whole peach-trees figured in the
decorations, rising, masses of bloom, to
meet large skeleton umbrellas of peach blos-
som. Electric lights twinkled like glow-
worms among the flowers, and ropes and fes-
toons of bloom hung in graceful trails from
the balcony, attached to the umbrellas in
the dome. Over a thousand youngsters, in
varied costumes, made a garden of the floor
of the big hall. Supper was served in a
marquee adjoining the ballroom in the City
Park. The Mayoress was in black and white,
with a wrap of ring velvet and white fox
collar.
The Repertory Society ended its season
with the performance of A. A. Milne’s
‘■Dover Road.” Olive Wilton was producer.
Little Junee Cornell, as Anne, played her
first grown-up part very successfully. The
two best characterisations were probably
Mrs. Goddard’s Eustasia and Norman Lane’s
butler. The staging and setting were excep-
tionally good.
The Homecraft Exhibition at the Town
Hall contained some very attractive work.
Elizabeth Jenkins brought he!r hand loom from
her mountain studio, and gave weaving
demonstrations on a lovely piece of half-
finished fabric. Her completed articles,
from large bedspreads and skirt and jumper
lengths to small purses, found a ready sale.
Maude Poynter and Violet Mace showed a
fine collection of hand-thrown pottery, some
of the designs being most artistic. Judy
Butler’s clever fingers produced an astound-
ing amount of stitchery—cut work, mont-
mellick and Richelieu. E. J. Robey’s con-
tribution was hand-painted bridge-scorers, cal-
endars and such, on which Tasmanian
flowers and berries formed the decorative
motif. Ursula Walker, who is now working
in Sydney, sent some cleverly-done lino cuts.
Here you see Maude Poynter, of the Ratho
Potteries. She designs and produces some
very beautiful
work, good ex-
amples of
which were
shown at the
Craft Exhibi-
tio n. Miss
Poynter has re-
cently returned
from a trip to
Europe, and
brought back
with her an
electric fur-
nace for her
work. Both
she and Violet
Mace, who
works with
her, like to
draw upon Tas-
manian sub-
jects in com-
posing their
decorative de-
signs.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
For the final day of the Q.T.C. Cup
meeting warm coats came in handy. Acting-
Governor Lennon presented the Queensland
tmp to H. J. Winten, owner of Paddi
Eve. Several tea-parties were given on the
committee-room verandah, Mrs. Isaac Moore
and Mrs. Eskdale-Lord being among the
hostesses. Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes, Canning
Downs, wore navy with a black hat; Lady
Beatrice Moreton’s amber silk crSpe went
with an ivory hat; Mrs. Norman Hall was
m bois-de-rose; Eileen Bell chose navy ; Mrs.
Lloyd Harrow was in saxe-blue; Mrsl Guy
L’Estrange wore shell-pink and cream; Mrs.
J- T. Bell beige satin; Mrs. Lipscombe,
Julia Creek, grey with a black hat; Mrs.
A. H. Whittingham black reversible satin'.
Amber, white, and jade was chosen by pretty
Mrs. Robert Thompson and Ann Blundell
was in lemon and brown.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan presided over a very-
much-in-advance Christmas treat for the St.
\ incent’s orphans at Nudgee. There was a
large committee, and a good many maidens
helped, including Jill Ryan. Lunch for
400 was set under shade trees decked
with flags, and pale greens and yel-
lows —bunches of balloons and masses of
flowers—adorned the tables. The school hall
was bright _ with flags and bunting, and
there the biddies saw a movie programme
arranged by the manager of the Winter-
garden. Many of the youngsters had never
seen the flickers before. There was a Punch
and Judy show in the interval, looked after
by Canon and Mrs'. Robin with the help
of Joyce Linley and Freda Tyson, and a
band played.
Mayoress Jolly asked some friends to come
and look at the mayoral room in the new
City Hall, which was decked for the occa-
sion with roses and African daisies. The
whole building was inspected and the three-
quarters of an acre of floor space took some
time to go over. Mrs. A. H. Barlow, Mrs.
Davies and Ivy Philp were amongst the
inspectors.
New Farm Junior Red Cross had a fete
at Harelvyn, the Henry Robertsons’ home,
when flags and bunting decked the grounds.
Dr. Cumbrae Stewart, in the absence of his
wife through illness, opened the function. A
convalescent home for soldiers’ kiddies was
the object of the effort. A bouquet of Afri-
can daisies and a perfume sachet were given
to Prof. Stewart to take home to his wife:
Thelma Robertson’s pupils gave a display.
There were a number of stalls and some of
our very naicest people were there.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Australia’s visit did something to
shake us from our lethargy, notably the
at-home on board, which provided every
species of entertainment, from dancing for
the young and frivolous to the mysteries of
man-o’-war washing and cooking for the
domestically inclined. Frocks included some
shaken out of boxes just back from England,
and most of those ran to beige, or shades
of brown and beige. And there was a blue
and white georgette that made you cool to
look at it, and, on a younger matron, a
beige and black crepe de Chine that was
delightfully smart.
Summer has come with high temperatures
and rowing and tennis'. The star rowing
has been on the Torrens, temporarily recon-
verted from mudbanks to a lake, where
medical-knight Newland opened the ’Varsity
Boat Club’s regatta and the medical school
very appropriately won the Tyas Cup. There
were races and the finals of the City of
Adelaide tennis championships on the same
day—the former, at Victoria Park, shorn of
much of its feminine glory by the greater
attractions of Melbourne. Tennis gave two
wins to Miss K. Le Messurier, the women’s
singles and, with Mrs. Day, the women’s
doubles. Miss Seeck, a comparatively new
player and one of the runners-up in the
doubles, showed great promise.
The garden at the F. H. Snows’ home at
Aldgate is one of the most beautiful in the
hills, and fetes there at rhododendron time
have put money into the coffers of many
charities. This year proceeds were ear-
marked for the Stirling District Hospital,
in search of funds to liquidate a £l5OO mort-
gage, and as over 1700 people paid entrance
money the cheque should be a useful one.
There were Boy Scouts to direct the crowd,
and Girl Guides as a guard of honor for
Josiali Symon’s lady, who declared the show
open. Also there was a perfect day and a
glorious show of rhododendrons.
The Symon family was in demand again
for an opening ceremony a couple of days
later—this time the knight, not his lady;
the occasion the exhibition of paintings by
Robert Waden and half a dozen fellow Aus-
tralians. There were three purchases for
the Gallery: Waden’s “Summer Haze,”
A. E. Newberry’s “The Road to St. Helena,”
and a Malcolm Helsby etching. One of the
most delightful pictures was “The River at
Warrandyte,” by the late Penleigh Boyd.
Another charity sadly in need of funds
is the Boys’ Home at Walkerville: hence a
fete, which fulfilled the double purpose of
letting the public see something of the work
and do their share towards helping it along.
L’Alliance Frangaise, in recess for the
summer, recuscitated for a reception for
French Consul-General and Madame Nette-
ment, at the Women’s Club.
Returned wanderers include the Feather-
stonhaughs, of Wirrabara, who in eight
months managed to see something of America
and the Continent as well as Great Britain
and Ireland, and fitted in Melbourne and the
Cup on their homeward way. In Ireland
they made a pilgrimage to the family home
at Ivillucan, near Dublin.
VVESTRALIA.
Perth.
The W.A.T.CI meeting fell on a day of
warm sunshine and gentle breeze. Though
some of the trees are still leafless, the lawns
are emerald-green and the gardens masses
of roses, larkspurs and giant cannas. Simon
Campion represented the v.-r. family, the
other members of which were in Melbourne.
Mrs). P. B. Durack wore crepe de Chine
figured in royal-blue and black. Mrs. M. P.
Durack was with her in black satin, and a
creamy osprey trimmed her Bangkok hat.
Mrs. Trouchet wore chiffons of delicate
greys and apricots; Mollie Arundel in salmon
accompanied Mrs. Reg. Forbes, who looked
smart in a striped jumper-suit of saxe-blue
and white; Nell Stewart chose spotty crepe
de Chine; Elsie Saw, tiny pink daisies on
cream; Mollie Atkins, navy and white; Mrs.
Lefroy. cool pinks; and Mrs. Farrar, the
same shade and a band of her favorite black
on a white felt hat.
Seventeeen tables of bridge were hostessed
at the Karrakatta Club by Hetty and Made-
leine Waldie Forbes. Miss Forbes wore flow-
ered chiffon with tiers edged in tomato-toned
bands and her sister chose a beige and rose
jumper-suit. The decorations were low bowls
of roses varying in tone from delicate Mal-
maison to deepest red. Among the players
were Morlet and Mrs. Harold Klug.
both looking smart after trips abroad ; Judith
Black, Moiiie Learmonth, Mildred McDou-
gall, May and Mary Padbury, Dot and
Barbara Male, Helen Murray and Valmai
Wood.
The next afternoon Mrs. Waldie Forbes
and Mrs. Tom Eyres followed up the
younger folks’ party with a just-as-big bridge
and tea party for their friends. The same
room was chosen and rose-buds were added
to the vases of the previous day. Mrs.
Forbes, who brought Hetty and Madeleine
to help her, wore fawn crepe satin, and Mrs.
Eyres, who was assisted by her daughter
Mrs. Harold Klug, chose a graceful gown
of beige lace and georgette and a black hat.
Miss Woods, Annie Eyres, Mrs). Temperley,
sporting a skull-tight black felt hat; Mrs.
Hocking, Mrs. Day, Mrs. Bob Black, Mrs.
John Forrest and Mrs. Adam Johnston
were a few of those who dealt cards'.
Loreto old girls held a reunion at Osborne
last week. The school was decorated with
sprays of fern and big bowls of larkspurs.
There were competitions, and present pupils
in their neat cream uniforms served tea and
afterwards sang, played and recited. The
president, Mrs. John le Tessier, was all in
tawny browns. Among other ex-students
present were Mrs. John Barrett. Mrs. Frank
Malloch, Kathleen and Alice Walsh, Mar-
garet Gavan-Duffy, Leily Davey, Mary and
Kathleen Lonergan, Marcia Hodges, Muriel
Jacobs and Marion Freedman.
The dancing season is waning, but gala
night at the Piccadilly cabaret was very
lively. There were squeakers, jockey caps
and balloons, a crocodile round the room and
not quite enough space to dance in comfort.
Judith Black wore a souffle of apple-green
chiffons patterned in pink roses; Nell Slan-
ford chose silver-beaded turquoise ■ Moosie
Butcher cowslip georgette; Mrs. John Stod-
art, black; and brown-eyed Dolly Sewell
from Singapore, pink taffeta frills dipping
anklewards at the back.


e
“A clear, spotless skin de-
notes health from within.”
A Clear, Spotless Skin/
'"Phe coming, of warmer weather
T is a frequent cause of skin dis-
orders and lassitude, due to im-
purities in the blood. Guard
your health by taking Yeaston
Tablets daily to clear the
skin, improve digestion, and g,ain
renewed energy and spirits.
Yeaston Tablets are safe health'
builders, entirely free from dru&s
and recognised by the medical
profession as a valuable tonic food.
Bottles of 36 - - 2/3
Bottles of 100 - - 4/9
Look for the letters “ROX” which are stamped on
genuine Yeaston Tablet.
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
“Yeaston,” Box 2682 EE, G.P.0., Sydney
each
■■feSp
!*>s
\e
Nature* s
Corrective
Tonic Food**
WHEN HENRY
PLAYED HIS PART.
BY LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.
HENRY GRANT MITCHELL was gaz-
ing into the fire. It was nearly
midnight—midnight after one of the
most splendid days of Henry's life. For
that afternoon he had seen his only child,
his daughter Barbara, acclaimed as dux of
the Palmsbr.ry High School, the winner of
no fewer than eight prizes (seven firsts and
a third), and the whole company of masters,
teachers, parents and citizens assembled
there vieing with one another in praise and
adulation, the tide of congratulation sweep-
ing triumphantly round Janet and himself
as the parents of the most brilliant girl the
school had known for a score of years. And
a fine girl, too; and as Henry would have
told you a dozen times a day if you had had
time to listen, as sweet as she was pretty
and clever. A great day indeed; a great
day !
Janet had gone to bed, overcome by con-
gratulation and emotion and the toll of the
new snakeskin shoes she had insisted on
wearing; but Henry had to wait up until
one o’clock, and then get out the small car
and run to one of the farthest suburbs to
collect Barbara, . who was finishing up the
evening at a dance. He went over the after-
noon a dozen times: the applause of the
crowd, growing more enthusiastic each time
the name of Barbara Mitchell was called;
the way the boss, whose own two girls were
at the school, had pushed through the throng
and shaken hands with him and with Janet
(Mr. Talbot, senior partner of Henry’s firm,
Talbot and Harrison, general merchants and
exporters of hides, tallow and flax) ; the
scene when the prize-giving ended and the
crowd surged round Barbara, who had come
straight down the hall, or as straight as one
could through a forest of congratulatory
hands, and had kissed Janet and hugged him
—yes, him, Henry Mitchell, a small, plain
man with red hair and no nose to speak
of (Henry had never suffered from any un-
due conceit of his appearance), and then
had pushed them both up to “the head.” Not
even when he won the Palmsbury Medal and
silver cup for the best collection of roses
at the show last year had he felt so elated
with that worth-while feeling that comes all
too seldom to a man. Truly a great day!.
And if it had not been for what he did
seventeen years ago none of this would have
happened. Seventeen years ago! Why, it
seemed only a year or so since the upheaval
in the old Auckland firm, when the boss had
suddenly absconded, and he, Henry Mitchell,
had been left to face the creditors. Such
a facing as it was, too, with no end of sus-
picion and unpleasantness; but he had stuck
it out to the end, and convinced everyone
of his honesty and his wish to do the best
for them all —so much so, Henry remembered
with a pleasant, warm feeling, that Mr.
Talbot, the largest creditor, had asked him
to come down to Palmsbury, then a rising
and ambitious small town, and join the big
firm of Talbot and Harrison. And he had
come and never regretted it. Now he had
this fine home on Palestine Hill, a few thou-
sand invested in the firm, the latest in sports
models, and the most famous rose garden in
the town.
Stretching his red-slippered feet to the fire,
he began to reflect. Seventeen years ago!
And a night just like this one, cool, calm,
starlit. And he had settled down for the even-
ing, he remembered, much in the way he
had now.
* * *
It was a small and rather feeble blaze
in a small grate framed in glaring green
tiles. The room was a small one, with a
yellowish paper on the walls that Janet
meant to have obliterated when he got his
long overdue rise. He was a clerk in an
Auckland office, and his meagre salary just
about kept the small home going. But Janet
was an excellent manager, and in the small
plot at the back of the house he grew all
their own vegetables, an economy that was
akin to extravagance. Such vegetables,
too! Of course he knew the boys at the
office made fun of his red hair and his vege-
tables. When they didn’t refer to him as
“Old Green Peas” they spoke of him as
“Carrots” or “The Scarlet Runner.”
this last a witty combination accord-
ing to office standards, of his red hair
and peculiar trot-like gait.
And that was not his only claim to dis-
tinction. The toes stretched to the blaze
in the small grate were those of the just-
appointed people’s churchwarden of St.
Jolm’d. Henry was very proud of his
new honor. It gave a man a sort of stand-
ing; and though St. John’s might be only
a small church, lamentably out of repair
(the rain had dripped all over Henry’s new
hat hanging in the vestry last Sunday),. and
perpetually in debt, Henry’s interest in it
was whole-souled, and the biggest pumpkin
in front of the pulpit and the greenest beans
festooned round the reading-desk at the Har-
vest Festival invariably came from his
garden.
Rattle, rattle, rattle! Janet was in a bad
temper this evening. Janet, Henry realised
suddenly, had been in a bad temper off and
on—mostly on—for a long time now, and the
atmosphere of domestic unrest was not at all
to Henry’s liking. Not that he ever quar-
relled or answered back. He was one who
realised with a much wiser man, and one
infinitely more experienced in matrimonial
disabilities., that there is emphatically a
time to keep silence. But he could tell by
the way Janet was banging the Mrs. Pottses
on and off the stove —she was late with the
ironing this w r eek, and the middle Mrs. Potts
always had an objection to the communal
“Just as Henry arrived the door was flung open. Then Janet appeared in her blue
dressing-gown.”
handle—that all was not well in the kitchen,
Aphrodite, the family cat, sensed it also,
and unostentatiously sought the peace of the
small dining-room. .
There was another crash from the kitchen
which made Henry jump and Aphrodite
look round inquiringly, Henry could see
through the crack of the kitchen that the
middle Mrs. Potts was being extra-trouble-
some, and there was a muttering that pre-
saged the approach of the storm.
“Henry,” said Janet’s voice from the rear,
“how you can sit there and loaf evening after
evening I don’t know. Men are all alike,
They seem to think as soon as they come
home their work’s done. As for me, I could
go on for ever and you’d never notice.”
Henry felt this was unjust. He had
noticed that Janet was working. Indeed, he
would have been peacefully asleep long ago
had it not been for the crashing of the Mrs.
Pottses.
“Well, my dear,” he said in his usual con-
ciliatory tone, “I don’t suppose I can help
with the ironing.”
“And me,” continued Janet, “with my in-
digestion that bad I hardly know what I’m
doing.”
Now Henry was in for it. He had com-
pletely forgotten that indigestion mixture.
It arose out of his anxiety to hurry home
and water the young cauliflowers after a
hot day. He mopped his brow agitatedly,
while Aphrodite turned on him a green
glance full of sympathy and understanding.
“M-m-my dear,” mumbled Henry, “I’m
awfully sorry, but I forgot your medicine.”
Then the storm broke, and Janet, with
lightning thrust and hail-like flail, proceeded
with the work of endeavoring to make Henry
realise the blank failure he was.
“I’d like to know,” she said cuttingly,
“what use you consider yourself. A nice
kind of man for a woman to have to depend
on! I hate to think of what would happen
if you had to face any emergency! I just
wonder what you’d do!”
Her tone was entirely lacking in that
respect due to a man in his position; she
seemed to have entirely forgotten about
the churchwardensliip. But Henry had not.
“I trust,” he said with becoming, almost
ecclestiastical, dignity, as he reached for his
boots, “that I should play my part.”
But Janet was unimpressed. “Well, play
it now,” she snapped. “You’ll just have
time if you hurry to get to the chemist’s by
eight.”
Henry was already lacing his boots, sigh-
ing, as the chemist’s was a mile down a tram-
less road, and his corn had been painful all
day; but when he limped along the brick
path between the rows of scented stocks and
turned into the road in the moonlight he was
glad to be out in the peaceful, untroubled
night. Nag! Nag! His. boots clicked it out on
the asphalt. . Of course, it was annoying about
the indigestion mixture; but Janet had been
very trying of late. Nagging every evening.
Nerves, he supposed. It was a pity
were no children to take lier mmd off le
and her indigestion, though Janet aJ*
maintained people were happier
them. Henry sighed again and continued
to limp.
“Pardon me,” said a soft voice out of the
darkness, “but can you tell me the tupe.
Henry stopped and found a tall girl facing
him, a girl of about twenty or so, slim anu
pretty, who looked at him with grave dark
eyes as he fumbled for his watch. It was
just half-past seven. .
“I wonder,” said the soft voice again, if
you would do something for me.
“Yes,” said Henry, somewhat flustered by
the encounter. “Yes, certainly. Yes.
“I'm going away to-night,” the girl went
on, "and I’ve just finished packing. I have
still one big suitcase to be strapped, and I
can’t pull the straps tight enough. Do you
think you could help me? The house is just
down here.”
Of course he would help her. No mail
could think of refusing so nice a girl. Henry
found himself trotting along beside her. He
would have plenty of time to get to the
chemist’s before eight, and in any case she
was leading him on his way, down Baker-
street, towards the main suburban thorough-
fare where the shops were situated and along
which the trams and ’buses ran.
“This is the place,” said the girl, as they
turned into the drive leading to a two-storeyed
house surrounded by black pines, all swaying
and sighing in rising wind, a queer, gloomy
place, Henry thought, as he followed her
into a large back room almost devoid of
furniture. On the floor stood the suitcase,
and on the only chair in the room, a dilapi-
dated armchair, lay a white bundle. Then
Henry was kneeling on the bare floor, tug-
ging at the too-short strap, and the girl in
her gentle voice was talking to him.
Yes, Henry found himself telling her be-
tween tugs, he was married. Henry Mit-
chell was his name, Henry Grant Mitchell,
and lie was people’s churchwarden of St.
John’s up in Redmond-street. No, he
had no children. Well, perhaps it was a
pity. Mind you, he thought Janet really
liked them. He felt if they had had one of
their own she would have been devoted to it,
though she would never admit it to. people
who had youngsters. She always said they
were nuisances, but he really thought it was
a kind of jealousy. He liked them him-
self —girls especially.
“That’s about as tight as it will come,” he
said at last, getting up and dusting his
knees ; “I think that will hold all right.”
“You are kind,” said the girl gratefully.
She picked up the white bundle. “I won-
der” —
“Yes?” said Henry encouragingly.
“I wonder if I might ask you to do one
filing more for me. My husband is coining
back for the luggage, and I want to go down
to the steamer with him to see that it’s all
right. Men never know which cases to keep
out of the hold. The boat sails at eleven;
so we’ve plenty of time. I'd like to leave
my baby here until I come back. Would it
be asking too much of you if I said I’d like
you to stay for a few minutes.
Henry paused. The wharves were only a
short distance away. Half-past seven, twenty
to eight, ten minutes to get to the chemist's,
he calculated rapidly. He looked into the
girl’s anxious brown eyes.
“Not a bit,” he said gallantly.
“Oh, thank ybu,” said the girl; “you are
good. We have to go north to Kaitaia on
business in a great hurry.” She crossed over
and lifted up the white bundle. “She won't
wake. If she did there’s a bottle of food,
quite warm, in this little case with all her
other things. I’ll leave it until I come
back. But I’m. sure she’ll sleep. She’s
always as good as gold—quite wonderful for
only six months old.”
Looking at the girl, Henry saw that her
dark eyes were filled with, tears. A nice
girl, he reflected approvingly, and a good
mother. Didn’t like leaving her child for
even a few minutes. A man should help a
girl like that. Of course he would stay.
He glanced round the dismantled room.
The house was evidently very old, gas-lighted,
with antiquated colored globes and imperfect
incandescent burners, and the paper sagged
on the high walls. The stillness was almost
uncanny. To the old house in its melan-
choly pine-grove the sound of passing traffic
came as faintly as an indistinct echo.
And she had been quite long enough. It
was certainly half-past eight, and Janet
would be expecting him back any minute
now. This was really ••quite an adventure,
something to tell when he' reached home,
though perhaps he would not say too much
about the pretty girl. Women had queer
ideas that way.
The distant clock chimed nine. Nino!
Gone over an hour! Something must have
delayed them. Well, he would just have to
wait and risk Janet’s temper. He couldn’t
possibly leave the baby.
It occurred to Henry, as time wore on
and ten chimed distinctly in the decrease of
(Continued on page 4 7.)


w
POLICY.
An essential to the success of a commercial forestry enter-
prise is the possession of extensive supplies of maturing
timber to start with. This is a basic principle of success,
emphasised by the world’s greatest forest economists.
Queensland Forests, Limited, therefore purchased, during
1927, large areas of heavily-timbered and rich forest-
growing lands in North Queensland, whereon to establish
its great industry of forest cultivation and exploitation.
Expert foresters were appointed to care for and nurture
the valuable timbers maturing on the property, and to plant,
safeguard and cultivate additional areas with trees of high
commercial value.
The properties purchased are made up of rich and fertile
soils, and are situated within the far-famed “rain belt of
North Queensland —the native habitat of Australia’s finest
luxury woods. Beautifully-figured maple, silky oak, rose
mahogany, walnut bean, red cedar and the red and yellow
siruses grow there in luxurious abundance. In this sphere
Queensland Forests, Limited, will function as a Complete
Forestry Enterprise. Not only will it sell on a stumpage
basis; it will cut, mill, further manufacture and distribute
large quantities of cabinet woods and other forest products,
thus securing forestry, milling and merchandising profits
for its Bondholders.
The Company is carefully examining the practical outlet
for its wood output in the building, cabinet and luxury-
wood industries, in application to veneer and plywood manu-
facture, destructive distillation of industrial oil and woods
and chemical utilisation for wood pulp not only in Australia
but overseas. It is carrying its marketing activities to the
Motherland, America and elsewhere, where new uses may
be found for the finest cabinet woods in the world, those
that come from the “treasure house of fine woods North
Queensland.
THE VALUE OF THE “GROWING
GOLD” OF QUEENSLAND
FORESTS.
Twenty years ago the ruling price for pine logs in Queens-
land was 8/1 per 100 super, feet. In 1928 the price
had risen to 24/6 per 100 super, feet.
In 1915 sawn pine timbers (first class) sold at 24/- per
100 super, feet. In 1928 the price had risen to 60/6 per
1 00 super feet.
Owing to depletion of first-quality timber supplies the price
of second-quality sawn pine timber increased from 19/6 in
1915 to 53/6 in 1928.
The official report of the first inspection of the Company’s
timber stands contains the following statement: “The forest
is rich in variety of species, magnificent in dimension and
quality and diverse in use. Here are found mature mer-
chantable trees, some of which are 170 feet in height,
five feet in diameter breast-high, and contain 5000 to 8000
superficial feet of timber. Sample areas recorded up to
75,000 feet per acre.
The Company’s scientific forest management will many
times increase the volume of timber grown and will result in
a sustained reproduction of pounds sterling where only
shillings were received before.
Pulping, which is one of the world’s greatest industries
overseas, is converting millions of tons of otherwise waste
forest products into silk, wool, paper and celluloid, etc.;
but it is only in its infancy in Australia. Queensland
Forests, Limited, is providing for the great pulping enter-
prise which must develop here, and which will utilise 100
per cent, more wood per tree than that now acceptable to
the timber mills.
Technical Staff.
DIRECTOR OF FORESTS:
CAPTAIN L. MacINTOSH
ELLIS,B.Sc. (for. Toronto),
F.R.G.S., late Director of
Forests, New Zealand Gov-
ernment Forest Service;
First President N.Z. Institute
of Foresters; Charter Mem-
ber Canadian Society of
Forest Engineers; Senior
Member Society of Ameri-
can Foresters; former
Assistant Superintendent
Department of Natural Re-
sources; Forestry Branch,
Canadian Pacific Railway
Co.
SUPERINTENDENT OF
SILVICULTURE:
W. R. PETRIE, formerly Ad-
visory and Investigative
Officer, Queensland Govern-
ment Forest Service.
DIVISIONAL FOREST
OFFICER:
W. R. CUMMING, formerly
Divisional Forest Officer,
Queensland Governm en t
Forest Service.
FOREST SURVEYORS AND
EXAMINERS:
A. A. VOISEN, Graduate of
H.M. High Forestry School,
St. Petersburg, and late of
Forests Department, East-
ern Chinese Railways.
R. H. GREENWOOD, formerly
of the Professional Staff of
the Forests Commission of
Victoria. Graduate of the
Creswick Forestry School.
H. J. HOSIE, formerly of the
Queensland Governm en t
Forest Service.
OFFICER IN CHARGE OF
TREE PROPAGATION.
A. V. Burtenshaw, formerly of
the Tree Nursery Staff,
West. Aus. Forest Service.
MARKET EXTENSION
OFFICER:
W. E. MOORE, for many
years Publicity and Market-
ing Officer, Queensland
Forest Service.
BOND ISSUE.
Provision has been made for the general public to share in
the proceeds of this great enterprise. Bonds, which really
form a contract binding the Company to return to the holder
£lOO in cash, are offered for sale at £5 each.
Eighteen thousand bonds will be issued for each section of
3000 acres of the forest property, and the Bondholders of
each section will receive conjointly all the profits from the
sale of trees and milled timber from that section repre-
senting trees now growing and to be grown until each
Bondholder has received the sum of £lOO for each £5 Bond
purchased.
SECURITY.
To safeguard the interests of Bondholders in every way
possible the Company instructed Messrs. Morris, Fletcher
and Cross, solicitors, of Brisbane, to prepare the Bond and
Trust Deed, and to have both documents examined and
settled by a leading King’s Counsel. This procedure was
adopted before the Bonds were issued, and the Company
can now definitely state that Bondholders will have the
following security:—
1. The capital of £lOO,OOO cannot be withdrawn by share-
holders until after the Company has fulfilled all its
obligations to Bondholders.
2. The freehold title deeds of the land referred to in the
Bond must be deposited by the Company with the
Bondholders’ Trustees, who will lodge a caveat under the
“Real Properties Act,” prohibiting the registration of
any mortgage or other instrument against the land until
the Bonds have been fully paid and satisfied.
3. Within one year the Company must commence treat-
ment of the property to which the Bonds refer, and it
must continue to cultivate, regenerate and maintain the
forest area thereafter according to the best principles
of Forestry, until the full amount stated on each Bond
has been paid.
4. The Company must pay over to the Trustees one-thitd
of all moneys paid by investors (for deposit in a special
Trust Fund) to ensure the maintenance and protection
of the forest from the fifth year onward; also to establish
pulp mills, timber mills, or such other machinery as
may be necessary to ensure the marketing of the
produce under conditions most favorable to Bondholders.
5. The Company must pay the Bondholders’ Trustees the
net proceeds received in connection with the marketing
of the forest products, and the Trustees will distribute
the amount received among the Bondholders.
6. Out of the net proceeds of the forest produce Bond-
holders are entitled to receive, from time to time, pro-
gressive payments on account, until an aggregate
amount equal to the total return represented on the
Bonds held has been paid to Bondholders, after which
the Bonds shall be deemed fully paid and satisfied and
cancelled.
7. The Trust Deed gives power to the Trustees to take
possession of the whole of the land, and to sell the land
and timber, and any produce thereof, for the benefit
of Bondholders, in the event of default by the Company
of any of its coyenants, conditions, agreements or pro-
visions.
8. After the Company has fulfilled all its obligations to all
Bondholders of the Section, and not before, the Trustees
will release the land, which will then revert to the Com-
pany without fencumbrance.
The fact that the Company will be entitled to the lands in
each section, and the whole of the profit to be derived from
the section, as soon as the Bondholders have had a return
of the full amount represented on their Bonds will undoubt-
edly cause the Company to make every effort to cultivate
the lands with the best trees, and to carefully preserve and
nurture such trees during the whole period of forestation,
both in the interests of the Bondholders and of the Com-
pany itself.
AH applications for Bonds should be addressed to
E. S. & R. C. MOULTON, LIMITED,
Public Accountants and Auditors. Financial Managers for
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LIMITED
BRISBANE: Rowe’s Central Building, Edward Street.
SYDNEY: Wingello House, Angel Place (off Pitt Street).
MELBOURNE: National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: Epworth Building, Pirie Street.
PERTH: Economic Chambers, Cr. William and Hay Streets.
ROCKHAMPTON: 179 Alma Street.
NEWCASTLE: State Government Savings Bank Building.
SINGAPORE: Union Building, Collyer Quay.
AGENCIES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEAD OFFICE:
UNION BUILDING, 8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
The Manager,
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LTD.
Please forward, without obligation on my part, your booklet entitled
“Growing Gold.”


Under Instructions from the Commissioners of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
IMPORTANT SALE by PUBLIC AUCTION on NOVEMBER 23 NEXT
THE PRESENT HEAD OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
N.S.W., Nos. 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
PRESENTING AN OPPORTUNITY TO BANKING AND INSURANCE INSTI-
TUTIONS, INVESTORS, TRUSTEES AND OTHERS of acquiring one of the most
IMPORTANT AND PROMINENT SITES in the Hub of the CIII S FINANCIAL
AND PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES, with Marvellous Possibilities and Prospective
° Utl The EXTENSION OF MARTIN PLACE to MACQUARIE STREET, and the
rebuilding on the western side and WIDENING OF ELIZABETH STREET, and the
fact that these improvements will direct the traffic from St. James Station to tins
part of the City, will make it ONE OF THE MAIN THOROUGHFARES m the
HEART OF THE FINANCIAL CENTRE of the City, and obviously assure a greatly
added value to properties coming within its influence.
THE BUILDING
is imposing in appearance, built of brick, with stone facings, on stone foundations,
with flat noof, and contains: —
BASEMENT, with Three Stropg Rooms; Special Book Lift from one Strongroom
to the Banking Chamber.
GROUND FLOOR, comprising Banking Chamber with Vestibule; Gallery hloor, ana
Manager’s Office. _ . , ~, t.
THE FIVE UPPER FLOORS are occupied by the various Departments of the Bank.
Caretaker’s quarters on the roof. Electric Passenger Lift and Fire Escape.
A Feature is the NORTHERLY ASPECT and PERFECT NATURAL LIGHT.
THE LAND
has a frontage of 90 FEET to MARTIN PLACE, by a depth of 66ft. 7Jin. on one
side, and 68ft. 9Jin. on the other, the rear line being 88ft. sin.
TITLE TORRENS.
SPECIAL EASY TERMS IF REQUIRED, VIZ.:— ,
£5OOO on Signing the Contract. An additional £lO,OOO on completion of Transfer.
The Balance secured by mortgage over the property for a period of 15 years, at 6 per cent., reducible
by half-yearly payments of £2500 for 10 years, the balance then remaining to be repayable at the
end of the period. ... ~ . ,
Purchaser to have the right to pay any additional amount of principal, or the whole, by giving
three months’ notice. OR CASH ON COMPLETION.
SPECIAL ATTENTION is invited to this MOST IMPORTANT SUBMISSION.
VACANT POSSESSION WILL BE GIVEN NOT LATER THAN 31st PROXIMO.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD., 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GRAY & CO., 135 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION,
Have been favored with instructions to submit the above IMPORTANT CITY FREE-
HOLD for PUBLIC AUCTION, in the Rooms,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, on Friday, 23rd November Next, at 11 a.m. Prompt.
Plans of the Building on view in the Rooms of Associated Auctioneers.
'
a delicious relish
made by HEINZ
Sandwiches made in a minute with Heinz Sandwich
Relish—how wonderfully good they taste! How
fresh and dainty they keep for hours'. Just the thing
for picnics and parties, for lunches and late suppers.
Heinz Sandwich Relish is made from chopped
crisp, sweet pickles and other good things mixed
with smooth, rich mayonnaise. Full of flavour, it
has a delightful tasty tang unlike anything else you
ever tried. And it is made by Heinz too. You
know that means it must be good.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. : Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Can.
one of the. 57 varieties
*- " I
wti^
SANDWICH
REI-ISH
JOMWMCn
»V; X •
HEINZ
Relish,
Rheumatic Pains
are Dangerous
Beware of Backache, Joint Pains, Swollen Limbs, Scalding Pains, Sediment,
Etc. Neglect or Wrong Treatment Serious.
Z 7 VERYONE should know how soon .simple back-
achesj joint or limb pains and urinary troubles
turn to more serious disorders and, should know
the folly of neglect,
REMOVES THE CAUSE
If your kidneys are disordered, uric acid will
slowly undermine vour health; if the bladder is
weak, your sufferings may become intense. Don’t
risk neglect. You need something more than relief.
The most effective remedy you can take is Harri-
son’s Pills —a proven prescription of the most
valuable medicinal agents known for the successful
treatment of Rheumatic, Kidney, Bladder and
Urinary Complaints—the greatest boon conveniently
available for those who suffer from these dread ills.
SURE, SAFE, AND PROMPT
Harrison’s Pills quickly assist kidneys, bladder and
urinary organs to health, and free you from uric
acid danger; they soothe away inflammation hy
dealing with the CAUSE. Relief is surprisingly
prompt; so naturally healthful that other health-
destroying troubles, such as constipation and
“nerves,” depart with the rheumatic aches and pains.
Get back your health, strength and vigor without
delay—take Harrison’s Pills —the remedy you can
rely upon. Three sizes: 2/-, 3/-, and the 5/-
Eeonoiny Size.
Money back if not more than satisfied
with results, or you can have a Free
Sample by posting this coupon.
e
IRITE
w
The WONDERFUL
EYE REMEDY
Soothes and heals eyes
that are tired and sore.
Chemists, Opticians Si
Stores. Price, 2/6.
Irite Laboratories, Box
1829 K, G.P.0., Sydney
For the Car Owner
“PRIMA”
PAINT
SPRAYER
1
CELLULOSE
PAINT
OUTFIT.
For the Garage and House.
PRIMA CO., LTD., Birmingham
Details from Factory Representative,
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
KZ, RACING CONFERENCE
NZ TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z, GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISDAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Deading
Advertising Agencies.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d *
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
“THE AGE"
Established 185 h.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
If your sales in Victoria have not reached
the high level which the quality and price of
your products demand, include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By this
means your sales message will enter the homes
and offices of
123,533
daily subscribers
who have confidence in the publication which
for 74 years has been the BUSINESS BUILDER
that discriminate advertisers have long-
esteemed and valued.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Advertising Rates on application to the princi-
pal Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
#§f> e
M
&
OLEX" batches
reflect gentility.
Each and every “Rolex’ is an
exquisite piece of
the mouement so perfect
that it rvi l tell " time on time ’’
for generations.
“Rolex" styles never become
obsolete because of their
exclusiveness.
w
All leading jewellers
can show you a full
range oj “ Rolex
Watches.
N- 6
• A


“EOTHEN
if
m
PAYING GUESTS
EAST TERRACE
(Corner Wakefield St.)
ADELAIDE
□ □□
| UNEXCELLED CUISINE
inclusive Tariff £4*4-0
Central 328
Mrs PARKER
e
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
w
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Me'bourre.
e
“Benger’s Food
has saved my
baby’s life ”
—5O says an Australian
mother, whose baby is now
thriving splendidly.
Babies thrive upon Benger’s,
because it is alvvavs prepared
with fresh new milk. Benger’s
enriches the milk ard adapts
it to the delicate digestion of
a child.
t
Food
n/ Reed. Tradh Mark.
Send for Benger’s Booklet , post free.
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd.,
350 G°orgre Street. SYDNEY
r
'Jlw cf
oil MHtdiricheS
That’s what they say at the pic-
nic when the Anchovette
sandwiches are passed round.
There’s nothing more tempt-
ing for any light meal than this
delicious fish paste. Get a jar
from your grocer to-day.
Try also Peck’s Salmon and
Shrimp Paste, or the new line,
Kippavette.
Peck’s
w
The
delicious
Fish Paste
e
m
5-Cell,
Focussing,
[ 1500 feet
range, 27/6
4-Cell,
Focussing, 1000
feet range, 25/-
3-Cell,
Focussing, 600
feet range, 21/-
3-Cell,
Focussing, 350
feet range,
17/6
2-Cell,
Focussing, 200
feet range,
11/6
(Postage on any one
Torch, 9d.)
w
No Sportsman's Kit is
complete without a good
Hunting Knife.
The “Bowie” English
Hunting Knife, made
of finest quality steel;
this is a genuine Bowie
pattern knife, having a
stag handle, and double
metal guard, with
sheath.
sin. blade .... 6/6
6in. blade .... 7/6
The “Boone” English
Hunting Knife, ideal for
sticking, skinning,
cleaning, slicing, etc.; 1
handle of bakelite,
leather and brass, alu-
minium tip, with sheath.
4fin. blade .... 7/6
6in. blade .... 8/6
The “Teddy” Stainless
English Hunting Knife,
an exceptionally well-
ground knife; with
sheath.
4fin. blade .... 10/6
(Postage on any one Knife, 6d.)
mw
CERT D.8.8.L. GUN
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib,
rebounding locks, pistol grip, walnut
stock; weight, 71b £3/3/-
Witb Crossbolt £3/15/-
Carriage paid.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters /'
sound, that there had been cases, even in
this small and law-abiding city, where people
had got rid of unwanted infants by asking
unsuspecting persons to mind them for a
while. Not that this was one of those cases.
No one could suspect the brown-eyed girl of
wanting to get rid of her baby. She was
obviously devoted to it. But just suppose
it was one of those cases —what a fool he
would look!
No, Janet would be much more likely to
be merely enraged at his making himself
ridiculous.
As half-past ten chimed and the silence
was unbroken an uneasiness seized him. The
baby, disturbed by his moving, began to
whimper and opened its eyes. Henry started
up in alarm. Awkwardly he walked up and
down the uncarpeted room, his footsteps
sounding startlingly loud as- he rocked the
restless child. When it slept again he laid
it carefully in the chair and went to tne
front door, peering out through the darkness
to where a distant light flickered. It seemed
queer. The boat was sailing in half an
hour; surely they were cutting it very fine.
As eleven chimed he began to walk agi-
tatedly down the road in the direction of the
wharves. ’Buses were still running, and a
few belated passengers alighted from each one
as it stopped at the end of the road. Henry
hailed the driver of one that had just come
from the waterfront.
“What time does the Kaitaia boat go?”
he asked.
“Don’t gq at all to-night,” said the driver
nonchalantly.
“Why not? Anything wrong?”
“No. Not its night, that’s all. Goes to-
morrow.”
Henry retreated. Very queer indeed? He
went back to the end of Baker-street and,
placing the suitcase on the footpath, began
to walk up and down, jogging the now-
fretful child. It was probably getting
hungry, Henry decided, with an unhappy
recollection of the bottle of food in the
suitcase. Henry mopped his brow.
(( “My good man,” said a voice at his elbow,
“surely you know this is no time to have a
baby of that age out in the street?”
Henry turned, to see a severe-looking old
lady who, with three young girls, had de-
scended from a ’bus.
“No time at all,” continued the lady
indignantly. “Is it your child?”
“Yes,” said Henry, not knowing quite
what else to say.
“Well, I wonder that your wife permits
you to treat it like this,” said the old lady.
“Oh, this baby has nothing to do with
her,” said Henry in confusion, and thinking
only of the necessity to defend Janet.
“Come away, girls,” the old lady com-
manded loudly. “Come away at once.’’ And
she swept them from the scene.
Then something seemed to snap in
Henry’s brain, and he entirely forgot his
ecclesiastical dignity and his commercial
standing in a spasm of blind fury, remember-
ing himself only as a sorely-tried and mis-
judged man.
“You mind your own damn business!” he
shouted after her.
The old lady turned back with great deter-
mination. “I shall inform the police of your
conduct,” she said, “and nothing will give
me greater satisfaction than to go into
court and give evidence of your outrageous
behavior.”
Henry gasped. A nice situation for a man
of his position! In a panic he seized the
suitcase from under the hedge and darted
round the corner into Baker-street, and up
the drive to the old house. His a‘rm ached,
Ins spine ached, the back of his neck was one
enormous ache. Babies! And there were
misguided people in the world who advocated
their increase, who tried to popularise them.
His handkerchief was wet from mopping
his face, and his collar felt like pulp; but
as he calmed down, and the child went to sleep
again, he put it gently on the verandah-
step and went inside. Opening doors that
creaked eerily Henry looked into several of
the other rooms. He could see that three
of them were in great disorder, and all
bore evidence of sudden and hasty aban-
donment. Standing on the steps of the
house he reviewed his position. He was an
old fool. He saw that now. Still, the girl’s
eyes had had a beautiful look in them, a
true, straight look. There was only one
thing to do now: go home. Tell Janet
everything and hand the baby to the police
in the morning'. Janet would be furious, of
course, but he didn’t care. There comes a
time to every man when lie fears neither
God nor woman. He picked up the baby’s
tiny case and trotted out into the road.
Into the qoiet, starry night, with the cool
wind on his worried brow and the stillness
all round him. He forgot the ache of his
arms, the sense of wrong, the elderly woman
who was going to complain to the police
about him.
As he hurried along, something happened
to Henry. It came out of the stars and the
wind and the silence, and flowed round him
and the sleeping child, and, under the wide,
watching sky, Ilenry formed a great resolu-
tion. He would not let the baby go. It was
his, given to him purposely, and even if
.Janet refused to have it in the house, as
she probably would, he would arrange for
some kind woman to take care of it. He
would fulfil his promise to the brown-eyed
girl. Ilis mood was still one of resolution
and defiance when he turned in his own gate
and limped round to the back door, his
corn now acutely resenting the evening’s
perambulations!.
Just as Henry arrived the door was flung
open. Then Janet appeared in her blue
dressing-gown, holding the milk-billy in one
hand and clutching Aphrodite by the neck
with the other. Henry moved into the light.
“Good heavens!” she gasped as she recov-
ered, after her scream. “And where have
you been? If I hadn’t gone to sleep I’d
have been half crazy with worry. And
what have you been doing?”
“I,” said Henry, speaking with great
solemnity, “have been doing as you told me.
While you slept I have been plaving my
part.”
But Janet Was not listening. As one fas-
cinated she gazed at the bundle in Henry’s
arms. With one hand she dropped the billy
into Aphrodite’s sleeping-box, and with the
other essayed to hang that squirming and
protesting animal on the nail.
“What’s that you’re carrying?”
“A baby!”
“A what?”
"I said a baby!”
“A baby! Whose baby?”
‘‘Mine!”
‘‘W-h-a-a-a-t!” shrieked Janet.
Henry was a reasonable man. He felt
she was justified. When a man who is a
reputable citizen, a grower of prize vegeta-
tion, a good churchman and a model hus-
band goes out at seven-thirty apparently in
normal mood to buy a bottle of indigestion
mixture, and returns after midnight carrying
a strange baby which he asserts is his, his
wife has every reason to scream her astonish-
ment. Ilenry did not blame her.
“Yes, mine,” lie said, becoming rhetorical.
“Mine because it was given to me. Mine
because I' am henceforth its protector. Mine,
because I”
“The man’s raving,” said Janet, address-
ing the still offended Aphrodite. “Gome
inside, Henry,” she added imperatively,
“You’ve gone mad!”
Again Henry forgave her. Forgave her
freely, and in the safe seclusion of the
small dining-room told her all about the
brown-eyed girl and 'the empty house among
the pines while the baby slept in Janet’s
arms.
“My goodness!” said Janet, at last. “I
never heard of such a thing. They’ll be
criminals, Henry.”
“Not the girl,” said Henry ; “the man may
be. And so,” he added, “we can take the
child to the orphan-home to-morrow, and
I’ll pay weekly for her, and then”
But Janet had risen. With the baby in
her arms she straightened herself and con-
fronted Henry. Her face was white and her
eyes blazed.
“You heartless brute!” she said, tensely.
“You, with your bed ready for you and
your supper hot on the stove! You mean-
spirited creature! You’d fling this innocent,
helpless babe out into the night to die of
hunger and cold! I despise you!”
Now Henry felt this was a little too much.
He was no flinger-out of helpless babes; his
evening’s work had proved that, and in any
case lie had distinctly indicated the morn-
ing. But lie recognised that in that moment
Janet was magnificent—just as Aphrodite
was when the terrier from next door had
come over to pay his disrespects to her last
batch of kittens. Also lie recognised that no
accomplished strategist could have brought
the matter to a more successful issue. He
had managed to fling the torch of initiative
to Janet. She had caught it and would now
light the way. . Already she was rummaging
in the tiny suitcase.
“You said there was a bottle here, Henry.
That’s why they couldn’t take the baby—
you can’t take a bottle baby off anywhere
in a hurry. And anyway a baby would be
a drag on people like that. It’s a good thing
I know something about babies. I didn’t
help to bring up two little step-sisters for
nothing. You go and put on the kettle and
then you can get off to bed! I’ll manage
the baby. Orphan-home indeed !”
Janet and Henry read all about it in the
morning paper which Henry slipped up to
the shop to buy directly the place opened.
Criminals, of course, as Janet had said.
Makers of spurious coins. Such coins were
about, Henry knew, as he had managed to
collect one last week. The police were now
in pursuit of a gang, of which the man and
the brown-eyed girl were members; but it
was feared they, with the others, had escaped
by a sailing-vessel bound from the west coast
to a South American port. It was believed, •
said the paper, that this couple had a young-
baby ; and the fact that a man carrying a
young child was seen lurking-round lower
Baker-street late last night suggested they
had a local confederate. (Henry’s blood
froze as he read.) Indeed, Mrs. Simmond-
son-Smythe, returning from a meeting of
the Young Gleaners’ League, had spoken to a
suspicious-looking character, with a* baby
and a suitcase, in this locality, and on
account of the behavior of the man and hi <
dreadful language had reported the encounter
to the police, who had, however, failed to
find the suspect. Unfortunately, as that
part of the street is extremely dark, Mrs.
Simmondson-Smythe is unable to describe
the man, except to state that he was short in
stature, and quite evidently an undesirable
character.
“The old cat,” said Janet. “Thank Heaven
nobody will ever suspect you. We’ll never
say a word to anyone, and we’ll give out
that it’s' the child of a friend until we can
legally adopt her, and nobody will ever know
she’s the child of criminals.”
“Not the girl,’’ said Henry, resolutely.
“She was no criminal.”
Janet did not reply. When Henry looked
at her, where she stood on the other side
of the breakfast table nursing the baby, her
eyes were filled with tears.
“It may surprise you, Henry,” she said,
“but I’ve always dreamt of having a baby
like this. A girl I could bring up to be a
comfort to us when we’re old. And I used
to think I’d like her called Barbara.”
“We’ll call her that,” said Henry promptly.
“And there’s another thing, my dear,” he
added, “that indigestion mixture of yours—-
what with one thing and another I couldn’t
get to the chemist’s last night, but I’ll run
along before I come home this evening.”
“You’ll do nothing of the sort,” said
Janet, from the kitchen, where she was
stirring the mysterious contents of a sauce-
pan with one hand and rocking the gurgling
baby on the other arm, “you get off to work
now and hurry home and give me a hand
with the baby while I get dinner. I don’t
suppose I’ll have much time for indigestion
now.”
*■».*#
And then someone gripped Henry by the
shoulder just as the brown-eyed girl had
gripped him seventeen years ago. and shook
him until lie looked up into. the laughing
face of his adored Barbara.
“In future,” she was saying—“in future
I’ll take you with me when I go to a party
miles away. What do you mean by for-
getting all about me, and leaving me for
strangers to bring home? You’re a nice
father for an unfortunate daughter to have
to depend on! I wonder how you’d acquit
yourself in a great emergency?”
Henry smiled back to the wide, memory-
awakening eyes above him.
“Well, my dear,” he said, “there was such
an occasion years ago. It’s a story I don’t
suppose you'll ever hear, but you can take
my word for it, Barbara, I played my part.”


e
w
e
The journey through life is hardly less
perilous than the journey through the
desert. It is certainly longer. And upon
the faithful service of a watch a great
deal depends. May your choice fall
upon an Omega. For that is to choose a
timepiece that will not fail you, one that
will make the journey through life less
hazardous than it otherwise might be.
And Omega Watches are beautiful as
well as accurate. In design, in accurate
timekeeping, in long life and conse-
quently in economy, they have no rivals.
"Exact time for life”
M
ri. ■tat ■
»,<s
VI *5
N v /
•9
3-
■4.
S„
C
Here’s your chance to secure the
best Bolt-action Magazine
Rifle on the market.
“True and Trusty”
w
Write for Catalogue “B.”
WINCHESTER
Model • 56, .22-Cal
Long Rifle.
Price, £5
POST FREE ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Gun House,
COWLES & DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price - - 3d.


V
S\
\
Miss SHIRLEY MILTON, of 184
William Street, Darlinghurst, N.S. IV.,
writes: "/ would highly recpmmend
Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills to anyone
suffering from backache. I think they
arc wonderful.”
Gin Pills Will Help You!
If you feel that your Kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your
run-down feeling, begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and
Kidney Trouble, because as soon as your Kidneys improve they will help
the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble relieve the
worst cases, because they remove the cause of
such troubles; they get to the root of the matter,
clean out the Kidneys and make them filter out
all the poisonous waste matters and uric acids
that lodge ir* the joints and muscles, causing
Rheumatism. They soothe and heal the bladder, and
quickly relieve you. They are a unique remedy,
entirely different from anything you have ever
used. 7 here is nothing else to compare with them.
No matter how old you are, or how long you have
suffered, the very principle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills is such that it is practically impossible to
take them into the human system without obtain-
ing results. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, 1/9 and 2/9.
m
m
w
J
gP
R
j
If any illustration in “The Bulletin*’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
seco:>
Crf
'A
MEN’S GIFTS
TORINO PIPES. Made of tile finest Italian
guaranteed to be over a century old. London
shapes available. Bowls warranted not to burn
Silver-mounted
7/6 each. 15/- each, in case. 27/6 case o
Gold-mounted
12/6 each. 18/9 „ „ „ 37/6 „ „
Include 6d. for registered postage-
PLUM RAZORS. Guaranteed, and kept in
2 years free. Black Vulcanite Handle, 12/6.
Ivory Grain Handle, 15/6. Real Ivory, 21/-.
double case free with pair.
7-day PLUM RAZOR SETS (7 razors in each) —
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-.
All prices include postage.
Briar root,
made, all
out.
f two.
» M
order for
Xylonite,
Satin-lined
e
w
CLUB REIL
CIGARS.
Box of 10, 5/6; posted 6/-
„ „ 25, 12/- „ 12/6
„ „ 50, 23/- „ 23/9
„ „ 100,45/- „ 46/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Hugh set himself against the idea with
sombre anger and resentment. If Bill Gale
dared to come between him and his
daughter
Hugh watched Phyllis, trying to discover
whether the young man had made any
impression on her. But from her quiet
face he could discover nothing. Very soon
Phyllis had acquired the habit of closing-up
on herself, and gazing out over the plains
with far-seeing eyes, absorbed in her own
thoughts. She no longer chattered as they
rode along together, or when they stretched
beside the camp-fire in the evening.
That first night after he had left them,
Phyllis found herself awake and listening
for Billy Gale to go round the cattle.
Thought of his singing, his shy virile grace
and arid dreaming eyes stirred and moved
her.
On one pretext or another, with cases of
fruit, books or papers, Bill had ridden and
driven over from Nuniewarra several times
during the year. Off-hand, and determined
to “nip this thing in the bud,” Phyllis lot
him see clearly she did not wish to be
regarded as a young woman to be laid siege
to and courted. Hugh was delighted that
she was “taking a tumble,” as he put it to
himself, and would stand no nonsense from
the young man. ,
But. Bill, stalking a mate, had lost his
awe of Phyllis and of Hugh. The shrewd
faun in him leapt, making fun of the boyish
gear Phyllis liked to wear, her attitude of
indifference. Becoming reckless, he made
love to her gaily, defiantly.
When he rode over with letters, on a young
horse, Hugh groaned. “The devil! The
cunning devil!” he exclaimed to himself,
watching Phyllis, the glow and admiration
in her eyes as Bill, lithe and strapping,
swung to every plunge and gyration of the
splendid chestnut stallion he was riding.
Bill on his own she could have resisted.
But Billy Gale on horseback—Hugh
despaired of being able to hold Phyllis
against him. The country and youth were
on Bill’s side, too. Phyllis had no com-
panion of her own age.
Every time after Billy had been, Hugh
saw himself losing ground, realised that
Gale was gaining it. When she herself sug-
gested a walk in the moonlight, it was the
finish for Hugh. The stone end, he told him-
self. She must go away. She must go
back to town for a while until this affair
blew over. There was nothing else for it.
Propinquity and the loneliness of the coun-
try were doing their work. What they
could do he knew very well, and yet there
was the stuff in Phyllis to resist all that if
she chose. If she chose! If sin; didn’t
Hugh boiled at the thought, all his love
clamoring against withdrawal of the girl
from him. His 'being surged w r ith incom-
prehensible fury and antagonism to the
man who was taking his daughter. “To
have and to hold,” he remembered the mar-
riage service, distracted by the thought of
what it would mean now to be without the
companionship which had come into his life,
releasing him from the bitter loneliness of
so many years.
With the coming of Phyllis Hugh had
lost sight of his own problem. Phyllis had
banished his loneliness and bitterness of
spirit. Her coming to him and adoption of
the life on Wytaliba had been so unex-
pected, so surprising and miraculous. His
thought, all his tenderness, surged round
her, turning to admiration and pride as he
settled down to acceptance of her, to a
confidence and happiness which at last he
believed in and took for granted.
Coonardoo moved about the house and
the verandahs as she had done when his
mother was there, working for and obeying
Phyllis, anticipating what she would like
done, tranquil and happier-looking than she
had been for a long As the dark
mirror of his soul, Hugh realised in a vague,
half-conscious way, Coonardoo reflected his
moods, the happiness and peace which had
come to him. And in Coonardoo Phyllis
had found not only the faithful woman who
had served her mother and her grand-
mother, but something more. What, she did
not quite know.
At the house, in her blue gina-gina, Coon-
ardoo was silent and reserved. She went
about her work in a slow, dignified way,
without looking at you and without any-
thing in the least approaching familiarity.
But riding together, on the plains and in
the ranges, as they often did, it was quite
different. Coonardoo in her faded dungaree
trousers and an old shirt, naked feet in the
stirrups, her hair, still fair and glinting in
the sun, waving back from her face, was
the most fascinating companion. She
laughed, her merry girlish rippling laughter,
and talked about trees and landmarks they
passed, telling Phyllis stories of Hugh when
he was a boy. Of Mumae and Warieda she
never spoke, unless asked, a shadow lying
across her face in full sunshine at mention
of the dead.
“Do you remember”; Phyllis would
ask. And Coonardoo with sun-glinting eyes
would gurgle assent.
The year had swung round and Phyllis
with it. She looked leaner, harder than
the year before; but she was more sure of
herself. The days had lost some of their
glamor and interest for her; but she had
settled down into the life of the station,
satisfied to be a part of it, to be taken
seriously as Hugh’s right-hand man.
Hugh seemed to remember she was a
girl only when Billy Gale rode up to the
stockyards. He hated to see Phyllis in
the green linen frock she put on to please
Billy, and to find Bill, spruced up, hair
slicked and oiled, stretched out talking to
her cl the verandah.
‘‘Damn his eyes!” he said to Cock-eyed
Bob when Bili brought Bob along with
him one evening, and they had spent the
evening singing to Bob’s fiddle on the
verandah.
“What’s up, Youie?” Bob asked. “Bill’s
been tellin’ me you gone sour on him.”
' “Never was sweet,” Hugh stormed. “What
does he want to come hanging round my
girl for?”
“Why shouldn’t he?” Bob asked. “What’s
the matter with Bill, anyhow? I reck’n I’d
be shook on him all right if I was a girl.
And he’s no worse than the rest of us.
Better than most, if the truth was known.”
Bob’s admiration for Billy Gale was
very downright.
“Oh I suppose I’m a cantankerous old
snoozer, Bob,” Hugh said. “I can’t endure
the idea of him—or any man—getting
Phyllis.”
“Well, somebody’s got to get her,” Bob
observed. “And it might as well be Bill,
You. Better put that in your pipe and
smoke it.”
The idea was smoke-dried in his mind
already, Hugh assured Cock-eye. He had
tried to reason himself out of the absurd
jealousy with which the sight and thought
of Gale possessed him, although he felt
powerless against it.
“I reck’n we’ll muster the To-morrow
first week in April,” he told Gale next time
they met. “I daresay you’ll get your usual
haul.”
The year had been hard, dry and strenu-
ous, moving cattle from played-out water-
holes to wells and stretches of country
between the hills where the feed was good.
Only an inch and a half of rain fell in
January, but thunderstorms had scattered
showers throughout the back hills, and Hugh
was hoping to have a mob on trucks before
cattle from the Kimberleys reached the
saleyards.
Billy Gale had ridden into the mustering
camp the day after Hugh reached Weelarra.
Lounging beside the fire in the evening,
after he had eaten with Hugh and Phyllis,
Billy yarned lazily. Darkness was closing
in through the thick scrub of grey-stemmed
trees, stars glittering in the green of the
sky. Hugh mooched off to see the boys
about a mare that had fallen during the
afternoon.
“Been out prospectin’ with Cock-eye,”
Bill said. “He’s on a good thing. Not
got it yet; but he’s right, I reck’n. You
can smell gold all round where he is. He’s
got a bag of specimens. And there’s a
mountain of asbestos out there at the head
of the creek.”
“It’d never pay to work.”
Phyllis had heard that said so often. It
was easy to repeat without thinking, and
she was not thinking of what Bill was
saying. Her mind was full of the dry season
and a talk she had been having with Hugh
that morning. “The numbers ’re up, Phyl,”
he said. “Looks as if we couldn’t keep
goin’ much longer. Ought to have done
better last year. The season was good, but
we missed the market somehow with that
last mob, when you were mustering with us.”
If the bank foreclosed, what would hap-
pen? What, would Hugh do?
She was worried and depressed. It did
not seem possible to think of Hugh leav-
ing Wytaliba, and yet he would have to go,
he said. Unless the bank kept him on as
manager he would have to get the manager-
ship of some other station.
Billy went on talking of Cock-eyed Bob
and his mountain of asbestos.
“I brought in this for you,” Bill leaned
over, holding in his hand a piece of asbestos,
silver threads glistening in green matrix.
Phyllis took it from his hand idly.
He lay, covering her with eyes deep and
eager. She looked up from the stone which
he had cut and polished to the shape of a
heart. Her eyes glanced off from his, as
though she had taken fright at them and
sight of the stone in her hand.
“You know about asbestos,” Billy said,
“how it’ll stand fire, drought and rain—
any old thing. And the harder you use it
the better it’ll be. That’s me for you,
Phyllis.”
“Bill!”
Phyllis knew that what she was seeing in
Billy Gale’s eyes was as shining and old as
the stone in her hand.
“I’m 'rough as bags. I’m not up to you,
Phyllis,” Billy said quietly. “But I sort
of feel we re 'straight’ for each other, like
the blacks say.”
“Yes.” Phyllis was surprised to find her-
self discussing so calmly what she had deter-
mined to put away. “I feel we’re straight
for each other, Bill. But”
“I know,” Bill interrupted, sitting up. the
flame leaping in his eyes. “Youie’ll hate it
like poison. But by-and-bye he’ll get over
it. You see”—he leaned over again, smil-
ing, with that queer, faunish lift of eye-
brows and slanting eyes—“l been schemin’
like Hell. Never before I saw you, Phyl—
never planned, looked ahead, acted cunning
in my life before. Just lived from hand
to mouth all me born days, as they say.”
“Go on.” Phyllis smiled.
“Then I saw you and wanted you. And
how was Ito get you? How in God’s name
was I to get you? Worked it all out.
Told Sam I wanted a rise straight away
when I went in after Wytaliba muster last
year. Made a bargain with him. He agreed
to pay me a percentage on his profits-
and I been stocking Catchy-catchy—Big
Otto’s place, you know. This year I warned
Sam I was clearin’ out and going to work
(Continued on next page.)


Whitest
Purest
Best
These are not idle words, they are
backed by the largest Gin Distillers in
the World and guaranteed by a repu -
tation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years ! Gordon’s Gin
is produced in London, England, by
the original process of distillation from
the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of
GORDON and have been handed
down through generations ! It is for
this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout
the World, having no rival for Purity
or Quality.
Gr @Vdl © Cl 9 $
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England
GIN
Wtj
Gordons
dry Gin
t H OtAK O
I bUTHK. wtbwfcOW 1
I TANQUCWAY . COHOOK kC* j. * J
The Heart of a
Good Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest
Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
BANISH DANDRUFF
THIS NEW WAY
Dandruff is caused by tiny germs, and
baldness is a disease originally associated
with dandruff. Both are curable if dealt
with in time. Here is the method: Get some
Vi-Glo (this is better than bay rum tonics)
and rub it well into the scalp night and
morning, with fingers kept quite stiff. This
antiseptic-stimulant cleans away every trace
of dandruff like magic, and invigorates the
blood vessels which feed the hair. Vi-Glo is
the standard preparation usually recom-
mended by specialists and better-class
chemists to those requesting a really effective
dandruff cure and hair grower. It is a clean,
elegant preparation that does not soil linen,
and gives every satisfaction even in severe
cases of premature greyness and baldness.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
OCmi U.
Ask "Your Jeweller
For
ROTHERHAMS
ENGLISH WAfCIIES
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
me own place soon. He begged me to stay,
and I put it to him; I’d stay and manage
Nuniewarra for him until he pegs out, and
see he gets all the sting he wants, if he’d
make a will in my favor. And I got him
into Karrara to fix it all up in writing.”
“You didn’t lose any time,” Phyllis said.
“Why should I?” Bill asked. “Sam’s
gettin’ on and he’s got no one belonging to
him, except Sheba, Tamar and the rest of
them and their kids.”
In the shadow r y world about them the
mulga whispered faintly; the blacks mur-
mured about their fires a little distance
away; Phyllis could hear the droning chant
of the boys as they went round the cattle.
“Will you be my woman, Phyl?” Billy
Gale asked.
“Billy!” Phyllis’s voice quavered between
tears and laughter. “I’d like to, but I
don’t see how I possibly can.”
“If you’d stand by me like your grand-
mother did her man, we could make a
place as fine as Wytaliba.”
Phyllis smiled, knowing how subtle he
thought the appeal. “But how can I desert
Hugh?” she said. “I wanted to help him,
and things are bad now; I can’t leave him
when he’s so down on his luck.”
Hugh came to the fire again. And after
a few minutes, Gale drew up his long legs.
“Good-night, Phyl,” he said.
Phyllis saw him swing over to the fire
his boy had made on the other side of the
blacks’ camp. His saddle and ground-sheet
were there.
Phyllis sat down on her own rug, shook
it out, pulled off her boots, took off her
blouse, thrust her arms through the woollen
jumper she slept in, and lay down.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Phyllis admitted to herself that Gale had
a magic for her. She knew when he was
about as she did when a thunderstorm was
brewing—felt him like that; her body stirred
to him. There was oppression in the atmo-
sphere before he came; then as he looked
at or brushed her ever so lightly, electri-
cities, jagged and tingling, flashed and played
through her. As she watched the sky behind
the hills during a storm, fearing yet delight-
ing in the lightning which promised rain
to the dead earth, she thought of Bill. It
was pleasant to feel him like a thunder-
storm on his horse, to know she might be
her own moppin-garra [magician] and call
down the lightning and rain when she
wanted them. But, after all, that was not
how it was going to be. Bill must blow
over—as so many thunderstorms did on
Wytaliba.
You could see them coming, were sure the
dusty clouds would break on the humped
black backs of the hills, break and toss
rain to deluge the plains. But, as often
as not, lightning flashed for awhile, played
across the screen of the sky and withdrew
on a, muttering of thunder which meant
nothing. The clouds misted away and the
long still days of heat and bare skies went
on again.
“I suppose I’m in love, really,” Phyllis
told herself, “to get all dazzled and fussed-
up like this when Bill’s about!”
Riding with Coonardoo one day, she
asked suddenly: “What’s the matter, Coon-
ardoo? Whv doesn’t Youie like Billy
Gale?”
Coonardoo’s eyes swung on her, the bright
beautiful eyes of a wild animal in their
thick yellowy whites. A child’s eyes, yet
wise and old.
“A dog must have a bone to chew,” was
Coonardoo’s quick muttered reply.
Phyllis was the bone in the case, she
realised. Hugh’s bone. The bone he was
holding to himself and chewing over. And
Coonardoo had known that. She guessed
there was no other reason for Hugh’s objec-
tion to her marrying Bill Gale. The others
were smoke he put up to hide his loneliness
and fear. Coonardoo had detected the
real reason, the bone to gnaw. Oh, well, he
should have his bone, Phyllis promised her-
self. Not for Billy Gale, or a dozen Billy
Gales, would she take it from him. Par-
ticularly now when Hugh was so down on
his luck.
She had come to a good understanding
with Bill. When he came to Wytaliba on
some pretext or other, they fraternised,
yarned in free, gay, unromantic fashion.
“Of course,” Phyllis said, coming in from
a ride with Gale, “I can imagine any white
man falling for Coonardoo.”
“Can you?” Billy squinted across at her,
his eyes in the shadow of his hat-brim. He
wondered what she was getting at, how much
she knew of the gossip about Coonardoo
and Hugh. There was scarcely a white
man in the district who did not disapprove
of Hugh Watt having his daughter on
Wytaliba—Billy among them, although he
would not have dared t<? hint as much to
Hugh. He was a queer' chap, Hugh Watt
of Wytaliba, it was agreed, and you never
knew where you were getting to with him.
“She’s a remarkable woman, Coonardoo,”
Billy observed. “Sheba’s another, at Nunie-
warra. I’m not shook on gins myself.
They’re a repulsive lot, mostly—dirty
animals. Not that I’ve been any better
than most men who’ve lived a long time
in this country, Phyl”
Phyllis smiled into his glittering faun’s
eyes. She imagined he was relieved to have
got so much off his chest.
“I know, of course,” she said, “what the
countryside thinks about Hugh and Coon-
ardoo. There’s nothing in it, a§ far as I
can see. Might, have been once. Winni’s
a sort of step-brother of mine, I suppose.
Hugh says as much himself. It seems to
me Coonardoo and Winni, as far as Hugh’s
concerned, were an accident.”
“Gins are, as a rule.”
“Hugh’s been decent about them,” Phyllis
persisted. “So decent that people would
hardly believe if he told them, and he
wouldn’t bother to explain. He’s like that,
Youie—awfully decent, inside. He’s got a
high standard of his own. ‘I believe in
honor I ,’ he says. ‘Honor, courtesy—and
keeping yourself clean.’ And he reads any
old paper-covered novel and—the Iliad.
Whatever else there is or isn’t in his pack,
there’s bound to be the Iliad. He lies
stretched out, reading by the camp-fire,
spouting yards of it.” Phyllis laughed with
the tenderness of her vision. “You know,
Bill, when I came up first, I felt old as the
hills beside Youie. Tried to explain to him
that if he wouldn’t let me stay on Wytaliba,
I’d bolt to the Argentine with Garry Mac-
quarrie. But he looked so young and
innocent I couldn’t hurt him. It’s being
up here so long, and not knowing how really
mean and vicious life can be, I suppose.”
As grimly and sturdily as Mumae had
ever worked, Phyllis rode and drove with
Hugh, Coonardoo and the boys during the
dry, hot months of the long summer.
But play the game as she would, she
began to flag in her stride and lost weight
on the hard salt rations which they ate,
moving cattle. So skinny and leathern her
face became that she jeered at it when she
caught sight of herself in a mirror un-
expectedly.
“And I feel like the mulga looks,” she
told Coonardoo, “withering up inside. My
sap’s gone dry.”
“Phyllis not go,” Coonardoo objected,
when, after a long strenuous journey, Hugh
was packing the tucker-bags to be off again
in the morning.
Hugh glanced at Coonardoo; he knew
her too well to imagine she would speak
without reason. He looked over to where
Phyllis was lying stretched on her back on
the verandah. The utter weariness and
shrinkage of her figure startled him.
“Here, Phyl,” he called, “you got to stay
in and rest a bit this trip. You’ll be getting
knocked up.”
“What?” Phyllis was on her feet, game
and fighting again at the idea she was to
give in. “I’m as tough as nails, Youie.”
Coonardoo scowled when Phyllis went off
to the stockyards next morning, stepping
jauntily, with a swagger and gibe at Hugh
for not getting a move on.
She knew very well that her strength
was giving out. She was by no means as
fit and keen for days in the saddle as she
used to‘ be. The drought was driving her
as it was everybody else. She kept going
for fear she would give in to some sheer
female weakness. She told herself she needed
to be up and doing, to keep moving and
busy. She did not intend to give in to
any sentimentality. There was too much
to be done, shifting cattle on to fresh water.
Then, too, keeping your nose to the grind-
stone prevented other things from plagu-
ing you. A growing thirst for the sight
and the sound of that damned Billy Gale,
for one thing, and lying awake, thinking
—feeling yourself being plucked all over and
flickering to every thought of him, for an-
other.
It was no good, Phyllis assured herself.
No damn good at all! If you were being
a son and a standbj' to the parent bird, be
it, for God’s sake, and have done with this
tommy rot! All the same,.she would have
been glad to cry, to say it was hot and
she was tired—both forbidden by the code
shie had set herself, which was to act
chirpily, play cunning, and help Hugh pull
Wytaliba out of the soup, if brains and
spurs could do it.
Soup, Lord! If only the mess were as
watery!
But Coonardoo was not far wrong. She
had measured and foreseen the end of the
tether for Phyllis. Coming in from that
trip Phyllis went down to an attack of
blight, which kept her to her room for
days. One eye was swollen and bloodshot,
the other she could not open.
Coonardoo scolded Hugh when he had
helped Phyllis into her room.
“She’s run down with the salt meat and
no milk or vegetables, I suppose,” he said.
Phyllis lay stretched in her dark room,
glad to be still, not to have to. open her
eyes or move. Overwhelming weakness and
sickness obliterated everything for her. She
lay for days in the darkness, the hot still-
ness, knowing only that Coonardoo was
there, holding a cool drink to her lips,
bathing her face and hands, fanning her,
murmuring with a comforting gentleness,
insisting that she should have some stinging
lotion poured into the swollen bloodshot
eyes. The pain of head and eyes, the
weakness and sickness left her; but for
some time Phyllis was content to lie and
sleep, eat what Coonardoo brought her, go
along the verandah to the bathroom, and
sleep again.
Hugh was to meet Don Drew coming
down from Weelarra, and had left Coon-
ardoo to look after Phyllis.
She was lying on the verandah the nighr
Billy rode up, making the stones fly as he
crossed the creek at a speed which Phyllis
knew was the Blackguard’s best.
Phyllis glanced at Coonardoo and knew
why he was there.
“Joey go walk-about Nuniewarra.” Coon-
ardoo gazed ahead of her. “Tell ’m ask
Billy Gale bring lemons for you.”
“Oh that’s it, is it!” Phyllis exclaimed.
(To be continued.)


rwm&' g % ■
ki'WUM -x«
*
if A
- j
/Tv"?
f;.;
& .
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joinl
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents HOLM 15s ft CHURCH, Brisbane. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
N.Z. Office—93-107 I'eatherston Street, Vt ellington
Victorian Office “Chancery House,” 48a Bourlte Street, Melbourne,
South Australian Agents: Messrs. BXWBK. SMITH ft CO., I,TD., Adelaide. S.A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
‘'figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles'), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE lid.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
n 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
6 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep).
Ipace occupied by advertisements averager
16J pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER'’ may be
obtained at all interstate ayances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli, price ltd.
Head Offices:
J. ,L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree. ,
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 81522.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOO.N TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
THE CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
“THE QUEENSLANDER”
(DATED DECEMBER 6, 1928)
Queensland’s Popular and* Brightly Illustrated Weekly,
will be the Largest and Most Attractive Xmas Number ever published, contain-
ing Pictures in Colors and a big collection of illustrated Stories, Special
Articles, etc. The usual weekly features will be retained, making it A TYPICAL
QUEENSLAND PRODUCTION.
A Beautiful Colored Supplement, entitled “A PASTORAL SCENE,” will be Pre-
sented FREE with each copy. This picture is splendidly reproduced on Heavy
Art Paper, and should be extremely popular.
PRICE 1/-
including
Supplement
Book your order now at any of the following N.B.W. Agents : —
Gordon, and Gotch (Aust.), Ltd., Barrack and Clarence Streets; N.S.W. Bookstall Co., George
Street and Central Railway Station ; Uneeda News Agency, Bond Street; Swains, Ltd., Pitt Street ;
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PUBLISHED BY THE
BRISBANE NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
“Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also Publishers of the “Brisbane Courier” and “Sports Referee.”
KEEP
YOUR
CRIP
ON
HEALTH
3%*
*k
WITHOUT health you lose a
great deal of interest in life,
your ambitions flag and
achievement becomes increas-
ingly difficult. You feel slack.
Constipation is the cause of
most of the bad health these
days. People suffer headaches,
biliousness, indigestion with-
out thinking that the cause is
constipation—an evil which
may develop into something of
a serious nature if care is not
taken.
Beecham’s Pills that tried
and trusted remedy —possess
in a remarkable measure the
power to assist the stomach,
liver and bowels to work in
harmony and so to conquer
constipation.
If you are troubled by this most
serious complaint remember
that relief can be speedily and
safely effected and
health restored by
taking
w
The remedy you need for Sick Headache,
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Disordered Stomach and Liver.
“A KERMATH ALWAYS RUNS”
These dependable marine
engines are built with ex-
ceptional care, all parts are
evenly balanced, and the
completed engine is minute-
ly tested by the most
exacting experts.
AH parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S.W
-
D
Marine
Engines
KERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit, Mich.
U. S. A.
Cable Address
Kermath
eew
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Be6t
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
&
0
00“ P
W'>° 6 ,e * 6> . ■'
cJZ' f®® ..•••■
<S® ..•••
V V’
tV* ft**”..
#■


OAKLAND
Jo the man
\
n\\
vthohas
..A
a.
/
S'
**»ss
r
@
i*
k
r, >
smm£.
*“±3
m
P
LET the man who has grown jaded with driving ordinary cars step
into a New Oakland Six and take the wheel
In a mile or two he’ll find a new thrill in driving.
The romance of speeding along the highway and traversing the
byways will quickly return, for the New Oakland is a “different”
car to drive.
To handle its wonderful engine is a delight-—power, smoothness
and silence at every speed; a responsiveness without parallel when
you step on the throttle; a new experience in restful handling ease.
A new sense of security is awakened by its long 117" wheelbase,
its low-set road hugging lines, its superb springing and balance. To
sink back in its deep cushioned comfort is to experience a new level
of luxury.
Let a demonstration renew your zest for driving.
The Touring Model
£375
Sports Roadster - £425
Two-door Sedan - £445
Four-door Sedan - £485
Landau Sedan - - £515
WARRANTED FOR
ONE YEAR
Buy from Your Local Dealer
è
GENERAL MOTORS
L*
Po 7
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
