

•
■
.
<
ftftft
'
.
' '>l 7''isf\
s • ♦'
■
ft 2
-- 1 '
- 'ft
' '.z-m
: ,
lIS
- .
*
m
ft >
• V
tipis
;
'ft, .•>i:
-
, , ,
' i's£l ' , ft'CT '/d ft-s
; ymsm
■ . ?’* ft V- ft
■
ill-’ $
.
-I;
‘
v
■mMM
M
gHHMHraB
£ ■
mm
■ ■
r
.. % :
.
m
,
M
: p& ?
W
5 v 4
' - ft-ftft'
ft ft
m
■
ŵ
■HHHnHHI
s -
.
e
, <v -
HH
m mm
m
■
: :■ ■ ■ V ::, ' /
...»... w ' v\ , ....*■< -%
.
SS:;
The Bulletin
will (^f 6 2& )
Vol. 49.—N0. 2541.
Wednesday, October 24, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T H ?«o? EW LTERARY CATALOGUE for
: I J2B is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.'
(III!
Lllk
TO STOTT’S,
100 Russell
Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free , and without obligation vour
New Illustrated Book (just published) entitled
“BEAUTIFUL PENMANSHIP.”
NAME .
ADDRES!
B/P
LYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
R2LEX
Watches for Greater
Punctuality
our jeweller to show you
\ a dependab’e yet distinctive
lurist watch.—'and you’ll see he
will inevitably produce a
"Role x."
Rolex is helping thousands to
be punctual by sheer force of
example'—'it is the most pre-
cise match in the morld.
"Rolex" sidles vary to meet
varying tastes.—'but for your
own safeguard: see tliat it
i> m.arked Rolex" before
you purchase.
The W or id's Best
by Every Test."
.
a
A
m
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
“THE. AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Why have indigestion ?
Why have stomach ills ?
Why have bilious headache?
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
You will not be harassed by these
distressing ailments if you take
Cockle s Pills. Two at bedtime
occasionally will ensure regular action
of the bowels and liver, they will keep
the blood pure and the system free
from surplus bile and uric acid, which
cause that tired, depressed feeling. Get
a box of Cockle’s Pills to-day, take
two to night and see how bright and
energetic you feel to-morrow morning.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD.. LONDON.
kill that fly.
MUSTDIE
tf
n
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS Or
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
'ld Everywhere.
PRICE 1 >
The Red Page
A New Australian Novel
Though the story concerned is quite different in
plot, this criticism will be found to apply with
remarkable accuracy to the literary body of another
of Vance Palmer’s achievements in fiction—the prize
novel, “Men Are Human,” which will be used later
as a. serial in The Bulletin.
Vance Palmer’s recently published novel,
The Man Hamilton (Ward Lock), is a
quiet performance but an outstanding one.
Its simple, firm design, the careful obser-
vation of character and scene, and the
harmony between them, the restraint and
the limpid precision of its style serve to
remind that, no less than in graphic ami
plastic arts, the reaction against romanticism
is very strongly set.
The cleavage of the classic from the
romantic tradition in novels is perhaps most
completely demonstrated in authors’ rela-
tions to their characters. The romantic
identifies himself with his creations so
closely that his sympathies are obvious and
his creatures remain attached to him and
betray their origins. Thus John Galsworthy
has never been able to restrain his intense
sympathy for Soames Forsyte, a sympathy
which becomes sentimental and Artistically
puerile in the latest instalment of that too-
long-continued work. Even so fine an artist
as D. H. Lawrence, a natural romantic with
a classic ideal, is prone to mar the unity of
his work by the intrusion of his own anti-
pathies. These intrusions are inimical to
the homogeneity of a work of art. The
classic idea creates and releases its charac-
ters to complete freedom so that they move
independently in-their own element, and the
gain from the point of view of verisimilitude,
of truth, is enormous. Vance Palmer’s
novel is in the classic tradition. His charac-
ters move freely and create their own drama
within their own circumstances.
In construction, the story is simple, and
it moves so freely and inevitably to its
conclusion, broken only by the chapter of
Nina’s climax towards the end, that it leaves
a sense of finality which is unanswerable.
The drama of Nina’s ride through the storm,
with its tragic realisation of the hopeless-
ness of her love for Hamilton, is a great
page in the book of Australian letters. The
action halts momentarily before it; there
is the tedium of the bore-sinkers’ packing
and departure (presage of Nina’s ownV
her uncertainty and Hamilton’s, and a
desperate carelessness as to the extent of
general knowledge of their relationship—a
vague and uncomfortable lull. Then the
wave of drama curls tensely, crashing to the
accompaniment of elemental, physical fury,
and casts Nina, inert and overborne, physi-
cally and emotionally, upon a strand curving
faintly into the hopeless monotony of a dis-
illusioned future wherein the sense of hurt
and bewilderment, the ache of rupture, the
futility of life held out and withdrawn and
the melancholy, of resumed lives mingle.
.Nina and Hamilton sustain this -drama
adequately because it is implicit in them.
They cieate it; it is the veritable product of
themselves. From which it may be seen
that in the classic novel the characters are
creatures of will; in romantic fiction they
are too apt to be the puppets of circum-
stance, extraneously and marvellously
devised. Nina and Hamilton are the
victims of circumstances, no doubt—of
Hamilton’s early marriage with the down-
trodden half-caste girl and of his love for
his son Steve. I hey are their own cir-
cumstances, however, which does not release
them fiom the exercise of will, but provides
the occasion for it, and so emphasises their
identity as free agents. This, surely, is
the essence of drama, that its course should
be determined by the characters who are
fiee to exercise the alternatives provided by
their wills. These two arrive logically at
the conclusion that they cannot sacrifice
„ e even if they neglect the amorphous
Mrs Hamilton, and that understanding
results from their characters.
Burgoyne, the station manager, is a
very complete study, suggestivelv done, one
oi those secondary characters that do some-
times, by their finality and the simpler
function they have to perform in the action
oi a nook or a drama, threaten the position
ot a principal character by their easy pro-
jection. Burgoyne is the more notable be-
cause the author has kept him so well in
place. He completes the portrait only with
the last admirable lines of the book:—
;He ambled on at an easy pace through the mellow
afternoon sunlight, flicking the flies off his horse's
ears with his whip and drinking in An air that
was as thin, buoyant and lacking in mystery as the
life it renewed in him.
It is not a word too much and it leaves
Burgoyne completely revealed.
A significant feature of the book is the
leahty and beauty of its landscape, wherein
it, strikes a close affinity with the novels of
l urgenev. obviously the work of one
who knows the bush well, who has lived
m it and lo\ cd its subtlety and its recondite
beauty He has created the scene from
within himself, from his long consciousness
ot it. a first condition, one would sav, of a
veritable novel of the country.
.If there is a major criticism to be offered
of this work, it is that the atmosphere in
which these people move and live seems a
little too withdrawn and rather unnaturally
detached from the surrounding world, from
which, however remote, echoes must enter.
Perhaps the intimate scope of the book,
which is concerned almost exclusively with
the drama of two people, is responsible for
this. The extension of ordinary daily con-
tacts would have broadened the atmo-
sphere, perhaps, and rendered it more
comprehensive and characteristic without
affecting the concentration of dramatic and
psychological interest.
G.B.B.
The Australian Bush
Some of the remarks quoted from Mary
E. Fullerton’s book on our Bush (R.P.
19/9/’2B) are certainly poetic, whether the
writer fully believed her own words or not.
For example:—•
r , 01 V 11 ' va ? t Australian Hush that needs the millions.
U will give bread, and it will give that which goes
with bread, happiness and content and well-being,
it will give the stranger what it gives its native,
can he but reach it. It will put its magic upon
him, so. that he love it for itself as well as for the
material tilings it yields him.
It is very, very orthodox, and no Austra-
lian is the genuine article unless he is pre-
pared to think he has feelings like that.
I know of no ■country where sentiments
akin to the above have a. greater vogue,
and I know ol none where the population
shows a more practical desire to get away
from the Bush and its magic and get into
the monster cities. They aren’t even con-
tent to flee into the smaller towns as those
of other countries do, wherefore the smaller
towns mostly stagnate with a great stag.
The Bush, as I understand it, is really
the country where there is practically no
bush or trees or.assorted shrubbery, though
there may be scrubbery here aiid there.
I lie continent contains less tree country
than little places like France and Japan,
and what it has is officially described as
mostly “cut-over forests swept, by fires at
frequent intervals.” The Nullarbor Plain,
I suppose, is genuine Bush, likewise, “the
Desert Region" described on pages 76-77
of the “Official Year Book” (1927). I be-
lieve there was a discussion- lately as to
whether, on a certain long bush road in
Queensland, the shadows were 75 or only
45 miles apart/ not counting the shade cast
by the traveller’s horse when it wasn’t
lying down.
I have irrupted somewhat into the bush-
lands of Central Queensland, Western and
North-Western N. S. Wales and Westralia.
Everywhere I failed to notice any particu-
lar “magic” lying round—not in quanti-
ties certainly. The place didn’ t appear,
specially productive of the bread to which
the eloquent and gifted authoress refers,
though beef, often of a tough-seeming de-
scription, was moving about here and there;
The population that hadn’t left for the
cities appeared to consist mostly of people
who had grown so used to the bushy life
that they felt unfitted for any other, with
occasional persons who were qualified for
a more complex existence but were de-
tained by matters concerning beef.
The writers who hold a brief for the
beauties of the Bush don’t appear to live
there, or to go there often, and in many
cases they weren’t born there. The con-
spicuous lack of a distinctive School of
Lake Poets on the shores of the quite acces-
sible Lake Eyre, to say nothing of Lake
Disappointment and Lake Cadibarrawirra-
canna, has been a matter of frequent and
severe comment. Even a .weatherboard
school with a galvanised-iron tank outside
would be better than nothing/ Henry
Lawson visited the Bush occasionally t,o
refresh his inspiration, and then returned
to write bits of profound melancholy like
“The Drover’s Wife” or “Out Back” or
“The Great Grey Plain” or “The Paroo
River.”
It is possible that the “magic of the
Bush” is like that still more remarkable
national sham, the “boundless natural re-
sources,” something that was originally in-
vented to borrow money on. It might
be well to put more effort into the work
of making the habitable part of Australia
a good country, and spend - less time in
convincing ourselves that it is such a good
country already that it only requires a few
hundred more loans.
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
Book Sharks.
Will the Red Page please let me say
that The Bulletin’s decision to grant two
first prizes in its Novel Competition in-
stead of splitting one £5OO is in sharp
contrast to the methods of some Australian
publishers who don’t scruple to push into
the limelight during Authors’ Weeks and
pose as patrons of the Muses? The people
I have m mind are little better than liter-
aiy confidence men, whose technique is as
(Continued on page 5.)


w
ŵ
e
è
é
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postat Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


N
V
■. S.M
J :
;/ / i
%
\ /.
i ii
l V
H w
7 m
»vrwj- J ~
Sfv^m
WWd
. „!• i
-HI
vnlP''
-' . 1
* 11.-il Sr
■ '
- %^»rf.
VVi
#^l\V,
sV/
? v //
-H
-=£*
= %!%-,
, ■ r £s***
m^r
nn . '••
'* V . -- •*’
■W'W - '
s■l'
sxrrm
mj
Lzr~ 42 *.
N v*:=-.-yu - . 4-^:
r .
■<sW^gJs.
i\
, S~ ' J!;rT r n ’^
£ . AVrr ~' -fi*. l’,
rw \
\
"X JmSi\
«v- s^\
!lV *
■■urn .»Jrsv. !ia
I> - X • Vi '"etert li
■VK
X?\
iS"
ggp* __ X\x?C
O.m
iv, .£:;?.»• '" 11
rmi
it,;!
v r
-7x r
i»
v\\\\W''
\X
Y«K !,f f
u\»
m
a
. *>//
8
■I
71/
s#\
csss
J *T'
<UJ
ihinii
M i!r
1$
7 1
iiu
LO
//'
2
D
e)
o
, CD
lu
i
IPripeßji h
r. H
r 1
Ll
Ll
o
S 3
•iiu ii i it iHMiii mi i mi
~! I I
Wfhe Lure of the Bush
appeals to Australians and to
motorists in particular is given the
means to enjoy its healthful charms
in the fullest measure.
It is really delightful amongst the
gums just now.
Why not partake of the gifts of the
bush this week-end ?
Dunlop is a particularly satisfactory
tyre when touring. Safe and sturdy,
DUNLOP
ensures that freedom from tyre
worry so essential to the full
enjoyment of your motoring trips.
You can always rely on Dunlop!
5000 GARAGES STOCK THEM
COMING HOME _ HAPPIER _ HEALTHIER l


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
e
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
I
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
nof be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND*
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildirf*
(Next G.P.0.).
follows. Some aspiring poet or novelist
sends them a perfectly worthless manuscrip .
In reply he gets a glowing letter of appreci-
ation—this first book may not startle the
nation, but the next, etc The flushed
Genius takes himself into the den of the
publisher. A neat dummy with his name
printed in golden letters on the Jacket is
shown to him as a bait, and he is told that
the accepted method in the book world is
for him to pay the cost of printing and
distribution, the publisher getting a small
commission and the author recouping him-
self out of sales. A schedule is made out
—£so for printing; £5O for commission and
distribution; 200 copies for reviewers, post-
age to be paid by author; size of subse-
quent edition to be decided later. A side-
line may be a fee for sending the review
cuttings. Incidentally, the reviewers often
unconsciously help the publisher’s game by
putting on the soft pedal because the writer
is Australian.
The best printing firms refuse to take
part in this dubious business. If they think
the book is worth while they shoulder the
financial responsibility; if they don’t, they
tell the writer frankly that his MS. is likely
to be profitless. Even then some writers
insist on publication. I know one poetess
who makes a biennial appearance in the
review columns, if not on the bookstalls,
and who regularly loses approx. £l2O on
each venture. She happens to be- well-to-
do. The usual victims of the book-shark
are on or near the breadline.
F.S.
More of Our History
With the impressive determination of a
steamroller, and with something of the
weight, the official history of Australia’s
part, in the war is being issued in its big,
red-bound, excellently-printed tomes by the
publishers, Angus and Robertson. The
latest, Vol. IX, is by A. W. Jose, and deals
exhaustively with the Royal Australian Navy,
its beginnings, its wild hunting about the
Pacific for German ships that were known
to be there but could not be located, the
sinking of the Emden, and the long, un-
picturesque but useful duties carried out
later in the Atlantic and the North Sea.
Only in places is the reading exhilarat-.
ing. It is a volume in which facts and
statistics trample literature ruthlessly under-
foot. Even that most picturesque, and in
a way romantic, encounter which saw the
shattering of the Emden is dealt with in
the cold-blooded terms of official history.
Perhaps this could not be otherwise. Per-
haps vivid writing would never do here. The
object obviously is to record the truth, and
nothing but the truth, and all of the truth.
The slightest detail must not be lost. There
must be maps, diagrams, sailing directions,
so that all naval men who wish to fight the
fight over again can do so with every
chapter and verse literatim at his elbow.
Well, that is very admirable. It permits
the telling of a great story in a manner
that is unanswerable; and those who would
away with the stereotyped historical style
and ciy out for the gripping, fascinating
manner of a Carlyle or a Macaulay might
remember that books such as this form the
basis, the foundation of the greater kind
of writing.
It might be remembered, too, that a
writer of the future who would breathe the
life of literature into this solid and
thoroughly well-built body of fact will be
under no obligation to take anything that
does not suit his purpose. He might make
a moving story of those early gropiiigs in
the Pacific about the north and north-east
of Australia, when there were no aeroplanes
to go out scouting for the phantom-like
German ships, and when war “intelligence”
in this country was anything but intelligent.
All that Australia knew at the outbreak of
war when her little fleet was sent forth was
that a certain number of German ships
were loose in the Pacific. No one knew
where they were; and, when you come to
think of it, a needle in a haystack is not
such an extravagant parallel to set against
a warship or two in the Pacific.
The ship that caused most trouble,
and about which something like a
martyr’s halo has been hung by arm-
chair critics and even by naval critics
who might have been expected to
know better, was, of course, the Emden.
The captain of the Sydney has had a fairly
rocky time from these halo-makers, and
Von Mueller’s rather unfair account of the
scrap has been used as a text for various
derogatory criticisms of Glossop. The
main charge levelled against the latter
captain is that he continued fire on an
obviously disabled ship. As a matter of
fact, Glossop, after disabling the Emden,
made off and sank another vessel; then,
having been assured that Von Mueller
would never surrender, he returned to find
the Emden’s flag still flying. In the inter-
national code he asked “Will you surren-
der?” -The reply, in Morse, was, “What
signal? No signal books.” In Morse
Glossop repeated, “Do you surrender?”
There was no answer, and, again in Morse,
he asked, “Have you received my signal?”
There was still no answer. As the position
was, Glossop had the choice of several
moves. He could steam ahead and take
the risk of being torpedoed by a ship that
still flew its flag; he could send a boatload
of his men to board the Emden and risk;
their lives to rifle fire; he could give the
Emden a salvo and make it surrender.
His duty was so obvious that no one but
a fool or an ignoramus could fail to see
it. He fired; and immediately the Emden’s
flag was taken down from the masthead
by one of Von Mueller’s men. Apart from
ignoring such facts as these, most of those
who have attacked Glossop have equally
ignored the cold fact that war is w r ar, and
anyone who has had any experience in
the little game that is played under the
rules of the Marquis of Mars knows that
the one who takes foolish risks usually
gets what he possibly deserves.
Another thing that caused some stirring
in Australia during the war and afterwards
was the censorship, and Mr. Jose makes
out a strong case for the necessity in war
of that militaristic device. One instance
suffices. The German raider Seeadler, the
romantic story of which, as told by its
captain, was reviewed in The Bulletin a
month or two ago, secured only three vic-
tims in the Pacific, where censorship was
fairly rigid, but in the Atlantic, unham-
pered by such a restriction of information,
she collected a string of ship scalps that
would have done credit to a tribe of
Indians.
As an official statement of the case for
the Australian Navy, Mr. Jose’s work is
excellent. It has apparently not been sub-
jected to censoring—during much of the
war Mr. Jose was himself a naval censor—
and, while it is not exactly thrilling to read,
it tells its story simply, comprehensively
and completely.
A Satchel of Books
Bib and Bub, by May Gibbs (Cornstalk).
A further collection of the amusing comic
strips in which May Gibbs re-creates Aus-
tralian bush birds, animals and other things,
with her own elfish gum-nut babies, to de-
light the wee folk. A book that will fascin-
ate small Australians as her others have
done, if not more so.
Woman’s Destiny and Birth Control, by
C. E. Skitch (Vardon, Adelaide). The
author leads up to his brief argument for
birth control (chiefly drawn from Marie
Stopes) by sketching the history of woman
through the ages, and concludes with an
appeal to women to stand firm and carry on
the good work of emancipating themselves on
broader and more effective lines. The book-
let is lucidly written.
Contract Bridge, by Milton C. Work
(Putnam). This book on contract bridge as
played in America is not for the beginner;
it is for the advanced player who wants
to get still further on sure ground, and for
him it is excellent. The author is a mem-
ber of the Committee on Contract Laws
and editor of the Auction Bridge Maga-
zine. He speaks with authority on the
higher points and the more intricate pro-
blems of the great game, and his book is
more carefully indexed than the “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica.”
The Trial of the Detectives, by George
Dilnot (Bles). The story of the once-
notorious corruption which rendered the ear-
liest Scotland. Yard not only futile but an
active agent in some extraordinary racing
swindles and other gigantic frauds. The dis-
covery of that corruption and the trial of
the detectives for collusion with the publican,
Kurr, and the brilliantly evil cripple, Ben-
son, is retold from the records of the trial
and other documents. A choice book for
students of criminology, and exciting reading
for practically anyone. Benson is one of the
most picturesque villains outside of melo-
drama.
Cul-de-sac, by Wyn M. Watts (Hutchin-
son). One thing that has not been fairly
recorded to the credit of the commercially-
rich is that they people the world (the
fiction world, anyway) with a pleasing num-
ber of idealistic offspring. In these light
pages one of that good breed fights his way
from the hampering bonds of commercialism
to fame as a dramatist, having on the road
an interlude of unmarried infelicity with a
chorus-girl, which, like a sensible young man.
he forgets when the woman-in-a-thousand
happens along. Fair reading of the lighter
order, but prolonged beyond its natural end-
ing to permit the reader to share the triumph
of the successful dramatist and his bride.
Bonn’s Library: Additions to hand in this
useful and entertaining series of booklets that
sell in Australia at 9d. each are: “The
Origins of Agriculture,” by Harold Peake;
“Nutrition and Dietetics,” by E. P. Cath-
card; “Introduction to Physical Science,”
by James Rice; “Architecture,” by Christian
Barman ; “The Origins of Civilisation,” by
E. N. Fallaize; “The Holy Roman Empire,”
by E. F. Jacob; “A History of Germany,”
by AY. Id. Dawson; “Plato and Aristotle,”
by J. A. K. Thomson : “Eastern Art and
Literature,” by Sir E. Denison Ross; “The
English Stage,” by Allardyce Nicoll; “The
British Constitution,” by Sir Sidney Low;
“The French Novel.” by H. Ashton ;
“Oceans and Rivers,” by E. G. R. Taylor;
and “The Freewill Problem,” bv Herbert
W. Carr.
Fanfrolicana (The Fanfrolieo Press).
Jack Lindsay went to London in 1926 to
set up the Fanfrolieo press, whose aim was
to prove the truth of father Norman’s con-
tention that the vital element in literature
was being neglected, and to search through
the ages for books which had suffered from
this neglect. “Fanfrolicana” is an inven-
tory of the results, and they do not seem to
be very impressive. Some excellent poems
by Hugh McCrae, already familiar to the
discriminating in Australia; Jack’s trans-
lation, of Aristophanes’ “Lysistrata” (apart
from its unashamedness not a very interest-
ing performance) ; a symposium of the quaint
Tom ’o Bedlam poetry; and a series of
Elizabethan dialogues, by John Eliot, of no
outstanding personality, are the chief trea-
sure trove. Apparently the judgment of the
ages is very-similar to the judgment of the
Lindsays. There are no Casanovas, Ben-
venuto Cellinis, Rabelaises, Samuel Pep.vses
lying forgotten in the tomb of time. The
really vital matters in the collection are the
drawings of Norman Lindsay and the bril-
liant, if sometimes slightly incoherent, essays
of son Jack.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Emu Eyes: Good stuff, poorly topped off.
... .Patchpants: Now . see how Katharine Prichard
does it in “Coonardoo”... .A. 8.5.: Just beaten; it’s
hard for a yarn so full of snakes and corpses to be
cheerful... .Wise Guy: Much obliged.... D.L.L.:
Promise in it; but shows the prentice hand....
Jean A.: “The might have been, the which is not’’
is certainly a variation... .P.L.G.: Haughty English
butlers are obsolete at Potts Point... .W.R.W.:
Fashioned so slenderly is “Young and So Fair”....
C. : Can’t draw a cheque on “Bank of Roses.”
... .Pandorus: You deserve your punishment....
W.E.F.: Not a bad vignette, but it’s too long for
a par. and too short for anything else... .R.M.P.:
A good refrain but it can’t carry all that cheap
sentiment on its back W.D.W.: “The Pioneers”
deserve something better than -that... .Z.V.W.:
Pretty; in fact, too pretty... .R.D.: We’ll back your
line, “Filled with myi’iad thousand faces in streams,”
against all-comers. W.J.: They miss, but only by
the breadth of a razor-blade... .0.M.F.: Dismal ode
to Lethe lowered down .C.P.: Clumsy... .J.F.M.:
“The Harbor Call” is a change from “The Bush
Call,” but only a change... .E.W.0’8.: C105e....
F.H.: You get the benefit of the First Offenders Act.
. ...P.J.1.: Just misses the printer’s eye... .E.G.M.:
“His head fell slowly sinking dead.” He’d have
died, anyhow, if he’d read a line like that....
D. : Not “the type of stuff wanted” M. Lee:
No inspiration there, but some evidence of per-
spiration... .J. II.: Poor imitation of Milne
Neptune: Merely jingle H.E.: Your “light verse”
has leaden feet.... March: Yes; in fact, double!
.... W.N.: “I drank in the sight, I am seeing it
still,” is a good anti-prohibition line.... J.E.: Well
done, but not worth doing... .Anne D.: “God’s lawn”
conjures up a superb picture of mowers... .H.C.C.:
Give it to the wife next time she burns her hand
ironing your shirts... .A.W.: Very bad... .E.D.V.C.:
Looking for a miss? You score one here....
Alo: Not quite good enough for this column yet.
....lan D.: “0 love’s,” “0 love,” “0 what.” Oh,
dear !... .M.H.: Still no g00d... .John Deeboo: Dear
John, we are accepting a poem—but not yours... .
K.A. J.: “Sir Knight” is trite—too right! —.U.C.:
“The cataclysmic bells Time’s rung.” Haven’t you
an ear? P.E.S.: You’ve mighty little to say
H.L.M.: The people who told you that was good are
bad friends or worse judges D. 8.: Your snake
yarn would get a lot of start in an old buffers’ race.
... .A.A.: That list might make a picture; it doesn’t
make poetry... .F.C.D.: Your line, “You needn’t
think I’ll write no more,” breaks our heart... .L.A.8.:
Take a lesson in color; Australian skies are not
“deepest” blue.... J.F.K.: Sentiment excellent;
style poor. “She rendered a vocal item,” for
example... .M.R.: Ingenious, but highly improbable.
Police rewards are not handed out like buns, over
a counter... .T. 0.: Love-stricken politician suspended
S.C.: Material there, but not workmanship
A.J.8.: Buy a dictionary and give the typewriter
a spell A.8.F.: Your discovery of a horsedealer
who lied is not new....L.L.: Artless little tale —
too artless... .A.S.W.: Not badly written, but fails.
to satisfy E.H.: Those funeral baked meats make
a poor feast. .. .F.T.G.8.: An inconsequential narra-
tive... .It. A. C. 8.: Interesting but not suitable....
W.A.G.: Ah Sue deported T.G.G.: Sorry, can’t
fit it. Try a daily paper, Saturday or Sunday edition.
. ...L.P.L.: Too depressing... .J.P.R.: What is in-
telligible is uninteresting... .K. 8.: No honey for the
beekeeper.... Tee Essbie: As a hard fact the soft
fable won’t d 0.... J.G.H.: Not enough in the picnic-
hamper. .. .Woolaway: Gardiner was elected for
Forbes (N.S.W.) and Rae for Murrumbidgee in June,
1891. Rae lost his seat in July, 1894 ; Gardiner at
the same election became M.L.A. for Ashburnham,
but was defeated in July, 1895 J. Co.: Precise
information has been published again and again.
The present crowd is not nearly as good as it should
be, but not nearly as bad as the other crowd would
be.... Hume D.: Fleming was two years at the war.
Books: “Australia in Peace and War,” “Where
Eagles Build, “Bunyip Says So,” “Bunyip Told
Me” and “The Hunted Piccaninnies”... Quest: It was
J. H. Curie who suggested that Stevenson should
have edited the Red Page; see his “Shadow Show.”
. ...A.H.: There are many worse-written passages
in fiction. Don’t be hypercritical... .Figure S.: The
original of Fergus Mclvor, the fiery Highlander in
Scott’s “Waverley,” was a Macdonell. There is a
tradition that his son, together with some devoted
clansmen, emigrated to Australia... .L.L.: The book
has no commercial value.... Y.M.A.: (1) Dawes
Point, Sydney, is named after William Dawes, who
built the first observatory in Australia and rendered
conspicious service to early N.S.W. as engineer-
explorer. (2) Dunno. We call it Coo-nar-doo. ...
D.L.: No resting place for the spirit... .S.V.D’A.:
White ghost that turned red after seeing a girl’s
legs re-coffined. .. .R.S.T.: Sympathetic, but too
slight... .E.R.R.: Pudding’s off. . . .D.D.: By no
means bad; come again... .N.F.Z.: Too horrible.
....Popp-o: Your construction-camp yarn shows no
constructive ability.... J.N.: Is it Yankee humor or
a kindergarten story ?.... S.M.: His sister may have
liked the little man; we don’t.... Hornsby: The last
Westralian prohibition Doll was taken on April 4, 1925.
Voting: For, 41,362 ; Against, 77,113... .Geordie:
Yes, Scorfield played Union Rugby for England in
1911....0. Shop: MawsOn’s book is called “The
Home of the Blizzard.’’ He was born in Yorkshire.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.M.: Those cats won’t scamper across these pages.
.... J.M.: Your wash drawings are unimpressive
daubs, and the less said about your jokes the better.
. ...C.W.: Burn another thousand gallons of mid-
night 0i1... .F.D.8.: If it were a child’s attempt
to illustrate a fairy tale we should say it was good.
. ...R.M.E.: Head study breathing it's last in the
W.p.b.... .E.W.: Faint pencil smudges... .W.G.R.:
Tjie drawing was so bad that we didn’t trouble to
translate the joke.... V.E.: An unhappy attempt.
. ...K.L.: Shocking... .C. 0.: Ireland has done no-
thing to deserve those drawings...-E.N.: Your
brother needs a good art teacher more than anything
else... .K.L.: A refractory pen is your bane....
T.P.: Tame... .L.W.: Everything out of perspective.
. ...L.R.S.: Send a microscope with the next lot
if they’re all going to be as tiny as those.


è


Vol. 49.—N0. 2541.
October 24, 1928.
The Bulletin
THE APPEARANCE
of* one.'s Street
WOULD TAKE SOMC
GETTING used To
BLOW-OUtS MIGHT BE. ANHOYING.
Ni .
if cars -were fitted with pneumatic bumpers
AMD "PEDESTRIANS WITH PILLOWS.,
THERE WotJJuD oh
CRITICS OF* COURSE,
Af_ THERE ARE
against Al*V
FoR/wS of
PROGRESS.
but think wmr it would mean to the
TL.Y TORTUREO AHP WEARY TRAVEUXR ON A BLISTERING HAY
THE PNEUMATIC ROAD.
It has been suggested that roads and not tyres should be pneumatic.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: It)-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 iiionths, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 8 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oe., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4°z. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LTTERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
The Official Story of the Emden. • • 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 5
A PAGE DRAWING by Leason 7
EDITORIAL 8, 9
LABOR AND WHITE AUSTRALIA
—A cartoon by Percival .. . . .. .. 9
POLITICS (with four caricatures) .. . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . . 11, T 2
PERSONAL PARS' (illustrated) 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 10
Australian Paper Mills .. 14
Tarrants .. ..14
The Oil Boom .. 10
The New N.S.W. Income Tax
—A cartoon by Scorfteld . . . . . . 17
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19, 20
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 2o
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
SMOKE-OH 28
POVERTY POINT 30
Melbourne Racing .. .. 35
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 37
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
“COONARDOO” 39, 45, 50
COMPLETE STORIES—
“THE GUNNERS,” by J. H. M. Abbott .. 47
“In the Midst of Life,” by D. H. Souter 49
VERSE .. .. 47, 49
TTuT&ulleiztfi
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1928-
WAGES AND TAXES.
N. S. Wales was helped to another peck of
trouble when the last and worst State Par-
liament on record went in for basic-wage
and child-endowment legislation in one of
its muzzily philanthropic moods. Both
parties are to blame— Lang’s party for
having appointed Industrial Commissioner
Piddington sole fixer of the basic wage and
adopted his child-endowment notions, and
Bavin’s for having helped to pass the legis-
lation in its present form, child-endowment,
as they claimed, being part of their policy.
At the end of 1926 Mr. Piddington fixed
the wage at £4 4s. per week, and this was
universally taken to be his idea of
• • i i i •
the minimum required by a man, his wife
° T ne , chdd j < A recent judg f ment , of the
Full Industrial Commission refers to the
°? e r.^ 1 d provided for in the living wage
4s ' 0 - P ' W '’ d 7i ared 1 7
1926. ) Six months later, although
one of the measures passed had called upon
him to give heed to the requirements of
a man and wife without children, he de-
dared the basic wage at £4 55., thereby
astonishing eveiyone. But now that Lang
is out, and Mr. Piddington is but one of
three Industrial Commissioners, it is be-
lieved that the wage when next declared will
be strictly on the baas laid down by
Lang s law which obviously means that it
will be reduced So Lang demands that
Parliament shall repeal his own law and
fix the basic wage itself, and Bavin says
that Parliament will do nothing of the sort.
T , - , , , • , ~
It is too early to judge the effect of the
chdd-endowment payments on those who get
them and those who don t, but the financing
of the scheme 18 an unsolved problem and a
very serious one. The original Lang idea
was to c ap a ax o 6 2 p.c. on wages and
salaries paid by employers this m addition
to the heavy federal and State income-
taxes, the Federal land-tax, increased
workers -compensation and railway charges,
and municipal imposts; but 3 p.c. was sub-
stituted when Piddington s grandiose plans
were altered. Bavin accepted the vicious
principle that industry should bear the whole
burden, and the 3 p.c. was extracted from
wagepayers for a little over three months
of the financial year. Collections were sus-
pended after October 31, for the effect on
industry was becoming serious and it was
thought that the amount in hand—a little
over a million—would suffice until the end
of the financial year. And suffice it did in
appearance. But Bavin admits that the
fund was overdrawn to the extent of £75.000
at the end of August; and as it is expected
that 50,000 applications will be passed for
payment this year (the number last year was
38,000), the Government will probably have
to raise a million and three-quarters to be
on the safe side. It is waiting to see what
the Industrial Commission will do about
the basic wage before it decides whether or
not to reimpose the tax on industry. In
the meantime it proposes to lift another
three-quarters of a million from the pockets
of the people by “amending” the income-
tax.
$ $ * 4
Lang’s object, of course, is to get as much
as possible both ways—to restore the law
which allows the Court to fix the basic wage
on the presumption that every man is
married and has children, and, having made
the employer pay for the maintenance of
his workmen’s children that way, to make
him surmlement the payment through a
special child-maintenance tax. The basis
of the whole business is as rotten economi-
cally as it can be. Industry cannot con-
tinue to pay a man more than he
earns. It cannot afford to pay a man
with 20 children a farthing more than a
man without any children at all. The factor
governing what an industry can pay is the
earning power of its workmen, not their
procreative power. Mr. Piddington, as a
lawyer, is worth so much to a client; he is
not worth a farthing more or less whether
he has a flock of children or none at all.
And the rule which anplies to Mr. Pid-
dington is universal. If we must have the
so-called living wage—in plain words, if
some men must be paid more than they
earn—then it is not for industry to stand
the racket, any more than it is for industry
to pay for child maintenance or hospital
maintenance or any other of a hundred
desirable things. If, for example, Mr. Pid-
dington believes that, for the good of the
race or something, a man should sometimes
get more than he earns, and that children
should be endowed, why should he not, as a
citizen, contribute towards the cost of it?
Why should the whole burden of financing
the pretty schemes be thrown upon the em-
ployer of labor—a person of infinitely more
value to the community surely than a
lawyer or even a journalist or a house and
land agent? Of course, it will mean in-
creased taxation. And so it ought to.
Nothing else will bring the community face
to face with its problems.
THE DAY OF SWIFT TRAFFIC.
“Radical changes in the transport system of Britain
are expected to result from the biggest transport
inquiry in history, which is to begin on Thursday.
The whole field of transport outside London —which
will be treated separately under the London traffic
pool scheme —is to be considered, including transport
by sea, coast and ferries, with the object of organising
it to the greatest public advantage. One of the
tasks of the Commission will be to adjust the interests
of rival local authorities owning tramways and
omnibuses, private road transport interests, and the
railways.” —London cable.
The big cities of Australia have had similar
commissions—Melbourne’s last Town
Planning Commission was primarily a traffic
inquiry—but, whereas heroic action is taken
elsewhere, the tendency here is to let things
slide. London had a series of object-lessons
in the relation between swift transport and
national safety during the general strike, and
the impetus which was given then to town
planning for the diminution of traffic con-
gestion is still active. The Charing Cross
bridge scheme, involving the shifting of one
of the biggest railway stations in the King-
dom across the Thames, at a cost of
£12,000,000, is only one manifestation of it.
* * * *
There is apathy on the transport issue in
Australia chiefly because the Commonwealth
has never been invaded and has never had
a revolution. England is pooling her traffic
systems partly out of a desire to economise,
but partly also because the world war taught
her the value of unity of transoort-direction;
and when the road vehicles are unified
they will traverse some of the best and
straightest causeways in the world—good
and straight because they were originally
war-roads. There are no war-clouds on
Australia’s horizon at the moment, but no
people can bank on permanent immunity
from those calamities which have befallen
unprepared nations in all ages; and, anyhow,
the inhabitants of the Commonwealth are
already paying heavily for the archaic trans-
port conditions of their cities. N. S. Wales
had 5057 street accidents (252 persons
killed) last year; the year before, Victoria
had 5516 accidents (351 persons killed), and
nearly all occurred in the cities. They were
due chiefly to the passing of stationary
trams by motorists, to pedestrians emerging
unexpectedly from behind trams, to tram-
travellers alighting absent-mindedly in front
of motor-cars—in short, to traffic-congestion
and trams, which are as closely related as
diphtheria and drains.
* * # *
Melbourne’s Town Planning Commission
estimated that £500,000 was lost to Vic-
torian motorists in petrol and £600,000 in
time every j'oar owing to traffic blocks in the
congested areas of the city. And Mel-
bourne’s traffic troubles are not to be com-
pared with those of Sydney, which, by
reason of its configuration, is one of the
costliest and most difficult great cities of
the world to enter or leave except by water.
Melbourne, with its straight, wide streets,
could make itself reasonably safe and com-
fortable for the next half-century by
building one new Yarra Bridge at Spencer-
street and another at Swan-street, Rich-
mond. Sydney’s problem is already as
formidable as that of London, and it is
increasing as the population grows and as
fresh cars continue to come on the streets
at the rate of 400 a week.
* * * *
What even’ great Australian city will have
to make up its mind to do before long is
scrap its trams. The rest of the world is
rejecting them as fast as possible, except
for outer suburban use, and already the
trams of Melbourne and Sydney are by-
words for inefficiency. Trams are too slow,
they take up too much room, and when
one breaks down scores are immobilised.
The city transport of the future is going
io be divided between underground trams
and above-ground ’buses, with the latter
predominating. ’Buses not only enable cities
to be filled and emptied in the safest,
cheapest and quickest manner; they are
also potential carriers of troops and army
stores in war-time. And they produce the
great highways and by-passes, which are
esssential to mechanised defence, as auto-
matically as invading armies did in bygone
times.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Those Nationalist Plots.
Whenever an illegal strike shows signs of
fizzling out without having gained anything
for the strikers save the ill-will of the rest
of the community, the Labor newspapers
discover that the whole thing was the out-
come* of a Nationalist plot. They invari-
ably claim as proof of the soundness of
their susDicions the fact that there is always
a labor upheaval on the waterfront on the
eve of Federal or State elections.
If there were any discipline or cohesion
on the industrial side of the Labor move-
ment, all the plots that Machiavelli him-
self could fabricate wouldn’t bring about a
transport strike on the eve of an election.
As it is, the Labor party has to advance
its claim to be allowed to govern Aus-
tralia in the face of a demonstration of its
utter inability to govern its own adherents.
4
Aircraft versus Navy.
“X.N.0.”: During the Great War the attack
on the surface ship by torpedo and mine
reached a high degree of intensity. The
initial German policy of “attrition” was
based on the supposition that the British
Grand Fleet could be gradually put out of
action by submarine attack till it had been
reduced to numbers which the smaller
German High Seas Fleet, added to by new
construction, could successfully challenge.
The policy failed hopelessly and ignomini-
ously. The Grand Fleet grew and grew by
reason of the magnificent industrial organi-
sation of England—part and parcel of our
naval strength—and the losses by “attrition”
were nil or negligible, though in some cases
—those of the Sutlej, Aboukir and Auda-
cious, for example—they were ephemerally
spectacular. At the Battle of Jutland, too,
only one British battleship, the Marl-
borough, was struck by a torpedo, in spite
of the swarms of tin-fish that criss-crossed
the North Sea.
So at the end of the greatest war of
modern times the surface ship still remained
supreme in its sphere of external defence.
Now comes another challenge, this time
from the air, and supported in the public
mind by an intensive and striking advertis-
ing campaign, not perhaps intended as
advertising, but none the less effective.
Very large numbers of people are quite
prepared to believe that the days of the sur-
face ship are at last numbered and that
countries can be attacked, conquered and
defended and naval forces obliterated or
rendered useless by aircraft. Spectacular
aerial performances, terrific speeds, wild
dashes half round the world by Hinklers,
cross-Atlantic flights, Southern Cross
flights across the Pacific and the Tasman—
all have combined to put aviation on a
popular pedestal where the public who are
not students of history are prepared to
credit aircraft with the ability to do any-
thing.
But that ability as far as war is con-
cerned still remains to be proved. Spec-
tacular stunts — Kingsford Smith himself
said something of this sort—are all very
well, but it is the ability to do them again
and to go on doing them as part of a sus-
tained effort in any weather and at any
moment that will matter in war time. The
Pacific flight is of relatively less importance
than Volta’s discovery of the electric cell.
The lessons of history are frequently
proving themselves to be the only lessons
really worth learning, and history up to
the year 1928 says emphatically that the
surface ship of the Royal Navy is the first
line of defence of the Empire, that it can
overcome and counter all challenges. It
always has and I think it always will.
It is a pity, therefore, that Sir John
Salmond should have made his scathing
report on Australia’s air defences just in
time for Mr. Bruce to include in his policy
speech a statement that his Government
intends to increase air-defence expenditure
and still further cut down the already cut-
to-the-bone Navy allowance. He will have
much public support in this policy from
people who don’t study history, which is to
the good, because a Nationalist Government
with a defence policy of some sort will be
better for Australia than a Labor Govern-
ment with none. But, all the same, the
principle is wrong; and if it leads the people
of Australia to think that the country will
be secure if all its defence eggs are in an
aerial basket, a great deal of harm will have
been done.
Will Mr. Bruce Kindly Speak?
A passing comment in a morning paper:—
“Mr. Bruce stressed the problem which
Australian industries must inevitably face
with America providing such a surplus of
goods that she must dump them iu other
countries.”
Australian industries are facing the problem
now, and the Bruce-Page Government isn’t
helping. Some details of the situation call
for a mention:—
The Yankee works longer hours than the
Australian, and pi’obably works harder,
being largely paid by results.
He gets better results in many lines by
reason of mass production.
He does a much larger proportion of
his foreign trade with his own ships than
Australia, which is cheaper than hiring
ships.
He has a huge income from outside in-
vestments, while the Australian has to pay
a staggering bill for interest outside. The
difference between an industrialist with a
subsidiary income and an industrialist with
a dead horse is an item.
As Uncle imports in proportion to popu-
lation only one-third what Australia does
he has a far better local market, and what
he has to dump isn’t enough to do him any
harm, though it does us harm enough. Some
compressed statistics mention 33 countries
that Uncle trades with, and in 1926-27 Aus-
tralia, with its 6,0<X),000 people, was the
biggest buyer save five, though it held only
23rd place among the countries that our
saving relative bought from.'
The situation as regards the United States,
and in a less degree as regards some other
countries, is one which Australia is utterly
unable to afford, both through the loss of
money and the loss of employment. Great
Britain can stand a great surplus of imports,
but it has some £450,000,000 a year coming
in from investments abroad, while Australia
has about £35,000,000 going out because
of other people’s investments here. If
the Bruce-Page knows of any better remedy
than The Bulletin’s idea that there should
be an extensive prohibition of non-essential
imports, or if it has any other remedy, or
if it is content to sit down without a remedy
and wait to see if bankruptcy is the alter-
native, this paper is anxious to hear from it.
Information is valuable.
On this supremely important and difficult
problem the extraction of a full and direct
statement from Bruce or any other poli-
tician is akin to the extraction of a tooth
from a hostile lion. “Stressing the problem”
is no good. No sick man ever recovered
through his doctor stressing the fact that
his patient was dashed bad.
4
Wanted, Some New Professors.
Queensland recently had a need for 25
locomotives and declared it a “rush order,”
not because the demand came suddenly,
but because the financial problem had been
shelved, as long as possible. The order was
sent abroad because people there rush
more for less money than the short-hour,
day-labor Queenslander. Now an order for
hopper barges has gone abroad, with a
frank statement that the Government is
flabbergasted at the cost of labor under the
system which 13 years of Labor administra-
tion has built up, and must save what it can.
There will be mo real saving, of course.
The goods will be made abroad, and the
money will be borrowed abroad, and the
wages will be spent abroad; and when, in
the process of 40 years, each £IOOO worth
of hopper barge has cost about £2IOO iu
interest, all that money will have been spent
abroad, and have paid wages and taxes and
furnished employment abroad, and will be
quite prepared to keep on doing all these
misdeeds for 40 or 400 years more. It is
bad to import goods and pay for them
with our own money when it can be avoided,
but to import them and pay for them with
money borrowed overseas is the devil,
especially when the interest is paid out of
further overseas loans. With compound
interest it means that the dredge or some-
thing which was responsible for an external
gold mortgage of £IOO,OOO when it was new
is liable for £430,000 in 30 years’ time when
it is on its last legs.
A crying need is for Chairs of Australian
Political Economy at the Universities, and
if the Professors of Old Red Sandstone
Economics won’t qualify to take on the
new and up-to-date branch, it might be best
to superannuate them. Australia began
definitely about eight years ago to pay the
interest on old external debts out of the
proceeds of new ones, and so far it has
contrived to get the money, probably be-
cause our loans were made trustee stocks
in saner days. This opened a new chapter
in economics: but very few of the Professors
of Old Red Sandstone Political Economy
have turned their attention to it.
Arrested? Hang Him!
From a Sydney paper of a few days ago:—
“‘I should be outside the laws of evi-
dence,’ said the coroner. ‘I will accept any
evidence that may help me to ascertain the
cause of death.’ And he admitted the state-
ment.”
The Bulletin feels profound uneasiness at
this practice of ignoring the laws of evi-
dence, more especially as the coroner not
only announces what he believes to be the
cause of death, but also, as a rule, names
the person who he believes was responsible.
Anything more foreign to the basic prin-
ciples of British justice than the proceed-
ings at certain coroners’ inquiries it would
be hard to imagine. A sensational murder
has been committed. The people are far
more interested in the horror in these first


THE SACRIFICE.
“A union manifesto recently issued declares that the man who does not understand the spirit of Internationalism is not rightly in the Labor party.”
THE SPIRIT OF OLD-TIME LABOR: “Stay your hand! There is a goat for you to sacrifice.”
THE DEMENTED ABRAHAM: “What, kill that goat! It’s a sacred animal! I’d much rather kill the boy.”
glamorous days than they are going to be
at the trial later on, and the stunt news-
papers rise to the occasion. The coroner
admits all sorts of back-yard rumors to the
discredit of the suspect, and the papers
publish them. In a very short time thou-
sands become convinced of the guilt of the
victim of these irresponsible and untested
charges. Then comes the coroner’s verdict
to confirm the reading public’s views.
Arrived in the dock, the accused is lucky
if he does not find some of those who have
been prejudiced against him on his jury;
in any event the ancient rule that every
citizen shall be deemed innocent till found
guilty has been reduced to a farce.
The coroner’s inquiry must, of course, be
exhaustive, and it may not be possible
always to adhere to the strict rules of evi-
dence; but those rules should not be ignored
as a matter of course. And, above all, the
coroner should not be allowed to bring in
a verdict of murder. His only legitimate job
is to ascertain the cause of death. The
function of charging the suspect, and going
into the matter of his guilt or otherwise,
belongs to a Judge, jury and prosecutor
working under a far more elaborate set of
rules.
4.
Rhodes’s Disappointing Scholars.
Dr. Behan, general secretary for Rhodes
Scholarships in Australia, has sent out a
kind of SOS, and the only pity is that it
did not arrive 10 years ago. In founding
his scholarships, Rhodes aimed chiefly at
showering glory on the institutions which
he most revered—the Empire, Oxford, and
his own name and fame. By perverse Fate
he failed in all three ambitions.
Rhodes Scholars have done little, rela-
tively, for the Empire. The outbreak of the
world war found large numbers of them of
military age all over the world. Unless
history has suppressed the truth even more
ruthlessly than usual, they did nothing in
Germany to diminish anti-Britishism, and
they did very little, if anything, in the
U.S.A. to cause the A.E.F. to begin its
effort earlier. There are industrial unions
in Australia as well as in Britain, accused
of “disloyalty” by flag-wagging politicians
in pre-war days, whose members emerged
at the Armistice with far brighter active-
service records than any Rhodes Scholar.
The effect of the Scholars on Oxford has
been disastrous in many directions. The
new age-limit for “blues,” which was
referred to in a cable a few days ago, has
been framed openly to exclude Rhodes
Scholars from all the worth-while athletic
distinctions —a matter of self-defence. The
effect of the arrival, year by year, of
contingents of veteran athletes from the
TJ.S.A. and the Dominions has been to
crowd “freshmen” from British schools (at
least two years younger than the Scholars,
as a rule) out of the “Trials.” Now Cam-
bridge is getting practically all the first-
class boy oarsmen, cricketers and footballers
(types that train on into high-class per-
formers in their third and fourth years),
and Oxford spOrt is slumping in conse-
quence. It is probable that Rhodes’s ideal
would be more nearly attained if the trustees
cut out athletic considerations altogether,
paid little attention to “social qualities,”
and concentrated on attributes of character
and intellect. After all, there is more en-
during profit, as well as glory, in a single
great administrator, judge or scientist than
in a pavilion-full of athletes and “mixers.”
*
An Experiment in EugenicSi
Largely owing to the activities of a lone-
handed propagandist, Miss B. E. Baugiian,
Maoriland has been induced to make a
practical experiment in eugenics. Miss
Baughan has been urging for years that
provision should be made for the treatment
of persons whose mental condition lies be-
tween complete sanity and actual insanity
—the terms “feeble-minded” and “mentally
defective,” though generally used in this
connection, do not cover the field.
Hitherto in Maoriland, as in Australia,
the condition of mental degenerates has had
no recognition from the State unless the
unfortunates have fallen foul of the law.
In the opinion of experts who gave evidence
before a Royal Commission, much can be
done in many cases to improve an un-
developed brain and weak character by
special training; and authorities on the sub-
ject were strongly in favor of prohibiting
the marriage of mental degenerates, and of
sterilising them if such a course should be
necessary to prevent them becoming parents.
During the present session of the Maori-
land Parliament a Government bill was
introduced providing (1) for the registra-
tion of all persons of less than normal intel-
lect (even children proved to be backward
at school were included); (2) for segrega-
tion in cases where a board of supervision
deemed segregation necessary; and (3) for
sterilisation at the discretion of the board.
The bill sought to make it an offence to
supply a registered person with intoxicating
liquor. Provision was also made for sub-
sidising “after-care” societies.
That the bill was in many respects in
advance of public opinion was amply proved
in debate. The Government had to drop
the backward school-children; provide that
a magistrate should personally interview a
patient before signing an order for segre-
gation ; delete the ban on marriages and
withdraw the sterilisation clause. The atti-
tude of opponents to the bill was crystal-
lised by Baronet Ward, who said: “The bill
is revolutionary and the proposals for sterili-
sation are shocking. It is an interference
with the course of the Almighty.” But the
registration and segregation clauses went
through the Lower House and the eugenists
of the Dominion are rejoicing.
It is a pity that the marriage ban and the
sterilisation clause were deleted from the
measure. No fact is more strongly estab-
lished by evidence than that mental
degeneracy is transmitted to offspring. A
leading case is that of the notorious Jukes
family in the United States. The record
of over a thousand descendants of a pair
of degenerates has been kept, and shows an
appallingly large proportion of prostitutes,
thieves, idiots, sexual perverts and vagrants,
mostly bom out of wedlock. Having as
a rule no sexual inhibitions, persons of
stunted mentality generally have many more
offspring than normal individuals, and their
contribution of tainted blood to the com-
munity is out of all proportion to their
numbers. To keep that taint as far as pos-
sible out of the national breed seems an
elementary matter of community self-
defence, but the reformer along such lines
finds himself up against a rock of prejudice
—mostly very ill-informed prejudice.
A Dirge from the North.
The Queensland Premier has a right to
some sympathy (but not too much lest
there should be insufficient to go round)
seeing that the Government of which he
is head was four years old before he snared
a minor portfolio, and ten years old before
he became Premier-Treasurer, his two pre-
decessors, Theodore and Gillies, having
deserted in affright. For three years he
has rolled the boulder of his fate uphill
with assiduity, and it has remained very
close to the bottom.
His loan statement the other day was plain
and sad. The Government proposes to
borrow £2,500,000. None of it is to be
spent, on unprofitable works; but he doesn’t
know of any profitable ones. He would like
to go on with two or three railway exten-
sions, but, in the Premier’s own words,
“they wouldn’t pay for axle-grease.” Most
of the public debt, he admitted, is invested
in enterprises which are engaged in a life-
and-death struggle with the axle-grease pro-
blem. Nor will he dabble financially in
any more secondary industries, which isn’t
surprising, seeing that latest figures for
Queensland show a decrease in the number
of hands employed, the wages paid and
value of output of the State’s existing
secondary industries, and also in the num-
ber of factories. What is to be done with
the loan in those circumstances McCor-
mack didn’t say; the solemn truth, doubt-
lees, is that new money is needed to pay
interest on old loans. Queensland, like
Westralia and N. S. Wales, owes most of
its debt externally, which means that in-
terest has to 'be paid in gold or some other
form of surplus exports; and such a surplus
never materialises now.
The harassed man at Brisbane didn’t
tell the Red and rampant section which
he tries to govern that, instead of borrow-
ing to pay its interest, it had better work
longer hours, and work harder, and waste
less time throwing bottles. It would have
been little use, anyhow, and it might have
lost him his seat at Cairns, if it isn’t lost
already. Queensland has played with the
idea of subdivision for very many years,
and it is time to do something, it might,
be well if three separate States were estab-
lished—two with a semblance of sanity in
the south and centre and a revolutionary
devil or permanent conflagration in the
north, which might be dealt with sepa-
rately.
One of the certainties of the situation
is that while men like McCormack and the
S. Australian Butler are relating their tales
of woe (Butler asks for a Federal grant
of £750,000 a year) it is a good time for
the Bruce-Page Cabinet to be up and
doing. If it were to bring about the pro-
hibition of sufficient imports to put the
trade balance on a solvent footing, Aus-
tralia would have money of its own to
pay its bills with and for a bit of public
works, and money is what the McCor-
macks and Butlers appear always in need
of.
♦— —-
The Mind of the Crook.
Hardly had Bavin appointed accountants
Wolfenden and Marks to overhaul the
affairs of Sydney Ferries, Ltd., so that the
Government might better see whether any
new rise in fares was justified, than Lang
made the shocking discovery that Marks
had lately held 500 . shares in the co. In
vain was he told that Marks had sold and
transferred the shares —what would be
easier than to make a bogus sale?
Well, Lang is a poor mug at business if
he thinks that Marks couldn’t do better
than that, assuming him to be dishonest
enough to use his commission for his own
benefit—and apparently Lang thinks it the
natural thing for a man to do. At the
most, Marks could put a couple of shil-
lings on these 500 shares by reporting that
the co. was quite justified in making the
extra charge. But by quietly over-selling
thousands of shares, and then reporting
that the co.’s charges were outrageous and
ought to be reduced, he would stand a
good chance of making hundreds of pounds.
Bur, it may be Wolfenden who is doing
that! Lang certainly ought to see into it.
Of course, it is all most stupid. Either
Wolfenden or Marks, or both of them,
if they were dishonest, could make money
by perjuring themselves and risking their
professional reputation and imperilling their
future—not to mention their hereafter.
They are not in the smallest degree likely
to attempt anything of the sort. Thank
Heaven, we have not yet reached the point
where it is necessary to assume that no
man is honest if he can make a few pence
by being dishonest. What Lang’s outburst
does show, though, is the tremendous im-
portance of avoiding eyen the appearance
of evil. Some intimate friend of theirs
lately described some of these political
gentlemen who have fastened on to the
Labor party as crooks. That fact must
be kept in mind. If they are not crooks
they have the minds of crooks; and their
opponents must act accordingly, never
assuming that a thing will be regarded as
right if it can be to anybody’s advantage
to make it wrong.


B
Sd
ON DRIVES, WHERE
EFFICIENCY IS ESSENTIAL,
Mangrovite Leather
or Raw-hide Belting
is chosen by experienced
engineers.
Economical distribution of power consistently maintained at any speed makes
a higher production average possible, proving “Mangrovite” quality is cheapest
in the long run. Naturally “Mangrovite” is higher priced than inferior belting, in
the first place—but the VALUE is there. Service records demonstrate it beyond
argument.
Available in all standards, as well as many special grades, or made to specifications.
There’s forty years’ belting experience behind “Mangrovite” Manufacture.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director.
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
£34,000,000
THE TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE CONTROL OF
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXCEED THIS FIGURE,
Thus Showing the Confidence in which it is held by the Public.
THIS COMPANY OFFERS MANY ADVANTAGES OVER THE
PRIVATE TRUSTEE.
Write for Booklet setting out particulars of its methods and charges.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A ghost of an attempt at creating a new
deep-water port is afoot in N. iS. Wales ; at
least it has been proposed that a committee
shall report on a railway to Port Stephens.
Either out of the Labor party’s dislike for
decentralisation or because of the mud-sling-
ing habit, a Labor member was promptly on
his hoofs to ask if Minister Boyce wasn’t
the holder of a large block of shares in a
Port Stephens land company which was on
boodle bent. Boyce’s reply was that he had
no shares, none of his family had any,
nobody of his name had any to his know-
ledge, and he had never heard of the com-
pany.
George Yates, Labor
M.H.R. for Adelaide,
is being opposed for
the third time by
George McLeay. The
Labor George beat his
Nationalist namesake
rather easily in 1922,
but the 1925 figures—
-19,693 to 19,018 —give
McLeay a chance.
Yates’s campaign com-
mittee is relying more
on middle-class oppo-
sition to State Pre-
mier Butler’s taxation
measures than on
popidar enthusiasm
for the Scullin policy,
and is saying as little
as it can about the
strike.
Abolition of the
Leg. Council, though
part of the Westra-
lian Labor platform
since the beginning,
has been dodged by the
Yates, M.H.R.
three Labor Governments that have held office
at Perth during the last quarter of a century
—for 10J years altogether—and the recent
Congress decided that the farce should end.
It declared for the bicameral system, with
adult suffrage for the Second Chamber. This
is honest, at any rate; and in Westralia, as
in Victoria, more than half the present
Leg. Council electors are strengthening the
case for giving every adult the franchise
by failing in their duty to vote.
The Hogans (Vic.) are keeping theii
Redistribution of Seats Bill in the back-
ground till after the Federal election. Then
they will propose that a commission should
be appointed to fix fresh boundaries on a
basis to be laid down. Some Laborites want
70 seats; others think it would be wise to
stiek to the present number (65) and accepl
the compromise Lemmon, now Education
Minister, tried to carry in 1926—30 metro-
politan and 35 country seats, which wornd
give 60 country electors as much voting
power as 100 metropolitan electors. Defeat
of the bill might spell dissolution. The Nats,
wouldn’t mind going to the country, and
neither would the Cockies. but Labor objects.
Despite all the N. S. Wales Government’s
mixed devices for raising another £700,000
or so of tax-revenue, great reliance is still
placed on drinking another hair of the dog
that bit Bavin, or even devouring the entire
greyhound. Loan expenditure in the finan-
cial year just closed was £14,707.618, which
was £6OOO worse than the Storey-Dooley
total of 1920-21. This year (1928-29) has
started at the rate of £12,000.000. of loan
money for the 12 months. And it is a time
when a Treasurer pays a great deal for
money and gets no great return for wages.
Next year there will be need to find another
£600,000 to pay interest on this year’s spend-
ings, and so on indefinitely.
Australia gained 116,905 additional inhabi-
tants last year, being 77,136 by the excess
of new babies over extinct characters and
39,829 by arrivals exceeding departures.
Births keep up moderately well, and the
gain by immigration is maintained very well,
all things considered. The eternal trouble
remains that it is mostly a bloating of a
few cities.
Though ex-Speaker
Johnson has been Fed-
eral member for Lang
(N.S.W.) since 1903,
he is anything but a
certainty next month.
It is an electorate in
which there has been
a lot of house-building
during the last two or
three years, and the
new population is
largely trade-unionist.
The wharf war will
help the elderly and
uninspiring knight,
but the Nationalists
may have reason to
regret their fatheaded
pre-selection system
which prevented
younger men from
nominating.
Baronet Joseph
Ward, who was Pre-
mier of Maoriland
from 1906 to 1912, is
bidding for office
again as leader of the
Ex-Speaker
Johnson.
United party. His trump card is a
promise to borrow 70 millions at the
rate of seven or eight millions yearly,
10 millions for railways and 60 mil-
lions for “advances to settlers and workers.”
This is about twice what he borrowed in the
official term which began 22 years ago, but
it is probable only half what he will want
to borrow if he comes back to ask for an-
other term in 1950, when he will be 93. The
Wards don’t improve with keeping.
An Industrial Commission is still pervad-
ing N. S. Wales inquiring into the rural basic
wage, a Piddingtonian institution of some
standing. From Gilgandra, 40 miles beyond
Dubbo, came a shire council president,
who said that the district grew less
grain than it did 12 years ago, and that the
only men who made a profit now were the
sheep-growers. Therefore, more and more of
them go a-sheeping. This country is a rare
exception, inasmuch as the cost of living to a
man like the farmer, including taxes (which
take in interest bills), railway freights and
wages, still tends upwards as if the war had
never finished.
Prohibitionist Greenwood, who delights in
drawing fire from the Ministerial ranks in
the Vic. Assembly, accused Labor the other
day of accepting support from the Com-
munists. Premier Hogan denied it, and
asserted that the Communists were support-
ing Bruce. Butting in, Lands Minister
Bailey pronounced Greenwood “a humbug,”
but Speacock forced him to withdraw. The
duel was continued at the next sitting.
McKenzie, the Wonthaggi Laborite, called
Greenwood “a liar,” the reply being that
McKenzie was “a contemptible cad.” Mc-
Kenzie rushed after Greenwood in the lobbies,
but the intervention of other members pre-
vented any scratches. Assembly proceedings
are now opened with prayer!
T. E. Wilson (Lab.) and W. Judd (Nat.),
a W.E.A. lecturer, have nominated for Bass
(Tas.) as well as Dave Jackson, easy winner
at three elections. Jackson, who runs the
biggest lock factory in Australia, has always
been a good Protectionist. Judd is advocating
“a sane tariff,” which seems to mean a tariff
which doesn't protect. Although Tasmania
has no Protectionist paper since the Laun-
ceston Daily Telegraph closed down, Judd
will find it difficult to persuade Launceston,
with its woollen mills, potteries, foundries,
furniture and tennis-racquet factories and
the Rapson Tyre factory, which is just com-
mencing work, that a low tariff is any good
to the place.
A minor tragedy of the Red upheaval
along the waterfront happened on the old
Edina, which potters daily between Mel-
bourne and Geelong. It is a quiet service
in peaceful waters. Many of the employees
have been in it for 20 or more years. The
wharf gangs consist of out-of-date lumpers
unfit for a full day’s work but glad of a
regular half-day job at loading and unloading
light cargo. Everybody concerned is a union-
ist and wants peace. But when a union
delegate ordered all hands to quit work and
gave no reason the venerables just quitted,
there being little else to do. It was all in
the cause of Liberty.
Much is said about the callousness of
the employer who wants a fair return for
the wages he pays and of the landlord who
wants his rent, but they are as chalk to
Cheddar cheese compared with union officials
collecting a levy. Tanks of crocodile tears
have been shed about the poverty-stricken
Newcastle miner and his family, but the
fiat has gone out that even if the wife’s
unborn infant is on its last legs the levy
to provide salaries on the Labor Daily
must be paid, or the father will be suspended
from his chance of finding employment.
Reduction of wages by the employers only
applies when there are wages, but deduction
of wages by union officials applies equally
where there are none.
There seems to be a certain intensity about
the helpless howl that the right thing to do
with the Northern Territory is to hand it
over, in whole or part, to a chartered co.
because the Federal Government won’t supply
it with railways, roads, a decent number of
wells or a freehold system. And possibly the
co. could be found on the usual terms. It
would want to make the laws, including
those dealing with Customs, military and
police, trade-unions and colored labor; to
possess the public lands and to make and
own railways. The Territory, in fact, would
have to come out of the Commonwealth.
Chartered companies have been no great
financial success, though Rhodesia was half-
inclined to pay a small dividend in its seven-
teenth year, and the rush to form one in a
place with the Territory’s record wouldn't
I be breathless.
The large old battered stove in which most
of Sydney’s garbage is consumed having
failed at last, the City Commissioners have
decided to save a little money by dumping
all the noisome mess into the sea. Some of it
has been going there for a good while, owing
to the age and inefficiency of the stove. The
idea is worthy of the Dark Ages % when
sewerage rates were saved by throwing the
debris into the alley, and water rates by
sending a female with a dish to the polluted
river. The washing up of nastiness on the
beautiful beaches is a disgrace, and the using
of it to silt up the clean sea is the eighth
of the seven deadly sins.
Dave McGrath has figured in seven Fed-
eral elections for Bal-
laarat (the electoral
authorities are stick-
lers for the old spell-
ing), and, except in
1917, when member-
ship of the A.I.F.
secured him an unop-
posed return, has had
to fight hard on every
occasion. Three years
ago he beat Tommy
Ryan, of Melbourne,
by 19,121 to 18,147.
This time he has a
more formidable Nat.
opponent Matthew
Baird, who was major
in the 23rd Battalion,
M.L.A. for Ballarat
West, Bowser’s Min-
ister of Education and
Lawson’s Chief Sec.,
and who in the very
first sentence he
addressed to the elec-
tors described himself
as “a full-blooded Pro-
Matt Baird.
tectionist.” So Ballaarat, which had Deakin
for member until he retired, may return to
the Deakin tradition.
Three years ago the Nat.-Cockies gained
the Kennedy (Q.) seat from Labor because
of Charles McDonald’s death a few hours
before polling day. Now Labor has gained
the Indi (Vic.) seat from the Nat.-Cockies
through Bob Cook’s neglect to nominate, so
that squares the account. Along with Jones,
the man who fluked Indi, Jim Mathews
(Melbourne Ports) and “Texas” Green (Kal-
goorlie), both Labor, have been returned un-
opposed. But nine Nat.-Cockies have been
re-elected without a contest —Green (Rich-
mond), Thompson (New England), Gardner
(Robertson) and Parkhill (Warringah) in
N. S. Wales; Josiah Francis (Moreton),
Speaker Groom (Darling Downs), Corser
(Wide Bay) and Maekay (Lilley) in Queens-
land) and Gregory (Swan) in W.A. More-
over, Labor is without candidates for eight
seats in the House of Reps. (Balaclava,
Echuca, Gippsland. Wimmera, Barker,
Wakefield, Darwin, Wilmot) and one of the
Tas. Senatorships. It is a poor showing
for a party which used to make a point of
contesting every seat.
The apparently interminable argument be-
tween Walsh and Johnson as to which is
general secretary of the Seamen s U nio . n
lias been interrupted by a sentence of six
months' imprisonment imposed on Johnson on
a charge <of intimidating Adelaide members
of the union who refused to stop work at
Johnson’s command during the sea-cooks
strike, having been authorised to work by
their branch. Walsh, who is supported by
the S. Australian and Westralian seamen,
has now been instructed by the Fremantle
branch to apply to the Arbitration Louit
for re-registration of the organisation ; but
as Johnson's supporters have refused to let
Walsh enter the Sydney office and take up
the secretarial duties which he was elected to
carry out, the position is as confused as
ever.
The Department of Justice looks after
electoral affairs in Queensland, and when the
departmental estimates came before Parlia-
ment some queer samples of justice were
quoted to the Minister, Johnny Mullan. In
Johnny Mullan.
metropolitan divi-
sions, it was said.
Labor M’s.L.A. re-
present an average
of 7421 electors,
while Opposition
members represent
an average of
9271; for the rest
of the State the
averages are 5698
for Labor M’s.L.A.
and 6527 for Oppo-
sitionists. Also,
while every other
State Government
uses or is arrang-
ing to use the Com-
monwealth rolls.
Johnny’s Government persists in making up
rolls of its own, and, incidentally, enrolling
many thousands more people than the Com-
monwealth registrar or statistican can find.
Johnny’s reply was that “it is sheer hypo-
crisy to talk about roll-stuffing or gerry-
mandering.” And Justice is to go on getting
it in the neck.
When the wharfies’ strike was tottering
to its miserable finish Vic. Premier Hogan
lost his temper and demanded that the
Bruce-Pages should prosecute Garden, sec-
retary of the Sydney Trades Council, and
0 Neill, secretary of the Melbourne sea-
men, or accept the implication that Garden
and O’Neill had brought about the strike, as
Nationalist agents,” in order to beat the
federal Labor party. Bruce pointed out in
his reply that his Government had unsuc-
cessfully . prosecuted Garden in respect of
the marine-cooks’ strike, and pertinently
asked why Hogan’s party did not deal with
the Communist gentleman, seeing that, in
addition to his Trades and Labor Council
Job- he is lieutenant to Theodore, the
federal Labor campaign director “I am
afraid that Mr. Hogan will find it difficult
to convince the people that Garden is an
ally of mine and not of the Labor party.”
said Bruce finally. Mr. Hogan will find it
impossible.
With that hope which made Solomon marry
his (00th wife, feeling that luck must turn
at. last, it has been decided to lay out two
millions of British Migration and Develop-
ment loan money on a dam and irrigation
scheme at Wyangala and a railway to Hill-
ston. One British migrant must be “received
into and satisfactorily settled in the State’’
for every £75 of cheap loan, or 26.666
migrants for £2,000,000. The Lachlan at
Condobolin has an average annual run-off
of 411,875 acre-feet; so if it was all
impounded and all reached its destination
without evaporation, and nobody dr'ank any,
•t would equal 12in. of rain per annum on
411,875 acres. The Murray at Tocumwal
is 12 times the size, and the Darling at
Menindie is four times. So Wyangala isn’t
an overwhelming scheme on paper.
The familiar tale of the financial spectre
come home to roost after nine years of
jolly dissipation is reflected in the report
of the-Victorian Auditor-General. The A.-G
says that during the last 10 years Victoria
ha" spent far more loan money on “settling”
people on small expensive farms than on
railways and water supply combined; that
the losses have been tremendous, and that he
still foresees losses which will cost the
State £600,000 a year for 20 years. He
says also that the “permanent and repro-
ductive” works show a deficit on paper about
£1,300,000 per annum larger than 10 years
ago, and that it is really much larger than
shown ; that there has been gross neglect to
provide for depreciation; that the proposed
new sinking fund is totally inadequate, and
that he sees no signs of better revenue for
a long while. Yet Victoria is still spending
loan money at a great rate.
The number of people employed on the
land in N.S.W. is officially returned as being
5300 less in 1927 than in 1925, and the
number employed in all primary industries
was 4100 less. In the same two years the
number employed in manufactures increased
by 17,400.
[For matter which has to'be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
DUMB GUIDES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlie Prime Minister said that the present shipping
trouble arose from the Arbitration Court’s award
being defied. If the leaders of Labor had hacj the
courage at the outset to oppose the extremists
and throw their weight on the side of the law, peace
would have been assured. They were afraid.”
They would not speak, to counsel or to
chide;
They saw the laws they helped to pass
defied,
With never protest from their palsied
throats—
Silence was gold when speech might cost
them votes.
To check the lawless or to gnide the weak
They would not speak.
They just looked on. With studious reticence
They sat, detached spectators, on the fence.
However they might feel, ’twas not for them
15ruce to commend or Garden to condemn.
A little worried and a trifle wan,
They just looked on.
They would not lead —because they didn’t
know
Which way their followers might decide to
So-
Restrained in front and hustled from behind
They strove withal to keep an open mind.
Upon one point alone they were agreed:
They would not lead.
They did not dare to openly profess
A preference for law to lawlessness
Or courts’ authority to Old King Mob’s —-
Such frankness might have jeopardised then-
jobs.
In short, they shrank to make it their affair.
They did not dare.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nota Bene” : The procession consisting of
several hundred men of subdued demeanor
was filing down one of Melbourne’s main
streets. One of the onlookei’S turned and
scanned them hard and spoke scox’nfuliy to
his companion. “Starving unemployed, eh?
Why, thex'e isn’t one of ’em who isn’t well
dressed and in the best of condition. It’s
my belief they don’t want work; anyhow,
they’ll get nothing from me.” It was the
Methodist Crusade!
* * * *
“F.II.”: The Gyppos were keen advertisei’s
as well as salesmen ; manifold and startling
were the devices to catch the eye and cash
of the Digger. Late in 1919 I went aslioi*e
from a ti’ansport, and was pestered to death
on the wharf by the usual horde of money-
changers. Escaping from these, my progress
SAVED HIS SEX.
“Poof! You’re all alike. I’ve never yet heard of a husband who didn’t grumble about
buying his wife clothes.”
“Well, old girl, there was Adam.”
towards a cool drink was further impeded
by the rickshaw men, moonstone vendors and
other boosters of their wares. I thought I
had beaten them all, when I was bailed up
by a dusky salesman outside a small store,
who flourished a card which besought me to
enter his establishment. On the card was
printed: “The great Sir Hughes, King of
Australia. Buys his Shirts here. One of the
greatest resets of my life is that I did not
pinch that scrap of paper.
“Vigilans”: Some strange tales are told
of how convicts occasionally contrived to
escape from W.A. 40 or 50 years ago. I
had the following from Walter Wadlow, for
many years in the Customs at Port Adelaide,
who died at Fullarton (S.A.) last month.
In 1885 on the arrival of the steamer South
Australia a passenger disembarked with a
very large brass-bound chest. Wadlow asked
him to open it. but the passenger after a
lot of searching declared that he had lost or
mislaid the key. He disclaimed all knowledge
of the contents of the trunk and said that
he had promised to deliver it for a friend
in W.A. to a butcher at Bowden. The
Customs officer thereupon forced the lock
and raised the lid, when a tall man with a
heavy beard emerged and hoarsely demanded
water. After being given a drink he said
that he had been in the box during the
eight-days passage from Fremantle. He
still had a little food with him, also a revol-
ver and some tools, but his water supply
had given cut. He was arrested and re-
turned to W.A., where he was a ticket-of-
leave convict. His name was Joseph Spratt,
and he is believed to have perished in the
Hall’s Creek rush a few years later.
:[: * =!■- *
“Q.N.”: Omeo, the little Gippsland town
which attained so much notoriety through
the Griggs case, is without that adjunct of
civilisation, a hearse, and coffins have to be
conveyed cemetery-wards in open vehicles.
Tile local council recently discussed the mat-
ter, and the economical suggestion was made
that, in order to kill two birds with one
stone, so to speak, an ambulance should be
purchased capable of being converted into a
lxearse as occasion required. But the coun-
cillors turned it down. Presumably they
feared the psychological effect on the still-
living occupants of such a conveyance.
■%. # ❖ ❖
“Mulgo”: The recent trouble between the
Sydney Ferries and their customers is far
from being the fii-st. There was a great
outcry in 1888, when the turnstiles wei’e intro-
duced. Why the innovation was so resented
is hard to understand, but the protest took
a partly practical, partly humorous form.
Voyagers agreed secretly to have nothing but
pound notes, to show how ridiculous the
turnstiles were. The officials got a hint of
the conspiracy, and as each smart gentle-
man put down his note, he was handed a
bag of 230-odd coppers for change. Lugging
that weight home or to business was no joke,
and it wasn’t long before passengers could be
seen buttonholing one another for change
before approaching the turnstiles.
* * * *
“Unity”: Those people who always have
grave doubts about the fairness of the draw-
ing of any art union should have food for
meditation over a recent happening in Maori-
laud. The drawing of the Akarana Yacht
Club’s aid union came off in the Auckland
Chamber of Commerce building, and or the
15 persons present all but one represented
either the police or the press. Naturally
the outsider was asked to do the actual
drawing, which consisted in abstracting one
numbered marble from each of five bags,
the resultant five figures forming the prize
number. When the draw was completed the
onlookers were astounded to learn that tne
drawer had collected marbles making his
own ticket number. The first to oon°ratu-
late him on his extraordinary luck was a
detective.
* * * *
“Baomata”: For five years I have
noticed him on the pavement in front of
the Traffic Office in Kent Street Svdnov
His way of making a living was sim'nließv
itself. As every successful Candida ™ for a
motor-driver’s license emerged from
Traffic Office clasping the newly-acquired
document, he would l’ange alongside and
gently possess himself of the license. In a
moment he would return it to the owner
securely fastened in a small leather pouch—■
specially designed, he would explain, to pre-
serve it from harm, a jacket of pleasantly
brilliant crimson. Few, indeed, were they
A GOOD TURNOVER.
“Look! Two years married, and she’s kept her figure.”
“Kept it, darling She’s doubled it.”
who rejected his wares. “They’re all that
pleased at gettin’ through that 1 could strike
’em for two bob,” he told me once, “but a
bob’s a fair thing.” Nor did he ever com-
mit the faux pas of approaching unsuccessful
candidates. But when the Traffic Depart-
ment began to issue free of charge a drab,
khaki-colored license-holder made of cloth
and cardboard —not to be classed with the
itinerant pedlar’s wares as an artistic pro-
duct—it was clear he would have to find a
new occupation. I saw him at Randwick
last week, attempting with poor success to
persuade a cynical crowd that the sealed
envelopes he offered at a bob a time were
packed with infallible information on the
subject of Horse.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: “Does the honorable member
insinuate”—is an opening incessantly heard
in the N.S.W. Assembly. Whenever I see
the word in print I think of the passage-
at-arms I once heard in the Goulburn
(N.S.W.) city council. “Does the Mayor
mean to insinuate that I’m a liar?”
asked Alderman Backstreet. “Insinuate be
damned,” was the Mayor’s cheerful retort.
“You are a liar.”
* * * *
“Windsor”: The three-yeai'-old wrangle be-
tween the North Melbourne Lost Dogs
Home and the Melbourne and Metx-opolitan
Board of Works has just been settled by
the august Privy Council, whose decision
is that the board has a right to charge the
lost dogs for their water supply. The Board
of Works refused to supply water free to the
Dogs’ Home in 1925, on the ground that
the Home was ixot a public or charitable
institution. The indignant organisation
promptly referred the point to the County
Court, which gave a decision in their
favor; but the Board of Works took the case
to the Full Court of Victoria, which reversed
the County Court’s decisioix. Finally, the
Home came up gamely but unavailingly for
the third round before the Empire’s highest
court of appeal. By the time legal expenses
are paid, the Dogs’ Home may be hard put
to it to find money for water rates.
* ■ . * * *
“Adrem”: I came upon this literary gem
in the bathroom of a countx-y hotel in S.A.:
The fact that this bath tank is empty this time
of the year proves that visitors have been using
same and not putting the plugs in. And sometimes
are careless enough to leave the taps running. We
often find them left running. Then there is the cry
we can’t get a bath. Why? Because you all waste
the water. Remember we are not joined up with
Happy Valley. Think when you are having a nice
bath others want one also. Now bath downstairs ;
no water here.
And downstairs perforce I went.
* * * *
“E.Y.S.”: With the resumption by the
Queensland Government for closer settlement
of the last of the Mount Cornish run
there passes into the hands of a new genera-
tion a station woven by Rolf Boldrewood
into his “Robbery Under Arms.” The
cattle-duffing episode which took place there
was perhaps the biggest of its kind in Aus-
tralia. The raid was made on that portion
of the run where Bimbah and Bexley now
stand. The discovery of new tailing yards
and the tracks of many cattle on the march
put the police on the trail; the mob, 1100,
was tracked so far down the Thomson
River as to leave no doubt that Adelaide
was their destination. On their arrival
only one beast, a white bull, could be posi-
tively identified. This was sufficient for
arrests, but the trial took place at Roma,
and a Roma jury in those days was the very
last that would have convicted cattle thieves,
however strong the evidence. Since then the
station has been gradually given over to
sheep, though I have seen 35,000 head of
Ilerefords on it; time was when LCS, the
station brand, was as well-known as Rouse’s
“crooked R.”
* * * *
“Harold I-lardupp”: The N.S.W. Liquor
Referendum has left some ill-feeling behind
it. Among the bodies which barracked deter-
minedly for Prohibition was the Salvation
Army, which has always been accustomed to
send its collectors into hotel bars for the
harvesting of small coins from jovial topers.
Hitherto Bung had viewed the incursion of
the scuttle-bonneted ladies benevolently, but
the Army’s efforts during the Referendum
campaign to close his doors has annoyed
him, and there are several Sydney hotels
where the word has gone forth that the
lasses with the rattling boxes ' are to be
promptly shooed off the premises.
;|t sjc £
“Billy See": When West Ans. is redis-
covered in the next cycle of civilisation
the newcomers will perhaps find gold
pretty scarce but may cash in heavily on
diamonds. Back in ’96 on the Nullagine
(Pilbarra goldfield) a number of small
stones of good quality were picked out of
the mortar-boxes of local batteries, the
diamonds being hard enough to withstand
the pounding of the 800-pound stampers.
Experts traced these diamonds to an iron-
stone gravel conglomerate which is under-
going a slow decomposition, but is still much
too tough for the pick and shovel. This
formation can be traced over 20 square miles,
and it probably contains bushels of diamonds
which may be liberated by erosion within
the next 2000 years. At present milling is
the only method, and that smashes all the big
stones.
* * * *
“W. J. Digger”: We were in the line in
front of Messines, and some fond lady had
sent the Old Man a beautiful belt torch,
fitted with a leather hood, for a Christmas
present. It was a pitch black night, and the
C.O. was shuffling along the duck-walk, on
his way to the outposts. When he came to a
traverse he switched on the new torch and a
spot of yellow light illumined the ground at
his feet. The leather hood prevented the rays
from showing further, but Darky, who was
camping in a dug-out in the side of the trench
had the wind up. “The silly old blankard’ll
be drawin’ crabs on us in a minute,” he
muttered, and then, unable to contain him-
self. “Put out that dash blank light,” he
growled. “You’re like a kid wfith a new toy.”
It was one of the rare occasions on which I
heard a Digger tick off his C.O. and get
away with it.
COURTIN’
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W’en I was young- an’ v did my courtm
On sunny afternoons in spring,
We’d saddle-up—our nags a-snortin’—-
An’ bits would clink an’ stirrups ring.
An’ off we’d gallop down the valley,
Between the paddocks green with wheat,
An’ through the wattle-groves an’ mallee
That looked so fresh an’ smelled so sweet.
An’, side-by-side, our prads a-walkin’,
At sundown we’d go hand-in-hand, '
An’ though we wouldn’t do much talkin’
It made no odds; we’d understand.
An’ p'r’aps, before we'd finished roamin’.
We’d stop beneath a tree we knew, _
An’ watch the moon rise in the gloamin’;
An’ maybe swap a kiss or two.
But now! W’en young folks goes a-
courtin’
They ain’t no time to watch the stars;
It’s engines w’at does all the snortin’,
They gallop now in motor-cars!
They ain’t no chance to smell the wattles
Nor listen for the bee-beek’s call;
They think of little else but “throttles,”
An’ “mags,” an’ “carbs,” an’ “gears,” an’
all. *
An' mostly it’s the gal w’at’3 steerin’
W’ile “’e” lolls, smokin’, at ’er side ;
They don’t say nothin’ worth the ’earin’ —
I doubt they couldn’t, if they tried !
An’ yet maybe these modern misses
That acts the man, an’ runs the show,
Make out some’ow to get the kisses,
Same as their mothers —years ago!
S.A.
C.H. SOUTER.
THE MISANTHROPE HAS A LOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Look forward !” cries that sanguine wight
The helpful moralist.
I look and see the red tail-light
Of the ’bus that I have missed.
“Look backward!” shout the dolorous,
“That errors you may see.”
I note the coming crowded ’bus
With ne’er a seat for me.
“Look upward!” falls the pious word,
“For guidance Heaven reveals.”
What was the rumble that I heard—
Thunder or rolling wheels?
“Look inward !” doctrinaires advise,
“And search your deepest doubt.”
I do, and get a new surprise
From the passing ’bus: “Look out!”
s.a.
BILL O'C.


“Hamer” : Talking of Irish bulls, the long-
vanished Redfern Council, which gave Syd-
ney its first experience of electric lighting,
shouldn’t be altogether ignored. After
several accidents, it posted this notice at
several street corners: “All vehicles must
carry lights when darkness commences.
Darkness commences when the street lamps
are lighted.”
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: Jewish children in Australia
are being asked to put in their pennies for
tree-planting in Palestine as a practical
method of assisting in “the restoration of
Eretz Israel [the Land of Israel],” where
the eucalyptus, besides growing hardily, helps
in the war against the malarial mosquito
and binds the soil together to hold the mois-
ture which would otherwise evaporate. It
costs only a few shillings to plant a tree,
and the idea of owning a tree in Palestine
is one that appeals to many kiddies who
SO THIS IS LOVE!
are never likely to go there. There are some
big group plantings as special memorials,
too —among them the Balfour Forest, to com-
memorate the name of the British statesman
who has had so much to do with handing
back Palestine to the Jewish people. Trees
planted in memory of dead parents and
friends are an extension of the idea.
**• * *
“Selma”: Some odd wills were made by
soldiers. One Maorilander, with no near
relatives, made his in favor of a little house-
maid at a big city hotel, whose two brothers
had been killed early in the fray. He had
never spoken to the girl, but heard her
story from the barman. As he came back
the girl is probably unaware to this day
that she once had a chance of inheriting
several thousands. Another Maorilander
left his Wairarapa farm to the infant daugh-
ter of the first man of his district who had
been killed at the Front, again a case in
which the beneficiary was not even an
acquaintance, and in this instance the child
inherited. Some wills were of the freak
variety, notably one made in France by a
hard-case Digger who called out to a pass-
ing pal: “What’s the name of the nicest
girl you know, and where does she live?”
The information later provided a Maorilaud
girl with a totally unexpected windfall.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Is it any wonder that
Conan Doyle gets mad occasionally at the
deriders of spiritualism? It was Bill who
induced me to go to a seance in Perth, and
when the lights of the room were reduced
to a mysterious haze we were asked if
anyone wished to communicate with a
departed soul. Yes, Bill wanted a word with
his old and several-years-deceased mate
O’Mehan. After some little delay the
medium got in touch with Mick’s spirit and
after a few commonplace questions and
answers, “You died from fever in New
Guinea then?” said Bill sadly. “Yes, I died
from fever,” declared the hollow voice.
“You’re a blinkin’ liar,” burst out Bill.
“You ain’t dead at orl. Me brother saw
you yesterday, an’ when I get you, you’ll
fork out that twelve quid you owe, or get
what’s cornin’.” In the confusion which
followed I escaped with the loss of a hat.
* * * *
“Brian Boru”: The Government of the
Irish Free State, in its endeavors to popu-
larise the ancient Erse which is supposed
to be the mother tongue of Ireland, has
made it compulsory for the Civil Service to
learn the language. It
will figure in all future
examinations, while
persons already in the
service are given two
years to learn it, fail-
ing which the boot is
to be their portion. The
Dutch-Nationalist Gov-
ernment struck the
same bright idea when
it came into power in
South Africa, but there
the pinch was not so
sharp. Nine out of
every ten Afrikanders
habitually speak Eng-
lish and Afrieaans, as
it is called nowadays,
indifferently. It is
doubtful, on the other
hand, whether 10 per
cent, of Ireland’s popu-
lation, including the academic faddists who
have started the joke, can tell Erse from
Esthonian when they hear it.
*■* # #
“Isler”: Touching this myth about tailed
human beings (B. 17/10/’2B). In the Middle
Ages the belief firmly prevailed in Spain and
Portugal that all Englishmen possessed these
invidious attachments. There are several
allusions to the tradition in the “Lives of
the Saints,” and the English writer Baring
Gould more than once refers to it.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : The dragon which wended its
way through Melbourne during the movie
carnival was a mere shrunken shadow of the
famous pafer saurian of Bendigo. In the
peak days of mining the Bendigonian beast
was nearly 300 feet long, and the legs of
350 Chinese fossickers ambled along beneath
it. As the Celestial population decreased
the stomach of the animal diminished, until
now there is a measly 50 feet between its
stem and its stern.
* * * *
“Imbaga”: The modern Papuan believes
just as fervently in the tailed human as
“Feng-Shui’s” friends did (B. 17/10/’2B).
With him, they are always round
the corner or over the next range,
and though more than one perspir-
ing Government official in the past
has tried to catch up with them, he
has never succeeded. One at least
was shown the holes in the ground
in which the tails were inserted
when the owners sat down, but
in his opinion the holes were caused
by the spears of a mountain tribe
being stucK upright in the ground
when _ the owners gathered for a
council of war. There is one
notable instance, at least, of a
modern who was a
firm believer in tailed
humanity. This wa3
Lord Monboddo, a
notable Scottish Judge
of the eighteenth cen-
tury, who anticipated
Darwin with the
theory that the race
was lineally descended
from monkeys. He
added to this a firm
Conviction that the
missing tails might
suddenly begin to grow
at any time, with the
result that his wife
and family, as well as
visitors to his house,
were always accommo-
dated in chairs with
holes bored through the
seats in case the great
day should arrive unex-
pectedly.
* *
“P.M.”; Talking of
one-legged soldiers
(B. 3/10/’2B), I knew a captain in the
Royal Air Force who had previously lost a
leg in the infantry. After learning to tiy
he saw the war out in a bombing squadron.
* * * *
“B-Gar” : The latest census taken by the
Q’land authorities shows a small falling-off in
the number of full-blooded aboriginals, who
are now computed at 13,523—7712 males
and 5811 females. The half-caste population
has slightly increased; there are 2224 males
and 1986 females. Most of the half-castes
are either in mission stations or are
employed by pastoralists. The myall percen-
tage of the full-bloods are pretty well con-
fined to Gulf and Cape York country. The
Palm Island settlement near Townsville
contains nearly 1000 full-bloods and half-
castes.
* * * *
“Meteren”: Coming in from the desert to
embark at Alexandria for France, we sat
in the open trucks praying that' something
of a thirst-quenching nature would be forth-
coming between the railway and the steamer.
Finally the train pulled up on the wharf
alongside our transport, but the gates were
barred behind us and held by an armed
guard. Then, like an angel from Heaven,
came a Gyppo who from his voluminous
robes produced a bottle of a well-known
brand of whisky, which he offered at
a pound, and volunteered to stand there
whilst we tested it. It was the dinkum stuff
and disappeared in no time. Abdul had
plenty more at the same price, and hur-
riedly left to fill an order for half a dozen
bottles. Cash in hand, we awaited his re-
turn, and just as the gangway was about
to be hoisted we sighted our Gungha Din
streaking down between the railway tracks.
IT DOES LOOK SUSPICIOUS.
“But what makes you think I came home blotto, my dear?”
“Oh well, you know, when a man starts smelling the flowers on the wall-paper .... !”
Hidden behind a truck we only had time
to give the bottles the once-over, but the
labels and seal were perfect, and w r armed
up by our previous purchase we closed the
deal and sprinted aboard. The spree was
to take place that night, in a corner of
the mess deck, and it was a saddened crowd
that watched bottle after bottle being
sampled and tossed out the porthole—the
contents didn’t even have the smell of
whisky. AH we could do was to pray
that Abdul might be spared to sell whisky
to us if ever we hit Alexandria again.
* * * *
“Erra”: Re that paragraph about the Can-
adian philanthropist who willed his large
fortune to the Ontario lady who should bear
* be next 10 years
10/10/28). The facts are as stated, but
if, doubtful if it was really the intention
a j jai i ' ris i ter) that such a will
f operate. He had announced his deci-
.^ ecute a W1 ’ disposing of his
wealth m more orthodox ways, but he died
suddenly before he could put his purpose into
hatever result his testamentary dis-
K w If , h n V ii Ui r he b ! l :‘ h ' ra ! e i
already sent up the local mamage-iate with
a jump. # #
a „ tt " , ,
Billy See : However it may have been
ii J 6 d & y s of N., S. Wales, in W.A.
ba , v . m £„
3/10/’2S) was in tlnfsame class'as’the Pic :
cadilly" ’clergyman's' daughter/ I have
examined any number of Groperland convict
fSTnns It
world for poaching The crimes mostlv re
as burglary and forgery or murder, and
the records reveal that many convicted of
murder escaped with a life sentence. After
transportation ceased, the law as regards
homicides seems to have been tautened up in
England; in the ’seventies and ’eighties a con-
victed murderer had a much poorer chance
of dodging the gallows.
* * * *
“Let Go”: Compulsory church parades
were irksome events to the Light Horse in
the desert, and the O.C. of one regiment
which had a C. of E. padre soon discovered
that more and more men were becoming
R.C.’s when the customary order came, after
roll call, -for the adherents of that creed to
fall out. One Sunday morning he sprang
a surprise, for after the RLC.’s had fallen
out they were instructed to go on camp
fatigue. As by this time they embraced half
the unit, the sergeant-major saw that the
camp and lines got a thorough cleaning;
church was well over before the fatigue party
was dismissed. Next Sunday morning the
number of the men who fell out showed an
astounding decrease. “I’d sooner hear the
Bible read backwards than let the Old Man
put anything like that over me . again,”
rprrmrlrerl nno of the ox-mfisnueraders
remarked one of the ex masqueraders.
Bmm»"«PM W " wmmStW on“J ’tat?
™p'er < SSST«S*Si&." ca“£
were found medically unfit for transfer to
the Citizen Forces, says that in modern
warfare there are countless jobs that the so-
called unfit can do, and includes among them
those of batmen and motor-drivers. How-
ever it may have been around the base camps,
any man who watched the A.S.C drivers
bringing up stores on the heavily-shelled
roads m France can testify that an unfit
man would have been decidedly out of place
As for the liatman, I don t know much about
his duties m France, but with the N.Z.M R.
m 'Sinai and Palestine at the yell For
action dismount he had to throw his reins
to No. o ana go in with the crowd. He had
to endure just the same hardships as the
rest. He had to stand night guards, and
horse piquets; the only duties he escaped
were common fatigues. He was, in short,
a fighting man first. An unfit man would
have tuckered up in a week in the Sinai
Desert or in the Beersheba-Jaffa drive. Many
a good batman got his number called while
up in the firing line —with us, anyway, and
I suppose it was the same with the L.H.
* * * *
“Der Jong” : A South African cable sug-
gests that the spacious days of the I.JAB. s
have come back —days when perspiring Cape
Governments loaded their laws to _ prevent
the illicit buying of diamonds in Kimberley
with such drastic penalties as 14 years hard
labor on Cape Town breakwater. The Nama-
qualand field, recently taken over by the
Union Government as its own private pre-
serve, has caused the trouble, large quanti-
ties of valuable gems, it is hinted, having
appeared mysteriously on the European mar-
ket. It is a safe bet that the mine Kaffir is
at the bottom of it all. He has been selling
his stolen gems to the new generation of
1.D.8.’s as he did to their Kimberley prede-
cessors, on the simple principle that one
small enough to go through the neck of a
whisky bottle is worth a bob, with a subse-
qnent rise in value up to a “Scotchman,”
or even half a crown, according to mcreas-
ing size*. On that basis, the Cullinane
diamond would bring ten bob, with the
Koh-i-noor going at anything up to a dollar,
* * * *
“Stellsby”: The most remarkable case of
s i ie ll-shock (B. 10/10/’2B) I ever encoun-
tercd was in a pub near Waterloo station,
j nto which j had dropped before catching
/he train to Portsmouth. The subject was a
silver-badged man dressed in a suit of grey
r eacli-me-downs of the type usually, handed
t 0 invalided service men at that period of the
war j_j e was making guttural and quite
unintelligible noises in a pathetic attempt
en gage Hebe in conversation. “Wait till
eight o’clock, Jack,” she said kindly ; “it’s only
five minutes, and then you’ll be able to talk
to me .” j must have looked puzzled, for she
told me in a whisper aside that this particular
customer was dumb “through those bleed-
jng Hu P s ’” bat at ci^ht o’clock every night
iVoS?
f t P £sKt mv lainand rn^ute
conversation with the man convinced
me that Hebc had s P° ken the absolute truth.
At ** 118 «" ite "-i-telligiblc again.
* '* , * *
“N.G.”: The N.S.W. Prisons Department
has closed a gaol at Wentworth owing to
insufficiency mf tenants. Half a century ago
it cost more than £lO,OOO, and there is some
talk of pulling it down and selling the
bricks, the town, for some reason, no longer
producing building material of such quality.
Meanwhile Victoria has no big gaol in its
north-west. . Presumably there would be
difficulties in the way of the two States
combining . to. keep this. edifice intact and
jointly utilising it; still the dismantling
of a perfectly good gaol seems sheer waste-
fulness in a district where settlement is
rapidly increasing. A Murray bridge now
brings Mildura within 17 miles of Wentworth,
* * * *
n „ „ „ r , . „ .
“ll ar ir- am ? f ™ cir '
, ~ ,inn/li w e °l,
laad J daa ft. e c r to Portumna Castle, County
/%' J ’ br: a ll t ian
b^ ba i] d m • I rince^ s
, m a hl a gra , n 4"
? 7 /in/-L\ <- °^ Cl . aailcar^ e
a rf
*?„ Sob i lga at its worst. A peculiar
trait ln tae character of the o.d miser-
millionaire was the apparent delight he
(JnSTSEtfStef bb p“Ante
*»■*"•»!» J"? “S W*
fiareiyood, fathei
r ig jl ’ rovait
Trol „ r .• -A TV , .
hardly a happ/ oiie. It must be 60
s sine / Gladstone suggested to Queen
y ic t oria that her loyal Irish subjects would
be more intensely loyalised if some scion of
her family wou f d on! , y se t up a residence
there. It was done in Scotland, so why not
Ireland? The reply was in the old lady’s
most crushing epistolary stvle. “The Queen
cou ld well understand people going to Scot-
land for their health, and she herself had
derived constant benefit from the Deeside
air; but the Queen had never heard of any-
one going to Ireland for their health, or even
for enjoyment!” She could never have con-
templated a time when her great-grand-
daughter would travel to her husband’s
castle at Portumna—in a bomb-proof car!
THIS WHY OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The statement of the manager of the Austra-
lian Olympic team that flirtations had interfered
with the serious business is flatly denied by one of
Sydney’s lady swimmers. The disappointing results,
in her opinion, were chiefly due to the unsuitable
and greasy food supplied in Holland. One of the
girls put on a stone, and another two, in weight.”
No honeyed words or surreptitious kisses,
Such us may pass ’tween glowing maid and
man,
Disturbed the poise of these athletic misses
So that they trudgeon-stroked or leapt or
ran
Less featly. Such a statement prejudices
Unworthily. The trouble was the scran.
Not Cupid but the culinary art
Of Hollanders upset their apple-cart.
The daily menu where they had their billet
In grease and oil habitually swam.
What do these mynheers know of juicy lillef
Or good red undercut V Or chops of lamb.
With spinach, hot and hissing from the
skillet?
They take scant stock therein at Amster-
dam,
Preferring unctuous sausages and such
Comestibles as gratify the Dutch.
With appetites on edge yet brows a-pucker
They sat, our Dians of the tracks, at meat.
‘Twas Hobson’s choice. Where could they
turn for succor?
Quite obviously the damsels had to eat
To keep Australia’s end up, though the
tucker
Left them, ’twould seem, less nourished
than replete,
And ill-equipped to sprint, or slither through
The water, slickly as they hoped to do.
A bit of bill-and-coo is no great matter;
The thing that queered their pitch was
what they ate;
They got their handicap upon a platter,
Their issue on a willow-patterned plate.
So they return to us a trifle fatter,
They’ve lost in litheness what they’ve
gained in weight.
No use dilating on what might have been:
They knuckled under to the Dutch cuisine.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
WHITE GOLD WRIST WATCH
8
£9(91
an exquisite, trifle —just this size.
Not a whit larger than the illustration, this wee Wristlet is nevertheless a
practical, sturdy timekeeper, absolutely accurate.
It carries a fifteen years’ guarantee, and will be kept in order for one year,
free of charge (actual breakages excepted).
Complete with moire ribbon and white gold fastener.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A brother of Dale Collins, the author, and
a brother of “Slip” Carr, sometime champion
sprinter, are among the officers of the new
H.M.A.S. Australia, of which Sydney is
having its first glimpse this week, after Bris-
bane has pronounced it worthy. Dale’s
brother is squadron-gunnery officer, with the
rank of lieut.-commander; Clarke, who used
to be almost as fast over the hundred or the
furlong as the famous “Slip,” is engineer-
commander. Lie served throughout the war.
A visitor from a little-considered portion of
the earth is Joseph Stephan, Senator of the
Great Lebanon, over which France has a
mandate. He is on a Government mission—
it appears that even Lebanon has some
nationals who, having failed in Australia,
are bitter in their
complaints. Th e
Lebanese Govern-
ment, with a wis-
dom that is unfor-
tunately not uni-
versal, has decided
that the trouble is
probably the gentle-
men’s own fault,
and is prepared to
repatriate them
rather than let
them remain and
perhaps make
things unpleasant,
in one way or an-
other, for their
compatriots.
Baronet JOSEPH
WARD, leader of
the new United
party in Maori-
land politics.
Harold Pope, the Westraliau Railways
Commissioner, has resigned. ITe was
appointed in March, 1919, and could have
hung on till March, 1930 (the Collier Gov-
ernment re-appointed him for five years), but
his health has been bad for a long time, and
he is too good a fellow to let others do the
work while he drew the pay. As a boy in
England Pope worked for the Great Northern
Railway Co., but 33 of his 55 years have
been spent in the Westralian railway service
(lie was on leave as a Digger for 4J years).
.He hasn’t left an enemy in the depart-
ment, while the public unanimously votes
him a success.
Retiring Railways Commissioner Pope, of
Westralia, commanded the 16th Battalion in
Gallipoli, and the hill to which his name was
given saw some of the fiercest fighting of
the campaign. The machine-gun section of
the 16th was famous for daring and
efficiency; it included Harry Murray, who
got the V.C. and nearly every other decora-
tion that was to be got, and Percy Black,
who fell at Bullecourt. Pope was badly
knocked at Messines.
John Estell was one of the few who have
had two separate terms as N. S. Wales
M.L.C. In 1899 he, Hepher and Jimmy Wil-
son were appointed to the Uppali Cliambali
by George Reid as a sop to a supporting
party that was growing restive at the non-
fulfilment of promises; but Estell resigned in
1901 to become M.L.A. for Wallsend, and
lie stayed in the Assembly until 1922. He
held office in two Labor Ministries, and a
portfolio might have been found for him if he
had gone over with Holman in 1917. His
resignation in 1922 was followed by his
immediate reappointment to the Council. The
old legislator, 67 when he died last week,
was born on the northern coalfields, and
worked as an engine-driver and check inspec-
tor at Wallsend before becoming an official
in the miners’ union.
The distinction of being the first Laborite
to break away from his party on account
of its war attitude belongs to E. S. Carr, who
threw away a safe scat at Macquarie in
doing it. At practically every N.S.W. election
since he has put up
a good but unsuc-
cessful fight, his
one success occur-
ring when lie be-
came for two years
one of the M’s.L.A.
for Cumberland
under proportional
representation. This
time he is having
a go at Hunter
(N.S.W.) in the
Nationalist interest.
Before he took to
politics he was the
editor of a paper in
Orange.
THOS. BAKER,
of Kodak, Ltd.,
the new president
of Melbourne
Rotary, who has
been sticking up
for the use of
Australian X-ray
film in hospitals
in preference to
German.
Sydney University has lost its well-loved
Arnold Wood, Challis Professor of History
for 37 years. As a young man from Man-
chester, Wood distinguished himself at Bal-
liol College, Oxford, as his son has done
since; and now that death has closed his
account thousands of Australians will
remember him gratefully for his fine per-
sonality and scholarship. Lie wrote two
books, “The Discovery of Australia” and
“The Voyage of the Endeavour.” “The
Discovery,” at least, is a standard work.
“Battels”; “He was always proud to re-
mind his class that he was a Balliol College
man, like his hero Gladstone.” Thus “A
Graduate,” writing in the Guardian on the
late Professor Wood, of Sydney Uni. The
only thing that leaves the statement open to
doubt is that Gladstone wasn’t a Balliol man
—his college was Christ Church.
ITardwicke Weedon, manager of the Laun-
ceston Bank for Savings, was given a case
of pipes by the Launceston Chamber of
Commerce on his re-election as its treasurer
at the conclusion of 50 years in that office.
One of the speakers declared that he was
the oldest officer in any Australian Chamber
of Commerce. “And I was an ordinary
member for years before I became treasurer,”
interposed Weedon. With his waxed mous-
tache, clean-shaven chin, keen eyes and spats,
he is as smart-looking a business man as
there is in the town.
At 95 veteran pastoralist Thomas Guthrie
has closed a crowded life. He came from
England in ’47, and jackerooed for two years
on a station in New Norfolk (Tasmania).
The Californian gold rush lured him as far
as the Maoriland coast, where his ship was
wrecked in Poverty Bay, the survivors nar-
rowly escaping massacre. Returning to Aus-
tralia, Guthrie went into woolbroking part-
nership with G. Synnot and helped to estab-
lish the Geelong wool sales before finally
buckling down to the pastoral business as
a station-owner. He pioneered the Avons
Downs station on the Barkly Tableland,
North Australia. Senator Guthrie is a son.
The luckiest candidate for the Federal
election is certainly Laborite Paul Jones,
w-ho, because Bob Cook forgot to put in his
nomination-papers iu time, becomes member
for Indi, a safe C.P. seat since 1919. Unlike
the queer historical character after whom he
was named, Paul Jones is an agent by occu-
: pation, and his luck can be said to be two-
fold —he was made a present of the Labor
1 nomination because the contest was regarded
as hopeless.
According to the occupations given in the
nomination-papers, there is only one “gentle-
man” among the Federal candidates —G. D.
D. Robertson, who contests Flinders (Vic.),
Bruce’s electorate, as an Independent. Six-
teen candidates style themselves Senators
or M’s.P., although Jimmy Matthews, who
has been a politician for 22 years, is content
to call himself a tailor. Graziers, farmers
and orchardists make the biggest group, with
29 representatives; there are 18 pursuers of
costs and fees, 16 secretaries, 11 journalists,
eight clerks and accountants, five medical
practitioners, three company directors, two
teachers, two miners and one laborer. Willie
Watt is down as an investor; W. E. Johnson
describes himself as an artist; another trier
is a “retired army officer.” The rest dis-
tribute themselves over two-score various
occupations, with estate-agents and auction-
eers, a group ot four, most in evidence.
John Partridge, a Bristol man who served
before the mast in the Cutty Sark,
embarked on the Last Voyage the other day
at Carrington (N.S.W.). He traded in clip-
pers till steam drove the tail-masters out
of the business; then he entered the Ma
State dredge service, arriving at Carrington
when it was known as Bullock Island. Over
the foot of his bed to the day of liis death
hung a picture of the Cutty _ Sark. They
should have buried it with him.
Lord Alfred Douglas, who got £lOO
damages out of Harrods last week for a
libel contained in Frank Harris’s “Life of
Oscar Wilde,’’ is easily the most persistent
litigant in Debrett. He has been before
the courts fairly regularly, in one capacity
or another, for over 30 years, and has put
at least one principle of justice on a firm
footing—that a citizen w 7 ho has left his
youthful indiscretions behind him may not
have them thrown up at him in middle age.
The action in which he established this was
in connection with an obituary notice
written after his death had been mistakenly
reported.
“J.” : Re the reputation for probity enjoyed
by the N.S.W. Stephen family (B.
17/10/’2S). I heard a quaint tribute paid
to it years ago, when corruption at Sydney
Town Haul was known only to a few. A
Civic Reformer was speaking of a member
of the family. “What’s the good of pointing
out that the thing’s crooked to him?” he
asked irritably. “He’s a Stephen, and they’re
so straight that they can’t see a swindle when
it stares ’em in the face!”
Jonas Blakiston, of Geelong, who was
Treasurer of Vic. A.N.A. 40 years ago when
the late J. L. Purves, leader of the Bar
in Melbourne, was “earneror.” is still going
strong at 78. He dropped in the other night
when the Hawthorn branch’s 40th birthday
was celebrated. He was there at the
christening.
Dr. James Davidson, just arrived in Aus-
tralia to help in fighting tick and other harm-
ful insects, is Master and Doctor of Science
at Liverpool University, and has had research
experience in most of the countries of
Europe. He did good work in the war, in
Sinai and elsewhere and is still only 43.
His new post is head entomologist at the
Waite Research Institute run by Adelaide
University just outside the city.
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) talked about some-
thing more serious than football when Dr.
E. IT. Florance, who kept his practice going
until he was 80 years of age, called it a
day. The veteran medico was a man of
catholic tastes: an authority on art, litera-
ture and music, and a lover of all sports.
In fact, “Coota” did not have a movement
that the old gentleman did not assist in some
way.
Lewis Cohen, seven times Mayor of Adel-
aide, is leaving that city for Brisbane for a
year at the least. Medical advice, after a
nearly-fatal illness, is the reason for the
change of climate.
“Soss” Wertheim, the tall son of the late
Hugo Wertheim, Melbourne piano-builder,
is another lawn-tennis crack with a shrewd
head for a business deal. After coming home
from the war, “Soss” (nobody calls him
Rupert) joined the Melbourne Stock
Exchange, where he has prospered. Lie it
was who put through the Myer purchase of
the Marshall drapery concern in Adelaide,
and helped himself to a brokerage on one
of the biggest transactions of the year.
The Last Post has sounded for William
Ford, of Goulburn (N.S.W.), who, born 93
years ago, served as a naval man in the
Crimean War and in the suppression of the
slave trade. Ford came to Australia in time
to help in dealing with a mutiny at the Port
Arthur (Tas.)- penal settlement, and liked the
country so well that, after five taore years’
service on the South American coast, he re-
turned and settled at Goulburn. He was 35
years old when he arrived; he put in another
35 years as a railwayman.
A fine crop of informals is predicted in
the Maribyrnong (Vic.) Federal electorate,
where sitting-member Jim Fenton is opposed
by Nationalist Arthur Fenton. Still, it
shouldn’t be sot, Richmond (N.S.W.) had
two Greens and one Greene for candidates
in 1925, together with a Williams, and
though 38,055 votes were cast fori the com-
pulsory preferential plan, of course) only
1057 were informal. On the other hand,
there were 1953 wasted votes out of 40,644
in Adelaide, where the fight was between
Yates and McLeay.
Lord Birkenhead has two good reasons
for leaving politics; he can go no higher
and he cannot afford to stay. He and
Churchill are the insurgents of the Baldwin
Ministry. They supply brilliant ideas to
their somewhat commonplace chief whenever
a crisis arises, but they have to be put in
their place periodically, and the former Lord
Chancellor has a particular dislike of disci-
pline. As a peer he has no hope of the
Prime Ministership—the case of Lord Curzon
established that it will never go to the Lords
again—and he is comparatively poor. His
friend Churchill would be poor, too, had
not a relative left him Westerham the
“West Ham Estate” of the cables, where he
has been laying bricks of late. Many great
city concerns would jump at Birkenhead at
almost any price. His capacity for work
is enormous, and, though he has been no
ascetic of late years, he is perhaps the
youngest-minded as well as the youngest-
looking man of 55 in England.
The keenest student of natural history in>
the Commonwealth Parliament and the final
authority on most matters connected with
either shooting or fishing is Senator Walter
KingsmiU (W.A.). During the war years,
when the Superintendent of the Perth Zoo
deserted his beasts and birds to go on active
service, Kingsmill, then Chairman of Com-
mittees in the Legislative Council, offered to
fill the vacancy in an honorary capacity. The
trustees closed with the offer gratefully,
man-power of any kind being scarce in the
Zoo at that time. So Kingsmill was often
to be seen feeding the lions with chunks
of dead horse and seeing that the antelopes
and the ostriches got their fair issue of
tucker before he tore himself away to see
that the country’s laws were properly
framed.
Bob Solly, Chairman of Committees in Vic.
Leg. Assembly, got home neatly on Green-
wood, perhaps the best debater on the Oppo-
sition side, after an. all-night sitting. Green-
wood had held up a bill with all manner
of amendments, and, becoming a bit puzzled,
asked how he should proceed. “I don’t,
know,” the Chairman replied. “My name’s
not Solomon ; it’s Solly.”
Dave Thomson, who went west last week,
served with the Gordon Highlanders in
South Africa and India, and then joined
the Commonwealth Forces as a w.o.
Stationed at Iviama (N.S.W.) when the war
clouds banked up in 1914, he hurried to
A.E. HAMIL-
TON, South Aus
pastoralist, who as
chairman of the
Ground and,
Finance Com-
mittees of the
S.A. Agricultural
Society, has had
most to do with
creating the
society’s new
quarters, the
most convenient
in Australia.
Sydney and became
No. 1 in the Ist
Battalion. Thomson
was wounded in
Gallipoli and in
France, where he
picked up his
majority and an
M.C. He worked
in the Repatriation
Department after
his return until re-
currence of war ill-
ness sent him to the
Randwick Military
Hospital; and he
was a big figure in
the N. S. Wales
R.S.L.
A queer will was that of George Bills,
formerly a maker of wire-mattresses in
Sydney but latterly a resident of Melbourne.
Except for a few bequests to old employees,
be left the whole of an estate valued at
£BB,OOO for the erection of horse troughs in
any part of the world where those obsoles-
cent things might be needed. As an alter-
native his executors may provide funds for
the prevention of cruelty to animals.
C. E. Setterberg, dead in S. Aus. at 78,
was a sailor from Sweden who settled in
Westralia in the ’eighties. He was in "the
tremendous wreck of the Perth on the north-
west coast. Moving over to South Aus., he
was one of the original fruit-farmers on the
Murray in the village settlement named
after O. C. Kingston.
JUPP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Theodore had referred to him as a clucking
old hen, but before the fight was over this clucking
old hen would knock some of the fine feathers off
the gilded rooster.”- —Senator “Jupp” Gardiner.
O rooster not golden but glided!
0 Garden where Communists dwell!
O towers dialectical builded
The Nats, to withstand and repel!
O smoke-screens for sortie and sally !
From now till the numbers are up
There’ll be some excitement in Dailey,
You take it from Jupp.
Now he’s free of his hobbles and tethers
Stand by for the rustle and whir,
The swish and the swirl of the feathers,
The rip and the tear of the fur.
He can travel, the dog that is ageing,
A road over-hard for the pup,
As the stalwarts may find who’re engaging
In combat with Jupp.
Will he tell who donated the dollars
On Teddy’s behalf when the seat
Was sold like a dozen of collars,
Slapped down like a package of meat —
The dough, on Bill Mahony’s dixit,
That was reft from the books on the Cup?
If he finds on whose shoulders to fix it
He’ll knock ’em, will Jupp.
O roubles of Russia, reputed
Forthcoming from Bolshevik narks!
O sleevers of Lenin diluted!
0 extracts of Mill and of Marx!
When to halls and street-corners they rally
They’ll get something stronger to sup
Than that, tack, the voters of Dailey,
» I’ll lay you, from Jupp.
A. HAYWARD.


Longer Service, Better Service, Cheaper Service
ti
$
fiilSHlO
These are the three essentials you expect from
your belting equipment—and where sheer effi-
ciency is the goal, the best belting is always the
most economical.
You can instal
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
throughout your plant with the full assurance that it will give 100 per cent, satisfactory
service, provided the right belt is used on every drive. Our expert advice is always at your
disposal.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI (El SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
n CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
w
For the executive type of man only, we have
published rather an unusual booklet called
"Forging Ahead in Business.” It contains a
concise description of the Institute’s work,
besides business facts of interest to mature
men. Have your secretary write us for a com-
plimentary copy, or use this advertisement.
Name
Business Address
Modern
The WILD CAT
CLUMN
The Australasian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Writ- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£££ £ .
1921*. 72,938 10 p.c. = 62,130 10,808
1922.. 69,421 8 „ „ 59,720 10,000 10,509
1923.. 77,913 8 „ „ 63,885 14,000 10,536
1924.. 79,553 8 „ „ 67,720 12,000 10,370
Preliminary exes., £7675 .. . . 2,695
Pref. Ord.
1925.. 91,027 8 p.c. 6 p.c. =57,258 30,000 6,464
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £lO,OOO . . 3,536
1926.. 97,177 8 p.c. 7 p.c.=72,535 23,500 2,394
Reserves.
Premiums on shares, £14,344 .. 11,950
Assets transferred to subsidiary.
Added to reserves, £89,107 .. 101,057
1927.. 95,923 8 p.c. 8 p.c. =83,000 113,980
Sept.,
1928 f. 70,781 8 p.c. 6 p.c. =71,396) 113.365
“Ten months. fFifteen months.
• JDivs. to June 30, 1928.
Since the present co. was formed in 1920
to amalgamate the Sydney Paper Mills,
Ltd., and the Australian Paper Mills Co.,
Ltd., of Melbourne, profits have not shown
the improvement that might have been ex-
pected!. In its last year before the merger,
the Melbourne co. made a profit of £38,960
on a paid capital of £236,356, and paid 12-J
p.c. No goodwill figured in the deal. Since
1920 the ords. have had an average of only
7.6 p.c., and, according to the accounts,
even that was not all earned. In this class
of business obsolescence is a much more
costly item than ordinary wear and tear
of plant, as the co. found to its cost in 1925,
when, in order to provide for the replace-
ment of some of the old machines with
modern equipment, the board found it neces-
sary to increase the rate of depreciation
from 21 p.c. to 5 p.c., and £26,000 was ear-
marked for the purpose as against £BOOO in
the previous year.
For some time this co. and the Cumberland
Board Mills, of Sydney, were engaged in
price cutting. The war ate into each eck’s
profits and helped to keep overhead up. A
couple of years ago it was decided to bury
the hatchet and the two cos. merged their
interests into one operating co., Australian
Paper Manufacturers, Ltd'. Each co. sold its
assets, on a valuation basis, to the new co.
for scrip. The Cumberland Co. received
314,487 shares and the Australasian Paper
and Pulp Co. 1,089,271 pound shares; This
latter lot included 89,107 for surplus assets,
and a corresponding amount was added to
the reserves of the A. P. and Pi Co. Apart
from £75,500 put by for depreciation and
£16,000 in the Geelong removal reserve,
£2394 of this co.’s round million of paid
capital at June 30, 1926. was unrepresented
by tangible assets. It is therefore obvious
that either the assets transferred were
written up or something was included in the
payment for goodwill or both.
Results since the merger have been dis-
appointing. So that the final div. from the
manufacturing co. for the year to June 30
might be included in the figures, the A. P.
and P. Col closed its latest accounts on
Sept. 30. For the 15 months to that date
£123,137 was received in dividends, etc., of
which £49,482 belonged to the previous term.
Exes, were only £2874; thus the net result
was the £70,781 shown in the table. After
allowing for the pref. requirements the
balance (£53,116) was a shade under 6 p.c.
on the average ordinary capital compared
with 9.7, 7.2, 6.3 and 9 p.c. back to 1924.
The latest distribution was much more liberal
than it should have been considering that
of the 2s. sd. of reserves per ordinary share
Is. 9d. exists only on paper, according to
the published figures.
Paid capital at Sept. 30 was £1,152,618
in 228,500 8 p.cl cum. prefs. and 924,118
ords. Of that lot 75,000 prefs. and 77,618
ords. were taken up in 1927 in order to
finance new issues made by the operating co.
The outside debt amounts to £18,611, mostly
deposits. Shares in other cos. are in at
£1,241.899 (cost), the only other asset being
£70,326 of deposits at call.
In its first year to June 30, 1927, the
operating coi claimed a net profit df £141,990,
but made no allowance out of earnings for
depreciation. For the year to June 30 last.
£129,504 was netted. That was after setting
aside £23,357 for depreciation. £lO,OOO for
taxation, putting £2500 into a loss of profits
reserve and wiping £273S off preliminary
exes. In addition there were special writings
down totalling £23,1 S 7 ; and it is estimated
that the delay in starting the new mill at
Fairfield (Vic.) involved a loss of £lO,OOO.
Early in its career the manufacturing co.
bought the Commouwealtn Board Mills for
£llO,OOO, but no hint is given as to whether
the deal has proved a profitable one. Also
the British Trade Facilities Board lent the
co. £llO,OOO to finance the purchase of new
plant for making Kraft paper, but owing to
delays in delivery and defects in the elec-
trical equipment the Fairfield Mill was not
in running order until April last. It is now
reported to be working smoothly and the
capacity is said to be equal to the Australian
demand for Kraft paper.
Much depends upon plant 1 . The heavy
writing down and the recent purchases raise
the question whether some of the machinery
is not out of date, and may be, even now,
not worth its book value.
At June 30 paid capital was £1,600,000,
the outside debt totted up to £500,695, in-
cluding £286,448 on overdraft. Plant, on which
£148,339 had been spent during the year,
was in the books at £1,025,376; and there
was in a depreciation reserve on the
other side of the sheet. Freehold and a
few leases figured at £377,823. The more
or less liquids, including stocks (£475.115)
but excluding shares in other co& (£22,254),
totalled £649,056. and £109,208 was repre-
sented by goodwill, etc. The more or less
liquid surplus, after allowing for the final
div. (£28,000), was £120,361. The net tan-
gible backing, apart from the taxation and
depreciation reserves, figures out at 18s. Sd.
per share.
On that basis the net tangible cover for
the A. P. and P. Co.’s prefs. is £5 3s. Bd.
per share and for the ords. 20s. Bd. per
share. The prefs., which have priority
as to capital, carry a cumulative 8 p.c. and
advance with the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate. Last year’s net profit was
over 31 times their annual requirements.
On the" market they are priced at 245.; at
which figure the return is 6.6 p.c. at the
minimum div. rate. For the ords. 18s. 9d.
is offered after sales at 19s. At the lower
price the return is 6.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. *
Allied Motor Interests, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1924.. l7* p.c. = 74,925 2,506 2,506
1925.. 129,056 20 „ ~ 85,629 43,427 45,933
1926.. 94,777 17* „ ~ 74,925 19,852 65,785
Written off shares in subsidiary, £68,760 ) ~,
1927.. 34,688 Nil 34,688 )
1928.. 1,098 Nil 1,098 32,805
And having built that table the “Wild Cat’’
hasn’t got much faith in the figures. That
is because this is a holding co., which does
not publish the health charts of its sub-
sidiaries, and there are indications that some
of them are pretty ,sick —much sicker, in
fact, than the co. has cared to admit in its
own accounts. AH the pups are in one
branch or another of the motor industry;
some handle between them a dozen or so
well-known makes of motor-cars, one deals
in trucks and lorries, one in accessories, and
another, now the most important, is in the
motor-body building business.
At the close of last accounts the holding
co. had a paid capital of £428,144, which
with £63,791 of deposits, etc., and reserves
totalling £32,805, was represented in the
books by shares (£222,530) and advances
(£300.287) to subsidiaries and a small cash
balance (£2923). There is a contingent
liability, amount unspecified, on account of
guarantees in respect of hire-purchase con-
tracts and overdrafts of subsidiaries.
For the year to July 31 the income from
“dividends, etc.,” had withered to a mere
£l2OO, less than half of 1 per cent, on
the advances alone, and after paying a
handful of exes, a net profit of £1099 is
claimed. However, the auditors in their
report put it like this: “Shares in other
cos. are valued at face value, but some of
those cos. have accumulated losses which
are not reflected in the values shown in the
balance-sheet.” What the board says about
the matter is that “some of the subsidiaries
have been trading at a profit and some at
a loss. but. unfortunately, the losses largely
outweigh the profits.” In other words, there
was no profit at all. but a very substantial
loss, the exact amount of which and its
effect upon the real financial position is
covered up by the curtain drawn over the
subsidiaries’ accounts. At the annual meet-
ing the chairman admitted to losses totalling
£51,000 in the car-selling sections, but no
hint was given as to what the losses in the
remaining sections amounted to.
In the motor-body building works, includ-
ing stocks, etc., over £300,000 has been
invested. This enterprise was launched
when business in the motor trade was at a
very low ebb, and it took longer to get to
the production stage than was anticipated.
That and the cost of establishment is pretty
certain to have involved a loss for the year.
Further, in order to provide additional capi-
tal for these works the services of discount-
ing houses had to be used to finance term
sales; thus the co. lost the revenue from
what is usually one of the most profitable
sections of the trade.
The origin of the present business was
the Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd., which set up
in Melbourne in 1911. Its chief agency was
the Ford car. In 1920 the business had so
expanded that a- new co., Autocar Industries,
was formed to handle the co’s. other agen-
cies. Then the boom in the motor trade
set in, and the directors decided to launch
out on a large scale. The result was the
formation of Allied Motor Interests, Ltd., in
1923. It handed out three paids for every
two shares then held in Tarrant and Auto-
car cos. In the next three years fat profits
were won and dividends totalling 55 p.c.
were paid. Then Henry Ford decided to
do his own distributing in Australia, and the
Tarrant co. went into liquidation; also con-
ditions in the industry changed materially.
The results are written in the table. In
1927 the co.’s holding in the Autocar Pty.
was marked down £68,766 (10s. per share).
Notwithstanding all this the board looks to
the future with confidence. It says that
profits are now being made where losses
occurred previously, and that the depression
from which the industry has suffered for the
last couple of years shows signs of passing.
Conditions certainly have improved with the
recent rains; but competition in this busi-
ness is severe, and a return to anything like
the former boom conditions cannot be
expected. And in the case of this co. there is
the outside debt and the losses that have piled
up in the subsidiaries, all of them calling for
reduction.
Whether loss of capital is likely to be
involved in the recovery it is impossible to
say, nor can the “Wild Cat” tell share-
holders what the book value of their scrip in
net tangibles amounts to. The market prices
the pound shares at 6s. 3d. A couple of
years ago 30s. was paid.
Joe Gardiner, Ltd.
To Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918.. 10,346 12J p.c. = 7593 2753 6,936
1919.. 7,485 10 „ „ 8000 6,421
1920.. 10,756 10 „ „ 8000 2756 9.177
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 20,371 5 „ „ 4000 —• 15,194
1922.. 2,055 Nil 17,249
Reserves
Assets written up, £43,375 .. 26,126
Profits.
1923.. 11,804 10 p.c. = 8000 3804 29,930
1924.. 18,364 15 ~.,, 12,000 6364 36,294
Prefs. Ords.
p.c. p.e.
1925.. 5,159 10 5 7,500 33,983
1926.. 17,182 124 20 14.750 2432 36,415
1927.. 23,657 12* 20 14,750 8907 45,322
1928.. 21,465 12* 20 14,750 6715 52,037
This co., which has been running a chain
of retail bootshops in Sydney since 1911,
reconstructed its capital about three years
ago. Shareholders gave Edward Fay, Ltd.,
control, with 10.000 ords. bought from .Toe
Gardiner himself; the balance of the ords.
(70.000) were converted into 10 p.c. cum.
prefs., with the right to an extra 2* p.c.
whenever the ords. receive 20 p.c. or more.
The old price-cutting stopped, profits bene-
fited in other directions, and for three out
of the last four years the prefs. have had
12£ p.c. Even with 20 p.c. handed to the
ords. this has called for less than three-
quarters of the total net earnings over that
period. For the 13 years to 1924 divs.
averaged a shade over 13 p.c., sweetened
with the capitalisation of £19,887 of reserves
in 1917.
Although conditions in the trade were not
all they might have been last year, gross
profits (£156,720) fell back only £314, and
the cut in exes. (£135,254) was £512, despite
a bigger taxation bill; thus the net trading
result (£21,465) was £l9B better than in
the previous year, when profits were swollen
to £23,657 by a surplus of £2389 on the
sale of freehold. Another pleasing feature
is the comfortable margins between earnings
and distributions during the last couple of
years. It gives the extra 2* p.c. to the profs,
a more permanent look.
And further encouragement is to be had
from the improvement visible in balance-
sheet figures over the last four years
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £BO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 136,083 80,879 63,755 36,048
Freeholds .. 100,110 83,110 81,000 82,320
Leaseholds .. 105 9,208 10,618 8.977
Plant .. 14,863 18,047 18,769 16,331
Stocks .. 141,143 93,788 88,330 79,585
Debtors .. 3,529 17,744 7,712 7,648
1 nvestments, cash,
etc. . . 5,089 8,119 6,634 8,063
Since 1924 the more or less liquid surplus
(£59,248 at July 31) has been strengthened
by no less than £45,570; the improvement
last year was £10,327.
The outstanding features are the consistent
reduction of the outside debt and the
annually decreasing book value of stocks.
The former movement was assisted by
the sale of part of the freehold and
£20,000 of new ord. capital got in in 1926,
and since then there has been a 55 p.c. reduc-
tion in the amount coming to creditors.
Stocks are the important item, and for the
most part they consist of quick-selling bread-
and-butter lines. The co.’s turnover has thus
always been not only large but very brisk.
The difficulty most likely to be met with
arises from quick depreciation on lines that
have gone out of favor. This primarily
calls for good buying, and the very low
figure at which stocks now stand m tn-
sheet (£79,555) is a striking illustration
of what the management has achieved in tins
direction. Excepting the slump in values in
1921 stocks are lower than at any time
since 1915, and trading profits have never
been better. It all looks as though some-
thing will have to go very much amiss before
good profits fail to be shown.
The prefs., which have priority as to capi-
tal, are well equipped to protect their
interests. They have equal voting pow T ers
with the ords. on questions affecting pref.
rights or when their div. is three months or
more overdue. The sale of_ the business,
an increase in the share capital beyond its
present figure (£100,000), or a mortgage
exceeding £90,000 requires their sanction.
Their backing in net tangibles amounts to
435. 5d.; and the market prices them at
335. The return at that figure is 7i p.c. on
a 121 p.c. div. basis. Prior to the recon-
struction in 1925 the old ords. were selling
a bit above par.
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jv.lv, £ £ £ £ £
1917.. 16.589 10 p.c. = 12,500 2000 39,059
1918.. 20,006 10 „ ~ 12,500 5000 41,565
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 29,065
Prefs.
(8 p.c.) Ordinaries.
1919. .21,562 £417 10 p.c. = £13,125 £2Bll ) 31 27i
Taxation reserve.. .. 3000 )
Assets written up, £lO,OOO . . 41,274
Transferred to capital, £27,500. . 13,774
1920. .28,530 2000 124 p.c. = 17,706 3000 19,598
1921.. 22.497 2000 10 ~ „ 18,756 1000 20,339
1922.. 27.553 2000 10 „ ~ 18,756 2500 24,636
Premiums on new shares, £3llO 27,746
1923.. 31.115 4000 Hi p.c. = 21,689 33,172
1924.. 26.959 4000 10 „ „ 20,000 36,131
1925. .26,380 4000 10 ~ „ 20,000 38,511
1926. .26,337 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 44,848
1927. .24,765 4000 8 „ ~ 16,000 5000 4>4,613
1928.. 20.554 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 5000 40,167
With a view to livening up its turnover this
Melbourne co., which lias been in the general-
storekeeping business for well over half a
century, decided to make extensive altera-
tions to its premises. That was three years
ago, and practically only the shell of the
building as it originally existed now remains.
The work, practically completed, interfered
with trading; partly because of this the
profits for the last two years show a sharp
decline, though for three years before that
the co. apparently had been having a hard
fight to hold business.
Last year difficult trading conditions, due
to financial stringency and other causes,
added considerably to the board’s troubles.
One way and another gross profit (£110,713).
after providing for depreciation, etc., fell
away £4363; a saving of over £2OOO in
administrative charges was just about offset
by the growth in the, interest bill, so the
cut in outgoings (£90,159) amounted to but
£152. The net result was the poorest since
1918, and after satisfying the prefs. the
balance of the year’s profit (£10,554) was
only 8.4 p.c. on the ord. capital compared
with 10.3, 11.1, 11.1 and 11.4 p.c. back to
1924.
Since the close of accounts business has
brightened a little, and with the improved
facilities for trade a brisker turnover might
be expected. Still it is doubtful whether
anything better than 8 p.c. can be looked
for in the near future. Certainly share-
holders were handed a steady 10 p.c. for
the 13 years to 1925, sweetened with a little
extra in the fat years and the capitalisation
of £40,000 of reserves in 191 S-20; but there
is more money in property now, and trading
has become more difficult of late, mainly
because of more aggressive competition, and
the drag of the city northward and away
from Flinders-street. Nor is there any hope
of a swing-back.
Over the last three years £55,295 has
been spent on building extensions, and
£lO,OOO of it has been written off. To do
that £49,100 was tacked on to the debt,
making it £162,275. Here are balance-sheet
figures:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £90,507 £111,105 £140,034 £162,278
Property .. 103,625 143,006 165,217 186,295
Plant, etc. .. 24,750 34,250 32,775 31,875
Stock.. .. 142,518 159,080 172,445 170,904
Book debts .. 50,899 79,318 78,910 78,071
Cash.. .. 18,503 300 300 300
Last year £11,775 was added to the mort-
gage (£80,000) and £11,390 to the overdraft
(£32,636) ; the new money was all swallowed
up in extensions. The rest of the liabilities
consist of sundry creditors (£26,715) and
customers’ deposits (£22,213). All this, of
course, has affected the financial position.
At .Tulv 31 the more or less liquid surplus
(£86,997) was £40,596 lighter than it was
two years earlier. Stocks (£170,904), which
are taken into thp sheet after an unspecified
amount has been written off, do not appear
to have been over-valued in the past.
On the market 235. 9d. is offered for the
ords. after sales at 245. At the latter figure
the return is 6.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis;
the backing amounts to 245. in net tangibles,
nearly all of it in freehold and plant. For
the prefs., which are entitled to a cumulative


\
m
m
V
111
•„v;
so^
\o
£7/7/- VALUE
for
£5/13/9
Murdoch’
Celebrated
SUITS
THESE choice, All-Wool Worsted Suitings comprise latest patterns and
color tones of new Grey, Powder Blues, Fawns, Browns, Navys,
Amethyst, new Plum shades, Dove Grey and Lavenders, smart
designs, neat checks, basket patterns, fine herringbones and dressy, silk-
striped effects.
Irreproachably-tailored to your measure.
Usual £7/7/- Value
Murdoch’s
“MILL TO
WEARER”
Special
%
Also our celebrated "Ever-rite” Serge, in fine Twills, Herringbones and
new dice checks, guaranteed not to fade. £5/13/9.
FREE!
Simply fill
in your
name and
address and
receive
actual pat-
terns no
obi igation
whatever.
Desk R.
Murdoch’s in Park Street, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me a range of Suiting Patterns at
“Mill to Wearer” 'prices, including the £5/13/9 special. I am
interested in suitings priced somewhere in the vicinity of £
It is understood that I am under no obligation to purchase tinless
l so desire.
NAME ...... i
ADDRESS
24/10/’2B.
/
-
YOUR NEXT HAT,
MAKE IT A
[MMsmv
All-Australian
Manufacture.
“Kookaburra” Hats'display all the distinctive features of hats at
higher price. In popular “Snap Brim,” “Prince” and Nail Curl”
Colors: Light, Mid and Dark Grey, in “Prince” and “Nail Curl.”
Brim” in Light, Mid and Dark Grey, and also New Cinnamon
and Spark Greys exclusive to Murdoch’s.
Australia’s Finest Hat Value for
a much
shapes.
“Snap
211-
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
MW
Sidney
"The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store ”
Kindly address
all communica-
tions to Desk R.
When ordering,
kindly remember
to state size and
shade required.
Others have Gambled
—and WON !
YOU have here almost
A CERTAINTY
in Roma Orallo Oil Ltd.
for the reasons shown in the map !
, % Bores nou operating
V
bM
2 £
■3*
i v
'7£
4.4
Ati^L
11 6
'JIL
Q
y /*-.
3
m
20
m
8000
2‘B
103
220
9
08
84
Os
43
50
100
5?
53
? r
33
25
23
48
€>?
05
£
A/LWAYt
8?
'22
!43
63
Bores commencing
operations
Roma Orallo Oil, Ltd., Permits Nos. 63 and 65 (shown in black on
the map) are surrounded by the permits owned by Australian Oil
Industries, Ltd. (shaded), the largest Oil Company operating there, and
you will also note from the arrows that Bores have been erected, or
are being erected, all round our Holdings. LANDER OIL CO.’S Block
106 almost adjoins our site (and their shares are rising rapidly).
Roma Orallo Permits are in the most promising position of any.
If Oil is struck by any of the
Companies operating, Investors
in Roma Orallo MUST profit
even if boring operations have
not commenced. Get in on the
shares at Par NOW—it may
mean your independence.
The Permits are located in the
now famous Middle Walloon
Series underlying the principal
Artesian Water Zone and over-
lying the principal Petroliferous
Zone.
The opportunity is yours, and
shares are selling fast.
DIRECTORS: MESSRS. W. H. WILSON, H. H. DEAN, W. SHAILER
(BRISBANE) and A. E. DALWOOD, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SHARES ARE AT PAR—lO\- EACH
Payable //- on application—balance
as usual .
SEND THIS APPLICATION TO
ROMA-ORALLO OIL LTD.
C/o W. H. WILSON, GRANITE BUILDING, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SEND THIS APPLICATION NOW!
To the Directors
ROMA ORALLO OIL LTD.,
C/o W. H. WILSON, Granite Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Gentlemen, —I hereby apply for Shares in ROMA ORALLO OIL, LIMITED,
and I agree to accept the same or any lesser number that may be allotted to me. I authorise
you to register me as the holder of such shares, and I agree to be bound by the Rules and
Regulations of the Company.
I enclose £ being the application money of l/- per share, and I agree to
pay 1/- per share on allotment and to pay the balance in instalments not to exceed 1/- per
share per month, and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 1928
Name in full
Address in full -
Signature
Occupation
N.B. —Payments made by cheque should be crossed “Not Negotiable” and made payable to
“Roma Orallo Oil, Limited,” and the word “Bearer” struck out. Exchange should be added to
country and inter-State cheques.


“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
OCTOBER NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GP -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E, Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Svvanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
'•* *•* *•'
Painters. “The Arnold” Spray Equipment is
quicker, cheaper, better and Australian made. Write
for Booklet “C” to R). W. Cameron and Co. Inc., 2f
Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* *
Unapproached in economy, Pioneer lVood Pipe
offers a service of wonderful efficiency. This modern
wood conduit is safe from corrosion of any kind,
will carry any fluid, is light, simple, easy to lay,
and cheap. It incurs no upkeep nor cleaning costs.
Full particulars and complete data book from the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
9 * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Oastiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * *
Roberts’ Improved Prickly Pear Poison is the best
eradicator of prickly pear. All applications for this
poison to be addressed: Secretary, Queensland Prickly
Pear Commission, Brisbane. In New South Wales:
Commissioner, Prickly Pear Destruction Board,
Moree. — Advt,
f Prepared 1
‘lt Keeps on Keeping on!
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
c lheSun has never
shone on better paint
than
a
BP
YG
BOORD&mSO*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Ascents, 26 HO Clarence St.. Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
' COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia )'
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMTBERT. General Manager V. G. WATSON. Manager.
8 p.c. and have priority as to capital, 255.
is paid. The return at that price is 6.4 p.c. ;
the cover amounts to £5 16s. in net tan-
gibles, and last year’s profit was over five
times their annual requirements.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
The deficit to begin with in this case was
the capital of the new co. issued for good-
will of the old A. G. Healing and Co. Rty.,
Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref. Toward
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
43,545
1927.. 28,592 1462 74 p.c. = 15,228 11,902 31,643
Preliminary exes., etc., £2991 .. 34,634
1928.. 24,927 5068 8 p.c. = 16,892 2,967 31,667
This co. is in the wholesale bicycle, motor-
accessories and wireless trade (it has the
Australian distributing agency for Atwater
Kent radio goods) ; it produces many lines
at its Melbourne factories, and imports the
rest. The business, which was started in
Melbourne by A. G. Healing 32 years ago,
to handle bicycles alone, spread to bydney
in 1912, and a branch was opened at Adel-
aide three years later. Recently the turn-
over so expanded that in all three cities
the business outgrew the premises in which
it was housed. At Melbourne it was decided
to bring the warehouse (in Rost Office-
place) and the two factories (one at North
Melbourne and the other at Carlton) under
one roof, so a freehold was bought in Frank-
lin-street and a new seven-storeyed building
put up thereon. The move into the new
premises was made last Easter. At Adelaide
the 00. has put up a three-storeyed ware-
house, with a large ground-floor area and
plenty of letting space, on a 284 years’
building lease, at a cost of £22,000. This
meant that there was a lot of money, repre-
sented by new premises, that was not earn-
ing anything for the greater part of the
last term. Although £874 of the removal
exes, was capitalised, the disturbance and
dislocation inevitable in changes like this
must have increased overhead and reduced
turnover. Also at the Sydney end the
spare-parts stock of Williams Bros., Ltd.,
was bought early in the term, and the work
of consolidating the business there entailed
considerable non-recurring expense.
It is not surprising, therefore, that, after
putting aside £6255 for taxation, net result
was £3665 poorer than in the previous term.
The board, however, expressed its confi-
dence in the future by adding half a point
to the ord. div., making it 8 p.c. After
satisfying the prefs. the year’s earnings were
equal to 9.4 p.c. on the ordinaries compared
with 13.3 p.c. in the previous term. Good-
will, which figures at £43,500, and is pro-
bably worth a lot more, is not treated as
an asset in the table; thus £31,667 of the
capital was unrepresented by tangibles at
June 30.
The year’s activities are reflected in this
comparison of balance-sheet movements: —
1927. 1928.
Paid capital £229,470 £285,955
Overdraft 16,891 30,098
Mortgages and loans . . . . 15,563 61,080
Sundry creditors .. . . 71,013 59,487
Freeholds, etc. .. .. 29,179 104,072
Plant, etc. 12,520 19,134
Stocks 161,272 180,356
Book debts, cash, etc. .. 124,548 127,705
A little over a year ago the public was in-
vited in and put up £50,000 of pref. money.
Another £6485 of capital was issued pri-
vately. Also £45,500 was raised on mort-
gage and £13,207 was tacked on to the
overdraft. Most of the new money was
swallowed up in freehold, etc. (up £74,893),
and stocks (up £19,084). The latter in-
crease was mainly on account of the Syd-
ney purchase. Still the financial position
was quite comfortable. At the close of
accounts more or less liquids, including
stocks, totalled £157,396 more than the lia-
bilities.
Only the prefs.—there are 74,800 of them
—are listed. They are entitled to a cumu-
lative 8 p.c., and have priority as to capital.
The market values them at around 21s. 9d.;
at this figure the return is 7.4 p.c.. The
backing amounts to £3 7s. lid. in net tan-
gibles, and last year’s profit was over four
times their annual requirements. The cover
for the ords., which are held chiefly by the
founder of the co. and his earlier business
connections, is approximately 17s. in net
tangibles.
Roma Oil
The protests lodged against the Queens-
land Government’s new bill in relation to the
oil industry have had effect, and the measure
has been withdrawn. Thus far oil explora-
tion in Australia has been removed from the
control or possible control of foreign people
who might conceivably be more interested in
preventing the birth of the industry than in
bringing it into being. On the plea that
insufficient capital was offering in Australia
to do the job it was proposed to cancel this
provision and allow the foreigner in ; but the
Government has accepted the “Wild Cat”
view that it will be time enough to think of
doing this when Australia goes quite cold on
the business. At present, as last week s mar-
ket experiences showed, it is keen on an oil
gamble, and willing to put up a stake on very
small provocation.
It was an announcement that the gas-
absorption plant at the R.O.C.’s No. 1 bore
had recovered 190 gallons of gasoline m a
lj-hour trial run which created last week s
boom; and the excitement increased as the
public rushed into the market. The chief
centre of activity was Sydney, where one
broker alone put through no less than 300
oil-scrip transactions, and speculators and
others crowded the vestibule, keenly follow-
ing price movements. Brisbane, Melbourne
and Adelaide also joined in the speculative
rush. However, profit-takers and bears pre-
vented prices soaring to spectacular levels,
though the week's increases were sufficient
to add approximately £125,000 to the value
placed by the market on the four Queensland
oil cos. whose scrip is listed —R.0.C., Lan-
der, Roma Blocks and Roma Oil South
Blocks. The R.O.C. scrip strengthened 205.,
reaching £7 17s. 6d. Lander prices improved
25.; week-end sales being marked at 14s Bd.
The present R.O.C. absorption plant has a
capacity of 3000 gallons of gasoline per day.
The average recovery last week was between
six and seven pints per 1000 c.f. of gas put
through the machine. Similar types of plant
are being profitably operated in America and
in Persia. In the latter country the Anglo-
Persian Oil Co. recovered over 30,000 gallons
of gasoline per day that had previously been
burnt with the gas.
The market anxiously awaits the announce-
ment of further developments. Nothing that
happened last week really throws any new
light on the situation. All it demonstrates
is that the gas is a little richer in oil than
bad been generally believed ; but the Persian
experience is that the oil content of the gas
varies considerably from day to day.
There are three main products of this
industry: oil, gas and hot air. The public
will find it easier to acquire shares in hot-
air enterprises than any others. Infinite
caution is therefore necessary.
New Guinea Gold Rivers Exploration Co.
is being formed in Sydney to investigate
country on the n.-e. coast of New Guinea.
J. T. Beckett will lead the expedition; and
R. J. Winters, who will look after the scien-
tific end, was with Dr. H. I. Jensen in the
N.T. Geological Survey for five years. A
feature of the scheme is the proposd utili-
sation of a vessel fitted for river and
coastal work as a movable base. Costs for
12 months’ work are estimated at £6OOO.
Capital is £17,500 in 140,000 shares of 2s. 6d.
each. Of these 20,000 f.p.’s go to the pros-
pectors when they have acquired an area
for the co., and the promoter takes 18,000
f.p.’s.
* . x * *
New Guinea Exploration and Options
Syndicate is being floated to acquire, from
Thomas Keogh, an option over 240 acres
of dredging and sluicing properties on the
Watut River, New Guinea. The ground is
about 75 miles from Salamoa by road, and
the distance is covered by packers in about
10 days. Transport from Salamoa to Wan
by aeroplane takes 35 minutes; from this
point it takes about a day and a half to
walk to the leases. These are on the field
of which Edie Creek is part.
The Montoro brought 12,0000 z. gold worth
£30,000 to Sydney on its last trip. C. M.
Williams, of Melbourne, brought with him a
nugget weighing 2100 z., which he claims is
the largest yet discovered on the field. It
was found about five feet below the surface
on Williams’s claim at Edie Creek.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
At Moliagul, 10 miles north of Dunolly
(Vic.), two road contractors, Pike and Webb,
by a fluke struck an indicator line of lode
and have taken 4160 z. gold from pockets in
the reef. The reef has been followed for
30ft. from the surface to a depth of 12ft.,
at which point the crushing stone is inter-
sected by an ironstone indicator. To the
north right up to Mt. Moliagul the country
is virgin. Of course the ground has been
pegged for many miles north and south. It
is understood that a Sydney group has
offered to buy the mine and form a co., but
at present the diggers are not disposed to
part with their claim. The famous Welcome
Stranger nugget, weighing 25020 z., was found
about two miles beyond Pike and Webb’s
claim, and other nuggets of 810, 805 and
782 ounces were taken from the field.
❖ jjc
The Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, Harriet-
ville (Vic.), has just won 1390 z. from 137
tons for a month, without reckoning the
value of 3| tons of concentrates. More
stuff would have been put through only
there was a shortage of labor; in future
the battery is expected to run for full time.
At 625 feet the reef in the Land Tax shaft
is improving. A leader which came in about
45 feet back from the shaft has increased
in width to 18in. and shows gold.
X X X X
The old Hercules mine, Bendigo, is in
the hands of tributors, one party of whom,
working at 1320 feet, has crushed 15 tons
for 420 z. But the old hands didn’t leave
much like that.
MeCahons Co., holding an option over
the Edna May Consolidated at Westonia,
after recently advancing to 155., retreated to
12s. 6d. All ore obtained from developmental
work during the currency of the option has
yielded 17dwt. per ton by amalgamat or!,
plus Sdwt. gold content in tailings. Still
some snareno.uers are not satisned; they
wish to know Why the duty of the treat-
ment plant has not been increased. The
option agreement precludes any stoping
operations during the option, and the present
plant is ample to treat all ore likely to be
won from developmental work. When the
option is exercised, there should be almost
sufficient cash in hand, plus gold in ‘escrow,
to pay mine purchase consideration ; so there
appears to be little ground for complaint
so far as mine prospects and performances
are concerned. Meanwhile McCalions share-
holders are demanding and should receive
more information regarding developments.
The “Wild Cat” looks towards the Adelaide
directors.
* * x x
During the past two years the Emu
North, Reedy’s, Murchison (W.A.), has
been in a precarious state, brought about
by inefficient plant. There is nothing wrong
with the mine. Its lode has been exposed to
a depth of 165 feet over a length of 400 feet
by an average width of 6 feet; the average
extractable gold content is 41s. This is not
a story of a lode that was there; it is there
now—standing solid in both north and south
ends and practically solid from the Nos. 1
to 2 level. Below 165 ft.. boring has proved
that better physical conditions persist to
depth of sCort., at which point an improve-
ment of 10 shillings per ton in gold values
was disclosed. Such features have proved
good enough to attract a number of up-to-date
Westralian mining men to the show, and, if'
the Adelaide directors give this crowd a
chance to instal an efficient ore-treatment
process, the mine should respond well. The
Westralian backers say Is. 6d. per share in
calls will do all that is required in the way
of mine development and plant equipment,
but that may be an under-estimate.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly has had a clean-up at
headquarters but not at the mill. Directors,
secretary, engineer and solicitors have re-
signed, and a new lot are installed. The co.
holds an option over the New Mararoa at
Norseman, and a crowd outside the old direc-
tors thought the show so promising that they
bought up practically all the Butterfly stock
that they dould. The mine has been opened
up to a depth of 270 feet, and contains one
fairly good ore-slioot north of the main shaft,
but this is not good enough to ensure divi-
dends. A policy of drive extensions, north
and south, and main-shaft sinking may dis-
close something uew; there is always such
a chance, even though a slim one, in an ore
channel like the Mararoa. The original ven-
dors will get something out of it all ulti-
mately, either in cash or developmental work,
and this is the most pleasing feature of the
option; the owners being an energetic and
deserving party of working miners.
:*s * *
Big Bell, near Cue, often described as one
of Westralia’s widest and longest gold-
bearing formations, is about to be diamond
drilled by an English syndicate. Open-
cutting 100 ft. wide in a primitive way, its
original owners failed to make a 16s. re-
covery pay, and then Dorrie Doolette
and others tried and failed. Present owners
believe there is a possibility of something-
better at depth.
* * * *
Horseshoe (W.A.) hopes soon to get going
again underground. Meanwhile geologist
Gibson is reporting on the workings, manager
Sutherlad is busy evolving a cheaper
method of treatment, and Duncan McAulay,
from the neighbouring Associated, is super-
vising the sampling of a mountainous dump
of tailings. This dump is estimated to con-
tain nearly five-million tons of residues and
over a million pounds’ worth of gold. There
is money in the pile for anyone who can
treat it cheaply enough.
* * * *
Few of Westralia’s private mines have
done better than the Carbine, some miles
north of Coolgardie. To date it has yielded
about 40,000 ounces and is still producing
in a small way. Its owner, Bob Crawford,
has turned the surrounding country into a
pastoral venture; thus providing against the
inevitable day when the mine works out.
x * * *
Payment has been made of 2s. 3d. a share,
representing the fourth distribution of
assets, to shareholders of the Ivanhoe (in
liquidation). This show was for many
years one of the best of the Kalgoorlie gold-
mines, and produced over 24 million oz. be-
fore it was sold to the Lake View and Star.
* * * *
London-controlled Paringa has obtained
further exemption for its Kalgoorlie mine
on the plea that, owing to high costs, profit-
able operations are at present impossible.
* * x *
Tingha Tin, a N.S.W. show with London
headquarters, decided last year to look for
a Malayan dredging proposition. At the
annual meeting recently the chairman stated
that a six months’ free option had been
granted the co. over 575 acres of the Kun-
dang Rubber Estate, Selangor. The Anglo-
Oriental and General Investment Trust,
which made the offer, has undertaken to
bore, without fee, this and another property
held under option. It will probably handle
the flotation of the co. or cos. which may be
eventually formed to work the areas. Tingha
has decided to reorganise its finances, and
shareholders will be asked bo consider a
scheme when the boring has been completed.
* * * *
Tin Bentong, formed in Melbourne in 1914,
has had a long and successful run ; but the
annual report for the year ended April 30
shows that things are not as good as they
used to be. Last year’s profit was only
£31,926, or over £lO,OOO less than that for the
previous year. Four dividends and a bonus
absorbed £40,000; thus £58,904 was carried
forward as against £68,193 brought down.
The dirt treated last year returned 13.552 d.
net per yard, compared with 14.877 d. in the
previous period. Dredge additions, to cost
£5OOO, are to be made, and the bonus (Is.
per share) discontinued, leaving .the quar-
terly dividend at Is. per share. Gordon
Peacock, the general manager in Malaya,
is busy hunting up a new area, though the
proved ground in sight will take a few years
to work out.


Business, Robbery, etc.
AND THEN YOU EXPECT THEM TO HATCH CHICKS!
“The N.S.W. Government proposes an amendment of the law to enable it to collect still another three-quarters of a million p.a. from industry through
the income-tax. Most of it will be drawn from manufacturing and trading companies.”
THE MISTRESS OF THE FOWLYARD: “How can you expect my hens to hatch chicks if you don’t leave them with enough feathers to cover an egg?
MR. BAVIN: “I’m sorry, but I must make a few more soft beds for a few more civil servants, or they won’t vote for me.”
As the “Wild Cat” said the other day,
the Advertiser and Register in Adelaide,
got £lO,OOO each for taking their evening
papers off the streets for 10 years; and
each keeps its partly-suppressed journal alive
with a Saturday edition. But even though
it is only a sort of a nest-egg, the Express,
the Bonython Saturday paper, has a circu-
lation of 25,000.
* * * *
“Avon”: Yet another Maoriland news-
paper co. has found publication of a weekly
unprofitable; the Christchurch Weekly
Press, established in 1865, dropped out of
existence on Oct. 24. Its owners publish a
morning paper, the Press, which will, of
course, be continued. Their rival in the
morning-paper field, the Lyttelton Times Co.,
scrapped its old-established weekly, the
Canterbury Times, during the war period;
it had been a money-loser for years.
% jjs sjc %
“Rex”: The tobacco business in Sumatra
is booming. At Sinantar, in that island, they
have a huge modern tobacco factory: and
last year many managers of tobacco planta-
tions received cheques for over 100,000
guilders (say £10,000) as bonus on the
profits made for their owners. There is a
small sprinkling of Australians in the com-
munity who have drifted over from the
Malay Peninsula. The capital. Medan, is
only 25 years old, and there is still good
tiger and elephant hunting within 2| hours'
journey.
* * * *
Westralia’s voluntary wheat pool con-
tinues to give satisfaction to its contri-
butors. Last season it took in 17,500,000
bushels, which was 17.8 per cent, of the
total Australian saleable crop, and exported
16,000,000 bushels. The pool is financed by
the Co-operative Wholesale Co. of England,
whose payments for last season's crop aggre-
gated £3.356,000. For the present pool,
after paying railage at about 4|d. a bushel,
the net return to growers, it is estimated,
will be about 4s. lOd. a bush'd. To date
4300 growers have promised to come into
the current pool.
* * * *
“Tiki”: After each of the Maori wars of
the last century there were punitive confis-
cations of territory. Henare has never
admitted that these confiscations were jus-
tifiable, and in some instances he has been
backed up by very influential white men. A
Royal Commission headed by Judge S m
commenced an investigation a couple of years
ago, and its report, just tabled, is a very
straightforward document. It finds that
the first and second Taranaki wars, arising
out of the infamous Waitara land purchase,
were “unjust and unholy,” and the 462,000
acres confiscated were wrongly confiscated.
In the case of the Waikato war, punishment
was merited, but the confiscations were ex-
cessive. In the case of the Poverty Bay and
Tauranga wars the confiscations _ were not
in excess of what fair and just. The
land wrongly confiscated can't be restored
a t this late date, so the Government is ad-
vised to make annual payments aggregating
£5OOO a year to Taranaki natives and £3OOO
t 0 Waikato natives impoverished as a result
0 f the confiscations,
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Going ashore in
Colombo I was assailed by a diminutive,
spindle-shanked newsboy. “Boolteen, Mis-
ter?” he chanted. “Verree bes’ damfine Stree-
iyah paper. Everee Streelyah man read
Boolteen. You buy. Mister? Only one bob
— oue i OUS ee, blankee bob. Mister.” 1
bought three copies for two and sixpence
and f e i t qu it e pleased over the deal until
j a ter on I found that the papers were two
years old; and that several drawings had
b een Cllt o ut of each oopy. But I once
bad a worse experience in Buenos Ayres,
where a predatory Britisher—Scottish, by
bis accent—tore a nacional (about one shii-
ling and e ightpence) off me for a single
CO p y>
' * * * *
T h e Cheistmas bulletin for 1928, to
be published Dec. 8, has now taken shape,
and a pretty good forecast can be made of
j ts quality. In a general way this Christmas
Bulletin reflects the progress (or otlier-
wise) of literature and art in Australia,
The year lias been conspicuous for a great
revival in the quality of the short stories —
the revival began in 1927—and the annual
will show the effects of it. There is no
single story quite as good as “The Ghosts
of Brogan," published in 1927, but W.
Charnley’s “Thieves’ Gold” is about the most
gripping story ever written in Australia,
Charnley is a Westralian, and ought to be
heard about in the future. The standard
of this -year’s stories is exceptionally high ;
and there is more humor in them than has
been common of late years,
* * * *
“Clerk”: Harold Clapp discloses in his
annual report to Parliament that it cost
him £10,000,000-odd to run the Victorian
railways last year. Of those working ex-
penses no less than £7,551,103 went out
in wages alone. In fact, the entire revenue
of the service for 213 days of the year was
earmarked for the pay-rolls, while the grist
of another 27 days was absorbed by the coal
bill and of a further 46 days by other
working expenses. This left the revenue of
only 80 days to set against the interest
charges of 3£ millions and to make ends
meeb The interest bill actually mopped up
the revenue of 94 days, and the cash deficit
was £750,000.
* * * *
“Salambo”: The Maoris are by na.ture the
most active of Polynesian races. Before the
white invasion they led lives of unceasing
activity, tilling the soil, fishing, hunting,
building, sailing boats, weaving mats and
baskets, and conducting warfare. Owing to
changed conditions, the Maori now is at a
loose end. Apirana Ngata, a leader of Maori
thought, advocates that his people should
cultivate their lands again, using, of course,
modern methods. The Ngati Towharetoas,
south of Lake Taupo, are making a success
of dairying, and the Arawa Trust Board at
Rotorua is doing good work assisting the
natives to propagate tobacco on the pumice
soils, the finest for the purpose in M.L.
Potato- and fruit-growing, as well as sheep-
fax-ming, also interest Henare, and there are
hopes for the regeneration of a fine race
which has suffered less from white oppres-
sion than from the privileges the whites have
allowed it.
* * * *
“A.J.8.” : It isn’t only the bride who buys
meat without studying economy; few house-
wives pick the most useful joint. There is
a curious illusion that legs of mutton are
choicer and better value than forequarters,
with tbe result that the former always com-
mand a far higher price. Actually, if the
joints ai'e of equal weights, say 81b. or 91b.,
there is only 1 per cent, more meat on the
leg than the forequarter. Similarly the
housewife pays from 6d. to 7d. a lb. for
rolled brisket, while brisket with the bone
in can be bought for about 3d., with 83 per
cent, of meat and fat in it; so why the
“rolled” is preferred at twice the price is
a mystery. Corned breast of mutton is almost
unsaleable at or 3d. a lb., yet corned
pork sells readily at Is. or Is. 3d., and the
former is very little inferior to the latter.
* * * *
“Counter-blast”: That portion of the re-
cently published report of the Imperial
Economic Committee which deals with
tobacco-growing in Australia shows this coun-
try in a poor light. Tobacco-growing is sup-
posed to be an industry particularly suited to
warm countries, yet Canada, with its
arctic winter and brief summer, can produce
29 million pounds of leaf annually against
this country’s 1| million pounds. Tlie Union
of South Africa, Rhodesia and Nyassaland,
which produce nearly 50 million pounds be-
tween them, have an abundance of cheap
native labor, but Canada has not even that
advantage. Forty years ago Australia had
7000 acres under tobacco in the various
States. To-day, oven with the Federal sub-
sidy and the encouragement held out by the
British Australian Tobacco Co., the area
planted is under 3000 acres —a few years ago
it was less than 1400 acres.
* * * *
“Pawang”: In the Chinese equivalent of
the country store I have often watched pro-
spective customers turning over the tray of
assorted spectacles which is always pro-
vided, trying one after the other and, having
found a pair to their liking, departing satis-
fied. One would not expect to find the same
thing in Australia, yet the door-to-door eye
“specialist” drives a thriving business. _ His
stock-in-trade consists of a few lenses giving
various degrees of magnification and a little
card on which are pasted lines of print of dif-
ferent sizes cut from the daily papers.
Usually he does not go beyond attempting to
correct simple astigmatism. The effect of
having a weak optic boosted is as exhilara-
ting to the unsophisticated as a balloon
shandy. When later the probably over-
stimulated organ begins to ache and the
other eyeball sags in the effort to keep up
with it there is sorrow in the household.
* * * *
“Drover”: North-western Queensland
cattlemen are up in arms against the ex-
cessive dipping charges made by the Stock
Department, and pastoralists are on the
move to agitate for a reduction. Just now
the price for dipping is a shade over sd.
per head and, as the estimated cost works
out at under Id. per head, the depart-
ment must be making too good a thing
out of it. During the 22 months ended
July 31 last, over 160,000 cattle were
dipped at the Sedan, Hughenden and
Prairie dips. The Graziers’ Association
suggests 3d. per head as a fair charge, which
would allow the Stock Department a fair
margin of profit.
* * * *
“D”: A clothing department buyer at
Grace Bros. (Sydney) has been subjected
to scorn in the press for telling the Basic
Wage Commission that “two suits of clothes
might last a man four years.” I am wearing
a suit at the moment which I bought in
the West End of London in 1916 for eight
guineas. It has been worn, off and on, ever
since, and appears good for a few years more.
While in London the other day I had it
“turned” (cost 355.), a process which gives
a well-made suit of good material a new lease
of life. In point of fact it is as absurd to
dogmatise in general terms about the life of
a suit as it is to do likewise about the life of
a car. All depends (1) on the make, (2)
on the owner. One of the best-looking and
easiest-running cars of my acquaintance is
a 1913 model —no need to specify the make.
Sj* ❖ ❖ ❖
“Hamer”: In spite of prohibitionist oppo-
sition Sydney’s unpubbed suburbs are rapidly
having their disabilities removed. For years
the tendency was in the other direction:
Bondi, for instance, lost the Cliff House
Hotel and the Aquarium Hotel before its
two big residential hostelries came into being
Quite recently Clovelly has been equipped
with a new hotel, and Maroubra is getting
one. Rose Bay lost its Half-way House,
patronised by a generation which used to go
by buggy and coach to Watson’s Bay, and
for years remained publess, but the reproach
is to be removed by a hotel in Dover-road.


S 3
< ■-
I
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), VVM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to L’olicy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evotj contingency
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Sat.) .. “The Vagabond King”
Royal “Interference”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Palace “The Pigeon”
Empire “Bubbles”
Tivoli '. Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedy “On Approval”
King's “Whispering Wires”
Princess Shakspearean Plays
AtheN/Eum “The Family Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Olympia *.... Wirths’ Circus
—
For the first time in Sydney John Gals-
worthy’s so-called fantasy “The Pigeon” was
presented at the Palace on Saturday night
by the Grogan McMahon troupe. Except
that in it Galsworthy cleverly brings together
an odd lot of sharply contrasted characters
and convincingly sets them up to strut their
hour, the piece has few of the qualities and
many of the defects of that honest sentimen-
talist’s work. The “pigeon” is a too-good-
hearted English artist who cannot resist the
tale of anybody who cares to bite his ear,
and, not satisfied with merely supplying the
immediate needs of sundry riff-raff spongers,
he gives to each his card so that they all may
call upon him and bite again. In this way
he attracts to his studio a typical London
cabbie of a past age (the play was written
a year or so before the war), a married
woman of rather free morals and a vagabond
Frenchman. But having thus got them safely
on the stage, Galswoi’thy can find scarcely
anything for his people to do but talk. True,
the Frenchman and the woman form a
liaison, and when the husband arrives he
hears about it from the blithered cabbie,
and the lady later tries, unsuccessfully, to
drown herself; but apart from this slight
complication, which is quite subservient to
the moralising, the play lias no plot nor any
dramatic quality. It is a sermon first and
an' entertainment afterwards.
* * * *
Played by an even lot of actors “The
Pigeon” would probably pass as a fair offer-
ing from what is chiefly understood to be
meant by “repertory,” but the essential
evenness is lacking in this production, except
during the few minutes before Gregan
McMahon, as the vagabondish Louis Fer-
rand, steps into the studio. Thereafter
McMahon’s acting overwhelms his supporters.
He acts brilliantly. He supplies a gi’eat lead,
but the othei-s cannot act zip to it. The
nature of the piece, however, supplies the
lesser lights with excuses for their compara-
tively poor showing; away from the French-
man there is only one part that offers real
opportunity—that of Christopher Wellwyn,
the pigeon. Hugh Denham interprets him as
a pompous London suburbanite, instead of
what he ought to be—an over-generous eccen-
tric. John Burch’s Canon Bertley, who
comes into the proceedings occasionally to be
a butt for Galsworthian morality shafts, is
fair, though decidedly stereotyped, and there
are moments when the cabbie of Leonard
.Stephens’s making looks like scaling the high
dramatic peak whereon McMahon stands in
lonely supremacy. Daphne Deane has
the pick of the two feminine parts; her Mrs.
Megan, the lady of easy morals, is droopy,
but passable. Ann Wellwyn, the daughter
who vainly protests against the pigeon’s
follies, is only a footling part; Pearl Apple-
ton tries to make up for its deficiencies
by speaking at the top of her voice. The
idea, possibly, is to give the illusion of
youth, a fallacy that is nourished by various
producers. As a matter of fact, it rather
suggests hysteria. The play is worth seeing,
but only for McMahon’s uncommonly fine
work in it.
* * *
For the fii'St time in 50 years indulgence
and sympathy had to be asked for Dion
Boucicault, who appeared at Melbourne
Comedy on Saturday night against doctor’s
ordei's. It must have stung his pride to
have to refer freely to his lines in the star
role of “On Approval,” the part of a bache-
lor roue. Duke of Bristol, cynic and hum-
bug. The Frederick Lonsdale comedy is
carried off by only four people. The dia-
logue has lots of humor and digs at Eng-
land’s aristocracy, and on the quick fire of
these quips depends success. Irene Van-
brugh is the beautiful spoilt widow,, Mrs.
Wislack, of 40 or thereabouts, who advo-
cates a month’s trial of approved suitors,
which sounds quite, pi’omising until it is ex-
plained that the trial doesn’t go beyond the
dining-room. Her prospective husband,
Richard Halton. is a quite likeable man with
an income of £3OO a year “owing to his horses
having no ambition to get beyond second."
This part fits J. B. Rowe exactly. He agrees
to accompany the lady to her home in Scot-
land for the period, with nightly retirings
to the local hotel. Unfortunateiy, the ex-
periment becomes a house-party, owing to
the aforesaid Duke and the heiress Helen
Hayle (Gwynne Whitby), to whom he is
somewhat attached, inviting themselves. The
servants depart, leaving the lady of the
manor to do the work; and this brings the
chatelaine out in her true colors, the admira-
tion piled up over 20 years being nearly
killed. Only Lonsdale knows how the next
experiment works out, for Helen and
Richard flit back to London, leaving the
titled one and the widow, who detest each
other, alone in a snow-bound house with
no means of escape, the idea being to bi’ing
the two to their senses. To the audience,
murder rather than repentance seems the
likely end. Irene Vanbrugh is in her ele-
ment as the matron of moods, and the frail
but laughable comedy should go well when
Dion is himself again.
* * *
William Heughan closed his season at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night with
folk songs, ballads and some of the little-
knbwn ditties that are rather incomprehen-
sible without his explanatory introductions.
He is a good entertainer, with a fine sense of
humor, a quality that few concert pei'formers
have. The next voice that will drift over the
uncomfortable Town Hall seats will be that
of Xenia Belmas, who has already given one
or two successful concerts, and is billed for
to-night (Wednesday) and next Wednesday
night. On Thursday night, November 1, the
infant Shura Cherkassky, with the Conser-
vatorium orchestra in support, will induce
the piano to give up his rendering of two con-
certos —one of Chopin’s and one of Tschai-
kowsky’s.
The gibbet scene from “The Vagabond King,” the musical version of “If I
Were King.” The Firm describes it as “the most spectacular” production it has ever
attempted.
The outstanding effort of the Sydney Con-
servatorium choir last Wednesday night was
the first performance here of the British
composer Vaughan Williams’s Mass in G
minor, for double choir and quartet, unaccom-
panied. In one or two places, particularly
those of pure joyousness, the choir did not
reveal a sound mastery of the theme, but in
the more sombre movements the rendering
was effective and sympathetic. Another inter-
esting offering was the setting of “Adon
Olam,” which Rabbi Cohen (Sydney) com-
posed for the Jubilee Festival of the Great
Synagogue held a month or so ago.
% # #
Those who had tears went to Newtown
Majestic on Saturday night prepared to shed
them. Carl Lawson and his company pro-
duced that dear damp drama of the past,
“East Lynne,” under the Fuller auspices, and
a very good job they made of it. Hilda Dor-
rington was a presentable and almost-believ-
able I.ady Isabel, while John Galway was
quite as convincing as Archibald. Carl Law-
son himself played Dr. Latimer with finish,
and as for that fair cow, Francis Levison —
well, Ned Taylor did him justice.
* * *
Long Tack Sam and Tom Katz’s saxo-
phone-blowei-s continue to help fill the coffers
of the Sydney Tivoli, Sam and his bright
daughters and muscular men being billed to
vanish next week. The chief newcomer is
Aussie, the boxing kangaroo, from whom Mr.
William Grime might do worse than take a
lesson or so before he makes another descent
upon the U.S.A.
# # *
The latest Ike Delavale production, “The
Suffragettes,” at Sydney Fullers’, differed in
no important particular from the revues that
have gone before. As a pinchbeck baron, Ike
had plenty of room to spread himself, and the
suffragette theme, though slightly moth-eaten
now, affords ample scope for clowning.
* * #
Prepai’ations at Sydney Her Majesty’s
for “The Vagabond King,” which is being
heralded with a hearty fanfaz-e of publicity
trumpets for Saturday, permit Beppie de
Vries to rest instead of giving a matinee of
“Madame Pompadour” this afternoon (Wed-
nesday). If anything Beppie has improved
her light-hearted Pompadour since the open-
ing a week or so ago. After Friday she packs
her trunk for Europe, and this page is
sorry to see her going. In the same show
Vera Spaull is doing brilliantly in a part
that fits her to the toecaps. Gladys Mon-
crieff is still threatening to end her career
in “Rio Rita.” but the piece seems bred to
stay an indefinite distance. So does “The
Patsy,” at. the Criterion —a bright, senti-
mental little thing that is doing better even
than it did in Melbourne. Leon Gordon’s
show “Interference” is in its sixth week at
the Royal; at the Grand Opera House “My
Pal Ginger” is still sizzling away, and
“Bubbles” sparkle nightly at the Empire.
At the Grand Opera House the pals of
Ginger will give a matinee next Monday
in aid of the Surry Hills free milk depot
of the Child Welfare League.
After having been advertised for a week
or so as “not the Shakspeare story,” the
picture “Tempest” was unfolded at Sydney
Prince Edward on Friday. It does not im-
prove on the bard, and is notable only for
the excellent acting of John Barrymore and
Louis Wolheim. Between them these two
lift a very ordinary story of Russian pre-
revolution and revolution days out of the
stereotype’s deepest ruts. The stage
fantasy, “In a Bamboo Garden,” even
though the programme describes it as
“stupendous,” lias merit in originality
and picturesque design. The blot in an
entertainment which is as much musical and
vaudevillish as pictorial, and which on the
whole is good, is the bla-bla that the orches-
tra makes of Tschaikowsky’s normally quite
noisy enough “1812”; it sounds more
“Passcliendaele, 1916.”
* * *
The Regent is another Sydney picture-house
that has Russia stai-ring on its present pro-
gramme. “The Cossacks” is a more serious
effort than “Tempest,” and good photography
reveals some fine Cossack horsemanship, but
the story is also on the stereotyped side.
John Gilbert and Renee Adoree are its prin-
cipal people, but neither is happily cast.
Here, too, legitimate stage pi-esentations crop
up between the pictures, with Syd Burchall’s
hearty voice the chief attraction. The Capi-
tol’s new offering is “The Barker,” an Ameri-
can circus-life story and a good entertainer.
In it Douglas Fairbanks the younger gives
decisive pi’oof that his old man is not the only
one of the name who can act. At the Hay-
market Louise Fazenda, in “Heart to Heart,
is giving a ticklesome version of what might
happen when a United States young lady
marries into the aristocracy of Mussolini-
land. Other new offerings are “The Girl
from Chicago,” at the Lyceum and Lyric, and
“The Big City,” at Hoyt’s.
# * ¥
“A Midsummer Night's Dream” was Allan
Wilkie’s satisfying offering of the mid-week
at the Melbourne Princess. The fantasy
was done in the lightest of moods, as airy
as the fairies that tripped about the Titania
of Miss Hunter-Watts. Wilkie’s Bottom was
a pleasant ass, and Dennis Barry’s Puck was
admirable. Alexander Marsh (Lysander),
Lorna Forbes (Hermia), Dulcie Cherry
(who warbled the fairy songs tunefully) and
the rest earned honors in an even perfor-
mance effectively staged. “Coriolanus,” the
company's Saturday offering, was a note-
worthy production. This Shakspeai'ean
drama had not been seen in Melbourne for
half a century. To-night (Wednesday) the
brightness of “Twelfth Night” replaces the
ancient Roman scenes and strifes.
* * *
Muriel Starr returned to mystery play
at Melbourne King’s on Saturday with
“Whispering Wires”; three theatres here
are now projecting this class of histrionic
fare. The story hangs round the murder
of Montgomery Stockbridge, who is killed
as he lifts the receiver to answer the tele-
phone, having previously been warned by
a mysterious call that he would die that
night. Though he has surrounded the place
with detectives, the deed is done, aizd just
who did it takes about two hours to un-
ravel. Numerous trails lead to the sup-
posed perpetrator, and the secret is well
guarded until the final curtain. Muriel
Starr, as the victim’s secretary, Ann Cart-
wright, is remembered for her horn-rimmed
spectacles as much as anything. Mayne Lin-
ton is the murdered millionaire, Beatrice
Fischer, Harvey Adams (who follows up
clues as Detective Drew), John Barry, Regi-
nald Kenneth and Robert Ginns ai*e others
in the hair-raiser.
* * *
Wirtli Bros., who for 50 years have pro-
vided amusement of the sawdust and
spangles vai’iety, are celebrating their jubi-
lee year by putting on in Melbourne an excel-
lent show. The acrobatic and balancing feats
of the three Arconas are real thrillers, and
Mdlle. Gulnare Hoyer, in upholstery of
feathers, dances blithely in the lions’ den.
The animal turns include trained bears that
ride bikes. There are, of course, excellent
equestrian turns, and clowns, and—-well, this
Page hasn’t the space to mention all it
should like to.
* * *
Melbourne Majesty’s provides the best
theatrical double for Moonee Valley and Mel-
bourne Cup nights—Lance Fairfax’s “Red
Shadow” and “Pierre Bii’abeau” entines from
“The Desert Song.” Continued support for
Maurice Mascovtitch show indicates that
Mystery will be much in demand, if not
among the books, at any rate at the booking-
office.
* * *
The Ingenues have departed from Mel-
bourne Tivoli, leaving Barbette to share chief
limelight with the Spanish clown Pepito.
Barbette’s is a perfectly-finished aci-obatic
turn. Amoros, who does some clever things
with an English concertina, backed by the
good comedy support of his auburn-haired
partner Janet, and American comedians
Jimmy Conlin and Myrtle Glass are other
new arrivals.
* * *
Melbourne Hoyt’s is emerging this week
from the hands of decorators and painters
with a tastefully remodelled foyer and a
lounge that is an attractive retreat. On the
programme of the moment is the latest pic-
ture made by the trio of McDonagh sisters,
of Sydney. Called “The Far Paradise,” it
introduces some charming bits of Sydney and
Melbourne. The story is somewhat frail, but
ends most happily, and in technique and
photography the movie is ahead of the same
girls’ former effort. Isobel (Marie Lorraihe)
is the heroine, Cherry Carson. She leads
charmingly. Gaston Mervale, Arthur McLag
len, Paul Longuet and John Faulkiner are
in chief parts.


STONEWALL”
SHOES for MEN
SHEARERS’ SHOE
Ms23—Fine Quality Box Year-
ling. Double-stitched Welts.
Chrome Soles and Heel-piece.
Leather Inner Sole.
w
Post, 9d. Inter-State, 1/3
Write Desk M for Catalogue.
Mo 2 3
JACKSONS BP
‘'STONEWALL* STORES
Cnr Pitt & Goulbum S 1 * Sydney.
e
T he purest tobacco only ,
wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made i(C Che Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters !
GREYS
io for gd. CIGARETTES *
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. fNSGft
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Gouger”: As a great favor, an old
zogoman took me into the centre of Moa
Island, and in a weird spot isolated by
cliffs and gigantic grasses showed me the
Dow-Yumba zogo. This storm-making
charm was a rounded volcanic stone
blackened with burnt coco-liusk mixed with
turtle oil. Its crown was splashed a fiery
red, and around it ran streaks of white which
represented lightning. It was draped in
a skirt of coco-leaves and suspended from
CLEAN MONEY.
THE PROFITEER: “I never got a penny in my life that was not honestly earned.”
THE LEGPULLER: “Oh well, I suppose it’s some comfort to know that the people you
got it from came by it honestly.”
a branch by a rope of fibre. Tall posts
encircled the charm, painted in nightmare
designs. Crowning each post was a skull, each
grinning towards the charm through a
raddle of red. My magician pal was so
impressive, his manner in such deadly ear-
nest, that I’m blessed if I didn’t find myself
whispering him to give me an exhibition of
the charm’s power. After I had convinced
him that I wouldn’t tell the missionary, the
old heathen stripped off his lava-lava and
commenced cat-jumping around the charm,
waving his arms as if pulling handfuls of
clouds down towards him, hissing out an
incantation that sounded like the rustling
of snakes through dried grass. Presently
he whirled the stone. As it revolved, the
coco-leaves rustled exactly like a breeze com-
ing up over the tree-tops. But soon lie-
hurried abruptly away, mumbling something
of being afraid to work up a storm for fear
of the consequences to my lugger.
t\i Hi Hi
“The Bat” : “The worst buekjumper ever
I rode,” said Long Dan, as wc sat on the
yard rails watching the new ’breaker hand-
ling a 1 colt, “was out on Mulga Downs.
There was no shape or make about ’im
an’ ’e ’ad ’air on 'is laigs like a billygoat’s
whiskers; ’e was outer a ’alf-drauglit mare
be' a pony, an’ ’e was as light- eaded as a
Labor politician. But you talk about buck!
I could ride in them days, but when 1 beat
’im in falls an’ ’ad ’im knocked up, ’e comes
over ter where I was an’, quite uachral
like, lifts up his front ’oof fer me ter shake
’ands.” “He acknowledged you were his
master, then?” I asked. “Not at all, con-
tinued Dan, “fer when I puts out me and
ter shake, hang me if he don’t duck Ins
’ead between me laigs an’ toss me onter is
back. ’E won the next two falls, an’ then
they declared the prad the winner.”
Sjs * *
“Smithy”: Hunting ’roos and brush by
spot-light along the main Midlands-road
(W.A.), we all proved bad shots; even big
boomers, sitting upright and within easy
range, were missed. Exasperated, one of the
party jumped from the car and gave chase
when the next brush was spotted. Ihe
animal dodged about, but we- kept the beam
on him, and the human ’roo-dog gained
ground. The brush lost the match when,
after placing a well-timed boot just where the
spine ends, our huntsman grabbed him by the
tail.
a ;j: ifi iff
“E.S.S.” : Most of the buckjumping shows
I have seen have left me cold ; but that lias
not been the fault of the showmen, because
thrills depend .on the moods of the mokes.
A horse that is a demon to buck in a pad-
dock may prove very" disappointing in a show
ring, especially if there is a big crowd
gathered closely around him. As a rule a
better set-to can be seen nearly any. morning
at the homestead of a big cattle-run than
the showman can stage. But the spec-
tators around a show ring see smart
riders thrown very simply now and again.
If they were not, the show couldn’t carry
on. The showman knows that if someone
doesn’t fall off occasionally, to give the horse
encouragement, the animal will soon be use-
less for his purpose. One man, who travelled,
extensively, had a horse that always threw
his riders, and £5 was nightly offered to
anyone in the audience who could sit him
for two minutes. One night a long-legged
sticking-plaster mounted the outlaw and
stopped there. When paying over the money
the showman said: “I’d rather have given
you flO to keep off him; you’ve probably
ruined my best horse.”
A TOUCH OF HIS OLD COMPLAINT.
THE BOSS: “Well?”
THE WORM: “Not — hic— very, m’ dear!”
“Phella”: If “Pick” (B. l!>/9/’28) had
followed my tracks in Bananaland, V ictoria
and nor’-west of Westralia, he would have
seen hundreds of fencing posts alive with
black and white ants—in fact, far-Nortliern
boundary riders tell me the two mate and
that the half-castes are demons for speed and
bite. But I’ve still to see them.
*** J *
“Bad Australian” : “N.M.L.” (B. 26/9/2S)
is quite right iu claiming that a well-bred
horse is superior to an ordinary mule as a
riding animal, but the comparison is not
strictly fair. A long and varied experience
of the animal has convinced me that for a
hai-d gruelling journey a mule by a big
Spanish donkey from a good type of mare
is equal if not superior to a
horse of the same breeding as
the hybrid’s dam ; but the
mule, in common with most
low-withered animals, is not
comfortable to ride, except
when he happens to be an
ambler. I once rode a mule
of the type indicated from
Toconao, an oasis in the
Desert of Atacama, S.
America, to Calama, on the
Antofagasta-Bolivia railway,
a distance of 81 miles,
through a region of shimmer-
ing heat waves and fantastic
mirage, over saltpan alkali
plain and loose rubble at an
elevation of 8000 feet above
sea level, and the animal was
far from done when _ I
stripped him at my destina-
tion. My riding weight, in-
cluding a bulky “recado” or
gaucho saddle, was about 15
stone. The mule, which had come straight
off green alfalfa, had neither food nor water
after covering the first 20 miles, and it was
well on towards midnight when we called
it a day. How many horses would stand the
same test?
* * *
“Tiki”: Despite their belief in charms
and incantations, the ancient Maoris had a
very fair working knowledge of medicine
and surgery. In the latter department, in-
deed, they were probably at one period cen-
turies ahead of Europe. The Maori surgeons
were skilful at amputations, though then-
only appliances were sharpened flints, and
they were adepts at cauterisation, using a
red-hot supplejack stick. Bone fractures
were dealt with by aligning and splinting,
just as it is done in any hospital to-day, and
dislocations were treated in quite orthodox
fashion. The method of performing the
difficult operation known to surgery as the
Caesarian section is detailed clearly in a
carving, perhaps centuries old, which may
be seen in Wellington. The treatment of
the apparently drowned was drastic. They
were suspended head downwards over a
smoky fire, but tradition has it that there
were'quite a lot of recoveries. The dan-
gers of infectious disease were well under-
stood. Patients were isolated, and the whare
in which such a patient died was at once
burnt.
... a Hi
“Murrungurry" : Some full-blooded Binghis
are blacker than others. The blackest on
Wooroowoolgen (N.S.W.) was Quinan; his
ebony skin made coal-tar look pale. He was
a treacherous, bad-tempered scamp. I re-
member him coming late to the men’s hut
for dinner, and when the woman there re-
fused to give him any he walked away about
20 yards and threw a boomerang at her.
The weapon brushed her hair, and went
through a tick-pine door that she was
opening. Another day the manager and
Billy, the groom, were standing in front of
the hut. when the former noticed Quirian
about 50 yards off, jumping like a signalling
kangaroo and waving his arms. “What s
the matter with that fellow?” he asked. The
groom explained that he had once caught
Quirian sneaking on him with a waddy, and
had cautioned him that if he ever again came
nearer than 50 yards without reporting him-
self he would shoot him. Quirian never for-
got, and the pantomime was repeated when-
ever he wanted to approach Billy. Once
Billy was riding towards the blacks’ camp
while Quirian was there. The villain with
the midnight countenance wasn’t sure of the
situation. So he bounded out and yelled,
“Hey, Billy, me here!” He left Wooroo-
wooigen some time afterwards, and when I
heard of him last he and another abo. named
Dimon w;ere concerned in the murder of a
swagman oil Bonalbo run.
(Continued on next page.)
"TRAVELLIN."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We never carry samples nor stay at flash
’otels,
You kin never see us rubbin our shoulders
with the swells,
But we know the flamin’ ’ighways as a feller
knows ’is ’and;
We’re the men ’oo own no leader—a wan-
d’rin’, vaggin’ band.
It’s toilin’ for a cockv
For ’arf a day — an’ then
It’s chuckin’ in yer ticket
An’ out an’ on agen,
An’ trustin’—always trustin’ —
The charity o’ men.
W’en the big ’eads in their motors leave us
ploddin’ in the dust . ;
We ’ave to grin an’ bear yer goin
ter get you must.
An’ we stumble down the roadway with our
next meal on ahead;
If it don’t come by the evenin’—well, we
jist roll inter bed.
An’ we get it in the mornin’, fer man to
man is kind,
An' we try ter git some yakker, but there s
nothin’ we kin find,
’Cept it’s sloggin’ into roadwork till wc
count the job too tough,
Or the flamin’ .pick too ’eavy or the bloomin’
boss too rough.
It’s loafin’ in a township,
The John sez “Git.” — an’ then
It’s pickin’ up yer blanket
An’ out an on agen.
An’ wot the Lord won’t give us
We get it outer men.
victoria.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their Sons
The DIFFERENCE in buy-
ing at Peapes’ is that
everything for men’s and
boys’ wear may be exam-
ined in a perfect light,
quality is always the best,
one enjoys the assistance of
a carefully trained staff, and
every article is marked at
a fixed price, unalterable by
“sales.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
MARTELL'S
BRANDY
A Household Word "
Sichness&in Healthy
The
Clip
w
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
in quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value wall be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secure growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they sell.
“Bad Australian” : I took the liberty of
doubting “Pick’s” assertion (B. 22/8/'2B)
that the female kangaroo can close her pouch
tightly enough to exclude water wdien her
body is submerged, and he has said nothing
in his par. (B. 3/10/’2B) to remove that
doubt. In the light of a long experience of
marsupials I regret that I cannot accept his
further statement that “baby-carrying kan-
garoos frequently undertake long swims.”
“Pick’s” somewhat naive inquiry, “How
could the young ones survive if the mother’s
pouch could not be made air-tight?” is easily
answered. They could not survive. Air-tight
or not, tlio result would be the same—
suffocation if the pouch was closed; drown-
ing if it wasn’t. I did not say that “no
muscles control the pouch of the marsupial.”
What I did say was that in examination
of thousands of animals I never found that
the pouch was furnished with muscles by
which it could be closed at will. Finally, if
the pouch contracts to a mere two-inch orifice
when a big joey leaves it, how is it that
when the same joey is alarmed he gets back
into it in a fraction of a second even when
the mother is already on the move?
* * * *
“Zirk”: The yarn about licenses to shoot
blacks is a fine example, apparently, of fact-
twisting. It isn't the only one. When a bill
was being passed in the W.A. Leg. Council to
stop pearlers employing native women as
divers, someone publicly stated that natives
were taught to dive by having a cannon slid
tied to their feet, after which they were
lowered by a rope. What really happened
w’as that the Malay divers, who were accus-
tomed to deep water, found the natives were
unable to get to the bottom and jeered at
them, which put the natives on their mettle.
Some asked for weights to take them down
and eventually they got shell at a greater
depth than the Malays. A more recent
instance was a case in which a valuable pearl
fell into the sea while a pearler w r as washing
the slime off it. He immediately threw a
buoy overboard and dropped anchor. A
diver went down and recovered the pearl.
Soon the story got into the papers, and it
was mentioned that the callous pearler
“threw a boy overboard” in shark-infested
wmters. The dropping of a “u” was respon-
sible for some very heated arguments on
the native question.
* * * *
“Mick Q.”: Dave Coleman started from
Clermont (C.Q.) during the big drought of
1900 with a mob of 5000 ewes. He
was travelling for grass, and remained over
six years on the stock routes, and travelled
over 5000 miles. He
always stopped for lamb-
ing and shearing, and one
year shore 9000, which
fully paid for the. cost of
the droving. While on the
road he killed for all his
mutton and sold about
5000 besides. When the
sheep finally settled down
again he had 3800 more than he started
with, and there w T ere no strange earmarks
in the mob either.
* s;: £ *
“D.McM.”: It was Jacky’s first attempt
to use the ’phone connecting one of the
out-stations with the homestead. After re-
peated efforts to call up the boss, Jacky
heaved the receiver down in disgust. “Plurry
fool, that boss of mine,” snorted Jacky.
“Why ’im not leave word say ’im not there?”
SAFETY FIRST.
Old Lady: “Good gracious! I wouldn’t like to go down with that little rope.”
Cousin Jack: “Damme, Mum, I wouldn’ like to go down without un.”
“Pigeat”: Mention of opal by “E.S.” (B.
22/8/’2B) reminds me that in ’O5 and ’O6
there were droves of cattle going to the
Oharleville market. A trip from the Nor’-
West used to lead them through the opal
fiplds on Wetlands and out to the back of
Jundah. The drovers were good marks for
the opal fossickers. After a man had cleaned
SUCH A SILLY QUESTION.
TIRED TIM: “What d’ye think of this ’ere idea that wives oughter be paid wages?”
WEARY WILFRED: “Course they oughter What d’ye think mine goes out washing for?”
up his bit, taking out all the best stone, he’d
take a look through his snide and blue-bottle,
worth 3d. a ton or less. He’d pick out good-
looking lumps, give them a rub on the wheel
and polish ’em a bit. Any thin and watery
pieces could be improved by leaving a bit
of shellac on the back. That, in certain
lights, and if held cunningly, give an, illusion
of fire. He’d grind these into shape—hearts,
diamonds and crescents were most popular—
and set out to meet a mob of cattle coming
in and sell the stuff to the drovers at 50s.
a piece. There’s one sure way of telling
snide stuff from the real opal. Take the
stone between your finger and thumb, hold
it in the crook of your elbow and look back
at it with the light behind you.
$ ❖ # }•:
“M.0.K.”: Old George Gillot was a
farmer, comfortably settled on 400 acres of
productive land, but he always looked back
regretfully to the time when he drove his
bullock dray, loaded with copper ore from
the Burra mines, over the bush tracks to Port
Adelaide. “Them was the days! Wasn’t
they, mother? It took a month, an’ I’d
come in with 40 gold sovereigns in my
hat, and spill ’em out on the table for
mother. Not this hat; I never did wear any
hat but a cabbage-tree. But that’s the same
old dray standin’ out there. Of course it’s
been done up a time or two; it’s had a new
pole, an’ I don’t think the wheels is the
same, and once I had the body done up.
But it’s the same old dray, and I hope she’ll
stand out there till I’m gone.” She did.
* * * *
“Dimon”: On the mid-eastern rivers
Black Brother often engaged in contests with
the throwing stick, which is like a small
nulla-nulla, but with a long point on the
knobby end. Every village had its champion
throwers, and when they met there was
keen rivalry among the parties. The stick
was thrown end-on against a tussock, to
make it spin over and over above the ground.
The tussock marked the hop-off line for the
stick, and 10 yards or more behind it was
the thrower’s mark, over which he was not
allowed to step. Neither must the stick hit
the ground beyond the tussock line until it
came to rest. The thrower whose stick spun
end over end the greatest distance from
the tussock was the winner. Another
throwing game was played with disc-shaped
pieces of bark or wood, which were thrown
to revolve along the ground. Two teams
of players stood in opposite rows, about a
chain apart, armed with waddies. At a
point beyond the head of the rows stood
the disc thrower, who trundled the discs
swiftly down the centre. As they spun
along waddies were hurled at them and the
team that gained most hits won the contest.
* * * *
“Soda”: Sick Chinese (B. 3/10/’2B)
certainly do not place much faith in their
native medicaments. The gentlemen of Lil
Bourke are regular
visitors to the O.P.
clinics of Melbourne
Hospital, and it is
well known to the staff
that while European
patients who suffer
from slowly reacting
chronic ailments peri-
odically make a break
for some herbalist or
quack healer, Ah Sam
obeys instructions
faithfully, putting the
utmost confidence in
the advice and treat-
ment he receives. In
the British Solomon
Islands Chinese are
employed as artisans;
and, though they are
raw from the Flowery
Land, they are more
regular attendants at
the hospital than the
whites. In fact, the maternity ward at
Tulagi Hospital deals only in yellow babies.
* * * *
“A.8.C.” : Although Puss was a lady her
name was Bacon., her brother being Shaks-
peare. Poor Bacon was missing for three
days, and crawled home with a hind foot
twice its natural size, having been caught
in a rabbit-trap. Antiseptic baths and
careful dressing were of no avail, and in
spite of all my care (I am a nurse), poor
pussy could not eat and was restless and
pathetic. Gangrene set in, and at first 1
thought the little creature should be
destroyed. However, my brother and I
decided to amputate the foot. We adminis-
tered chloroform, and my brother used a
sterilised chisel, very sharp, and a well-
scrubbed board. When Puss came round
she had a good fill up of warm milk, and
then took over her own case. She dressed
her wound by licking it, and it healed by
first intention. Bacon never seemed to miss
her foot—got about and climbed trees and
led an altogether happy life.
* * -1: *
“Poker”: I once had a silver-spangled
bantam lien which used to crow regularly
every morning save when broody. I had
several chickens from her, but not one of
the pullets could crow.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: When about to go
pheasant-shooting on a prolonged holiday in
Maoriland I borrowed Juno, a setter be-
longing to one of my host’s sporting neigh-
bors. “What sort of a shot are you?” asked
the owner. “Oh, good,” I answered truth-
fully. - Juno was at once introduced to mo,
and we moved off. Twice Juno set birds, and
each time, purely by ill-luck, I shot the
air. When the noise of the last discharge
died away and the smoke drifted out of sight,
Juno favored me with one long, disgusted
look, then trotted away home. No matter
how hard I called, never once did that
disappointed setter turn to reconsider my
deplorable handling of firearms.
* * £
“S.T.S.”: Rabbits and foxes are not the
only pests. The Adelaide dailies lately
printed a solemn advt. by Arooona, Ltd., a
pastoral co. near Pimba, on the Port
Augusta-Kalgoorlie line, that they intend to
destroy a plague of camels straying on their
pastoral leases. The beasts have already
had two Acts of Parliament directed at
them.
WAITIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a dancin’ party
Down at Morley’s barn ;
Though I ain’t invited
I don’t care a darn.
Still, I’m kinder lonely,
Got the flamin’ hump,
Listenin’ to the music,
Sittiu’ on a stump.
Jist because I outed
Murphy an’ his mate,
Jist because I stopped ’em
Makin’ up to Kate,
Makiu’ up an’ dancin’
AVith her all the time,
All the mob has barred me,
Like it was a crime.
There she goes a-waltzin'
Past the lighted door,
Lookin' up at Murphy
AV’eelin’ down the floor ;
Lookin’ up an’ laughin’—
’Struth, me heart is broke!
Laughin’ up at Murphy,
Gord! I hate that bloke!
All me world is busted ;
Nothin’ seems the same;
Everything around me
W’isperin’ her name.
Gord, I’m feelin’ lonely....
’Twasn’t much I did. . ..
’Tain’t no use pretendin’,
Cryin’ like a kid.
AVish that blinkin’ mopoke
Wouldn’t call again,
Seems it keeps me longin’
With a funny pain.
Waitin’ here an’ watcliin’—
Nothin’ matters now—
Waitin’ here for Murphy,
Goin’ to crack the cotv!
N.S.W.
TAL ORDELL.


and
there
and
everywhere
<?>&<*** y
12
for
6 a
"c?y\y=>s tz^\
c-s cTM\*sr*r-r-T- gg // *
STRENGTH^
REGISTERED.
Kavy Cut
Cigarettes
W.DM.O.WiIIs,
(Australia) W Sydney.
24
for


Woolgrowers!
Get full value
for your star lots of wool.
Have them classed and inter-
lotted with similar small lots.
Big Even Lines
Get the Buyer’s
Attention.
For Particular* and Waybills write
The Graziers* Co-operative
Shearing Company, Ltd.,
23-25 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
R. C. Wilson,
Manager.
J, EL, Snape,
Wool JPLxperfc
e
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land —these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
114-110 CASTLE RE Aq H ST. SYDNEY
\wtm
SMOKERS !
Here is something
different to relieve a dry
mouth or tickling throat.
Try
‘Allenburys
Ztcll, PASTILLES
and be delighted with their
soothing effect and refreshing
flavour.
Your Chemist stocks them.
2/- and 2/9 per box
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
TO HARVEST TANGLED CROPS.
“Agronom” : Now that wheat-growers are
preparing for harvest, here’s a tip. If you
want a false comb that will lift even the
worst tangled crop, use the ordinary iron
false comb, but bend the points of each
false tooth downwards and back for about
three inches to form a small loop which will
not dig into the ground. Then cut a few
stick* about 1 Jin. in diameter. Fit one
on each tooth, putting one end in the iron
loop and butt the other end against the nut
under the comb proper. Brace the stick to
the false tooth with a couple of laps of tie-
wire ; once at the front near the loop and
again at the end of the stick will be suffi-
cient.
Now you have a false comb that can be
lowered until the points run along the ground
if necessary. The ordinary iron false comb
with turned-up points and no under-staying
of wood will catch in the ground if put too
low and the teeth will buckle back under the
header, but with the points rounded into a
small loop there is nothing to dig into the
ground, and the sticks effectively prevent any
tendency to buckle under. Take a few extra
sticks on the machine with you in case of
breakages. Without the sticks a particu-
larly dense tangled crop will sometimes
buckle a tooth back even if the comb be
kept off the ground.
WHEAT-GROWING AND FINANCE,
Wheat-growing, as most of those engaged
in it will tell you, is more or less of a
gamble. About the first really earnest and
well-instructed attempt to find out how much
—or how little—of a gamble it is has been
made by Turretfield Demonstration Farm,
which is run on commercial lines by the S.A.
Dept, of Agriculture. It is a farm of 1533
acres, 1266 acres of which are arable, and
was originally run on a three-course rotation
basis —(1) bare fallow, (2) wheat or cereal
hay, (3) secondary cereal. The livestock
for which the farm depended for profit were
sheep and pigs, but pigs were dropped because
of the uncertainty of the market and the
old-style “bare fallow-wheat-bare fallow-
wheat” rotation has been mainly adopted in
recent, years, with limited areas devoted to
peas (as a fallow crop! and oats. For 1926-
27, the sixth year of operation (and, with
the exception of 1925-26, the most unprofit-
able year in the farm’s history), there were
377 acres under bare fallow, 397 acres in
wheat, 35 acres an peas, 171 acres in oats
and 44 acres in grazing crops. The remain-
ing 242 acres is natural pasture.
The farm and its equipment and first
year’s working expenses cost £17,591, which
was lent by the State. It has paid interest
on this (apparently at the rate of 5 per
cent.) and also upon bank overdrafts; has
repaid £lOOO of capital; and now has capital
of its own invested in the farm to the tune
of £2453, representing accumulated profits
after paying all expenses of management and
operation. The interest earned on capital
employed has varied from 10.83 per cent, in
the farm’s best year to 4.63 per cent, in its
worst, the average rate for the six years
being 6.84 per cent.
This has been accomplished under the most
scientific, skilful and business-like of manage-
ment, and the satisfactory-looking result
attained seems to be in a large degree due
to the fact that the farm got its capital at
a lower rate of interest than the average
farmer can borrow at; that it pays no rates
and taxes, and that it has had the credit of
the State behind it in approaching its banker
for an overdraft.
The S.A. Director of Agriculture, A. J.
Perkins, who has compiled an extraordinarily
complete analysis of the farm’s accounts, con-
siders that to take up a 1006-acre farm of the
Turretfield type a farmer would require £4OOO
of capital. His land would cost him £12,000,
£BOOO of which he would have to obtain on
mortgage, at 7 per cent. If the farm were
worked exclusively by the farmer and his
family, making an allowance of £5OO a year
for maintenance, the annual wages and
interest bill, which on Turretfield amounts
on the average to 245. Id. per acre, would
be cut down to a maintenance and interest
charge of 17s. 2d. per acre. The annual
total cash expenditure per acre, which in the
case of Turretfield averages 455. Id., would
be reduced to 365. 2d. The average return
per acre on Turretfield is 50s. 9d., which
gives a net profit per acre of ss. Bd. If an
individual farmer, employing no labor, could
get the same returns as Turretfield enjoys he
could look forward to an average profit of
14s. 7d. per acre, or about £730 a year, in
addition to the maintenance allowance above.
WESTRALIAN LAND PROSPECTS.
“Westralia” : “K. 8.” (B 12/9/T8) paints
too rosy a picture of Westralian farming
prospects. A certain amount of good Crown
Land is available in the drier portions of
the State, but this land does not yield 18
bushels of wheat to the acre by merely
scutching it in. The Westralian wheat crop
last year averaged only 114 bushels to the
acre, and is very seldom over 12 bushels to
the acre, though probably half the crop is
on well-worked fallow.
With regard to the larger areas for sheep
mentioned by “K. 8.” there is probably a
good quantity of this land still available,
but persons selecting it must have capital,
as the Agricultural Bank does not advance
on this land to the same extent as on purely
wheat land. In many cases this land has
the poison weed on it, and is only suitable
for growing oats. Where there is poison the
first crop must be taken off with a harvester,
and as the land is very rough the return
may be less than the cost of putting the
crop in.
“K. 8.” says, further, that water is easy
to obtain on most of this light land. On
a small portion water can be obtained but
mostly only stock supplies, as a lot of water in
Westralia has a high mineral content. Quite
a lot of light land is waterless. Even if it
is possible to erect dams the catchments are
generally poor. Large areas of agricultural
and light land are, it is true, supplied from
•the Coolgardie scheme, and in places large
Government dams have been put down at
rock catchments, from wdiich water is sup-
plied to the farmers by pipes. The annual
charges work out at about £5O per 1000 acres
for better-class land, which is heavy.
Westralia ris offering 3000 new farms, but
the demand within the State is so keen
that this land will be easily absorbed. The
writer knows of many good farmers who are
unable to secure good Crown land in the
State, as the best is all selcctedl, and only
the dry districts are left.
WORKING THE FALLOW-
Proper preparation of the fallow is essen-
tial to the growing of good cereal crops,
but there are many farmers who seem to
think that any means of breaking up the
surface wall serve. The choice of imple-
ment must be dictated by the nature of the
soil and the amount of weed-growth. In a
medium to heavy loam, free from weeds,
either the tine harrow or spring-tooth culti-
vator would be suitable. In semi-alluvial
brown or light red loam, or heavy black
self-mulching soil, free from weeds, the har-
row will give best results. In heavy red
loam or clay, and on any soil where there
is a strong weed growth, the rigid tine cul-
tivator should be used.
Weed growth is usually the determining
factor. When weeds are very young the
harrow will deal with them effectively, but
if, owing to bad weather or other causes,
working has been delayed till the weeds are
big, the rigid tine cultivator or scarifier is
the only implement that will cope with them.
It gives better results than the spring- tooth
because it can be set to a definite depth,
does more uniform work, makes a more even
mulch, and leaves the sub-surface level —all
of which makes for a more even. crop. It
has not, however, the sifting action of the
spring-tooth, which remains the best imple-
ment for early fallow working.
The most unsuitable implement that can
be put on to fallow land is the disc culti-
vator. It deals effectively with large weeds
but ruins the sub-surface and leaves fine soil
on the surface, where it crusts over with
the first rain. Discing is usually undertaken
in January or February, when it ruins the
whole condition of the fallow, from which
moisture rapidly evaporates.
CLASSING IN DROUGHT TIME.
“J. Buck” : Some of the wool-broking firms
have circularised growers, advising as to the
best way of classing wool in time of drought.
They say that particular attention should
be given to the skirting, and methods adopted
in good seasons should be altered. They
recommend taking off only the light fribby
and ragged edges of the fore part and sides
of the fleece, removing the whole of the
back portion and deep skirting the breech.
This is sound advice, but few sheep-owners
are inclined to take it. Their objection
in most cases is that it means breaking up
the fleeces. So it does, but it makes the
sorts uniform, not only in condition but in
quality and general appearance. The neck
wool is, in drought time, the cleanest and
most free from dust, whereas the back wool
is short, harsh and wasty, and, as is well
known, the breech portion is of a stronger
quality than the rest of the fleece. >\ ith
the light skirting mentioned the pieces are
reduced to a minimum, for the AA, which
consists of the neck portion, lias been lightly
skirted, the A or the breech part wifi be
similarly treated, and the remaining backs
sent to the scour. .
The results of clips classed in this manner
have been satisfactory, and it would be
advisable to have the wool from much-
travelled sheep classed in the same manner
even in good seasons.
CLASSING SMALL WOOL CLIPS.
“Murrawong" : As a practical wool-classer
of many years’ experience I offer the follow-
ing suggestions for the benefit of the man
who cannot employ a competent classer. In a
small clip simplicity should be the mam prin-
ciple, the object being to get as many lines
out of the star lots as possible.
If a small man wants his clip classed to
the best possible advantage, but. neither pos-
sesses the necessary knowledge himself nor
is in a big enough way to employ a wool-
classer, he can in most States send lus clip
to one of several firms who will absorb it
into a pool or class it on commission.
If. however, he wants to handle it himself
there are a few points to be observed. Do
not mix merino with comeback dr crossbred
wool. In a small merino clip make the top
line of your brightest, lightest fleeces of good
length 'of staple, keeping out all strong
fleeces. This line, “AAA,” should take in the
greater percentage of fleeces. Make a second
line of fleeces, “AA,” of similar length but
carrying more condition, color or dust.
Another line, “Combing,” should take in all
strong-fibred fleeces; and in a last line, A,
include such as are short, very heavy, dingy
and tender, if there are only a few.
So much for the fleece. Now for the odd-
ments. Remove stains from wether bellies,
pressing these bellies separately from those
of the ewes. Should you have enough to
make only one bale of the lot, then put a
cap or piece of hessian between, each sort.
Never use newspaper to divide lots.
The skirting of the fleece depends on the
depth of burr or seed on it. If fleeces are
free of burr, remove only the sweat-locks
from the edges, the short leg-wool top-knots
and any heavy neck-folds. If the fleeces
carry a little burr, remove it all, but should
they carry it practically up to their backs
it would be folly to attempt to remove it.
In such case use your own discretion as to
whether you remove only the sweat-locks or
skirt off the heaviest burr.
Make two lines of pieces; pick out the
cleanest wool of good length, clean it up
further and call it “Broken,” and brand the
rest “Pieces,” seeing that no stained wool
finds its way among the latter. Only locks
ought to remain, and care should be taken
to keep the dags out of these. Dry the
stained pieces in the sun before pressing.
That will give four lines of fleece, two of
pieces, bellies, stains and locks, which is
about the minimum for any serious attempt
at classing a” clip, though often sufficient for
some of the biggest clips.
WOOL CULTURE
“Mouton”: Wool is “grown” just as is
wheat or any other crop, and as the cereal
farmer produces good, bad and indifferent,
crops of wheat and hay, so can the sheep-
farmer produce clips of wool varying in
degrees of excellence. It is obvious that,
apart from climatic conditions, the growth
and texture of wool are largely influenced
by the amount of skill and attention devoted
to its production. In any large wool store
we can see, side by side and from the same
districts, wools that exhibit quality, charac-
ter and softness, with others that lack all
or some of these desirable features.
The scientific feeding of sheep has not
been considered to any great extent in Aus-
tralia, but the time is fast coming when it
will be a matter of concern among farmers,
because the most cannot be made out of
the land unless a portion of the farm is
cultivated for the sheep.
While, in Australia at all events, the cul-
ture of wool is paramount, and every im-
provement of its characteristics most desir-
able, the cultivation of the sheep itself must
not be overlooked or neglected. Constitu-
tion, bone and good conformation must be
conserved, otherwise we may arrive at a
stage when our sheep are overloaded with
wool. A sheep that grows more wool than
it can carry with comfort will soon cease
to be profitable to its owner.
GRIPES OR COLIC.
. “Paul C.”: This most common horse com-
plaint is often caused by carelessness in
feeding. A sudden change from soft to hard
feed will bring it about; overfeeding, too,
should be avoided, even on feed that horses
are accustomed to. There is a temptation to
give horses that have a hard week’s work
ahead of them an increased ration a few
days before, and this very often causes
trouble. Another cause is feeding them on
unsound or mouldy maize or hay.
It sometimes happens that horses may be
subject to intestinal trouble without showing
the usual symptoms of colic. If undigested
grain is noticed in the excreta, or it an
offensive odor comes from the animal s
mouth, it is an indication of such disorder.
In these cases reduce the quantity of food
given at each feed, or feed oftener in small
quantities, to which a dusting of ground
charcoal has been added; this and a handy
lump of rock-salt are all that the case calls
In acute colic a horse will kick at his
belly, paw, throw himself down and some-
times roll. The spasm will pass off, and
for a little time the animal appear all right,
but it will probably repeat the performance.
A good drench in such circumstances is
a mixture of four tablespoonfuls of spirit-
of ammonia and half a teaspoonful of oil of
peppermint in a pint of linseed oil. This
should be shaken well while being given
slowly to the horse. The dose may be re-
peated at intervals of an hour till three
doses have been administered. A rectal injec-
tion of ligal. of warm soapy water should
also be used.
In windy gripes the horse is not so violent,
but shows marked uneasiness, making as if
to lie down but not doing so. To relieve
this a drench of four tablespoonfuls each of
spirits of ammonia and oil of turpentine
mixed in of linseed oil will be found
effectual.
HORSES THAT PURL BACK.
“Curlew”: If you have a horse that won’t
stand tied you may soon cure him. Get a
long, light rope, pass it around his loins
and use it as a flank rope. A long rope
should also be fastened to the bridle. Get
a pull on the flank rope and he’ll go to
market. After a few twitches he will not
be so willing; then lead him, using the
flank rope to make him come smartly. Tie
him up and pass the flank rope around a
post, high up, and fasten it to the ring of
the bridle. Quietly induce him to try to
get away. As soon as he finds the strain on
his flanks he will come up to the. post, and
you will have no further bother with broken
bridles.
ZEBU CROSSES IN AUSTRALIA.
“CSC”: “Bad Australian” (B. 26/9/’2B)
writes of Zebu cattle being. successful in
Argentine and Brazil. They’ve been tried
in Australia, too. About 20 years ago a
Zebu bull was imported to the Yeppoon
district (S. Q’land) mainly because of the
breed’s immunity to the tick, and proved very
successful, so far as freedom from ticks was
concerned, on the first cross with Hereford,
Shorthorn and Jersey cows. Exceptionally
quick-growing bullocks were produced by
the Hereford cross, but the Shorthorn
cross, throwing, in the main, bad colors, was
dropped. In the case of the Jersey cross
results were very good, as the progeny not
only were practically tick-proof—a big item
in the monthly dipping of dairy cows —but
also had a good frame and a very robust
combination, enabling the cows to stand up
to heavy milking.
No breeder has imported any fresh blood,
mainly owing to the multiplication of re-
gulations regarding imported cattle from
India, and the breed has now practically
run out. The distant crosses are still in
existence and very highly valued on the wet
and hot coastal belt near the Tropic of
Capricorn.
GROWING GRAPES FOR THE TABLE.
“XSA”: From now onward the vineyard
will require constant care, and few varieties
of fruit respond so readily to necessary
attention. None., also, will so rapidly show
the results of neglect. The eyes left on each
cane, two only, will have thrown shoots
and the grapes should be well set. At this
stage, the first spraying of Bordeaux having
been applied, each vine should be relieved
of any superfluous growth. All barren
shoots, excepting such as are necessary for
the next pruning, should be removed.
Vines grown on stakes should be tied up
and topped as soon as high enough, care
being taken to leave a bulge. This is impor-
tant because it is necessary not only that
bunches should have free space to hang and
develop under natural foliage, protection
from sun and wind, but that it should b?
possible to apply later spraying effectively.
Bunches cut from the interior of a shady
vine keep better than those from exposed
positions.
'Allow no more than seven good bunches
to remain on each bush vine; thin out to
this no matter how Summer
fruits will be plentiful and quality will
count for everything this year. The size
of the fruit is, more important than sugar
content. Small grapes, no matter how sweet,
will go to the factory at non-paying prices.
When the grapes are pea-size or early in
December, apply the last Bordeaux, and
(Continued on page 25.)


w
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
T. G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free for the Asking.
Tours Planned.
Tours Booked.
e
Spectacular Stationary Type
w
{jimimiiiiiiiiiiiu
mmiuimiiiimis
I NOS?
NHOr i
Hiiiiimiiiiuii!
WlllUllllllllllllUi?
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
V\/
it
-I
7!
n
mi
® m
£
w
I
On that hot night!
"We ElectrlCE is always cool!!
1 Freeze with Ease.'
Porcelain Lined.
PRICE FROM
£75
Esj
SJS
■l4
rm
ElectrlCE Refrigeration means cool
delight—frosty beverages in tall
glasses; crisp, chilled salads; frozen
desserts; frigid beds for celery or
olives.
Think of the convenience of an
Electric Refrigerator that is auto-
matic, noiseless, odorless and —
always cool!
Foodstuffs wilt and spoil in damp
fluctuating temperatures. ElectrlCE
maintains a constant low tempera-
ture of well below 50 degrees,
keeping food free from contamina-
tion, minimising waste, modernising
storage and affording economical
buying.
Enjoy the luxurious economy of
ElectrlCE. Eliminate for ever the
trials and troubles of the dripping
ice-chest, the greatest cheat of the
larder.
Many styles, various sizes, capaci-
ties and prices. Call and see an
ElectrlCE before you decide, and
at the same time inspect our Model
Electric Kitchen.
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd,,
137-39 CLARENCE STREET
(top of Barrack Street, near G.P.0.), Sydney.
’Phone 8W1328.
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
rsp
e
\F
~An Emmco Product Tele. BM/328
MANUFACTURERS PRODUCTS P T - L T .°
137 CLARENCE S T SYDNEY
PLEASE SEND FREE YOUR ELECTRICE RECIPE BOOK
TO
Name —-
Street.
City.-
State-


CHRYSLER
Presents entirely new style creations
in the fine car field
New Chrysler “75” Roadster (with dickey
's sy- -
//
fa
w
New Chrysler “65” 4-Door Saloon
Features—New Chrysler
“75” — NewChrysler-created
slender profile radiator —
thermostatically controlled inte-
gral radiator shutters—new-
,l air-wing" full-crowned, wings
new longer, lower, roomier
bodies upholstered optionally
with fine mohair or broadcloth
—new arched window sib
hcfuette — non-shatterable glass
in windscreen — new “Silver-
Dome” high-compression 75
h . p. engine, using any petrol
—7-bearing counterweighted
crankshaft —75 and more miles
an hour new longer chassis
with new duplex-channel frame
—new light-action internal
expanding Chrysler hydrau-
lic four-wheel brakes — Love-
joy hydraulic shock absorbers,
front and rear spring ends
anchored in live rubber.
THESE two entirely new Chrysler Sixes—the “75”
and the “65” — are deliberately designed and exe-
cuted to inspire public admiration to such a pitch that
they will immediately supersede all that has gone before
and usher into existence an entirely new motoring vogue.
Striking new standards of beauty have been created in
these new Chrysler Sixes, even when the artistry of a
great industry has seemed to be at its height.
The wholly new Chrysler style creations, now shown
for the first time, represent unusual advances over
even Chrysler power, speed and efficiency.
We believe that, at their new low prices, they demon-
strate the gr'eater value now made possible by pro-
gressive Chrysler engineering, research and manu-
facturing.
We are confident that all who are even remotely
interested in the p'rogress of motor car artistry will find
themselves amply repaid by their immediate inspection
of these two new Chrysler style achievements.
CHRYSLER SALES CORPORATION, DETROIT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane .
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
Features New Chrysler
“65”—New larger engine 65
h.p. “Silver'Dome” high *
compression head using any
petrol —6s and more miles per
hour counterweighted 1-
bearing crankshaft, only car
at or near this price with this
costly feature; new, slender pro-
file radiator—new bowl-shaped
lamps—beautiful cowl moulding
and cowl lamps new, longer
chassis and longer, wider, room-
ier bodies — new arched win-
dow silhouette new “ air-
wing 1 ’ full-crowned wings — new
internal expanding Chrysler
hydraulic four-wheel brakes,
unaffected by weather con-
ditions — L ovejoy hydraulic
shock absorbers, front and rear —
spring ends anchored in live rub-
ber, instead of metal shackles


£5
<e£L
i s
Sole and upper
doubled
This Abbey boot affords best of all
protection for stormy weather wear
or over rough going. It has a sole
twice the ordinary thickness and an
upper that is doubled by its inner
lining of soft, pliant leather. There’s
no canvas inside, and all the seams
are made flat for extra comfort.
LACING ARCH An important
feature of Abbey footwear.
The upper curves naturally over
the instep fitting closely with-
out being drawn tight.
WIDTH AND LENGTH—Every
size is available in three widths,
narrow, medium and wide. That
ensures as good as a made-to-
order fit.
POSTAL ORDERS Speedily
attended to. State both width
and size required. Ask also for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Catalogue posted free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
195 SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins .. 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Its Field The Earth
By every means of transportation
Cuticura has reached the farthermost
parts of the world, and for fifty years
has been regarded by millions as un-
rivaled in the promotion of skin and
hair health. Most of the nations of
the earth that rejoice in the cleans ’ g
and purifying properties of Cutic i
have in some degree contributed to
its ingredients. Thus it is of the world
and for the world.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to tenon
Saves 100 Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
*****%*
: 'y
... r 4
Sfaal
The Old Way and
o' New. ■
e
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BT'g, Light Square, Adelaide.
w
e
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN:
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE ; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE -
' / 2
WM--
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
%
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
sulphur them at the same time. See that
the bunches are well covered and that new
foliage is not missed. Keep the ground
clean and well-worked and always remove
suckers' or new shoots as they appear. If
heavy rain should set in after coloring has
commenced and the ground becomes water-
logged, leave it to dry out even though it
cakes. Too much moisture then will do harm
and render harvesting almost impossible.
Get new boxes and packing paper well
beforehand. There will be a big demand for
these and nothing worries the grower of
highly perishable fruits more than the lack
of packing essentials.
MONEY IN BANANAS.
“Cavendish”: Banana-growing is making
a second El Dorado of Gympie (Q.). The
pine-clad hills and mountain ranges sur-
rounding the old gold centre are being trans-
muted into gold-winning banana groves. The
size of the average plantation is about eight
acres, and the average return for the first
two years is £lOO per acre. As much as
£3OO per acre has been obtained by close
planting. Gympie district’s banana crop last
year was worth over £500,000. Ten years
ago the banana output of the district was
not worth £5OOO a year. The Cavendish
variety, which is most favored, produces
marketable fruit 15 months from plant-
ing, and the life of the average plantation
is five years. Strict weeding and suckering
are essential, and aerial wires carry the
bunches from the hillsides to the packing
sheds. With limited capital and unlimited
energy, banana-growing in Queensland is a
fairly quick route to a comfortable bank
balance.
DRIED FRUIT JUICES.
“L’Fou”: A new development on the
part of the Trufood Dried Milk Co., Glenor-
miston (Vic.), holds out promise of better
times to fruitgrowers generally. The plant
which reduces milk to a powder is being
used experimentally to dry to a powder the
juice of lemons, oranges and other fruit.
It seems probable that this process, if the
success expected is attained, will be a factor
in stabilising fruit prices. Some of the
advantages claimed for dried juice are that
vitamines are more fully retained than in
ordinary canning or preserving processes,
and that the product will keep almost in-
definitely in the tin and for a reasonable
time even after the container is opened.
Its concentrated form is especially adapted
to certain kinds of cookery and confec-
tionery, and bulk is so reduced that trans-
port and freight charges are cut to a mini-
mum.
POSSIBILITIES OF HEMP.
“Questo”: Abaca (Manila hemp) would
be more . suitable for the Torres Strait
islands than the sisal hemp which “W.H.M.”
(B. 3/10/’2B) suggests should be grown.
Sisal grew originally in the desert lava
country of Mexico. It will grow practically
anywhere so long as the country is not
swampy, but the finest quality comes from
dry, hot, arid regions. Dryness hardens
the leaves and toughens the fibre, Manila
hemp, on the other hand, requires a great
deal of moisture, the plant being of a similar
nature to the banana, and thriving well in
the East and West Indies. Both kinds of
hemp should do well in appropriate parts
of Australia.
A WORD TO INCUBATOR-MAKERS.
“Jack Point”: After a good many years’
experience in using aiid selling incubators, I
am afraid Australian manufacturers are not
taking full advantage of the protection they
enjoy under the tariff. There is no question
of' the quality or hatching ability of the Aus-
tralian-made machine, but it’s almost impos-
sible to buy one at the time of the year that
everyone wants to use them (July-August).
Consequently the poultry-farmer who has
orders booked for chickens that must be
supplied by certain dates has to pay a good
deal more and buy a Yankee machine. Every
year the demand for incubators increases,
and Australian manufacturers would be well
advised to spend the summer, autumn and
winter building incubators, instead of wait-
ing until about next April before they think
about it.
PICKING AND PACKING.
“XSA”: Stone-fruit growers have very
large crops this year, and the supply will be
heavy. Growers should therefore take steps
to ensure that the quality of their product
will hold its own on the market. There
never is a glut of really choice fruits.
Assuming successful production there remains
the question of almost equal importance, that
is the “get-up” of the product. It should
carry well and open up in a sound and
attractive condition.
The first essential is that the fruit should
be picked when colored, but not yet ripe.
Ripening follows automatically. What is
left on the trees will fill out naturally.
Stone fruit should never be gathered dur-
ing the heat of the day—never later than
10 a.m. in the sun is a safe rule—and should
he cool (shade temperature) when packed.
This not only prevents sweating, but holds
ripening in suspense. Cherries will be par-
ticularly heavy this year and they demand
more care in packing than do any other
summer fruit. Facing, though important, is
time wasted unless the box is properly filled.
To ensure this, the corners of the case
should be dealt with first, and the cherries
well worked into them. Having faced on
the lid, the bottoms should not be nailed
down until the last possible moment. This
applies to every class of fruit.
Don’t place ripe fruit in the same case
as that just ripening. Pack the ripe stuff
separately and mark it as such. A good
agent will have customers for the fruit ready
to sell at once. Remember that a fruiterer
must buy ahead, and as keeping quality de-
pends upon judicious picking and packing, he
buys the brands which he knows will fulfil
his requirements. Above all, produce an
honest pack.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Paul C.”: For hoofs inclined to be brittle
a good ointment may be made by heating
Jib resin in -Jib. lard; add. loz. pulverised
verdigris and stir well. When cooling, add
2oz. turpentine. Apply with a brush from
the hair downward for an inch.
“W.H.D.J.”: A handy implement for
cleaning between the battens in a shear-
ing shed may be mad'e from about 2ft. of a
worn-out crosscut saw and an old broom-
handle. Drill two holes in the saw and
corresponding holes in the broom-stick; two
bolts and nuts complete it.
“B-Gar”: Scrub itch is a source of annoy-
ance to horses in the North Q’land coastal
scrubs. The most effective retnedy is a solu-
tion of equal parts of lime and sulphur, a
handful of each placed in a kerosene-tin of
water and allowed to simmer over a slow
fire. When cool, strain and bottle.
“Jimmy Dux”: Nothing spoils the look of
Strawberry’s udder like the extra embryo
teats that grow generally behind the busi-
ness four. Besides being an eyesore, they
often leak at milking time. Take notice
when branding, and cut them off close to
the udder with a sharp knife. They heal over,
and do not detract from the appearance of
the cow.
“Valerin”; Let me say a word for flat-
topped haystacks in place of those with
pitched roofs. More time is wasted heading-
off a stack than is warranted by any advant-
ages, and it calls for skilled labor, which is
getting scarcer each year. The flat-topped
stack can be built by anybody and covered,
with corrugated-iron, which is indestructible'
and a better protection than the best of
thatching.
“Classer”: “Breed” (B. 26/8/’2B) advises
us not to brand a clothing wool “Clothing,”
but to let the buyer find out for himself.
Nonsense! The naming of the sort is most
important; for it catches the eye of the
buyer, who, having several catalogues to go
through in a single morning, has to save as
much time as possible. To do this he must
see something on the bale which will guide
him to the quality of the lot.
“Marloo”: When you want to burn off a
patch of lantana on a steep hillside it is
best approached from the top. Place a heavy
board on top to work from. Move it about
as required, and tramp and brush all down
as flat as possible without making too hard
work of it. Work all over the patch in
this way. In a few weeks this will take a sur-
prisingly good fire, and grubbing is straight-
ahead work. The usual method of starting
from the bottom and w T orking underneath is
50 times more heart-breaking and curse-pro-
voking. Also the rubbish becomes scattered
and the fire does not take half so well.
“Anthony Gloster”: Young unbroken
horses become wild and are difficult to
quieten if they are always run in back
paddocks. It pays to keep yearlings and
unbroken youngsters in the liorse paddock
with the workers for a few months. Two
at a time are enough, as if there are more
they keep each other galloping and disturb
the others. They become accustomed to being
yarded with quieter horses and to seeing
•men about them, also to the customary
sights of a homestead which are so unset-
tling to young broken animals who have not
been used to buildings and ears and dogs
and the bustle round a place. They should
lie trained to the halter and bridle, and
taught to enter -a stall.
“Bluey”: When a cow continually drib-
bles and slobbers, although she may be in
good health, she is not giving as much as
she should. Examine the mouth by holding
the tongue half-out and keeping the mouth
open by inserting a block of wood between
the teeth. Sometimes there is a thorn or a
piece of wood or tin stuck in the teeth or
embedded in the cheek. Mouldy hay also
produces this state, but in any case the cure
is easy—unless, as sometimes happens,
the slobbering is part of the symptoms of
foot-and-mouth disease.
“H. 8.”: Concrete, or brick floors are not
suitable for pigs to lie on ; the animals should
be provided with a movable hurdle of lattice-
work. To allow them to lie on damp, fer-
menting bedding wall often cause pneumonia.
The walls and partitions should be con-
structed so that there are no crevices or
open joints through which draughts can
strike. Draughts in sties are also a fre-
quent cause of pneumonia. Warmth, par-
ticularly in the cold weather of winter,
enables pigs to thrive better, and make more
economical use of their food. At the same
time, plenty of ventilation should be provided.
“Bill R.”; When a scrub tick has the
dog down and helpless, be careful in search-
ing for the bloodsucker not to disturb it,
otherwise it immediately ejects poison into
the puncture it has made. Clip off the tick
with scissors or a sharp knife, and liberally
lftve the place with turpentine. Let the
dog lie in a cool, shady place on wet bags,
and keep them wet. Shower him also. Give
neither food not physic, and water only to
drink, until he begins to recover the use of
his limbs. Then feed sparingly. Above all
else, remember that a sun bath is fatal.
“Ben Zine”: A line of 14 head of Jersey
cattle, nine cows and five bulls, was recently
sold at auction at Wellington (M.L.), and
averaged w r liat is said to be a world's record,
561 guineas. They were importations from
Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
“Nelson F.”: The Scottish Animal Pro-
tection League advertises in a Lanarkshire
newspaper a prize of £3OO for a trap that
will instantaneously kill a rabbit caught in
it. Australian trappers ought tQ be able
to scare up some notions on that subject.
“Mick Q.”: One of the best dams that
I have ever seen was not of stone and
cement, as “Mallee Stump” (B. 3/10/’2B)
suggests, but of earth and timber, with a
cement flood gate. It was nearly 30 feet
deep in the deepest part, about 40 yards
wide, and when full the water extended up
the gully for a distance of a quarter of a
mile. A portion of the dam was fenced and
vegetables were grown in the enclosure.
Water for the cattle was syphoned through
pipes over the weir into drinking troughs
on the other side. At the end of the 1918
drought the dam had 18 months’ supply of
water in it. Fencing included it cost £l5O
to build—the selector assisting the con-
tractor.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readeio. . ,
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to tne
Service Department. , r „
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from tne
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. .
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Engineer, experienced maintenance work,
engine-room, machine-shop, tool-room, wants
position in Sydney.—697l.
Young man (20) wants to correspond with
Bulletin readers in England. Surrey for
]ireference, interested in sport and music.
(To Roy Haughton, 244 Canterbury-road.
Surrey Hills, Vic.)
Youth (17) wants position as j ackeroo on
Queensland cattle station. —6997.
By two Queenslanders, board and resi-
dence, or furnished cottage, at quiet seaside
resort, Tas. or N.S.W., where there is good
scenery and river fishing.—69B4.
Lady desires room and breakfast in pri-
vate home, Sydney, Wollstonecraft, Cre-
morne or Kirribilli preferred.—69B7.
Young lady desires position as companion-
help on N.S.W. station. —7023.
Strong young man (22) wants position on
farm or station, Q’land. Good axeman ; go
anywhere.—7oo7.
Experienced battery fitter, late foreman,
desires position with progressive N.S.W.
firm, auto-house, lighting, radio or traction
business. Credentials. —7031.
Young man (22) wants position Pacific
Islands.—7o3o.
Man experienced in buying, renovating
and selling small real estate investments
would like to co-operate with Sydney specu-
lator. —7038.
Efficiency engineer wants position.
Twenty years’ practical experience, factory
installation, maintenance and labor-saving
equipment. References. —7018.
Ambitious young man desires position in
Islands, in store, garage, or as overseer on
cocoanut or rubber plantation. Accustomed
to tropics" excellent references. —2062.
Married man (33) wants position in
country, N.S.W.; five years' dairy- and
wheat-farming; just returned from F.M.S.
rubber plantation. Small capital.—7osB.
Man (39), coach-, motor- and house-
painter, also undertaker, can drive horses
and motor, wants work anywhere.—7o64.
Book or pamphlet giving instruction on
trick roping and rope spinning with the
lariat.—7o2o.
Copy of “The Groom’s Story,” by A.
Conan Doyle, or information where obtain-
able. —6957.
Words of verse “The Stockman’s Last
Ride.” (To Fred L. Dixon, Port Victoria,
Yorke Peninsula, S.A.)
To buy unexpurgated edition, Burton’s
translation “Thousand and One Nights.”—
3993.
To buy correspondence course in journal-
ism ; or will exchange for complete corres-
pondence course in shorthand.—6974.
To buy small country newsagency.
N.5.W.—7015.
To buy banjo ukulele or Hawaiian ukulele.
—6977.
To purchase Maori and South Sea Island
curios.—69 Bl.
Exchange linen or sell about 150 copies
Woman’s Mirror from first issue; will
separate.—7o6o.
To exchange 30 different stamps of Rou-
mania, Esthonia, Finland, etc., for 100 Aus-
tralian or M.L. stamps. (To Laurence Illing-
worth, P.O. Box 21, Narrogin, W.A.)
To exchange 4Mn. compound slide rest, ex-
cellent condition, for another Gin., small
cash balance. —6973.
To sell set of 39 bells, suitable concert
work, spring tongues, good order. —6972.
To sell, cheap, one share in N.S.W. News-
agents’ Association. —7046.
To sell 3000 acres land, 30 miles from
Hobart, carry 1500 sheep.—7oll.
To sell 2000 acres sound sheep country,
N.S.W., nine miles from rail, partly im-
proved ; good house. £1 per acre.-—7019.
Addresses of persons willing to exchange
postcards with French collector. (To R.
Doche, 21 Cours Tourny, Libourne, Gironde,
France.)
Whereabouts of James McGurran (46),
farmer and miner, worked at Broken Hill
and with farmer named Ryan in W.A. (To
Dennis Kelleher, saddler. Marburg, Q'land.)
Whereabouts of “Argus,” the boy thought-
reader, who appeared at Sydney theatres
about 12 months ag0. —6992.
Information Sought.
How to cure and store lemons. —7oos.
Points to remember are: (1) Avoid dam-
age in gathering; (2) sever—Wiss's clip-
pers are recommended —in two cuts, one to
get the fruit from the tree and the other
to clip the twig close to the fruit; (3)
don’t let the fruit get tree-ripe—it is best
to show just a trace of color: (4) wear
a cotton glove to handle the fruit; (5) pack
straight into the cases, which should be
paper-lined; (6) bold cases at the orchard
for seven days to toughen the fruit; (7)
fairly low temperature and high humidity
are necessary in the storage-room—dry
winds that reach the fruit are fatal. Dip
portion of the fruit in a 10 p.c. solution of
boracic at llOdcg. Fahr. before storing;
this prevents blue mould. Matter that
will be found helpful was printed in N.S.W.
Agricultural Gazette, October, ’24, and
Sept., ’25.
How can, 1 obtain a position ns a Vic-
torian licaltli-inspector? Age limit , educa-
tional qualifications, genei'dl qualifications,
sal ary? —6B79.
Vacancies —when there are any—are
advertised by the State Public Service Com-
missioner. Maximum age is 40; applicants
must hold the Royal Sanitary Institute cer-
tificate of competency,, or other approved
certificate; salary ranges from £291 to £330
P.a.
What type of pine grew on Lone Pine,
Gallipoli, and where can a photograph he
seen ? —6943.
(1) It was a dwarf type, no taller than
20ft., and in appearance was similar to our
cypress pine. The cones when opened out
were slightly smaller than a domestic fowls
egg; two are on view at the War Memorial
Museum. (2) No photographs are in any
of the official collections.
A preparation for painting or dressing
cloth covers to make them waterproof. —
7009.
Mix thoroughly three pints of raw linseed
oil, a quarter-pint of turpentine, about a
tablespoon of dryers (obtainable from any
oil or paint dealer) and a tablespoon of
lamp black. Paint one side of the material
and let it dry; then paint the other side.
After painting the first side, add to the
mixture which is left a small pieAi of bees-
wax (melted) and one teaspoon of black-
lead ; this makes the second side bright and
glossy. These quantities are sufficient for
two yards of calico two yards wide. There
is also a special preparation on the market
which has been used with success, viz., black
watershed oil dressing, Is. 6d. per 7oz. tin;
if unobtainable locally write to Mitchell and
Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne.
(1) In lawn tennis is the striker allowed
to play a service fault? (2) Has the umpire
power to give the stroke against the striker
in the event of his returning a service fault?
—7022.
(1) Yes. (2) No. Where a service is
doubtful the striker should return the ball
into play, otherwise the decision may be
given against him and he consequently
would lose the point.
(T) What salaries are paid to teachers
in charge of sixth-class schools in N.S.W.
who have 3 A, 274 and 2A classifications? (2t
What, allowance is paid where the teacher’s
wife teaches sewing? —6B69.
(1) 3A. £358 per annum; 28, £410; 2A
£436. (2) The allowance is £32 10s. p.a.
Which are the six largest cities in the
British Empire? Their populations? —6Bs7.
London (7,476,178), Calcutta (1,263,292),
Bombay (1,172,953), Sydney (1,101,000),
Glasgow (1,034,069), Melbourne (945,000).
Sydney and Melbourne figures are those
estimated at December 31, ’26; others are
IQ2I census figures.
Method of curing snake-skins. —6913.
Soak the skin for a few hours in cold
water until quite soft; then scrape the back
to remove any flesh or fat. Rub alum into
the skin and soak for eight hours in a
liquid composed of 2oz. powdered alum, loz.
common salt, one gallon of water. After-
wards wash thoroughly, mix fresh liquor and
soak for another eight hours. It will be
necessary to press the scales down ; a house-
hold wringer or mangle will do. Roll from
the base of the scales to the tips. Stretch
out to dry in a cool place, using a tack every
three inches on each side.
(1) / have designed an improvement on
an existing rabbit-trap—an alteration of a
part. Can / register a design? (2) Can
I alter the Dap for my own use in accord-
ance with pnig registration? (3) Name of
an Australian rabbit-trap manufacturer.
(4) Are patent rights held for all makes of
traps? —6S9s.
(1) If the alteration materially improves
the trap, it would probably be patentable;
consult an experienced patent attorney, such
as Griffith and Ilassel, Sydney. A patent
would be preferable to a design; a design
protects only the form and appearance of the
device, whereas a patent protects the prin-
ciple. (2) No person other than the holder
of a patent or design registration is per-
mitted to “make, use or vend” any device.
(3) Henry Lane. Ltd., Newcastle. (4) The
Commonwealth Patent Register contains
many patents for rabbit traps, and it is
unlikely any trap on the market is un-
protected.
Can a wife secure a divorce in Queens-
land on the ground of insanity? —6749.
Yes. if the husband has been confined in
an asylum for five of the six years preced-
ing the petition and is certified to be un-
likely to regain his reason.
Effective methods of destroying flies, all
precautions regarding disposal of garbage
haring been taken? —6637.
Mix one tablespoonful (40z.) of 40 per
cent, formalin, obtainable from any chemist,
in one pint of water, with a little sugar and
milk added. Expose some of the mixture
in shallow plates, with a piece of bread or
blotting-paper placed, in each; flies will
alight and drink —and it will be their last
drink. Fly-glue may be easily made
by heating two parts by weight of powdered
resin and one part by weight of castor oil
in an old saucepan, stirring until dissolved.
The mixture, whilst hot. should be thinly
painted on sheets of paper or on lengths
of string .or wire, which may be suspended
from the ceiling. The. stuff will keep for
a long time, but must be melted by heat
when required again. The use of volatile
fly sprays and the blowing or burning of
pyrethrum can also be recommended.
(1) What amounts are paid by music
publishers for songs accepted for publica-
tion? (2) Would it be necessary to copy-
right a composition beyond the country of
publication? (3) Should songs be offered
to local or overseas publishers? (4) What
would it cost to copyright a song in each
of the countries of the British Empire and
in U.S.A.? —6840.
(1) There are no set terms; it is a
matter for mutual arrangement. (2) The
publisher generally purchases the copyright
and arranges for protection in the British
Empire and foreign countries. (3) Aus-
tralian publishers might be given hrst pre-
ference: still the supply of songs is so
great that a composition has to be specially
attractive to get published either here or
abroad. (4) Copyright in Australia or Eng-
land would protect your interests through-
out the Empire. It costs ss. to copyright
a musical work in Australia and about ±i
in U.S.A.
(1) What are the three richest stakes
raced for by horses? (2) Which is consid-
ered the best racecourse in the world? (3)
What country has the best racehorses . —
6736. ‘ .
(1) The Grand Prix de Pans, run at
Longcliamps; the Futurity Stakes, run at
Belmont Park, New York; and the ( ol-
froth Handicap, run at Tia Juana. Mexico.
(2) It is difficult to decide; N. S. Welsh-
men claim the distinction for Randwick and
Victorians for Flemington. They are cer-
tainly well ahead of English courses. (31
A matter of opinion; probably England.
Where can I obtain a book or papers deal-
ing with the days of burlesque as produced
by Fred Leslie, Nellie Farren, Lonnen, etc.?
—6690. . .
Search Sydney bookshops and libraries for
the following: “A Book of Burlesque,” by
William Davenport Adams; “Gaiety Chro-
nicies,” by John Hollingshead; “Round the
World with a Gaiety Girl ” by Leeham Ban-
tock; and “Life of Fred Leslie.” The ‘ Stage
Year Book,” editions of which can be seen
at the Public Library, will be found helpful.
Can you give the names of Asiatic mer-
chants who supply brass vases, ornaments,
etc.? —5976. ■ ,„ , ..
M. L. Tewari and Co., Bundelkhandi,
Mirzopur City, U.P.; B. Ivarmchand Paya-
ralal, Hoshiarpur, Punjab; Cottage Indus-
tries Ltd., Railway-road, Lahore, all of
India.
Data concerning pastures improvement in
S.A. —7035. , _ r
“Records of Some Departmental Work
(S.A. Agricultural Bulletin No. 214, p.
202) gives particulars of work done in 1927 ;
the 1928 results will be published later. See
also page 1120, July, “28, number of S.A.
Journal of Agriculture and page 11 ol
August issue.
What Government, Labor or otherwise,
was in power when the Old Age Pensions
Act was first passed? —7os2.
Presumably you refer to the Common-
wealth Act; it was put through by the
Doakin (Liberal) Government in 1908.
Can a. youth of 18 who wants to become
an air pilot be apprenticed to a commercial
aviation co ? If not, how can he become
one? —6915.
Not in Australia; commercial pilots are
recruited from those who have undergone a
course of training in the R.A.A.F. —see reply
to 6859 (B. 17/10/’2S). _ There are, how-
ever, Aero Clubs and Flying Schools which
put their numbers through a course of
instruction in practical flying. Try the Bris-
bane Flying School, Eagle Farm Aerodrome.
(1) Gan a married man be held legally
responsible for debts incurred by his wife
prior- to marriage? (2) Can a married,
woman be suedl for business debts _ incurred
by her prior to her marriage? —696l.
(1) No, except to the extent of any pro-
perty lie may have acquired from the wife by
Marriage.. (2) Yes.
/ have bought a N.B.W. building lot, Tor-
rens Title. What is the cheapest way to
have the deeds drawn up and how should T
go about iff —6954.
Apply to the vendor for the particulars
contained in his Certificate of Title.that will
enable you to secure transfer. Then apply
at the Lands Titles Office. Queen’s Squaru
Sydney, for the necessary forms. _ You should
make a search to see that the title is clean.
A layman is quite competent to carry out
the transfer but, of course, is not as well
practised in doing so as a 'solicitor.
An oil or food for mixing with separated
milk to take the place of cream for feeding
to poddy-calves. —67BB.
Oil as a substitute for butter-fat is not
recommended. Feed your calves as follows:
Whole milk for first three weeks; Three-
quarters whole and one-quarter skimmed
milk fourth week; commence fifth week with
half whole milk and half skimmed milk,
gradually altering during week; to one-quarter
whole and three-quarters skimmed. Then
give them skimmed until the end of the
eighth week; thenceforward, one-quarter to
one pint of gruel (two of pollard to one of
linseed meal, boiled to jelly) to 1$ gallons
skimmed. At all times milk should be at
blood temperature, and one pint of lime
water, kept at full strength, should be added
to every 10 gallons of milk or skimmed milk.
A recipe for a whitewash that will not
peel off. —7001.
Take half-bushel freshly-burned lime,
slake with boiling water, keeping well covered
during the process, so as to hold in the steam,
and strain through a fine sieve. Then add
7lb. of salt previously dissolved in warm
water, Hb. of whiting and 11b. of glue,
previously dissolved by soaking well and
then hanging over a slow fire in small kettle
contained within a larger vessel filled with
water. Add 5 gallons of hot water to the
mixture and stir well; let it stand for some
days, covered up. It should be applied hot.
Can a girl born out of wedlock and known
by her mother's maiden surname, change her
name on attaining 21 to that of the man
her mother married, though he didn’t adopt
her? —6862.
Yes, it is not illegal for anyone to change
a surname. It is usual to have a deed
poll drawn up by a solicitor and deposited
with the Registrar-General of the State in
which he or she resides. The Registrar-
General’s fee is about 2s. 6d.
(1) What is the standard required by
applicants for the N.B.W. police force
(mounted and foot) ? (2) Possibilities of
joining and wages? —6926.
(1) The minimum height for mounted
police is sft. 9in.; for foot police. sft. 94in.
The weight should be at least list. 41b. and
chest measurement 39in. Candidates must be
over 21 and under 30 years of age. Appli-
cations are not received from men who have
been operated on for hernia , and, in certain
cases, for appendicitis. Candidates must pass
a strict-medical examination and give satis-
factory proof of character and educational
qualifications. (2) Recruits are required just
now. For the first year the pay is 16s. 7d.
per day (seven days per week) ; f° r _
second year, 17s. per day. If there are
police quarters there is a lodging ailowan
of Is. 6d. a day for single men and -s. t»u.
for married men.
An apprentice to the electrical trade in
N.S.W., finding he has no aptitude for tne
work, wants to get his indentures cancellea.
Can lie leave without his employers pa
mission? —6763. . ,
He may apply to the Electricians v °n-
ciliation Committee for the cancellation o
his indentures. If the employer is unwilling,
both parties may be summoned to appear
before the committee, and the apprentice
will have to prove his case. He cannot
break his indentures without the employer s
permission, but the committee may eancc
them for any reason deemed sufficient. Com-
municate with the Industrial Registrar,
University Chambers, Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Information Supplied.
6777. —Paint or enamel is an expensive
means of lining a tennis court where the
markings are constantly trodden off. use
pipeclay or whiting mixed with tallow anc
boiling water. Such lines will not wash out,
and will wear equally with painted ones.
“Bung.”
6680. —A cheap method of dressing a
blacksoil path that .gets sticky in the wet
weather is to cover it with ashes. Saw yei
Bill.”
Does Anybody Know ?
llow to build a shed of random rubble
out of weathered sandstone, which litters
my land? Must stone be specially treated,
and what mortar should be used? ” hat
thickness should the walls be for Bft. bin.
height?—69s6.
How to make a brooder to hold about 50
chicks ?—7038.
Brief Answers.
H.E.H.: Deposits irregular and profits
hardly possible with tin at present price . .. .J.C.L.:
(1) Any amount you choose. (2) You must have
seven shareholders at least. (3) The liability of
each shareholder is limited to the amount unpaid
on every share issued in his name. . . .O.L.W . : It is
a new co. taking on a new business, and therefore
is speculative... .G..1.T.: See Bulletin' 19,1 28.
Policies are well protected... .A. A. S. : Embalming
cannot be learned from books or postal courses. Ai
experienced man would teach it for a fee of £■> 5s
Get in touch with Wood, Coffill, Ltd., 810 George-
street, Sydney.... J.F.: Communicate With the
Patents Department, Martin-place, Sydney.... K.M •
(1) At December 31, 1926, the population of Adelaide
was 316,865; of Brisbane, 274,260. (2) The Cooma.
while on a voyage from Brisbane to Cairns (Q-), was
stranded on North Reef, Capricorn group, on July
7, 1926. No lives were 105 t... .L.E.L.: You could
consult the list of shareholders filed at the Registrar-
General’s Department, Sydney; fee, 2s. 6d. But
why not apply direct to the company ?.. . .A.P.:
Records of that sort are not kept by any of the
official bodies WAV.: Get in touch with Lyster
Ormsby, 220 Pitt-street, Sydney... .G.H.B. : The
books are of no value. .. .E.N.: A 27ft, boat would
not meet with the requirements in the locality you
mention. The principal fishing grounds are about
90 miles from port and boats from 40 to 00 feet are
necessary to make it a paying proposition. Fish
can be sold in local or Victorian markets. For
further information get in touch with Fisheries
and Game Department, Flinders-street, Adelaide.
A.K.: See reply to No. 6648;. . .R.G.: Depends
on whether, legally considered, the man is a tres-
passer or a tenant-at-will. Give him written notice
to quit and if he refuses to do so place the matter
in the hands of a solicitor. The matter of wages is
determined entirely by the agreement between you.
P.P. : From the rubbing the coin appears
to be a penny of that period. If so, there’s plenty
of them Mitchell Grass: (1) Prospects better;
though early results are not likely, they have good
chances. (2) Hold; things can’t be worse than
they are... .A. 11.: (1) He might do it to illus-
trate the horrors of circumlocution. (2) Yes. .. .
D.S.: Kaffee Hag Corporation, Cleveland, U.S.A. Don’t
know the Australian agents... . A.M.E.: Ethylene
gas is made in Melbourne; Elliott Bros. (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., Flinders-street, Melbourne, will be able
to put you in touch with the firm. . . .C.H.: All the
dyes mentioned can be obtained from Elliott Bros.,
Sydney, through any of the chemists in your town.
. ...L.C.: Try second-hand bookshops ; unlikely they
would bring more than 10s.. . . .H.N.: They could
be sent to the State hospitals at Lideombe and
Liverpool, N.SAV N.W.: A.M.P. life-policies
cover ascents by aeroplane passengers without extra
charge... .J.M.8.: There is sufficient local labor on
both islands. Your only chance is to apply to the
Australian offices of cos. trading there... .H.C.:
Write N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau and Tas.
Government Tourist Bureau, both of Martin-place,
Sydney C.G.: If the will was properly made it
cannot be invalidated after death... ..P.D.: In ordi-
nary circumstances you are responsible, but it is
open to you to dispute the reasonableness of the
fees... .K.H.: “Jiu-jitsu,” by Spalding (Is. 9d.),
“Jiu-jitsu,” by Longhurst (2s. 3d.), and “Jiu-jitsu
and Self-defence,” by Sutherland (3s, 6d.), Sir Robert
Bear’s Bookshop, Royal Arcade, Sydney... .M.J.8.:
Population. of Toowoomba (Q.), about 25,090; it
has been a city for fully 15 years. . . .K.S.T. (and
others) : For particulars of Hodder and Stoughton's
Religious Novel competition, ask W. S. Smart, 68
Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .G.M.L.: (1) £6 6s. (2)
Angus and Robertson. (3) No mention is made of the
castle in standard works. (4) Try the Society of
Genealogists, 5 Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.I.
. ...S.M.P.: (1) No. (2) A Government tax. (3)
None.... 0.L.R.: Try C. B. Patterson, care Gordon
and Gotch, Barrack and Clarence streets,
Sydney A.L.C.: (1) No, provided both
parties were told what you had done. (2)
No. (3) The first is impossible; the second is
correct A.D.L.: (1) “Home Furniture-making,”
by G. A. Raeth (7s. 10d., posted), and “Furniture-
making,” by R. S. Bowers and J. Bovingdon (12s.
5d., posted) ; Dymock’s, Sydney. (2) Write
Anthony Horderns A.P.M.: To copyright scenario,
lodge copy with the Copyright Office, Com-
monwealth Bank Building, Martin-place, Sydney,
fill in the necessary form and pay a fee of 5s
S.A.: (1) No. (2) Parties to a marriage in N.S.W.
are required to declare that there ia no impediment
by reason of kindred relationship; a false declara-
tion is punishable... .C.M.D.C.: The felt can be
obtained from Max Wurcker, 99 York-street, Sydney;
the wire, if plain, from E. Lufft and Son, 337 Kent-
street, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


■ >
EVERYWHERE
■i?£T»*??r)
A
~5?
'
s&pmm
‘A?
Authorised
Dealer
GENERAL
MOTORS
Genuine Part?
Sold Here
m
&<sVor^
\ %■ •? i : V'V<
GENERAL
MOTORS
x ' : vvXr?rV-''%s&
~2
GENERAL
MOTORS
c CTft?t
ftr
v.
;v
x\
X.J
GENERAL
MOTORS
Genuine Parts
Sold Here “
THE man who buys a modern
motor car knows that it is
an efficient, dependable
transportation unit.
But he realises just as fully
that there may come a time in
the life of the finest car when
service and spare parts are
necessary.
It is because of the certainty
of satisfactory after sale service
that the majority of buyers favor
General Motors cars.
The owner of a General Motors
car has the assurance that any-
where in Australia he has within
easy reach an authorised dealer
equipped to render specialist ser-
vice and provide spare parts
immediately they are necessary.
There are authorised General Motors dealers
everywhere ready to provide parts and service
for Chevrolet, Pontiac, Oldsmobile, Oakland,
Buick, Vauxhall, La Salle, Cadillac and GMC
Trucks. They are readily identified by the Gen-
eral Motors Authorised Dealers Sign.
Buy from Your Local Dealer
/x?
W.,-/- - •
I Limited
<p.
y
y>:y^br*c
ytn
general
motors
Genuine Parts
Sold Hf?iip
j
&<
v v, “
.
GENERAL MOTORSlaustraualP^p
* M ELBOUKN E - SYDNEY— ADELAIDE - BRISBANE PERTH JWW
£ .90
J-
■%cr^v
1
mm
Ax
<S
s>
n
m.
s m
usk
y+*>
£ I
LA
salle
LA c
I22uc?
CAD


gPRESS
353
SB
sc
■
;.. $2
MU
its®!
V :' ':"■■-•■/•
-v, :
s’ ,
..
kS
ZOfor 1/6
Ardath TOBACCO
CQ,UQ, LONDON.
IVORY
TIP-
SMOKE-OH!
IN MEMORIAM.
In view of the drastic action threatened
in N.S.W. against Razor Gangs, a rush of
business is expected in the "In Memoriam”
trade. Some suggestions:
Deadshot. —In loving memory of our dear son and
brother Alf, who passed away June 27, 1928.
Alf had the quickest hard n:i a gun
From the ’Loo to Darlir, hurst.
Unfortunately, last June, when a brawl was begun
A policeman got in first.
All regret you sadly, Alfie dear,
Friends and- family send their love,
And hope to meet, in the future near,
In those happy Realms Above.
Stroker. —In ever-loving memory of dear old
“Tiger.”
We cannot hear his gentle voice,
Nor see his loving face.
There is nothing to recall him
But his razor in its case.
Inserted by Herb, May, Sis, and members of Central
Darlinghurst (“Spider’s”) Razor Gang.
Deeming. —ln affectionate memory of my dear
son, Robert, who departed this life at 9 a.m. sharp,
August 5, 1928.
My heart is heavy, Robbo,
As I think of that sad day
When they said “The charge is murder,”
And hurried you away.
The fury gave their verdict,
The hangman played his part,
Ah! little he thought, as he broke your neck,
He was breaking a mother’s heart!
Bash.—ln loving memory of my dear husband,
William Bash. At rest.
’Tis three years since Heaven claimed him,
Yet my love remains fond and true,
T can’t see a broken bottle, Bill,
Biot what I weep for you.
D. J.
* %■
Melbourne unionists want to put the tears
into “volunteers.”
THE MAN ( sentimentally ): "Darling, if I were you and you
were I”-
THE MAID ( practically ): "We’d have been married long ago.”
Sporting Note: Tennyson’s “Brook’’ and
Melba’s “Farewell” are still going strong.
# *
They’ve given a new meaning to “swing
the lead” in Darlinghurst nowadays.
* *
Hold-up gangs take their victims’ pleas of
poverty with a pinch of assault.
MODERNITY.
“A decree issued at Paris authorises road police
to collect on the spot motoring fines ranging from
12s. to 245. Choice may be made of fines on the
spot or of hearings by the Courts.”
The motor-driver learns his fate,
Pays up, and swift is gone,
Under this system up-to-date ■ —
The cash and carry-on.
# *
Someone is always getting wet on the
waterfront.
* *
Three large circular-saws being made in
Sydney will be capable of operating at 350
revolutions a minute. “Jock” Garden says
he would be satisfied to start in a more
modest way than this.
¥ *
A Melbourne licensing court recently
warned drinkers to ascertain a hotel’s record
before buying. It is then up to the publican
to induce drinkers to break it.
* *
From a Sydney advt.: —
The Fly, as a carrier of diseases, is an insect
that, to enjoy perfect health, must be exterminated
from your household.
But why bother about the fly’s health?
* *
Hobbs says his wife is his mascot —but
it is doubtful if he will be allowed to carry
her on to the field.
V
THE MALIGNED ALSATIAN.
“I challenge Mr. Raymond to produce a single
pedigree from any part of the world showing any
wolf strain. I will assist him, if necessary, and defy
him or any other person to indicate any introduction
of wolf blood during the last 15,000 years.”-— Mr.
David C. P. Moore, hon. secretary of the Shepherd
Dog Association of Australia in S. M. Herald.
“Alsatians were highly esteemed amongst
the Romans,” declaimed the Cultured Saloon-
bar Oracle. “When Titus decided to capture
Jerusalem he had a kennel of them trained
to bite the Hebrew Zealots. However, the
Alsatians were too gentle, the only real ser-
vices rendered by them being to leave pieces
of the pork on which they were fed on the
steps of the Tabernacle, thus causing the
inhabitants of the city (who would not
touch the decaying meat on religious
grounds) to be decimated by disease.
“Josephus writes
of Alsatians with
underlying bitter-
ness at this time:
There is no wolf-
blood in them, or
they would eat
more. They appear
to have a vege-
tarian strain—pro-
bably gazelle.’
“The early Egypt-
ians made their
Alsatians bark at
the sacred croco-
diles, for the amuse-
ment of the latter,
and a cartouche of
the first Ptolemy
depicts what ; s
either a giraffe or
an Alsatian—but
which, again, may
be a sheep, of
whose blood these
benevolent animals
had a genei*ous ad-
mixture some 50
centuries b.c.
"The people of
the Stone Age used
Alsatians to mind
their children, and
in pre-Flood times”
“If all this is
correct,” inter-
rupted the inevi-
table Nark, “how
do you account for
the ‘Encyclopaedia
BritannicaV state-
ment that the breed
had not been heard
of half a century
ago?”
For a moment
the Oracle was non-
plussed, and then
lie made a fine re-
covery.
“Another lying
and uncalled-for
attack on the repu-
tation of a noble animal,” he cried, and
strode disgustedly from the bar.
Bloggs.
* *
Seasonable reflection: Every other day
comes news of some wonderful invention.
But they’ll never invent a better drink than
beer.
Laborites in Earle Page’s constituency are
reported to be eating an apple a day.
* *
THE MIRACLE.
A thousand specimens he had
Of insects quaint and ugly,
And they were hottled, good and had,
In spirits very snugly.
He tooJc to drinking spirits raw
From out his bottles tall,
Until, with starting eyes, he saw
His insects on the wall.
s.A. . A. E. W.
NOT ALTOGETHER HELPLESS.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS ORATOR: “A woman should get a man’s pay.”
BAD BASS VOICE: “Yes. But you gotter get him to marry you
first.”
MARRIED MEALS.
The First:—
She: “You do take sugar, dearest, don’t
you ?”
He: “Yes, sweetest, sugar and milk, too,
darling.”
She: “And what will he give me for them?’’
He: “A great big kiss. Like this.”
The fifty-first:—
She: “Here’s your tea, dear.”
He: “Thanks.”
She: “Is the bacon nice, dear?”
He; “So-so.”
The five hundred and fifty-first:—
She : “I’m going into town to-day. Will
you leave some money?”
He : “M-m.. . . I don’t think I’ll be homo
for dinner. We’ve got a lot of work on
hand.”
The five thousand and fifty-first:—
He: “For the Lord’s sake stop Egbert
screaming, and let me eat in peace.”
She: “Eg-bert. Stop it. But if you
wouldn’t always shout at the boy, he’d be
better.”
He: “Hell!”
The fifteen thousand and fifty-first :
She: “Where were you last night? After
two when you came in, and could hardly open
the door. ' Here am I, slavin’ and workin’
myself out to a shred, and you go gallivan-
tin'
He: “For Heaven’s sake, woman, shut
up!”
The fifty thousand and fifty-first (after
the funeral): —
She: “Yes, I’ll have a glass of sherry. It
may help me to bear up. Poor, dear Harold:
It seems only yesterday that we-were married.
The best husband a woman could ever hope
for, and now he's gorn.”
Hilary Hencoop.
• * *
The accent in Canberra is still on the
“can.”
* *
Sydney Zoo is unable to obtain sharks, as
they refuse to take the baits offered. The
aquarium authorities should try a tender
countryman attached to a roll of notes, and
moor him somewhere north of the G-.P.0.
* *
THE BANK DIRECTORS ARRIVE.
It is invidious of the Sydney newspapers
to limit themselves to being familiar and
human about aviators. Knowing items about
“Smithy” (to some papers “Kingy”)
“Sparks” (or “Hal”) Litchfield, “Flighto”
(or “Charlie”) Ulm and “Mac” help to
bring the heroes into the home, so to speak;
but it is just as easy to apply such intimate
methods to our Squadron-leaders and Flight-
lieutenants of finance, and it is much more
desirable, these troubled times, that the pub-
lic should be persuaded to love the latter—
if possible. Here, for example, is how a
meeting of Directors of the S.O.S. Bank
might be handled with profit to all:
Wonderful Scenes Outside the S.O.S.
Bank.
Rapturous Reception of Financial
Favorites.
A dense crowd surged about the Bank
talking excitedly of the great event which
was toward. By 11 a.m. it was estimated
that over 5000 were present. Vries or
“Here he is!” Good old Ik*jy - and
“Hooray!” resounded as a Rolls-Royce was
seen to -be aproaehing, but it was not the
Chairman of Directors, Sir Isaac Israel,
after all, and the tension relaxed.^
“I wonder what he’s thinking of ? ’ queried
an elderly, but still beautiful, lady-depositor
wistfully. “His mother, I expect,” answered
her companion, a soulful woman in the
£l5OO a year class. “She died donkeys
years ago,” observed the insolvent bystander
—just the kind of
remark an insol-
vent would make
at such a time.
And now the wel-
kin rings with de-
lighted shouts as a
tram stops, and
“Auld Babsie
McTavish, who, as
a bank manager,
refused more over-
drafts than any
other man in the
State, climbs down.
“What sort of trip
did you have, Rab-
sie* V ’ asks our re-
presentative. Nae
sae bad, laddie,
replies the million-
aire with a twinkle
in his eye. “I man-
aged tae scale yon
conductor-loon tor
ma saxpence.’
"‘Good old Rab-
sie’!” roars the
crowd, and, with
many a liand-clasp
and ' back-slap, the
dauntless octogen-
arian passes
through the mighty
doors of the Bank.
Fresh thrills! The Boy Director, as he
is known at the Union Club —young Chil-
ler” Sofgoodce, who is still on the right side
of 70 —swings jauntily along the pavement.
His tall hat is set at a rakish angle, and
his brown boots have just been cleaned.
“The darling!” breathes a girl of not more
than 40 ( 300 C.S.R. shares and 200 Gas
debentures). “I’d like to kiss him. In fact,
I will!” And she does. “Three cheers for
‘Chiller,’” shouts someone. They are giveD
with a will, and then a prominent auctioneer
supplies the wislied-for lead in a resonant
baritone —“For he’s a jolly good fay-low !’
“He had served me with my first ne exeat
order,” reminisces an ex-Lord Mayor appre-
ciatively. “It was the making of me, though
I didn’t realise it at the time.”
A series of deafening motor-horn toots,
followed by shouts from the police of “Stand
aside, please!” “Make way for Sir Isaac!”
and the welkin is again split with one united
yell of delight. “Ikey!” the cry goes. “Our
Ikey!” Out of a sumptuous car steps a
short, stout gentleman with the rococo
features and ruined waist-line which so
GRRRR!
“Excuse me, but whatever’s happened to
your hair?"
“I pulled it out because it was like yours.”
often accompany financial genius. A leading
subdivide!* of suburban allotments, failing to
express bis emotions in speech, falls to the
ground in* a fit. Over his recumbent form
steps a stern-jawed man who holds in his
arms that loveliest of Creation’s products—
a Little Child. Of a sudden the crowd
grows hushed. On, on presses the unknown,
and deposits his beauteous burden at the
Iv.B.E.’s side. In lisping tones the child
pleads with the financier. “Sign my auto-
graph-book please. Mister.” Five thousand
investors watch their hero anxiously. Will
he fail them ? No! His left eyelid .closes
with an expression of ineffable shrewdness.
“Not on your life, girlie,” he says. “I never
sign nothing that I don’t have to.”
It is the true Israel touch. Unique!
Inimitable! Amidst a fresh hurricane of
cheers, Ike, who is now arm-in-arm with
our representative, passes in, and on, to
his Life’s Work.
10-2-4.


The easiest way
to get at—
V
%
'/ U/i
Oio
/vor p a ,
'/***>&
*Ca
V
/Va
rov r
By
Os
s lr Q
/Wo
town
Oa,
Jy<&
v
M
2
Oa
U
k
V
/
%
/A
4>,
r a%
4
3%
\ V
£
ffl
pcj%
?4
«S?
4,
%
—the finest
Whisky
Pull the tape which rips
open the capsule, un-
screw the air-tight cap,
and you’re in the pre-
sence of the world’s
greatest whisky. In this
amber liquid you meet
so soon there’s a subtle
heathery tang that
passes description. No
other whisky has it.
It is found in White
Horse only the first
whisky in Scotland.
WHISKY
No corkscrew required


4%
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, 35% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO.
Society Accounts, 4% on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses. Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
Prom one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose Accounts may be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the
(fanomvealtl) Savings Bank of Australia
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: The last time I saw Charley
Pope, just dead in Melbourne, lie was cooing,
gesticulating and guffawing into a micro-
phone. When he had finished lie paused and
stared at tin 1 blank wall, as if expecting the
applause of a packed auditorium. The
“MADAME POMPA-
DOUR," AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
Two lovers of the Pompadour, King Louis XV. (P.
Cory) and Rene (Russell Scot).
announcer was abstractedly trimming his
nails, but as the only other person present
I did my darnedest. “Thanks,” said the old
negro as he waddled back to his corner; “as
usual, audience practically unanimous!”
“Hamer” : The old actor beefed it out in
the usual way, but the younger one was
satirical. “I don’t want to correct you,
old man,” he said, “but you said Monswer.’
Don’t you know that there is no ‘w’ in
French?” The old actor glared at him. “No
‘w,’ hey?” he said. “Well, will you tell me how
in the hell they spell ‘oui’?”
“Old Man”; The All Star Dramatic Co.
was stranded in a remote Queensland hamlet,
the manager having bolted with the cash.
He had forgotten to pay the hotel bill in
addition to the salaries, and the co. was
forced to sleep in the hall which had seryed
as theatre of their artistry, the rent having
been necessarily paid in advance, and the
tenancy having yet another night to go.
Desmond Vavasour, the lead, woke in the
night, shivering. “Ah, but ’tis cold, ’tis
bitter-r cold,” he cried, rising and charac-
teristically coming down front. The comedian
sat up. "No wonder,” lie said, waving his
hand towards the backcloth. “We’re sleeping
in the frozen wastes of Siberia. Why the devil
didn’t the stage manager set a bedroom scene?”
"Flaming Youth”: For Katharine Prich-
ard’s play (which is likely to be shelved
by the Gregan McMahonites on account of
the failure of another Australian play, Louis
Stone’s “The Lap of the Gods”) a bunch
of abos. from Townsville (Q.) were to have
been brought to Sydney. These particular
colored Thespians have already figured in
half a dozen Australians films and have
cont racted all the airs of stage stars; and
before the camera they show themselves
natural-born actors, without a trace of self-
consciousness.
“Ciesar’s Ghost” : Louis Stone’s “The Lap
of the Gods,” which has failed badly at
Sydney Palace, represents Gregan McMahon’s
twentieth attempt to achieve success in
staging Australian plays. That such a multi-
tude have been tried will surprise many,
but here is a not quite complete list: “The
Superior Race” (which led to a libel action
in Melbourne) and “The Taint,” by E. H.
Olipliant; "Dead Timber.” “The Time Is
Not Yet Ripe” and “The Sacred Flame,” by
Louis Esson; “The Climax,” by Edward
Dyson; “Whither?” and "The Lighthouse,”
by Mary E. Wilkinson ; “The Red Rose,” by
William Moore; “The Image Breaker,” by
Alt’ Buchanan; “Mrs. Pretty and the I’re-
miei,” by Arthur 11. Adams: “The Second
Round,” by Halcott Glover ; “The Children’s
Bread,” by Blamire Young; “Secondary Con
siderations,” by Marguerite Dale; “A Man
of His Time.” by Helen Simpson; “The
Good Losers,” by D. H. Souter; “The
Lover of Appin,” by Alan Mulgan, and a
piece by Kathleen Dearden, the name of
which I have forgotten. An enthusiast
like McMahon deserves encouragment; more,
he deserves success.
“M.G.S.”: Richard Garwyn, of the Mel-
bourne Gong Club, says (B. 3/9/'2B) that
“the reason why no work by an Australian
dramatist is included in our original produc-
tion-list is that I know of no Australian
play worthy of production.” Well, no Aus-
tralian playwright ever
wrote anything worse than
“On Art,” by Tolstoi, the
Gong Theatre’s initial effort,
and quite a number have
written short plays consider-
ably bettor. May I cite
Vance Palmer and “The
Black Horse,” Esson and
“Dead Timber,” Furnley
Maurice and “The Distur-
ber of the Pools”; and—■
not to omit the ladies —
Juliet and “The Choice”?
These are all dramatically
more effective and, for an
Australian company, more
playable than the work of
the puritanical Russian.
They deal with characters
with whom even an intel-
lectual like Mr. Garwyn
must be familiar. But
there are types of local ama-
teurs who do not regard a
play as a play unless it
allows them to pull their
shirts outside their trousers,
embroider the edges with
braid and call themselves
moujiks. They are the
people who encourage the
public to stay away from
the repertory drama.
“L.H.P.” : “Macann” asks
(B. 26/9/’2 B) if elaborate
scenery plays a very impor-
tant part in helping drama-
tic effort over the footlights.
I should say “No.” I have
seen good acting killed many
times by superb mounting.
For instance, Allan Wilkie’s
“Antony and Cleopatra,”
free from the trappings of
Oscar Asche's version, was
a rare event. Wilkie was
able to do almost the entire
play, and the interest was never spoiled by
ballets, processions and other unnecessary
adjuncts.
“R.R.F.”: For years before I came to
Australia I used to attend all the theatrical
shows in such big cities as Glasgow, Edin-
burgh and Birmingham. Sometimes month-
would pass without one really good show
being put on. Yet I hear Australians growl-
ing about not getting good plays in their
theatres! I disagree. Certainly most of
the plays are rubbish, but not even. in Bir-
mingham was there such a variety of inter-
national playwrights as I have seen repre-
sented by plays produced in Sydney and
Melbourne during the last six years. Look
at the list, and tell me any town in the
world, outside America, where a greater
variety has been offered: Ferenc Molnar,
Pirandello, Eugene O’Neill, Drinkwater,
Granville Barker, Ibseu, Shaw, Chesterton,
St. John Ervine, A. A. Milne, Barrie, Gals-
worthy, Clemence Dane, Elizabeth Baker
and Fiona McLeod.
"Gad”: In the archives of the Duke of
York’s Theatre (London) there is a white
satin programme, a souvenir of King
Edward’s visit in 1905, to see “Clarice”
and “The Painful Predicament of Sherlock
Holmes.” The cast included Irene Van-
brugh (Gwendolyn Cobb), William Gillette
(Sherlock Holmes) and Master Charles
Chaplin (Billy). That was Charlie’s only
appearance before royalty. The movies have
been kinder to him. His recent divorce case
cost him about £500,000 altogether, but
“The Gold Rush" has probably brought him
£lOO,OOO more than that.
“J.”: An advt. in the Barrier Miner
the other day for a lost £5-note brought
a quick response from the finder—a young-
lady. The loser, as scrupulous as she, ex-
plained exactly his movements during the
time lie might have lost the note. “The
money is yours,” said the finder,' and deli-
cately excused herself when the advertised
reward was mentioned. Those who have a
soft spot in their hearts for young girl mem-
bers of theatrical companies on tour will be
pleased to know that she is one; she be-
longs to William Anderson’s Comedy Com-
pany. Her name is • Winifred Edwardes —
and good luck go with her.
“Cine Ma”: Several well-known film stars
are conspicuous by their absence at Holly-
wood, Dorothy Gish being among them. They
have gone back to the legitimate stage, but
their acceptance of the lowly status and com-
paratively miserable wage of ordinary actors
will not be permanent. Looking ahead, their
employers want them to learn human speech
in preparation for the speakies.
A return that might usefully be tabled is
one showing the profits the Firm has made
out of imported song-amj-dance stars as com-
pared with those made out of local products.
Has it ever done so well out of its Harriet
Bennets and its Virginia Perrys as it has
out of its Josie Melvilles, Dot Bruntons
and Gladys Moncrieffs?
“L.H.P.”: The elaborate ceremonies
marking the 150th anniversary of the dis-
covery of the Sandwich Islands by Cook
recall the drama “Life and Death of Cap-
tain Cook’’ that John Perry wrote for the
Sydney centenary celebration. It was pro-
duced by Alf Dampier at the old Gaiety,
and the newspapers described it as “a tra-
Also, it was billed as a “£lOO-prize
drama,” and the press wanted to know who
offered the money. Certainly Dampier didn’t,
nor did Perry receive that sum. One scene
was “a vision of the future” of Australia,
hut the author was a pretty poor prophet—
there were no strike troubles.
“C.A.8.”: The best money is not in jazz
music. Richard Strauss obtained £lO,OOO for
the score of his latest opera, “The Egyptian
Helen,” quite apart, of course, from royal-
ties.
“Ilamfat”: A grand opera company could
pretty well be formed of accredited per-
formers who have settled in Australia. The
latest to he added to the number is Spencer
Thomas. He was principal tenor with the
Quinlan Opera co., and lie was also in
England’s National Opera co. He has been
given a teaching job on the N.S.W. Con-
servatorium staff.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : George Gee so
satisfied the management in the “Girl
Friend” that he has been engaged to play
in the new musical piece of British author-
ship, as yet unnamed, which is to be pro-
duced at the Palace Theatre at the end of
October.
“Goldilocks”: Curiously enough, M.L. is,
and always lias been, a better show-country
than Australia. The small company finds
the shorter jumps from town to town easier,
but even the bigger affairs play in towns
of a size that would not be worth visiting
in most parts of the Commonwealth. My
belief is that the prevalence of the weekly
cash-payment system is responsible—it
causes money to circulate freely and to be
easily detached for casual expenditure.
There are towns in N.S.W. and Queensland
that are financially hamstrung by the cheque
habit. In one of these towns I once arranged
with the biggest local store to open a book-
ing-office, and secured results. The booking
was immense, but most of it went down
to the accounts of the customers. Had cash
only been accepted, the takings in that town
would have been very light.
“Craiser” : I have no objection to Mosco-
vitch staging rubbish, since I am not com-
pelled to see it; but when talk persists about
the “art” of this talented son of Israel it
is time to protest. In the latest batch
of stage notes issued by his employers he is
made to say that “my stage inclinations came
from my father. He could neither read nor
write, but he had the soul of an artist.”
All that one can say to that is J; 11 ®
did not inherit it. The dictionary meamn
of the word is “one who makes his cratt a
fine art.” Moscovitch has exactly revere 1
the process. Undoubtedly he has «aft, but
he has used it to attract the teast-intel ligenr
type of theatregoer. During his long . L
in Australia he has put on only two plays of
genuine merit. He has no more eiaimtotln
title of “artist” than a business-like po.k
butcher.
“Lever de Rideau” : To theatregoers some-
what sated with the fare usually proyuied, it
is saddening to see a play like Saturday s
Children.” at Melbourne Athenaeum, going
badly. Here is an attempt, reasonably well
acted, to bring a little reality back to the
stage; yet it runs an ill-attended three weeks,
while Maurice Moscovitch,; giving em
“muck,” goes on for ever. Who can blame
the producer if he becomes cynical. Us
expenses are so heavy that one unsuccessful
effort to elevate the standard may swallow
the profits of a twelvemonth.
“SATURDAY’S CHILDREN;’ AT
MELBOURNE A THENAEUM.
Rims O’Neil (Leonard Doyle ) embarrasses
Bobby (Leona Hogarth) and the audi-
ence.
“Lalage” : “The reason why no work by an
Australian author is included in our original-
production list,” says Richard Garwyn 18.
o/10/’2B>. “is that I know of no Australian
play worthy of production.” And when the
masterpiece does arrive it will be produced
• —in the Gong Theatre Club, of all places!
Who is Richard Garwyn? And what is liis
reputation that Australian dramatists should
be eager to submit their work to him? Some
of these embryo producers have the illusion
that their capacity to gather a handful of
young actors together gives them immediate
standing as patrons and critics. Richard
Garwyn needs to be reminded that it is his
ability as producer that is at present on
trial, and not Australian drama..
“L.H.P.”: Dempsey on the boards in a
play. “The Big Fight,” serves to remind
us that many pugs drift to the footlights.
•Tames Corbett toured for years in “Gentle-
man .Tim.” and Sydney gave John L. Sulli-
van the surprise, of his life when he tried
to foist the tripy piece “Willing Hands and
Honest Hearts” on an indignant gallery at
Her Majesty’s. The noisy gods caused Sulli-
van to step to the footlights and invite them
to come down to the stage and fight him.
No one accepted, and after a few nights the
show shut. Larry Foley’s great role here
was Charles the Wrestler in “As You Lik-
It.”
“Maunga”: One-time actor Charlie Blake,
mentioned by “Avon" (B. 19/9/’2S), was
plying a horse and express for a crust on
Haven-road, Nelson (M.L.), when he could
still have been at school with much advan-
tage to himself. When I next saw Charlie
he was singing in Hoffmann Brothers’ piano
emporium, Wellington; and I’ve paid good
money to hear infinitely worse singers. I
next dropped across him in a North Island
town when he was leading man in a fairly-
decent touring company; and one night after
the show lie told me of many of his Australian
experiences as an actor. He claimed to have
played lago to Rignold’s Othello. I took
his word for it. The last time I saw him
he was selling—or endeavoring to sell —a
patent match-container. He said his soul
yearned for a change of breath ; so we hied
off to the nearest hostelry and changed.
VALE ET AVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curtain falls and lifts again.
Somehow compelled we stay, though fain
To bolt for homeward car and train.
The diva stands down-stage alone ;
Tenor, bass, • chorus, all have flown.
This moment is her very own.
Surrounded by her flowers she hears
The generous applause and cheers,
Her face suffused with smiles and tears.
We somehow seem to know the rest;
The hands to heart with fervor pressed,
The halting words that grief attest.
“From you, dear friends, and this my Art
To think that I at last must part
lias cut me to the very heart.
“Words fail to adequately tell
IIow deeply my emotions swell:
I only say : Farewell! Farewell!”
AVc smile, in turn, indulgently
At something; could it possibly
Be but a surge of memory?
AA r hat nlatter though, O Queen of Song?
AA'e clap again (that can’t be wrong)
And answer sotto: “Well, so long!”
S.A.
BILL O'C


Beauty
Power
Economy
w
e
IHIUDSON- Super-Six
HUDSON,
127 in. Models. '
Standard Sedan . . .. . . • . £550
Landau Sedan . . . . . . .. 590
7-pass. Sedan 685
IlBin. Models. <
Tourer, Colonial Body 445
Coach, American Body . . . . 500
Couj.e, ~ „ .... 510
Sedan „ „ .... 520
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS: „ ,
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


Dank int;,
Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Upland Reserves .. .. £3,360.903
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
PRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. :
GEORGE J. SLY. LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
* (Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
, r , Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Lieut Biitain and Ireland, and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ' n * ;eres * for
, . , fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital 1,250,000
.. .. £1,250,000
• • .. 970,000
n. „ , £2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
~ ~r T , , £3,470,000
Also 110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.c!
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
w
THINK OF
SOHUTE
BELL & C Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE
Legal advice, Doctor's advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available
every week.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Melbourne.
\
6W£Y
MAIIJ
WOULD
SPOIL
IT
#
<s*\
\ X»Vt °escc>- * «vA
\^|fP
#>
k *
out®
WAINUTi
STAIN |
REMOVES THE GREY
Shipping, etc.
OWTIERE in the blue Pacific is there such enchantment and
■L V health as in the coral-circled islands now within your reach at
the cost of a city holiday. Palm-shaded lagoons and turquoise
sea, surf foaming on to a icicle white beach , tropical beauty of flower and
fern and forest, quaint native villages, heights catching the ocean breeze
—these can be yours!
And with an ocean
holiday on giant
trans-Pacific Liners
At the Cost of a City Holiday
RETURN EXCURSIONS
Honolulu
From Sydney : £75
Aorangi, Nov. 15.
Aorangi, Jan. 10.
first, £55 second.
Niagara, Dec. 13.
Niagara, Feb. 7.
Tahiti
From Sydney:
Tahiti, Nov. 29.
Tahiti, Jan. 24.
£55
first, £4O second.
Makura, Dec. 27.
Makura, Feb. 21.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melb., C.l.
A
-^w>v>iv!. , r7rrt urrfrrj^nn
■•.’Tii
iWWWttBWS
PL
1111%
mu
m
m
mwM
m
ITNi
m.
aem&l
Attractive Trips of from 3% to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To jPapua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island 1 , Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA" (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR" (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP S’COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF
I’AID-LJP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Dir ec tori:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 XhreadneedJe Street, EC. 3.
~ SlB Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji PaDua
~andated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the weald’
.able remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
TAPITAI plm H .?p R ‘ SED CAPITAL ' *12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP aio in n
RESERVE FUND *}o7SOOO 2 2
RESERVE CAPITAL ijllfoil l 2 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JEDAH COHEN ( Ohairnian ) : Hon Sir THOMAS
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C ; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND -’
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX. 1 RiEJND,
General Manager: J. R. DRY BURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
- London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street EC 3
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia" -mrl
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and aU otter partf of
the world.
__ ('lasses of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLy^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and 'vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
e
w\
a/:/. A'
ftvVMARP L TC
352 CEORCES T SYDNEY
♦ AND BRANCHES ♦
ALJj AUSIRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail ancf cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Bur ope and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Heading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand
London, W.C.2, where they can see the horn-
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency,.Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
w


(grrat Austral Nu. 5 Art lutuu
(By Permission of the Attorney-General, N.S.W.
FOR THE
LIMBI:
PROVIDENT
FUND
ŵ
e
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
V..
m.
7
m
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Gets the maximum of grain from every condition of crop—light, heavy, weed-infested or down and tangled.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10 acres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray ot King Streets, Perth.
H. V„ McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


IfITOA H3D§
2,000,000 WILIYS'OVERIAND CARS AND GOING STRONG f
Vv*\
• y;<
w#nb%.- : i
«a.vV^-V3
~...
” ji'--*
sr>-">
X--. 1 ■-?"•■
*.?■
?..-*•> .**■-,
V. V. \* *
: V.'.;. ;
iip^fe
'"V* •~.'A^-£X
wmifci
r
f #i|l
■ ■■!■■■'.■.!?'■ t •■•»''«k ! '
; .1 j,.- jy »••.<••,•>.J
— ——* • i •yt&'ijk
WL
a^'
'“ g:.'-v.-'W«
with quality,beauty and style dominating
In definite value for your money there are no cars on the market comparable to
the Whippet Four and Whippet Six.
This is true not only because these smart cars are amongst the lowest priced
in the world, but because they represent the most advanced ideas in auto-
motive design both mechanically and artistically.
The Whippet Four offers such desirable quality features as full
force-feed lubrication, silent timing chain, extra leg room, and large
4-wheel brakes. The Whippet Six, in addition to these pro-
vides a sturdy 7-bearing crankshaft, counteracting vibration,
Invar-strut pistons, wheelbase of 109% inches and many
other advantages.
Such notable values as these are possible only because of
the skill and experience gained in the production of more
than 2,000,000 high quality motor cars.
Whippet,
FOURS
SIXES
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY,, LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 5 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WIL L Y S
OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


Jyjjbi:
A A
is*
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney; 509 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A month ago Mollison was alleged to be
“the greatest colt of the age.” Now Molli-
son lias fallen from his high estate, and
Strephon, owned by Sol Green, lias been pro-
moted to the vacant place. In the Herbert
Power Stakes at Caulfield the son of Salt-
ash —Soldiers’ Love, receiving 261 b. from
Maple and 311 b. from Vaals, beat the pair
comfortably and three others very easily in
2min. 20sec. for 11 furlongs. lie immedi-
ately became a short-priced favorite for the
Derby and the Melbourne, Cup, and the
stable double for the two Cups, Gothic and
Strephon, was snapped up at ridiculously
short odds. Strephon is no doubt a good
colt, but a victory in the Herbert Power
Stakes, in which “weights and allowances”
are all in favor of three-year-olds, is not
sufficient to prove him a wonder. This Page
recalls a three-year-old called Kinglike win-
ning the same race just as easily. He did
nothing afterwards, and degenerated into a
hack-race performer in Westralia.
The V.A.T.C. had great attendances on
all three days of its meeting, and the field
of 24 that came out for the Caulfield Cup
provided a brilliant race. The shortening
of Maple’s price was one of the features
of the course betting. After her failure
in the Stand Handicap at Flemington the
Westralian mare had gone out of favor, but
her second to Strephon in the Herbert
Power Stakes reassured the doubtful. Jack
Holt, her trainer, advised all his friends
and stable followers that with ordinary luck
she would beat them all. So there was
such a run on her that she went out a firm
second favorite at sevens, Gothic, declared
invincible by Sol Green, finishing up at
5 to 2 after touching twos. A big course
commission brought Valparaiso to tens, and
at the same price were the Coongy Handi-
cap . winner Textile and the three-year-old
Yodelist, who was also the medium of exten-
sive eleventh-hour support. Horoscope was
at 14 to 1, Black Duchess and Sharp Son
(weakening after his failure on the Wed-
nesday) at 20 to 1, and The Happy Warrior
at 25 to 1.
Headmore caused starter Rupert Greene
a good deal of trouble, and Vaals and one
or two others were also nasty. However,
the gate rose to a good start, of which Val-
paraiso got the immediate advantage. Pass-
ing the stand Fuji Sail’s brother (“Mad
Jack” to the stableboys) was bowling along
well clear of Murnini, Mutcha, Yodelist,
Black Duchess, Sharp Son, Gothic (on the
rails) Maple and Vaals. At the 9-furlongs
post Sharp Son moved up into second posi-
tion behind Valparaiso, and going down the
railway side he had the lead. But at the
half-mile post the imported gelding had
dropped back; Valparaiso was then leading
from Beppinsan, Black Duchess, Maple,
Gothic, Alfred the Great and Etheltou. As
the field rounded the home turn the favo-
rite’s backers were looking for the black
and white squares and red sleeves to cut
Valparaiso down, but it was Maple who
did this. Once heads were straightened
Duncan shot the mare from Perth to the
front, and, finishing as straight as a gun-
barrel, she passed the judge two and a half
lengths clear of Black Duchess, with the
favorite half a length away. The South
Australian mare Etlielton finished well in
fourth place, and another from Adelaide,
Alfred the Great, was fifth ; then came Bep-
pinsan, Valparaiso and Horoscope. Tex-
tile was second last. The time, though no
record, was good—2min. 33Jsec.
The Melbourne crowd dearly loves a good
mare, and was particularly glad to sec
Eurythmic’s colors in the ascendant again.
So Maple got a splendid reception on coming
in, and Duncan shared in it, as lie deserved
to do. It was his first Caulfield Cup win
after many attempts, and what with his
successful ride on Jocelyn in the Metropoli-
tan, he is making a lot of money this season.
Ernest Lee Steere, who is president of the
W.A.T.C., was not present to see his bonny
mare’s victory, but there were many West-
OUT OF HIS CLASS.
ANXIOUS ECOND: “Keep ’em out uv yer eyes, watch them swings ter ther ribs, an be
sure an’ cover ther chin an’ ther solar plexus.
FED-UP PUG: “Blime, waddya think I am —er blinkin octerpuss?"
ralians in the crowd, and they mostly
backed Maple. She carried Bst. 71b., and
with a 101 b. penalty will have only 61b.
more in the Melbourne Cup. As a three-
year-old she was third in the Perth Cup
at two miles, and she ran a good mile and
three-quarters in her W.A. St. Leger (3min.
4 l-ssec.) ; moreover, carrying 9st. 91b. in
the Westralia Handicap, also a mile and
three-quarters, next season she was third to
Eracre in 3min. OJsec. Her chance in the-
Melbourne Cup is, therefore, not to be
despised. Black Duchess was unlucky to
strike such a snag, but she has been an
unlucky mare throughout her career; she
has won three races, been second nine times
and third five times. Gothic had every
chance, but is not at his best at a mile
and a half. Sharp Son’s trouble seems to
be lack of coui’age —a bump or a horse gal-
loping alongside seems to take all the heart
out of him.
The Grantham Stakes winner Solitas was
a firm favorite for the Burwood Handicap,
but there was good backing for several
other three-year-olds, notably Kavalli (9 to
2), who has had support for the Melbourne
Cup, Sol Green’s filly My Lady Gay (o
to 1) and Cimbrian (7 to 1). Ihe race
turned out a good thing for one of F. V .
Hoysted’s string in Allecret (8 to 1), a
chestnut son of that great stayer Poitrel out
of Torbrooke; finishing with a late run
rather reminiscent of his father, he cut down
Cimbrian at the distance and went on to
win comfortably by a length and a halt
from Heroic’s half-brother, El Rey (8 to
1) being next. Neither Solitas nor Kavalli
came home well.
Karuma, who had been working rather
nicely since coming to Melbourne, was in
demand for the Windsor Handicap, 3 to 1
being his final quote. He ran a good race,
but that quick beginner King of Revelry
(7 to 2), with the conquering Duncan on
his back, led most of the way, and was
well clear of Karuma at the right
spot, Byron (15 to 1) being third. Still
Karuma showed that lie will have to be
reckoned with in the Cantala Stakes with
111 b. less than he carried on Saturday and
two more furlongs to travel.
For Moonee Valley on Saturday :
Moonee Valley Cup: Bacchus, 1; Black
Duchess, 2 ; Beppinsan, 3.
St. Albans Handicap, colts’ division: Gal-
Inmine; do., fillies’ division. Lady Deneb.
W. S. Cox Plate: Winalot; next, Ramu-
lus.
Apart from Whitta and Aorangi, and per-
haps Canberra Florin and a two-year-old or
two, the horses racing at Canterbury Park
(N.S.W.) on Saturday were a very ordinary
lot, Aorangi, who was second in this year’s
Doncaster Handicap, is apparently being pre-
pared for the Villiers Stakes at Christmas-
time; he excited the curiosity of the stewards
by his showing in the Flying Handicap, in
which he ran third, at 20 to 1, to Whitta (6
to 4 on) and Lady Canberra (10 to 1), but
Whitta won easily. She is an excitable little
mare, but very smart on her day. The back-
ing of Thrived (7 to 4) and Vanpertruer
(5 to 1) made a market for Canberra Florin
in the second division of the Highweight
Handicap, and her party helped itself to
a nice parcel at fives and better. She proved
too slippery for Vanpertruer, a recruit from
the pony racecourses, and the rest. By Shil-
linglee, a good stayer in his day, out of
Golden Shot, this nice filly ought to be
capable of a decent race at a mile, or even
further, but for the time being her people
are content with picking up small suburban
sprints, on the principle that little fish are
sweet. She is owned by Mrs. Gately (better
known as Fanny Durack, the swimmer) and
trained by her husband.
Prime Don was favorite, at twos, for the
Canterbury Handicap, but was well beaten
by the ancient Blaircourt, who was friend-
less at twenties. Prime Don got too much
racing in his first three months as a three-
year-old, and has never been the same horse
since. Another outsider in Gritall (25 to
1. nominal) got away with the second divi-
sion of the Higlnveight Handicap, and so
made it a ringmen’s day. Gritall and Can-
berra Florin were ridden by George Young.
Gloaming’s old jockey, who is having a second
innings as a horseman. Ellis and Coutts also
rode two winners apiece, one of Coutts’s
pair being Flinders (5 to 2), owned and
trained by William Kelso, to whom the
young fellow is apprenticed, in the Ashbury
Handicap.
* ' * * :i=
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes: The Grindstone; next,
Faultless.
Flying Welter: Air Pilot; next, Prome-
theus.
Moorefield Handicap : Bawn-na-glas ; next,
Poilena.
St. George Handicap: Energique; next,
I inatic.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Harry Mason, the English arid European
ex-champion welter, met Australian welter
champion Jack Carroll, at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night, and got another painful
reminder of the fact that a boxer needs to
train if he wants to win. Before the 15-
round argument started, Mason refused to
step on the scale, but to the eye he was as
fat as a mullet in season. Carroll weighed
lOst. 71b. The Australian went for his
man from the bell, and soon had him badly
marked about the dial. Mason showed a lot
of his undoubted skill in blocking, and is
evidently a clever boxer of great experience.
But the Victorian was too vigorous and
rangy, and time and again landed on his
opponent, while the latter was unable to
reach him. The Englishman tried for a
k.o. in the closing rounds, but was easily
evaded, Carroll funning out a good winner
on points.
That less and less interest is being taken in
wrestling contests for “the light-heavyweight
championship” was made evident at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday night by the
attendance at the match between Clarence
Eklund (12st. 6Mb.) and “Pinkie” Gardiner
(12st. 41b.). The first seven rounds were of
the familiar nature, the beautifully-moulded
“Pink” being allowed plenty of scope to demon-
strate his bridging to advantage, whilst in a
pleasing spirit of reciprocity Clarrie was per-
mitted to do wonderful things with his legs.
The first fall went to Gardiner in the eighth
round per medium of a wristlock, and Clarrie
opened Ms score in the tenth with a double-
arm scissors. In the last of three extra
rounds “Pinkie” brought off a spectacular
somersault, landing, apparently dazed, on his
back. Tired old Clarrie was slow in reach-
ing the recumbent New Yorker but gained
the necessary fall. The crowd seemed Satis-
fied.
Ins and Outs
The Tral match in Melbourne between
Australia and The Rest was something of
a fiasco —in the beginning, at least. Thanks
chiefly to the bowling of Queenslander
Oxenham, who took 4 wickets for 28, The
Rest were all out for 111, O’Connor, of
Queensland, batting drearily for 31. Dropped
off his first ball from Scott, Ponsford went
on to make 79 for Australia, the latter total-
ling 398 in a patchy innings. A good stand
for the ninth wicket by Grimmett (43) and
Oldfield (SS) considerably helped the repre-
sentative side. Nothling, with 2 for 51,
had the best bowling figures for The Rest,
though Scott (2 for 76) haddiard luck in not
getting a couple more wickets. Ivelleway
also bowled well to get 3 for 72. Rain
stopped play on Monday when The Rest had
43 up without loss.
* * * *
The opening match of the English XI.
against Westralia, at Perth last week-end,
proved something of a disappointment, the
last day’s play being marred by rain. Eng-
land batted first for 406, the outstanding
feature of the innings being an attractive
109 by Jardine. Halcombe, the ex-South
Australian (3 for 114), and the local crack,
Evans (3 for 82), shared bowling honors.
Westralia scored 267, two colts, F.
Bryant (61) and W. Horrocks (75 n. 0.),
shaping excellently against White, Geary
and Hammond, while A l . Richardson opened
with a sound 44. In England’s second
knock Geary retired after a severe blow in
the face from a fast rising ball from Hal-
combe, and play was abandoned in the rain
with the score at 26 for 1 wicket. The
Englishmen left for Adelaide the same even-
ing, leaving Geary behind to get over his
injury. The visitors’ batting and bowling
disappointed the critics, though the first
match off the boat is hardly a fair basis for
criticism.
(Continued on page 37.)
THE EXPERTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
« the rider of , has been soundly roasted
in Sydney over his handling of the favorite.
—Brisbane Courier.
There’s some that ride as if they had a gi ft
That way—just sort of natural and free—
An’ some that work like navvies on a shift
For months an’ years before a sign you
But, jockey born or made, take it from mo,
He’s gotter learn before the stakes he lands;
There’s lots to know besides just what’s
your fee —
Except, of course, for riders on the stands.
There’s winter mornings when the sun won't
lift
Ilis flaming head, to warm the misery
That used to be your fingers, an’ the drift
Of trainers’ talk is on the mugs there be
That think they’re jocks, with balance like
a tree
That’s struck by lightning an’ with hams for
hands;
Aw, yes! There’s riding work for such as
we,
But not for fancy riders on the stands.
There’s bushels of instructions that you sift
To find out where just two of ’em agree;
There’s stipes that’s watching and it’s short,
your shrift,
Caught nosing through the bunch ahead,
an’, gee!
There’s something keeping level with your
knee
That won’t give out —he’s taking no com-
mands
From you; but, ’struth, you’d get through
easily,
Knowing as much as riders on the stands.
Son, there’s a ton of fame and £ s. d.
Waiting, if luck has marked you with her
brands:
But still, don’t kid yourself you’ll ever be
As good as any rider on the stands.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


m
:
4
He is Toung at Sixty
“Sound as a bell,” says liis doc-
tor. Every organ in his body
functions with the precision of a
well-kept machine. He has a
healthy mouth.
Contrast him with the man of
half his years whose wits are
dulled and body prematurely aged
by Pyorrhea. Pyorrhea is a dis-
ease of the gums, but its infecting
germs seep into the system and
deplete vitality. They travel in
the blood stream and may affect
the heart or kidneys, or cause such
disorders as rheumatism and
anaemia.
Pyorrhea begins with tenderness
and bleeding of the gums. Then
the gums recede, the teeth decay
and loosen, or must be extracted
to rid the system of the deadly
Pyorrhea germs which breed in
pockets about them.
Don’t let Pyorrhea become estab-
lished in your mouth. Visit your
dentist often for tooth and gum
inspection, and start using For-
han’s For the Gums to-day.
Forlian’s For the Gums will pre-
vent Pyorrhea—or check its pro-
gress—if used in time and used
consistently. Ordinary dentifrices
will not do this. Forhan’s keeps
the gums firm and healthy, the
teeth white and clean.
How to Use Forhan’s
Use it twice daily, year in and year out.
Wet your brush in cold water, place a
half-inch of the refreshing, healing paste
on it, then brush your teeth up and, down.
Use a rolling motion to clean the crevices.
Brush the grinding and back surfaces of
the teeth. Massage your gums with your
Forhan-coated brush —gently at first till
the gums harden, then more vigorously. If
the gums are very tender, massage with
the finger, instead of the brush. If gum-
shrinkage has already set in, use Forhan’s
according to directions, and consult a
dentist immediately for special treatment.
Brice 2/- and 3/6, obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores, or will be sent post
free on receipt of the price by the Aus-
tralian Agents, Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd.,
131-35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Forhan Company, New York,
Proprietors.
5-5
»
5->
5:
£5
o
Ul
2
For hang
FOR THE GUMS
Checks Pyorrhea
BAGSHAW’S
BABSHAVn
'ASTHMA
POWDER |
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Armour’s Orange Gut
u
Restring
2216
(Return Postage Paid )
Guaranteed Three
Months.
Strung to Match'
play Tension.
For this special offer send
Your Racket to
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.
11-13 MARTIN PLACE.
SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
D&U
BRITISH R|/lH BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
RANSOME & MARLES BEARING CO., LTD. (ENG-
LAND), has always produced only one quality
bearing—the best.
These British Bearings are used by more than 80
of British Motor-Car Manufacturers.
R. & M. Ball and Roller Bearings are made of the
finest materials obtainable, with the same care and
precision as the works of a fine watch, and are guar-
anteed against defects in material and workmanship.
Made in 300 types and over 3000 sizes to fit British,
American and Continental Cars.
JZS
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and
Distributors;
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARD-
WARE CO., LTD., Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., Brisbane and Townsville. ,
West Australian Agents: ( Automotive )
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
I
m
2
25
Worth-while Technical
Books
Posted.
Modern Ignition. Cross 5/10
Rotary and Motor Converters. Smith 10/6
Domestic Electric Heating. Solomon 4/9
The Decorator’s and Renovator’s Assistant 3/10
Practical Upholstery. Boreham 4/9
Operating Engineer’s Catechism of Steam Engineering. Gornston . . 16/6
Commonsense Handrailing. F. S. Hodgson . 8/-
Car Maintenance and Repair. A. H. Judge 6/-
Dynamo, Motor Attendants and their Machines . 4/4
Answers on Refrigeration and Ice-making. Audel 10/6
Automobile and Radio Batteries. Cross 4/9
Saws: Their Care and Treatment. Durham 7/10
Motor-Car Upholstering and Trimming 14/6
Practical Boat Sailing for Amateurs. Davies 10/6
The Ford Car Standard Electrical Equipment, Starting, Lighting,
Ignition 12/9
Modern Methods of Ford Repairing. Pile 15/3
The Austin-Seven Book for Driver and Owner 3/10
Saw Mill and Wood Converting Machinery: Notes on Construction,
Speeds, etc 6/10
Saw Mills: Their Arrangement and Management. Bale 20/-
Woodworking Machinery: Its Rise, Progress and Construction .... 14/6
GETS AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED.
The Book of Australian
Bungalows
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/- 4d. Postage.
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
Corner CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.


Never Again
Such an Opportunity!
/"YWING to a change in agency
arrangements, one of the
largest Car Distributors in
Sydney wishes to dispose im-
mediately of a six-cylinder en-
closed drive Limousine Car. This
model is produced by a world-
renowned English maker, and is
probably the most luxurious car
in New South Wales to-day.
In order to effect a quick sale
the distributors will accept
landed cost, as disclosed by in-
voices which will be produced.
The car may be seen and tried
by appointment.
Letters should be addressed to
G.P.O. Box 2509 MM, Sydney.
1
w
m
%
%y/'b
C. Cy C# %"€/'4. £*
4/A4//41 m'y/, x"4 6,/'# A/
<P
W. T. HENLEY’S
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
PLAY THE
HENLEY
9<slacA/i / I
c
c
f~ry
c
m
*,V
o
00 c
c
G
r
The Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: J. C. White, the Somersetshire
farmer, whose left-hand slows are expected to
do big things for the English XI, gets very
little work on the ball for a trundler ot his
class. He explaiped once how the disadvant-
ages of putting on too much break were
brought home to him early in his cricket
career. He was bowling in a village-green
match, and bowled the batsman with one that
broke about a yard and a half. • io his dis-
gust the umpire insisted the batsman was
not out. “Why?” asked White. “Well, zur,
ye zee Ah’d ahlready zignalled a woide.
* =l= *
“Hotham”: Death as a direct result of a
blow from a cricket ball is the rarest of hap-
penings, yet a case occurred the other day
in Melbourne. W. Griffiths, captain of
Elsternwick Second XI, attempted to catch a
lofty drive, when the ball went through his
hands and struck him on the head. A frac-
tured skull resulted, and the unfortunate fel-
low died shortly afterwards. The classical
example of accidents of this kind was
the similar one which caused the death of
Frederick, Prince of Wales, son of George
11. and father of George 111.
He si: * *
“Shrewsbury”: S. P. Kinneir, the War-
wickshire left-hander, who died suddenly in
England last week, will be remembered in
Australia as a member of Warner’s Eleven
of 1911-12. That was the great side which
included that incomparable bowling pair Syd
Barnes and left-hander F. R. Foster, Philip
Mead, back to Australia with Chapman’s
team, was also one of the party. Kinneir
played in only one Test, scoring 30 and 22.
lie was 55 when stumps were drawn.
* :|c * *
“Northcote”: None of the State cricket
selections have given so much surprise as
that of C. E. Pellew, the brilliant A.I.F. and
Australian Eleven batsman, who dropped out
of the game for some time until he came
back into Adelaide club cricket last year.
This season he seems to be right back to his
batting form, and as he is one of the fastest
and most brilliant outfieldsmen Australia has
produced, there are less unlikely things than
that “Nip” will again figure in a Test.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The high cost of cricket
shows no sign of diminution, taking into
consideration the prices which the public is
to be asked to pay for admission to the Syd-
ney Cricket Ground during the coming big
cricket season. For the solitary Test game
—the other one lias been feloniously allotted
to Queensland —the charge will be 4s. for
adults to the grandstand and half that for
kids. For the “outer,” the hold-up will be
2s. and Is. respectively. Other games
against the Englishmen will cost 3s. 6d.,
Is. 6d., and 2s. and Is. respectively—kindly
note that it will cost the Ilillite just as
much to see the visitors at work against
N.S.W. as against Australia. For the Shef-
field Shield games the charges will be 2s. 6d.,
Is., and Is. 6d. and 6d. How the heads
brought themselves to knock that 6d. off the
admission charge for the proletariat in the
Sheffield games beats me. It almost looks as
if they were losing their nerve.
❖
“Quarto”: Many a glad hand has been
held out in Melbourne of late to J. J.
(“Mother”) Kelly, who kept for Australia in
four tours of England. He is a Melbourne
man; he learned his cricket with North Fitz-
roy, and while still a boy had the gloves on
against an English team. After playing with
Port Melbourne and St. Kilda Jim went to
Sydney in 1894 (Jack Blackham stood in
his light in Victoria), and at once jumped
to the front. He was a great ’keeper and
no mean batsman. He was one of the five
centurions when Paddington made that record
of 800-odd, and once won a Test match with
Hugh Trumble by his doggedness at the
pinch.
❖ $ i\i %
“Gabba”: The first Sheffield Shield game
of the season opens in Brisbane on Saturday,
when N.S.W. will meet Queensland. The
N.S.W. side will be minus Gregory and Old-
field, while Ivippax, Nicholls, Jackson and
Bradman will travel from Melbourne after
the Trial match, which will just give them
time enough to land on the ground for the
beginning of the game. As Oxepliam, O’Con-
nor, Nothling and Thompson, who are all
Queensland representatives in the Trial, will
have to do the same, the luck should be
easily balanced. To judge by the squeals of
Sydney papers, you wouldn’t think so.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Torrens” : The first South Australian pro-
fessional golf championship, played at
Adelaide last week, was won by F. W.
McMahon, of the Marino club, who beat
Rufus Stewart, last year’s Australian and
South Australian open champion, by four
strokes. Stewart has been showing fine
form since his return from his tour of
Europe and America, but his opponent
improved so rapidly in the ex-champion’s
absence that the result caused little surprise.
The scores for the four rounds were:
McMahon, 297; Stewart, 301.
“Iconoclast”: An American publication de-
voted to the inner mysteries of golf recently
chronicled with dismayed astonishment the
fact that a “prominent American golfer” had
burst into tears after losing a match. To me
the minor tragedy is easily explainable. There
comes a time in the life of all of us when
we look into our naked souls as into a mirror
—the metaphor seems a trifle mixed, but
let it go—and recognise ourselves as we
really are. It is probable that this was the
experience of the unhappy man referred to.
The miracle to non-golfers like myself is not
that golfers who come to realise what they
really are weep tears of agony, but that they
do not herd together and rush violently down
a steep place into the sea, as other possessed
beings are said to have done some 2000 years
or so ago.
* * * *
“Let Go”: Golfers at Winton (N.Q.) are
having trouble with the greens on the local
course. The long drought has not left a
vestige of grass, and in an attempt to make
the greens fit for play sand has been placed
on them. The strong western winds blow
the sand away just as quickly as it is put
down, so now the club intends to mix oil
with the sand. The method has been tried
elsewhere with earthen tennis courts and
has proved most successful.
sjc * :je *
“Fitzwilliam”: “The McHaggis” is right
(B. 17/10/’2B) in calling fox-hunting, a joke,
but he misses the point of the jest, which
is that all organised sport is a joke. When
golf was originally played by Dutch fisher-
men on the shores of the Zuyder Zee, in the
intervals of being massacred by the Spaniards
and drowned by bursting dykes, it had some
elements of heroism. Nowadays, as a ritual
practised by retired stockbrokers in fancy
dress—as like the old Dutch as they
can get without being stopped by the police—
and talking a jargon which may be either
Scotch or Dutch, but not English, I would
class golf as even more of a joke than fox-
hunting. The only reason why the joke is
not so apparent is that there are more people
playing golf than fox-hunting. Cricket
played in a bush paddock by schoolboys is
a sport, but as played by 22 professionals,
and grown men at that, before a crowd of
60,000, of whom not 600 know anything
about the game—well, I believe that, if the
High Gods don’t laugh, they certainly have
every opportunity of doing so. Necessarily,
any organised game is a jest. The contrast
between the importance of the means and
the paltry end is of the essence of humor.
* * *
“Brassey” : Every golfer knows that curse
of the links, the player who takes anything
up to 10 minutes to consider a shot before
playing it. A queer match between one of
these creepers and a noted fast mover
recently took place at St. Andrews. One
Watson, who takes about four hours to go
round, was challenged by Carr Brown, whose
time for the trip is about an hour and three-
quarters. Brown brought two caddies to the
first tee, one carrying clubs and the other
laden with a deck-chair and a luncheon
basket. His system was to plant the deck-
chair on a fairway and read while his
JAMES GRICE, a foundation member of
the V.A.T.C. and chairman of the big
Victorian racing club.
opponent was pondering over his shot. It
took half an hour to play the first hole and
49 minutes for the first two. The time taken
to play out the match is not stated, though it
is recorded that the spectators faded away
and the marker chucked his job long before
the round was over. Brown won with a
card of 77 for the 18 holes, while Watson,
who was evidently unnerved by his oppo-
nent’s lack of nerves, was 7 strokes worse.
Car and Cycle
“Mileage”: A fine performance was put up
recently in Queensland, when Messrs. Avery
and Struthers, driving a single-seater Stude-
baker Director, covered the 780 miles
between Longreach (C.Q.) and Brisbane in
30f hours. The bush roads were so horrible
in many places that, more than once,
Struthers, who is a lightweight, had to strap
himself in to avoid being bumped through
the roof of the car. Avery, who was driving,
weighed over 13 stone, and kept down with
the aid of the force of gravity. The car,
Which showed little sign of its rough spin,
averaged 15 miles to the gallon, and had
just previously set new records in the
Winton-Longreach run and that between
Longreach and Jundah.
* * * '• *
“Pram”: The “baby” type of car, origin-
ally designed for small purses and as a
handy aid to dodging through the dense
traffic of great cities, has put up an extra-
ordinary string of performances under the
WARREN BARDSLEY, the Australian
international cricketer, who is one of
the Australian Eleven selectors for the
season.
roughest Australian conditions since it
became popular in this country. Among the
most recent is a run by two women-drivers,
Misses Robertson and Howell, in an Austin
Seven. Starting from Perth seven hours
later than the transcontinental express, the
pair reached Adelaide 4 hours 20 minutes
ahead of the train. Another notable feature
was the arrival in Cooktown (N.Q.) of
Messrs. Macquarie and Mathews in another
Austin. This is the first car that has ever
reached Cooktown by road, the said road
having been abandoned for wheeled traffic
some 40 years ago. The party started from
Brisbane, and the journey through the wild
ranges and gorges from the Atherton Table-
land over the long-forgotten track to Cook-
town was a nightmare.
* * * #
“Fed”: What constitutes the whole duty
of a motorist is a debatable question, accord-
ing as the debater is a pedestrian or a cai’-
driver. However, Justice Macrossan, of
Queensland, laid down a useful working defi-
nition the ether day. He said carelessness
in a pedestrian did not give the car-driver
a prescriptive right to run over him, though
that seemed to be a popular impression
among motorists. No motorist was justified
in cursing a drunken man lying on the road
and then running over him to teach him a
lesson. In short, the dutiful motorist,
according to ’Sonah, should keep a good
lookout, have his ear under control, be
prepared for an emergency, and never drive
at an excessive speed. Of course, there’s a
catch even in that. Who is to be judge of
“excessive speed” before the accident? After
it doesn’t matter as far as the pedestrian is
concerned.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Timing motor-speed contests is
a tricky business, and many devices have
been tried to ensure perfect accuracy. The
latest idea is a French one, and is worked
by means of a light beam falling across the
track or road on to a photographic film
driven electrically at a known speed. The
ear when it finishes crosses the beam of
light, and the interruption is shown to very
fine measurements of time on the film.
❖ ❖ si: si:
“Toe-clip” : At the time Maoriland-cyclist
B. W. Arnst definitely renounced his ama-
teur status by entering for the Timaru-
Christchurcli road race, he was smarting
under a disqualification imposed upon him
by a Christchurch amateur club on the
ground that he had taken advantage of motor-
pace during a 200-miles road race. The
charge was denied, but there was evidence
that a motor-cycle was on one part of the
course at the same time as Arnst, and that
he made remarkably quick time over that
portion, eventually winning the race. The
charge raises a rather knotty question. If
a competitor finds a ear ior motor-cycle ahead
of him on a road in which there is practi-
cally only one available track —most country
roads are like that —should he deliberately
back-pedal until it is far enough ahead to
deprive him of any assistance, or should he
take what chance has sent ? The question
becomes particularly knotty if the car or
cycle is travelling at about the same speed
as the rider.
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off”: Upholders of amateurism in
sport all over Australia will welcome the
return of the N.S.W. Rugby Union to the
Sydney Cricket Ground, from which the
monopoly of the professional Rugby League
excluded it for years. The Union’s tender
for the lease of the ground for next season
has been accepted, but the ground is to be
available to other football codes and to
athletic organisations for inter-State matches
or championship meetings, a privilege which
has been at the discretion of the League for
years past and has been invariably refused
to the Union. Next season will be an out-
standing one, with the All Blacks cross-
ing the Tasman, and provision is being
made for at least one “Australia” match
against the visitors, players from Queens-
land and Victoria to be included in the home
side. This will be the first of its kind since
1914.
* ifc * H=
“Everton”: The tremendous vogue of pro-
fessional Soccer football in England is evi-
denced in the sum paid last week for the
transfer of David Jack, an outside-right for-
ward, from Bolton Wanderers to Woolwich
Arsenal. The price paid was £lO,OOO, a
record; and as Jack will get 10 per cent, of
this, the fact that he had no more say in the
deal than a colt has at the yearling sales
should not worry him. In addition, he will
draw the maximum salary of £lO per week
and bonus money for matches won, with
presents from fervent admirers of both sexes,
“subs” from sporting-goods manufacturers
and other oddments of the kind thrown in.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The outlook of some
people on amateur sport was illustrated the
other day by a bitter wail in a Sydney jour-
nal about the retirement of “Boy” Charlton
from competitive swimming. Referring to
him, rather unhappily perhaps, as “the goose
that lays the golden eggs,” the journal was
distraught at the thought of the money the
swimming authorities would, lose when de-
prived of the youngster’s “drawing powers.”
It stated tearfully that when competing
against Borg and, later, Takaishi, he was
“worth about £1000” to the controlling
bodies. All this has, apparently, vanished
like rain in the river. Nothing w T as said as
to Charlton’s future prospects if he devoted
himself to filling the coffers of the swimming
associations instead of qualifying himself to
earn a living.
* * ❖ *
“Backwoodsman”: The growing spirit of
Bolshevism in bowls is becoming alarming.
In addition to the perennial “straight woods”
disputes, there has been a minor insurrec-
tion in N.S.W. over the introduction of
what is known from its inventor as the
“Keesing” system iof club representation in
the pennant competitions. It is much too
elaborate to be dealt with brieuy, but
amounts to proportional representation.
Many of the stalwarts 'have fought the inno-
vation tooth and nail, and have refused to
take part in the games under the iniquitous
system. The result has been the painful
spectacle of elderly gentlemen who would
froth at the mouth at the very suggestion
of industrial strikes and picketing stand-
ing “on the bank” at the various club greens
and openly sneering at the loathed innova-
tion. It is even hinted that a breakaway,
with a consequent formation of a new union,
may result.
* * * *
“Longtail”: When the tin-hare craze was
raging, someone complained in Tile Bul-
letin of the infestation of the Sydney parks
by greyhounds and their trainers, and the
probable result of a collision between 40
or 50 pounds of dog in a high state of
velocity and some hapless pedestrian was
calculated. An interesting endorsement of
these speculations occurred at a Sydney dog-
racing show a few days ago. A live hare
was being pursued, and when the official
whose duty it was to drop the shutters of
the escapes stepped from behind his shelter,
a dog on top gear hit him on the solar
plexus. He went right out to it, and was
some minutes before he was nearly the same
man again. What happened to the dog was
not recorded, but at the best he must have
had a stiff neck for a week afterwards.


j£gggggggM>'
\
m
mmmws
mm
f i
l
Famous Peopl
and a Famous Medicine
ABOVE is Charles Farrell, famous Fox Star—
“ a very remarkable fellow ! ” He is here seen
precariously perched on a high bicycle in a
“ race ” with a Ford tractor ! Become “ a
remarkable fellow ” yourself, by following the
film-stars’ example and taking Cream of Yeast.
ON THE RIGHT is Nancy Carroll, a com-
parative newcomer to the ranks of famous Fox
players. We predict great success for her with
that winning “ Cream of Yeast smile ! ”
*
Cream of Yeast is a genuine way to better
Health—the remedy chosen by famous
people who dare not let headaches, “bad
nerves” and dull complexions take their toll.
Cream of Yeast is a produd: of chemical skill and
great resources; it is improbable that, for average
needs, a more beneficial medicinal tablet could be
made ; it is certain that this remedy gives satisfaction
to the public; it is a positive faCt that it is safe.
Take Cream of Yeast when tired and depressed. Take
it for aches and pains, “ nervy spells,” sour stomach,
listlessness and dull complexion. Do not suppose
plain brewers’ yeast can give the same benefits. Re-
member: this remedy is a medicinal yeast-compound,
costing more to make than plain yeast tablets, yet
costing you no more. Your money back if the very first
bottle of Cream of YeaSt doesn’t do you a ‘world of good!
udjfl ]votpzjfi[ snomvj
In an interview in one of the greatest newspapers in the
world, Dr. Victor Pauchet, a leading French Physician,
Commander of the Legion of Honour, recipient of the
Croix de Guerre, recommends Yeast as a remedy for
intestinal stagnation. He says : —“ Yeast ... is a food
rich in Vitamin B and increases vitality. It is thus a boon
to the health of humanity.”
In a London interview reported in another great news-
paper, Dr. Leonard Williams, Fellow of the Royal Society
of Medicine, educated in England, Scotland, France and
Germany, and well-known author of several books on
Health, said : —“ I frequently see people who, though they
claim to be well, are nevertheless much below concert pitch.
They are not ill, but they ail. For such people I should recom-
mend less feasting and more yeasting ! Yeast is more than a
medicament —it rouses the system to full physiological efficiency
of assimilation.**
e
AT THE LEFT George O’Brien, talented Fox Star,
casts an expert eye at the golf clubs. See him in
“ Speakeasy,” a night-life drama. Follow the film-stars’
example —Exercise and Cream of Yeast !
AT THE RIGHT we introduce you to Rex Bell, a real
Fox hero of the “ wild and woolly West.” Does he
take Cream of Yeast ? . . . Well, look at that smile !
Take Cream of
Yeast yourself for
Thrilling Health !
Take it for Head-
aches, Indigestion,
Sleeplessness, Bad
ŵ
Nerves, Poor Complexion. Any Chemist can
supply you. 24 Tablets, 1/11, 48, 3/6,
125 for 5/9.
os
PARIS, July 24.—Dr. victor **•,./, 4o <Vi)o
1 flfcet. dutitnuuihed French m«£•- Jjjy
j MfentUt'. announce* today t>-» / *°<hfd
I= ““"'' sr ' w^r - 4,
£*»<»>•(
If EASTS' VALUE
|-S!/
ob. \7croa J *v2j®#
nauoh. It i*x«ar. ihe kut • mornt-YCe^
r«COmra«K>e Yca»'fjVß JBOWt v **
W
n.
r
A&
A
V
Thrilling Health /
AT THE RIGHT is
pretty June Marlowe,
“Universal” featured
player. She says Cream
of Yeast is wonderful
when feeling “ below
par.”
of Yeast
CREAM
YEAST -
£S
If not near a Chemist, order Cream of Yeast by Post
from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.


“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £5OO PRIZE STORY.
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 ........ 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
k
Sore Throat
is quickly conquered
by a few tablets of
fORMAMIHf
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
At all Chemists .
_GenatoBan_j_j<l t Loughborough, Fnglan<L
J-&
n\
Finc/t Inland Golf -
Link/ in Australia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management— G. M. Lievain i
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
w Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings'
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs A
COONARDOO.
By- Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
C. H. PERCIVAL.
“Late in the afternoon she saw Saul ride out on his own old white mare.”
Synopsis : After the death of his
mother, Mrs. Bessie Watt, Hugh, horn
and brought up on Wytaliba station,
. in the north-west of W.A., takes over
codtrol, and, as his mother had done,
allows the aboriginal station-workers
to live their accustomed native life.
He also provides a home there for Saul
Hardy, who once owned the station.
Out mustering, Hugh wanders from
camp, and finds that Coonardoo, a fine
aboriginal girl, wife of Warieda, has
followed to guard him. When they
return to camp next day Hugh is
seriously ill with fever, and Sam
Geary, a station-owner, whosg gin-
mistress, Sheba, drives his car, sees
a chance of realising his old ambition
to oibn. Wytaliba. Hugh, however, goes
to Geraldton and recovers. When he
returns many months later, with his
young wife ( Mollie), Coonardoo has
a son, Winning-arra. Hugh knows this
infant is his child, but hides the fact
from Mollie, though Geary, who calls
at Wytaliba, knows the truth well
enough. Hugh lies when Mollie,
slightly _ suspicious, questions him
about this. Mollie is disappointed with
station-life long before the pending
arrival of a child causes her to pre-
pare to go down to Geraldton.
CHAPTER XVIII.
FROM her first trip to the coast, Mollie
returned very plump and pleased
with her baby, a fat, rosy, little blue-
eyed girl.
She felt thoroughly important and satis-
fied with herself. She had stayed with her
aunt in Geraldton; and ever so many
people had called on her, Fairweathers,
Munroes, Castlereaghs and Carewes, bring-
ing little gifts for the baby. Phyllis had
bibs, bonnets and bootees enough for a
dozen babies. Mrs. Fairweather had taken
Mollie under her wing, helped her to shop,
and driven her about in her car to after-
noon teas.
Curious perhaps but not unkindly the
attentions were. Everybody who ever had
a baby gave Mollie advice about feeding
and clothing the child, and she thoroughly
enjoyed being the object of so much
interest, deference and courtesy.
“Asa social experiment Mollie is quite
a success,” Eustace Fairweather wrote to
Hugh. “That’s the difference between girls
in this country and a girl in the old coun-
try who might have had her experience.
Mollie has no sense of inferiority because
she might have washed dishes for some of
these people. None whatever. She is very
commonsense and natural about the differ-
ence in her position now and then, taking
all the amenities shown her as a matter
of course. An admirable little mother,
healthy, unassuming, with just sufficient
realisation of her importance as Mrs. Hugh
Watt, of Wytaliba!”
Hugh had gone down to Nuniewarra to
meet Mollie, and he was very delighted to
find her so handsome and pleased to be
coming home again. It had been lonelier
than he expected without her in the neat,
orderly house she left him. And the baby,
his daughter! He was filled with awe and
an adoring reverence for her. Was this
really his daughter, the small, fat, fair-
skinned little creature in muslin and lace
Mollie displayed so proudly? Any linger-
ing regret he may have harbored that she
was not a son disappeared.
A son, of course, would have belonged
more to him. There was the cooboo who
played about the stockyards with the black
children, his skin just a shade lighter than
theirs, honey-brown. With what agony
Hugh thought of him, sweating at night!
To Coonardoo, in all that year before’
Mollie went to the coast, he had scarcely
spoken. Only once in the shed, when he
was working at the forge, a furnace going
between them, and the children were play-
ing about, running in and out by the shed,
Hugh had glanced from Winni to Coonar-
doo, and said:
“Take care of him, Coonardoo.”
And Coonardoo, her deep, dark eyes
unswerving, had answered: “Eeh-mm.”
“By and bye, when he’s a big chap, I’ll
take him out with me,” Hugh said. “We’ll
give him a horse, eh, Coonardoo? And
teach him to ride?”
Her eyes gleamed. She understood Hugh
was attached to the child, that he would
like to look after him. “Eeh-mm,” she
murmured again; and, turning her eyes
from him, went down to the house.
Mollie’s baby, fresh
and pink and white,
was a fairy creature.
Hugh adored her;
but she was less real,
much less his own,
than that son of a
whirlwind. Always as
he leaned over,
played with and held
the baby, he thought
of Winni. His affec-
tion for the boy
plagued him.
Was it because he
reproached himself
for the existence of
the child? Perhaps.
Hugh could not tell.
Did he reproach him-
self, really?
Coonardoo had been
one sure thing in
his life when
his mother
went out of
it. He had
grasped her.
She was a
stake, some-
th in g to
hang on to. More than that, the only
stake he could hang on to. He had to re-
mind himself of her dark skin and race.
Hugh had never been able to think of
Coonardoo as alien to himself. She was
the old playmate; a force in the background
of his life, silent and absolute. Something
primitive, fundamental, nearer to the source
of things: the well in the shadows.
It was all very well for a schoolmaster
to preach virginity in the playing-fields of
a boys’ school; but here in a country of
endless horizons, to live within yourself
was to decompose internally. You had
to keep in the life-flow of the country to
survive. You had to be with it, and of
it, in order to work and to move as it
did. After all, what was this impulse of
man to woman, woman to man, but the
law of growth moving within them? How
could a man stand still, sterilise himself, in
a land where drought and sterility were
Hell? Where growth, the law of life,
brought beauty and joy in all the world
about him? No wonder the blacks wor-
shipped life, growth—sex as the life-
source !
From the moment she saw Mollie’s baby
there was no one more devoted to her
than Coonardoo. She had exclaimed with
wide eyes at the lovely little creature. At
first Mollie would scarcely allow the gins
to touch Phyllis; but after a while, when
the child was fractious, teething or having
digestive upsets, she was glad enough to
hand the baby to Coonardoo to mind and
look after for a while. She took the baby
for walks or put her to sleep while Mollie
rested in the afternoon; and she did all
the washing and ironing of small clothes.
Neither Meenie nor Bardi would have
.dared to touch them.
Phyllis was just toddling when Mollie
knew another baby was coming. The
winter had been long and dry, and she
was nervy and exhausted by nursing Phyl-
lis, who was a big, healthy child. As the
hot days lengthened and bore down on
her with their breathless stillness and dust-
storms, she was glad enough of any excuse
to leave the wide, dry plains, the bare,
blue skies, and promised herself a breath-
ing space among the small, bright shops
and comfortable homes of Geraldton. She
longed to be able to put on a light frock
and go visiting, to talk with other women.
The baby, she hoped, would be a boy this
time. She supposed she ought to have a
boy, and it might be as well to get the
business over as soon as possible.
When the baby arrived and was a girl,
Mollie was annoyed as well as disappointed.
Everybody sympathised with her. When
Mrs. Fairweather came to see the baby,
cheerily, consoling, she said:
“Never mind, my dear, the next will be
a boy!”
“Don’t talk to me about any next,”
Mollie cried.
“But, of course, my dear, there must be
a next. You don’t imagine Hugh is going
to be happy until he has a son?”
“I suppose not,” Mollie moaned.
“And it’s natural enough, surely.” Mrs.
Fairweather looked down on the soft,
chubby-cheeked little creature she was
nursing. “This is a darling, of course. I’d
give anything in the world for her my-
self. But a man needs a son. Hugh wants
a boy to be companion in his old age, to
work with him, and to hand on Wytaliba
to.”
“Wytaliba! Wytaliba!” Mollie exclaimed
petulantly. “It’s all Wytaliba.”
“But surely, dearie,” Mrs. Fairweather
protested, “it’s your job to be a good wife
and mother. Why, if ever a woman was
built for mothering, you are. You’re
robust; Hugh’s a good, clean-living fellow.
Aren’t you proud of your babies—the dear,
fat, fluffy things?”
“It’s always the people who haven’t got
children who think they want them,” Mollie
declared waspishly.
The sensitive face of the doctor’s child-
less old wife quivered. For a moment she
wondered whether Eustace was right—
whether the marriage of two physical, fit
and suitable young people without any psy-
chological bond was going to be the suc-
cess they had hoped.
“Oh, I know I’m ignorant and common!”
Mollie snapped, something of Elizabeth
Fairweather’s revulsion of feeling reaching
and stirring the resentment which had been
fermenting within her.
* * * *
Coonardoo was much more in at the
homestead than out on the run while the
children were little. Her own cooboo was
five years old when Mollie’s third daughter
was born. There was so much to do for
Mollie’s children, Coonardoo had no time
for babies of her own, Meenie and the old
women in the uloo said. There were too
many cooboos on Wytaliba.
And as for Coonardoo, she loved to walk
off with one of Mollie’s babies, and spend
the afternoon in the shade of the creek
trees, singing to her, telling the children
stories, making tracks for them in the sand,
showfing them how T to copy tracks of wild
turkeys, kangaroos and dingoes.
As often as not Winning-arra and her
own little girls joined them. Winni would
throw little kylies of curved tin, or dig
in the sand for water and bung-arras with
Charmi and Beilaba to amuse Phyllis.
Hugh had seen Coonardoo down at the
creek with the children, and heard her sing-
ing her little song of the kangaroos to them:
“Towera chinima poodinya,
Tower a jinna mulbeena” ....
One day he came on them while she was
telling a' story of the emu and wild turkey.
“Turkey bin argument about kids with emu,
which one better woman?” Coonardoo said.
“Turkey say emu go walk-about all day;
got no kids. Emu say: ‘Eeh-mm, got
plenty kids.’ Emu go bush, come back
with plenty kids. Turkey got only
cootharra [two] kids. Turkey say emu
can’t run so fast. Emu run to creek and
come back again. Say turkey can’t run
(Continued on page 45.)


ẁ
otel International
’Phones ;
FWIIIZ-S
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
in New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
BONDI
03
BEACH
Telegrams ;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
100 Bedrooms.
ẃ
mt,
Hot Water in
Rooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. Pit-ER, Proprietor.
Melbourne
Chatter
Though rain pelted down at intervals and
the sun appeared only in spasms, the Caul-
field Cup meeting on Saturday was a
pleasant one. The course was with ver-
dure clad, and the wind-scattered showers
of rain-drops from the freshly foliaged trees
provoked laughs rather than growls. Hopes
of seeing summer frocks and millinery died
in the early morn, but nevertheless there
was many a bright note in the dressing.
Gay hats and coat posies of vivid tulips and
lilies-of-the-valley made some amends for
the return to coats-and-skirts and wraps.
One society matron, in black, sported red
shoes. The committee’s ladies wore on their
coats posies tied with racing colors, pre-
sented at luncheon by the V.A.T.C. Mrs.
Robert Knox was in a black velvet coat
with lynx collar and cuffs, and black felt
hat; and Mrs. Richard Linton was wrapped
in a coat of gazelle skin, topped by dark
fawn straw toque.
The dressing at the seconcj day of the
V.A.T.C. Spring meeting gave promise that
the first really-warm weather will see an
eruption of spotted gowns, and that navy
blue and white will dominate the color
scheme. As the ragsliops are stocked to the
ceilings with airy confections of lace and
georgette in fawn tones, the sudden popu-
larity of the polka dot won't suit the empor-
iums. A few weeks ago dressmakers were
combing shops and warehouses for the white
and dark blue' coin-patterned materials, but
supplies in most cases had run out. The
ensemble style, in which coat and frock match,
done in light-weight repp cloth and patterned
crepe de Chine or other silken fabric, is also
coming into its own. Mrs. Ben Cliaffey was
one of the race-patrons who wore the two-
in-one attire —navy with a spotting of bis-
cuit hue being her fancy. Mrs. Esmond
Shields rang the changes with saxc blue dot-
ting the darker shade, and Mrs. T. A.
Tabart’s ensemble had a scattering of white
circles. The last-named lady, as wife of
the V.A.T.C. secretary, bade the social writers
of the press to a special luncheon spread in
the v.-r. luncheon-rooms, coat posies of lilies
of the valley being laid at each place. Since
the advent of Mr. Tabart the lot of women
journalists on the turf has become as nearly
a joy as the job can be. Acknowledgment
of many favors was made to his wife by the
scribes, who presented her with a crocodile-
leather bag.
In the committee-ladies’ box was Mrs.
Allan Spowers, who was accompanied by her
sister Mrs. E. Kennedy, a visitor from Ire-
land. Mrs. Eric Harrison took the eye in
red spotted with white, shaded by a black
hat. Mrs. Reggie Power, who accompanied
Mrs. Herbert Power, was a symphony in
magpie tones. Coat and skirt of black moire
and felt millinery were chosen by Mrs.
Charlie Mitchell. A summery effect was
attained by a pretty maiden who wore a
kasha suit of pale green and a coarse straw
hat wreathed with daisies. Mrs. Harold
Ward’s all-lemon turnout was also seasonable.
Very well managed was the Victoria
League’s ball'. St. Kilda Town Hall was
filled with a socialistic glow cast by festoons
of crimson-shaded lights that were mixed
with garlands of greenery. Union Jacks and
Australian ensigns hung beneath the gal-
leries amid masses of white and scarlet
flowers, and there were heaps and heaps of
perfect pink roses and tulips on the supper-
tables. Court mourning robbed the function
of v.-r. patronage. Mrs. J. S. Fraser,' vice-
president of the League, did the honors in
radiance of crystal and moonlight beads upon
a vellum-toned background. The hon. secs,
of the hop were Sheila Morell, wearing a
sparkling frock of faint pink, and Kathleen
Currie and Kathleen Ahern, both in lettuce
green. Among the dancers were Mayor
Morell and his lady, she in black lace; Rear-
Admiral Napier, General Chauvel and his
lady, and Air-Commodore Williams; the
Mayor and Mayoress of St. Kilda, Councillor
and Mrs. T. Unsworth, were official guests.
The Masson lady was in draperies of
black lace. Black sequins, with alternate
sections of crystal beads, formed the Mit-
chell lady’s gown. Mrs. Fred Bird, in black,
ivas the only Leaguer whose coiffure boasted
diamonds in tiara form. Mrs. Harold
Brookes, her daughter, struck an original
note with a jewelled shoulder strap to her
black velvet gown. Mrsf. David Grant and
Mrs. 11. S. lv. Ward were other well-dressed
folk. Ellison Spowers was in taffeta flounces
of deep pink tone and Rosemary Hayne
favored taffeta of the same shade. Nancy
Jones was a fair-haired miss whose tulle
flounces of green were becoming, and Marnie
Clarke danced in ring velvet of peach pink.
Lately the Women’s Automobile Club
linked interests with the Royal Auto Club
in the formation of a welfare circle. The
alliance was celebrated at a tea party at
the R.A.C. rooms, given by Mrs. 11. J. Robert-
son, an ex-president of the W.A.C. The
glory of irises, mauve and pink was dis-
played in the decorations, and the hostess,
who was a study in navy blue, received a
p.isy. Music, instrumental and vocal,
punctuated chatter and tea.
The Victoria Golf Club, which a year or
so ago transferred its quarters to Chelten-
ham and later admitted women players into
its fold, held a tea-party, engineered by the
sho-golfers, last week. The magnificent club-
house was a regular bower of flowers'. On
the tea-tables pink carnations uprose from
beds of pansies arranged in flat bowls. Those
not taking part in the set programme of
golf settled down to an afternoon of bridge.
The president, Mrs. Walter Carnegie, and
lion. sec. Mrs. E. Ross welcomed visitors.
Notable players present included Mrs. Gate-
house, Susie and Shirley Tolhurst, Bertha
Braitlnvaite and Mrs. R. 11. Hartley.
In the grounds of the Women’s Hospital
has been erected a residential training-
school and mothereraft home, which was
pronounced ready for occupation by
Mayoress Morell one afternoon last week.
The. new school, which cost £9OOO, is the con-
tribution of the Baby Health Centre’s Asso-
ciation and is equipped with the most
modern fittings and appliances. The first
Baby Health Centre was opened in Rich-
mond in 1917, and metropolitan and country
centres now total about 100.
A night of bridge paved the way to the
writing of a generous cheque as the con-
tribution of the Alliance Franqaise towards
the Shrine of Remembrance. The well-pat-
ronised function was held at the Cafe Cocker-
ton, among those who reserved tables being
M. Rene Turck, Consul for France, and
Madame Turck, and M. Rene Vanderkclen,
Consul for Belgium},; and Madame Vander-
kelen.
Vellum-toned satin and tulle with addi-
tions of pearls and orange buds formed the
wedding apparel of Elsie, daughter of the
W. 11. Waddells, of Balwyn, when she
became Mrs. Maurice E. Bates. The bride-
groom is the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs.
E. A. Bates of the same suburb. The ’maids,
Freda Irving, Mary Bates and Cecil Tait,
carried muffs of sweet-peas against frocks
of leaf-green topped by shady hats of darker
hue. The rejoicings were at Chasterton,
Toorak.
A touch of old-time melodrama was given
to a fashionable wedding the other day.
Years and years ago a judge in divorce had
dissolved the union of the bride’s parents,
and the maiden had not seen her father since
childhood. Naturally her dad, who is a well-
known business man, was not bidden to the
nuptials, but he went to the church, and as
the wedding-party left he stopped one of the
new in-laws and requested that his best
wishes should be conveyed to the just wed,
and that the bridegroom be asked to be kind
and true. The astonished relative asked,
“And who the dickens might you be?”
“Merely the bride’s father,” was the reply,
and the forgotten parent slipped off into the
crowd.
The good-looking lady is Mayoress-elect
Mrs. H. D. Luxton, whose husband will bow
to his chains
on November
9. Mrs, Lux-
ton, pictured
here by Lafay-
ette, has not
been much in
the public eye,
being devoted
to her family
and her home.
She is keen on
open-air life,
and her holi-
days are usual-
ly spent at
Wh i 1.1 lesea,
where her hus-
band has a
Jersey herd
farm. Lately
Mr. and Mrs.
Luxton re-
turned from a
trip to Hono-
i ulu - , They have qualities that promise
to make them very popular.
Footscray was astir on Thursday night
when Dame Nellie Melba went to Alban
Cecil Whitehead’s farewell concert at the
Barkly Theatre. Mayon Mullins gave
official welcome to the diva, who received an
illuminated address. Dame Melba, in a little
speech of thanks, spoke hopefully regarding
her _ protege, who is to go to Gilly, of
Paris, for further study. Fritz Hart, who
brought some Con. students to supplement
the programme, shared in the civic reception,
The programme of the latest meeting of
the Institute of Arts and Literature was
culled chiefly from the compositions of Mrs.
Maurice Ivauffmann, professionally knewn
as Linda Phillips. She is a young pianist
whose talent for composition is unusually
versatile. Solos for piano, violin and voice
and part-songs for women’s voices were
amongst the works performed. Mrs. Kauff-
mann lately published a book iof poems,
some of which were read, between musical
numbers, by Hetty Feuerman. Violinist Ger-
trude Healy, singer Julia Russell and the
composer herself, at the piano, presented the
solo offerings. A setting of Sliakspeare’s
“O Mistress Mine” was sung nicely, un-
accompanied, by a chorus of nine girls. E.
A. Vidler read a short paper on Dante
Gabriel Rossetti —this is his centenary year
—and Miss Feuerman recited “The Blessed
Damozel.” The evening was rounded out
by the performance of a short comedy by
Arthur Schnitzler, in which Beatrice Touzeau
and Mostyn Wright figured.
Here is a Quentin Sutton sketch of
soldier-author Lieut.-Col. T. W. White, who
joined the citizen forces at 13 and to-day
commands the
City of Mel-
bourne Regi-
ment. He has
served with
artillery, in-
fantry and air
branches. In
the Great War
he went as
second-in-com-
mand of the
First Flying
Corps unit and
was an officer
of the Mesopo-
tamia Flight,
R. F. C., at-
tached to Gen-
eral Tow n-
shend’s Army.
He was taken
prisoner by the
Turks in No-
vember, 1915,
and after two and a half years <?f captivity
(during which, by the way, he still managed
to continue to contribute to The Bulletin)
he escaped to Russia, being the only Austra-
lian who eluded the vigilance of the Turks.
An account of some of Lieut.-Col. White’s
experiences was published a ivliile ago under
the title “The Road to Endor,” and a
second book, “Guests of the Unspeakable,”
is due for immediate publication. He married
Vera, youngest daughter of the late Alfred
Deakin.
The. warmest of appreciation rewarded the
Allan Wilkie company for its splendidly
acted and staged presentation of “Corio-
lanus” at the Princess on Saturday night.
At the conclusion the actor-manager voiced
his thanks. Miss Hunter-Watts wore her
robes with dignity, and looked especially
fascinating in misty grey. The effective color
blending of costumes was a notable feature
of the production. Mrs. Malcolm and her
daughter Nest, the Keatings and daughter
Tulla, and Lieutenant-Col. and Mrs. White
were in the audience.
“On Approval,” which had its first appear-
ance in Australia at the Comedy on Satur-
day night, introduces Irene Vanbrugh first in
an effective evening gown of gold lace and
tissue, with a gilded glitter about her dark
hair, and later in a myrtle-green jersey suit.
Gwynne Whitby, the only other lady of
the cast, makes entrance in frock of white
tulle modelled on abbreviated crinoline lines,
with mauve, pink, blue and yellow roses
straying amid the billows. With the light
behind her the maiden’s underwear looks
like white silk tights. Botli mummers
received heaps of flowers. In the audience
were the Donald Mackinnons, Mrs. Allen
Robertson, Mrs. Harold Clapp, the Esmond
Lillies, Nancy Jones and Edna Tabart.
Like all secretaries and stenographers in
American plays, Muriel Starr affects well-
cut plain brown or black suits in “Whisper-
ing Wires,” Saturday night’s new offering
at the Iving-’s. Beatrice Fischer as a
millionaire’s daughter sports a pretty even-
ing gown, and in another scene a jumper
suit. Many tulips and roses found their
way to the theatre for the ladies of the
cast. Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson, Nancy
and Jean Murdoch, Mrs. Waterhouse and
her sister Beatrice Daley, Mary and Jean
Taylor and Mrs. Fischer and her younger
daughter were in the first-night throng.
Lucy Ahon produced the double bill for
the first performance by members of the
Tributary Theatre. Sean O'Casey’s play
“The Shadow of a Gunman,” the chief offer-
ing, was intelligently done, though a few
performers found the brogue beyond them.
Jack O’Keefe and James O’Connell didn’t
suffer from that disability and Ruby May
spoke the words like a native. A full house
thoroughly enjoyed the play. “The Man in
the Bowler Hat” made a cheery curtain-
raiser.
“.The Widowhood of Suzanne,” a light
comedy by Mrs. E. Coulson Davidson, w r as
presented by the National Players, a body
of amateurs, one night last wcelv. Mrs-
Davidson, who got her knowledge of
stagecraft as a very youthful known
the late Robert Brough’s co., is ' ve ll known
as a playwright. She was one °^ 1 | ’ ;
winners in a Sydney Daily lelegkapii
competition some years ago. . Xn ®
Dramatic League in London is p 8
the first three plays of her ’Life ot Lfirist
cycle, and her legendary plays have recent.i
high praise from oversea critics. Daui mn
John Tracey, Joan Davidson, the author s
daughter, aud Gwen SufEern handled then
roles cleverly in Mrs. Davidson s come(j,
which was most attractively staged. At
the conclusion Mrs. Davidson, in a nttie
■ speech, pleaded for more sympathetic treat-
ment of the work of Australian playwright-,
at the hands of Australian critics.
Mrs. Gertrude O’Connor, a sister of poet
Henry Lawson, will read a lecture on her
brother's work and on some matters ot
family history, not hitherto known, betore
members of the Footscray Henry Lawson
Society at the local Town Hall next \» cd-
nesday evening (31st inst.).
The Lyceum Club, which for the last six
years has annually staged a show of mem-
bers’ work, is making a very attractive dis-
play just now. On the walls of the big
reception-room hang a creditable array of
oil- and water-colors, paintings, _ drawings
in black and white and photographic studies.
The art crafts are only sparsely represented,
sales at the lately-concluded Arts and Crafts
Society’s show having depleted stocks. Mar-
garet Baskerville exhibits two fascinating
bits of sculpture;—two sleeping babes and
a small girl holding a struggling cat. Esther
Paterson, whose name is attached to a couple
of pictures, has gone in for marble-chipping
also, and shows a miniature bust of sister
Betty. A painter whose work is new to the
club is Catherine Hardess, an English artist,
who teaches at Swinburne Technical College.
Her water-colors have distinction. May
Vale Gilfillan’s efforts include a good still-
life study .of fruit. Elsie Barlow’s entries
of pictures and painted wood-panels include
“Snow at Sassafras,” which was exhibited
at Burlington House, London. Mrs.
Tweddle, E. M. Wilks, E. Lakeland, E. W.
Syme, H. Travers and Jessie Traill are a
few more of the well-known women artists
whose work is on view.
The Currie sisters, who are not long baek
from a painting tour of Britain and the Con-
tinent, are exhibiting their oversea pictoria.
harvest and some Australian gleanings at
the Athenamm Gallery. Alice Currie, who
has a flair for architectural subjects, shows
exteriors and interiors of historic cathedrals
and abbeys, supplemented by some Melbourne
studies. Water-color sketches of the anti-
podean countryside, with a few Australian
land- and sea-scapes, are Edith Currie’s con-
tribution. Vice-Admiral Creswell’s lady
launched the exhibition.
Frank Crozier enlisted the services of Vir-
ginia Perry, leading lady of “The Desert
Song - ,’’ to speak the prologue for his show
of pictures at the New Gallery. Miss Perry
wore a begonia-red frock beneath a black
musquash coat, with a black felt hat. Among
the first-viewers of the show were several
fellow-painters, also the Allen lady, Mrs.
George Bell and Mrs. J. B. Moore and her
daughter Doris.
The committee responsible for the matinee
held at His Majesty’s to raise funds for
the furnishing of the Plome for .Cripples at
Frankston —£2000 was the objective—has
reason to rejoice. At the squaring of
accounts the other day a profit of £2787 was
disclosed.
The Colin Campbells, of Queenscliff, who
with daughter Shirley and son Stuart s'ailed
to Europe last year, are booked for return
by the Orama. which will bring them home
in time for Christmas celebrations. When
the last mail left the party had just left
the land of the midnight sun and was pro-
posing to test the quality of Scottish golf
links.
Egypt has sent us a bishop, Dr. T. 11.
Gwynne, who' is visiting his old friends the
Rev. John Jones and Mrs. Jones. Thirty
years ago, just after Kitchener smashed
his way through to Khartoum, Bishop
Gwynne went to the Soudan as a missionary
and he won his crook and mitre after ten
years’ service. The bishop has a rather
famous brother in the inky way, H. A.
Gwynne, editor of London Morning Post.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes, after
about eight months spent in London and
on the Continent, returned in the Chitral
and have taken up residence at their seaside
home at Frankston. Their three daughters,
who received educational polish in Paris
while their parents travelled, returned with
them to resume school life here.
American Consul-General Arthur Gar-
rels and his -wife are speeding off for a few
months’ visit to their homeland, leaving Con-
sul T. H. Robinson at the helm.
The C. Lort Smiths are making readv for
an overseas tour which starts at the end of
next month. They purpose travelling to
England by the Java route, and on arrival
in London wall purchase a car and view the
countryside at leisure.


Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO.
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
•’ Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash.
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
Strin&infc of PEARL
Necklaces on
the premises.
ir
Wm.DRUMMOND fi CO.
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
•\ 344-346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE ,
Tshe
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
ma
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,000,000
Total Assets
£45,622,056
480 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
ẅ
A. SAUNDERS’
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ALL ORDERS BY MAIL
Receive the same care and attention as if you called personally.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS—WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
W atchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Central Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ŵ
A DDAf'' * s w . orld ’ s mos t practical small adding and
calculating machine. Weighs less than 71b.
Anyone can operate ; just pull down the dial. Full instructions and written
guarantee. Suits the pocket, too. £l5 Cash with order; free delivery in Aus-
tralia. Capacity with farthings, £lO,OOO. Used in small stores, offices
and garages all over the country. Machines slightly used, £B/15/-.
Full cast allowed if exchanged for new make within 3 months.
1
ADD AC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
BOND STREET, SYDNEY. (Agents wanted.)
note Ink
ẁ
*
w
Uv
.
-
.
-
isS?
ORDINARY MODEL 9/6 SELF-FILLING MODEL
Thomas De La Rue & Co.. Ltd.. London.
Rep.: Norman Baker & Longhurst, Ltd., Sydney. Melbourne,
12/6
Wellington. N.Z.
ẃ


Under
Royal
Warrant
w
ToH.NL
Kin 6
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
Giailesllcidsitffc
Reims
Tf
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD,
Australasian Asrer ts—
SWIFT 6 COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
ŵ
MY ADVICE
TO YOU 1
TAKE
AB
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
A.854A.8
TRADE MARX 1
REGISTER ED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
A.854A.8
TRADE MARX 1
REGISTER ED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
ẁ
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Comer Sussex and Hay Streets Svdnev
» .. West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth. ’ "
„ „ Tasmania j Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
„ . „ . , , T \ 1 Ferguson & Co.. Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
centre o/ Queens/oncfe
distinguished Soc/o/ Life.
tcmom
ẃ
Igofel
Magnificent
room. Palm
Ball-
Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
What would a Bondi mermaid say to a
sequin swimming-suit? These suits, mostly
in black, are seen at the fashionable Gon-
. tinental seaside plaices; needless to say,
they are not seen in the water. Wrap, cap,
bag and shoes of the same shiny segments
make an attractive if not very useful
ensemble.
Eileen Ross and Vernon Allen were the
principals in "An Adventure into Matrimony”
at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, with a strong
supporting chorus, and with Padre F. J.
West, of Wagga, in the clerical role. An
audience of family friends sat in pews
heavily decorated by the bride’s girl chums.
Colonel Abbott squired his step-daughter to
her waiting ’groom, who was supported by
John Wilkinson. There was the charm of
white chiffon and Brussels-lace in, the ankle-
length wedding garment, the train bespat-
tered with near-diamonds. Over all flowed
a veil of Honiton lace and tulle. Primrose
georgettes caught at the hip with large bows
of marigold ribbons were worn by ’m<uds
Enid Abbott and Suzanne Macansh. Tneir
hats were pretty affairs of mixed primrose
crinoline and tulle and their flowers were
in mixed golds and blues. Like an illustra-
tion of Blake’s “Songs of Innocence” were
two tiny flower girls, frocked in frail yellows
and wearing wreaths of flowers in their
hair. The inevitable reception was set in
the midst of unusual decorations. Cooyong,
the Woollalira home of Mrs. J. A. Anderson,
housed the rejoicings. The breakfast was
spread in a large marquee, whose pillars
were bound in pink satin ribbon and blos-
somed into pink and blue hydrangea. In
between stood high baskets of yellow and
pink roses looped to the neighboring pillars
with apple-green satin ribbon. On the
tables old-fashioned shopping-baskets woven
in silvery green cane held the decorations,
which were mostly pink roses. Bride’s
mother Mrs. P. P. Abbott did the honors in
handsome beige lace and georgette; and
about Mrs. Keele, the ’groom’s sister, flut-
tered mulberry georgettes. The bride is the
eldest daughter of Mrs. P. P. Abbott, of
Glen Innes; and Vernon Allen is the crack
polo player.
The Horticultural Society .is a very old
citizen of Sydney. It started life over 70
years ago ; in those days prize blooms from
the Maclcay gardens were a feature of its
shows. These were held for many years in
tents pitched in the Domain, and grave and
bearded gentlemen in stove-pipe hats and
trousers very fitting about the ankle car-
ried home time after time the prizes to the
houses in the big gardens about Potts Point
and Elizabeth Bay. Now the society has
over 300 members, and the prize blooms
come from Beecroft, Epping and Ryde, from
Stratlifield, Granville and Parramatta and
from the gardens in the more exclusive sec-
tions of the North Shore line.
Librarian Ifould introduced this year’s
prize-takers to a Town Hall audience, every
man and woman a digger and a delver. The
visitor passed down avenues of triumphing
hippiastrums, glowing watsonias, red and
golden roses, and impeccable white blooms
wearing their old Germanic name with an air
of relief. Here were carnations like small
red and pink roses, and big, open-faced poppies
—in short, all the upper crust of the under-
world. But always the eye came back to
the great hippeastrums. They were red and
yellow and pink: they were speckled and
striped; Gabriel himself might not disdain
their trumpets, and probably the Choir Invis-
ible uses a like pattern on state occasions.
The cactus family was at home to callers on a
long table inside the door; its members had
come from the gardens owned by Olga Solo-
mon’s father. The plants were shaped like pine-
apples, like custard apples, like birettas, like
sea-urchins. They grew in long and oval
jade pots like so many angelica-crusted pies.
They grew in queer terra-cotta Buddha-like
masks of which they formed the eye?, the
ears and the mouth. They were quiveringly
alive, and holding its own amid the exotic
mysteries was an old-fashioned English
house leek.
This year the table decorations were
carried out in fiattish schemes, in low wav-
ing ripples of flowers and fern. To empha-
sise the color note of her table, one prize-
winner showed great originality. She had
made her squat bowls out of seooped-out
oranges. Inside the skins she had placed
glass bowls that fitted exactly. Imagine what
might be done with half pineapples—and
small pumpkins!
The Feminists, who had Mrs. W. A. Hol-
man for their president till their cold-tea
principles curdled at her anti-prohibition
pamphlet, have now a new leader. She is
Mrs. Kenneth Street, wife of Justice Street
and daughter-in-law of the Chief Justice.
The forceful lady is an orator somewhat of
the. Preston-Stanley order, more or less
actively connected with movements and a
member of the Women's College Council. She
is one of the heads, too, of an enterprising
domestic agency known as the House Service
Co., which is prepared to supply the harassed
housewife with any help at a moment’s
notice, from a general to an English butler.
Were Mother Eve’s fig-leaves cut in as
fascinating a style as the pair which draped
her understudy in the Etlielwyn Kirk
pageant at the City Sports Girls’ dance last
week? This Eve was a smother of unshingled
curls and beguiling smiles: and as she
paced down the darkened ballroom the spot-
light picked out a heavily worked dimple
and fingers that caressed the rosy apple in
the tenderest manner. Half-way round the
room, to test whether there was any of the
old Adam left in the jazzing male. Eve every
now and then thrust the apple almost between
the upper and lower plates of the men in the
front line. Only one, and he a merry Latin
of middle age, took the challenge. His
flashing teeth, equal to the occasion, bit a
great piece out of the apple and —exit Eve
Oil a roar of laughter! She was followed by
beauties that had stepped from the Old
Testament; Rachels, Rebeccas and Miriams
hobnobbed with damsels from Pagan Greece
and Rome. A young goddess. Nance O’Sulli-
van, from Neutral Bay, wrapped mostly in
silver tissue and a mauve veil, evoked the
loud Oh! of admiration. There was a
cleverly designed Chinese costume of royal
blue and gold and jade green, and Gwen
Varley as a Greek slave got a big hand from
the stalwart basket-bailers, hockey girls and
Suzanne Lenglens of whose association she
is secretary.
The big four of the night were Southern
Cross Ivingsford Smith, Charles Ulm, Navi-
gator Litchfield and Wireless Operator
McWilliam. Mrs. Ulm, w r ho for once laid
the mooring hand of matrimony on her fly-
away husband, was wrapped in pallid laces,
and the navigator’s own Rena Iloldsworth,
from Melbourne, wore an idyll in rose tulle.
It was swaying, befrilled and of the peacock
pattern. Another who wore rose to good
effect was Veda Raven. Etlielwyn Kirk
wore a frock of black and gold net cut to
her Jane Austen-ish design. To her Ben
Fuller’s lady, the president of the committee,
handed over a posy of pink roses. Flight-
Lieutenant Garnet Malley and his lady
entertained the flying heroes.
If all the ladies in the lately lamented
Repertory Society had been as gifted as
Erna Living, shown here, what a very bril-
liant company it would have been! Her
character work would be notable in the best
theatres of London or New York, and her
sense of comedy is strongly developed. But
so well balanced is her art that her feeling
for tragedy always strikes a sincere note.
This Letter is
still stirred by
the memory of
her M a r t y
Owen in
“Anna Chris-
tie.” One felt
sure that that
was just the
woman Eugene
O’Neill’s brain
and experience
had created.
Mrs. Lemmy
in “Founda-
tion s,” the
old woman
who made her
livingbystitch-
ing trousers,
was an out-
standing piece
of work. An-
other score or
so of successes
stand to Miss Living’s credit, and on October
25 in A. A. Milne’s “To Have the Honor”
she will act the part of a lady of quality.
The comedy is the real bones of the Persian
Garden matinee in aid of the Deaf and Dumb
and Blind Institution at Darlington. Harold
Watch is producing the play. Monte Luke
made the picture for The Bulletin.
Cardinal Cerretti laid the foundation-stone
of the church which is being built at Law-
son in memory of the late Mrs. R. D.
Meagher. The .church, the glorious views
and five acres of land for a Good Samari-
tan Convent have been given by Mr.
Meagher. Farmer and Co. placed their
beautiful rest-home, Dalmeny, at the dis-
posal of the Cardinal and his suite during
Lawson’s great day.
Mrs. F'reehill is back at Carmona. During
the rest of his stay in Sydney Cardinal
Cerretti will live at the Palace, Manly; but
before he leaves Australia he is going out to
say Mass in the oratory at Potts Point
once more. When he made Carmona his
headquarters he invited dear, amiable John
Lane Mullins, his children and grandson to
the private chapel. Not only to come to Mass,
but to name the hour most suitable to them.
Carmona is just across the garden-wall from
the John Lane Mullins’s flat in Buckhurst-
avenue.
Sculler Bob Pearce was given a great re-
ception by the Rowing Association. He
was made the guest of honor at the annual
ball, and blushingly made his entry to
David Jones’s ballroom with a guard of
honor composed of young things attired in
the bare shoulders, spreading skirts, sandals
and posies of the 18o0’s. Fortunately his
partner, Rita Hendon, accompanied him down
the avenue, of sirens. She was in the pic-
ture, too, in her bouffant dress of pink
tulle and velvet. The president of the asso-
ciation was too ill to be present, so chair-
man 11. G. Alderson and Mrs. Alderson did
the honors. The captains of the various
rowing clubs sat at the official table; but
Iris Pike, captain of the Sydney Ladies'
Rowing Club, brought a party of her own.
She and Nellie Tancred were the secre-
taries of the dance.
It is still woe to the vanquished. Bob
Pearce was all right, of course —he was a
success. But when our, other Olympians
showed their wind-burned noses they were
solemnly questioned on the matter of flirta-
tions and on tile subject of the girl who had
a man to massage her. If Miss Robinson
preferred the mailed list—well, why not'.-'
It certainly hasn’t made her less feminine
to the eye. She walked down the gang
plank of the Chitral in a pair of the net
stockings this Letter spoke of some weeks
ago. They are the latest judgment of Paris.
Chaperone Miss Springfield and manager
Lcs Duff are emphatic that the lads and
lasses in their charge were a credit to Aus-
tralia not only for tlieir happy philosophy,
but for their exemplary behavior. But
Edna Davey denies the ownership of an
Irish doctor. She’s oome home open to
engagement, she declared at the party given
in her honor by North Shore mermaids on
Saturday. Little backstroker Bonnie Meal-
ing had a great homecoming, all the family,
including a brand-new baby brother, being
on the wharf to welcome her.
Wave the hanky of welcome to 11.M.A.5.
Australia 11. and its made-in-Australia
Admiral. George Hyde was a commander in
the first flagship of the R.A.N. when Admiral
Patey was high-cockalorum. Now from the
new flagship proudly floats Rear-Admiral
Hyde’s own flag.
The good news ran round the Bulletin
office during the week that “A House Is
Built,” the first choice of the judges in
the Novel Competition, is to be adapted for
serial publication. The judges were so
enthusiastic about this work of Marjorie
Barnard and Flora Eldershaw, and declared
it to be so outstanding a contribution to
Australian literature, that, though assured
that in its original form it was too leisurely
a masterpiece for serial use, the heads got
together to consider whether it could not be
abridged. They decided that this would not
be difficult, and that in doing so the charac-
ter of the work wouldn’t have to be altered
one bit. It is simply a matter of confining
the book to the life-story of the wonderful
old man who dominates it, and so its title
will be changed to “The Quartermaster.”
But it will be a few months before it can
drop into a place in The Bulletin’s pro-
gramme of serials.
One of the most famous inhabitants of
the Irish Free State is in Sydney just now,
and she is an Australian. This is Mrs.
Kennedy, who, with her husband, bred The
Tetrarch and sold him to Major McCalmont;
The Tetrarch was one of the greatest two-
year-olds that ever came out of the home
of great horses. He cleaned up all the
events in his class in England, and was a
hot favorite for the Derby when he broke
down. The Ivennedys are the power behind
the throne at Punchestown, which is near
their place. She arrived by the Chitral on
a flying visit to her mother, Mrs. Lums-
daine, who is seriously ill, and will go on
to Melbourne shortly to stay with her sister,
Mrs. Harry Whiting.
There’s one block in Sydney where it is
positively dangerous to carry a copy of
Swinburne. _ The warm breath of stored
wine mingling with the blood of the grape
that streams through the verses will send
not only the book but its owner curveting
like joy in Arcady. All the way from George
to York street by way of Market-street, the
Penfolds’ cellars run. Here are great oaken
casks where port matures slowly to mellow-
ness. And down the long lines of his lesser
brethren the patriarch of the cellars, a
10,000-container, sends the ruddy glow of
companionship. Dour as Prohibitionists who
have been filled up against their will glower
the concrete vats into which modern science
empties much of the juice of the grape after
so long in the oak casks. The association
between the concrete and the liquid Aus-
tralian sunshine seems as incongruous as
a flirtation between Mary of Scots and
Knox. . Walls lined with cocktails, witn
sparkling hock and Minchinbury, the glitter-
ing walls of this bootlegger’s paradise rise
from the floor of the 50-foot-deep cellars
to street level.
The Horticultural Society’s show had a
rival. Its opening and the birthday 7 of the
Napoleon of Church Hill clashed, with the
result that the show of blooms sent to Mr-.
Maclurcan by friends and admirers nearly
outclassed the display in the Town Hall.
Mrs. Maclurcan will go down to posterity
as the intrepid woman who introduced the
cabaret. But she has done more than that tor
her country (she is an Australian of the
second generation) ; for more than 40 years
she has been a high priestess of good cookery,
and her recipe-books had a great vogue
long before there were any women’s papers
to popularise the art.
The death of the Rev. Frederick William
Macdonald in Scotland last week brought
bereavement to one North Shore Hue home.
The padre was an uncle of Sir Hugh Poynter,
whose mother was one of the four beautiful
sisters who from a small Scotch parsonage
entered into brilliant matrimony. One mar-
ried Sir Edward Burne-Jones, one became
the mother of the present Prime Minister
of England, a third was the mother of Rud-
yard Kipling, and still another married Sir
Edward Poynter, president of the Royal
Academy, and our Sir Hugh’s father. The
Rev. William himself had the true Scots
burning reverence for letters, and was a clas-
sical scholar of note. Nearly 40 years ago
he was president of the Wesleyan Conference
of Great Britain.
On the concert platform this lady retains
her maiden name of Marjorie Beeby. By
marriage she
is Mrs. W. J.
Goad, wife of
the violinist.
The two came
back to Aus-
tralia a short
time ago from
New York,
w here Mrs.
Coad’s rich
contralto was
raised every
Sunday in the
choir of one of
the fashion-
able churches.
Sinee her re-
turn sin* has
already given
one recital at
the Conserva-
torium and
has that hall
engaged for
the last night of this month, when she will
give a further concert in aid of the League
of Nations Union. She is a daughter of
Judge Beeby, of the Federal Arbitration
.Court, and in his spare time (of which he
hasn’t had any this past year) one of The
Bulletin’s valued story-writers.
Filmy lace and ivory satin were the
souffle-like ingredients of the wedding gar-
ment Vera Benson, of Mosman, wore to St.
Philip’s when she became Mrs. Karl von
Drehnen. Th e skirt was three-tiered and
ground-long, and drew an impressive swish
of white satin train in its wake. Mother’s
veil was commandeered by the pretty bride,
who was followed by sister Norma and
Pita von Drehnen in frocks of Chantilly
lace the pinky shade of a mushroom's lining.
Outside tulle bows on the left hip were a
flighty finish. Hats and flowers were to
tone. The bride’s mother and father spread
the feast at Romano’s.
Suggestive of a mellow old ivory minia-
ture was the color scheme adopted by Doris
McMillan when she sought the blessing of
St. Stephen’s kirk on her deed of partnership
with Ernest Blanshard. Thick ivory moire
formed the bride’s frock, which had a snug,
tight bodice and a long- full skirt of lace.
The train veil was of gold tulle, and an
armlet of gold roses and golden broom added
to the pictorial effect. One pale pink maid
was in attendance, and the Blue Room at
the Wentworth was the gathering place for
the congratulations that followed. Here the
bride’s aunt, Mrs. Eaton, hostessed in black
lace.
Of the newly-engaged is Suzanne Macansh.
of Bowral. She came to town to be brides-
maid to Eileen Ross, and goes back bespoken
to Douglas Abbott, of Glen Innes, one of
the groomsmen and a step-brother of the
bride, over whose wedding meats he and
his best girl announced their own inten-
tions.
Tony Hordern is so generous with his
ballroom at Retford Hall that possibly soon
the young dancing things of Sydney will
regard it as a popular super-palais. The
latest body to beg successfully for a loan
of it is the District Nursing Association.
A summer dance will.be held on Nov. 8 for
the good of the cause.


ẅ
Amusements,
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
JOHN GILBERT and RENEE ADOREE in THE COSSACKS.
A METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER PICTURE.
Also KARL DANE and GEO. ARTHUR in DETECTIVES.
FMPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
Presenting the French Comedy Revue,
BUBBLES.
Preceded by
LIGHTNING VARIETIES.
Complete first part of high-class specialty acts.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
Commencing Saturday.
ROYAL:INTERFERENCE.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: THE PIGEON.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW' EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices. .
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
ON APPROVAL.
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY,
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
w
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Commonwealth Ministers entertained on
board the Australia, which was berthed at
Hamilton. There was dancing on the upper
deck, the ship’s band playing. Priminister and
Mrs. Bruce and Defence Minister Glasgow
and his lady had tea in the Admiral’s suite;
Senator Glasgow and Rear-Admiral Hyde re-
ceived the guests on the quarter-deck. Mrs.
Bruce’s frock was of figured saxe and rose,
with saxe hat, and the Glasgow lady’s floral
japshan was topped by a black hat. Mrs. E.
S. Mutton chose apple-green and silver, with
mist-grey hat. On account of Royal mourn-
ing their Exes, were absent from the party.
Government House grounds were lent by
Sir John and Lady Goodwin fot the Old
English fair to benefit Toe H. A town-crier,
bellmen, yokels on the village green, where
there were maypole-dances and a culprit in
the stocks, fortune-tellers and an “Order of
ye Bath,” run by Mrs. John Flower and deco-
rated in water-lily mauves and greens, were
some of the attractions. Mrs. Ryan had
charge of the refreshments booth; Freda
Bage took care of ye Leather Bottel, which
spilled soft drinks; and Mary Macgregor and
Barbara Sisley looked after the Playhouse,
where Miss Macgregor staged “The Maker of
Dreams,” her brother Dick and Dr. White-
house being in the cast. Brisbane Junior
High School girls gave dances, and skittle-
alleys, bag and handkerchief booths and a
brown-paper parcel stall run by Mrs. Cecil
Palmer and helpers, with his Ex. on the
steps to welcome the throng, were other
acceptable features. Mrs. Buttner had an
art hooth, and Mrs. Buchanan-Steelc a nov-
elty booth, where pink and mauve morning
glories trailed. Mrs. 8.-P. Robin and Douglas
Henderson ran a Punch and Judy show, and
Toe H. benefited exceedingly.
On the same afternoon Sir John and Lady
Goodwin put in an appearance at the races.
Her Ex. wore rose beige with an ostrich-
feather necklet. Mrs 1 . J. T- Bell was in oyster
crgpe de Chine with pink Yedda-straw hat.
Her daughter, Mrs. Arthur Clark, was in grey,
with amethyst hat. Mrs. Ned Cullen chose
mauve.
Nellie Bramley played “Find Me a Hus-
band” to a packed house at the Theatre
Royal to help the S.P.C.A. The show had
v.-r. patronage, and society was well repre-
sented. Blair, C.J., and his lady, the Cecil
Palmers, Mrs. Whittingham, Mollie Brenan,
the Stanley Chapmans, Mrs. T. J. Ryan and
the Cecil Brenans were there. Miss Bramley
and her compapy received many flowers.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady and daughter Mhrgaret went
north for the Launceston Show. His Ex.,
after a bite and sup with the committee,
declared the Show open, while Margaret per-
formed a similar duty in the Women’s In-
dustries section. The weather was true to
type: showery, cold and windy; but there
was a good attendance in spite of it. The
jumping, which was good, was particularly
trying to the riders, as every take off and
landing scattered liquid mud far and wide.
That intrepid little rider Barbara Bennett,
well known in Midland hunting circles, rode
the three best horses in the Hunters’ class,
her own horse, Alert, carrying off the prize.
It was her day out, as in the hunting pairs
Alert and C. Lyne’s Jacko came in a win-
ner, and her mare Parkham Lass was only
a few points down.
Uni. dances are always popular, and the
hop given by the Engineering faculty was a
very gay affair. All sorts of side-shows
helped to entertain the guests, and the deco-
rations, in the faculty’s colors, green and
pale gold, were very tasteful. The 35 hosts
wore green ribbons to distinguish them. The
supper tables were brilliant with tulips and
anemones.
One of the most entertaining competi-
tions the Lyceum Literary Circle has held
was that for the best paper on “Street Ven-
dors, or Similar Characters in the Earlier
Days of Hobart.” A delightful paper (not
for competition, however) was Mrs. Arthur
Dowling’s contribution. None of the younger
generation could do as full justice to the
subject as could those who personally re-
membered the characters they wrote of.
Mrs. Henry Dobson’s paper. “Patsy and his
Donkey,” won by a whisker from Amy Chap-
man’s “Old Identities” and Mrs. j. Ken-
nedy’s “Job Bradley.”
This McGuffie picture shows Mary Caul-
field, beloved of Diggers, who has been re-
commended by
the Hobart
branch of the
Returned Sol-
diers’ League
for the league’s
certificate and
medal of merit
for her work
on behalf of
soldiers both
during the war
and since. A
tireless social
worker, she is
also an active
member on the
committees of
the Consump-
tive Sanator-
ium, Wattle
League, Mer-
cantile Rowing
Club and
Returned Sol-
diers League. _ Last month Miss Caulfield
went to Victoria for a well-earned holiday
as the guest of her friends Col. and Mrs.
lorrest. Col. Forrest was at one time sec-
retary of the Tas. R.S.A.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A record crowd, roughly 18,000 more people
than last year, visited the Show. The weather
was kind, and provided the first fine week
after months of rain and cold winds. The
coveted Governor’s Cup went to W. G.
Burgess, of York. Mrs. Theo Pelloe, Norah
Ferguson, Ghita Locke and Dot Hayes were
among lady riders to win colored ribbons.
Mounted pushball, played by the Third
Brigade, was an amusing innovation. There
was a polo match, too, but the game was
staged too late in the afternoon to catch the
crowd. Flower exhibits were particularly
beautiful, and wine exhibits were given a
lot of prominence. Grapes packed six months
ago and honey in the making had space in
the agricultural pavilion. Speedway races,
buckjumping and fireworks provided the even-
ings’ entertainment.
His Ex. declared the Show open. Aide
Davidson-Houston, who accompanied him,
changed later into riding attire to take part
in the ring events. Mrs. Wilding, in a
tucked coat of Nile green, entertained the
president and council of the R.A.S. and visit-
ing journalists at luncheon. Lady Campion
wore a fur coat over her lace draperies; Mrs.
Padbury, in navy, brought her daughter May
in a summery gown of mist-grey cliiffon-voile ;
Mrs. Frank Venn and Mrs. Elton Wilson
chose royal blue; Helena Ackroyd-Stuart
looked handsome in black satin and a large
black hat; and Mrs. P. G. Hampshire, whose
husband was one of the busiest judges, was
in navy crepe de Chine. Deborah Clarkson,
in tones of apricot, and Doris Good, in blue
and fawn, came down from Toodyay for the
opening day.
Lady Campion was unavoidably absent
from the Hunt Club Ball, but his Ex., who
came with his sons Simon and Wilfred, had
the time of his life in a polka and a Sir Roger
ue Coverley, the only dances which give him
pleasure. The president brought Mrs. Smily,
in lilac; Mrs. Joyner was in two tones of
orchid georgette; Mrs. Jack Durack, wife of
the master of the hounds, was in pink and
silver. Mrs. Pelloe wore periwinkle-blue, Mrs.
Victor Harwood apricot, and Mrs. Kerr-
Pearse one of her favorite dove-greys. Mrs.
Paton, who danced with Sir William in the
polka, looked striking in sunset-pink and
silver. Perhaps the most beautiful gown in
the room was worn by Mrs. Frank Malloclw-
uneven flares of deep cream satin and a slop-
ing waistline of pink roses on a corsage spat-
tered with beads. Sandra Chase chose black
satin, Kathleen Castieau her bridesmaid’s
frock of white tulle and satin, and Mrs.
McWhae a very smart black gown, one shoul-
der boasting a jewelled strap. Alice Biggs
was in black, Mrs. Bill Broun in silver lame,
and her pretty sister Gwen Compton in pea-
cock satin. Dot Hayes wore tiers of silver
fringes, her sister Sheila pale pink, silver-
beaded, and Moosie Butcher draperies of
flesh-pink georgette.
Photographed alongside is Frank Marden,
a pioneer of the Australian movie business.
Twenty-five years ago, when the enterprise
was in its swaddling clothes, he turned' the
handle of a bio-
graph machine
in one of
\V est’s theatres.
He has grown
up with the
industry and
is now one
of the heads
o f U n ion
Theatres. He
has spent the
last nine
months in
Perth, super-
vising the
building of the
A m bassadors,
which was
recently form-
ally opened.
Since the walls
took on coats
of pink and
old ivory some
months ago this has been the most talked of
building in Perth. The interior is magnificent
• —a great contrast to the barn-like buildings
in which the flickers were screened 50 years ago.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
We’re overrun with dignitaries assembled
here for the Anglican conference. The ball
was set rolling by a garden party at Bishop’s
Court on a day of north wind and dust (our
umteenth for the season), but the Bishop’s
Court is sheltered and lucky in its quantity
of lawn. Mrs. Nutter Thomas, in black lace,
had her two daughters as lieutenants, and
guests of honor were the Hore-Ruthvens, she
in black georgette with a wide-brimmed black
hat, and the Primate and Mrs. Wright. The
Governor opened the exhibition of ecclesiasti-
cal art next day, which had as forerunner
a mystery play by past and present pupils
of Creveen School.
Drought notwithstanding, the wild flower
show,'opened by Mayor Bonython, was a joy.
There were exhibits from all the other States
except Tassie, and there were others to show
how well their flora acclimatise here and how
well some of our own lend themselves to cul-
tivation in other States. Lady Hore-Ruthven
was there in the afternoon, one of the
most interested and appreciative of the visi-
tors.
The Bagot-Galbin wedding was in St.
Peter’s College chapel—he one of the Charles
Bagot sons (the Bagot clan is a big one),
and she from New South Wales. The bride
was all cream lace and flesh-pink georgette.
There was toast-drinking afterwards at Mrs.
F. 1-1. Cowell’s, hie din die.
The Tennant-Goodman wedding was a
couple of days later at Christ Church. There
were pink-clad bridesmaids (his sisters and
hers, and both of them Joans) as a back-
ground for the wliite-and-silver bride, and
there was pink in the sheaf of roses and lily
of the valley that she carried. She is one
of the most popular of the younger set, and
lig. the son. of the John Tennants of Princess
Royal station, is a well-known hunting man.
The Con. has given its last chamber-
music recital for the season, and the last,
alas, at which Mr. Schilsky will play. He
leaves the State at the end of the year. A
Mozart quartet, a Schmitt quintet and a
movement from a Schubert quartet figured on
the programme, and Hilda Gill contributed
a group of Schuman and Schubert songs.


A Good Cun
Deserves a
Good Cartridge.
Ipßp
BR
■
is?
K:
NOBE
289 a.
SPEED, PRECISION
SAFETY, RELIABILITY
are the advantages of
ALL-BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
The keenest sportsmen and the
world’s leading shots
USE ONLY
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
A ll British from Cap to T urnover
Obtainable all Gunsmiths and Dealers
throughout Australasia.
Wholesale Only:
AMMUNITION (NOBEL) PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne.
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand:
L. H. Labone, Jervois Quay, Wellington.
Capt. FRANK HURLEY
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN PAYS A
WONDERFUL TRIBUTE TO HEENZO
In the list of great Australians must be
included the name of Capt. Frank Hurley.
His photographic records, taken whilst on
exploration expeditions, and his work as
fficial photographer during the Great War
fcnust surely be counted amongst the
nation’s treasures. That the world might
be enriched by such records, Capt. Hurley
has faced hardships and risked his life so
often that, were his biography written, it
would certainly prove that truth is
stranger than fiction. An illustrated book
of travel by this great explorer would cer-
tainly be an asset to our educational sys-
tem if used as a standard work in schools,
for it would fire in all privileged to read
it the wish to see and know more of this
great world. To converse with Captain
Hurley is certainly an inspiration.
When I paid a visit to Farmer’s Broad-
casting Studio recently I had the pleasure
of meeting Captain Hurley, who was just
about to deliver one of his popular adven-
ture narratives, which, by the way, are
amongst the most instructive and enter-
taining items yet heard by the medium of
broadcasting. By him was an open attache
case, filled with voluminous notes and
native sound-making “gadgets.” ‘ These are
my essentials,” he remarked, and, lifting
all from the case, I observed in the bottom
a tin of Heenzo Cough Diamonds and a
bottle of Heenzo. Opening the tin, he
offered me a jube, saying at the time,
“Great stuff, these; they are my ‘prime
essentials’; they tone up the vocal instru-
ment, and clear the throat and hea .
have to speak miles of words, not only y
broadcasting but also in the theatres,
have tried everything, and that’s why you
see Heenzo with my essentials.”
“Do you mind if I tell this, to the Heenzo
people?” I queried.
“Well,” he good-humoredly replied, “I’m
always shy of advertising patent medicines;
but I guess I’m no different to anybody
else, and, if Heenzo and Heenzo Cough
Diamonds are good for me, then they must
be good for other folk.”
At this moment the Studio Announcer
called the Captain to the microphone, so
I retired to the nearest loud-speaker, to
be thrilled, with countless thousands of
2FC’s listeners, by his wonderful talk on
the Head-hunters of Papua.
Don’t hope for the best —
GET IT by taking
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS
People suffering from nerves, neuritis, insomnia, fatigue, anaemia, loss of weight
and other ailments, caused by overwork, worry, exhausted nerves and poorness
of blood, can quickly regain their health and strength by taking a few boxes
of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, the finest health-restoring tonic known
to medical science. HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS give you plenty of “pep”;
they make you eat, sleep and be well. Start to-day on the road to health by
taking NERVE NUTS. They cost only 3/- per box at all chemists and stores.
£J£Pfiersoris)
For all Rinds of Pumps
MACSON Double-Acting
Piston Pumps
ŵ
The “Macson” offers an ideal outfit
where pumping of almost any kind is
desired up to 1001 b. pressure or ele-
vation. A splendid pump for general
water supply. All parts have been
made especially strong to ensure long
life and satisfactory service under all
conditions. Made in three sizes with
capacities of 840 gallons per hour to
2100 gallons per hour.
Rotex” Lift and Force Pumps
£rx?
&
With fast and loose pulleys. A power- rotary
force pump, on iron frame, designed for the use
of oil refiners, distillers, creameries, breweries,
wine-producers, varnish-makers, meat-packers,
etc.; in fact, wherever water or other liquid
must be rapidly elevated by power. This pump
will force water against a total head of 80
feet, which renders it particularly useful for
discharging into an elevated tank; also as a
fire-pump, for use about factories, warehouses,
etc. We also make these in gunmetal for pump-
ing salt water, etc. Made in four sizes. Send
for particulars.
“Rapid Centrifugal Pumps”
Bowls
on
“Rapid”
Pumps
can be
Swivelled.
ẁ
Gland Nut remains
stationary when Bowl
is swivelled, thus per-
mitting effective oiling.
A feature of our Centrifugal Pumps is
that the bowl swivels to any angle and
the suction-bend swivels independently
of the bowl, which reduces the cost of
the piping.
For pumping acids and chemicals we
manufacture pumps of suitable metal
to withstand the action.
“Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps are manu-
factured at our own works, and include
many distinct improvements on other
makes. We carry a large range of these
pumps and have a size for every purpose.
Particulars on request.
ẃ
Proprietary limited
Established 1860.
51-65 Bathurst Street SYDNEY
554-566 and 582-592 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
116-130 Way mouth Street ADELAIDE


T
One Safety
HERE is but one safety with
one blade. That is a Rolls
Razor, Scientists in the
laboratory and craftsmen in the
factory have laboured to transform
the safety from a mere holder of
stamped out wafer blades to a one
bladed satisfactory razor. The result
is the Rolls Razor, the supreme
safety of the century. Its one blade
is hollow ground from tested steel.
The edge of this blade is kept keen
by automatic honing and stropping
in its case. Years and years of
clean, smooth shaves are assured
with a Rolls Razor. Buy one—and
be finished with the nuisance of
wafer blades.
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade Safety
SOLE AGENTS:
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
FOR THE RELIEF OF FOOT-WEARINESS
CREPE-RUBBER-SOLED BOOTS
ẅ
AND SHOES
For the man or woman obliged to be on the feet all
day or standing on hard cement floors, this Footwear
will give Wonderful Relief to Tired Feet.
WONDER WEARING & WATERPROOF.
88113, Gent.’s Black Boots, Wide
Fit, Leather-lined, Stout Crepe
Soles. 38/6 pair, post 1/-
89120, Tan Working Boots, in
Strong Elk Leather. Same style
as 8113. Stout Crepe Sole 3,
Wide Fit. 36/6, post 1/-
89115, Black or Tan Riding
Boots, Elastic Sides, Light Crepe
Rubber Soles. 35/- pair, post 1 /-
84823, Black or Tan Riding
Boots, with Ordinary Leather
Soles. 27/6, post 1/-
WRITE FOR FULL LIST.
Walther 8 Stevenson,
LIMITED,
395 George Street, Sydney.
88113
89115
5*
w
ŵ
The Reliable, Effective Form of Yeast is
‘Cream of Yeast’
Of all Chemists, or from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
so fast. Turkey run to creek, little way,
go up, fly—leave kids with emu!”
Coonardoo’s laughter and gurgling with
the children was as merry and tresh as
theirs. Everybody enjoyed the joke.
“Turkey want to go away, Coonardoo.
Hugh said. _ , ,
“Eeh-mm,” she murmured with downcast
eyelids.
In Mollie’s sickness, weariness and dis-
content Coonardoo was the person she
talked most to. “I don’t know what on
earth I’d do without you, Coonardoo,” she
said. “I don’t, really.”
Coonardoo had taken over the bread-
making. She looked after the cooking and
the children. When Mollie went away to
the coast for her fourth baby, the children
were left in Coonardoo’s care. Mollies
fourth and fifth daughters were as much
an excuse to get away from Wytaliba as
desperate bids for a son. But Betty, the
fifth, was a last attempt. Mollie swore
she would do no more child-bearing; neither
would she live in the Nor’-West all her
days. She had no patience with the new
baby—was weary to death of babies, she
said; never wanted to set eyes on another
as long as she lived.
Coonardoo took the baby in her arms
and walked off with her. When Mollie
had not slept at night, was tired out and
hysterical, Coonardoo made the children
play in the garden or up at the sheds until
she was ready to take them away to the
creek. Often she carried a bag of mending
with her and sewed while the children
played, or slept curled up beside her in
the shade.
Although Meenie and Bardi still washed,
scrubbed and swept about the house, Coon-
ardoo did everything for the children at
that time, bathed them, cooked and sewed
for them, put them to bed. Mollie had grown
to depend on her for every little service.
“Coonardoo! Coonardoo!” she was
always calling.
Through all the nervy restlessness and
fury of her discontent, Coonardoo was her
slave. Silently, with slow grace and dig-
nity, she waited on and worked for Mollie,
very often not getting the rest at mid-
day with the other gins which it was so
difficult for her to do without. An expres-
sion of suffering and fortitude deepened on
her face.
Meenie muttered and scowled until Hugh
wondered what on earth was the matter
with her. He understood at last—she was
concerned for Coonardoo.
“Here, Mollie,” he cried roughly one day,
“you’re working that girl to death. Can’t
you see?”
“Who?”
“Coonardoo!”
“Of course,” Mollie exclaimed. “It’s
always someone else you’re thinking of.
Never of me!”
“You go and have a bit Qf shuteye,
Coonardoo,” Hugh called, as she was tak-
ing the children for their afternoon walk.
“I’ll mind the kids to-day.”
He played with them quite happily,
leaning against the trunk of a big white-
barked gum where the shade fluttered and
threw sprawling fragments across the bril-
liantly-lighted red and yellow earth. He
talked, too, and watched Winni, as well
as the little girls, who chattered and played
so delightedly beside him. Winni’s skin
was the color of dark honey, his hair not
duskier than the locks of Mollie’s little
girls. Yet he was a pure-blooded young
aboriginal to look at; his eyes brown and
shy, with jetty-curled lashes.
Days and the years fled, so much the
same, the heat waning and growing, rain
threatening and fleeing, showers and thun-
derstorms flashing, but never dispensing the
good, slow drenching which would have
revived the dead earth. Mollie stayed a
year out on the station; but before next
summer her trunks were packed. She
counted the days before she and the child-
ren could drive away to the coast for the
hot weather.
A long drought had driven Hugh to the
banks. Wytaliba fell again under the dead
hand which Mumae had struggled against
so long. But what could be done? Hugh
was desperate at the prospect of losing
more stock. He had to sink wells to save
cattle, and money was needed for that.
Every year Mollie’s journey to the coast
had cost more than a well or two. When
there were babies about it was all very
well; but he thought she might face out
a hot season afterwards. The children
were sturdy; heat did not affect them.
Mollie loathed the station. She wanted
Hugh to sell out and buy a shop in Gerald-
ton. She could not understand his faith
in the place, his loyalty to it.
“No,” he said, “I’ll never sell out or
give up.”
There seemed nothing between them at last
but endless arguments and bickering about it.
Saul Hardy tried to pour oil on the
troubled waters, but his efforts at peace-
making usually amounted to a siding with
Hugh and singing the praises of Wytaliba
and station life generally. Like a barnacle
he clung to the piles of the homestead;
and Hugh’s way of deferring to humoring
and making a fuss of the old man were
constant sources of irritation to Mollie.
Saul had his quaggy, old man’s way, of
course. Mollie found them very trying;
but he was wonderfully good-natured with
the children.
Wild imps though they were, Saul was
really fond of “Youie’s five queens” as he
called them, allowed them to plague him
and scramble all over him to their hearts'
content. Only now and then he complained
bitterly when they tore his papers —he was
a great reader, old Saul—hid his pipe or
tobacco, and made drawings in colored chalk
all over his “Riddle of the Universe.”
Mischievous and full of a gay restless
vitality, her daughters were growing up no
better than youngsters from the uloo, Mollie
said: particularly Phyllis. Whackings and
squalls were noised along the verandah
almost every day as she punished them
for fighting and scratching, playing about
the stockyards when a beast was being
cut up, or running off with Winni, Charmi
and Beilaba along the creek.
Saul could not bear to hear the children
cry. “You’re a bit heavy-handed, Missus,”
he objected in his blunt way.
“Mind your own business, Mr. Hardy,”
Mollie replied sharply, over and over again.
“I must bring up my children in the best
way I can.”
Saul laughed at the children’s rough, rude
ways, she said, and so encouraged Phyllis
and Cora to play-up. And Hugh was as
bad as Saul. It was no use expecting him to
correct the children, or make them behave
decently.
Hugh was away in Karrara the morning the
friction between Mollie and Saul reached
fire. Saul had chased the children out of
the garden and locked the gate, because they
had trampled on some seed-beds he was
watching anxiously.
Phyllis, picking up a stone, threw it after
him, screaming at the top of her voice, like
an old gin.
Mollie, who saw and heard, called to her
from the verandah. The child went to hei’,
beginning to cry. Saul hurried to inter-
cede for Phyllis.
But Mollie seized the child and hustled
her, kicking and screaming, to her room,
from which the slaps of a piece of flat
board resounded.
Old Saul sat down on the edge of the
verandah, pulled out his pipe and smoked
miserably. Phyllis was dear to him in a
way no one else? had ever been. Since she
was a baby she had snuggled up to him,
pulling his beard and hair and rubbing wet
kisses all over his face. It made him groan
inwardly to hear her cry and to be the
cause of her punishment.
“You oughtn’t to beat her like that,
Missus,” he said when Mollie reappeared.
Phyllis, howling and sobbing, had thrown
herself on the floor in the room behind
them.
“I’ll thank you not to interfere, Mr.
Hardy,” Mollie cried furiously. “You’re
always interfering, and it’s no business of
yours! Do you think I’m going to let
Phyllis use that filthy language? Over
and over again I’ve told her she’s not to,
and she goes on just the same!”
“You’re right, of course,” Saul said. “It’s
not nice for a little girl to be usin’ them
blacks’ swear-words. But she doesn’t know
the meaning of them. And then, too, she’ll
forget every native word she ever knew
when you take the children away to school.
“We’ve not gone yet!” Mollie exclaimed
in her despair and impatience. “And, any-
how, I’m not going to have Phyllis growing
up, defying me the way she does.”
“It’s your nerves, Missus,” Saul said.
“Things have got on your nerves a bit, and
that’s why you’re banging the children
about. They’re not bad kids—real nice
little nippers, the lot of ’em, I think; and
there’s no need to whack ’em, really.
Only”
“See here, Mr. Hardy”—Mollie’s temper
was rising beyond the point at which she
knew what she was saying—“I’ve stood you
about as long as I can. Things have got
on my nerves, as you say. You among
them. I won’t have you interfering between
me and the children any longer. I simply
won’t have it. And the sooner you under-
stand that the better.”
“I understand.” Saul rose on his slight
old legs. Very little and old he looked as
he stood before her. “I’m a bit of a nuis-
ance, hanging round.”
“Too right you are,” Mollie said, and,
turning her back on him, walked away.
Late in the afternoon she saw Saul potter-
ing about in the stockyards and watched
him ride out on his own old white mare,
which one of the gins had brought in.
Coonardoo said Saul had asked for some
flour' and tea for his tucker-bag, and told
her to tell Hugh he was going out to camp
with Cock-eyed Bob for a bit.
Hugh came in after several days and
Mollie described to him what had happened.
Hugh said little, but he prepared to go
out again, taking Warieda with him.
“I wouldn’t for worlds have the old chap’s
feelings hurt,” he said. “You don’t know
what he might do if he thought we didn’t
want him on Wytaliba. He’s got nowhere
else to go. Besides Ido want him. What’s
a station verandah for if an old chap like
Saul Hardy can’t camp on it?”
“Of course,” Mollie cried, “that’s what
you would say. And it doesn’t matter what
I have to put up with.”
She was distressed, all the same, when
Hugh and Warieda returned without Saul
a week later.
“We followed his tracks out to the edge
of the sandhills,” Hugh said. “Found him
sitting under a thorn bush. He never even
tried making for Cock-eyed Bob’s. It’s
what he always said he’d do—ride out there,
east, where what they call the sandy desert
begins, and let his horse go. We buried
him under the thorn bush.”
(Continued on page 50.)


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily.
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy of your
advertising expenditure in Victoria use
“THE AGE.”
“THE AGE’’ Publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually
and enters the homes and offices of
123,533 SUBSCRIBERS DAILY.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISTAN D SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z.. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. rOLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World's Leading
Advertising Agencies.
ẁ
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ẃ
Time is important
On all occasions, business or social, a correct
time-keeper is a prime essential. Into every
Elgin are built the finest parts by the world’s
best craftsmen, ensuring the creation of
watches of accuracy. Look for the name
Elgin.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
104
}#
r
a
Why
Benger’s
for Aged
Persons .
A.»6*
WHEN, by weight of years, digestive
powers become enfeebled, and the
vital elements are not absorbed from
ordinary food, Benger’s is an agreeable
and abundant source of nutrition.
No Food is so acceptable and so
entirely suitable in old age as Benger’s,
nor so completely strength-giving.
A Doctor writes :—
I have much pleasure in testifying: to the
value of your Food in the diet of old agre, and
in dyspepsia and convalescence. I could not do
without it in my practice.”
ẅ
Food
is always made with fresh new milk,
which it enriches and converts into a
delicious food cream.
Benaer’s Food is sold by Chemists and Stores
everywhere.
Bengrer’s invaluable booklet, post free from
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers:
Benger’s Food, Ltd., Manchester,
England.
<y
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from ,
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73*75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
HEINZ
Oven Baked Beans
Perfect, rich, golden
beans, oven-baked to
mellow deliciousness; pre-
pared with Heinz Tomato
Sauce. A delightful meal,
complete in itself.
1367
one of the
Varieties
Beyond anH MV Portable
you, buy furniture /
‘
Specialising in H.M.V Portables,
til cash or terms arranged,
TheTALK.ER.IES
47 7 Q.V, Buildings /Opposite lowesi
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STIiEET, SYDNEY.
V,
fittfwitkee!
Notice his smile when he
sees what’s for breakfast--
Anchovette on toast. It tickles
the palates of all the family, and
it’s so easily prepared. Get ajar
from your grocer to-day.
For a change try Peck’s
Salmon and Shrimp Paste.
Peck’s
&
The
delicious
Fish Paste
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
BACKACHE, NEURITIS
RHEUMATISM
What a London Doctor Says:
Dr. Harrison, the London medico, says
that sufferers from uric acid troubles, back-
ache, rheumatism, joint pains, and urinary
disorders would do well to leave expensive
“patent” remedies alone. The doctor recom-
mends, instead, a combination of about eight
of the most valuable agents known for the
treatment of uric acid, kidney, bladder and
urinary complaints. This combination is
known bo every chemist as Harrison’s Pills:
it is widely recommended as a safe, prompt
and effective remedy. The cost is surpris-
ingly small, and those who try Harrison's
Pills are always astonished how quickly
relief comes; how soon backaches, joint
pains, headaches, dizziness, night worries,
etc., become things of the past. For “middle-
age” symptoms generally, chemists say there
is nothing to equal Harrison’s Pills —an
honest, inexpensive combination of medicinal
agents of generally accepted value.
Monarch
Cigary.
Craig &Aitken
h Wholesale
Distributors
Sudneu N.5.W.
S
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


MAN NEWS
sr
mm
The
“WILD WEST’
A Qreat Big Wide Lea / Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
3j4i n s- wide will
not sag ; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
30/-
Post Fife
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In £>ueen Street, Brisbane.
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
TH£ " BULLDOG"
HAMM Eft L£SS
w
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PR/CE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
452-460 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
ŵ
Obtainable
Everywhere
The
GIN
Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
dry Gin
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
The Gunners.
J.H.M. ABBOTT’S STORY OF WHAT HAPPENED AT WATERLOO —AND
AFTER.
IN the early afternoon of Sunday, June
18, 1815. Captain Thomas Martindale,
commanding “Z” Troop of the Royal
Horse Artillery—the batteries of the -famous
corps were known as “troops” in those days
—found himself gazing interestedly upon
a scene that has become extremely memor-
able in the eleven decades which have passed
by since. He was on the crest of the ridge
at Waterloo, which, in less than two hours’
time, was to be charged again and again,
heroically but fruitlessly, by 10,000 of the
finest cavalry that have ever advanced
against an enemy. His guns had been
brought thither to watch and checkmate a
host of Lancers, drawn up on the Slope of
the opposite side of the shallow valley lying
between the French and English armies, and
threatening the right flank of the latter.
“Our first gun,” says Captain Martindale
in his account of the battle, “had scarcely
gained the interval between their squares,
when I saw through the smoke the leading
squadrons of the advancing column coming
on at a brisk trot, and already not more than
one hundred yards distant. I immediately
ordered the line to be formed for action.
“The very first round, I saw, brought down
several men and horses. They continued,
however, to advance. We were a little below r
the level of the ground on which they moved,
having in front of us a bank about two feet
high, along the top of which ran a narrow
road —and this gave more effect to our case-
shot, almost all of which must have taken
effect, for the carnage was frightful. The
following extract, from a related account of
a French conscript, is so true as to need no
comment:—
Through the smoke T saw the English gunners
abandon their pieces, all but six guns stationed under
the road, and almost immediately our cuirassiers
were upon the squares, whose fire was drawn in zig-
zags. Now, I thought, those gunners would be cut
to pieces; but no, the devils kept firing with grape,
which mowed them down like grass.
“I suppose this state of things occupied
but a few seconds, when I observed symp-
toms of hesitation, and in a twinkling, at the
instant I thought all was over with us, they
turned. Retreat of the mass, however, was
not so easy, and that part of the column
next to us became a complete mob, into which
we kept a steady fire of case-shot from our
six pieces. The effect is hardly conceivable,
and to paint this scene of slaughter and
confusion is impossible. At last the rear of
the column, wheeling about, opened a pas-
sage, and the whole swept away at a much
more rapid pace than they had advanced.”
“Whilst thus occupied with our front,”
Captain Martindale adds, “we suddenly be-
came sensible of a most destructive flanking
fire from a battery which had come, the
Lord knows how, and established itself upon
a knoll somewhat higher than the ground we
stood on, only about 400 or 500 yards away
and a little in advance of our left flank.
The rapidity and precision of this fire were
quite appalling. Every shot almost took
effect, and I certainly expected we should
all be annihilated. They plunged right
amongst our horses and limbers, knocking
them down by pairs, and creating horrible
confusion. I sighed for my poor troop—
it was already but a wreck.”
And then, suddenly, Waterloo ended for
Captain Thomas Martindale.
* * * <!
On a summer afternoon in 1835 two
gentlemen came riding up George-street,
Parramatta, in the direction of Government
House. Behind them, just out of conver-
sational earshot, rode a sergeant of the
mounted police, his steel-scabbarded sabre
flashing in the bright sunlight, and his horse
and turn-out the very acme of military per-
fection. The big bay’s coat shone like satin,
and its rider’s creaseless blue tunic, highly
polished Wellingtons and sparkling buttons
bespoke the complete horse-soldier of cere-
monial parade. Sergeant Biddlecombe,' of
the Governor’s escort, was as famous and
notable a figure in Sydney and Parramatta
as was ever any Lord Mayor’s coachman in
the City of London.
The tall, handsome man on the left, clad
in a tightly-buttoned blue frock-coat with
flat black buttons, strapped riding panta-
loons of Bedford cord, and beaver top-hat,
was his Excellency Lieutenant-General Sir
Richard Bourke, K.C.8., Governor-General of
the Australasian possessions of his Majesty
King William IV., and his companion was
that very distinguished officer Lieutenant-
Colonel Thomas Martindale, R.H.A.. . (re-
tired), who was paying a visit to the colony
and had already in his head some half-
formed notion of ending his days in New
South Wales.
He was a man of about fifty years of age,
as soldierly in appearance as were the
Governor and the sergeant, but terribly
marred and scarred by unmistakable injuries
of battle. His right sleeve was empty, a
black patch covered the socket of his left
eye, and the other side of his face was
fearfully and hideously disfigured, from
temple to chin, by a purple mutilation of
skin and facial muscles. Had he been a-foot,
his pronounced limp would have readily indi-
cated the fact that his legs had been nearly
as badly damaged as the upper part of his
body. The long-fused shell that fell at his
feet on the ridge near Hougoumont twenty
years before had certainly done its work
Well, so far as Tom Martindale was con-
cerned.
As they rode up the wide highway which
Arthur Phillip planned—as he had planned
a similar one for Sydney—Colonel Martindale
drew his horse closer to the Governor’s.
There was a puzzled expression in his dis-
figured countenance and a note of anxious
inquiry in his pleasant voice. The Governor
turned from his acknowledgment of the
presented arms of the guard at the Barrack
gates, which they were passing at the time,
to listen to his question.
“General,” he said, “can you inform me as
to the identity of the man—the sergeant—
who is riding behind us? It is strange, Sir
Richard, but I seem to know him, some-
how.”
“Ah, yes, my dear Martindale. I know all
about him. An excellent fellow. Excellent. A
very paragon of all soldierly virtues. Maybe
with some, ah—soldierly faults, too, but the
virtues predominating. Now you would not
suppose, would you, that that man had been
a prisoner?”
“A convict! Well, then, General, he has
little of the appearance of a gaol-bird. ’Tis
not so difficult to pick them out here, some-
times. The slouch, you know. The shuffle.
The furtive look. But this sergeant—l
should not have supposed so. Really !”
The Governor nodded.
“Not a criminal —though technically such.
He came here in General Brisbane’s time,
with a sentence of seven years for bigamy.
Served his time —mostly on ticket-of-leave,
on account of his exemplary conduct. Colonel
Dumaresq picked him out for the Governor’s
body-guard during my predecessor, General
Darling’s, term of government. He had been
a soldier —as may be very easily observed
from his appearance and bearing. A Water-
loo veteran.”
“Waterloo!” Colonel Martindale was in-
terested. He had his memories of Waterloo.
“Pray, do you happen to know, Sir Richard,
with which arm he served in Flanders?”
“Oh yes, my dear Martindale. With
your own—with the Horse Gunners.”
Colonel Martindale gave vent to an ex-
clamation of relief, and struck the pommel
of his saddle with his left fist, which grasped
the reins. *
“Good God, Governor! Why, the man was
in ‘Z’ Troop, which I had command of at
Waterloo, owing to the Major, Sir Anthony
Carr, having a Staff appointment. Well,
well! I should like to speak with him.
Dear me!”
As they rode up the wide highway, past
the new King’s School, which was in George-
street for the first four years of its exist-
ence, Colonel Martindale dreamed an un-
pleasant dream of a terrible night that had
been his twenty years before. A night that
he remembered disconnectedly, and not so
clearly as he did the day preceding it.
He remembered waking into moonlight
that was occasionally marred by drifting
clouds —cold, intolerably thirsty, wracked
with devilish pains, half-blind and drenched
with blood. Above him leered the face of a
demon, with a long knife that gleamed in the
moonlight in his hand—a Belgian peasant,
ghoulishly looting the dead and murdering
the wounded. He saw the knife raised, and
heard a shot, and fainted again.
And the next he remembered was lying in
a cowshed with a surgeon dressing his many
wounds by the light of a horn lanthorn,
whilst young Gunner Biddlccombe supported
his head, and moistened his lips with brandy.
It was Gunner Biddlecombe who had rescued
him from the Belgian, he had learned after-
wards. And now, to his shame, he had not
recognised his preserver. Well, well! But
he would make amends.
Sergeant Biddlecombe came to him in the
garden of Government House after dinner,
saluted, and stood stiffly at attention. The
Colonel held out his hand, but the sergeant
shook his head.
“Zur,” he spoke huskily, and with evident
nervousness, “I baient fit for ’ee to shake
hands wi’. I be a bad ’un, zui\ Not fit for
ye to speak wi’.”
“Good Ged, gunner! You were my pre-
server. I owe you my life. What nonsense.
Come, your hand, man!”
Sergeant Biddlecombe hung his head, but
did not extend his hand to grasp Tom
Martindale’s. The latter stared at him in
mystification.
“Well, now, why not, Gunner Biddle-
combe? Tell me why not!”
The sergeant cleared his throat, and
looked down. Shakily he answered.
“Did ’e miss nowt, y'r honor, vrom y’r
pockets ?” ,
“Oh, my watch was gone—and fifteen
guineas-—but of course those damnable
robbers took them. They’d have had my
life, if it had not been for you.”
“Zur,” said the Sergeant, “’twas me,
.Take Biddlecombe. as pinched y’r watch,
though not th’ guineas. I be no man, zur —
not vit vor to shaake y’r honor’s hand. I
zold un vor a tot o’ rum.”
A moment Tom Martindale regarded the
sergeant’s dejected figure. Then "lie limped
forward and clapped him on the back, his
->ne eye twinkling.
“By God, Gunner,” he said, “you deserved
a drink!”
Lacking.
What a moon is yon to-night,
Hung on high in majesty,
Pouring clear and lovely light
On this garden by the sea!
While a soft breeze, moist with dew,
Wanders in from beach and bay,
Let us take a turn or two
Up and down this bordered way.
While the sleeping flowers release
Odors many, sweet and keen,
Surely, surely utter peace
Should be ours in such a scene!
Since the air, so soft with dew.
Scented is by leaf and flower,
Let what work you have to do
Wait for some less lovely hour.
Never was a night like this;
Never one so lit and sweet—
Yet a certain charm I miss
That would make it all complete.
What is it? ’Tis song, perchance,
Song anigh ns, song remote;
Song that voices old romance
On the moonlit air afloat.
Song; or better still the thought
Maybe, maybe night demands,
So that it may lack in nought,
Shining eyes and clinging hands!
AH around us lovely light,
Perfumed air and dewy shade—
Lovers should be here to-night,
Since for Love ’twas surely made.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Mick Simmons
for Every
Sporting Need!
il
Famous
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. !5. WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
1904 MODEL, for .22 short,
long or long rifle rim-fire
cartridges; 2 1 in. heavy round
steel barrel, plain trigger,
bolt action, ladder rear
sight; length of rifle over all,
37^in.; plain front sight;
weight, about Af\l
41b w/"
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/2.
No. 35— BROWNING
“TROMBONE” H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE, 22 in
round steel barrel; handles
.22 short, long or long rifle
cartridges; screw rear and
open front sights; length
overall, 39in.; 7A /
weight, 4fib. ... • V/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 37 — S AVA G E
SPORTER REPEATING
RIFLE, Model 23a, .22-
cal., 2 3in. round barrel;
handles short, long
or long-rifle cart-
wl K ght, 6ib.£4j12;6
Carriage Paid.
No. 31.
REMINGTON
HAMMER-
LESS REPEAT-
ING RIFLE,
Model 12a, .22-
cah, solid
breech, side
ejector, straight
grip, 2 2 in,,
round barrel;
handles 15
short, 12
long, or 1 1
long rifle
cartridges;
adjustable
rear and
open front
sights; weight, 4 2 1 b.
Carriage Paid.
£4/1 6
ẁ
ẃ
THE SHOOTING CATALOGUE AND
GUIDE IS POST FREE ON REQUEST.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters’'
ẅ
w
ŵ
G.E.6.
ẁ
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER ft LONQHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
ẃ
No. 1360.
ẅ
w


a
D
it means
health and beauty!
%
% -
?T
.
' \ ,
f, j *i \ jus
m
FV«r -
* i
.Vi
m\
KX
jßr . . . J
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their beautiful skin
and hair. To be a Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona
Soap and enjoy that natural beauty of skin and hair
which cannot be imitated, but can be obtained by its
regular use. . , ~
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many
of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin
and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such
soapn can only cleanse, they cannot heal and protect the
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, anti-
septic balsams as Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value
of which in the treatment of skin affections is known
throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly
once or twice a day, and see if it
does not quickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency to
pimples, and leave the complexion
clear, fresh and velvety.
ŵ
Miss BEBE COLBY, a beautiful
Rexona Girl, writes: “I consider
Rexona Soap stands' alone as a
shin and hair beautifier.”
ii
himrzq
pun r
dr>ce>
T>uoxvyr
V.
■JL
i
k
m
A
K
• ■ ■ •
Tested die dau thru are made
Z/fie famous
Red Box oP
Chocolates
ẁ
CHOCOLATES
ADDRESS-
ẃ
(PATONj
In the Midst of Life.
D.H. SOUTER’S FANCIFUL STORY OF A MIDNIGHT VISITOR.
A WEEK of soggy, sloppy weather. A
week of macintoshes, goloshes and
umbrellas; and since George Ganlon
hated all three, he stayed at home and got
grumpier and grumpier every day. That is
if you could call it home.
Forty years ago it had been a fashionable
residence, but the tides of fashion had set
in another direction; five years ago it had
been shoddily converted into flats until a
life-rent in the lease should run out, when
it would be demolished and a stately ten-
storey building rise in its place.
It is very unpleasant being a bachelor of
fifty and living in such a habitation,
especially when the weather keeps you in-
doors and lets your liver play up.
Still it suited Ganlon, who sometimes
enjoyed having a grudge against the world.
The place was within the four-shilling taxi
area. Down a side street and only three
minutes’ walk from a ’bus route. Three
storeys high, and Ganlon ion the top floor,
with a semi-hexagonal attic window in his
sitting-room from which, between tall trees
and taller buildings, he could glimpse a fair
stretch of our beautiful harbor.
Every now and then he got a fit of the
blues, such as he had now, when he shut
himself up in his rooms and was sorry for
himself, regretting his mis-spent youth,
resenting the fact that, he was growing an
old man. Life hadn’t given him a fair deal;
at fifty-three he wasn’t where he expected to
be, not by a long chalk.
, Not that he hadn’t got somewhere. His
name was as often in the public prints as
anybody’s. He knew everybody worth know-
ing and a few that weren’t. The people
who knew him belonged to the same classi-
fication. Not at the top of his profession—
never would be now ; but all knew that he
could have been, if he had given his undivided
attention to it. Which is far too much for
some men to give to anything. A violinist
of almost concert standard, but with Kreisler
records at a few shillings who wants to
listen to gifted amateurs? An excellent after-
dinner speaker, a persuasive debater, he
might have been in Parliament years ago
if his caustic wit, vitriolic pen and openly-
expressed hatred of Party politics had not
barred him from the arena, except as an
occasional and spectacular fighter.
He might have married Margaret Boyd
and her seventy thousand pounds, too, if
he hadn’t been so damned independent as to
refuse to make a fight of it with Billy
Dawson when Margaret . threw Billy her
handkerchief, more for fun than anything
else. They were married in six months,
and what a mess they made of it! He was
sorry when the divorce was on, sorry for
both of them—it wouldn’t have happened if
Margaret had been Mrs. George Ganlon.
He would have given six years of his life
to have been her husband for six weeks,
even if she hadn’t had seventy pence; for
money isn’t everything. And a good job, too,
for he hadn’t much of it. Plenty of it had
come his way—but it had always gone again.
What did it matter? He had five hundred
in Commonwealth bonds, sixty or so at cur-
rent account in his bank, three fivers in an
old book of plays on his bookshelf, six or
eight pounds in his inner vest pocket, some
silver in his right-hand trouser pocket, didn’t
owe a bean—though if everybody paid what
they owed him it would be better than a
winning double at the races. There were
other things besides money.
More than one bit of his verse was recited
from the Gulf to the Leeuwin, and only yes-
terday he heard a fellow in the street whist-
ling the air of a song he had written ten
years ago.
He earned twenty pounds last week and he
could earn twenty to-morrow if he wanted to.
Money was nothing, except to buy something
that you wanted, and what he wanted he
didn’t quite know, nor if money could buy it,
either.
There came a firm double-knock at his
door. Unexpected, and without any herald-
ing footsteps. He half-turned his head and
paused before he called “Come in !”
Over his shoulder he saw the door open
and shut silently, and a tall, elderly gentle-
man in an enveloping raincloak stood await-
ing a welcome.
The radiator threw a knee-high glow
around the room, and the shaded lamp con-
centrated its amber cone of light on the
table-end by Ganlon. The rest of the apart-
ment vibrated in warm shadow, where things
loomed and were sensed rather than visible.
“Come right in,” said Ganlon, pointing to
a chair at the other side of the table. “Sit
down and tell me what I can do for you.”
“Thank you,” said the figure, advancing
and placing on the table a grotesquely-tall
hat, disclosing a pallid, lean, bald-headed face
that was not at all unkindly nor unfamiliar.
“I am at your service, sir, rather than you
at mine.”
“Good!” said George with a slightly
wdiiskified dignity. “Promise not to try
selling me life assurance and you may help
yourself to a drink.” He pushed the decanter
across and reached a glass from the side-
board.
“I can promise you that readily,” said
the stranger, pouring himself a nip and nod-
ding to his host as he leant back in his
chair and sipped the liquor.
“Cheerio!” growled George, swigging off
the residue of his own drink. “Light up!”
he went on, indicating cigars and cigarettes.
Relighting his pipe, he lent an elbow on the
arm of his chair, and from under a hollowed
palm scrutinised his visitor with mild curi-
osity.
Not quite a stranger, but where had he
seen him before? Not that it mattered; all
in good time. A citizen of the world evi-
dently, quiet, respectful and perhaps sixty.
Business man of sorts, semi-professional, pos-
sibly a corn-doctor.
And then he noticed that the lips were
moving and words coming flatly from between
them : “My name is Death.”
George sat straight up and thumped the
table with loose knuckles. “The devil it is!”
he exploded boisterously. “Well, Mr. Death,
whatever your business is, your name is not
one to assure you a hearty welcome.”
“I wouldn’t quite admit that,” he replied,
sinking his chin on his chest and smiling
reminiscently. “No, nor yet contrariwise;
though on many occasions it has secured me
an entry into some of the best —and worst —
regulated families in history. Poems have
been writ in my honor, martyrs lia.ve gone
to glory with my name on their lips, and
heroes have found their greatest fame through
my co-operation. Now that bio-chemistry
is increasing the probability of life every
day; now that Hell is hardly even a hypo-
thesis and Heaven is being altered to suit
the convenience of desirable tenants, I am
not such a terrible fellow as I used to be;
not by any manner of means.”
George sat up and looked at him in amaze-
ment. The lean, laughing face turned to a
grinning skull for the split-fraction of a
second, like a quick cut-in at the pictures;
but the next instant it was cheerful, jovial
even, the black, beady eyes twinkling with
merriment.
“By gosh!” said George, “don't do that,
again. Hanged if I know what to make of
you.”
“A friend, a friend. Make that of me
and nothing matters.”
He folded his arms on the table and his
lean body slid towards George until the bald
pate was within the cone of light from the
shaded lamp. The eye sockets were round
pools of darkness, the lantern shafts sunk
in shadow and the prognathous jaw and
chin caught the light as the thin lips parted,
showing uneven rows of teeth. Words came
like a whisper from between them. “You
were rather disappointed with life £i few
minutes ago. I had just finished a job on
the first floor, and as I was in the building
I thought I’d drop in and have a word with
you.”
“A job! On the first floor!”
“Oh, quite a simple affair,” and he drew
back in the shadow again, leaving one lean
hand to beat with bony fingers a soundless
tattoo on the table. “You know .Tones,
president of the Eugenic Birth Association.
Fine fellow. Took such a practical interest
in his job. A man to go far—too far if I
may be permitted an opinion- Jones’s
widowed secretary is going to give the world
a present at Christmas. Jones didn’t know
a thing about it until yesterday; the widow
(between you and me) isn’t too sure about
it yet, and Mrs. Jones may never hear a
word of it —now. Jones got the wind up.
Acted on the impulse of the moment —some-
times a good point in a man, sometimes not.
Called me in, and over a quiet glass, just
as we are having now, only his was more
potent, we cracked a joke or two and —I
arranged matters!”
“Y’ know,” hiccupped George, ‘ I always
had my doubts about Jones.”
“You did? And your eye on the pretty
widow who did his typing! Well, never mind.
Old enough to know better; but, there,
what’s the world coming to?”
He lay back in his chair, swung his arms
wide with a deprecatory gesture and laughed!
To his surprise, George found that they
were making a dnet of it.
“I must say.” said George, in Ins final
ebullitions of merriment, “I must say you
are a bit of a character. I had no idea that
you were the genial old bird you apparently
are.” .
“At times, George, only at times. Oh, I
can be most serious on occasion. Most —
damnably—serious,” and he sat up and fixed
George with a queer glance. >
“Here, enough of that; we’re friends,
explained George. “Friends. You said it;
so cut out the rough stuff. Have another
spot.” His hand trembled slightly as he
refilled Death’s glass and even more when he
replenished his own. “Friends we are and
friends we’re goin’ to be. Don’t you forget
it. See! Be a gen’leman, Death ; remember
you’re my guest.” ■
“Have it your own way. Here’s”-;
“Cheerio!” gurgled Geotge, gulping his
half-tumblerful of whisky without a tremor.
“ ’N’ave another?”
“No, no; no, thanks. I had a couple with
Jones before wm fixed things up, and I have
other business to attend to.”
A clock on the mantelpiece struck twelve.
Death rose hurriedly, picked up his hat and
held out his' hand to George. “I’d no idea
it was so late,” he said in an even voice.
“I’ll say good-bye now. Don’t trouble —
I know my way out.”
“See you as far as the stair,” said George
bustling clumsily to his feet; “there’s a
tricky turn there where someone’ll break his
neck some day.”
* * * *
Both inquests were held that afternoon:
and while Jones was convicted of having
committed suicide. George Ganlon was said
to have met his death by misadventure.
Incompleteness.
The wine gleams red in the crystal glass;
The warm light glows where the feast*
fruits pile;
With rustling joyance the dancers pass,
And a pulsing passion springs to your
smile.
Surely the night is for pleasure set!
Yet on my heart, like a coal of fire,
Still burns the scar of an old regret—
Nothing is quite to the heart’s desire.
When my lips were fresh to the wine of love
There were other smiles that limed me on:
The music we heard was the seas a-move,
Our feast soft scenes where the moonlight
shone.
No golden key to delights like these
I held; in my heart was a hope-sick fire
For the other feast that her heart might
please—
Nothing is quite to the heart’s desire.
Before your smile have the shadows come,
But I’ll drink the wine, and I’ll bid them go,
Pretending that old regret is dumb.
That my thoughts hold nought but the
joys we know.
Let us make the best of the cup we fill,
Though the fear of loss, a burnt-out fire,
Or a thwarted hope may mar its thrill —
Nothing is quite to the heart’s desire.
There’s always a ghost at the banquet set;
In the victory won must some loss
suspire—
Impatient hope or an old regret—
Nothing is quite to the heart’s desire.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED-
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors* —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE. . q 7
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, a J".
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, K. S. Wales, also represents
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orl^“•
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bust
ẅ
w
Obtainable from all Hosiers,Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative cf the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only
AERTEX
_
v’;€ This Label on #ll Garments ,^v*
See this label on all garments
a. a
There was no money for Mollie to go to
the coast that year. Hugh was sorry; but
it could not be helped. If she thought less
of herself and more of her work about the
place, he said, she would feel better. His
mother had worked through years on Wy-
taliba—a little scrap of a woman.
The five little girls fluttered about that
summer after Saul Hardy’s death, shrieking
and screaming, much as they had always
done. Hugh was on good enough terms
with them. He was “really soft about the
little blighters,” he assured himself, although
they were the'joke of the country side, his
“poker hand.” He had his secret solace,
after all. There was that son of a whirl-
wind who was ten years old and could go
out with him now, ride like a demon and
look after the packhorses.
Wherever Hugh went Winni went. It
was recognised that Winning-arra was
Hugh’s boy; made his camp-fire, spread out
his rugs. He slept with the blacks; but
everybody in the uloo knew Youie’s affec-
tion for Winning-arra.
CHAPTER XIX.
Blue of the sky thickened and faded. On
the horizon mirages blotted out the trunks
of the trees. Smooth polished stones, black
and red, lying over the plains shone with
the light of dull metal.
The air at a little distance palpitated,
thrown off from the stones in minute atoms,
visible one moment, flown to invisibility
the next. Weaving with the sun for shuttle,
the air spun a heat which was suffocating.
The sun, an incandescence somewhere above
and beyond the earth, was electric, anni-
hilating. And stillness, a breathless heavi-
ness, drowsed the senses, brain and body,
as if that mythological great snake the
blacks believed in—a rock python, silvery
grey, black and brown—sliding down from
hills of the sky, were putting the opiate of
his breath into the air, folding you round
and round, squeezing the life out of you.
The summer began early and showed no
sign of relenting after eight months of bril-
liance and dust-storms. There was a
thunderstorm towards the end of January
which cooled the air for a night or so and
scattered futile showers; then the days went
on, bare and dry, or swept by the .scurrying
columns of the winning-arras.
Hugh was anxious. The blacks were talk-
ing of a long drought; leaves of the mulga
hung sere and dying for miles.
Away from the homestead for two or
three weeks at a time he moved cattle from
dry waterholes on to windmills, droving
night and day wherever there was feed and
water. Eyes narrowed to slits against the
fierce white light, sweltering through thick
red dust, he kept the bullocks going across
wide sun-blasted stretches of hills and plain.
Drovers and beasts plodded drooping and
drowsing; the boys swayed half-asleep as
they rode.
At mid-day, after they had boiled their
quartpots for tea and eaten a hunk of
damper and some salt beef, Hugh and the
boys threw themselves in any shred of
shade beside a clump of karrara bush or
thicket of mulga to lose consciousness of
heat, dust and dryness in a few moments’
sleep.
Hugh took his rest as the blacks did. No
rfhance of the bullocks wandering too far
those days. They were so poor they would
scarcely move unless pushed on by the
horses and cracking whips.
Year after year, when the hot weather
began, Hugh had sent Mollie and the
children to Geraldton, and she had come
back to the station after the rains. But
at last, with continued dry seasons, *he
could not stand the expense of the long
journey.
“Keep busy, and you’ll be all right,” he
advised cheerily.
“Keep busy?” Mollie Availed. “I can
hardly stand.”
She loathed the hard arid plains, the
blacks, every eyefull of grey withering trees,
the red earth; the dawns Avhich came with-
out a breath of cool air, sullen and sultry,
light glancing from a sheening sky as from
metal at white heat. Eyes flinched from it;
red dust stood in the air from the day be-
fore, until the winning-arras caught and
whirled it in long leaning columns, half a
dozen of them traA'elling at once across the
■ plains, to topple and break, deluging the
house and verandah with fine red dust.
While Hughie was out moving cattle, a
fan of the big windmill broke. There was
no water for the beasts who came in to
troughs on the outer fence, and hung moan-
ing and blasting their savage cries round it
all night. Coonardoo and Bardi sat at the
little mill Avaiting for Avater, it dreAv so
slowly.
There Avere no baths Avhen the big Avind-
mill was out of order. And if Hugh was
out for a fortnight or three weeks there
was no fresh meat. Coonardoo took Hugh’s
gun and shot pigeons or galahs for a meal.
As often- as not there Avas no man at
the homestead but Joey, and Joey could
not see Avell enough to shoot, those days.
The children thought it great fun to go
shooting Avith Coonardoo, hide by the fence
in the garden and run to pick up the pigeons
as they fell. They carried the limp, dang-
ling bodies Avith gleeful cries, plucked
fuchsia-colored Aving-feathers from the soft
blue-grey plumage of the little birds, and
gobbled their pigeon-pie hungrily. Mollie
was glad to have pigeons to give the child-
ren to eat. She had no sentiment about
crested pigeons, pretty little creatures
though they were, with their black helmets,
red legs and red-rimmed beady eyes; but
she was hi. ous at having to fall back on
them for food. •
“Why not a little game now and then?”
Hugh asked. “If we were paying half a
crown a pair for pigeons, we’d reck’n they
were a treat.”
He found it difficult to forgive Mollie for
not playing the game better, and standing-
up to the drought, heat and hardships;
everybody else was fighting with such grit
and good humor. It went to prove what
Sam Geary was always talking about, the
weakness and unfitness of white women for
the hard and lonely life of the Nor’-West.
The life was rough on a woman, Hugh
agreed. Mollie had had a crook spin when
the children were little; but he had done
his best to make up to her, lighten her
burden, give her a fair deal.
There were women like his mother and
Mrs. Jim Ry'land, of course, who stood by
and worked through good and bad seasons
with their men. And had not Mrs. With-
nell, the pioneer woman of the Nor’-West,
brought up a large family on a lonely
station, without sight of another white
woman for years at a' time? Hugh had
hoped Mollie would be of that stuff. But
for .years now she had been wailing and
complaining at every hardship and diffi-
culty that cropped up. There were the
children, of course——
Hugh blamed himself for the children.
Mollie said she had had too many babies,
one after the other, and was worn out nurs-
ing and rearing them, coping with the diffi-
culty of food when a loading was late, and
the anxiety of their ailments so far from a
doctor. She had been distracted when the
babies suffered from summer diarrhoea, and
Phyllis would have bled to death when she
cut her foot on a broken bottle had not
Goonardoo plastered the wound with clay
and ashes, aboriginal fashion.
There was a good deal of truth in what
Mollie said. Hugh admitted. He under-
stood her point of view and tried to be
patient; but he had no patience, really,
with her yearning for the life of a small
town as for Paradise.
After a while he put on his hat and went
out to avoid the rattle of her voice, its in-
cessant clatter and fault-finding. He could
hear Mollie grousing, unmoved, at last.
Let her grouse; he would stand it, he would
stand anything, Hugh assured himself. There
was nothing else to do, for the children’s
sake—and Wytaliba’s. He would not give
up Wytaliba.
At the uloo Coonardoo had heard Joev
Koonarra suggesting Hugh should take a
stick to Mollie. But that was not the white
mans way, she knew. He might take her
by the shoulders and shake her till her
neck was nearly broken, or put his hands
round her throat, threatening to strangle
her. But a stick or a boot he would use
only on a gin. Mollie would never get those.
To Coonardoo herself Mollie wailed and
complained a good deal. “I wish I were
you, Coonardoo,” she cried. “I wish I was
a gin and didn’t mind the beastly place.
Didn’t want to see shops and places, talk
to people, wear frocks and dance sometimes,
or go to church and the races, like they
do in Geraldton.”
Coonardoo had listened impassive and un-
smiling.
“Oh, it’s man’s country,” Mollie wailed.
“What they all say is quite right. It’s
only what a man wants matters out here.
A woman can go mad or clear out, for all
anybody cares.”
For days after a row Mollie sulked. Hugh
did not speak to her more than he could
help, and as often as not she did not reply
when he did.
Hugh found his balance restored as soon
as he turned away from the house, swung
into his saddle, and left the long white
lines of the homestead with all its sheds,
buildings, windmills and green-leafed trees
far behind. But for Mollie repression meant
a fermenting and rotting of every decent
instinct and impulse. She was poisoned
by the fever of her discontent, brooded
over her grievances and misery until they
burst from her with the violence of physical
nausea.
Hugh’s indifference—his bitter cynical
humor—infuriated her. “Why did you
marry me?” she screamed. “Why on earth
did I come here? I was better off scrubbing
pots, a servant, than Mrs. Hugh Watt of
Wytaliba station. My God, I work like
a gin! I look like a gin. But I’m not as
well off as one of Geary’s gins, really!”
“Perhaps you’d like to change places with
Sheba?” Hugh said.
“At least he knows how to' treat a
woman,” Mollie retorted.
“All right,” and Hugh stamped off the
verandah. “Go where you’ll be appreciated.
Go to Geary and stay with him, or go
anywhere and stay anywhere, so long as we
get a little peace again.”
“Give me the money and I’ll go all right,”
Mollie screamed.
Hugh came back, walked into the sitting-
room, sat down, took his cheque-book from
a drawer and wrote a cheque for five
hundred pounds.
Coming back on to the verandah, he threw
Mollie the strip of paper.
“There,” he said. “That’s all the hard
cash I’ve got in the world. Take it and go,
for Gods sake. You’re like a maggot in
my brain. You’ll drive me mad, woman.”
He walked off towards the shed, slamming
his hat down over his head.
ŵ


mi
: v'V-
-81
n
-
■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOljMJES # CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—'“Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE I4d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L„ Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16£ pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt, D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee.”
A?
s 9<-
5i)00 SATISFYING SHAVES ,NONE
RAZOR
THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
jess brings to users of THE PLUM RAZ-ORt
J >iri ft sc
free
throughout
Australasia
Guaranteed & Kept (
in order for two years free
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNE
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:>—
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 81522.
L_n
L
//
/ .
<btli
SfttK
BOOM
m
- :
SN
42*
\
You'll Sleep more. Soundly
rise as fresh as a lark.
>
\
r
G
\
£r*
EAT YOUR MEALS WITH RELISH WITHOUT OREAD OF
LATEft
&
r t
/■s
*2K
I umaa
>S'
//
cv*
ŵ
ẁ
Kermath Manufacturing
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
Co.E
ẃ
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodatiob.
Winter Tariff from 4| Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinner*.
Delightful Ho-minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
- p RESERVATIONS; YSOI2, 4 Lines.
A
0°
stf'
s®
e
‘‘ & a ,o' * .. ••••
\P .*•*’ ..** V*‘
V
vV -l*


ẅ
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z,
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, NJZ.
Dodge- Brothers
Siaviui Si*
w
