

#
KODAK
t
s
mt.
m
m
. r
_f
fk .)
SO?
\
•m
®m.
up
V k m
Wh
m.
\f^m
i ' ■»} JP V
/5S
>. a
m?.
N* 11
W 1 I
111 I!!. 1
5 • - |
-■■<#. s;'■< S««m •:•:•: •:
0*
&
mm*
mmm.
■Si!
wim
WMa
11l
SSSw!
s£s
*%<
■
X:W:
Whm
i
mm
mv.
y.-y-y/.-y.
THE new, glorious, colorful Vanity
Kodaks are at once the loveliest fashion
and gift creations seen in years!
Distinguished—-dainty—chic—intensely feminine; so utterly
new, so exquisitely in accord with one’s frock—-what woman
can resist them?
Here’s a delightful wedding gift for the bride or for her maids 9 ,
a superlative birthday present for the college girl and the
sweetheart, for wives, mothers and sisters. Its fresh beauty
will win instant approval—the happy little pictures it produces
will enhance that first favorable impression.
Five smart bird-colors from which to choose—Redbreast,
Bluebird, Cockatoo, Seagull, Jenny Wren.
Price—any color — £B/17/6.
You must certainly see the Vanity Kodaks in all their fresh
glowing beauty.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
f
(Australasia)
PTY.
379 George Street and 108 Market
Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane, and
The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,”
and 161 Swanston
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Hay Street, Perth.
Street,
Street,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street,
Rockhampton; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis
I /
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
td'loAre 'Uou. /di&vtect an/ K &conaAxlatt 7
Vol. 49.—N0. 2535.
Wednesday, September 12, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
, Man’s final goal is fixed by fate,
In boundless realms which know no bars,
h T or anguish, sorrow, fear or hate—
The Outer Space Beyond the Stars.
Yet, whilst we Unger still on earth,
’Tis wise for ailments to assure—
For coughs and colds we know the worth
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
TKis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Bool.let, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Fame
My Address
tLYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
THE ARMY OF THE REJECTED.
Have you had any SHORT STORIES rejected by Australian editors? Write
to the METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE, LTD., 338 Pitt Street,
Sydney, and you will discover how to join—-
THE ARMY OF THE ACCEPTED.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are vublished in London. Prices outside
the liritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
OWEN WISTER.
WHEN WEST WAS WEST
By OWEN WISTER. 7s. 6d. net.
Spectator : “No one knows better than Mr.
Wister how to keep interest alive, or bow to
introduce incidents at the most telling moment.
His style, too, is clear and smooth-flowing:
and be never leaves us long without the delight
of his quiet and taking humor.”
A NEW NOVELIST.
THROUGH BEDS OF STONE.
A Novel. By M. L. HASKINS.
[Empire Library.
T.P.’s Weekly : "Rarely has the mental de-
velopment of a young girl of thoughtful dis-
position and idealistic tendencies been described
with such charm and patient insight, as in Miss
Haskins’s first novel.”
THE CARAVAN LIBRARY
New Vols. 3s. 6d. net each
RICHARD CARVEL.
By WINSTON CHURCHILL
THE FOREST LOVERS.
By MAURICE HEWLETT
RICHARD YEA-AND-NAY.
By MAURICE HEWLETT
THE CHOIR INVISIBLE.
By JAMES LANE ALLEN
A KENTUCKY CARDINAL AND
AFTERMATH.
By JAMES LANE ALLEN
Illustrated by Hugh Thomson
JOHN INGLESANT.
By J. H. SHORTHOUSE
THE HUMAN CHORD.
By ALGERNON BLACKWOOD
A PRISONER IN FAIRYLAND.
By ALGERNON BLACKWOOD
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to tlie Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading
Morning Daily.
“THE AGE” is a publication that has enjoyed
the confidence of its readers for 74 years, and,
by its honesty of purpose, sane political prin-
ciples and constructive policy of protection,
has won an entry into the homes of over
123,000 subscribers daily.
Become a Subscriber to
“THE AGE.”
You will enjoy the directness of its articles
and news, which day by day covers the broad-
est possible survey of the world’s happenings.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents
and bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post
free within the Commonwealth.
“The Age” for Advertising.
Publishes over 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agencies of the Commonwealth, or
DAVID SYME U CO.
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors;
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X.t>lB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Sees at—
-113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
;; \
WO
) is
'S'OA
n'r
harmful throat tablets.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6 in stamp*
to the Manufacturers, Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
The Australian Fictioneer
[When The Bulletin was arranging the court of
judges for its First Novel Competition, it wanted
one who was artist as well as critic. Mr. U. H.
Souter was at once suggested. He consented to act;
and hereunder he records his. experiences and
reactions.]
Analysing my reading of these manu-
scripts, a most outstanding feature is the
tine sense and appreciation of color and
atmosphere shown by so many of the
writers. When Australians have become a
race with stabilised characteristics, I think
a sense of the beautiful will be strongly in
evidence. It is hardly reasonable to expect
them, before the second or third generation,
to be racially different from their northern
ancestry. Clancy, to whom “the vision
splendid of the sunlit plains” was vouch-
safed, was probably only one remove from
the most distressful' country; but the Celtic
temperament reacts quickly to a new urge,
and quite possibly some grandchild of his
inherited those half-realised visions and
came near to writing a prize story.
Most picturesque and arresting were many
passages in the tales. As for instance:—
Now the decks .lifted and fell as the ship changed
course, and the sailorly swagger of the promenading
passengers became a lubber’s lurch. The wind
whistled through the rigging with a menacing note,
and its bite grew keener. The sea surged overside,
no longer slapping playfully against the bow plates,
but hissing viciously astern in seething eddies....
a grey day and a grey sky, and, seawards, a grey
waste of white-capped waters, with here and there
smudges of grey smoke from the funnels of vessels
hull-down on the horizon.
That is a fine picture of the sea in one of
its grimmer moods. Those of us who have
thrashed our way down the coast in the
teeth of a rising southerly can vouch for
the truth of the description.
Now take this contrast (same writer):—
, : Not a fleck of foam showed on the placid waters;
not a cloud obscured the azure sky. The ship’s
wake, spread like a lacy fan, sparkled astern as if
set with millions of diamonds, and the tin}’ bow-
waves reflected all the colors of the spectrum.
Overhead the tropic sun. like a hall of burnished
gold, poured down a flood of heat, pleasantly lulling
the senses of the passengers lounging under the
awnings, but beating upon the unsheltered decks
like a furnace blast.
But let us get along to modernism.
Neither Ben Hecht, nor Cournos, nor
Dreiser is more direct; the short staccato
sentences, sometimes crudely but purposely
dissonant, sometimes flowing with the fluid-
ity of a lyric, present a rapid succession of
vivid pictures to the receptive reader. One
day this writer will be a best seller:—
Serene, triumphant, the moon cast off the dominion
of the clouds. A twilight sky then, and radiance
etching the fluxing metal of the bay. One world,
moon and stars as roofing, shutting in, denying
space. Ferry boats gliding across the landlocked
water.
On a high hill an electric sign brazenly pro-
claimed “Drink Santo. For Your Health’s Sake.”
On, off, on, off, endlessly. A green bottle tilted,
poured, tilted, poured into a red glass... .ugh 1
Wearily she found herself in one world, roofed
from "space. Her ears attuned to soundlessness
heard the wail of a saxophone borne from a pleasure
boat, heard the licking of the waves round the
pier piles, the soft, plash, plash, plash on the strip
of white-silver sanded beach. Three row-boats, drawn
up on the slips, loomed large. She heard a voice:
“The moon’s gTeat,—ain’t it?”
“Yairs.... But everyone don’t think so! Look
at them scramblin’ off the grass therel” Coarse,
smothered laughter, and the greedy licking of the
sea around the piles....
One world. Electric signs, and ferry boats, and
tiers of twinkling lights which told of houses man
had built because the roof of stars was not enough
to shut immensity from his poor soul. Motor-car
headlights on a winding road. She saw them dis-
appear and reappear. The scrambling couples on
the grass.
A stranger with the gift of observation
and the power of expression would no doubt
be more vividly impressed with the striking
features of our environment, but only one
who felt that these things were part of him-
self could write of them with appreciative
consideration. These following excerpts are
taken almost haphazardly from stories which
did not get into the final selection:—
A flock of sheep came dilatorily along the road,
their feet kicking up the shadowy dust until it
shrouded and hung about them like a morning mist.
The drovers tarried for a genial word, while their
welbtrnined dogs went on, keeping each straying
animal to the track. The pungent smell of cypress
pines was like tonic in the morning air. A red-
capped robin, perky in his pride, stood motionless
against the glacious green; in a fork below the little
brown hen rested lightly on the rim of her nest,
a cup so closely woven that it looked a part of
the rough and mossy bough; the two eggs, jewels
of the feathered world, almost of the greenish-grey
of the pines and spotted with brown and purple-
grey.
In the thin, transparent morning air the range
seemed only a few miles away. Green-grey sunlit
slopes and valleys full of cool, blue shadow. The
plain stretched to their base, where the sprinkling
of trees in the middle distance merged in a level
belt of dense, brown timber, out of which the
mountains rose and lay in modulated mass against
the horizon.
From the ridge the cultivated land lay a varied
patchwork of brown and green. Almost red where
the plough had just left it and vivid emerald
where the wheat was ankle high.
The ringed timber stood like grey ghosts in the
deepening twilight, their skeleton limbs raised high
in grim but silent protest against their destruction.
Moonrise showed like a bush-fire beyond the belt
of scrub. Somewhere a mopoke hooted and an
owl swooped, a swift shadow against the stars.
I congratulate the competitors on the
excellence of their efforts, confident that in
the near future Australian fiction will be
featured in all Empire announcements of
new books.
D. H. SOUTER.
Disillusion
For years I cherished a superstition about
the infallibility of book-reviewers—perhaps
because I had done a good deal of ponti-
ficating in that line myself. Then I had a
novel published in London by John Long,
and saw reviewers in a different light—as a
casual, not to say careless lot (some mis-
spelt my name, some the names of my char-
acters, and some mixed up “John Long”
with “John Lane”): men and women, speak-
ing figuratively, with as many tongues as
were ever heard in Babel.
The diversity of opinion about issues on
which authors and the public look to
reviewers for guidance was astonishing. The
novel dealt with the infatuation of an
elderly Sydney business man for a chorus-
girl. Melbourne Age dismissed this out of
hand: “It is impossible for a man of 50 to
discard his years and his experience of life,
and fall in love like a youth in his twenties.”
On the other hand, London Express thought
his plight so common as to be stereotyped:
“The book might be about any society sSet.
Men like Arbister belong to no time or
place. They are universal.” According to
the Age: “[because of its weak characteri-
sation] the story moves in an atmosphere of
unreality, and therefore has no hold on the
interest of the reader.” But the S. M.
.Herald called the characterisation “excel-
lent”; Melbourne Argus said, “This story
is full of interest, and the character work
is above reproach,” and London Mirror
joined in: “It is a very human tale, in which
the characters really live.” About half the
reviewers objected to the sensationalism of
the ending. Sydney Sun, for example:
“The agony of the last chapter or two is
piled on too heavily.” Most of the other
reviewers approved of the sensationalism:
London Chronicle talked of obtaining “a
real thrill out of that disturbing house-
hold in the city, where the murderer prowls
about.”
Another batch o/ reviewers refused to be-
lieve in the infatuated lover’s wife, the
Age (which, despite these quotations, pro-
vided a generous and kindly criticism, on
the whole) talking of her as “a listless lay
figure,” and identifying in her “a bump of
forgiveness that no wife ever possessed.”
London Spectator put it in another way:
“The reconciliation between Arbister and
his wife is too sentimental to be convinc-
ing.” C. R. Bradish, of Melbourne Herald,
considered the wife a blot on the story;
but Guy Innes, a former editor of the same
paper, thought her the best thing in the
book. To London Daily News the lady
was convincing (“the writer convinces us
of the tragedy of her situation”), but the
Yorkshire Post and a number of other
British provincial papers refused to believe
in her.
Nine reviewers said the book had no
Australian atmosphere whatever, but Bris-
bane Courier said “the novel has a thor-
oughly Australian atmosphere,” and Lon-
don Spectator said “it is a vital and obvi-
ously true picture of social life in a modem
dominion city.” Some papers said the
story was morbid and gloomy; others com-
plained of its cynicism and flippancy. One
English paper said it was without humor;
another (the British-Australasian) that
it was “funny... .provided a collection of
amusing vignettes of Certain Australian
types.” Sydney Labor Daily remarked of
one of the characters: “She was murdered
by a man who appears to have been jeal-
ous,” when I had labored for pages to de-
monstrate that his trouble was sadism!
After a study of about three dozen cri-
tiques, long and short, British and Austra-
lian, I have come to the conclusion (I)
that the average reviewer does not know
a great deal about life (the forgiving wife,
whom so many found incredible, was drawn
from an existing woman, and her type, as
every man of the world knows, is fairly
common); and (2) that reviewers, as a class,
apply very few fixed rules to their job.
The reviewer is never consciously unfair,
and he nearly always tries hard to be kind
where a book shows any signs of sincerity;
but, because of the idiosyncrasies men-
tioned above, he hardly ever succeeds in
being helpful. As a rule, he is like the
picture-buyer who mentions that he “is no
judge, but knows what he likes.” He
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in advertising” is your surest protection.
Anthony Horderns'
offer outstanding values in
FURNITURE
“Ideal” Lowboy
£l4-0-0
G 1128 G The “Ideal” Lowboy,
48in. wide, 59in. high, and 25in.
deep, adjustable bevelled mirror on
back of door, sliding trays and
shelves. Oak or Lamayo < j
Maple. Each .. . . dL ITT
mmm
! S
:
d
“The Dunedin.”
G 1135 G—-The “Dunedin” Bedroom Suite, in Oak, comprising 5 ft. Wardrobe,
two-thirds hanging space with hat shelf. One-third boot receptacles, sliding
trays and short hanging compartment. Pull-length bevelled edged Mirror,
inlaid panels in outer doors with carved moulding surrounds. 3ft. 6in. Dressing
Table with three roomy drawers and full width bevelled mirror.
20-inch Bedside Cupboard. Price, complete
£25/10;
Carriage Not Paid on
Furniture. Please add
packing charges when
ordering.
ďf
df
d
■
wBBBBm
“The Maryland.”
G 1126 G—The “Maryland” Bedroom Suite Wardrobe, sft., two-thirds hanging
and one-third trays and shelves; Toilet 1 able, 3ft. 6in.; Cupboard, 23 inc es. e
designed, beautifully finished. An example of the fine quality that is available at low
prices. In Oak £47/10/- In Maple £49/10/-
G 1127 G The “Bathurst”
Combination Wardrobe, 4 ft.
wide, 6ft. 3in. high, 20in.
deep; bevelled mirrors, 18 x
14 and 44 x 14. Made in
well seasoned Lamayo Maple
Oak.
Ir
o r
Each
£14)10/-
USE OUR “D.P.S.”
(“Deposit-Purchase System’’) and
benefit by our Famous Low Prices.
Simply leave a small deposit on the
goods you require. Pay the balance
in instalments to suit yourself. You
pay only the cash price. This
unique system will enable you to
secure your Furniture —in fact, any
of your requirements—at Cash
Prices.
Phone M 2401 any hour
o° o
(Day and Night)
and leave your order
or make any enquiries
—just as * the thought
occurs to you. This
unique service is for
your use! Trunk Calls
between 7 p.m. and 8
a.m. are at Half Rates.
Prompt service and
satisfaction is assured.
1928 Mail-Order
(General) Catalogue
Is now ready, posted free on request. Con-
tains 140 pages of Hardware, Furniture,
and Agricultural Needs.
Spring and Summer
Fashion Catalogue,
Showing the newest and most authentic
styles. Contains 68 pages, including 8
pages in color. Posted free on request.
Anthony Horderns
Telephone 1V12401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Posta/ Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


Sr
'll!!
V
i 2 S
m
*
1Z
L
SNs
I
H
I
»
1‘ ' 1
Strength - Beauty
if
5*
"1
an
'A <£
Obedience
yHE New Studebaker Director
Royal Sedan is an eager-to-go
thoroughbred. Beneath its striking
beauty are traditional Studebaker
strength, stamina and dependability
—famous in Studebaker products
for 76 years.
During official tests a fully equipped
sedan powered by this same Direc-
tor engine raced 5000 miles in 4751
consecutive minutes.
Proof of Studebaker’ s engineering
genius is that the chassis of this new
Director Royal Sedan needs greas-
ing, and engine lubricant needs
changing only once every 2500
miles—and you may drive this king
of cars 40 miles an hour the day you
buy it —6s miles an hour, later!
The Director Royal Sedan, like
every other model in the Studebaker
line, is the world s champion of its
price class, yet despite its brilliant
powers of performance it is smooth
and easy to control, instantly
responsive, obedient to your slightest
wish. A new thin-grip steering
wheel doubles your ability to handle
the car, while perfected four-wheel
brakes and the full-vision body com-
plete your safety.
Erskine Models from . . £315 to £448
Director Models from . . £4lB to £568
Commander Models from £528 to £628
President Models from . . £698 to £B6O
AH new models equipped with shock absorbers, bumper bars, and four-wheel brakes*
PRICES F.O.R, SYDNEY,
Australian and New Zealand Distributors;
NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Studebafer Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET (just behind the Museum), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.,
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important tOWM,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide,
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams, Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch,
ďf
The Director
Royal Sedan
£568
WMB94
Stiidebaker is the first car to hold every Australian and American speed and
endurance record for both closed and open cars, regardless oj power or price.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
(IN CO-OPERATION WITH WAGONS-LITS. CO.)
d
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON-.
Government Life BuiWir
(Next G.P.0.).
seems to me to have only the slenderest
qualifications, in perhaps nine cases out of
ten, to teach writers their business or
readers what to buy, in the sense in which
that prince of reviewers, Arnold Bennett,
performs such functions.
JOHN DALLEY.
Patriotism by the Pint
Perhaps in some future time a poet will hit
upon something as magnificently dignified
about the love of Australia as were Cow-
per’s lines about his love of England:—
England, with all thy faults, I love thee still,
My country! And while yet a nook is left
Where English ways and customs can be found
Shall be constrained to love thee!
Putting even into comparison Rupert
Brooke's declaration about the spot that is for
ever England, Cowper’s remains the noblest
expression of the patriotic sentiment. In
Australia the more expert verse-writers
appear to dodge the task of writing national
songs, which are so apt to fall into sludge
or blatancy; yet that does not mean that
there is any absence of effort to*write the
Great Australian Hymn. Five or six a week
is the average of the directly “patriotic”
verses that arrive in The Bulletin letter
bag. The task the seasoned poet avoids is
the first aspiration of the beginner, who,
with a swell of national feeling in his heart,
no idea of how to express it in his head, and
an inkpot before him, fails to realise that
he is making an Aunt Sally of a noble
sentiment.
It is dismal to reflect that in the probable
150 patriotic poems which have landed in this
office this year the perfervid bards, in at
least 100 cases, have tried to rhyme their
country with “failure,” usually with some
such remark as that Australyure never
known the thing it rhymes with. The “inter
alia,” which the more ingenious use, is, of
course, scarcely a more correct rhyme.
The paper’s old friend “Patroclus” still
holds the record for patriotic effusions and
the “failure” rhyme, which he varied by men-
tioning “the kangaroo and emu, the national
regalia.” Urged to try “dahlia” as an alter-
native, he vaiorously flung it into 24 assaults
upon The Bulletin's outer defences—l
tallied them. And then it struck him for
a time that a comparison with Italia would
be effective. A great patriot was Pat, but
not a blind one; his verses repeatedly
showed an appreciation of the fact that
....“the wowsers, and shrieking kinds of
women, who want to wear the trousers” are
drawbacks even to the Greatest Country
on Earth.
There will always be a kindly memory of
Pat, who at least never urged us to “Arise!”
or “Awake!” And that is the usual fault
of the patriotic versifier.
All round, Australia presents a hard nut.
for the poets to crack. Outside its own
name, the flower they mostly regard as its
national emblem is a tough rhyming pro-
position. A ringing refrain presented by one
bard ran:—
Come, come, now, fill another bottle!
Australia! Land of golden wattle!
He made an alternative rhyme in a subse-
quent verse with “Once again we’ll wet our
throttle.” But it doesn’t sound nice to
fling bottles about in patriotic poetry —it
seems too local to Surry Hills; and there
are objections to “throttle,” too. “Mottle,”
“Aristotle,” “cottle” (the author had a foot-
note explaining that, this, used for “cattle,”
was poetic license), “go t’ ’ell” (short for
“go to Hell”) have been exploited, but they
are hard to fit.
“Land of Golden Fleece” has fallen into
disfavor but still occurs, and one versifier
got over all difficulties by describing the
country of his adoration as the land “where
the Parramatta flows”; in a covering letter
he suggests that “Brisbane River,” “Yarra
River” or “Torrens River” might be sub-
stituted in other States. But what were we
to do about the Swan?
One man sat down with a jumble of
patriotic tags that have appealed to him;
and this was the result:—
Australia ’tis of thee
That I am fondly dreaming.
Thou needest no bulwarks o’er the sea,
And the Southern Cross is gleaming.
To ourselves we must be true,
And white shall be our hue ;
And I fondly drop a tear
Because thou art so dear—
Hurray for the Red, White and Blue!
But that is only a sample of the enthu-
siasm which every exploit like that of
Hinkler or Kingsford Smith stimulates.
Hinkler, according to one bard, “rode high
above the earth and gave Australia birth,”
while another put it that he “refused to
make a failure to the credit of Australia.”
As for Kingsford Smith, he
Australia’s flexless flag unfurled,
The Wattle, too, he shook,
Before the Eyes of all the World
And made it notice took.
Australia may have to wait for the bard
that will put her into great song; the
patriotic stimulus, however, is bubbling like
yeast.
THE VERSE TASTER.
The Beginning of Things
Grafton Elliot Smith, M.A., Litt D., D.Sc.,
Professor of Anatomy in the University of
London, born 57 years ago in the N. S.
Wales town from which he has his first
name, is finding time in a packed life to
edit in England a series of intensely in-
triguing little books, issued by Gerald
Howe, Ltd., and bearing the general title
The Beginning oj Things. The first half-
dozen are on the stalls, selling at 3s. 6d.
each. That they are scientific in nature
and are based upon the most careful ie-
search need not frighten the abhorxers o.
the drv-as-dust. They are written expressly
for people with no previous knowledge of
the subjects, are mostly in a lively nariatrve
vein, so simple that any normal 12-year-old
child could read them with ease. At the
same time they are so erudite, on the whole,
that even fairly advanced students m
general origins might read them with profit,
as they no doubt would with pleasure. It
is rather a pity that such a useful series
carries no index, but then there are only
about 90 small pages in each book less
than an hour’s easy reading.
Though it begins the series, Elliot
Smith’s own contribution, In the Begin-
ning, has only just come to hand. And
a fascinating example of multuni in parvo
writing it is. The Professor belongs to the
large and growing school which believes
civilisation had its beginnings in Egypt and
diffused gradually over most of the earth,
including America, via Behring Straits. This
latter inclusion is hotly, if not ferociously,
contested by the only other school of any
importance, which believes civilisation has
no single point of origin, but has naturally
developed at sundry different and unassoci-
ated points. The battle still wages merrily,
and actually this series of books is a state-
ment of the case for the Elliot Smith school.
The argument, however, is left for the
reader to infer for himself or disregard.
It is preaching, but it is upside-down preach-
ing; the reader draws his own inferences
from the statement of exciting facts. If
he has merely that interest in the remote
origins of customs and beliefs which pre-
vails in almost everyone whose intelligence
is not stagnant, it may strike him as fan-
tastic that “there seems to be little doubt
that the presence of an abundant crop of
barley on the banks of the Nile in Upper
Egypt was the predisposing factor in creat-
ing the vast revolution in the affairs of
mankind which prepared the way for the
creation of civilisation.”
Professor Smith has reserved to himself
the task of substantiating that assertion, of
tracing out the development and expan-
sion of civilisation from that crop of barley,
through the beginnings of religious beliefs,
the use of metals and the other important
motions of that steady groping forward in
which even the man who pushes a barrow
may believe he is largely helping, and in
which actually the Edisons and Marconis
are but the merest specks. On the way he
raises interesting and provocative questions.
Do we eat bacon because Cheops was pickled
in brine, or was the erection of the Great
Pyramid one of the incidental results of a
partiality for corned beef? Do we powder
the surface of our pickled hams with spices
because Rameses the Great was so treated?
It is much in this spirit that the editor
and other contributors of this series tackle
their fascinating task. In “Corn from
Egypt,” M. Gompertz deals with the be-
ginning of agriculture; in “Ancient Mar-
iners,” C. Daryll Forde tells the story of
the origins of ships and sea routes; in
“First Player,” Ivor Brown goes into the
origin of drama, and there is a list of the
various others in each book. All of these
little volumes that we have seen so far are
interesting, and certainly they are compre-
hensive; they even deal with the origin of
beer, which, it is interesting to note, was
regarded in ancient Egypt as a divine
essence. So even for the origin of good
criticism we can leap back 60 centuries.
A Satchel of Books
The Barque, by Mrs. P. R. Meggy
(Epworth Press, Sydney). A 16-page pamph-
let of verse which is being sold in aid of
that admirable cause, the T.B. Soldiers’
Relief Fund.
Blue Magic, by Marna Service (Whitcombe
and Tombs). The writer has her inspiration
from conventional magic, and her verses are
bright with fairies, elves and the rest of the
brethren. It is all very fragile, but there is
evidence of delicate poetic feeling.
The Oxford Dictionary , by Stanley Bald-
win (Humphrey Milford). An address de-
livered by the British Prime Minister com-
memorating the completion of the great dic-
tionary, one editor of which, Sir George
Grierson, is familiar with 179 Indian lan-
guages and 554 dialects!
Shipwreck in Europe, by Josef Bard
(Harpers). A futurist nude and the cap-
tion, “A Freudian Adventure,” on the jacket
somewhat indicate the contents. The story
concerns a wealthy young American who
takes his mediocrity and money to Europe
and tries to seek relief from himself among
women and in a course of psycho-analytic
treatment. A blatant and dull “purpose”
novel.
The Dions Son, by Major Grant Bruce
(Cornstalk). Something of the place his
wife, Mary Grant Bruce, holds in the hearts
of girls who have not yet developed the lush
tastes of flapperhood Major Bruce attempts
to reach in the hearts of boys. Healthy,
wholesome, outdoor stuff, with the “I’ll make
good” theme that appeals to every genuine
youngster, and with enough shooting and
excitement around North India and Afghani-
stan to satisfy even a boy.
Chivalry, by James Branch Cabell (Bodley
Head). Set in the England and France of
the Age of Chivalry, this collection of
stories represents some of Cabell’s earlier
work. It is Kipling’s “Rewards and Fairies”
in something near the best Cabell manner,
polished, rich and full of sly laughter (after
Heleigh had sung a fine, chivalrous song
to them “the soldiery judged, and with
cordial frankness stated, that the difficulty
of his rhyming scheme did not atone for his
lack of indecency”). Cabell laughs in his
whimsical way at the code, but he laughs in
the dress clothes of fine and sometime®
glorious English.
Answers to Correspondents.
.Vo notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear m the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.J.G.: Sorry; can't see our way to run
two such competitions simultaneously. The worn
of judging is too heavy... .E.M.C.: “Hal” hobbles
back... .A.P.C.: The reactions are interesting, but
they don’t make a story... -R.L.W.: A dull trio. .. .
R.J.R.: Artificial 0. McL.: Its aged wisdom
makes us think you very young. .. .Nana: “Outcast’
is—so are the others.... L.W.: They were a queer
brand of socialists.... A.C.R.: What was the prison,
anyway ?... .P.E.S.: It went near... .T.N.T.: Not
handled well H.R.M.: The brigands might
have surprised Casey, but we were prepared
tor them much too early... .Enid M. L.:
The desert story is a wilderness of words.
Rosalind: The farm is in need of culti-
vation. .. .R.S.T.: Jimmy’s troubles are not of suf-
ficient importance for print.... Pat B.: Sticky sen-
timentalising over dead loves... .J.W.: That spare
line waggling in the middle of the stanza spoils it.
L.N.D. : Almost; it might be made a good
story... .H.G.L.: Liked your dog-fight a little....
P.E.L.: “You may think it rather a grim joke.”
It was grim, certainly... .J.M.A.: Can’t see your
“Clean Pair of Heels” for verbal dust... .C.L.T.:
“Dexterous seas crash on the roaring main” is a
mighty line... .8.1. M.: Decline your request to
“Share your tears with mine.” We don’t keep any tears
to share L.0.T.: “These facts pierce the soul.”
They succeeded in boring us... .M.M.G.: Where did
you get the idea that “In September’s short’ning days
the autumn shadows fa 11”?... .P.R.P.: “Man was
born to give us trouble as the sparks fly upward....
A.S.C.: Say it in English Robt. I.: What you get
from this office is spelt c-h-e-c-1c... .H.H.0.: “The
Ship” sails home Anchor R.: The steeplechase
yarn fell at the first jump N.A.G.: Twaddle
Con. G.: Your “Mind”’s a blank....Pa: No man’s
sincere religion deserves a brick; heave what you
like at insincerity.... Dogs: “There was a deafen-
ing crash.” It was your story falling downstairs....
X. E. Ter: It had quality enough to stand a chance
if it had been about a river in Australia or Maori-
land. No need to include small British rills in our
imports... .N.T.8.: You’ve crowded it all in:—
Outcast, no money, wife and child,
’Twas worry prompted him to do it.
In depressed moment, despair, wild,
He brained his missus with the cruet.
... .Horace S.: How could you, Horatio?... .R.M.N.:
Spare our blushes... .Cory Fay: “Invalid’ dropped
dead on the mat W.W.S.: No asylum here for
“The Orphan”.... Dan M.: Good idea—it hurt us
to return it. But you can’t do things like “trait-
fate,” “feeble-pebble” N.0.G.: Full of sordid
ideas Lily F.: Nine sets of verses, and a corpse
in each! Don’t send us any more of the cemetery.
Spad; Sob-story J.V,: It’s an old tale; you
give it no new humor J.D.P.: Doesn’t grip
J.McT.: Not enough in the yarn about the ripe
shark. . . .L.R.: “The Eye” failed to catch ours
C.C.: There’s too much of it... .W.R.C.: Almost. ...
Sam C.: It clashed P.J.1.: Person and pome are
both rough diamonds. .. .Kenn: Par. value in it only.
G.B.C.: The story of the diddling of dad doesn’t
quite get there.... Helen E. W.: The green door you
versified nearly discovered an opening Geo. R.:
Hope you’ll act better than you write. .. .Jimmy
Dux: Nothing in it... .F.H.W.: Only one lush line
struck us Matt. K.: Its single virtue is brevity—
and there’s not enough of that... .H.E.H.: The last
verse deserved better companions. ... A. E.W.: No-
thing new in it, save your invention of “mixie” to
rhyme with “Trixie” Brian J.: Review encountered
too great a crowd. Verses inferior.. . .T.A.C.: Takes too
long to get there... .8.L.5.: “Sheep” as dead as
mutton P.T.H.: Feeble in construction. Any-
way, Sheldon deserved what he g0t....P.A.: That
subject’s dead L.E.: Doesn’t inspire much in-
terest. .. .J.S.L.: Something more might be made
of the lubra... .L.E.D.: Don was a dashed young
fool, anyway H.J.J. (Caulfield): No throne here
for your king.... John McK.: Thanks for the 112
lines about your adventures, but 110 would have
been sufficient W.H.R.: Beaten by a short head.
P.E.S.: A long way after Edgar Allan P0e....
W.E.G.: You do prolong the agony. .. .Ursula C.:
What has the cutting to do with the earthquaky
verse?... .Lance G.: Not good enough... .G.D.S.:
Both poor T.T.R.: “The wattle’s golden gloom”
another crime committed for the sake of rhyme....
Betty B.: “Flotsam” floated out on the tide....
Frank R.: Your ploughman brought furrows to our
brow E.M.S.: The soul of the butterfly is the
sort of thing the music-hall baritone sings about—
the one who follows Stiffy and M 0.... James M.:
Inclined to agree that it was “written in a weak
moment”.... Eileen C. G.: Crushed out on a second
reading. .. .M.0’8.: “Down on the Farm” is about
as lively as the mortgage... .Victor K.: Crude ore.
.... Maisie B.: Sob-stuff about rosebuds doesn’t
appeal R.A.D.: Dull I.C.C. (Perth): Try it
again; the first two stanzas are rather attractive... .
Liss: You’ve missed the point. The complaint is
that they have to wait for their return too long after
they’ve spent their money on shearing. In other
words, they pay interest which they can’t recover.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
tt.S.: Might do as a suggestion. . . .N.E.S.: Thrown
off the premises C.0.R.: Scot pursued by Jewish
creditor is too familiar a theme; a couple are
chased into this office every week or 50....M.F.:
Faded in the pitiless light of criticism... .F.A. :
Send no more of your brunettes and blondes until
you draw ’em prettier. .. .D.D.T.: Claude Duval’s
neddy is galloping home. . . .N.P.: Old Bill consigned
to a better ’01e... .L.R.T.: Small child’s concern for
the man in the moon moved us n0t.... L.R.: As
wallpaper it would keep even bailiffs away....
L.S.: Lady with gumboil mercifully suppressed.


9
.-. • , Sag*- - %■ - ....-i
*mmWmSKm
/ <■? '*
:
■w
m
ill
mm inK ■ him
■I
WmM&S . WMiMm
£V |
IP
i
Mte
jjjr-ITfi! P
91
r>
V*
i
«I
gm&wm,
*
v
m
r a/#
; 'IS ■ * ;> ' ‘
'• J
v• H A
d BP
mpp^
:'■ ■ ■
m
; :
I ■
7
11 IS
*#-* ■ ~
■
1
ill
'
’
mmm 1 188
il
7
,js|f fll H I
mSpr
r r ' .
■:
mm
—mm
8 118
wmlm
■:
;.:.77
' :
HI
wm
n
■
9jgmg|
*
m
d
yam*
SHU I mm
.
OS
iil
Up, M f
r •• *•"*' ■* 1
% w
* *
-1 Ip! §|§§gi|
iv <( ? rfa/ ty/iaif.i


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2535,
September 12,1028.
AND LITTLE FLEAS HAVE LESSER FLEAS.
“Although 344 race meetings are already authorised in Vic. for next year, the Hogan Government contemplates adding a few more. The reason given is
that some of the gate money will go to charitable institutions.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
SU George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westualia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: S 6 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.;
6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: J t oz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: Jioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWER'S TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
EDITORIAL 8, 9
“POPULAR EDUCATION” (A cartoon by Percival) 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . . . .. lu
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL PARS (illustrated) 14
PAGE DRAWINGS, by Leason and Scorfield 7, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
SMOKE-OH .32
POVERTY POINT . 34
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc. :. ... ..37
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . 39, 41, 42
POT AND PALETTE 42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
SHORT STORIES—
“COONARDOO” 51, 53, 55
SHORT STORIES—
“VESTED INTERESTS,” by Randolph Bed-
ford .. .. .. ■ • - • .. 57
“THE QUEST OF THE GOLDEN WOBBLE-
GONG,” by Gilbert Mant .. .. 58
VERSE—
“UPON THIS DAY.” by Roderic Quinn .. 58
“THE CATTLE CAMPS,” by E. S. Sorenson 23
“OVER THE ODDS,” by “Iford” .. ..34
jTuTfy-ulleiz/ri
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1928.
SHAM LAND SETTLEMENT.
Richard Ball, N.S.W. Minister for Lands,
has made a startling discovery. He has
dropped on the idea of borrowing big
sums with which to resume land for
closer settlement, and some of the newspapers
have hailed the idea as an inspiration. Any-
thing with borrowing in it is liable to be
hailed as an inspiration. The Bawl pro*
jeet, which mentions five or ten millions to
begin with and the boundless indefinite
later on, is described as something which
“land-hungry men will welcome as the only
practical way of dealing with the settle*
ment problem.” It is also to give new life
to the “landlocked towns” which are
“hemmed in by big estates,” and start them
on a career of prosperity, and that sort of
thing. It is all so bright and fresh that it
sounds as if the Minister had just heard
of the Crusades, and had hastened, in a
liberal spirit, to share his information.
* * * *
The Ma State has been definitely in
the resumption-of-land-for-closer-settlement
business since 1910. During the years from
1910 to 1926 a great deal was done, even
if it didn’t all stay done, and one result or
accompaniment has been that during the last
12 years the number of persons employed
in agriculture has steadily and largely dim-
inished. Employment in the cow industry,
extensively run by ill-paid or unpaid woman
and child labor, has increased, but that isn’t
wholly desirable; and when agricultural and
cow industries are added together, the net
result for at least 10 years has been fewer
workers on the land. Machinery may have
grown more numerous, but that isn’t settling
the people nor is it feeding the much-
advertised “land-hungry.”
* * ' * *
A popular illusion, as deeply rooted as
that Captain Cook was the original finder
of Australia, receives a serious blow in these
employment figures. In 1916 N. S. Wales
had 67,999 persons (59,256 being males)
employed in agriculture, and 38,042 in the
pastoral business, being a majority of 29,957
in favor of agriculture. In 1926 there were
45,832 in agricultural toil (44,991 being
males), and 46,072 in the pastoral line, being
a majority of 240 in favor of the pastoral
trade. In other words, agricultural settle-
ment, the stock-in-trade of every loanmon-
gering political hack, shows signs of having
made a failure as a provider of work for
the multitude, while pastoral enterprise, left
to itself, has done remarkably well. It has
done better than any other line of occupa-
tion save manufacturing. The six States
have spent over £80,000,000 of expensive
loan money in “land purchased for settle-
ment and advances to settlers,” of the
agricultural sort. The official figures for
the six States imply that they have lost the
settlers (the working settlers, anyhow) as
well as much of the money. Possibly the
politicians’ methods were too clumsy and
costly. Furthermore, the N. S. Wales figures
for 1926 allege that the 46,072 pastoral
workers produced wealth amounting to
£42,369,000, and the 45,832 agricultural
workers produced £20,741,000, or less than
half. It is bad policy to start a crusade
against the sheep industry, at which Aus-
tralia is a real success, which employs more
people than wheat and pays much more
per employee, even if the sheepist is
described in a fine frenzy as a “monopolist”
who keeps towns “land-locked.” Certainly
it shouldn’t be done until there is better
luck in finding settlers who will settle.
* * * *
The story of the land-hungry multitude
has been told many times, and there cer-
tainly isn’t very much for a young man to
do in a N. S. Wales country district except
to go land-hungering—unless he leaves for
the city. In some countries he might get
a few looms together in humble premises,
and start cloth-making for the local market,
in the hope of growing to be another Vicars.
Or he might begin blacksmithing and imple-
ment making, and be a Sunshine Harvester
show in the procession of years. But manu-
facturers don’t start promiscuously in Aus-
tralian country towns. Railway and harbor
policies are loaded against them; and par-
ticularly so in the two most populous States.
STATE PROHIBITION POLLS.
The contending battle-cries of the Drys and
the Wets in N. S. Wales had hardly died
down when the Drys were heard demand-
ing “another poll in two years’ time, with-
out the handicap of compensation,” or at
least that “the people should be given the
opportunity to vote hotel bars out of exist-
ence.” Considering that the referendum
cost £50,000, which the State could not
afford to throw away, and that the major-
ity against compulsory drouth was 530,000
the leaders of the routed army must take
the Bavinshaw Government to be as weak
and foolish as they are impertinent. If
the Government submitted either proposal
to the electors, and if the thing were car-
ried and duly passed into law, that is not
to say it would ever come into force. It
is time the States realised the impotent
position which they occupy under our
Federal system.
* ' * * *
In the last few years various State
administrations have engineered costly
fiascos which no doubt looked every
bit as feasible to those who con-
ceived them as prohibition, with or
without compensation, does to the
captains of teetotalism. Queensland’s
Ryan Government gratified its anti-
capitalist supporters by passing a Profiteer-
ing Prevention Act, its legal authority
having presumably advised that the State
had. the necessary powers. In a similar
spirit the Lang Government of N. S.
Wales set out, amid Labor cheers, to levy
a special tax on newspapers. In both cases
the High Court ruled that the States had
exceeded their powers. McArthur’s case
decided the fate of the Profiteering Pre-
vention Act. Higgins, J., made some
observations here which strongly imply that
the money spent by N. S. Wales on the
prohibition campaign was as good as tipped
into the sea, and that any money spent
on future campaigns of the sort will also
be wasted.
* * * *
Justice Higgins contrasted the powers of
the States when they possessed the sub-
stance of sovereignty with the shadow of
power that was left them after Federation.
Before Federation, he pointed out, S. Aus-
tralia was able to prohibit the introduction
of grapes from Victoria, and Tasmania and
Queensland could prohibit the importation
of fruit and plants packed in certain ways
from any other States. Section 92 of the
Federal Constitution was inserted to pre-
vent such discrimination. It made trade,
commerce and intercourse between the
States “absolutely free” —and, incidentally,
turned Ryan’s Act into waste paper.
Whereas McArthur’s case decided that a
State could not prohibit the importation
of goods, it was laid down in the Foggitt
Jones case that their export could not be
prohibited. An effective prohibition mea-
sure which refrains from forbidding the
importation or exportation of goods be-
tween the other States may be devisable,
but to the normal mind it appears a per-
fect example of a contradiction in terms.
What seems certain is that, if this miracle
of draughtsmanship is not accomplished,
almost any variety of State prohibition
enactment will be invalidated as soon as it
is tested.
H* -l' $
The High Court has said over and over
again, in so many words, that, the States
no longer bear any resemblance to sov-
ereign States. They have extremely limited
powers, and it is a waste of the public’s time
and funds for them to proceed as if things
were otherwise. It is also injurious to
their own dignity and prestige. Before any
more prohibition polls are decided upon—
and N. S. Wales obviously does not want
any more this side of 1938—the Govern-
ment contemplating the folly should
employ the highest constitutional authori-
ties available to go into the matter ex-
haustively and advise whether the pro-
posal is likely to be validated by the High
Court in the event of its success at the
polls. This course should certainly be
adopted in Victoria, where an expensive and
useless referendum—useless because the
Drys have no earthly chance of securing
the three-fifths majority required—is due
in 1930.
THE BLOTTED PAGE AT CANBERRA.
The Federal balance-sheet showed a de-
ficit of £2,630,237 for 1927-28, mainly be-
cause tariff revenue was £2,105,748 less than
in the previous year, and much below san-
guine anticipations. This was to be ex-
pected, because imports couldn’t keep up to
the old figure from want of the money
(including loan money) to pay for them,
and through the necessity to find more
employment for our own people. And it is
very necessary that there should be a
further reduction of imports and conse-
quently of customs revenue. Consider-
ing that imports of merchandise in
1926-27 were valued at £164,127,759,
a figure never reached before, and
£30,000,000 more than the exports of our
own produce would pay for, it was a pretty
wild Treasurer who based his calculations on
that boom continuing, and save for big loans
he would have been out more millions than
he was. Now a pretty wild Treasurer
apparently bases his calculations on the
1926-27 importing boom coming back. It
will be a national calamity if there isn’t
another big reduction, and a worse national
calamity if the movement is the other way.
* * # *
There will be more interest to pay during
the 1928-29 financial year as a matter of
course. Some commendable war-pension in-
creases are mooted, while old-age and
invalid pensions are expected to grow auto-
matically. It is proposed to start Federal
contributions to a national insurance
scheme, employees and employers also to
contribute, with what effect on the latter
will appear in time. On the other side of
the accounts it is proposed, as the only
device which is big enough to count, “that
life-assurance companies, instead of as at
present completely escaping Commonwealth
income-tax, shall be taxed on the income
derived from investments at the present rate
of tax applicable to companies.” It looks
a stupid and heartless inroad on the savings
of the middle class, and Parliament should
tell the Blank or Blotted Page to invent
something better. A few minor financial
fish are to be sought for in troubled waters.
By these methods, and by taking a suspici-
ously low view of aggregate expenditure
and a very suspiciously high one of aggre-
gate income, especially in the tariff direction,
and by borrowing about nine millions on
Commonwealth account alone, which is
£1,244,218 more than last year’s figure, it
is hoped to end June, 1929, with a surplus
of £12,966.
*
The clouds, according to the Treasurer,
are passing by, and he anticipates “a con-
tinuance of that prosperity which, in recent
years, has characterised Australia.” He
points with pride to the reduction of the
war debt. A trifle has certainly been paid
off in London by means of borrowed gold,
though the total owing overseas is still
more than it was in 1920. A much larger
sum has been paid off in Australia, where
paper money is good. But while Australia’s
aggregate debt due in gold abroad grows
about 20 times as fast as the foreign war
debt diminishes the satisfaction is nil. The
point remains that this Commonwealth, in
1926-27, needed to export about £60,000.000-
worth more of its own produce (goods or
gold), or to import about that much less
of other people’s goods, to avoid adding to
its overseas debt. But the Treasurer
doesn’t even mention that this problem
exists.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Unregretted Absentee.
A feature of the Eucharistic Congress in
Sydney was the absence of N. S. Wales’s
disrespected old familiar the sectarian
spirit. There was no sign of it in press,
pulpit or private life; on the contrary, there
was much to encourage the belief that
what was once a recognised stand-by of
fifth-rate politicians on both sides has re-
tired definitely from public activity. It
suggests what many have long sus-
pected—that this relic of barbarism, like
anti-Semitism, which is also in a bad way
in every civilised State, was always less
than one part religious and more than
three parts racial.
When the south of Ireland was battling
for self-government, it was about the most
conspicuous part of the British Empire.
It figured constantly in the cables, and it
was feared by one section as much as it
was revered by the other. These conflict-
ing loyalties poisoned social life through-
out the English-speaking world, and they
did much to poison religious life. The
South is now the Free State. It has no
legitimate grievance against the former
oppressor, now its best customer; and its
inhabitants are no more feared by Downing-
street than those of one of the States of
the Commonwealth. The Irish in Ireland,
though out of the limelight for the first
time in centuries, are happier than when
their virtues and failings were always in
the news.
The case of the Free State is an example
of the diverse problems that can be solved
by a single act of justice. Because it is
autonomous, religious as well as political
rancors are dying as far from Donnybrook
as Sydney is.
Putting the Can in Canberra.
There was a twofold significance in the re-
action of the Federal Capital. Territory to
the prohibition campaign. N. S. Wales was
exploring the unknown. It had read plenty
of drink-abolition literature, but had had no
personal experience in the matter. Can-
berra was an expert witness. It knew —
being the dog on which the medicine had
been tried.
If any large number of the inhabitants
of the Territory were undesirables, the pro-
hibitionists might have pointed to the crush-
ing vote against aridity—4 to 1 against the
closing of bars and 19 to 1 against “pro-
hibition of possession”—as a natural mani-
festation of unrighteousness. The fact is,
most of them are picked citizens: pastor-
alists, farmers and dwellers in townships
which have no congested areas; civil ser-
vants, soldiers and sailors, with a sprink-
ling of politicians. It can be taken ior
granted that if men and women of this
type had come to the conclusion that pro-
hibition was a boon, many of them would
have supported it without regard to their
own selfish interests. They found it any-
thing but a boon. It was a point of honor
with many of the public servants to remain
dry, but, outside the little centre where
every citizen’s life is an open book, the
consumption of liquor was as common as
in other prohibition areas. Bottle-gathering
became a lucrative pursuit.
The other feature of the polling was the
endorsement it gave to the publican.
The Territory was required to state its
views on what has been described as the
Commonwealth’s equivalent, of the U.S.A.
saloon, and the votes for License exceeded
the votes for the other three alternatives
put together.
A Savings Bank’s Achievement.
Perhaps because it has learned something
from the ill-starred experiments of the War
Service Homes Commission and the N.S.W.
Housing Board, the Vic. State Savings Bank
can point to some very creditable perform-
ances in the house-building line. Its scheme
is free from political interference, and that
helps. Prices are cut so fine that contrac-
tors complain that little or nothing can be
made out of the jobs, and some are obliged
to work beside the men to get bare wages.
Designs of houses are standardised.
Ordering one is like ordering a pound of
butter. Examples are scattered all over the
suburbs, and though their uniformity de-
presses while they are new, the inveterate
garden-making habits of their worker-
owners soon transform them.
At Fisherman’s Bend, a one-time sandy
waste, over against Williamstown, a garden
suburb has been aimed at. Up to date 72
houses have been built and taken up like
hot cakes, and 298 more are projected, all
of which have been applied for. Fisher-
man’s Bend has concrete paths and roads,
palm plantations and children’s play-
grounds, and the diversity of its architecture
is in sharp contrast to the grey frightfulness
of Port Melbourne proper.
The example is such a good one that it
has driven speculative sub-dividers to aim
at a higher standard. Few sub-divisions
nowadays are done on the old gridiron
pattern, with a complete absence of breath-
ing spaces.
The Crumbling Land Defences.
The 1927-28 report of the Inspector-
General of the Australian Military Forces
repeats the story of inadequate personnel
and equipment, with its corollary of ineffi-
ciency, related with saddening detail in
previous reports. Because of the shame-
less parsimony of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment scores of thousands of youths are
exempt from military training, and other
thousands evade it; and these evasions
cannot be checked and sheeted home, since
there is not cash enough to pay the staff
required for the purpose.
Munitions, supply and transport are
lamentably insufficient for even the present
comparatively trifling requirements They
all cost money, and when Canberra,
Federal-aid roads and royal commis-
sions have been supplied, there is no-
thing to spare for the army. In 1913,
when the national defence scheme was in
proper working order, the army appropria-
tion was £2,227,000. Last year, when the
population had increased from 4,940,000 in
1913 to 6,200,000, the amount voted
was £1,500,000 —the equivalent of about
£1,000,000 15 years ago. The great body
of electors seem utterly indifferent, and
their elected representatives naturally pre-
sume on this attitude.
The truth is that war has never beer,
brought home to the stay-at-home Aus-
tralian in all its stark verity. The nation
went through its hell overseas largely by
proxy, and the ghastly wages of unpre-
paredness were never received here at first
hand. Though many fine fellows sleep in
Gallipoli and Flanders because they had not
received proper training, circumstances pre-
venting it, there are still idiots who argue
in Parliament and elsewhere, that traini-'u
is unnecessary. If war came again vvs


POPULAR EDUCATION—A PICTURE-SHOW STUDY.
should be worse off than we were in 1914.
Even then, Australia had to shelter under
the shield of the Mother Country and of
her Allies. Next, time there may be no
Allies, and Britain may need all her shield
for her own protection.
The one hope for the future lies in the
organisation of an Australian Defence-at-
All-Costs party. There is the nucleus of
such a party in the Returned Soldiers’
League, and if the Diggers formed up be-
hind General Chauvel the politicians
would not dare to ignore them.
: ♦
The Proposed Export of Brains.
It is curious that at such a time as this
the Colonial Office should send its Major R.
D. Furse to this country to launch a scheme
for facilitating the entrance of Australian
University graduates into the British Colo-
nial service. The idea is that 100 posi-
tions annually in Mauritius, East and West
Africa and other fevered areas should be
filled here without the necessity of the can-
didates proceeding to London for exami-
nation. This looks pretty absurd. First mil-
lions are spent in getting migrants to popu-
late Australia, and then other large sums
are to be spent in depopulating it; and that
not of its riffraff but of its best adminis-
trative, executive and scientific talent.
This large and undeveloped country has
need of all of that talent. Struggling with
problems like prickly-pear, flying-foxes, oil-
boring, irrigation, dry-farming, smut and
walk-about is just as romantic as squatting
down on an up-country river in Sarawak
treating native skin-diseases and settling
Dyak divorce cases. There are scores of
Australians already scattered about the
world managing Chinese customs or build-
ing South American railways. There is no
reason why the export of further valuable
talent should be given either governmental
assistance or official countenance.
♦
The Case for the Small States
“M.L.C.”: The Bulletin has always cham-
pioned Small Sister so generously that it
will, I hope, find room for a brief sum-
mary of the statement that Messrs.
Brigden and Giblin have prepared for the
Constitution Commission. From a welter
of statistics testifying to the industry and
research of the authors, the fact emerges,
not merely that the trend of Federal legis-
lation bears more severely on some States
than others, but that the magnitude of this
inequality is far greater than has hitherto
been suspected.
Taking the statistics for 1925-26, the two
Tasmanian authorities estimate that the
cost of subsidising industry in Australia
through Federal taxation was roughly 38
millions, which works out at £6.34 per head.
They go on to present a table showing
how the benefits received from subsidised
commodities—manufactures, sugar, butter
and other agricultural products—were dis-
tributed among the States. Per head of
population, the benefits amounted to
£8.46 in Queensland, £7.55 in Vic-
toria, £5.84 in N. S. Wales, £4.29 in
Tas., £3.93 in S.A.. and £3.84 in Westralia.
Deducting the per capita cost of £6.34,
Queensland and Vic. showed gains of £2.12
and £1.21 per head respectively, while the
other States had losses, amounting to £2.50
p.h. in Westralia, £2.41 in S.A., £2.05 in Tas.
and £0.50 in N. S. Wales.
The Brigden-Giblin inquiry does not
concern itself with the merits of Protec-
tion; but it is pointed out that the high
proportion which customs taxation bears
relatively to direct taxation presses with
especial severity on the poorer States. The
inequality of the burden is measured by
taking the average of the Federal income-
tax assessments over five years. Victoria
tops the list with an index number of 116;
Tasmania is a bad last with 55. Taking
the year 1925-26 singly, Tasmania’s index
number drops to 39, the next lowest being
W.A. with 64; N. S. Wales leads with
126. Moreover, though the costs of the
subsidies have been evenly divided in the
table referred to, they really fall largely
on the export industries that employ most
labor in proportion to output, such as
metal-mining, orcharding and wheat-
growing; and this again hits Tasmania,
Westralia and South Aus.
Finally there is the Navigation Act. The
hardships resulting from this measure are
peculiarly accentuated in the island State
because of its extraordinary amount of
traffic in proportion to population. The
inter-Stato tonnage for 1925-26 was 4.31
tons per head of population compared with
1.53 for the other States. The Speck’s
passenger traffic is equally abnormal: the
figures quoted for the same year are 36
per 100 of mean population (all sea jour-
neys) against 28 per 100 (chiefly railway
journeys) for all the States. The report
considers that “this question merits a
special investigation, for on our own con-
clusions we cannot make the annual cost
less than 10s. per head of Tasmanian popu-
lation.” In these circumstances Tasmania
presses its claims against the Common-
wealth, not as a mendicant, but as a
creditor.
Parsons and Press Publicity.
Dear Bulletin, —It is odd how the best and
sincerest of reformers often advocate
measures which the worldly know by ex-
perience can only have the opposite effect
to that intended. The motion of the N. S.
Wales Council of Churches asking the
Attorney-General to incorporate in the
Crimes Amendment Bill clauses “to make
illegal the publication of any details other
than the names in divorce proceedings, and
to suppress certain papers,” As a striking
case in point. Both experiments have been
tried elsewhere and, at any rate from the
moralists’ point of view, have proved
failures.
The suppression of details, other than
names, in divorce was introduced in Eng-
land some years ago. The immediate effect
was to double the business of the Divorce
Courts. In 1914 in London about 1000
divorces were being granted every year.
At present the figure is over 6000." Now-
adays, undefended divorce cases in the
United Kingdom can be heard on circuit bv
Assize Court Judges, whereas formerly the
parties had to come to London. The only
definitely beneficial effect of the change de-
manded by the Council of Churches (assum-
ing it is granted that an immense increase
in divorce is not desirable) would be to
attract a growing number of wealthv
tourists to N. S. Wales. That is the effect
a similar law has had in Paris, where the
American “divorce colony” is a familiar
institution.
As for the supnression of newspapers, it
is difficult for a Government to do a fight-
ing newspaper man a better turn than to
try to suppress his publication. Either he
becomes a martyr and a popular hero like
Wilkes, or he starts another paper of mucn
the same type, and benefits from the free
advertisement. Prohibition of newspapers
is as antipathetic to the British temperament
as the other kind of prohibition.
A reform that every State in Australia
needs is not a check on publicity in divorce,
but a check on publicity in certain sex
crimes. Take the present position of a
decent girl who has been assaulted, or
worse. If she consents to appear as a wit-
ness for the Crown she will almost cer-
tainly be cross-examined strenuously by one
of those specialists who make up for their
incompetence as barristers by their readi-
ness to throw an unlimited quantity of offal.
And a few days later she will see his ques-
tions and her halting and anguished answers
in print. Every Australian girl knows that
this is so, and so do her parents, with the
result that the police are rarely able to
get victims into the witness-box.
If a clause were incorporated in the N. S.
Wales Crimes Amendment Bill making it
illegal for a newspaper to publish details
of trials involving charges of blackmail
assaults on women and the like or even if
a clause were inserted giving Judges power
to prohibit publication at their discretion,
then the effect would be the same as it has
beep abroad on divorce—there would be
an immediate increase in prosecutions and,
incidentally, in convictions. In other words,
a dangerous type of malefactor would be
deprived of the protection which press pub-
licity now gives him.
If clerical reformers would only compro-
mise so far as to treat each social problem
on its merits they would become a real
terror to evildoers, for their moral influ-
ence is great. The anomalous position is
that some of the best citizens in the Com-
monwealth are the unconscious protectors
of some of the worst.—Yours, etc.,
Whitehall.
♦
Foreign v. Local Borrowing.
Arthur Griffith on foreign borrowing:—
N. S. Wales Premier Bavin told a New-
castle audience that “if in place of borrow-
ing overseas the requirements of the State
were met by locally-subscribed loans, the
result would be insufficient money available
in the hands of the banks to enable them
to finance private industry.” We have been
hearing this old gag for years, though it
was completely exploded during the war.
when many millions were borrowed locally
without creating any shortage of money in
the banks. When money is expended within
a country, it doesn’t disappear. It only
circulates.
Suppose on the first of next month Bavin
received half a million of loan money over
the Treasury counter. He would hand it
immediately to the spending departments.
Within the month the whole of that money
would be expended in the payment of wages
and the purchase of material, and would
find its way, through the various commer-
cial channels, back into the banks.
If it were a fact that the money bor-
rowed overseas were transmitted to Aus-
tralia, the position might be different. But
Australia never sees the money, which is
expended in the purchase from overseas
manufacturers of goods which should and
could be supplied from Australian sources.
The net result, therefore, of foreign bor-
rowing is. not to add to the capital avail-
able for private industry in Australia, but
to provide means of paying manufacturers
abroad; and one result of those payments
is that numbers of our own manufacturers
are unable to keep their plants profitably
employed, and thousands of our workmen
are walking the streets searching for the
work which is being done by workmen in
other countries.
In addition to all this, our oversea bor-
rowings are piling up an interest bill of
such dimensions as to threaten national
bankruptcy.
—♦
Church Disestablishment and the
Liberals.
The decisive rejection by the House of
Commons of the Book of Common Prayer,
as revised and brought up to date by the
heads of the Church of England, may yet
give the Liberals a raison d’etre for a
further span of party life. So little had
been heard of Church Disestablishment for
years before this prayer-book pother that
people are prone to forget that there was
a time when British Liberalism was very
closely identified with the idea, if not
absolutely committed to carrying it into
effect.
W. T. Stead, an acute observer who had
a knack of saying telling things, remarked
not long before his death in 1912 that the
Conservative and Liberal parties of his
day were only divided from one another on
two large national questions, and if those
were settled there would be nothing to pre-
vent them from amalgamating. The two
questions were Irish Home Rule and Church
Disestablishment and Disendowment. If
Stead had lived another 10 years he would
have seen a far more generous form of
Home Rule than ever Gladstone conceived
conferred on Ireland by a Liberal Prime
Minister at the head of a Coalition Gov-
ernment kept in office by Tories. He
would also have seen Disestablishment
shelved—permanently, it almost seemed—
and another party, more Radical than the
Liberals, coming into existence to furnish
an extra reason why the two older ones
should merge.
. At first it seemed as if the one-time
mighty Liberal party, if it insisted on
keeping aloof, would be blotted out of
existence by the electors. But though its
numbers have been reduced to a handful,
it has still some able Parliamentarians,
ample funds and an Old Campaigner at its
head who has no equal in strategy, in
energy and in catch-vote eloquence among
the public men of our time—also, be it
said in fairness, a man who, for all his
opportunism, rendered his country not-
able service in its darkest days. So Liberal-
ism dies hard; it has even won a few
by-elections during the last 12 months.
Lloyd George’s trouble is that he has no
slogan to demonstrate his party’s claim to
continued existence, except some rather
nebulous views on the subject of land law
reform. He can criticise Baldwin merci-
lessly, but Labor can always outbid him
in the alternatives it offers to a Conser-
vative administration.
A new battle-cry and a popular move-
ment that it could make its own and vigor-
ously champion might give the Liberal
party a further lease of life, if no prospect
of regained power. And Church Disestab-
lishment might prove a more popular cry
than it was in Gladstone’s time, now that
some of the heads of the Church have dis-
covered how humiliating it is that desired
changes in their set prayers and their ritual
can only be made with the consent of a
Parliament whose members may hold or
profess any creed or none at ali.


JSSI CTEO
\
Safe fl*
OJPRJSS
3SS
CIGARETTES
Plain or IVORY Tipped.
777
Cork Tipped.
20 for 1/6
AKDATH
TOBACCO
CO., LTD.,
LONDON.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A November election will be awkward for
some of the Federal
politicians who went
as delegates to the
Empire Parliamentary
Association’s confer-
ence in Canada, but
J. H. Prowse, M.H.R.
for Forrest, who has
been telling the Can-
adians, on the faith
of a Westralian farm-
er, that Australia could
grow enough food to
supply the world, is
not likely to be greatly
embarrassed. The
Country party is well
organised in his elec-
torate, and will look
after the parts he
can’t visit. And
Prowse had a majority
of 7784 (there were
35,736 effective votes)
three years ago.
The first month of
the new financial year
opened in the orthodox
way. Exports failed
Prowse, M.H.R.
to pay for imports (let alone interest and
other overseas liabilities) by £2,703,197.
The shortage on exports is smaller than it
was in July, 1927, though the shortage on
interest is larger, as happens with striking
regularity.
It arrived even sooner than -was expected.
The last external loan to develop the great
natural resources of the country was floated
in July, and the Federal Treasurer intro-
duced a new Loan Bill for £10,700,000 on.
September 5. It seems almost a pity that
Australia has so many natural resources.
They cost an awful lot to develop.
No other town in N.S.W. felt the shock
of the liquor referendum like Queanbeyan.
It seemed to be convinced not only that
it would always be Canberra’s drink mer-
chant. but that Dryberra would always be
as full of thirsty pick-and-shovel souls as
in the early days before the loans began to
be a difficult problem. First the droughty
toilers were largely retrenched through ad-
verse conditions, and now ’Berra has gone
wet, so Queanbeyan will go back to its old
status as a wayside town on a dead-end
branch railway. It was engaged in some
expensive hotel-building, too, when the axe
fell.
The Communist mob in N.S.W. rallied as
one Bolshevik to the support of prohibition.
Its idea was that prohibition would make
one more law to break, aud give the proletariat
another grievance against the existing
order, and so help along the Revolution.
“The Wets concede Newcastle to us,” said
Crawford Vaughan the day before the battle,
obviously with this dubious auxiliary in mind,
“and we are confident of winning Lithgovv
and Broken Hill.” Unfortunately for the
queer allies, the mining districts most in-
fested with Communists voted, roughly; 8 to
3 against prohibition, the same as other parts.
When Dr. Basedow,
M. for Barossa
(S.A.), was in North
Australia recently he
was invited to come
out against the loqua-
cious Nelson for the
N. seat in the House
of Reps., and the invi-
tation has been re-
peated since he re-
turned to Adelaide.
Rut the doctor is not
keen on becoming a
voteless member. S.
Aus. Laborites are
pleased at his decision,
for they have a high
opinion of the scien-
tist’s political talents,
and have openly ex-
pressed the wish that
he would leave his
lonely furrow and
join them.
Dr. Basedow.
Forced by pressure from the Country
Progs, and the Opposition, the Vic. Hogans
have sacrificed some of the clauses of
their Unemployment Insurance Bill, and
have modified others. The measure will now
limp into the Leg. Council, where it will
not be painlessly destroyed until the Land-
lords digest what the Bruce-Pages arc doing
about national insurance.
One feature in the report which Labor-
leader Scullin brought back from West-
ralia is that there is a very promising
woollen-mill at. Albany, but that most of
the output has to be sold in the Eastern
States. Other observers have published
similar testimony, and the position is not
creditable to the Westralian public. The
irrational prejudice against a good Westra-
lian article is preventing the growth of what
should be an important industry employing
thousands of operatives.
The N.S.W. National Federation hope-
fully ran a candidate for Hamilton, the
northern coal-mining electorate represented
by the late David Murray, but although
Political Labor made a mess of things in
the industry when it had the chance of doing
something useful, the miners won’t support
Nationalists. However, the Nat. Fed.'s
nominee scraped up enough votes outside
the mining area to give Skelton, the “Pro-
testant Labor” candidate, an excellent
chance of beating Smith, the selected Lang-
ite, on preferences. Skelton’s following on
the coalfields, particularly among the rail-
waymen, is quite remarkable, and, to do
him justice, it is not altogether due to his
sectarian appeal.
The year to June 30, 1927, was a flat time
in railway construction. Not one mile of
new Federal line was opened for traffic, and
Tasmania closed 13 miles. The total addi-
tions for the Commonwealth were 145 miles,
of which N.S.W. was the owner of eight
miles, but the sum invested in “construction
and equipment” went up over £15,000,000.
Even Tasmania showed an increase. And
things have happened since June 30, 1927.
The N.S.W. Bavinshaw Government is on
the right track in proposing to" reduce the
income-tax, but it ought to take its courage
in both hands and wipe out the company-tax
altogether. The company-tax (3s. in the £
on profits) is a tax on industry, a drain on
the capital used in the wage-earning activi-
ties of the community. Dividends from
companies should be classed as income from
property, shareholders being taxed as indi-
viduals, not as a body. Under the present
system thousands of small investors are
punished for putting their savings into em-
ployment-giving concerns, instead of being
encouraged to do so, as they ought to be.
Grievances which smell of Moscow are
never-ending along the Australian coast.
A recent batch included a demand that
vehicles must not go on the Brisbane wharves
to load and unload. They were to stay out-
side, and goods were to be humped over the
intervening distance by hand. A hold-up
occurred at Lucinda Point and a steamer
lying alongside was declared “black” be-
cause there was no first-aid kit on the jetty
—the fact that there was one on the steamer
was declared insufficient. And now the
Waterside Workers’ Federation has “repu-
diated the pernicious arid vicious Beeby
award.” It is time Australia repudiated the
faithless and useless Waterside Workers’
Federation.
The Cairns waterside joke becomes in-
volved past understanding. Lately there was
an adjourned meeting to determine whether a
ballot of unionists should be taken to decide
about going back to work under the terms
of the award. No ballot had been taken up
to then, the matter being merely one of
shouting and bullying, and the meeting was
an “adjourned” one because the original
gathering had dispersed or been counted out
without any decision. It was resolved to hold
the ballot and to do a bit of work mean-
while, whereupon the Red minority (187)
frantically demanded that the majority de-
cision should be declared “black.” The
Reds didn’t resume work, and only 153 out
of the 210 majority turned up. After an
hour they left off and said that no more toil
would be perpetrated “until the two fac-
tions were working in harmony.” The Reds
don’t propose either to work or to harmonise
with any but their own push, but it will now
be needless to take the ballot, and some wear
and tear will be saved.
When the Sydney City Council was busy
filling up the jug of its iniquity it enacted
that every municipal employee must be a
unionist, and financial in the sense of haying-
paid not only his subscription, but all fines,
strike levies, aids to the Labor Daily and
such like. The Commissioners have left this
regulation standing, and the boss of the
Electricity Department has notified a num-
ber of men, who are financial so far as then-
subscriptions go, that Nemesis awaits them
on account of unpaid levies and oddments.
It is a quaint idea for municipal officers to
act as collectors of compulsory newspaper
subscriptions of dubious legality.
Thomas Walsh is a man with a tangible
grievance these days. He says that he was
elected over Jacob Johanson to be secretary
of the Seamen’s Union, but Johanson, then
incumbent of the office, just held on, as
a defeated S. American President does if the
army will stand by him. It seemed so doubt-
ful if anybody had been elected at all that
a law court ordered a fresh ballot. This has
been going on for months, and with a
few votes to come in Walsh was 400-odd
ahead of Johanson, with the rest of the field
distanced, but the anti-Walsh faction is still
determined to keep its Jacob. According to
Walsh it doesn’t care a dump for legality,
and would even curse the Shorter Catechism
on a Sunday if the mood took it.
It so happened that
Harry Chauvel’s re-
port on the serious
results of keeping the
army vote down to
£1,500,000 was pub-
lished just after the
official statement that
ten millions had been
lavished on Can-
berra and just before
the admission that two
of the crowd of royal
commissions had cost
£25,500 in 12 months.
The contrast between
the Government’s
reckless waste on non-
essentials and its
tragic stinginess where
the C.M.F. is con-
cerned has alarmed
even Nationalist edi-
tors, and Chauvel is
beginning to get sup-
port from that
quarter.
After a debate which
dragged on for weeks
Vic. Trades Hall Coun-
cil voted against Bob
Lieut.-Gen.
Chauvel.
Ross’s proposal to cut away from the mad
decision of the Australian Council of Trade-
Unions to affiliate with the Pan-Pacific Sec-
retariat, wdiich meets at Shanghai and is
financed and instructed from Moscow. One
plank of the Secretariat’s constitution is that
resolutions passed at its annual conferences
shall be obligatory on all parties affiliating.
Asiatics being in the majority, an early
resolution will doubtless be one commanding
members to work for the destruction of the
White Australia policy.
Owing to the sluggishness of the State re-
turns Federal Treasurer Page wasn’t able to
round off his review of the position by men-
tioning the amount of the State debts on
June 30 last. But he gave the aged and
toothless assurance that the money was
“almost wholly invested in railways, water
and other works and services of a revenue-
producing nature.” Unfortunately they pro-
duced only £2 16s. 2d. per cent., which is
to say that the interest actually paid last
year was £29,568,404 and the works and
services yielded £19,065,522. The taxpayers
had to find the difference. Still, if the works
only yield 2d. they are “revenue-producing.”
A great deal of Australia’s financial trouble
may be put into a very simple proposition.
When a private enterprise dies nobody pays
interest on its cost any longer. When a
public enterprise based on loan money dies
the interest on its cost goes on. When
enough dead or partially dead enterprises
are still collecting interest trouble arises.
It is a case of the cemetery which, being
dead, still takes its annuity.
Although there is to be no redistribution
of seats, there has been a considerable redis-
tribution of popula-
tion in some of the
Sydney subbubs dur-
ing the past , three
years, and seats which
used to be soft things
for one party or the
other are no longer
safe. The National-
ists are uneasy about
Elliot Johnson in
Lang, and the Labor-
ites are by no means
sure about the elder
Riley in South Syd-
ney or old Jack West,
in East Sydney.
Jack’s electorate,
which used to be pre-
dominantly industrial,
is now crowded with
ladies who live in
flats. The difficulty is
to get the dear crea-
ture to vote, so it has
been suggested that
the Nationalist young
man should undertake
Jack West.
to jazz through every street in the constitu-
ency on election-day and remove the duties
on feminine finery and cosmetics.
Victoria cooks its railway figures by a
rather crude device. The Treasury makes
allowances to the Commissioners for non-
paying lines, etc., and these arc classed as
earnings. More than one “surplus’ lias
been produced as a result, but the expedient
failed in 1927-28. The shortage was £910,880,
and the most plausible bookkeeping couldn’t
pretend that it was less than £553,709. It
would be better to present the figures in all
their nude veracity. Roast or boiled statis-
tics are a disgrace to any community.
The best thing to do with those of the
unemployed who are tall, strong, intelligent
and of good character is to make policeman
of them. The country is in more need of
policemen than it is of loan jobs of the
familiar type, and to make a man a . bobby
is better for the man than making him a
slacker on a construction work. When the
Bruce-Page Government has time for a
bright idea it might propose to take over
and pay all the police, provided the Consti-
tution can be amended (Clause 119) to
permit it to make use of them it has
them.
Miserable was the whine of Theodore at
Canberra last week that he had been granted
a mere £3OO for his costs in connection with
the seat-purchase inquiry, whereas “it actu-
ally cost me £800.” Considering that the
itoyal Commission was satisfied that
Mahony, the previous incumbent, had re-
signed from Dailey in Theodore’s favor for
a price, though the evidence did not show
who put up the money, the Commonwealth
Government was over-generous in allowing
the rich resident of Kirribilli a penny, and
the same applies to Mahony and Coleman,
M.H.R. for Reid, whom the Royal Commis-
sion did not believe. Two days after the
ignoble debate, the unhappy Lambert,
M.H.R. for West Sydney, whose disclosures led
to the appointment of the Royal Commission,
died suddenly in a Sydney hospital.
The N.S.W. Statistician has unloaded
another book of figm'es, and some of them
arc interesting. Between 1921 and 1926 the
population of Sydney city intensified from
20,834 to 21,270 per square mile, and that
of the metropolitan area, which is rather
more than half the County of Cumberland,
from 1428 to 1700. During the same five
years the population of the State is esti-
mated to have increased by 207,468, 164,766
of the new inhabitants being in the metro-
politan area and only 42,702 in the rest of
the State, which includes Newcastle; the
number of factory employees expanded by
29.090, of w-hom 23,942 are in the metro-
politan fragment and 5148 in the rest of
the State. Factories with three workers or
less —an old man repairing boots and the
like —form per cent, of the total estab-
lishments in the rest of the State. The
Bavinshaw Ministry is now invited to make
a few badly-chosen remarks about decentrali-
sation.
Vic. Savings Bank has just made a new
departure. Formerly it paid interest for, say,
August on money that was in the bank on
July 31 and didn’t leave till September 1.
but in future a day is to be scratched off at
each end without loss of interest. It is a
small matter, but it shows that the struggle
for money is severe.
THE MARTYRS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There were anxious inquiries, after the result of
the liquor referendum at Canberra, as to when a bar
would be opened in Parliament House. The President
of the Senate, when approached, pointed out that
members had already sacrificed themselves to observe
the general ordinance prohibiting the sale of stimu-
lants in the Territory, and they could wait a little
longer till the ordinance had been formally repealed.”
Silent they suffered, grimly they endured,
Those who must meet the nation’s laws to
frame,
The pangs that come from stimulants ab-
jured,
The aches of never “giving it a name.”
No trivial deprivation, rest assured,
But Reps, and Senators must play the
game,
Arid no unworthy murmur passed their lips
Though some were regularly spitting chips.
With Canberra as dry as anyone
Can feature —sort of desert, as it were—
Clearly and patently ’twould never have done
To keep one lone and lush oasis there.
An ordinance there was they couldn’t shun,
A cross that high and low alike must bear ;
And so they sacrificed themselves because
They had to keep as well as make the laws.
Talking is arid work, and thirst assails
The chaps who earn their tucker in debate
As much as though their job was splitting
rails,
Or trucking coal, or lumping heavy freight.
But these —they bid farewell to wines and
ales
And spirits. “Men,” they said, “who
serve the State
Must with the commodum the onus take.”
And off they went, like martyrs to the stake.
“Noblesse oblige” they sighed, and thus con-
soled
With heads erect to martyrdom they
passed.
“Noblesse oblige ” they muttered when ’twas
cold
Or when the air was like a furnace blast.
But, howsoever long the lane, we’re told,
A blessed turning always comes at last.
And theirs is near, beyond the faintest doubt.
Now who’ll be first to breast the bar and
shout?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
Jolm P. Davis: “M. 8.” (B. 29/S/’2S) is
not wrong when he blames me for the design-
ing of the “Rising Sun” at Fovant (Wilts),
but that does not help much with regard to
the dimensions. The drawing I made, using
my hat-badge for a model, was roughly about
12in. deep. This I “squared” and scaled
to one in 120. My plan was to “square” the
ANOTHER FAUX-PAS.
JOAN: “I made a terrible slip with Teddy last night.”
RITA: “In what way, darling?”
JOAN: “Well, I told him I’d never been kissed before, and it appears I was engaged
to him last summer.”
hillside with pegs and string in proportion
to the original sketch. I had actually started
the job with a fatigue party of light-duty
men when my presence Avas required by the
battalion on the Somme. Except for a photo-
graph, I have not seen the completed work.
T think that the famous “White Horse.” of
Westbury, in the same county, suggested the
brain-Avave.
% * # *
“D.”: Rome’s indifference to the beliefs
of those who supply her with Avorks of art is
interestingly in evidence at St. Mary’s Cath-
edral, Sydney. On the western side of the
entrance is a bronze statue of Cardinal
Moran by Bertram Mackennal—the 'first
Australian cardinal by the first Australian
R.A. And the Avar memorial for the in-
terior is being done by Australia’s only other
great sculptor, George Lambert, A.R.A.
Incidentally, the pedestal on the other side
of the entrance is ominously vacant. There
was a London one, in Trafalgar-square,
which stood statueless for decades in spite of
embittered press protests.
* * *
“C.Q.” : There are dangers in sitting out
dances in motor-cars. Partners thus engaged
outside a Vic. country dance hall had their
car commandeered by two policemen en-
gaged in chasing three burglars. As the pair
objected to relinquishing their possie, to
save time the sleuths took them along Avith
them. An indignant young man and a terri-
fied girl had a thrilling night ride of over
200 miles, which ended in pistol shots,
the destruction of the pursued car and the
capture of a suspect. The couple were
returned at 4 a.m. to a township which had
been seething for hours over their disappear-
ance.
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”: A feminine insolvent
recently presented a bright example of casual
trading to a Melbourne court. She had signed
bills for £l4O, allegedly to help her son Avith
a building job, and they were passed on to
a spinster, who thereby lost all her savings.
The spinster took insolvency proceedings,
and it then proved that the lady of the bills
was an uncertificated bankrupt already. The
furniture in her house Avas said to belong to
her daughter, who didn’t appear, but it was
also claimed, though in no hostile spirit,
bv a friend of the family, who didn’t appear
either. He was said to have bought it from
the husband of the insolvent for £lOO, but
the whereabouts of the £lOO was unexplained,
and no one seemed to know how he owned
the daughter’s furniture. There was no
appearance on behalf of the husband, who
was himself an uncertificated bankrupt. The
spinster’s solicitor promised that the son
Avould be one likewise when he could be
found. How he came to be lost wasn’t
stated. The reckless purchase of two motor-
cars Avas alleged, but there was a general
tendency to deny ownership and say they
belonged to somebody else ot had gone away
somewhere; anyhow, they remained quite in-
definite. The debtor lady had apparently no
assets save her clothes and her unblemished
character, but she offered her verbal assur-
ance that she would pay 50s. per month, and
it was taken in the‘absence of anything else
to take.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It isn’t only the newly-
arrived Briton who is liable to be sensitive
about “more or less unflattering appella-
tions” (B. 5/9/’2S) ; some old-established
Australians would seem to be just as touchy.
For instance, in a recent Argus appeared a
letter from some estimable citizen bitterly
protesting against that “odious nickname”
applied to the Melbourne University, “The
Shop.” And the paper actually devoted a
sub-leader to the complaint, gravely sym-
pathising with its correspondent and deplor-
ing the slangy levity of “generations of
undergraduates.” Yet the outrageous term
is no Australian coinage: it is borrowed
from England, where it is habitually applied
(I believe) to the Royal Military Academy,
Woolwich, and probably other institutions
much older than the Melbourne Uni. I
never heard of any of them resenting it.
* ❖ *
“Hamer” : Always excepting the Gap, the
Coogee headland below which the body of
Hyman Goldstein, M.L.A., was found float-
ing, is Sydney’s most favored place of exit
from life’s troubles. It has been known as
“Suicide Point” for as long as the oldest
inhabitant can remember; and in one year
its tally of bona fide victims was nine. But
sometimes it has been utilised for purposes
of deception. In the late ’eighties a promi-
nent citizen who was mixed up with some
bank frauds of the period left a farewell
note on his clothes at the cliff-top, but he
was caught before he could get away to
America; two or three other would-be
levanters have tried the same dodge in the
same spot. The point’s busiest period was
when what is now a big public reserve was
the picnic-ground attached to the Baden
Baden Hotel (long gone), a popular re-
sort of its day. Illicit honeymooners who
quarrelled or persons who had reached the
last gloomy stages of a jag found the point
handy for felo de se and gave it a sinister
reputation.
H* *s* i
“Stellsby” : Melbourne Zoo is to have an-
other orang-outang or two. The other day a
Public Works officer was busy taking notes
ALL SET.
BETTY: " I’d love a holiday in the bush with you, Uncle; but really I haven’t got any
clothes.”
UNCLE GEORGE (down from the Gulf ): “Oh, you’d be all right as you are—most of us
knock about just in a singlet and pants.”
of the extra accommodation required, what
time “Jimmy,” the established favorite of
Zoo visitors, kept extending his arm between
the bars of his cage. “What the devil does
he want?” inquired the officer of an attend-
ant. “Your book and pencil,” was the reply.
The other tore out a couple of sheets and
handed them with a pencil to the ape, who
immediately sat back in his cage and gave a
first-class imitation of the official at work.
“Jimmy” is a great argument in support of
the Darwinian theory.
$ $ $ *
“Si Ann” (Singapore) : A Bulletin has
just reached me here with a yai’n about the
cable station and a tiger at Cap St.
Jacques (French Cochin China L “R.
Volt’s” memory of the incident is a
bit at fault. He might have men-
tioned that after shooting the animal
the chap fainted, and didn’t come to
until roused by the noise his relief
made when he fell over the tiger’s
corpse. The relief, being half-asleep,
didn’t know the tiger was dead, and
didn’t stay to feel its pulse. I was
the relief.
“Primates” : The latest mutiny at sea to
obtain newspaper headlines is that of a
number of monkeys which took possession, of
an American ship on which they had been
consigned to New York. In addition to
escaping themselves, they liberated all the
other wild animals on board, though, as there
were no dangerous creatures in the outfit,
it does not appear to have been necessary to
wireless for a man-o’-war. The incident
recalls the old Cornish story of the fishing
village of Mevagissey, in the days of
the Napoleonic wars, when wrecking vied
with smuggling and fishing as the inhabit-
ants’ principal means of subsistence. An
East Indiaman, decoyed ashore by the usual
false lights hung over the cliffs, was duly
wrecked, and the only members of the crew
to get ashore were a number of large
monkeys. These scaled the cliffs and puzzled
the Cousin Jack intelligence so excessively,
especially in the matter of their language,
that the villagers came to the conclusion
that they were Frenchmen, and hanged the
lot forthwith. To this day, it is said, in
Cornwall, or even in some Australian mining
centres, it is not safe to ask who hanged the
monkeys. If there is a Mevagissey man
about, the querist is sure to hear of it.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Stellsby”: “Exdig” (B. 29/8/’2B) says
“A.I.F. representatives of the Clarke clan all
became ‘Nobby,’ just as it was natural to be
a ‘Pedlar’ Palmer or a ‘Spud’ Murphy.” Such
nicknames originated on the sea. They were
common up and down the waterways of the
world to my knowledge many years before
1914. Probably “Pedlar” Palmer is the
youngest of the bunch. I recollect the original
P.P., a well-known pug who frequented the
pubs in London’s dockland towards the end
of his career. Incidentally, all sea-going
Browns enjoy the prefix of “Buster,” every
Miller is "Dusty,” and every White “China.”
* * * *
“Murua”: Outside Bailleul was a big
centre of the Royal Flying Corps where we
interestedly watched the ’planes setting out
on their patrols. A friendly mechanic sug-
gested that we might obtain a few free
rides if we asked nicely, and presently we
found an. officer of the haw-haw variety
who consented to defy regulations and take
a man up. We drew straws for precedence
and the winner hopped aboard, was strapped
in, and started off towards Fritz’s line. We
waited over an hour for his return, and when
he did come back he Avas a stretcher case.
It took a couple of stiff nips to revive lnm
and then we had to help him home. When
he could talk he told us bitterly that the
haw-haw person had looped the loop, banked,
twisted, dived, got caught in a barrage _of
anti-aircraft shells, and ended up streaking
for home with Fritz ’planes chasing him.
Afterwards we found out that the fliers
were pestered with applications for joy rides,
whenever new troops came into that sector,
and had decided that putting the Avind up
the first passenger Avas the easiest way
of keeping the others out of the aerodrome.
* # =i= *
“Morita”: General Blarney’s decision to
adorn Vic. police stations Avitli the sign of
the Blue Lamp (B. 29/8/’2B) isn’t fair to
the Digger likely to become absent-minded
when under the influence. In London he had
it drummed into him, before commencing
each leave, that the Blue Lamp at Horse-
ferry-road guided the wayfarer to the pro-
phylactic treatment-rooms, where experienced
medical attendants were available to cut out
any risks of a future enforced holiday and
a corresponding pay-book debit entry. Ser-
geants in charge at Blarney’s stations should
have special instructions to deal leniently
with any drunk who lurches in during the
early hours, after a hectic night, under the
impression that the run-no-risk society is
still carrying on the good work.
“Soda”: “The Tea and Sugar Train” of
the Trans-line may be leisurely (B.
29/8/’2B), but what about the Darwin-Kath
erine “Express,” which takes two days to
cover 200 miles? The outfit, which leaves
Darwin every Wednesday morning, consists
of an engine, three or four trucks, the only
three coaches in the service, a contraption
on four wheels into which swags are packed,
and a brake-van. It makes Adelaide River
(77 miles) for dinner, reaches Pine Creek
(149 miles) for tea, camps there for the
night, and lobs into Katherine some time
the next afternoon. The fireman in the
engine’s cab is the brake, and no signals are
needed, there being no other train on the
section.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Mention of the files used to saw
gaol bars (B. 22/8/’2B) reminds me of a set
of German magneto tools, including some
beautifully small files, which I secured in a
salvage depot in France. When I was packing
my kit in England another chap spot-
ted them, and wanted them badly. He was
broke, but he was so desperately set on hav-
ing the tools that I finally swapped them
for an Iron Cross, his most treasured pos-
session. He wouldn’t say for what purpose
he wanted them, but I learned later that he
had only just been released from clink pre-
paratory to sailing, and I sometimes wonder
if they have come in useful since he re-
turned to civil life.
* * * *
“Up North” : Old Hans Dehn, a prospector
who perished on the east coast of Cape York
Peninsula a month back, was in the “Dead
Man’s Secret” country, which has claimed
many victims. Adventurous souls have cut
tlieir way deep into that belt, never to be
heard of again. The “Secret’’ mine was
found long ago by a party of diggers, all
but one of whom were killed by a shower of
native spears as they worked. With one
horse and a bag of rich specimens, the sur-
vivor fought his way for over 300 miles back
to civilisation, throwing away everything
that encumbered him, as his horse grew
weaker and weaker. He reached Cooktown
with only one of his specimens left, there to
succumb to his wounds and privations.
Years later, Jardine, of Somerset, and Hamil-
ton, an old-time politician, made several
attempts to locate the “Dead Man’s Secret."
Less adequately equipped prospectors have
tried just as hard, but all attempts have
failed. So far as is known, the location is
roughly about 15 miles inland from False
Orfordness. The country is densely covered
with turkey-bush scrub, quite impenetrable
for horses, and almost as bad for men carry-
ing heavy tucker packs.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The figures at the N.S.W. Prohibition Referendum
were: Wet, 854,000; Dry, 845,000.”
Bung at his porch or portal
In calm contentment stands.
Anon he gives a chortle;
His cliiv. in smiles expands.
The tinkle of the “peter”
Has never sounded SAveeter—
And this Swinburnian metre
Is right into my hands.
The Prohibition pother
For many a month lie’s borne;
The burden of the bother
Perplexed him night and morn.
Now each his tot will swallow
>S tans fear of what may follow.
Since Crawford V.’s licked hollow
And Hammond put to scorn.
Wan wowsers wilt and wither, ,
And “halt with tired wings”;
The blah of blokes who blither
Of rum that stabs and stings
No more for ads. is taken ;
I >ejected Drys awaken
From dreams, while Coates the bacon
Home in his gripsack brings.
No futile laws we’ll borrow
From Uncle Sam, be sure.
’Twould be a drab to-morrow
If all must thirst endure
Lest, from among an innful,
One chap might get a skinful.
The failing may be sinful —■
But what about the cure?
From fear of sapless living,
From dread of drouth set free,
We mop with mild thanksgiving
Whatever tids there be.
.When roads are hard and hilly
And throats for wet call shrilly
Even the weariest Willie
Finds something chafe in tea.
No chance of bars forsaken
Bung’s peace of mind shall blight.
’Mid sound of cocktails shaken
Concludes the liquor fight.
And morn and evening journal
Return to topics vernal
After the din infernal
Of much appalling skite.
N.S.AV.
T. THE R.


“Mulgo”: I don’t know whether Bunkie
was a humorist or an economical freak. He
gave his wife about two-thirds of . his wages,
and banked half the remainder in the names
of his four children. The wife had to run
the house and pay a pound a week rent out
bf her allowance. The rent had been paid
for ten years to an agent; but Bunkie, being
a handy man, did all the repairing that the
place needed, and that, with painting, occu-
pied most of his week-ends. He was sup-
posed to be doing that in consideration
of the low rent, similar houses in the same
street being let for 80s. a week. He had
just finished a general overhaul when he
died suddenly, and Mrs. Bunkie got the
shock of her life. She discovered that
Bunkie owned the house, and all the rent
money had been banked in his own name.
As she inherited everything she had been
compulsorily but unknowingly saving up for
herself. Perhaps, aft A- all. Bunkie was a
humorist.
* * * *
“Shep”: About daylight at Flers we got
the call for stretcher-bearers from a wounded
Digger who had seen others knocked by the
shell that had given him his issue. In a com-
munication sap just behind the front line
we found one man beyond help and another
propping himself up to keep his wound out
of the mud. “Jump on. Dig, and hang on
to the sides,” we told him. “We’ll get you
HE RECOGNISED THE NOTE.
“Oh, Jimmy, look at that glorious wrap! What a note it strikes!”
“Yes, dough!”
out before Fritz opens up again.” On the
way out he yarned to us when the going
was good, and clenched his teeth when we
struck the rough parts. Although badly
shot in the stomach, he generally managed a
grin for our occasional “How are you feel-
ing, Dig?” Dressed in a tin lid and issue
waterproof cape and gum boots, to us he
was just one of the troops, but when we
sat around him smoking; outside the dress-
ing station we saw liis Blighty card. Our
Digger was General Glassfurd, of our
12th Brigade, knocked when he was in-
specting the trenches his command was to
take over that night. He died within two
days, thoughtfully bequeathing his gum boots
to the only member of our squad without a
pair.
“Lao-dah”: A novel way of “launching” a
new chimney was adopted by the Rapsoa
Tyre Company at Launceston (Tas.). The
wife of the managing director and another
lady were hoisted in a boatswain’s chair to
the top of the 100-foot smokestack and there
solemnly laid the last two of the 57,200
bricks!
-'f =l= *
“Erua”: The luck of the very sick wife of
the wireless operator at Taveuni, an isolated
station that looks to Suva as headquarters,
was well in the other day when a sudden
relapse made it necessary to cancel lur
passage to hospital by the schooner Malaya.
A few hours after she left Taveuni the
Malaya was a total wreck on Horseshoe
Reef; the crew, after a perilous experience,
managed to put to sea in open boats, and
after a terrific battling were sighted and
towed to Levuka. The invalid was mean-
while put aboard the Government launch,
which answered the Taveuni wireless call,
and safely lodged in Suva Hospital, with
entirely beneficial results.
* * * *
“Cape Cod” : If Hoover becomes the next
President of the U.S. he will be California’s
first contribution to the White House. In 140
years Uncle Sam’s 20 uncrowned rulers have
been supplied by 11 States. Six have come
from Ohio and New York, live from Virginia,
three from Massachusetts and Tennessee and
one apiece from Louisiana, New Hampshire,
Pennsylvania, Illinois, Indiana and New
Jersey. The one who lived longest after
attaining the honor was John Adams (00),
the second of the line. The only one who
didn’t reach 50 was Garfield, assassinated in
office at 49. Early-day Presidents 'seem to
have been of tougher material than their
successors, for the first eight averaged only
a shade under 80, whereas their 19 suc-
cessors (Taft is the only ex-President still
on deck) passed out at the average age of
a trifle under 64. But then the early-day
Presidents had fewer speeches to make and
much less handshaking to do.
❖ Si* Si* £
“Whitehall” : Masefield was impressed on
Gallipoli by the physique, looks and bearing
of the young men of Australia —he comparer
them to Greek gods. Would he make the
same comparison if lie saw them in Aus-
tralia? I doubt it, unless he confined his
observations to a surfing beach. The truth
is the more clothes the average Australian
man puts on the worse he seems to look, as
a rule, which is where he differs from the
average Briton. Dress an Australian in a
uniform which he is unable to Americanise,
drill him for a few months so that lie for-
gets to wear his hands in his pockets, hump
his shoulders and slouch, and you get a
spectacle that arouses general admiration.
Leave him to his own devices, sartorially and
as regards deportment, and you hear whines
of protest from Government House staffs, the
staff of the Tailor and Cutter and other
authoritative quarters. If the Australian’s
omission to do justice to himself in the
street were due to a manly lack of vanity it
might' be a cause for rejoicing; but for-
eigners say that lack of self-discipline is
chiefly to blame, and there may be some-
thing in it.
❖ * *
“Lao-dah”: The R'aymond-Wliitcombe
people, who hurl solid phalanxes of Ameri-
can tourists at unoffending countries, have
definitely decided to leave Australia out of
future itineraries. Whereat there need be
no tears. That dignified old potentate, the
Sultan of Djogja in Java, lately told the
Dutch Government not to expect him to
invite any more of them to his palace, as they
took the spoons, slapped his slaves on the
back and otherwise upset the Court cere-
monial on their last visit. Another crowd
was caught trying to remove the ancient
temple of Boro-Budur in sections. After
the visit of a tourist ship to Bali, the Hindu
island adjacent to Java, the natives discov-
ered that the plaques which they plaster on
their temple gates and shrines were largely
missing, so they replaced them with cheap
crockery. Being humorists they selected
specimens branded “Made in America.”
* * * *
“Observer" : My first job as a teacher was
at a small school on a main road close to a
public gate. On
my very first morn
ing I found the
approach of a car
was the signal for
a stampede from
the room, and the
first kid to reach
the gate collected a
coin for opening it.
I suggested that all
gate-money should
go into a school-
improvement fund,
each child to take
his day in turn, but
as the youngsters
refused to enter-
tain the idea there
was no more gate-
opening. Later, at
another school situ-
ated near the rail-
way gates, I found
that the gate-
keeper’s wife kept
each of her five
children from
school one day a
week to open the
gates. She told me
the kiddies made
up to five shillings
a day, and she was
woman when a truant inspector' arrived "The
mo torists didn’t toss the pennies her way
% # J
ilt) .„ „ j .
, , oura £i : Sydney papers have been
* a kmg *? ul t e a song of the stranding of the
New Guinea Government steamer Franklin,
the . astonishment of the natives and the
ahxious and heroic methods devised to get
hooker off the reef In the golden days
°r good Haroun A 1 Macgrcgor of what is
™ w Papua that taut and lively craft the
Meme England spent a large portion of her
time on top of one or another of the million
reefs that dot the coast of the Territory. Yet
Do one worried. The M.E. was staunch and
sturdy, and her 90-ton lead keel, fitted for
such emergencies, kept her fairly safe from
the coral, and as long as she was lying still,
Sir W illiam, who suttered more from mat de
mer than any other potentate since Nelson,
was content. If she couldn’t be got off at
once she waited until the gods were propi-
tious, long spars, carried on purpose, being
rigged over the side to prevent her heeling
over when the tide went down. She always
got off. somehow, till the last occasion, when
she stayed there.
PROSPECTS POOR.
“Making much progress in your new job?”
“Not much, dear. The only compliment I’ve got out of the boss so far has been about
my work.”
“Chevroford”: Somebody having suggested
that city dwellers are being slowly poisoned
by the carbon monoxide exuded from motor-
car exhaust pipes, the U.S. Public Health
Dept, has been taking tests and regards the
results as reassuring. An average of 141
tests taken in city streets during peak hours
gave .8 of one part in 10,000, a quantity
not sufficient to give the breather a sick
headache if he inhaled it for a generation.
It takes 3 parts in 1000 to cause uncon-
sciousness after prolonged inhalation, and
nowhere was this quantity approached, while
inside ’buses the concentration was negli-
gible. There is therefore no danger appa-
rently of immediate ill-effects, except to
persons who keep motors running in closed
garages. Whether there will .be conse-
quences from a lifetime of continual slight
absorption remains a question for the future.
* * * *
“Nikko”: When a visiting actress lost a
diamond earring of unique design in Mel-
bourne some years ago, with much subse-
quent paper publicity, the affair had a seouel
which was not extensively used for adver-
tising purposes. The actress was resting at
her hotel one afternoon when an alert young
man arrived, and displaying a detective’s
badge stated that the lost earring had been
located in a pawnshop. To positively
identify the find it was necessary that the
earring still in its owner’s possession should
be compared with the other, and he required
the loan of it to enable him to complete in-
vestigations. It was handed over, and that
was the last seen of the ?4ert young man
or the earring.
* * * *
“Teleco”: Gladstone (Q.) regards itself as
Australia’s most historical spot. Patriotic
citizens will tell you that it was Torres’s
only port of call on the Australian main-
land. Cannon with the Spanish arms and
fragments of an altar have been found, and
are still preserved there. Captain Cook,
on his voyage up the coast, landed on Round
Hill Head, where a monument stands, to his
memory. Matthew Flinders called in. and
pronounced it “the only harbor that is of
use to shipping north of Byron Bay,” much
to the disgust of Brisbane. Gladstone, with
a little luck, might have been the capital
of Queensland, but political pull was too
strong.
* * * *
“Exdig”: At a recent reunion in Sydney
one of the ex-officers of the battalion found
himself faced by a prosperous-looking ex-
Digger who had determinedly pushed through
the crowd to reach him. “When I was over
the other side, you told me I was the worst
soldier in the A.1.F.,” he began. There
appeared to be a certain truculence in the
man’s manner, and, to avoid any altercation
which might spoil the spirit of the. evening,
the ex-pip was about to speak soothing words
when the other went on: “I’ve always
wanted to speak to you and tell you that I
agree. I was.”
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland. which has many puri-
tanical Acts on its Statute Book, is getting
all hot and bothered over the sinful game
of euchre. School committees, friendly
societies, working-men’s clubs and even
church organisations have been holding euchre
tournaments for donkey’s years, making a
charge for admission and giving prizes, and
the Daw didn’t say a word. Then came the
private profiteers, who rented a hall and
pocketed a bit after paying rent and pro-
viding prizes. Prosecutions followed, and it
was discovered that euchre tournaments of
any sort are barred by M.L. law. With an
election coming on the Government is re-
luctant to offend anyone without good cause,
and as the population flatly refuses to give
up its euchre tourneys, the Minister for
Justice has issued a ukase that the law must
bn administered “reasonably, but not oppres-
sively.”
“C.Q.”: Queer motives for self-murder?
According to his brother, a Geelong con-
tractor who was found in Port Phillip Bay
was worried because he was getting too much
money for the work he was engaged on!
* * * *
“O. McKay M.”: Year by year the sea
loses a shade of its romance. The clippers
passed in a cloud of steam; “larboard” went
out of usage in favor of “port”; and now
both “port” and “starboard” have foundered,
following collision with modernity. The
International Shipping Conference has
approved the recommendation of the Colli-
sions Committee that “left” and “right” be
substituted for the corresponding terms in
the argot of the sea. Henceforward, pre-
sumably, the men who go down to the sea in
ships will find themselves in prosaic “right”
or “left” watches. I wonder if “bells” will
be discarded next in favor of “o’clock.”
# * * *
“Jacques” : The Australian Jack Tar gets
no grog when he is afloat, and one of the
worst crimes he can commit is to smuggle
a bottle aboard his ship. Probably he
wouldn’t find this so much of a grievance
were it not that the officers from warrant
officer upwards may patronise the ship’s bar
from 11 a.m. till the barman goes to bed.
Thus a 19- or 20-year-old sub-lieutenant
from Jervis Bay has a privilege denied a
petty officer or A.B. of 10 or 20 years’ ser-
vice. The British Navy issues rum daily
to every member of the crew. The Yankee
Navy is absolutely dry, and even an
admiral can get nothing stronger than ginger
ale. The R.A.N. is only half-dry, and this
fact causes more discontent in the ranks
than any other rule.
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: When filling up an
application form for the issue of a passport
recently I asked the applicant what I should
put against the printed query, “Any special
peculiarity?” Came the reply, “Well, I like
a spot occasionally.”
THE PROHIBITED DANCER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At Sydney Central Police Court, Reg Gaskin
said that he* danced from Strathfield to Bondi in
order to ‘boost’ the Rose Day fund. Mr. Gates, C.S.M.,
fined him 2s. ‘Let this serve as a warning to you
people that you cannot dance through the street,’ he
remarked.”
He danced from Strathfield to Bondi,
Weaving amongst the carts and cars;
No half-dressed flappers drew his eye;
He took no notice of the bars;
But concentrated on the class
Of step which was appropriate,
Heedless of the proverbial ass
That watched his feats in silent hate.
To boost the Rose Day fund he danced,
Tangoing harmlessly up hill,
And jazzing mildly when he chanced
On pavements that were flat; yet still
Legality looked coldly on
With hostile eye and visage grim,
And presently, its patience gone,
Incontinently lumbered him.
It is a joyous thing to dance,
■Whether in ballroom or in street,
To circle slowly or to prance
From place to place with leaping feet.
The magistrate who tried our friend
This point, however, could not see.
“Such conduct,” he observed, “must end.”
A two-bob fine was his decree.
How it epitomises Life!
In which a man sets out to please
And promptly stirs up hellish strife;
Thinks lie can boost his funds with ease
By dancing down Graft’s shining path,
And whirls from sunshine into night.
And so to court —his epitaph:
“Guilty, and serve him dam’ well right.”
N.S.W.
J. D.
THE PERJEIIER’S PANOPLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In a recent Sydney case counsel contended that
it was necessary to distinguish between deliberate
falsehoods and litigious enthusiasm.”
“All men are liars,” David said,
And someone else, whoe’er he be,
Has added to that dictum dread
“All married men have got to be.
Artistic detail oft we see
Bridge many a colloquial chasm,
Or, as he styles it, this K.C.:
“Litigious enthusiasm.”
So, when the goodwife, on the mat,
Strikes from your grasp the glowing cray,
Vociferating “Brute, take that;
I don’t believe a word you say,” _ „
Your answer to her “Please explain”
Is only an aberrant spasm,
Due to that fell truth-tellers’ bane,
“Litigious enthusiasm.”
When asks the Angel of the Book
“Why were you such a hardened fibber.
Don’t breast him with a hangdog look
And futile explanations gibber.
Speak up, and show you’re not a worm,
Or even primal protoplasm —
Your shield against the coming storm
“Litigious enthusiasm.”
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


44
JAedve / macU iAed i way 4y
the way tfieyie made ”
■
8
u
i
>
I
I
m
1
£A
M
m
x
>c.
.
■y
i -
/•■;
m
i ’ H?
f;
m
■
■. v:.:
: W:
. ~-y
is
m
i
|i:.:
\
\
t.
There's never the
slightest change In
the Jqnality 7 that
created ana keeps
theHvonderfu 1
refutation of-
Capstan
NAVY CUT
CIGARETTES
ďf


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
===== FAIRFAX & LTD. =====
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
Diamond Rin^s
■l4/10/-
£27/10/
£2O
*'
Kb*
£2i
£3O
!S>
p;p
£2O
£lO/10/-
£lB/18/
Fine diamonds spec-
ially selected for fire
and &ood colour are
imported direct lrom
famous cutters. The
settings of pure plat-
inum and rin&s of 18
ct. &old are made in
our own workrooms,
we can thus offer
exceptional value in
hi&h'&rade rin&s.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
PLAIN
FIQURES
23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney 0 .
CASH
ONLY
o
Finc/t Inland Golf”
link/ in Australia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Nothing better shows the trend of things
in Australia than the performances of the
sons of famous Freetrade fathers. There was
no stouter pillar of the importing faith
than David Storey, who beat even “Toby”
Barton for the then Freetrade stronghold of
ALFRED O’SHEA, Australia’s home-grown
tenor, who might do better if his name
was Ociatti.
Randwick. The managing director of the
old David Storey firm is now the founder’s
son, David Andrew —a Lieut.-Colonel at the
end of the war—who, besides greatly extend-
ing their own manufacturing activities, has
lately joined the board of the big Perdriau
Rubber Co. Even the S. M. Herald, the
high priest in the importers’ shrine, is get-
ting ready to shed its old vestments. The
arriving generation of Fairfaxes has no use
for the old creed.
Sir Eric Geddes, managing director of
Dunlops, who arrives in Australia shortly,
is one of the most highly salaried officials
in the British Empire. He draws £25,000
a year, plus huge expenses and two Rolls
Royce cars kept for his exclusive use. His
staff includes half a dozen knights and
thousands of commoners. At Fort Dunlop
the staff is so big that it maintains a sort
of Parliament to handle its industrial ques-
tions. Of the plant itself there is a saying
in Birmingham that, there are two smiles in
every complete tour of inspection. At the
outset the tourists smile when the guides ask
them if they are good walkers; then, at the
end of a 12-mile tramp through solid streets
of machinery, the guides smile at the
tourists.
The Prince of Wales has a _ more
energetic and brainy publicity organisation
than any living actor. Many of his
adventures which get into the papers, such
as his recent trip up the world's tallest
wireless mast at Rugby ? originate probably
in his own inquiring mind. But when, on
a visit to the East End, he grasps the hands
of war-veterans and miraculously recalls de-
tails of their services in the field lie is
acting under skilled instructions; and when
he impulsively hands the carnation in liis
button-hole to the old lady who has given
six soldier sons to the nation the deed is
rarely unpremeditated. Also, some of the
stories illustrating his democratically
friendly ways are ingenious fabrications.
Princes have to pull the lieges’ legs these
clays—a remark which applies also to kings.
With Bernard Corser’s move to the Fed-
eral arena, the Bananaland Assembly has
lost an old-young inhabitant who has fre-
quented it since he was a youth and whose
fighting methods have been responsible for
many bright moments. It was Bernard who,
when the late Tom Ryan was making one
of his best wartime speeches to crowded
galleries, a half-awed House and a busy
press-bench, tiptoed to the table of the House
and thereon deposited a large placard which
read: “Mind the Splash It only re-
mained a few moments before a clerk souve-
nired it, but it was there quite long enough
to serve its purpose.
Bob Stout, erstwhile Maoriland’s Chief
Justice and twice Premier, is still a Parlia-
mentarian. He sits, very old, but remark-
ably vigorous and forceful, in the Upper
Chamber. He rode an old war-horse of' his
the other day—Demon Alcohol —when he
moved that it was contra bonos mores for
the Public Trustee to carry on business as
a manufacturer of intoxicating drink. The
Trustee administers an estate that includes
a North Island brewery, whose bottled goods
record the fact that he is the publisher.
The Chambah exchanged winks and hurled
the motion through the window by a four-
to-one majority.
James Forrest, who died in Westralia
recently, was a brother of John Forrest, ex-
plorer, State Premier (for 10 years), Fed-
eral Treasurer and finally peer of the realm,
and never forget that he was John’s elder.
When the Federal Minister visited Bussel-
ton about a dozen years ago Jim was presi-
dent of the local agricultural society. Re-
sponding to a toast John reminded his hear-
ers of all they owed him. He had built
the long, long jetty, and he had done more
for Busselton than “any living soul. Br-h-h.”
“Except me,” chipped in Jim, offendedly.
“Yes,” continued John, showing his gold
teeth and getting very red, “more than any-
body. Br-h-h.” “Except me, Jack,” James
persisted. “Shut up, Jim,” roared John
imperiously, and the rest of the fraternal
dialogue was lost in laughter.
Another encouragement is being held out
to Australian fiction writers. The Aus-
tralian Literature Society, which has its
headquarters in Swanston-street, Melbourne,
is awarding a gold medal to the writer of
the best Australian novel published this
year. The author must be Australian-born
or a resident of 15 years’ standing; the
novel may be published in Australia or
elsewhere. The medal will henceforth be
awarded annually, Colonel R. S. Crouch,
who used to sit in the Reps., standing the
cost. Incidentally, the society has been
flourishing on a subscription of a few shil-
lings a year since 1899.
W. H. Ifould, who recently stated that
though Australians are great newspaper con-
sumers only one adult in four ever reads a
book,. is a South Australian, who has been
principal of Sydney Public Library for 16
years. He held a similar billet in Adelaide
before the Ma State captured him. There
is reason to suspect that one of the
three men out of four who don’t read books
is on the Bench, and two who are reported to
have sworn off everything except law reports
are at the Bar, and doing moderately well.
Suing Beckett’s Budget (Sydney) for
libel, ex-Labor Minister Tom Mutch has
been awarded £Bsoo—next to a verdict
obtained by the just-dead George Swinburne,
the highest damages for libel ever obtained
by a politician in Australia. Mutch, one of
the legislative objectors to the Lang despot-
ism, began life as a bush worker, passed
through a clerical job with the Worker to
journalism and thence into Parliament. His
damages might be called a wedding present
—he made his second venture in matrimony
somewhere about the time the proceedings
started.
Lord Hailsham, who, to the surprise of
the political world, is to be England’s acting-
Premier while Baldwin is on his annual
holidays, has seen more of life in his 56
years than any previous Lqrd Chancellor. He
began as a sugar-broker, fought through most
of the Boer War in the ranks, was not called
to the Bar till he was over 30 (but made
£lOOO in his first year there), quadrupled an
enormous income when he took silk, and was
an immediate success when he entered the
House of Commons. He is cherubic in
appearance and conciliatory in manner—the
perfect soother —and was employed by the
Prime Minister latterly, while in the Com-
mons as Sir Douglas Hogg, to handle par-
ticularly contentious measures. The other
aspirants, Churchill and Joynson-Hicks, have
nearly as many enemies between them as the
Lord Chancellor has friends.
Harry Preston, who has been entertaining
Tunney at dinner in company with most of
Britain’s best-known sporting peers and a
galaxy of artistic and literary stars such as
Lavery, Arnold Bennett and Hugh Walpole,
may be described as England’s only fashion-
able pub-keeper. Almost a dwarf in stature,
he is a giant as regards personality, and he
attracts more nota-
bilities to Brighton,
where he runs one
of the smaller
hotels, than any
single individual
since the days
when the Regent
made it his head-
quarters. Preston,
who is now over
70, began his busi-
ness life without a
cent.'
Count HENRY
D’YANVILLE,
General Secretary
of the Permanent
Committee of all
International
Eucharistic Con-
gresses, who had
the ill-fortune to
fall sick almost
immediately on
his arrival in
Sydney.
George Mills, who lately flew from Syd-
ney to Brisbane on a Moth ’plane in
6 hours 40 minutes, non-stop, was, like Ross
Smith, one of the many Light Horsemen
who abandoned the bridle rein for the joy-
stick during the war. He was a lieutenant
in the Ist A.L.H. when he took to himself
wings, but his active career was cut short
by a shrapnel burst while observing over
Shelall (Southern Palestine). This left
him with a maimed arm, but that has not
interfered with his enthusiasm for flying; he
is a v.p. of the Aero Club. His passenger
to Brisbane was a regimental cobber, Wal
Sliiers, who went over to the Air Force at
the same time. He and Sergeant Bennett,
who was killed with Ross Smith in a crash
in England, were the mechanics on the Ross
Smith-Keitli Smith flight to Australia.
Colonel E. T. Leane, who died recently
at Camberwell (Vic.), was a South Aus-
tralian with a distinguished war record which
began in the South African disturbance,
where lie served with the Imperial Bushmen,
being twice mentioned in despatches. In
the later struggle his service with the Ord-
nance Corps included Gallipoli and France,
where he commanded the corps and was a
member of Monash’s H.Q. staff. After re-
turning to Australia ho was for a time Ad-
ministrator of Norfolk Island. Brigadier-
General Leane, South Australia’s Commis-
sioner of Police, is a brother.
Dr. H. W. Kerr, just back in his native
Brisbane after four years of research work
in the sugar industry on behalf of the Queens-
land Government, is a leading authority on
the growth and preparation of the sub-
stance that lends so much zest to hot water,
lemon and the other ingredient. During his
tour he has visited every leading sugar-pro-
ducing country in the world, iucluding the
Continental beet centres. In addition he
attended the first International Congress of
Soils Science in America, and the Imperial
Agricultural Research Conference in London.
R. F. Millane, the Melbourne man who
gives Judges, officials, municipalities and
others a bad time occasionally by attempting
to make ancient law operative to serve a
purpose he has in view, is a son of a former
civil servant who propounded a scheme for
an overhead railway across the northern end
of inner Melbourne, with a station close to
Lonsdale and Swanston streets. Mainly on
account of R. F. Millane’s appearances in
the Supreme Court a bill relating to vexa-
tious actions was introduced by the Hogans
last session, but Blackburn, a Labor legal
light, blocked it.
Lord Banbury, who has got into the Aus-
tralian cables by saying to a fellow-
R.S.P.C.A.-ite “I don’t know who the hell
you are,” has the combativeness that might
be expected of England’s most rabid Tory.
Love of animals is one of his traits, but he
confines his affections practically to horses
and dogs, which is why he is constantly in
trouble at R.S.P.C.A. meetings. He will
not admit, for instance, that foxes have
rights. Gameness is another of his virtues.
Last summer he saw a carter ill-treating a
horse and, though a frail, smallish man of
78, he closed with the offender, confiscated
his whip, and also hung on to him till a
policeman, arrived. Then he gave the carter
in charge, and appeared against him in court
a few days later. He lost his only son, a
Guards officer, early in the war.
Tasmania lost one of its hest-loved priests
when Father Thomas Kelsli, of Westbury,
passed on recently at 85. Born in Hobart,
lie was ordained in Bt. John’s Lateran
Church, Rome, in 18(57, and returned to the
Speck, to be for years a member of the
University Council and a frequent contri-
butor to the Catholic press of Australia.
For 27 years he has been in charge of the
Westbury parish. He celebrated his diamond
jubilee last year.
Hyman Goldstein, M.L.A. for Coogee,
Sydney, has been added to tbe list of “suc-
cessful” men who have died tragically;
his body was found at Suicide Point
in his electorate. Short-sighted and a victim
of insomnia, he fell over in the dark, a
coroner’s jury reported. Goldstein was proud
of starting with £2 in his pocket and building
up a prosperous furniture business. He also
owned a valuable city block, and was other-
was considered wealthy. Politically he was a
hard worker and an inveterate interjector,
and when he presided over the Randwick
repatriation committee he earned the repu-
tation of being one of the best chairmen of
such committees 'in N.S.W.
A fine classical scholar and a schoolmaster
of quiet distinction was J. Reford Corr,
who died in Perth lately at 74. He came of
North of Ireland stock, but spent nearly all
his life in Australia. For many years he
was headmaster of the Methodist Ladies’
•College, Melbourne; he finished active teach-
ing at the Perth Modern School 10 years
ago. A brother is well remembered at King’s
School, Parramatta. Only last June the
veteran took his Master of Laws degree
(for which he had qualified nearly half a
century earlier) at Melbourne Uni. He
owned what was probably the best-stocked
private library in W.A.
George Swinburne, who died very sud
denly in the Vic. House of Landlords last
week, was one of those engineers who know-
how to make commercial use of their experi-
ence. Deciding that mere consulting work
was no good and that a salaried job was
worse, he looked around for small invest-
ments from which he could win board fees,
and one of the first he found was the Broken
Hill Water Supply. That was a ticklish
job : the co. had only a limited franchise —
21 years or so —at the end of which time the
whole concern, box and dice, went to the
State for nix. The problem was to keep the
Brig.-Gen. LEANS, S.A. Police Commis-
sioner, who is asking Parliament for
more power under the Lottery and
Gaming Act.
works going for the full period without spend-
ing any money on them ; and Swinburne and
his keen local manager Whitehead managed
it. His success there got him a place on the
Mt. Lyell board ; and he was widely known
as a gas-company administrator. He was
rather too grim for politics ; still liis abilities
soon won him a portfolio. The Methodies
will miss him.
UNKNOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“As the maddened horses tore into Liverpool-street
one man of many who must have realised that a
smash was inevitable rushed from the footpath and
sprang at their heads in an effort to catch the trail-
ijjg reins. Just as he looked to be succeeding he
became entangled in the harness and was dragged
along and trampled to death.... He was evidently a
poor man, to judge by his shabby clothes. His
body awaits identification at the morgue.”
— S. M. Herald.
Ask, but it may be vain, who was it gave
Unasked hi s life he knew not whom to save.
Hidden the answer in a pauper’s grave,
With never stone _
To mark it, never line to testify
Who rests below or how he came to. die.
Like many another hero he must lie
Unknown.
Not his in war’s red comradeship to fall.
But ’mid the pipes of peace a bugle-call
Comes ever and anon to manhood all.
Here one alone
Of all who heard what clattering hoofs
conveyed
No moment waited and no peril weighed ;
Unknown ho ventured, and the reckoning
paid
Unknown.
Only a battler, shabby, penniless;
One of life’s failures, you might almost guess.
By all the worldly standards of success.
Let this atone
For all, aye, make a thousandfold amend:
Friendless, mayhap, he perished to befriend
He knew not whom, and found a hero’s end.
Unknown.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Vi KEN BiNKS CONSIDERS BRUCE ANO PaGiE,
Amd his State
Parliament ,
PAY UP and
GET OUT.
Amo h\s citv pathers ;
And his union^
And his fanout.
This is
HOW BiNK.S<
Feeus .
ITS EFFECT ON BINKS.
"Dr. Northcott, addressing the Sydney Constitutional Club, said that a country got the government it deserved."


“Acknowledged Leaders in the SPORT World”
n
Mm
%
am
I
i
■rsms.
waflwaw
ul!
<,v, Hh3wai^£sS
A
-;-
.^*
*r>
S.
iSZ*.
r
«
Australia’s Finest Displays of
Everything for the Grand Old Game!
New Shipments Just Landed
The “BIG 4” in Bats
The insistent demand for these four lines last season was ample testimony
as to their undoubted popularity amongst all grades of players and clubs.
Bach one is a supreme product of a world-famous maker, exceptionally keen
priced.
M.S. “Tornadic” Driver
All Cane Treble Rubber Handle, flexible spring,
fitted with grip. A perfect Bat to handle, with
splendid playing qualities. It is re- ,
markable value at the price JL JL/“
Stuart Surridge
“Invincible Driver”
Selected dark willow blade, patent cane, rubber,
and cork flexible handle, fitted with grip, and
perfectly balanced. Represents the
highest example of cricket bat crafts- . .
ship 4 D/-
Stuart Surridge “Cert Driver”
Fitted with patent springy handle and well-sea-
soned blade, it is a Bat that will give np /
thorough satisfaction. Keenly priced at uO/ ~
Duke & Son “County Driver”
Specially made to the specifications of Mr. War-
ren Bardsley j and designed purposely for Aus-
tralian conditions. Beautifully flexible handle,
dark willow blade, with plenty of wood
and well-balanced. Selected, 30/-. or /
Specially Selected Oo/ m
s*l
SPEC
m
An Incomparable Collection of
Specially Selected Bats by World-Famous Makers
STUART SURRIDGE:
Oval Driver 19/6
Daisy Cutter 30/-
Standard Driver 26/
Velocity Driver 37/6
Lightning Driver 35/-
Rapid Driver 35/-
Rapid Driver, specially 39/-
selected
Rapid Driver, “The Perfect” .. 54/-
M.S. SPECIAL:
M.S. All Cane, special practice . 13/9
GUNN & MOORE’S:
Cannon 33/6
Antograpli, Special . . . 42/6
Autograph, X Special .. 48/6
Autograph, Star 50/-
interstate, Special .. .. 42/-
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
Practice 25/-
Union or Empire 32/6
Autograph 45/-
Australian Test 50/-
DUKE & SONS:
Warren Bardsley Autograph, 1 Crown, 397-
Warren Bardsley, Autograph, 2 Crown, 407-
Warren Bardsley, Autograph, 3 Crown, 457-
Warren Bardsley, Autograph, 4 Crown, 50/-
NICHOLLS’:
Champion, Practice Driver 257-
Velocity Driver 37/G
Automatic, Specially Selected 457-
Perfection 50/-
df
Men’s Leg: Guards
All Leather Guards are made of
Selected N.Z. Roan. Pair
White Twill, strong -t-t /a
made 11/0
Tan, strong club guard 14/6
Special Gold Cape, supe-
rior, 3 roll knee .. .. 17/6
G'old Cape, specially de-
signed by a leading
Australian batsman .. 19/6
Gold Cape, for wicket-
keepers, extra large
tops 23/6
Half Skeleton, best quality iu /c
Gold Cape 1»/D
White Chrome, for wic-
ketkeepers, extra large
tops 25/-
All fited with Continuous Straps
Leather Cricket
Men’s Gauntlets
Gold Cape, superior qual- Pair
ity, padded and ven-
tilated .. .... .. .. 13/6
M.S. Little Giant, select-
ed leather, padded Anger
tips, padded rubber
palms, back strap .. .. 21/-
M.S. Giant, selected lea-
ther, extra large, padded
Anger tips, tape Anger
supports, leather thumb-
cups, padded rubber
palms, with back strap 24/-
Men’s Batting Gloves
Patent Surrey Shield,
red rubber .. . 6/6
Gold Caps, white points,
well padded . . 9/-
df
“Perla” Double Wicket Coir Mat ‘Classic’ Dble Wckt. Canvas Mat
Leather bound, color green, two-piece 6ft. wide, full
size metal eyelets and spike.
Heavy £B/10/-
• v £9/107-
Extra Heavy ..
Leather bound, color green, two-piece, 6ft. wide, full
size, heavy quality, specially prepared. Hard wic-
kets made similar to turf.
Complete with spikes £7/17/6
df
(Carriage Paid on all Cricket Requisites, except Cricket Mats, which are sent
carriage free in N.S.W., and half-freight to Interstate Ports or Railway Stations.)
Mick Simmons’ New Cricket Catalogue should be in the hands of every Club
Secretary and Player. Copy post free.
1C
immons
'drd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney
“Australia's Largest Sports Outfitters H
df


d
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDEk
Total Assets exceed ....... £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2> In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Sat.) .. “The Student Prince
Royal “The Silent House’’
Criterion “Other Men’s Wives”
Palace (com. Saturday) “Bird in Hand”
Empire (com. Friday) .... “Annie Laurie” & “Eris”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s (com. Sat.) .... “The Desert Song’
Royal “The Patsy
New Comedy (com. Sat.) .. “All the King’s Horses
King’s “The Donovan Affair”
Athenaum “White Collars’
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
With his never very strong voice sub-
merged in the whiskers of the elderly student.,
Enzo Loinanto made an unpromising begin-
ning in “Faust” on Monday of last week;
but despite the orchestra and the vocal
superiority of Umberto di Lelio such items
as the “Salve Dimara” were rendered in a
way that showed fine artistic judgment.
Lelio played the Devil with a masterly man-
agement of Mephistophelean humors. Hina
Spani made Marguerite’s “Jewel Son” a
spangle of bright sounds and vivacity, and
passed on to the ultimate tragedy with a
pathos that stirred a house fired by familiar
music and all too ready to interrupt the
march of events with applause. Angelo
Pilotto would have been a better Sebastian
but for the irritating vibrato which he evi-
dently regards as a decoration to his vocal
work; Giuseppi was a worthy Wagner, Car-
men Tornari a graceful Siebel, and Ida Man-
narini an admirable Martha. The trans-
formation of Faust was well worked; but
the fire which should have come into the
wine with which Mephistopheles toasts Mar-
guerite arrived late. The chorus did its
share admirably.
* =!: * *
Something entirely new was introduced in
“Ludoletta” on Thursday night; the cold-
ness of the house subtly indicated the unfam-
iliar opera. There is some fine stuff in
Mascagni’s opera; but, generally, the thin
orchestration and the rambling structure of
the piece made it so dull that its brevity—
it was over at 10.30 —and its spirited ending
were its highest recommendations. Built on
a “Ouida” novel, the tale is full of senti-
mentality, absurd even in grand opera.
VERA SPAULL, who has a good part in “The Student Prince,”
which is to reappear at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
Lodoletta, a village girl who desires a pair of
red wooden shoes as a birthday present,
gets them as the result of a payment made
to her foster-father. Antonio, by the roaming
artist Flammen for the right to copy a
Madonna in the peasant’s possession. The
artist, meeting Lodoletta, obtains permission
to paint her portrait, with the result that
the villagers, and even her lover, Gianetto,
suspect the worst. Flammen goes away, but
unable to forget, returns to find that his
affinity has fled from the insults of the vil-
lage. The trite ending is Lodoletta’s death
in the snow outside the villa where Flammen
is entertaining his friends —his recognition
of the little red shoes is supposed to stir a
tear or so. The tragedy is necessary, or
course, to provide the death essential to grand
opera; but it also provides the best music of
the play. Toti dal Monte made the most of
the heroine’s musical properties, although the
part belongs more properly to a dramatic
soprano. Minghetti was a sweet-toned Flam-
men, and the Giannotto of Emilio Ghirar-
dini was as good as the poor material
allowed.
$ $
The promised “Carmen” performance was
cancelled at the last moment, Giuseppina
Zinetti’s absence with laryngitis being the
reason for cutting a show for which the tireu
chorus did not shape well at rehearsal.
Saturday night’s audience was well satisfied
with “Pagliacci” and “Cavalleria Rusti-
caua.”
* * * *
This week sees the finish of the season.
Last night (Tuesday) “II Tabaro” and
“Gianni Schicchi” were due as a double bill;
this afternoon “Madam Butterfly” flutters
back, with “Tosca” for the night perform-
ance, and “Aida” comes on Thursday. On
Friday afternoon a mixed bill of scenes from
four different operas will provide the com-
pany's farewell after a season of 10 weeks
which the management should be able to
look back on with satisfaction.
* # *
An orgie of change is about to strike Syd-
ney theatres. Next Saturday night “The
Student Prince” will come to Her Majesty’s,
returning under J.C.W. auspices, with Bep-
pie de Vries as the lady beloved of royalty.
Simultaneously Drinkwater’s “Bird in
Hand,” done by the Gregan McMahomsts,
will flutter into the Palace. The following
Saturday will see the Royal with a new
tenant; Maurice Moscovitch’s “The Silent
House” is in its last week, and after the
theatre has been aired Leon Gordon intro-
duces “Interference,” which has been threat-
ened for two years. The Criterion will bid
farewell to the artistic Margaret Banner-
man next week and welcome “The Patsy”
on the Saturday. The Empire makes a par-
tial change on Friday, substituting “Annie
Laurie” and “Eris” for the present bill.
“Rio Rita” remains unaffected by the aval-
anche around it, and marches on towards its
200th performance, keeping the St. James
well occupied. Allan Wilkie is still doing
the suburbs. To-
night he is at Aub-
urn.; Rockdale will
see him on Thurs-
day and Friday.
¥ *
To-night and on
Saturday Alfred
O’Shea will air his
vocal chords at the
Sydney Town Hall,
where William
Heughan is to re-
appear on the fol-
lowing Saturday.
* ¥ *
The “Workshop
Theatre,” which
has it habitat at
Burdekin House, is
departing from its
routine to present
three Grand Guig-
nol plays on Sep-
tember 19, 20, 21
and 22 —Crawshaw
Williams’s “N ut-
cracker Suit e,”
Perigord’s “Im-
promptu in A flat”
and A. A. Milne’s
“The Man in the
Bowler Hat.” The
venture is to raise
funds for its real
objective—the pro-
duction of plays by
local authors.
* * *
Pepito, the latest
star in the Sydney
Tivoli firmament,
has a female contor-
tionist and a male
acrobat to do
straight work as a
background to the
Spanish down’s
own fooling; .his
trick-cytding is as
humorous as his
imitations of birds and animals are admirable,
Barnes and Barnes add some eccentric dances
to the programme; and Con-lon and Glass
reap a harvest of laughs with their non-
sensical farrago, Morning, Noon and Night.
„ * * * _ . „ r
In _ The Honeymoon Trail Gayle Wyer
and his merry men and women cuase laughter
in a riotous manner at Fullers (Sydney) ;
and occasionally some member of. the co..
mostly Heather Jones, sings a lilting song,
A newcomer is Rene Dixon, a dancer, upon
whose work Fullers’ patrons have placed the
stamp of noisy approval.
Kate Howard has been filling a vacancy
at the Newtown (Sydney) Majestic with
“Possum Paddock,” which has been almost
as good an asset to the lady as “On Our
Selection” to Bert Bailey. The Australian
melodrama may be crude, but it carries an
abundance of knockabout humor. S. A Fitz-
gerald (who is Jim Gerald’s parent) is a
likeable old Dad, and Walter Cornock is
amongst those pre-
sent as Dad’s off-
spring. The com-
pany stages “The
Limit” on Satur-
day.
¥ ¥ *
A remarkable fea-
ture of “Four
Sons” at the
Regent (Sydney)
is the fine acting of
the old lady who
has been made a
screen star at 60.
Hoyt’s De Luxe
has the picture ver-
sion of “The Patsy,”
which is to appear
in its play form
at the Criterion
shortly. Victor
Hugo’s “Les Miser-
ables,” shown at
the Lyceum, suffers
from an attempt to
include too much
of the story. The
Capitol, in “Happi-
ness Ahead,” pos-
sesses a bit of
brightness mainly
sustained by Col-
leen Moore; but
“His Tiger Lady”
is an overdressed
and ridiculous film
which adds nothing
to Menjou’s screen
stature.
V # ¥
Benno Moisei-
witsch’s farewell to
Melbourne took the
form of a concert
of concertos at the
Town Hall, deliv-
ered in conjunction
with the University
Orchestra, under
Bernard Heinze’s
wand. The function
developed into a
good-bye to Heinze
as well, as that talented conductor is about
to tour the world in search of new musical
ideas. The pianist waded through the Opus
18 concerto of Rachmaninoff and the Opus
23 of Tschaibowsky with his usual careful
charm, and the orchestral contribution was
a cheerful and witty rendering of the famous
Nutcracker suite.
* ¥ *
John Brownlee gave two magnificent fare-
well concerts at Melb. Town Hall last week,
and music-lovers did their part by arriving
in such numbers that some of them had to
be turned away. A large proportion of the
houses hailed from Geelong, and it is said
that on one of the nights an enterprising-
house agent sold that city to a visitor under
the plea that it had been abandoned by its
owners. The great Victorian singer’s final
appearance will be as Elijah In the Phil-
harmonic Society”s outburst of the same
at the civic hall on Saturday.
* * *
“Wattle Farm,” by Tod and William
Stewart, an Australian play to be seen
at Melbourne Palace, is a wild and whirling
chronicle with three love affairs. The prin-
cipal one concerns the inevitable mortgage
and the girl that went wrong but later took
the right turning. She has a baby by the
villain, and the dingo-hearted coward steals
the creature. The baby gets drowned but
recovers, and turns up later at the age of
two. In the meantime the mother has gone
mad —Miss Agnes Dobson, is supremely
satisfying as the bush Ophelia. The return
of the infant from a watery grave restores
the mother’s sanity, and as the playwright
has previously taken the precaution to
marry her to the hero in time to legitimatise
the offspring all is joy in the living-room
at Wattle Farm. The piece raises some
hearty laughs, and there is pathos which
crowded houses are finding not too deep
for tears. Bertie Wright’s low comedy ns
a tower of strength, and Ned Ayr, as a
good policeman, works <out his comic equa-
tions to the last vulgar fraction. Noni
Brennan stiffly poses herself about the rural
picture as a visitor from the city.
* * *
If Barrie continues along the lines of
“Shell We Join the Ladies?”, the one-acter
which was added to “Belinda” at Melb.
Comedy last week, he may yet turn the mys-
tery play into an intelligent entertainment.
This production thrills and charms none the
less for not being cluttered up with corpses
and complicated with sliding panels and
green-eyed cats with fatal claws, and it is
distinguished by the really admirable butler
of Norman McKinnel. “The High Road”
will come on Saturday.
# * *
“The Desert Song” will be sung with
appropriate accompaniment at Melb. Maj-
esty’s on Saturday.
# # *
The Gong Theatre Club hopes to go off
ADELE CRANE, who has been touring with “The Student
Prince” and will be in the Williamson revival of that
money-maker at Her Majesty’s on Saturday night.
with a bang on Saturday at 174 Queen-
street, Melbourne. The Gong is a new pro-
fessional organisation dedicated to the
serious drama. A. A. Milne’s “The Lucky
One” will be its opening gun.
* * *
The producers of “The Patsy” at Mel-
bourne Royal continue to inspire helpless
rage and envy in the breasts of all other
entrepreneurs. Miss Homer is now in her
twelfth week of winning a fortune £or her-
self and management. The lights continue to
go on and off at the King’s, where “The
Donovan Affair” pursues its corpse-strewn
way; and “White Collars,” at the Athenaeum,
is still successfully postponing the inevit-
able visit to the laundry. “The Girl in the
Limousine” tottered into a deserved oblivion
at the Princess last week.
* * *
There is evidently an unlimited supply
of stories of the celluloid Cinderella who
catches the eye of the Prince Charming
with a chain of hardware stores or millions
in real estate. This week’s specimen at
Hoyt’s Melbourne house is “The Patsy,”
also being shown elsewhere in the flesh. The
Majestic’s draw is “Sailor Izzy Murphy, ’
which is as full of laughs as a bin of bottles.
* V- *
Woman has come into, her own again in
Adelaide shows. At the York, Billie Dove
proves that a New York Follies girl can
have a Heart. At Wondergraph, Dolores
Costello is swinging on a bell —a familiar old
stunt —to save her lover ; and at the Pav.
another Dolores, Del Rio, agonises (very
cleverly) in. close-ups over the loss of all her
family in turn. At the Regent—which has
just installed a £25,000 organ—Victor
McLaglen has all the chances, with a
Girl in every Port. The Royal and the
Prince of Wales are just waking up for
Show Week; and grand opera is promised
at the former almost immediately.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : When Irving staged
“Robespierre” in London more than a score
of years ago, Kyrle Bellew was in the cast.
Even then Ellen Terry’s memory was very
bad, though not guilty of pranks so extraordi-
nary as it played in later days. Bellew told
me he never went through a more difficult
performance. He had to follow Miss Terry
round the stage and prompt her for almost
every sentence.


Longer Service, Better Service, Cheaper Service
<2
$
«
S^3MO\2
These are the three essentials you expect from
your belting equipment and where sheer effi-
ciency is the goal, the best belting is always the
most economical.
You can instal
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
throughout your plant with the full assurance that it will give 100 per cent, satisfactory
service, provided the right belt is used on every drive. Our expert advice is always at your
disposal.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell '& Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
■ Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Why the Alexander Hamilton Institute
is different—
'V r OU can dip into it at any point and find immediately
a practical method, plan or idea, worked out and proved,
which you can put to work at once.
Altogether there are 5271 practical business ideas. "Forging
Ahead in Business,” which contains full information about
the Course and Service, is yours for the asking.
Send for it
Alexander Hamilton Institute
IX CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, n.s.w.
B 6
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Toohey’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 46,968 8 p.c. = 32,000 14,968 192,745
1919.. 45,974 8 ~ „ 32,000 13,974 206,719
Reserves capitalised, £37,500 .. 169,219
1920.. 64,726 81 p.c.= 37,954 26,772 195,991
1921.. 73,273 9*,, „ 45,901 27,372 223,363
1922.. 82,856 9 „ „ 50,360 32,496 255,859
1923.. 96,899 9 „ „ 59,218 37,681 293.510
1924.. 117,570 9 „ „ 67,494 50,070 343,616
1925. . 129,132 9 „ „ 83,498 45,634 389,250
1926.. 147.915 9 ~ „ 90,000 57,915 447,165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492,591
1928.. 168,449 10 „ „ 120,000 48,449 541,040
The rout of the Dry army at the polls in
N.S.W. was so complete that it surprised
even the trade. Early in the campaign a
few timorous holders of Toohey’s scrip rushed
into the market with selling orders, and
the price declined sharply from 30s. to 255.
3d. That was in April, but there was a
prompt recovery to 275.; then quotes per-
sistently strengthened until 325. 6d. was
paid just before polling-day.
For the year to July 31 the board wrote
gross profits at £768,254, which was £24,730
better than the previous year’s figure. And
despite heavy expenditure in connection with
the recent fight exes. (£584,806) were up only
£15,391, their ratio to gross profit being 76.1
p.c. as against 76.5 p.c. in 1927. After
allowing for depreciation the increase in the
year’s net result was £9345. But since the
average capital at work was £63,250 greater
the ratio of net profit to average capital was
14 p.c. compared with 14, 14.7, 13.9 and 15.8
p.c. back to 1924 —it all gives the 10 p.c. div.
a very comfortable appearance. They are
excellent results considering the heavy in-
flow of new capital over the last five years.
The next comparison shows how net profits
have moved in relation to average funds
(capital and reserves combined) :
Average Net Written Profit p.c.
Funds. Profit. Off. of Funds.
1915.. £647,041 £60,206 £lO,OOO 11.0
1917.. 574,822 36,909 10,000 6.4
1919.. 599,732 45,974 10,000 7.7
1921.. 714,321 73,273 15,000 10.2
1923.. 922,393 96,899 15,000 10.5
1w24.. 1,067,091 117.570 15,000 11.0
1925.. 1,266,228 129,132 15,000 10.2
1926.. 1,418,003 147,915 15,000 10.4
1927.. 1,606,628 159,101 15,000 9.9
1928.. 1,692,591 168,449 15,000 9.9
To pay 10 p.c. on capital as it stood at the
close of accounts total funds at July 31
had to earn only 6.8 p.c.
Since the beginning of the century the
board has followed a conservative policy,
keeping divs. down and sending substantial
sums to reserves. East year’s distribution
called for less than three-quarters of the net
earnings, and over the last five years approxi-
mately 34 p.c. of the declared net profit
has remained in the business; thus . 7s. 3d.
had been visibly accumulated to assist earn
divs. for each 16s. share at July 31.
Although the book value of the brewery,
plant, etc., is now over 34 times grfeater
than it was eight years ago the visible allow-
ance for depreciation of plant, etc., is un-
altered at £15,000. The amount, which is not
included with profits in the table, is probably
whisked away to inner reserves, liberal pro-
vision, no doubt, being made for all known
contingencies before the p. and 1. balance
is written in. Year after year the board
gives its assurance that plant has been main-
tained in a high state of efficiency, and the
cost charged to revenue. Still, assaults upon
the trade are frequent, and a brewery can
never be certain how much it might have to
spend in order to protect its investments.
Now that the recent referendum is out of
the way the position in that respect is
easier than it was, but nobody is certain that
financial stress may not be lurking around
the next corner, or what the effects of such
a contingency might be.
Here is a view of the expanding business
as balance-sheet figures disclose it: —
1920. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £485,149 £999,591 £1,199,097 £1,200,000
Liabilities 91,320 309,225 379,848 493,656
Breweries,
hotels, etc. 442,379 1,114,334 1,445,203 1,546,053
Stocks .. 175,815 183,779 169,145 156,343
Book debts 158,445 445,011 517,603 581,897
Cash & public
securities 22,775 13,452 19,556 25,403
Since 1920 £714.851 of new capital has
come in, and £345,049 has been visibly added
to reserves. Over the same period £1,103,674
more was spent on the brewery, hotels, etc.,
than was written off. Last year the increase
in their book value was £100,850. To do all
this the co. has gone a bit into debt. Last
year £113,808 was added to the bill,. but
the shrinkage in the more or less liquid
surplus (£269,987), including stocks, was
only £56,469.
Mindful of the absence of price-cutting in
the trade the market views the expansion
with equanimity and looks with confi-
dence to the future. After allowing for the
final div. the return at the current price
(325. Id.) is only 5.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to 235. 3d.
in net tangibles for each 16s. share.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 27,181 8 p.c. = 20.800 6,381 6,381
1919.. 44,357 8 „ „ 20,800 23,557 29,938
1920 148,665 13 , „ 41,900 ( 10 i, 70 3
Reserves capitalised, £35,000 )
Loss.
1921.. 31,367 Nil 70,336
Profits.
1922.. 66,132 124 p.c. = 50,000 16,132 86,468
1923.. 75,070 124 „ 50,000 25,070 111,538
1924.. 60,682 10 „ ~ 40,000 20,682 132,220
Loss.
1925.. 61,948 5 „ ~ 20,000 50,272
Profits.
1926.. 38,448 7 ~ ~ 28,000 10,448 60,720
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,854
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Prices in the raw-hide and skin markets
strengthened about 18 p.c. last year. Also
there was a steady demand for wool, and the
year closed with bids about 10 p.c. stronger
than they were at the beginning of the season.
Mainly because of this and a bigger turnover
this co.’s net profit sprang £11,559 last
year, reaching 14.6 p.c. on capital compared
with 11.7, 19.6, a loss, 15.1 and 18.7 p.c.
back to 1923. The div. was lifted a couple
of points, but nearly one-third of the year's
net earnings remained in the business, mak-
ing the visible lay-by equal to 6s. 4d. per
share at June 30. That, however, is subject
to an unspecified amount of goodwill. It is
believed to be small, but is covered up in the
blanket item embracing all the fixed assets.
During the year the board decided that the
depreciation and renewals reserve (£32,000)
was no longer required for that purpose and
tossed it in with general reserves, now
£125,000. The d. and r. reserve had been
built up, as opportunity offered, during the
past decade.
Only a very small part of the co.’s busi-
ness, which is spread over all the States in
the Commonwealth, is done on a commission
basis. That means that profits are largely
governed by price movements in the over-
seas markets for the raw products in which
the co. trades. The immediate outlook there
is one of firm prices and a steady demand.
However, price fluctuations have played some
queer tricks with this co.’s accounts, as the
1921 and 1925 figures indicate. For the first
half of the latter year results justified 5 n.c.
being handed to shareholders, but during
the second half the co. was caught with
heavy stocks on a falling market, and what
looked like a decent profit half-way through
the term was turned into a loss of £61,948
at the end of the year. That makes clear
the necessity for substantial reserves, and
capital will be none the worse for a little
more support than it now has. Also a lot
depends upon what was provided for con-
tingencies before the year’s final nrofit
figure was written into the sheet. All that
can be said definitely in that respect is that
those in control have graduated in the
business and should know the risks.
The year’s satisfactory trading is reflected
in this comparison of balance-sheet figures :
1921. 1924. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities .. 203,915 130,772 212,971 189,315
Fixed assets.. 299,935 320,603 311,384 324,706
Stocks .. 191,411 248,141 183,954 194,097
Book debts .. 179.618 123,459 224,289 235,612
Cash .. .. 13,439 1,947 1,199 1,448
The cut of £23,656 in the debt is wholly on
account of amounts held in suspense
(£17,580). The more or less liquids
(£431,157), including stocks, were streng-
thened by £21,715 during the year; thus
the improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£241,842) amounted to £45,371.
Stocks (£194,097) were up £10,143, and in
view of the high prices now ruling much
depends upon the figure at which they were
written. It is worth noting, however, that
they are only at little more than two-thirds
of the 1924 figure.
Mindful of the risks the market pays
only 235. 6d. for the scrip. The return at
that figure, after allowing for the div. (25.),
is 9.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis Of the
net asset backing (265. 4d.) 16s. 3d. is in
fixed assets, including goodwill, mentioned
above. Since the present co. reamalga-
mated the old-established, businesses of
George Wilcox and William Mofflin, in 1917,
shareholders have had an average of 81 p.c.
Cox Brothers (Aust.), Ltd.
This is the latest reshuffle of the Cox Bros.’
drapery and home-furnishing businesses. It
represents an amalgamation of Cox Bros.,
Ltd., Vic., Cox Bros. (Tasmania), Ltd., and
Cox Bros. (Adelaide), Ltd. Originally the
business was Cox Bros. Pty., Ltd., which
was formed into a public co. in 1923. The
latter then floated the Hobart and Adelaide
branches into subsidiaries, in which it held
all the ordinary shares. The idea was to
attract fresh capital in order to provide for
the expansion of the respective businesses.
This the public put up in 9 p.c. prefs. The
next move was the formation of a central
holding and finance co., Cox Bros. Invest-
ments, Ltd., which has a paid capital of
£132,662 in 82,500 9 p.c. prefs. and 82,500
ords. —only 10s. is paid on 64,676 of the
latter. This co. bought all the ordinary
shares (£22,887) in Cox Bros., Ltd., for
£54,500, and put them in its own books at
that figure. The balance of its funds has
been lent to the three trading concerns at
7 p.c. The pref. shares in each of the four
cos. and the ords. in the Investment co. were
listed.
The various floats having served their pur-
pose it was decided to eliminate much of the
now useless duplication and overlapping of
interests by amalgamating the activities of
the three trading cos. and consolidating their
independent pref. issues. It was for this
purpose that the present co. was formed in
January last; thus the number of cos. has
been reduced from four to two, and the
position has become less confusing to in-
vestors. The amalgamation was effected on
a share-for-share basis, after the ordinary
capital in the three traders, which is all held
by the Investment Co., was written up from
£22,887 to £82,500 by capitalising reserves
and increasing goodwill to £42,070. Thus
Cox Bros. (Australia), Ltd., set out with
a paid capital of £165,068, in 83,400 9 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 82,500 ords. —a few prefs.
were issued for cash.
Compared with the combined figures of the
three trading cos. for 1927 results for th"
year to July 31 last show a spring of
£7427 in gross profit (£47,257) and of £2282
in exes. (£21,791), so the net result benefited
by £5145. reaching £25,466. After the prefs.
were allotted their £7428 the balance
(£18,038) was equal to 21.8 p.c. on the ord.
capital. For the first half of the term the ords.
were handed £2861; that was l on the old
capital. For the second half the div. was at
the rate of 20 p.c. p.a. on the ord. capital
as written up. The £ll,lll distributed was
13.4 p.c. on the ord. capital as it stood at
the close of accounts (£82,500). That left
£6927 (26 p.c.) of the year’s net earnings
in the business to offset goodwill, already re-
ferred to. In addition there is £6434 re-
served for taxation and insurance.
At July 31 tangible assets totalled
£282,676, of which £195,122 (69 p.c.) repre-
sented book debts, mostly on a t.-p. basis.
No hint is given as to what provision has
been been made for contingencies, and much
depends upon that and the care with which
credits have been selected. Stocks figure
at £45,894; csah, £232. Liabilities tot up
to 134,351, including deposits of £91,896,
mostly from the Investment Co., a mort-
gage of £4OOO, and £14,666 on overdraft.
Thus the more or less liquid surplus, in-
cluding stocks, amounted to £106,897. Free-
hold was in at cost, £21,299; leasehold,
£3546; plant, etc., £16,582.
The market measures up the risks and
prices the prefs. at a trifle under par. They
have priority as to capital, and the cover
amounts to 31s. 6d. in net tangibles. Last
year’s net profit was over three times their
annual requirements. The cover for the
ords. amounts to 11s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1918.. 25,168 7 p.c. = 14,403 10,765 24,909
1919.. 26,216 7 „ „ 14,403 11,813 36,722
1920.. 26,360 7 „ ~ 14,403 11,957 48,679
1921.. 12,174 7 „ „ 14,578 46,275
1922.. 32,978 8 „ „ 16,860 16,118 62,393
1923.. 33,740 8 „ „ 16,860 16,880 79,273
1924.. 42,047 8 „ „ 17,372 24,675 103,948
1925.. 43,724 10 „ „ 30,007 13,717 117,665
1926.. 50,838 10 „ „ 31,613 19,225 136,890
1927.. 54,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122' 157,012
Written off, £6OOO .. .. .. 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.d. = 39,820 16,253 167,265
Despite a definite shrinkage in the quantity
of wool and live stock handled the board of
this Sydney co., which does a large pas-
toral and pastoral finance business in N. S.
Wales and Queensland, was able to write
the year’s net profit £1524 better than the
1927 figure. That was because of an all-
round strengthening in values. Wool aver-
aged over £25 per bale, or more than £2
above the previous season’s average. The sur-
prise of the year was the recovery of the in-
dustry in Queensland, where, despite drought
in the west and nor’-west of the State, sales
showed an increase of 25,836 bales and
£1,217,060. Sydney prices for crossbred
wethers strengthened about 11 p.c. and for
prime bullocks about 16 p.c. But the average
capital at work for the term (£398,200) was
£53,930 greater than in the previous year,
so the ratio of net profit to average capital
fell back to 14 p.c. compared with 15.8,
15.8, 14.5, 19.3 and 15.8 p.c. back to 1924.
A big factor contributing to tbe very com-
fortable size of those profits has. been a
consistent strengthening- of wool prices over
the past four years Here is a comparison
of the co.’s sales of wool and live stock:
Wool ~
(bales). Sheep.
1914 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 . . 137,258 321,140
1922 .. 163,530 347,825 25,881
1924 .. 132,693 293,012 24,080
1925 . . 117,550 232,501 32,676
1926 . . 179,002 366,643 26,671
1927 . . 188,075 441,919 30,168
1928 . . 175,682 352,199 19,869
The co. also gathers revenue from its pro-
duce, property and machinery sales, and
For many years after the public became
interested, in 1910, the co.’s progress was
slow. The div. did not climb beyond 8 p.e.
until 1925, and by that time reserves
£117,665 in excess of the £41,983 of goodwill
had been accumulated. Goodwill, by the
way, is not treated as an asset in the table.
About five years ago the management set
to work to expand the old connections, and
with the assistance of a run of good seasons
some splendid results have been won. Share-
holders have had a regular 10 p.c. for the
past four years, and then £49,600, or 20 p.c.
of the net earnings over that period, has re-
mained in the business, making reserves
£167,265 at June 30. But the support has
been weakened since the close of accounts by
the capitalisation of £50,000 of the accumu-
lated profits. Also a further 50,000 £1
shares nave been issued at par, thus advanc-
ing paid capital to £500,000. When all the
money on the new issue is in shareholders
funds (capital and reserves combined) will
have to earn 8.1 p.c. to pay 10 p.c. on capi-
tal as now increased. Last year average
funds netted 10 p.c. as against 11.1 p.c. m
the previous year.
To make advances with a book value
nearly two-and-a-quarter times greater than
paid capital, and carry other assets totalling
£225,402, the co. is necessarily a heavy bor-
rower. This comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows the position:—
1920. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. £205,755 £316,132 £388,010 £414,018
Liabilities . . 461,352 601,853 444,607 553,490
Freeholds .. 160,856 204,502 201,412 199,965
Advances, etc. 505,048 791,539 746,466 899,3C5
Investments
and cash . . 21,396 17,720 23,415 21,865
Consignments —• 7,353 4,056 1,916
Plant, etc. . . 35,687 33,112 32,311 31,656
Last year £55,103 was chipped off the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£338,816), and the book value of advances,
etc., increased £152,899. To do this the
board went to its bankers for £163,986.
making the overdraft £214,674; also £26,008
of new capital came in, including £14,018
paid in advance on the recent new issue
One way and another the more or less liquid
surplus was strengthened by £40,326. At the
close of accounts advances represented nearly
78 p.c. of the total tangible assets, and there
was then 19s. 6d. of outside money at risk
in the business for every £1 owned by share-
holders • the amount was 16s. 3d. a year
ago. Much, therefore, depends upon whether
the provision for contingencies proves to be
sufficient.
The immediate outlook is for another good
season over the area in which the co.
operates. And the market expresses its
confidence in the management by paying
31s. 6d. for the scrip. The return at that
price is 6.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
backing amounts to 245. Bd. in net tangibles
after allowing for the capitalisation and
new share issue.
John Hicks & Co. (Brisbane).
Net , Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ords. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 7478 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 6099 1379 11,176
1927.. 9552 8 „ 8 „ „ 7921 1631 12,807
Loss.
1928.. 342 7 „ Nil 2100 10,365
This Brisbane furnishing and furnishing-
drapery co.’s accounts reflect the duller trad-
ing conditions in the northern State during
the past 12 months and more. Turnover fell
away 20 p.c., and gross profit (£28,390) was
£10.519 poorer than in the previous term.
And that despite special efforts to stimulate
trade. Nevertheless the management was able
to make a cut of £625 in exes. (£28.732), but
it was not enough, and a loss of £342 showed
up. The pref. div. was reduced to the mini
mum 7 p.c. and the ords. were passed over.
For the preceding eight years a regular 8 p.c.
was paid on both classes of scrip. That
and the capitalisation of £4718 of reserves
in 1920 called for approximately 84 p.c. of
the total net earnings over the period. It
was a very generous distribution considering
the slender support there was and still is for
capital; only 2s. per share has been visibly
accumulated since the public became inter-
ested 13 years ago. There may be a little
hidden strength in freehold, but that cannot
always be realised. Until capita] gets more
support divs. are likely to remain sensitive
to trade fluctuations.
(Continued on page 20.)


Britannia Lathes
STANDARD LATHES INCLUDE FEED SHAFT S AUTOMATIC CROSS FEED
THE BRITANNIA LATHE HAS MANY NOVEL FEATURES EMBODIED IN ITS DESIGN, IN ALL CASES EASE OF
MANIPULATION HAS BEEN FOREMOST IN THE MIND OF THE DESIGNER, e.g., THE BACK GEAR IS ACTUATED BY
A SINGLE SELF-LOCKING PULL KNOB ON THE FRONT OF THE LATHE, THE LOCKING BOLT IN THE PLATE WHEEL
IS ENGAGED BY MOVING A SMALL ROCKING LEVER, AND THE CHANGE WHEELS CAN BE TAKEN ON OR OFF
WITHOUT USING ANY KIND OF SPANNER, AND WITH THE EMPLOYMENT OF ONE HAND ONLY.
THE SIMPLEST DESIGN OF THIS LATHE IS THE STANDARD SCREW-CUTTING MODEL. TO THIS STANDARD CAN
BE ADDED, EITHER DURING THE ORIGINAL ASSEMBLY OR AT ANY LATER DATE, ADDITIONAL PARTS, MAKING
UP THE VARIOUS MODELS.
M
m
mMm
4- !
.r™
.
i
Z3g£P.:3
lv * n 1
,
mm
■ i.
Han
ft
mmm ibihh
ii
mm j
wm
m
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS
The Bed is of V design, made of close grain cast-iron, specially seasoned, and of heavy box section fitted with
gap piece.
The Headstock is back-geared and fitted with two adjustable taper roller bearings, arranged to take the thrust
of the mandrel. Conical gunmetal bearings can be supplied if desired. A patented automatic locking
device is employed for fixing the gear bolt and also the change wheels.
The Mandrel is of special steel, machined and ground to a high degree of accuracy, and has a hole 1 fin. diam.
bored throughout.
The Tailstock is of the solid pattern, graduated and arranged to set over for taper turning, having both a quick
locking device as well as the ordinary method.
The Saddle is of sufficient length to ensure great accuracy, combined with ample wearing surface, and is provided
with a table for special work such as milling and boring.
The Slide Rest is fully compound, arranged to set over for taper turning, and is fitted with a patent adjustable
tool holder for altering height of tool.
The Leading Screw is cut with an Acme thread of guaranteed accuracy, a double nut being employed. .
The Tray is pressed from sheet metal, thus avoiding any danger of breakage.
The Change Wheels, together with all other gearing, are machine-cut from the solid by the most up-to-date
methods.
Equipment. A full set of Change Wheels, Face-plate, Catch-plate, Travelling Steady, pair of Plain Centres,
set of Spanners and 2-speed overhead.
Gear Changes. The standard Gear Box is fitted with three changes of speed, the wheels being of steel cut from
whilst the Norton type Gear Box gives 33 changes of speed.
Call in and Inspect the Britannia Lathe
at your convenience
SOLE AGENTS*
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
_____ LI MITEP- I- ✓
SYDNEY. ... 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE. . C. E. Y. Building, 93 Albert Street
PERTH 432-436 Murray Street
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE ..
NEWCASTLE
521-523 Collins Street.
157 Waymouth Street.
17 Bolton Street.


NOSEI-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
GILT-EDGED
FOR ALL
Raybestos
dd
SECURITY
MOTORISTS
Brake Lining
“SILVER EDGE”
“GOLD EDGE” (Heavy Duty)
Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71, Melbourne,
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/0.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
Osmiridium lias been found in the Rasselas
Valley, across the Gordon River, north of
Adams osmiridium-field, in Tasmania. The
latter field is now nearly worked out.
Incidentally, the State Mines Department
has thrown open for prospecting, from Sep-
tember 1, the new tin field discovered some
months ago near Port Davey.
•* * * *
We stock GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.—Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * # *
Walter E. Cameron, 8.A., formerly Deputy Chief
Government Geologist, Queensland, late Economic
Mining Geologist, Federated Malay States Govern-
ment. Reports on Possibilities for Oil, Tin, etc
Address: Tatong, via Benalla, Vic. — Advt.
* * * *
Roma Mooga Oilfields, N.L.—Area selected by Dr.
Jensen, late Government Geologist. Two companies
drilling alongside, ss. shares; 6d. application, 6d.
allotment. For shares, apply Meudell, Oil Share-
broker, 135 William Street. Prospectus, Stringer
and Moore, Temple Court, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
An installation of Pioneer Wood Pipe provides for
the years ahead as well as for immediate needs.
Full volume flow, unimpaired by age, is maintained,
for algae or sediment can find no foothold on the
smooth, inner bore; no corrosion nor tubercplatiori
occurs to choke down capacity; no damage from
frost or electrolysis need be feared. Write for latest
data book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
? * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
s’: 4c * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.- — Advt.
6^
&
YG
pOORD&SOiy
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
fd
L Swift & c ompany Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Despite the year’s unsuccessful trading the
tone of the balance-sheet is healthy:
1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £93,719 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Debenture .. • • 22,021 ??’nrin
Morteaee . • • • 13,000 12,000 11,000
Sundry creditors . . 3,602 4,374 3,928
Freehold and plant .. 60,484 60>501
Stocks • ■ 50,455 55,830 48,792
Book debts .. .. 35,746 43,230 38,571
Cash, etc. .. •• 130 130 130
The board was able to clip £6982 off the
debt (£85,902), and stocks (£48,792) were
£7038 lighter. They have been carefully
watched and represent good value, the chair-
man says. Much depends upon that and the
condition of the book debts (£38,571, down
£4659 during the year). About 82 p.c. of the
latter represents hire-purchase agreements
financed by the co. The more or loss liquid
surplus (£51,591), including stocks, was
£4715 lighter than at the previous balance.
The prefs. —there are 80,000 of them —
have priority as to capital and are entitled
to a cumulative 7 p.c. and advance with the
ords. in any distribution beyond that rate.
The cover amounts to £3 13s. 7d. in net tan-
gibles, and the average net profit over the
last nine years was more than three times
their minimum requirements. They seldom
appear on ’Change. The market, doubtful
of the future, offers only 12s. for the ords.,
while sellers ask 13s. 6d. The backing is 225.
lid. in net tangibles.
Prospects of Kalgoorlie Electric Tram-
ways, Ltd., are not bright. Last year’s
profit was £4300, before chipping off depre-
ciation, so actually there must have been
a loss for the period.
* * * *
The extensive deposits of iron sand on the
beaches of Taranaki province (M.L.) have
not been hitherto considered a commercial
source of ferrous ore. They contain a pro-
portion of titanium which has rendered them
very difficult to smelt. Samples have been
sent to England at various times, and the
metallurgists of Sheffield, in their labora-
tories, have made excellent iron and steel out
of the stuff, but have always reported that
some entirely new method of smelting would
have to be invented before the sands could
be treated payably. Such -a method has now
been discovered, it is affirmed, and an English
syndicate headed by Sir Edward Zolirab has
asked the New Plymouth Harbor Boai'd,
which has jurisdiction over the sands, to
state the terms upon which it will allow the
deposits to be exploited. It appears that as
the result of experiments with the samples
sent to England a new kind of furnace has
been devised, combining the features of the
blast and electrical types, and the syndicate
reckons it can smelt the sand into a better
iron than that produced in Sweden.
* * * 4
An interesting development in the use of
brown coal is occurring in Germany, where
it has been demonstrated that it is feasible
to obtain a high-grade lighting gas from
lignite, which, of course, is very much
cheaper than ordinary black coal. The out-
look for a wider use of Victorian brown
coal is improving every year.
:!= * * *
Itoma Dome, whose area lies just north of
Orallo (Q.), is starting boring operations on
the Alicker Dome, which is geologically con-
sidered to be the most pronounced dome struc-
ture yet revealed in the Maranoa district.
The co. has Dr. Jensen’s blessing, and he
thinks it has a good chance of striking oil
and gas at a much shallower depth than
around Roma. The bore will start somewhere
near the junction of the upper and middle
\Y alloon series.
=:< * * *
The old Mt. Wyatt goldfield (N.Q.) has
recently been examined by geologist Reid.
Prospecting is dead there, and an unfavor-
able opinion of the field as reefing country was
formed. Australian geologist Daintree re-
ported on this field away back in 1868.
The field labors under an immense dis-
advantage owing to its isolation from the
railways and lack of surface water.
’* * *
The Crystal Oak at Balfe’s Creek, Char-
ters Towers district, is making a good show-
ing under the guidance of old prospector Bill
Shetland, who. after managing Mt. Clear-
view mine until it closed down, found he
couldn’t give up the game. Based on a trial
parcel recently sent to Ivembla, the ore is
carrying up to 35 p.c. of copper and lioz.
gold. The shaft is down 50 feet, and a cross-
cut at that depth shows 2oz. stone with
traces of copper. Bill has got Towers people
interested now and is due for a win.
••1: * -!= *
“Old Warden”: There has been a lot of
activity recently in Sydney over the New
Guinea goldfields, and the fuss is not all
justified by the facts. In very few shows
has any appreciable amount of testing or
development been carried out, while in some
the tests have been perfunctory and the re-
sults contradictory. Most of the gold found
has been of poor quality and comes from sur-
face lodes. Depth often means heavy mineral-
isation where the gold is like that, as
Croydon and the Etheridge fields found out
long ago. It may not be so in all cases.
But the possibility is always there.
Sjc * * *
New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium was a
Sydney holding co. which took its prospects
to London nearly two years ago; “Hoppy”
Clark, one of the original locators of the
lease and field manager, accompanying the
venture as chaperon. In London, New
Guinea Goldfields Exploration was formed
to take over the property with a capital of
£75.000 in 800.000 ss. shares, N.G.G. and O.
shareholders being offered seven paids in the
new co. for every eight in the old. A recent
report states that a rich lode formation Ims
been located on the property at Namie
Creek. The lode is now being opened up.
and a 16ft. crosscut is said to be showing
free gold across the whole face, while there
are “indications of permanency of a rich
body of ore.” Whether the formation goes
50 ounces or less to the ton is not stated,
though a little dollying might have given
the punting public something to base their
calculations on.
❖ ❖ ❖ $
Bulolo Gold Mines, one of the New Guinea
cos. which have had the not uncommon
experience of finding their property lacking in
the one particular—gold—necessary to make
it a profitable undertaking, has thrown up its
New Guinea interests, and since subscribed
for 2000 £1 shares in the Enterprise Gold
Mines (W.A.). The debit balance increased
from £677 to £1057 during the year; the cash
holding amounted to £4316.
* * *
An Adelaide syndicate has hit upon a
deposit of nitrate of potassium in Central
Australia. The deposit was found in a cave
by abos., who told some prospectors about
it. The stuff contains 95.53 p.c. potassium
nitrate and small quantities of calcium
nitrate and calcium sulphate. It is well
spread over the surface, but its quantity and
quality at depth have yet to be proved. A
shaft will be sunk to 100 ft. and some drill-
ing done to de-limit the deposit.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co.’s new share issue, on the
time-payment system, is reported to be
going off well in the West. The extra capi-
tal is badly needed, too. At the present rate
of expenditure (approx. £lOOO a month)
funds in hand are barely sufficient to last
three months. The co. reports (1) that the
oil sands in its Kimberley area are not yet
penetrated, and are evidently of considerable
thickness; (2) that when the sands are
opened the flow of oil will increase suffi-
ciently to permit of saleable quantities being
obtained. Something is also said about
putting down another bore a short distance
from the present one. Freney’s activity has
been followed by the “discovery” of bitumen
at various points along the west coast, and
of a mineral said to be a definite indication
of the existence of petroleum, either past
or present, near Collier Bay in the Nor-
West.
# * * *
Wiluna Co. (W.A.) intends to do things
in a big way. Designs of power and treat-
ment plants to deal with 40,000 tons
of ore a month are being prepared, and a
new main shaft is being sunk. The co. says
that in addition to inducing the Westralian
Government to undertake the construction of
a railway from Meekatharra to Wiluna, a
distance of 120 miles, it lias arranged, free
of cost to itself, to have the Geraldton har-
bor deepened by the State so as to facilitate
the landing of machinery and stores. More-
over the Government has quoted a special
rate for the carriage of oil over the State
railways. This should mean a saving in
power costs to the co. As regards develop-
ment, there are already over 1,000,000 tons
of ore exposed in the southern portion of
the mine, and the co. is making prepara-
tions for the opening up of other areas
northward along the two mile line of lode.
* * *
Claude de Bernales, Westralia’s plucky
mining speculator, has formed a co. with a
capital of £250,000 to acquire the Wilga coal
deposits. He proposes to extract oil and
obtain smokeless fuel from them by the
Dvorkovitz process, of which he holds the
Australian rights. Dvorkovitz plants are
claimed to be successfully treating coal from
mines in Britain.
* :|: * *
Associated Northern Co. (W.A.) is mark-
ing time. Its Mexican gold-mine is idle,
its Kalgoorlie leases are being worked by
a few tributors, and exemption has just been
obtained on its Ora Banda blocks because
of shortage of water for power and milling
purposes. The co. is well off and can afford
a spell. Liquid Assets, worth nearly
£lOO,OOO, include 25,000 Wilunas, 34,000
Canadian Lorrain silver shares and £19,000
Government bonds.
*•* * =!= *
Star Exploration’s scrip has been nibbled
at in London lately. The last balance-sheet
showed investments £24.000, which includes
some gilt-edged securities and a wad of
Wiluna shares. The co. once owned a mine
and re-treated tailings at Kalgoorlie, but
now carries on a financial business, chiefly
in connection with the mining industry.
% ❖ ❖ *
Brilliant Co. (W.A.) struggles on. The
expense of keeping the mine dry is still
high, and losses continue to be made. Mean-
while the workings are getting deeper, and
the prospects of dividends are fading.
* * * *
Malim Nawar’s report for the year ended
March 31 last shows a profit of £10,436.
which has been carried forward. The aver-
age recovery was .471 b. per yard, and working
costs were r>.3Gd. The dredge, which has been
out of action since it capsized on March 24,
is to be converted to a 14in. electric gravel
pump unit using the existing treatment ap-
pliances and the pontoon. Dismantling is
proceeding, and orders for the new plant are
to be placed immediately. Malim has been
:i disappointment from the start, heavy peaty
soil making digging much more troublesome
than was expected. This is probably the
reason why the directors decided to put
aside the large and modern dredge and adopt
another method of working.
* *
Tongkah Compound No. 4, a dredging pro-
perty at Takuapa, Siam, was floated by
Eastern Tin with a capital of £150,000 in £1
shares. These have been heavily over-sub-
scribed, 77,153 being asked for when 35,125
were offered. In addition 33,000 f.p.’s go
to Eastern Tin, together with £lO,OOO in
cash for the property. Tongkah Compound
is to take up and pay for another 81,875
shares. The area to be worked is 362 acres,
containing 13,000,000 c.y. estimated to aver-
age .911 b. of t.o. to the yard.
* * * *
Tanah Biji, the prospecting and holding
co. promoted by Alluvial Tin in 1925, has
declared a net profit of £45,392 for the
year to March 31 last. This was derived
from the sale of mining lands, which brought
in £55,000. The co. has three subsidiaries,
of which Jelapang, near Ipoh (F.M.S.), is
the only one working. Serendah and Seren-
dah South are the other two, the latter
having been floated during the year. It has
an issued capital of £165,000, of which
£49,800 in paids was handed to the parent,
whose other holdings are £30,966 in Seren-
dah and £25,000 in Jelapang—the latter,
though not yet on the dividend list, has been
getting fair recoveries of late. Other assets
total £4123. Paid capital is £25,000; there
is £5566 coming to creditors, including
directors’ fees (£3250), and £79,323 stands
at the credit of the p. and 1. account.
* * * *
Tinsongklah reports further misfortune
in the shape of accidents to machinery.
Dredging experiments recently resulted in
the recovery of 700-odd lb. of t.o. after seven
hours’ work at a depth of 45ft, The water
was too dirty to save the fine tin. Water
shortage has always threatened on this pro-
perty
* * * *
Silaya Tin, registered in Sydney as a
holding and prospecting co. in 1925. has so
far been unable to find a place to rest its
head, though quite a number of options
have been looked over. Now the directors
have resolved to look for virgin country
with the idea of taking out their own pros-
pecting licenses instead of buying them
second-hand. The Sydnev end of the admin-
istration is to be shut down to save expense.
Changkat put up a record for an Aus-
tralian dredge by recovering 120 tons of
t.o. from 121,000 yards in August. The
recovery is twice as large as the previous
best, 60 tons each in June and May last.
The August average was 2.221 b. per yard,
also the highest to date. Costs were 5.55 d.
per yard. Kundang got 40 tons of t.o.
averaging .661 b. per yai’d; its recoveries
have gradually risen from 22 tons in April
last. August costs were only 3.43 d. per
yard. It- looks as if this property has left
its troubles behind it. Ivampar Knmpar
Consolidated recovered 140 tons from 503 000
yards, the highest yield since the amalgama-
tion. The average for August (.621b.) was a
point below that of the previous month, while
costs were again low at 3.56 d. Rawang
dredge continues in the doldrums,. the re-
covery being the usual 20 tons expected
from this plant of late. Yardage was
130,000, and the average .341 b. as against
,371 b. in July. The sluicing plant, however,
came to the rescue with 30 tons-from 32,000
yards, averaging 2.101 b. per yard, the best
performance for a long time. Costs were
3.44 d. for the dredge and 20.12 d. for the
sluicing plant, the latter taking a consider-
able bite out of the profit.
* * * *
The August output of the Austral Malay
holdings was fairly up to past performance.
Thabawleik made the best showing of the
producing quartette. Its turnover was 91,000
yards for 48.5 tons of t. 0.; average 1.201 b.
to the yard, as against ,951 b. for July,
and 1.141 b. for June. Costs were S.sd. a
yard, nearly a penny a yard better than
July’s. Profit was £3842. Kamunting dug
132,000 yards for 63.25 tons, average 1.071 b.
to the yard compared with 1.401 b. for July.
Costs were 5.2 d. and profit £4982. Asam’s
return was 23.25 tong from 100,000 yards,
average .521 b. as against .661 b. for July.
Costs were 4.7 d., and profits only £Bl3. The
value (£l2O per ton) was the lowest re-
corded for this group.
* :|s $ >)t
Larut turned over 363,000 yards for 66
tons of t. 0., the average per yard being
.401 b. as against ,391 b. for July; costs were
4.741 b. per yard. Jelapang recovered 36 tons,
the same as in July, but the yardage was
slightly less, so the average rose from .741 b.
to ,781 b. Costs were 4.9 d. Takuapa showed
a slight improvement on the July average,
winning 42$ tons from 123,000 yards, or
over .771 b. to the yard. In July 54 tons
were got from 160.000 yards, the average
being .751 b. Tin Bentong averaged .471 b.
from 57,500 yards, the small turnover being
due to lost time.


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
S 3
t
n
•RV~
M
LB
a
rr
i
A, having inadvertently stopped his engine while turning round in the
middle of an important thoroughfare, receives unmistakeable evidence of
approaching fire-engines.
What should A do ?
Quick as thought - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
superb Cigarettes
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA
EARNING PROFITS IN EIGHT WEEKS!
A remarkable tribute to the possibilities of this
Company is that in only eight weeks after registration
National Mortgage and Discount Co., Ltd., has begun
to employ its capital and' earn profits.
Share capital is being freely subscribed by investors
throughout the whole of Australia, and as it is received
it is at once converted into dividend-earning securities.
There is, however, so much sound and profitable business
available to the Company that it is unable to take full
advantage of same until further capital is received.
A well-known Actuary has estimated that the Com-
pany is well able to earn three profits from its operations,
namely: 15 per cent, from Mercantile Discounting, 17
per cent, from Mortgage Discounting, and 24 per cent,
from Trade Discounting.
By using its capital over and over again many times
a year in hundreds of transactions the Company can earn
profits ranging between 20 and 40 per cent, per annum.
Thus the profits are sufficiently large not only to permit
of the payment of handsome dividends, but also to
enable the Company to build up strong reserves.
MANAGERS AND SECRETARIES, AND REGISTERED
OFFICE:
Messrs. Brooks and Deane, Incorporated Public Accoun-
tants, 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ORGANISING BROKERS:
Miller’s Investments, Limited, Executive Offices, Adyar
House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
10/- PER SHARE TO BE CALLED UP.
In the opinion of the Directors, it will not be necessary
to call up more than 10/- per share, the uncalled capital
being available as security for borrowing purposes, on
which the Company will make much more profit than it
could by trading entirely on its own capital.
NO FREE SHARES.
There are no vendor shares. Every share issued by the
Company will be paid for in cash, and no free shares have
been or will be given to Directors, Vendors, Promoters,
Brokers, nor anyone else.
NATIONAL MORTGAGE
& DISCOUNT CO. LTD.
(Registered under the Companies Acts, N.S.W., 1899-1918).
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - £500,000
100,000 Eight Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares
of £ 1 each participating up to 10 per cent,
offered for public subscription, and payable on
subscription in the same manner as Ordinary
Shares.
200,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each offered for public
subscription, payable
, 2/6 per share on application. 2/6 per share on
allotment.
2/6 per share one month after allotment, and
the balance as and when required in calls not
exceeding one shilling per share, at intervals of
not less than one month.
200,000 Shares to be held in reserve. '
OPTION SHARES.
100,000 Option shares are to be
issued to the holders of the first
100,000 shares, entitling them to
take up at par value within a
stated period further shares in the
proportion of share for share.
When these are applied for no
further Options will be issued.
BRISBANE OFFICE:
Bank of Australasia Chambers, Queen Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE:
Reuter’s Building, 359 Collins Street.
CUT OUT AND POST.
PROSPECTUS COUPON.
To MILLER’S INVESTMENTS. LIMITED,
Organising Brokers for National Mort-
gage and Discount Co., Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 2558 E.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus
of above Company, without any obliga-
tion whatever to me.
Name
Address
s.n.


IAKF
i' / / 11 - /
with the
\LL roads are alike to the Republic. ’Tis
truly the cosmopolitan truck, but how
consistent, how dependable—ask any Republic
driver.
Built by an organisation of skilled engineers who specialise
only in Trucks, is it not logical that Republics remain
on the road for many years more than the average
commercial vehicle.
You can buy cheaper trucks (cheap for the first year), but after that
there is no comparison against a Republic. Prove it for yourself,
come; talk it over with any of the dealers listed below. You incur
no obligation at all!
■
;
§
- w ' **'/'&
<*■l
INTERSTATE DEALERS—
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
ďf
INTERSTATE DEALERS —
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
TRUCKS
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street,
Sydney.


ď
STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
S-EASE MODEL.
Room for Every Toe.
Recommended by Leading Surgeons.
Black, Tan or Nigger Calf; Welt Soles.
28/6
Better Grade, 36/-
Post, 1/-; Inter-State, 1/8.
Send Desk P> for Catalogue.
JACKSON'S L T ?
'Stonewall" Stores.
Cn r Pitt 6 Goulburn. Sts. Sydney
el
*e
e
cv
\®
*
It is only the purest tobacco wrapped
in snow-white paper without any
trimmings that has made “The Greys
the Best Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters.
THE 100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTE
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO., LTD., Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Up North”: Traces of an advanced ex-
tinct civilisation in New Guinea are being
dug up in an old river-bed at Edie Creek
goldfields. ' These are stone bowls, with
ornamented rims. There is no trace of such
work among the present-day natives, nor do
they remember anything about the bowls.
This particular type has so far been
found only on goldfields, 'which has given
rise to the theory that they, were used as
dolly-pots. In various portions ot New
Guinea pestles and mortars in stone of all
sizes have been found, used evidently tor
grinding seeds into flour. No one knows
what tools were used to chisel out this hard
stone. There is a similar mystery surround
ing the ancient wells of Palestine, dug in
some cases through hundreds of feet of solid
rock, in a country whose present inhabitants
use wooden ploughs. These, wells are circu-
lar, a form much favored in stonework by
all extinct peoples. Perhaps the Papuan
work wag done by the mysterious people who
made the stone carvings of Easter Island.
# * * *
“E.S.S.”: Quartpot and Biddy were com-
missioned to get a bucket of bush honey,
the price being two dinners and a shilling.
Quartpot climbed the tree and robbed the
nest; Biddy carried the goods, balancing
the bucket on her head. On the way home
they were intercepted by a road gang, who
bought their honey for two shillings. They
had to hurry then to get another lot, and
when it was delivered to the bucket-owner
Quartpot remarked that he had made a bad
bargain. “That one been very hard to find,
missus,” he said. “Mine tinkit no more
tshillin bucket.” Next time Missus wanted a
bucket of honey she found that Quartpot
had formed a honey-getters’ union, and the
price was fixed at 2s. Any blackfellow who
got honey for less than that was a blackleg.
❖ w . s »*
“C. Coral” : Visiting the island portion o£
his diocese the other day, the Bishop of Car-
pentaria was greeted with the usual festal
arches of palm leaves and flowers. A new
feature was the signboards suspended from
bamboo poles at the beachside. One island
decorator had accomplished “Welcome to
You.” At the next island the writer was
more ambitious, and “Welcome to Our
Bishop” was pointed out by a smiling native
boy proud of his achievement. But the third
island of the group surpassed itself. On a
suspended piece of plank, in red and green,
was inscribed, “Welcome. The Lord is
Come.”
:jc * * *
“Gum-digger” : There is at least one very
early landing on the coast of Maoriland not
recorded in any published log or history. In
May, 1854, there was discovered in the
sandhills at New Brighton, a marine suburb
of Christchurch, about a quarter of a mile
above high-water mark, a coffin which had
fallen asunder through the nails rusting,
exposing the skeleton of a man wrapped in
blue and white chintz. His hair was plaited
into a pigtail and tied back with black
ribbon. A locket was hung round his neck
by a hair chain, and a folded towel was
under his head. Lying near his head was a
tin case containing long-rotted parchment. In
place on the skull were a pair of old-fashioned
spectacles with very large rims. The coffin
had been fastened together with English
nails, and near it were lying two boat sail-
sprits about Bft. in length and 1-Jin. thick,
quite honeycombed. By appearances the body
had lain there for over a century.
* -v * *
“Mac-Ropus”: How many bushmen who
lie out under ’possum-rug or blanket o’ nights
take the trouble to make a decent sleeping
bag for themselves? The bag method of
sleeping out is favored by explorers the
world over, and is part of the equipment of
every Polar tourist, yet in the bush it is
never seen. A small fur rug and a light
waterproof sheet for an outer covering are
CALLING IT SQUARE.
POLICE CONSTABLE: “And where’d yez bhoys get them oranges?”
BOYS: “Please, sir, we pinched them from Mr. Jones’s.
P.C.: “Well, it’s good bhoys yez are to be admitting it. Take them to my place, give
the missus half, and yez can take the rest home for yer honesty.”
all that you require. A properly designed
bag makes up into a first-class pack or
swag, no heavier than the one usually carried.
On midwinter nights in the Speck I have
slept comfortably in my ’possum-b ! ag in
bleak places where in the ordinary way a
warm tent and hoggins of blankets would
have been essential.
* * *
“Pick”: The male platypus carries con-
cealed weapons. Extending upward from
the middle joint of each hind leg lie curved
spines an inch long. They can
exude a creamy fluid which poi-
sons the wound made and caused
intense agony. Pjatty assumes
a dreamy expression when cap-
tured alive. He makes no
struggle for freedom and lies
still in apparent enjoyment while
his silky coat is being stroked
and examined. But when the
favorable opportunity arrives,
with a lightning kick upwards
he inflicts a puncture that
causes heaps of trouble, if not
the amputation of a limb.
“Pelichet”: Years ago waggon-loads of
cats were carted up to the high levels of
Central Otago (M.L.), and liberated to keep
the rabbits in check. Passing through the
district recently on a bright sunny day, I
saw very large cats of all colors frisking
about among the loose stones with the
bunnies, and even playing in the burrows
with them.
❖ *
“J. Dux”: Miss Penrose, of Glen Innes
(N.S.W.), didn’t worry when her pet heifer
had its leg badly broken at branding-time.
She amputated the leg below the hock and
fitted the cripple with a wooden one encased
in a leather sheath. Fastened to the stump
with a strap and fitted with a horsehair
shock-absorber, the artificial limb acted
splendidly. That was 10 years ago. Three
legs have been worn out since, and old Spot
still stumps along with the rest at milking-
time. When the Penrose family changed
their domicile Spot walked the 17 miles in
a day and a half.
* * * *
“Rosalind” : There’s no doubt dingoes are
cunning. One in league with a black kelpie
was playing havoc with the sheep in my
district (Wagin, W.A.), and, after watching
for days, I spotted the brutes at work. I
was armed with a double-barrel shotgun, and
took careful aim at the dingo first, knowing
him to be the ringleader. I fired, and to
my delight saw the yellow fellow leap high
in the air and fall. Startled, the kelpie
made off, and I fired the second barrel and
brought him down. Immediately he heard
the second shot the dingo sprang up, and
made off at a racing speed—unhurt.
* * * *
“Prop” : Camped on the Cambridge Creek
(N.Q.) last December, I watched a broad
band of meat-ants keeping in the shade of a
tank as they foraged for scraps under; the
fly of my tent. As the sun mounted higher
the shade from the tank got less, and the
band of ants narrowed with it till at mid-
day, with no shade from the tank, the
travelling ceased ; those in the shade of the fly
remained there. Then I shifted camp. About
five minutes after I had pulled down the
fly the ants made for shelter, but did not
travel more than a yard before they curled
up and died on the hot sand.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: May I suggest that
“Pick” was giving us one to go on with when
he affirmed (B. 22/8/’2B) that the doe kan-
garoo can close her pouch tightly enough to
stop the ingress of water when her body is
submerged? I have killed and skinned thou-
sands of female kangaroos and wallabies, and
I never found that the pouch was furnished
with muscles by which it could be closed at
will. I am inclined to believe that the
“gasping young ’roo” whose head emerged
from the pouch as its mother left the water
and got for her life was at its last gasp.
Also, it is most unusual and quite outside
my experience for a doe to take to the water,
although an “old man” will do so when hard
pressed.
* *
“Pudden”: Surely “Up North,” when re-
ferring to the North Q’land abo. type (B.
11/7/28), did not mean to suggest that
there is only one. The abos. about the coast,
near Cooktown, for instance, are, or were, a
fine type of black, well built and sturdy.
Those one used to see about the desert area
and on the Mulligan, over on the western
border, were wizened and spindly—like a gib-
let pie, all legs and wings. The Balanas, who
frequented the tableland about Camooweal,
were six-footers, every one of ’em, and so
slim that they failed to cast a shadow.
Those are just three picked at random, but
every district has its own distinct type.
(Continued on page 25A
THE CATTLE CAMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Wild cattle from the Mooni!”
The speeding stockmen shout
As, dashing through the goondi,
They turn the scrubbers out
Full gallop from the ranges,
Brush-tangled, stern and steep,
Where never yard or grange is
And watch-beasts never sleep.
Swift-footed wild scrub cattle
Adown the cleft spurs swing,
While clustering dead ferns rattle,
And vines to long horns cling;
And soon, with saddles creaking,
Strong horses ring the mob,
Their heaving flanks all reeking,
Their -eager hearts a-tlirob.
No fence is there to hold them,
They tread on broken ground,
Where clumps of brush enfold them,
With billabongs around;
And whilst the whips are swinging,
Among the trees they tramp,
To lusty voices ringing
Across, the grassy camp.
Ten thousand horns are clashing
And tossing to and fro,
A hundred colors flashing
As round and round they go ;
And high above the lowing
The rounding riders shout,
And lash through timber glowing
The mickies breaking out.
The old stock-horses lightly,
And yet with reefing heads,
Move where the hides gleam whitely
Among the roans and reds;
Well trained by mountain riders,
They watch the wanted steer,
And, quick as preying spiders,
They drive the rebel clear.
They’ve drafted in the ranges,
They’ve cut out on the flats,
They’ve run the wild scrub strangers,
And blocked the station fats;
They need no reins to guide them
Where mustered cattle tramp,
As well as those who ride them
They know the work on camp.
MORE SEX APPEAL.
“Wild cattle from the Mooni!”
They quicken at the sound,
And dawn or night or noon high
They’re ready for the bound;
Where’er the wild calls greet them,
Old warriors staunch and true,
All eagerness they meet them,
And put the scrubbers through.
N.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


C2z>istrocmric Pioneers.
*1
r r
&
urn
m
3
l
m
m
M
9&.
i^
:S?
>r
R 1,-
V*
Rf' J
a
sr
U‘^l:
fi
e i
a:
M
w! CwtNTwORTn
:«i«
rMAMpiON RESERVE
PORT
OWN BOTTLING
MAS HARDY £ SONS LTOE
AIDE MELBOURNE ESYONE#!
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WINE
AY
i3&rJ&3X&3Lai&SBi
(M
HARDY’S WINES OP TINTARA


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Visitors to Sydney are cordially
invited to make a tour of Peapes’
Building—where, in spacious and
perfectly lighted departments, every
requirement for men’s and boys’
wear may be viewed in its newest
styles and finest qualities.
Since 1866 Peapes have specialised
in quality, value and service.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
V-'. \~
J -(
A
SRI ■•» .-•
f’N aw
:
m i
/A\ /
5.,..
■m i
zss L*
,■
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
THE CUP on the ROAD
Consign it where its sale at full market
values is certain. Place it in the hands of
selling brokers who, season after season,
prove their ability as salesmen by consis-
tently securing highest possible results for
growers.
Send the ivool to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s popularity is solely due to their
success in doing well for clients.
“Mick Q.”; Dick Skuthorpe had a sure
cure for “Gouger’s” horses that try to scrape
their riders off against trees (B. 15/8/’2Bl.
He would plunge’ the horse straight into the
tree, and the animal would usually give
trees a wide berth afterwards. A moke of
mine once had such a failing, and a breaker
from the Burnett (Q.) tried this experi-
ment, with the immediate result that the
horse lost a quantity of skin and hair. He
now has a patch of white on the forehead
where black hair had previously been, and
leaves trees well alone.
* * * *
“Warradulla”: Tell “Mullarula” (B.
22/8/’2B) that the rabbit’s well-sinking
accomplishment isn’t peculiar to bunny. In
sandy creek beds, after waterholes have dried
up, I’ve seen kangaroos dig in the moist
sand and drink their fill from the soakage.
And in the hill country I’ve watched euros
and wallabies hopping into the creek beds
NOT ALWAYS CADGING.
STATION MANAGER: “Do you chaps ever do anything except cadge tobacco?"
TRABELLER: “Yairs, Boss , we smoke it.”
and scratching holes. Dogs and foxes get
drinks by this method, and even the bush
prad will scrape an excavation with his
fore-hoofs and thus regale his frazzled old
carcase.
“Up North”: Mention has been made in
the papers of two women who battled gamely
to the Edie Creek goldfields. In the fight-
ing days of Misima Island a young bride
arrived with her husband. Left a widow
many years later, she carried on alone, boss-
ing the natives who worked the claim. Aged
and lonely, she finally sailed to Queensland
for a spell, to return to the country she
loved with a new mate —a white-haired old
lady like herself. Though alone but for
natives, they lived happily on the gold won
from the claim, dying of extreme old age
within a few hours of one another. Right
through the black and scarlet pages of
Papuan history the figures of adventurous
white women have been prominent. “Queen
Emma” led the way, and her feminine fol-
lowers have blazed trails through the darkest
jungles and made homes on islands peopled
by the fiercest savages.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: A favorite fuel in
many bush homes is she-oak, and few farmers
realise that they are burning one of the
most beautifully figured timbers in Aus-
tralia. Not only is she-oak a thing of beauty
when worked up, especially when quarter-
sawn ; it is also easy to work, seasons
rapidly, and never warps or shrinks. A
gun- or rifle-stock of she-oak is every bit as
good as walnut; furniture made from it has
to be seen to be appreciated, and it is the
only Aussie timber really suitable for wine-
casks, being superior to the Austrian oak
which is chiefly used. The only drawback
the timber has is that boards cannot be
obtained wider than 8 inches.
* * *
“Liardet”: I was ‘riding along a Gippsland
road in perfectly calm weather, after a few
days’ soaking rain, when my horse stuck
his toes in the ground and shivered as if he
had the ague. I dismounted to see what
was the matter, and had hardly got my feet
to the ground when a heavy-headed dead tree
smashed across the track 15 paces ahead
of where the prad had stopped. I’d have
been in the middle of the smash if it hadn’t
been for that pony’s horse-sense. Hoav do
they know?
* * # *
“Catalyst”: Political economists seeking
a remedy for the high cost of living might
study to advantage a carpet-snake lift, in
length, now resident at the Institute of
Tropical Medicine, Townsville. When it
arrived at the Institute two and a half years
ago it looked as though it had dined well,
but since then it has apparently taken no
food at all. For 18 months it drank nothing,
but during the last 12 months it has taken
occasionally small doses of water. Seems
time someone shouted it a mug of beer.
“Poker”: “Don Lee” (B. 22/8/28) is
wrong in hailing the tit as the champion
f ri “ r< nai Th ® crow . rises hours before
daybreab; j have heard him as early as two
o’clock j n ’ the morning.
A CASE FOR ANYBODY’S SYMPATHY.
WAITER: “I’ve got devilled kidneys, pigs’ feet and calves’ brains."
CUSTOMER: “Gawd blime, old man, you ARE crook.”
“Wingella”: Tell “R. Volt” (B. 13/6/'2S)
that the white ant can eat through sheet
lead. In the railway workshops at Darwin
termites once bored their way through half
a ton of sheet lead to get to some tool-
handles lying on top. I have seen the rivet-
heads of an iron tank eaten away with the
acid that they secrete, and rifle-barrels
pitted and scored bv them.
* % •!; *
“Warradulla”: “Claude W.’s” remarks (B.
22/8/'2B) about white-ant nests take the
damper. He alleges that the mounds pro-
vide a first-class stove, which shows that
he never tried to cook in one.
And unless he likes food made
rank and acrid by smoke, he’d
better not try. “Claude’s” con-
cluding advice, “Plug the hole
up when leaving and you’ll find
it still alight six months later,”
is an artistic finishing touch.
The smouldering conglomerate
of earth and chewed rotten wood
may remain alight for four days; some of
the largest last about a week. But six
months !
* * * *
“Gouger”: On the west coast of Cape
York Peninsula there are gigantic native
middens, several of which are 30 feet in
height. Many centuries have been spent
in accumulation of these shells, for shells
they are. Crowning the middens are the re-
mains of gunyahs and countless fires. No
doubt the abos. cooked there as a partial
escape from the mosquitoes and sandflies,
which would trouble them less upon the
shells and amid smoke than on the ground.
* * * *
“Mullarula” : Some of our eucalypts must
store vast quantities of water in their roots
during wet weather, judging by the quantity
they contain during dry spells. This was
well known to Black Brother, who could
always find a drink wherever the mallee grew.
He used to dig up mallee roots, about an
inch to an inch and a half thick, stand them
upright in some sort of vessel, and wait for
the water to drain out. A Binghi told me
that the leopardwood of, western N.S.W.
contained more water than the mallee, but
that this fluid, which was as hot as cayenne
pepper, had been regarded as useless until
the coming of the white man and his rum,
after which it was found to have its uses
for those suffering a recovery and unable to
find anything better. He reckoned that it
would burn holes in the innards of the soft
Caucasian.
* * * *
“Billy See”: One of the queerest fights
I ever saw happened while I and others
were fishing off the Fremantle mole. A big
dog seal rose and began playfully barking
at us. For a while we liked his company,
but realising that we would get no fish with
him about we pelted him with blocks of
wood. Highly disgusted, he gave a final
bark and disappeared. Almost immediately
he came to the surface again with a fair-
sized octopus twined around him. Half-mad
with fear and rage the seal set out to rid
himself of his encumbrance. Along the
surface he sped, raising his body as high as
possible and occasionally leaping. For quite
ten minutes this whirling and splashing
went on before us; then, the exposure to
the air probably making it a bit sick, the
devil-fish began to release its hold. Suddenly
the seal secured a death grip on his squirmy
opponent. The battle was thereupon trans-
ferred to the depths, where our barking
acquaintance probably dined on the loser.
Anyway, he came along again about an
hour later with a satisfied look on his face.
sjs ij: :Je
“Pelichet”: The little German owls
brought out to Maoriland to destroy the
fruit-eating birds are getting very numerous
in some country districts, and are taking a
heavy toll, not only of fruit-eaters, but of
native insectivorous birds. In their nests
are to be found the wings and tail-feathers
of wrens, fantails, robins and other insect-
eaters.
* * * *
“Piscid” : In parts of Gippsland deer that
were let free some years ago have become a
pest. No fence stops them, and they can
easily make a mess of a crop. They have
been taken off the protected list, but they
are most difficult to shoot, the least alarm
sending them away like the wind into the
thick tangle of scrub, where it is useless to
try to follow.
# * =7= *
“The Bat” : I can’t agree with “L.H.H.”
(B. 15/8/’2B) that push-bikes are ever likely
to take the place of horses as mounts for
’roo-shooters. Where marsupials are to be
found there is always plenty of green-feed,
and a prad owned by a ’roo-shooter is
always a good camper and easy to catch;
it’s broken that way. Again I’d like to
know how “L.H.H.” shoots off a push-bike.
The ’roo-hunter cherishes a prad that he
can shoot off without dismounting.
■f * * *
“G.S.M.”: “Far North’s” abo. (B.
25/7/’2B) who frightened a waterspout away
by pointing his knife at it was acting on a
belief common among primitive people. The
waterspout’s spirit is supposed to have a
strong antipathy to iron, so much so that
spouts will not approach persons and
things protected by the metal. In the Scot-
tish Highlands to this day they say that a
knife or nail in the pocket will prevent the
fairies from lifting you up at night.
NOT SUITABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I s’pose ’e thinks ’e’s got me bluffed. ’E talks
so damn polite
With “Mister Jones, I’m glad to see you
lookin’ well to-night.”
’E thinks that I don’t git ’is game—H ’ave
’im classed orlriglit.
“An’ ’ow’s the Red Polls milkin’ now an’ ’ow
did Blossom test?
Well, yairs, I quite agree with you that
Federation’s best.
An’ them merinos that you ’ave mus’ knock
out all the rest.”
Las’ Sundee w’en ’e stayed to tea ’e couldn’t
eat a bit;
A great big ’efty cove like that —I could ’ave
took a fit
As ’e sat twirlin’ ’is great thumbs.... Love’s
funny, isn’t it?
’E thinks I ’aven’t tumbled yet. Altho’
I may he green
An’ never yap about the things that I ’ave
’card an’ seen,
I’ll take me dyin’ oath on this: ’E’s trackin’
after Jean.
’E’s done ’is block upon that gal—-the sawny,
silly coot!
Per’aps 'e’s ’angin’ off until ’e finds if ’e’ll
suit.
’E’ll find out quickly w’en ’e asks —’e’ll git
me flamin’ boot!
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By married man (30), job as station-hand,
cook or baker. Understands cars, teams
and tractors. Go anywhere.—6372.
By young Scot, returned soldier, clerical
position, any capacity, N.S.W. Refs. —6336.
By ex-officer (33), coming out of hospital
penniless, a job. Extensively travelled, good
salesman; experienced in advertising and
journalism; sober, and a good worker. —6331.
By engineer, with wide practical experi-
ence steam, electrical, tools, position N.S.W.,
constructing and repairing. Would advise
inventors. Refs. —6350.
By experienced and energetic business man,
agencies at Mount Isa (Q’land). One of the
oldest residents. —6348.
By young widow, no home or children,
permanent home with refined elderly couple
or lone lady. Cheerful, conscientious, domes-
tic and nursing exp. Country, N.S.W. or
Q’land preferred. Wages secondary con-
sideration. —6352.
By young man (25) job as driver-mech-
anic, experienced with stationary engines;
good refs. Go anywhere.—63l2.
By young man (25), good character, ex-
perienced sheep work, handy with tools, cars,
windmills and' elec, light plants, job on sheep
station, N.S.W. —6317.
To rent for 2 weeks from December 24,
small cottage, Thirroul (N.S.W.). (To
Miss L. Mortley, 2 Carlton-crescent, Summer
Hill, Sydney.)
To let 6-roomed house, furnished, water
frontage, 3 to 12 months; full electrical
equipment and gas stove; lawns, garden,
swimming baths, 4 mins, from ferry; weekly
£5. (To J. O’Neil, 36 Lucretia-avenue,
Longueville, Sydney.)
To buy illustrated book or pamphlet on
plaiting and knotting leather.—623s.
To buy Robert Simpson’s “The Gray Char-
teris.” —6319.
To buy or borrow Quiver magazine for
Feb., 1928.—6306.
To purchase copy of “Our Gum Trees and
Other Verses,” by N. F. Spielvogel.—63ls.
Words of song, “The Fisherman and His
Child.”—63s4.
Information Sought.
(1) Has a law been passed in Aitstralia
allowing a woman to retain her nationality
on marriage to a foreigner? (2) How can
a married woman regain her nationality? (3)
What qualifications must an alien possess
before he can become naturalised? —6068.
(1) No. (2) Her husband must be natu-
ralised. (3) He must have resided in the
British Empire for five years within the last
eight years. The 12 months preceding the
application must have been spent in Aus-
tralia.
I wish to become a schoolteacher in a
country school in. N.S.W. I hold a B.A.
junior Uni. pass. (1) What are the age
limits? (2) Educational qualifications? (3)
Is the profession overcrowded? (4) How can
I get a position? (5) What salaries are
paid? —627l.
(1) Sixteen to 35 years. (2) Intermediate
certificate or equivalent (your qualification
would be accepted) plus special examination
in English, dictation and arithmetic. (3)
Not in N.S.W. (4) By making application
to the N.S.W. Education Dept. You would
have to undergo 12 months’ course of train-
ing at the Sydney Teachers’ College. (5)
Salaries vary according to age and classifica-
tion. You will find full information in a
pamphlet, “Small-School Teachers and Coun-
try Assistants,” issued gratis by the N.S.W.
Education Department.
Can you give me a recipe for claret cup
suitable for a dance? —6259.
One bottle of claret, 1 wineglass curacoa,
Ij wineglass brandy, 2 bottles lemonade, 2
bottles soda-water, 4 tablespoons sifted sugar,
-i- lemon peel, finely pared, a spray of borage,
lib. ice. Mix all together and stand in ice
for a quarter of an hour.
Can you give me a recipe for orange
squash? —6229.
To each 3 doz. oranges take 2ioz. citric
or tartaric acid, 1 quart cold water, * 31b.
loaf or 1a sugar. Squeeze juice from the
fruit, add water, acid and sugar. Stir well,
strain through a jelly-bag, and bottle.
(1) How can I make French polish? (2)
How is it applied? (3) What is used for a
filler? —6264.
(1) Make a paste of brown shellac and
methylated spirits, (2) Apply with a rubber
made of wadding covered with linen rag. Re-
peat the process many times, and when dry
finish oil’ with a few drops of linseed oil.
The surface may be glass-papered and
polished again to secure a higher gloss. Pale
woods should be stained before polishing.
(3) Fill by rubbing in wet plaster of Paris,
wiping it off before it sets.
What is the best way for an amateur to
dress and polish N.-Q. oalc and pencil cedar
used as furniture? —6112.
Plane and sandpaper the wood to a smooth
finish. Stain to any color desired, or leave
unstained if preferred. Rub in as much
raw linseed oil as the wood will take, and
dry off. To finish off, polish with turpentine
and shredded beeswax melted to a thick
paste, and rub up with a silk duster, or if
you want a glossy finish, apply 3 good
varnish.
How can I blacken a pair of silver brocade
shoes? —6145.
Dye with Tintex or Nadco, or paint with
any good straw hat dye, procurable from
ironmongers. Two coats may be necessary.
(1 )What is the best varnish to apply
over gold, paint exposed to the sun to pre-
vent it from turning black? (2) Should
gold-leaf on iron or wood, thus exposed, be
covered with any preparation? (3) What
is the brightest silver paint used by sign-
writers for outside work ? —6222.
(1) Gold paint shouldn’t be used for
outside work. Use gold-leaf. (2) No. (3)
Aluminium powder, applied on a gold size
or varnish ground.
How should bullock hides be cured to
make hide ropes? —623s.
To remove the hair and flesh make up a
liquor of 2oz. unslaked lime to every gallon
of water necessary to completely cover the
hide. Soak for 24 hours. If the hair then
comes out readily you can commence unhair-
ing, but if it still remains firm make up a
fresh liquor and soak again. Then over a
rounded surface, such as a log, carefully
scrape the hair and flesh off, using a blunt
instrument—knife, axe-head or wedge. Wash
the lime off, and soak hide in cold Water
for another day. Then make up a curing
bath of 6oz. alum, 3oz. salt to each gallon
of water, and soak for 3 days. Then make
up a bath with 6oz. alum, but no salt, to
each gallon and soak for 4 days. Before
taking the hide out make a slit in the neck
and notice if the hide is a greyish color
right through; if there is a streak in the
centre of the hide leave it in the liquor
until it has disappeared. The hide will then
need at least two washings in clean water,
and should then be hung to dry away from
the sun and wind. When dry rub fat or
paraffin wax into both sides of the hide
until it is quite soft and flexible.
(1) What amount of cash or land is re-
quired from an applicant for assistance in
building a war service home? (2) Could he
get such assistance if he lived at Broken
Hill? (3) What is the maximum cost of
building allowed? (4) What department
should application be sent to? —6021.
(1) Cash, from £lO up to 5 per cent, of
building cost, according to Commission’s esti-
mate of risk. If land value equals 5 per
cent, of building cost no cash deposit is
required. (2) No. Risk there is considered
too high. (3) From £SOO to £950, accord-
ing to circumstances. (4) Deputy Commis-
sioner, War Service Homes Commission.
(1) How are bookmakers' clerks in Q’land
and N.B.W. paid—on salary or percentage?
(2) If salary, hotv much per week? (3)
Does this include board and lodging? (4)
What chance is there of securing a clerkship
with a bookmaker in Sydney? (5) What
qualifications are' necessary? (6) How
should one make application for such a posi-
tion? —6149.
(1) and (2) There is no fixed rate, but
in almost every case it is at “per day” rates.
At Sydney pony and suburban meetings the
clerk generally receives £2 per meeting for
the ledger and £3 for the paddock. At
Randwick he sometimes receives a little
more. If the bookmaker has a lucky day
it is usual for him to give the clerk a
gratuity. If the clerk “settles up” for
the bookmaker he can often earn over £lO
per week. (3) The clerk keeps himself.
(4) Very slight unless you have a knowledge
of the game and are a first-rate clerk. You
would have to hold a bookmakers’ clerk’s
license, the cost of which is 10s. (5) You
would have to be a quick and legible writer,
accurate at figures, capable of handling cash,
and able to hold your own physically in an
emergency. (6) Get in touch with one of
the betting clubs.
I am over 70 years of age, and intend to
apply for the O.A P. I have no property, but
I have £l5O deposit returning me £7 10s. p.a.
Will that prevent my getting a pension of
£1 per week? —6247.
If you have the necessary residential
qualification you are entitled to a pension
at the rate of £42 per annum.
(1) Did Governor Arthur Phillip sail
through tchat is now known as Bass Strait
when making his first, trip to found the con-
vict settlement at Botany Bay? (2) If he
didn't how did he approach Botany Bay
after leaving the Cape of Good Hope? —•
6323.
(1) No. (2) The fleet sailed around the
south coast of Tasmania. The Mewstone,
near the South Cape of Tasmania—at that
time believed to be the southernmost point
of the Australian continent—was sighted
on Jan. 7, 1788. Bass Strait was not dis-
covered until 10 years later.
(1) What is the cost of a world-wide
patent? (2) What is the cost of an Austra-
lian patent? (3) How long does it take to
secure a patent? (4) Does a patent for an
improvement vitiate or authorise infringe-
ment of the parent patent? (5) How long
does an Australian patent last? (6) Where
is it operative?- —6341.
(1) Protection in all countries that have
patent laws would probably cost about £l2OO.
The cost of obtaining a patent varies from
£2O to £4O in various countries. (2) Fees
amount to £B, but unless you are expert in
such matters you have to pay an agent to
prepare plans and specifications and put the
applications in proper form. (3) All depends
upon the amount of research various patent
offices have to undertake to establish the
validity or otherwise of your claim. (4) No.
(5) Sixteen years. (6) Only in the Com-
monwealth, but you have a prior right of
application for a patent in all countries that
subscribe to the Patents Convention for one
year. The Patents Convention covers prac-
tically all the countries of importance.
(1) What is the population of Adelaide?
(2) Names and populations of the largest
industrial suburbs? (3) Does a person re-
quire a hawker's license to sell books from
house to house in South Australia? —6234.
(1) Population of metropolitan area,
according to latest available return, was
327,686. (2) Port Adelaide (33,383),
Woodville (22,539), Hindmarsh (13,794).
(3) You would have to be registered as a
shop with the Factories and Steam-boilers
Dept., Victoria-square, Adelaide. Registra
tion fee, ss.
How many cubic feet is allowed in ship-
ping space for one ton of wheat (1) lagged
and (2) loose? —5968.
(1) Fifty-six cub. ft., (2) 46J cub. ft.,
but these vary from season to season accord-
ing to the quality of the wheat.
(1) What is the award wage for dental
mechanics, male and female, in N.8.W., who
do vulcanite work; also metal work and vul-
canite? (2) What wages are apprentices of
both sexes entitled to? (3) What wage
should an assistant in a surgery, who does
clerical work as well, receive? —6221.
(1) For vulcanite work males receive
£5 7s. per week, and for metal or metal and
vulcanite work, £5 19s. 6d. Females are
entitled to three-fifths of these rates. (2)
Male apprentices serve an apprenticeship of
four years, and wages are raised every six
months. The rates for the eight six-month
terms are: First, 195.; second, 255. 3d.;
third, 31s. 7d.; fourth, 375. lid.; fifth, 475.
7d.; sixth, 565. lid.; seventh, 695. 7d.;
eighth, 82s. 3d. Rates for females are: First,
20s. 3d.; second, 275. Id.; third, 335. lOd.;
fourth, 40s. 7d.; fifth, 50s. lid.; sixth, 60s.
lid.; seventh, 60s. lid.; eighth, 60s. lid.
(3) Not specified by an award, but the
employee is entitled to the basic wage.
(1) Is the climate along the N.T. coast
suitable for growing bananas, pineapples
and pawpaws? (2) Are cocoanuts a native
growth on the islands off the N.T. coast?
(3) What part of the N.T. did the Pata-
gonians settle in, and are they still there?- —
6117.
(1) The cultivation of tropical products
such as cocoanuts, pineapples, bananas, pea-
nuts, cotton, etc., has been successfully under-
taken from time to time in the vicinity of
Darwin, on the Adelaide, Daly and Katherine
rivers, and in other localities in North
Australia. (2) No. (3) The Welsh set-
tlers from Patagonia were located m the
Daly and Adelaide river districts, but only
a few now remain in the Territory.
What is meant by “ horse-power ” as applied
to motor-cars? —6377.
The term was invented by James Watt,
who calculated that the force exerted by
a horse attached to a dray, working eight
hours, was equivalent to the lifting of
33,0001 b one foot in one minute. There
are seven well-known formulae for calculat-
ing motor-car horse-power. The. one adopted
in the case of British-built cars is that of
the Royal Automobile Club, in which
the diameter of the cylinders is squared,
multiplied by the number of cylinders, and
divided by 2J if the computation is in inches,
by 16 if it is in centimetres and by 1613 if
it is in millimetres. Other formula} take into
account the revs, per minute of the engine
shaft.
' In order to acquire a B.Sc. degree at Cam-
bridge is it necessary to hold a B.A. degree?
—6322.
Cambridge Uni. does not confer a B.Sc.
degree. Its degrees are M.Sc. and Sc.D.
Oxford confers a B.Sc. degree, open only to
graduates.
(1) What does it cost to run a horse at
the pony meetings? (2) Could it be run
under another name than my 0wn?— 5957.
(1) Sydney trainers usually charge £3 per
week for the feeding and training of ponies,
but the charges vary a great deal according
to circumstances A jockey is paid £1 for a
losing mount, and 5 per cent, or more of the
prize money if he wins. The nomination
fee is 10s. 6d. Shoeing (each race-day on
the course) costs 6s. There are also many
sundry expenses to be met, such as racing
colors, gear for the horse, etc. (2) Yes.
How is puff-pastry made? —6321.
Take -Jib. sifted flour, Jib. butter, pinch of
salt, juice of 1 lemon or ess. lemon, yolks
2 eggs. Mix salt and flour, and place on
pastry board. Make a hole in centre of
mound of flour, and pour in the well-beaten
egg yolks flavored with the lemon. Very
lightly with the hand mix all together to a
dough, knead a little, and set aside for 10
minutes. Flour the board, roll out the
dough, place all the butter in the centre, fold
over the edges all round to cover the butter
and set aside in a cool place for 10 minutes.
Roll out to Jin. thick, but do not allow
butter to burst out. Fold into 3 equal
parts, roll again, fold up, and set aside for
10 minutes. Repeat the rolling and folding
six times, allowing 10 minutes between each
process. Roll finally to Jin. thick, cut into
shapes, etc., and bake in a hot oven. It
should rise to 5 times its height. Coolness
between rollings is most important.
Can you give me a recipe for honeycomb
candy? —63lo.
Put lib. sugar into a saucepan with 1 cup
water and J teaspoon cream of tartar. Stir
till it boils, cease stirring, and boil till it is
pale yellow; then add 1 teaspoon finely
crushed bi-carbonate soda and 1 dessert-
spoon melted butter. Stir till it froths, then
pour into deep, well buttered tins.
Can you recommend a suitable paint for
calico signs ? —6329.
Mix powdered colors with equal quantities
of gold size and benzine; if too thick, thin
out with benzine.
Information Supplied.
6079. —To clean oil-drums without cutting
open, put in one or two gallons of petrol,
screw plugs up tightly and roll drums about
on the ground. A few minutes will sufficp
if only recently emptied of oil. —“Sawyer
Bill.”
5990. —To make a cricket pitch on a hard
clay surface that is liable to crack, cart
several- loads of river-bank soil, and, after
top-dressing the clay, water and roll
thoroughly until the surface becomes hard.
Constant watering and rolling will keep the
pitch in good order. —“Let Go.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a paste for polishing tor-
toise-shell ? —6330.
Brief Answers.
W.A.: Tuberculosis in the tongue is quite
common. Symptoms are a shallow ulcer with sharp
cut edges and no surrounding hardness. The surface
is pale and flabby. It is usually very painful.
.... Pete: Some cases of eczema are curable. Don’t
wash the affected parts with soap and water;
cleanse with olive oil. Use Lassar’s Paste. Spread
it on the affected parts (don’t rub it) and bandage
once a day. If that doesn’t cure you and if your
local medical man thinks it advisable, consult a
skin specialist at Brisbane Hospital... .J.A.: If
you have had home experience of domestic duties
you should not have difficulty in securing employ-
ment in Sydney in a private home at 255. to 30s.
per week or in a cafe, club or hotel at 535. 6d. per
week, in the latter case with deductions for bed and
board. Consult the Women’s Employment Agency,
132 George-street, Sydney... .11.8.5.: Write to C.
B. Westmacott, general manager of J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., giving a short outline of your play. Submit it
here before trying London... .S.C.G.: Queensland Uni.
gives correspondence courses, and in exceptional
cases Queensland, Melbourne and Adelaide unis,
allow candidates who have not attended lectures to
sit for exams D.C.: (1) Snake-skins are not now
in demand in Sydney and agents are overstocked.
(2) Carpet and diamond snake-skins brought from
30s. to 40s. at the top of the boom, but as there
are no sales, present values can’t be quoted. (3)
Split the belly with a sharp knife, making a straight
cut from head to tail; fasten the head to a post
and draw the skin off downwards. Rub salt in
the flesh side, peg out on a flat surface, and expose
to the sun for eight hours... .V.M.R.: (1) Yes, there
is a market for certain kinds of work. Consult the
Secretary of the Society of Arts and Crafts of
N.S.W., Rowe-street ; the Secretary of the Women’s
Handicrafts Association, 106 n King-street; or Miss
Jessie Newman, Angel-place, off Pitt-street, —all of
Sydney. (2) No. (3) No. .. .11.R.A.: (1) Rain-
water should not be used for topping off batteries
save in case of emergency. (2) Sulphuric acid used
for spraying vines was probably diluted below battery
strength. Test with a hydrometer and if specific
gravity is less than 1215, don’t use it. If more,
break it down by pouring the acid into a small
quantity of water and stirring it well until 1215
sp. gr. is reached. (3) Dyke’s “Automobile and
Gasoline Engine Encyclopedia,” obtainable from
Gilmour, 141 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (4) Yes.
Any glass article expands when heated.... English-
man: The Australian company has no exact informa-
tion concerning the percentage of British work-
manship put into the first batch of the new model
Ford to arrive here. The percentage in Model T.
was 88.18 —49.24 p.c. Australian; 37.29 p.c. Cana-
dian and 1.66 p.c. other parts of the Empire, and
as exactly the same organisation is building the
new car it is expected that when production is in
full swing the same proportions will be main-
tained. .. .M.K.: (1) Editors prefer MSS. typed, but
no objection is taken to legible handwriting. Illus-
trations should not accompany stories. (2) Not so
far as we can ascertain... .J.R.A.: Lord Stonehaven’s
name is pronounced as it is spelt.... Poddy: We
prefer the farming proposition. You ought to be
able to save a tidy sum on a station on the salary
you mention, and if you showed aptitude you wouldn’t
have much difficulty in getting financial backing.
S.R.: Tost and Rohu, Martin-place, Sydney.
....Blowfly: You will have to use a t spray
with at least 1001 b. pressure, and if Little’s
non-poisonous liquid dip is used, mix it about four
times the ordinary strength. An arsenical dip would
have a more lasting effect. Whatever solution is
used it must be applied once a month... .J.E.R.:
(1) Cloncurry. (2) Cloncurry Advocate (Tuesday)
and Cloncurry Pastoral and Mining News (Monday).
Both weeklies; subscription £1 per annum; single
copies 6d Fairplay: Many of the syllables are
not words, but perhaps the winner scored the
highest number of real words.... No. 99: No; for
one thing, legislation to clip the wings of all such
cos. is threatening... .G.R.P.: Both good ; No. 1 per-
haps a little the solider... .P.P.M.: You shouldn’t
have done it; but their prospects are pretty good,
and you had better hang 0n... .E.G.S.: “Rutley’s
Mineralogy,” Bs. 6d., Angus and Robertson. A
small complete outfit for testing minerals, together
with a miniature collection of minerals can be pur-
chased from H. B. Selby and Co., Ltd., Bulletin-
place, Sydney, £5 10s. Size, llin. x sin. x 4in.
R.C.: (1) Make application by letter to any
of the metropolitan dailies.' You are not too old.
(2) We do not employ cadets.... .N.G.S.: As a
speculation, yes; as an endowment, n0....A.F.: It’s
a gamble, and all right if you are prepared to lose
your money.... Emel: The words “rondel” and
“rondeau” are both used a little loosely. The dic-
tionary definition (Funk and Wagnall) is “A poem
of French origin, consisting of 13 lines with only
two rhymes. The opening words of the first line
are added, as an unrhymed refrain, after the eighth
and thirteenth lines.” Neither of the samples you
send fulfills these requirements, which you may find
observed in Austin Dobson’s “In After Days,” about
the best-known rondeau in the English language. . . .
E.R.8.: Too many disturbing factors may arise to
make any estimate worth while. Which is to say
it is a gamble. .. .F.J.H.: You can get a thousand
safer things Y.A.Q.: Tottering W.P.: When
planting trees the ground should be given a good
soaking. No more artificial watering will be neces-
sary unless the subsoil is dry. Too much surface
watering keeps the roots near the surface, where
they are ilable to suffer R.C.: The remedy will
depend upon the cause of gumflow. Lightly cutting
(scarfing) the bark of affected trees with a sharp
knife will often give good results. The cut should
be made from the ground-line up the trunk and
main limbs—one cut to each limb. Adequate pro-
vision for drainage should be made if it is defective.
A personal interview with the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture’s biologist is suggested W.J.G.: The
period during which ex-Australian and Imperial
soldiers could apply for land fn Vic. under special
conditions expired on June 30, 1922.... P.L.: No
preservative is necessary in the case of orange or
lemon peel. Dry the peel well in an open oven, and
keep it in screw-top jars with plenty of sugar
sprinkled in amongst it. .. .E.F.M.: At present Web-
ster’s Dictionary holds the field, and its definitions
are accepted for all literary and legal purposes in
the British Empire and U.S.A. The recently-
completed Oxford Dictionary is the most comprehen-
sive and authoritative work on the subject of English
word-meanings; its peculiar value is that it
traces words back through all their transitions to
their earliest ascertainable roots... .F.W.H.: Pre-
ference is given to members of the A.W.U... • •
8.D.: “Vins,” by Gayon and Laborde; “Wine,” by
Tudichum; “L’lndustrie Vinicole Meridionale,” by
Prof. Loos; Analysis of wines in “Applied Analy-
tical Chemistry,” by Prof. Villavecchia; “Precedes
de Vinification Par,” by Coste-Floret; “Traite
General des Vins,” by Viard; and “Traite des Travail
des Vins,” by Maumene. You might also communi-
cate with Mrs. Whitehouse, Francis-street, Randwick,
who is the secretary of the Sericulture Society....
(Many others mailed.)


s*
/M
nds
*>
\
frie
old
teases
P
king
mV
D
ondiJ°
V'y
m*
050'
mm,
v/s/S''
M
Ys&y
m*
Sgwrrrrr^
W's
n
m
'^ /////// //m^/
;g?
m
m
mSmtirn
H W\ \
t
m
■&m
Mm
\ \
1%
m.‘- \
f %
fttH
NJ
/A
m
s Sss/ss/"
m
i %Xii — :
's//yi/
m.
■*////////{,
cm
Wi
\,s'"
'"""4.
\
V?',
w,
>;m\
S£4®m
'wm
"4M
1
w
J?
PI
«
m#4
#4
DAD
when
did
you
first
use
DUNLOP
SINCE,
I was your
age . . They
were the
BEST tyres
then .. just
as they are
TO-DAY
TYRES by DUNLOP!”
CONVEYS AN ASSURANCE OF
HIGHEST QUALITY... FINEST CRAFTSMANSH
Jk AND TRULY OUTSTANDING SERVICE


Woolgrowers!
Get full value
for your star lots of wool.
Have them classed and inter-
lotted with similar small lots.
Big Even Lines
Get the Buyer’s
Attention.
For Particulars and Waybills write
The Graziers’ Co-operative
Shearing Company, Ltd.,
23-25 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
R. C. Wilson, J. H. Snape,
Manager. Wool expert.
fd
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. & C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land —these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS S' CITIZEN S
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
114- -HO CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd
Tile and' Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
.07 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
FLAX GROWING IN AUSTRALIA.
“Min Yip”: “France M.” (B. 15/8/’2B)
asks will “Gippsland linen” ever mean
what “Irish linen” now means? Under Aus-
tralian labor conditions, no- and the lan-
guishing of flax culture in Ulster to-day, in
spite of every effort to revive it, emphasises
the answer.
Most of the very fine Irish linen is, and
always was, manufactured from fibre grown
and dressed in Belgium add Holland. This,
is due to their richer soil, the soft water
available for retting, and the greater time
and labor spent in rolling, preparing and
scutching in these countries. So important
was the scutching considered that a complete
flax-mill was established in Coleraine with
Belgian workmen; but with their slow pro-
cess the transplanted labor was too expensive
and the scheme had to be abandoned.
Dew-retting was a thing of the past in
Ulster 50 years ago. In the Co. Antrim dis-
trict where I lived, retting was all done in
dams specially constructed. The water after
fermentation takes place is most offensive,
and if allowed into running streams in strong-
solution it will kill all the fish for miles,
which led in our case to endless litigation
with the owners of the fishing rights. No
machinery is ever likely to be invented that
will separate the fibre from the woody core
without retting and produce a high-grade lint.
If it can be proved otherwise a fortune
awaits the inventor. The statement that the
refuse from the new process will be suitable
for cattle food is ridiculous. Its food value
would be comparable to that of sawdust. The
statement that flax will stand one feeding-
off is ridiculous too. If the growth is
checked, good-bye to your crop. In any
case I question if stock would eat growing
flax. They would pull, tramp and destroy it,
as it is an extremely delicate plant.
Parts of Australia can grow high-grade
flax-straw, which should produce a high-
grade fibre if properly retted, rolled and
scutched. But the straw should be hand-
pulled, as cutting leaves the heaviest and
strongest of the fibre, which extends right
down to the roots. Flax grows rapidly; in
a little over three months from the time it
is sown the stalks have turned a golden
yellow. If wanted for fibre it should then be
pulled and retted. The seed is valueless at
that stage and the boles usually come away
in the retting. If grown until the seed ripens,
then only a low-grade fibre can be expected.
Flax cultivation is a highly-skilled busi-
ness and should be undertaken only by those
who have had previous experience, or are
working under expert advice. Climatic condi-
tions (especially rainfall), soil and its pre-
paration, selection of seed, sowing, the proper
quantity of seed (about six or seven pecks
to the statute acre) and retting are all
important, always remembering that flax
rapidly exhausts its natural food in the
soil, and no artificial or other manure has
ever been discovered to replace it satisfac-.
torily. I write as one who has had extensive
experience of flax-growing in Ulster, from
the sowing of the seed until the fibre was
ready for the spinners.
SOIL COMPOSITION.
“Burrum” : Weeds and useful plants aren’t
accidents. The composition of natural pas-
ture under ordinary conditions depends on
such factors as position (climate, drainage,
etc.), physical condition and chemical com-
position of the soil. Many weeds, such as
sorrel and poppy, will only flourish in more
or less acid soils. A weed that may be, a
menace in one class of soil will put in only
an occasional appearance in others. Certain
sprays and manurial applications will dif-
ferentiate between plants, and some weed-
killers have been used with this knowledge.
Thus oats will stand five times as much sul-
phate of iron applied to the soil as. wheat
would. The effect of manurial applications
on the composition, of pasture, without any
introduction of seed, after 50 years of per-
manent plots has been shown at Rotham-
stead, where the unmanured plot’s composi-
tion was 34.3 per cent, grain plants, 7.5
per cent, legumes, and 58.2 per cent, weeds
and lower order of plants. Applications of
a sufficiency of phosphoric acid and potash
resulted in percentages of 20.3, 55.3 and 24.4
in the same order. Addition of nitrogenous
manure to the latter made the results 88.7,
3.7 and 7.5. And a further and excess appli-
cation of nitrogen wiped out legumes al-
together and made the figures read 99.2, nil
and .8. So that it may be taken that a
pasture is a reflex of the nature and com-
position of the soil, and that the introduc-
tion of pasture grasses of entirely different
habits and perhaps superior qualities and re-
quirements must be provided for by suitable
treatments if they are to be permanent. The
fact that they flourish for a few years is not
a proof of permanency.
WESTRALIAN LANDS.
“K. 8.” : If there is a land of opportunity
for the wheat-farmer to-day with moderate
capital it is in the West. Where else can
cne hope for 1000 acres of first-class wheat
country, serviced or to be serviced with rail-
ways, 25 miles apart, at 16s. per acre, and
30 years to pay for it in? This is land
of the best quality, capable of averaging
under scratch-farming conditions 18 bushels,
as Southern Cross did last year. Many a
farmer there, with cultivation that a Vic-
torian or South Australian would call but a
travesty, harvested 30 over his whole farm.
The rainfall in this district may be light
(lO.Glin., with 7.52 in. from April to
October), but it has the same characteristic
that other Westralian districts have, con-
sistency. And this feature is going to be a
safeguard to the man who is on that con-
stantly-moving fringe of cultivation; for the
yield that he is able to obtain in his first
few years may be reliably taken as the cri-
terion of his yields in future years. In
fact, they may be regarded as the low-water
mark, for improved cultural methods should
increase, and not decrease, his average.
Then what of those districts south-
east from Southern Cross and east from New-
degate and Lake Grace? Here there is soil
equal to the best, with a rainfall rising to
above 15in., with over lOin. from April to
October. Cannot this be regarded as almost
ideal for the cereal-grower?
There are many who would prefer a larger
area, so that they could make sheep their
mainstay, with wheat as a side-line. For
them what could be better than 3000-5000
acres of second- to third-class land at an
almost nominal price—land on which the
only preparation for the plough is light
rolling and the firestick, and in many cases
only the firestick? With a tractor large
areas of this country may be quickly brought
under cultivation to wheat and oats. Water
on this lighter country is, as a rule, easy
to find, at moderate depths, especially after
cultivation, when oft-times it comes to the
surface.
FARMERS’ WOOL CLIPS.
“Mouton”; The idea of making every
farmer who keeps a few sheep a wool-classer
is quite out of the question, and some other
method will have to be adopted. The num-
ber of small clips is increasing rapidly, and
something will have to be done to improve
the classing of them, and keep the catalogues
a reasonable size.
Up to the present small wbol-growers
have not received much assistance in the
way of expert advice. If an expert were
sent into the country per motor-car, he
could visit the small growers during shear-
ing time and give practical advice in the
shed, which would be greatly appreciated.
Most small clips can be classed to make
one main line reasonably even; but to do
this small star lots must be made. These
star lots and the oddments could be pooled
in a way to ensure them bringing their full
value. In iSouth Australia all the selling-
brokers pool their tag-wool, and one firm
has made a great success of pooling the
star lots. If one can do it to distinct advan-
tage, why not make a general practice of it?
The sooner the better.
SORREL.
“G.H.N.”: “Agricola” says (B. 15/8/’2B)
lime cures the sorrel pest. I have found
that there’s little in it. A bag of agricul-
tural lime was left out on a sorrel patch
all winter —and is there still, after some
years. So is the sorrel —the weed actually
grew up through the lime and had no sickly
look either. In granite soils the weed is
just about indigenous. Grass land that
never has had a plough near it carries
plenty of it. As a sheep fodder it takes
some beating, producing very much more
feed than is generally supposed, and sheep
fatten well on it. At the same time I know
no one who would .not rather have almost
anything else. Sheep grazed on it to pre-
vent seeding, and then teasing it with the
plough, cultivator and harrows during dry
weather, will give it a set-back for years.
But don’t depend on lime. Lime will stimu-
late clovers, etc., and so tend to choke it;
but that’s about the extent of its punch.
THE BEST VARIETIES OF OATS.
“Agronom”: “Glenfield” (B. 8/8/’2B)
struck a progressive note when he ad-
vised Mallee farmers to sow oats regularly
on their wheat stubbles, the oats to be
grazed and cut for hay. He is lagging be-
hind, however, when he gets down to
varieties.
Although Algerian certainly withstands
feeding oft it takes too long to mature and
does not provide feed early enough in the
season. All through the winter the Algerian
will hug the ground and scarcely provide a
bite. The early-maturing varieties are the
ones that fill the bill.
J. T. Pridham, the plant-breeder of the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, has done
more than any other individual to make oat-
growing possible in the mainland States. He
saw that farmers would not grow oats to
any extent when the only varieties they had
were so late maturing that their sowing and
harvesting coincided with wheat-sowing and
-harvesting (Algerian, for example), wheat,
of course, being the all-important cash crop.
By producing early varieties he made it
possible to sow oats after wheat-sowing
was finished, and they grew so quickly that
they could be harvested and out of the way
before the wheat was ready. He bred Lach-
lan and Sunrise, and now he has given us a
particularly good oat in Mulga, an early-
maturing variety that produces excellent
hay and grain yields and is the best of all
varieties for early green fodder. It possesses
the great advantage of being very palatable
at all stages, even when young and green.
Algerian is a somewhat bitter and unpalat-
able oat for green feed, and even when cut
for hay it is bitter to stock unless allowed to
get fairly ripe before it is cut. Mulga will
give as heavy a yield as Algerian (in a
wheat district) both for hay and grain, and
has this great advantage of earliness.
THE GOOD STOCK FENCE. .
“Curlew”: “N.M.L.” (B. 15/8/’2B)' ad-
vises two barbs and a plain wire, two posts
to the chain. I was induced once to try it,
to my sorrow. While you are about it, why
not put up a fence —it’s too late when you’ve
made rogues of most of the stock? And,
though there may be only cattle now, you
may go in for sheep next year, and three
wires spaced 14in. apart won’t stop them.
My fence is four posts to the chain, two
droppers between every two posts, equalling
12 posts per chain. Seven wires—top wire
a barb fastened to posts and droppers.
Posts 20in. in the ground, 4ft. out; bored
three inches from top. Droppers, 4ft. 3in.
First-run in the bottom wire through posts
and droppers. Then strain the barb wire—
top. Fasten to posts and droppers, and drive
the droppers, properly spaced, into the
ground. It is no bother then to pull the
'wire through the droppers—they can’t shift.
This fence is a champion.
“BABY BEEF” BREEDING.
“Cirrus”: Milk, and plenty of it, is the
foundation of baby beef. I frequently hear
first-class country described as “sour” be-
cause - the calves are not maturing quickly
enough. The milk-producing qualities of
our beef breeds have been so neglected that
if the season is not particularly good the
calves get a very rough spin. If breeders
within reasonable distance of the market,
and those most anxious to raise baby beef,
used an I.M.S. bull about once in three or
four years to mate with beef breeds, especi-
ally beef Shorthorns, in a few years the
improvement in early maturity would be
most pronounced.
Working on the above system I have
conclusively proved that calves of from 15
to 18 months old are worth in the open
market as much as and frequently more
than beasts of three or four years raised
under the cast-iron rule of never allowing
the introduction of I.M.S. blood into the
beef breeds. After weaning, the calf from
the pure beef breeds usually goes through
a period of stalemate, lasting from 12 to
18 months, but the calf from the cow with
I.M.S. blood rarely looks back.
DEHORNING.
“Poley”: Colonel Dunlop Young, a lead-
ing Smithfield meat expert, was recently
invited by the Federal Government to
inspect marketing conditions in Australia.
Some of his impressions were recorded in
a long address on the meat export industry
delivered to graziers and meat trade interests
at Homebush abattoirs (N.S.W.). Parti-
cularly was he astonished, he said, at the
amount of bruising and damage to carcases,
and in his opinion most of this was due to
long horns, especially in the train-travelling
shortly before slaughtering.’ The Argentine
and other great cattle raising countries have
long ago recognised the importance of horn-
less breeds, with most marked improvement
in marketing results.
Colonel Young advocates the crossing of
Hereford and Beef Durhams, the outstand-
ing Australian beef types, with Norfolk
Red Polls, with the resultant development
of a hornless or practically hornless cross
in due course. That would mean improve-
ment in the quality of the hides, as well as
the beef. The idea has been well tested
in Australia, but on a comparatively small
scale, as has the artificial dehorning of
calves at branding time. The latter system
is hardly practicable on the big Western
Queensland cattle-runs, whence comes most
of our export beef, even if the question of
extra cost did not intrude.
The obvious remedy is the recasting of
the type of beast bred, and this will be a
long and expensive process which would be
quite beyond the powers of large-scale cattle-
breeders without substantial help from State
or Federal Government. Even if this help
only took the form of remission of special
taxation, which is exorbitant in Queensland
where the grazier is concerned, the industry,
which is still an important one, could not
fail to benefit. The Government there has
recognised tlxis by undertaking to consider
freight concessions on dehorned or hornless
cattle sent over its railways, though how this
is going to help the grower through the long
and expensive business of rendering his
herds hornless it is not easy to see. There
must be more than that, if any practical
value is to be achieved. The State’s assist-
ance in the acquiring of stud bulls, for
instance, on a much more extended scale
than obtains at present, is a necessary pre-
liminary ; and unless the question is to
be allowed to drop, and the beef export in-
dustry permitted to slide farther down the
hill, that is a reform that should be taken
in hand at the earliest possible moment.
WOUNDS IN THE FROG.
“Cuchulain”: There is no more tedious
undertaking for an amateur vet. than the
curing of a wound in the frog of a horse’s
hoof. It frequently happens that the most
useful horse in the yard treads on a rusty
nail, which gives infinite trouble before he
is set on his feet again. If there isn’t time
to dress and attend to the wound properly,
lie has simply to be destroyed.
The chief difficulty is to keep the wound
clean and open, as every time the animal
puts foot to ground he presses in mud or
dirt, the pressure enlarging the hole gradu-
ally, while the caked dirt prevents the
escape of pus or other inflammatory matter.
While this condition continues the wound
can’t heal.
The most practical solution is to make a
kind of boot. AH dead stuff must be pared
out with the small blade of a very sharp
pen-knife till the seat of the wound is laid
bare. This is essential in all such veteri-
nary work. The hole having been thoroughly
cleaned a dressing can be applied, and a
piece of clean gauze laid over it.
The wound treated, the “boot” is the
next consideration. Procure a strong piece
of wood, and cut to the shape of the horse’s
hoof. Your next requisite is a piece of
bullock-hide which has been well soaked in
water. The wound dressed and cleansed,
you place the nag’s hoof squarely on the
board; this is already on the wet hide,
which has had several slits cut near the
edge. Through these eyelets, thread a strap,
drawing the hide up evenly, and lace securely
above the coronet, around the fetlock. This
holds the wood firmly in place, and enables
the animal to tread safely so long as he is
not hurried out of a trot. The hide put on
wet dries into shape, and is easier to adjust
next time it goes on. Dress the wound
twice a day; it is now a straight ahead job of
bathing and dressing without any digging
round in the wound. The horse can con-
tinue a normal life, as he can run with
safety in a small paddock as usual.
WOOU-SEDLING IN N. S. WALES.
“Bosso”: The main object of introducing
the zone system in offering wool in N. S.
Wales was to checkmate the buyers who go
round the sheds and, incidentally, to oppose
two new wool-broking cos. which hold out the
inducement to late-shearing owners of selling
their wool promptly. The new cos. are out-
side the association, of course.
The idea of the zone system is sound
enough, and had it been carefully thought out
would have given satisfaction to most
graziers; but the line from Wallangarra to
Albury was adopted as the boundary be-
tween the early and late sheds, and that was
an error almost incredible. The whole of the
Central Tablelands and other late-shearing
districts are thus placed in the early-shear-
ing territory. Could anything be more
absurd than to place, say, Blayney, with
an altitude of 2844 ft., in the early-shearing
zone, and Albury, which is about 500 ft. above
sea-level, in the late zone?
Owing to this serious mistake the system
must fail. There will be more country selling
instead of less, and the new wool cos. may
save the Central Tablelands and other mis-
placed districts from being the tail of the
hunt.
(Continued on page 31.)


Reliable Pumps and Reliable Power.
The Billabong Centrifugal Pump
ďf
The BILLABONG CENTRI-
FUGAL is typical of the
quality and efficiency of all
pumps made under our name.
It is the best type of pump
for raising large quantities of
water for irrigation and other
purposes, and has a greater
capacity, size for size, than
any other style. Large waterways are provided, and the casing may he
turned so suction and delivery may be adjusted to any angle. 1 e
output can be varied considerably without loss of efficiency.
The Billabong
Double-Acting Piston Pump
Specially adapted to meet the demand for
a medium-priced power pump to be operated
by kerosene or petrol engines, or other belt
power. The BILLABONG combines ample
power and large capacity in the most com-
pact form. The Base, Cylinder, Bearings
and one Cylinder Head are cast in one piece
ensuring the alignment of Gearing and
giving an unusually rigid construction.
For full particulars of these and other pumps
send for our General Pump Catalogue.
d
m
Economical Power for
the Farm and Factory.
The Wallaby Petrol
Engine
The Wallaby, running on a fuel consump-
tion of approximately to f-pint per
is an efficient and cheap source
of power for use on the farm. If you
would lighten your work, learn all about
the Wallaby. Full particulars and Prices
on request.
iimmiiiMiiim
i JOHN
&SONI
nniiiiiiimiiiiiiii
iiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiij?
L.r»
pry-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
® and
winter colcfe
In winter when those cold westerlies blow, and there s flu in the
air, remember that if your bodily resistance is below par you
are liable to take cold and develop ’flu more easily.
The most important factor in keeping physically fit is the
proper functioning of the bodily system. A dash of ENO s
“Fruit Salt” taken first thing every morning prevents
intestinal sluggishness. And its action, though mild
and gentle, is thorough.
Commence this health-giving practice to-morrow;
ENO will tone up your system and help you
to withstand the attacks of winter colds
and ’flu.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, LTD.
London, England.
i
*♦
9
Sales <s%gents: The
British Harold F.
Ritchie & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IN
TWO SIZES
at Chemists
and Stores
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT” AND ENO AND THE LABEL ON THE PACKAGE
ARE THE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF J. C. ENO, LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND
sy>e SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
wm
m..
’?ts. VKjnj
V-
is
BBS
''■( : :
m
m
m
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested crops.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10a cres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, pric e and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Nursery Rh.ymes revised by REX, No. 3
Little Jack Horner
Sat in the corner,
His hands on his fat, chubby knees*
He sent forth a roar—
“ Of plums I’ll no more,
Give me biscuits and REX Luncheon
Cheese ! ”
k
You, too, will like its piquant
flavour and creamy deliciousness.
You can spread REX Luncheon Cheese
quickly and easily on bread or biscuits
everybody loves its delicious piquant flavour
and it is very nutritious.
Eat a little with every meal REX
Luncheon Cheese and crackers.
Use it for sandwiches, in savouries, and on
fingers of toast. Spread it on crackers
which you then heat in the oven or under
the toaster.
REX Luncheon Cheese is an aid to
digestion, its food value is great, its flavour
delicious. The reason ? we use only
full-cream cheese at the exactly correct
stage of perfect maturity.
(n 4oz. and 2oz. tins and in opal porcelain jars-
REX
Luncheon Cheese
111111
-pojTleSO
vPuic'"«
Ht fpOD PROOUC^
'Jt Jpnes^i
jjCttQCt /\pDQO
o^4
t*j»y
£3f
HEESi
Another REX Sandwich Delicacy
REX Salmonelle
A delicious fish paste in dainty
glass jars.
df
Foggitt Jones Limited Curers of the Choice
REX Hams and Bacon*


DURABLE . .
but soft and easy-to-wear!
This special Abbey Riding Boot fits
like a glove with a soft pliancy that
eliminates all strain.
Lined inside with supple leather,
smooth and restful to the foot. The
upper is actually double thickness.
And it is arched to lie naturally over
the instep.
Stout elastic pieces at ankle yield
with every movement but maintain
a smart fit. The sole is flexible,
made of the toughest obtainable
leather. *
Order by Post
An Abbey Riding Boot outlasts all
ordinary kinds. Narrow, medium
and wide fittings available in every
size. When ordering ask for the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf .... 427-
Black Box Calf 37/6
40 -Page Colored Catalogue pout free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
LB9 SYDNEY.
Fluke and Stomach Worms
in Sheep.
SIX CURED FOR ONE PENNY with
SAYERS’ REMEDY.
Contains 1 c.c. of Carbon Tetrachloride per dose.
Originally introduced to cure Fluke. Has been
proved by hundreds of users to be 100 per cent,
effective, and has been found equally effective tor
STOMACH WORMS.
1-pint tin, treats 113 sheep, 4/6 each.
1-quart tin, treats 227 sheep, 6/6 each.
1-gallon tin, treats 909 sheep, 13/6 each.
4-gallon tin, 12/6 gallon.
To introduce it to various districts the Manufactui eis,
on receipt of the above prices for pint and quart
tins, pay cost of postage to any part of N.b.VV.,
provided the cutting from this newspaper is also
enclosed.
ON FIRST ORDER WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
Gallon and 4-gallon tins will also be forwarded,
freight paid, to any Railway Station in N.S.W., if
order is accompanied by the newspaper cutting.
Sayers’ Allport Propty. Ltd.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
€
M
IS
vO
Blemishes and Irritations
Quickly Disappear
When Cuticura is used. Bathe
with the Soap and hot water, dry
gently and anoint with the Oint-
ment. This treatment not only
soothes and heals unsightly and
annoying pimples, rashes and
skin irritations but tends to prevent
such conditions.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
PAY AS YOU 60 BY CHEQUE - , p
WJf
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
LAUREL HILLS
SPLENDID MIXED FARMING LAND.
5,600 ACRES, FREEHOLD AND C.P.
Gilgandra District. Rainfall, 26 inches.
For Auction Sale on WEDNESDAY, 19th SEPTEMBER, 1928,
At the ROYAL EXCHANGE (Wool Sale Ropm), Sydney,
at 11.30 a.m.
Under instructions from MISS K. BOLGER.
Situated 26 miles from Gilgandra, adjoining Tooraweenah. Well Improved Land,
with 1,000 Acres of Growing Wheat. 400 acres of crop free of labor to Purchaser.
2,000 acres Freehold, 3,600 C.P., 11/- per acre due to Crown.
COUNTRY: Undulating country with box, pine, kurrajong, apple-tree and myall.
Enough Kurrajong to feed 6,000 sheep for 12 months.
IMPROVEMENTS: Permanent water, 2 equipped bores, springs and troughing,
tanks and dams. Good homestead, newly painted, and necessary outbuildings.
Water laid on. Night light, good garden and orchard, and 30 acres of newly-sown
lucerne. A big area suitable for maize, potatoes and lucerne. 3,000 acres have
been cultivated; 4,000 acres suitable for agriculture.
Boundary completely netted, mostly new netting, fenced into 22 paddocks, with
9 netted rabbit-proof subdivisions, fencing in good order.
TERMS: Half Cash, 10 p.c. deposit, 40 p.c. on completion, no payment for 4 years,
balance at end of the fourth year, bearing interest at 6|- p.c., payable half yearly.
The proposed Mendooran-Tooraweenah Railway has been authorised, and this will
bring the property right alongside rail when completed. There is a first-class road
to Coonabarabran and Gilgandra, now under the control of the Main Roads Board.
For Further Particulars, or Arrangements to Inspect, apply to the Selling Agents ;
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED, SYDNEY,
and all Branches.
LIVER FLUKE.
“Tas Hep”: “R.X.8.” is quite riglit as
regards the efficacy of carbon tetrachloride
for treatment of liver fluke; so great is the
success, and the cost of labor so little, that
some land previously unsuitable for sheep on
account of fluke is now worth £2 or £3 p. ac.
more. It also appears to have the ability
of killing all intestinal parasites with the
exception of lung worms, for which there is
apparently no practical cure. As he says, it
does not make the sheep immune, and there-
fore the cycle which the fluke goes through
must be cut at one point, either in the snail
or in the sheep. “R.X.8.” suggests it should
be at the snail end; but that is most difficult
to thoroughly carry out. The snail is in
an uncontrolled state of nature, free to go
where it likes, whereas the sheep are all
under control. The most certain place to
out the cycle, therefore, is in the sheep, and
repeated doses of the carbon tetrachloride at
appropriate intervals and over a stated time
would be the easiest way to totally eradicate
it from a district. But, of course, if there
is any sheep-owner there who will not treat
his flocks reinfection from them would pro-
bably come.
THE YOUNG FRUIT-TREE.
“XSA”: Deciduous fruit-trees should by
now be planted out, and it becomes impera-
tive that they should have every attention
during the first year in their permanent posi-
tion.
Fertilisers should be kept well away from
the young trees. That is most important.
Cut back the leads to no more than six
inches and never leave more than three.
Indeed two are plenty, and the aim will be
sturdiness of limb rather than extreme
growth. That will follow in due course.
Keep all weeds down and cultivate ener-
getically. A good hoe well applied is price-
less in this respect. Iloe at least three
feet around each tree. The plough and har-
row can cut out the rest.
If the ground becomes dry when the
warmer weather sets in, water. Dig a trench
around each tree just on the edge of the
roots, and apply a kerosene-tin of water
to each. Then allow to soak in and fill
up the trench.
Spray for woolly aphis, San Jose and
other pests as you would bearing trees.
Keep the orchard well drained if the season
is wet; and if the young orchard is planted
out on new ground remember that the best
method to ensure a thorough working up
is to side crop with something suitable even
though not exactly fortune-making—some-
thing to plough in afterwards preferred.
ORCHARD-PEST HOSTS.
“Nitric” : Citrus-tree pests which chew or
suck are bad enough, but the insects which
lay their eggs on fruit and foliage cause
greater loss. Host fruit —that is, fruit in
which the insects can breed —should be
destroyed or not grown. It is folly, for
instance, to grow guavas in a citrus orchard,
as these and loquats are great breeding
grounds. Better to treat these and useless
peaches, etc., as noxious weeds. With this
precaution the few flies in the early spring
can be destroyed by luring and trapping.
Spraying and dusting are not of much use
with citrus fruits. The yellow peach moth
cannot be controlled in this way. It is a
hard customer, as it attacks so many plants
—maize, sorghum, cotton, all harbor it. None
of these plants should be grown near citrus
fruits. Borers (insects that burrow into the
roots, branches or trunk) are indicated by
the presence of dead leaves. Cut off
the twig or branch and burn it. I have
kept root borers in check by opening up the
mots, exposing them to the air and painting
them with lime, sulphur or, better still,
Bordeaux paste. Soil fumigants have so far
proved unsatisfactory. A drop of kerosene
spurted into the trunk-borer and the hole
plugged with clay will fix that pest.
PREVENT CROOKED BREASTBONES.
“Bronze” : Many people make a great mis-
take in letting their chickens perch too
early. Almost every case of crooked breast-
bone is caused by the chicken sleeping on a
narrow perch when it is quite young. Until
it is about 12 weeks old its breastbone is
simply gristle, which is easily bent. It is
better that chickens should sleep on a well-
littered floor, chaffed straw being excellent
bedding. When there is danger of dampness,
provide a shelf about eight inches wide
and a few inches from the ground. Fix
a narrow flange on each side and cover it
with litter. Chickens will sleep more com-
fortably on this than on a narrow perch.
IMPORTANCE OF SCRATCH ING-PEN S.
“Mathari”: The farmer who desires to
make the poultry pay should not overlook
the scratcliing-pen. It should be constructed
in a dry portion of the run where the sun’s
rays will help to keep it free from musti-
ness, and made up with coarse sand and
grit, dry leaves, straw or cut grass to a depth
of at least six inches. In this every day
rake a quart of feed made of corn (one part)
and wheat (three parts)—sufficient for 50
birds—making sure that the straw covering
is complete. If possible the birds should be
kept from the pen for one hour after they
have had the morning mash.
Don’t overfeed the scratching-pen. Genero-
sity brings rats and mice—the enemies of
the poultry-farmer.
The pen properly used can be estimated
to increase the laying of the flock by at
least 20 per cent, during the winter months.
ONION GRASS.
“Curlew”: In the Riddel district (Vic.)
some good people have taken to turning
stock upon the roads, as they find the onion
grass growing there abundantly provides
good winter fodder —so good that their cattle
rapidly improved in condition. That may be;
but if the cattle get too much onion grass
they will soon have very defective teeth,
as the weed is particularly hard and wear-
ing. Give onion grass no quarter. The
bulbs contain considerable quantities of
starch, and if I was so unfortunate as to
have a paddock of it I would go in for pig-
farming. A little meal or grain would have
to be added, of course.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Boronia”: The quickest and best method
of forcing Jonathans to develop fruit spurs
is to tie each lateral into a loop. This re-
tards the flow of sap, and results in the
formation of healthy, vigorous fruit-buds,
and then the loops can he cut and shortened
to the desired length. But don’t employ
this method in orchards troubled with
aphis or scale, as it affords increased lodg-
ment for the pests.
“Tuan” : Some time ago I had 200 wean-
ers out of 500 with “scabby mouth” disease.
I isolated the affected ones, and, yarding
them daily, washed their mouths, nostrils,
etc., with a strong solution of permanga-
nate crystals, 10 grains to a pint of water.
After live or six days the majority could be
turned out. The most obstinate cases (about
15) had to be treated for a fortnight, but
eventually healed right up. Not a sheep
was lost.
“Tuan”: As soon as a sore or gall is
noticed, it should be cleaned with warm
water and a cooling lotion put on. A good
lotion is a mixture of loz. sugar of lead,.
2oz. methylated spirits and 1 pint of rain-
water. An old and trusted remedy for all
sores is sulphate of zinc. A good mixture is
composed of loz. sulphate of zinc, Aoz. for-
malin, 1 pint rainwater.
“X.P.T.” : Algerian oats are usually first
to feel the effects of a dry spell, and they
are fairly late in maturing. Consequently
farmers are still carting in hay when they
should be stripping wheat. An oat that as
gaining popularity in the Northern Malice
(Akc.) is the Mulga. It is early and tall
growing, though not as coarse in the straw
as Lachlan. It can be fed off with safety,
and stock will eat it in preference to
Algerian. It does not stool as well as
Algerian, and on that account must be sown
fairly heavily.
“P.M.”: “Paul C.” talks about weaning
poddies off milk at six to nine months. Voir
can wean calves at four months old and
rear good heifers; I have done it and I
know dozens of dairymen who have done
so, feeding on skim- milk and linseed calf-
food.
“Sheik”: For wheat-gorged horses early
treatment is necessary. I have given with
success 1 cup of baking soda mixed with
1 quart of warm water, followed in about
an hour with 1 pint of raw linseed oil, 4
tablespoonfuls of turps, 1 teaspoonful of
Lysol, mixed well and given with care, so as
not to get any down the windpipe.
“Tuan” : Prior to erecting pine posts for
sheds, etc., pour two buckets of water in each
hole, and give it time to soak away. It will
prolong the life of the post for years.
Failing this, set all posts in 8 to 1 concrete,
and be sure to put about two inches of con-
crete in the .bottom of each hole.
“Jonah II.”: In cold weather when the
trefoil is short cattle are easily blown. A
swab on the end of a broom-handle dipped
in Stockholm tar and dabbed on the nose
of the sufferer causes it to put out the
tongue to lick it off, so opening the throat
and letting the gas escape.
“Poker”: In bad cases of laryngitis in
sheep the blood-vessels in the throat become
enlarged, the head is projected in a straight
line and there is difficulty in swallowing-
liquids. Mix 4 drachms chlorate of potash,
6 drachms tincture of iron, Boz. water. Give
1 teaspoonful three times a day. For lambs
give a quarter of the quantity.
“Amicus” : An inflammatory disease of the
mouth, noticeable most often in lambs, is
stomatitis. Symptoms are small blisters and
ulcers and blood mixed with the saliva. This
disease is caused by thistles and rough grass
which irritates the tender parts of the
mouth, and while not contagious whole flocks
are sometimes attacked. They should be
at once removed to other feed. # Wash the
sores with carron oil and rinse* the mouth
with boracic —about a teaspoonful to the pint
of water. Also add a little nitre to the
lick.
“Blowfly”: A reliable laxative for pigs:
Jalap, 1 part; sulphur, 1 part; liquorice,
1 part. Mix well together and give a dose
of from one to four teaspoonfuls.
“Putt.ees” (W.A.) : “Sox’s” owner friend
who tar-marks his lambs on the rump to pre-
vent depredations by foxes would slip in
these parts. A fox killed a lamb which had
been marked that day, and whose breech
had been liberally tarred. The head and
heart were eaten. I poisoned the carcase.
Next morning I picked up the fox 20 yard-
from the lamb. He had called again.
“Bill R.” : If certain trees in the orchard
persist in shedding their fruit before it
ripens, they probably are barkbound and the
sap cannot ascend. With a sharp knife per-
pendicular slits should be made through the
bark of the trunk and bigger branches, and
results awaited. If the fruit still falls an
excavation should be made under the tree
and the tap-root severed.
“Bosso” : I agree with “157.310” that one
should not strain wire-netting—not if one
wishes to make it easy for poor bunny to get
over the fence and enjoy a good feed. But
the trouble is that by not straining the net-
ting flat one gives the brutal inspector a
chance to refuse to grant a certificate for
the fence. If, as “157.310” states, the strain-
ing of netting causes the galvanising to
“crack,” the same must apply to galvanised
fencing-wire, and explains why every user
of galvanised-wire prefers to allow it to
hang in graceful festoons between the posts.
“Lien” : Better farming is working won-
ders in the Speck. One farmer in the West-
bury district this last season threshed 80
bushels of Avheat per acre. The Oressy dis-
trict used to often yield 100 bushels of oats
per acre and upwards, and some yields
approached this mark this year. Keith
Gatenby this year won the Longford Agri-
cultural Bureau’s wheat competition with
51.4 bushels per acre of College Hunter.
This same farmer had a paddock each of
Victor and Braemar Velvet wheats, the Victor
yielding 73 1-5 bushels per acre, and the
Braemar Velvet 60-bushels. Can these yields
be beaten in any part of mainland Australia?
“Doggo”: This ought to about settle the
question -
Perth, Tuesday: At Toodyay a farmer’s Alsatian
dog killed 50 sheep on a neighbor’s farm and was
shot by the owner. The wisdom of allowing Alsa-
tians in sheep country has been widely discussed in W.A.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
ifr. jt
■ ILI A' ■
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
#
will appreciate
the. delicate
bouquet and.
mellow flavour of
I,
at
MARTELLS
BRANDY
shipped soihv from the cop/uac oisrpict
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. Pftfiß, Proprietor.
SMOKE-OH!
What know they of Australia who only
Ingeland know?
Y Y
The man of the hour is the man a girl
asks to wait for five minutes.
Y Y
A musical expert thinks that solo singing
by young girls is a severe strain on the ner-
vous system. We agree ; it is.
Y Y
A new wing is to be added to Victoria’s
Parliament House. Some believe that what
is much more necessary is a new head.
Y Y
The Fat: “Do you think John will love
me when I’m old?”
The Cat: “What makes you think he
doesn’t?”
Y Y
A Sydney doctor states that the less a
woman wears the more she eats. In that
case why did Eve take an apple? Weren’t
there any water-melons.
Y Y
It will come as good news to all listeners-
in, we feel sure, to hear that a leading-
wireless station in Sydney has just broken
another broadcasting record.
TURNING lIIM BY WATER-POWER.
Melbourne Herald heading: “Sydney Full
of Flats.” Don't be jealous—they’ll all be in
Melbourne for the Cup.
Y Y
The latest craze in America is horn-
rimmed spectacles for racehorses. We
learn that the R.S.P.C.A. is now demanding
chewing gum for cows.
It i s said that I>. C. Wren’s next three
books are to be entitled “Beau Sprit,” "Beau
Narrow” and “Beau Legges.” It is not true
that he contemplates writing an Australian
novel called “Beau Yangs.”
Y Y
Though fair she be and sporty, too,
To watch your step is always well;
The belle you think to lightly 1000
May, haply, prove a marriage bell!
Y Y
In a Sydney divorce case the other day a
girl stated that long before she married her
man he hit her in the face. In fact, tier’s
was a case of love at first smite.
Y Y
A mysterious drug has been discovered in
the Amazon region which gives people the
power of describing events they have not
witnessed. But we know lots of people who
can do that without drugs.
Y Y
“Dad. what is a blonde?”
“A blonde, my son, is a dark girl with a
fair complexion.”
Y Y
A specialist says that men’s features are
becoming less prominent. Well, look at the
number of safety razors that are now being
used!
Y Y
Hint to smokers: If the matches you are
using won’t strike, try the famous N. S.
Wales “Coalfields” brand.
Y Y
Dreams cost money, especially when you
marry one.
More fiction : “. . . . and the
husband on returning home
at 8 a.m. was met by his
wife in the hall. ‘Where
have you been?’ she asked.
‘Well, dear,’ he replied, ‘one
of the boys at the office took
very ill to-night when we
were working back, and I
went home and sat up with him.’ And the
wife, satisfied with his explanation, went to
bed again.”
Y Y
The latest device for catching motor-liogs
is a spiked steel mat which can be unrolled
across the road in a few seconds. Spiked
pedestrians should be more efficacious.
When a girl is concerned, a young man
sometimes goes nearly mad over what is a
mere matter of indifference to him.
Y Y
The Sydney Labor Daily suggests a
school for aspiring politicians. Wouldn’t
a pool be a better idea?
Y Y
Mary has a pretty knee,
And no doubt Mary knows it,
,For everywhere that Mary sits
Mary shows it.
KEEPING HER AGE
WELL.
“Six years away from the stage seems to have changed
her in every way!”
“Well, almost—but her age is still the same!”
LAST WORDS.
Airman: I always said that wing would
fall off some day!
Motorist: Hold the match a little closer,
dear, and I’ll soon find where the petrol’s
leaking.
Melbourne Policeman: Hand over that
gun !
Patient (suffering from heart trouble) :
Ah, this looks like Dr. Quack’s bill.
Visitor to Sydney: No, I’m not interested
in your Harbor.
Pedestrian: Let the cow go round!
Newsagent (to inveterate Bulletin
reader) : No, I haven’t got a Bully, but
here’s a paper just as good.
Y Y
The Federal Government lias decided that
civil servants must take equivalent time off
instead of being paid for overtime. It is not
expected that any difference will be noticed
in the amount of work done.
Y Y
Little Miss Gadabout
Feels very mad about
Taking her boy home to Mother;
For when Mother met him
She went hard to get him,
And Miss G. nows seeks for another.
I OUTER ARST ’ER.
I orter urst ’er, should I,
When I kissed ’er on the cheek?
From blokes wot understood, I
Alters thought they liked a sheik.
At that I ain’t no master —
I reely orter arst ’er!
Instead o’ that, I rushed ’er,
Like them fellers on the screen.
Between me arms I crushed ’er —
By cripes, she made a scene!
My oath, it was disaster —
I reely orter arst ’er!
I thought they liked the cave-men
I’d read of in a book,
The “oh-you-must-behave” men,
But l muster been mistook.
An’ me face is now in plaster —
Cripes, I reely orter arst ’er!
N.s.w.
DORIC.
THE LIMIT.
“At the Central Police Court (Sydney) a witness
who was asked ‘Have you ever been before the
court before, charged with drunkenness, and signed
the pledge ?’ answered, ‘No; I’ve never been that
drunk.’ ”
I’ve felt the touch of penitence
That comes with sore heads in the dawn,
Knowledge of pockets shorn of pence,
And that there's nothing left to pawn;
I've even mentioned to my wife,
“I hate the booze,” to end her chat;
But sign the pledge? I, on my life,
Was never drunk enough for that!
N.S.W.
PERCY PINTPOT.
DREAMS.
Many’s the beautiful dream I’ve had shat-
tered by my own exclamation of delight
and the inappropriate silence ensuing. Parti-
cularly do I remember the
glorious dream in which the
kitenen tap ran beer. I had
filled every receptacle in the
bouse and had the first glass
raised to my lips, with a
“Here’s to Prohibition!”
when the words themselves
dispelled the delightful illu-
sion. I am quite convinced
that I should have been suc-
cessfully and successively
tipsy, sozzled, blotto, tanked
and well and truly stonkered
if some such sympathetic re-
ply as “Down with the
drink!” had been forthcom-
ing. So it was with the par-
donable pride of doing a kind
deed in a naughty world that
I made reply to my wife’s
somnolent cry :
“Were all the crew saved?”
“Darling,” I answered,
“they were washed up safe
on the beach.”
The glow of benevolence
was still warming me; I was
just beginning to appreciate
my own quick wit in produc-
ing at short notice such a
fitting remark, when the
most wide-awake tones cut
the silence:
“You fool, the aeroplane
crashed on land!”
F. H. W.
DENTAL PAEAN.
(“Teeth of Distinction.” —Sydney dentist’s advt.)
Teeth of distinction, beautiful teeth!
Rather like angular moons;
Level and strong, both above and beneath;
Proudly their purchaser croons:
“Teeth such as these serve not merely to
bite food —
They are as good as the average knighthood.”
Teeth that are light as feathers of snow,
Yet far more solid than lead;
Teeth that■ a duke might complacently show.
Rimming the rift in his head;
Teeth that console one for debts and unkind
duns,
Since it is clear they are highly refined ones.
What if they wobble, even fall out?
What if the envious sneer,
Saying they hint—in fact, stridently shout —
That they’re not all they appear?
Owners tcill smile at such gibes as pathetic.
Knowing their teeth are genteel—though
synthetic.
N.s.w.
10-2-4.
MUM WRITES A BOOK.
Mum picks up a fair bit o’ news one way
an’ another; mostly gets her tit-bits round
the moat —a page o’ Truth, sometimes the
picture part of the Sun, an’ a while back a
thick hunk o’ The Bulletin round the
corned beef. She speculated in a few copies
on her own after that, used to take the
Red rag to bed along with a few scraps o
writin’-paper.
“What’s got yer, Mum?” I asked her one
night she was sneakin’ off extra-early.
She give a bit of a laugh then, an’ pro-
duced the goods. ‘‘Goin’ fer that foOO novel
in The Bulletin,” she says.
“Bloomy !” I says.
“If it’s a live yarn they
want, wouldn’t all I’ve gone
through since yer father died
twelve years ago make a
book?”
“Come off, Mum,” says I.
‘Yer can’t write a book about
us.”
“Can’t I?” she says, shut-
tin’ her bedroom door on me.
She was serious all right;
got to enjoyin’ herself over
it, an’ after a bit readin’ out
of it instead o’ goin’ to the
flicks. The Sailems got wind
of it and used to pop in to
hear how it was goin’.
“It grows on yer,” Mum
says. “You begin to believe;
in it the same ’s it was
real.”
“Too right,” I says. “I
found her moppin’ her eyes
the other night same ’s it
was sob stuff at the flicks."
“It’s a sad story, Mrs.
Sailem, but it’ll end happy,”
says Mum.
“They don’t,” Mrs. Sailem
says; “they all end in
divorces these times.”
“She’ll marry the right
one in the end, anyway.”
“It’s you for it, Mrs.
Blinking,” Mrs. Sailem says,
pokin’ Mum in the ribs.
“Sailem tipped yer for a
place first time yer read it
out, an’ in general he’s pretty
lucky.”
One mornin’ close up to
the end o’ June Mum says,
“It’s finished. Mr. Sailem’s
goin’ to see about gettin’ it
away. He’s used to sendin’
to Tatt.’s and’ll know how
to go about it.”
“I wish yer luck, Mum,” I says, an’
means it.
When it’s gone she gets restless, fair eatin’
The Bulletin, askin’ about the meanin’ of
a lot of stuff on the pink page that was
Dutch to me. She cut the picture of the
cove lookin’ at them books out an’ pasted
him up.
“Mine’s amongst ’em, Jimmie,” she says.
‘ I'll go one better next year, son. I’m
learnin’ the ways of their writers from the
yarns each week.”
When I come home last Wednesday she
looked pretty rocky.
“Was yer first past the post, Mum?” I
says, feel in’ a bit wobbly meself.
A MATTER FOR GRATITUDE.
DOCTOR: “We doctors owe a good deal to
our patients.”
JULIA: “Yes, some of them do get better,
don’t they?”
“It wasn’t amongst the names, Jim,” she
says. “I believe Sailem musta lost it.”
By gum, she was right! The cow, he
went on the spree the mornin’ she give it to
him an’ dropped it in the flamin’ pub. The
barman read it and reckoned it was rotten:
but what I’d like to know is what does a
beer-pullin’ barman know about bloomin’
literature?
JAMES BLINKINS.


'(The Puling 'Preference
SS3S Z**
mW:
V# y;
Mr
;■ ; :;w : M
.-•... ->'..i ' , V
ft
fv,
ffl
Z^,
■.
i.
HI
V?
rz
z-
z
d^rg*
W
■■H
.:■
ZziZ-'Z...
:
m
0(p
.
IHi
: ■
l
: ■
M :
m
. ;
na
B
Z
ftoc/w
a
j»r
zzz
-
t UoZ'
f: ;.; :. :-.:Z-: : ;'
■I
■:
C'Z
O'
OV>
5^
-s>9>o
sorgs
IV
3
(gold label)


UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £lOO,OOO.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minut .-s from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 1874.
Comer Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
mm
> AHjIA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
|
SMOKERS!
Here is something
different to relieve a dry
mouth or tickling throat.
Try
‘Allenburys
ZTSI, PASTILLES
and be delighted with their
soothing effect and refreshing
flavour.
Your Chemist stoclcs them,
lj- and 2/9 per box
Poverty
Point
“Nikko” : Fired by the example of picture-
houses and theatres the Waikato Ministers’
Association (M.L.) decided lately on using
similar methods of inducing parishioners to
attend church, and selected an appropriate
poster to remind the town of Hamilton of
its religious duties. That the appeal was
extremely successful was probably due to the
AT MELBOURNE COMEDY.
J. B. Rowe, Dion Boucicault, N. McKinnel and Gwynne Whitby
discuss the notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith (Irene Vanbrugh).
simple but earnest wording of the poster, “A
hearse is a poor thing to come to church in.
Why wait?”
“C. 8.” : Cromwell Knox, the dapper com-
edian at Melbourne Tivoli, was being heckled
by a drunken individual in the gods the other
night. ECe stood it until there was more
heckler than comedian, then he advanced
primly to the footlights, looked in the genera]
direction of the disturbance, and said in a
dry, precise manner: “Well, now I under-
stand why some people advocate birth con-
trol.” After that the interrupter lost the
sympathy of the audience.
“Tallama”: Present-day theatrical man-
agers would not risk tempting the public
with the amusement fare provided by a
touring concert-party in Bathurst (N.S.W.)
in 1839. The prices were os. and 35., and
the star entertainer was a Professor Ander-
son, “The Wizard of the North.” His first
contribution was a recitation entitled “Lord
Ullin’s Daughter,” followed as an encore by
“The Dream of Eugene Aram.” The head-
liner, however, was his “Inexhaustible
Bottle Trick,” performed for the first time
in the Southern Hemisphere. Out in the
part of Australia from which I write, I’d
give something for one of those bottles.
“De Oriel”: An old celluloid acquaintance
bobbed up in a Perth theatre lately, masquer-
ading under the name of “False Modesty.”
It proved to be our old friend “The End of
the Road,” first screened years and years
ago. Patrons rolled up in large numbers.
Should there not be some law to prevent
the unearthing of these dead-and-gone money
spinners? Another old picture, "The Gift of
Life,” plus a new title, kept company with
“The End of the Road.”
“Tom Foolery”: In a London studio
17 years ago, I was asked to attend
demonstrations of a method by which the
movies were trying to talk, but the device
failed to synchronise the sound and the
picture. For instance, the stars had hugged
and kissed thirty seconds before the man’s
voice said “I love you,” and the smack of
their lips halted lamely another ten seconds
behind scratch. Warner’s film firm has
now released three talkers, “Tenderloin,”
“Glorious Betsy” and the “Lion and the
Mouse,” and before long movie fans will
see and hear love-making, both the sighs of
the lady and the snorts of the gentlemen as
their passion increases. The reason for
using talking devices is that the film manda-
rins find they need something to fill the great
number of vacant seats, and in the drinkless
land 6f the brave and the free, orchestras,
singers, dancers and jokesters are employed
to attract the public. A good stage act
saves a bad film. Too many big cinema
Gieatres have been built, and it is getting
harder to fill them. There are between
19,000 and 20,000 all told in the U.S.A.,
and 12,000 of them have 600 seats or over —
some have 3000 seats and five shows daily,
or room for 15,000 paying guests a day.
“Whitehall”: Edgar Wallace, who, accord-
ing to a cable of last week, is starting a libel
action against “the dramatic critic of a
Sunday paper” who described his latest play
as “the usual muck,” will run the risk of
having his own jocular comments on his
work put to him in cross-examination. One
of his judgments was: “There is nothing in
my books or plays that a parent could pos-
sibly take exception to. No so-called love
interest or anything like that—nothing but
honest, straightforward crime.”
Edwin Geach: “Jacques” (B. 22/8/’2B)
wants to know when the first movie was
screened in Australia. Sometime in 1895;
place, Melbourne Opera House (now Tivoli) ;
manager, Harry Rickards; director, Carl
riertz; styled and billed in large letters
“cinematographe.”
“Hamfat”: Phil Walsh’s picture, “The
Birth of a White Australia,” has points of
interest outside the
story. For the Sur-
veyor - G e n e r a l’s
house, for instance,
Walsh secured the
use of W. B. Dai-
ley’s old Sydney
home, since demol-
ished to make room
for the harbor
bridge approaches.
For another part he
enlisted the services
of some miners,
just back on their
job after a jam-
boree in town and
still sore from the
police handling they
had received. The
sight of police uni-
forms was enough
to set them boiling,
and the attack on
the police which
was part of the pic-
ture was just what
they wanted. If
the fight scene isn’t
a lively bit of work
those miners are
not to blame; at
all events, one
of the bobbies spent several weeks in hospital
after it, waiting for his ribs to mend.
“Cauboy”: Whether Edgar Wallace, the
English factory of mystery-spoofers, succeeds
in his action against the dramatic critic who
stigmatised one of his plays as “muck”
will probably depend on the Judge’s reading
of the meaning of the word. Collins’s Dic-
tionary gives it as “dung in a moist state ; a
mess; something mean, vile or filthy.” Wal-
lace’s plays certainly don’t come under the
first definition, though they might often be in-
cluded in the second. They have never
hitherto been filthy—in fact, their childish
innocuousness is the most boring thing about
them. The Oxford Dictionary gives “farm-
yard manure,” but it also gives the slang
significance of the verb as “to bungle a job.”
The last accurately describes most of the
Wallace plays shown in Australia. Hasty
writing and slovenly thinking are gummed
all over them. The Bulletin, with its
passion for exactitude, has described them
as “tripe”—never as “muck.” As to the
meaning given by artistic people to the
latter word, Dame Nellie Melba might be
summoned as a witness.
“THE TALES OF HOFFMANN,” AT SYDNEY HER MAJESTY’S.
Hoffmann (Enzo de Muro Lomanto ) tells of his experiences with Spalanzi-Satariano
and the automaton (Toti Dal Monte), of an incident in Venice and of the
episode with Crespel-Autori and Dr. Mirakel-Granjorte.
“Craiser”: The story of the anchored
books (B. 29/8/’2B) recalls George Gee’s ex-
perience as a waiter in a now forgotten
musicomedy. At one point he had to rush
off and return bearing an empty tray, and
he always left the implement lying conveni-
ent on the floor in the wings, One night
he tore off and when he gave the tray the
usual hearty wrench only the handles came
away. The rest had been nailed securely to
the boards. His subsequent business with
the two handles and nothing in between was
so successful that the producers, never too
prolific in devastating ideas, wrote it into
the script.
“Lever de R.”: As a contrast to the
prosaic suggestion of children’s cots as a
memorial to musician Alberto Zelman (B.
29/8/28), compare the Calder memorial now
taking definite shape in Melbourne. In
another ten years’ time motorists travelling
from the metronolis to Geelong or vice versa
will pass under an arch recording Calder’s
deeds which will be illuminated at night. On
either side of what is at present the barest
45 miles of roadway in Australia will be
continuous plantations containing an enor-
mous variety of trees. The passer-by who
cares to wander through the plantations will
find trees inscribed with plates bearing the
names of donors who have given over £5O
to the project. The appropriateness of this
method of perpetuating the memory of a
citizen lies in the fact that Calder fought
all his Victorian years for Australian re-
afforestation.
“Goldilocks”: Actor and press free-lance
Jimmy Ryan (“Narranglii Boori”) has been
much inquired about in theatrical circles
since he left Australia for U.S.A., nearly
15 years ago. He is publicity secretary in
Dollarland for four Thespian clubs, includ-
ing the Lambs and the Owls.
“Spokeshave”: “Outward Bound,” Sutton
Vane’s philosophic play about the afterlife,
was introduced to Melbourne a year ago at
the Athenaeum and had a good run. It was
revived at the Royal, and is now having
a third term at the Princess. This must
constitute a record, at any rate for the in-
telligent drama, and is something of an
answer to the producers’ stereotyped plaint
that they have to “give ’em muck; it’s the
only thing they can understand.”
“L.H.P.”: The recent resurrection of
“Robbery Under Arms” at the Opera House
recalls that the original Sydney cast at the
Royal in 1891 included Jimmy Atholwood, as
Warrigal, and George Deane, as Dick Mars-
ton. Both are still to the fore. Jimmy
Atholwood, after the Royal season, showed
his paces as Gratiano, Baradas (“Richelieu”)
and,James V. (“Cramond Brig”) to Walter
Bentley’s st-llar roles at the Garrick, later
Tivoli the First.
“S.T.S.”: Florence Fidler, in her new
Maeterlinck study by the light of Sweden-
borg and other symbolists, “The Bird that
Is Blue,” makes the curious point, on the
universal idea that the Bird stands for
Happiness, that Maeterlinck “has never
made any such statement, either inside or
outside the play.” It was Herbert Trench,
the translator, who added a footnote to the
London Haymarket programme, professing
to get the Happiness idea from “the folk-
lore of Lorraine,” where (according to Miss
Fidler) no search since lias ever been able
to locate it.
“Goldilocks”: The “talkies” threaten a
thin future for the musicians -who have
hitherto been employed to take from the pic-
ture-shows the morgue-like feeling- that com-
plete silence would impart. However, it
will most likely be years before the effect
is felt in Australia, although Hoyt’s intend
to instal the apparatus for .the “talkie” in
their coming Sydney theatre. In the U.S.A.
the Musicians’ Union is raising a fighting
fund of £2,000,000 to protect its interests.
Vaudeville artists arc likely to be concerned,
too, for the vaudeville person can be screened
with all the noise ingredients of his act
thrown in. In fact, all the audience can
miss is the opportunity of throwing banana-
skins at the artist, or, if he is an acrobat,
experiencing the thrill of hoping that he
may fall and break his neck.
“L.H.P.”: Bobby Courtneidge, now a well-
established London manager, made, his first
bow to an Australian audience as Zuniga
in “Carmen Up to Date,” one of the many
burlesques George Musgrove’s Lonnen-Lea-
mar London Gaiety co. did here in 1892.
Later he made one of the best Dames ever-
seen in a Sydney panto.
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: Ella Shields, when she
came to Australia on her last visit, reckoned
Harry Lazarqs the most capable musical
assistant for her act she had ever encoun-
tered. So the Melbourne man accompanied
her on her Australasian tour, and afterwards
went with her to America. He has done
10 months on the Keith circuit there, and,
after a holiday he is now having in Aus-
tralia, he is going back to ole Noo Yark.
“L.H.P.” : Henrietta Watson is still to the
front on the London stage. Australian play-
goers of the past will recall her as the in-
genue of the Bernard Beere troupe, when she
delighted as Kitty Clive, and Pert in Bouci-
cault’s “London Assurance.” When the
Sydney Royal was burnt she joined the Firm,
and rode on the elephant in Jules Verne’s
“Round the World in Eighty Days.” She
was the heroine in countless other pieces
before tackling London in 1901.
“Craiser”: A project which fell through
in Melbourne was the decoration of the in-
terior of the new Comedy Theatre by Norman
Lindsay. The theatrical entrepreneur belongs
to the most timid class in the community.
He aches to create a sensation, but he hasn’t
the courage to give the job to anybody who
can do it properly. The childish nudes or
semi-nudes in the Melbourne Princess are a
good example. They look as if they had been
sculped by a plasterer’s laborer, and are an
offence to aesthetic feeling. The stock de-
sign above the programmes issued by the
King’s is another example. Two girls in
bathing costumes whose upper works have
slipped their moorings are shown drawing a
curtain. The intention is no doubt naughty,
but the execution is infantile. It could be
bettered any dark midnight by D. H. Souter,
T°" noli tt-v Whit" and a dozen others.
OVER THE ODDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Variety Artists’ Federation has entered a
strong protest against offers made to Miss Irene
Savidge to appear in vaudeville. The Federation ex-
presses intense disapproval of the exploitation of the
music-hall stage for persons whose only qualification
is police-court publicity.”
She sat in a summery dress
In the park they denominate Hyde
And received a platonic caress
From the elderly gent at her side,
A writer of eminence rare,
A citizen worthy and good,
But there chanced to be watching the pair
A copper who misunderstood,
An ultra-censorious cuss,
As some of these constables are,
Whose action occasioned no end of a fuss —
But how can a damosel qualify thus
For the role of a music-hall star?
She was worried and badgered and third-
Degreed by importunate ’tecs
Till the country was shaken and stirred
At the thought of the wrong to her sex;
Till the peelers’ excesses were drummed
From the housetops and shrilled on the
breeze
And the Mother of Parliaments hummed
lake a hive of irascible bees.
What happed to an innocent maid
Was blazoned anear and afar;
Commissioners solemn the evidence weighed—
But what sort of credential is that for the
trade
Of a glittering music-hall star?
There are faces dejected and long,
There is frowning and looking askance ‘
’Mong the dealers in patter and song,
The artists of slapstick and dance;
The serio-comics in gloom
Are plunged, as you well may suppose;
The Stiffies excitedly fume,
There are clouds on the brows of the Mos.
Tb r ery suggestion appals,
It’s given all vaudeville a jar,
That the blaze on police-court proceedings
that falls
Is the cut that i£ shortest to cheers and to
calls
As a popular music-hall star.
N.S.W.
Iford.


Oj alt dealers
tiff!
l"
lH»
iini
k
iiHlt
111"
jufi
1
111
ii"
ill
The “Valet” Blade has not only the sharp-
est edge ever put upon Steel, but there is
also in the “Valet” Razor a self-Stropping
device which revives that super-edge from
day to day. The perfectly designed
frame is rendered more efficient by the
excellence of its blade. The super-keen
blade is kept sharp for 50 or 60 shaves
by juSt ten seconds daily Stropping.
“VALET”
t Y 1 o p
Safety Razor
‘jbtfldhA/lajdji,
Vc
<•>
No. 99 Set. Contains rczor,
three blades and strop in
neat case. All the essentials
for the perfect
“ Valet" shave .
3/-
Va L£T
rJ £or
VAi!
No. 55 Set. Contains razor ,
three blades and strop in
hinged container. In highly
polished nickelltd
case • • •
8/6
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181. CLARENCc STREET. SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: Van Slaverer. Bros., Ltd., Audiland, Wellington. Chnsichureh.
THERE’S HEALTH
in HELIDON SPA!
Analysis of Helidon Spa Water.
Chloride of Sodium, grains per gal. 2.99
Carbonate of Sodium ~ ~ „ 212.14
„ „ Lithium „ ~ „ 2.68
„ ~ Calcium „ „ „ 7.35
„ „ Magnesium ~ „ „ 3.39
Silica, grains per gal. .. . • 0.29
.Total 228.84
SpaWi
TMK
. A,U?
Eminent Doctors say that
Cancer is Preventable.
Helidon Spa, in addition to contain-
ing more Lithium than any of the
European Spas and being much
richer in Carbonate of Sodium,
contains Magnesium lons, i.e., the
active principle in the Magnesium
Chloride, the consumption of thir-
teen grains of which has been
advocated by one of the most
eminent European doctors as a pre-
ventive of cancer.
This active principle is contained in
Helidon Spa in a form readily
absorbed by the system and agree-
able to the palate and to the
stomach.
Make Helidon Spa a regular part of
the daily diet, for it is as essential
to the system as common salt.
It will supply the salts that have
been lost in foods by the modern
methods of over-refining.
Helidon Spa is a natural Mineral
Spring Water. It issues from the
Mother Earth at Helidon, Queens-
land, and has been bottled exclu-
sively by The Helidon Spa Water
Company, Limited, for over fifty
years.
HELIDON SPA WATER CO., LTD.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Healthy and full of joy
HY should not you enjoy life to
the full, when it is possible to
be healthy and energetic —by taking
Sanatogen ?
Blood, body and nerves will soon gain new
strength and vitality, because Sanatogen
contains exactly those elements phos'
phorus and albumin—which build up
lasting health in all the body cells.
Thousands of Physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing—why should
you not, at least, give it a fair trial ?
At all
Chemists
Get a tin at your Chemist's .
sanatogeh
The True Tonic-Food *
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOSLOUGH, ENGLAND.
from 3/9
per tin


Sturdy and Simple
Rugged simplicity in design and
the careful selection of materials
for Graham Brothers Trucks
account for their world-wide
reputation for dependability.
Abundant use of high-grade steels,
skilled workmanship and careful
inspection assure owners of
uninterrupted transportation
service, year after vear.
Whether you move goods or people
Graham Trucks will make money
for you.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne »
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
"Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Oossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z .
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY THE TRUCK DIVISION O F DODGE BROTHERS CORPORATION
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
12/9/’2B


lAu
ONord
mm
sen
ONOTO—The Pen—is British
throughout, sturdy, robust, beau-
tifully balanced and perfectly
behaved-a thoroughbred in every respect.
Unequalled craftsmanship has endowed the
ONOTO with strength that defies hard
usage. Its iridium tipped nib ensures per-
fect writing everlastingly.
The ONOTO is recognised as Britain’s
premier pen.
01 all Stationers and Jewellers
From 15/- each
P»H
homas De La Rue
Co.. Ltd.. London.
Representatives:
Norman Baker &
Longhurst. Ltd..
Sydney. Melbourne.
Wellington. N.Z.
Oiiaii
USE ONOTO INK FOR ALL PENS
m
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
d
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Investments in Canberra Are
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSETX, General Manager.
&
vv
Does It Well!!
“The Examiner,” established 1842, is the oldest daily news-
paper in Tasmania, and it still is the Family paper of
Northern Tasmania.
It does not pretend to cover the whole of the South of Tas-
mania, but does circulate everywhere in the North —-the home
of two-thirds of the population of Tasmania —and it does it
well!
Advertising in “The Examiner” is well done.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express’-’ obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
At Your jewellers
there is a modern ELGIN in keeping with your
business and social status —a watch that can confer
only dignity upon you.
Slender, graceful, accurate, ELGIN is conceded to
be the world’s standard for watch integrity.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THE VATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
frade Mark
in the Watch Cape
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.”: There seems a prospect that the
excitement of Eden’s old whaling days may
return to the sleepy little place. Shark
Fisheries, Ltd., has started to instal fac-
tory plant on the-, inner foreshores of Two-
fold Bay for the treatment of shark, whale
and other marketable oils.
* * * *
The first estimate of the probable cost of
the rebuilding of Melbourne Town Hall was
£BO,OOO. The contract was let for £126,500.
Up to date it has cost £220,936, and there is
more to come. There is only one person who
gets a gloomy pleasure out of the figures. He
remarked, when the £BO,OOO was hopefully
spoken of, that the cost would be nearer
£250,000.
* * * *
“Garry” r Maoriland’s appetite for motor-
cars is not as strong as it used to be. In
the first six months of this year the
Shivery Isles imported 6313 cars and motor-
cycles. That was 543 fewer than were im-
ported in the first half of last year, and
6885 fewer than in the first half of 1926.
America (which includes Uncle Sam and his
Canadian offshoots) sold £39,000 less to the
Fernlanders, in the way of vehicles, than it
did in the first half of 1927; J. Bull’s bill
was cut down by £20,500, and that of the
Continental nations of Europe by £28,000.
jfc
“Food Inspector” : “Sobk” was only partly
correct when he stated that Westralian.
country publicans refuse to retail Australian
whisky because there is more profit in the
imported article (B. 25/7/’2B). As a matter
of fact our own good Australian spirit is
very often the only one available, but it is
served in the other fellow’s bottle and sold
at a bob a nobbier. Few customers suspect
they are not getting what they ask for.
In Westralia we have no Brands Protection
Society, and the work of liquor inspection is
mostly in the hands of untrained police.
MORE OPPOSITION!
“Clerk”: Considerably less coal will be
bandied manually on the Yic. railways and
markedly less time will be occupied in re-
fuelling now that Clapp is introducing a new
type of mechanical coaling plant at his bigger
engine depots. Elevator buckets can fill
two overhead timber bunkers with 250 tons
of coal in five hours. The coal slithers down
balanced chutes into the tenders of engines
drawn up beside the stage, and its descent is
controlled by rapid cut-off undercut gates.
The affair, which is Australian made, can
coal an A 2 engine in less than five minutes.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: An interesting development in
the rubber industry, and one that isn’t going
to help prices though it may bring down
costs, is the grafting of buds on to young’
trees to induce them to exude sap as pro-
lifically as the mother trees. The United
States Rubber Co., which has 87,000.000
acres planted in Sumatra and the F.M.S.,
has doubled and in some cases trebled its
production by this method; and other estates
are following its example.
* * * *
“Boronia”: “Silentio” has been a long
while discovering that Australian wire-net-
ting is equal to the best imported (B.
18/7/’2B). Seventeen years ago I was using
the home-made article and deciding it was
superior. In addition to rolling and strain-
ing better, the galvanising was a superior
job, and showed no rust-patches like the best
English netting did. Furthermore, the Aus-
tralian netting stood the effects of fire much
better than the imported.
❖ * * Jfc
“W.H.M.”: The “black twist” tobacco
sticks beloved of the native and colored men
of our tropic territory are no longer being
put up, and there is great difficulty in pro-
curing supplies of what to the native is
almost as necessary as food. The Torres
Strait islanders in the old days grew their
own tobacco, curing it and storing it in their
houses in long popes, though where they
originally got it no one knows —they them-
selves claim that it is indigenous. With
the advent of the beche-de-mering and pearl-
ing industries, “trade” tobacco ousted the
home-grown product. But it looks as
though there might he the opportunity, if
not necessity, for the tobacco-gardens to be
developed once more.
“L.1.M.” : One hot afternoon in Northern
Vic. a jfoung cherub knocked at my door, to
announce diffidently: “Excuse me, but there’s
a dead cat in your garden. Don’t you think
it ought to be buried?” I shuddered. “Oh
yes, take it away.” “Well, I don’t much like
handling it, but” I hastily intervened
with sixpence, and gingerly picking up the
deceased the small Samaritan departed. 1
learned later that the corpse had gone ex-
tensive rounds with lucrative results.
jss sis # :'s
“Fur and Feather” : The news that some
Maorilanders are importing a stud flock of
Chinchilla and Angora rabbits to build up
a great fur industry in the Dominion has
its interesting aspects. Each rabbit is sup-
posed to shear a pound of wool four times a
year, the fleece being worth 30s. per lb.
Most of the shearing in Maoriland is. done
by Henare, and the writer would give a
lot to hear the comments of that sophisti-
cated savage when he is asked to tackle his
subject for the first time. It won’t be too
easy a job, either, for an old fighting buck
is harder to handle, unless one knows the
trick, than any sheep.
* *. * =1:
“Overland”: The luck of the game ! Re-
cently Drover Cameron brought 3000 head
of mixed cattle from Windorah in the
Queensland back-o’-beyond to Brewarrina
(N.S.W.). During the trip he had to cross
700 miles of drought-blasted country, and
never lost a beast. Then, crossing the Bar-
won at Brewarrina, the cattle “ringed” and
some 30 head were drowned. Thousands of
Queensland cattle make the passage at this
spot every year, and it is many years since
a casualty was recorded.
* * * *
“Cadfry”: It’s just a hundred years
ago since the King of Holland granted a
patent to a young chap named Conraad van
Houten, who had discovered how to make
cocoa-powder. On that basis the still-exis-
tent and liighly-prosperous firm of C. J.
van Houten and Zoon was founded, and at
Weesp, where they had their first factory,
there was a week’s celebration
of the centenary recently. All
the big cocoa and chocolate
firms of the world sent repre-
sentatives, and a bust of Van
Houten was unveiled by his
grand-daughter with great pomp
and ceremony.
=:= * *
“Mako”: Among the mult 1 ,
farious duties of the Wellington
(M.L.) Public Trustee is the
administration of the big Mac-
arthy Trust, which entails the
management of a brewery and
the advertisement and extolling
of the products thereof. When
the Legislative Council debated
the matter recently the motion
of ex-Chief Justice Stout (a
rabid prohibitionist) that the
P.T. should discharge himself
from the performance of the
Trust and the promoting of the
sale of alcoholic liquors was
defeated by 21 votes to 5. There
was a period some years ago
when the Auckland Public
Trust Office, among its many
legacies, had the management of
businesses as varied as a pawn-
shop, a joy-wheel and a cab-
bage farm, all of which it con-
tinued in the interests of bene-
ficiaries. The joy-wheel gave
way one day and precipitated
some dozens of holiday-makers
to the ground with much dam-
age to the victims, the pawn-
shop suffered a burglary, and a
plague of caterpillars devastated
the cabbage farm. The first two
items were settled after much
argument, but the third was the
cause of infinite altercations, the
interested parties contending
that it was the duty of the P.T.
office to combat the caterpillar
invasion* while the harassed
head of that department replied that con-
ducting an anti-caterpillar campaign did not
come within the scope of his duties. The
matter was finally settled by the caterpillars.
They demolished the crop and closed the
chapter.
V * * #
“Erua”: After a spectacular launching
the M.L. Government motor-ship Maui
Pomare, designed for the Islands trade, has
returned from her first voyage under a dark
cloud. She had over 5000 cases of bananas
in cold storage, when half-way between Apia
and Auckland it was discovered that the
temperature in the holds had risen to 100°,
practically cooking the entire fruit cargo.
Near Sunday Island the vessel was stopped,
and a whole day spent in jettisoning £4OOO-
- of ruined fruit. Now engineers and
other experts are assailing the construction
of the new vessel, and the insurance com-
panies are agitatedly arguing their involved-
ness.
“Nikko”: The association that used to
fight cases in the N.S.W. Fair Rents Court
on behalf of the owners never had a case
that, gave it more satisfaction than one con-
cerning a Randwick terrace of eight houses
that was the only asset of an elderly widow.
The terrace was not subject to the 1914
assessment, and the tenants were paying a
mere 2<s. 6d. per week for two-storeyed
modern dwellings. Finding expenses swal-
lowed most of her rental the owner raised
the rent to 305., whereupon the whole
terrace, with one exception, haled her before
the Fair Rents Court. Before the case was
called the tenants discovered there was every
likelihood of their rents being raised, and
they sent a spokesman to graciously accede
to the 30s. per week. The kindly old land-
lady was disposed to let them withdraw the
case, but her solicitor insisted on the matter
going before the Court, with the result that
the rent, fixed on the Court’s usual scale,
me out at 475. 6d. per week. As few of
the tenants could pay the increased figure
there was an exodus. The net result of the
tenants action should have been an addi-
tional £8 per week to the owner; but as
she resolutely refused to accept more than
the . ? 0s from the only tenant who had re-
cognised that he had a generous landlady, it
was only £7 2s. 6d.


Do You Realise
make Sets of
GOLF CLUBS
to Suit every Purse?
°x
Pitcher Mashie Nfblic Mashie Mashie Iron Mid Mashie MidTroi) Driving Iron
New 1928 “SWEET SPOT” Custom Made Sets
KROFLITE IRONS
Uniformity conserves energy; it ensures the repetition of an act.
Uniformity is the most important essential in golf. Great golfers
are great because they have a uniform swing—they can swing in
the same ‘'groove” every time. With the average set of clubs this
presents difficulties. But not so with Spalding, who have made
every club in the bag feel exactly alike with the “Kro-Flite” Set.
In Spalding clubs the shafts are exactly matched. There is an exact
increase in pitch from one blade to another. There is also an exact
variation in the lie of each club. The distance you stand from the
ball is automatically determined. Such absolute uniformity must bring
greater uniformity to your game.
Set of 7
filO'lo'o
Set of 5
£7'lo'o
KROFLITE WOODS
With Inlaid Face. Custom-made Sets Spoon to Match if Required
NOTE. —The important feature of these clubs is that, unless a driver and brassie are
perfectly matched from the very beginning of their manufacture, it is practically impossible
to select two regular clubs from stock that are directly related to each other.
pr.
KROFLITE—AUTOGRAPH MODEL
Clubs of very finest quality and equal in every way to our Custom-made Sets, but
manufactured as single clubs only. Finished with highest-grade hickory shafts and
long, best-grade calf grips. Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
ea.
“CRESCENT” WOODS
These Clubs are made up with a fine-grade hickory shaft, persimmon wood head,
striped, aluminium sole plate in driver, brassies and spoon.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
22'6
ea.
“CRESCENT” GRADED IRONS
These graded Clubs are wonderful value and beautifully finished. Popular
heads, made up in men's right and left hand, and ladies’. Can be bought in
single clubs.
model
sets or
15% ea.
“THISTLE” WOODS
Good grade hickory shaft and persimmon head, striped.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
IS'
m ea.
“THISTLE” IRONS
A very well-finished, low-priced Club, made in Driving Iron, Mid Iron, Mashie Iron,
Mashie Niblics and Putters.
10'6 ea*
A. G. Spalding 8 Bros. (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
352 Kent Street, Sydney.


WALTHER 22CAL.
AUTOM ATIC PISTOL
with a 92m. Barrel.
mm
«•
No license required for
this model.
Magazine holds 13 long-rifit
ridges. Wonderful accurary to 1 00yds.
Ideal for motor-car use on rabbits,
etc., without getting out of car.
Price £7/15/-, post free.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[3
MAN NEWS
4(<
Jpy.W :
The
"WILD WEST 1
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
314 ins. wide will
not sag : High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
O A /
j **
p ost p rog
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2ueen Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Sydney Tattersall’s Club's Tramway
Handicap is a race to which students of
literature who follow their bent at Rand-
wick give special attention. The winner is
always to be respected in the Epsom Handi-
cap, run three weeks later; on the other
hand, animals that fail to show up aftei
having every chance may generally be dis-
carded for the more important event. Ros-
trum and Fleuriste, Eric Connolly’s pair,
were first and second in the Tramway in
1922 and finished the same way in the
Epsom. Fuji San was second two years
ago and was second to Amounis in the rich
A.J.C. handicap, after having been donkey-
licked by the same horse (a non-starter at
Tatt.’s meeting) in a race at Rosehill.
Amounis himself won on Saturday, at 12 to
I, and is now one of the favorites for the
Epsom. Coming with a long run on the
outside of a field of 21, he got up in time
to thrust his head in front of unlucky Haba-
shon (8 to 1), who had made nearly all
the running; Cimabue (16 to 1), from
Maoriland, was a good third, and the time,
lmin. 24|sec., equalled the Randwick record
for seven furlongs.
Amounis goes up 31b. to 9st.. 71b. in the
Epsom; Habashon comes down lib. to 7st.
61b.; Cimabue will carry the same weight,
9st. 31b. Habashon has won at a mile and
a furlong, and perhaps his party will be
compensated on Sept. 30 for his sequence of
seconds. Reonui’s jockey drew a bad marble,
and was not seen to advantage in the actual
race, while Anambah, the favorite, was inter-
fered with, as also was Valparaiso. This,
horse, who looks very well, and Reonui may
be expected to improve on Saturday’s show-
ing, but there seems little hope for Sans
Culotte, who had a good run all the way.
And Avant Courier was also one of the
well-beaten lot.
Except that the fast-finishing Statesman
just missed third place, the Chelmsford
Stakes was the Warwick Stakes over
again. Limerick (4 to 1 on) beat Winalot
(8 to 1) by a length, and again had a bit
in hand; but Tooliey did not knock Winalot
about, and if the chestnut does not go off, as
he did last season, he will give Knight’s
horse a much more severe race in the Spring
Stakes. The Happy Warrior (50 to 1)
showed pace for a mile, and lasted long
enough to earn third money for his owners,
11. G. Raymond and H. B. Rankcn, but
Raasay (14 to 1) might have been placed
but for a bad case of interference which has
cost McCarten his license for three months.
Stalden came home poorly, and is no Derby
colt. The crowd generously recognised Lim-
erick’s third Chelmsford Stakes win ; he gal-
loped the nine furlongs in lmin. SlJsec.
Jocelyn had done well on the tracks since
she found galloping alongside Limerick at
w.f.a. too much of a task, so she was
made favorite, at 5 to 2, for the Spring
Handicap, in which she had 31b. more than
her Metropolitan weight, Bst. 41b. McCarten,
who rode her, contrived to get a run on the
rails, and the Rosendale mare did better
than the ancient Resource (10 1) in an
interesting finish, but there wasn’t much in
it. Tibbie (25 to 1), who is looking nice
and bright again, was third, with Roscrea,
Gleam Boy and Blather close up. Blather
ran very well for a mile and a furlong and
Roscrea impressed still more; he was left
lengths at the start and was, nevertheless,
within a couple of lengths of the winner at
the end of 10 furlongs, run in 2min.
lie will be no mean antagonist for Mollison
in the Derby.
Jocelyn’s victory and that of Kalloni (7
to 2) in the Welter Handicap were comfort-
ing to punters, who would have had a bad
time otherwise. Sion’s second to Kalloni was
very creditable, seeing that he carried lOst.
lib. and was in front most of the way; and
the mile was left behind in lmin. He
is distinctly an Epsom possibility. The
divisions of the Novice Handicap went to
Blue Star (5 to 1) and Leadight (10 to 1),
who may both win in better company at a
mile to a mile and a half. Blue Star’s party
must have been pleasantly surprised to get
tens about their imported horse (it was 9 to
1 the field at one stage), and twelves were
laid in places.
:J: * * *
Mollison is in the Rosehill Guineas and
Limerick in the Hill Stakes at Rosehill next
Saturday. Limerick is a sure starter, all
being well, and it is to be hoped that Mol-
lison and Ramulus will fight their War-
INDUCEMENT LACKING.
PORT MELBOURNE PETE: “Well, Joe, I’m finished till next season.”
WILLIAMSTOWN WILLIE: “How’s that?”
P.M.P.: “Aw, some’ow a bloke can’t work ’isself up to bash a cricket umpire.”
wick Farm battle over again. This Page
expects Roscrea to run a good race. Fancies:
Camellia Stakes: Don Moon ; next, Reonui.
Rosehill Guineas: Mollison; next, Ramu-
lus.
Rosehill Cup: Fondant or Bacchus; next,
Mountain Prince.
Hill Stakes: Limerick; next, Amounis.
Highweight Handicap: Sion ; next, Padi-
col.
***>:<
There were no recognised champions at
Aspendale (Vic.) on Saturday, but a promis-
ing colt in the well-named Strcphon came
to light in the Three-year-old Handicap. The
son of Saltash and Soldier’s Love, who is
owned by Sol Green, outclassed the opposi-
tion, winning by half a dozen lengths from
Donalbain and By Gum. He was backed
from long prices down to 6 to 1. Textile
was among the starters in the Park Handi-
cap. The Caulfield Cup winner, however,
is not yet at his top, and was at 33 to 1
in the betting; Spearset was favorite at 6
to 4. The race turned out the best of good
things for the Duke of Melton mare Madom
(7 to 1), who led all the way; that very
ancient performer The Tyrant, who has a
Williamstown Cup to his credit, was second,
and Affirm (4 to 1) third. Affirm should
pick up a race shortly.
# * *
There were no Le Vars, Blue Specs, Misti-
cos or Easingwolds in this year’s Kalgoorlie
Cup field. Runabout, a thing by Gadabout—
Larlette, won from Eupator and Gauntlet,
going out at 8 to 1 in a field of seven; H.
E. Vail is the successful owner. Eupator,
who lias earned his oats in Westralia this
year, is an ancient son of Eudorus; one
remembers him racing at Randwick when the
Prince of Wales was in Sydney, or about
that time. There is something in the West-
ralian air that enables racehorses to last
longer than in other climes. For example,
Featherstitch, who won the Kalgoorlie Cup
in 1923, is still serviceable, though a bit
cranky at times. He won the two principal
races at Albion Park, Brisbane, the other
day; one event was worth £3OO and the
other £2OO. Really a veteran when he left
the West, the son of Featherstitch —Fleet
Street has since had heaps of racing in every
mainland State; he just missed a place in
Polycletan’s Metropolitan and was second
in Purser’s Caulfield Cup. And the tough
old customer is a stallion.
The Boulder Cup, in which Tattsmania had
an interest, was won by Peggy Poet, a
daughter of Poetical—Ayr Lass, from Ari-
mond and Perfect Juggins. Her price was
7 to 1, Perfect Juggins (5 to 2) being
favorite and Eupator (5 to 1) next.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: W. E. Selleck, of Laura
(S.A.), has been a committeeman of the local
jockey club for 43 years without a break,
and has been re-elected for another three
years. Any living veterans anywhere with
a longer record?
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Alleged by John Wren to be a world-
beater, Billy McAllister (Bst. 4 Jib.) was easy
for Charles Van Reedon (same weight) at
the Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night.
The betting gentry made the visitor favorite
at 2 to 3 on. Mac started off boxing prettily,
but the Yank scorned his best punches and
bored in with a consistent body attack that
soon had William worried. By the end of
the fourth round, with eyes bleeding and
most of the snap gone from his punches, Mac
was obviously doomed; and in the sixth
a right that landed rather low sent him down
writhing. The partisan crowd roared for a
foul, but Quirk commenced the count, and
Bill had perforce to carry on. Subsequent
blows, perfectly fair, sent Billy down to the
accompaniment of howls of “foul,” and Mac
developed a habit of appealing against any-
thing that landed below the face. The visitor
made the eighth too torrid for th eloeal lad.
At the bell Wren’s “champion” intimated
that he’d had enough.
* *
Another English lightweight, “Young”
Clancy, came a thud at the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. Scaling 9st.
Slrlb., exactly the same as sturdy Jack
Roberts, of Newcastle, he showed flashes of
skill, but Roberts never gave him a chance.
The Newcastle lad kept at his opponent
from the first bell, and hit him everywhere.
Clancy struggled through six rounds of a
bitter experience, but in the seventh a tre-
mendous right to the already battered and
bruised body put him down. Very game,
the visitor staggered to his feet at the count
of seven, but was so obviously unfit to con-
tinue that referee Wallis got between them
and ci’owned Roberts.
Footbrawl
Vic. League’s first semi-final between Rich-
mond and Carlton brought a record crowd of
66,381 and bushels of disappointment. Almost
from the start the Tigers played a clever,
systematic game, while the Blues, once noted
for their marking and long kicking, had
apparently forgotten these arts. They simply
blundered along, and their continual mistakes
broke the hearts of their barrackers. At half-
time Richmond led by 74 points to 40; and
when, on resuming, it was apparent that
Carlton was incapable of making a recovery,
a dour silence pervaded its supporters in the
crowd, and those who could _ squeeze out
wandeyed home. At the bell Richmond owned
17 goals 15 behinds; Carlton, 9 goals 10
behinds. Bumps were many and minor
casualties plentiful. For the winners Don,
Judkins, Baggott and Titus shone; for Carl-
ton, Clover strove valiantly.
In the Association final Coburg beat Port
Melbourne by 114 points to 107, and took the
premiership.
* * * *
The semi-finals for the N.S.W. Rugby
League premiership saw St. George knocked
out by South Sydney, who scored 13 to 5
at Earl Park, after extra time had been
played, while Eastern Suburbs disposed of
North Sydney, 26 to 13, after a rough game
at Wentworth Park—it ended with another
brawl. East and South, rivals in many
finals, meet next Saturday to decide the pre-
miership.
$ * * ’!=
The N.S.W. Rugby Union team in M.L.
lost the second test at Dunedin by 16 to 14.
The losers tired considerably at the finish,
which is not surprising since there were
only two days between the first and second
Tests, most of the time being spent on boat
and train on the journey from Wellington
to Dunedin.
The Nineteenth, Hole
The fight for the Australian open golf
championship was a keen one, aud most
of Australia’s leading golfers came through
the qualifying rounds with credit; Rufus
Stewart, the Kooyonga (S.A.) professional,
put up a course record of 70 ou Friday.
In the final round Fred Popplewell, profes-
sional at the Royal Australian Club at
.Kensington (N.S.W.), and winner of the
event in 1925—a150 held then in Sydney —
got home from his South Aus. rival by a
stroke. Popplewell’s card included a hole
in one—the short third—which is a record
for a championship event in Australia. His
figures for the four rounds were 74, 73, 73
and 75. Stewart’s card read 78, 70, 75
and 73. IT. R. Sinclair (N.S.W.) was
third with 300—73, 74, 77 and 76. Popple-
well had a margin of five strokes to win at
the last hole, a bogey five. He was on the
green in 2, but took 6 putts to sink his ball.
(Continued on page 41.)
Lcbbeus Hordern, who died in Sydney on
Monday morning, was the youngest of the
three brothers who inherited the millions
produced by the great store on Brickfield-hill,
lie joined up with the R.F.C. during the
war, and did good work, and he retained his
interest in mechanisation of all descrip-
tions to the end. He was one of N.S.W.’s
best-known motorists, and had one of the
fastest speedboats in the harbor.
BALLADE OF THE INCOMPLEAT
GOLFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Several of the competitors did not return a card.”
—Report of any golf competition.
Not all of us are made of stuff
Like that which held Thermopylae,
And called th’ approaching Persian’s bluffj
To win to immortality.
Of differing kidney many be,
Cast in a more retiring mould,
Those wights who silently agree
Some tales are better left untold.
Why hymn the horrors of the rough?
The frightful foozle on the tee;
The putt a blind man couldn’t fluff;
The bunker’s searing agony?
Why blazon for the world to sec
The fact 1 our feet had frozen cold
By rushing on publicity?
Some tales are better left untold.
No. There is frightfulness enough
For those who sail golf’s stormy sea.
So, let us answer “Quantum suff.”
To those who at our cards would pree.
Small hope of championships have we
Among the “minus mugs” enrolled
Who have contempt for only fee —
Some tales are better left untold.
Envoy.
Prince, when the Judgment comes, prithee
Grant us the grace our hands to hold
To hide our stark futility—
Some tales are better left untold.
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


Good Tyres Deserve Good Tubes —Goodyear Tubes
Traction —-
Dependability
Wear—
d
Now made in Aus-
tralia, the New
LOW GOODYEAR
PRICES apply to
all sizes and types
of INNER TUBES
and all CASINGS
other than a few
sizes which are in
small demand.
; "'S
9k
mk}
MJ
Slit
■
is
HI
N
m
m
m
i
IL
I
4$
ms
Kill
II
Itll
,# §&» |; It
** »|S js'
S'X i
m
H&n
»
y
$m
fc!
m i
Ifetf
’*s
His
SSSS
V V \
i
■■
S v
{|jp
m %
x
WHATEVER car you ride
in, whatever road you
travel Goodyear
Tyres will yield traction ,
dependability , wear.
TRACTION, proceeding from
the new type All - Weather
Tread.
DEPENDABILITY, proceed-
ing froin SUPERTWIST,
Goodyear’s highly elastic and
durable cord material.
WEAR, proceeding from
Goodyear’s new and tougher
tread compound. Thus may
you ride safely, securely, no
matter the weather or the
road. Thus may you ride at
the lowest possible cost per
mile.
Next time fit the new
Australian - made Goodyear
Balloon.
• • • •
Goodyear Tubes fit the tyre
perfectly because they are
built and cured on a circular
mould.
Lively, red rubber guaran-
tees you longer trouble-free
mileage from both the tube
and the casing.
And the testing of each tube
—stretched 25 per cent. —
under water before leaving
the factory guarantees uni-
form quality in every tube.
Fit a new Goodyear Tube
with your next Goodyear
Tyre.
Am


:
■®*aS
mr*
ii ii
in
Lli!
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfe. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney; 509 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LIQUEUR
The Whisky for Connoisseur?
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Di& tillers.
Footbrawl
‘‘Stand Off”: The victory of the All Blacks
in the fourth and last Test game with South
Africa is exasperating to the football statis-
tician, since it leaves unsolved the question
of whether the Blacks or the ’Boks are the
world’s champions. In M.U. in 1921 each
side won a match, the other being drawn.
Tbc Maoriland Army team twice beat the
South Africans in England in 1919, but no
'rest was played on their subsequent visit to
the Gape, and the matches were not counted
as representative. Why, in the circum-
stances, the two governing bodies agreed to
play four Tests, instead of three or five, on
this occasion no one seems to know. How-
ever, the situation may spur the ’Boks to
accept the invitation of the N.S.W. Union
to meet the Maorilanders and the British
team in a triangular tourney in Sydney in
1930, playing a series of games in Aus-
tralia and M.U. in addition to the British
fixtures.
* * * *
The performances of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union side in Maoriland have gladdened
the hearts of the many Australians who have
never lost faith in the amateur game. The
team sent over was but a shadow of the
State’s strongest side, but it has proved
superior to the famous M.U. teams encoun-
tered save in one particular, that of goal-
kicking. In the first match against Maori-
land at Wellington the visitors scored three
tries to one, but were beaten by penalty
goals, four of which were kicked by the
home team as against one by the Waratahs.
Maoriland critics freely admit that in fast
and attractive combined football, both for-
ward and back, the young trippers are show-
ing better form than anything seen in the
Shivery Isles for a long time. This generous
appreciation is in strong contrast to stuff
appearing in the League-cwm-pony press of
Sydney.
* * * =;=
“Birkenhead Park”: The English Rugby
Union, which once despised money, is now
rated the richest football organisation in ex-
istence. Its assets are reckoned at £120,000.
Last season the match with the Waratahs
realised £12,138, and that with Scotland
drew £12,782. Not a penny of this goes to
players, most of the surplus, with the neces-
sary provision for reserves, being distributed
among the county and private clubs which
cut such a big figure in English football.
The money thus allotted assists in the pur-
cliase of grounds previously leased,
and many famous arenas have bee])
rescued from the hands of the land
speculator and builder. This has con-
tributed to the extraordinary advance
of the amateur game in the Old
Country during the last few years,
where it has been invading even the
most sacrosanct Soccer territory, while
it has practically wiped out the round-
ball game in the public schools.
* * ❖ *
“Swing the Boot” : Nothing so much indi-
cates the falling olf in public esteem of the
N.S.W. Rugby League as the reduced “gates'
at club matches. This means that players who
formerly could rely on a useful addition to
their income from the division of the club’s
share of the swag will find the wages of
professional football much loss than in the
golden past. Even last year South Sydney’s
first-grade regulars pouched over £IOO each
for the season. North Sydney in the days
of its glory did quite as well, if
not better. This year shares promise to
go about 25 p.c. of former takings, though
one or two of the leading clubs will do
better than the others.
“Everton”: The Australian Soccer team
which has been touring Java and Malaya
returned to Sydney last week. Of the 23
fixtures played the tourists won 17, drew
four and lost two, kicking 72 goals against
27. Thompson topped the list of scorers
with 21 goals. The chief trouble encountered
was the interpretation of the rules by the
local referees.
“Port”: Adelaide is indignant because a
Melbourne newspaper critic, commenting on
the South Aus.-Vic. match narrowly won by
the latter, more than insinuates that the Vic-
torians let their opponents down light in
a spirit of friendly condescension. This sort
of thing is more maddening than straight-
out disparagement. The Wheatfielders are
crying loudly for somebody’s gore—prefer-
ably that of the Melbourne football writer.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The appearance of the Aus-
tralian Davis Cup team in the TJ.S. national
championships had all the usual rocket-like
features to which we have become accus-
tomed. All hands started olf brilliantly, and
Moon and Cummings gained special merit
by beating Borotra and De Buzelet in the
first round of the doubles. The second
round saw only Patterson and Hawkes left
in, but the rocket still continued to go up,
the pair showing marked superiority over the
opposition. Then, in the final the stick
came down, the Victorian veterans going
under in straight sets to two youngsters, Lott
and Hennessey. Hawkes was successful in
a minor event in partnership with Helen
Wills, taking the mixed doubles from Moon
and Miss E. iGross.
* * * *
“Top Spin” : The Australian women’s team
abroad finished its European tour proper at
the week-end with a match in Ireland. The
girls have done consistently well, and must
have earned a nice little wad for the Aus-
tralian tennis authorities. However, they are
not to be allowed to slack up, for they
have to show at Singapore. After that, if
there is no chance of arranging matches
with China or Greenland, they will pre-
sumably be permitted to return home.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : There is an element
of humor in the symposium instituted by a
Sydney journal on the subject of tennis
players being permitted to write for the
newspapers. Most of those invited to give
an opinion are themselves writers on the
game, and some of them are tennis officials as
well as players. Naturally they consider the
action of America and Britain in attempting
to suppress the nuisance as cruelty to
animals. One individual, however, blurted
out the truth when he said that it was anoma-
lous to forbid anyone writing about tennis
for pay while the practice of leading players
hiring out their names for use on racquets
and other tennis paraphernalia was per-
mitted.
* * * *
“Rus”: Country tennis associations have
for a long time beeen dissatisfied with
their treatment by the N.S.W. body, which,
as is usual in such cases, caters chiefly tor
metropolitan interests. The Newcastle-Mait-
land district players have now decided to
form a combination to be known as the
Northumberland Tennis Council, which will
run its own affairs independently of the byd-
ncy body. Affiliation with this is asked,
however, with the proviso that the new
organisation be permitted two delegates to
AFFINITIES.
SPONGER: “Yes, the old 'bus touched sixty-five last Friday.”
FEDDUP: “Ah—like master, like car.”
the Sydney meetings. If this last request is
refused, as seems probable, the central body
will probably be told to go and chase itself,
as far as Northumberland is concerned.
The Nineteenth Hole
The Australian golf championships opened
on the Royal Sydney links at Rose Bay with
one of the largest and most representative
gatherings in the history of the meeting.
The inter-State matches provided a surprise:
N.S.W. beat the better-fancied Victorians
in the end by 5 matches to 2, after downing
Tasmania by 4 matches to 3; Victoria
had eliminated Queensland by 6 to 1. Len
Nettlefold, the Tasmanian left-hander, was
defeated by R. Iv. Lee Brown, of N.S.W.,
who finished 2 up on the 1926 amateur cham-
pion. Queensland’s only winner was W. F.
R. Boyce, who beat the Australian amateur
champion, AY. S. Nankivell, by 2 and 1. In
the final Eric Apperly overcame C. 11. Faw-
cett. the N.S.AV. amateur champion, who was
playing for Victoria, 1 up, while Nankivell
went down to B. C. J. Bettington,. 2 and 1.
The first championship event, the mixed four-
somes, was won by the Manly pair, W. C.
Sturrock and Mrs. Triglone, from G. R. Dav-
idson and Miss Walker, of the Ivillara club.
The pairs tied at the first meeting, 160 each,
but in the 18-liole play-off the Manly couple
won with a card of 81.
“Claypan”: Let me tell “The McHaggis”
(B. 5/9/’2B) that he is not the only one
who has learned by bitter experience the
folly of trying to take a divot with his iron
shots on the flinty courses of out-back Aus-
tralia. One of the players in the Australian
open championship at Sydney is J. F.
McGuinness. He hails from Broken Hill, and
there the tees are made of concrete, while
the fairways and greens are grassless and as
hard as a pony bookmaker’s dial. As a
result the Barrier man has developed a clean-
ness in picking up his ball with wood or iron
that has made him the envy of many of his
competitors.
* * * *!•
“Brassey”: Walter Hagen is coming to
Australia to play a series, of exhibition
matches, and Joe Kirkwood is returning on
a brief visit. Joseph will not be g partner in
Hagen’s enterprise, as was at first anounced.
Nevertheless, he will be seen in action, and
those who recall his Australian form of a
few years ago will be able to judge how much
contact with the world’s best at the game
has taught the ex-caddie of Manly.
* * *
“Daisy Cutter”: Not all the Australian
golf clubs are governed by the “Colonel
Damurize” tradition that femininity is an
offence to the golfing community. The Royal
Queensland, which has its beautiful course
on the Brisbane River at Hamilton, has laid
down a special nine-hole course for the lasses,
and there they may play from morn till dewy
eve if the spirit moves them. Of course,
having been allotted this privilege they never
play on this course if they can. possibly
wangle their way on to the big one, but that
is only associate human nature.
* * * *
“Ananias”: Bird stories have not been
much to the fore lately, even the ball-thieving
crows having called an armistice, or,else their
chroniclers have. A new one, however, is re-
ported from one of the Sydney suburban
clubs. A golfer played into a tree, and going
up to his ball found that a bird had dropped
out of the branches with it. The fowl, which
was a small one, showed all the usual symp-
toms of a k. 0., but eventually recovered and
flew away, without even asking, in the usual
manner of humans in its unfortunate case,
why the blazes the player hadn’t called
“fore.”
% * * *
“Sturt”: South Australian golfers are
going to fall into line with the other States
in making all matches for the State cham-
pionship 86-hole affairs. At present the
qualifying rounds are over 18 holes only, the
final being 36. The shorter journey adds too
much to the element of luck; the full 36 is
a far better test. Many a match .where a
player has established a good lead on the
first round has been pulled out of the fire
by his opponent in the afternoon journey.
* * :!t St
“Vulgus” : Talking of seaside golf courses
(B. 8/8/’2B), the Tweed Heads and Coolan-
gatta clubs recently completed a nine-hole
course which is right in the north-east corner
of the Ma State, adjoining the double border
fence. It is no uncommon, thing to have
balls sliced into Queensland territory, or
lost in the wilderness of that narrow no-
man’s-land known as the “buffer-area.”
“Rub o’ the Green”: A unique seaside
course is at Wynyard (Tas.) on a
land between Bass Strait and Inglis River.
Some of the fairways run beside the beach,
and when a southerly is blowing balls are
sometimes carried out to sea. One green is
situated under F'ossil Bluff, where a fossil
whale estimated to be ever so many millions
of years old was dug out.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: The golf club at
Canberra has a sinister sense of humor which
I fervently hope will be very shortly cor-
rected. Under a tree at the Eighteenth is
a beastly waterbag. A notice above it says
that it is the Nineteenth. I can never forget
the agony of mind this caused me until I
found that in the Federal Territory there was
nothing to be really alarmed about if one
made a noise like a Federal official.
$ * * *
“Hoylake”: The match for the Walker
Cup, played this year at Chicago, resulted
in a horrible doing for the British team,
its only win in eight matches being that ot
Torrance, who beat “Chick” Evans 1 up.
The outstanding performance was Bobby
Jones’s defeat of Perkins, this year’s ama-
teur champion of Britain, by 13 up and 12
to play, which recalls the fearful hiding
administered to Walter Hagen by Archie
Compston in their match in Engl ami some
months ago. Great player as Jones is the
feat is an extraordinary one, for Perkins
has been first in four national championships
in Britain during the past two years, and
second in another; in addition, he has won
most of the principal prize events going for
amateurs during that period. The old axiom
that the only certainty about golf is its
uncertainty docs not apply in every instance.
Jones is certainty itself.
“Sandringham”: A curious document was
the petition presented to the Brighton Coun-
cil urging that the playing of golf on Elstern-
wick golf links on Sundays should be for-
bidden. No particular opposition was ex-
pressed by the objectors to golf as a game—
El,stern wick is a public golf course —but it
was urged that the opportunity to play on
the Sabbath lured away strong men from
church and caddies from Sunday-school. No
thought whatever seems to have been given
to the case of city workers who have no other
means of relaxation than that afforded by
Sunday games, of which golf is decidedly the
most attractive and decorous. The private
clubs, with which the opponents of Sunday
sport cannot interfere, play on Sundays, as
on other occasions. Sunday tennis, which
is accompanied by a good deal of noise, is
universal in Melbourne. In England and
America, as a Bulletin writer pointed out,
the churches make provision for Sunday
golfers by holding special services for them.
Surely the hint is worth taking by the Vic-
torian Sabbatarians.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The exceptional summer
Britain has enjoyed lias been the indirect
means of rocking the kingdom of golf to its
foundations. Numerous individuals, finding
the customary tweed golfing togs too hot and
heavy, have appeared on the links clad in
cricket flannels and similar outrages against
accepted convention, with the result that
many of the older members at the more moss-
grown institutions have resigned or taken to
their beds. As a fact, the plus-fours con-
vention is a thing of to-day. Thirty years
or so ago the great majority of players in
Britain and elsewhere went round in every-
day attire, sprigged boots being the only spec-
ial addition to the make-up, though country
players often turned out in the knickerbocker
garb worn on everyday occasions. Going
a little further back, old prints show us that
golfers played in their high silk hats.
“A Golfer’s Gallery” has a fine painting
of one Scottish potentate in a white silk hat,
knee-breeches and silk stockings, and a pair
of patent-leather pumps! He is armed with
his driver, and a caddie is teeing the ball
for him, so that was evidently how he went
forth to battle.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : Some time ago I showed
how many penalties a conscientious golfer
might incur in a bunker —I am not referring,
of course, to the every-day golfer. I now
put forward an example of how disregard
of the rule as to grounding a club in a situ-
ation of the sort may bring unexpected un-
happiness to a player who, like all golfers,
should be inured to unhappiness It is from
an American golfing journal. A player lost
liis ball in a deep gully, which is one of the
hazards of the course. When he had got
down to play the ball—this is most impor-
tant —he used his niblick to cut out steps to
permit him to climb out of the gully after
the shot. Then he played and got his ball
out, only to find that his opponent claimed
the strokes made with the club in cutting
out the steps as part of the medal score. I
think St. Andrews will back the claim.
(Continued on next paye.)


e&iA
X<
£ r&>
$?
<y
4f<msM
x€^
S>
o*o
<s&'
*&^VpV
nV
<v
K
s:
s:
>h
Peck
A
dnd 3 Huisfat
ttu ttn&Ucttttti,"
That picnic to-morrow
wouldn’t be a real picnic without
the Anchovette sandwiches.
Everyone in the party likes their
tasty and appetising flavour.
Serve Anchovette. too,'for light suppers.
Get a jar from your grocer to-day.
ANCHOVETTE
/ The delicious Fish Paste
Car and Cycle
“Trembler”: The dried-up bed' of Lake
Petrkolili (W.A.) was the scena of yet
another speed record last week, when F.
Colliver, driving a Chrysler 70, won the
Australasian 50-miles championship, aver-
ing S 6 m.p.h. He covered the second 25
miles at the rate of 92.3 m.p.h., which is
claimed to be a world’s record for an un-
banked, circular dirt track. In the same
car, Colliver also won the State 20 miles
championship, again averaging 86 m.p.h.
* * :!=
“Prahran”: Those American Methuselah
motor-cars (B. 29/8/’2S) have their rivals
in Australia. Messrs. Dheedene and Chan-
taume, of Prahran (Vic.), are still running
a 1908 Benault, which has had but one
overhaul since it left the factory. No new
parts have ever been fitted to the machine
save piston rings, and it is still in daily use,
having run over 150,000 miles at least; also,
it is still equal to 50 m.p.h. When new it
was tried up the steep Anderson-street hill
on top gear, and can repeat the performance
to-day.
* * * *
“Gate T.”: The big event of the year for
the members of the Boyal Australian Auto-
mobile Club, a 10-days’ reliability tour to
Melbourne and back, commences on October
26. The route will be by Goulburn and
Albury to Melbourne, and back by way of
Bendigo, Hay and Bathurst to Sydney. There
will be three classes, these being distinguished
by weight of cars, and the contest will
include petrol-consumption and hill-climbing
tests. The distance to be covered is, roughly,
1375 miles.
si: :!: *
“Kick Starter” : The motor-cycle continues
to invade the sphere of other sports. Foot-
ball and polo have been played on it, and
no‘w a cable from Madrid announces that
motor-cycles are to be substituted for horses
in a bull-figliting exhibition. If the innova-
tion is successful the Spanish Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals intends to
move for its general adoption in bull-fights
throughout Spain. Possibly it proposes to
find a substitute for the bulls, which would
seem to have an equal claim on its concern
with the horses. A Ford naturally suggests
itself.
•I* * * *
“Pace” : On the eve of his departure for
Australia, Hubert Opperman, the Victorian
cyclist, gave Europe a taste of his true
quality by winning the 24-hours’ race for
the 80l d’Or trophy on the Buffalo track
at Paris. He led from the twelfth hour,
and, shaking up the pacers, lost liis competi-
tors, winning by 106 laps from the second
man, and covering 5904 miles in the allotted
time—eight miles better than the previous
best figures for the race, put up in 1924 by
Oscar Egg. Continuing after the comple-
tion of the 24 hours, “Oppy” covered the
1000 kilometres (621.38 miles) in 25 hours
19min. 36 4-ssee., which is claimed to be
a world’s record. Paris papers now style
him the greatest all-round cyclist living.
* * * *
“Cliev.” Touching the 40th anniversary of
the birth of the pneumatic tyre (B. 5/9/’2B).
When tire Belfast veterinary surgeon, Dun-
lop, showed liis invention to a racing cyclist,
the expert scoffed at it, so Dunlop chal-
lenged the scoffer to ride a race on his
solid tyres against Dunlop’s own 9-year-old
son, mounted on a home-made tricycle fitted
with the first pneumatics. It was the first
of a long series of road events won on
Dunlops.
Miscellaneous
“Spike” : Thus early in its career the Emxiiro
Sports Federation has agreed to recommend
to the various governing bodies in the Domin-
ions that no more “mixed” teams be sent
to future international contests. It is a sen-
sible recommendation. By all means let
little Dolly Daydream and other heroines
of the flapper press pursue their innocent
activities, if they choose to do so, by flood
and field, but they are out of place in Olym-
pic contests and the like, particularly in
events on the track and over the jumps.
# * :J:
“Long Dog”: No more are live hares to
be pursued by greyhounds on seedy Sydney
racecourses, as the tin hare used to be.
The reign of the substituted form of gamb-
ling, which furnished the sickening spectacle
bf hares being trampled to death by
muzzled dogs, has been brought to an abrupt
end without the tedious recourse to the law
courts which marked the passing of the
mechanical device. It is necessary for per-
sons desiring to keep hares in an enclosure to
obtain a license from the Department of
Agriculture. Licenses, it is anounced, will
be refused to all applicants save those con-
ducting coursing in recognised plumpton,
enclosures. It is to be hoped that the
Government will steel its heart and forbid
enclosed coursing as well. That excrescence
which the lust for gambling has built up on
the legitimate sport of coursing the wild
hare in the open has no more right to exist
in a civilised community than its sister
atrocity, pigeon-shooting from traps.
* * *
“Bide Off”: The Australian polo pony is
making a golden reputation for himself
wherever the game is played. The English
team in the match between America and
Britain last year had many Aussie mounts
in their string, as did their opponents. The
soldier-players from India recently in Aus-
tralia were loud in their praises of the local
ponies, and took some back to India to join
the many Australian-breds already there. Now
comes H. V. Skene, the Harden (N.S.W.)
player, who recently took a string of 25
ponies to Honolulu and sold the lot in short
order. While there he formed a team and
entered in the inter-island competition,
which his side won, beating, among others,
an American Army side. The breeding of
polo ponies promises to be a useful industry.
“Leeuwin”: Westralia has fixed the date
for the inter-State eight-oar race on the
Swan Iliver; it will be rowed on May 4, the
course being from Applecross to the Nar-
rows. To help in the centenary celebra-
tions, a big regatta will be held on the
following Saturday, and all the States and
Maoriland have been asked to enter crews
for the Centenary Fours.
:|s :|t * •-!=
“Mannum”: South Australian rowing is
undergoing the spring-cleaning which the
successes of Westralia have forced on other
States. The race for the State championship,
■which decides the South Aus. crew for the
inter-State eights, is usually rowed in Feb-
ruary, but it is proposed to hold the event in
December. This will give the representa-
tive crew some four months to get into
buckle, instead of two, as heretofore. There
is no winter rowing in South Australia, and
the complaint has been made that it will be
difficult for crews to be at their best by
late December. However, the feeling is that
the inter-State event should be considered
before all else.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : The Queensland Bowing Asso-
ciation has adopted a new idea for deciding
the State rowing premiership. Instead of
leaving the issue to be determined by one
tussle,, the State and river championships
and one race of every other class provided
for by the rules of the Q.B.A. at each centre
are to carry points, the highest total to
settle the matter. The other races referred
to are defined as those carrying a permanent
trophy. Queensland rowing is peculiar in
that there are at least four river champion-
ships—Brisbane, Maryborough, Bundaberg
and Bockhampton—in addition to the State
event. All the leading Queensland crows
meet at the various regattas, and the points
system, in the circumstances, seems more
equitable and a better test of consistent form
than one race.
* * * *
“Hotham”: That bowls bias controversy
(B. 29/8/’2B) has 'progressed another step.
The official re-testing of the standard and
other bowls was carried out in Melbourne
H. A. KNIGHT, of Maoriland, owner of
Limerick.
with great solemnity and the customary
interludes. Bun from a chute over a 90ft.
head, the standard bowl drew sft., and
against the wind 4ft. 6in. Most of the
private woods tested were found to conform,
though one or two drew more and others
were notably “straight.” A similar cere-
mony in Queensland showed that the draw of
the local test bowl was a couple of feet more
than that of the Aus. Bowling Council bowl
experimented with in Melbourne, while it was
found that the bowls of some of the Victorian
team who were present at the trial were far
short of the Queensland standard. As it is
proposed to adopt the A.B.C. bowl as the
standard for the whole of Australia, there
are sure to be some more recriminations at
the annual meeting in September. One party
asserts that the proposed standard wood
doesn’t draw nearly enough; the other de-
clares that its circuitous tendencies are
too excessive for words, even as drawn from
the vocabulary of bowls.
R. GRAHAM, a Victorian, who is believed
to be the oldest airman actually flying
in Australia. He got his ticket in
1916, when he was 43.
“Fitzcray”: The annual meeting of the
y.C.A. disclosed that the association was well
pleased with the State eleven’s achievement in
the Sheffield Shield matches last season, even if
the financial returns were below those for the
previous year; they amounted to £13,419,
compared with £17,402. The chairman said
that it was obvious that Westralia was going
to become one of the leading sporting States,
and that it could rely on Victoria’s support
where cricket was concerned. This suggests
that when Westralia wants to enter the
Sheffield Shield competition it will be backed
by the Cabbage Gardeners. As South Aus-
tralia usually follows Victoria’s lead in such
matters, it seems likely that the Westerners
will not have to put up with the years of
fruitless entreaty which fell to Queensland’s
lot before the sliprails were let down at last.
*** ■ *
“Tenth Slip” : The Englishmen are asking
that the six-ball over be the rule for the
matches in which they take part. As they
are unaccustomed to the Australian exten-
sion to eight balls, the request is fair enough.
South Australia suggests that the six-ball
over be reverted to in this season’s Sheffield
Shield games. N.S.W. has refused to enter-
tain either notion. This attitude is far
from the traditional spirit of cricket. But
the N.S.W. body cannot get over the loss
of one of its Test matches to Brisbane this
season. It regards the Board of Control,
which proposed the transfer, and the Mary-
lebone C.C. which agreed to it, in the most
bilious light.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: Percy Fender is to ac-
company the English XVII to Australia. He
will not come as a cricketer, as he did with
Douglas in 1920-21, but as a war corres-
pondent pure and simple, and on his past
form he can be depended upon to supply
the war. Indeed he has already begun it
by writing a vitriolic criticism of the team
as selected. Fender’s position is peculiar.
The best captain in England, and still in
the first flight of all-rounders, he has never
been considered by the English selectors
since he stirred up such a heap of ill-feeling
on his only visit here. The barracking that
he and “Bocklay” Wilson received at Sydney
Cricket Ground in the first Test match will
never be forgotten by those who heard it;
and they brought it ajl on themselves.
* * * *
Cricketers learned with profound regret
of the death in Adelaide of Karl Schneider,
the great little left-hand batsman and out-
field, and useful change bowler. Just after
last season’s tour of Maoriland by the Aus-
tralian team, Schneider was overtaken by
severe heart trouble, and though he rallied
when seemingly at death’s door his plucky
fight for life was unavailing. A Victorian
by birth, Karl made his name as a schoolboy
cricketer at St. Xavier’s, and his rise in
first-class cricket was rapid. He was gener-
ally acknowledged the legitimate successor
of Warren Bardsley in the Australian elevens
of the future, but it was not to be. The
poor little chap was only 23.
Pot and Palette.
“Chevroford”: Yon can't be too careful
nowadays. A Melbourne cartoonist recently
drew a motorist behaving in an absurd and
humorous manner and thoughtlessly num-
bered the car. The picture had no sooner
appeared than the artist received a furious
letter from a man whose registered number
happened to correspond. Only a tactful
apology averted legal proceedings.
Here’s another coincidence. Out of The
Bulletin’s stock of drawings a few weeks
ago one of Leason’s was taken nearly five
years old, and it was printed above the title
"Over the Odds.” Now a correspondent sends
a drawing from the American Legion
Weekly illustrating exactly the same idea.
And the queer thing is that Leason’s draw-
ing was made a year before the other; yet
the American Legion Weekly couldn’t have
copied it, because for all these years it lias
been safely under lock and key.
“Coot”: Can any Inky Wayfarer in Aus-
tralia equal the record of James Buckland,
who for 61 years has been employed on
the staff of one daily paper? When in 1867
Messrs. Lawrence and Clark, then pro-
prietors of the Talbot Leader, founded the
Ballarat Courier, Buckland was their
printer’s devil at Talbot, and he accompanied
the printing plant on its removal to Ballarat.
1-Ie has been on the Courier’s mechanical
staff ever since and recently celebrated his
72nd birthday.
“Carmelite” : It is hard to understand the
lies published in London papers about Aus-
tralia without understanding the point of
view of those behind the British press. The
Daily Herald is nominally moderate, but
four-fifths of its readers would support a
daily expressing the views of Harry Pollitt,
if there were such. The Harry Pollitt type
of Labor leader is not out to make things
better for the workers. So he opposes ('mi-
gration, which tends to reduce the unem-
ployed figures and diminish the country's
appalling housing problem, and continually
misrepresents the Dominions. The bad type
of emigrant Englishman, the variety that
would live pn the dole as an unemployable
in Lopdon, gives the revolutionary Briton
the kind of information he likes, and natur-
ally papers such as the Herald hasten to
print it.
“Buna”:, In the way of dealing with the
person who does not extend ordinary courtesy
to press folk a Maoriland paper went one
better than the Sydney daily (B. 22/S/’2B). _ A
singer of world-wide repute had treated its
reportress with ignominy, whereupon, instead
of the usual gush about the lady, with her
portrait and her life, the sheet merely men-
tioned that Madame Blank, “the well-known
singer,” was in town, and hastened on to
other matters. Half an hour later Madame’s
son, her manager, and a secretary or so were
dancing round the newspaper office, where an
editor haughtily remarked that as reliable
information of the lady’s doings had been re-
fused his paper’s representative there was
really nothing more to be said.
Louis McCubbin’s art (New Gallery, Mel-
bourne) is a permanent memorial to his
father’s romantic ideals. The younger Mc-
Cubbin paints the Australian bush not as it
is but as his forebear saw it, and one of the
most successful efforts in this manner is No.
11, “A Bush Fantasy,” in which a section
of picturesquely-rendered forest appears mys-
teriously furnished with a Doric temple, a
faun-supported fountain and a couple of
charming nudes braving pneumonia at the
foot -of a majestic gum. In “Footlights,”
a study of a ballet, McCubbin satisfactorily
attacks a subject usually avoided by the gum-
tree school.
The N.S.W. Society of Artists has bor-
rowed for its 1928 exhibition the Orpen pic-
ture, “Sowing New Seed,” which made humor-
less people leap with rage when shown in
Adelaide. It is not Orpen at his best; the
frock-coated Philistine introduced contrasts
queerly with the idealism of the nude figures.
But there is nothing in the thing to get angry
about. George Lambert has a fine bust por-
trait of a “Swedish Athlete,” in which the
head is nobly done; the portrait of Howard
Hinton is apparently a contract job, painted
in a workmanlike manner to specifications.
Norman Carter does particularly well in the
portrait section; Muir Auld mars good
efforts by sombre treatment; Fred Leist has
a lively “Bathing Group”; Streeton is
represented by a “Golden Thundercloud”—-a
striking picture. Bernard Hall’s contribu-
tion is a big crab, which has the advantage
•of looking as if it could be eaten, an impres-
sion which is not conveyed by the vegetables
supplied by many other artists, with the ex-
ception of Hans Heysen, whose “Onions”
might bring tears to the eyes and flavor to
the tripe. There is some very appealing land-
scape work by Eliotli Gruner, Harold Her-
bert and Albert Collins, and Margaret Pres-
ton provides her usual Australian flowers.
The sculpture section is a good one this
year: George Lambert, Maurice Lambert,
Arthur Mureh and Ilayner Hoff share the
honors.


THE
FITTING
BRITISH
BAU«ROUER|
■BEARING?
BRITISH
%
*
=2-
<n
■z.
o
s
MEANS
SMOOTHER RUNNING
GREATER SPEEDS
LONGER LIFE* and
THE ELIMINATION of
BEARING TROUBLES
TO YOUR CAR,.
V
Bur British Bearings
Exclusive Commonwealth
Agents & Distributors:
GARDNER, WAERN
& CO. PTY., LTD-,
MELBOURNE:
481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY:
225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Hunter Street West.
TASMANIAN AGENTS —
W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO., LTD.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS—
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
(Automotive)
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
(Industrial)
FLOWER, DAVIES * JOHNSON, LTD.,
Perth.
WORTH-WHILE TECHNICAL BOOKS
FOR EVERY TRADE. Posted
Commercial Art Practice. Text Book for all who Produce, Buy, Sell
or Use Art in Commerce. Knights 20/-
The Human Figure. John Vanderpoel 20/8
The Art of Pen Drawing. Manual for Students, Illustrators and Com-
mercial Artists. Ellwood 16/2
Sketching in Lead Pencil for Architects and Others. Jasper Salwey 11/-
How to Draw in Pen and Ink. Harry Furniss 6/6
More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink. Furniss 6/6
Art of Shading. Complete and Graduated Guide. William Mann*. . 6/6
First Steps in Water Color Painting. Gleeson 12/8
Metal Plate Workers’ Workshop Companion. Manual of Workshop
Practice. Turner • • ®/"
Educational Metalcraft. Treatise on Repousse, Fine Chasing,
Silversmithing, etc. Davidson 10/8
A.B.C. of Plastering. Telling 12/3
Joinery and Carpentry. Greenhalgh 6/3
Book of Lettering. J. K. Robertson 2/4
Decorative Writing and Arrangement of Lettering. A. Erdmann . . 14/2
Rotary and Motor Convertors. Handbook for Operators and
Attendants. E. Smith 10/6
Amateur Electrician’s Manual. Saunders • 4/-
Electrical Equipment of Automobiles. Handbook for Motor Mechanics
and Motorists. Smith • ®/"
Automobile, Carriage and Waggon Painting. Practical Instruction
Book. Vanderwalker ®/“
The Mixing of Colors and Paints, by F. N. Vanderwalker, illustrated.
(Description, Properties, Theory, Harmony and Management
of Colors.) 10 /6
House Painting Methods, by F. N. Vanderwalker, illustrated. (Vhth
the Brush and Spray Gun, Industrial Painting on Steel, Iron,
Cement, Brick and Wood.) 10/6
Motor and Carriage Painting. A. Bates. A Practical Manual, New
Edition • • 7/10
Automobile Painting. F. N. Vanderwalker. Covers every detail of
latest and best methods for average painter and car-owner .... 7/10
Color Mixing and Paint Work. D. F. Cary. Manual for Painters,
Signwriters, Artists and Colormen, etc., etc 3/10
Paint and Color Mixing. A. O. Jennings. 17 Colored Plates. Con-
tains over 300 samples of actual oil and water paints and various
colors, and upwards of 1 500 different mixtures 16/-
Diesel Engines, by David Louis Jones 26/-
Modern Carpentry. Hodgson. 2 vols V"
Mayes’ Australian Builders & Contractors’ Price Book 15/-
Book of Australian Bungalows 5/4
Henley’s Twentieth-Century Book of Recipes, Formulas and Processes 21/-
Dykes’ Automobile Encyclopaedia. New 15th Edition 31/6
A Dictionary of Modern English Usage W/'i
Modern Practical Carpentry, by Ellis • 37/6
Modern Joinery, Practical. A very comprehensive treatise on Practice
of Joiner’s Work by Hand and Machine. By Ellis 55/9.
Complete Woodworker. By Jones 12/10
Audel’s Carpenters’ and Builders’ Guide, in 4 vols. Set 31/-
Practical Cabinet Maker and Furniture Designer. H odgson 10/6
Commonsense Hand-Railing. Hodgson
Steel Square. Practical Treatise. Hodgson. 2 vols. Set 15/10
Woodworking Machinery. M. P. Bale 14/2
Practical Carpentry and Joinery. Greenhalgh 6/6
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
Corner CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
’PHONES: FWlll2—Three Lines.
IrifemaiLonal
Most up-to-date hotel in New South
Wales. Situated on the highest point
of beach, overlooking the Pacific
Ocean.
Patrons visiting Sydney during
Spring Meeting should wire reserva-
tions to avoid risk of disappointment.
BONDI
BEACH
IUICiEjMSKB*
!’ (fi ‘ * p p m
[W »«* W-> itt
fTi tfifhPl
f V**l w-
HW
Lunches, Dinners and Suppers can
be catered for in your home at short
notice. High trained staff retained
for private functions. Hotel tariff:
Single, from £4/4/- weekly; Double
Room, from £B/8/-; Daily, £l;
Bed and Breakfast, 10/6.
SPACIOUS DINING ROOMS ACCOMMODATING 250 GUESTS.
LOUNGE ROOMS, PALM COURT, OVER 100 BEDROOMS.
HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH ROOM.
. SPECIAL SUITES, ROOMS DE LUXE
WRITING BUREAU AND TELEPHONES.
DELIGHTFUL ROOF GARDEN (where Teas are Served), HAVING
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL PANORAMIC VIEW OF OCEAN AND
HARBOR.
GARAGE ATTACHED FOR CONVENIENCE OF GUESTS.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS, LOCKERS, ETC., FOR SURFERS.
CABARET DE LUXE ADJOINING, WHERE PARTIES, WEDDINGS, ETC., MAY BE
ARRANGED.
All communications should be addressed to THE MANAGER, HOTEL INTERNATIONAL, Bondi Beach, Sydney.


Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 6, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR’
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen tc
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Yalet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from .....' 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
Melbourne
Chatter
The entertainment provided at Parliament
House in recognition of the visit of the
chairman (Lord Clinton) and delegates of
the Empire Forestry Conference looked, at
first glance, like a modern version of the
night before the departure for the Promised
Land. Held in the Queen’s Hall, there was
enough food spread to appal the guests,
whose hands were duly clasped by Premier
Hogan and his wife and Lord Clinton, while
a string orchestra played a breathless accom-
paniment. Supper came on early, and those
who gathered about the statue of Queen
Victoria discussed, as they balanced coffee-
cup and cream-puff, the sandals and remark-
ably ugly feet of the late V.R.—according to
the sculptor. The sitting promised to be
more than usually dull until some bright
brain suggested jazz, and many couples got
going upon the sacred crimson and maroon
carpet, which cost a mint of money.
Mrs. Hogan, who was congratulated on her
recovery from a serious illness, sported a
posy of crimson roses amid the flounces of
her black-spotted net frock. Knight Frank
Clarke, President of the Legislative Council,
was accompanied by the Clarke lady, whose
grey raiment was traced with gold beads.
The Minister for Health and Forests (Bec-
kett) was there with his wife; Chief Secre-
tary Prendergast brought along his daughter,
Mrs. Eric N. Plarrison, who had an extra
o.s. in sash bows and ends upon a blue
taffeta and floral lace frock. H. I. Cohen’s
wife wore gold lace and lame, and their
daughters, Yvonne and Cynthia, were pretty
lassies in black and flesh pink respectively.
R. M. Cutlibertson’s wife had gleam-of-crys-
tal embroidery upon a black gown. The
Stanley Ai'gyles, the Edgars, Minister for
Railways Tunnecliffe and his wife, and
Speaker Peacock were others who honored the
visiting nine.
There was such rush of patronage at
the second John Brownlee concert that the
artists were nearly crowded out, only enough
room being left on the platform for them to
reach the curve of the grand piano. Even the
programmes became luxuries, a party of
Taits and pianist Benno Moiseiwitsch having
to share one among them. Some huge laurel
wreaths were gathered by the baritone, who
was in fine voice and received an overwhelm-
ing reception. His co-warbler, Elena Danieli,
had an array of daffodils, boronia and peach
blossom laid at her feet. Dame Nellie Melba
was in the front row to applaud her proteges,
her crimson coat being worn over a white
gown. Miss Danieli, who favors pink and
blue, was in an old-world frock of taffeta of
the first shade, with petal-shaped rosettes
edged with nattier hue. The Gaud Mayoress,
her daughtei*, Sheila Morell, and the Irvine
lady were of the delighted approvers.
The State Governor and Lady Somers
went tree-planting on Thursday afternoon
at Werribee, putting in the first of the
10,000 which will form the Calder memorial
avenue along the Melbourne-Geelong road.
Mrs. Calder and the Gaud Mayor were of
the gardeners, likewise Premier Hogan and
his wife. Mr. Hitchcock, M.L.C., Geelong’s
fairy godfather, sent along a cheque of £5O
to be expended on a section of leafy-shade
that would bear the name of Geelong’s star-
warbler, John Brownlee. Mr. W. T. B.
McCormack, chairman of the Country
Roads Board in succession to the late Mr.
Calder, was of the speakers w T ho advocated
the necessity of continuing the good work
of what he termed the long length of wind-
swept monotony. Mrs. H. P. Lock bid the
visitors to tea and warmth at The Manor,
Werribee, after the ceremony.
Doreen Fairchild was the lucky rider in
the ladies’ cross-country race in the point-to-
point meeting of the Findon Harriers during
the week. The Hunt Club gathering, which
was held at Woolert, was a very pleasant
outing, well attended,
Friends of the Well-Wishers, a lately
blossomed amateur mummers’ society, rallied
in full force and laden with horticulture to
give the members’ first effort encouragement.
“It Might Happen to Anyone,” a very inno-
cent meeting of an eminently respectable
actress with a couple of even duller married
men, which caused a regular volcano of domes-
tic trouble because the lady had left her gloves
behind, was the principal offering. “Even-
ing Dress Indispensable” made a pleasant
curtain-raiser. Eileen McCraith, as the
actress, Jack Osboldstone, who showed ability
as a female impersonator, and Loveday Hills
supplied some of the best work, along with
Eric Donald, who also was the producer. St.
Vincent's Hospital out-patients’ department
benefited by the evening, “For Charity”
being the unwritten motto of the little com-
pany. The Herald and Weekly Times
orchestra provided accompanying melody.
The oldest Parliamentary hands have
dredged their memories in vain to find in Vic.
political history a parallel to George Swin-
burne’s tragic death on the floor of the Leg.
Council: but an equally swift call came to
Frederick Holder when he was Speaker of
the Reps, and was occupying the chair in
which Alec Peacock now sits in the Assembly
Chamber in Melbourne. Duncan Gillies,
while Assembly Speaker 26 years ago, had
a bad turn in the chair, but he lingered in
his room at the House (then situated at the
Exhibition) for months before he died while
taking a bath on a Saturday morning. F. C.
Quirk, Vic. State Parliamentary librarian,
received the dread summons while in the
library.
Over the four o’clock brew at Scott’s
Hotel, spread upon apple-green tablecloths
amid vases of Iceland poppies. J. J. Simons,
who created the Young Australia League in
W.A., chatted to members of the English-
Speaking Union the other day about the
impending tour to U.S.A. of 120 boys. These
tours have been going along merrily for 10
years, and nearly 8000 boys have left their
home firesides to go travelling. The president
of the E.-S.U. and the Consul-General for
’Murka (Arthur Garrels) spoke at the party,
and the Chancellor of the University, Knight
John MacFarland, was present; so were
Mrs. Harold Clapp, Mrs. H. S. Iv. Ward,
Mrs. Carty Salmon and Mrs. Dale.
Mrs. George Russell, who took her daugh-
ters abroad, has resisted temptations to pro-
long her stay, and the party is returning
on the Cathay in good time for our carnival
season. They will go to Northorpe, their
acreage in the Western District, and put
things in running order before the gay period
begins.
Staged by the Repertory Theatre Society
last week, the Galsworthy play “The Silver
Ring” received promising patronage. There
is something about the Playhouse which
hampers the securing of sympathetic atmo-
sphere, and this play, in spite of clever stag-
ing, seemed to be longer than usual. Irene
Webb wore with great success the upholstery
of. a middle-aged matron of position. Minna
Suckling, in private life the wife of the
director of the Repertory (Frank Clewlow),
made her first appearance with the amateurs
and proved an acquisition. Lt. Colonel and
Mrs. T. W. White, Miss Deakin, Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, the Edward Stevens couple,
and Mrs. Alex. Gunn were among the early
approvers.
When the new State High School, perched
on Yarra’s bank, was opened, Arthur R.
Jackson, member for Prahran, saw the ful-
filment of his
pet project. It
is claimed to
be the most
up-to-date edu-
cational struc-
ture in the
continent, and
it ought to be,
for it cost
£lOO,OOO. En-
thusiasm for
the cause of
education is
Mr. Jackson’s
keynote, and
during his five
years of politi-
cal life the
schools in his
electorate have
had more at-
tention paid to
their renova-
tion and ven-
tilation than ever before. Born at sea on
the way to this State, his early life was a
pretty hard one. He started work in a coal-
mine, but you can’t keep a good man down,
and he came out with a manager’s certi-
ficate. Ruskin made the picture.
To-day (12th) members of the Royal
Colonial Institute and the Victoria League
are bidding Lieut.-General Sir William Furse
and Lady Furse to sample the luncheon
efforts of the newly-arrived chef Martin, of
the Hotel Australia. The distinguished
soldier, who is director of the Imperial Insti-
tute, is an Empire Forestry conference dele-
gate. His wife, who has her daughter with
her, is a sister of Lady Stanley, who had a
popular stay at Government House a few
years ago.
Tea will be dispensed to open the annual
show of the Twenty Melbourne Painters at
the Athenaeum Gallery on the 18th. The
society, which dates from 1019, will have its
efforts augmented by contributions from the
associate member. W. B. Mclnnes. and the
invitees, Rupert Bunny, Bernard Hall, John
Farmer, Colin Colahan and Archie Colqu-
houn. Miss A. M. Ball is hon. secretary
of the T.M.P., and Mrs. Edith Smart is
casting a managerial eye over the exhibition.
Penelope, only daughter of Dr. F. H. and
Mrs. Gaunson, of Prahran, who on the 4th
married Edward Fielder, youngest son of the
A. A. Billson couple, of Toorak, had a white-
and-amber wedding. A trio of ’maids wear-
ing dull gold satin and georgette frocks,
with toning hats and posies, and a small
train-bearer, also harmoniously dressed, at-
tended the bride, whose ivory-satin gown and
Limerick-lace additions showed glimpses of
pale amber that blended in with her sheaf of
daffodils.
Here is Susie Tolhurst, with the expres-
sion she uses in a hard-fought game at the
drive off the eighteenth tee. She has every
chance of be-
coming thi s
State’s cham-
pion woman
golfer and may
go further
than that if
she holds her
present form.
It isn’t very
long since she
left school —
school seri-
ous ly inter-
fered with her
golf. In the
recent inter-
state cham-
pionships i u
Sydney sh e
reached the
semi-finals and
was downed by
only a slight
margin in a
matcli with Mrs. Gatehouse. In Ireland,
where she went with her mother and sister
in the course of a foreign tour, she was
beaten only by the French champion Mdlle.
Le Blau. She played in the English cham-
pionships held at Harrowgate and turned in
cards better than the average. On the
Metropolitan, Royal Melbourne and Barwon
links she is liked because she is a good sport,
doesn’t skite and doesn’t need applause to
support her efforts. Lafayette made the
portrait.
Mrs. J. Franklin Grant is spending her
days in the Cold Country in a nursing home.
The trouble began in the Red Sea, and Lon-
don’s climate didn’t improve matters. Her
travelling companion, Mrs. Druitt, had
better luck, and has been enjoying a motor-
run around Britain with the Grant lady.
After digesting the scenery, she intended
visiting her relatives, the Hobart Hampdens,
at their country home, hoping by then to
find her friend fully recovered and ready to
resume their itinerary.
Mrs. N. L. Gillespie, ■whose daughter Enid
Bennett married Fred Niblo, is visiting her
Australian relatives and friends, and is at
present the guest of her sister, Mrs. W. H.
Merry, at East St. Kilda. It is about LL
years since Mrs. Gillespie moved with her
two daughters and son to Los Angeles, where
her eldest girl had made her name as a
movie star. A cable the other day announced
the arrival of a baby girl to Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Niblo, which brings tlieir family also
up to three —two girls and a boy.
Having sold their Toorak possessions, the
Leslie Macphcrsons intend to make an
exodus at the end of this month to provide
an overseas education for their young family.
Their date of sailing will enable Mrs. Mac-
pherson to greet her mother, Mrs. John
Fisken, now on her way home after a season
in London, where she has left her other
daughter, Mrs. Tom Grantham. Mrs. Gran-
tham decided to wait till her sister arrived
before returning to Australia.
Manchester University has lent us its
Latin Professor, E. S. Coneday, one of
the world’s great scholars, who is to air his
knowledge in a series of lectures. The Pro-
fessor’s one hobby, apart from study, is
climbing; after swallowing some particularly
stiff problem he generally seeks digestion in
some elevated altitude, and he will no doubt
endeavor to reach the top of our world.
On Wednesday evening St. Mary’s, Caul-
field —a bower of white-and-green decorations
—was lit up for the knot-tying ceremony
of Lesley, second daughter of the E. 11.
Sweatmans, of Elsternwick. and Stewart,
eldest son of Mrs. Wragge, of Caulfield. An
embroidered veil of net floated over a bridal
gown of white georgette, which spread into
a peacock train of tulle. Sister Ena and
the bridegroom’s sister, Atholl, attended her
in pink georgette frocks, with matching felt
hats. Toasts were afterwards drunk at
Chastleton.
Mrs. Lionel Bailey has put off her de-
parture for Asia, where home and husband
are waiting. She has gone with her father.
Norman Armytage, to stay at brother
Neville’s acreage in New South Wales, where
it is hoped that Mr. Armytage may recover
his health: it has suffered from the recent
shock occasioned by his wife’s death.
The tea-brew of farewell was served amid
a gorgeous array of flowers at Coonae.
the Toorak home of Mrs. Stanley Hammond,
to Marcia Faulkner, daughter of the
late Dr. W. Faulkner, of Sunbury, who lias
been revisiting Victoria. As the maiden is
shortly to annex a life-partner in London,
good-byes were mingled with congratulations.
The hostess, who was upholstered in black
with like millinery, had the support of her
daughters Claire and Joyce in keeping the
party going happily to the music of a string
orchestra.
The Mayfair, the most recent addition
to the dance halls which fringe St. Hilda’s
esplanade, was the scene of a dance to aid
the Austin Hospital appeal. Directors were
members of the auxiliaries and a bunch
of jolly young girls, with some of the nursing
staff. The Maudsley lady was president of
the committee, Mr. Leslie Jenner being
honorary organising secretary, and Mrs.
H. W. Gepp, who had floating draperies of
grey georgette attached to a regular armor of
silver paillettes, shared the duties of trea-
surer with Mr. G. Gordon. Takings were
supplemented by sales of fancy caps, balloons
and such trifles, featured at a stall run by
Mrs. Russell Gabb, Mrs. Furze Morrisli.
Mrs. H. S. K. Ward and Mrs. D. S.
Rolls, assisted by numerous young people.
Mary Taylor, frocked in pale blue organdie,
energetically ran a chocolate Avlieel; Miss
Florrie Green, whose coral-pink gown had
glistening adornment, was of the committee;
and Carmyle Starr’s frock seemed as a pile of
pale green leaves overlapping. Lady Fraser,
who has been a stand-by to the hospital since
about its inception, was present in a gown of
black lace, along with her being Rear-
Admiral Creswell and his good lady, who
wore embossed velvet of electric-blue hue.
Also glimpsed were Mrs. Dan Taylor, the
Philip Nunn couple (she had gold lace
spread over green), Mrs. Chadwick, the
James McLeods, Pixie Tabart (sporting
crimson roses upon a black frock), Katli.
Rogers Thomson and Nancy Jones (softly
frilled in pale-pink chiffon).
Ola Cohn, whose clever bits of sculpture
have been cited on this page before, has
gained 12 months’ free tuition at the Royal
College of Art, South Kensington, as a result
of favorable comment on a trio of works ex-
hibited at the Whitechapel Art Galleries.
Miss Cohn originally came from Bendigo,
but her mother now resides in Melbourne.
Delegates to the recent Women’s Confer-
ence at Honolulu are due to render an
account of their stewardship at an at-home
to be staged at the Allied Societies’ Trust
Ilall on the evening of the 26th. Mrs. B.
Rischbeith, president of the Australian Fed-
eration of Women Voters, and the president
of the V.W.C.M., Miss Gilman Jones, have
cast around invitations for the occasion.
The marriage of architect Edward
Fielder Bilson and Penelope Gaunson during
the week recalls interesting political history.
The bridegroom’s father, A. A. Billson, occu-
pied a seat in the Assembly for 26 years.
his father having held it before him. He
had ministerial rank for five years, and was
Chairman of Committees for another five.
The bride also can claim association with
politics; her uncle, the late David Gaunson,
was a Victorian member.
Mrs. William Thurman, who has just
passed over after more than 60 years’ resi-
dence in this State, was a sister of the
English painter Holman Hunt, who came
into public notice with “The Light of the
World.” For some years she had lived at
Geelong with her daughter, Mrs. A. Alex-
ander.
Daffodils were the chief attraction at the
Royal Horticultural Society’s 79th show in
the Town Hall’s banquet-room. The curator
of the Fitzroy Gardens was responsible for
a decorative group of cinerarias and gloxinias
of beautiful colors, bordered with primulas
of the Chinese variety. A woman, viewing
the exhibits with interest, informed the
Chatterer that this particular pinky-mauve
primula coins money for the skin specialist,
many who handle it contracting a severe
face rash. A nearly white enormous daffo-
dil, known as Beerslieba, grown by R. W.
Dyson, was pronounced the champion. Knight
William Brunton opened the flowery event.
Annie Croft, leading lady of “Hit the
Deck,” smiled beneath a black velvet hat that
topped a ditto gown and lent her voice to
pronounce open the show of C. Orme and
H. L. Fern at the Athenaeum Gallery. Mrs.
H. S. Iv. Ward, Mrs. Corrie Gardner and
Doris Moore were among those who mingled
with the artists’ fellow-painters to view the
collection of pastels and water-colors. The
exhibition, which is under the management
of Margaret McLean, closes on the loth.
Latest news of Elma Roach and Lilian
White is that the two artists have settled
down for a space in a fishing village of Brit-
tany to gather local color. Iza de Soyers,
another of the batch of women in this city
whose talents turn towards art, hopes to
start for a world’s tour in December.


The superb .quality of the (\ems selected for use in
Drummond's Rinfts contributes, in no small decree to
their distinctive appearance, but it requires the
masterly skill of the linn's experts to impart that
added exclusiveness that Ims always been associated
with their Diamond and Gem Rin&s. Both the quality
and the distinctiveness of the Rin&s illustrated can
best be appreciated by a personal inspection.
A discount of five per cent, is allowed
on all cash purchases.
WILLIAM DRUMMOND C CO.
344-346 COLLINS ST.
MELBOURNE
WHAT THE “CHICAGO TRIBUNE”
SAYS ABOUT WILLIAM HEUGHAN
The “Chicago Daily Tribune” says:—
“Heughan has what we honestly believe is the finest bass voice in the world.
To hear him do the folk-songs of the British Isles was sheer delight, just because
of his voice, but when he moved out into something more vocally ambitious—
the Cardinal’s aria from the first act of ‘La Juive’ was one he was amazing.
Here was quality, color, power, depth, and all of the kind that one dreams about
as an ideal and seldom meets The numbers he selected were nothing short
of gorgeous.”
WHAT WILLIAM HEUGHAN
SAYS ABOUT HEENZO
jy[ R. WILLIAM HEUGHAN, the
world-famous Scottish Basso, made
a lasting impression on those privileged
to hear him during his last visit to these
shores. His wor.ld-tour has been a
triumphant success, and the leading
London and New York critics hail him
as “The World’s Genius of Song.” Now
at the height of his fame, he is paying
Australia a return visit, and will give
three recitals in the Sydney Town Hall
on TUESDAY, 18th; THURSDAY, 20th;
and SATURDAY, 22nd of SEPTEMBER.
Mr. Heughan realises the necessity of
guarding against coughs and colds, and
the following letter shows that, like many
other world-famous artists, he has proved
HEENZO the singer’s best aid for
banishing chest and throat ailments.
The following letter from Mr. Heughan,
written just prior to his leaving New
York, is indeed a wonderful tribute to
the efficacy of Heenzo:—
“It might interest you to know that
since my last visit to Australia I have
travelled over 100,000 miles, and have
given in all 660 recitals. Thanks to the
excellent qualities of your HEENZO, of
which I learnt the value during my first
visit to Sydney, I have not missed one
concert through a cold, despite all classes
of climatic conditions, from tropical to
frigid, experienced throughout the tour.
This, I consider, speaks volumes for the
goodness of Heenzo as a preventive of
chest and throat ailments.”
WILLIAM HEUGHAN.
m
BBBBS
SW:
Si?:;}?:
m
//Jh
/ m
A two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, when added to sweetened water,
makes a family supply EQUAL to eight
ordinary-sized bottles (about £ I’s worth)
of the best ready-made-up remedies money
can buy, for banishing coughs, colds,
croup, bronchitis, influenza and whooping
cough. HEENZO is equally good for
young or old, and does NOT contain any
poisons; therefore it can be given to even
the youngest baby without upsetting the
digestion.
§
is equally good for young or old,
and should be used in every home.
A. SAUNDERS’
sya'»CY
KSS
A. SAUNDERS’ 8-day Marblette Clock, Bronzed
Pillars and Mounts, Strikes Hours and Half-hours on
Cathedral-tone Gong. Width, 12in. Height lOin.
35/-
10
3?
4
A. SAUNDERS’ 30-hour Alarm Clock, Walnut
Case, Silvered Dial, Dependable Timekeeper,
17/6.
FAMOUS
CLOCKS
A. SAUNDERS’ Bedroom Clock, Pink
Alabaster, Highly Polished, Accurate
Timekeeper,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS’ 400-day- Gilt Presentation Clock,
Porcelain Dial, Glass Dome,
£3. '
WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Central Railway Station), SYDNEY.
m
ih-e ntPa
nce~~
-e
C
BRISBANE
r>L
W; 11
, J
A Corner of
the 'Eastern
Lozinae
m
rv
$
£
t
R
v^r^.'"y
Wire or write for
reservations NOW.
Telegrams:
Lennon’s, Brisbane.
’Phone 5780.
Looking from, the fbhn Court ?.v-> •
to the Ball room |s*y R of|


Under
Royal
Warrant
ď
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
mums
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
Qiarleslleidsie(>
Reims
!rr **c»j eI a ,<*»***
rgg
PELLSSSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
to YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrarts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
FOR PICNICS, LUNCHES & SUPPERS
Kraft Cheese is the clean and whole-
some cheese that cuts so easily into
smooth, golden slices for sandwiches.
IT IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold by weight or
in \lb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
m
cfifP 6
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Ply., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
The cen/ne of Queen s/onc/s
Soc/o/ Life.
motel
RDTSIR
BRISBANE
đf
Magnificent B a 11*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
auaenea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
CHAMOIETTE
GLOVES
Sydney went red last week —as red as a
Cardinal’s sash. Wherever his Eminence Cer-
retti went with his wide smile and his scarlet
glory, there the crowds gathered. Through
all the demonstrations the Cardinal smiles,
gaily Avaves a red-gloved hand, gravely raises
a strong, purposeful hand in blessing or
extends a benignly-flashing ring for his
people to kiss. The State and civic heads
spread dinners in his honor; the Millions
Club lunched him, and over 7000 citizens
of Sydney paid their respects to the visitor
at the Town Hall reception. For an hour
and a half a stream of men, women and
children passed the dais where the Cardinal
sat. In lines of six they passed, and if
you were shy or very little, and happened to
be the end one, you saw nothing at all ; but
if you were brave you could break between
the line of ushers and kiss the gladly-ex-
tended ring. Some little girls and a few
very old men managed this. But all babies
had the right to pass behind the human bar-
ricades.
In a deep, high-backed leather chair the
Legate sat at the foot of the stage, at
the back of which and dominating the whole
hall was the Eucharistic Shield (designed
by Father Meaney). The illuminated cross
with its “Credo” in deep black lettering is a
striking feature of the design. The hall
was looped and twisted with the Papal yellow
and white; the great centre lights shone
through shades of the same coloring. The
whole of the. stage and the balconies were
outlined with garlands of laurel. At the front
of the stage, just behind the Cardinal’s
chair, rose the Papa] Hag and the flag of
Australia. In a neighboring chair sat Arch-
bishop Kelly, and all around were bishops,
archbishops, monsignors, princes and counts.
Before Premier Bavin had opened his lips
for his speech at the opening of St. Mary’s
he received an ovation that must have beeji
as gratifying as it was spontaneous. But
something went wrong with the broadcast-
ing apparatus in the front of the sanctuary
steps, and to the great delight of the crowded
cathedral Mr. Bavin had to step into the
pulpit and speak from above the Papal flag
which draped it. So filled was the address
with beautiful imagery that one almost sus-
pected the Premier’s poet wife of having a
finger in its weaving. She, by the way, sat
within the sanctuary, as did Chief Justice
Street’s lady—the only two women to occupy
such eminence.
The Eucharistic Congress opened with the
pealing of bells, with a luscious display of
purple and fine linen, with lace worked by
the clever hands of women of every nation
swinging from snowy surplices. Jewels
flashed from crosses and rings; the purple
of bishops’ robes and birettas rippled like a
stream of wine. In that great procession of
prelates that walked from St. Mary’s around
to the great doors of the Cathedral were
one hundred and twenty archbishops and
bishops, and an army of lesser church digni-
taries. In the order of the last shall be first
they entered the Cathedral, within the doors
of which gentle-faced Dean Crowley, in a
gold-embroidered swinging white c-ope, re-
ceived them. Past him in the long line of
divines moved the venerable Bishop Malouf,
of Syria, his robes of dark violet velvet
sprayed with jewels that caught and flashed
back the gleams of the begemmed cross on
liis breast. Stiffly erect, the Chevalier Giuz
zazola, Knight of the Holy Sepulchre, trod
the stone aisle, a long cream cape falling
over his blue and cream uniform with its
stars, and orders. The silver-hilted sword at
his side flashed out of its ornate scabbard in
salute at the elevation of the Host. The
Abbot of Tongeh, too, mitred and clad in
white, drew subdued exclamations of admira-
tion from the crowded Cathedral. Last of
all came the Cardinal, his scarlet robes the
more brilliant because of the black doublet
and hose of the accompanying Papal Cham-
berlains, who, with their white ruffs, gilt
chains and blazing stars, might be portraits
of gentlemen looking over the poops of
Spanish galleons in Elizabethan days.
It is reckoned that 50,000 people attended
the first Pontifical High Mass of the Con-
gress. The Cathedral was packed, and thou-
sands knelt and prayed on the flights of
steps along College-street. Over in Hyde
Park a forest of amplifiers broadcast the
Mass and the sermon.
For three days last week crowds of pil-
grims surged through the Show Ground’s
turnstiles?, where a high altar had been
erected, enshrined in a pavilion of glistening
white approached by shallow flights of ruby-
red steps, supported by four high Greek
columns and crowned with a great cupola.
To the right and left side were lesser pav-
ilions (predellas), white-columned and red-
and-white-awninged. In one the Cardinal,
mitred and clad in resplendent vestments,
sat or knelt when not the celebrant of mass
or benediction; in the other the lesser pre-
lates were assembled.
The first of these open-air ceremonies was
the Benediction attended by 130,000 men.
At the moment of Benediction the electric
lights which outlined the grounds and the
stands were switched off, and every right
hand in that great gathering held aloft a
lighted candle. It was a living flame of
faith that surged through the velvet of the
night.
A children’s Mass, at which 20,000 school
kiddies sang, attended by 200,000 little girls
in white and small boys decorated in white
and gold sashes, and a Mass for women, at
which the turnstiles recorded 140,000, were
the other two great religious gatherings in
the cathedral of the blue sky and the four
winds.
The Catholic colleges of St. John’s and
Sancta Sophia within the Uni. jointly gave a
garden party for the Congress delegates. The
Lieutenant-Governor extended a similar hos-
pitality.
Scarlet, purple, red kid gloves, red shoes
flushed the Town Hall with color ,at the
concert given by the Congress Choir. Al!
the prelates were there, some very tired-
looking. This Letter even caught one of the
Papal household napping. The decorations
were the same as for the Cardinal’s recep-
tion, and the massed effect of the voices was
at once as- monumental and fluid as a flood
wave in a Maoriland river. Dr. Pettorelli’s
own “Tu Es Petrus” was sung, as was the
“Ave Verum” of Don Moreno, of New
Norcia. Palestrina’s “Passion,” in which
Dr. Bartolini, of Melbourne, was the soloist,
was another o£ the big things on the pro-
gramme. Mrs. Jolly, from Melbourne, and
Ella Caspers were the contralto and soprano
soloists. And everyone who heard Ella sing-
ing “There Is a Green Hill” is the richer
by a memory of satin-smooth notes linked
with devotional feeling. Half-way through
the concert the little conductor-doctor was
I iresented with a gold watch by the choir
that loves him (“He has never ‘roused’ on us
once,” the lads in it tell you), and organiser
J. Talty, to his great surprise, was presented
with a purse of gold.
The lady of the Papal decoration is Mrs.
F. B. Freehill, who handed over her home
at Point Piper for the use of the Papal
Legate while he is in Australia. Mrs. Freehill’s
generosity
is a household
word, and she
has a cultured
taste in art
and letters.
From her last
visit to Europe
(she spent the
last two win-
ters in Rome)
she brought,
among other
treasures,
some deli-
oately - carved
figures in
w o o d. Two
are by a cele-
brated artist
in Munich ; the
other was
carved by the
Judas of the
Passion Play at Oberammergau. May Mooro
made the picture.
An afternoon tinted in blue and gold and a
harbor of tumbling blue crystal greeted the
final scene of the Eucharistic Congress, the
procession of the Blessed Sacrament across
the harbor and through the streets of Syd-
ney. The memorable pageant started with
Pontifical High Mass in St. Patrick’s College,
Manly, whence the Host in its effulgent
monstrance was carried by Cardinal Cer-
retti aboard the white-and-goid Burrabra.
Thousands sank to their knees as the Car-
dinal beneath the thick white satin canopy
held high the bejewelled monstrance. Under
the great canopy were grouped train-bearers,
erozier- and biretta-bearers; archbishops
mitred and coped in w T hite and gold, bishops
in their purple, paced slowly after it; eight
V.C.’s carried it, and 12 small pages, in
white satin sashed with gold, preceded it
scattering flower-petals from shallow bas-
kets. On to the Burrabra the cavalcade
passed, and so across the water to Sydney.
Near the heads the boat paused while the
Cardinal blessed the waters of the Pacific.
Along the city streets amplifiers were
pouring a stream of organ music. Four
familiar hymns were played again and again,
and presently the waiting crowds started
to sing. Along Macquarie-street small com-
panies of nuns passed, to find the windows
and balconies reserved for them. Priests,
soutaned and surplieed, walked within the
barriers, and there w T ere a few brown-robed
Franciscans. Five silver aeroplanes in the
form of a cross cruised the sky. Sisters of
Mercy shared Parliament House steps with a
bevy of girls as gaily colored as a tulip bed.
The space around the Mitchell Library was
closely patterned with heads. Up the lines
marched a great body of Hibernians, and till
the last of the procession passed at nearly
five their sashes gave the inside of the bar-
riers a rippling border of green. From the
Domain, behind a dozen mounted police, came
a company of acolytes, white-surpliced, half
in purple soutanes, half in red, carrying a
banner magnificent with gold-and-crimson em-
broideries. There were hundreds of Boy
Scouts and Wolf Cubs following, stepping
bravely to the kettle-drums. Then, each
group led by the banner of its sodality, came
thousands of men, green-sashed, purple-
sashed, blue-sashed. “Hail, Queen of
Heaven!” boomed the amplifiers, and the
Children of Mary came on their singing way.
Soon it was as though a terrace of ethereal
blue and white had slipped down from the
heavens to carpet Macquarie-street.
The Manly side of the procession came
into view, headed by returned soldiers. In
the first line proudly walked George Col-
lingridge and Henry Burchett, ex-Papal
Zouaves who fought for the Pope against
Garibaldi; before them Australia’s flag, stiff
and straining and inspiring. Some of the
soldiers were lame; one or two were on
crutches. Medicine and law in their gowns
made a brave show. Four well-known Catholic
judges walked in a line. Here were Maoris
in softly ruffled tui feathers, and companies,
of priests and monks came from the world
over. Archbishop Kelly, in rich vestments
and carrying his crozier, walked, a kindly
shepherd among his flock. The shining
canopy passed slowly on its way, the Car-
dinal pausing every now and again to bless
the kneeling people. Before the Sydney Hos-
pital he paused the longest. A purple patch
of bishops becomes woven into the tapestry.
The Spanish Bishop passes in his cream and
gold, then come the purple of monsignori, the
brown of Franciscans, the cream and black
of the stately Dominicans and more blue and
white Children of Mary. And so on to the
Cathedral, where from the steps Cardinal
Cerretti pronounced the Benediction and the
29th Eucharistic Congress was 'closed.
There was a rustle of parchment down the
aisle of old St. Philip’s on Church Hill the
other night, when Judge Mocatta gave daugh-
ter Lorna Osborne into the keeping of Colin
Mackellar, second son of the Harry Mao
kellars, of Brooklyn, Edgecliff. Silk tulle,
through which La France rose chiffon faintly
blushed, formed the ankle-length frock, which
was traced all over in crystal and diamente
in an old-lace pattern. This delicate lace
design was worked on the transparent train.
Billows of tulle veil were moored to the back
of the girlish head by a spray of orange
blossom which trailed in beauty half-way
down the veil. Bride’s sister Lucy and
’groom’s sister Margaret ’maided in a smother
of lace and chiffons in delicate water-color
yellow and pinks. The reception was at the
Macquarie Club, where Mr. and Mrs.
Mocatta did the honors, the latter in black
romain. encrusted w T ith rhinestones. A small
swathed beret and a posy of dark red car-
nations handsomely finished off the effect.
The Imperial Service Club dance last
week was not a charity or a subscription
affair, but strictly invitation. Men wore
their uniforms and medals, and to live up to
the vibrant note woman spread her gayest
plumage. Soon after Lieutenant-Governor
William Cullen and his pretty Ailsa had
arrived at the Wentworth, the spacious ball-
room was like a flower garden blowing in the
wind. Ailsa Cullen’s gold laces were cut
into handkerchief points, and she and her
striking-looking father, with the attendant
Commander Lowther, sat at table with the
president of the club, Colonel Maughan, and
Miss Maughan, whose burgundy chiffons
struck a rich note between the black lace of
Mrs. Nome’s frock and the black chiffons of
Mrs. Blytheman. The first lady’s own Colonel
and the second’s own Lieutenant were in
waiting. The Colonel Somerville couple had
the companionable Hugh Poynters at their
big table. Gold lame and lace were allied
in the frocking of the handsome lady. At
this table there were colonels and majors in
profusion, with an awe-inspiring array of
decorations. Jolly Major Clive Moyes and
his wife entertained a party of “in-laws,”
Captain Lamb brought his fresh-complexioned
lady, and another good looker of the even-
ing was Mrs. Edwin Olding.
“Scavizzi made a lovely corpse!” breathed
the permanent first-nighter over the ices that
ushered in a tea party last week. The talk
had blown to the new opera, “The Love
of Three Kings,” in which the graceful prima
donna had been beauteous and magnetic and
had sung delightfully. Magnolia white was
her raiment in the first act, but in the
second her robe was of blue, iris blue, green
blue. In its flowing sweep it suggested a
peacock’s plumage. Thus royally attired she
stands on the battlements waving to her
soldier husband till interrupted by her
clamorous lover, and in the same royal gar-
ment she is strangled by her kingly father-
in-law. The final act showed a tall bier
against a velvet curtain black as night. This
sable velvet draped the catafalque and fell
in plenteous folds upon the ground. Upon
the folds were massed purple flowers, rising
half-way to the top. where, in the marble
pallor of death, the white-robed princess
lay upon her last earthly couch. Then the
old king enters again and smears the lady's
lips with poison to snare her lover and
vindicate the family honor. But the lady's
husband as well as the lover taking a long,
last kiss, the old man is left with three
corpses on the floor of his reception-room—
too many for any well-regulated household.
Herewith a May Moore picture of singer
Violet Collinson, in everyday life Mrs. 11.
Jolly. She has just come from Melbourne,
where she is well known as a singer in chari-
table causes,
and a member
of the Austral
Salon. H e r
fi rs t public
performance in
Sydney was in
conju n c t i o n
with the Euch-
aristic Cos n-
gress clio ir.
At the Town
Ilall concert,
under the
direction o f
Dr. Petto-
rail i, Mrs.
Jolly was the
soprano solo-
ist. She and
he r husband
followed Sun-
day’s proces-
sion in the air.
The two flew in their own ’plane from
Manly, and were over the Domain when the
two parts of the immense procession con-
verged.
Mrs. Eva Wunderlich coo-eed half the grand
opera aviary to a meeting at the Australia
one afternoon last -week. Butterfly Spani
came in a polka-dotted black-and-grey frock
under a fur coat; the beautiful Zinetti
twisted an emerald green scarf about her
shoulders; Lombardi sported rich furs. Bur
all three wore their frocks cut into a deep
square at the neck. N'o pampering bf
throat muscles for your prima donna! Mrs.
Allard officiated at one of the flower-laden
tables, with her sister. Rose Sussmilch, at
another; and Ethel Cowan, and Miss Mort
(she’s tenor Borgioli’s sister-in-law) wore
out their throats acting as interpreters.
Mrs. Minghetti came, but without her hus-
band, who, with the entire company of
“Lodoletta,” was represented by a vacant
chair owing to a sudden extra rehearsal.
However, there were five tables all filled,
and patterning these richly were sweet-peas,
roses and baby maidenhair fern (in Italian
“the hair of Venus”) from the hostesss
own garden. Benjamin Fuller’s lady, in
jacaranda blues, sat next to Mrs. Hugh
Ward, and Mrs. Wunderlich wore Quaker-
grey georgettes which flew a provocative
and most un-Quaker-like cape.
Dom Moreno, of New Norcia, whose “Ave
A 7 erum” and “Tantum Ergo” have been made
known to Sydney this past week, is carrying
on the artistic tradition of the W.A. order to
which he belongs. The New Norcia Mission
among the natives was founded by a handful
of Spanish priests whose artistic life blos-
somed under the kindly eye of Bishop Sal-
vado, himself an artist and composer of no
mean order. The chapel of the order con-
tains a reputed Murillo, and is enriched by
mural -decorations, the work of various artist
priests. Dom Moreno has had a solemn re-
quiem Mass from his pen published in Rome.
Blue bonnets instead of red birettas caught
the high lights at the Wentworth last Thurs-
day, and pretty young things in white
organdie frocks topped by the tquaint head-
gear did a roaring trade in lucky envelopes.
Their plunder and the night’s gate-money g
towards the installation of an X-ray plant
at the Crown-street Women’s Hospital.
Toti dal Monte sang three songs almost at
midnight. She came with her husband and a
group of other singers after the opera was
over, and, standing with her presentation
basket of flowers on the ground beside her.
and the diamente on her fluffy layers ot
tulle sparkling in the spotlight, warbled de-
lightfully. Supper was provided by Joan
Norton. The Waley Knight and lady (she
and James Kell kept the treasury) were
among Toti’s listeners, as was daughter
Cecile in a souffle of tulle frills and lace.
Ailsa Cullen sat with Barbara Littlejohn,
whose mother brightened up the official table
with her lilac georgettes. Civic Commis-
sioner John Garlick and Mrs. Garlick were
among the revellers, hospital secretary Ma>
Mitchell mingled the green and gold of the
daffodil in her attire, and Mrs. A. E. Hughes,
as usual, was one of the evening’s handsome
frockers.


nrn
5%
‘l/U«
r
m
#'LA
WP
.. *
L‘ 1U
*• ofim
I ». fW , 1
* jG
'*Ss
_ NEW stocking
by PRESTIGE
especially created
14n
for the low
cut shoe.
b
V
Brest!
FULLY FASHIONED


Price Reductions Create
a National Sensation /
Whippet
the leader in Beauty aiid Quality
7L
3/
1
1111
vn
a
$
■evt
-•-c
The new low prices just announced on the
perfected Whippet are causing a sensation in
every part of the country. The beauty of these
cars —the remarkable quality revealed in every
detail of construction and finish —are the subject
of the highest praise.
Maintaining the important mechanical advan-
tages which it introduced—and offering new
features of design Whippet sets a value
standard never before reached.
It still leads in its power —efficiency—economy
of operation—and smoothness. It is still ahead
in its development of BIG 4-wheel brakes, long,
semi-elliptic springs with snubbers, balloon
tyres, petrol tank at the rear. It goes still
further in offering fine coachwork, beautiful
new color harmonies and neVir* equipment.
Immediate delivery of the Whippet is available.
Come in and see it for yourself.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 5 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS-OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


'
A
m
Si . •• '
MS
Hi
m
PICTURESQUE CEYLON.
CEYLON is a wonderland of universal appeal. THe
scenery is magnificent, and the facilities for pleasure
and enjoyment make it an ideal place for a holiday.
For those who enjoy sport there is big-game hunting,
fishing, shooting, tennis and golf. The splendid roads
are delightful for motoring, and the cost of a holiday in
Ceylon is reasonable. The First-class Return Excursion
fare to Colombo is only £67 from Brisbane, £65 from
Sydney, £63 from Melbourne, £6l from Adelaide and £59
from Fremantle.
ORIENT LINE
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
MARGARET MANN in the William Fox Production FOUR SONS.
The Motion Picture aimed straight at the heart of Humanity.
Also, WILLIAM HAINES in TELLING THE WORLD.
EMPIRE theatre,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.15 and 8.
COMMENCING NEXT FRIDAY.
A Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Super-production,
ANNIE LAURIE.
And the Tabloid Musical Comedy
ERIS.
Prices 1/6 to 4/6.
Reserves: MAIOOO, and all leading booking offices.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J, C. WFLT.IAMS«)N. I.TO present
HER MAJESTY’S
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
Commencing Saturday.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
PALACE: BIRD IN HAND.
Commencing Saturday.
WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in Plays of SHAKSPEARE.
SUBURBAN TOUR:
Auburn, Town Hall: Wednesday, Sept. 12, “Henry
VIII.’’ Rockdale, Town Hall: Thursday, Sept. 13,
“The Merchant of Venice”; Friday," Sept 14
“Henry VIII.” Ashfield, Town Hall: Saturday!
Sept. 15, “The Merchant of Venice”: Monday
Sept. 17, “Henry VIII.”
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batvn, Boy 2229 Sydney.
’Phone MA1277.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
Commencing Saturday Next.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
Commencing Saturday Next.
theatre,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL presents
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley
WHITE COLLARS.
Three acts of delicious comedy—with a laugh
in every line.
H O YT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
MARION DAVIES as
THE PATSY.
ALSO
THE NEW PARADE.
With SALLY PHILLIPS and NICK STUART.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
NEXT SATURDAY.
MAY McAVOY and CONRAD NAGEL in
The Warner Brothers’ Comedy,
IF I WERE SINGLE.
Hilariously funny story of the misunderstandings of
newly weds.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
[RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR in
THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present 1
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
To ALFRED FULLARTON SHARLAND
formerly of Hobart in Tasmania Retired
Grazier.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out
of this Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of your wife Eliza
Lavinia Sharland praying for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground
of desertion TAKE NOTICE that unless
within thirty days from the date of the
publication hereof you cause an appearance
to be entered in the Registry of the said
Court at Hobart to answer the said Peti-
tion the Court will proceed to hear and
determine the said charge your absence not-
withstanding.
DATED this 4th day of September 1028.
( Sgd.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
GATENBY JOHNSON & WALKER,
of Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers,
Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart, who lias been re-
elected president of the National Council of
Women, wasn’t well enough to attend the
opening session of the conference. Her
address was read by Freda Bage. Lady Good-
will, who has shown great interest in all
women’s organisations, was present, and was
welcomed by Mrs. J. Tait.
In a lantern-lit garden, with river frontage,
the George Mocattas staged an al frcsoo
moonlight supper at their pretty Toowong
home. Mrs. George, who is attractive and
popular, has a flair for original entertain-
ing. Captain Goble, Flight-Lieutenant
Briggs, Captain Henderson and Commander
Stephens (Melbourne) were present.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin witnessed the
finals of Toowoomba’s polo tournament at
Clifford Park, and were entertained by
Adolph Feez (president of the Polo Associa-
tion) and Mrs. Feez. The Duncan Nelsons
lent their home to nieces Carlie Yaldwyn
and Stephanie Nelson for a dance. Golden
daffodils, quantities of varicolored sweet-peas
and bowls of flowering peach blossom deco-
rated the house. The military ball was the
following night, the grand finale being the
bachelors’ and spinsters’ ball.
This is a
picture of
Ailsa Long-
land, who on
September 19
marries Alan
Archibald,
eldest son of
th c R. J.
Archibalds, of
P a d d in gton.
She is the
centre of par-
ties just now;
at one, given
by her prospec-
tive in-laws,
the home was
decked with
roses and
sweet-peas.
Lady Good-
win, attended
by Colonel
N. A. 11. Campbell, was present at the
suburban picture theatre at Clayfield when
Mrs. Hannibal King organised a benefit
evening for the Toe H fayre. Benefits for
Toe II are claiming everyone’s attention
just now. Lady Goodwin, wearing black
satin de soie and an ivory straw hat, was
present at the musical matinge at Lennon’s.
The hostesses were Mesdames W. N. Robert-
son, D. A. Cameron, E. T. Bell, J. Hannibal
King, J. S. Just, A. E. Coldham and T. J.
Ryan. Iceland poppies, sweet-peas and wild
flowers were sold, and there was a good
musical programme.
A visitor from oversea is Mrs. Percy
Meade, who is interested in the subject of
migration. While in Brisbane the office of
the New Settlers’ League is her head-
quarters, as it were. As she was for a long
tune the vice-chairman of the Norfolk Feder-
ation of Women’s Institutes, Mrs. Meade
is also concerned in the work of the Country
Women s Association in the Commonwealth
tol j * e ain J? ail(1 ob J’ ect s of the English
and Australian organisations are similar.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax entertained her at
Marmya.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
We are sunk in a social stupor from
which even the Governor-General’s visit has
been powerless to rouse us. The visit, in-
deed, was brief and official, and allowed no
time for junketings. There was an official
dinner at Government House and another
whereat the hosts were Masons, and there
was the annual meeting of the Queen’s
Home, with his Federal Ex. as chief
speaker. Meanwhile our own Governor is
Dack from a tour of the north and north-
west ; the two parties joined forces from
I ort Augusta southwards. He got over an
amazing amount of ground in the time, and
his hosts included the McTaggarts, the
Edkins (11. H. Dutton’s managers at Uno),
Harry Boully at Iyolendo, and the J E
Picks at Coondambo.
Returned voyageurs include the F. G
Scarfes, the H. S. Hudds and Lady Moulden.
The Clifford Deeleys and Miss Mary Moore
are on their way. Mrs. J. H. Liiidon has
also arrived, and is staying in North Adel-
aide.
From England comes news of the engage-
ment of the Evan Ivyffin Thomases’ slim,
fair-haired daughter to J. Crofton-Atkins. of
M eybridge, Surrey. She has been in Eng-
land with her mother for the English spring
and summer.
Girl Guides threw a wide net for the
rally at Clare, and there was an excellent
muster to meet Lady Hore-Ruthven and Mrs.
Verney, with the State secretary, Mrs. Eddy,
at the Show Ground. Her Ex. was chief
speaker, too,. at the Red Cross Society’s
annual meeting, held this year in the
Masonic Hall.
Daisy Curtis, the third of the Catherine
Helen Spence scholars, leaves England this
month for America, and another scholar
will probably be appointed next year.
Renmark has been going gay with a ten-
nis week, with a consequent influx of visitors
that overflowed to most of the neighboring
hamlets. The David Gordons and their
daughter, the Hugh Crawfords and their
daughter, the Arthur Seddons, the Wallace
Bruces’ daughters and Ruth Hope were
among those who made the trip from town.
Clive Carey’s successor at the Conserva-
torium, H. S. Denton, with his wife, had a
word of official welcome from Dr. Davies
at the Conservatorium’s original composi-
tions concert. He was trained in the De
Reske School, and is fresh from a perform-
ance of Schubert’s “Faithful Sentinel” at
the Court Theatre. His wife is a singer,
too; her stage name, Carys Davies. Arthur
Adams’s “The Sculptor” and Will Ogilvie’s
“In Mulga Town” were two of the sets of
verse that had been set to music, the former
by T. D. Campbell and the latter by Reginald
Bevan.
From France comes news of the death of
Madame Mouchette, well known to the elder
feminine generation here and in Melbourne.
She and her sister, Mademoiselle Lion, taught
school in the sister capital in what is getting
to be a rather dim past, subsequently moving
to this State, where they held classes in
painting and languages and tapestry em-
broidering. Their home was a wholly ador-
able cottage in the hills, with a garden that
was always abloom. The war tried them
hard, and after her sister’s death Madame
Mouchette went like a homing bird to end
her days in her loved France.
From London comes news of a wedding
interesting to the older —or should it be the
oldest?—generation of South Australians.
Henry, grandson of Professor Lamb, once ot
this Uni., married Lady Pansy Packenham
at a registry office and the subsequent re-
ception was in the bridegroom’s studio. The
bride lias written a not-very-successful novel
and has worked for a time in an architect’s
office.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Mrs. Throssell’s Bulletin prize-winner,
“Coonardoo,” is to be dedicated to her good
friends Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Maguire, of Turee
station. By the way, Gregan McMahon is
shortly to produce her “Brumby Innes,” win-
ner of the Triad play competition. The
Throssell home is on Greenmount Hill, a
place with a lovely view.
Entertainments for the visiting officers
of the German cruiser Berlin were mostly
of the dinner and motor-drive type. His Ex.
and his lady gave a party of officers a lunch
at Government House.
In his country tour Lord Stonehaven in-
cluded Moora and a visit to the, colleges and
monastery at New Norcia. On the way he
stayed with Knight Henry Lefroy, and had
lunch at Cranmore with F. B. Wittenoom.
At the mid-week meet of the Hunt Club the
G.-G. had his first experience of hunting in
thick bush.
“A.G.M.” writes from London:—
A thrilling feature of the wedding of Veronica
Mansfield, daughter of Joseph Mansfield, of Perth
(W.A.), to Basil Parsons, which took place at St.
James’s, Spanish-place, on July 10, was the won-
derful Limerick lace she wore. It had served on
the veil and train of her great-great-grandmother,
Jane Sophia Swift, when that lady married Count
d e Molende, who was staff-officer to George the
Fourth of rakish memory. Veronica was given
away by Colonel Swift, a cousin, who, like her-
self, belongs to the family of the most celebrated
Dean in literature. Michael and Jeremy Newton,
sons of Sir Harry Newton, were the pages.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
It is not often that a “breaking-up” school
play is as good as the one produced by
Mary Sharland at the Theatre Royal.
Graham Robertson’s dainty little piece,
“Slippers of Cinderella,” done by the
juniors in Mary’s elocution class, was a
revelation of the development of latent
talent. Those who went expecting to be
bored were astonished at the diction and
acting of the youngsters, and the excellent
running of the whole affair.
A large cake was cut at the Town Hall
to celebrate the third birthday of the
Mothercraft Home. Mrs. Edith Waterworth,
sec., told us that during the past year 24
mothers and 59 babies had been admitted,
but 49 mothers and 124 babies had to be
turned away. No room.
The O’Grady and daughter Margaret went
to Launceston for the A.I.F. ball—quite a
brilliant affair. They were attended by N.
E. Somers (private sec.), Capt. Stoyles,
A.D.C., and Commander Trevor Eardley-
Wilmot. The official guests at supper with
the vice-regal party were the president of
the Northern R.S.S.I.L.A. and Mrs. Fulton,
Mayor and Mayoress Barber, Brig.-Gen. and
Mrs. W Martin, Lieut-Com. and Mrs. McFar-
lane, Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Cox Taylor, Chief
Sec. Claude James and wife, Com.-Instructor
Parsons and Mrs. Parsons, Lieut. E. L.
Sheehan, Major M. D. Williams, Capt. and
Mrs. Marriott.
Behold a
picture of
Catherine Cul-
linane, who
made a hit in
the name-part
in S h a w’s
“Major Bar-
bara,” done by
the Hobart.
Repertory
Society at the
Theatre Royal.
The young
actress had
previously dis-
tinguished her-
self as Mar-
garet in Cle-
mence Dane’s
“Bill of Div-
orcement.” She
has clear enun-
ciation, dram-
atic force and
brains.
Farewell parties in honor of pretty Mar-
garet Ross-Reynolds, who is to marry Cap-
tain Wordsworth next month, are many and
various. Alison and Helen Gray were among
the recent hostesses, at their home in Fitz-
roy-place, where Margaret O’Grady was
among the guests.


By Appointment to H.M.King George NA
;: ■
WMBIB
:
.
d;
-v J
$A
mM
MSpajp
-A
wrr%
ft* . «
SSL L a
111
n FnPPB
i
m
# .
H
m
’ \ ;
M
' ' V
'
Some of the Lcyland A-tonners employed, by the N.S.W. Railways jor wool haulage .
Hauling the Nations
Wool Clip
THROUGHOUT Australia, wherever wool is trans-
ported, whether on backblock stations or in city
streets, there you will find Leyland Lorries on the job.
Probably there is no more important wool haulage task
performed in the Commonwealth than that which twenty
Leyland 4-tonners are undertaking for the New South
Wales Railways.
Every year these Leylands transport thousands of bales
of wool from the Darling Harbor Goods Yard to various
stores in Sydney. This wool, which is received from
three hundred railway stations, has to be despatched
with the utmost speed, and these Leyland Lorries work
without respite.
Notwithstanding these arduous demands, the railway
authorities have found that with Leylands they have
effected a remarkable saving of both time and money
over the horse-teams previously employed. Further,
these Leylands have given this satisfaction under
conditions which, owing to the short distances, are
considered unfavorable to motor haulage.
Strength, dependability, long life, economy —these are
the qualities which have enabled Leyland Lorries to
perform this colossal haulage task with such outstanding
merit. It is these qualities which explain why Leyland
fleets are seen in ever-growing numbers in every State
of the Commonwealth.
If your transport problem demands
heavy duty lorries, write for full
specifications of the various Leyland
models —or, call at the nearest
Leyland depot for a demonstration.
“Leyland Lorries for Loads”
levlandMolQrs
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR ST
SYDNEY -
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951 - 8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
Melbourne Depot: Cnr. Villiers and Courtney Streets, N„. Melbourne.
Brisbane Depot: Grey Street, S. Brisbane.
Tenders.
TENDERS ARE INVITED
for purchase of the business of THE RE-
FIDEX PATENT and COPYRIGHT MAP-
PING PROPRIETARY, carried on by Dun-
can Ward, Draftsman, at 40 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane, comprising:—
Australian Patent REFIDEX SYSTEM
of ready reference to places on maps and
the like.
Copyright REFIDEX DIRECTORY
MAPS within the Greater Brisbane area.
Stock of approximately 900 REFIDEX
DIRECTORY Greater Brisbane with
Map Drawings, Process Blocks, Draw-
ing Tables, Instruments and Informa-
tion for revision purposes.
Wall Map Brisbane and Suburbs (in
two sections) compiled for Refidex Sys-
tem.
Wall Map of Queensland (in two sec-
tions) showing all Queensland Stock
Routes.
Australian Patent for improved con-
struction of Map Books.
The Refidex Patent can be applied to
Maps of all parts of the Commonwealth.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders close 15th October, 1928.
For further particulars and inspection <4
Maps, Patents and Copyrights, etc., apply to
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED,
395 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
JTSTATE OF BURKE, deceased, near Ardflnnan Co.,
Tipperary, Ireland. About £12,000. Information
wanted immediately as to brother of deceased named
John Burke or bis children. John Burke left Ireland
about 1883 and was employed for some years about
1903 as draper’s assistant at Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W. If alive his age
would be about 75 years. Apply at once with neces-
sary certificates to J. J. O’SHEE & CO., Solicitors,
Clonmel, Ireland,
\Y/ILL the Widow, Child or Children of
W GEORGE LAKELAND MADDOX (or
anyone knowing their whereabouts), who
died in the Royal North Shore Hospital on
the 16th November, 1925, kindly communi-
cate with the undersigned.
F. LYNNE ROLIN, Solicitor,
Castlereagli House,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONN EEL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE:—
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
'New South Wales edition available on
and after September 15.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt St., Sydney.
62 Flinders St., Melbourne.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
'T'HE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses in and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are fill’ng
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know'. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


w Depend On 1
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
m and Roofs A
A BANK ACCOUNT
gives you power and safety. Apart from its positive stimulation
of the sense of Thrift, a Bank Account simplifies your operations
and widens their scope. In or out of business hours, it facilitates
your transactions and surrounds all your dealings with dignity,
impressive on your clients and associates.
A Cheque Account is a record of payments, practically a
Book-keeping System in itself.
Additionally it introduces, to your service, the innumerable
anking advantages and facilities that a modern banking institution
provides.
Commonwealth M of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
COONARDOO.
By-Katharine susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
ly
C. H. PERCIVAL.
Synopsis : After the death of Ted
Watt, his widow, Mrs. Bessie, manages
Wytaliba station in the north-west of
W.A., which, earlier, she had found
the money to buy from Saul Hardy,
who, now old, lives at the homestead.
Mrs. Watt’s only son, Huglvie, for
ivhose sake she runs the station par-
simoniously, is sent to school, in Perth,
Mrs. Watt allows the aboriginals, who
do the stock and homestead work, to
live their accustomed native life free
from, interference, except that she bar-
gains with Warieda not to take Goon-
ardoo as his wife until the girl is six-
teen. Sam Geary, a neighboring
station owner, who includes gins in
his household, offers to buy Goonardoo
from her father.
IOEY was more than tempted. He found
it impossible to refuse so much wealth.
It was so long since Warieda had made
his bargain. And a rifle—Joey’s eyes glis-
tened.
Warieda himself dealt with the messen-
ger, packed him off with his gifts, and came
to Mrs. Bessie about it, trembling with
wrath and indignation, his eyes ablaze.
Warieda knew well enough he would need
Mrs. Bessie to help him against Sam Geary,
particularly as for a bottle ot whisky, for-
bidden though it was, and a gun, Joey would,
do anything in the world.
Mrs. Bessie sent Coonardoo to the uloo
next time Sam Geary came to the home-
stead, and she herself gave him a piece of
her mind.
“Oh, well,” Geary said, “if you won’t
marry me yourself and let’s run Wytaliba
and Nuniewarra in double harness, I might
as well take Coonardoo. Sarah’s getting
a bit old and frowsy. Besides, I thought
you’d be glad to get the baggage off your
hands before Youie comes home.”
“I’ll thank you to let Wytaliba manage
its own affairs, Sam Geary,” Mrs. Bessie
cried.
Geary guffawed. There was nothing on
earth he enjoyed so much as baiting Mrs.
Bessie, and he had never succeeded in
rousing and riling her so much as by trying
to take Coonardoo away from her.
To increase his fun, as much in jest as in
earnest, he sent a couple of boys and an
old woman to kidnap Coonardoo one night,
when he knew the men were away from the
camp. But she had kicked, screamed and
bitten so effectively that she had aroused
all the women, and Sam’s messengers were
whacked and bludgeoned into flight. For
weeks afterwards Mrs. Bessie kept Coonar-
doo locked in the homestead bathroom at
night.
Mrs. Bessie would not acknowledge de-
feat, but she was really relieved to present
Warieda with the chestnut colt, on which
his heart was set, after the April muster,
and to hand him a pair of grey blankets
with broad green-and-red stripes. To
Coonardoo she gave the bay mare Thetis, a
little bag of boiled lollies and a red woollen
jacket to wear in the cold weather. Coon-
ardoo was more than pleased with her
presents and the importance that being
Warieda’s woman gave her.
CHAPTER IV.
Before the boys mustered along the To-
morrow Ranges the following year Coonar-
doo was walking about with a cooboo in
her arms. A little girl, with hair of cocoon
floss and tawny skin. Charmi they called
her, and very happy 1 and delighted the
young mother was with her baby.
Mrs. Bessie had arranged for Hugh to do
a course of engineering when he left Strat-
ford. The Leighs were anxious to make a
move. With three young children, Mrs.
Leigh was finding life on Wytaliba too hard
and lonely. She was so discontented that
for years relations between her and Mrs.
Bessie had been unfriendly.
“I think I’ve given you a fair deal.
Charley,” Mrs. Bessie said to Leigh when
they discussed the trouble; “but your
wife’s made up her mind she needs a
change. I think she does. And the child-
ren’ll have to go to school soon.”
And so it was decided that the Leighs
would leave Wytaliba when Hughie came
home. Hugh was disappointed to find he
was not going home as soon as his school
days were over. But his mother had fore-
seen the advantage a knowledge of mach-
inery, the making of wells and windmills
and how r to keep them in order would be
to him. So when he left school Hugh went
into an engineering and windmill contrac-
tor’s workshop in Perth for twelve months.
Very hard and meagre the life on Wyta-
liba had been all those years Mrs. Bessie
was making the station for Hugh. She
earned the name of a “regular skinflint.”
Fanny Leigh was quite right: Mrs. Bessie
was mean and as hard as nails, it was
agreed. If a drover or prospector strayed
into Wytaliba there was no whisky. And
Mrs. Bessie was doing well; she had mus-
tered three hundred fats that spring, and
Don Drew swore she had got not less than
£lO a head for them in Karrara.
A little woman, wrinkled and weathered,
with eyes of. the flame in her, blue-green,
clear, shining, unquenchable, she had
steered the station through dry years and
dust storms, rains flooding the creeks and
claypans: good seasons and bad. But with
a growing bank balance she was beginning
to wear out. “It’s time for Hugh to be
coming home,” she said.
Coonardoo and the gins knew why. For
days at a time Mrs. Bessie scarcely ate any-
thing. She lived on milk and green vege-
tables, a little broth, and Meenie and Coon-
ardoo had seen her doubled up with pain.
Mrs. Bessie tried doctoring herself; but
the pain was there. She moaned
and groaned half the night when she went
to bed.
Everybody at the uloo was troubled about
it. The men went not knowing what to
do when Mumae was sick. They wandered
from the stockyards to the shade-miah,
from the sh ado-mi ah to the harness-sheds,
the uloo and back again, beginning one
job and going on to another.
Mumae had them up to the verandah and
gave directions for wood-gathering, burning
charcoal and trapping dingoes. “Got ’m
gutsache,” she explained impatiently, driv-
ing herself to use the phrase she knew they
would understand, and forbade anybody to
talk of it.
Joey Koonarra went up from the uloo to
have a word with Mumae about her sick-
ness. As the oldest man in the camp, he
was entitled to talk to her as a man and
an equal. Fat and dirty, grey hair matted
with grease and dust, in the grimy rags
of a white shirt and once-blue trousers, he
came and sat down on the edge of the
verandah. His eyes, namma holes in viscid
orbits, glittered at her as he swung his
naked feet. Clearly he did not like the
look of this sickness, and suggested getting
the moppin-gara [magician] over from
Nuniewarra to try his arts on it.
“I’m not as bad as all that,” Mrs. Bessie
declared; “I reckon I know what’s the mat-
ter with me, Joey. I’m going to lie here
for a bit and drink milk. Then I’ll go
down south, see a doctor—white man’s
moppin that is—and bring Hughie home.”
“Eeh-mm.” The old black nodded his
head; his eyes glinted through the smoke
from his pipe.
Satisfied he had accomplished a good
day’s work, that Mumae had taken his
advice about seeing a moppin-gara and get-
ting Hughie home, he straggled away again
down to the uloo.
Coonardoo’s second baby was born a
month or so before Mumae went south
Taller and slighter Coonardoo was then, the
restless glitter gone from her eyes, with
that roguish aloofness of the days when
she walked with swaying hips and back-
flung words. Very happy and pleased about
the baby, she brought the fat, curly-headed
little one to see Mumae. Warieda was dis-
appointed the baby was not a boy; but
Coonardoo gurgled happily, telling Mumae
they had called the child Beilaba, because
its mother had eaten beilaba—as the little
fad lizard is called—before the baby was
born, and it had made her sick.
Mumae went south as soon as she was
about again, leaving Saul Hardy in charge,
although she gave minute instructions as to
what was to be done in her absence. Among
other things, anew well was to be dug at
Britte-Britte, and fences and yards swung
out from it.
Chitali and Warieda drove her over to
Karrara in the buggy with four horses. From
there she would get a mail car to the
coast and go down to Fremantle by boat.
Mrs. Bessie told Chitali and Warieda to
meet her again at Karrara in three moons.
When the third moon was a slim gilt
kylie in the sky Chitali and Warieda
drove the three hundred miles in to Kar-
rara to meet Mumae again. She was there
waiting for them; she and Hugh, a tall
towny-looking young man of nineteen or
twenty. And there was a girl with Mumae,
who, she told the boys, was to be Hugh’s
woman some day—perhaps. Her name was
Jessica.
Mumae herself looked stranger than
Warieda or Chitali had ever seen her.
Smaller, more shrivelled and bowed, in her
black dress, new black hat and a dust-coat
the color of withered leaves. She trotted
about very pleased to see them again, ex-
cited and eager to be going home, asking
about everything and everybody. How
was the country looking on Wytaliba? Had
there been any rain? Was the well finished
at Britte-Britte? And how were Meenie,
Bandogera, Coonardoo and the children?
And Mick, Wanna and old. Joey? The flame
leapt and spurted in her eyes, playing over
the boys, keener, hungrier, happier, although
they read something tragic in the small
energetic figure.
Hugh, too, looked very pleased to be
going home. The boys knew that' by the
way he hailed them—“ Hullo, Warieda!
Chitali!”—and went to the horses’ heads,
looked the leaders over and wanted to
know about them.
“A Pluto, isn’t he? Cripes, a good cut of
a mare that, Warieda!”
The boys grinned, delighted with Hugh
for praising Wytaliba horses. It seemed but
yesterday that he had gone away. They
knew him so well, although he had been
magicked into this shape of a tall young
man.
“Lord, Mum”—Hugh looked down at
Mumae, laughing, eyes glistening—“it feels
good to see ’em again!”
In a great hurry to be off, Mrs. Bessie
would scarcely wait to spell the horses. She
borrowed another buggy and horses, and
insisted on leaving at dawn next day.
Hugh wanted to drive, of course, but
knew his Nor’-West horses too well to try
at the start-off. Mrs. Bessie herself did
not offer to take the reins. She climbed
in beside Chitali, and had the luggage
roped on under a dust-sheet behind her,
giving Hugh and Jessica the more comfort-
able buggy with Warieda to drive.
Mrs. Bessie had planned the journey by
easy stages, so that Jessica would not be
too tired, she said. Her cavalcade camped
beside the wheel-tracks at night, but stayed
one night at Five Rivers and another at
Illigoogee station; took the fresh horses
Warieda and Chitali had left on their way
mto Karrara, and went on. Although she
passed within a few miles of Nuniewarra
homestead, Mrs. Bessie would not call in
there. Sam Geary had been known as a
gin-shepherder for some time, and a family
of half-castes swarmed about his verandahs.
Mrs. Bessie could forgive the children; but
she would not meet a gin as mistress of a
white man’s household, or spend a night
under Sam Geary’s roof, if she could help
it.
After ten days on the road Hugh and
Mrs. Bessie looked happier and better
pleased with each other and everything they
saw. The girl pretended to be as pleased
and as happy as they were; but Warieda
and Chitali heard the uncertain note in her
laughter, and saw how dismayed she looked
as the horses beat their way further and
further over the wide plains of red earth
with drifts of wind grass yellow as the
chickens Mrs. Bessie was carrying in an old
dress-basket.
Across the sandy swales of dead rivers,
beyond the blue wall of distant hills lying
straight as if ruled against the sky, the
horses plodded, the buggies lurched and
swayed, coming at last to the bare red hills
of the Dog-Toothed Ridge, the creek cross-
(Continued on page 53.)


“POWER FARMING”
“Power Farming” is a monthly newspaper, devoting the whole of its pages to power farming
and farm mechanics.
it is the only paper which gives Free Telegraphic Service, answering all urgent questions on
mechanical troubles BY WIRE FREE. Experts are engaged in all departments Tractors,
Stationary Engines, Pumping, Windmills, Building and Construction, Concrete Work, Country
Home Lighting, and Refrigeration, Labor-saving Devices on the Farm, Farm Machinery, etc.
Every mail brings us appreciative letters from fanners all over Australia.
Send your Sub. to-day, or order through vour nearest newsagent.
Five Shillings per year in advance, 5/6 booked.
“POWER FARMING” NEWSPAPER, 1 Bond Street, Sydney.
Also at McEwan House, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
One Cost
The first cost of a Rolls Razor is
the last cost. It is not just a holder
for holding those wafer blades
which are turned out in thousands
by machinery. Skilled craftsman-
ship and engineering genius have
produced a safety with one blade
that is always keen. This blade
is hollow ground from tested
steel. It is as good a blade as
was ever found among the old-
fashioned “ cut throats.” It will
give you years and years of per-
fect shaves. It is kept keen by
automatic honing and stropping
in its case. Buy a Rolls Razor
nOw and pay for it in the
money you save on •• ‘
blades,
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade safety
A BRITISH PRODUCT
SOLE AGENTS BROWN & DUREAU LIMITED
Sydney : Melbourne : Brisbane : Adelaide : Perth
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will cuote you price for the original.
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme is
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select “The Daily Mail” as the first medium in
Queensland to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc., please app’y to
The Daily Mail, Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 'Phone 81522.
FOR THE RELIEF OF FOOT-WEARINESS
CREPE-RUBBER-SOLED BOOTS
81380
81380, Lady’s Nigger
Strap Shoe, Med.
Fit, with Crepe Soles.
29/6, post I/-
81441 , same shoe, in
black. 27/6, post
AND SHOES
For the man or woman obliged to be on the feet all
day or standing on hard cement floors, this Footwear
will give Wonderful Relief to Tired Feet.
WONDER WEARING & WATERPROOF.
88113, Gent.’s Black Boots, Wide
Fit, Leather-lined, Stout Crepe
Soles. 38/6 pair, post 1/-
89120, Tan Working Boots, in
Strong Elk Leather. Same style
as 8113. Stout Crepe Soles,
Wide Fit. 36/6, post I/-
89115, Black or Tan Riding
Boots, Elastic Sides, Light Crepe
Rubber Soles. 35/- pair, post l/-
84823, Black or Tan Riding
Boots, with Ordinary Leather
Soles. 27/6, post I/-
WRITE FOR FULL LIST.
Walther 8 Stevenson,
LIMITED,
395 George Street, Sydney.
88113
89115
BAGSHAW’S
// BABSHAWS
[ASTHMA
4VPOWDER
ml -
I//-«
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Your
baby’s chubby
fingers
will grasp eagerly at
the feeding bottle which
contains Benger’s Food.
Baby thrives upon
Benger’s, because it is al-
ways prepared with fresh
new milk; and moreover,
Benger’s enriches the cow’s
milk and adapts it to the
delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’s Food when prepared
approximates in its food value
to the breast milk of a healthy
mother.
v ,
si
Food
Bcnger’s Food is sold bn Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Benger’s booklet for Mothers,
post free from BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: Benger’s Food. Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
A. 268
HAVE DRY HATCHES.
WET WEATHER
1 It’s possible if you have
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Mo den, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
fd
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The “QUEENSLANDER”
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY PICTORIAL.
An Excellent Advertising Medium which
should be included in all Queensland
Campaigns.
The “Queenslander” is the largest and most widely circulated weekly
in the State. It covers every Pastoral, Mining, Fruit, Sugar and Agri-
cultural district, establishing itself pre-eminently the Country Journal
of Queensland. As an advertising medium it is unsurpassed.
Rates, distribution charts and
specimen copies may be obtained
from the office of the represen-
tative, Robert D. Fisher, 74
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane News-
paper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane, also
publishers of the “Courier” and
“Sports Referee.”


w
m
I i V.
I
N
OOD style is
very akin to
good form. The
Varsities cultivate
correct manners,
while St. James’s
and the West End
contribute the cut
and fashion which
have made the Brit-
isher’s outer garb as
admira bi e as his
standards of conduct.
No article of wear
is more distinctive
than your hat. For
over 60 years style,
quality and value
have been embodied
in every Battersby.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD £Y
THE BEST
HATTERS
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY:
BOX 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
BOX 763.
ing, and that first sight of the white roofs
and scattered buildings of the Wytaliba
homestead.
They were great days, the first days of
Hugh’s home-coming, from the moment Mrs.
Bessie stood on tiptoes on the verandah to
kiss him and say:
“Welcome home, my laddie. It’s all
yours.” She waved her hand to the wide
plains and far hills. “I’ve done the best I
could with it for you.”
Hugh, in the grip of his joy and pride,
could not speak. Next morning he went
round the stockyards, store, smithy and har-
ness-sheds with Mrs. Bessie, Saul Hardy,
Charley Leigh and Jessica, the girl stepping
daintily in a white muslin frock and white
shoes, holding a pink silk sunshade over
her head.
Mumae told Chitali, Warieda and the rest
of them that Hugh was master of Wytaliba
now. They were to serve and obey him
as they had her, and all would be well with
them. There was no word in the native
dialect which meant master or boss; but
the boys understood very well what Mumae
wished to say to them. Never again did
she ride out with them. Never again give
orders. Suddenly she had shrunk into being
a little old woman who wore skirts always,
and rarely left the homestead verandahs
and garden. The blacks did not know what
to make of it except that Hugh had come
home.
The work of the station went on as usual.
Mrs. Bessie saw to that; she went over it
all with Hugh and worked at her stock-
book and ledger. She looked very happy
and satisfied with herself and the way every-
thing was moving about her, although
Meenie and Coonardoo, who knew her best,
were not at all easy in their minds. They
had seen new and strange bottles of medi-
cine in Mumae’s room, and knew that the
pain which she had gone away to cure still
plagued and devoured her.
“My work’s nearly done,” she told Meenie
one day. “There’s just a little more I
want to fix up, put in order, and then I
can go. But, mind you, if ever you behave
badly to Hugh, any of you at the uloo, I’ll
come back and haunt you.”
A flock of cockatoos rose from the plains
and wheeled, their white wings chequering
the blue sky as they eddied with harsh wild
cries towards the creek gums.
“I’ll come back, like that.... a white
cockie... .and give you bad dreams... .and
a pain, eating your inside out, like I’ve
got. Do you hear, Meenie? Coonardoo,
you’ll live longer than she will. You’re to
iook after Hughie....no matter what hap-
pens....when I’ve gone.”
CHAPTER V.
Musterers were returning with a mob of
young horses from the To-Morrow.
Jaded, crawling out from clouding red
dust against a pale blue sky, the horses
came on, swarming. Chitali, riding out in
front, his big black gelding prinking and
pranking as though he were leading an
army, turned into the stockyards. Coon-
ardoo, Warieda, Mick and Hugh, stiff and
stocky as wooden figures in the distance,
rode in against the mob, moving it after
Chitali.
Dust swirled up before the stockyard
rails, as the horses shied off from them,
trying to make off over the plains again;
but the stockmen chivvied them a bit,
hustling and jostling the horses into the
yards. Rough-haired and spent, there was
not much mischief left in them. Only War-
leda’s chestnut stallion, resentful of being
separated from the mares and young things,
bucked and rooted out across the plains.
Children ran up from the uloo to meet
the musterers, and Coonardoo came down
from the stockyards to them. Slight and
lithe as a boy, in her faded blue trousers
and shirt red with dust, she stepped lightly
over the stones, her feet bare, her hair
waving back from her face, as the horses’
manes had done. Gleaming like ironstone
pebbles her skin was, her eyes laughing
under their heavy curled lashes.
Very happy and pleased with herself
Coonardoo looked. Had she not been out
on a muster with Youie and the men? She
picked up the smallest of the children, her
cooboo, and went to the kala miah, the
children trotting along beside her.
Yes. She had been out beyond the
ranges, Coonardoo explained, behind the
hills where the sun went down. Blue as
the dungaree of anew gina-gina they were,
very far away, mysterious and impenetrable,
with trees curled thick as the hair on your
head all over them. Through trees and
trees she had gone, up and down the steep
hillsides, along them and the dry creek-
beds. Already she was telling the children
about it: the horses she and Warieda had
chased: the rock-holes by which they had
camped.
When he had come home the first thing
Hugh wanted to know was how many horses
there were on the place, and what they
were like. Mumae had bought anew stal-
lion while she was away, and Hugh was
anxious to weed out crocks and old entires.
There had not been a horse muster on
Wytaliba for two or three years. First
there had been a dry season, and then
Mumae had been ill, so things had drifted
a little.
This was a good season in the To-Mor-
row, Coonardoo explained. The grass—
her hand went out the height of the grass—
and she had seen a great koodgeeda [snake]
among the rocks. Color of the rocks he
was. so that you could scarcely see him
until he moved; then he coiled himself up.
Yukki, but she was frightened!
Chitali and Mick were taking the stock-
horses down to the troughs near the big
windmill to drink; Warieda, Wanna and
Bardi were moving about the shed where
the saddles and bridles were hung. Hugh,
coming down from the sheds, walked
slowly, crooked and stiff from his first days
of hard riding, his tan trousers and shirt
rusty with dust, his face sun-red, his eyes
a deeper blue in his face.
' Mrs. Bessie, coming out from the low
whitewashed wood and iron of the house
among dark trees, heard Coonardoo talk-
ing to the children.
“Good muster, Coonardoo?” she called.
“Eeh-mm,” the girl answered. Her eyes
and Mrs. Bessie’s met and smiled. It was
a dream come true for Coonardoo and Mrs.
Bessie that Hugh should be at home and
mustering on Wytaliba.
Coonardoo stood with her baby in her
arms to watch Hugh take off his hat to
kiss his mother. A neat small woman, Mrs.
Bessie moved beside her son’s dust-stained
bulk, eyes light-filled and faded to gimlet
pupils as she looked into his face. Hugh’s
spurs made a slight silvery tinkling as he
walked.
“Sam Geary’s here, Hugh,” she said, “and
Cock-eyed Bob. Sam’s got Sheba driving
the ration cart; I won’t have her at the
house. Like his cheek to bring her here at
all!”
Out from the narrow dark shelf of the
verandah Sam Geary lurched towards Hugh
Watt and his mother, tawny earth-stained
shirt and trousers held under a heavy belly
by his leather belt. Cock-eyed Bob sidled
along beside him, slight and neatly turned
out, his trousers clenn and his shirt sun-
dried.
“Youie, by God!”
Heavy and slouching, Geary steered to-
wards Hugh, hesitated and stood, as if to
walk further were not worth the effort; and
Bob stood beside him.
“Hullo, Mr. Geary!” Hugh hailed him.
“How’s things, Bob?”
“Not too bad, Youie,” Bob said.
They went on towards the verandah. Mrs.
Watt explained crisply:
“Sam and Bob have been out prospecting,
Hugh. Been out a couple of months and
are on their way into Nuniewarra.”
“Any luck?” Hugh asked.
“Not too bad”-—Bob began.
Geary’s reluctant growl rumbled. “But
we near done a perish for water, You.”
“The gold’s there all right,” Bob said, in
his thin, nervously sharpened voice. “We
got one good lump, Youie, and scratched
about all round. But Sam got the wind up
about there being no water and the camels
clearin’ out. So I reckoned best thing we
could do was to come in for stores.”
“You can have it on your own, young
feller,” Geary growled. “I’m through with
prospectin’!”
“Misses his three square meals a day and
sting,” Bob explained.
“Many’s the good goldmine we’ve walked
over—if only we knew it,” Mrs. Watt
chirped.
The little gate in the netted fence that
made an enclosure about the house clicked
The men went on past the row of shrubs
bird plant and punti with its little yellow
flowers, to the verandah.
Geary made for one of the easy chairs o:
bag with framework of saplings, and Bob
seated himself on the edge of the verandah,
his back to a post. Hugh sat down opposite
to him. Mrs. Bessie trotted off along the
verandah, her feet in nailed shoes rapping
the boards with a quick tread.
“Well, Youie,” Geary remarked, “a good
deal’s happened since you went away to
school.”
“Everything looks just the same,” Hugh
said.
“But it isn’t,” Sam replied. “Not by long
chalks. Though I don’t mind sayin’, Youie,
you’d have had a darned side more up-to-
date property if your mother’d let me have,
a finger in the pie.”
Casting his eye back, he discovered Mrs.
Bessie coming along the verandah, and
Meenie behind her with a tray and glasses.
“By God, she’s comin’-on, your mother,
You,” he chortled.
Meenie put the tray down on a little table
near Geary’s chair. Mrs. Bessie poured the
whisky herself and passed round the glasses.
“Well, here’s to us all, Youie.” Sam
Geary lifted his glass. “You’re boss on
Wytaliba now, Mrs. Bessie tells me, and
this is a good sign. There’s been a drouth
on the land, as you might say, while you’ve
been away.” He drank with gusto and put
his glass down, squinting expectantly at
Mrs. Bessie. “And they tell me you’ve
brought a woman home with you?”
“Not so fast, Mrs. Geary, if you please,”
Mrs. Bessie objected. “They’re not married
yet.”
From the far end, where a Nor’-West
creeper screened the verandah from fhe
afternoon sun, Jessica came eagerly.
“Is that you, Hugh?” she called.
Hugh stood up.
“Come along, Jessica!” Mrs. Bessie
hailed kindly.
The girl came towards her, a slight pretty
creature in a white frock sprigged with little
flowers.
“Mr. Sam Geary, of Nuniewarra station,
and Bob Hall, Jessica.” Mrs. Bessie jerked
a hand towards the recumbent figure of
Geary and on to Bob. “Miss Jessica Hay-
wood, whom Hugh is engaged to, Bob, and
Mr. Geary.”
Geary struggled out of his chair, shook
hands with Jessica and sat down again.
Jessica said “How do you do?” limply,
shrinking from him. She disliked big, un-
shaven men like this, and the way they
seized your hand and shook it. Bob sidled
over, took her hand and wagged it, and
Jessica sat down beside Hugh on the edge
of the verandah.
“Miss Haywood has come up to spend the
winter with us. To see how she likes the
Nor’-West,” Mrs. Bessie explained.
(Continued on page 55.)
Let Me Introduce You to
Miss Elsie Prince.
BY
Kelen gea[?] Beegling
IF you should happen to see a very charm-
ing little lady in Sydney, just bubbling
over with the joy of living, unable to keep
still from the sheer pleasure of being able
to laugh and be happy, then that little lady
can be none other than Miss Elsie Prince.
Come with me now and have a chat to her!
. The company has just returned to Aus-
tralia from a long and most successful tour
of New Zealand, and its present, plans are
to open in Brisbane with “Good News” and
revivals of “Archie,” “Sunny” and “Mer-
cenary Mary,” and later to come to Sydney,
so that before long you will all have the
opportunity of seeing Elsie again, I hope.
I found her on the stage of the St. .Tames
hard at work on rehearsals, but nevertheless
not too busy to make an appointment to have
a yarn with me. Elsie Prince is a perfect
little dear. I find I must use the word
“little” because she is only just a handful —
I might say a handful of charms! Tin-
first thing that appealed to me was her air of
real happiness; she looked as if working was
a real pleasure, as if life was good to her.
She has very dark brown hair, softly done,
and falling in pretty waves about her ears;
hazel eyes which are alight with fun and
laughter and have a fascinating way of
twinkling at you as she talks; a pretty
nose and mouth, good teeth and, last but
not least, an excellent skin.
I asked Miss Prince, as I usually do in
these interviews, if she used anything special
for her skin, and she said, “Well, really
I don’t except Mercolized Wax. I have
been using this for a long time now and I
find it suits my skin wonderfully well—it
keeps it so smooth and clear. Also, it is
not nearly as expensive as other things, and
it lasts longer. Yes, I am certainly keen on
it for the skin.”
For such a tiny person Miss Prince has
a resonant, deep voice, and it was a delight
to hear her practising and humming over her
various songs. But it is not so much her
voice that counts as the cute way she “puts
them over.”
“Now for a few minutes, Miss Prince,” 1
said, “would you tell these folks something
of. yourself?”
“Why, certainly I will! I suppose 1
had better start with my birthplace, eh, Miss
Beegling?”
“Yes, please.”
“I was born in London, and I have two .
sisters and my mother. The two sisters are
both on the stage at home and are doing
very well. My mother lias travelled with me
ever since I was ten years old; she is a real
pal and we go everywhere together.”
“You are fortunate to have a mother who
.is a pal to you.”
“Yes, Miss Beegling, I realise that; and my
ambition in life is really at heart to be able, when
the time comes, to make a graceful exit from the
stage and have enough money to live comfortably
with my mother and sisters. I was on the stage as
early as eight years of age (that was as a singer
and dancer), and when I was 10 I was in ‘Jack
and Jill’ and ‘Little Miss Nobody.’ This was in
Dublin, by the way. I think of all my parts my
favorite is that of Judy in ‘Lady Be Good.’ I am
particularly fond of music, singing and playing,
and —let me see what else. Oh! I am keen on
dancing, too.”
“What about travelling, Miss Prince?”
“Oh! I forgot that. That beats everything. Are
you keen on it, too, Miss Beegling. Well, shake
hands, because I am travel-mad. It is wonderful,
isn’t it? And half the fun of travelling, I think,
is being able to thoroughly enjoy everything and
anything that happens. I do not get sea-sick, and
that means so much to one’s enjoyment when on a
boat, doesn’t it? I have been to Ireland, Wales,
New Zealand and Australia, so far. No, not America
yet. Of all the towns I have been to it is hard to
say which one I really like best. I am very fond of
Auckland; then, again, for some things I like Mel-
bourne. For a good time —and lots of friends—there
is Sydney. People here have been so good to me
that 1 naturally love them and the country. Why,
I originally came for two years, and* I am well
into the fourth year and still here! That speaks
for itself, doesn’t it? I was playing in the revue
‘Brighter London’ at .the Hippodrome, with Paul
Whiteman, when I was picked to come to Aus-
tralia. I loved the idea, because at the back of
my mind as soon as I heard it was the thought,
Ah! a sea voyage!”
“What are your view's on diet, Miss Prince?”
“Well, now, let me see. First of all, I never
drink with my meals; and, secondly, I never have
more than two meals a day. I have no breakfast;
I have a good midday meal, and a light dinner,
with supper after the show'. I have to be careful,
naturally, being so short. Luckily for me, I do
not care for many sweets, rich cakes and things
like that. A lemon drink, made with hot water,
first thing -in the morning, is good. Some people
take plain hot water, but that is awful, I think.
The addition of the juice of a. lemon makes it much
easier to take and is at the same time excellent.
“My favorite color is mauve, and I am very
keen on clothes; as a matter of fact, they are my
one real extravagance. And I adore diamonds! So
you see I have expensive tastes,” she said, smiling,
with a twinkle in her eye.
“As regards sewing, I am sorry to disappoint any-
one, but I must say definitely, ‘That’s out! ’ 1
do not like sewing.
“Yes, Miss Beegling, I am really contented with
my lpt in life. I am very happy and always try
to look on the bright side of things. No one
can keep you down, you know, except by your own
consent. I am not anxious to marry; I am afraid
I am too contented as I am, with mother, and my
great love for my work, because I really do love
it, you know.”
Health and happiness to you, little lady!


co«me*s«> mtrn or
CREAM
OF
YEAST'
Vitamin* Tonlo
V Compound
SURE. SAFE
\lu a ITIUCII GIVM
%pt
c*-
*>§
o\\»
The value of Yeast for Better Health is everywhere recog-
nised. The world’s leading scientific men have unanimously reported in favor of
it for intestinal and digestive disorders, skin troubles, faulty elimination, run-
down’’ conditions and other ills. It is most important, however, that the public
should realise that yeast, to be 100 per cent effective, must be activated, and
that it is incorrect to suppose that any kind of yeast will give the same results
as genuine Cream of Yeast
Brewers’ yeast alone does not work at its best
as a remedy for everyday ills and “below-par
conditions. So the greatest chemical organisation
in the world manufacturing medicinal yeast, after
considerable research and experience, evolved the
special activated form known as Cream of Yeast.
This is a highly-compressed yeast, scientifically
combined with other perfectly safe medicinal
agents of known therapeutic value in such a way as
vastly to increase the value of yeast for remedial
purposes. In Cream of Yeast is offered a handy medi-
cine giving prompt benefit with absolute certainty .
Cream of Yeast gives you the following Benefits
(PLAIN BREWERS' YEAST DOES NOT GIVE THESE BENEFITS)
Headaches stopped in 4 minutes. Acidity, Sour Stomach
and Indigestion stopped in 3 minutes. Rheumatic Attacks,
Influenza Colds, etc., countered within 15 hours.
Depression and “Brain Fag” banished in 8 minutes.
Nerves Steadied in 10 minutes. Energy increased within
15 minutes. Abdominal Pains relieved in 12 minutes .
Try this modern Remedy for yourself, but do not fail to remember that you must get
Cream of Yeast if you want the best results. More Cream of Yeast is sold than all other
yeast medicines combined, yet Cream of Yeast costs very little, a flask of 24 tablets being
1/11, 48 Tablets 3/6, or 125 Tablets 5/9. Since any good chemist can supply you, why
not let this remarkable remedy rid you of those ailments that now mar your health and
good looks? The very first dose of Cream of Yeast will convince you of
its unusual merit.
L
Quickest, Surest, Best Results. Largest Sales .
75 % More Beneficial than Brewers * Yeast


Babies
thrive on
ď
is so
nourishinq and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offi es at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
TH£
" bulldog m
HAMMERL£Si
đ
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
452-460 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
"She has, has she?” Geary glanced from
Mrs. Bessie to Hugh and the girl sitting
there on the edge of the verandah, looking
at each other. Sam Geary saw very well
what Mrs. Bessie was at—so well that his
eyes brightened. He gurgled again. “She
has, has she?”
Mrs. Bessie poured another whisky for
him, fearing what he would say next, and
anxious to distract his attention.
Bob said no to a second drink; and that
Hugh had been taught to watch whisky like
the Devil, Sam guessed, from the way he
handled his glass. Mrs. Bessie drove the
cork into her bottle when she had poured
a third glass for Sam.
“Here, Missus,” Geary protested, “what
are you doing with that bottle?”
“No, you don’t, Sam Geary,” Mrs. Bessie
replied. “I know you of old. You’re not
boozin’ up on my whisky—and you can say
what you like about hospitality on
Wytaliba.”
Passing along the verandah, she carried
off the black bottle by the neck, as if it
were a fowl whose neck'she had wrung. Bob
and Hugh laughed, looking after her,
Sam Geary followed her with thirsty,
yearning eyes; then he laughed, too, re-
covering his good humor.
“Great little woman, your mother, You,”
he said. “Remember when first she came
out here, drovin’ with your dad. Not more
than seven stone she was, and him more
like seventeen—a big, good-lookin’ bloke,
but no good with horses. And she was a
great horsewoman, Mrs. Bessie. Met ’em
once when they was droving down Illigoo-
gee way, and he had a young horse. ‘l’ll
take a twist out of him, Ted,’ she says in
the morning, hopping on before him. ' And
she did. t 00”....
“You’ll just have time for a shower before
tea, Hugh,” Mrs. Watt called, moving along
the verandah towards the kitchen.
“Right, Mother!”
Hugh slowly stretched the long legs he
had laid along the verandah, dropped them
to the ground and stood up.
Jessica rose when he did, sighed and
drifted away into the shadow of the Nor’-
West creeper with its small green, three-
cornered leaves.
From his chair Geary watched Hugh go
in a leisurely swinging stride across the red
earth, out before the house, to the shed
beside the windmill, where the men show-
ered.
He chuckled with derisive satisfaction.
“ ‘They’re not married yet,’ she says. What’s
the bettin’ she means ’em to be, Bob? Mrs.
Bessie knew what she was doin’ when she
asked that damned young silvertail to spend
a winter on Wytaiiba before Youie puts
his head into a matrimonial noose.” ■
CHAPTER VI.
In the finely-netted cage on the verandah
which was the dining-room Mrs. Bessie
fussed over the spread table, scolding Mee-
nie for having left the door open and let
flies in. She clouted at the flies, while
Sam Geary and Bob gazed at the food on
the table—cold beef arid lettuce-leaves, jam,
cheese and a big round loaf of fresh bread.
It smelled good. For weeks they had not
eaten anything but salt meat and damper,
and their hunger drove them almost to rush-
ing in and attacking the meal while they
waited for Mrs. Bessie to chase out the
flies.
Meenie brought a huge enamel teapot and
put it down beside cups and saucers at the
end of the long table. Then she went off
to the uloo. Sam Geary and Bob heard
Mrs. Bessie calling after Meenie and Coon-
ardoo, and their fluted replies as the girls
drifted away over the darkening earth.
Sunset passed from glittering brassy light
to amber and ember behind the blue-black
humped backs of the hills. Hugh strolled
to the verandah in white moleskins and pale
blue shirt. Jessica fluttered up from her
room.
“Come along!” Mrs. Bessie called. And
everybody moved on into the dining-room.
Seated at the end of the table, with its
white cloth and array of china dishes, Hugh
served his mother and Jessica, carved huge
junks of beef for Sam and Bob, loaded their
plates with salads and cut slices of bread
for everybody.
Mrs. Bessie chatted happily, lifting the
heavy teapot and pouring out cups of tea.
“By God, it’s good to see a feed like this,
Missus,” Geary said, and ate steadily.
Cup after cup of tea Mrs. Bessie poured,
and Hugh carved again for Sam, who slapped
fresh bread with jam. butter, chee«e and
tomato sauce, his jaws working, tongue
thrashing up and down, as he ate and talked.
On the verandah again, stretched and
smoking, he swapped yarns and gossip of the
countryside with Mrs. Bessie. Hugh went
out from the verandah a little and threw
himself flat on the earth. Jessica brought a
cushion and sat down near him. Bob perched
on the verandah where he could stare at
Jessica without her noticing it, so lovely
and rare a creature she seemed to him.
The moon, rising over the dark edge of
the plains, was large as a dray-wheel, red-
gold. It moved through the sky, clear green
with the glimmer of still water, the lustre of
silk, extinguishing the stars, chasing them
to depths of the high dark. The stockyards,
sheds and windmills were clear in the moon-
light; corrugated-iron roofs and fans of the
windmill had a white radiance. The huts
of the blacks, just visible, were low mounds
against the earth near the creek; their
camp-fires, red jewels in the distance. A
subdued murmur and drift of singing and
clicking of kylies came from them.
“You live well on Wytaliba, Missus,”
Geary grunted. “Time was”
“Yes, Sam,” Mrs. Bessie said. “Time was,
that’s why.”
Geary seethed to his reminiscence; his
eyes popped and gleamed.
“Remember when you and Tod was
drovin’ for Weelarra?” He looked across at
Hugh, where he lay gazing up into the
sky. “Ted’d drive the ration cart and she’d
drive the bullocks with a couple of boys—
black imps—about ten and twelve,” he said.
“And when some of the chaps got on to
Ted for letting Mrs. Bessie ride after the
bullocks, she said: ‘Here, what are you chip-
pin’ about? When Ted’s with the ration
cart I know' where he is, and when I’m with
the bullocks he knows where I am.’ ”
Mrs. Bessie chuckled. “Well, it was the
truth, wasn’t it?”
“Too right it was the truth, Missus,”
Geary agreed. “But it was rough on the
roads those days.” He liked watching
Hugh’s face, the pride and shame of it, as
the boy listened to these stories of his
mother. “Damper and salt meat was all we
had to eat, with a bit of ’roo steak or wild
turkey now and then. She’d cook. too. Mrs.
Bessie, but she didn’t like cookin’. ‘Here,'
she’d say to Ted, ‘you get the breakfast and
I’ll get. the bullocks.’ Course,” Geary con-
tinued, pleased to have the floor, “she could
do pretty near anything, Mrs. Bessie. When
Ted was well-sinking she’d wind dirt for him
or shovel down the well. But she didn’t
like cooking!”
“Oh, go on, Sam Geary,” Mrs. Bessie ex-
claimed; “I never had any wages for cook-
ing till we worked for you.”
“How about the morning Gingee got up
to his tricks?” Sam cut in.
“How about it?” Mrs. Bessie exclaimed,
and Geary laughed, his laughter rattling and
rumbling through him.
“God, I never laughed so much as when
Ted told me about it,” he said. “They were
bringing cattle down from Weelarra during
a drought. Poor as sticks they were, and
didn’t need watching at night. Ted had
them black imps with him. Gingee used to
wear an old coat of Ted’s, the sleeves coming
right over his arms; and he was full of
tricks.”
“No matter what clothes you gave him,
he’d manage to lose them, or swap them for
something else,” Mrs. Bessie recalled.
“One morning she went out after the bul-
locks—they’d mooched off a bit”—Geary
went on, “and took Gingee with her. Sent
him one way and she went the other, and
when she’d rounded up her mob and thought
he’d be joining her, what did she do but
find him playin’ round where she’d left him
—and the bullocks gone to glory!”
“I was that mad.” Mrs. Bessie exclaimed,
recalling the incident, “I rode right into
camp and told Ted.”
“And he was so mad he grabbed her horse
and rode after the kid,” Geary went on.
“Gingee guessed he was in for it when he
saw Ted coming, and lay on his back,
flapping his arms, with the ends of the
sleeves coming right over, at the horse.
The horse shied, propped and shot Ted fair
over his head. The kid, quick as greased
lightning, jumped on to the horse and gal-
loped back to Mrs. Bessie. ‘Don’t let him
give me a hiding,’ he yelped. She was
much too anxious about what had happened
to Ted to worry about him. ‘Well, you
get after them bullocks, and I’ll let you
cff this time.’ she said. She went after ted,
and the kid had the bullocks moving along
the road towards midday.”
The yarning went on and on. Geary liked
the sound of his voice, and Mrs. Bessie
enjoyed talking about those old days.
Jessica, wearying of the talk and Hugh’s
absorption in it, walked along the verandah
to Mrs. Bessie’s sitting-room, in which a
carbide light fluttered and flared faintly. As
she began to play the old piano there, Bob
stalked off to the harness-shed, where he
and Sam had left their packs.
Moonlight, drenching the plains with dim
silvery light, lay pure and hard on the ver-
andah, barred by the shadows of its wooden
posts; an angle of the roof and the bush-
miah cast black diagrams.
In the room, which made a doorway of
pale yellow on the verandah, Jessica was
singing as she played. The piano gave out
a feeble rattle of loose keys, and she sang
in a sweet melancholy voice:—
“In the garden of to-morrow
Will the roses be more sweet,
Will there be relief from sorrow?”
Mrs. Bessie disliked this song. It annoyed
her unspeakably, its sentimentality moping
and groping after something you had not.
And Jessica was always singing and wailing
as if she meant it:—
“Oh, I’d so much rather,
All life’s roses gather
In the garden of to-day.”
“Little fool! Who wouldn’t?” Mrs. Bessie
asked herself. But was there any chance of
gathering all life’s roses in the garden of
to-day? She hated weaklings and a poor
spirit—hoped to goodness Hughie did not
mean to marry this girl. It would be dis-
astrous if he did.
Yet she could not ask Hugh not to marry
Jessica. That would be foolish, she realised.
Mrs. Bessie had set herself boundaries in
her dealing with her son. There were bar-
riers she would not break down. His life
as a man, his man’s life, she left to him.
She did not intend to interfere, to butt-in. if
all was going well with him. Long ago
she had decided she would have no right
to. She had tried to influence Hugh as a
child, to give him a compass of common-
sense and cleanliness, moral and physical, to
steer by. That was all. She did not inquire
how he applied them; she could only judge,
and was fairly satisfied.
Bob walked in from the starlight beyond
the garden, a violin and bow in his hand.
He sat down on the verandah again, plucked
the strings and turned keys, trying to tune
his instrument.
“Give it a bone, Bob,” Geary cried iras-
cibly.
“I like a bit of music myself,” Hugh mur-
mured.
“Near drove me silly out there in the To-
Morrow,” Geary growled. “He was worse
than the blacks with his yowling.”
“You two ’ve had it all your own way,
yarning,” Hugh said. “How’s it for a tune,
Bob?”
“What’d you like, Youie?” Bob looked
up, his thin face eager. He was vain of
his music, loved the wooden instrument he
had made himself after Geary, in a drunken
frenzy, had smashed the fiddle which had
been the joy of its owner’s life.
“What he wants to be always twiddling
and sawing away at that thing for, I don’t
know.” Sam said.
Bob’s music was flat and strayed from the
air it was after as often as not. But Hugh
found in it something Bob found, the voice
of a mystery beyond them. Bob’s music
was Bob, all his hurt, wistful sentimental
soul—lying, swaggering Bob—fighting to pre-
serve the decencies.
With his instinct of a countryman to read
tracks on earth and faces, Hugh knew why
Bob hung on to Sam Geary when nobody
else would. Any mate is better than none
when a man has nothing to attach himself to.
The marvel was what Bob had done with
his life. A weak and sickly child, with a
shrunken limb and one side of his face
twisted, he had been left on Illigoogee when
his mother died there. She had been work-
ing as cook and housekeeper for the
Rylands, and as nobody knew whom to re-
turn the child to, or anywhere to send him,
Bob grew up on the station, learning to
do any odd jobs and make himself generally
useful as he grew older.
He had come to be a good horseman and
handy about a cattle camp; prided himself
on his feats with cattle and horses, and lied
about them so whole-heartedly, clanking
around with spurs on and the largest size
in Ashburton felts, that he was known as
Bob the Liar almost as much as Cock-eyed
Bob. If you asked for Bob Hall, folks east
of Karrara scarcely recognised whom you
meant; but everybody knew Bob the Liar,
or Cock-eyed Bob. He had knocked about
the country with teamsters and with
Afghans, camel punching, and had learnt a
good deal prospecting with old miners round
about Nullagine and the Bar. After awh 'e
the will-o’-the-wisp gleam of dull metal m
dry creek beds and on the shingly ridges had
drawn him away from the road and the
cattle camps. Bob was haunted by dreams
of the gold he would find one day in rich
deposits, the fortunes he would make.
Hugh admired and respected the grit and
spirit in that slight, crooked body. He could
make allowances for the swagger and lies
with which Bob bucked himself up, and
watched curiously with half-hearted affection
as Bob bent over his instrument, trying to
pick up the air Jessica was singing. She
came to the door of the sitting-room to see
who was fingering a violin.
As she stood in the doorway Bob looked
up, but no one else turned or glanced in
her direction. Jessica wondered whether
Hugh and his mother had heard her singing,
even. Very delicate and blossomy she
looked, there in the darkness, with the pale
light flickering behind her.
“How’d the muster go, Hugh?” Mrs.
Bessie asked.
“All right.” Hugh’s voice spurted lazily.
“There’s a lot of poor stuff in the mob, but
some good young things, too, Mum.”
“Shirked mustering horses these three
years,” Mrs. Bessie smiled across at him.
“A mob led Chitali and me up a steep
hill once, all rocks,” Hugh said. “We rode
them to a standstill on■ the top. ‘Got to get
’m down now,’ Chitali said. And away we
went”
“Case of every man for himself?” Saul
grunted.
“That’s right, Saul,” Hugh said.
Jessica, walking over, sat down beside
Bob and asked him about his violin, and he
played to her while Hugh talked.
“Warieda and I got ahead, steadied and
held ’m,” he went on. “We waited for
Chitali, waited and waited, but he didn’t
come. Thought something had happened
to him—got a fall. After a bit I went back
looking for him, and there he was on the
top. His horse had gone sulky, and wouldn’t
gallop any more.”
“Saturn, I’ll bet,” Mrs. Bessie said. “He’s
like that, a sulky brute; „but Chitali thinks
no end of him.”
“What do you know about that?” Geary
murmured.
“Got the rest of the mob that evening,”
Hugh drawled—“most of them, at any rate.
But we had to turn in some coachers.”
“Wild as hawks them To-Morrow horses,”
old Saul muttered. “I told your mother,
Youie, we’d oughter mustered them before.”
“Oh well, we’d a great go,” Hugh said.
“Knocked up most of our nags. Hermes
was tenderfooted, and so was Coonardoo’s
mare.”
“Coonardoo!” Geary exclaimed. “Great
horseman, isn’t she? Been after that gin
since she was so high!”
“Mr. Geary.” Mrs. Bessie spoke sharply,
“I think you forget where you are.”
Geary chuckled, delighted to have vexed
Mrs. Bessie.
“Your mother, Youie,” he rumbled, “don’t
approve of me emulating the patriarchs.
But what I say is”
“We know what you say, Sam Geary, and
we are not interested,” Mrs. Bessie cut in.
“All self-taught,” Bob was explaining to
Jessica, “and I made this fiddle myself.”
“Just fancy!” she murmured. “Why?”
Geary wrenched himself from the com-
fortable sagging bottom of his chair.
“Don’t mind if I do, Youie,” he said,
squinting at Mrs. Bessie. But she refused
to produce any more whisky. And Sam
trundled off, muttering and grumbling, to
the shed, where he insisted on sleeping
with Sheba under the ration cart, although
Mrs. Bessie had put stretchers for him and
Bob on the verandah.
CHAPTER VII.
In the “big yard” of the stockyard the
horses Hugh and the boys had brought in
were moving restlessly. Slender stalks of
legs; bodies chestnut, bay, brown and
black; crowding, hustling, seething; heads
alert, turned and glancing; wild eyes slew-
ing, startled; manes and tails tossed and
waving; a star, arrow-head or splash of
white flashing out from dark foreheads—
blowing and snorting, the mob went round
the yard, backwards and forwards, rais-
ing a fog of dust.
(To be continued.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital . . .. .. £5,000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30tli June, 1928.. £18,023,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. .
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other
a t interest for
fixed periods
usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUtH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fuad .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,260,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
fd
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
,f you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Sired. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the Bhitish Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
o- I'M Collins Street. Melbourne.
\
v* \?!»?
vV e
\> e
vV 1 -
■•=*»' <^W e
S °V^-, «*
ytsrs
V
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
<GWY
HAIR
WQUILB
SPOOL
IT#
Shipping, etc.
From
Sydney to Vancouver
Via
Suva and Honolulu
Like the multi-colored stream-
ers of farewell, days aboard
a Union Company Steamer are
gay and ever varied.
Between Ports of many
Pleasures strung lightly across
the Pacific, travellers enjoy the
refreshment of adventure,
peace and comfort.
Visit Pacific Isfes by the
CANADIAN-AUS TR A LASIAN
LINE
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney;
William Street, Melbourne.
#
’"inipiii,
y//m
m
mm
mMi
M
rm
1»
ffMm
m
m
Attractive Trips of from 3-1 to 7 WeeTcs.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection, and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island', Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
iSANJti OF NIL W SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
■*l#
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Bucklarid, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert \V. Gillespie, Esq.
franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES,
lli-ad Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—2!) Tiireadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 18.34.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.;
OWEN E. FRIEND: Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and otnei
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geial
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Steamer.
Leaves
Sydney
| Leaves
Melbourne!
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Alcll wraith,
MeEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,lvembla Big.,
58 Margaret St.
Moll wraith,
MeEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
BRISBANE,™ BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Botli vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALLIS HOUSE.
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLlE'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDAKT PAItKEKUMITED,
Collins Street. Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
beyond an H. MV Portable
you buy furniture /
Specialising in H.M.V Portables.
£l2 cash or terms arranged
TheTALK.ER.IES
THE MERCURY.
Tasmania’s National Daily.
(ESTABLISHED 1854). Price l£d.
Published at Hobart. The Mercury has
by far the largest circulation in Tas-
mania. Delivered by fast motor-cars it
reaches Launceston (121 miles), Delo-
raine (110 miles) and all intermediate
towns before breakfast.
Per inch, per thousand of circulation,
The Mercury advertising rates are the
lowest in the State.
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL.
ESTABLISHED 1877.
Published Wednesdays. Price 6d.
Everywhere—all over the State, in
Town and Country—this popular weekly
goes regularly into the homes of tie'
people, and each issue is eagerly read
by over 70,000 men, women and children.
THE BRIGHTEST WEEKLY
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
No Tasmanian advertising campaign
is complete without these publications
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
rA
ďf


A Famous Actor Mr.
Maurice Moscovitch—Praises
a Famous Shaving Soap
KM
\YQ\
t...
a
□
n
a
4J
a
5
ts
O
J
1/1
V/
O
Men! Here’s a Shaving Soap
REXONA The
New Triangular Stick
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph
—one this time which will be appreciated l y men wherever
beards grow.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same oils and essences
which have made Rexona famous the world over, and is
made on the Rexona formula, and thus make a Shaving
Stick which is a soap and a lotion combined. It makes
for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skin
against wind and bad weather.
Rexona Shaving Soap, the new Triangular Stick, is sold in
pure aluminium containers at 1/6.
The New Triangular Stick.
Rexona,
the New
Triangular
Stick
Mr. M A V R l C E
MOSCOVITCH, now
appearing in “The.
Silent Home” at the
Theatre Royal, Sydney,
writes: “Wherever 1
yo l always lake a
supply of Rexona
Shaving Soup with me.
I wouldn’t be without
it for worlds—it. is
pur excellence for the
skin.”
jS-*—-
ppOD
A
1/6
r.
m. '■
\
m
'm
* j
Say it with Hilliers/
Tested die day they are made
Site famous
Bed Box oP
Chocolates
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
address -
162
1
-i66 Pitt Stiveet
S Y~E> n e y~*
PRICES
5/6. &: 10/. 126
20/ ArLcL 30 /
df
/(PATQf*)
Vested Interests.
A STORY OF THE SYNAGOGUE, BY RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
IS ADORE WOOLF, poor, eager and apolo-
getic, new from London, whence he had
sailed as an assisted immigrant on the
understanding that he was a farmer and part
of the backbone of Great Britain, prepared
to expatriate himself and become one of the
vertebrae of Australia. Isadora's nearest
approach to being a representative of that
rare bird, the British yeoman, was that he
had once farmed a peddler’s outfit on Lud-
gate Hill, and had soon afterwards retired
from public affairs for the space of thirty
days. So Isadore had come to Australia
to people the great empty spaces; and
Isadore, since his landing a month before,
had had no luck. His clothes were old
but well saved, and his boots had appar-
ently been designed by a boat-builder, for the
toes turned up like the prow of a gondola
and then curled backwards to the beloved
master like a Turkish scimitar or a faithful
hound.
With the poor Jews’ tremendous apprecia-
tion of all portable property, however value-
less, Isadore in his month of learning the
byways of the city had accumulated by gift
the beginning of an old-clothes store, having
found its nucleus before he landed in gifts
of the discarded clothing of fellow passen-
gers. His vested interests had grown until
they almost filled his little room in Surry
Hills, and now he walked through the park
and stopped before the Synagogue, seeing
the red carpet down and the wealthy Isadore
Woolfs of the community making merry. Isa-
dore joined them without ceremony; they
could on ordinary occasions stand on their
dignity of possessions before an indigent per-
son who might seek to separate them from
their goods, but in their giving of feasts
or the public part of a festival, at least, these
Jews were as democratic as the conservative
Chinaman during his New Year celebration.
There was a wedding toward; the old
Hebrew service under the canopy, the
Hebrew breaking of the wineglass made in
Belgium, and the throwing of the rice of
China and of the confetti invented in Italy.
A very wealthy young Jew was marrying a
heavily-gilded young Jewess at that age of
her short life before bloom degenerates to
blowth; and a hundred relatives and two
hundred friends were rejoicing : large dignified
Jews, tall-hatted and frock-coated; dapper
young Jews, also de rigucur ; their mothers
and sisters and wives ; old and fat, young and
plump, mature and curvy and voluble; every
one of them shrill as a flock of galahs before
a thunderstorm.
Isadore advanced bravely to the entrance
of that democratic temple where the rich
and the poor meet together and tell each
other that the Lord is the father of them all
(which signifies that the rich needn’t lend
anything, because brotherhood is the consola-
tion of the poor). A dozen Hebrew ladies
ringed around him and marooned him; and
from that he was rescued by a merry old
lady, very white-haired and black-eyed and
red-lipped, who told him to have the bride-
groom’s car ready. He went, and returned
to tell her of its readiness, and she gave him
half a crown.
While he waited Isadore mentally un-
dressed everybody present; folded their
clothes up neatly with mothballs and dock-
eted them as unredeemed pledges pawned
for a peppercorn consideration and saleable
at two thousand per cent, profit. This plea-
sant occupation lasted Isadore until a move
from the Synagogue showed the wedding
party almost ready to depart; and Isadore,
who had just collected two shillings from an
old Hebrew gentleman who felt he had to
give something to somebody in sheer joy of
the heart, looked at the bridal party and at
the day, all blue and gold, and at the park,
all green and yellow and purple and red,
and mentally contrasted it with the pea-soup
atmosphere of Bethnal Green. Then and
there he determined to gain so much money
that he would be able to afford a well-gilded
bride and marry her in his own Synagogue.
Meantime Isadore listened to various
forms of the possessive and the egotistical
pronoun. “Isaac bought me the other ear-
rings, the pearl ones’’ “My sable coat.”
....“Mine was mink”.... “My ear wants
new tyres”.... “I made three hundred
pound over the meetin’”.... “/ sold all
my cottages in Ivippax-street.”.... “My hus-
band said to me, he said, just give the bride
a coffee service —l had four of ’em....
Then the member of Parliament for Roslyn
Gardens, spreading his legislative grandeur
over his co-religionists, vociferated: “And
1 said while [ represent my constituency f
won’t listen to any such thing. My con-
stituency is the premier constituency of the
State.”
"My !My!My! My ! I! I! I!” but never
“we” or “ours.”
Isadore could have wept at the vested in-
terests of them all—vested interests for Solo-
mon, Leah, Isaac and Sim, but never a vested
interest for him. He began to understand the
Old Testament contempt for the man with-
out property who has his home where the
night finds him. He could not say “My”
unless it related to the old clothes in his
little bedroom in Surry Hills. Mentally he
undressed all the company again ; male and
female undressed he them; and he saw all
their clothing docketed and put away, and
gathered up of the fragments twelve baskets
full.
And then out came the bride and bride-
groom and their immediate relatives and
aiders and abettors in their rash act. rice
from China falling metallically upon the
pillars, and confetti from Italy by the cart-
load covering the red carpet and hiding the
floor. The bridegroom in the fulness of his
heart gave Isadore a pound-note for holding
open the door of the limousine, Isadore hav-
ing fought successfully for that privilege
with a mere hireling in uniform, and Isadore
of the curly boots hopped about on his un-
comfortable feet like a seal, collecting tips
so bountiful that Isadore knew he had found
a newer and finer land of Goshen with all
Gie irrigation works in good order and opera-
tion.
At the end of his perspiring efforts Isadore
found himself with the crowd disappeared
and the guests departed, and a Synagogue
attendant about to close the gates; and Isa-
dore the Farmer with four pounds fifteen
shillings and ninepence in his pocket, of
which sixpence was the original capital and
four pounds fifteen shillings and threepence
the trading profit thereon.
Isadore counted it twice, staying by the
Synagogue, the recent showplace of so much
wealth that Isadore hated to leave it. And
then as he saw the attendant sweeping the
confetti and the rice off the red carpet so as
to permit him to roll it up for another occa-
sion when Ahasuerus should again marry
Esther, a great idea came to Isadore —an
idea to give him Vested Interests, too, and so
put Isadore on the map.
There seemed to be a great amount of rice,
forty pounds or so, and a great wilderness
of confetti. A very grave and dignified
Hebrew with coal-black whiskers like those of
a stage Bolshevik swept the lot together into
heaps. Him Isadore approached, almost fawn-
ingly, like a little dog uncertain of his re-
ception and wearing his tail hard down to
permit escape from a blow.
“Do you want these old confettys, on
please?” asked Isadore.
The dignified sweeper stood erect and shook
his whiskers.
“Could I take these old second-hand con-
fettys, oh please?”
The dignified sweeper agitated his whiskers
in the affirmative and remarked, “It’s all
mixed up with the rice.”
"It could be put through a sieve,” said
Isadore eagerly.
“No, it couldn’t,” said Whiskers. “Con-
fettys and rice is too much the same size.”
“Tell you what,” said Isadore triumph-
antly, ”i blow the confettys out with a
fan.”
“What for?”
“Parcel it up and sell it again to ved-
■ din’s? And sell the rice, too, please?”
“But there’s all the dust in it, and the
hairpins and safety-pins and ordinary pins
—all got mixed.”
“All them things get lost?”
“Yes —they get them lost in the excite-
ments.”
“I’ll pick ’em out. D’ye mind me takin’ it
all? I’ll get a sack. Very poor, ain’t I—
a straggler of misfortunes, please?”
The dignified sweeper looked at him and
then yielded the broom.
“Sweep it up and then go for your sack.”
“I can get it every time, can I? All the
veddin’s I can get the confettysi of, please?”
“Yes, if you sweep it you shall have all
the confettys and the rice, and I let you
come open the motive-car doors like you done
to-day. We must help poor Jews —but you
do all the sweeping.”
So the bargain was struck; Isadore to
sweep and in return be granted the Syna-
gogue confetti rights and the concession of
Synagogue rice.
With his Vested Interest at last secure
Isadore swept and perspired as he swept:
and at last the rice and confetti and all
jetsam therewith associated were collected
in little hillocks about the pavement of the
great tiled loggia, and Isadore took his
broom to the last corner near the great
gates.
And there, among the polychromatic con-
fetti and the glistening rice, he saw the
shining thing, a ray of its own—the light
of a diamond.
He looked this way and that way, as did
Moses after killing the Egyptian; and seeing
that the man with the whiskers had turned
his back on the new sweeper, Isadore swooped
like a hawk and secured the diamond and
put it in his pocket. Then he told Whiskers
that he would go and buy a bag to hold
the confetti and the rice, returning in a
minute or two.
Safely outside, Isadore felt the diamond
in his pocket. It was set in a massive ring:
so dazzling he could almost feel the light of
it. At a second-hand shop he bought a
eornsack, and knew that with that diamond
in his pocket the realisation of his ambition
to own such a shop was not far removed. On
the way back he became courageous enough
to look at the ring, although furtively, and
saw that the diamond was large and valu-
able, and that the new land of Goshen had
made a duty of the enriching of Isadore
Woolf.
“My diamond ring! My ring!” said Isa-
dore. “Findin’s keepin’s.”
Light-heartedly he returned to his con-
cession and was greeted by the approving
nod of the man with the whiskers, lie filled
the bag by handfuls,i swept the last of
the spoil into one small heap, deposited that
in the bag, thanked the attendant and
arranged to call regularly to be given early
notice of weddings, now more important than
ever, seeing that the debris yielded a by-
product of diamonds. And then Isadore
shook hands with the attendant, and blessed
him in Yiddish, and lifted the bag to his
shoulder.
And then a perspiring, excited Hebrew
gentleman, the old friend of the family who
had given Isadore two shillings out of the
goodness of his heart, very angrily demanded
a diamond-ring lost in that very place!
The attendant had seen nothing of it.
“Who’s been here besides yourself?”
demanded the loser.
“Only this good poor man who removes
the confetti and the rice.”
“It may be in that. Open the bag, and
put all the rubbish out.”
“And sweep it all up again?” asked Isa-
dore. “After me sweepin’ it all up one
time? No, please.”
“I will examine it—call that policeman—
open that bag. I remember the man was
near me. I gave him two shillings. Did
you see my ring—a big diamond in gold
setting?”
“N-no, 1 never see your diamond,” replied
Isadore, lying with his lips and telling the
truth with his eyes.
The old gentleman knew men and every
one of the two hundred and seventy separate
and distinct ways of lying there be: and he
knew he had his man. He further be-
lieved. not that Isadore had found the ring,
but that he had stolen it; and the old
gentleman was as implacable as a bear
robbed of her whelps.
(Continued on 'ie*t page.)


“'Gverij picture
a J/ory
-/< \
>*
rs
E*
m
/*
Heed that
Backache!
Too often it indicates kidney weakness
risk kidney breakdown? Those pains in
the back, dizzy attacks, rheumatic twinges,
and annoying bladder irregularities warn you of
kidney weakness. Never neglect such symptoms;
they are often the start of stone formation; in-
flamed bladder, rheumatism, dropsy, sciatica or
lumbago. Be healthy! Strengthen the weakened
kidneys with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Thousands owe their good health to the curative
and preventive properties of this kidney medicine.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
Mr. H. Holder, No. 12 Hector Road. Willoughby, Sydney, says-:
“Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are indeed a wonderful kidney
medicine. 1 have proved this. For a long time I suffered agony
from backache and kidney trouble, and only those who have been
afflicted in this way have any idea what I went through. My limbs
swelled considerably, the kidney secretions were thick and cloudy
with a red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back. I was
treated bv a doctor, and tried all sorts of remedies, but nothing gave
me the slightest relief. I was naturally very worried about the
serious state of my health, and when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
were brought under my notice I decided to try them. It was a
grand thing for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured
me completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Pills, and
recommend them with every confidence to other sufferers.”
Eight years later Mr. Holder says : “I have still the same good
opinion of'Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me of
kidney disorder eight years ago, and I have had no return of the
complaint since.”
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney nils.
TWO RESIDENTS OF SYDNEY CURED OF
PILES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. A. Craw. 31 Reserve Street,
Annandale, Sydney, says: “About two
years ago I used Doan’s Ointment for
a bad attack of piles, and I am
pleased to tell you that it cured me,
and I have had no return of that dis-
tressing complaint since. I suffered
terribly before I used Doan’s Oint-
ment. the pain and irritation being
often very trying. Different prepara-
tions I used failed to give me any
relief, but Doan's Ointment soon fixed
me up, and I am very glad to have
an opportunity of saying a few words
in praise of this fine pile remedy. 1
always keep a tin in the house now,
and find it very useful at times.”
Doan's Ointment is sold by all
chemists and storekeepers. Foster-
McClellan Co.. Proprietors, 15 Hamil-
ton Street, Sydney.
Rut, be sure you get DOAN'S.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Isaac Swales, 89 Fitzroy Street,
Moore Park, Sydney, says: “I used
remedy after remedy trying to get a
coure for itching piles, but nothing did
me any good until I applied Doan’s
Ointment. This wonderful ointment
cured me in a very short time, and I
have been free from the torture of this
complaint ever since. Only those who
are tortured with piles know what the
irritation is like, but, after my experi-
ence with Doan’s Ointment, I am sure
no one need suffer with piles. I wish
I had known about this remedy years
before ; it would have saved me a lot
of trouble.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Swales
says: “My husband’s cure has proved
a permanent one. He has been free
from piles for the past twelve years.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
“Arrest him, constable,” he said to the
approaching policeman. “I’ve got a taxi;
we'll go to the station.”
“A thief in my Synagogue!” roared the
man with the whiskers.
“You’ll steal on my beat, will you?” de-
manded the policeman. “Come along.”
So Isadore w*as bundled into the taxi-cab
and was speechless all the way to the station.
From dreams of wealth to w r orse than poverty
was so sudden a transition that it stunned
him.
“My diamond!” wailed the heart of Isa-
dore. “The old pig wmnts my diamond.”
So they stood him up before the desk, and
the policeman in charge ran a practised hand
over him before he could explain, and in a
moment had found the ring.
“I didn’t pinch it,” said Isadore. “It’s
my di'mond. I found it in the confettys and
the rice for the veddin’.”
“A great story,” said the sergeant; “charge
him.”
Then Vested Interests began again: “My
di’mond ring! I know* he stole it from me
while I was giving him the tw*o shillin’s.”
“If I give him my diamond, don’t I go?
I didn’t pinch it. I found it. Ain’t I
trouble enough?” wailed Isadore.
The sergeant w y as obdurate.
“Come on —what name?”
“Isadore Woolf,” sobbed the concession-
aire.
“Born ?”
“London.”
“What occupation?”
“I hold the concession of veddin' rice ana
the rights of confettys at the Synagogue."
“I know him,” said Sergeant Egotist, who
had never seen Isadore before. “Put him
down as hawker. And what’s in that bag?”
“Rubbish,” said the policeman.
“Rice an’ confettys from the veddin'. Oh
please. It’s mine —oh please.”
“Throw* it out,” said the sergeant, “I
won’t have rubbish in my station.”
Then they found Isadore’s capital of £4
15s. 3d., and, looking at his boots, decided
it to be stolen, too.
The station-keeper led Isadore to a nice
white cell, its heavy door ornamented with
large black bolts and a little trapdoor suit-
able for the bird in the clock to come out
every hour and say “Cuckoo.”
“Here’s your cell,” said the station-keeper;
and Isadore having entered, the door closed.
“My cell,” said Isadore. “They take my
di’mon’, stole my rice and my confettys; but
I got something that's mine at last. My
cell! Oh yes, 1 got it, please.”
The Quest of the Golden Wobblegong.
WHEREIN GILBERT MANT TELLS OF THE STRANGE DISCOVERIES OF
PROFESSOR JAMES PRATT.
MR. JAMES PRATT —who afterwards
became Professor Pratt—was a little
white-haired man of sixty-two, with a
big head that was stuffed with all the lore
of birds,' insects, trees, animals and snakes.
He was an ornithologist, and dabbled in
most things that end with ology.
Mr. Pratt, in his pursuit of birds and in-
sects, lived a secluded life, and, apart from
delivering occasional boresome addresses,
mixed little with his fellow creatures. He
preferred for company a new kind of lizard,
rather than a man or a woman. He was
shy, unmarried and he stammered —that was
Mr. James Pratt.
And this is the tale of Mr. Pratt’s dra-
matic rise to fame in the world of science,
a rise which won him the title of “professor”
and a string of imposing letters after his
name.
It was Mr. Pratt’s habit to set forth
Son a nature-study expedition to a country
district each year. This year he chose the
South Coast, where he had heard that a new
kind of golden wobblegong had been sighted.
It was a cloudy, muggy evening when he
was deposited at the Gumtree Hotel. Mr.
■ Patrick Burke tells me that liis first words
were: “Have you s-s-seen any wobblegongs
1-1-lately?” To which Mr. Burke replied that
he didn’t think anybody of that name lived
thereabouts.
Mr. Pratt retired early, leaving instruc-
tions that he was to be awakened at 6 a.m.
As he slept, however, the ominous clouds of
the afternoon gathered in surly conclave. At
2 a.m. it began to rain. By 6 a.m. the
district was aware that the drought had
broken at last. Mr. Pratt awoke to find the
main street of the township a river of water
and mud. His chagrin was intense.
“Oh, d-d-dear me !” he stammered. “This
is m-m-most unfortunate ! Indeed yes ! D-d-do
you think, Mr. Burke, it will 1-1-last very
long?” ,
“Sure,” said Mr. Burke helpfully, am
I don’t know. For when it starts rainin’
in Gumtree it sometimes rains on for weeks,
it does.”
“Oh, d-d-dear me! I s-s-suffer from
c-c-colds. I can’t p-p-possibly search for the
wobblegongs in weather like this.”
“Sure,” said Mr. Burke again, “and it’s
not much use lookin’ for your frinds, Mister
Pratt. There’s no one about here wid a name
like that, there isn’t.”
“It’s not a p-p-person,” said Mr. Pratt.
“It’s a b-b-bird.”
“Is it now? Sure, then, it must be a queer
birrd, Mr. Pratt. Would you be joinin’ me in
a drink?”
“I n-n-never drink,” said Mr. Pratt.
The effect of several weeks’ steady rain on
the water-bound inhabitants of an island has
been chronicled by Mr. Somerset Maugham.
The effect was even more devastating on
those who took shelter in the Gumtree Hotel.
It came to pass that on the fifth day of
rain Mr. Pratt was persuaded to have a
nightcap before he went to bed. The effect
was instantaneous and delightful. Mr. Burke
assures me that it was an excellent rum.
At any rate, Mr. Pratt demanded a pick-me-
up on the following morning. Mr. Burke,
who had had a night himself, mixed a
pick-me-up which promptly knocked the
learned ornithologist down. The next day
was the same. And the next. As regularly
as the maddening beat of the rain, Mr.
Pratt entered the bar for his nightcap; as
regularly lie was knocked down by the liba-
tion -with which he saluted the morning.
Mr. Pratt progressed from one nightcap to
six, and from six to twelve. Soon he was
keeping pace with Mr. Burke himself, wdiich
was no mean feat. Mr. Burke says Mr.
Pratt’s Saturday night lecture on “Birds and
Why” was an amazing affair, which was duly
translated and reported in the Gumtree
Gazette.
It would be idle to set down in detail Mr.
Pratt's rapid fall from grace. In the fitful
hours of the morning he would totter off to
bed, muttering strange sentences. And mean-
while his brain swam with magnificent pic-
tures of golden wobblegongs which he would
discover when the rain ceased.
On the eighteenth day the rain did cease.
Sunshine flooded the land. Birds shouted and
carolled. Lizards came out of their holes and
ran amongst the grass. All was song, sap
and sunshine.
Mr. Pratt awoke joyously. Gazing from his
bedroom window at the sunlight on the wet
hills, lie chortled gladly. He dressed and
staggered down stairs for his usual half-
dozen Juiock-me-downs.
“Now,” he cried, “for thwobblegongs !”
“Sure,*’ said Mr. Burke. “Sure.”
Mr Pratt wandered off into the bush. Once
be tripped over a log and wallowed like a
hog in the mud. Once he came into violent
collision with a tree. But his spirit -was
indomitable. The quest of the Golden Fleece
was nothing to this quest of the Golden
Wobblegong.
Then suddenly Mr. Pratt stiffened. He
came to an abrupt halt. His ‘yes goggled.
On a tree sat the most extraordinary crea-
ture he had ever beheld. It was bright
scarlet with owls’ eyes and a cow’s tail.
“Gawd!” whispered Mr. Pratt. “It must
be a s-s-scarlet wobblegong!.... G'Lord,
whasat!”
A perfectly white snake with green eyes
was peering at him from behind another tree.
“G’Lord !” said Mr. Pratt. “G’Lord !”
At that moment he was assailed by a herd
of multi-colored birds, snakes, insects and
worms. He gazed at them feverishly, terror
leaving him as he realised the staggering
importance of his discoveries. Such creatures
were entirely new to natural history; they
would probably bring the theory of evolution
a link closer ; it was possible that they
affected Newton’s law of gravity.
“ ’Stordin’ry!” he muttered, falling on his
knees in the mud, and touching an emerald-
yellow dingbat with reverent fingers.
Ungovernable excitement clutched him. He
grabbed his notebook and hastily drew pic-
tures in colored crayons of Pratt’s scarlet
wobblegong, Pratt's rainbow nit-wit, Pratt’s
golden goanna.
“Name’s made !” he cried. “Mos’ ’stordin’ry
d-d-discoveries of c-c-century! Whole world
r-r-ring with n-n-name Pratt. G’Lord!”....
“Sure, and did you find the wobblegongs ?”
asked Mr. Burke, when the ornithologist re-
turned to the Gumtree Hotel for a knock-me-
down.
Mr. Pratt burst out with his amazing news.
Gumtree celebrated the most important dis-
coveries of the age hilariously.
The rest is natural history. Air. Pratt lost
no time in acquainting the world of liis
colossal good fortune. His name figured
in the cables. His colored drawings were
made into lantern slides, with which Mr.
Pratt lectured to the Itoyal Institute for
the Study of Tittlebats and other august
societies. He became Professor Pratt, and
enjoyed a unique fame until his untimely
death last year.
From all parts of the world scientific ex-
peditions have come out to Gumtree to study
at close hand the haunts and habits of
Pratt’s discoveries, a fact that has occasioned
Mr. Patrick Burke considerable satisfaction.
But alas! Pratt’s discoveries have never
been made again.
For his own opinion on the matter we
have to go to Professor von Blow, the emi-
nent German scientist, who wrote “James
Pratt As I Knew Him.”
“With due humility I asked this lovable
Australian benefactor of natural history,”
says Professor von Blow on page 435, “how
he explained the deplorable disappearance of
his famous discoveries.
“ ‘Alas!’ replied James Pratt sadly, with
his likeable stammer, ‘it is a s-s-strange thing.
Indeed yes. Of course Gumtree has had a
d-d-drought ever since I made my d-d-discov-
eries. Perhaps they only appear in w-w-wet
w-w-weatlier. Yes, I fear so. I rather
f-f-fancy you won’t see my scarlet wobble-
gong again until it r-r-rains.’
“ ‘We must pray for rain, then,’ I said,”
goes on Professor von Blow.
On the other hand, Mr. Burke nightly prays
for a continuance of the drought.
Upon This Day.
Upon this day, when birds rejoice
And golden lights are falling
Within my veins, with luring voice,
I hear a wood-nymph calling.
“Fare forth, fare forth!” I hear her call,
“Where spring has spread its splendor
On arching fronds and bloodwoods tall
And saplings straight and slender.
“There shall you find,” I hear her say,
“Relief beyond believing
From cruel care that makes man grey;
From worry and sore grieving.
“Birds shall you meet that lift a song
That memories cannot throttle—
A song of joyance, brave and strong,
In groves of golden wattle.
“Set far from where day-long, indoors,
Folk sell their souls for money,
Bees shall you see, swift visitors
That feast on blossom honey.”
Upon this day of all delight,
With accents that enthrall me,
To ferny glen and leafy height,
Thus does the wood-nymph call me.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


•wmi
m
u
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-j oint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements,
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE SHAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES Sc CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 leatlierslon Street. Wellington
CONCORD WFVT N S WAIFS
bUffbUKU UMI, W. O. if Al»KO
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Itourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents! Messrs. ELDER. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
Rneunwrtism /
Rheumatism used to be considered an ail-
ment due to exposure; and it was thought
natural that outdoor workers should suffer
from this painful trouble. New knowledge
lias shown that rheumatism has little to
do with the weather, but is due to uric
poison in the blood. We now know that
rheumatism affects the heart, and almost
all deaths from heart disease in people
under forty are due to rheumatic infection.
The remedy consists in getting rid of the
uric poison, and the best way to do this
is to take Harrison’s Pills. These pills
include a combination of eight of the
most valuable agents known for the re-
moval of uric poison and deposits and for
the successful treatment of kidney, blad-
der and urinary disorders. Harrison’s
Pills give prompt relief from aches and
pains and a speedy return to normal good
health and fitness, even where all other
remedies have completely failed. Yet.
Harrison’s Pills cost but 2/- for IS Pills,
3/- for 32 Pills, or 5/- for 68 Pills at any
chemist’s. Insist on having Harrison’s
Pills, and so quickly drive out a trouble
which is as dangerous as it is painful.
d
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
ďf
Drive
Out
the
■
Pain
the Cause
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME The most sheltered spot on the Harbor
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4£ Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinn**>-«
Delightful 2a-minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
P- RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24 J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16J pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
(EEL
1H
of
CR
dny Chemists Un
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
•Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
"Queenslander” and
"Sports Referee.”
?-_n
c
OOOM
$
L
\
//
You'll Sleep more. Roundly
rise as fresh as a lark.
r
n
r*
P
ew
\
EAT YOUR MEALS WITH RELISH WITHOUT OREAIToF iNOIdESTION LATER
<£>
•an
I a
jS?
I
//
O-
VqU LL Po BRAIN-WORK MORE EASILY-OR MANUAL LABOUR WITH LESS STRAIN
- IN FACT .YOU'LL PINO LIFE IS WORTH LIV/IN6
MARINE ENGINES
•V.
For trustworthy and en-
during power install a
Kermath Marine Engine.
Kermaths are built to give
efficient service that lasts
through the years—“A
Kermath Always Runs."
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling
means easy starting.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson's Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit. Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address - Kermath
d
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
12e
•.POST FREE ,
m
6)
%
0&
Cfi
?
s®
W o\9 •••• .■^✓V
C*\.<-S»


//
S s
< ■ I
'8
Mi
83!
iiiii
ss
m.
x : :
II
mm
Hi
p- • .'••• Vi
iii
Mi.
HI
Kwii
M
mm
ill
iii
iiiii
m
A ' V *
<2?
4M
m
'Mr
"M
7
:
-o.
mi -y.
sO-'M# 1
' •' »
; ’ SI *
SC CfC
.. ‘£C
■ ■ ■ tt-
■
\\
0
£
MM
■ !.\ -'r-i,
MM i
aw*-
-.
\ t;
-So
■
V.
sS?
-j-. -
'
Tjoiimakina Villi cMatch Soxcs
& (jet [ELL Look Qp iJlodd? -Jlo (Lupns-110 entry Jee - 110 Libels'
During the long winter evenings
boys and girls will be glad of this
new and fascinating Brymay game
to occupy their play-hours. All
you need are a few empty Bryant
and May match boxes, some pieces
of colored paper, and a little paste.
You can then make a wonderful
assortment of real working toys —
Baby’s Push-carts, Doll’s Furni-
ture, Tram Cars, Trains, and a
score of others.
Full instructions for making thirty
model toys are contained in the
Brymay Game Book, which costs
you nothing.
Write for a copy—we will post it
to you FREE and POST FREE,
together with details of the com-
petition, in which we offer Cash
Prizes for the best and most
original models of toys made with
Bryant and May match boxes.
/?0 in Prizes for Best
Original Models
The Competition is for children of all
ages, and for the Most Original Models
sent in by boys and girls we will award
Cash Prizes as follows:
FIRST PRIZE ----- £2O
SECOND PRIZE - - - - £lO
THIRD PRIZE £5
FOURTH PRIZE - - - - £3
FIFTH PRIZE ------ £2
And Ten Prizes of £1 each.
BRYANT & MAY PTY., LTD.,
Church Street, Richmond E. 1., Victoria,
.
Mark your envelope “TOYS.**
