

77
77
PS
X xVuUH 1 11
Z
/
/
W
//
//
//.
\
/
\
//
\
Va
V/
7
\\
u\
/
p i 1;
\
\
/
w
\\
/
\
/
/
>\
M\\
i'll
iii
/
, / /
'W
X
H
N
!' t,
V
X
;
/
//
X
\
//
sN
v\
\ \
X
/ -
-x
fcfffiS
vAxxl
•’
n,
vSYpmfir
Z^,
x>
/ /
o x >v X
\ \
NX
•//;■•':■ i,Vv vxwa— v- * * v-
/
%
w/
>k
m
xX
X
m.
I )
D
D
[1
The Genuine
LAGER
AUSTRALIA'S
BEST
ASK FDR THEM BYNAME
Remember that/
i .
D
A
DINNER
ALE
The Bulletin
A RANDOLPH BEDFORD STORY.
Vol. 49.—N0. 2512.
Wednesday, April 4, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
SOTWritmg
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining, hbw to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
Right-j
fora Lifetime’s
Writing*
£
3L
1
'HjS
II
A useful companion to the
"SWAN” pen. It has a
thin lead which requires
nosharpening,and is useful
for presentation purposes.
___ Prices from
■V 7/6
A PPRECIATION of a
“Swan” Pen in-
creases with lengthening
years of service. One
by one its many good
qualities, inbuilt by high
manufacturing skill and
careful workmanship
become apparent to the
owner.
You cannot buy a pen
which will give you better
value. You cannot use a
pen which will give
greater dependability
and usefulness. For the
“Swan” Pen, once it en-
ters your service, will
remain with you for a
lifetime.
.^PEN
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
• Swan Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depdt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Swan Pens, Blackbird” Pens, *' Swan ” Ink and
Fjne-l'os’nt ” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
ISSL
pmn
\"-V
:
The strong Watch
of High Precision
n
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
“The Poems of Dick Harris”
Even if the solidly-produced little volume
The Poems of Dick Harris, published recently
in Maoriland and Sydney, had no devoted
prefaces nor dedications, its nature would
show that it was an In Memoriam. The
poems in it are gathered lovingly together,
carefully grouped; the proof-reading has
been well done; the poet, dying before he
was 40, has been well honored by his
friends.
The name of Dick Harris brings to mind,
first, a brilliant sea-going ballad in the
Christmas Bulletin before last. I had
hunted out that Christmas number to look
up the poem before I realised that it was
in the book, too, along with the rest. Pro-
bably all that Harris ever wrote is in the
book. His life was consumed by other
work, by journalism chiefly. Fortunately
he was able to keep his journalism and his
verse-writing apart from each other. He
did not turn out verse like copy. That
sea-ballad was probably his most surprising
and original poem. It is the meditation of
a lonely old sailor, one who is a sailor to
the bone, telling himself how he would
warn his son against a life at sea:—
If I had a son now, I’d say to him, “My laddie,
Don’t go to sea, boy, but stay you snug ashore,
For roving round the world, lad, you’ll learn, like
your daddy,
That roving holds no joy but what the land holds
more.’’
It was all such a simple ballad, yet every-
one knows that simplicity is the hardest
thing to sustain; and there was imaginative
sympathy in it.
Dick Harris’s name, though, was known
for many years in several magazines as
that of a translator and writer of para-
phrases. His versions of those tiny frag-
ments left by Sappho, filled out a little,
seem to me very honestly and charmingly
done. He has not touched her two com-
plete remaining odes, but, then, they have
been done repeatedly by so many hands.
Here is one of her fragments, as worked
over and made into an English poem by
Dick Harris:—
AT NIGHT.
All alone I lie;
O, endless night of waking;
My weary limbs forsaking
Sleep comes not a-nigh.
Love has no surcease
As slow time passes sighing;
The moon has set, and dying
Are the Pleiades.
Restlessly I moan
And mourn my absent 10ver....
The mid-hour passes over—
And I lie alone.
Tffes, that is an ingenious and atmospheric
rendering of Sappho’s four pregnant lines.
Another version of Sappho is written as a 1
rondeau, that shapely relic of old France.
A section of the book, headed “Galli-
manfry,” consists almost entirely of poems
in such metres as the rondeau, the villa-
nelle, the chant royal and the ballade. One
of the prefaces says that Harris was a
poets’ poet; perhaps these “Gallimaufry”
poems confirm that most, for many a very
young poet is intensely grateful to someone
who will introduce him to these old-estab-
lished and intricate forms. There is in-
cluded also a sonnet by Henri de Regnier,
the French original being given beside
Harris’s version. One unfortunate accident,
though, is the inclusion of a rondeau by
Austin Dobson (beginning “You bid me
try”). This was probably found, written
out, among Harris’s papers, and taken to
be his own.
But his chief skill was shown, I think,
in that tantalising little form the triolet.
A bad triolet is as bad as a bad pancake.
A good one rises in a shapely spiral, the
repetitions each occurring on a higher stair.
Perhaps this is his most cunning:—
TRIOLET.
If I should ask no more than this
Would you then kiss me and forget?
Or would you grant me greater bliss
If I should ask ? No more than this—•
The place, the moment, and a kiss—
Has wrecked a realm, I know, and yet....
If I should ask? No? More than this?
Would y0u?.... Then kiss me....and forget.
NETTIE PALMER.
Sadness and the Sun
Mr. Michael Lyne, in his article “Sad-
ness and the Sun,” has touched on an inter-
esting question, which in its larger aspect
may be described as the relation of climate
to emotional conditions. But while it is
beyond question true that the Australian
bush-dweller is not the care-free creature
of fiction, yet it is a big step from this
to the statement that “the natives of the
sun are all gloomy”; and I cannot agree
that the records of European art and his-
tory lead us to this conclusion.
The mythologies of all people contain
plenty of tragedy, since sorrow is common
to all men in all climes; but what a con-
trast do we not find between the sunny
myths of Greece and Rome, with their
nymphs and muses, their piping shepherds
and joyous festivals, and the grim tales of
the Norsemen, haunted by wolves and
black magic,- and ending with the infinitely
sad conception of the Twilight of the Gods!
Does this not indicate the temper of two
races, the sun-dwellers and the inhabitants
of the frosty North?
“Tragedy was made perfect in Ancient
Greece,” says Mr. Lyne; this is true, but
only half the truth. The warmer regions
of Europe have excelled above all in the
arts of painting and sculpture; music and
literature are the chosen fields of the North.
Greek sculpture, Italian painting, are joyous
things; can we say the same of the works
of such typical northern geniuses as Shak-
speare, Goethe, Ibsen? Indeed, it will be
noted that the farther north we go the
more tragic do our authors become; till,
on reaching frozen Russia, we enjoy a
welter of gloom unapproached elsewhere.
This is just as true of music. Heaven
knows there is plenty of tragedy in Italian
opera, but for sheer poignancy none can
approach the German Wagner, who has per-
fectly expressed the sadness of his country’s
folk-tales in- his setting of the Siegfried
drama. Non-dramatic music tells us the
same story. The songs and symphonies of
Italy are light and gracious; but Beethoven,
Brahms and Ischaikowsky, the northerners,
have plumbed the depths of human sorrow.
Lightness of spirit is confined to the
temperate zones” is Mr. Lyne’s truest state-
ment; indeed, the root of the whole matter
lies here. But has Mr. Lyne forgotten that
Greece and Italy are the temperate zones
par excellence of Europe? When we use
the word “temperate” in reference to cli-
mate we mean a climate where conditions
of life are easiest for man; it is the ex-
tremes, both of heat and cold, that breed
hard conditions and consequently gloom
The city dweller of Australia it is who ex-
liibits the traditional light-heartedness of
the colonial”; in Sydney the' sun is a
jnend, in Bourke an enemy; hence the man
in Bourke is a sad fellow, for life is hard
for him. The “colossal indifference” of the
country man is born of the struggle for
existence whether against heat on the banks
°l f [ lo Murrumbidgee or co,d on banks
ot the Volga; it is not the sun of itself that
F IO AT Ce T Indeed, with all due respect
to Mr. Lyne, it seems to me that the evi-
dence goes to prove that to be baked is
slightly less depressing than to be frozen.
CATHERINE MCLAURIN.
The Modern Pedagogue
The ancient Greeks are altogether out of
fashion in the Australia of our day. But
they knew a thing or two about literary
criticism, and they would infallibly have
classified Inspirational Teaching, ‘by G
Mackaness, M.A. (Dent), among the
biblm abiblia —the books that are not really
books at. all. It has its, value, first as a
landmark m the history of Australian edu-
cation, and second as a manual on the art
of teaching English by a pastmaster in
pedagogy engaged in training apprentices
to his craft. Mr. Mackaness, now Lecturer
in English at the Sydney Teachers’ College,
was for years a teacher at Fort-street Boys’
High School, and there conducted experi-
ments in modern methods with outstanding
success. He disarms criticism by frankly
admitting his debt to others—above all to
Caldwell Cook, whose original work at the
Perse School, Cambridge, and whose book,
The Play-Way,” heralded a new epooh in
school life. He had difficulties to contend
with from which his exemplar was happily
examinations, a centralised
education system which tends inevitably to
standardise ideas—and these he tackled with
an admirable mixture of courage and com-
monsense. His triumph has been such
that he can afford to speak without notice-
able bitterness of examinations and with
positive approval of an English syllabus in
the framing of which he took no small share.
He is practical; he is industrious; he is an
enthusiast.
Some chapters of this work were com-
posed as addresses to students at the
Teachers’ College; and they show Mr.
Mackaness to be the man for his job. The
points he makes are just what young teach-
ers need to be told; Burn your old lecture-
notes; go on with your own reading, and
do it systematically ; tell your class exactly
what you want them to do, and why; cor-
rect all the homework you set; make use of
short test-papers in class; map out the
time available; do not talk too much. He
does not share the.modern scorn for formal
grammar, nor ignore the humdrum details
which require attention—spelling, hand-
writing, punctuation, the right use of capital
letters. He is a vehement apostle of system ;
and 'the device of Essay-covers, for* which
he acknowledges his debt to our present
Director of Education, is one among many
evidences of a tidy mind. His division of
the school library into fiction, drama and
prose, though it might make the judicious
grieve, has certain practical advantages
when considered in conjunction with his
aim to extend boys’ private reading beyond
novels.
Mr. Mackaness’s methods postulate hard
work. It would hardly be possible to
employ them in Queensland, where the
(Continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” IS THE KEY TO RELIABLE SHOPPING INFORMATION.
Anthony Horderns’
MEN’S OVERCOATS
featuring Newest Styles
•v
U
. .. •
Men’s Raglan Overcoats. Hav-
ing button-through front and
vertical pockets. In
Grey, Fawn, Brown
fancy Velours. Each
inr /
lVw/"
P 3
m -' mk.
W 3
X
rns
/•re
Men’s Smart Double-breasted
“Pinchback” Overcoats, with
half belt at back and
flap pockets. In a warm
quality Navy Repp. Ea.
Q A I
m
Men’s Ready-to-Wear
Sac Suits
£
V
J
a»
Our Deposit-Pur-
chase System wi'l
help you. Simply
leave a small
deposit. The goods
are carefully stored
until fully paid for.
You pay no
interest.
Men’s Ready-to-Wear Sac Suits. Expertly
cut and carefully finished. The materials
used are products of World-famous Mills.
Coat has two buttons, no vent. Trousers
possess side and hip pockets. Cuff bottoms.
Select from ALL-WOOL TWEED in Mid
or Dark shades of Grey or Brown. This
outstanding value is also offered in
FANCY WORSTEDS in Mid and Dark
Grey shades. Write for self-measurement
fonn and patterns, post free on request.
(MEN’S CLOTHING—GROUND FLOOR
—SENT CARRIAGE PAID.)
W e issue many
catalogues that are
specially prepared
for the Man on the
Land. Send for a
catalogue on any
goods you require.
Posted Free
on request.
\
V.
HHS
Men’s Leather Coats, Tan or
Nigger. In a popular and com-
fortable style, having belt all
round. Excellent
value in these
coats. Each .. .
£7/15/-
\
L
A
ESs
Men’s Gabardine Raincoats.
Styled with Raglan sleeves,
vertical pockets and belts all
round; check linings.
Fawn, Smoke shades.
Each
| TJT /
Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Limited,
Postal Address:
SYDNEY.
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


auTjoiwC'
HI JUJUS
n
j
-fee *
ism \ \
I
r
'l
-o.
-<=
R
3
PI
D
Performance Comparable
With the World’s Finest
Experienced fine car owners are
voluntarily expressing the enthusi-
asm they feel for the Senior Six.
The Senior ranks in performance
with the finest motor cars in the
world, and hundreds of letters in our
possession show this to be a fact.
The unprecedented smoothness and
power of the great Senior motor
have astonished those who previous-
ly associated this kind of perform-
ance only with cars costing much
more.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
wm


At The Two Men’s Stores
il
mdM
-
Sporty . . . smart . . . and gay, here’s the
thing for Autumn and Winter sports occa-
sions. Pullovers and Cardigans, whichever
you wish, types specially imported from
England and Scotland. Colors and designs
that are typically new, wonderfully dis-
tinctive. Come along and inspect the wide
assortments displayed in the Men’s Stores.
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market & Elizabeth Streets.
Branch Men’s Store: George St., Sydney.
hours a teacher may spend in preparation
are limited by a union award. No trouble
is too much for him to take. To encourage
his pupils’ home reading, for instance, he
maps out a programme. Give out lists
of books, question the class regularly about
private reading, discuss books, advise choice,
examine books in boys’ possession, frequent
the school library when books are being
taken out. As he confesses, “play-way
methods entail more conscientious and in-
telligent teaching than ordinary class-work,
and in some ways much more paper-work
and more detailed corrections.” He is inde-
fatigable in tabulating and checking; this
volume contains lists galore—books for
home-reading, titles of class-papers, sub-
jects for essays, topics for lecturettes, open-
ing sentences for stories, gramophone records
illustrating literature, fairy poetry, first-
year speeches, novels, essays, plays (includ-
ing 10 about Shakspeare himself), opening
lines for exercises in verse. He airily men-
tions that he has 2000 pieces of school verse
at hand, and the glimpses vouchsafed into
his Ideas Book for 1926 prove wide and
energetic reading. He can always recom-
mend an authority. A characteristic pro-
ceeding of his was, in setting a class com-
position, first to collect 40 openings for
stories and then to scrap these in favor of
others produced by the boys themselves.
Here we touch on his essential principle.
He is intent to evoke latent powers.
Psychology, though its jargon occasionally
defaces his style—“superiority speech-con-
sciousness” is a horrid example—has de-
veloped his innate gift for following the
workings of a boy’s mind. He lays hold of
every device to stimulate imagination. How
thrilling is his treatment of plays! Plot-
graphs may leave us cold, but we must
kindle to the story of how Fort-street takes
the stage with every form of drama, from
the novel-versions and original plays of the
boys themselves, up to Shakspeare, who is
given due but not exclusive honor, and the
notable playwrights of our own times. Mr.
Mackaness would press anything into the ser-
vice of school drama, from old tablecloths
to wireless and television. He gives ’
deserved praise to Allan Wilkie, and would
like to see April 23 made into a school dra-
matic festival throughout Australia. But
plays are not the> only “instrument of
emotional release” in his armory. He
adapts two other notions of Caldwell
Cook’s, the “ilond” and the “littleman lec-
ture.” These he rechristens magi-map and
lecturette. The original “ilond” had a sug-
gestion of mediseval romance which “magi-
map” lacks, but “littleman lecture” is
perhaps a little sentimental for Australian
youth. The lecturette, debating-society
and verse-speaking competition not only
quicken young fancies; they also are useful
in improving pronunciation and delivery of
English, hitherto a weak point in Australian
school-work.
Mr. Mackaness devotes his last three
chapters to the teaching of verse-composition.
This is the royal road, not to the produc-
tion, but to the understanding, of great
poetry; the despised grammarians of the
Middle Ages, in teaching the classics, trod
it long ago, and Jean Ferguson McWilliam
blazed its trail for English work at the
Belvidere School, Liverpool. Almost any
child, caught young enough, can learn to
express ideas metrically, and once it has
so done scansion need no longer be a mys-
tery. Mr. Mackaness hopes some day to
see “a small anthology of Australian verse
written entirely by our boys and girls.”
But some hopes are too like despair. The
one Australian child known to me whose
poetical achievement ranks high is Winifred
Shaw, and her education was conducted on
antiquated lines by a tutor who grounded
her in the classics.
E.M. TILDESLEY.
“Thoughtful and Eighteen "
“Thoughtful and- Eighteen.” That,
according to Professor Brereton, explains the
passing of Wallace Maher, whose literary
remains have been gathered by his old
teacher, Mr. R. F. Hodge, and published
under the title The Abbey of St. Death
(Angus and Robertson).
Two questions present themselves. The
first, are Blake and other mystical poets
suitable pabulum for imaginative young-
sters? That Maher had drunk deeply of
this spring is revealed both in the essay
which forms the bulk of the volume and in
the appended selection of verse. Take this,
for example:—
When you do sleep,
Above your head I’ll set
Lilies and daisies and clear jonquils
That when their soul forsakes
The withering blooms, yours may enbreathe it,
And so for ever live,
When you do sleep.
That was found on his desk; and of it Mr.
Hodge writes: “The soul of Wallace Maher
lives in this poem.” Yet, a year or two
earlier, while still a schoolboy, he had been
capable of such pleasant fooling as “Plural
and Singular”:—
If I speak of a foot and you show me your feet,
And I give you a boot, would a pair be-called beet?
Or dainty lines like these:—
Oh, faery butterflies,
Bright summer wanderers with wings of gold,
Do tell me, flickering, where the pixies hold
Their moonlight dances in the dim-lit wold.
The undergraduate had a stronger grip of
his art than the schoolboy; but was the
development healthy? Was it worth while?
That gives rise to the second question:
What did Australia lose by Maher’s death?
His verses are immature, obviously youth-
ful alike in their joy and in their sorrow,
in their sometimes delirious imagery, and,
above all, in their profusion of adjectives.
But they are the verses of a poet—of a
sensitive, imaginative spirit, endowed with
the gift of song; and they strike an indi-
vidual note. Listen to “The Moon
Maiden”:—•
But lo! there comes on high some shining glory;
As though the heavens had rift themselves apart.
Silently
Awfully
The fountain of the light itself appears.
Her faery fingers sweep my brow;
Her robe, of purer white than purity,
Soft as silk,
Enfolds me lovingly.
On my i ~ed, drooping eyes,
Weary oi he unwelcome world,
She breath , an incense.
Sweet,
Delightful
Pass over the boyish imitation of some of
the milder follies of our writers of free
verse; for in form as well as in diction the
young must experiment. Pass over all the
youthful crudities; for there is in these and
scores of other lines the promise of true
poetry.
Even more interesting, perhaps, than the
verse is the essay. Nominally a discussion
of eighteenth-century poetry, it is in truth
an expression of the boy’s poetic faith.
Much that he writes has been written
before; indeed, his is the creed of all true
poets. Thus, when he declares that “imag-
ination is the soul of poetry,” that “passion
is the prompter of imagination,” and that
“without it there is no true poetry,” he is
breaking old ground. Yet it is almost in-
credible that such an essay should be the
work of a lad still in his ’teens. The out-
look is broad; the style strong but smooth;
the reasoning keen; while the young author
brings to his task an amazingly wide know-
ledge of the poets and a fine sense of liter-
ary values.
The promise of this early work will never
be fulfilled. As Mr. Hodge puts it, “he
was obsessed with the Pantheistic interpre-
tation of life, and the ‘trailing clouds of
glory’ caught him in their folds and drew
him home before his time.” Australian
literature has lost one who could not have
failed to develop into a true lyrical poet,
and whose vigorous enunciation of literary
principles might have done untold good in
these days of freak composition and quack
sentiment.
Should jmungsters who happen to be
“thoughtful and 18” be permitted, let alone
encouraged, to wallow in mysticism?
MACGEE.
A Satchel of Books
A Vagabond in Fiji, by Harry L. Foster
(John Lane). An unconventional outlook
and an attractive style go to make up a
readable volume on an outworn subject.
Strange Woman, by Elmer Davis
(Methuen). Much ado about nothing, ex-
cept the high-thinking of a Professor and the
low-living into which he nearly lapsed.
Affirmations (Benn). A series of short
writings expressing the views of various
authors on the subject of “God in the modern
world.” They aim at a frank exposition of
personal views without adjustment to what
different sets of people may consider
orthodox.
The Vision Splendid, by D. K. Broster
and G. W. Taylor (Heihemann). A novel
that for the greater part has the Oxford of
the days of Keble, Newman and the
Tractarian movement for its background.
A blend of history and romance with an
underlying religious motive.
Personalities of the Eighteenth Century,
by Grace A. Murray (Heath Cranton;
Angus and Robertson). This is not a book
of biographies in any formal sense, but one
which endeavors to present a stage full of
men and women who played a more or less
prominent part in the life of the century.
A bright, gossipy book.
Modern Japan and Its Problems, by G. C.
Allen (Allen and Unwin). In 1868 Nip-
pon’s ancient aristocracy decided that the
national facade had to be altered from
mediaeval to modern style without touching
the interior. This' is one of the clearest
accounts yet written of how they performed
the feat.
Foster’s Bridge for Beginners, by R. F.
Foster (Greenberg; Angus and Robertson).
Many years’ experience as a teacher has
convinced the author that about 95 per
cent, of those who play bridge are still in
the beginners’ class, although they may not
realise it. They are “lone hand” players
and not to be depended on as partners.
To make them good partners, and thus lift
them into the ranks of the elect 5 per cent.,
is the object of this lucid handbook.
This Mems You, by Edward Julius Price
(Individualist Bookshop). The author
claims to have been in 26 countries, lived
under Labor and Capitalist governments in
all the Australian States and under the
Republican flag of America, and to have
served in all ranks from wage-worker to
manager. In Sydney he was a tram con-
ductor. Despite all temptations he has re-
mained an individualist. The gist of his
message is that, with ambition, courage
mental effort and an average equipment, the
man who seeks success can win it. A little
book of horse-sense with a kick in it.
Better Business Letters, by Herbert N.
Casson (Cornstalk Co.). In the opinion
of the author 90 per cent, of the business
letters of British firms are written by men
who have never given a single day’s thought
and study to the art of letter-writing.
“What we lose in a year by our badly written
letters none of us know. But it is a very
large sum indeed.” The object of this book
is to effect reform in this respect; but some
of its suggestion® don’t commend them-
selves to the present hardened writer. Thus,
sending a letter asking for a position the ap-
plicant is advised that he should always begin
with an appreciation of the firm—something
like: “Dear Sir, —It has for years been my
ambition to be an employee of your firm.”
Rubbish!
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.J.R.: “The Age makes the adduction,
with more than a little acuity.... Here are some
acerose passages from the critique.” You must
feel cold up there on those stilts... .Noorea: Far
too 10ng.... Linwood: Better try the Mirror ....
Mollie M.: You must condense more.... Lepoy: Un-
fortunately it isn’t verse... .8.5.1.: Too much froth
in “Glass of Beer”... .Mick: Too 10ng... .P.M.J.:
Seven deaths ! God bless you, merry gentleman !....
E.O’N.: You’re the first man we’ve met who liked
to listen to snoring... .John Q.: Starts well; but
it loses its grip... .City C.: All beer and blither....
Doone Mac: Yet that’s a very rare sort of love; some
brands are like cheap whisky—they ki11.... Sydney-
sider: “Advice” goes astray... .David J.: The item
is one long-continued question-mark.... Marie R.: Its
emotion outsteps its reality... ..John J.: Tinkling
verse.... Leil M.: No good sending it on; don’t
think it would be accepted... .R.C.W.: Quite un-
exciting... .W.M.: Tale rumbles on like an omnibus.
... .June R.: The thought is all death, and the verse
damnation... .J.N.E.: Verse about “them far foreign
places” too rough. .. .Airman: Sent to the wrong
shop... .M.J.M.: Immature... .Dorothy C.: After
reading “Answered,” we rushed out and kissed the
barmaid next d00r... .A.A.G.: Thanks; but probably
your drunk carried that verse about with him to keep
him dry.... Jean B.: The seance is a commonplace.
. ...S.M.G.: Fails to hold interest. Verses are
doggerel... .G.E.L.: Poor stuff... .R.8.N.: Just the
sort of gushing story we never print.... Emel: No
gold in that wash. .. .F.J.L.: Unsuitable... .Greeneye:
Drivel.... Chas B.: The phantasy fails. .. .E.J.S.:
You earn no change for “The Seasons”... .H.K.:
Nearly; end is not crisp enough... .C.W.P.: Why
handicap yourself with single-spaced copy? A sub-
editor’s pencil must have space to crawl... .P.W.O’C.:
Liked your description of how the lady is ill-treated
“Till calloused weals protect the part”.... J.H.L.:
Sent to Mirror ; nice little verse.... Ivy G.: Please,
please, get out of that carry-over habit!. . . .D.W.0.F.:
Just missed.... Mick Anic: Had to put a brake on
“The Motor H0g”.... John McK.: The yarns lead
nowhere. .. .8.G.: Too much “it was thought” about
it.... Harry J.: Found no “Compensation” in reading
it. . . .H.L.C.: No blaze of brilliance in the fire story.
.... Ron C.: Couldn’t glean anything from the batch.
. ...M.H.L.: The greenest reporter would have made
a better job of the murder.... Henry M.: Too much
explanation... .J.R.P.: That sort of verse must be
concise... .R.8.W.: The apparent sheer accident of
the discovery makes it unconvincing. .. .D. 8.0.: Can’t
give the chestnut a ga110p.... Barnacle: Runs stodgily.
. ...M.N.G.: A fair point in the story; not enough
to justify complete re-writing... .Pat C.: Dreary
dialogue.... Mabel J.: “Migrant” prohibited by The
Bulletin’s Verses Restriction Act... .Philo: “Cows”
nearly won... .E.J.G.: Wanders far too much....
W.H.8.: Just missed in the scramble to get in....
A.R.: Too 10ng... .C. 0.: A verse jig... .Brenda
L.: “Talk” is uninteresting. .. .R.S.J.: Nothing
in it.... James B. (Bodalla): Telling ruins it....
Sam G.: You might try a letter care of the Premier’s
Department, Perth. But Colebatch, sometime A.-G.,
has been engaged to write the historical sketch....
. G.H.L.: Not enough in it.... John McC.: “My
Heart’s Away” might be made better.. . .A.H.H. :
Neat idea, but fails... .Chas. M.: Dirge-like verse
moaned itself out of the office.... E.A.: Letter sent
to y0u.... T.A.P.: Sort of stuff to write in an
album.... Oriole G.: Weak... .K. 8.: One may do.
Dorothy P.: Not enough in it.... Philo: The in-
formation that, being an old geezer, you can’t very
well squeeze her, is its best touch... .Bellerive: Your
“Inspiration during a Thunderstorm” gets room: —
“Hark, wife! tis thundering;
List to the rain !
Plash dart’s the lightning.
Fierce, forked and chain.
Hark, to the wild winds!
Not a star in the sky !
Wouldn’t it be awful
In a storm for to Die?
... .M.L.F.: The telling lacks skill... .Morris H.S.:
Sentimental burglar fails’ again. .. .L.P.L.: Not suffi-
cient humor to the foot. . . .F.H.M.: Very crude
workmanship... .8.L.R.: You didn’t give your verse
a name. It was an illegitimate sort of verse, any-
way.... Joyce S.: A psean on the bells should be
more musical... .J.A.H.: Too far-fetched... .Trier:
You (1) make your copy a sticky mire of adjectives,
mostly superlatives; (2) forget to put in necessary
verbs; (3) drag out unnecessary details... .S.G.M.:
Welcome! You may do better... .E.A.M. If we
printed your “Ode to Hinkler” we’d have owed him
an apology... . R.M. II.: Your “Working Day” made
us tired.... Kanga: D. H. Lawrence is in his 43rd
year. He spent some time in Westralia and on the
N.S.W. South Coast E.P.M.: Did you get tired in
the last verses? We did... .R.E.H.: Very
nearly... .K.D.S.: Just misses... .L.R.M.: Verse is
poor race N.Y.: “Autumn Leaves” fe11... .L.F.: Let
too long for us H. J.P.: Your “Marathon” runs a
poor race.. .N.Y.: “Autumn Leaves” fe11...L.F.: Let
the girl have it.... Towerist: Well meant; but the
verse is p00r... .D.H.: Not quite... .E.S.A.: “Fate’s”
a dreary business.... Thea D.: Rather too misty in
the telling M.H.R.; “Storm” passed—out
Pat C.: No use for the pink fowl business....
F.R.F.: Sob-story E. J.G.: Good idea, but you
make the story dreary, except in patches
T.E.O’D.: Held for consideration.... Soames: Lacks
finish.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.W.V.: Imitators irritate ; try something original.
. ...R.V.; Drawings lack finish and the humor is
not fresh... .D.L.M.: What about the artist gaining
some experience also before coming again ?. ...
C.M.G.: Sketches done on the back of visiting cards
rejected in anger and bitterness of spirit... .J.8.F.:
The nineteenth hole for the golf sketch was the w.p.b.
. ...S.R.: What’s the idea in decapitating the ladies
and sticking their heads on the ceiling?... .A.M.C. :
You can’t make that old Boer War gag new by
substituting “scrubbing-brush” for “shave”....
C.R.H.; Eight miserable attempts... .Michael B.:
You have steered yourself into an artistic b0g....
Anon: Was it shame that made you omit signing
your name to the “Modern Daughter’s Homecoming” ?
....Ben Gun: Ghastly subject... .C.C.: Your friends
are either legpullers or poor judges.... S.T.H.: It
would not seem like Easter-time if that old hot-
cross bun gag didn’t arrive... .P. 8.: A certain slick-
ness of line doesn’t compensate for faults in per-
spective.


: ;
\
SigiSli
m
U
mmmmK
ESmak,-.
Hi , ;
|\
J
a m
<ll
,#rxilli
' .
■
H
: .^l
■
J
B
■MrapHranp
V- • -<C ' _j
■ 8
H
■
■
■
H
; i
;
.
&
Ifjlil
/z


The Bulletin
Vol. 49 —No, 2512.
April 4, 1928.
THE, CARTOONIST CALLS FOR HIS IDEA.
AFTER AN ' HOURS THINKING AND WRITING, EDITOR- SAYS J
"HERE , CARRY OUT THIS ONE , WILL YOU
SETS TO WORK. BUT HAS TO
USE HIS RUBBER. A LOT AND SPOIL A LOT OF MATERIAL
BEFORE HE SETTLES DOWN ON THE LAST FLAT ROCK IN THE DISTRICT
AND FINALLY COMPLETES THE, FINEST CARTOON
OF HIS CAREER
WHEN THE EDITOR SAYS I * SORRY,, BUT STANLEY BRXJCEGAMSA ISN’T
DEPORTING THOSE COHMUNIST3 AFTER ALE . YOUUL HAVE TO DO ANOTHER.”
WHEREUPON THE CARTOONIST IS TERRIBLY FEPR-ESSEt>
BUT NOT MORE, SO THAN THE EDITOR, *
PREHISTORIC HANDICAPS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosinan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Costccl to any address in Adsthalasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 J/s.; ti months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, Ml Ids.; a
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, 3s.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all limitless Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.F.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The liditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
nil contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales,
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tin? Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of JI/S-. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Ball at Australia House. Alsc
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.CJi; and W. Dawson and 'Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.CJi ;
E. T. Hole, liolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” JiH-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Hhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benuui Newt
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
otheis.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 16L Fast
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and .’find Street, New York City; Ilotdling’s
News Agency, 203 West I/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51(1} South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Saul, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Fedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai. China.
Penang. S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.- — T. L. De Silva, 3,9 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, IJi Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji': — A. Barker, Suva;. Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.Ii.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, Neiv Zealand and Fiji :
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 1928.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
Conferences on unemployment have be-
come a popular pastime; and the matter is
always treated as though it was a dark
and terrible mystery. It is nothing of the
sort: it is a simple, straightforward matter.
But it does not suit us to regard it as such.
There are lots of men who want to go to
Heaven and still hang on to their favorite
sins, and lots of women who w’ant to
acquire the fashionable leanness and still
consume vast quantities of—whatever it
that makes fat. Years and years ago H. H.
Champion decided that he liked the poli-
tics of the poor but the dinners of the
rich, and most of us have found ourselves
at some time or other in a similar quan-
dary. We find ourselves in that quandary
over this unemployment question. We want
all the restrictions and restraints on em-
ployment, all the “advanced” legislation
accompanied by its awards, all the power
for slowing down output that labor unions
exercise with and without authority, all the
good times that politicians supply out of
the proceeds of loans and taxes—we want
to be saved from unemployment and still
keep all these things. We want to “have
it both ways.” And nobody has yet dis-
covered how it can be done.
As far as can be ascertained very few
people cast on desert islands have died of
starvation. They have had poor tucker
very often, but have accommodated them-
selves to their surroundings. Millions of
our colored neighbors Jive on a few ha’-
pence a day. Millions of the white people
of Russia live on only a fraction more.
Until a few years ago millions of our own
British people lived on a scale but a very
little higher. In all England there was no
large class of labor of higher intelligence
than the Cornish miner, who worked out
mathematical problems in an amazing way;
yet 60 years ago his wages averaged about
16s. per week. Machinery and organisation
so enormously increased the workman’s
earning capacity that unions were soon able
to command increase after increase of
wages. Then, when the efforts of the
unions became more uncertain—in Aus-
tralia the strikes, of the early ’nineties
mostly ended in failure—the law was
appealed to; and because the law was not,
much good as it stood, the Labor party
came into being to change it by changing
Parliaments. Extraordinary developments
in mechanics and chemistry and business
organisation continued, and it was possible
to go on increasing wages and reducing
hours of labor to points that a few years
before not only would have seemed incred-
ible but would actually have been impos-
sible.
There was no miracle about all this. The
unions didn’t make it possible; neither did
Parliaments. They merely helped to secure
to the workers what it was possible for
industry to pay them. Not all the Parlia-
ments and unions in the world, not even all
the Beebys and Piddingtons, could make
two cabbages grow where one grew before
or pour a quart out of a pint pot, or
even a pint and a half. The gradual in-
crease of wages and betterment of con-
ditions accompanied by union and Parlia-
mentary activity did nevertheless give the
pretty general idea that in some mysteri-
ous way unions and Parliaments are able
to fix rvages and conditions at whatever
point they think fit and proper. Actually
what was done by these two bodies, with
wages boards and industrial courts as their
agents, was to carve the joint that was put
upon the table. As we have seen, that
joint grew and grew in size, and Parlia-
ments, either directly or through their
agents, were able to dictate increasing
“serves.” Then came a time when there
was not enough to go round the table. And
then we had unemployed—not merely the
unemployable, but the willing, able man
who wants work and cannot get it.
Unemployed would have shown them-
selves much earlier but for one circum-
stance which is really rather disgraceful to
us. The joint would have ceased to go
round if all workers had had a fair cut.-
But, as a matter of fact, neither unions nor
Parliaments have ever had much time for
any workers but those of the cities and
the big mines. They have shown practi-
cally no concern about the small wheat and
fruit and cane and egg cocky. Indeed, they
have exploited and squeezed him out-
rageously. They have known quite well
what would happen in his case: if he could
not get cake he would eat bread; and
many a one, unable to get bread, has pulled
through on pumpkins. That is the price
these men pay for wages and conditions
being jnade too liberal for part of the
community, just as unemployment is the
price that other men—mostly city men—
pay for it. It is possible for the authority
which orders the size of the “serve” to so
sum up the situation that everybody’s plate
may be filled. It is also possible for the
great section of country workers whose
serve is not fixed by law to be so starved
that the others whose serve is fixed may
all be satisfied. But when the wheat and
fruit cocky is having a very lean time,
and when, notwithstanding that, there are
large numbers of unemployed, the expla-
nation is quite simple—the serve is too
liberal. This does not necessarily mean
that wages anywhere are too high. But it
does mean that somebody is doing too
little for the return he is getting; or. that
somebody insists on getting too much for
the service he is prepared to render.
IS ONE-THIRD OF AUSTRALIA
HOPELESS?
“High Commissioner Ryrie presided at a meeting
at Australia House to consider misleading references
to Australia in the London County Council’s school
geographies. The conference examined a number of
text-books, one of which declared that ‘One-third of
Australia is hopeless.’ It was decided, among other
things, to suggest that a Chair of Imperial Geography
should be established at Oxford or Cambridge.”—
Cablegram.
Judged by financial results, Australia has
suffered more than any other country dur-
ing recent years from a quaint and crooked
variety of patriotism. This consists of a
passionate assurance that Australia is all
good country, with no deserts or bad spots
anywhere. Rather it is thickly paved with
“natural resources” of such a curious kind
that hardly one of them can pay its way
except with the aid of loans. The fierce
dislike to any mention of an Australian
desert isn't based on love of country, for a
desert is no disgrace. But a disastrous
mass of human stodge hates that criticism
should be levelled against the security on
which its species has pawned Posterity for
so much, with the hope of much further
pawning in the future.
* * ❖ >J:
The statement of the British school-book
is based on other statements (to be
found as a matter of everyday informa-
tion on pages 54-55 of the Federal Year
Book) that the rainfall of much more
than one-third of Australia is under lOin.
per annum, and that in a considerable part,
of this area it stops at sin. and sometimes
fails to reach that. Over this country the
atmosphere is capable of absorbing in
places as much as 91in. of moisture per
annum, so the natural desire is to make
the tank as much like a pit as possible, ami
expose a minimum area to the sun. All
talk of a surplus for irrigation is bosh.
The common, up-to-date atlas states that
Westralia contains nearly half of Dry Aus-
tralia, and that there are in eastern West-
ralia the Great Sandy Desert (north), Gib-
son’s Desert (central), and the Great Vic-
toria Desert (south, and stretching over
the border into South Australia). These
are quite apart from the specific dry region
in the neighborhood of Lake Eyre (S. Aus-
tralia) and the general dry region which
extends east to about the neighborhood ct
Windorah (Queensland), and sometimes
further. In the circumstances it seems
strange ignorance or intensely foolish
“patriotism” to draw public attention to
the case, and try to get it permanently
advertised by the founding of a Chair of
Imperial Deserts and Other Geographical
Features at Oxford or Cambridge. It isn’t
such a bad or extraordinary case a f ter all.
v ** ' I* :•»
About half-way between the east and
west of the continent lies the track of the
unfinished and constantly postponed Soutk-
to-North railway. There is a strip of good
land in the south, a damp stepping-stone
in the centre where the Macdonnell Ranges
rise to a height of 4800 feet, and in the
north about the widest stretch of soil with
over lOin. of rainfall which Australia pos-
sesses. In addition there are some rivers,
a splendid harbor, and about 334,000,000
acres of Government land, all Federal pro-
perty. But various State metropolitan
newspapers, which regard all Federal enter-
prise as misplaced if the money is spent on
pioneering instead of being scrambled
among the old States, have raised the cry
of “desert railway” so persistently that
Australians have themselves got into the
habit of classing the Northern Territory
among their waste places. This tends to
make the situation look worse even than
it is described in the British school-books
which so roused the bile of High Commis-
sioner Ryrie and his pals in London. When
a railway which is to give access to
383,120 square miles, all reasonably watered
according to Australian standards of
ture, has the epithet “desert” continually
thrown at it the result isn’t of the best.
One of the Statistician’s climatic tests is
the number of consecutive days on which
the temperature has reached the 100-degree
mark. In this respect Alice Springs, Aus-
tralia’s central town, is a little better than
Bourke (N.S.W.) and a little worse than
Dubbo (N.S.W.).
* * $ *
The best that Australia can do is to
accept its real desert as an accomplished
fact, and it might even advertise the thing
as one of the country’s attractions and the
biggest dry spot in the British Empire. The
Egyptian admits unblushingly (not that he
could blush much) that -it rains in Lower
Egypt about once in a century, and the
Chilian is quite ready to own up that
there has been only one shower in his pro-
vinces of Tarapaca and Atacama since the
Norman Conquest of England. Even the
proud and exclusive Rajput will allow that
Rajputana is on the dry side. No reason
exists why our countrymen should be less
unstanding and dignified than little peoples
like these. As for the unreal or libellous
desert, if such exists, an obvious way to
clear its character is to sow it with inhabi-
tants. During last year the population of
the Commonwealth increased by the very
handsome number of 124,340. Of these the
Northern Territory, which comprises one-
fifth of Australia-with-a-rainfall and is
practically all public property, gathered in
463. Railway building from the south
wouldn’t be dear, and the Government has
whole kingdoms of soil to give away.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Cheer fop the Man Who Fails,
The hoorays for Hinkler having died, it
is worth while considering them for a min-
ute.
It never was much of a world for the
failures, and the farther the world got from
civilisation the worse probably it was. The
man who could not hold his end up in a
tribe of our own black brothers, for in-
stance, had a rotten time, and when he be-
came a burden he was liable to be knocked
on the head. Civilisation, of course, doesn’t
permit of things like that. But when it is
a poor type of civilisation it makes the
failure wish he had never been born, and
tries to atone for it by the magnificence
with which it crowns the man who succeeds.
Latterly has come an increasing tendency,
in which members of our Labor party have
shared, to thus magnify the rewards of suc-
cess in Australia. The cheers for Hinkler
rang from Cape York to Albany, and Labor
voices were as loud as any. Almost simul-
taneously it was reported that after nearly
12 months of struggle, in which most of
Hinkler's fine qualities were displayed, the
little group of men who have been strug-
gling with the piled-up Riverina had been
beaten when on the very point of success.
Hardly a word of praise of their fine en-
deavor was said in > the press; and not a
cheer was heard. They had failed; and their
failure condemned them.
Is this a tendency to be encouraged? Are
we wise to make a fetich of success? Do
we do well to crown so lavishly with laurels
the man who has won through, while coldly
disregarding, if no worse, the man who has
perhaps tried harder, shown just as much
courage and often more endurance and per-
tinacity, but has been overwhelmed by
circumstances? In all our history there is
no chapter more magnificent than that which
tells of the struggles of the pioneers of
our back country; and thousands whom
drought and rabbits ruined are worthy of a
place with the highest. Success counts for
little there; and it ought not to count for
very much anywhere. The struggle is the
great thing, and the courage, patience and
resolution which are behind it.
This paper does not grudge Hinkler his
cheers and his laurels. But it begs a thought
and a word for the men who try and fail;
for the men who are finding circumstances
too strong for them (how many thousand
Diggers are among this number!); for the
Hinklers whom head winds drive down
just the other side of Darwin instead of on
this side.
*
Bruce Finds His Four.
After more than a year’s search the Prime
Minister has found the Four Really Big
Men who are to come here, and glance at
things, and explain how to promote the
“development of Australia,” and encourage
trade with Britain, and all the other familiar
tripe. Their names are Genesis, Exodus,
Leviticus and Numbers —at least they might
as well be for all the information their
real names convey. Negotiations were
opened at different times with all the other
books of the Scripture and most of the
Apocrypha, but they couldn’t be spared from
their business pursuits. This was especi-
ally regrettable in the case of Revelation,
who could hardly have failed to be interest-
ing. By way of saving time it is as well to
write a summary of the report in advance:
The mixed railway gauges are an evidence
of rotten mismanagement and incompetence,
and should be remedied. When it is con-
sidered that the shifting of goods where two
gauges meet costs from Is. 2d. to 3s. 6d. per
ton, with a minimum charge of Bd. on small
parcels and an extra charge for counting
the consignment or parcel, and that there is
also the cost of delay and deterioration, this
remark about the break-of-gauge question
is inevitable.
Something may be said, in a polite way
of course, about the absurdity, or howling
lunacy, of the Federal Government adding
to the evil by building more narrow-gauge
mileage. And remarks may be added to the
effect that if there were an honest attempt
to make available and really use such ports
as Albany, Portland, Twofold Bay, Glad-
stone and Bowen, a great deal of useless
and costly haulage might be saved.
It will be natural, though perhaps injudi-
cious, to observe that the population of the
Commonwealth is growing at a handsome
rate, for a gain of 124,340 inhabitants last
year isn’t bad for a land where mining is
very dead and nothing else is especially
alive at the moment. In fact, published
figures for 26 countries, including the United
States and Canada, attest that the Common-
wealth’s growth of population per cent, was
larger in the years 1921-1926 than in any
other place save one, that exception being
Ceylon.
This will leave alternative ways of explain-
ing why all this progress produces practi-
cally no effect except in that little strip of
country below a line drawn from a fraction
north of Brisbane to a fraction north of
Perth. The Four may say that it is due to
the antediluvian foolishness of having no
State Governments or State capitals in the
huge area north of the line, and managing
it on absentee principles. They may add
that the case is illustrated by the conduct
of the Federal Government, which is sole
ground landlord of 380,000 square miles of
land with a rainfall, and is too apathetic
to make it available by means of a railway
and then to put it on the market.
As regards finance, the gentlemen will be
in a position to say that the shortage
shouldn’t be chronic, and the accumulated
deficit eternal, and that a lot of the “per-
manent and reproductive works” wincn
are charged up to loans are pure card-sharp-
ing. The Four may add by way of post-
script that if exports increased by £50,000.000
a year, which is impossible, or imports
diminished by the same amount, ivhich is
a mere matter of plain living and honesty,
the insane struggle for external loans would
disappear.
And they may remark that it is interesting
to meet a self-governing community which,
after hiring 20 imported authorities to tell
it about, its mistakes, can think of nothing
better than to hire a twenty-first authority
to do it all over igain.


Has Woman Only One Job?
A proposal in England that women should
be admitted to the ministry of the Estab-
lished Church has provoked a controversy
that grows in bitterness. The very learned
Bishop of Durham has put himself at the
head of the opponents of the change. Let
woman, he says in effect, stick to her “natu-
ral, normal” job of bringing children into
the world and guiding them aright.
The Bulletin is quite ready to agree
with Dr. Henson that women are very
largely neglecting their duty of bringing up
their children aright. But who said that that
was any more the duty of the mother than
the father? Admittedly there are many
things the mother must do, and more that
she can most conveniently do. But is the
father doing his part? Is he instructing
his children? Is he training them in habits
of industry and thrift? Is he really doing
anything actively to make them honest,
truthful, conscientious men and women?
Does he give a thought to their reading? Or
does he not rather put filth in their way?
It has been a nice, comfortable theory that
the upbringing of the youngsters was the
mother’s job. The poor father was let off
it once because his hours of labor were so
long and his hours .at home so few. But
that won’t wash any longer. For every
empty hour the woman has the average
father nowadays has three.
Of course woman must bear the children.
That is her “natural, normal” part. But
again, who said that that was her only
part? Who said that it is an obligation
thrown upon every woman? Why must we
single woman out from the rest of creation
and say that because she is a female she
ought to have offspring? Curiously, man
isn’t told with half so much vehemence that
his duty is to marry and procreate; if he
chooses to be a Balfour and give his life to
politics or a Kitchener and give it to the
Empire, it is thought rather fine of him.
But woman, though she may be magnifi-
cently endowed for service in medicine or
sick-nursing or preaching, and not w r ell
fitted at all for the rearing of children, is
told that her natural, normal part is to
marry and have a family, and that it is
almost an impertinence for her to offer her-
self for any other service.
• ♦
The Decadence We Import.
Melbourne police last week interrupted a
Sunday-morning debauch in which five
music-hall negroes from America and five
young white women were concerned. Asked
what she was doing in the company of
black men, one of the girls said, “They are
Americans and they interest me.” A nigger
volunteered the information that the girls
had pestered the bucks with their atten-
tions. and others had done the same.
Startled out of its customary complaisance,
the Commonwealth Government ordered
the immediate deportation of the colored
outfit, and announced that no more permits
for the admission of negro “artists” would
be granted.
For a long time past Australia has been
the happy hunting-ground of colored
specialists of one undesirable sort or an-
other, in spite of an Immigration Restric-
tion Act which confers the widest powers of
exclusion on its administrators. Many of
these are pugilists; and black bruisers have
been allowed to hang round Sydney for
years. Of late the appeal of jazz “music”
has led to the introduction of descendants
of the African tribes who first evolved
its rhythms in their obscene rites.
Band after band of these coons has been
admitted to White Australia—it was merely
a question of asking and complying with
certain mild formalities. There is more
than a suspicion that this kind of immigra-
tion and that of low-class white American
boxers and music-hall people has had a lot
to do with the growth of the drug habit.
Apropos, when the jazz niggers’ female com-
panions were locked up in Melbourne, a
phial containing 20 cocaine tablets was
found on a form on w r hich they had sat
while waiting to be charged.
And while our Federal Government has
been letting in lascivious savages by the
score, what sort of reception has been given
in America to clean-living entertainers from
these parts? An Australian band composed of
decent working men was subjected to so
ruthless a boycott that it had to turn down
all engagements and leave the country. A
violinist of rare talents was refused permis-
sion to accept a high appointment on the
teaching staff of an American conserva-
torium, and likewise had to return to Aus-
tralia. And cases in which people from the
Commonwealth, young and old, suffer
hardships, such as being clapped into de-
tention-houses along with the scum of
Europe, under the U.S. quota law (the
quota for Australians is 273 per annum, or
something like that), crop up every few
weeks.
When the boycott of the Commonwealth
Band was brought under the too-polite
Priminister’s notice, he said he would not
dream of retaliating. Retaliation has, how-
ever, been forced upon his Government by
the ghastly affair in Melbourne. But re-
taliation should go further than the mere
exclusion of jazz niggers; it should be ex-
tended to the Hollywood films which
dominate Australian cinema theatres, with
manifestly evil results. Very probably Holly-
wood films, by making bad types of Ameri-
cans “interesting” (the best type, as travelled
Australians know, is one of the finest on
earth), and familiarising foolish virgins with
the spectacle of colored heroes mauling white
women about, contributed to the downfall
of the girls who took part in the beastly
orgy in Melbourne. More palpable stages
in their degradation were (1) nigger
music; (2) nigger dances; (3) niggers.
Surely in the light of this revolting business
the womanhood of Australia will set. its
face against nigger music and nigger dances
and help the movement for the production
of clean Australian films.
♦
The Rubicon.
“Ces”: Twenty-five years ago James
Clarke, sawmiller, visioned the swift-flow-
ing streams of the Rubicon valley (Vic.) as
motive power for a great hydro-electric
scheme. Tramping the mountains (Tor-
beck nearby towers over 5000 feet) and
descending to the wattle, beech and ash
valleys, he, in his mind’s eye, dammed the
Royston at a point over 3000 feet above
sea-level; dammed the Rubicon at a still
greater height; joined the two rivers 300
feet lower down; built power-stations at
four or five points down the rugged hill-
sides, and saw running out to all corners
of Victoria his transmission lines. He tried
to interest people in high places. He pre-
pared estimates, took levels and gaugings.
He harnessed the Rubicon to one of his
mills, and drove it with a pelting wheel.
But the people in high places were not im-
pressed.
For 20 years James Clarke, one of the
biggest sawmillers in Victoria to-day.
watched the waters of the Rubicon-and the
Royston running to waste except that they
THE EVE OF WATERLOO—SOMEONE’S!
“Speakers at a N.S.W. Prohibition rally suggested that a series of dances should be held to raise
funds for the campaign closing in September.”
THE REVELLERS: “It may be dreadfully frivolous, but it’s for a good cause.”
drove his mill. Then came Yallourn, and
again he preached hydro-electricity. He
carried his campaign to the door of Par-
liament, and his persistence at length wore
honorable members down. Six years ago
legislative sanction was given to a hydro-
electric scheme in the Rubicon valley, at
an estimated cost of £1,600,000.
To-day one hydro-electric power-station
supplies the town of Alexandra, the village
of Thornton and district farms with power
and light. Two more are ready for opera-
tion; a fourth will be operating in a few
weeks; a fifth, built under the Eildon weir,
and taking its water from the Sugarloaf
dam, will be ready in October. The State
Electricity. Commission has made Clarke’s
dream come true. It has followed his plans
and surveys, and dammed and diverted the
mountain streams in accordance with his
vision. The job has cost a little over
£2,000,000. It will produce over 40,000
horsepower. And only the fringe of the
hydro-electricity potentialities of the Vic.
mountain ranges has been touched.
The scheme is ready; the turbines are
running; the power is carried on the main
transmission line to Albury or to Mel-
bourne. And it was James Clarke —now
old, but still the sturdy bushman—who
thought it out and showed the doubting
politicians how it could be done.
♦
The Piecework phobia of Garden and
Others.
Two very large and well-organised Austra-
lian industries, shearing and coal-mining,
are run on strictly piecework principles,
and not one of the rude, crude little tyrants
who kick the tame unionist around very
much at their discretion dares to object.
All the same the invariable deputation and
the inevitable “Jock” Garden called on
N.S.W.’s much-too-affable Acting-Premier
Buttenshaw recently to relate the familiar
wheeze that piecework is wholly contrary
to union principles, and to demand that
the bonus system recently adopted at the
Walsh Island dockyard should be aban-
doned. The deputationists also asserted
that piecework is contrary to some award
or other, which is hardly probable, though
many awards have the marks of asses’
hoofs all over them, and can almost be
said to bray audibly. The position at
Walsh Island, that bright and shining
example of the Labor principle of owner-
ship by the public creditor, is easily de-
fined :
Walsh Island had more orders than its
day-labor staff showed the slightest sign
of being likely to complete within the time
limit. Advertisement only proved that
skilled workmen are lamentably scarce,
though odd-jobbers are available in armies.
This is probably a result of the senseless
cruelty of strictly limiting the number of
apprentices—a policy to which the weedy
Gardens of this land are addicted.
Consequently the bonus system was in-
troduced, with the result that production
greatly increased, and some men earned
double wages without doing them-
selves any visible harm. The bitter objec-
tion to the worker earning more money is
that it is calculated to foster ambition, to
show him a way to lift himself out of the
ruck, and to make him contented and
friendly, whereas his noisy leaders preach
that he should live in a constant state of
misery and animosity, like a bear which
had been drunk the night before, and hang
on to the Gardens and their always-post-
poned revolution as his sheet anchor.
In the effort to make them discontented
with the piecework or bonus system if they
wouldn’t become so naturally, a number of
workers were fined by a secret tribunal
which makes its own rules of procedure,
and against which the Law supplies no
appeal. Instead of this the Law can be
used as an agent for collecting the fines.
No bogey of “over-production” entered
into the case. In 1926-27 Australia spent
over 51 millions of money, as against 45
millions the previous year, for imported
ironware, and in paying for all this loss of
work it added 49 millions to the debt which
Posterity has to carry. So there is plenty
of employment available in the iron trade.
In fact what is offered is more work, more
wages, better times for the children now
and fewer burdens for them in the future.
The Gardens and their kith and kin are
savagely opposed to all of these.
Even if the worker hated piecework and
bonuses with the same unreasoning hate
which the Late Pagan manifested towards
the Early Christian it would prove nothing
more than that it is possible, as Lincoln
or his understudy is said to have said, to
fool all the people part of the time and
part of the people all the time.
+ .
Dengue in Sydney,
It is probable that when the next of the
periodical outbreaks of dengue fever occurs
in Eastern Australia, Sydney will be defi-
nitely within the range of the infection, just
as Brisbane was in the last outbreak. For
years past the disease has been slowly
making south, and in 1926 the first cases
of it were reported in the Sydney metropoli-
tan area. These can be regarded as the
customary advance-guard of the main in-
fection, and for each one of them there will
probably be a hundred in the next visitation.
Should dengue succeed in obtaining a
firm hold in Sydney, it is likely.that it will
never be eradicated, for the area abounds in
the carrier of the disease, the stegomyia
mosquito, and to banish it would cost mil-
lions. But it should be possible to keep the
infection within limits, which could be done
through a campaign against mosquitoes and
the destruction of their breeding-places on
every conceivable opportunity. Clinically,
dengue is not serious, but an outbreak in
which only a few thousand persons are
attacked could easily result in great loss, in-
dustrial, financial and otherwise.
♦
The Lot of the Queensland Grazier.
"John W. Q.”: No better report on the
Queensland grazing industry has ever been
prepared than that submitted to Parliament
by the Land-settlement Advisory Board.
The board examined 401 witnesses and tra-
velled 7910 miles. The fact that evidence
was taken in private and that it was all re-
garded as confidential caused graziers to
make a much franker disclosure of then-
affairs than they would otherwise have
done.
The Land Acts Amendment Act, 1927, is
the mouse that the mountain has produced.
It is described as “a measure of relief to
certain settlers detrimentally affected by
drought”; but the amount of relief provided
is so small that it is hardly worth talking
about. The only real relief that the Gov-
ernment could give would be money at a
lower rate of interest than banks can supply,
repayment to be spread over a long term of
years, reduction of rents and extension of
leases. The cheap money it can’t grant,
being too hard up, and the other benefits
it won’t grant, being the kind of Govern-
ment it is. Selectors who have acquired
their holdings since July 1, 1924, may
apply to have the rent reviewed, and those
whose leases expire within 10 years may
apply for new leases. All others are ex-
cluded from any benefit.
After the 1900-02 drought the Govern-
ment of the day granted a 10-years’ extension
of leases and reduced rents to all drought-
smitten graziers, and it took some of them
10 years to make a recovery. With the
present high cost of production and re-
duced profits the time taken to recover
will be longer. The Advisory Board estim-
mates that the profit on capital invested,
without taking into consideration drought
losses or interest on overdrafts, is 8 p.c.
But droughts are recurrent, and the nature
of the industry makes overdrafts necessary.
It is doubtfui if the average grazier’s net
profit over a term of, say, seven years is
4 p.c. And when a drought like the late
visitation occurs the whole profit is wiped
out, and if the grazier is not utterly ruined
he is burdened with a debt that will take
many years to extinguish. A grazing selec-
tion ought to return a reasonable salary
to the owner who lives on it, at least bank
rate of interest on capital invested and a
reserve fund to meet drought losses. None
of them do this.
The Advisory Board says: "No Crown
tenant should be given grounds for believ-
ing that he may be penalised for improving
his holding. Yet that belief unfortunately
is widespread.” Too true. Again: "One
might imagine from the zeal in imposing
restrictions that the industry had been
bounding ahead at such a rate that it be-
came necessary to hold it in check. Unfor-
tunately, instead of that being so, the indus-
try is in a precarious state and needs all
reasonable assistance to get along. It
cannot carry such handicaps without State
interests suffering severely. The Adminis-
tration must learn to recognise this.” In
point of fact, the burden of taxation falls
more heavily on the grazing industry than
on any other, but many of us will be very
much surprised if the Administration
lightens it.
The “amending” legislation creates the
Land Administration Board for one year
only, not permanently or for 15 years, as
recommended by the Advisory Board. The
appointment of W. L. Payne as chairman
has- been welcomed with satisfaction by
all those who have studied his record,
and had the board been endowed with
real power much good might have resulted.
As it is all power is vested in the Minister,
who, after all, is only a politician.
♦
"Pilot”: While rejoicing at the great suc-
cess of Hinkler, Australians might well
pause to do honor to the memory of
Flight-Lieutenant Mclntyre (B. 21/3’/28).
Mclntyre’s winning of the Britannia
trophy with Goble in 1924— Hinkler will
doubtless receive it for 1928 —placed him in
the front rank of the world’s airmen, and
he was unquestionably the finest seaplane
pilot this country possessed. And a sea-
plane pilot has to contend with difficulties
which do not bother the landplane pilot,
difficulties which necessitate unending
watchfulness and resource. These qualities
Mclntyre continually showed. When forced
to alight in a heavy surf off Southport in
1926 he saved his machine from destruction,
after great risk and exertion, and flew it
on for 10,000 miles around the Australian
coast and Pacific islands. And he could dis-
play the coolest daring, as was instanced when
he surprised the American fleet 100 miles
from these shores in weather so foul that
only the fittest could survive it. To all
who knew him he was a true and cheerful
friend; to fellow-pilots he was an inspiring
example of zeal and skill. It is to be hoped
that the memorial fund which has been
opened in Adelaide will develop into some-
thing worthy of one who gave his life for
the improvement of flying in this Common-
wealth.


ThmSldle
Mcmi/m-siop
Flight
On an
ordinary “taxi” business *
trip, an Australian Aerial
Services 'plane flew from
Melbourne to Warwick
(Q.), 850 miles non-stop
—an Australian record—
on SHELL SPIRIT
and
OIL
SHELL
SPIRIT
AND
OIL
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hughes tore tlie atmosphere to tatters at
the N.S.W. Nationalist conference about the
sins of the Government in not taking better
care of a White Australia. There is certainly
something to be said, but it isn’t all on one
side. “Billy"’ was in the Cabinet for four
months of 1904; seven months of 1908-9;
38 months of 1910-13 ; 13 months of 1914-
15, always as second in command ; and then
he was Prime Minister for seven years and
four months. Except that he added a
scrap (54 miles) to the South-to-North
railway at the wrong end, he did little or
nothing in all this time to make Australia
more White or more British White than he
found it. When last seen struggling with the
cares of office he was toying with a scheme
for repudiating the N.T. railway agreement
and transferring the line to Queensland, which
had votes to give away. Australia has a
regard for its eloquent but flickering Welsh
child, but it looks on him as an amazing and
impracticable loser of opportunities.
_ Party politics become more and more in-
sincere and therefore fraudulent. There was
a time when the member of one of the
party conventions was almost expected to
be honest —the convention was supposed to
get at the real opinion of the crowd. Nowa-
days the convention is open to the press, and
the man who mentions anything not approved
by the party bosses is howled down. The
strength behind the bosses’ boot can be
judged by the fact that Hughes, after saying
what he had a perfect right to say—if an
ex-Prime Minister cannot be permitted to
talk without reservations, who can? —and
being thereupon called by Howse, one of the
Ministers, a liar and a deliberate liar, humbly
proposed that this and the other Ministers
had his complete confidence.
“I\X.”; Is Dago the offensive term the
Nationalist conference in Sydney pretended
it was? Probably the Pope and Mussolini
wouldn’t care to be so described, but I don’t
know an Italian fruiterer or laborer in Aus-
tralia who doesn’t call himself a Dago.
Tired of being told by Holloway, sec. of
the Trades Hall Council, and other rejected
Labor candidates that the Vic. Government
must reinstate the police strikers of 1923,
Beckett, Minister for Health, spoke very
frankly on the subject at Moonee Ponds. He
said he wasn’t satisfied that a majority of
the Labor party wanted the strikers put
back; but if their friends thought they
had a good case they should prompt a
member to try a Parliamentary test. Beckett
declared that he wasn’t losing any sleep over
the ex-police, and he might have added
truthfully that neither were the 11 other
members of the Cabinet.
The civil aviation programme announced
last week will, when carried out, remove
definitely the reproach that Australia is not
yet air-conscious. As a matter of fact, the
Commonwealth, with 4000 miles of privately-
controlled aeroplane services, leads all the
Dominions in the matter of civil flying.
Even Britain’s total of air routes, counting
in the Cairo-Basra line, is only 2226 miles.
When the Ilowse programme is completed
Australia will have 7500 miles of air lines.
The routes now to be opened up are Derby
to Wyndham, Perth to Adelaide, Melbourne
to Hobart, Sydney to Brisbane, Brisbane to
Charleville, and Camooweal to Daly Waters.
Tired of a job in which he received a very
small amount of gratitude for six years of
conscientious work, Matthew Charlton laid
down the leadership of the Federal Labor
Opposition last week. He will probably be
succeeded by Scullin, avlio has been loyal to
Charlton throughout—he was conspicuously
so during the 1026 referendum rumpus—
and, unlike Theodore, has not aroused con-
tempt by obsequiously surrendering to the
larger A.L.P. mob after threatening its little
tin god with expulsion. Scullin is studious
and can be eloquent. But the leader Federal
Labor really needs is—-unhappily for him-
self as well as Federal Labor —on the other
side of the House.
Jimmy Mitchell. Westralian ex-Premier
and Opposition-leader, implores his State to
keep out of the proposed agreement by
which the Commonwealth is to take over the
debts of the States, pay them a definite
subsidy in place of the per capita allowance,
;ind contribute considerably to their sinking
funds, the only restriction being that the
Loan Council, representing the seven Gov-
ernments, is to manage and regulate bor-
rowing. He says that if Westralia allows
anybody to interfere with the privilege of
selling its children into financial bondage
and baking a jamboree with the money it will
be selling its birthright for a mess of pot-
tage. .Timmy is a firm but perhaps uncon-
scious believer in financial slavery for pos-
terity.
The N.S.W. Nationalist conference re-
solved “That duties should be removed or
lowered to a minimum on articles that either
are not produced in Australia or are pro-
duced inefficiently or at excessive cost.”
Certainly. Also that all infants who haven’t
grown up and can’t keep themselves should
be given either no food at all or two
spoonfuls of bran-mash per day. Further,
that every male and female person who
can’t swim first time of being thrown into
the water should be permitted to drown.
It doesn’t look as if Victoria will be
able to screw anything extra out of the
xVbrahams crowd for State income-tax.
When, the Federal Government made the
raids in Melb. there were great expectations
that Tax Commissioner Weldon would get
something, but hopes have now faded. Yet
Hogan needs the money more than Page.
In some way that chemists have never
yet been able to explain, coal is always
liable to. give off a bad smell. Sydney City
Council in November last opened tenders for
a year’s coal supply (300,000 tons), but
so many noses Avere sniffing just then that
nothing was done. A few days ago, the Com-
missioners having called for fresh tenders,
the goods were offered at from 9d. to 14d. per
ton less, the sa\'ing running into a total
of £12,000. And the chances are that it
won’t stop at that. Under the old adminis-
tration there were bales of awful rubbish
accepted and paid for as first-quality goods.
W. M. Hughes told the N.S.W. Nationalist
conference one little story which shouldn’t
be forgotten. When Hinkler, the Australian
air marvel, was welcomed at the Australian
capital, part of the show consisted of a
Yankee film showing how Uncle’s big guns
and flying machines won the war. And, said
“Billy,” Uncle didn’t supply one big gun
in the whole business, and all his serviceable
aeroplanes could be packed under the plat-
form from which William addressed his
audience.
One description of Canberra is that Syd-
ney would be very like it if Sydney consisted
of Woollalira, Mosman, ChatSAvood, Strath-
field and Canterbury, with Parliament
House grazing in the A'erdant centre.
Ted Grayndler, gen. sec. of the A.W.U.,
has explained why his crowd wouldn’t have
anything to do with Bruce’s industrial peace
conference. Grayndler’s council thinks that
“a drastic writing-doAvn of capital all over
Australia would lift a heavy burden from
the backs of the Avorking classes.” No
doubt it would. If every draper pretended
that his stock had cost him only half as
much as it actually had cost him, he would
be able to sell it very much cheaper; and
if the bank to which he owed money wrote
50 per cent, off his debt, and his other
creditors did the same, he probably would be
no worse off. Of course, this would mean
that all depositors in savings banks and
contributors to building societies and lodges
would have to write off half their capital,
too; and perhaps Mr. Grayndler had better
find out first what they think about it.
The rank and file of the A.N.A. in Vic. are
grumbling at the expenditure of £l6OO or
thereabouts in holding an inconsequential
annual conference at Swan Hill. The organi-
sation’s “parliament’’ is getting too bulky,
and the basis of representation is, in any
case, absurd. Froghollow branch with 25
members or thereabouts sends the same num-
ber of delegates' (two) as Collingwood,
which has more than 1000 members.
One of the reforms which the N.S.W.
Government has in view is a law dealing with
the false pretences of those who hawk shares
and allotments of real and imaginary estate
from door to door. It would be far better to go
the entire animal, and prohibit the nuisance
altogether, and declare the wandering nui-
sance-monger a vagrant, and any agreement
lie obtains in his travels null and void. It
would be difficult and expensive for a flus-
tered woman who has been beguiled on her
own doormat to prove misrepresentation, and
even if there is nothing very definite to prove
the door-shark takes so much of the money
by way of commission that the bargain is a
bad one always.
The Bruce-Pages had a narrow shave in
the House of Reps, on the second reading of
the bill to reduce the wine export bounty
from Is. 9d. a gallon to Is., and the measure,
which was introduced in a hurry with the
intimation that it “must be passed before
Easter,” was laid aside in a dilapidated con-
dition. . Australia has paid away heaps of
money in so-called bounties so that surplus
produce might be sold at a loss. But the
wine export bounty has had substantial re-
sults ; exports of sweet wine to Britain
jumped from 142,000 gallons in 1924-25 to
2,212,000 in 1926-27 and 2,262,000 in eight
months of 1927-28, while growers of wine
grapes received from £2 to £3 10s. a ton
more than pre-bounty prices and the dried-
fruit market was relieved by the diversion
of 46,000 tons of raisin and currant grapes
to the distilleries. And reports are all to the
effect that a very much greater trade can be
won if our exporters can cope with the new
forms of competition that have arisen—the
blending of Spanish and Portguese products
in England and the manufacture there of
wine from Levantine must. It is emphatic-
ally no time for reducing a bounty which is
small compared with what the industry
lias yielded in excise duties.
“W.P.D.”: Knowing the Mount Isa
country well I cannot agree with “Eromeno”
(B. 21/3/’2B) that the Mount Isa railway
can never become a dead-end proposition.
To develop the mines it is essential, but it
cannot become an extra feeder from the pas-
toral country to the G.N. line, as the country
west of Mount Isa towards Camooweal is
useless for grazing purposes. Dajarra, to the
south-west, is the trucking point for cattle
from the Barkly Tableland, and Kajabbi, to
the north, is most suitable for the Gulf
stations. The line from Dajarra to Camoo-
weal, which was begun more than 20 years
ago, should be completed at once to join up
with the railway the Commonwealth Govern-
ment will construct from Camooweal to New-
castle Waters, but no extension of the Mount
Isa line westwards would be of the least
benefit.
Justice James (N.S.W.) had an applica-
tion for bail before him the other day, and
made the opportunity to say that he thought
it a great pity the S.M. who conducted
the preliminary hearing had closed the doors
of his court. The papers that build a cir-
culation upon the reports of grimy scandals
and sexual horrors said “Hooray!” at the
top of their voices, and talked as though the
remark from the Bench settled the matter.
But it doesn’t. The opinion of Gus James,
the rather casual politician, wouldn’t have
been taken by these papers as worth more
than the opinion of any other casual politic-
ian—.except, perhaps, on a point of law —and,
though he may look it, Mr. Justice James
to-day is not a bit wiser than Gus James
was two or three years ago.
In a plaint before Judge Drake-Brockman
a Melbourne manufacturer gave the familiar
brand of evidence :
I told the men we would pay them for anything
they produced over what they were then producing.
In the first week we paid them about 50 per cent,
extra for extra production, but they subsequently
came to us and said the union would not allow it.
It was therefore discontinued.
It is pretty safe to assume that it wasn’t
the union which really objected but the sal-
aried (and often imported) persons who run
unionism. The men wer-e offered more pap
without any extra hours, more comfort for
their wives and children, and the chance to
help in making this a better land for these
children to live in. It is lack of local produc-
tion which causes the overwhelming mass of
imports, and it is payment for the ridiculous
surplus of imports which leads the nation to
go another 20 to 50 millions into external
debt in a single year. But boss-cockics of
unionism announce that more pay and com-
fort are “contrary to union principles,” and
threaten dire penalties unless these benefits
are rejected. It would be interesting to know
who exactly manufactures these “union prin-
ciples.”
It is understood that the Northern Terri-
tory is now ruled by very expensive sets
of .Commissioners on the spot, but doubts
remain. As an instance, the local men re-
newed the local pub licences, but their act
was of no avail unless confirmed from Can-
berra. As all the telegrams on earth seemed
unable to rouse Canberra the bars closed
pending developments. At Darwin a union
ukase was recently issued that the hotels
must not employ aboriginal yardmen, which
was boycotting Binghi in his own country.
An unauthorised court fined unionists large
sums for drinking at hotels which failed to
discharge Binghi, and neither local nor Can-
berra authority attempts to do anything.
The amount of money in a vested interest
can often be judged by the size of the depu-
tation that is organised to protest against
any interference with it. Thus the N.S.W.
coupon interest lately bailed up the Govern-
ment with petitions alleged to be signed by
the representatives of 217,000 trade-unionists,
though it wasn’t shown that the unionists
authorised them to meddle in the matter: by
900 traders, and by 130,000 housewives. The
State figure-monger states that there were
nearly 415,000 inhabited dwellings in the
Ma State on census day. Making allow-
ance for house-widows and house-spinsters,
for bachelor establishments, for housewives
who were out when the petition-hawker
called, and for the multitude who must have
refused to sign, it would seem that the pro-
coupon movement must have banged ar
almost every house door from Broken Hill to
the Tweed, and done it in quick time. Yet
the superfluity of the coupon biz. is evi-
denced by the fact that trade gets on just
as well in plenty of places without this out-
sider gnawing at the profits.
Fritz has decided, after nine years of in-
quiry, that the war was lost owing to so
many causes that the blame can’t be de-
finitely fixed on anything or anybody. Per-
haps lack of imagination was as much re-
sponsible as anything. In 1814, when
Britain was Fritz’s ally, and in 1871, when
J. Bull was neutral, Paris was taken and
that ended the war. In 1914 Britain was an
enemy, yet Fritz apparently said, in the
stereotyped way: “Behold, let us take Paris
with a rush and eiid the war as per sample.”
Possibly a genius would have postponed
Paris and concentrated on a supreme effort
to take Boulogne, Calais and Dunkirk, so
that his big guns could make merry hell
in the Straits of Dover and put obstacles
in the way of British supplies and
reinforcements. Some 350 years earlier,
when Calais was an English port and an
Anglo-Spanish alliance had France by the
throat, the Duke de Guise, who was a real
genius, cut the alliance in two by taking the
town in a wildly sudden way. Thinking
mechanically along fixed lines may have
been Fritz’s undoing.
The N.S.W. Nationalists, at a so-called con-
vention, have chosen their two Senate candi-
dates for next election. They are just the sort
of candidate that might be expected from
machine selection—good old party hacks,
without an opinion of their own, beautifully
responsive to the least touch of the whip;
men who can be trusted to let things go on
in the oldest groove; afraid to be even seen
in company with a new idea because new
ideas are revolutionary. They are perfect
replicas of the dolls that say “Mum-ma”
■when they are squeezed. When they are not
squeezed they say nothing. Party bosses
could desire no more perfect representatives.
Canberra doesn’t grow in popularity. The
place is a scattering of group settlements,
and the groups have been constructed with
a strict regard for. the financial resources
of different classes, so that the brass pots
and the earthen vessels will be kept aloof.
These scraps of habitation are so far apart
that people feel lonesome and find travelling
dear; moreover, the cost of watering, sewer-
ing and lighting all the vacant spaces be-
tween the settlements begins to look a
serious item. Persons who bid high for
town and suburban blocks and promised
to run up approved shanties on them within
a given time have acquired a habit of leav-
ing without running up anything, except
perhaps a few debts. They have nothing
to lose except the bit of rent they have paid:
there isn’t even a prospect of making some
unearned increment by hanging on. Hopes
are entertained that the removal of more
civil servants to Canberra will help, but it
is an awkward centre to govern from, and
Ministers show no desire to shift their
whole departments there and then settle
down alongside them. Life is expensive
and dull, and business is bad, and another
winter is coming on, and Parliament is
leaving. Even the local member won’t stay,
for there is none.
THE LONELY FURROWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. W. M. Hughes was given a great reception
at the Nationalist party conference in Sydney. The
ex-Prime Minister delivered a vigorous speech which
was responsible for a tremendous row inside the
party.”
A thankless task is yours, my son,
A furrow, you’ll allow,
As lone as ever Rosebery had
In bygone years to plough.
Your stirring periods loud declare
To all who list or read
You still might lead a party were
There such a thing to lead.
Worse luck !
There’s nobody to lead.
So high the wall you climbed, old pard,
And for a space bestrid
That, when you fell, you bumped as hard
As Ilumpty Dumpty did.
Nor he nor you aloft could get
Again by any fluke
Short of a miracle —and yet
We like to hear you spruik.
My oath !
You keep the gift of spruik.
A dreary role is yours, my son,
Who headed parties two
In turn —’twas you that tired of one,
The other tired of you.
Now, whichsoever holds the reins,
You’re viewed askance by each.
But none the less, the fact remains
You make a rattling speech
At times,
A ringing, stinging speech.
You brooked no lesser lights, old thing,
Too near you on the roof;
And now you’ve ceased to be a king
'Tis they that hold aloof.
Some admirable views you vent
Withal, ’tis well agreed.
You might again in Parliament
Disciples lead, beyond dissent,
If there were some to lead.
That’s it!
There’s nobody to lead.
N-S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
A SUPERFLUOUS PRECAUTION.
BILLY BORE: “The dentist gave me ether so I wouldn’t
know anything.”
BETTY: “How unnecessary.”
“Jae”: The word jay-walking may be
good Australian nowadays, but new arrivals
from Ireland aren’t the only ones liable to
be puzzled by it (B. 14/3/’2B). A friend of
mine, a Scandinavian master mariner who
speaks English fluently, when in Adelaide on
business was approached by a policeman just
as he had crossed a street and warned that
jay-walking was a punishable offence. The
mariner pulled up indignantly. “Why, I’ve
only had two whiskies all day,” he told the
constable.
* & * #
“Mako": Another strange radio happen-
ing was recorded the other day, when the
Wilkins expedition somewhere in the Arctic
complained that they could not communicate
with their base owing to blocking by three
other stations. On investigation one of the
intruders was identified as New York, and
the remaining two, much to the astonish-
ment of the explorers, were revealed as two
Maoriland enthusiasts working on long-dis
tance lines. ,
* * * *
“Chinta Hati”: The ink could hardly
have been dry on “Ex-Dig. s pai. (L.
°S/3/’2B) regarding the attempt to estab-
lish the identity of the mystery soldier at
Callan Park when word was received by trie
R.S.L. that the description forwarded vo
M.L. coincided closely with that of Private
Tlios. McQuay, as set forth in base records.
Photographs and further particulars were
immediately despatched to Wellington, and a
cable has since been received confirming the
identification. McQuay served with the
Maoriland forces until 191 G, when he *dis-
appeared and all trace of him was lost. Ihe
B.S.L. has been successful in solving the pro-
blem that beat the Repatriation Department
and the asylum authorities.
>;« * * *
“R.P.” : Having arrived too late to witness
the boarding-house being reduced to ashes,
1 joined the boys at the pub, and listened,
between beers, to some glowing accounts ot
the bravery of the local carpenter during the
fire. On my way home I met Chips. “So
they have to thank you for saving the piano V”
1 queried. “Dunno,” he answered, eyeing me
suspiciously. “But didn’t you rush in to
unscrew the door so’s they could get it out ! ’
I continued. “Piano be ’anged !” he muttered
confidentially. “Y’see, I wanted a door for
me ’ouse I’m buildin’ down be the creek;
they’ll never miss it after the fire.”
!|l * * *
“Verri”: It was never! proved that
“Pelorus Jack” met his end at the hands of
an “idiot with a gun” (B. 21/3/’2B). Re-
mains that are believed to have been those
of the famous white dolphin of the Sounds
were discovered some time after his dis-
appearance, and there were indications that
he had been the victim of foul play, but
those responsible may have been fishermen
who never guessed at the identity of their
unique haul until it was too late. A pas-
senger did fire at him once, which led to a
special Act of Parliament being passed for
his protection.
* * * *
“Bon Jour” : When our returning troopship
called in at Grand Canary the natives
swarmed around, importuning us to buy their
Avares. These consisted chiefly of small birds,
and by the whistling and chirping that filled
the air they seemed to be good songsters;
dozens were bought by the troops. As the
ship began to move out again the _ Diggers
out of pure lightness of heart raided the
potato locker and opened up a barrage of
spuds on the hucksters in the boats; the
latter retaliated, quite seriously, with blue
metal, which caused several casualties. It
puzzled us why they should have come fore-
armed on their trading expedition until we
learned that the Osterley had called in the
day before Avith a detachment of Diggers
among her passengers. What made it more
bitter was that the “singing” canaries were
all duds; not a bird emitted a note. It
Avas the sellers who had done that.
“Cleo”: The elderly citizen whom I was
watching as he zigzagged past our local police
station had the ill-luck to collide with a lady
and, despite his hiccoughed apology, the
angry dame immediately complained to the
two constables who had just emerged from
the station door. They listened to her
complaint respectfully enough, but made
no attempt to . arrest the offender, although
he was still within easy range. Their apathy
evidently annoyed the accuser. “Surely,” she
taunted, “two big strong officers like youse
aren’t afraid of a poor miserable drunken
man!” “Sergeant’s orders, missus.” one of
the pair told her crisply. “Old Bill’s not to
be put in until he buys his Cray.”
❖ * * ❖
“Nurse C.” : In the city hospital where I’m
taking temperatures and feeling pulses are
some 200 nurses, mostly bent on marrying
doctors. As each “studie” reaches the hospital
A MATTER OF TASTE.
“I’m simply not having anything more to do with Jim—the rude pig.”
“Why, dearie?”
“Last night I asked him how he’d like me to wear one of the new backless evening
frocks, and the beast said, x ßack to front!’”
stage lie is bewildered by the array of neat
caps set at him, and long before liis final he. is
disposed of—by the besiegers, anyhow. Still,
I've had a few pals amongst the winners,
and am not much struck by their prizes.
Unless the young quack has enough money
to buy a practice it takes him longer to get
on his feet than any other professional man.
ITis wife’s knowledge of nursing in the mean-
time ceases to be of any value to him, and she
is more likely than not to be called upon to
do “nursing” of quite another sort. Her
end of the business with the average doctor
seems to be to work the telephone —a seven-
days-a-week, all-round-the-clock job.
$ ❖ Hn ❖
“Lao-dah”: The companionate marriage
in some form or other may be found all
over the world (B. 21/3/’2B). When Rajah
Brooke arrived in Sarawak he noted that it
was a flourishing institution amongst cer-
tain Bornean tribes which had never come
in contact with the whites, and it still
flourishes to-day. When the young Dyak
male has picked his girl he sticks a red
hibiscus behind his ear. If a similar token
appears in the lady’s hair the pair there-
upon became husband and wife for the time
being, the arrangement being tacitly ap-
proved of by the other occupants of the
tribal long-house. Should there be no issue
of the marriage the youth is free to look
for another mate; otherwise he abandons
the lady on peril of his life. The method
worked so well that, until missionaries at-
tempted to introduce their own moral codes,
prostitution was practically unknown.
“Amity”: Like “Strict Veg.” (B. 21/3/’2B)
I once penetrated into the nether regions
of a popular sweets shop. We had a youth-
ful partiality for a delectable pink toffee
made on the premises, and when informed
by the proprietor that the Saturday supply
would not be ready for half-an-hour de-
cided to wait. During the wait we wandered
round the back of the premises, and looking
down a staircase beheld our toffee in the
making. It was being “pulled” by the con-
fectionery expert, and in the intervals of
handling the hot rope of sugar he cooled his
hands in the same way as a cat washes her
paws. We sneaked off without making a
purchase.
* * :!: *
“Herodot”: I wonder if any previous
search had been made for that cache of'
sovereigns unearthed by a youth at Box Hill,
Yic. (B. 21/3/’2B). In 1914 there lived
near Sydney a nonagenarian cocky with an
ineradicable distrust of banks. At the out-
break of war in 1914 he had £240 to his
credit. Fearing that a panic might tako
place, he withdrew the money and planted it
somewliere on his farm, about 30 miles from
the city, keeping the hiding-place a secret of
his own. A few months later he suddenly
and inconsiderately died without revealing
to any of liis family the whereabouts of the
sovereigns. Since then the disconsolate heirs
have personally dug up acres of ground re-
sultlessly, and even outsiders are suspected
of making occasional hunts for the buried
treasure. But the old chap apparently made
too good a job of it.
“Strict Veg.” : As a mere Australian white
shirt (unstarched) I attended the celebra-
tion in Melbourne of the ninth anniversary
of the Fascist revolution, and it made me
understand better than ever why modern
grand opera had its origin south of the Alps.
W hen the Briton stages a patriotic demon-
stration of this sort he does it rather sheep-
ishly and solemnly; he always seems afraid
that some element. of absurdity may creep
into it. The Italian, on the other hand,
doesn’t mind liis sublimity being well mixed
with the ridiculous. He sees nothing incongru-
ous in a prima donna aged 65 and weighing
half a ton performing Juliet. Fascism is sup-
posed to be the resurgence of the spirit of
youth. Some of the black shirts were babies
in arms, while others were stout elderly gents
who had long lost sight of their boots. The
antique Roman salute—the right arm raised
high above the head—was the order of the
day, making the show resemble an Allan
Wilkie production. The official film, “Mili-
zia,” left the impression that one can’t even
empty a rubbish-tin in Italy unless he first
dons a general’s uniform and straps a car-
bine to liis back. The display of military
pomp, comprising tens of thousands of pat-
riots, had a preposterous anti-climax in the
catching of a solitary smuggler, but it never
struck the audience that way, and the vivas
when the Duce appeared upon the screen,
which wasn’t seldom, were simply terrific.
Most of the enthusiasm, however, came from
recent immigrants; the Australian-born
Italians seemed relatively tepid. The one
next to me didn’t even recognise the banal
melody of the Fascist hymn, “Giovanezza,”
when he heard it.
* :ic * :Jc
“Redraw”: Eighteen months ago a baby
show was one of the features of a fete held
in aid of the Campbell (N.S.W.) hospital.
The parents of the winning infant presented
the prize, a cot, to the hospital. It was a
cruel trick of Fate that decreed that tire tiny
girl, whose death occurred recently, should
have been the first to end her days in that
cot.
* * =1:
“Ferrochie”: As one formerly connected
with the British Intelligence Department
I know enough about the execution of the
Javanese spy, Mata Hari (B. 2S/3/’2B), to
be able to assure “Hanno” that his infor-
mant (whose name he doesn’t give) must
have drawn largely on his imagination. My
authority is Major Emile Massard, the
French officer who was in charge of the
execution. Pastor Debroux and Mata Hari’s
lawyer were both present, having accom-
panied the condemned woman from St.
Lazare; the latter, although over 75 years
old, continued his efforts to secure a reprieve
till the very last. As the execution took
place at 5.47 a.m. in mid October it is highly
unlikely that any photographs were taken.
Some faked ones, however, afterwards found
a ready sale on the Paris boulevards, and it
was presumably these which “Hanno” was
shown. That they were fabrications was
exposed by the tell-tale shadows which
could not possibly have been thrown at that
hour of the morning. There were no civilians
present except the pastor and the advocate;
a car-load of reporters got to the foot of
Vincennes, only to be turned back by
mounted patrols.
* * * if
“X2X”; In a sensational murder trial
now proceeding in England it lias been sug-
gested that bullets were fired into the eyes
of the victim at close range in order to
destroy pictures of his assailants which
might have been impressed upon the retina.
Kipling utilised this theory in one of his
early stories; and there may be some scien-
tific basis for the belief tliat such a
phenomenon is possible, however improbable.
The impressions of objects seen in life
have been observed in the eyes of a frog
some time after death, and experiments in
physiological laboratories have, shown that
it is possible to “fix” such pictures so that
they will remain for hours. An English
hospital surgeon who has published articles
upon the subject is convinced that in the
retinae of persons who have met violent
deaths there may sometimes be observed
photographs of the last scenes upon which
their eyes have looked, impressed evidently
by the shock of the moment. However, they
are generally blurred and indistinct.
WHEN A FELLER MEETS A RLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You’re returnin’ bright an’ early—so you say
before you go.
You don’t need no more reminders; all you
’ave to do you know.
An’ you’ve got it worked out nicely as you
saddle up the moke,
But it don’t pan out too clever when a feller
meets a bloke.
You must mind an’ shoo the butcher for
that rotten meat ’e sent.
An’ you’ve got to post Bill’s letter or there’ll
be an argument,
An’ you’ve got to pay the grocer an’ the
baker what we owe;
An’ it all looks pretty easy till a bloke yells:
“Wotto, Joe!”
Then the butcher goes unscolded an’ the
baker don’t get paid,
An’ you’re tryin’ to remember all the pro-
mises you made.
An’ you’re wonderin’ what you’ll tell ’em as
you saddle up the moke,
But the old nut don’t work freely when a
feller’s met a bloke.
An’ it doesn’t ’elp you any, when you get
back to the camp,
That they see you’re empty-’anded an’ their
greetin’s pretty damp ;
An’ there ain’t a lot of comfort in the answers
that you get
Every time you try to tell ’em of the dinkum
bloke you met.
It’s an ’ard old place this world is, an’ there
ain’t too much in it,
As a feller realises when ’e screws it off a
bit;
An’ it ain’t at all surprisin’ that at times it
has ’im beat,
But things seem the way they should be
when a bloke an’ feller meet.
An’ it ain’t no use to worry, not a bit of use
to moan —
Let them long-faced whinin’ snoozers ’ave
that racket on their own—
For I reckon that a feller would do just as
well to croak
An’ get finished with it if ’e couldn’t some-
times meet a bloke.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Arthur J. Vogan: I suggest that the
generally-accepted view of the origin of the
word “Pommy” (B. 21/3/’2B) is quite in-
correct. Actually it is a corruption of a
French word, or, rather, a blend of two
French words, “pomme” (downright)
“pommettes” (cheek-hones or cheek). “Un
fou pomme” means "a downright fool.” As
a youth in Marseilles 1 remember having
heard French ship-boys stimulated to exer-
tion by being termed “pommes”; with
“pommettes” thrown in you get. the idea
of rosy cheeks as well as foolishness. In
any case the term is undoubtedly meant to
be offensive, and as such should be punish-
able as an insult.
* * * *
“A.L.”: Queer drinks (B. 28/3/’2S) V
During the building of the Orange-Molong
(N.S.W.) railway I saw a party of navvies
whose credit had been stopped at the pub
home-brewing a pick-me-up. In a washed-
out powder-keg they mixed with water a tin
of condensed milk and two bottles of pain-
killer. When the amazing compound had
been well stirred, a bottle of fruit salt was
added for aerating purposes, and the result
served out in pannikins. I asked the dis-
penser where the “kick” was supposed to
come in. He admitted that he didn’t exactly
know, but added that “the stuff tasted some-
thing like booze.”
* * * *
“Erua”: There are occasions when to
attempt to draw the color-line too distinctly
in Maoriland might have unhappy conse-
quences. I was travelling on the Whan-
garei boat one winter night, and about the
THE GRAND PARADE.
“Well, I suppose I must be going back to me old Grand Parade.”
“Whatever’s that?”
“Sh-sh. One nag after another. You know.”
last passenger to pass up the gangway was
a Maori, well equipped for the weather in a
greatcoat and turned-down hat. A steward
hastened up and tapped him on the shoulder
“You wanti te punk?” he asked kindly. The
passenger's reply left him staring dazedly,
hut before the trip was over he. like all who
came in cdntact with that particular Maori,
was talking enthusiastically of the dignity,
culture and charming friendliness of Sir
Maui Pomare.
* * * *
“Per Jong”: A recent cable reported the
death in Waps of Richard Bruce Hardy,
“the man who defended the Australian irregu-
lar officer. Lieut. Harry Morant, at his
court-martial for shooting prisoners dur-
ing the Boer War”—his real name, it was
added, was Arthur Price. The writer knew
something of Hardy, residing at the same
mess with him in Pretoria for some months.
He was in one of the Victorian regiments,
though he then had a staff job in Pretoria;
he always stated lie was a Victorian solicitor.
He never expressed doubt about the guilt of
the luckless Morant and Hancock, though
he and a colleague, also a Victorian, put
up a long fight to save the pair. Morant,
by the way, was not an .Australian irregular
officer. He was an Englishman who, after
spending some years in Australia, went to
South Africa as a trooper with a Bush-
men’s contingent. After some service lie got
a commission in the Bushveld Carbineers,
one of the many heterogeneous corps raised
in South Africa in the later phases of the
war. While serving with • them he struck
the trouble which ended in tragedy.
“Topee” : Reference to “New
Italy” (B. 28/3/’2B) recalls
that in 1880 1 was at Dawes
Point watching the Chanderna-
gore, with the Marquis de Ray s
outward-bound colonists aboard,
being towed up Sydney Harbor
with Bft. of water in her hold.
Most of her cargo consisted of
building material (including a
liberal supply of bricks) and
her destination was New Britain.
Her passengers were of mixed
nationalities, including two Bel-
gians, whom I met 35 years
later during the military occu-
pation of their adopted country.
They were both prosperous
planters. With the exception of
these and the Italians provided
for by Henry Parlies on the Rich-
mond River the ill-fated settlers
were, I believe, repatriated by
their several consulates. The
Marquis, a well-meaning vision-
ary who had sunk his large pri-
vate fortune in the project, had
a bad time when he returned to
his own country.
“11.E.C.”: Talking of weather prophets
with methods of their own, I once knew an
old man whose ears were so trained that
telegraph wires furnished him with baro-
meters. He would predict the weather 24
to 36 hours in advance by an appreciation
of the pitch, strength and quality of the
tones produced by the wires. High, shrill
notes, he told me, preceded heavy but brief
falls of rain, while deep, humming tones
indicated rainfalls which would be brief and
light. Buzzing tones meant a change in
the weather; soft, humming tones foretold
continuance of damp weather. \V ithin his
limits he was a more reliable meteorologist
than most.
* * * *
“G. 8.”: The name Torres Strait (B.
21/3/’2B) is first found on a chart of Mat-
thew Flinders’s early discoveries. The Bau-
din expedition of 1802 had a copy of this
chart, and Freycinet, the cartographer, pub-
lished in ISOS an atlas on which the strait
is marked “Etroit de Torres.” Flinders’s
“Voyage to Terra Australis” and his accom-
panying charts were not published until
1814. owing to his long imprisonment by
the French at Mauritius. But it was Alex-
ander Dalrymple, hydrograplier to the East
India Company, who first suggested that the
strait should be named after its pioneer
navigator. Dalrymple, in 1/64, had read of
Torres’s achievement 150 years sooner, in
records kept at Manila. He supplied Joseph
Banks with a copy of the chart of Torres s
voyage, so that the information was available
to .Capt. Cook before 1769. Cook did not
utilise it; in 1770 he named the smaller
passage between Prince of Wales Island and
the mainland Endeavor Strait, and for some
years afterwards the name was applied to
the larger strait. Capt. Edwards, with his
cargo of prisoners from H.M.S. Bounty,
passed through in 1791, and speaks of it as
"Endeavor Strait.” It remained for Flinders
to give Torres the credit which Cook had
neglected to give.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Torres and Endeavor Straits
are actually two different waterways; the
latter was the name given by Cook to the
passage between Cape York and Prince of
Wales Islands. Cook estimated its length
at 50 miles. It constitutes an entrance to
THE JUST VERB.
LAWYER (of well-known habits ): “Well, y Honor, I will put it this way. Supposing I
was to see y’ Honor going into a hotel”-
HIS HONOR: “Pardon me — coming in!”
the larger waterway, through which Torres
had sailed in 1606. Nevertheless, Cook was
the actual discoverer of the much-debated
passage between Australia and New Guinea.
Torres never sailed far enough south to sight
Cape York (or, if he did, he mistook it for
an island), and consequently never knew that
the strait which bears his name was any-
thing but a coral-strewn ocean. Cook was
the lirst to demonstrate its existence.
* * * *
“B C.”: The less a man saw of bayonet
work in the war (B. 7/3/’2B) the luckier
lie may count himself. I can still hear the
awful shrieks of a group of Turks at Semakh,
towards the end of the Palestine campaign,
when they were rushed at dawn by the Light
Horse. The Turks had surrendered quickly,
but the Germans, who were in the. railway-
station building, did not, with the inevitable
consequence that the bayonet was used freely,
the attackers regarding the surrender as
treachery. What happened beggars description.
“They tell me, Bill,” I once heard a Digger
say to another, a Gallipoli man, "the Turks
don’t like the bayonet.” “Gripes!” replied
Bill, “I don’t, too !” No soldier does unless
lie’s at the winner’s end of it.
* * * *
“Mudros”: Old Pierre of the 10th Bat-
talion was a Frenchman who had spent 20
years in Australia. He was a pharmacist
by trade, and soon became invaluable as
M.O.’s orderly; to him belongs the credit of
establishing at Mena a Blue Light tent long
before authority provided any such luxuries.
But Pierre had his share of unmerited re-
buffs. One day at Anzac he went for a
stroll, and, losing his way, found himself
in a strange sector of the line where his
swarthy skin and broken English brought
him under suspicion and he was arrested as
a spy. His crowning humiliation came in
France when he applied for a job as inter-
preter. After a brief examination he found
himself rejected on the ground of “insufficient
knowledge.of French” —his mother tongue!
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: War develops some un-
breakable ties. A battalion cobber of mine
has “card-indexed” every member of his
A.I.F. company. Each card is headed with
the number, rank and name of a Digger, and
below are all the details he has been able
to collect concerning that Digger’s career
from his enlistment till the present day-. Of
course, there are many gaps, but even these
are slowly being filled in, for he never meets
one of his old cobbers without securing some
information about those who have passed
outside his ken. Most of the cards have
photographs accompanying them, a few col-
lected during the war and more snapped in
recent years on such occasions as Anzac Day
reunions.
* x * *
“Basra”: The queerest river craft I ever
saw was the hospital ship Aerial, which plied
on the Tigris between Basra and Amara in
1915. Half aeroplane, half houseboat, she
was fitted with an air propeller and a 50-
h.p. engine, which made more noise than a
battery of machine guns. The vessel had
been a pleasure boat in Assam, and how
any navigator ever succeeded in sailing
her to Mesopotamia was never discovered.
Another unit of our crazy fleet was an
ancient paddle steamer from the Brahma-
putra, which was armor-plated with steel
railway sleepers. She mounted an 18-pounder
field-gun and did some good service with it
before the shocks of firing rattled her to
pieces.
* * * *
“Unity” : Touching the little difficulty ex-
perienced by some persons, mostly ladies, in
getting themselves certified as competent
motorists. I wish the over-chivalrous police-
man who was responsible for the issue of a
licence to a friend of mine could have seen
her subsequent progress. With the congratu-
lations of the Law still in her ears, she
set out for home at a good speed to tell the
family the glad tidings that she had passed
the test. Cutting a corner she collided with
the kerbing, swerved over the road and hit
a tree. In the damaged car she turned into
a side street and finally reached home after
knocking over the back gatepost and bump-
ing through the rear doors of the garage.
She has never driven since, but she is still
qualified to take the highway at any moment
and imperil the lives of any unfortunates
who don’t see her coming.
* * * *
“Simon”: There is no question about
cruelty to animals being among the crimes
for which floggings may be ordered in N. S.
Wales. Take the case of Joe Chong, a half-
caste Chinese, in the Mudgee (N.S.W.) dis-
trict some 40 years ago. His horse jibbed
with a load of manure, whereupon Joe took
a tomahawk and cut off the animal’s front
feet at the fetlocks. The sentence was 12
months and 20 lashes.
* * * *
“Gad”: A few people may know that Karl
Marx’s real name was Mordecai; that a
certain Bronstein is more familiarly known
to us as Trotsky; that Anatole France’s
name was really Thibault; and George Eliot
was Mrs. Cross in real life. And there may
be more who know’ that Voltaire was a pseu-
donym for Arouet. But I am certain that
very few people know that Oliver Cromwell’s
real name was Williams, and that he signed
himself such in strictly business matters.
The discovery is Hilaire Belloc’s, who draws
attention to it in a recent book.
* * * *
“Top Rail”: Some of our country police
sergeants could give the League of Nations
points. I was standing outside a North
Coast (N.S.W.) pub when an angry quarrel
started. Two coves addressed each other in
the customary fighting terms, and had re-
moved their coats when the Law arrived.
He spoke with paternal firmness, separated
the parties, told them not to be fools
and passed on. When he turned the corner
the row started afresh, and the pair were
squaring up to one another when the Law
suddenly reappeared. By sheer force of
will he made them shake hands, ordered one
to walk -east along the street and the other
west, and went inside to blow the froth off
a pot. About an hour afterwards I saw the
late belligerents sharing a bottle under the
bridge.
* * * *
“Fugit” : “X2X” recommends anyone who
seeks to free a person from a “live” wire to
first wrap his hands in some material proof
against current, such as a mackintosh or rain-
proof coat (B. 21/3/’2B). The advice is only
good if the would-be rescuer first assures
himself that the anti-current material isn’t
damp ; otherwise there may be two fatalities.
* * * *
“X.D.”: The. audacity of the Melbourne
thief grows as the strength of the police
force dwindles. The other day a raid was
made on a Port Melbourne hotel by the
police and over £3OOO worth of goods, lifted
from shops all over the country, was dis-
covered. The stuff was unloaded at the
Russell-street station and sorted out to
await identification by the owners. During
the small hours of the next morning an
attempt was made to re-burgle it.
WHEN IN DOUBT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bid wuz a beaut. Seein’ ’er all abloom,
Dolled up so grand and clean,
A-smilin’ soft, a bride, and me ther 'groom,
I goes clean off me bean.
So w’en they ’eaves the grog an’ beer in sight,
An’ ev’ryone starts in bein’ cute an’ bright,
I struggles ’ard ter find me nerve —an’ gee!
I finds a double quantity—
Gits tight!
W’en John Haustralia Marmadooke Valaize
Arrives (the little bloke
Wot christened up our marriage)—spare me
days!
I felt a useless moke,
Wif Bid a-lying there snow-pale an’ w ite.
That she should ’ave it all seemed crooel
spite.
Struth ! At sich times a bloke goes mighty
queer.
I done a bunk, an’ stops a beer —
Gits tight.
Now all ther cuddle ’as gone outer Bid,
The years ’ave ’ad their say.
Them an’ the false teef an’ the reg lar kid
Wot Christmas slings ’er way.
She ain’t no angel now, too bloomin’ right
She ain’t, but over-quick to snap and bite
An’ jaw an’ snap, she bawls me out like
’ell.
An’, moonin’ on ole days, I, well —
Gits tight!
N.S.W
MUSETTE MORELL.
THE REWARD OK VIRTUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Russell Woods, aged 15, has been awarded a golc
medal by a U.S. hotel company because a regulai
visitor certified him as the only bell-boy he had evei
encountered in any American hotel who would hav«
nothing to do with bootlegging.”
They wanted hootch, and cheerfully
They bade the bell-boy hustle.
An ’undred dollars was the fee,
But “Cut it out,” said Russell.
“Before I break me country’s laws,”
Says ’e, “may I be bursted.”
The drouthy souls they dropped their jaws
An’ stared an’ cursed —an’ thirsted.
A noble lad ’e was an’ wore
’Is righteousness about ’im,
An honor to ’is land, they swore—
An’ worried through without ’im.
1 do not boast no morals grim,
Nor wear no Eton collars;
A medal (gold) they gave to ’im—
I got the ’undred dollars.
N.s.w.
PERCY PAWNTICKET, JUNIOR.


... f
u
u
mm
&
». -V*o"^til- V £*< J~ Jj
* - « J i j' , -L J -•; ' v/*» ' '. l - cj r ‘
'-“ilOV- «VV • -‘ -;i---,'
mms
.'/% vV Sfc £*.soifVi~/g]:
iTnm
7v>.-4-.-,s> • «U »<••. *iJ «.;•
ill
immmt
mmrn
m
m
m
MS
sa*g
If
do
few
• 1 ■
o^o
Cd
M§^?cr
ft
m/4
to
SitaiSS
Jt^Jkr
c > c V
o>
Ss«a
rti?
L>=*-
*liV;
:1
s&K
ox
<
MiP
&
\r-T
is^tfm
mm
m
m
m
mm
m
V.
M
nHa
s^Co
/v.i
,-^
m
NS
VOSt
tV
tr
t.k
1
n»*
fc s
) l
X!
w*
ffl
r
mm
n
&
mtom
«38®6
wilmmw
s®
caa
kiC‘
■>-,
S«’
E*
rat
IS
0
1
«C 3
m
mi
wmm
Sffii
r,
O /
L
kL
V
\(N
oL
&
\ /
1
e
0*
0 *
lll**
>eceW'^ e uf
t et V-- a sS ute \ eC U v^’
1 es *«i£% e t0 ‘
. •« tVve V&vi**-
k b^
\tv
P>*’
vlteP
a^ ev
v&
tto
** { ~
e»^ N
pfdCß
P^a c^
d» tV tW * wo**
iVotv 0 { bt° cetvu-
»\ at - t 0^ e r \od-
tot> sVv c petv
cel> Av^fA
\ e te*>. \ w^ tVl
N et ;fsbo^ o
>A. 0
e* v
Ve %49 -- 10
a \rCti
**r*’°
Set °^\ o ;
d e^
0
\oft
£2-5 :
m
H
oVo,
sa
One dial sweeps the air
as a searchlight sweeps thesfy
“npO give you the Station you want as you want to hear it’
|| ...that is the aim of Atwater Kent... an aim which, in
its fulfilment, has resulted in the establishment of the
world’s largest radio factory.
Here, under ideal conditions, are produced those amazingly
efficient one dial sets that have brought the delights of per-
fect radio reception into more than one million homes.
One dial! Just picture the ease of operation this means to
you ! There are no secondary devices to manipulate. The
fingers of one hand, in conjunction with one simple radio
component, quickly bring you station after station with
clarity and truthfulness. Every sound comes to you without
the slightest deviation from the original.
Don’t experiment with inferior, more complicated sets.
Choose an Atwater Kent “One Dial,” and enjoy to the full
the remarkably varied entertainment Radio offers you to day.
Inserted by the Atwater Kent Manufacturing Co., Pennsylvania
U.S.A on behalf of Australian A.K. Radio Dealers. Australian
wholesale Distributors : A. G. Healing Ltd. Dealers Everywhere,
fPATON~)
ASK YOUR. RADIO DEALER TO SHOW YOU NEW MODELS BY ATWATER KENT-*—
FOR LATEST FREE LITERATURE ON ATWATER KENT RADIO WRITE TO A. G. HEALING, LTD., 354-60 POST OFFICE PLACE, MELBOURNE;
27 HYDE ST., ADELAIDE; 208-10 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.


1
m
I
m
m
W :
5
$
mi
g?
m
l
l
m.
7.
I
m
W.
r
«5
Captain McARTHUR
im
Si
flKO.yaf
mi
L A ID E
m
MEL
' -I
1
i
s --m
■ ■
m
■
Tf *ADE
MARK
Hardy’s
champion RESERVE
PORT ~5
FOWK BOTTLING
■* : .
JMAS HARDY £ SONS LTX>
rAIDE,MELBOURNE ESYONEY
AUSTRALIAN WINej I''- 1 ''-* 1 '"-'*
NET IPINT6 FLUID 0Z5....J
=
•A - \
<\ V
l• * •
K.i<
I.T "/>■: J-: • j
(P 2 r> is zo c no. /zc Pzon
eers”
HARDYS WINES OF TINTARA
CAPT. JOHN MACARTHUR was one of the earliest pioneers of the Colony of New South Wales, and during the regime of Governor
Phillip established a small flock of merino sheep at Parramatta.
From this small beginning the production of wool has reached its present amazing proportion's, and at the present time it is clearly
proved to be the strongest asset Australia possesses.
The establishment of Hardy’s vineyards in 1853 places them among the earliest, and Champion Reserve Pore is the quintessence of
quality resulting from these years of experience and maturity.


*' You CANT GO To THE
Show/ Like that, Dad;
Sydney people would
Be Disappointed,"
Must Hme Whiskers."
" Here's vour Bonnet, Mum ,
Hunt me out some oi_d
TROUSERS,"
" And the carpet bag
" See if you can find a horse
For the old g,igj «
" NNIEUC, Mua/\ # tTs nice To &E THEIR, AcMH,**
KEEPING UP APPEARANCES.


the7/ol>by3cimily/
Makers of “Homerex” Furniture
t —:;
S*
-J
/*>?{
UJ
_LJ
>'©;•. • v
j.
ih
L
sll
Vt‘-
■
r r
S±L. ; ,
....
Vj
r>
THIS IS FATHER, MOTHER, PHYLLIS and FRED, not forgetting GERALD THE PUP. You will be seeing
quite a lot of them during the next few months, so you really ought to know them.
FATHER is 45, works every day, loves his home, is proud of his wife and family, and would be thoroughly happy if
life wasn't one darned expense after another.
MOTHER is a true Australian housewife, proud of father and the family, and the manner in which she manages the
exchequer.
PHYLLIS thinks she is a woman of the world because she has passed her sixteenth birthday, is a junior typiste and has
a thrill.
FRED is thirteen, he still loves to play Indians, but has an ambition which week from leading carpenter
to a radio expert.
GERALD THE PUP, full of beans, an intelligent imp of mischief, who spends his time deciding which phase of life
he will tackle next.
ALL THE FAMILY HELP TO MAKE “HOMEREX” FURNITURE FOR 50% LESS, BUT FATHER
FOOTS THE BILL, SO THEY DECIDED ON THE SLOGAN—
"father made it”
THE
HOMEREX
WAY
or
o
/es.
o
THE
HOMEREX
WAY
YOU CAN DO IT, TOO!
“HOMEREX” FURNITURE
Simplicity, Economy are the Keynotes of the “Homerex” way. You require no expensive kit of tools.
A Hammer and a Screwdriver are all you need.
Each article is ready cut to the finished size.
Every part is numbered ready for fitting together.
NO MIDDLE
PROFITS
HALVES
FURNISHING
COSTS
A simple illustrated sheet of explicit directions is supplied with
each article.
One tin of “ Homerex ” Glue, one tin of “ Homerex ” Stain, and
one tin of “ Homerex ” Polish are also supplied.
The whole of the materials necessary for the completion of one
article are suitably packed and delivered to your homfe free
of charge in the metropolitan area. Country customers
please add freight.
THE BASEMENT
NO PUTTY
FILLINGS
NO FLAWS
SEE EXHIBIT
AT
R.A.S. SHOW
Home Recreations 111
388 3eor£e Stre e t Watsoris>
Sydney.
..♦* A*
/ os <\y
*?>•• Av
A-'At /
/£*Yv -y
,4444 V* /
4 / /
,♦ <? v 0 * $>
\4f
* cO
V'
«?■


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast trom 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
“TRITON”
Electric Bath Heater
What a joy to the housewife and mother to
know that when a hot bath is needed she has
merely to turn on the “Triton” Electric Bath
Heater tap and £he steaming hot water is there.
No dread of explosion or fumes —no carrying
in fuel, no matches, no danger of fire, no clean-
ing out grimy ashpans afterwards. The
“Triton” Electric Bath Heater means a bath-
room fresh and spotlessly clean, and it very-
soon pays for itself in the economies it effects.
Full particulars from—
Thos. Abbott &. Co.,
343 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone, F 4042.
Cr. Wynyard & Margaret Lanes, Sydney, N.S.W.
11l Taranaki Street, Wellington, N.Z.
AGENCIES — A. C. Clarke, 112 Gawler Place,
Adelaide, S.A.; Harris, Scarfe Sandoyer,
Ltd., Hay Street, Perth, W.A.; W. H. Knight
& Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Laun-
ceston; James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Creek
Street, Brisbane, Q’iand.
w
■
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folrler.
ik-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
It was 31 years on March 22 since the
Federal Convention assembled at Adelaide to
draft the Commonwealth Constitution. The
10 survivors of the 59 delegates who attended
that historic meeting are Carrutliers (Ma
State), Glynn, Symon and Cockburn (S.
Aus.), Justices Isaacs and Higgins, Dr.
Quick and Alec Peacock (Vic.), Elliot Lewis
(Speck) and Walter James (W.A.).
Senator Josiali Thomas, who is to be one
of the N.S.W. Nationalist candidates at
tlie next Senate election, is the last of the
group who were sent to Parliament after the
great Broken Hill miners’ strike of the
early ’nineties; and you would have sworn
that of the lot Thomas had the poorest
chances of staying. In fact, he was so tim-
orous that Sleath and Ferguson, the brains
of the ’92 strike, sent him away on an
expedition to collect money and sympathy
as soon as the trouble started—-he was in the
way at home. That is probably how he
escaped the gaol which awaited the others.
Thomas was always a trusted Methodist
local preacher. His favorite text ought to
be: “The meek shall inherit the earth.”
A. F. J. Draper, just dead in Brisbane,
was one of the last of North Queensland’s
pioneers, and a man wdio wrote his name in
big letters across its sugar and mining sec-
tion. His name was coupled with a dozen
other enterprises, commercial and otherwise,
which went to the building up of Cairns, in
which port most of his activities were centred.
Power-alcohol pro-
duction, hydro-
electric power from
the Barron Falls,
and newspaper
proprietor sh ip - he
owned the Cairns
Post, one of the
best dailies outside
Brisbane were
only a few of these,
No humanitarian
work in the North
lacked Draper’s aid,
and returned sol-
diers were largely
helped by him. He
was Mayor of
Cairns for many
years and practi-
cally died in har-
ness. Born in Vic-
toria in 1863, he
went to N.Q. just
on 50 years ago as
a clerk in the Bank
of Australasia.
PROF.
CUMBRAE
STEWART,
of Queensland
Uni.
It is curious that Sydney has not de-
veloped a Chelsea as well defined as Mel-
bourne’s. If any spot in Australia has a
claim to the title, it is Eaglemont. Artists,
like timber-getters, have to live near their
raw material and there is square miles of
it round Eaglemont, which subdivisional.
vandals can’t touch because the Yarra
thoughtfully floods it every year. Half-way
down Eaglemont was the home of the De
Castillas, a family which itself produced
several artists, two of whom are now in
England. Here, 40 years ago, came Streeton
and Roberts, followed by Conder, Withers
(buried at the historic private cemetery at
St. Helena), Montgomery, Fred McCubbin
and his son Louis, Bernard Hall, and Nor-
man, Lionel, Percy and Daryl Lindsay.
Blamire Young built a house and planned a
beautiful garden near by. Frater, Waller,
Harrison, Griffin, McGeorge and Mclnnes
are all not far away. On top of the hill
dwells one of those parasites on art —a critic.
G. D. Meudell, the Melbourne sharebroker
who has formed a much-needed anti-noise
society, is nothing if not thorough. He
proposes that dogs, fowls and player-pianos
in the suburbs and typewriters in the city
shall be rigidly controlled, that motor-horns
shall be musical and that engine-whistles and
tram-bells shall harmonise. If only silencers
were now fitted to all politicians, Melbourne
would be the happiest city upon earth.
Ma State Premier Bavin, who had to leave
the last State session for a minor operation
and has been incapacitated on the eve of
another session by a more serious one, is
paying the penalty of doing his job con-
t ientiously. Compared with the buffalo
physique of his opponent Lang, Bavin is
small and even frail-looking, and he takes
politics as seriously as a toucan takes an
afternoon nap. In addition, he is a solid
worker, who insists on personally doing jobs
that the average political leader leaves to
others. Buttenshaw, the Cocky chief, will do
his best to lead the pack (which includes
one or two pseudo-dissenters) during the
little man’s absence.
A. J. Whitehouse, who died in Sydney
last week, was one of the big chiefs of
Australian bowls, for which ancient and
convivial game he did great service. Maori-
land born, he came to Australia 40 years
ago, and plunged into Sydney’s commercial
life, in late years with the big optical firm
of E. J. Paxton, Ltd. He was chiefly re-
sponsible for the formation of the Australian
Bowling Council, the supreme authority for
the game in Australia. He was for a time
secretary, and later treasurer, of N.S.W.
bowls, and organised the capitation system
, which solved the State association’s financial
problems. A fine player, he rolled them down
for the State on more than one representa-
tive side. He was in England not long ago
discussing the question of bowling uniformity
throughout the Empire, when his health
gave way.
A rare old battler called it a day when
Tom Hayward started on his last prospect-
ing trip in Mareeba Hospital (N.Q.), aged
75. He claimed to be a brother of the
famous Cambridgeshire cricketer who was a
professional star when W. G. Grace was
approaching his zenith, and whose nephew,
Tom Hayward, of Surrey, became one of
England’s greatest batsmen. The old man
came to Australia 40 years ago after fighting
in the Kaffir wars at the Cape. After that
he had a go at every alluvial field of any
note in Australasia and New Guinea. Mov-
ing from Westralia to N.Q. he joined the
wolfram gougers when a mere youth of 60,
but in later years he took things easier as
caretaker of Mareeba racecourse' filling in
his spare time gardening.
Though Jack Mostyn has lost his Lord
Mayoral post, his association with Sydney
Town Hall is continuing. As manager of
Motor Ignition, Ltd., he put in the only
tender submitted for electrical equipment and
got the job. Within a few years Mostyn
has been employee of the council, organiser
for a union whose members were employed
by it, Lord Mayor, and now one of its
contractors.
Ex-pedagogue William Field, of Brighton
Mrs. Walter Runciman, who got into the
House of Commons for St. Ives on the Liberal
ticket, after the Conservative J. A. Hawke,
K.C., resigned to take a judgeship, makes
the eighth feminine member in the present
Parliament. Her victory is the first occasion
on which a woman has been responsible for a
change in the political color of an electorate.
A young mail named Ettinger is on his
way to Australia to boost the cause of
Zionism among the Chosen. He is to act as
organising general secretary to the recently-
formed Australian Federation of Zionist
Societies. The salary is not large, but
Ettinger, who makes a break in a legal career
to undertake the job for a term, is an enthusi-
ast. His father has been prominent in the
Zionist movement since, it started ; he is now
in charge of the agricultural department of
the organisation which is dealing with the
Jewish resettlement of Palestine, where young
Ettinger was Wrought up.
Knight Cohen, eight times Mayor of Adel-
aide, has just come back from a tour in
Ceylon. Although 78, he is still young in
all but years, and may yet be mayor again.
One of the best-known and best-liked of
M.L. Inky Wayfarers, Mark Cohen, passed
out in Auckland the other day at 7!). A Lon-
doner by birth, he joined the reporting staff
of the Otago Daily Times of Dunedin after
a course at Otago Uni. A year later he
crossed over to the Star of the same town,
and climbed to the editorial chair. When a
member of Dunedin City Council he pioneered
the M.L. movement towards municipally-
owned tramways. He was also a great figure
m the educational world and gave en am
its first MndergarteP school As president
of the M.L. Journalists Institute he hist
advocated the formation by newspaper men
of an industrial union. As a reward for many
public services lie was appointed to the
Dominion s Plush llous(yMght ywus a K °, and
proved one of its most useful members,
H. G. Morton, whom Sydney stole from
Melbourne for the purposes of its Civic ,Com-
mission, has been succeeded as chief engineer
of the near-million city by I\ S. Robinson,
formerly an engineer of Vic. Rivers and
Water Supply Commission, but lately in
private employment. Robinson had four
years of Armageddon and won the M.C. He
will draw £1250 p.a.
COLIN STEPHEN,
Chairman of the A.J.C.
The best friend of bushranger Thunder-
bolt, Terence Kately, has just died at Armi-
dale (N.S.W.)■ There was nothing against
Kately except her friendsip for the outlaw:
the police offered him big rewards to betray
his pal, but they never tempted him, Kately
started life at Moonbi, graduated from boun-
dary riding to performing with Ashton's
Circus, retired from that to run an Armi-
dale butchery arid went from that into
pub-keeping. Although he had prosperous
times he was always afraid of being buried
as a pauper; and years ago placed in trust
the money which paid for his funeral.
George Bodkin, expelled from the A.W.U.,
may ponder upon the old adage that those
who live by the sword shall die by the sword.
Bodkin had a feud with Dan O’Sullivan,
and finally captured Dan’s job as gen-
eral secretary of the Railway Workers’
Union. He secured his advantage by allying
himself to the A.W.U., which took over the
R.W.U. as a branch. Now Bodkin has been
accused of complicity in a ticket-running
plot, which has led to the expulsion of him
and nine others. Bodkin has several times
sought political honors ; the loss of support
in future efforts is what will hurt most.
Passed on, at 51. Arthur John Heming-
way, who was chief chemist with the old
B.H.P. company and retained the job with
the 8.P1.A.5. when it was formed in 1915.
Earlier he instructed for 27 years at the
Port Pirie technical school, which turned
out some brilliant men. He was responsible
for some important findings in lead poison-
ing research.
The job of Sydney City Engineer is
vacant for the scveralth time during the last
few years. A. H. Biggs resigned when Me-
Elhone was trying to retrench. Norman
Weekes, who was brought from England,
met with such opposition to his schemes
that he, too, resigned. E. W. Coulson got
the job in 1925. and now his resignation has
•been passed in to the Civic Commissioners.
Holidaying in Sydney after 40 years in the
N.T. is F. E. Holmes, who went there as a
boy of 15 looking for more adventure than
the N.S.W. Northern Rivers could supply,
and now has money to burn. Holmes is the
Cattle King of Northern Australia, holding
vast stations on the Barkly tablelands and
running 30,000 head. He also looms big in
many Darwin enterprises. His appearance
suggests that the North is one of the healthy
spots of Australia.
Jones, Vic. Minister for Public Works,
who, in addition to his big tailoring business
in Melbourne, runs a 3000-acre farm at Ben-
alla, -worked his own way up. Thirty-five
years ago he was a farm laborer on a block
outside Bendigo.
General Richardson’s successor as Adminis-
trator of Maoriland’s Samoan Mandate—
Richardson is to go to Geneva to face pos-
sible critics of his administration—is Lieut.-
Col. S. S. Allen, a lawyer who has made
soldiering his principal hobby. A Territorial
officer when the Great War happened alon-'
he joined up with the Auckland Regimenr and
came out in 1918 with a lieut.-colonclcy and
D.S.O. He has stayed with the Territorials,
and lately commanded the Second Auckland
Regiment. Allen’s father was one of the stal-
warts of the old Conservative party, and
the son unsuccessfully contested a seat in
the Reform interest.
Harry Evoldt. whose lonely life'on Deliver-
ance Island. Torres Strait, was recently
mentioned in The Bulletin, was found dead
the other day by the skipper of a launch
who put in to see. how he was. Evoldt, a
Dane, lived on Deliverance for more than
30 years, and was 78 when the end came.
F. W. Eggleston, ex-Vic. Attorney-General,
is reserving himself for the Balaclava seat
which Willie Watt will give up in October,
when, it is expected, the Reps, will be dis-
solved. For that reason he has not butted
in for the Brighton Assembly seat, made
vacant by the death of Snowball.
The first medical graduate of Melb. Uni.
was honored with a tablet at his Alma Mater
recently. He was George Graham, who
graduated in 1862, became president of the
Medical Society in 1878, of the Vic. branch
of the B.M.A. in 1883, and died 10 years
later. His children accompanied the tablet
with a gift of £5OO.
S. O. Daly, who has deserted Fog town’s
stock exchange for six months to have a
look at his native Sydney again, belongs to
a family that made a name in the Harbor
City’s early commercial life. His grand-dad,
one of Sydney’s earliest merchants, owned,
among other property, the Royal Hotel build-
ing in George-street, now being demolished.
S. O. was a captain in the London Rifles
during the war.
Victor Nelson Hood, who, at 65, has de-
cided to link his lot with Mrs. Violet Mc-
Bean, a N.S.W. widow, guided (and tact-
fully bossed) several Australian Governors
as private sec. He was sec. when, at the
opening of one Vic. Parliamentary session,
Governor Reginald Talbot turned over two
leaves instead of one and left out a whole
page of announcements. It wouldn’t have
mattered much, of course, if a member hadn’t
asked Speaker Frank Madden which speech
the House was to discuss—the one of which,
“for greater accuracy,” he had obtained a
copy, or the one liis Ex. had actually de-
livered. Later on Governor Stanley proceeded
to do the same thing, but Hood interposed
quickly and got the leaf turned back.
Percy Grainger, Australia’s only composer
to capture the international ear, who is to
marry Ella Strom, a Swedish painter and
poet, met the lady on the liner that
took him back to America from his homeland
last year, but his liking for things Scandi-
navian is fundamental. He was a protege
of Greig, and has spent more time on the
concert platform popularising that musician’s
opuses than in pushing his own.
P. J. O’Malley, who succeeds Nally as sec.
of Vic. State Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission, has been the right-hand man to
chairman Cattanach for years, and his new
job will come easy to him.
E. Webster, headmaster of Cleveland-street
High School, Syd-
ney, who passed on
at 62 the other
day, founded the
Gould League of
Bird-lovers and in
other ways led
young Australia to
appreciate his
country’s birds.
Webster was a
youngster of only
14 when he started
in the pedagogue
business as a pupil
teacher; his first
- headmastcring job
was at Broken
Hill. Music was
one of his hobbies;
he composed the
song of welcome to
the Duke and
Duchess of York
that was sung by
the school children.
He also compiled
an English gram-
mar for primary
schools; it was
going through the
press at the time
of his death.
R. T. BALL.
N.S.W. Minister
of Lands.
“Phil P.” : Recent mention of the Pitcairn
Islanders recalls the fact that two of them,
Fletcher Christian and Jack Quintal, both
powerful swimmers, were drowned in different
boating mishaps in the Spec. Quintal drifted
from whaling into the territorial police
ranks, and went down with a capsized
boat in sight of his home. Christian was
also in the force when the cold west-coast
waters took him in a similar happening.
THE ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love to wander down the road
That loiters to the sea,
The ragged road, the winding road,
The road that wanders free.
I love the steep and climbing way,
The shaded mountain track,
The path that winds beside the creek
And by the tumbling shack.
I love the red road ’tween the trees,
The far white road of clay,
The long-neglected old dead road
Of old dead yesterday.
I love the road in winds that bite
And in the summer sun,
The road at dawn as day peeps forth,
And when the day is done.
I love to wander down the road
By mountain and by sea;
I love to go where’er the road
Takes me aicay from me.
N.S.W.
HAL GYE.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
Pioneer
Wk
fowLfsir
m
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years.
Made and Guaranteed by
. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd.. 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Uoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Pfciip & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street. Port Adelaide.
WEST ACSTKAIIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar. Richards &
Upton, Anchland. HlaeUburn, Smith
& Co.. Christehnrcii.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY" PLANTS.
tiadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and i Alexandria, Svdnev, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The
WILD CAL
COLUMN
R. 11. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
Dividends.
Pref. To Re Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1917.. 30,465 1200 111 p.c.=13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capiLal, £20,000 .. 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831'
IQIQ J 31,096 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 8,896 47,727
xaij. ) Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,727
1 Internal reserves disclosed and other 1
moo j additions to reserves, £32,721 [ r
' | Reserves capitalised, £36,000
( 28,766 1200 12* p.c.=27,000 506 j
1921.. 40,012 1200 12* „ ~27,000 12,412 17,426
1922.. 41,338 1200 12* „ ~27,048 13,090 30,510
£30,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1923.. 40,600 1200 12* p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,274
1924.. 49,464 1200 12*,, ~31,805 16,459 00,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14 ~ ~35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of interna] reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42.480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,680 119,778
It lias been a wonderful money-spinner. In
th last decade net profits have more than
doubled, and so has the amount handed out
in divs. But, wliat is more, paid capital, which
stood fit £140,000 in 1917, was £326,850 at
Dec. 31, and all but £4450 (employees’
shares) of the difference represents bonus
scrip. Notwithstanding all this shareholders
can now see £68,933 more of reserves
(£119,778) than they could 10 years ago.
Gifts were handed out thus: 1917, £20,000;
1919, £40.000; 1920, £36,000: 1922, £36,000;
1926, £50,400. The first three lots came
from visible accumulations, except that part
of the third was dragged from a safe hiding
place. And that unobtrusive spot has been
visited twice since; on the last occasion
word was let out that only part of the
store there had been removed. The lay-by
in the window has not been dipped into
for the past seven years. Incidentally, profits
claimed by the accounts —£48,288 last year
-—have never been greatly in excess of div.
requirements, but additions, which are in-
cluded with profits in the table, are made
to reserves before the. p.-and-l. figure is
written into the sheet. The amount so
added in the last term was £16,672,
and over the last 10 years no less
than £131,906. After attending to the
prefs., the balance of last year’s net
profit was 20.7 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 22.2, 22.2, 18.9 and 17.9 p.c,
back to 1923. One factor which lias helped
greatly to swell recent earnings was the pur-
chase. in 1925, of the big city freehold formerly
occupied by Ball and Welch. Although
this meant putting an extra .£lOO,OOO-odd
into fixed assets (now £125,233) and a large
increase in stocks, some of which, by the way,
may drag a little in dull times, it has also
allowed the co. to handle much business form-
erly sent to other retailers. In addition to
the rich pickings and discounts from its cash-
order business the co. gathers some nice
profits from its large furniture and furnish-
ing-drapery trade, much of which is on a
t.p. basis. The results speak volumes for
the management.
This comnarison of balance-sheet figures
shows the changes that have taken place :■ —
1924. 1926. 1927.
Sundry creditors, etc. .. £40,815 £41,713 £49,331
Overdraft 19,182 342
Property and plant . . 14,152 118,400 125,233
Stock and hire agreements 107,376 212,301 209,321
Book debts .. .. . . 84,867 97,678 79,079
Shares, debentures and short
■.r lo ! l ™ ( 90,138 129,677
Mortgages .... . . 80,525 j ’
Government securities . . 19,744 —•
Cash, etc 274 690 1,384
Additions to premises and plant during
the year put £6833 on to their book value
(£125,233). Stock and hire agreements
(£209,321) were a trifle lower, hut were
nearly double the figure at which they stood
three years ago. Last year’s surplus earnings
and more went into shares, debentures, etc.
(£129,677), which moved up £39,539. In-
cluding these and stocks, etc., the more
or less liquid surplus (£370,130) improved
by £11,378.
The market prices the ords., which
have a visible backing of 275. lOd. in
net tangibles, at 535.; thus it values pros-
pects and goodwill at nearly as much os
tangible assets. The return at the latter
figure is 5.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
The well protected prefs.—they carry a cumu-
lative 6 p.e.. have priority as to capital and
a net tangible backing of £22 6s. 7d.—are
valued at 18s. The return at that figure is
6.7 p.e.
London Stores, Ltd., men’s outfitters,
etc. (Melbourne), which began with £26,368
of capital represented by goodwill, etc.: —
Written To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. l5 p.e. = 10,500 487 11,124 31,430
1920.. 28,829 15 „ „ 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
1921.. 29,142 17* ~ „ 15,250 491 13,401 62,636
1922.. 31,822 171 ~ „ 17,500 494 13,828 76,464
Alterations account disappears. . 2,066 78,530
1923.. 48,104 27* p.e.= 27,500 455 20,149 98,079
Dropped into reserves . . . . 5,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold .. 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO . . 31,351
1924.. 50,327 15 p.c.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
1925.. 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
9 p.c. 7 i p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 553 7,965 78,306
1927.. 21,117 9 00 15,000 623 74,800
10 p.c.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20,000 633 14,199 88,999
All things considered, the spring of £22,715
in the year’s net earnings was a satisfactory
response to the increased trading facilities
afforded by the new building, the construc-
tion of which was commenced about the
end of 1925. The work disorganised the busi-
ness and the 1926 and 1927 results suffered.
After allowing for the pref. requirements the
balance of the £43,832 netted last year was
17.1 p.c. on average ord. capital compared
with 5.7. 11.4, 24.5 and 24.9 p.c. back to
1924. But the £lOO,OOO of pref. capital
got in to finance building operations has
not had much of a chance so far to show
wliat it can do in the way of earning. For
one thing all the letting space was not ready
for occupation when the accounts closed.
Feb. 29; besides it usually takes a while
for profits to get the full benefit of new
money put into fixed assets. Gross profits
moved in this way:—
1917 .. £61,809 1923 .. £139,695
1918 .. 67,740 1924 .. 139,436
1919 . . 75,983 1925 . . 157,226
1920 .. 95,160 I 1926 .. 127,644
1921 .. 101,332 I 1927 .. 133,202
1922 .. 115,892 \ .1928 .. 157,641
In. the last 10 years both the gross and net
profits have more than doubled. But over-
head is now much heavier than it used to
he, and divs. call for £9OOO p.a. more than
they did three years back. Nevertheless
last year’s outgo (£113,808) was only £1724
heavier than in the previous term; it
was £6216 greater than in 1925, and the
gross profit in each of the two years was
practically the same.
Much of the co.’s splendid progress in the
past lias been the result of a lively turnover
built up on a cash basis, plus good buying.
The floating debt was only £8684 and debts
owing to the co. £6627 at Feb. 29. The co.
had nothing invested in bricks and mortar at
the beginning, and in 1920 only 33.7 p.c. of
shareholders’ funds was represented by pro-
perty as against 94.9 p.c. at the close of last
acounts. Still, very comfortable returns
were won in 1925 when the proportion was
80.5 p.c. However, the burden has been
lightened somewhat by a mortgage of
£129,000. Altogether the new building had
run the co. into £154,128 at Feb. 29. But
the financial position was comfortable
enough:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £36,100 £135,730 £136,721 £137,684
Stock.. .. 98,819 141,043 135,437 147,280
Property, etc. 40,199 290,143 357,027 369,472
Book debts . . 5,054 4,850 4,301 6,027
Plant, etc. . . 4,714 4,803. 5,004 4,946
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 76,697 28,252 21,858
The more or less liquid surplus (£38,081),
including stocks, was strengthened by £6812
during the year. Stocks (£147,280) were
£11,843 heavier.
Goodwill remains at £16,659, but accumu-
lations are now £88.999 in excess of that.
Thus the net tangible backing for the 9 p.e.
cum. prefs., which have priority as to capital,
was £3 17s. 9d., and the year’s net earnings
w;ere nearly five times tlieir annual require-
ments. Impressed by the co.’s prospects
the market offers 365. for the ords. The
cover amounts to 28s. lid. in net tangibles,
mostly freehold. At that price the return
is only 5.8 on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 8.8 p.c.
should the rate be lifted to 15 p.c.
* * * *
McDonnell and East, Ltd., drapers, etc.
(Brisbane) :• — 1
r -Dividends s
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921. . 15,347 720 8 p.c. = 11,593 3,034 980
Reserves disclosed, £5196 .. 6,176
Loss. Deficit.
1922. . 1,080 720 3 p.c. = 5,436 1,060
Profit.
1923.. 9,428 720 5 „ „ 9,060 1,412
Loss.
1924.. 2,211 720 Nil -- 4,343
Profit. Reserves.
1925.. 17,277 720 6 p.e. = 11,015 5,542 1,199
Deficit.
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 1,551
Reserves.
1926.. 20,381 720 7 p.c. = 12,851 6,810 5,259
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 2,509
1927.. 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
When the post-war slump hit the soft-goods
trade this eo.’s shelves were full. It was
not able to unload at a profit, so in an effort
to right the position £35,226 was lopped off
the book value of stocks in 1922. But that
wag not sufficient, and a further cut had to
be made in 1924. This time the job appears
to have been done more thoroughly. In
the following term net earnings showed a
welcome improvement, reaching 10.3 p.c.
on average ord. capital, after allowing for
the prefs., followed by 12.1, 8.1 and 6.2 p.c.
down to the close of last accounts. Drought,
tight money, keen competition and dis-
organisation of the business owing to new
building operations were chiefly responsible
for the shrinkage in net profits over the last
two years. Gross pimfits have moved in this
way: ; —
1921.. .. £74,553 I 1925.. .. £80,765
1922.. .. 49,097 1926.. .. 90,800
1923.. .. 57,713 I 1927.. .. 82,960
1924.. .. 47,936 f 1928.. .. 84,063
Exes, are growing lustily; including pro-
vision for taxation, etc., they ate 86.6 p.c.
of last year’s gross profit compared with
82.9, 77.5 and 78.6 p.c. in the three pre-
ceding terms. The demands of the tax-
gatherer grow greater, but management
charges were £70,823 last year as against
£61,919 two years earlier. Also the board
decided that reserves—ls. 4d. per ord. share
at Jan 31 —should not bo further neglected;
consequently the ords., which have averaged
only 4* p.c., went hungry for the second
time since 1920. Now that the new build-
ing is practically complete it is reasonable
to expect that profits will improve, but a
tight bold needs to be kept upon exes. Then
any surplus profit that remains after the
prefs. have been attended to and 8 p.c.
handed to the ords. is to be applied to the
purchase of ord. scrip until £25,000 in fully
paids has been handed to the directors of
the old co. However, the death of one of
them hastened events; lienee the appearance
of £S2SO of goodwill at Jan. 31. Meantime
the balance of the amount due carries in-
terest at the same rate as the div. paid to
the ords. This is included with the ord.
div. in the table.
Chiefly to finance building operations,
£57.315 lias been added to the debt
(£134,422) in the last two years:—
1926 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £170,338 £175,427 £178,177
Mortgages . . . . 10,200 36,200 40,200
Overdraft .. .. 28,862 48,899 54,699
Sundry creditors .. 32,045 35,783 ‘33,523
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 64,107 87,485 108,655
Stocks 111,617 120,322 117,005
Book debts, cash, etc! . . 94,825 103,381 102,297
There is nothing uncomfortable in the
financial position. Additions to the mort-
gage and overdraft left the more or less
liquid surplus (£84,880). including stocks
(£117,005), £17,941 less than it was a year
ago. Nothing is said as to the basis upon
which stocks have been taken into the
sheet, and a great deal hangs upon that.
The market, which is not impressed, offers
13s. 6d. or thereabouts for the ords.
ij: jfc i|: $
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd. (when the
Combine cos. were formed in 1915 the assets
of this co. were written up—apparently by
£67,228 net) :
, Dividends —-— N Nominal
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
Feb., £ £ £ £
1919.. 6,022 10 p.c. = 1200 5 p.c. = 3035 70,210
1920.. 5,219 10 „ ~1200 5 ~ „ 3035 71,194
'1921.. 10,076 10 „ „ 12fi0 10 „ ~ 6071 73,999
1922.. 7,214 10 „ ~ 1200 10. „ ~6071 73,942
1923.. 6,243 10 „ ~ 1200 5 „ ~3035 75,950
1924.. 6,224 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~6071. 74,903
1925.. 6,136 10 „ ~ 1200 10 „ ~6071 73,168
1926.. 9,779 10 „ ~1200 10 ~ ~6071 76,276
1927.. 8,332.10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~ 6071 77,336
1928.. 10,069 10 ~ ~1200 10 „ ~ 6071 80,134
The 10 p.c. to shareholders has been re-
peated with comfort, the year’s net earnings
being 13.8 p.c. on capital compared with
11.5, 13.4. 8.4 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1923.
Like the rest of the cos. in the combine
Amalgamated is mainly a holding concern.
Profits, therefore, chiefly depend upon what
the operating cos. turn in by way of divi-
dends. Out of assets totalling £167,795 the
shareholding in General Film Co. accounts
for £87,616, representing 48,286 shares each
in Union Theatres and Australasian Films.
These shares and £ll.OOO of debentures repre-
sent the price paid by the combine for the
transfer of Amalgamated’s interests. Nearly
£60,000 of the purchase consideration was
for goodwill. Instead of pumping that
amount of hot air into its own capital the co.
created a special reserve to provide against
fluctuations in the value of the shares. One
result has been a much steadier div. rate
than could otherwise have • been paid. In-
cluding £10,337 advanced to Union Theatres
and General Film Co. and £4OOO in shares
held in country theatres, interests in other
cos. totalled £113.653 at Feb. 29. In addi-
tion there is £9693 in Government securities.
Also the co. owns the Melbourne Majestic, a
leasehold on which it has simnt over £34,000.
Union Theatres runs the Majestic, Amalga-
mated collecting the rent. Another interest
is the St. Tvilda Theatre, in at £8642, a free-
hold on which £2716 appears to have been
spent on improvements during the year. Tin;
returns from property have been fairly
steady, but other earnings have been er-
ratic :
Properties. Divs.,etc. Expenses.
1920 .. .. £4468 £2,452 £1306
1922 .. .. 4752 4,465 1570
1923 .. .. 4820 3,533 1675
1924 .. .. 4888 3,038 1267
1925 .. .. 4963 3,679 2072
1926 .. .. 4949 7,501 2238
1927 .. .. 4831 5.932 1996
1L 28 .. .. 4724 8,012 2234
Assuming that the debentures and public
securities bring in 5 p.c., then the return
from share holdings was over 7 p.c. on
their face value last year compared with
5* p.c- in the previous term. For the
three years to June 30, 1926, the com-
bined net earnings of Union Theatres and
Australasian Films averaged nearly 15* p.c.
on their combined paid capital. Lately t hese
cos. have been putting by a substantial part
of their earnings to finance the building of
theatres, chiefly the new picture-house being
put up for Union Vheatres in Sydney.
Here is a picture of the business in
balance-sheet figures :
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Mortgages. . .. £2,500 £2,500 £2,500 £2,500
Creditors .. .. 1,086 1,560 1,898 2,143
Freeholds . . .. 6,565 6,401 5,926 8,642
Leaseholds(at cost) 34,288 34,288 34,288 34,288
Shares and deben-
tures . . . . 103,310 103,310 103,316 103,310
Hook debts .. 4,810 9,203 10,983 11,220
Cash, etc. .. 11,402 10,984 11,889 12,824
At June 30, 1926, net tangibles in the
two operating cos. amounted to 10s.' 9d. per
share, subject to goodwill, if any, in
£106,221 of investments. On that basis the
tangible value of Amalgamated’s holding
works out at £40,000-odd short of the book
value (£87,616) ; but against that has to be
set the capital reserve referred to above.
Thus, with £20,470 otherwise accumulated
there are genuine reserves approximating
£40,000, equal to about 13s. per ord. share.
The market, impressed by the co.’s pro-
spects, pays 27s- for the ords. The return
at that figure is 7.6 p.c. after allowing for
the final div. (Is.). The attractive 10 p.c.
cum. profs.—they advance with the ords.
beyond that rate and have priority as .to
capital—are tightly held.
* 4! * *
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), ship
chandlers, hardware merchants and general
importers at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisban"
and elsewhere-
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serve?, serves.
1918 .. 28,980 15 p.c. = 22.500 6,480 16,041
1919 .. 30,071 10 „ „ 15,000 15,071 31,112
Transferred to capital .. 25,000 6,112
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up, goodwill
included at £05,000 and seven £1 fully-paids ! n
new to. issued for every four in old.
Net To Reduce
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1920 .. 32,279 10 p.c. = 17,5751
(Gmos.) Reserved for taxes, 6,000 J- 5,704 59,290
Employees’ bonus, 3,000 J
1921 .. 26,588 6} p.c. = 21,968 4,619 54,677
Loss. Added.
1922 .. 39,425 21 „ „ 8,787 48,212 102,858
Capital written off, £52,725 .. 50,164
Reserved for bad debts, 8,836 . . 59,000
1923 .. 2,966 Nil 2,966 61,966
1924 .. 4,674 Nil 4,674 66,640
Reserves.
Capital written off’, £79,087.. .. 12,447
Reserved for bad debts, contingencies,
etc., £12,447
Profit.
1925 .. 11,830 Nil 11,830 11,830
Profit on sale of asset, £783.. .. 12,613
1926 .. 12,144 6 p.c. = 13,181 11,576
1927 . . 4,409 2 „ „ 4,394 15 11,591
Even that profit was not earned. In addition
to the reserves included in the table there is
a provision for doubtful debts (£2800), un
changed during the year; a marine fun-1
(£546), to which £46 was added, and a con-
tingency reserve (£3000), which was drawn
upon for £1697. Thus the year’s net earn-
ings were a mere £2757, or £1637 less than
the interim div. (2 p.c.). The board blames
chiefly the drought in Queensland, but pins
hopes for the future on improved industrial
conditions and a restoration of the lost
shipping ; business. Most of the trouble
began with the last and ill-judged bonus
issue in 1920, when seven £1 shares were
banded out for every four held. To do it
the board wrote up pretty well everything
that could be written up and put goodwill
in the books at £65,000. That the whole
thing had been overdone soon became obvious
when hardware prices began to plunge down-
ward. In 1923 3s. per share was struck off;
it was not enough. In. 1925 another cut
of 4s. 3d. per share was made, goodwill
(£59,000) was rubbed out and £12,000 re-
served for bad debts and contingencies.
Nothing very radical, however, appears to
have been done with the tangible assets: —
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities . . £153,705 £146,612 £135,437 £138,426
Premises,
plant, etc... 143,797 137,458 125,994 126,140
Stock . . 193,601 201,594 209,552 209.392
Book debts . . 45,959 45,798 44,377 38,907
Cash, etc. . . 2,931 1,876 3,561 1,611
Hardware prices have steadied, but the line
is a very difficult one. Stocks, practically
unchanged during the year, are the danger
spot. They are far too heavy considering
the poor returns won. No harm would bo
done if they were worked down and some of


The National Bank of Australasia Limited
Head Office: 271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Offices and Branches (483) in all States.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - £5,000,000. RESERVE FUND (used in the business) - £2,911,576
■1
mm
: r :
H
THE NEW HEAD-OFFICE BUILDING AND ITS SURROUNDINGS.
THE NATIONAL BANK, through 483 Offices and Branches in the
Commonwealth, its Offices in London and Agents in all parts of the
world, provides a complete range of banking facilities. In the new Head
Office, Melbourne, a Women’s Department and Public Safe Deposit
have been instituted to give added service to the Public.
W'OMEN’S DEPARTMENT is situated on the ground floor and includes the
usual business office, together with lounge and retiring room. Full banking
facilities are available and the comfort and convenience of the Department
renders it attractive and useful to the Bank’s women clients.
PUBLIC SAFE DEPOSIT provides maximum protection for valuable docu-
ments, jewellery, etc. Lockers of various sizes are available at low rentals,
or space for boxes and packages may be hired for long or short periods.
INSPECTION AND INQUIRY INVITED.
!l]l I
>k>t
f
l
i
V .
* m o.
£5
rA
um&;,
m'%'<
rmbM
f m
/I
n
Ml
u.
THE CENTRE DOORWAY t
COLLINS STREET.
m
■m
INTERIOR VIEW, THE SAFE DEPOSIT.
mrnSm
vm ! MiHftt
mill wr w m
g*«UJU W
1
GENERAL VIEW OF MAIN BANKING HALL.
Copies of the following publications, issued by the Bank, may be obtained at any of its Branches—
“MONTHLY SUMMARY OF AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS,”
“SERVICES AND FACILITIES,” “ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?”
TOTAL ASSETS OF THE BANK, 31st March, 1927, £42,900,000.


Don’tLoseYourMoaey
CONSULT
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly”
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
APRIL NUMBER
READY SATURDAY NEXT.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
We stock -f- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
In many big projects, all over Australia, that
involve conveying water long distances, the splendid
economy of using Pioneer Wood Pipe has been proved.
It is light in weight, easily transported over rough
country, and simply installed. Throughout 'its long
life, service is unimpaired by corrosion of any kind
and maintenance costs are negligible. Get full
information from The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry to Figtree
Bridge), N.S.W’.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* sH * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Very Useful and Interesting. “Your pamphlet
‘lnvention’ contains very useful and interesting in-
formation dealing with patents,” writes a corres-
pondent from the Tweed River. A copy of this
booklet will be sent free on receipt of your name
and address. Write to H. 11. Rayward, Me.E., Patent
Attorney and Consulting Engineer, Room 509, Sirius
House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.— Advt. [I
s< * * *
The production of ice at unprecedentedly low cost
is made possible by the installation of the “National”
Crude-Oil Engine. The fuel consumption of these
engines is so low and their operation so efficient
that numbers are being installed with increasing
satisfaction to the user. The “National” Engine as
a prime mover has no equal and the reliability of a
“National” is shown by the amount of unattended
running which is done, this feature also helping to
reduce the cost per ton of producing ice. Messrs.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sirius House,
Macquarie.Place, Sydney, also at Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, who are the Representatives of the
National Gas Engine Co., will be only too pleased
to give the fullest particulars to interested inquirers,
as now is the time to consider the '■» equipment of
your plant for the next season.— Advt.
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
PERMANENCE
WHOM WILL
YOU APPOINT?
Tha burden of trusteeship in these modern days demands the expert knowledge
and resources of a highly-trained and highly-specialised organisation.
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LIMITED,
act as Executors, Trustees, Attorneys and Agents, and offer a service which foi-
permanence, security and efficiency could not be equalled by an individual trustee,
even were he to devote his whole'time to the administration of your Estate alone.
There is no time like the present to appoint a reliable
Executor or Trustee. Our interesting Booklet, giving
much valuable information and help on these matters,
will be forwarded free on request.
25 O'Connell Sydney.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED. 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
the heavy outside debt wiped off. The mort-
gage and overdraft account for £llJ,oot,
and trade creditors, £19,046.
The market values the scrip, fully paid to
12s. 6d., at 4s. 9d., and that is not very
flattering to the figure at which stocks
appear in the sheet; they represent most ot
the net tangible cover of 13s. 2d. per share.
* * * *
The latest annual survey by N. Macintosh
Ellis the Maoriland Director of Forestry, or
the progress made by the 25 commercial
forestry companies operating in the Dominion
should be of interest to investors in these
concerns. Comparing the latest figures, which
are for the year ended March 31, 19-1, witi
the two previous returns, a substantial re-
duction is shown in the cost of tree-planting
and maintenance. In 1924-25 31,-44 acres
were planted at a cost of approximately 14
per acre ; in 1925-26, 11,451 acres at a cost
of £3 17s. 6d. per acre; and m 19-0-27,
49,824 acres at a cost of £2 per acre. 1 he
companies between them now hold -13,0U8
acres for the freehold portion of which
(207,950 acres) £404,640 has been paid. In
addition to this expenditure £157,300 lias
been spent on afforestation; £351,307 on
“management, etc.,” and £845,374 went in
“other expenses.” Salaries paid for manage-
ment and office staff in the three years’period
accounted for £15,145, leaving £336,-2- under
the heading of “etc.” Excluding expenses
other than for land purchase incurred prior
to March. 1924, which cannot have been
very large’, the companies had spent up to
March 1927, £1,250,000, and their liabilities
aggregated at that date £1,448,921, the big-
gest items being paid-up share capital,
£339,662; mortgages, £266,933; and ’other
liabilities,” which includes liabilities to bond-
holders, £760,022.
* =!= * *
The liquidators of Mount Morgan have made
their first distribution of ss. per share. Ihe
payment comes from realisation of invest-
ments in other cos. The fixed assets have
been offered for sale by tender, but no re-
sponse has been received so far. '' hat the
ultimate fate of the big plant will be it is
impossible to say, but further distributions
will be largely governed by what can be
got for it. During its 40 years of life the
co. received £30,116,549 from gold. and
copper, and shareholders drew dividends
amounting to £9,379,166.
* * - * *
Roma No. 2 bore started last week and
that resuscitated interest in oil there. This
bore was selected by Dr. AVoolnougli; it is
about 10 chains from No. 1 and is presumed
to be down the Hospital Hill dome, thus
geologically being in a more favorable posi-
tion for striking oil. if present in a free
state, than gas. It is intended to proceed
to 4000 ft. or 5000 ft. and test the lower
strata for further petroliferous zones.
R.O.C. director Timbury says that American
authorities have pronounced the oil a filtrate
with commercial possibilities of production.
This is a counter to the Queensland chemists,
who pronounced it a condensate from the wet
gas. It may be patriotically hoped that
the “filtraters” are right. AVoolnougli num-
bers himself amongst the band inclined to
the later theory; lienee the Commonwealth
Government’s expansive gestures towards the
operations of the R.O.C.
* =i= * *
“Peter”: Ernest Bails did not take long
to find two properties in W.A. that he
thought good enough for Adelaide investors.
After sampling the New Mararoa, Norse-
inan, he recommended the Golden Butterfly
Co. to take a 12 months’ working option
over the property on the following terms:
£l5O deposit, £3500 cash and one-tentli fully
paid interest should option be exercised.
New Mararoa has long been worked by three
prospector owners of the right _type, and
lias possibilities. Below the 170 ft. level
three winzes sunk to depths of 30 feet have
exposed a body of Quartz averaging -five
feet wide and going loz. per ton. The bot-
tom of main shaft, 270 feet, does not look
so well, but north driving may disclose im-
provement. Reef in face of north drive,
170 ft., level, has widened to 24 inches. It
is on developments in this direction, towards
the old Mararoa workings, that the Butterfly
Co. must rely for success. Since develop-
ments in the old Mararoa greatly improved
below depth of 300 feet, Bails might do
worse than recommend some diamond drill-
ing to about 400 feet vertical. During the
past 12 niontlis New Mararoa 4OO
tons of an average gold content of 17dwt.
per ton.
Bails’s second string, Hill 00, Mt. Mag-
net, is another privately-owned concern
with a small treatment, plant. The hill con-
tains a big ore deposit, and is near the
old St. George, where the late Dorrie Doo-
iette spent some strenuous days mine-man-
aging prior to the Bullfinch strike. The
hale has been worked on the open-cut sys-
tem and a decent profit won from it. East
year 3850 tons Were treated for 18770 z., and
working costs are low. A live Adelaide
crowd formed a syndicate —100 shares at
£lO each —to send Ernest Bails and W.
Bcstwick to give the show a second look-
over. Vendors are asking £12,000 and a
10 per cent, interest for 12 months’ working
option.
* * * *
H. E. Vail and other Kalgoorlie mining
bosses have again been complaining about
the discouragement of gold-mining. They
reckon that in order to .give the industry a
leg-up the Federal Government ought to re-
move all import duties from mining mach-
inery—a very old cry. And Vails thinks it
ought to subsidise developmental work on a
tonnage basis.
* * * *
Two new gold finds are being puffed in
the West, and option-seekers for indigent
Adelaide cos. and co. promoters anxious to
float abandoned or buried has-beens are ou
the job. One “rich reef” has been exposed at
St. Ives. However, discoveries made in the
past at this place have always been of the
flasli-in-the-pan variety, and judging by the
meagre reports to hand there is no reason
to suppose that the present one is going
to be any different. The other find has
been made on the old Bullfinch Pty., and is
but another of the several rich pockets which
have been unearthed there since the Bull-
finch co. gave up and tributors and working
parties took a hand.
* • * * *
Glenelg Hills (W.A.) and its handful of
remaining shows arc marking time pending
the discovery or provision of a water supply
by the Government. Several claimholders
have tried but failed to strike water at
depth, and Government boring operations
have been unsuccessful, too. By arrange-
ment with the Government the Great Bea-
con co. is now sinking a hole in the hope of
striking an adequate supply for the field. If
it is successful the installation of a State
mill is promised. Several thousand tons of
good-grade stuff are awaiting treatment, and
much moie is said to be in sight. Doubts are
about the permanency of the field at depth.
*!t $ *
Mutooroo co. still clings to its option at
Mt. Vernon (W.A.). For some time pro-
spects hung in the balance, but latterly an
improvement is said to have taken place;
anyhow a recent report stated that at 100 ft.
values averaged from 1$ to 2oz. over a fair
width. The co. proposes to go a little deeper
before making up its mind as to the suit-
ability of the show.
SjC ❖ # ❖
As the Westralian wheat farmers trek
east into the goldfields, the gold seekers
reciprocate by marching in the opposite
direction into the heart of the cocky country.
On the Eastern Goldfields Southern Cross
was the western limit for mining for a third
of a century; then Westonia, 45 miles further
west, was discovered. Later came Glenelg
Hills, and now two prospectors from Burra-
coppin, 13 miles west of Westonia, have
lodged a 15oz. bar in the bank at Merredin,
which considers itself the wheat capital of
Westralia.
* * * *
The tin share market has been showing
signs of the inevitable slide to which
the “Wild Cat” drew attention months ago.
The drop in tin prices, disappointing pre-
liminary returns in some of the new enter-
prises, heavy working exes, in others and a
determined bear movement have all had their
influence. Another and perhaps more cogent
reason is the market’s inevitable recognition
that many of the stocks had been long
held at premiums which were out of
proportion to the dividend-paying capacity of
the propositions concerned. It was not pos-
sible for some of the shares, bought at a
heavy premium, to return much, if any, pro-
fit on the outlay unless mining recoveries
showed a high rate of increase on the flota-
tion estimates, and that is something which
only happens in bed-time stories for brokers.
* * * *
With tin tumbling and costs tending to
rise, in spite of the most careful manage-
ment, shareholders are beginning to study
field figures, which the average run of them
were wont to disregard in happier days.
Some of the cos. have always been at pains
to show working costs, others have not. But
some of those that have been silent in the
past are now putting their cards on the
table.
* * * *
Lampeh Tin, a Southern Siamese show
with a Melbourne registration, has reported
that after working a small rich pocket boul-
ders and buried timbers were met with, as a
result of which the course of the dredge
had to be altered. The ground worked after
the change averaged 21 feet in depth, and
recoveries were ,541 b. to the yard. Digging
is to be pushed on with through new ground,
the average depth of which is estimated at
13 feet and the value at .BSlb. Lampeh has
had a varied career. It originally held about
4SOO acres, and a suction cutter-dredge was
put in for a start. This was a failure. Next
it was decided to put a large bucket dredge
to work on the property; but expert advice
was that much of the area carried limestone
pinnacles which would make bucket dredging
unsuitable. However, a small dredge was
put in to work the area not affected by lime-
stone, and it is operating on the property
to-day. The original boring results of some
300 acres of the lease showed 17,000,000
yards averaging a pound per yard. The
dredge at present working turns over only
42,000 yards per month, digging to 30 feet
below water level. Capital is in 100,000
ords. f.p. to fl each and 50,000 prefs. paid
to 14s. each.
$ * * *
Ratrut Basin, the Malaya Tin Corpora-
tion float, which was originally operating in
the Renong district but acquired a new
property near Sichon in South-eastern Siam,
has experienced considerable delay in shift-
ing plant, etc., to the new property. How-
ever, matters are now progressing more
favorably, and the re-erection of the No. 1
dredge, transferred from Renong, is well in
hand. Also, the pontoon material for No. 2
dredge is now on the ground. The necessary
stores, bungalows and workshops are in pro-
cess of erection.
* * * *
Pungali Tin, Austral Malay’s youngest off-
spring, has accepted British tenders for the
construction of two steam-driven bucket
dredges. These will have a capacity of
150,000 c.y. per month each, and are to be
completed within nine months from date of
contract. The balance of the co.’s con-
tributing capital is to be called —2s. per
share at intervals of two months. The first
payment is due Aprill 18.
* M< * *
Commonwealth Malaya Tin sent E. J. J.
Rodda north, but after combing numerous
properties lie hung on to only one, at Renong.
This area is now under option to another
co. for £7500 cash and £17,500 in shares. To
finance further exploration of areas on
Rodda’s list, another 2500 shares will be
issued by Commonwealth Malaya—one for
six—at par.
# * * *
The first batch of Malaysian tin dredging
returns for March comes from Alluvial Tin.
and for the most part shows improvement in
average recoveries. Rawang’s dredge averaged
.411 b., as against ,401 b. for February, the
turnover being almost identical. Costs were
4.13 d. per cubic yard. The sluicing plant
got 35 tons from 80.000 yards, averaging
1.051 b., as against ,081 b. for February, but
this was not up to the new year promise of
1.131 b. to the yald. Costs here were 7.25 d.
per yard. Malim Na\yar dug 83,0(K) yards
for 15 tons, averaging a trifle over .431 b. per
yard, while February's return was .401 b.,
from a slightly larger yardage. Costs were
6.4 d. It was announced late in the month
that the dredge, a big steam-driven plant de-
signed to dig 84 feet, had capsized. Allu-
vial has specialised in these deep-digging
machines. Consequential loss and damage is
covered, but getting the dredge on her legs
again will be a tedious job. Malim Nawar
South bettered February’s averages; it took
35 tons from 145,000 yards, averaging a
trifle under .581 b., the previous month’s
figures were 30 tons from 140,000 yards,
average .511 b. Costs were 4.2 d. Kun-
dang had a poor month, turning over 09,000
yards in 391 hours and averaging ,461 b.,
against .651 b. for February. Costs were
5.39 d. per yard. Ivuala Kampar improved,
taking 15 tons from 68,000 yards, an average
of close on .531 b. In February the return
was 25 tons from 121,000 yards, and the
average .501 b. Costs were 4.11 d. per yard.
Tanjong Tualong bucked up considerably
with 50 tons from 175,000 yards, averaging
over ,741 b. to the yard, compared with 35
tons from 200,000 yards, averaging ,421 b.. for
the previous month. Costs were 2.30 d., a
notable rate. Changkat’s first full month’s
results are satisfactory; 17 tons came from
61,000 yards, averages going just under .671 b.
Costs were high, 7.34 d. per yard, but allow-
ances must be made for the unforeseen diffi-
culties always attendant on opening up a new
dredging proposition. The recovery is far
from the 211 b. estimate for the richer por-
tion of the area, though it betters that for
the poorer part, which was reckoned at 41b.
to the yard. It has been stated that ample
water is available, but time was lost during
the month through drought conditions, which
have now" passed away.
* * Ms *
Bundi Tin’s March return shows a steady
improvement in recoveries from the two
dredges in the Bundi and Cheneh valleys,
the combined turnover of 137,000 yards re-
sulting in the recovery of 71 tons t.o. for an
average of 1.201 b. per yard; the previous
month’s figures were 77 tons from 156,000
vards, average I.lBlb. For the first quarter
of 1928 the co. treated 436,000 yards of
ground for 196 tons, which gives the very
satisfactory average of I.oBlb. per c.y. Work-
ing costs, which might help in estimating
Xirofits, are not given. Paid capital is
£55.000 in £1 shares. Recent quotes were
b 465., s 475.
* ' * * *
Takuapa’s output of 80,000 yards for
March shows a slight improvement on the
February turnover. Ninety-six hours were
lost in the first fortnight and five days in
the second for repairs and replacements.
The return was 22 tons t. 0., and the aver-
age per yard ,661 b., a drop from February’s
.791 b.
* * * *
Bell’s Plain Hydraulic Tin Sluicing Co.
(Tas.) made a loss of £lll9 during the six
months to Oct. 31 last; tin sold fetched only
£194. The promoters took £3OOO in f.p.
shares and £7OOO cash, and flotation exes,
ran away with £(}9o. Arrangements are
being made in London to form a new com-
pany to work the lease. The north-east dis-
trict of Tasmania has hundreds of small de-
posits of alluvial tin like that being worked
by the Bell’s Plain co. These may pay indi-
vidual tin-scratchers, but cos. with a heavy
overhead are likely to find them unprofitable.
* * •# * *
West Australian Portland Co., now in
liquidation, failed to make money out of the
manufacture of cement,'* but its successor,
Swan Portland Co., has "so far done fairly
well. Shareholders received most of the
first year’s profit (£12,957) in a 10 per
cent, div., but cash resources after allowing
for this disbursement are very small. Paid-
up capital is £97,269 and uncalled capital
£51,468. The money was put up chiefly in
Perth and Sydney.


s
r:;- ;
i
GOLO
in&mi*
Kef
*•*%*s
; „ r
Pf*Gfi
wtg» m
:/:
rw-
H.ft-H
jMiMgi
..
. ■ ■
Si&fe ■
**ww> • < fa*'*"*!
as
..
THE DimiXEl*/ AGENCY LTD
EDINBURGH SCOTLAND
Croton]


Measure value
by the New
Chrysler
The New Chrysler “52”
owner best knows the ut-
most in motor car value
—judged by performance,
comfort and luxury.
For he has daily experience
of its smooth, unfailing speed
and typical Chrysler accel-
eration and low fuel con-
sumption.
He rides in substantial wood
and steel bodies of full size
for adult passengers, on
saddle spring seat cushions.
fsd
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.z. : Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
His Chrysler “52” has richer
fittings and equipment, up-
holstery of finer texture and
colour harmonies so much
more striking.
Let the New Chrysler “52”
be your measure of value in
this price field. Inspect care-
fully its body features. Then
test its performance by
actual riding and driving.
You, too, will then choose
the New Chrysler “52.”


AT THE EASTER SHOW AND RACES
sdf
YOU WILL FIND
GREAT USE FOR
ROSS
GLASSES
The fine British Binoculars, the best that the
world of modem optical science has pro-
duced, bring distant objects right to feet and
you can watch every interesting detail of
ring events or racing without eye strain. A sir
to see the extra wide field models.
SOLD AT LONDON CATALOGUE PRICES.
PRICES FROM £lO,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD
Sight-Testing Opticians,
23 AND 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PLAIN FIGURES..
CASH ONLY.
*Such a reputation is not won overnight**
yftit-'M
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d , . ♦ ♦ 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin tS Co.. London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Yarragundry”: I purposely refrained
from replying to “Whaler” (B. 11/8/’27) on
the scarcity of fish in N.S.W. inland rivers
pending a close observation of an abnor-
mally low winter, spring and summer river
and the effect of Burrinjuck in restricting
the natural flow. The rainfall was ample
to cause a big rise had the water not been
'mpounded in Burrinjuck. But the result
A DIFFERENT MATTER.
“No good you go swim along night-time, taubada. Too much crocodile he walk-about.”
“Go ’way, boy! I’m not swimming, I’m drowning.”
was that the river never rose above ten feet
over summer level and the lagoons were
not reached to enable the fish impounded
therein to enter the river to spawn. In the
main stream itself, owing to there being no
big flush to remove the silt, the fish prac-
tically ceased to travel. In proof of this I
earned £3 2s. over the open season whilst
the local steaka-da-oysts had to draw
their fish supplies from Melbourne. Re-
cently, in a foot of weed-infested water along
the banks, shoals of cod up to ten pounds
in weight could be observed feeding in the
clear stream. Bait or nets they disdained.
“Whaler” argued that big irrigation pumps
suck up the fish. That maybe so on the
Murray, but I am referring only to the
’Bidgee.
* * * *
“H.H.”: Whilst travelling through Uran-
gan (C.Q.) some months ago I saw an old
abo., nearing 80, making pictures on bottles
with colored sands from Frazer Island,
where, he said, there are 24 different hues.
His method of working was to place two or
three colors in the bottle and stir them up
in water ; he then dipped a long wire with
a flat point into the mixture and made his
pictures on the side of the bottle. The one
I possess has a picture of an ocean steamer
done in black on a blue sea.
.-1: # * *
“F.S.G.”: A friend of mine who is a
poultry enthusiast owns a fox-terrier that
bas the freedom of the fowl-run. Every
morning the poultry are turned into an ad-
joining allotment used as a scratching
ground. The terrier generally accompanies
them and, after a time, singles out a hen
from the rest of the flock and works her,
sheep-dog fashion, back to the laying pens.
There the hen is given no peace until she
enters a nest, and then Tinker lies down
and watches his charge. AVhen, some time
later, the hen’s cackling proclaims that she
has performed her duty she is allowed to
depart, and Tinker goes and selects another
laggard. What would happen if he picked
on a hen that was in the moult, for instance,
and not laying, I don’t know; but the re-
markable thing is that he never does strike
a dud. Also, he does not concern himself
over the roosters.
:]: * * *
“Six and Eight”: Mention (B. 7/3/’2B)
of the homing instincts shown by bullocks
and horses recalls a similar innate pro-
pensity in a black-backed magpie ( G.
tibicen). Kept as a pet on Gamboola station
(N.S.W.), he misbehaved —flew and sav-
agely pecked at visitors—and was sentenced
to be deported to a shepherd’s hut about 15
miles away. The shepherd did not like to
shut up the tiny malefactor in a cage, so
he cut a wing. Three days later a be-
draggled little bird, on feet raw and bleed-
ing from his long walk, limped up to the
homestead’s front door. His conviction was
quashed and a free pardon granted.
AND SHE DEAD, TOO!
“Well, Mrs. Murphy, I’m sorry to hear you’ve lost your neighbor. Where’s she to
be interred?”
“Och, Father, it’s terrible. She’s not to be interned at all — they’re goin’ to have the
poor old soul incriminated. "
“Toonooba”: That curious fish the man-
grove-skipper (Periophthalmus australis) is
found in abundance along the mangrove-
fringed shores of tropical Queensland. It is
reputed to grow to a length of 12in., but T
have never seen a specimen which exceeded
4in. The fish’s formidable scientific name
arises from the fact that its quaint goggle-
eyes are located on top of its head; thus it
can “see all round.” By means of muscular
pectoral fins, the skipper is able to hop about
on the slimy mud of mangrove swamps or
draw itself high up on projecting roots or
other vantage points. Exposure to the atmo-
sphere appears to be essential to its existence.
The tail is so modified that it forms a supple-
mentary gill; hence the little fellow is fre-
quently seen lying with tail in and head out
of the water. Though frequently called the
climbing-perch, the mangrove-skipper does
not resemble that N.Q. fish.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Testimony to the food
value of Irish stout was recently given by
cockroaches in a Perth hotel cellar. Boomer
’roaches with glossy wings were constantly
sighted, and one day the publican gave orders
to have the cellar emptied in order to exter-
minate them. An old dust-covered case, be-
lieved to be empty, was dragged out from a
musty corner. Finding it full of something,
the yardman wrenched off a board, and hun-
dreds of ’roaches came hurtling out. Not
one was under three inches in length. In the
case were four dozen of stout with their
corks eaten out where the ’roaches had gone
in for their liquor.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: The patience of the Afghan
camel-driver is hard to beat. Some years
ago I witnessed the loading of pipes and
windmill gear, including troughing, at Her-
gott Springs (S.A.) for a station in S.-W.
Q’land. The Afghan boss and his two off-
siders took all one day to load up. As soon
as one camel was fully laden and a com-
mencement had been made on the next, the
first pilgrim would rise and capsize his
load. Five weeks afterwards, when I again
passed the ’Ghans, they had covered 80 miles
of their 400-mile trip. That loading took six
months to deliver, but every bit of it ulti-
mately arrived at the station.
% * # *
“Two Seas”: It’s not always the immi-
grant who makes the fool-mistakes one reads
about. A Sydney-born young man went for
a ride one morning on a mare I kept hobbled
in a paddock close to the homestead on ac-
count of her jumping proclivities. Before
he left I told him to be sure and hobble her
again when he returned. Next morning
while shaving I noticed through my bedroom
window that the mare was behaving in an
extraordinary manner. Apparently she had
an attack of the staggers and I ran out in
my pyjamas to her assistance. When I got
close I was amazed to see that she had the
hobbles buckled on her hind legs. The ex-
planation given by the smart city chap was
that he had forgotten which end of her he
took them off, and thought it didn’t matter
anyhow. The luck of a fool! Had not the
mare been knocked up when he brought her
home she would have solved the problem as
to whether he had any grey matter in his
thick skull.
* • * * * |
“Up Top” 1: A voracious black ant raids
the nests of his wjiite brothers in the Far
North. Eventually lie takes full possession,
devours the inmates, then turns his atten-
tion to the many storage chambers filled
with the fruits of the white ants’ labor. The
pirate is an arrogant-looking black ant, of
generous proportions. Many a deserted
nest is proved to have been ravaged by these
ants, which in sufficient numbers could wipe
out the white-aiit pest for all time.
* * *
“Te W.”: Every wild ,;hird, whether of an
aquatic variety or not, '-knows instinctively
how to swim. Whilst I was examining a
nestful of black fantails two of the chicks
fluttered out and pitched into the middle of
a river below the nest. The young birds,
which were pretty well feathered, were not
at all put out, but immediately swam to land.
Sturt, the explorer, recorded having seen a
couple of emus calmly enter the water and
swim across the Murrumbidgee at a wide
and fairly rapid part. The flightless fowl
may often be called upon to swum in the
course of great floods and can do so when
necessary.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Jacky came to our camp
and reported: “Forty-thousand duck sit down
longa waterhole!” “Don’t stretch it, Jacky,”
said the gunman of the camp. “My! Forty*
thousand duck all- right,” Jacky repeated.
Then he added, “Close up 50.” When every-
body laughed he looked hurt and puzzled.
His computation was not so wopsy as it
looked. In his idea “thousand” was merely
an adjective or expletive.
(Continued on page 25. >
I OUTER KNOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I orter known the day I got me cheque
That soon I’d have Matilda up again
With shoulder-straps sunk deep into me neck
And blue mirage before me on the plain.
What good was it to plan a city trip?
I’d soon be on the woodheap, strike me
roan,
Although a goodly wad was on me ’ip.
I orter known.
I orter known when first I struck the rub
And saw the little shielah smile at me
That she was out for biz at Bailey’s pub.
I must ’av’ been a mug that couldn’t see.
I ’ad no right to do me flamin’ block;
I orter left the silly thing alone—
’Er with the shingled ’air and scanty frock!
I orter known.
I orter known a bluey isn’t light
And station cooks grow ’ardor every day;
That prospects of a job are none too bright
When shearin’-time is months and months
away.
I orter known that I’d be feelin’ sore,
Stiff trampin’ in the summer on me lone:
I’ve donp the blasted thing so oft before.
I orter known.
N.S.W.
JIM DOWLING.


m Vf '
m
tm
* V ‘ Mk* ' iP? *&: f
0 ffll Wm > feji |»
ll
.
'
:
**V
■
At
s
I
: ■
111
Concrete
B.R.C. Fabric is made from steel in its strongest form
for structural purposes, fifty per cent, stronger than
ordinary rolled steel. The wires are accurately and
permanently fixed beforehand, and the fabric arrives on
the job ready for simple laying. Ease and accuracy of
construction are secured with this regular high-quality
material, insuring strength and safety. Columns and
beams reinforced with B.R.C. Hoops and Stirrups made
by machine and delivered ready for fixing have the same
high degree of correct workmanship. Buildings with
B.R.C. Reinforcements are the strongest of all reinforced
concrete constructions.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co.Pty.,Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone:'Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA . Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
HOTEL ALEXANDER, SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
CONSTRUCTED FOR—J. RICHARDSON, Esq.
ARCHITECT—L. M. PERROTT, Esq., A.R.V.I.A.
B.R.C. REINFORCEMENTS USED THROUGHOUT.
Fabric
Fabric
sd


The best cigarettes
for years
at
20/l'e
Stqte (xp^ess
333
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
“Borom” : The hot-water springs recently-
reported in the Armidale (N.S.W.) district
are not new in that part of the State. Some
years ago I was in one of the ranges near
Ebor, on the Grafton-Armidale road, with a
shire engineer and several of his men, when
one of the latter volunteered to show us a
spring from which hot and cold water alter-
nately issued. At the time the water was
practically at boiling-point, the position of
the spring, between two large rocks on the
mountainside, being marked by clouds of
steam. A few hours later it had changed to
icy coldness, and when we left next morn-
ing, after camping there overnight, it was
beginning to warm up again, the transition
from hot to cold and vice versa being appa-
rently slow and gradual.
* *i*
“The Pedaller”: Charlie, our half-caste
groom, was a racing enthusiast. One Sunday
he had a call from a friend who resembled
him so strikingly that we commented on the
fact when the visitor had gone. “He my
half-brother,” Charlie explained. “Out of
the same gin by a different white fella.”
* * * *
“Q.”: I doubt the yarn about meat or
chickens hung up beneath a pawpaw-tree
THE FIRST-OFF-THE-BOAT MANIAC.
becoming tender. We have tried it on a
number of occasions, and have also tried
wrapping pawpaw leaves around the meat,
but it was never made less tough. Nor do 1
think that children playing or living in the
vicinity of these trees become pale or sickly.
I know a fruit-farmer at Brookfield, near
Brisbane, who lias grown these trees near his
house for the last 10 years, and no one would
venture to say that his 16- and 18-year-old
sons are unhealthy.
* * * *
“Gouger” : An island with a history writ-
ten in red is Tutu, named by Bligh “Warrior
Island” for good and sufficient reasons. This
spit of sand upon
coral dominated Tor-
res Strait for cen-
turies, because the
main opening through
the great Warrior
reefs runs right past
the island. The Strait
islanders in their
yearly trading ven-
tures from east to
west and north to
south used this pas-
sage, always paying
tribute to Tutu. The
little island was held
by only a few hundred
warriors, but they
were the fiercest and
greatest bowmen in
the Strait, and won-
derful seamen. They
had the audacity to
tackle two British
men -o’ - war, H.M.S.
Providence and the
brig Assistant, The
ships’ boats were tak-
ing soundings in Basi-
lisk Pass-, when
swarms of canoes at-
tacked them, and in
spite of volleys reso-
lutely came on. The
boats cleared for the
mother vessels and the
Providence and the
brig had to fire big
guns loaded with chain
shot before the canoes
withdrew. Even then
the islanders got close
enough to the brig to
kill one man and wound two. The scrap is
still well preserved by the natives in their
legends, and they ciaim a win for tlieir
ancestors because Bligh’s vessels drew away
and left their country.
* »J* # ❖
“Gouger”: In the northern part of Cape
York Peninsula the boomerang is seldom
used. Areas of the country are mountainous
jungle, impossible for the weapon ; but larger
areas are timbered forest which shelters
occasional ’roos and numerous wallaby.
Around the billabongs the trees are often
white and pink with cockatoos and galahs—
ideal conditions for boomerang work. In
the rainy season, moreover, the swamps and
baby lakes teem with wild fowl. But Binghi
uses almost exclusively the spear, or swims
towards the quack-quacks with a sheath of
grass camouflaging liis head and pulls them
under one by one. Occasionally he uses the
womera as a throwing-stick, but the target
must be tempting, as he is averse to breaking
the hook on his precious throwing lever. The
peninsula abos. do a great amount of fisli-
spearing, and their country is prolific in
bulb foods, which facts may account for the
rare sight of a boomerang.
FINANCIAL ITEM.
BILLY (who has been given credit ): “Wot this one all about, boss?”
Country Storekeeper: “That’s ‘account rendered, thirty shillings.’”
BILLY: “No good this feller. My boss say thirty tchillen too dear fer count renner.
Get-em good ones longa town fer sebben-six.”
“Veronal” : The only perfect moa egg ever
discovered was found in a Maori grave. It
measured lOin. in length and Tin. in breadth
at the widest part, and no doubt belonged to
the largest species of moa, which was about
lift, in height. The old-time Maoris ate
moa flesh and, according to the whalers,
reckoned that it tasted like beef.
sje sfc H* *l*
“Waranbini”: Though in his wild state
Binghi died quickly if the magician’s bone
were pointed at him, his endur-
ance and tenacity of life in
other ways were marvellous. I
saw one come to a splitters’
camp on the Richmond River
with a gaping tomahawk wound
in his head, which looked re-
volting, the flies having got at
it. The splitters cleaned the
cut with turps, and he recov-
ered. On Koopa Creek (Q.)
there was a footless Binghi
known as Waddy Mundowie,
which means “wooden feet.”
When not riding he went about
on crutches. In the ’seventies
lie betrayed the murderers of
Squatter Welford, of Welford
Downs, and, whilst making a
bolt for the Warrego, was cap-
tured by some vengeful totem-
hrotliers of the murderers. They
downed him with a nulla, then
burnt off his feet by burying
them in a bed of glowing gidya
coals. Any white man would
have died on the spot, but
Waddy survived, and, though
his stumps could do nothing
with stirrups, he was a good
stockman.
❖ $
“W.G.M.”: It has been stated
that leaves of the castor-oil
plant, if placed in a room,
attract mosquitoes and kill
them. We tried it vainly; then
w r e were told that we should
have used the leaves of the cas-
tor-bean plant. Any of your
readers know a vegetable having
the required effect?
*
“Fitzwilliam”: According to “Six and
Eight” (B. 14/3/’2B), if a man lost in the
bush points the hour hand of his watch to
the sun. the diameter of the watch-face situ-
ated half-way between the hour hand and
the figure XII indicates the north. That
rule—obviously taken from the “Field Ser-
vice Pocket-book —applies to the Northern
Hemisphere only. If a lost man were to follow
that line in the Southern Hemisphere he
would trace a curve that would break a
snake’s back. The rule in Australia is to
point the figure XII to the sun, taking care
that the watch is horizontal; the point half-
way between that and the hour hand would
be N., assuming the watch to be a compass.
But knowledge of the north point merely is
of very little use. All it can do, in the
absence of landmarks, is to assist the wan-
derer to keep a straight line; if he can do
that he will in course of time arrive some-
where. Almost anywhere in N.S.W. he will
buck up against a wire fence. By following
that he will eventually come to a gate. Lead-
ing through the gate will be a track, and if
the wanderer stretches himself across that
track he will sooner or later be run over by
a car. Then he will feel just as if he were
back in Georgc-street.
$ * $ $
“Wang”: Dad and Mum had been into
the township to hear the evangelist preach.
On the way home Dad asked, “How did yer
like him, Mum?” Mum gazed skywards.
“He touched me,” she said, simply. “You,
too!” Dad roared. “Why he touched me for
a quid before the meetin’.”
H* ❖ ❖ *
“Iviap”: Visiting the Gulf Division of
Papua recently I was surprised to see evi-
dence of preparation for the old-time feast
and dance called “Kaivakuku,” which was
thought to have vanished for ever. The
Gulf has now been without resident Euro-
pean missionaries for about two years, and
this has doubtless had a lot to do with the
revival of the festival. The Administration
approves of the natives retaining old customs,
except those obnoxious and harmtui.
•5* *J» H* »s»
“Unnamurra”: One night at Denial Bay
(S.A.) I was yarning round the camp-fire
with a gin and her white spouse. The con-
versation drifted to the subject of snakes,
and I mentioned the death-adder, a fairly
common reptile on the West Coast. “Ssli!”
said Lucy, plainly scared out, of her wits.
“Why, what’s wrong?” I asked. “No callern
that fella proper name night-time!” she re-
plied. “Callern proper name day-time—no
matter. Callern proper name night-time, that
fella come round camp ; get out of bed, step
on him, all finish. Night-time, callern ‘little
short one.’ ” She would use the Kukatn
name “muddina” only in daylight; after dark
the euphemism was necessary. The super-
stition I find is still widespread.
MATILDA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though “touring with Matilda” may
Be joy for just a holiday,
No rhapsodies I croon,
While waltzing you from Binnaway
To Anthony's Lagoon.
Since first I slung you on my back,
To go job-hunting on the track,
We’ve travelled long and far —
A thousand miles to Aramac,
And three to Marble Bar.
Day after day you seemed to be
A barnacle attached to me,
As, through wide runs and towns,
I trudged the hard ways to Maree,
And back to Bowen Downs.
Through territories wild and strange,
By cattle-camp and shed and grange,
I’ve borne your blistered brand;
I’ve humped you over Wombat Range,
And dumped you on the Bland.
In summer haze and winter rain,
Anon unstrapped, then strapped again
In trim to gad about,
You’ve hugged me like the curse of Cain
From Hay to Farther-out.
But though throughout my wandering life,
When jobs are scarce and troubles rife,
To carry you I’m forced,
From you, my plaguey old Dutch wife,
I would not be divorced.
For seat or pillow, I may state,
Your plumpness I appreciate;
And how you comfort, too,
When you’re spread out in camp sedate,
And I’m rolled up in you!
N.S.W.
E.S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Headers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Sheep-station manager, 44, single, Maori-
lander, open engagement; life experience,
first-class refs., N.S.W. and Queensland ex-
perience. Will put down bond or go on
trial anywhere, including South America
and South Africa. Would consider partner-
ship in small place and take over manager-
ship.—4002.
Position vacant for competent overseer
for stud-farm, cattle and thoroughbred
horses, Southern Q’land.—4000.
Lady seeks position of trust as caretaker
of house in Sydney during owners’ absence ;
good refs.—4000.
Lady, good saleswoman, seeks position in
seaside business, near Melbourne; could
take charge. Good ref. —3994.
Ex-service man (married) wants work,
18 years as handy man, gardener in gentle-
man’s service, 4 years’ hospital work. —3989.
Youth (18) would like work on station.
Can ride and drive car; has licence. —4019.
Ex-English public schoolboy requires posi-
tion as jackeroo or secretary, N.S.W. or
Queensland. Two years’ experience with
sheep. Good refs. —4009.
The whereabouts of Chas Walter, formerly
of Beverley, Cremorne-road, Sydney, N.S.W.
(Direct to Eric A. Ilowarth, Glengowcr,
Bungunya, s.-w. line, Queensland.)
To sell three-quarter violin outfit, only
slightly used; cost £4 5s... sell for 45s. —3978.
Words of verses “Gipsy Trail,” by Kipling.
(Direct to H. E. Goodwin, Box 1762, Post
Office, Auckland, N.Z.)
Whereabouts of George Drewitt, engineer,
formerly at Mt. Morgan. (Direct to E.
Bensch, Box 5, P.O., George-street North,
Sydney.)
To correspond with Bulletin readers with
first-hand knowledge of the Pacific Islands,
especially the Polynesian groups.—3961.
To purchase a small quantity of silkworm
eggs, or would send Pacific Inland stamps in
exchange for small lots. Would like to cor-
respond with persqns keeping silkworms.
(Direct to P. R. Wliysall, Suva, Fiji
Islands.)
Information from persons conversant with
the construction, rig and management of a
small, fast sailing punt.—4001.
Copies of back numbers of Physical Cul-
ture Magazine or Strength, will pay
postage. (Direct to II. C. McKerrow, Barns-
dale, Oorindi.)
To correspond with young lady, Sydney,
interested in literary matters, especially the
writing of plays.—4016.
To communicate with the agents for
Tyree’s Automatic Spray, or anyone knowing
their whereabouts.—4015.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the standard of the en-
trance examination of Duntroon College? (2)
What are the fees charged for a hoy wish-
ing to enter the engineers? (3) Is there
an age limit? (4) After how many years'
training do cadets first receive a salary, and
what is the rate of payment? (5) What
are the chances of promotionj and, once
appointed, is a cadet’s position secure, sub-
ject to good conduct? —3872.
(1) There is no entrance examination,
but to be eligible for selection candidates
must have qualified at one or more of
the public-school examinations in English,
mathematics, a modern language, and two
other subjects. (2) No fees are charged.
On graduation a staff cadet becomes an
officer in the staff corps and may be posted
to any of the. military forces; his own
•jyishes, however, are followed as far as pos-
sible. (3) A candidate must be over 16
and under 19 years of age on 1st March of
the year of entry to R.M.C. (4) The'course
is normally four years, during which time
cadets receive free maintenance and educa-
tion. On graduating at the termination of
their course they receive commissions as
lieutenants in the staff corps, with salary
commencing at £285 per annum and increas-
ing by annual increments to a maximum of
£430 after six years’ service. At the end
of eight years’ service promotion is auto-
matic to the rank ofl captain, with salary of
£446 to £550, there being four annual in-
crements of £26 each. (5) The position is
as secure as any other Government appoint-
ment.
(1) What is the value of the gold used
in a full set of teeth for an adult male? (2)
What is the weight of the gold? (3) What
is a reasonable charge for such a set on a
gold plate? —3896.
(1) The question cannot be answered ex-
actly, as plates vary. On an average, about
£3 6s. (2) On an average, about lldwt.
(3) Eighteen to 20 guineas.
A formula for tanning furred skins for a
man on the land? —3948.
To tan furred skins, soak in cold
wafer for a few hours, then carefully scrape
the backs and remove any fat. Mix together
2oz. powdered alum, loz. common salt in each
gallon of water, and soak skins for eight
hours. Then rub an odorless vegetable oil
into the skins and roll in a cloth for about
an hour. Prepare another liquor, minus the
salt, with 3oz. alum to the gallon, and soak
for another eight hours. Stretch and tack on
a table until dry. The drying must be
done away from the sunlight. If the skins
dry harsh, oil very sparingly and soak again
for a few minutes.—“Wilfh.”
(1) What is the difference between a
.32/40 and a .32 Winchester rifle? (2)
Which is the most serviceable, taking into
consideration that I want to load my own
cartridge cases? —3844.
(1) The difference lies in the weight of
bullet and charge of powder. Both are of
the same calibre, 32-100ths of an inch, but
the .32 rifle bullet weighs 115 grains, while
the .32/40 rifle bullet weighs 165 grains.
The .32 bullet has a muzzle velocity of 1220
feet a second, and the .32/40 bullet a muzzle
velocity of 1430 feet a second. The heavier
bullet, of course, has greater penetrative force
than the lighter one. The .32/40 rifle is
heavier in build than the .32, to withstand
the greater strain. (2) Depends on what
you want to shoot. For kangaroos and big
game of that sort the .32/40 is preferable,
and the cartridges are easier to re-load.
(1) Gan a wife get a cash-order without
her husband’s authority? (2) If so, who is
responsible for repayment? (3) If the hus-
band’s signature is necessary, and she signs
■it per herself or forges his signature, who is
responsible for the debt? (4) How can a
man prevent his wife contracting debts? —
3918.
(1) Yes. (2) The wife, out of her own
estate, except for necessaries, such as food
or clothing, having regard to her station in
life, where the husband has failed to pro-
vide her with such. (3) If she signs for her
husband it must be with his authority, ex-
press or implied, in order to bind him. The
principles relating to the crime of forgery
are applicable to a wife as to any other per-
son. A forged signature does not bind the
person whose signature is forged. (4) He
cannot prevent his wife from contracting
debts, but he may avoid responsibility for
them, except (as above) for necessaries, by
advertising in the newspapers.
(1) What is the capacity of a corrugated
galvanised-iron tank 8 ft. diameter and
4ft. Sin. high? (2) Is the table used by
plumbers in making up tanks strictly correct?
(3) Docs the formula Z)2 x 11-14tlis x
P.II. x 6f give the actual capacity in gallons?
—3938.
(1) 1461 gallons (correct within a pint).
(2) There are three or four tables;
it depends upon which one is used. (3)
Your formula gives a result near enough
for everyday purposes. The formula gen-
erally used to ensure close accuracy is:
Radius in feet squared x 3.1416 x perpendi-
cular height in feet x 6.228.
I have been tenant of a cottage for 134
years. The rent has twice been increased.
Now the landlord wishes to install electric
lighting, and to increase the rent again. Gan
I refuse to have it installed? —3977.
You cannot prevent the landlord installing
electric light, but as you were a tenant of
the premises on Jan. 1, 1915, sec. 9 of the
Fair Rents Act applies. It provides that,
except where circumstances which render
an increase equitable are proved to the satis-
faction of the Court, the fair rent shall not
exceed the rent at which the dwelling was
let on Jan. 1, 1915.
What firm in Sydney would give me an
estimate for the erection of an overhead ivire
system for the transportation of farm pro-
duce?— 3743.
Bullivant’s Australian Cos., Ltd., 331 Kent-
street, Sydney, will be pleased to supply you
with particulars of their aerial ropeways
upon the receipt of a sketch and full details
of what you require.
(1) How can an amateur recharge a used
radio 1 -%-volt dry cell? (2) What chemicals
are used? (3) Is re-charging worth the
cost?— 3973.
The only portions of an old cell that can
be used again are the carbon rod and the
zinc, provided that the latter is still thick
enough to last. out until the cell is again
expended. The inside of the zinc container
is lined with thick blotting-paper to within
a short distance of the top. In the centre
is placed the carbon-rod element, standing
on the insulating bottom, and the space all
round is ranimed tightly with a mixture of
equal quantities of crushed carbon and man-
ganese dioxide (“needle” manganese). The
level of the chemical should be just below
the top of the blotting-paper. To i-pint of
boiled water add i-pint of “killed” spirits
of salt, and into this mixture dissolve
of sal-ammoniac, finally well stirring in a
teaspoonful of glycerine. This mixture should
be poured in slowly until no more is absorbed
by the cell. A layer of paraffined blotting-
paper is now placed on top of the carbon
mixture and the remaining space filled with
melted pitch to which a little paraffin wax
has been added. The making of dry cells
for either A or B batteries is not to be re-
commended, as, quite apart from the ques-
tion of cost, it is very doubtful whether they
will prove satisfactory when a steady cur-
rent is required for long periods.
. Gould you supply me with the following
information regarding the occupation of
sugar-tester at sugar mills: (1) Salaries
paid in Queensland, and if fare is paid to
mill by employers? (2) Number of mills
employing testers in Queensland and N. S.
Wales? (3) Does the number of applicants
exceed the jobs annually offering?- —3862.
(1) The salary of a cane-tester is at the
rate of £4OO per annum with a minimum of
£2OO guaranteed. If the period of employ-
ment exceeds six months, additional time is
paid at the rate of £4OO per year. The
board pays first-class railway fare from the
officer’s home (in Queensland) to and from
the mill together with out-of-pocket travel-
ling expenses. (2) The central board sends
cane-testers to 28 mills in Queensland; the
Cane Prices Act operates only in Queens-
land. In addition, about 12 assistant cane-
testers are appointed to the larger mills, for
which the salary is £6 a week during the
actual term of employment. (3) The number
of applicants exceeds the positions offering.
Females are eligible for these positions.
What was the scheme for letting the sea
into Lake Eyre and thereby creating a huge
inland sea? —36l3.
The scheme for connecting Lake Eyre
with the sea (Spencer’s Gulf) by cutting
a canal through Lake Torrens was pub-
lished in the South Australian Advertiser
on May 18, 1905, and republished in the
Express on June 20, 1922. Copies of the
papers could probably be obtained from
that office. In criticism of the scheme it
was stated at the time that to counteract
evaporation only an excavation of
12,116,000,000 cubic yards would be required,
and the cost at an estimate of only 3d. per
cubic yard would amount to £151,450,000.
How can I solder aluminium? —3739.
Metters, Ltd., recommend the following
method. The article should be heated to gn
intense degree at the particular spot to be
soldered. Apply ordinary solder and, when
melted, rub vigorously into the aluminium
with a steel brush or similar article. This
operation will tin the surface. After this has
been done the spot to be soldered should
again be heated, but not so intensely as in
the first instance, and ordinary soft solder
applied.
Is there any reliable preparation to pre-
vent hair falling out (and where is it obtain-
able) ?— 3578.
There is no cure for baldness and no
reliable remedy for falling hair if the con-
dition is due to advancing years. There is,
however, a disease known as alapccia areata
in which patches of hair fall out. This
trouble rights itself in time, but the follow-
ing is helpful: Aceti cantharidis, one
drachm; adipis lame, one drachm ; ung. liy-
drarg. oxid. rubr., one ounce. Any chemist
would make the preparation up.
(1) I want to lend a person money. A
second mortgage over landed property and a
first mortgage over a motor-car and machines
used in his business is offered. My lawyer
says that this can only be arranged by till of
safe, but this is undesirable as it will injure
the borrower's credit. How can I otherwise
secure myself in case of bankruptcy? (2)
How do motor firms sell on terms? —3764.
(1) A mortgage on the car and machines
is not advisable. Your proper course, as
your lawyer has advised, is to take a bill of
sale which, when registered, will protect
you. (2) The usual course in the t.p. pur-
chase of a car is by an agreement protected
by promissory notes falling due at such
periods as may be arranged.
Information Supplied.
3560.—The object in bracing a gate with
a diagonal stay is to prevent it being pulled
out of square by its weight. The stay
should extend from the lower hinge diagon-
ally to the front upper corner, and Should
be mitred firmly at each end to the up-
rights and horizontal bars. —“Bill R.”
3615.—1 n April, 1926, a promoter was
looking for capital to start the canning of
crayfish, lobsters, crabs and prawns on the
North Coast of Tasmania. The process, a
new one, involved the injection of a pre-
serving medium into the heart of the living
crustacean, and that seemed to be a
stumbling-block to investors. Tinned Crus-
tacea of various kinds have been imported
and relabelled in Australia as an Australian
product, but not recently.”—“R.X.B.”
3841.—T0 make cider, apples should be
sound and ripe. Use a cider-press, driven
by either hand or mechanical power, with
tap or other draw-off attachment. The
juice is set aside to ferment, the length of
time depending on climate and temperature.
When fermentation is well established, the
liquor is cleared by whisking the whites of
three or four eggs with one quart of the
liquor. Pouf back into the main lot, and
stir well; leave for three or four days and
strain in bottles. The best cider is made
from a mixture of varieties of cider apples,
and dessert apples are not recommended.
Five-crown applies would not give a satis-
factory result. —“Pom.”
3817.—Titanium is used in the production
of pigments used especially in the coloring
of porcelain. There is no market in
Australia. There is a limited market over-
seas if you can mine high-grade material
cheaply. Asa guide to price, rutile con-
centrates assaying 96 per cent, of titanic acid
may fetch £45 per ton delivered overseas,
whilst ilmenite concentrates assaying, say,
52 per cent, may bring anything from £5
to £9 per ton for same delivery. Send re-
presentative sample and details of your pro-
duct to Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street,
Sydney.—“M.B.”
3777. (1) The average cost of a seat
on Brisbane Stock Exchange is 750 guineas.
(2) A seat is obtainable by purchase on
the resignation or death of a member hold-
ing it, unless the committee exercises its
power to create new seats. Application for
membership must be signed by two members
of 12 months’ standing as proposers, accom-
panied by an entrance fee of 50 guineas.
(3) The applicant must prove to the satis-
faction of the committee that he is able
to discharge all his liabilities, and make
good from his own means deficiencies in any
of his transactions to the extent of £IOOO
or such larger sum as may be determined!
or procure a guarantee to the satisfaction of
the committee. The committee may there-
upon submit, the name of the candidate for
election by the members. Election is by
ballot. (4) A member’s earnings are largely
governed by the extent of his clientele and
other factors, and no estimate can be given.
—“Broker.”
3970. —To remove stickiness in leather-
ette upholstery take 3ozs. beeswax, loz.
white wax, loz. curd soap, 1 pint turpentine
and 1 pint boiled water. Mix all together,
adding the wmter when cold; shake the mix-
ture frequently in the bottle, and do not use
it for 48 hours after it is made. Apply
with a piece of flannel, the leather being
polished with a duster and then with an old
silk rubber.—“W.F.”
. 3974. —The N.S.W. Health Department
issues pamphlets dealing with the extermi
nation of cockroaches and similar pests. The
following powders are recommended in order
of merit: (1) Sodium fluoride. This may he
used by itself or mixed with sugar or flour
(cost about 2/6 per lb.). (2) Borax. This
may be used pure or with cocoa or sugar,
2 parts sugar or cocoa to lof borax. («3>
Pyrethrum. This should be used pure.
When cockroaches are very thick, fumigation
is probably the most satisfactory method of
getting rid of them. Sulphur fumes —the
room to be closed for eight hours—are recom-
mended. Be careful to protect any bright
metal work from the fumes of the sulphur.
—“Fitz.”
3904.—Y0u are apparently susceptible to
grass seed, and the obvious thing to do is
keep away from it as much as you can.
See a chest specialist and ask him if injec-
tions of your particular noxious protein
would relieve you.—“M.D.”
3942. —Practically impossible for us to
diagnose a skin complaint without seeing it.
If you are sure that you haven’t scabies,
try Lassar's Paste (any chemist will make
it up for you). Don’t use any but the pur-
est and plainest white soaps. Have you seen
a skin specialist?—“S.S.”
3962. —The prescription would suit you.
but you could probably do with a different
diet. Take plenty of fruit and vegetables,
and beware of too much tea, bread and
potatoes. Should you not improve in a week
see a medical man. —“M.D.”
3657.—T0 French-polish, first fill in the
grain of ; the wood with dragon’s blood or
similar preparation to match the wood. Sand-
paper thoroughly, keeping always with the
grain. Give a thin coat of raw linseed oil
and rub dry. Mix button shellac with
methylated spirit, one part of shellac to six
of spirit. With a few drops on a rubber
made of strong white cloth over a pad of
wadding wipe gently over the wood. When
the whole is covered, rub smartly along
the grain. When dry, if any irregularities
appear, sandpaper again. Apply a second
coat, rubbing more briskly and still keeping
with the grain. Then apply a third coat
with a circular movement until there is a
good shine. Sprinkle a few drops of oil
on the surface and with the rubber damped
in spirit rub until all smears disappear.
Finish with spirits on the rubber and a few
drops of water. —“Pick.”
Brief Answers.
R.W.H.: According to Webster the cor-
rect pronunciation of the feminine name Bernice is
Ber-ni-see, with the accent on the middle syllable
and the i given its full value, as in “ice”. .. .G.P.:
(1) The answers to your poker queries are: (1) Yes;
(2) no; (3) yes. (2) We presume you refer to
life temporal Peers, who since 1876 comprise all
the Lords of Appeal in Ordinary, whether active or
retired. The rank is not hereditary. The children
now rank next after those of hereditary Barons and
take the courtesy title of “Honorable”.. . .R.A.8.:
Cheddar cheese derives its name from Cheddar, a
small town in Somerset, England, in the neighbor-
hood of which it was first manufactured... .P. 0.:
Like a great many other slang words the origin of
jackeroo is shrouded in mystery. Some maintain
that it is a corruption of Johnny Raw, a British
Army slang word for a novice or recruit. Webster’s
Dictionary suggests it is a combination of Jack
and (kanga)roo ... .C.A.C.H.: Rix, 103 a Castle-
reagh-street, and Charles Vlllars, 19 Rowe-street,
both of Sydney. Have been unable to trace any in
Brisbane... .H.P.: Question too vague. Where is
the water coming from? Send us full particulars,
with a plan.... R.8.P.: Get in touch with the
Gramophone Cos., Ltd., 163 Pitt-street, Sydney, or
D. Davis and Cos., Ltd., Q.V. Buildings, George-street,
Sydney... .E.V.S.: “The Mastery of Nervousness,”
by R. S. Carroll, costs 6s; sd. posted, and is obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.... M.T.: Application should be made to
the Registrar-General, General Registry Office, Charle-
mont House, Dublin... .C.W.: Sumerson’s “Plate-
laying,” Cole’s “Permanent Way Material, Plate-
laying and Points and Crossings,” and Donaldson’s
“Platelaying,” all obtainable at most leading book-
sellers... .M.J.M.: (1) Will take a lot of searching
for; you will have to wait for an answer. (2) Con-
ditions vary according to the class of lease. Full
particulars can be secured from the Dept, of Mines,
Perth, W.A W.L.T.: (1, 2 and 3) Robertson
and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, carry
stocks of such works and would be pleased to allow
you to inspect them. (4) For the Australian aspect
of the argument see Coghlan’s “Labor and Industry
in Australia,” Allin’s “History of the Tariff Rela-
tions of the Australian Colonies,” Chomley’s “Pro-
tection in Canada and Australia,” Heaton’s “Modern
Economic History” and Root’s “Colonial Tariffs.”
. ...R.S.: The subject of water divining has
been extensively discussed in the “Man on the Land”
page of The Bulletin recently. There is no scien-
tific basis for the claims made by diviners, but
that doesn’t prove conclusively that there’s nothing
in it... .M.F.D.: (1) Advertise in the newspapers.
(2) Communicate with either the police or the
Salvation Army. (3) Searching the Federal rolls
would be a tedious job—there are rolls for 76
divisions, in which are included separate rolls for
many hundreds of sub-divisions. Federal rolls cost
2s. 6d. for each divisional roll, and are obtainable
at the Commonwealth Electoral Office, Customs House,
Circular Quay, Sydney... .H.S.M.: No. Television
is still in the experimental stage... .1.D.8.K.:
According to the Oxford Concise Dictionary poach is
derived from the French word poche (poke), and
expresses the meaning of being thrust, or drawn,
out. Poacher has the same derivation, he being
one who breaks into or trespasses upon another’s
property and takes game out of it. Webster’s states
that it is from the Old French pochier, meaning to
place in a pocket, the yolk of the egg being, as it
were, pouched in the white... .A.T.W.: We find that
a copy of the work you inquire about was sold in
London on December 18, 1922, for 18s., but the size
was not the same as your copy. It is the nearest
we can find to the description given... .F.J.: The
first edition of Samuel Johnson’s “History of the
Language and an English Grammar” was published
in 1755, and many copies of this edition have been
sold at high prices, but later editions have but small
value... .H.J.S.: Have been unable to trace the
book asked for in any of the published records of
book sales, but it is not worth more than a shilling
or two, seeing that it is incomplete... .A.8.T.: Phil
May’s “The Parson and the Painter” is stated by
leading booksellers to be worth no more than the
published price, 10s J.C.S.: Communicate with
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney....
J.A.: (1) G. J. Gray, Mine Superintendent, Mount
Isa, Queensland. (2) The directors are: W. Mcßae,
A. M. Hemsley, T. R. McCulloch and W. H. Corbould,
all of Sydney. J. Farram, King-street, Sydney, is
the Secretary of the Company.... (Many others
mailed.)


In the beginning, Goodyear
was by force of discovery
the greatest name in
rubber. To-day, by force
of utility, Goodyear is still
the greatest name in the
industry. Goodyear’s ser-
vice to the public has been
born of research and
development—beginning
with refinements of the
early pneumatic tyre and
ending, momentarily, with
building the new safe,
tractive, slow wearing
Goodyear Balloon • with
the new type All-Weather
Tread.
“Goodyear’s Greatest Tyre”
fs


Make
the
Stock
make full market
values. They can do
so. But they must
df
sd
f
have the necessary assistance to reach that
mark.
Consign your Cattle, Sheep and Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
That step will render their sale at highest possible
prices certain. Energetic, experienced, and compe-
tent, Winehcombe, Carson’s work as salesmen is con-
sistently forceful.
□
wa w
2004
METAL GATES AND FENCES
Cyclone Mel a 1
Gates Stand the
Test for
Dependability
and Durability
sdf
Many Designs
are Illustrated
in the Cyclone
Catalogue
POST FREE
Fig. 118.—Cyclone "S.C.” Paddock Gate, 3ft. lOin. high.
Made to fit 10ft., lift, and 12ft. openings.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH STREET (Off 350 George St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne.
Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
On itho Third Floor of
Peapes’ New Building is
The Pepys Room —in the
heart of the city, yet far
removed from its noises.
There, clients may read,
smoke, rest, conduct corre-
spondence or interviews.
Stationery and the newest
magazines are provided for
their use.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney-
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SEED SELECTION.
“Awerrini": To get the best results the
same care is necessary in seed selection arid
seed breeding as is given to stock breeding.
Still, farmers plant small shrivelled seeds
and expect good returns. They will sow seed
wheat or maize just as they buy it, with-
out at first carefully grading it. and will
wonder why the resultant crop is so thin,
or why so many heads are small or light
in the case of wheat, or why in the case
of maize there have been so many misses and
blank stalks and stunted cobs.
Every farmer, and especially every wheat-
grower, should make himself acquainted
with the work of Farrer in the improvement
of wheat, for what is true of wheat is also
true of tiie seed-breeding of other crops.
Just as an example, to illustrate the prin-
ciple. One of the most successful specialists
in maize-growing goes through his crop
while it is still in the field and the cobs are
full grown, and selects the stalks carrying
the largest cobs, giving preference to stalks
carrying two good cobs rather than to stalks
carrying only one extra large cob. He ties
a piece of colored rag round these stalks,
and the cobs on them are allowed to ripen
thoroughly in the field. After being husked,
the small grain at the tops and butts is
shelled off the cobs and discarded, and then
a final selection is made from those cobs
which appeal to him most by reason of the
smallness of the core and the depth, weight
and color of the grain. This means time
and trouble, but results warrant it.
When the farmer selects his own seed, it
is far more reliable than that sold by seed
merchants. They purchase from growers,
who often have two different types of crops
belonging to the same family growing side
by side. The action of winds and insects
causes inter-pollination, which results in the
products of seed obtained from these crops
not being true to typ i.
CORAL AS A FERTILISER.
“C.C.S.”: “B. Gar” (B. 22/2/’2S) raises
the question of the value of coral as a fer-
tiliser. The average analysis of several
samples of pulverised coral from islands in
the Barnard group, where a pulverising
plant is operating, showed a content of 92
per cent, carbonate of lime.
Cane is not a calciopliile plant, and the
benefits that follow the application of lime
where cane forms the staple crop must not
be considered as due to the specific action
of the lime on the cane, but as due to its
general effect on the soil. Lime corrects
acidity in the soil, improves the condition
of heavy clays and renders potash available.
Modern agricultural practice inclines very
strongly to the use of the carbonate, to the
exclusion of the caustic form of lime. It is
now generally considered better practice to
apply moderate doses of crushed coral, say,
half-ton per acre every five or six years, than
to put on heavier applications less fre-
quently. Larger applications can with bene-
fit be made to fields possessing a distinctly
sour soil, with much organic matter.
SWEET POTATOES.
“G.L.D.” : One of the best and most pro-
fitable and useful crops to grow is the sweet
potato. It will thrive in a wide range of
climates, but does best under hot, moist
conditions. The farmer has little to buy
when planting a field of sweet spuds, and
the plants after the first year cost nothing.
The crop, unlike ordinary potatoes, is pro-
pagated by plants or suckers from the parent
tuber or portions of last year’s vines; the
plants are broken off the tuber and made
into single stems. The old plants and vines
are cut into lengths about a foot long. These
are planted 2ft. apart in rows 3ft. apart.
For the best results early cultivation should
be carried out. The tubers are dug at
maturity and then, usually, left in the
ground until the market'price is high enough.
The tubers are matured when the skins have
well set, and when the sap does not leave
a black discoloration when the potatoes are
cut and broken. There are many varieties.
Very popular around Sydney is the “Pier-
son.”
The dairy-farmer will be well advised to
grow an acre of sweet potatoes, as the
vines and stalks are good milk-producers.
Cows and pigs also do well on the small
tubers. The crop under average conditions
will keep well in the ground, so that if
prices are low it can be held for better prices
until August and September, when cow-feed
is usually fairly scarce.
Personally I have grown sweet potatoes
extensively and can recommend them as a
garden crop. I have had yields up to
15 tons per acre and prices up to £24 per
ton. If the tubers are well graded and mar-
keted well they will always bring a fair
price. In any case they pay even to feed
to stock on the farm.
KEEPING THE DAIRY CLEAN.
“Paul C.” : Bacteria light for the agricul-
turist but against the dairyman. Milk in
a healthy cow’s udder is free from injurious
germs unless, as is sometimes the case, they
gain access through the canal of the teat.
This happens when a cow lying down in the
yard squeezes just a little milk from the
teat —free-milkers often do so—and the heat
and moisture coming in contact with dor-
mant germs in the dirt of the yard cause
them to become active, and work their
way up the teat canal. By reason of this,
after a cow’s udder and flanks are wiped
over with a damp cloth the first few squirts
of milk should not be allowed to go into
the milk bucket. As the first milk contains
no butter-fat the dairyman loses nothing.
If the bucket has been thoroughly cleaned
the milk will reach tin' dairy pure.
The cleanliness of the separator must next
be insured. When it lias been taken to
pieces and washed clean the parts themselves
should be plunged into boiling water, and
every other utensil used about the dairy
should be treated in the same way if pos-
sible. If the vessel used in boiling tin?
water is not large enough to permit of this,
then the boiling water should be poured
direct into the utensil from the vessel in
which it is boiling. This destroys any bac-
teria that may have remained in the vessels.
Besides this, the vessels dry at once with-
out the use of those germ-carrying cloths
too often used about dairies. These vile
rags should be thrown in the fire. Brushes
can be purchased for all purposes of clean-
ing about the dairy and should be used, and
after use they should be sterilised with boil-
ing water.
The water must be actually boiling. It’s
no use getting a couple of buckets of boiling
water and carrying them from wherever the
water was boiled to the dairy and splash-
ing this at intervals over the utensils as
they are washed.
After cleaning all utensils the next thing
that calls for special attention is the clean-
ing of the dairy floor. Don’t use the water
that has been employed in washing up tli?
milk vessels. It is probably teeming with
bacteria, and will make the floor worse
instead of better. The floor should be
washed out thoroughly with clean water in
which a handful of soda has been dissolved,
and afterwards flushed out with boiling
water.
If this system is carried out the dairyman
may rest assured, other factors being favor-
able, that his cream will be graded “choice”
by his factory.
CREAM AND MILK TAINTS.
“Dairio”: Tainted cream and milk some-
times get that way through dirtiness and
carelessness, but in other cases they are
attributable to certain plants, such as wild
carrot, growing in the pastures where the
cows graze. Cows grazed on lucerne, and
oven those on pastures in which much
clover abounds, are liable to produce tainted
milk. It is claimed that if such cows are
turned out of these pastures three hours
before milking-time the taint in the milk
will have disappeared, but personally Ido
not think so. Such causes cannot well be
remedied, but there are others that can be
avoided. One is a taint absorbed by the
cream from some strong-smelling substance
near by. Care should be taken that onions,
potatoes, fruit, kerosene or other goods of
the kind should not be kept in or adjacent
to the dairy. Sometimes cream is given a
metallic taint through being kept in gal-
vanised or rusty containers, and butter made
from such cream has a tallowy flavor. Still
another, and probably the commonest, cause
of low-quality milk and cream is due to the
presence of an excess of bacteria. No dairy-
man’s product is entirely free from some
bacteria; but he can reduce bacterial infec-
tion to a minimum by care and cleanliness.
Bacteria do not thrive on pure butter-fat,
but they increase and multiply in millions
in brief spaces of time in the other com-
ponent parts of milk—the casein, the albu-
men and the milk sugar. This being so,
together with the further consideration that
heat is a necessary adjunct to bacterial
growth, the dairyman must exclude from his
cream, as far as is possible, all milk con-
stituents save butter-fat. To do this he
must adjust his separator in hot weather so
that his cream will show a 40 per cent, test
at least. His next care must be to keep
the cream as cool as possible till it reaches
the factory.
BREEDING AGE OF HEIFERS.
“Bill-ee-Gee” : I can’t see eye to eye with
•’Yufu” (B. 29/2/’2B) in his contention that
the early motherhood of a heifer stunts the
growth. Here's a case in point. My bull
broke into my neighbor’s paddock, where a
number of yearling heifers were. My neigh-
bor reckoned he was a much-injured man.
I'd speak but he wouldn’t. In due course
one heifer showed signs of something going
to happen. Then my neighbor became mad-
der. We met again. Result, a tight. I
believe I could have beaten him; but it
would have added more fuel to the tire. Rater
a calf arrived. After this I dodged that
neighbor a lot. At the end of five years the
heifer was an ordinary-sized cow and had
had four calves. Missing one year she be-
came very fat. I knew the butcher who
bought her, and got the cow’s weight—(s27lb.!
Armed with this I sought my enemy. I
looked murderous, I believe. The pent-up
bitter feelings of five years got loose. “Come
on now!” 1 screeched, proceeding to strip.
But he wouldn’t. I know other instances in
contradiction to “Yufu,” but none so tragic
as the one related.
THE COW-FARMER’S CREAM TEST.
“Paul C.”: “B. Goode” (B. 14/3/’2B)
asserts that his experience has been that
when dairymen test their own cream to
check the factory test, the factory lias invari-
ably given the cocky more than lie expected
according to his own test. Well. I have
tested scores of samples for suppliers as a
check on various factories, and in the
majority of cases the cockies came to me
afterwards loudly and profanely alleging that
they were being robbed.
DRENCH NOW FOR FLUKE.
“Azac”: Contrary to a belief that is
pretty general in some parts of New
England, carbon tetrachloride does not clean
up “fluky” country. I have heard many
claim that they have cleaned up their runs
by using this drug. What they really do is
to destroy the fluke present in the animal at
the time of drenching, but the fluke present
in the creeks and on swampy pastures is in
no way disturbed, and is ever ready to re-
inf.est the sheep, which it certainly docs.
The drench does not even render the sheep
immune and they have to be drenched again
from time to time.
The drug, both in liqud and capsule form,
has demonstrated it is a 100 per- cent, cure
in the Monaro and Orange districts, and is
now finding much favor in the New England
district. The thing is to drench the sheep be-
fore they begin to lose condition consequent
upon fluke infestation. Drenching should
therefore be carried out straightway, and
again in early winter. Many sheepmen find
it cheaper and easier to drench the sheep
with the liquid carbon tetrachloride than to
administer it in capsule form. The liquid
drench consists of 1 cubic centimetre carbon
tetrachloride to 4 c.c. liquid paraffin. Give
through the mouth with an ordinary hypo-
dermic syringe, minus the needle. Three
sheep can be drenched for Id., as against
Id. per sheep if capsules are used, or 7d. per
sheep if the old and much less efficient male-
fern extract is used.
To clean up fluky land, top-dress the
swampy pastures with powdered bluestone
at the rate of 301 b. per acre. In treating
the water in a swamp it is difficult to esti-
mate the quantity of bluestone that will be
required to be added, but the most prac-
tical way is to dissolve in the swamp water
30lb. bluestone for every acre covered by the
swamp. In the case of fluke-infested creeks,
suspend a small bag of bluestone in the
water where it will be dissolved and carried
along. Bluestone spells death to snails,
which are the hosts of the fluke.
SCOURED VERSUS GREASY WOOL.
“Breed”: In outback .parts, where freight
is a big item, if a wool scour is handy it
pays to have the lower grades of wool
scoured. All heavy conditioned fleece and
pieces, locks and stains can with profit be
sent to the scour, not with the hope of get-
ting a bigger return for the wool so much as
to avoid paying freight on the dirt and waste
that the greasy wool contains. Continental
and American competition is very keen in
the Australian markets for carefully-scoured
wools, and there is no need to consign such
wools to London. The argument used
against local scouring is that the wool loses
too much weight, but wool is bought on the
clean scoured yield, and buyers can’t be
fooled. Many wool-scourers buy the lower
sorts of wool, anil after scouring sell at local
sales. If they can make a profit, there must
be something in it for the grower.
DIPPING LAMBS.
“Nota Bone’’: Some owners object very
strongly to the law which (as in Vic.) in-
sists that lambs must be dipped before being
offered for sale in a public yard. They say
it affects the health, condition and value of
the stocK.
The Vic. Department of Agriculture lias
conducted a series of tests recently. Lambs
from two to live months old were dipped, and
similar lambs were left undipped. Beyond a
slight color in the tips of the dipped wool
no difference whatever was noted as regards
health and condition, and no ill effects were
detected.
PINE WOOL AND SUBDIVISION.
"B-Gar”: The argument has been put
forward that, owing to the extensive cutting
up of stations into selections, the breeding
of super-stud merino sheep will decrease to
a minimum. In Victoria closer settlement
has been in vogue for years past, and yet
the smaller stud flocks there have not
deteriorated one iota, as the prices
that are annually obtained for super-
merino wools prove. Years ago, when
the breeding of comebacks and fine crossbreds
was practised in that State, the cry was
raised that super-merino wool was doomed,
but that bogey soon exploded. The first
thought of the grazier with 10,000 to 20,000
sheep will ever be bis stud flock, no matter
how small it may be, and the fact that many
N.S.W. stud stations are being broken up by
subdivision into selections does not worry
him at all, for the smaller studs have reached
a high standard of type. If Australia’s
greatest asset was threatened, a move would
be made to form national studs, but not
at present nor in the near future does the
eradication of our super-merino stud sheep
seem likely.
DANGERS OF DEAD WOOL.
“Leo Lear”: The picking up of wool from
dead sheep (“B-Gar,” B. 22/2/’2B) may be
a payable proposition, but unless care is
taken it can lead to very serious consequences.
Never store this class of salvage in a build-
ing where shearing is to be carried om
Germs from the dead wool settle in the dust
all over the building, .and when shearing starts
these are disturbed, and find lodgment in the
cuts of newly-shorn sheep. Heavy losses
from blood-poisoning are not at all uncommon
in sheep turned out during the first few days
of shearing. In most cases these deaths
have occurred in sheds where dead wool has
been stored. If the sheep-owner is compelled
to store dead wool in the shearing-shed, he
should bale it up and clean the place out be-
fore the annual barbering, afterwards spray-
ing with a reliable disinfectant.
“DEVIL’S. CLAW” AND WOOL.
“Gamma": “Devil’s claw,” which “Fred-
erick” (B. 19/l/’2B) writes of, is common
enough in parts of South America. I noticed
it for the first time in Australia in a bale
of Queensland wool. Since then I have
found it frequently in bales of Queensland
and N.S.W. wool.
Thus far the presence of the pest seems
to have passed almost unnoticed, though it
will become a serious problem if it gets
established on our main water-courses. Apart
from endangering the lives of sheep, these
burrs attach themselves to the wool, and,
owing to their size and their sharp-hooked
claws, they drag staples from the fleece and
pick up rubbish. Moreover, they cannot be
freed from the fleece without an appreciable
loss of wool.
CORRIEDALES IN QUEENSLAND.
“Arty”: “Winifred” (B. 7/3/’2B) says
Corriedales are doing well on Queensland
coastal and tableland areas. I disagree.
The Corriedale is a “mutton” sheep, and to
attempt to acclimatise it to sunny Banana-
land is neither practical nor sensible. The
sheep does not thrive, the meat is coarse
and stringy, and the wool is inferior to that
grown by the Corriedale bred in colder coun-
tries. I have seen the. whole of the long-
stapled fleeces come off the shears black
with dust.
Corriedales were taken to Western Queens-
land a year or two ago and turned out a bad
loss. On the other hand, the merino has
proved his adaptability and hardiness, and
he is undoubtedly the right sheep in the
right place.
BEWARE OF TOISON BUSHES.
“B-Gar”: On practically all stock routes
weeds and bushes poisonous to sheep exist.
Two of the greatest sources of danger are
the fuchsia and wild tobacco-bush. Always
having a green appearance, they appeal to
sheep. If eaten on a full stomach the effect
is not very marked, but it is a different
matter in the early morning when sheep ar?
(Continued on page 31.)


S 3
ft
At HP
\ft
til
cyUNi^
six
n,
$
SiM
«5S
M
■ ■
w
■IS
.:>*
• S
mm i
2
ii
s» a
ffii
M
1
m
mm
M
iiili
3
iiiA
J&L
isiiili
S-S-gK
:i|f
II
3SB
ii
ii
r
ne 7^^^
6CyL Standard 6^l
*
k
of today is the best
Standard ever produced
The 1928 SIX-CYLINDER “Standard” has been produced to meet the requirements of
Australia —a smooth, powerful 1 8/42-h.p. Engine with Seven-bearing Crankshaft minutely
balanced comprises the power unit.
A Four-Speed Gear Box with hardened and ground gears, and dead silent at all speeds.
A strong, straight Frame, ample section, well trussed to withstand all road shocks and
strains —and many other features which go to make this new Model a triumph of British
Workmanship. The “New Standard Six” is a pleasure to drive—exceptionally lively,
powerful yet economical to operate, and has an acceleration which is a delight.
Price from £450.
CARS OF ENGLAND, LTD.,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD.,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
OLYMPIA MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
CARS OF BRITAIN, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., COVENTRY, ENGLAND.


V
(A
m
©
r%
uii
foods
50
«s
REX Ham Pate and the REX Delicacies
listed below provide a splendid varitty
of tasty wholesome sandwich fillings
for school and work lunches, for after*
noon teas and suppers.
Now in handy 2oz. cans as
well as the famous ZV* oz. size.
You can now buy REX Ham Pate in small 2oz. cans.
It is the same consistently choice sandwich delicacy
you know so well in the size, and bears the
same label.
This smaller tin will suit small families, and the house-
wife who, for example, is preparing a light supper —
perhaps a few sandwiches or savouries or a few rounds
of toast cut into fingers and spread with this tasty
delicacy.
REX Ham Pate owes its superlative quality to the use
of only the choicest and purest raw materials. It is all
Ham —delicious, sweet, mild, REX Ham. Hence its
true ham flavour and it's great popularity as a tasty
sandwich spread.
Have a tin of each size in your pantry.
REX Ham Pate
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. St 2oz. tins & porcelain jars
REX-PYE, in lib & Mb tins
REX Salmonelle, in glass jars
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham
REX Ham and Tongue
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
C~)
FOGGITT JONES LIMITED
Curers ol the Choice REX Hams and Bacon,


#1
....
To**-
Sfegalill. itsa
if yyy*®*
The Pliant Brogue
for sports wear
A light shoe for all its solidity
thick-soled, yet flexible, broadly
welted and with full-brogued upper.
The ideal Abbey Shoe for active
sporting wear built for comfort,
with low-cut sides, non-chafing
heel, roomy toe, and lacing that
curves to arch naturally over the
instep.
It’s easy-fitting even when brand-
new. And its special construction
makes for greater freedom of the
foot muscles.
Order by Post.
Three widths per size.
Little risk of a bad fit each size
is available in narrow, medium or
wide. State which you need and
order, as well, a supply of the cor-
rect Abbey easy-glossing polish
( 6d. per tin) .
Tan Willow Calf - - - 43/6
Black Box Calf - - - 37/6
Write if you haven’t a copy of the
40-page colored catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
L6O.
GROCERS,
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
Post your Order
BONSER BUSHMAN
1928 MODEL SADDLE.
It’s sturdy and strong,
made of best oiled Queens-
land kip leather, well
sewn, capped kneepads,
made on a special steel-
plated tree. Very com-
fortable. Guaranteed
genuine shock absorber.
Full equipment ready for
work. Four-bar stirrups,
best leathers, folded girth
ring surcingle, for
£B/15/-
Well worth £l2.
Send, your cash to
s
df
Agent for the
Genuine
Wien eke
Saddle.
JOHN BRUSH,
Australia's Saddle
Specialist,
371 George Street,
Sydney.
•A
Cuticura Loveliness
Beauty of Mother
Bestowed On Daughter
For more than two generations
mothers everywhere have been using
Cuticura Preparations and have
been teaching their daughters that
daily use of them produces clear
skin and healthy hair. They find
the Soap pure and cleansing, the
Ointment soothing and healing and
the Talcum an ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: '“R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
THE
GOUROCK
ROl'liWOlllv
EXPORT (JO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vie.
W&W26.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN!
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
sdf
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
38
B
a
i
m
m
m
I
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
cvniurv
3 Y U/IMLi Y
distributors for
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
sd
empty. Persons in charge of travelling
sheep should scout out the country at least
a day ahead, so as not to pick a camp where
these bushes are prevalent. Shorten the
stage or lengthen it, so as to avoid allowing
the sheep to leave the break in the early
morning and meet with poison bushes. In
cases where these bushes are growing in pro-
fusion you should drivq, not drove, the mob
across the danger area.
BROWN ROT IN APPLES.
"Pomme”: Experiments made by H. Wor-
mald in Kent (England) show that apples
picked without their stalks are likely, .within
a few days, to show brown rot discoloration
close to the wound caused by pulling the
fruit from the stalk. The fungus is stated
to infect the fruit in the first place only
through some wound which may be caused
by biting insects or careless picking or
bruising. When the fruit is once infected,
however, the disease rapidly spreads to all
apples in contact with it. It is important
therefore that all fruit with damaged, “atrigs,”
or any injury, however slight, should be
discarded in the packing-shed. Two or three
imperfect specimens may infect and spoil
a whole case.
ARSENIC RESIDUE ON EXPORT
FRUIT.
Although so far no Australian apples have
been rejected in England for carrying an ex-
cess of arsenic, the problem of keeping the
spray residue within the regulations is be-
coming very difficult for growers.
Many experiments have been made to
ascertain the best way of cleansing sprayed
fruit, and the most efficient method devised
to date is to dip the apples or pears in a
hydrochloric-acid solution. Even with heavily
sprayed, fruit this method proved simple and
economical, as there was no necessity to wipe
or brush the fruit after dipping. The method
consists of placing the fruit in a straw bas-
ket, which is then dipped up and down for
two minutes in a wooden tub containing a
2 per cent, solution of the acid in water.
The fruit immediately upon removal from
the solution is rinsed in clean water, and
after draining in trays for 15 minutes is
usually sufficiently dry for packing. The
keeping quality is in no way affected.
SPRAYING WHITE-WAX.
“J.A.”: Many citrus growers in their
yearly spray against “white-wax” are con-
tent with an 80 per cent. kill. Why not a
full 100 per cent.? I have managed it the
last four years, and the process isn’t at all
difficult. Always spray about the beginning
of March, the days at this time of the year
having lost that burning heat which mili-
tates against a complete kill. Use 291 b. of
soda to every 60gals. of water, mixing in
addition (and this is important) one packet
of concentrated soap-powder. The soap
helps the liquid to stick to the tree, thus
giving the soda more, time to act. If the
wax is particularly big—-it should not be at
this time of the year—the quantity of soda
may be safely increased to 351 b.
FIRST STEPS IN RABBIT-TRAPPING.
“Donlee”: When buying traps don’t in-
vest in dilapidated rubbish from the second-
hand shop. New traps will quickly earn
their initial cost. “Platypus” and “Victor”
are reliable and popular makes. Fifty
traps make a nice workable kit.
Put your traps in good order by filing the
catch on the plate until, by holding the trap
aloft in the right hand and letting it drop
about a foot on to the palm of the left hand,
you can set it off. On no account interfere
with the tongue that fits into the catch. See
that all rivets are tight.
Bring the plate dead level with the teeth
of the jaws. This may be done by tapping,
with the head of your setter, the top of the
cross-bar that holds the tongue. Don’t buy
a shop-made setter. Get the local black-
smith to make you one out of an old sulky-
axle. An eight-inch blade, tw T o inches wide,
with an eye to carry an axe-handle, is the
sort you require. Cost varies. Average
about 6s. 6d.
Don’t dig a hole with a flat bottom; shove
the trap in, and rake the dirt over it with
a stick. That way lies certain failure. Use
what is known as the “Bullnose” set. To
make this you dig a trench 18in. long, 6in.
deep, and a little wider than the trap.
The front bank must be perpendicular,
and the sides sloping outwards. Give the
middle of the front bank, near the bottom,
a hard whack with the head of your setter.
This makes a groove into which the nose of
the trap fits snugly. Push all the loose
■earth back into the set, and work your
fingers to and fro in it. Clods and stones
will rise to the surface. Rake them to the
back of the set and push the fine earth that
is left to the top of th-e front bank. Now
set your trap and place it in position, push-
ing the end of the bottom bar well up in the
groove, and letting the ends of the cross-bar
rest on the sloping sides. The trap should
now be firmly bedded, so that if a rabbit
places his foot on the jaws instead of the
plate the trap won’t tip sideways and dis-
close to bunny’s astonished gaze the hungry
looking jaws and white paper. Push the
rough dirt from the back of the set over the
spring and press down firmly. Now place
the first finger of your left hand under the
jaw and under the plate while you scoop
the fine earth from the top of the bank over
the front half of the trap. Under experi-
enced hands the whole operation takes less
than a minute.
Don’t set the trap by stamping on the
spring, -which soon weakens the spring. Use
your hands. You’ll be down on one knee
when you have finished sieving the dirt, so
place the cross-bar of the trap on the toe of
your boot, the end of the spring resting on
the ground. Place the butt of the palm of
the left hand on the edge of the jaw farthest
from you. Now press the spring down
sharply with the right hand, at the same
time pushing the jaw with the left. Once
the spring has started its downward course,
the pressure on the jaw will lever it the rest
of the way. The strongest spring can be
set by the weakest wrist using this method.
Use a small strip of paper to cover the front
part of the plate until you gain experience.
I’ve found the smooth leaves of the Bulletin
excellent for trap paper.
PROFITABLE RABBIT FARMING.
“Waddington”: The N.S.W. fur-farming
committee has been told by a witness witli
English experience that the rabbit is the
cheapest and probably the best-paying fur-
producer known. In England, where breed-
ing for fur is now extensively practised,
the Chinchilla and Bevran breeds are the
best for pelts and the Angora for shearing.
The Chinchilla supplies two litters a year,
and pelts are worth from 12s. to 15s. each.
Angoras are shorn twice a year, a good
grade rabbit yielding up to 111 b. of wool a
year, worth 40s. per lb. for first grade,
325. 6d. for seconds, and down to 12s. for
thirds. Another witness with Canadian ex-
perience said that prime Bevran and Chin-
chilla pelts brought from 20s. to 255. One
man could look after 50 rabbits, which
would cost about 21d. a head to feed if
feed had to be bought and was not home-
grown. These experts dealt only with the
cultivated rabbit, but it would seem, judg-
ing by the current prices for trappers’ pelts,
that the systematic breeding and marketing
of the ordinary wild bunny might give a
handsome return. The American market
was reported several million pounds short
of rabbit-skin requirements at the end of
last season, in spite of vast importations
from Australia; and it looks as if the aban-
donment of the present haphazard system of
trapping and the careful cultivation of the
wild rabbit for his pelt might pay better
than trying to make a living on poor-class
dairying country, or attempting to raise
crops on land that never carries anything
more hopeful than a mortgage. Some de-
tails of the products of black- and silver-fox-
farming in Canada and Britain were given
by the two experts mentioned, but that
game is not one for the poor man, involving,
as it does, an outlay of some thousands.
There are plenty of small men on the land
in Australia who can start off the mark
with a block of land and a fine muster of free
rabbits with which to stock it. The chief
objective would be the fencing of the land
so as to keep the rabbits in and not out
as heretofore, and the growing of some cheap
crops to supplement bunny’s natural diet.
Inter-breeding would have to be guarded
against and fresh blood introduced occa-
sionally, preferably from the wool-growing
breeds. There seems a chance here for
someone to become the pioneer of a great
new Australian industry.
FERTILITY OF EGGS.
“Hatter”: I agree with “A. 8.” (B.
7/3/’2B) that Dr. Crew’s results are con-
trary to Australian experience, particularly
as regards the wisdom of resting the hens
for only 10 days before introducing a fresh
male bird into the breeding-pen. Owing
to ignorance of such details many strains
are probably in all good faith sold as pure-
blood when in reality they are not so.
A test made at the Roseworthy College
(S.A.) gives the following results after the
removal of the male bird: For the first five
days all eggs set were fertile; on the 6th, 7
out of 9; on the 7th and Bth, 9 out of 10;
on the 9th, 8 out of 10; on the 10th, 7 out
of 10; on the 11th, 3 out of 6; on the 12th,
3 out of 7; on the 13tli, 3 out of 6; on the
14th, 2 out of 10; on the 15th, none; on the
16th, 2 out of. 10; on the 17th, 1 out of 10;
on the 18th to 24th days, none. The test
was then discontinued.
Seems clear that at least 17 days—or, to
be on the safe side, three weeks —-should
elapse before a fresh strain can be guaran-
teed to be absolutely pure.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bush Boy”: Sheep missed during the
shearing muster should not be left until the
next shearing. By that time the wool will
be of two years’ growth, full of grass-seeds,
matted and hardly worth the shearing, and
humping the extra weight about will not
have done the sheep any good. Carry a pair
of shears on the saddle, and when a “woolly”
is seen, take the mob it is with to the nearest
yard, or break and take the fleece off. An
unshorn straggler running with breeding
ewes has a great attraction for blowflies.
“E.A.G.”; When the soil is too poor and
gravelly to. grow lucerne successfully for
poultry try a patch of subterranean clover.
The fowls thrive on it, and the clover
flourishes all winter and late into summer.
Now is the right time to plant it.
“N. 8.”; In cases of temporary blindness
in horses boracic acid blown into the eye
with a glass tube or paper funnel is good in
the early stages to remove the white film
over the eye. For an advanced or obstinate
case, use, in the same way, a small quantity
of finely-powdered alum.
“Nota Bene”: Some time ago the ques-
tion was raised in your paper as to the
heaviest sheep marketed (dressed weight).
Here are two entries: At Newmarket (Vic.)
yards in 1924 seven crossbred wethers were
sold which, when dressed, averaged 1961 b. (top
weight 2061 b.) ; also, at the same sale, two
ewes averaged 1791 b. dressed. Both wethers
and ewes were raised by A. Lang, Beeac.
“Old Timer”: To cure blood-scours in
calves administer one-half teaspoonful of
safonia in milk fresh from the cow for two
feeds, and then once a day till the calf is
well. To prevent scours add a teaspoonful
of safonia to each kerosene-tin full of
separated milk every day and leave a box
of coarse salt where the calf can get at
it. Safonia will cure pigs also.
“2 Right”; Several correspondents have
volunteered cures for scours in calves. My
experience is that cure is most difficult, but
prevention is easy. When I was dairying at
first my poddies suffered badly from scours
and I lost a lot, until I found out that a
calf’s stomach is a very tender organ, and a
drink of cold, or nearly cold, skim milk will
always upset it. To prevent scours, don’t
give the poddy too much milk at a time, and
it must be very warm—nearly hot. Its
mother’s milk is about 98deg., and it stands
to reason the milk fed should be near Hie
natural heat or there will be trouble VLo
don’t leave a little calf tied up exposed to
cold and rain That is all. My calves when
I had learned that much, were worth look-
mg at, and no more were lost or even sick.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd.. London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
t’-fc.
(T
U
m
I®**
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Every girl has a silver pining.
Experience is the father of all wrinkles.
Valets and footmen live on the Fat of
the land.
* *
Popular fiction is mostly love, and vice
versa.
In these days of time-payments most fur-
niture really is installed.
Flippant inebriate (flicking portly matron
in a tram full of flappers) • “You go tig-
you haven’t got your (hie) legs crossed!”
Oh, the blow that Jim struck teas a lifter,
But the bloke who received it stood grim,
And though the blow that Jim struck was a
snifter,
It was nought to the blow that struck Jim.
NOT A QUICK STARTER.
“So Peggy’s new boy’s a Scotchman? How does he treat her?”
“Very reluctantly, I believe.”
Editor (American funny paper) : “Say,
Smitliers, we’re two columns of jokes short
for the next issue?”
.Tokcsmith : “Well I’m going to a funeral
this afternoon —that ought to give me a few
ideas.”
A taxation official in N.S.W. has retired
at the age of 65. He must have worn a
pretty good disguise.
❖ ❖
“Now is the time to select your cold-
weatlier needs,” says a fashion writer.
•Thanks for the reminder.... Rum and gin-
ger, please.
❖ *
“A patient sufferer at rest.”
So reads the tombstone at his head.
Not one whom sickness put to test —
Merely an average man ivho wed.
* *
“What were you in the Great War, DaaY”
“A general, my hoy.”
“H’m—what did you call your book?”
Our criminal investigation department
reports that one of the most puzzling mys-
teries the Melbourne police have encountered
for some time concerns the drowning of a
6ft. 2in. man in the Yarra.
:!= *
The modern wife does not become en-
raged upon finding love letters from the
other woman in her husband’s pockets. She
thankfully takes them as the first instalment
of her alimony.
* *
We learn that, owing to the news stories
the Sydney flapper press has been making of
the Darlingliurst razor gangs’ activities, the
S. M. Herald will shortly announce tin; dis-
covery of a safety-razor gang at I’otts Point.
* #
“Who,” asks a writer in the Sydney Sun,
“is responsible for the training of our naval
cadets?” As if, at a moment’s notice, anyone
could reel off the names of all those girls!
Twenty-nine Victorian farmers have gone
to Europe to study the primary industries.
They should see some fine calves at the
Folies, Paris.
*
A learned gentleman is constructing a
huge rocket with which lie intends to shoot
to the moon. It’s wonderful the effect the
moon has on some people.
“I knew a professor—and a very erudite
one, too —who would do anything to avoid
walking beneath a ladder,” says a Sydney
News writer. Perhaps he’d served his term
under the heel of one of those who wear ’em.
KEEP YOURSELF FIT.
This useful exercise is practised by a
great number of the best footballers, eric-
keters, bowls players,
golfers and oper a
singers. It is quite
easy to do, and even
the most backward
can become proficient
at it after a little
practice: Standing
perfectly erect, lift the
right leg five inches
from the ground and
place in position.
Grasping object in
right hand, raise
slightly above the
chin ; bend elbow, tilt
head and swallow.
A man who called at
the income-tax office
and paid his taxes the
other day left his
cheque-book on the
counter. Well, it cer-
tainly wouldn’t be
much use to him after-
wards.
* *
The most indignant
man we have met for
17 years came bustling
into the office the
other day. He com-
plained bitterly that
someone in the street
had mistaken him for
Mr. Hughes. The
other indignant one re-
ferred to came bust-
ling into the office
complaining bitterly
that someone in the
street had mistaken
him for Mr. Hughes.
It has come to this —that a woman, before
going out, will ask her husband if has
her complexion on straight.
*
The modern flapper regards Eve as un-
clothed. She had no paint or lip-salve to
put on.
OUR SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
My husband first complained of the cook-
ing, and when I told him I’d go home to
mother lie said, “Serve her right.” Then when
I told him I wanted a new dress, he asked me
what I’d done with the last two shillings
he gave me. Then he threw a fiat-iron at
a mole that happened to be on my forehead,
and finally he ran away. That was five
years ago, and I haven’t heard from him
since, though I believe he went to Man-
churia. What I want to know is, do you
think he may possibly have grown tired of
me?— Anxious.
Now, really, “Anxious,” don’t you think
you are just a trifle impatient?
“German genius,” says a cable, “has pro-
duced a new sUmtific marvel —the perfect
mummy, guaranteed to last for ever.” Tough
news that for many a hen-pecked daddy.
* *
“Civility” is the other word for “servility.”
Of flappers fair the knutlet sings,
Of love the lovesick fool;
The flapper sings of cigs. and things
On ice in cafes cool.
* *
English shipowners evidently regard Mr.
Bruce’s barks as worse than his skite.
THE GREAT SURRENDER.
“Yes, sir. All men are born equal and free!”
“Ah, yes. But then again some get married!”
Some say the Prime Minister has done
nothing; others that his career is a record
of mistakes. Evidently Mr. Bruce can do
nothing wrong.
* *
A new microscope capable of magnifying
an object 12 million times has excited inter-
est in local theatrical press-agency circles.
“I’m a man of few words!”
“H’m—-I’m married, too.”
Women may romance about their age,
but with many men it is a bald fact.
* *
Girls put powder on their faces in the
hope that ft will help them to go off some
day.
MAGNANIMITY.
Sky of sapphire and moon of gold,
And one cicada piping shrill....
Oh, if the world weren’t a year too old,
You and 1 would be climbing the hill
Side by side. / apologise;
I should have forgotten yesteryear,
As you have done —you were always ivise.
Well....the night is fine; good hunting,
dear !
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS.
THE ACE OF SPAIDS.
Mister Timerthy Tremblelegs tried to Con-
secrate upon the Book Before him, but the
Terrer that was in his Sole made him Put
Down the Leger and Rise Impaciently to
iiis Feet. There were Many Other Books in
the Libery, but Tremblelegs was the sort of
man who Pefercd to Read Legers.
He walked to the window and Looked Out.
The Site of policemen’s helmets, walking up
and down in Front of his House, Reassured
Him. Still Shaking with his Fear, he re-
turned to his Book.
“My God!” The Blasfemious Ejackulation
was Forced from his Parched Throat. On
the open Page lay the Mesage of Doom—the
Ace of Spaids!
Shaking like a Leaf, he picked it up in
His Pawlsied Hands and then Dropped it
with a moaning cry.
“Face your
Doom, Timerthy
Tremblelegs!” said
a stern voice, and
the wretch found
himself looking
into the Revolver
held in its Steady
hand.
“Spare me!
Spare me!” he
cried. “I see who
you are now; I
have Long Sus-
pected it! You
can have all the
Money back, only
spare my Life!”
“Did you Spare
my Father,” said
Our Hero, for it
was indeed He,
“when to secure his
Wealth you swore
his Life away and
Sent him to a Fel-
len’s grave? No!
I was a boy at
School then, but I
Swore a Terrible
Oath to wipe out
You and your Con-
fedderates. To each one in Turn I sent
Four Aces as Warnings of their Impending
Doom. Then I slew them, one by one. I
kept you, the chief of them, to the Last, so
that you could Suffer Torture by Knowing
Vengens was on your Trail. But to-night
you Die!”
“Have you no Pity, Stephen Sternly?”
moaned the Doomed Man.
“None! Your guilty Sole placed Police-
men round the House, after you had received
my Third Warning, the Ace of Clubs ; but
you could not stop my Just Vengens. No;
I went up in an aeroplane and dropped on
the roof in a Parraslioot.”
In mentioning the Policemen, Stephen
made a Fatal eror. The base-liearted Wretch
Sudenly remembered them, and, Coward that
he was, Rushed to the window and Screamed
for help. At the same moment Our Hero s
revolver Spoke, and Timothy Tremblelegs
was No More.
“My Oath is Completed,” said Our Hero
in a voice full of Sincere Thankfulness to
Heaven. “Now, if I can but Escape, I can
in future live a Respectible Life.”
He moved to the Door, but Too Late.
He was Siezed by Half a Dossen Policemen.
He Offered no Ilesistens.
“The Men I have killed
were Criminals,” he said,
“but I do not want to Fight
against the Law.”
“Nobly spoken!” said the
Chief of Police, a man with
a Kindly Face and a Revol-
ver in Each Hand. He had
himself decided to watch
with the men who had been
Tolled Off in the Hope of
Catching the Ellusive Aven-
ger, the Mistery Man to
whom So Many Deaths were
Suposed to be Due. “But
I am Afraid that you will be
Hanged, although I daresay
You were Justified. You
must Come with us.”
“Stay !”
They all turned in Suprise to See a Grey-
Haired Man standing by the Corps.
“The Judge!” they cried in uniform.
“Release that man!” he commanded. “He
did not Slay this Riscreant! See, there is
no blood ! I have examined the Body, and he
died from Heart Failure when he heard
Sternly’s revolver go off.”
“But, Your Honor, there are the other
Murders,” sugested the Chief of Police.
“Pooh! You can never convict him of
those,” said the Judge, smiling. “I myself
destroyed the Finger Prints which are the
Only Evidens.”
“As you Know,” he went on, seeing that
they all seemed Astonished, “I am No Ordi-
nary Judge. No ; I like to Know all about
the cases before I try them, so that I will
not have to Relie on the Evidens. So,
when these murders started. I became a
Detective myself. I found that this'young
man was not a Real Murderer but was
Carrying Out a Just Vengens.”
• Satisfied that their Duty was Done, the
Police left the room, taking with them the
Dead Corps.
“You thought I didn’t Know You,” said
the Judge with Playful Sternness, turning
to Our Hero.
“You see, Sir,” said Our Hero, apolar-
geticaly, “I had Sworn An Oath. When I
met your Daughter Nell I was Almost Giving
Up my vengens; but I could not Forget my
Oath.”
“And I Honor you for it, my Boy,” said
the Judge Heartily, holding out his hand.
“You can come to see my Daughter as usual;
INTERFERIN’ COW, TOO.
“Wot did the parson knock yer for, Spider?”
“Cracking the missus.”
“Wot a wowser!”
and in time you can Marry her; for I feel
you are A Young Man who will Go Far.”
Stephen Sternly did marry her, and very
soon, for he became a Rich Man when it was
Discovered that all the men he had killed
were Criminals for whom Large Rewards
were Offered, Dead or Alive. Afterwards he
went Int'o Parlament, where he Estabblasked
a Reputation for making Maiden Speeches.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


' %«;
mmm
&
~:•: : : :■
x^S
B**ss
*
-. in\
iil
ii
onds
M
ii i
m.
Australian Engineer’s Notable Triumph
Wonderful Device Perfects Ankle Fitting
“This Easter SYIK/IRTO will have more Friends
than ever before. .... Always an Ideal Stocking
for Holiday Wear, SYLKARTO has the appearance
of a Full-Fashioned Stocking.
(jßoncCs
&aste,r
6gg/
The Tight Fitting Ankle
Device that makes
Bond’s Sylk Arto fit
close and snug at the ankle
G
O 'k
ft 7 /
4.%
O
:r
rn
Made in 80 Beautiful
Shades and every size—
Fashioned to fit. Sylk-Arto
will stand the Strain of Holiday
wear, take it with you this Easter


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Rvan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
li ;) nk offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
” 1
jf,
/\;i
\
> /£\
n A
Xl
X.
X SL x...-
mrs
AUSTRAUAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
“Cine Ma”: The amusement tax reveals
the figures of attendance at the movies. On
a recent Saturday in Melbourne 25,000 pic-
ture fans rolled up to the city houses and
80,000 to the suburbs. The flesh-an’-blood
theatres were by no means full, but if they
had been they could not have contained more
than 12,000. And the first biograpli in Mel-
bourne was put on as a rather silly novelty
by the manager of a legitimate theatre to
entertain his patrons in the interval!
“Flaming Youth”: Evidently the woman
next to me at “Faust” was all at sea, and
her cavalier was trying to enlighten her,
making a running commentary full of “this
bloke,” “the sheilah” and “old Meph.” It
proceeded merrily, the commentator warm-
ing to his work, up to the seduction scene.
“Old Nick eggs the bloke on ter chat ’er,”
he said informatively.... “Nick kids the
old tart —Martha’s ’er name—away ter
give ’im a clear field.... He’s smoodging a
treat, and she’s kiddin’ ’erself ’e really loves
’er.” Then Marguerite broke away and,
throwing herself on her knees, buried her
face in her hands. “ ’E’s put the ’ard word
on ’er,” explained the cavalier. Evidently
the lady didn’t like the way he put it; there
came a venomously-hissed “Shut up!” from
her fair lips, and a frozen silence prevailed
until, at the interval, the cavalier was able
to say his apologies with ices.
“Cauboy” : Enter the new press agency:—
The Chemiavskys are never tired of insisting
that their great success, musically and materially,
is due to the fact that their three hearts beat as
one, metaphorically speaking. They realise the power
of the heart; they recognise the mystical symbology
that attaches to it. In the innermost shrine of
one archaic temple there lay upon the altar a
large heart-shaped golden box, and the secret opening
was known only to the high priest. In the golden
heart-shaped box the ancient kept their most sacred
things. They believed that every atom beats as
a heart. It is the recognition of the throb in
matter and life which enables the Cherniavskys
to make their bodies supple and responsive instru-
ments to the activities of their wonderful egos.
Nowadays, of course, the box is flat and
varnished black with a gold stripe, and the
key is kept in trust by the management.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Shareholders in Empire
Theatres are beginning to make inquiries,
with some anxiety in their voices, about
dividends. The company has done well with
its shows, and in regard to two of them
—“Sunny” and “The Student Prince” —a
profitable sale of rights and effects to Fullers
and J.C.W. came at the end of their useful-
ness. For single-theatre management the over-
head is heavy: that may be altered when the
chain of theatres comes. The Empire share-
holders are not the only ones who are worry-
ing; the lay-partners in Tivoli affairs have
also been making a noise. H. D. Mclntosh
sits above them with £2OOO a year secured
to him for life as managing director, even
though he should spend most of his time
in Europe.
“Goldilocks”: After the Firm had angled
for it, Fullers again get the lease of
His Majesty’s, Perth, at £75 per week, which
is to rise to £9O before the 20 years’ term
expires. Even although the lessees will have
to spend £lO,OOO on improving the theatre
(J.C.W. offered £4OOO less) it should be a
payable venture in the Western capital,
where the Fullers also control the Royal.
The Williamsons have bought a theatre
site there, and losing His Majesty’s will
probably cause them to hasten building.
“Cauboy” : Henry Mowbray, better known
here as Harry Sweeney, was last heard of
playing in Chicago with Mrs. Fiske and
Otis Skinner in “The Merry Wives.”
Leonard Willey is in N’York offering a
pound of his Australian flesh to the Shy-
lock of George Arliss. Alan Willey, his
son, lias a small part in the same Win-
tlirop Ames production.
“Hamfat”: Jim Gerald intends to spend
nine months of 1928-29 looking round the
world. Except for his three years with
the A.1.F., which were not exactly a holi-
day, James has been doing two-shows-a-
day vaudeville on the Fuller circuit for 16
years with merely the intervals necessary
for the hop from one city to another. A
circus initiated Jim into the show business.
He produced his first panto, for Fullers, and
played the dame in it, 14 years ago.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : The famous
O.U.D.S. (Oxford amateurs), which the late
Arthur Bourchier founded, have set them-
selves a task that would stir up a London
manager. Their new production will be “Tne
Fourteenth of July,” by Romain Rolland.
There are 46 speaking parts, including
Marat, Robespierre and other figures of the
period.
No GENTLE WAKING THERE.
“Listen, Bert. That’s that Screechem girl singing ‘Softly Awakes My Heart.’”
“I bet it doesn’t sleep anywhere near her voice.”
“Dave” : Stating that he was a shopkeeper
as well as an artist, Robert Loraine refused
to admit two well-known dramatic critics to
the first night of Strindberg’s “The Dance of
Death” in London. He maintained that he
would imperil his box-office by admitting
critics whose usual opinion was destructive.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : A variant
of the bonus system is followed in John
Tiller’s troupe of dancers in New York.
When a girl has been five years with the
company she is allotted 29 shares, and for
each additional year she gets another 29.
As Tiller’s fame is widespread, dancers can
save a bit against bad weather.
“M. Pyre” : The other day in Brisbane I
saw a film of one of the Victorian Reso
tours through Central Australia. Before
I saw it I was prepared to take the word
of enthusiastic patriots that the centrepiece
of this continent was not all desert, but my
faith has been shattered. The picture was
just a series of desert scenes, depressing and
barren. I don’t know whether these par-
ticular films are sent overseas, but if this
one is, if is going to have a pretty mislead-
ing effect.
“Spokeshave”: The blow dealt by the Tait
withdrawal to the Melbourne Repertory
Society has not outed that organisation alto-
gether. It will continue to invite the guineas
of the intelligentsia, promising in return
lectures and play-reading evenings, with a
hint of actual productions. Whether it can
attract audiences to intellectual plays after
the Tait season of six shows, professionally
produced, is a moot question, and a mooter
is whether it can get satisfactory pieces.
The number of really dramatically convinc-
ing repertory plays has never been large,
and most of them get out of date with
astonishing celerity. In any case, the Taits
are certain to pull all the strings to obtaiu
a lien on the best in the market.
“C. 8.”: To strengthen his professional
crew Gregan McMahon is bringing back Aus-
tralian actress Leal Douglas from the Cold
Land. She will be Mrs. Bridgnorth in “Get-
ting Married.”
“Hamfat” : Australian song-writer Emmet
Adams and his sister Berte are in a fair way
to make their fortune; their “Lumber Love,”
produced at the. London Lyceum, has struck
success. Emmet showed that he knew how
to catch the popular taste when he wrote
“The Bells of St. Mary’s” ; a few airs as
melodious as that would make success for
any musical comedy.
“Goldilocks”: The thriller “Dracula” has
established a new London record by moving
into five different theatres in the course of
an otherwise uninterrupted run. Driven out
of the Garrick, it is now at the Regent,
King’s Cross. To make cheap prices pay the
two-shows-a-night system, adopted by some
other houses, has been introduced. One per-
formance commences at 6.30 and the other
at 8.40.
“Flaming Youth”: London’s newest
theatre, “The Dominion,” now being erected,
will be controlled by the United Producing
Company, which has the Hippodrome,
Palace and Drury-lane—all built for large
productions. Sir Alfred Butt, now a lead-
ing spirit in management matters, is spon-
soring the new show-house, and there is a
suggestion that it may . be kept for pieces
with a flavor to suit the title.
“Cauboy”: The American producers of
“Cradle Snatchers” committed a ludicrous
mistake when they staged the giddy bit in
London recently. In Australia it amused all
but a few professional reformers, and its
inoffensiveness was mainly due to the fact
that its characters, being supposed to repre-
sent American types, could be viewed with
a suitable detachment. The London pro-
duction was Anglicised. The youths who
hired themselves out —harmlessly, as it
turned out —-t'o married women were changed
into Cambridge undergrads. American col-
lege boys in vacation do menial domestic
labor, such as stoking the central heating
furnaces in private homes, just as Austra-
lian university lads and lassies go grape-
picking to Mildura. But the English col-
legian does nothing so debased. Conse-
quently the respectable middle-class English
critics were enraged. One said that the play
had “a sheer ugliness, rare even in popular
successes imported from America.” And the
general chorus was the same.
“Flaming Youth” : The argument in Eng-
land over the “Dawn” film caused a rum-
maging among the pigeon-holes in Sydney;
and “The Martyrdom of Nurse Cavell
was dragged out to do a new round, begin-
ning at the Piccadilly. The film was made
by Australians when the Cavell incident was
fairly fresh. The principals were
Pearce (now doing well in England), Jack
Gavin and Percy Walshe —a solid artist who
was good enough to be with the Broughs,
but has been retired into stage direction ot
minor shows through a throat trouble which
crippled liis voice.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Things looked glum for
Frank Neil when he and Maurice Tuohy had
played a frosty few weeks at the Melbourne
Palace with lurid melodrama. They then put
oil “Charley’s Aunt,” and the money rained
in. Following with similar pieces, and cheap
prices, Neil lias never looked back; Tuohy
died just when affluence became a settled
condition. Neil is now a property-owner and
prospective proprietor of a new Sydney
theatre. His latest venture is in horseflesh.
He owns a neddie which he calls Gertie’s
Garter, and means to race. The bookmakers
will welcome him.
“Avon”: Hollywood has discovered the
existence of Henare, and has sent to Maori-
land a delegation consisting of one hero, one
heroine, two camera men and a director to
make a beautiful dramatic film. The scenario
was written in California by one Alexander
Marky, who knows all about the Maoris,
having once visited Rotorua, and who mod-
estly informed an Auckland interviewer that
in the opinion of Hollywood critics his story
is the best that has been written for 10
years. When all the scenes have been shot
the Americans will take back with them
15 or 20 Maoris, who will play a stage pro-
logue to the picture.
“I. Phelps”: Cosmo Hamilton’s “Caste,”
which was given a short run at the Mans-
field, New York, a few weeks back, brought
to light Hilda Spong in the role of a French
duchess of superior social vintage but of
inferior dramatic tonnage. Thirty years ago
I saw the beauteous Hilda facing the worst
that Albert Norman could produce in “The
Span of Life” at Melbourne Royal, and I
gather from the New York press that the
Hilda of to-day has lost some of that early
rosebud look. Appearing with her in a more
important part was Halliwell Hobbes, who
provided one or two nice little mezzotints of
character with Ethel Irving in Australia.
“Feng-Shui”: The Chinaman has landed
into the movie game with both feet. Dur-
ing a recent patriotic boom in Shanghai
scores of companies were formed. Most
collapsed, but the bigger ones look like stay-,
ing. The Son of Tong is eminently adapted
to oust Hollywood from the native screen.
For hundreds of years he has been a pro-
lific writer of the most pornographic brand
of novel in existence, so there should be no
shortage of the right type of scenario and
audiences for them. In the economic sphere
the celestial film star can undercut the white
as effectually as a Chinese market-gardener
can a Digger selector. Directors average
£2 10s. a week, and it is an unusual star
who draws more than 60s. Settings, ancient
and modern, which would cost a fortune to
reproduce in Hollywood, are at hand, and
spectacles can be obtained cheap. Inci-
dentally, the darling of the Chinese screen
may not be all she appears—one popularly
adored under the name of Blue Peony is
actually a man, while his daughter takes
male parts. A Chinese Fairbanks is at the
moment playing opposite one of his wives in
one picture and opposite a second wife in
another.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Allan Wilkie, after long
waiting for a chance to. secure a show-house
in Sydney, has desperately taken the Majes-
tic, Newtown. He opens on April 21, in
the hope that Shakspeareans won’t mind the
trip to the suburb. To lure others Wilkie
might try the method of the American who
placarded Chicago some time ago with bills
which described the Bard’s products as
“More Piquant than a Divorce Trial —More
Thrilling than a Murder.”
“Hamfat” : Marie Burke was rushed with
offers directly she reached England. Three
and a half years ago she was glad of an
engagement—not a first-class one—with the
Tivoli, and The Bulletin’s Melbourne
Showman remarked on the first view that
the J.W.C.’s need not look any further for
the musical-comedy lead they badly needed.
When the Firm gave Marie a chance in
“Wildflower” she quickly justified that
opinion.
“Hamer”: Georg Kaiser, the German
author of the new venture of Sydney’s Play-
box Theatre, has written 16 plays since
1903, most of them satiric commentaries.
“From Morn to Midnight,” which the Play-
box has taken up, concerns an elderly bank
clerk who takes a roll of the bank’s money
and goes in search of pleasure. He finds that
all pleasure is tainted with disillusion and
insincerity; and when, turning from it, he
goes to a Salvation Army shelter, the way
the “penitents” scramble for the money he
throws among them gives him his final dis-
gust at the world’s falsity.
NOT ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They tell me, laddie, one may gain
Ponderable emolument
By posturing, absurd and vain.
With movie-camera on you bent.
Laddie, I hope the cerement
Enwraps me ere I take a part
In flicks. The mob would be content;
But, dear old chap, it is not Art.
’Twere bitterly against my grain
If, in a green-room all besprent
With flappers’ frills and marocain,
I waited for the main event
And, after dragging moments spent
In watching striplings smite the heart,
They summoned me, incontinent,
To strut in pantomimic “Art.”
The youthful Thespian is fain
To clasp the tawdry glamor lent
By “twenty-sheeters” and to reign
In some unlikely Bedouin tent.
Laddie, the truly eloquent
Could find in dumb-show only smart;
It may beseem the reticent,
But, mark my words, it is not Art.
Envoy.
Thanks, laddie, for a kindness lent,
But let me speak with you apart;
There’s a slight hitch about my rent,
Could you?.... Thanks, in the name of
Art.
N.S.W.
BYSOM AUBERE.


HOUP-LA ABDULLA!
4?
S
PAPER HOOPS
Here in the Circus Ring we have glamour and a brassy
music that stirs the blood. Danger is linked with laughter.
The “World’s Equestrienne” poised on the “Pride of
Arabia” gallops towards a Paper Hoop.
The Paper Hoops of Life—how splendid to leap through
their blank surface, knowing only that Abdulla’s Superb
Cigarettes await us on the further side —to soothe or
stimulate —but always to enchant us.
SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


J
TV
r
>•
'*<■**■
X ■
Rubber cases and jars used in
Willard Batteries are tested elec-
trically—at 18,000 volts. Only
perfect cases and jars can pass
this test.
that's
Quality
fs
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane.


The GQ//A.HD Lirxe of Deanty
y
iff
r;;- >]' y
4
4! j •:
it
TM
u:
i
m *
y
hat
INIMITABLE
SMARTNESS
custom-made says one woman to
another, describing the appearance and feeling
of being Gossard -corseted.
From fashion port to fashion port Gossard artist-
designers travel, studying the mode, women’s
activities and tastes, the needs of certain kinds
of supporting garments for certain kinds of wear.
No other foundation garments compare with
Gossards —their superb individual designing,
their perfect ability to blend figure and frock,
their remarkable supporting, caressing qualities.
They are truly inimitably smart.
Gossard Corsets
arc made ivithm the Empire
For Every Figure
No matter what your type of figure, there
is a group of Gossards to fit you per-
fectly. Today go and see the hew Autumn
girdles, step-ins, clasp-arounds, combinations,
Gossard Completes, and front-lacing corsets
particularly suited to your figure.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co. 5 Ltd ,
114 Castlereagh St.j Sydney
5-1-18
THE INKY WAY.
“P.1.C.A.”: A recent cable item in a
Sydney daily told of a merger between Pull-
mans, Ltd., of U.S.A., and “Wagon and Co.,
Ltd.,” of Paris. If the interpreter had
been in France in 1914-18 he could hardly
have failed to recognise our old friend
Wagons Lits.
“P.1.C.A.”: Australian coastal and over-
seas ships are far from being the first to
print daily newspapers (B. 7/3/’2B). For
years past Atlantic liners have been issuing
a serviceable daily, and even on U.S.A.
coastal boats the linotype is in use. Few
Australian vessels have a printing-office big
enough for a comp, to work in.
Robert Burns, a quiet Scotchman with
no interests outside the office, succeeded
Sowden (who had many) in the editorship
of Adelaide Register in 1922. He now re-
tires after 44 years altogether on the paper,
and makes a long visit to England; he is
Devon-born, and came to Australia at 25
in search of health. Reginald Foster moves
up into the editor’s chair, with C. E. Wylde
as associate-editor. Both are comparatively
young men.
“Clerk”: Clapp’s latest plan for increasing
public sales of the Vic. Railways Maga-
zine is to appoint every railwayman in the
State a salesman. Any such who succeeds
in signing up some friend as a subscriber
collects the customary seven shillings, re-
tains two bob for his trouble and sends the
balance to the editor. Great things are
expected of the scheme in country districts,
where the rail staff generally knows every
resident by his Christian name.
“R.G.W.”: Died in Wellington (M.L.)
recently old “Dan” JNJbwhinney, one-time
scribe on the staff of the now long-defunct
Dunedin Globe. Dan got his name when
he was reporting a circus and the proprietor
offered a prize for anyone who would enter
the lion’s cage. The reporter closed with
the offer and lifted the money, and the name
of the Biblical prophet clung to him for
the rest of his life.
GOOD ENOUGH.
SUBBUB: “Well, Mary, I engaged a cook for
you this morning.”
MRS. SUBBUB: “I hope she’s a good cook.”
SUBBUB: “Rather! She stipulates that she’s
to be allowed to go to church twice
every Sunday.”
“Yarri”: Some of the journalistic heads
who ask contributors to write plainly might
take their own advice. I have had some
awful scrawls to ponder over in my wander-
ings on the Inky Way, but the two worst
fists I have known were those of Frank
Myers and Tighe Ryan. I got a note from
the former one morning when he was editing
a paper called the Golden Fleece, and the
only thing decipherable in it was “Myers.”
I took it down to the office and handed it to
Myers, who pored over it for a couple of
minutes before he could make it out. It re-
minded me of two men in a shearing-shed
who jointly composed a letter to their union
secretary. When they had finished neither
could read it. through. “Never mind,” said
one, “Bill will be able to read it: he’s a
better scholar than we are.”
Thursday Island numbers amongst its
assets what is said to be the smallest daily
newspaper published—a single sheet called
the Daily Pilot, about six inches by ten,
though occasionally it runs to quarto size.
In addition the island has a Japanese news-
paper which circulates amongst the six
or seven hundred men who work in the
pearling fleet. This sheet, though published
at less frequent intervals normally, is issued
daily during the period that the boats are in
for “lay-up” or at the end of a drift. As in
the case of some European papers, the con-
tributors at times contrive to get past the
editorial eye and throw themselves about a
bit, and some of the articles cause consider-
able controversy. Is this the only Japanese
newspaper in Australia?
“Uramao” : From the reminiscences evoked
by the diamond jubilee of the West Coast
(M.L.) it appears that old-time newspaper
editors in these parts were reckoned of little
account unless they could set up their lead-
ing articles themselves. One veteran named
Laing was so versatile that his fingers
snatching type could keep pace with the
rapid flow of his thought. Laing worked
on the West Coast Times at Hokitika and
lived at Greymouth, 33 miles away. Every
week-end he w r alked the distance home on
CHEAP.
“What makes you fancy, dear, that none
of my family think much of youV’
“Well, the most any of them has tried to
borrow is two shillings!”
Saturday night and returned on Sunday
night. His journey took him through bush
and along the sandy beach, where there were
treacherous quicksands to be dodged. When
the editor was in the danger zone he had to
push a log ahead of him as a precautionary
measure and change his course when it
disappeared.
Digger A. Staples, a manufacturer of per-
forated screens at Bendigo, has been elected
chief President of the Vic. division of the
A.N.A. The association has 33,096 members
and accumulated funds totalling £906,000.
J. A. Wallace, who established the first
stamp-dealing business in Victoria, is on a
visit to this country. He comes from
London, and is reputed to be the Cold
Country’ greatest stamp-dealer. He came
to Melbourne in 1593 and opened a shop in
Collins-street.
(Vic.), who lately celebrated his SOth birth-
day, put up a teaching record about 45
years ago. For three consecutive years a
pupil of his Carlton school won a scholarship
at Scotch College, and each lad in turn be-
came dux there. One is solicitor Edward
Carr and another Dr. William Ostermeyer,
both practising in Melbourne. The other
w T as John Steele Robertson, versifier “Steele
Grey” of The Bulletin in the ’nineties.
Prendergast, Vic. Chief Sec., who is just
on 74, fraternised the other day with some
fellow comps, who took a day off for a marine
excursion to Queenscliff. He met a few who
worked with him at Walker, May and Co.’s
when lie was type-snatching in his pre-Par-
liamentary days. The only time Pr.endy
was official head of a printing chapel was
when he was Treasurer in his own Govern-
ment in 1924. The Finance Minister bosses
the Government Printing Office.
“L.J.”: The kauri-gum industry in M.L.
lias been adversely affected by the produc-
tion of American substitutes. A • majority
of the diggers on the fields petitioned Par-
liament last year to have the Kauri-gum
Control Act repealed. One of their griev-
ances is that all gum is not being sold
by the Control Board, and the 50 per cent,
cash advance promised on the balance is
made dependent on an affidavit that the
applicant is without means. Few care about
broadcasting their poverty in this w r ay. Pro-
duction fell from 6481 tons in 1920 to. 4674
tons last year, and the value dropped from
£556,756 to £275,632.
For reasons obscure F. J. Jones, who
since December, 1924, has been chairman of
Maoriland’s Railway Board of Management,
has resigned his job. He’s only 54, and has
spent his working life in Fernland’s railway
service, starting as a cadet at 15 and work
ing his way up, via the drafting office, to
the exalted position of chief engineer, which
he reached four years ago. Almost coinci-
dentally the Fay-Raven Commission recom-
mended a reorganisation of the service with
a tripartite board of management, and- Pri-
minister Coates, who loves a hustler, gave
the chairmanship to Jones. Whatever the
the causes of his resignation, the service will
be sorry to lose Jones, who, though a bit
peppery, was a fair-minded boss and a whale
for work.
“Listinsect”: The human ear is a poor
indicator of degrees of sound volume, espe-
cially in a modern street. Up to a certain
point it makes a fairly accurate, though not
permanent, record; beyond that it scarcely
registers any differences at all. So the Mel-
bourne Tramways Board, which is trying to
discover why one tram is noisier than an-
other. has had to resort to wireless. A
valve-amplifier is connected with a needle
which registers the intensity of the sound in
the manner of a barometer record. The chief
discovery up to date is not of much use
for solving the problem. It is that loose
ballast tracks kick up less of a fiendish row
than solid concrete or asphalt ones. Still
it may lead to the use of some more cushion v
road material.
MATTER-OF-FACT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These subs, may ruffle “Rikki T,”
But they will never trouble me—
Though they should dot and dash and score
My copy, I shall ne’er implore
A vengeance on their heads, nor curse
At mutilated prose or verse;
And epigrams may turn to hash
Unwept, if they but yield me cash.
With bread and beer alike denied
What has a bloke to do with pride?
What matters it if metre lags,
Or commas like a string of flags
Go writhing down the printed sheets?
Up! Gather in the cash receipts!
My finest periods they may mash
If what they leave turns in the cash.
So down with sentiment, and give
The sub., poor chap, the right to live!
’Tis natural that he should hate
MS. he cannot punctuate;
He has his job to justify.
So if he hits you in the eye
With hyphen, quote and query—why,
Be tolerant, and never fash
Yourself—except to get the cash !
S.A.
S. POTCASH.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
df
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building.
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON s
Government Life Bmldinr
(Next G.P.0.).
A Good
Gun
Deserves
A Good
Cartridge
(
m
mi
/
*/, /
m
Be Sure You Use Only
ALL-BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
ELEY &
KYNOCH
Proved by the most experienced shooters
to be the best.
All-British from Cap to
Turnover
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GUNSMITHS
AND DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
OB EL
This Truck ’
POWER, SPEED, DURABILITY
AND ECONOMY
bring you greater Profits
This Willys-Knight six-cylinder truck
gives you for the first time ALL the
most desirable truck features in a
single unit of modern design.
In this Willys-Knight truck
you have—in addition to the power,
speed, economy and long life of the
world famous double-sleeve Willys-
Knight engine—large four-wheel
brakes —selective sliding gear trans-
mission two stage progressive -type
rear springs—Hotchkiss drive—full-
floating double-reduction drive rear
axle —extra deep, strongly braced,
low-hung frame and many other
special engineering features that mean
more dependable service, greater
economy, and larger profits. In an
hour we can demonstrate this truck
and its value to you. Call us today.
Willys-Knight trucks are also offered
in models of 1,2, and 2V2-ton capacities.
WILLYS-KNIGHT
Six* Cylinder
MOTOR TRUCKS
£NIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-126 Russell Street Melbourne
E- G. EAGER AND SON, LTD., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead Brisbane "
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., 62-70 Franklin Street \dela de “
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD.. Murray Street Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN AND CO., LTD., 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
LONG ECONOMICAL LIFE


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SORE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Don't wish for the Best —get it ,
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESORTS, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
On Saturday morning it was announced
that there was inflammation in Limerick’s
near fore hoof, and the belief that he might
not start in the Chipping Norton Stakes
in the afternoon affected the attendance at
Warwick Farm, although the gate receipts
were satisfactory. Start he did, however,
and the ring thought so little of his ailment
that it demanded 6 to 1. The chanipion
won in a canter by a couple of lengths from
Don Moon (33 to 1), who shaped much
better than at Rosehill; the role of pace-
maker evidently suited him. Rionscup (10
to 1) and Jocelyn (8 to 1) made very unim-
pressive jobs of their efforts to overtake
him, and went out of favor for the Don-
caster and the Sydney Cup respectively,
while Don Moon’s price for the Doncaster
(he won it last year) shortened several
points.
Limerick’s jockey, McCarten, was on
Whitta (5 to 1) in the Liverpool Handicap,
and his riding did not please some of the
excitable mare’s backers, who blamed him for
letting Bunkum (14 to 1) get up on the
rails. Whether McCarten was to blame or
not, Bunkum worried Whitta out of the
lead and beat her by a neck; Ascalon (6
to 1), who was badly served at the start,
was third, between two and three lengths
away. Greenline, the favorite, suffered a
bump, and the well-backed Killarney, who
looks very bright, ran wide at the home turn.
The six furlongs were run in lmin. 131 sec.
Rampion’s brother Ramulus won the first
division of the Fairfield Handicap so dash-
ingly as. to suggest that he will furnish very
dangerous opposition to Mollison in the two-
year-old races at Randwick. The presence
of .Clear Flight (5 to 2) in the field—he
turned it up when Ramulus tackled him —
and an impression that Ramulus was not
ready enabled supporters of the latter to get
sixes, although the closing price was fours.
Remora (5 to 2), another of Rossendale’s
progeny and also bred and owned by the
Briens, made the second division a cake-
walk. Raised only 21b. for her Rosehill suc-
cess, she was very leniently treated by the
handicappcr, but that official doesn’t often
make mistakes,
Winalot proved himself a high-class colt
when he ran that close second to Trivalve
in the A.J.C. Derby, and again when he
made Limerick travel in the Craven Plate.
But he went off after those very severe races
and did nothing in Melbourne. He returned
to his early spring form with a vengeance
in the Warwick Farm Cup. Blather (5 to
2) was favorite (at the moment he was
favorite for the Sydney Cup also), but his
efforts to break up the field, as he did at
Rosehill, were fruitless over the longer dis-
tance and in superior company; he was done
with at a mile and a quarter. At that
stage Winalot (9 to 2) obviously had the
race in hand and, finishing stoutly, he won
by three lengths from Valparaiso (10 to 1),
who was a length and a quarter ahead of
Amusement (5 to 1), Valamita being a
close fourth. The time, 2min. 31fsec., was
excellent. Next to Winalot, Amusement
finished better than anything in the race,
and the gallop should do him the world of
good. Piastoon, Black Duchess and Cumer-
long were among the Sydney Cup candidates
who were well beaten.
Imported Simeon’s Fort (4 to 1), Haba-
shon (6 to 1) and Lesboo (8 to 1) were
among the Doncaster Handicap horses backed
for the Cabramatta Handicap. They were
all beaten, and the other starters as well,
by Singledale (12 to 1), a Rossendale geld-
ing who is not in the Doncaster. Single-
dale, who was ridden by the Vic. jockey
Daniels, had things all his own way in the
straight, although Preposterer (4 to 1)
struggled gamely under his' big weight.
Ilabashon was third. Lesboo finished last
and pulled up groggy.
“Royal Parade”: Jack Daniels, who rode
Singledale at Warwick Farm on Saturday,
is a son of Will Daniels, who was on Lieu-
tenant Bill when that rank outsider won the
Caulfield Cup. Jack’s mother was one of
the Foulsham girls, a sister to riders Bill
and Ike and trainer Fred. Will Daniels died
when Jack was a toddler; Mrs. Will did
not long survive him.
* * *
With Limerick and Gothic, Trivalve and
Winalot, Mollison and Ramulus engaged,
quality will be well represented at the A.J.C.
round of meetings commencing at Randwick
on Saturday. After Saturday’s races Limerick
limped to the motor-float that conveyed him
from Warwick Farm, but Monday’s report was
reassuring, and the champion will probably
be able to take his place in the field in the
Autumn Stakes on Saturday. He has been
SPOTTED.
GAMBLING NATIVE: “ All’ll bet you can't spot de winner."
THE OTHER ONE: “De winner is spotted already."
nominated for two races on the Wednesday,
and has 9st. 51b. in the King’s Cup on
Saturday, April 14.
Winalot’s recapture of his Derby form will
make the St. Leger very interesting. Tri-
valve will, of course, be favorite, but The
Bulletin will not be surprised to see the
Rossendale chestnut beat him, especially if
the going is on the heavy side. Trivalve
did not relish heavy going at Randwick last
Easter. And Ramulus may likewise over-
come Mollison, although Victorians will not
hear of the Queensland-bred gelding’s defeat.
So many early fancies have been taken
out of the Doncaster and Sydney Cup and
so many later fancies have failed ingloriously
in winding-up races that compilers of
“double” books are having the time of their
lives. Whatever horses may win the?-'
authors can hardly lose. Vaals looks like
starting favorite for the Doncaster, but iie
will need to be a champion to carry 9st.
111 b. to victory. The same applies to
Amounis, who has 9st. 101 b.; Boaster is pre-
ferable with 91b. less. The three this
Page likes are Lady Constance (Bst. 101 b.),
a good mare at any distance up to a mile and
a half; Cromwell (Bst. 51b.), conqueror of
Rampion in the Rosehill Guineas, who ran
well in Melbourne at the V.R.C. meeting;
and Magdaff (7st. 81b.), who has won twice
recently in fair company and is a bulldog
finisher. Cromwell did not appear among
the regular track-workers during the week
after he arrived in Sydney, but he was
backed on Monday and money talks. Crom-
well will be first choice, with honest Lady
Constance second and Magdaff third.
That the ancient Pilliewinkie lias 9st. 71b.
in the Sydney Cup, and is fancied, doesn’t
say much for the rest of the field. If the
race were to be run to-morrow Winalot (Sst.
21b.) would probably win, but h.e has to meet
Trivalve in the St. Leger and a hard tussle
at 14 furlongs may do him no good. Besides
Pilliewinkie, the Victorians will be repre-
sented by Spearer (Sst. 121 b.), Valwyne
(Bst.), Imitator (7st. 121 b.) and Gallantry
(7st. 101 b.), and all four have decent creden-
tials. The Bulletin’s fancy is Amusement
(7st. 71b.). This gelded son of Comedy King
and brother to Sum King won two races at
the A.J.C. Spring meeting—one at 14 fur-
longs—is thoroughly seasoned and partial to
heavy going. He looks the kind of horse that
can take care of himself in a bustling Cup
race and come home strongly. Strongbow
(Bst. lib.) and Tangible (7st. 51b.) also
appeal. Selections for the first day:—
Autumn Stakes: Limerick; in his absence,
Amounis, if started.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Ramulus; next,
Mollison.
Doncaster Handicap: Cromwell, 1; Lady
Constance, 2 ; Magdaff, 3.
St. Leger: Winalot; next. Trivalve.
Ilighweight Handicap. Karuma; next,
Ivoorathella.
For the second day:— ,
Flying Handicap: Beckwith.
Sydney Cup : Amusement, 1; Winalot, 2 ;
Tangible, 3.
* * * *
With all the cracks gone to Sydney fields
at Epsom (Vic.) on Saturday were mostly
confined to the plater class. Punters, how-
ever, had plenty to bet on, as the programme
consisted of eight events, and on the whole
they had a fair day. The old Buckwheat
mare Corncrake was first choice, at 6 to 4,
for the Epsom Handicap, and had a slight
advantage when heads were turned for home,
but Taciturn (6 to 1) was a bit too good
for her in the run home, Affirm (4 to 1) —-
an early winner—being third. Taciturn is
a three-year-old gelding by William the
Silent—Crema, and is one of country-trainer
Hoystead’s string.
Holt’s followers don’t often let anything
of his with a paper chance go out at 15 to
1, but such was the case with his Valais geld-
ing Tullius (formerly raced by actor Leon
Gordon) in the Epsom Plate. Fairly bound-
ing out of the machine Tullius soon had a
lead of three lengths and was never caught.
The favorite, Lucie Manette (2 to 1), was a
poor second, and Rou Miki (10 to 1) third.
Gordon got rid of Tullius too soon.
* * * *
“Belcher’s”: The Liverpool Grand Nat-
ional, most famous of “lepping” races, was
won at Aintree last week by Tipperary Tim,
the only one of the 42 starters to stand up.
Tim was quoted at 100 to 1; the American
’chaser. Killy Barton, who was remounted
after falling at the last fence, was second.
The going was tremendously heavy; the
churned-up mud was fetlock deep in the
second round. French, Belgian and Ameri-
can entries made up one of the most cosmo-
politan fields for years. The race was worth
£ll,lBO, and the winner cost his owner,
H. S. Kenyon, a mere £4OO.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A 1 Bourke, the red-headed Newcastle strip-
ling who had, by defeating Eddie Butcher,
won the welter championship, scaled lOst.
011 b. when he took on the Victorian, Jack
Carroll (lOst. silb.), on Saturday night at
the Sydney Stadium. Bourke has fought
better in four-rounders; on this occasion he
boxed like an untrained man, and an un-
sound one withal. The first round wasi tame,
beyond Al’s one stinging right to the jaw.
Both men woke up for the second, which was
fast and fierce, as also was the third; but
before the end of the fourth Bourke seemed
to fall weak through lack of condition. He
was dropped b' r a wild swing to the jaw in
the fifth, and in the next round a heavy right
knocked him out of the ring. He rolled
back and rose groggily, when the bell came to
his relief. The seventh brought the end.
In the midst of a fierce rally at centre a
chip to the point dropped Bourke, who was
so blind when he regained his feet that
referee Wallis promptly gave it to Carroll.
The Melbourne lad makes no pretence at
self-defence, but just keeps on lashing out
what are evidently very heavy punches.
* * * *
Bad match-making was responsible for the
farcical odds of 15 to 1 being laid on Billy
McAllister (Sst. Gflb.) when he got into the
ring at Melbourne with that erstwhile good
scrapper Stan Thurbon (Sst. 811 b.). Never
did the Sydney boy appear to have the ghost
of a chance. Outclassed from the first gong,
he suffered an unmerciful lacing and two
lengthy spills in the opening round. In
the second Mac appealed to the third man
to use his discretionary powers, but the game
Sydneysider protested and took another fusil-
lade that reduced him to a state of helpless-
ness. Then Quirk called a halt.
* * * $
“Mitt Shover”: Knuckling under to pub-
lic opinion, Tex Rickard has matched Tom
Heeney to fight Gene Tunney for the world's
heavyweight title in July. The fight will
be staged either in the IJ.S.A. or in Eng-
land ; and Heeney is to receive 121 per cent<
of the gate, which should fetch him about
£50,000, win or lose.
sjc * * sjc
“O. W. Wadlmm”: “Mitt-sliover’s” re-
ference to Tom Heeney as “the M.L. black-
smith” (B, 7/3/’2B) is incorrect. Tom’s
trade is th of a plumber; brother Jack,
who can also fight a bit, is the family black-
smith.
“Brian Born”: The programme of the
swimming section of the Tailteaan Games
shows that the events will be held a week
after the closing of the Olympic Games.
There will be 10 events for men, 1500 metres
free-style (which should suit Charlton)
among them, and three free-style races for
women. The Australian Olympic team is
almost certain to put in an appearance in
this and the other sections, and by that time
should bo reasonably fit.
eje eje ijc cfc
“Veigo”: On the rifle range at Bulli
(N.S.W.), which runs due east, one can
actually see the flight of a .303 bullet. The
time to witness this phenomenon is the after-
noon of a clear day, when the sun is behind
the marksman, and at an angle of about 30
degrees. The watcher must crouch in such
a position that the muzzle of the rifle pro-
jecting beyond the head of the shooter is just
visible; and if he doesn’t blink at the report,
he can distinctly see the bullet for the whole
of its flight to the target. Further, if- a
bull’s-eye is scored he can. nominate the shot
well ahead of the marker.
* * * *
“Blade”: Major Goodsell, who was de-
feated by Barry at Vancouver, has issued a
challenge to the latter for a race on the
Thames in June. Alf Burns, the Clarence
River sculler, who now holds the Australian
championship, has also hopped in with a
challenge, but Barry announces that he will
take Goodsell first. Burns is unlucky, for
all his attempts to bring Goodsell to the
scratch have met with failure so far, though
lie has the hacking. Incidentally, it seems
curious that N.S.W. has had such a long
monopoly of champion professional scullers,
most of them from country districts, while
rowing is practically unknown outside the
metropolis. In the other States, where row-
ing is as popular in country as in town, a
professional sculler is never heard of.
* * ❖
“Treble”: Having won the speed record
on land and in the air, Britain now intends
to have a go at the world’s record for motor-
boats. The Napier engine, which has the
Schneider Cup and the speed test at
Daytona Beach to its credit, is to be used
This engine has 12 cylinders in three rows
in the form of a broad arrow and weighs
only 8501 b. It is capable of 875 h.p.. but is
usually rated at 450 li.p. The engine is to be
adapted to a motor-boat which is to be
driven by Miss Carstairs, one of the world’s
best handlers of the water-flyers.
(Continued on page J t l .)
THE MODERN BOOK,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The modern bookmaker is an unostentatious and
soberly-clad person, bearing little or no resem-
blance to the bookie of the caricaturist.” —Sporting
paper.
Our book is not the type of bloke
Who skinned the lamb in bygone days
When mighty Ormonde records broke
And Carbine gathered in the bays.
His trappings to the outward view,
Whene’er his litany is reeled,
Exhibit scant resemblance to
The flaunting lilies of the field.
For action now he clears the decks
With old sartorial splendors dim;
The jewelled hands, the screaming checks
That black-and-winters still must limn
To point a moral (and a gibe)
Are just a trifle out of (late
To badge the estimable tribe,
The clan to differentiate.
If artists gave a closer look,
They’d hardly fail to note his nose
Has lost a little of its hook,
His waist a lot of adipose.
No more expansive jowls attest
That sybaritic ringmen line
Their pampered stomachs with the best
And choicest viands when they dine.
Transformed in manner, frame and phiz,
In gaudy garb no more. arrayed,
Contrast the Mo who gets your biz
With him your dad the odds who laid.
No more his width and wear and ways
Relentlessly his trade proclaim
And no resemblance he displays
To pencillers of other days—
Excepting that the odds he lays
Are probably about the same.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


V«s£
-
»!m K'"” b
tun *'" " mvS^ & W’
JksSS^
oiu {su* «> * Q ~jC!
At last** a real lubricant!
For the bearings of motor cars, motor
farm implements, machinery
Cheap greases are the “bug-bear” of those who
must lubricants. You may never recognize
them such but you do “recognize” the re-
pair they cause.
Cheap greases will literally burn up if a bear-
ing becomes heated. They freeze solid in winter
weather. Loaded with fillers, they get lumpy
and rancid and corrode the bearings.
These are the reasons for Alemite Chassis Lu-
bricant. Designed especially for use with the
Alemite High Pressure Lubrication System it
is equally valuable for the lubrication of any
bearing because of its remarkable record of
performance.
Alemite Chassis Lubricant is an absolutely
pure product. It will stand up under 3000
pounds pressure. (Average grease breaks down
at 200 pounds). It resists heat up to 400 de-
grees Fahrenheit. And it will lubricate per-
fectly at 30 degrees below zero.
Cut down operating costs with
this better lubricant
Carefully compiled records show conclusively
that at least 80% of the repairs on the moving
parts of motor cars, farm implements, indus-
trial machinery, motor boats, etc. are caused
by faulty lubrication or neglected lubrication.
The Alemite High Pressure Lubrication Sys-
tem has already made lubrication easy and
positive. It is in use today on countless thou-
sands of farm implements and industrial ma-
chines; on more than 10,000,000 motor cars.
Now Alemite Lubricant provides a truly re-
liable product for use either with the Alemite
System or wherever a lubricating grease or oil
is needed.
Unless you know a brand that you can abso-
lutely rely upon, we urge you to specify genu-
ine Alemite Chassis Lubricant. Its superior
lubricating power, its astonishingly long-wear-
ing qualities, will truly amaze you.
If your regular service man cannot supply you,
write to any of the distributors listed below
and we will see that you are taken care of
promptly.
THE BASSICK MANUFACTURING CO.
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U. S. A.
The bolts pictured above show
the difference between the use
of good and bad lubricants. The
one on the left was improperly
lubricated and after 1,440,000
oscillations (equal in a motor
car to 10,000 miles of driving)
was worn to the danger point.
The one on the right, lubricated
with Alemite Chassis Lubricant,
tested the same way, showed no
perceptible wear. Replacement
of this one bolt would cost any»
where from 15/ to £2
Australian Distributors:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . . • 284 Pitt St., Sydney
E. A. Machin & Co., Corner Elizabeth and Beckett Streets, Melbourne
Cornell, Ltd. . . . .'•••'•• Adelaide
C. Atkins & Co. .«••••••• Perth
Motor Supplies, Ltd. ...... • Brisbane
01927, T. B. M. Co. Res. U. S. Pat. Off
Chassis Lubricant


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
Tlewotio be
cpo’fcgotteiv
—the memories of a stay at
“The Australia” —the splendor
of its appointments, the gray
crowds, the brilliant social life,
the many unexpected comforts
and pleasures
Tariff: Single Room, with
Breakfast, from 155.; Double
Room, with Breakfast, from
28s. Rate card on application.
Cable, Telegraphic and Wireless Address; “Austraotel, Sydney.”
foalici/
Capital Paid-up, £42%,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence o( Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Racquet and Bawl
"Gent” : The last meeting of the Lawn Tennis
Council had some interesting spots. The
council is now flush, having a credit balance
of. over £3OOO when everybody and every-
thing are paid. The profit from the French
tour is expected to be between £5OOO and
£6OOO. The Australian championships in
Sydney turned in £3145 ; the first Test with
F_rance, £2625; the third (in Adelaide),
1551; and two matches in Victoria are ex-
pected to produce £44oo—the figures
have not yet been finalised. There was some
brisk comment on the expenses of “certain
players and officials during the French visit,”
and the outfit bills of two of the Davis Cup
team were queried but passed. The query,
it was stated, will necessitate the re-drafting
of the agreement with the players before
the next team goes abroad. O Amateurism,
what jokes are practised in thy name!
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: There was a touch of
unconscious humor in one incident at the
Tennis Council’s meeting in Melbourne.
The secretary, who is on his way to Europe
as manager (or chaperon) of the Australian
women’s team, wrote asking for the abro-
gation of certain clauses in the team’s agree-
ment so as to sanction the payment of a
larger cash allowance, the ladies having
already found the original one insufficient.
The council, while “sympathising with the
feelings of the manager” (or chaperon), re-
gretted that he had exceeded his authority,
and hoped it wouldn’t occur again. All very
well, but they haven’t got to travel with the
damsels.
* * He *
“Cut Shot”: The official ranking list of
N.S.W. tennis players provided shocks for a
lot of people. Crawford is . placed first,
which was inevitable, since he is the State
champion in senior and junior classes; on
the other hand, Hopman, chosen to partner
him in the big overseas tourney, is seventh
in the list of ten; Ivalms is second, Sclile-
singer third and Cummings fourth. If Cum-
mings and Hopman should meet at Wimble-
don, we shall know which crowd, the N.S.W.
Ass. or the Davis Cup selectors, was correct
)" its estimate. Peach, Baker, Jim Willard,
Williams aud Donohue are the others
ranked.
* * Hi H*
“Rev. Knucklebone”: In addition to fall-
ing foul of outsiders, players, rival press
writers, and anyone else with a head to hit,
it would seem that tennis officials fail to
appreciate each other’s true worth. This
is suggested in a communique to one of the
Sydney dailies by an official-journalist who
complains of a statement in a rival rag by
another individual of the same kidney. It
Avas to the effect that the. exhibition matches
arranged in Sydney to aid the trip to Europe
of Moon and Cummings Avere “not official.”
The aggrieved person contradicts this state-
ment by pointing out that, at thei last meet-
ing of the N.S.W. controlling body, a motion
Avas passed approving of the raising of £25
to aid the fund “by exhibition matches” ; so
that’s that. But how delicious the explana-
tion of the attitude of the N.S.W. Ass.
Though it made a pot of brass out of the
French visit, it couldn’t see its way to hand
over a few pounds to a fund to which the
Queensland and South Australian bodies
have given freely.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey” : An interesting 36-hole stroke
competition was played by leading N.S.W.
professionals at Manly for a £25 purse pre-
sented by a Scottish firm of manufacturers
of golf goods—no, they are not distillers.
“Young” Frank Eyre and D. G. Soutar tied
for first place with a score of 151. The best
round was done by D. J. Spence, who re-
corded a 74 in the morning journey.
* ❖ rjc
“Hotham”: The Australian golf cham-
pionships to be played in Sydney later in
the year will introduce several players new
to the Harbor, among them Geoff Grim-
wade, the Victorian. Grimwade has done
nothing very remarkable in Melbourne since
his return from abroad, but he made a good
showing in the last British amateur cham-
pionship and got his golf blue for Cam-
bridge, captaining the side. And Univer-
sity golf in England is of a high standard.
H= * * H:
“Munchausen, Jr.”: Travellers are prover-
bially tale-twisters, and the golfing variety
seems to be in a class by itself. One example,
recently returned to Sydney, tells of playing
golf at Beira, Portuguese East Africa, where
the lions are so bad that players have to
carry rifles on their rounds. Presumably
there is a local rule with regard to the
admissibility of “dropping” a lion without
penalty. It would be a pretty point to pre-
sent to the consideration of the St. Andrews
Rules Committee.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: In a recent Genera] Order
issued by the U.S.A. Nava] Academy all
midshipmen are commanded, on entering, to
take up golf at once. A course of at least
10 lessons is prescribed, and a test examina-
tion must be passed. The spectacle of these
little innocents entering college all unheeding
of their doom is heart-rending.
&
“Divot Digger”: The youthful Earl of
Suffolk, who recently purchased part of
Patrick Leslie’s old run, Canning Downs, on
the Darling Downs, has been intriguing local
golfers during a visit to Sydney by insist-
ing on putting with his legs crossed. There
doesn't seem ro be any precedent for the
practice, though Ranjitsinliji claimed that
he always crossed his left leg over his right
when leg-glancing a pitched-up cricket ball,
and published a photograph in his book on
cricket to prove it. The Earl’s idiosyncrasy
would be upsetting to temperamental golfers,
especially if he holed his putts with any cer-
tainty, but one doubts if he would be as
devastating as an individual who putts with
liis eyes crossed. The writer knew one who
broke the hearts of a long succession of cad-
dies. They could never tell whether their
charge was getting a straight line on the
cup or not.
* * * *
“Spoon” : The N.S.W. Golf Club’s course
at La Perouse, which is expected to prove
one of the finest in Australia from all points
of view, is to be ready for playing early in
May. The clubhouse, designed by Norman
Wcekes, sometime City Engineer, will, it is
claimed, be without a peer in this country
and one not surpassed in any. Apart from
its own merits, it is sited so as to give a
magnificent view of the sea in front, while
the spread of Botany Bay flanks the course
to tile right. Fairways and greens have
come on wonderfully in the favorable weather
of the last few months and w r ill leave little
to be desired by the time of the opening.
The membership list,. 350 men and women,
has been closed for some time. The club’s
accessibility to Sydney is not the least of its
attractive features, and the fact that it is
a seaside course,
and therefore sub-
ject to wind varia-
tions, should be all
to the good in im-
proving the quality
of the golf played
by its members. It
is an axiom of golf
that the men
trained on seaside
courses almost in-
variably scoop the
big championships
and tournaments,
for the conditions
of their home
course have,taught
th e m to adapt
“HEY, MISTER, WHAT KIND OF A SNAKE IS IT?”
themselves to any eventuality in the way of
capricious conditions, an advantage which
the sheltered inland courses are supposed to
lack.
The Ins and Outs
“S.T.S.”: The cricket premiership of
Adelaide was won by Port Adelaide, which
in the finals beat Kensington easily and
East Torrens (without Schneider) by 20
runs. Port, always prominent in football,
had never before got quite to the top in
cricket. Its Gordon Harris ended with the
season’s highest aggregate of runs, 727,
averaging 90; also Williams took the high-
est aggregate of wickets. 50 at 16, and Avas
4th in the State list of batsmen with an
average of 79.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The first of the Test
matches between Australia and Maoriland at
Auckland ended in a draw, rain stopping
play. Batting first, the Australians closed
with 573 for five wickets, Woodfull contribut-
ing 284 at the rate of a run in a minute and
a half. McGirr, who visited Britain with the
M.L. side last year, had the best bowling
average, 2 for 88. M.L. got 28S in the
first knock (Mills, another 1927 tourist, col-
lected 58 and McNamee took 4 for 36) and
had lost 1 for 53 when the weather saved it.
“Machete”: The Rugby League coolly pro-
poses to take over the Brisbane Cricket
Ground, provided the present trustees are
retired and a new board, consisting of dele-
gates from the League and the Cricket Asso-
ciation, is appointed. The ground has been
used for pony-racing and the tin hares, and
the prospect of its being given over to the
tender, mercies of professional football, like
the Sydney Cricket Ground, is the last
half-brick. Like the S.C.G., it was intended
for amateur sport only, and in the beginning
500 life-members’ tickets were issued. The
writer was one of the 500, and, with a lot
of others, he would like to know where he
will stand under the proposed arrangement.
:|= * * *
“King Billy” : Sixty years ago last month
the first (and only, be it said) team of
genuine Australian cricketers left these
shores to descend upon England. There were
14 abos., and they were accompanied by
Charles Lawrence, who had come to Aus-
tralia with the first English team under
H. H. Stephenson in 1862. Before sailing
they beat a combined army and navy team
in Sydney—the Duke of Edinburgh was
present—the sailors and marines being
strengthened by the addition of E. Gregory
and Caffyn. The team won 14 matches in
England, lost 14, and drew 19. Johnny Mul-
lagli was the only one who continued in
serious cricket after the side returned; he
figured against Lord Harris’s team for Vic-
toria in 1879. The old darkey was a fea-
ture of one of the Sheffield Shield games
in Melbourne three years ago, having been
specially invited by the V.C.A.
* * * *
“Lansdowne” : I suggest that W. G. Grace,
if alive, would have been the first to approve
of Hobbs’s action in screening his partner
from Richardson’s bowling in the last Test
of 1926 (B. 28/3/’2B). If Grace never
did the same thing himself it was because in
all his long career he never played in a
match where time meant nothing, as was the
case in this one. I should doubt if he ever
played in a match the winning of which
meant so much to English cricket, either.
Taking away the time limit justifies entirely
new tactics, and Hobbs’s were successful.
Richardson was bothering Sutcliffe —-who
w r as Hobbs’s only partner during the innings,
by the way—on a very tricky wicket and the
Surreyite took the burden off the Yorkshire-
man’s shoulders as far as he could, the
pitch slowly improving meanwhile. Even
if Hobbs “refused to score” off eight succes-
sive overs, the rate of run-getting in that
fateful 2\ hours before lunch was not
funereally slow, for the pair put on 112,
which was slightly better than that shown
in Australia’s first innings. The match was
really won in that tense two hours; Hobbs
went on to make 100 and Sutcliffe 161. And
I’ll wager that even the Oval crowd didn’t
feel that it wasn’t getting its money’s worth.
The modern cricket barracker wants fire-
works and quick action all the time, and
is too addicted to howling if he doesn’t get
them.
Footbrawl
“Stand Off”: Some comment by E. G.
Shaw, manager of the Waratahs, on the
team’s activities abroad gives the uninitiated
an idea of the tremendous vogue of Rugby
Union football. Outside the matches in
Victoria, games were played in England,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales and Canada, while
invitations to play came from Hawaii, Fiji
and the Malay States. While the hoys were
in France delegates from the Spanish R.U.
visited them to pick up what information
they could about the game. In England,
public schools which once played Soccer or
games of their own have gone over to the
Rugby code; two notable instances are Eton
and Harrow. Eton originally played
“wall” and “field” games of its own devising,
and later took to Soccer. Harrow also had a
game peculiar to the school, which is credited
with being one of the foundations on which
Australian-rules was reared.
:Jc :J s : i : ❖
“Bowen Bridge”: The Rugby League
enthusiast who protested against the re-
vival of the Union game in Queensland (B.
21/3/’2B) had some reason for alarm. Bris-
bane Courier announces that it has found a
strong desire in several quarters for the re-
suscitation of the game, a desire strengthened
by the triumphs of the Waratalis abroad.
The feeling is not confined to Brisbane
either, since inquiries and promises of sup-
port have been received from different parts
of the State; and a public meeting to re-
form the Union is mooted. The chief objec-
tions to the League code, apart from its
cash obsessions, is the ban of professionalism
which its adherents automatically incur when
they begin to play it, no matter whether
they take money for their services or not.
This ban is a natural result of the rules of
amateurism as laid down by the Inter-
national Amateur Federation, but it is apt
to fall harshly on university students and
others in analogous positions who have no
other game of football to play. Further, no
League player can figure as an amateur at
the Olympic Games. Union football offers
prospects of tours to interesting parts of the
world where the League, an obscure game save
in the two Australian States which play it,
can never hope to penetrate. An experience
like that of the Waratalis, who will remem-
ber it with delight all their lives, can never
fall to the lot of a League combination. The
choice should be easy for the young Queens-
land player who has the sense to take the
credit and let the cash go to those who de-
sire it.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: A lot of unnecessary fuss
lias been made over the alleged refusal of
the International Rugby Board to send a
team to Australia and Maoriland in 1930,
as had been tentatively arranged months ago.
Sydney press attacks on the overseas authori-
ties were so sustained as to suggest that
League propaganda was afoot, as it is apt
to be on such occasions. But though the
board, which functions only for the four king-
doms, has withdrawn from the scheme, the
English Rugby Union, to which the Aus-
tralian, M.L. and South African Unions are
affiliated, announces its intention of carrying
out the project. Wales may certainly be
expected to assist, and even the Inter-
national Board has intimated that, while it
won’t father the tour, it will help the Eng-
lish R. U. to promote it. That means that
individual players under the Scottish and
Irish Unions —the objecting bodies —will be
allowed to offer their services.
:{; $ *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League has
turned on its English oppressor and given
it a nasty slap on the wrist. One Parkinson,
a recent arrival who has played with a
North of England club, asked the N.S.W.
body if he would be permitted to play in the
Ma State. Under the agreement with the
English League which the latter offhandedly
repudiated, but which N.S.W. had not yet
disowned, the youth would have had to
reside in N.S.W. for two years before being
allowed to play. Remarking that the
time had come to get a bit of its own back
from the English cows, who last year pinched
four of its best players as well as a couple
from Queensland, the League informed the
applicant in a defiant voice that he could
play any time he dashed well liked, and added
that it didn’t care a button whether the
persons over the water liked it or not.
Cambridge beat Oxford by 10 lengths in
the 80th boat race of the series; the time,
20min. 25sec., was slow. Cambridge has
now won 39 races to 40 by Oxford ; there
was a dead-heat in 1877.
# H= * *
The Aerial Derby, held at Mascot
(N.S.W.) over a course of 42 miles, was
won by Flying-Officer Mulroney, of the
R.A.A.F., in a 400-h.p. De Ilaviland 9A.
Ilis flying time was 20min. 23sec., and his
speed per hour 118 miles. Flight-Lieutenant
Eaton was the first to finish, but was dis-
qualified for cutting corners.
❖ ❖ ❖ ijt
Andrew Charlton has settled all doubts as to
his form by swimming 440 yards in smin.
5 3-ssec., in Sydney Domain baths. The
time is three-fifths of a second faster than
his own Olympic time for the distance in
Paris, and the lad was not pressed.
(Continued on next page.)


Sr
LI QUEIIR
, w/T)L
lisz£~2*t.
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
3
Ica'ir.'
nr
111 B
■ iii
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One. Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
fsd
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: After having been poster
missing since he left Calcutta on Jan. 16
Birtles and his Bean car made a dramatic
appearance the other day in Upper Burma
near the frontier of Tibet. Observers on the
spot are mystified as to how he got there
since the way lies over motor-virgin coun
try and pathless'mountains, but they don’t
know Birtles. It isn’t the first time lie ha-
disappeared from view. During one of his
numerous trans-Australian cycling trips he
was lost between Alice Springs and Port
Augusta for a fortnight.
N- Hs N= Ns
“Trembler”: On the Monthlery track,
France, Lionel Rapson, driving a Marmon
car fitted with the Rapson tyre, completed
a 20,000-miles non-stop run. He ha* thus
easily beaten the previous record of 15,000
miles by V. A. and Mrs. Bruce on the same
track in an A.C. car. Rapson’s drive has a
special interest for Australia in that the
Rapson Tyre Co. is erecting a factory in
Tasmania for the manufacture of its
speciality.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: New world’s records for
light cars were put up at Brooklands last
week by George Duller. Driving a Riley
0-h.p. car, the Englishman covered five kilo-
metres at the rate of 97.85 m.p.h., 5 miles at
97.5 m.p.h., 10 kilometres at 97.38 m.p.h.
and 10 miles at 97.06 m.p.h.
* * Ns N=
“Kick Starter”: The Anglo-Australian
co. formed to introduce dirt-track motor-
cycle racing at Wembley has not wasted
time in getting material. Prominent riders
from N.S.W. and Queensland have been en-
gaged and are on their way to England—
Frank Pearces, Billy Lamont, Vic. Huxley,
Dick Smythe, Frank Arthur, Noel Johnson,
Charley Spinks, Hilary Buchanan and Ben
Unwin. F. A. Hunting (brother of one of the
promoters of the English co.), Iv. O. Logan,
li. 11. Robins and N. H. Pritchard, all
Queenslanders, accompany the team as
officials, and another batch of cyclists will
go forward shortly. The game has already
caught on in England, and with the advent
of this batch of skilled and daring riders
it should provide thrills which will make the
tin-hare business seem tame.
N: NS N= N=
“Swan”: Westralia is taking a share in
the exodus of Australia motor-cyclists to
Britain. S. Seldom and R. Johnson, of
that State, with C. Dotson, of Newcastle
(N.S.W.), who has been in the West for
some time, join the contingent of Eastern
riders on the Oronsay. Unlike these, how-
ever, they have not been signed up for the
Wembley co.; they are to ride for another
Australian-promoted concern at the Crystal
Palace, London.
❖ :S« ❖
“Whizz”: Vic. Huxley, the Queensland
motor-cyclist, put up a world’s record for a
three-lap dirt-track on Adelaide Royal the
other night, doing the three rounds in
23 l-ssec., 21see. and 21 l-ssec. respectively.
This cut 2 l-ssec. off the record recently put
up on the same track by Paddy Dean, the
N.S.W. rider. Huxley rode a 31-li.p. Douglas.
N: Ns N: Ns
“Ilotham”: Brisbane hasn’t a monopoly of
interesting motor-cycle racing, as some of
them seem to think up there. There was
some really decent sport at Melbourne
Motordrome lately, and I don’t include the
case of a young fellow who was slung over
the handle and shed a few inches of hide.
The lad I have in mind lost control some-
how, and his jigger made for the fence,
frothing at the mouth. The rider was
knocked off at the first butt, and rolled
down the sloping track, where he stayed.
The machine again tried to jump the fence
but was prevented from doing so by two
ladies, who bumped it off. In disgust it, too,
rolled down the track after its boss, and
took the count. Then, just as things were
really getting interesting, they called the
meet off for the night, after the ambulance
had administered first-aid to the two girls.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : Tf the timepieces were right,
Tom Miles, the Queensland professional
sprinter, ran a remarkable 130 yards in an
exhibition go at Mildura (Vic.) last week. At
his second attempt he clocked 12 l-ssec.,
which beats Charles Paddock’s world’s record
for an amateur by a fifth of a second. The
only faster time recorded is Jack Donald-
son’s 12sec., which that wonderful flyer put
up in Sydney in 1911, and on a grass track,
too.
Ns * Ns *
“Shrewsbury”: The Oxford and Cambridge
athletic sports saw the Light Blues vic-
torious by eight events to Oxford’s three.
None of the figures were remarkable, though
Wightman Smith, one of Britain’s hopes for
the Olympiad, ran two good hurdle races for
Cambridge, winning the 320 yards in 15
2-ssec. and the 220 over the sticks in 25
4-ssec. Rinkel, of Cambridge, took the 100
in 10 l-ssec. and the quarter-mile in 50
2-ssec. —a fifth of a second worse than
Stuart's run over the distance in the N.S.W.
championships.
♦
“Squarehead”: “Spike,” who asserted (B.
14/3/’2B) that the Maorilaud choice of
Stanley Lay, the javelin thrower, for the
Olympic Games was ill-advised, in view of
the Scandinavian pre-eminence in these
events, spoke out of his turn. A couple of
weeks ago in Maoriland Lay threw the gadget
216 ft. 34in„ the world's record being 218 ft.
B§in. The Olympic best is 215 ft. 9Jin., done
at Antwerp in 1920.
* N: N= *
“Blade”: The first inter-provincial eight-
oar race ever held in Maoriland has been
rowed over a three-mile course at Welling-
ton, the gathering of the boating clans hav-
ing been called to facilitate the selection of
a Dominion eight for the Olympiad. Canter-
bury won from Otago and Marlborough in
the really good time of 14min. 17scc. The
team for Amsterdam comprises one Welling-
tonian, four from Canterbury, one each from
Wanganui, Otago and Marlborough, and two
from Auckland; then a Canterbury man and
an Aucklander have been selected as reserves.
As the sending of oarsmen was contingent on
getting in enough money, which was doubt-
ful on recent advices, the hat must have been
rushed round to some purpose.
$ * :!« *
“Slide”: One of the annual ills to which
the sport-loving public of Sydney is heir
is the campaign of blither indulged in by the
daily press in connection with the G.P.S.
eight-oar race on the Parramatta. The
youths engaged arc withdrawn from all
effective school work for weeks before the
race, and are devoted to a course of prepara-
tion which professionals training for a world’s
championship would find strenuous. The
brightest limelight is thrown on each indi-
vidual crew and oarsman, and prognostica-
tions of success are broadcast with all the
ultimate futility which attends on the racing
forecasts of the same journals. Rowing is
a splendid form of athletics, but it is essen-
tially one for men in the prime of their
strength. To submit growing lads to the
punishment of arduous training and a couple
of gruelling races to finish up with is a
blunder, nor is the adulation thrust upon
them in any way beneficial. It is claimed
that some of these boys do as well at the
schools as they do in the boats. If so, they
must work double shifts, and that again is
an objection.
Ns Ns Ns *
“Scull” : Though the Olympic team is to
leave Sydney on May 1, Harry Pearce, who
will represent Australia in the sculls, does not
intend to allow his title, which will be chal-
lenged on the Nepean River (N.S.W.) on
May 5, to go by default. He has obtained
permission to row in the Australian cham-
pionship, and will then go overland, taking
with him the new shell presented to him by
George Wright and built by George
Towns. Pearce’s Olympic prestige is
WILLIAM KELSO, trainer of Boaster, and
Ascalon, who are engaged in the Don-
caster Handicap.
not likely to be impaired by the result
of the Australian event, for there is no one
in sight who looks like being able to extend
him.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Backwoodsman”: The feud between the
users of the “straight” bowl and those who
see that their woods carry the required
amount of draw continues to rage sporadi-
cally in various quarters of Australia. The
other day a Melbourne player, E. C. Webb,
of East Camberwell, gave notice of amend
ment of the rules of the V.B.A. as to bias,
saying that there was growing discontent
over the number of straight bowls in use.
Another prominent club member told the
V.B.A. that if some action wasn’t taken to
stop the increasing use of straight bowls he
would throw up the game. To use a straight
wood is tantamount to wearing running
spikes in a football match or putting a
handful of scrap-iron in a boxing glove. The
bias which gives the drawing quality—the
essential feature of bowls—is absent: the
players might just as well take to throwing-
sticks at cocoanuts for all the science there
is in their game.
CYRIL AYNSLEY, the. crack Queensland
League threequarter, who last season
refused an offer from the English
Leaque. He will be seen in action
against the visiting Englishmen.
“Billy the Goose" : Sorry tei chat yer that
goat-racin’ looks like peterin’ out. Since
the talent come back fr’m Sydnee, good ole
Rocky ain’t big ernuf ter ’old sonic u / ’em.
Tork erbout swelled ’ead! W’y, most uv
’em’s worse th’n a publican wot’s jes’ bin
made a J.B. The money they’re askut’ for
is no good ter the game, an’ the publicl; is
fair gettin’ the ’ump. As usyul, I’ve been
thinkin’ ’ard, and this big poler shivoo
they’re goin’ ter put on in Sydnee in a cup-
pier munce gives me a nidcar. I see them In-
jun orficer torfs wot’s cumin’ over is ter ’aye
the ponies supplied by the local talent. Wot’s
the matter witli mountin’ ’em on goats'?
There’s a flamin’ novulty fer yer ! All the
goats up this way is'broke ter saddle, and is
as ’aiidy as ladies’ maids. There’s plenty
uv goats a maskeradin’ as ponies on the Syd-
nee macaroni joints, so w’y shouldn’t they be
given a chance at poler? No use tellin’ me
the goats couldn’t stand up ter the neddies.
I’ll guarantee I c’n pick a team uv Billos
wot no poler pony’ll come within arf a mile
of. The Injun coves might catch on an’ inter-
dooce the noo mounts ter the smokes over
there. Then wot price the Australyun' goat
export trade ter Injia?
❖ % * *
“Centurion”: N.S.W. polo players covered
themselves with glory in Adelaide when
Harden and Goulburn, the State’s two
crack clubs, carried off the Australian Gold
Cup and the Melrose Cup, a handicap event,
respectively. Harden defeated the Gold
Cup holders, Mount Crawford, by 7 goals to
2 ; superbly mounted, the Welshmen outrode
and outhit their opponents, whose famous
combination crumbled under the strain.
Two of the Ross brothers were knocked out
in a collision, and their places had to be
filled for the rest of the game by two of the
Ashtons from Goulburn.
N* Ns ’ Ns Ns
“Third Base”: When it was heard that
two Japanese training cruisers would call at
Sydney in July, the N.S.W. baseball autho-
rities asked the Japanese Consul-General if
it could be arranged for a nine from the
ships to take part in the contests arranged
for that month. They have been informed
that the cruisers are carrying a picked base-
ball team from the Japanese Naval College
which will try to knock spots off all and
sundry. The Leland Stanford Uni. team
is due from California about the same time,
and, in addition to these international games,
the annual inter-State tourney will be played
by teams representing N.S.W., Victoria
and South Aus. Nothing quite so big in
the baseball line has been attempted in Aus-
tralia to date. Unfortunately, the control-
ling body will be unable to secure the
Cricket Ground and will have to choose be-
tween the Sports and Show grounds—both
second-class arenas for games of the sort.
This is one more condemnation of the policy
which has handed over the control of Syd-
ney’s one first-class sports ground to a pro-
fessional body which will monopolise it dur-
ing the winter months for years to come.
Business, Robbery, etc.
If you've got it in your mind to save some-
body from probate duty by making gifts
during your lifetime, don't leave it too late
One old gentleman of Sydney, having passed
SO, decided to scatter his fortune among his
family. Then he died, and, the gifts having
been made inside three years, probate had
to be paid last month on the whole £20,757.
Outside that there was only a couple of
thousand.
* * * *
“Keppel” : Until the Australian manufac-
turer learns the art of making his matches
impervious to dampness, .especially that of
Queensland's rainy season, I would suggest
that “Cog” (B. 14/3/’2B) place a few grains
of rice in his match-box. The rice absorbs
all moisture, and the matches will strike on
the wettest days.
* * * *
“Prickly Jack”: Touching the North Aus-
tralia railway, tell “Carisbrook Junior” (B.
14/3/’2B) that it is only on the 54 miles
section from Pine Creek to Katharine that
sleepers, bridges, cuttings and embankments
have been laid for ready conversion to the
4ft. 84in. gauge.
* * * *,
“S.”: The man who sweeps the gutters
in my street was talking with glib satis-
faction of the great increase in wages that
had been brought about within the past 10
years. I asked him what was the good of
high wages when the price of everything
was proportionally high and he was no
richer after paying his weekly bills than he
used to be. “Well,” he said reflectively, "I
like handlin’ the money.”
* * * *
“Garbut” : I ordered from a Brisbane
wholesale house one dozen pairs of ordinary
wooden butter-pats, and was delighted (I
don't think) to see the brand of a German
maker on every ,one of them. Surely we can
make these things in Australia.
* * . t- *
“Simon”: Quite a considerable export
business is done in Australian ferns, which
are largely used for decorative purposes in
Northern Europe, where there’s a dearth of
greenery during eight months of the year. The
ferns are dried and pressed before they are
sent away and put through the dyeing pro-
cess on the other side. There is a demand
for some 30 different varieties, but none for
bracken. The Germans give them an assort-
ment of hues in which their native gullies
would not recognise them.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: The complaint about
the blurred condition of the postmarks on
mail matter is well grounded. The f set
that such marks are too often mere blots or
smudges takes all chances of redress from
addressees whose mail is negligently with-
held from them. Recently I asked on three
consecutive days for letters at a small N.S.W.
town, and was informed that there was noue.
On the fourth day I struck a differ mt
official and got two letters (each containing
a cheque). If the dates on the letters
counted for anything, they had been there
on my first application; but all attempts to
decipher the postmarks were vain, and so I
had no kick coming. They were three very
hot days, too.
* * * * *
“Clerk”: The Vic. Rubicon hydro-electric
scheme, which is to supplement the power
won from brown coal at Yallourn, is nearing
completion, largely due to the fact that it
eyas built by contract. The streams dammed
lie in mountains nearly 5000 feet in height.
The combined plant will produce 137 mil-
lion units of current p.a., with an astound-
ing economy of human supervision. A sys-
tem of switches at 'the main station, similar
to the automatic ’phone, will control dynamos,
generators and turbines miles away, starting
them up, stopping them or boosting them,
as required. Only a single operator will be
needed. It is interesting to note that all this
development of her resources was forced on
Victoria by the everlasting striking at New-
castle.
* * *■ *
“Taps”: Deponent uses a typewriter, and
the young lady at the counter of the em-
porium where lie buys his ribbons always
hands out an imported product at 4s. 6d.
each. The other day writer spotted a box
on the counter full of a new (to him)
brand, marked 25., and, being of Scottish
■extraction, inquired why he had not been
offered these. “Oh, you can try one if you
like,” was the scornful reply. “But they’re
only Australian, you know\” One was tried,
and it was as good as, if not better than,
any brand that has preceded it.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A very simple and handy
device will assist Vic. Country Roads Board
in its campaign against overloaded motor
vehicles. It is a meter which is laid on the
ground, the suspect merely running over it.


S
un
'in
m
I
k
kA
ft
o
a
'“THE New Studebaker Director Duplex offers advan-
tages and conveniences found in no other open car.
In a few seconds, it can be changed from an open to
a closed car—or vice versa—without leaving your
seat or disturbing the passengers. Roller side
enclosures concealed in the steel ribbed upper
structure can be easily lowered or raised to effect
the transformation.
Below its distinctive low-swung body lies the sturdy
Studebaker chassis built to stand hundreds of thou-
sands of miles of hard going. Proof of this lies in
the list of 1,009 owners who have driven their
Studebakers 100,000 to 500,000 miles.
The quiet Studebaker L-head engine with its
tremendous reserve power assures abundant power
for hills, speed for the open road and amazing
agility in city traffic.
Open Cars from £378 Closed Cars from £468
See the Erskine Six, built by Studebaker
—the first really fine quality small car
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES s
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Limited, Sydney
VICTORIA :
rurnei Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors. Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street
Christchurch.
WMB77
STU
D
ICE
B
E


Under
Royal
Warrant
fs
ToH.M.
Kind>
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTfeidsiecl
mmiMB .
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
-
CHAMPAGNE
OiarlesHeidsied^
Reims
om
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ Mum ” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
tb
HOTEL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/'
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
The centre of Queens fanc/&
cfis/ingu'shecJ Soc/o/ Life.
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
aitaenea. l-tot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Liner
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Mrs. Keith Miller's arrival at Mascot aero-
drome had a scenic setting of silver clouds
which became gold-tipped and rose-flushed as
the sun dipped in the west. There were
plenty of thrills for the spectators, and after
Avatcliing the manoeuvres in the central blue
one came to the conclusion that there were
two more physical troubles to be guarded
against—aeroplane neck and aeroplane
squint. But conditions were better aloft
than underfoot. Some of the early cars got set
in the mud of the ’drome’s parking area;
late ones had to park nearly a mile aAvay.
Silken-clad legs squelched through slush to
the knees, and the “perfume” of tan bark
left powder and , scent nowhere. Modern
Raleighs were kept busy using arms instead
of cloaks to carry fair ladies across the quag-
mire.
But when the Red Rose was sighted
the crowd forgot all its discomforts. Squad-
ron-leader Smart, whose earlier display of
aerial acrobatics had made many hold their
breath, headed the fleet of club ’planes that
escorted the , Red Rose to her landing. Mrs.
Miller’s husband was first to greet her, but
Captain Chateau whisked the little figure out
of the cockpit, and lie and hubby made a
chair of their hands to carry her across the
swamp. Captain Lancaster got a hearty
welcome from air comrades, and was shoul-
dered to the motor which ran the tvvo flyers
round the course to give the cheering crowds
a near view. The Governor and Lady de
Chair, she in a striking gown of polka dots
in black and curry powder tone and a most
becoming black straw hat, gave glad hands
and warm smiles; Mrs. Beveridge kissed her
now-famous daughter and paid the same tri-
bute to Captain Lancaster, and dad and
brother Lancaster warmly squeezed the hands
of a very fatigued-looking pilot. Mrs. Miller’s
weariness was not so apparent, and most
women present were amazed at the clarity
of her complexion and the Avonderfully
trim condition of her hands as she turned
over the address presented bv the Mayor of
Mascot. Considering she travelled so light,
the upper air must hold special beautifying
properties. Mrs. Beveridge flung her cloak
oA r er her daughter’s bare, knees as soon as
she got into the motor-car, as if the Avhitc
shorts and golf socks were a bit out of place
on mother Earth.
Although Mrs. Miller loomed so largely in
the public interest there was plenty of admi-
ration for the splendid showing of the club’s
three trained air-women. Meg Reardon of
the sunny smile won the Oaks, Mrs. Upfold
gave a display of aerobatics, and tiny little
E. M. Follett, looking like a schoolgirl of
30, congratulated them both. The wives of
the club officials entertained Lady de Chair
and many visitors to tea in the club-rooms
decked out in red roses—husband Keith Mil-
ler and the Lancaster men all sported the
same flower in their buttonholes. With their
parents were Elaine and Somerset de Chair,
the former in a pretty coral-pink frock and
hat. Despite the mud there were some smart
frockers. Airman Keith Smith’s lady
looked well in navy with fox furs and a navy
balibuntal; the wife of club pres. Captain
Geoffrey Forrest Hughes Avas in brown and
beige with one of the new inlaid model hats ;
Mrs. Garnet Malley’s contribution to smart-
ness. Avas a tight-hipped frock of cobalt blue
and silver crepe de Chine embroidered in sil-
ver thread, and a silver felt aviator hat; Mrs.
E. W. Leggatt watched her captain in the
sham air fight in striped crepe de Chine
sports attire; Mrs. Hartman was charming
in two tones of rose; Mrs. Hector Ross had
a lovely pale reseda-green turn-out ; Mrs. L.
J. Wackett Avore the fashionable rose beige,
and Mrs. R. W. Perkins had strappings of
Nile green on her white jumper suit and
white hat. The crowd melted away into the
gathering dusk as the wings of the aero-
planes were being folded for rest and across
the still-fluslied sky, darkening to grey, a flock
of black SAvans winged their Avay northward.
The Fairfax-Wilson wedding was the
social event of the week. In steady soaking
rain, crowds tramped up the hills of Darling
Point to St. Mark’s, and were rewarded by
a view of one of the prettiest brides that
ever stepped over its stone portals.' She
was Betty—baptised Marcia Elizabeth—
Wilson, only child of the David Wilsons of
Cranbrook-road, Rose Bay. Dad is a bar-
rister with large pastoral interests; in liis
younger days he edited the University paper
Hermes, and he is a woodcarver of distinc-
tion. The dainty bride, who scarcely reached
the bridegroom’s shoulder, wore a petalled
white satin frock with pink beneath it, sug-
gestive of dawn breaking through snorvy
clouds. Her veil was of layers of palest pink
tulle, and she Avore pink stockings and
slippers. She Avas ’maided by Philippa
Stephen, Enid Falkiner, Margaret Gordon,
Margaret Fairfax and Barbara Allen, prirn-
rose-frocked and -hatted, and even primrose-
gloved. They carried exquisite flowers, golden
sunburst roses and fragrant frangipani.
Their escorts Avere Dr. John Laidley, Leslie
Stephen, 1 )’Arcy Hixson, Royce Shannon
and Allan Tickle. Warwick Fairfax, tall and
fair, with a permanent wave a flapper Avould
love to own, is a serious-minded young man
who occasionally pens a weighty article on
current topics, as becomes a graduate of
Balliol, Oxford. His suite of groomsmen
chaired him to his car after the wedding
feast at Yandooya, and the retinue of ’maids
carried the little bride. The honeymoon
began at the Fairfax mansion at Leura.
and the pair left yesterday for a six months'
run round England and France.
Mrs. W. A. Holman kept a crowd of
Feminists deeply interested for over an hour
at their club with an address, “A Student’s
Experiences in Europe.” They were not
reminiscences of the lady’s youth, but ex-
cerpts from clever daughter Portia’s letters
concerning her own and fellow students’
meaudei'ings through Italy, France and
Germany.
The Governor and Lady de Chair will be
present at the Sliakspearean Ball at the
Wentworth on April 23, when the English-
Speaking Union will celebrate the Bard’s
birthday and welcome home official hostess
Lady MacCormick. There will be plenty of
pageantry, Avith numerous Sliakspearean
figures to join in the merry jazz. In
Antony and Cleopatra’s set alone there will
be 70 characters. The supply of tickets is
already nearly exhausted.
That the sailor Governor de Chair should
open The Barn, Mosman’s Bay, as a Scouts’
Hall on April 14 should please the shades
of any old salts who may still be haunting
the neighborhood. Archibald Mosman built
it as a whaling station in 1831, and it lias
been used for a variety of purposes since.
Three hundred scouts will enliven the in-
auguration ceremonies with a display in the
park opposite.
Miss Vinia de Loitte, once a Gilbert
and Sullivan star, has emerged from sylvan
seclusion to give intimate talks on better
housekeeping. The Evening Neavs has in-
augurated the scheme, and the lecturettes are
given at the Civil Service Stores twice a
week; nothing .evokes more interest than a
demonstration by chef Pierre Henri, of
Romano’s, on how to prepare a delectable
dish.
Mrs. Hugh Munro’s smile, caught by
Dayne’s camera, is well known outback,
where she has made the Country Women’s
Association "a
link between
settlers’ wives
and their city
sisters. Mrs.
Mun r o was
Grace Gordon,
one of the eight
daughters of
the late G. H.
Gordon (of
Gragin sta-
tion) ; she has
lived most of
her life in the
outback and
done much to
help brighten
the lives of
bush women.
Her station
home, Keera,
Bingara, has a
fine library
available to
everybody in
the neighborhood. Now she has undertaken
to raise £5OOO for the Inland Mission’s fly-
ing doctor. To-night, at St. James’s Hall,
Rev. John Flynn, the famous inland mis-
sioner, will give a lantern lecture to outline
the aerial medico’s sphere of operations. Mrs.
Munrb has a younger set well in harness at
organising functions to swell the funds.
Preliminary plans for Rose Day, as the
United Charities’ Appeal is how known,
were framed at the Town Hall last week,
Mrs. Fleming presiding. Committees and
sub-committees were formed to run a
cabaret on May 15 and a dance on June 26,
both at the Ambassadors.
Dr. Anderson Stuart’s widow and son were
present at the opening of the Anderson
Stuart operating theatre and isolation
block at Prince Alfred Hospital. Health
Minister Dr. Arthur and chairman Dr.
Purser were among the speakers, the
latter appealing for funds to keep the addi-
tions going. The operating theatre, so fit-
tingly named after a distinguished benefactor
to humanity, is claimed as the most up-to-
date in the world. There was a sympathetic
little hush, after the key had been turned in
the new building, when Dr- Purser presented
the widow with a silver miniature of the
bronze memorial of her husband which was
unveiled. Afterwards matron Boissier and
sister Lowe entertained the company at tea
in the flower-decked nurses' home. Anyone
can visit Prince Alfred and inspect the won-
derful operating-theatre for the small fee of
Is. until April 9; after that it will be re-
served for doctors, nurses and patients.
Vale, A. J. Whitehouse, who will be
mourned in every boAvling club in Australia;
no one did
more to make
such institu-
tions into one
big brother-
hood. This
c h a racteristic
picture of
“Whitey” is
from a bronze
medallion done
by his old
friend William
Macleod w;ien
the latter was
president and
his subject
was secretary
of the N.S.W.
Bowling Asso-
ciation. Born
in M.L., A.J.W.
was an Aus-
tralian througii
40 years of
residence. He
was on a mission to London in the interests
of his beloved pastime when illness forced him
to return. He died at his home at Randwick.
The autumn ball of the Country party
at the Ambassadors was arranged as one
of the entertainments to conference, delegates,
but an evening session kept many of them
away. Still those who attended had a jolly
time. Colonel Bruxner was the host,
ably assisted by his wife in pervanche blue.
The general sec. of the party, Colonel Mun-
roe, and Mrs. Munroe, the lady with frag-
rant lilies of the valley on the shoulder of
her black gown, entertained a big party.
The Governor and Lady de Chair have
issued invitations for a garden party at
Government House on April 12.
Among the newlyweds in Sydney are the
Pearsons, from Brisbane; she is the only
child of Mabel Forrest, whose verse has
won a reputation that extends outside Aus-
tralia. Her husband is a singer whose
voice will be heard on April 16 at a cabaret
for St. Martha’s Home at the Ambassadors.
Principal Susie Williams was the beaming
hostess at the Sydney University Women
Graduates’ Association reunion at Beaumont
House. Mrs. T. C. B. Osborn, a graduate of
Manchester University, and Miss Wedge-
wood, of Cambridge, now assistant lecturer
in anthropology at Sydney Uni., were the
guests of honor.
You’d never believe so much could be cbm-
pressed into a three-minutes’ speech unless
you’d been at the farewell to the W.C.T.U.
delegates, president Mrs. Strang, her secre-
tarial daughter Marion, Miss Wilkins of
Crow’s Nest, and Miss Cohoe of Queensland.
There were at least 12 informative utter-
ances squeezed into half an hour at the
Flannel Flower tea-rooms in O’Connell-
street.
Knight Victor Wilson’s girls Audrey and
Joy, with mother’s experienced assistance,
gave a delightful dance at Koonowla, Neutral
Bay, to enable their section of the younger
set to say au revoir to Doreen and Joan
Higgins, who are leaving for a tour of the
Old World.
The success of the Rugby Union Waratahs
in Europe and Canada was as remarkable in
the social field as it was on the playing-
grounds. The pick of N.S.W. manhood, they
took Britain and France by storm, and left
behind them a reputation of which their
country may well be proud. Their return to
N.S.W. has been marked by an enthusiasm
which has never attended the homecoming of
any other body of athletes —the footballers
have been deluged with congratulations and
greeted with a comprehensive programme of
entertainment. The State Government led
off with a smoke concert, after the official
welcome home from the Rugby Union, in it-
self a function of some social tonnage. A
command visit to the State Governor fol-
lowed on Monday last, and after that came a
civic reception by the City Commissioners at
the Town Hall, with a public welcome at the
same place in the evening. Tuesday saw the
returned travellers at a Welcome Ball given
by the Manly Club, and to-morrow night they
arc due to eat the dinner of the Rugby
Union under the benignant eyeglasses of Gov-
ernor-General Stonehaven.
Without once sending around the hat,
the Deaf and Dumb and Blind Institution
at Darlington has fought fate for the afflicted
children of the State. How many useful and
happy citizens to-day owe their victory over
perpetual darkness and silence to the care
and education received in the grey old
building in City-road! Since 1871 the w °l;k
has been carried on. The £50,000 which
building represents was provided almost en-
tirely by voluntary contributions; and trie
Government’s grant over the whole period
of the institution’s existence has been no
more than £5OOO. Now the original building
is too small for the demands, and the
directors, choosing between closing the doors
to any more children and building new class-
rooms and dormitories, decided to build.
The cost will be £50,000, and Com‘ ra 1
Public is asked to lead squadrons of shillings
into the coffers of the institution. The appeal
offices are in Cathcart House, Castlereagh-
street.
St. Martha’s Industrial Home is getting
into stride for its charity drive with a
cabaret on April 16 at the Ambassadors.
Mrs. J. A. Doyle is president, and the fleet
of vice-presidents are Mesdames H. Allen,
M. J. O’Neill, E. Bush, A. D. Finn, J. Quig-
ley, T. C. Trautwein, W. Piggott, Y. C. J.
Ryan and W. McNamara. Treasurers are
Mrs. Iv. Annear, Miss E. Collins, and secre-
taries Kathleen Finn and H. McNamara.
Dark-haired Evelyn Robertson, of Sydney
and Leura, is flashing a diamond signal, the
other party in the cause being Eweii Camp-
bell, of Edinburgh, who is attached to the
Soudan Political Service. And if that’s as
thrilling as it sounds, Evelyn’s a girl to be
envied.
Though the Department of Education gives
its official blessing to the Sliakspearean per-
formances at the Conservatorium (Sydney),
the boys who are taken there in battalions
refuse to view the plays as purely educative.
Being out to enjoy themselves, their atten-
tions to the performers would be embarrass-
ing even to seasoned professionals; they
supply a cannonade of lip-smackings every
time a kiss is exchanged and a scoffing com-
mentary to all sentimental love passages. The
other night, when Orlando fell back on the
line “Then may I die,” the youthful section
of the house endorsed the sentiment with a
burst of hearty applause. There is at least
this excuse for them; some of the acting is
tragical enough to warrant a little comedy
relief.
“Pay an unofficial visit to the kinder-
gartens occasionally, as I do,” said Lady
lie Chair to the visitors when she presided
at the annual meeting of the Kindergarten
Union of N.S.W., “and you’ll realise what
pleasure the voluntary workers get out of
their service.” One felt that this was no
mere figure of speech when one entered the
Training College grounds at Waverley be-
tween lines of sweet-faced girl trainees in
white. President Sam Cohen told with satis-
faction of the 14 kindergartens and the
Mothers’, Girls’ and Boys’ Clubs, all doing
splendid social service, and shoived himself
heart and soul with the union in its project
to build a kindergarten near the Children’s
Hospital, where out-patients and little crip-
ples could relieve the tedium of weary wait-
ing and be helped to learn through the
avenue of play. The scheme aims at teaching
suitable trades to children up to 16 years.
Treasurer A. L. Blythe read a balance-sheet
that showed a surplus of over a couple of
hundred pounds. Professor Holme put up a
plea for direct giving, Dr. Arthur approved
the manner in which babies were looked after
by the Welfare Centres, and after the usual
elections tea was served by the neat-handed
trainees on the shady lawns overlooking the
blue sea. The day closed with a delightful
display of kindergarten work by the small
pupils from Surry Hills.
The Wentworth Cafe was a gay, colorful
place when the Dance of the Sunshades was
held in aid of the funds of the Barnardo
Boys’ movement. Miss Elizabeth Plummer,
the organiser, led the pageant carrying a
handsome shade to tone with her black and
jade gowning; vice-president Mrs. Harry
Burrell carried golden glories; secretary
Mrs. W. J. White kept aloft a lovely thing
of blue delphiniums and pink roses; and
treasurer Margaret Chalmers held one com-
posed of autumn-toned cactus dahlias. In
their wake were every shape and size and
variety of sunshade, from the quaint wee
things of early Victorian days to tulle and
floral creations that must have been a little
trying on the wrists. Arthur Rickard, who
is a real godfather to the Barnardo enter-
prises, brought his lady and two pretty
daughters as well as his benevolent smile;
and Henry Braddon came with a tall son
and an apology for his lady’s non-appear-
ance through indisposition. Dr. Ben Edye
brought his handsome wife, she in smart
gowning of Warm red embroidered in vieux.
A bevy of pretty young debs, made their
initial bob to the Rickard lady; among them
were Nancy Sargent, Jean Bowman, Myra
Langworthy, all in white, and Audrey Bec-
kett wearing blue, and Gwenda Moynan in
rose. One attraction of the evening was
a minuet arranged by Miss Lalla Mockbell.
who stepped the solo measure in Louis V.
costume. Even more interest was shown in
the old-fashioned waltz competition. Flapper-
dom and its cavaliers competed enthusias-
tically, but it was Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Lowe who carried off the honors.


A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster,
set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring
£6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
5 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£7/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Single Diamond, Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set Xsct. Gold Bar Brooch,
£7/10/-
WE GIVE A WRITTEN GUARANTEE
WITH EVERY WATCH SOLD.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£lO.
18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
/sj 05 O 5 =
1—
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£3/10/-
WRITE FOR RING BOOK with Size
Card, it’s FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£l5
A. SAUNDERS'
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18<t. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS'
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, set
Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Gorgeous Frocks
Grand Opera Season
‘' I i 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 1 11 11 11 11 111 | L
toil
riiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiT
EAUTIFUL gowns of silver and gold lame, ex-
quisite wraps, gorgeous furs —all these and more
were seen at the Opera on Saturday.
Sydney has not for some time witnessed
such gorgeous dressing at the Theatre.. Grand
Opera always does attract Society, and where
the leaders go, one may rest assured that the
frocking will be ultra-smart. Saturday was no exception.
Velvet cloaks, handsomely fur trimmed, and white kid
gloves, reaching almost to the shoulder, were much in evi-
aence, but probably the most striking feature was the gor-
geous silk stockings that were worn by many of the re-
gular first-nighters. Fine Sheer Silk has this season claimed
most attention, and with the dainty, flimsy, uneven hem
lines, nothing could have added more to the smartness and
grace of those wonderful creations of Fashion.
Sheer Hosiery, or. in more popular terms, “Mon-O-
Sylk” Hosiery, is a delightful innovation that bids well to
lemain in favour. That such popularity is enjoyed by this
new Bond’s “Mon-O-Sylk” Hosiery is nothing short of a
magnificent triumph for the firm manufacturing it. The
stocking itself is Pure Silk throughout, with fine Lisle tops
and toes, and although it is not full fashioned, the Fashion
Marking is extremely clever, and as a consequence the fit
at the ankle is very cosy and snug.
Seeing the appeal “Mon-O-Sylk” is making among
Sydney’s best dressers, most high-class tores are anxious
to show it, because they know that the consistency in the
quality of Bond’s Hosiery creates goodwill among their
customers.
The three styles of “Mon-O-Sylk” will usually be found
in most Stores, but probably the smartest for Theatre wear
are the Embroidery and Lace Clox.
The price of all three styles is 7/6 everywhere.
\V//
4
/\£3
<-> *. c
<o
o
o
e
o
>0
o
6
*3
d>
O
S/
c
c
o,
o
vfc
O
1.
■js(
~ ,Vv
c.
&
y:
o
o
4
Vs
6
o
-0
c
o
lP
c
<3
%
G
vP
0
:
M.
Music as played by an ordinary phono-
graph. The outline is there but thin
and far-away.
On the 50th Anniversary
of the invention of the
Phonograph comes a great
and wonderful gift to the
world.
Thomas A. Edison has en-
dowed recorded music with
a new dimension. He has
brought it close-up, as a
portrait fills the screen in a
“close-up” at the movies.
The astounding
Cdiaonic
Musicians and critics everywhere are amazed. They
marvel how the quality of each orchestral instrument
stands out in clear relief. . . .how full and mellow
the bass notes. . . .how sparkling the treble. It’s
revolutionary—startling—inspiring.
The same music
oil the . Edisonic.
1 he music is close-
up and complete.
Post Coupon for full details
of Edison’s astounding invention
Please post me details of the Edisonic.
NAME
ADDREBX
Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364-372 Kent St., Sydney


24,L\L.45—Catanaeh’s Lady’s “Dc Luxe” Gold Watch,
15 jewels, assorted fancy dials, £3/7/6
Catanach’s “DeLuxe” Watches
FOR RELIABILITY AND VALUE
The highest recommendation is not too high for Catanach’s
famous “De Luxe” Watches.
They are perfect timekeepers—guaranteed by Catanach’s —and
will give years of solid service.
“De Luxe” Watches —obtainable only at Catanach’s —are avail-
able in a very large range of designs, and are incomparable
value. Note these: —
24.D.L.46 —Catanach’s Lady’s “De Luxe” Gold \\ atch,
15 jewels, assorted fancy dials, £o
24.D.L.17 —Catanaeh’s Lady’s “lie
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 jewels,
assorted fancy dials, £3/7/6
•24,D.L.ll—Catanach’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watfch, 15 jewels,
assorted fancy dials, £3/7/6
Cor. Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
24,D.L.3 —Catanach’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 jewels,
assorted fancy dials, £5
rjpprm
rff'
21
<2
Of 6
24 D.L.7 —Catanach’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 jewels,
assorted fancy dials, to
W.-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
The mayoral reception at the Town Hall
in honor of the Stonehavens, on the eve
of their departure for Garioerra, was a crush
of 2000 souls. The hall was titivated with
hot-house plants and palms, and in the
panelled room where supper was served bas-
kets of pink and gold dahlias reposed upon
the numerous tables. The civic fathers
grouped themselves on a red-carpeted dais in
full regalia, and Mayor Morell and his lady,
she in sapphire-blue chiffon velvet with
shoulder supports of rhinestones and sap-
phires, stretched out hands of greeting to a
seemingly unending procession of citizens
and citizenesses. When the G.-G. and Lady
Stonehaven arrived they joined in the hand-
ripping exercises for a while, after which
the affair became an informal conversazione.
Lady Stonehaven, who was given a banquet
of pink roses, wore a coral-pink georgette
robe with embroidered panels and an uneven
hem line. With the v.-r. party were Lord
Stonehaven’s visiting relatives, Mrs. Cal-
lander, whose well-coiffured gvey hair topped
a gown of nattier-blue lace with long sleeves ;
Miss Callander, tall and good-looking with
unshorn raven locks, who draped a black lace
frock with a pale pink tulle scarf, and Mrs.
Thornoycroft, who displayed a sparkle of
diamente on black velvet. Included in the
throng were Chief Justice Irvine and liis
lady; Frank Clarke and his lady, she in
white with sparkle of crystal; the Wcedou
lady, gleaming in white with applications
of diamente; Mrs. Napier in cherry and
gold; American consul Garrels and his wife,
whose draped apparel of rose-red hue had
touches of blush pink; Commendatore and
Donna Grossardi; Lt.-Col. and Mrs. T. W.
White, the latter in lily-of-tlie-valley green
sprinkled with dewdrops; the Miller lady, in
black brightened by silver lace; Dame Mary
Hughes, Captain and Mrs. Penrose, Mrs.
Malcolm and her daughter Nest, Mrs. Cres-
pin. Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson and their
actor son John.
A chill in the breeze on Eight Hours
Day brought out a'crop of topcoats and fur
necklets at Moonee Valley races. The G.-G.
and Lady Stonehaven joined the holiday
crowd on the course and lunched with com-
mittee members and their womenfolk. Her
Ex. was wrapped in tailored coat of fawn
hue, fur-collared, and wore a felt hat of
tomato-red. Other guests of the committee
at luncheon were liear-Admiral and Mrs.
Napier, she clothed in a coat frock of Wedg-
wood-blue, flecked with grey, and harmonis-
ing millinery. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann’s coat of
fawn cloth had collar and cuffs of chestnut-
liued calf-skin. The Ben Cliaffeys, Mr. and
Mrs. Rogers-Thomson, Mrs. A. V. Ivewney,
Mrs. Harold Luxton, and the Fred Scarletts
and daughter Nancy were among those who
promenaded the lawn.
In “The Bride,” at the Princess, Betty
Ross Clarke gets an opportunity to show
some very pretty clothes. Her first entrance
as the runaway bride is made in the gar-
ments associated with virginal innocence. Cut
in the peacock style, her white taffeta frock,
fashioned with a flared frill, was so wide that
it spread like a fan around the figure when
sitting; the wisp of tulle veil was confined
with a coronet of pearls. These trappings
having been removed, she wraps herself in
an antique ivory shawl on which a spray of
pink chrysanthemum clings. A lotus-blue
evening frock made with a sasli effect and
showing the normal waistline raised envy in
many a feminine heart. Nellie Ferguson, as
a spinster aunt, displayed a succession of
handsome cloaks. One of silver brocade was
worn over a black velvet toilette relieved
with apple-green plumages. A shimmering red
coat with wide front panels of tissue, collared
with white fox, looked striking over a gown
of creamy satin. On the other side of the
curtain Mrs. Arnold Westley sat with the
family in a box wearing a wide band of rose
petals on her dark shingle. Mrs. McComas.
wrapped in a glittering coat, was with her
husband in the crowded stalls, and Zillah
Bateman cuddled a scarlet bag against a
black outfit.
To view “The Trial of Mary Dugan” at
the Theatre Royal on Saturday, first-nighters
came out in the brightest of glad rags. In-
terest was well sustained and there was a
cartload of the flowers that bloom in the
autumn for new-comers and old favorites. The
stage dressing is attractive. Even Mary
Dugan, played by Gwyneth Graham, prinks
it in tlie dock—or whatever is the American
equivalent —with squirrel fur upon an en-
semble of periwinkle-blue and a matching i
felt hat. An unstoekinged maiden figures 1
among the witnesses. One lass flames in all ’
crimson, and another combines a lisp with i
raiment and hat of pale sulphur shade. A (
third’s apparel runs to cosmos pink and ;
grey fox-fur. Marie Eaton as the French ■
maid Marie Ducrot is trimly tailored and j
felt-hatted in tan tones. The dainty Iris
West, an importation, wears with tremen- ,
dous success the black trappings of the widow .
of the murdered man. Among the audience
were the Elmer Pauly couple; Madame de
Bavay and her daughter Vera, who wore a
garnet necklace upon a silver lace frock ; Mrs.
James Purv.es ; Dr. and Mrs. .T. Merriles ; the
Lawton lady, with a glitter of gold on her rai-
ment ; Mrs. Charles Tait, Mrs. Wenman and
Mrs. Barry Thomson. The Maurice Patkin
couple were also there, she in a Chinese coat
with resplendent embroidering of dragons.
“The Pirates of Penzance,” with its pic-
turesque sea-robbers and Greenaway
maidens, occupied His Majesty’s on Thurs-
day and Friday nights. Strella Wilson’s
wliite ostrich plumes nodded over a bouffant
frock of pale green with sprays of pink roses
as she sang “Poor Wandering One.” On the
first night a filled-to-the-ceiling house in-
cluded Mrs. Leslie Stuart, whose frock of
dregs-of-wine hue made a bright spot in one
of the boxes; Mrs. David Grant; Colonel T.
Mclnerney’s wife; Mary Campbell, casting
an approving eye on many of her former
pupils, and Mr. and Mrs. W. Halbert. There
was a generous distribution of flowers at
the final curtain.
“The Mikado” was greeted by a full house
at His Majesty’s on Saturday, when Mel-
bourne audiences saw Strella Wilson for the
first time as Yum Yum. Though she made
rather a hefty Japanese maiden, she looked
attractive in the national dress and coiffure
especially in her white, much embroidered
wedding wrapping, and vocally, of course, she
was faultless. The other two little maids
from school, Eflie Armstrong, and Mabel
Gibson, pattered around gracefully in beauti-
ful kirns. Florists had a busy evening, most
of their wares going over the footlights at
the end of the piece.
The amateur production of Bizet’s opera
“Carmen” ,a.t the Regent,' |S, Yarra, on
Friday, was successful in every way. Mrs.
Sheila Marsden, who took the rOle of Car-
men, had Sydney Mannering of the one-time
Scarlet Troubadours to lend her a hand in
producing, and the gipsy ballet was trained
by Jennie Brcnan. Mrs. Marsden was fortu-
nate in having some fine voices in the chbrus
of girls, whose frocks were well chosen.
Violet Colahan, wife of the artist, was
Micaela and sang attractively. The good-
looking Mrs. L. H. Wilkinson and Lilian
Stott as the gipsies Mercedes and Frasquito
got through the fortune-telling duet of act iii
remarkably well. Signor Bartolini brought
professional experience to bear as Escamillo
in the famous “Toreador Song” scena; and
his pupil Norman Christensen was Don Jose.
Sheila Macfie conducted the orchestra. Strella
Wilson, in frock of georgette and lace of
nattier blue, and Bernard Manning were
lent by the Firm to figure in an introductory
musical programme to which Madame Elsa
Davies, Carrie Haase, Stanley Brookes, Mary
Kingston and Dawn Harding also contri-
buted. Proceeds went to the Million Shillings
Fund. In the audience were Mayoress
Morell; Mrs. Herbert Brookes, chairwoman
of the Million Shillings Appeal, who voiced
the committee’s gratitude for help; Mrs.
Harry Emmerton (president of the Enter-
tainments’ Committee), Mrs. M. R. Mc-
Millan, Mrs. Macgillicuddy, Lucy Rowe and
many others interested in the establishment
of a permanent orchestra.
This vivacious brunette is remembered by
Melbourne’s younger . set as Nell Stead,
daughter of S. V. Stead, of this city. She
married Viscount Mandeville, heir of the
Duke of Man-
chester, in
England last
year. A few
weeks ago the
viscountess re-
turned to this
city on a visit
to her father
an d brought
witli her her
young hus-
band, who is a
naval officer.
The pair said
good-bye to
Melbourne
friends last
week and
boarded the
Aorangi en
route for
Blighty by
way of the
U.S.A.
Two short pieces by local playsmiths and
A. A. Milne’s sketch, “The Boy Comes
Home,” were produced to a full attendance
at Christ Church Memorial Hall on Wed-
nesday night to help the Sutherland Homes.
That clever lass Isabel Handley was repre-
sented by “Technique,” a bright effort in
which an elderly bachelor and a charming
widow, endeavoring to teach the art of mak-
ing love to a couple of the younger set, get
caught by Cupid themselves. “Local Color,”
Irish in flavor, was a successful bit of play-
writing by Mrs. Frank Apperly, who was
in her element in the leading role. She also
was in the cast of Miss Handley’s little
comedy. W. H. Chandler and Mrs. Apperly
shared the responsibilities of production.
Intervals were filled with instrumental trios
furnished by Muriel Campbell, violinist,
Katie Fiddle at the piano and Sheila Macfie
with her ’cello.
Wirth’s Olympia played yet another part
last week, when it sheltered the “Garden
Week” show, an annual fixture begun six
years ago by the Nurserymen and Seedsmen's
Association, the object being to establish a
horticultural scholarship in memory of the
late John Cronin, for many years curator of
the Botanic Gardens. The G.-G. gave this
year’s display a push-off. Ilis Ex. evidently
liked the guard of honor of flower-maidens,
a bevy of schoolgirls who lined the freshly-
tanned path holding freshly-gathered flowers.
Later Lord Stonehaven was given a basket
of dahlias of immense size, maroon and yel-
low, the latter named Lady Stonehaven.
Mayor Morell uttered thanks to the G.-G.,
a welcome having been spoken by president
W. R. Warner. There was a magnificent
show of seasonable blooms, including many
new and beautiful varieties.
The owner of this nice profile, Tonic Sey-
mour, pictured by Dickinson Monteath, has
stepped into a leading part in her second
stage engagement. South African born, but
ear 1 y trans-
planted to this
city, she first
had ideas of
an operatic
career, but she
decided later,
after some ex-
perience in
amateur act-
ing, that the
drama was her
metier. Tli e
Betty Ross
Clarke c o
gave her her
first profes-
sional chance,
and now
Joseph Cun-
ningham has
given her a
good part in
“A Wee k
End.”
A very good impression was made by Aviee
Hornidge, a graduate of the Uni. Con., who
gave her first pianoforte recital on Thurs-
day evening. After excerpts from Bach,
Beethoven (the “Apassionata” sonata) and
Chopin, she played six etudes of her own
composition. She has personality and talent.
Dorothy Reseigh, mezzo-soprano, sang lyrics
by Schumann and English composers.
The Melbourne Scots, a new society, held
their first gathering of the clans at the
Windsor on Wednesday night. President J.
A. Boyd welcomed the guests, Mrs. Walter
Leitcli, in array of silver grey, filling the
role of hostess, as Mrs. Boyd and her two
daughters are on the high seas. There was
music, and Ernest Scott delivered a pane-
gyric on the national character. The J. A.
Gilruths and daughter Margaret, the F. W.
Egglestons, Mrs. Scott, who received a posy
as n thank offering for her husband’s address,
and Mrs. Richard Fitcher were in the fore-
front of the throng.
The W. Fergusons, of Redcourt. Sale,
handed over their third daughter, Una, to the
safe keeping of Howard Phillips at the Col-
lins-street kirk on Saturday. The bride-
groom’s family home is in Wales. The bride
wore a billow of ivory georgette set with
appliques of silver lace festooned with gar-
lands of tissue roses. Glimpses of pink
glow-ad in the long train of crepe de soie, and
a coronet of blossoms confined the veil of em-
broidered tulle. The bride’s sister Edie, as
principal ’maid, wore a frilly frock of powder
blue garnished with hand-made flowers, her
companion, Mena Robinson, being in foxglove
georgette. Vonne Napier, as train-bearer,
fluttered a mass of blue pleats confined by
a silver ribbon.
Marriage has robbed Frank Talbot, of the
Athenaeum Theatre, of the services of a very
capable little secretary, Elsie Tallyman, who,
last week, quietly slipped into St. Pat.’s
Cathedral unattended and said “I w T ill” to
J aurie O’Sullivan of this city.
Elma Roach, who has her paints and
blushes ready for another European sortie,
which will occupy a year, held a sort of
an revoir show of water-color sketches and
decorated woodware at Cheyne’s in Collins-
street during the week. Some very attrac-
tive decorative panels for overmantels figure
in the collection. Her sister’s work, tiny
flowers modelled in relief upon delicately
enamelled and polished nick-nacks, was also
given representation.
Madame Van Lier, who has come to Aus-
tralia to see her daughter, Stephanie Deste,
is a Belgian lady who took refuge in Lon-
don during the German occupation of her
country. Irene Vanbrugh played fairy god-
mother to Stephanie, taught her the English
language and laid the foundations of her
stage career. Until Miss Deste returns to
Australia from Maoriland Madam van Lier
will be the guest of Dorothy Hart. She will
join her daughter in Sydney.
Dr. It. J. Tillyard, recently imported from
Maoriland to help the Commonwealth in
its war against noxious growths and plant
parasites, is to visit the Cold Country before
plunging into the fray. As a house is to
be built for him at Canberra, Mrs. Tillyard
and her four daughters have decided to stay
and keep an eye on the job. They hope
the domicile will be ready for occupation
when the head of the family returns.
Among the members of the Scottish dele-
gation will be Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Potts,
lie is the Melbourne manager of Burns,
Philp and Co., president of the Legacy Club
and one of the leaders of the Big Brother
movement. The couple intend returning by
way of U.S.A. and the Orient.
Colonel and Mrs. Hartley will spend the
greater part of their two months in Australia
on a round of family visits. Mrs. Hartley
was Philippa Osborne and was reared on the
Currandooley homestead. This is her first
visit to her homeland for many years. Tin-
pair will next have a look at Maoriland, and
before returning to their Indian bungalow
they will go to England and call on Mrs.
Hartley’s mother, who has settled down in
London.
An outward-bound passenger by the
Ceramic last week was Mrs. E. A. Johns,
who proposes to visit a sister at South
Africa and then go on to London and the
Continent. The lady, who is a bridge
enthusiast and has a large teaching connec-
tion here, intends to investigate the new
rules and the latest theories of play while
in the Big Smoke.
Another of our full-fledged medical
students, Dr. Bob Scott, has secured a Lon-
don appointment. He is a Tassy boy who
married Elaine Moxon Cook of this city and
went abroad for further study. For some
time he has been doing research work in the
Pathology Department of the Moorefield
Plospital, and his prowess has been rewarded
by a post on the institution’s surgical staff.
Mrs. Reginald Peel has placed her small
son and daughter in the care of Geelong
Grammar Schools preparatory to rejoining
her husband in Siam. Niece Maisie Travers
has been borrowed from her Tasmanian
home as a companion.
The Arthur Glovers, Avith daughters Mar
jorie and Ida, having decided to sojourn for
a while in the Apple Island, with an antipo-
dean tour in prospect after that, have been
busy saying au revoir to numerous friends.
Dr. Mickey Cust, his wife and three chil-
dren took ship for England last Aveek, and
the date of their return has not been fixed.
The doctor has sold his practice and plans to
take post-graduate courses in subjects relating
to children’s diseases, with a view to special-
ising in such ailments. His young Avife,
after calling on her sister, Mrs. Gill (settled
at Harrogate), intends taking a cottage in
Devon.
Rose Musgrove, who settled on a Colombo
tea plantation after her marriage, is now
living in Surrey Avhile her young son is
being educated in the Cold Country. She
grows her own garden truck and markets the
surplus.
Having survived th-e medical tests, Maisie
Bennett, a transplanted Adelaide girl, is
about to invade the field of aviation. She is
a step-daughter of Warne, the highly suc-
cessful rag-mercliant, and a niece of Mrs.
Russell-Gabb. Tiring of social frivols, she
went into the frock business, and, as a
hobby, developed a talent for amateur theat-
ricals.
Though rain came down in a tropical
deluge many art patrons attended the open-
ing of the show of oil and water-color paint-
ings by Dora Meeson (Mrs. George Coates)
at the New Gallery. Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
whose navy blue coat-froek had petunia and
cerise touches, launched the exhibition.
General approval was expressed regarding
the purchase by the Felton Bequest of Mrs.
Coates’s “Venice in London,” a poem in
greys. The Morell lady, Mrs. Kingsbury
Baillieu, Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, Mrs. Haro.d
Ward and Mrs. A. E. Kimpton were in the
throng.
Our overseas exodus still continues.
Amongst the many considering travel plans
are the T. McKellar couple, avlio liaA T e sold
their Western District acreage to Mr. It.
Morrison, and with their family intend to
enjoy the European summer.
Bertha Cornwall, after travelling up and
down Europe for a year, has paused tor
breath in Paris. Her descriptions of that
fascinating city have decided her sister, Mrs.
Williams, to desert Kalimna,. her Moreland
home, and see the old world. She will join
the Maloja and sail to Marseilles, where
sister Bertha will meet the traveller.


mmm
o
o
Chocolates
“7" do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home !'
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address fn Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
Cli. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal) ;
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustratea
with reproductions of our
confectionery in colors.
X
■V'
!
W:
MS
>7
W I
m
EB
1
■
m
—t—!
mmmmmummm \
'.:5.v/ :
• -
An Elgin for Easter
AN Elgin Watch is a gift in exquisite taste. It
is reliable and useful, while being at the same
time a beautiful and ever-present reminder of
the friendship or love that inspired the giving.
An Elgin is the perfect Easter Gift.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<S>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/lip Jrade Mark
in the Watch Cape
This year tne Digger Bulletin won t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
-•• '' ' .. ••• '• ' ' » . 1 .
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Lady Goodwin helped the National Coun-
cil of Women to say farewell to Mrs. M. 11.
Rrydon and daughter Minnie, who are going
to England and the Continent. Her Ex.
wore madonna-blue, and was given a bunch
of pink roses and antignon. Mrs. Cumbrae
Stewart, the president, wore rose-pink with
touches of silver. Mrs. Brydon was in black
mariette and chantilly, and her bouquet was
of pmk roses and maidenhair. There was
speechmaking by the president, Mrs. 11. A.
Longman and Freda Bage, and welcoming
words were spoken to Mrs. Keith Miller and
(’apt. Lancaster. Music and supper rounded
off the party. •
Their Exs.. with Mr. and Mrs. Stopford
visited the Blind, Deaf, and Dumb Institu-
tion. A basket of flowers was presented to
Lady Goodwin by the youngest pupil in the
deaf children’s section. A visit was paid
to the workshops, where broom-making, chair-
aud basket-making were in progress, and in
the playground the visitors marvelled at the
“junglegym,” a maze of horizontal and ver-
tical bars, for the use of the blind.
Last week was mainly taken up with re-
ceptions to Mrs. Miller and Captain Lan-
caster. On the night of their arrival they
attended the Empire Theatre, where there
\Vere congratulatory speeches from the stage
and cheers from the crowd. The Victoria
League gave the aviators a welcome at Len-
non’s. The civic reception was a matter of
“roses, roses, all the way”—red roses, of
course. The Constitutional Club gave the
flyers a party, and the United Service Club
followed suit—the first time, it is said, that
the latter has entertained a woman as guest
of honor.
One of the guests at the United Service
Club party to the crew of the Red Rose was
Prof. Edgeworth David, who is here getting
material for his work on Australian and
Papuan geology.
Some fifteen hundred souls said good-bye
to Bananaland’s section of the Scottish de-
putation at Hamilton. As the Hobson’s Bay
left the wharf she was streaming with rain-
bow ribbons. Scottish songs were sung, and
the red rampant lion floated in the breeze
above the wharf.
Yeerongpilly golfites opened their season
at the links under ideal conditions. The
day was fine and warm and bright gowns
were worn.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
This is Mrs. T. W. Clark, who lends an
experienced hand to the helm of many chari-
table organisa-
tions. She is
pr e siclent of
the Women’s
Immigra t i o n
Auxiliary
Council and
secretary of
the Friendly
Union of Sol-
diers’ Wives, a
movement to-
d a y more
vigorous than
ever. She is
also a member
of the Soldiers’
Children’s
Schol a r s h i p
Trust and rep-
resents the
Red Cross on
the Hospital
Board. When
vie e-president
she helped to organise the tuck-shop
and tea-room at the hospital, where a
bevy of girl volunteers wheel trolleys of
tea and biscuits to the wards every after-
noon. On very few Saturday afternoons
during the last six years has Mrs. Clark
been absent from her post at the tea-room.
Pi’oceeds, in the region of £5OO to £6OO
annually, are devoted to hospital improve-
ments.
To swell the funds of the Repertory Club,
Florence Besley arranged a musical after-
noon, when tea tables were spread in the
practice-room upstairs and every chair was
occupied. Mrs. Clarrie Meares, in a white
jumper suit, played a Liszt Rhapsody and all
accompaniments. Astrid Idlund, in green
and fawn, lifted her clear soprano in Italian
and her native Swedish. Mavis Holmes,
looking cool in a hemstitched, hand-made
frock of white and pale blue, and Florence
Besley, in black satin and pearls, sang
sweetly. Joyce Mortlock recited, and Jim
Ottaway sang robustly of smugglers and sea
rovers. President Mrs. Paton wore cham-
pagne georgette and deep cream lace inser-
tions ; Mrs. Gibson was in navy accordion
pleatings and shell pink and Elsie Milne con-
trasted tawny browns with a black felt. Mrs.
Jack Durack wore blush pink georgette, and
a pink rose nodded in the brim of her black
picture hat.
Michaelmas daisies and dahlias decorated
the Karrakatta Club for a welcome luncheon
in honor of Ruby Rich, Federal vice-presi-
dent of the Australian Federation of Women
Voters. The hostess*‘Mrs. Reischbieth, wore
a suit of dove grey-> and blue and Miss Rich
eliose rose-beige embroidered in silver thread,
a black cape of plisse georgette with a gold
tissue collar, and a tricorne hat.
racked houses greeted the Concert Artists’
performance ‘of “Tons of Money.” Ernest
Cuthhertson produced the piece and played
cleverly the part of Aubrey. Louise was
capably played by Marjorie McCulloch, and
that actress Doris Gilliam (Mrs.
Herbert Millard) wore the voluminous bil-
lows of the deaf auntie. (
A social event of the week was a bridge
party in the library of the Palace Hotel.
Dot Cadd, in pleatings of bois-de-rose mari-
ette, sister Kathleen, in green, and Gwen, in
mulberry georgette ornamented with French
embroidery, were hostessas. Mrs. Frank
Manford wore a beige gown and a scarlet
hat, Dorrie Hammersley chose a white silk
jumper suit banded in black and red and a
red hat. Vera Saw wore black, and Jean
Loton sported one of her many Parisian out-
fits —an ensemble of stitched pleatings in
fawn georgette, worn with green posy and
millinery. Mollie Brennan chose a jumper
suit of blue and cascade grey, Helen Ambrose
old-rose triple ninion embossed in self-
tonings, and Joan Good saxe blue crepe de
Chine.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The T.R.C. was blessed with glorious
weather for its meeting at Elwick. His Ex.
was present, but daughter Margaret, who
had a fair to open, had to give the gee-gees
a miss. The attendance was augmented
by a crowd from the oversea liners in port.
Frocking varied, the last roses of summer in
the way of frilly chiffons mingling with
autumn and winter coat-frocks and suits.
The artillery ball at Anglesea Barracks
wars a bright and enjoyable affair. His Ex.
and Margaret O’Grady were present, the
latter in pink georgette. Tree ferns, flags
and other decorations in red and blue, the
17th Battery’s colors, beautified the hall.
About 400 dancers stepped to the music
of the Naval Band. Commander Cox Taylor
and Mrs. Taylor, Alderman and Mrs. Rogers,
the Crisps-, Col. and Mrs. Elliott, the Crow-
thers, and many others were in the throng.
The O’Gradys farewelled Alfred Ashbolt
and his lady at Government House before
the Ash bo Its left in the Comorin for Eng-
land. Other guests were the W. B. Prop-
stings, N. P. Booths, Edwin Websters,
Alex. McGregors, Leslie Walter, D’Arcy
Addison and C. T. Docker.
At the Lyceum Club the National
Council of Women welcomed Mrs. Muscio,
while in another part of the premises the
club’s literary circle gave greeting to G. B.
Lancaster, the M.L. authoress. Several of
the Speck’s woman writers were there to
meet the unassuming and charming little
novelist.
During her late visit Mrs. Muscio was
motored by Mrs. J. G. Edwards, vice-
president of the Women’s Non-Party League,
to see a few houses in Hobart run on the
basic wage. Mrs. Muscio stayed a day
or two in Launceston on her way to Can-
berra, where the Child Endowment Com-
mission will sit later.
The Royal Yacht Club’s “Old Buffers’ ”
Day offered fun and excitement for both
competitors and onlookers. It was a tricky
day for sailing, stiff little puffs of breeze
alternating with dead calms. A special trophy
went to the veteran who skippered the win-
ning boat.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Lieut.-Governor and Miss Murray
gave a garden party at Government House
in honor of the visit of the Countess of
Kintore and her daughter, Lady Hilda Keith
Falconer. The visitors received on the
lawn and afterwards mingled with the
guests and renewed old acquaintances. The
Countess looks far younger than many of
her Adelaide contemporaries. She wore a
bois-de-rose georgette toilette and hat to
match. Lady Hilda was severely frocked in
black crepe de Chine and wore a simple
black straw hat. Miss Murray was wear-
ing a shaded grey georgette ensemble and a
black hat. Mayoress Bonytlion was in a
much-flared black marocain frock with in-
serted panels of black applique mounted on
pink-net. With it she wore a modish black
felt hat. The Bruce lady chose a pale-grey
costume with small hat to match, and the
Cohen lady dazzled the eye in black chiffon vel-
vet girdled with brilliants. Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward, who has just returned from the much-
photographed wedding of her son with Nancy
Irvine in Melbourne, was in black marocain
and skunk fur, and wore a toque with a large
bunch of ospreys. Mrs. H. H. Dutton looked
charming in beige, and pretty Mrs. Kenneth
Wills wore an orchid mauve outfit. Tea
was served in a large marquee on the lawn,
and a powerful band made conversation a
strain on the ears and lungs.
The visiting polo players have been re-
sponsible for quite a whirl of social happen-
ings. Lord and Lady Somers came from
Melbourne, and were the guests of the
Dudley Turners. The Governor of Victoria
brought his team, which included his A.D.C.,
Major Drake-Brockman, J. Manifold - , and
K. Calvert. The Cup competitions were
most exciting, and there was a very large
attendance. Lieutenant-Governor George
Murray and Miss Murray entertained their
Exes, of Vic., together with the Mayoral
Bonythons, at afternoon tea. Lady Somers
wore a henna ensemble and Miss Murray
and Mrs. Bonytlion favored black marocain.
The Mayor received many congratulations
upon becoming a grandfather, the stork hav-
ing arrived to Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Bonython,
now in England.
The Cecil Brays gave a jolly dance at
their Glenelg home in honor of the polo
players. The flowers were gorgeous—crim-
son maple, gladioli, dahlias and carnations.
Mrs. Bray was a graceful figure in pale-
blue and white, silver-beaded all over, and
bandeau of leaves in brilliants. Daughters
Phyllis and Vee wore white and silver.
Lord and Lady Somers came with the Dudley
Turners; her Ex. in powder blue and gold
lace.
Helene Taylor’s concert in the Exhibition
building, her final appearance before her de-
parture for England by the Comorin, was
crowded. The young artist has no reason
to quarrel with her reception in her home
town. Prior to her farewell concert she
added over £lOOO to her bank account, and
she is going back to London well equipped
with funds for future study.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller. ___ ,
Theistic Monism.
An answer to the Question Is
There God?” reached by deter-
mining the Relation of Mind to
Body. By JOSEPH EVANS, M.A.
1 2s. 6d. net.
“ NOW COMPLETE IN
FIVE VOLUMES.
Grove’s Dictionary of Music.
Third Edition. 30s. net each.
HUGH WALPOLE’S
NEW NOVEL.
Wintersmoon.
Passages in the Lives of Two Sis-
ters, Janet and Rosalind Grandi-
son. By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition]
Etched in Moonlight.
A Volume of Stories. By JAMES
STEPHENS, Author of “The Crock
of Gold,” etc. 7s. 6d. Jiet-
~ NEW WORK
BY W. B. YEATS.
The Tower.
A New Volume of Lyrics. By W.
B. YEATS. 6s. net.
‘ A NEW ILLUSTRATED
STEVENSON.
The Novels and Tales of Robert
Louis Stevenson.
With 1 7 new full-page Illustrations
in each volume by E. J. Sullivan,
A.R.W.S., H. M. Brock, R. 1., C. E.
Brock, R. 1., and H. R. Millar. Cloth,
3s. 6d. net. Leather, ss. net each.
Treasure Island.
New Arabian Nights.
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.—Prince
Otto.
The Merry Men.
The Black Arrow.
Island Nights’ Entertainments.—
The Body-snatcher.—-Fables.
Kidnapped. Catriona.
The Master of Ballantrae.
Weir of Hermiston. —The Mis-
adventures of John Nicholson.
To be Obtained from ait
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO.LTD.
Nil & U>vl> l >V W.C.2.
The Canberra Building &. Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital ....
Issued Capital
Paid-up Capital .. . .
Investments in
£loo,ooo
49,161 g.
30,234
Canberra Are Free
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
Woodger, Esq. ; S. J. Goulston,
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
of State Income Tax.
Esq.;
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
df
You’re safe
if Wolsey
clad!
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear and
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men, and i Hose
and Socks for Children.
OLSEY Pure Wool Underwear
V V is the finest protection you can
possibly adopt! Pure Wool from
first stitch to last, produced by skilled
British labour, Wolsey preserves an
even bodily temperature and makes
you proof against chill and cold. In
your own interests buy some and wear
it regularly. You need have no fear as
to whether it will wash well —it is abso-
lutely unshrinkable ! See the Wolsey
Head Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
C.F.H.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
WILL HECTOR HAIR write to
ARCHIE HAIR?
ROY, aged about 16, son
is of Amelia Downing, will hear some-
thing to his advantage if he communicates
with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY.
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Australia's
OLYMPIA
THE GREATEST
MOTOR SHOW
NEXT TO
LONDON’S
OLYMPIA
OPENS
MAY 3rd
EXHIBITION
BUILDINGS
MELBOURNE
Under the Auspices of
THE CHAMBER OF
AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRIES
H. W. HARRISON
Organiser & Sec.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston.
Modernise the Country Home with
and Fpiffi
9
ELECTRIC light, electric power, electric refrigeration—no longer are
these modern conveniences confined to our cities and towns.
Science has made them available for the country home—no matter
where you live, you may employ electricity to brighten your nights, to
lighten your labor, to operate a refrigerator and prevent food wastage.
Delco-Light is the simple, compact and economical plant that will
generate a constant supply of electricity for lighting and for ot e.
purposes. And with this electric supply at your command, Fngidaire
may be installed to add to kitchen convenience and economy. Your
own self-contained Electric and Freezing Plant—that is what is meant
by this ideal combination of Delco-Light and Frigidaire.
FRIGID AIRE —Electric Refrigeration*
Frigidaire is permanent refrigeration automatic,
dependable, economical electric refrigeration. The
Frigidaire cooling coil is the equivalent of a large block
of ice that never melts, never needs replenishing, never
changes in size, and is always on duty. Frigidaire Model
T 5, as here illustrated, is an ideal household model
and there are other sizes for all requirements.
Write for a free copy of Booklet B,
which tells all about Frigidaire.
DELCO-LIGHT —Electric Lighting & Power.
This complete electric power plant is easily installed,
and runs economically with but little attention. Electric
light for home and outbuildings, power for the farm,
current for household appliances and for Frigidaire
Delco-Light supplies them all, unfailingly.
Delco-Light has been foremost in Australia since 1916.
It is strong, compact, dependable. Let us give you
particulars—write for Book D.B. We will send it to
you post free.
Inspect Frigidaire
and Delco-Light
Displays at the
R.A.S. Easter Show,
Stand No. 2,
Chelmsford Avenue.
sdf


Sore Throat
is quickly conquered
by a few tablets of
fORHAMINT
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
At all Chemists.
Genatosan Ltd, Loughborough, Fngland.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
. Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Tenders.
’’"PENDERS ar.e invited for a five years'
1 lease with option of purchase, alterna-
tively without option of purchase, of the
well-known Kuranda Hotel, situated at Kur-
anda near the Barron Falls, in the Cairns
district of North Queensland, the popular
rendezvous of Tourists from the ' South
during the Winter Season.
Tenderers are required to state prices re-
spectively for the purchase of (1) Furniture
and Fittings as per Inventory, (2) Goodwill,
(3) the Weekly Rental. The Electric Light
and Pumping Plant are to be included as
part of the property to be leased.
Tenderers must accompany their tenders
with a cheque for the sum of £5O, which
will be returned in the event of any tender
not being accepted. The highest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders close April 30, 1928, at the office
o? the Kuranda Hotel, Ltd., 127 Eagle Street.
Brisbane, and envelopes require to be marked
"Tenders Kuranda Hotel.”
Particulars of Lease, Inventory, etc., may
be obtained at the Offices of Howard Smith
Ltd., Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., and Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Onlrr Wines before 6 n.m. Ring M 3666.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Rose Marie”
Royal “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “The High Road”
Palace “The Donovan Affair”
Empire “Take the Air”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent “Flesh and the Devil”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “HALS. Pinafore”
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Athenaeum “Mr. What’s-His-Name”
Tivoli .. Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“The High Road,” which the Boucicault-
Vanbrugh Co. produced at Sydney Criterion
on Saturday, opens with a family gathering
of thoroughly disagreeable aristocrats, intent
on preventing the marriage of Lord Crayle’s
heir, Lord Teylesmore, with an actress, Elsie
Hilary, and incidentally discussing the
scandalous behavior of another member of
the family, the Duke of Warington. The
gathering swallows hard when the actress's
father appears to ask their co-operation in
stopping the marriage on the ground that the
sacrifice will be all on his daughter’s side.
The old man points out that it is only Elsie’s
pride, roused by their opposition, that makes
her fancy she returns Teylesmore’s affection.
In pursuance of his plan Elsie presently be-
comes a guest at the Crayle homestead, as
the accepted future bride of the lordling;
but, growing rather bored of her lover, she
develops an affection for the young Duke,
who has entangled himself with a married
woman, Lettice Hale, whose husband is an
incurable invalid. The latter conveniently
dies and Elsie returns to the stage, leaving
both her noble suitors unlassoed. The actress
is gracefully played by Gwynne Whitby,
Irene Vanbrugh taking the part of the one
likeable and tolerant female aristocrat; J.
B. Rowe is the Duke, and Gerald Kay Souper,
Norman McKinnel, and Reginald Wykeliam
are all capable exponents of aristocratic bad
manners. Although Boucicault himself is
out of the picture to some extent as Lord
Crayle, his hand is visible in the smoothness
of the production. This is the best play
the co. has staged.
“The Trial of Mary Dugan” has finished,
and “The Girl Friend” will occupy the
Royal for the rest of her stay in Sydney.
To-night “Rose Marie” returns to fill Her
Majesty’s with melody for a short Easter
season. At the Palace Muriel Starr is mak-
ing a winner of “The Donovan Affair.”
“Take the Air” moves on twinkling legs at
the Empire, brightened by the expurgation of
some dull jokes.
3: :|s s£
The Fuller Grand Opera Co. is going to
content itself with producing 14 of its reper-
toire of 24 operas ; it closes its Sydney sea-
son on April 26 and makes for Melbourne-
“ The Barber of Seville,” which opened last
night (Tuesday), is to be repeated to-night;
“Ernani” comes to-morrow night, “Mignon”
on Saturday week (April 14), “La Favorita”
on the following Tuesday, with “Lucia de
Lammermoor” and “Lohengrin” on April 21
and 24.
* * * *
“Fra Diavalo,” introduced on Saturday,
struck the lightest note yet given by the
company; and directly the curtain rose the
plot commenced to move forward with com-
mendable briskness. Nina Algozino was a
; vivacious Lady Pamela, the Englishwoman
who is flattered by the attentions of the
Marquis of San Marco, really Fra Diavolo
—a part played and sung with buoyancy and
spirit by Brandisio Vannucci. There is no
reason, apparent or otherwise, why the mas-
ter brigand should need two comedy bri-
gands to assist him in the simple job of
purloining Lady Pamela’s jewels after she
has managed to secrete them from his band,
or why Zerlina, the innkeeper’s daughter,
should be expected to sleep in a sort of
ante-room to the guest-chambers, where
Olga Poletti disrobes to the lullaby of her
own warbling and falls into melodious slum-
ber. When Lorenzo, her soldier-lover, finds
the Marquis hidden in the room he naturally
jumps to the worst conclusions; but just
as Zerlina, spurned by the man she loves, is
about to be unwillingly married to a miller,
Fra Diavolo, captured, makes amends by a
confession which establishes her innocence.
That leaves everybody happy, for the miller
as presented in the Gonsalez performance
did not look a willing bridegroom either.
The meaty Arturo Tamburini was not an in-
spiring lover, although he sang well. Alfieri
clad in an amazing pair of green pants and
a more amazing waistcoat, gave a Euro-
pean comic-paper sketch of the touring Eng-
lish milord, and A. Gilardi and Francesco
Federici scored well as brigands, but the inn-
keeper, Matteo, w r as provided by A. Gilson
with a mere ghost of a voice.
The most appreciated item in “As You Like
It” at the Sydney Conservatorium last week
was the excellent wrestling bout between
Charles and Orlando. Stage trials of
strength usually put a severe strain on the
imagination; but the realism of this en-
gagement moved the large element of boy
in the audience to rapturous shouts. Charles,
who managed his lines as crisply as his
falls, was A. W. Taylor, once a representa-
tive of Britain in the Olympic Games, and
now a physical culture instructor; and Clive
Coppard, as Orlando, had evidently benefited
from his antagonist’s instructions about the
faked fight. In other respects he made a
fairly successful Orlando, but for a touch
of effeminacy; and with Heath Burdock, who
was professionally at ease but not as dis-
tinguished as he should have been as Jaques,
Harold Fraser a passable Touchstone.
Edward Cavill as Corin, and Wynne Wear
Roberts an excellent Rosalind, lie did his
best to make up for the stage awkwardness
of most of the others, whose confidence was
not improved by a barrage of banter from
the plentiful boy before-mentioned. Bryson
Taylor sang the lyrics well.
Sydney Playbox resumed its Wednesday
play-nights last week; but Duncan McDoug-
all’s choice of Kaiser’s “From Morn to Mid-
night” is not altogether happy. There are a
host of rather sketchy characters, several of
the performers “doubling” parts, and the pro-
ducer himself moves amongst the multitude
preaching psychological sermons. The open-
ing sees him as an elderly, groove-bound
cafehier in a bank suddenly awakened by a
dressy lady who wants to float an overdraft
into a desire to taste some of the better
things of life. It is a queer sort of bank,
where the cashier embezzles a vast sum of
money by simply slipping it into his pocket.
The play is what the modernists call ex-
pressionist, which term apparently requires
the cashier’s mother to drop dead from shock
when her son belligerently declines to eat his
dinner (his main objection is that it is
the same dinner lie has always been asked
to eat), and the cashier, quite unmoved, to
leave the house in pursuit of his emancipa-
tion with a callous disregard of the corpse,
the funeral and the opinions of neighbors.
Freda McPhee, as theljady who wanted finan-
cial accommodation, and Linda Goulstone, as
the cashier’s wife and later a Salvation Army
officer, are the only characters that stand out
from the crowd to whom Duncan McDougall
preaches; and although Duncan’s effort to
carry the whole show on liis shoulders is
a gallant one, preaching is always rather
wearisome. The performances recur every
Wednesday.
* * * *
The Show’s the thing, as far as Sydney is
concerned, this week. Long ago the big
R.A.S. carnival burst its old boundaries,
and it will soon be too large even for its
present vastly increased space. The horse
holds its own in some of the most inter-
esting events, for even the best tractors can’t
jump. Mae Kingsley, the world’s only
woman glass-blower, is on deck again with
her various glass marvels, including a dress
made of the material. And, hanging on to
the skirts of the leviathan exhibition, are
the side-shows —from the lady with the
snakes to the South African pygmy.
The Kelso brothers have returned to Syd-
ney Tivoli with the Crazy Quilt Revue after
a 14 years’ absence from Australia. Their
show is a goat of many colors which romps
through half the programme, giving even the
“TAKE THE AIR,” AT SYDNEY
EMPIRE.
Sergeant Fred Bluett orders Happy Hokum
(Bobby Jarvis ) to make him laugh.
juggling acts a comic twist. “Captain”
Smithley gives an interesting turn with some
well-groomed and -behaved lions; and the
three monkeys, Max, Moritz and Akka, are
.stiff part of the menagerie.
Two specially fine films appeared amongst
the present week’s Sydney crop. “Quality
Street” catches the atmosphere and breathes
the spirit of the J. M. Barrie story; it is
bracketed at Hoyt’s De Luxe with “Roses of
Picardy.” The Lyceum has the other
winner in “The Woman on Trial” ; producer
Mauritz Stiller scores by his pruning of
all superfluities and his development of
character. “Flesh and the Devil” at the
Regent is drawing “capacity” houses.
According to the author of “The Bride,”
two wealthy bachelor brothers can grow to
maturity in New York without acquiring
“THREE LIVE GHOSTS,”
AT MELBOURNE PALACE.
Brian Ewart steals his own baby.
as much worldly knowledge as would
enable them to reject the story of a disin-
genuous young female who bursts through
the roofdoor of their flat and explains that
she has come hot from the altar to escape an
old and unpalatable ’groom. Their simplicity
is such that, although the street is buzzing
with news of a gigantic jewel robbery next
door and police inspectors are barging
boisterously, in at every minute, one of them
can lend his bedroom to the lady and the
other can carefully show her where he hides
his collection of precious gems, including a
solid ruby which once served as eye to a
heathen idol. This paper is unable to accept
Betty Ross Clarke, the bride, as any more
plausible than the male pair, even though
she turns out in the end to be as innocent
as themselves. There is an unreal note
about the skittishness of that attractively
young actress which jars upon the judgment.
In, her spasms of throaty sentiment she isn’t
more convincing. The development of her
passion for Warde Morgan—a good-looking
and mercifully restrained lover —is wringing
with paste pathos and Brummagem emotion.
The part is a silly one and demands a lady
able to play it with tongue in cheek. Carl
Lawson gets no deeper into his part than
the red slippers, flowered dressing-gown and
gaudy pyjamas of the testy but humorous
elder brother. The Muses intended him for
solid villainy and his farce efforts are path-
etically stagey. Nellie Fergusson is at least an
energetic matron and holds many a tottering
scene together. Herbert Millard achieves a
speaking likeness of Pres. Coolidge in pro-
viding a caricature of a butler named James.
John Harper and Wm. Innes, police officers,
may be dismissed with a caution. The show
is another dashed mystery play and is
situated at the Melbourne Princess.
Last week’s contributions to the revival
of music were “The Pirates” and “The
Mikado”; “The Mikado” abdicated on Satur-
day in favor of “Pinafore.” “Pinny” was
the wear till Tuesday, when “lolanthe” was
to briefly bloom. Enough has been said of
the present company to satisfy the G. and S.
lover that there is no danger of his being
cheated of an evening’s excellent entertain-
ment. What James Hay is losing in voice
lie is making good with art. There were no
spots on Strella Wilson’s singing in “The
Pirates,” though her get-up suggested an
angel by Rubens dressed for a vice-regal
party.
* :[< * *
Unprecedented scenes were witnessed at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday night during
the trial for murder of Mary Dugan,
formerly one of the best-known chorus girls
on Broadway, and admittedly a very beauti-
ful woman. Mary Dugan stood charged
with the death of Edgar Rice, who was
found dead in Dugan’s apartment with a
knife sticking in his back. B. N. Lewin
was the judge, Leon Gordon was the prose-
cuting attorney and Frederick Roland ap-
peared for the accused. The verdict of the
jury was that it was the best mystery melo-
drama seen in Melbourne for many moons.
The outbreak of foot and mouth disease
at Melbourne Tivoli ceased abruptly last week
with the departure of the negroes, and in
their place Florrie Le Vcre arrived on Satur-
day. The American comedienne is a wonder-
ful stepper, but she has approximately as
much personality as a petrol-bowser.
* * * *
“On Our Selection” at Melbourne King’s
is supplying large and uncritical audiences
with a full billycan of platitudinous
philosophy, rough farce and wholly uncon-
vincing melodrama. The roars of laughter
are almost continuous. Dave Rudd, Joe
Rudd, Sarah Rudd and the rest of the Ruddy
family are the same old hopeless caricatures
whose chief merit is that they stick to the
Australian slingo. Bert Bailey’s irascible
Dad is the only character which retains a
vestige of contact with reality. The plot
starts up and fades away like a N.T. river
in a drought. Six of the cast were in the
original production 16 years ago. “The
Selection” has become so hallowed by tradi-
tion that any character who introduced a
reference to Hinkler would probably be torn
to pieces by an infuriated house.
“Something that happened one evening in
Paris between the hours of five and nine”
will happen again at Melbourne Athenamm
on Saturday between eight and eleven, and,
as frequently thereafter as the public de-
mands it. “Mr. What’s-His-Name” is the
title of the comedy, and Percy Hutchison’s
band will endeavor to expound it. The
usual unvarious variety afflicts the shadow
theatre. The serpentine Pola Negri is “The
Woman on Trial” at the Majestic and “Irish
Hearts” are thumping with homely passion
at the same showhouse. Hoyt’s is the
fashionable frame for “Roses of Picardy,” a
pleasant English picture; and Madge Bel-
lamy is shaking “Silk Legs” as a supporting
feature.
“The Student Prince” at the Adelaide
Royal has proved so successful that the sea-
son needs no other play. The cast all
round seems better than in Sydney, but the
comedy has broadened unduly where Millie
Engler’s duchess is concerned. Liddy is a
fine princely figure with a Voice, but too
much tremolo when speaking; Beppy do
Vries a jolly heroine who yet draws tears
in the last act, and Adele Crane, the versa-
tile, a most appealing slighted princess. Vera
Spaull makes a low-comedy part ornamental
as well, and Stigant, really funny, earns
a special laurel by his ability to hold the
house serious at a moment when this is
needed. The male chorus is glorious. At the
Prince of Wales, Wilkie unexpectedly found
the public less curious about Sliakspearean
novelties, “Coriolanus” and so on, than eager
to see old favorites again. His wife is a
fine Lady Macbeth, yet richly comic in the
“Merry Wives,” and Lorna Forbes deals
handsomely with another long round of
woman parts. Clewlow and others do sound
work on the male side.
RENAISSANCE.
The Cohorts of Darkness are fleeing over-
seas
And the trembling of their blubber lips is
jazzing with their knees ;
A dingy Sheikh of Alabam’ is piping of his
eye
And the wail of syncopation grows fainter
as they fly.
The jungle is a-whimpering; the jungle—it
is dumb,
And a sad hut wiser management sits
biting of its thumb!
But up at His Majesty’s they are fighting
the good fight
For Gilbert and Sullivan —for sanity and
light.
Beauty runs on eager feet and laughs in
roundelays
At ev’ry crowded ev’ning and the usual
matinees.
Old Slapoffski’s skull is blazing like' the
oriflamme of hope
And the chorus girls are shining with
ardency and soap.
Charles Walenn draws a rapier, the rapier
of his wit,
And a red-headed drummer lad is drumming
fit to split.
The chorus gents are singing as they never
sang, to-night—
Behind the scenes a callboy says, “My oath!
At least— l’m white!”
M.G.S.


INTERNATIONAL/
V V V
FOR LOW-COST HAULING
Owners of International motor trucks enjoy the
security and satisfaction of knowing that wherever
their trucks are operating, International after-sale
service is always promptly available. This service is
their safeguard against unnecessary costly delays.
It is a definite factor in assuring continuous economical
operation. The extensive resources of the International
organisation not only insure a permanent supply of
replacement parts for all models, but a continuation
of those broad service policies which have an actual
£s. d. value to every International owner. This
unsurpassed after-sale service is one of the added
values that go with an investment in International
motor trucks. It keeps the trucks steadily on the job,
saves time and money, and enables Internationals to
realise the utmost in profitable low-cost hauling.
Special display of latest models during Show
period at 229-231 Castlereagh Street, City.
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
JACKSON THOMSON LIMITED
5-11 Pyrmont Bridge Road,
CAMPERDOWN.
L 505 1.
5 Lines.
INTERNATIONAL
MOTOR TRUCKS
Barri Agar—ldeal Face Powder —all
Chemists. —Advt.
IS
That Elusive Something.
By “PHLOX.”
“"V/OrR husband is flirting with a pretty,
dark woman.”
“The wretch !”
“He’s asking her to take afternoon tea
with him,” went on the fortune-teller, nothing
abashed by her client’s interjection.
“Where are they going for tea?”
“I can’t tell you that, but at present
they’re dancing.”
“Is my husband dancing?”
“He is.”
“Oh, dear, what would you advise me to
do ?”
did not undertake to advise you,
madam, but to tell your fortune. Half a
crown, please!”
Mrs. Marsden left the fortune-teller with
rage in her heart and revenge in her soul.
Who was this woman, she asked herself, who
was usurping her husband’s affections? That
explained his attitude towards her lately.
He had begun to criticise her, and pass un-
complimentary remarks about her figure and
her complexion.
Indeed, he had hinted that she was passe.
Why, there was her husband and the
woman walking towards her. John has
recognised me, she thought; now I wonder
what he’ll have to say for himself. That
fortune-teller is certainly a clever woman.
“How fortunate we met you, Mary. This
is Miss Heath —our supervisor of agencies,
who has done such good business for our
publications. We were just going to have
a cup of tea while we talked over business
matters, and it will be nice for you to come,
too.”
Mrs. Marsden gave Miss Heath a formal
bow, and a cold, “How do you do?” When
her husband said they would go to the Went-
worth for tea she was more than ever con-
vinced that the fortune-teller was a witch.
The trio sat down at a table, and before long
Mrs. Marsden, succumbing to the charm of
Miss Heath, almost forgot her annoyance
and jealousy. Her husband merely talked
business with Miss Heath, who from time
to time politely referred to Mrs. Marsden
for approval of plans she promulgated. And
when Mr. Marsden said that he would be
working back at the office that night, and
suggested that Miss Heath spend the even-
ing with Mrs. Marsden and regale her with the
latest Paris fashions, she was quite agreeable.
Miss Heath, the daughter of an Anglican
clergyman, was born and bred in Paris, and
having just come from the gay city was able
to give Mrs. Marsden interesting fashion
notes.
Before long, however, the eternal feminine
asserted itself, and Mrs. Marsden wondered
why Miss Heath, with her charm and beauty,
had never married. She told Mrs. Marsden
that the only man she ever loved was killed
on active service.
From this they talked of rejuvenescence,
the subject ever uppermost in the mind of
the woman who has passed her first youth.
“If only I could reduce myself,” sighed
Mrs. Marsden.
“You can, easily.”
“Oh, of course, the French know the secret
of remaining beautiful, practically for ever.'
“What I take to keep my figure slim is no
secret, Mrs. Marsden.”
“My dear, I shouldn’t have thought you
needed to take anything.”
“Indeed, I do; or I would soon fall into
flesh. Directly I find myself putting on.
weight, I just get a package of clynol berries,
and take one after each meal.”
“Do they affect the heart?”
“Oh, dear, no; the most delicate person
can take them with safety.”
“I shall certainly take them, and I won-
der, Miss Heath, if you know of a good face
cream that doesn’t grow hairs.”
“Indeed, I do; and I’m most grateful to
the manufacturers for what it has done for
me. I never use anything but mercolized
wax. It is similar to the preparation used
by the famous French beauty Ninon
D’Enclos, who at sixty had the complexion
of a child.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Miss
Heath; I shall certainly add mercolized wax
to the list of things I want from the chemist.
Do you know I’m rather distressed about
my hair; it’s greying fast, and my husband
suggests that I dye it, but I hate the very
thought of dye.”
“I can assure you, Mrs. Marsden, there’s
no necessity to use dye. When I lost my
fiance my hair began greying fast, but I used
tammalite, and now you won’t find a grey
hair in my head —it simply worked wonders.
It's quite simple to use. You just get two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite, and mix
it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to
the scalp at night with a small sponge until
the hair has gone back to its original color."
“Thank you very much for the informa-
tion. May I ask what soap you use, Miss
Heath?”
“Certainly, I never use anything but
pilenta.”
“It’s awfully good of you to be at such
pains to tell me about these delightful pre-
parations.”
“Not at all; I think it’s a woman’s duty
to contribute to the beauty of the world,
and if you will notice, a woman who takes
pains with herself has that elusive some-
thing that is so fascinating. But it’s time
I was going.”
“I will send you home in the car. You
have given me fresh courage in life. lin
now bent on cultivating that elusive some-
thing.”


. LAO FES
OR
GENTS
T,
* i/.. _
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perfect fit
guaranteed, or money
refunded.
Send for patterns and
se:j measurement forms
IMPERBAL SERVICE
STORES
3
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
Phone 83991
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
MAN
Ni EWS
«*
.tie,
I^ 7
*S»>‘\
K r*
<rfW- /; I
c lo)ide £eaf
A Great Hat for men of the big
'Out-Doors! Large Leaf 3M ins.
wide-unbound-will not droop.
Ideal for Summer wear. All
Sizes. Steel and Fawn Shades.
“WILD
WEST ”
30/-
Write Desk
S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD,
In Queen Street,
TOWNSVILLE and TOOWOOMBA
A STICK OF NUMBER TWO.
BY
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE Street of Magic has known many
men as handsome as Billy Lamond; it
has never known a man whose beauty
seemed so to defy time and dared experience
to put a wrinkle on the face or the footprint
of a crow about the eyes. Grey-eyed he was,
fair-liaired, with skin of that clear luminous
fairness that seems golden, and a golden-
yellow moustache half hiding the mobile
mouth and the red lips of amorousness that
could not sag into the splay-mouthed sen-
suousness of the Medici. At forty he seemed
still twenty-five; gay, debonair, and with a
letter of credit in each eye.
He had departed from the Street of Magic
for three years, and when he came back at
43 he appeared to have aged ten years—hand-
some, still perfect as to feature, but etio-
lated ; some of the love-light faded from the
eyes and much of the light of life dimmed
from the skin. He laughed often enough to
keep his old reputation for light-heartedness;
smoked cigarettes to the regulation number ;
wrote a little; worked a little, his only
noticeable change of old habit being that he
lost his keenness as a Squire of Dames. But
he kept his mates to the finish, having still
as much good fellowship to give to men as
he had ever had. But he had lost the old
hold on life, the keen joy in being alive; and
when somebody suggested he should see a
specialist he replied that if there was any-
thing the matter it was nothing a specialist
could specialise upon. “I’ve merely got
Bright’s disease out of my own thoughts,'’
said Billy Lamond.
Whaley, who was very fond of him, advised
him, almost anxiously: “It doesn’t matter
where you got anything from, Billy. I’ll
swear that as your own physician you could
minister to a mind diseased if you liked to
do it. Some men get a physical disease
and it destroys them mentally; others get a
mental trouble and it destroys them physic-
ally, and that should be the easy one to cure.
Cancer that might drive a man crazy calls
for a knife, but craziness that’s helping to
make cancer should be banishable by treat-
ment.”
“Yes, what treatment?”
“The will, aided by tonic to give it a kick-
off.”
“I see. Cure a broken heart with a pill.”
“Broken heart be damned, Billy! You’ve
no heart to break. Not in that sense, I
mean. You’ve too much heart really—worry
too much about getting a lot out of life.”
“I never asked for more than ninety-eight
per cent, extraction, so that death should
find the tailings not worth cyaniding. But
you and all your talk about medicine for
everything strikes me as damned silly—oint-
ment for the soul, and hot fomentations for
the sprain you can’t reach.”
“Not exactly that, but at least you’ll admit
that a_man with a good digestion and in
good nick can’t be sorry for anything for
long, and that remorse cannot survive purga-
tives.”
“There’s just enough truth in what you say
to make it false in the generalisation. Spirit
dominates flesh mostly or we’d all be guzzling
brutes living for the gratification of the
minute.”
“Well, aren’t we? Isn’t life a feast —with
some people as lookers-on and always
hungry?”
“Partly true. Life is a banquet, and once
I was an honored guest. Well, I won’t
become one of the poor starving devils who
flatten their noses against the glass, but
have to stay outside because they haven’t a
wedding garment. I’ll leave the world as
soon as I think I’ve exhausted my welcome.
All the same, I don’t want to die; but I’m
just sapped, as I told you.”
“Tell me. Woman?”
“No use telling. After living all my lift;
laughing and enjoying I suddenly was
awakened, and then I had to think. And
after thinking I got up one morning and was
conscious for the first time that I had
machinery and that it wasn’t running sweet.
Let’s have a drink.”
But a few weeks later Whaley was sent
for, and he found a shrunken yellow little
man in a hospital bed, and the card over
the bed said that the shrunken yellow little
man was Billy Lamond, aged 43. His eyes
looked in recognition of Whaley for a
moment —-young boyish eyes, they were, all
that was left of Eros. He gripped Whaley’s
hand and smiled as one long friendless who
had found a friend again, and held Whaley’s
hand and so died.
Whaley, with the memory of that last
conversation, came away wondering. Lamond
had no closer friend than the man he had
sent for, and Whaley constituted himself
executor of little and instructed an under-
taker, who removed to a “funeral parlor”, all
that had been Billy Lamond —now pitifully
shrunken so that he appeared little more
substantial than the chrysalis of a gigantic
moth. lie sent telegrams to the important
addresses found in Lamond’s effects —one to
an old man on Bathurst Plains, Billy
Lamond’s father.
Whaley saw his old friend in the under-
taker’s mortuary—a withered little yellow
thing, the one-time golden moustache now
white and thinned and drooping until the
dead looked like a very old aristocratic
Chinaman, and he walked down the hill to
the Street of Magic. The cold winds of mid-
June deepened his depression; the sorrow
belonging to real friendship was made poign-
ant by the change the last one-sided light had
wrought in Billy Lamond.
As Whaley sat thinking of the cruel
change there entered two friends of the dead
man and of his own : Iloldsworth, an actor,
whose face showed that he, too, was cast
for death, and Blacklaw, journalist and poet.
They were vociferous in greeting Whaley
until he told them of the end of Billy
Lamond, and at that they became alcoholi-
call.v solemn.
“Poor old Billy,” said Iloldsworth. “He
managed a company I was with ten years
ago. Poor old Billy.”
“The change is terrible from the man we
knew,” said Whaley. “Yellow as a guinea,
thin as paper and a mandarin’s moustache —
I’ve told them to shave him. It wasn’t
Billy Lamond there for me—only a withered
little Chinaman ; arid he used to be beauti-
ful as a youth of old Florence; handsome
as the Baglioni. I’ve wired bis father.”
“Didn't know he had a father —alive I
mean.”
“Neither did I till I found the address.
He never mentioned any of his people all
THE ZEALOT.
THE PADRE: “But weren’t you surprised at young Patrick foining the Salvation Army,
Mrs. Flynn?”
MRS. FLYNN: “Sure no, he was that set on playing the cornet; an’ I’d like to see the
divvils try to stop him now, yer rivirince.”
the time I’ve known him. He’ll be a great
shock to the old man or anybody who loved
him and hadn’t seen him for a time ; you
know he kept his youth until the other day.”
“Looked twenty-five ever since I knew him.
and he must be ten years older than that.”
“He was nearly twenty years older than
that. He’d given his age at the hospital as
forty-three, and he wasn’t the sort to lie
about it. In that mortuary he looks seventy
—to his old father the shock of the change
will be worse than the shock of his death.”
“Mortuary in Hunter-street?” said Holds-
worth as if he had a new idea.
“Yes.”
“I know the undertaker, a good chap. No
man I’d rather be buried by than Pine —
supposin’ I had any interest in the proceed-
ings. I’ll go an’ see him. Poor ol’ Billy.”
“So will I,” said Blacklaw; “and after
that I’ll write an obituary.”
“A stick of number two,” said Holds-
worth, talking to himself; “tbat’s, it, a stick
of number two.”
In the nearly-dusk of a cold sleeting after-
noon of June the train from Bathurst rolled
in bringing Billy Lamond’s father and a
woman. Whaley met Lamond, senior (who
now had no juniorj, at the Caravanserai,
and saw the wherewithal of the dead man’s
one-time beauty. The father was of the
robust open-air type, but the features of
Billy were there, and also the fine skin, red-
dened by weather but almost unwrinkled.
“Mother a delicate type,” mentally con-
templated Whaley, used to swift appraise-
ment of men—“the old man’s manly hand-
someness softened to beauty by the mother.”
“You were Billy's close friend,” said Mr.
Lamond. “He spoke of you when we saw
him last.”
“How long ago?”
“Five years,” sighed the old man. “He
used to come and see us every three months
before then.”
“I wonder why he stopped ?”
“His wife lived with us until then. They
quarrelled. Nothing wrong, I know that.
But she was always jealous of him. He was
good-looking, you know, and she got imagin-
ing all sorts of things, but he never gave
her up until she did something out of sheer
jealousy—nothing wrong, but it looked bad
for him. So they separated and she came
to us.”
And then he asked of his son’s illness,
which had been a surprise to him.
“It wasn’t an illness until the finish,”
replied Whaley. “First time I felt, anxious
about him was when lie said he wouldn’t
outstay his welcome in the world.”
“Poor lad!”
“And I asked him what was the matter
with him and all his answer was that he
had got ‘Bright's disease out of his own
thoughts.’ ”
“Did he say that? Arid was it?”
“Yes. But lie wasn’t soured mentally—
laughed with us and was as kindly as ever
—but he’d gone bitter in the body.”
“Poor lad! I remember strangers looking
after him and smiling although he hadn’t
spoken to them. It was just the look of
him made them feel better. He was my
son, but I never saw anything more beauti-
ful in the world—except his mother.”
“I know —and I want you to be prepared
for a change, a great change.”
“I know —death. I’m prepared for that.
His wife’s waiting in her room. I’ll bring
her down, and we’ll go to see the poor lad.
I’ll tell his wife what you say.”
Whaley hoped that they would be prepared
for all the change he dared not foreshadow
to them, and Lamond’s father rejoined them,
bringing Lamond’s widow. She was veiled,
but through the veil her eyes shone, and he
could see a proud, handsome face; and as
she walked to him her carriage told of a
tine form. Rather too unbending, lie thought,
too self-possessed in this tragedy; a sugges-
tion of abandonment to grief would have
seemed more decent. The restraint was
almost manly; but, as Whaley told himself,
“every cripple has his own way of walking
and every Judge is judged by another, even
if only by the man in the dock.”
Down the Street of Magic they walked
and up the hill to the mortuary. Whaley,
fearing to witness their disillusionment and
pain, remained in the anteroom, and waited
a long half hour for them at the gate of
Gethsemane. Lamond senior returned alone ;
sad, but strangely comforted.
“You told me lie was changed,” said
Lamond; “I can’t see any difference in him.
Except that lie’s clean shaven it's just the
face of the boy we knew. I’ll go back; she
said she only wanted a minute with him
alone, and I think she’s breaking down.”
He returned with her almost immediately,
she. leaning on his arm, as dependent as be-
fore she had been proudly equipoised; the
carriage of Juno changed to the clinging grief
of Niobe. All melting woman now, she
sobbed her thanks to Whaley.
“He’s there as if lie were sleeping,” she
said—“not changed, my beautiful man; ju3t
as he was when we were happy. And it’s so
good to know he didn’t suffer at the last—
lie couldn’t have suffered and look like that.
I told him I am sorry, and I know lie under-
stands. He looks so that I cannot think lie's
dead, and that helps.”
Whaley got away from them as soon as he
could to return to see the miracle that had
disguised the changes of illness and of death.
He looked down to a coffin holding a young
man who had died with his beauty on him ;
roundness restored to the wasted cheeks, the
wrinkles all smoothed out, and upon the face
the bloom of that youth that had seemed in-
destructible.
“A miracle!” said Whaley. “But who did
it?”
He met Iloldsworth and Blaeklaw next
day after the funeral, and after Lamond
and Lamond’s son’s widow had departed for
Bathurst Plains, told them of the miracle
that had taken the edge off grief.
“If they had seen him as I saw him,” said
Whaley, “they’d never forget the shock. Now
they've gone back and their memory of him
will be of the youth they knew —not of a
little old Chinaman who had died in misery.
It was a miracle of kindliness —but how?”
“You’d better tell him, Iloldsworth,” said
Blaeklaw.
“I will, then —the miracle was a stick of
number two.”
"Grease-paint? You?”
"Yes. Disease and death are ugly. So
we brought art to camouflage it.”
The Black Pearl.
IT was for custard-apples, not pearls, that
Bickerton went ashore. Pearls never
had possessed any attraction for him,
whereas the taste of Chee Kee’s custard-
apples had remained upon his palate as the
memory of a lovely face lingers in the mind ;
all the wonders he had seen at the ports on
the trip to Singapore and back again had
failed to oust the recollection of the feed
he had had at the rear of the Chinese half-
caste’s shop at Thursday Island.
As quickly as he could he left his felloAV-
passengers to poke their noses amongst the
cat’s-eyes, blisters, seed-pearls and cowries,
tiie rubbish of the sea floor, that filled the
fronts of the Japanese shops and which were
no manner of use to eat, and made his way
to Chee Kee’s store, squeezing his pocket on
the way to make sure that the hundred
pounds, the fruit of his business trip to
Singapore, was safe. The shutters were
already up and it was dark outside. Bicker-
ton, as he entered, felt a momentary qualm
at having all that money about him; but
Chee’s expansive greeting and the kindly
twinkle in his eyes reassured him.
All this talk of beachcombers and mid-
night knifings in opium dens was romantic
nonsense, anyhow. You were safer in
Thursday Island, he had heard it said, than
in Woolloomooloo, and he could well believe
it. In any case, Chee Kee’s custard-
apples were as good as ever. Bicker-
ton sat on a low form in the half-dark
and gave himself up to the full enjoyment
of them, Chee’s laughing eyes rested on
him like a benediction while he spooned up
the segments of the fruit, sucking the
heavenly flesh off the seeds and spitting
them into a blue Chin Teh saucer placed in
his lap. Nothing, made Bickerton half so
happy as sensing a new taste. He could feel
his rotund stomach sagging comfortably
between his legs. The tepid air of the shop,
full of indefinable odors, lapped him round
like a lukewarm bath. The light of a single
oil-lamp suspended from the ceiling lit up
the large jars of cloudy glaze in which Chee
stored his ginger and which gave promise of
more delicious sensations not yet experienced.
Through a tattered piece of mosquito cloth
that served as curtain the white man’s
drowsy eyes could make out a circle of
strange,' exotic figures grouped under another
oil-lamp around a gambling table in a room
beyond. The intense murmur of their talk
and the snap of wooden tablets seemed to
be involved in the same blue mistiness as
their forms seen dimly through the doorway.
Bickerton felt glad he had never been
induced to run after false gods. There were
no joys like those of the palate. The acquisi-
tion of wealth gave, after all, only a momen-
tary pleasure, whereas the memory of a good
(Continued on page 53.)


x
% \
\
“Acknowledged Leaders in the SPORT World”
MICK SIMMONS
Jlnnounce Unrivalled Displays of
New Season’s Stocks of Material
for all Football Codes!
The New Football Catalogue.
Mick Simmons’ new profusely-illustrated Football Catalogue,
the most complete and comprehensive of its kind, should be
in the hands of every zealous Club Secretary and Player.
Copy is Post Free.
Unbeatable Value in
Highest-Grade
Mens Rugby
Jerseys
9/9 each. mi- per doz.
Made from the highest-grade knitting
yarns, extra strong drill collar and un-
tearable button front. May be had in all
Men’s Sizes in leading Club Colors, with
4-inch Horizontal Stripes.
Mens Soccer Jerseys
716 each. 841 - per doz.
A superior Cotton Jersey of English make, with
turn-down woven collar and button front. May be
had in Self Colors and Vertical Stripes.
Football Knickers
Extra Strong Drill, with belt loops or elastic
tops. White or Navy Blue. All sizes. Each.. 4/0
Football Stockings
All-wool, double turn-over tops, rein-
forced toe and heels. All sizes. Pair. . O' X X
Football Boots
“DALLY M” PATENT, Special Rugby .. Q //»
Boots, studded. Pair lO' O
M.S. RUGGER BOOTS, made of box hide, stout
blocked toe-cap, outside ankle pads,
double row stitching on soles, studded. 13/6
Pair
M.S. WHITE CHROME ASSOCIATION
BOOTS, with ankle pad, instep strap, and
fitted with toe-bar and studs. Ol /
Pair ZX/“
M.S. FAWN ENGLISH CHROME ASSOCIA-
TION BOOTS, blocked toe and outside ankle
pad, with strap over instep, fitted with
toe-bar and studs. Pair
Rugby Match Footballs
NICHOLSONS’ ROYAL,
strong practice
NICHOLSONS’ ROYAL,
superior
NICHOLSONS’ ROYAL,
specially selected
NICHOLSONS’ ROYAL,
special
8/-
9/6
13/6
15/-
NICHOLSON'S
INTERNATIONAL
GILBERT’S BEST
ENGLISH
FORDS’ INTERSTATE,
1928
NICHOLSONS’ A.N.A.
SPECIAL
17/6
28/6
226
20/-
The New Improved
“DALLYM”
The Wonder RUGBY BALL of 1928
An improvement on the
original design of the
famous footballer, H. H.
(Dally) Messenger, it stands
acknowledged as the finest
Rugby Ball made to-day.
Price
.2216
■
V;
IMPROVED
•v.>;
EVERY BALL FULLY GUARANTEED.
Should any Ball lose its shape through fair use, the case will be
instantly replaced free of charge.
Soccer Match Footballs
NICHOLSONS’ 8-panel.. 10/6
RIVAL 8-panel 13/6
“ALBION” 8-panel, .. e/n
superior 10/0
SPECIAL CAPLESS 18/6
OFFICIAL LEAGUE, 12-
panel
FORDS’ INTERSTATE. .
“CERT,” selected chrome,
waterproof, I 2-panel .. .
“CERT,” selected chrome,
1 I -panel
22/6
276
25/-
27/6
Shin Guards
SHIN GUARDS, Stout Twill, with tapes,
Pair
SHIN GUARDS, Stout Basil, with contin-
uous straps and buckles. Pair
SHIN GUARDS, Brown Basil, large con-
tinuous leather straps and buckles. Pair
SHIN GUARDS, Gold Cape, extra large
continuous straps and buckles. Pair. .
SHIN GUARDS, Gold Cape, extra thick,
padded. Pair
SHIN AND ANKLE GUARDS, Gold Cape,
continuous straps and buckles. Pair..
(Carriage Paid on Football Material .)
1/3
2/9
3/9
4/6
5/6
59
Ankle Guards
ANKLE GUARDS, solid blocked leather 3/9
Ankle Support Straps
ANKLE SUPPORT STRAPS, with double _
buckle 3/0
Ear Caps
EAR CAPS, Tan, skeleton 3/0
EAR CAPS, Tan, open top 3/9
EAR CAPS, Cape, net top 0
o
1C
inunonslH,
Headquarters s 720 HaymarKet, Sydney,
AND AT NEWCASTLE AND BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”


sd
the" VENUS
fhe first rough suggestion—the skilful
arid accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Rlacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard! 6d.
each - 5/9 per oozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
THE RAINBOW METHOD OF
AUTOMATIC ARITHMETIC.
Correspondence Courses for Teachers and
Parents in Kindergarten, Infants’ and
Primary Grades.
For Particulars Apply:—
Miss S. NEWTON-RUSSELL,
Public School, Glenmore Road, Paddington, N.S.W.
fU»OT
ii/nt
Save Trouble
and a Mix upof Apparel
Which often nappens at the Laundry,
when Linen or Woollen Articles are not
plainly marked—so, be wise, save trouble
and loss, and
Mark all Linen with
3ASHSNAMES.
They are “BEST BY TEST”-absolutely
Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on."
fsd
Actual Size. Style No 6
PRICES
12 do*. 7k
6 do*. S f ’
3 do*. 3k
Sold by all Best Drapers
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne
Public Notice.
ROCKHAMPTON SCHOOL
OF ARTS.
Rockhampton, Central Queensland.
available for race and show
* dates, Friday, 22nd, to Saturday, the
30th June, 1928. Races, four days; prize
money about £4OOO. Show, four days ; prize
money about £3,500. Seating accommodation
about 1050. Stage, 48 feet by 36 feet. Pros-
cenium, 21 feet wide by 17 feet. Electric light
throughout; permanent fire-proof room for
pictures (no machine). Committee pre-
pared to consider offers for season on a per-
centage basis. Any further information
by
W. Tv. CPEEVE, Secretary.
GKEY
HAIIR;
WOOLB
SPOIL
IT#
-<w
\
\cv>
e
-, rf
\t e
N\ c r
f >v a
L «>“ A #
miNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
DistincHvities
of a
LOEWE
Briar
Look for the LOEWE
Mark
r T is easy to talk ot perfection
4 but difficult to achieve. Fo;
70 years the name of Loewe ha.-
been synonymous with briar
pipe perfection. It has made
London famous as the home
of the briar. Loewe crafts-
men are proud of having main-
tained this tradition and of
producing “the best pipe of all ”in the
Mother Country There is no secret in
the world wide appreciation of Loewe
briars It has been won by sheer
excellence.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Fwloathpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect•
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
skilled London craftsmen .
&c?
M
Jhe “'Sheffield
ONE OF THE MANY
LOEWE SHAPES
k/1 LOEWB
shapes
2V-
SILVER
MOUNTED
Write for Illustrated Booklet. L. M BROWNE, BOX 555, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
feed abode with one forever. What was the
finest pearl in all the world to a custard-
apple?
“The finest pearl in all the world!” Who
said that? Oh, of course, Chee Kee was
talking. Confound him, lie had never stopped
talking, in his expressive pidjin English,
ever since Bickerton had entered his shop.
Something about pearls. No, a pearl! Not
an ordinary pearl, but a black pearl. The
finest pearl that had been brought into
"Thursday” for twenty years. A pearl with
blood on it. Black blood ! And yellow blood.
But no white blood —yet!
Bickerton wished Chee would ceas; talking
•about his infernal pearl. It spoilt the savor
of his feed. Why did men fight so hard for
something that did not matter in the least,
for something that one could not eat? It
was the usual complicated story of greed,
violence and intrigue the fellow was
telling in his mixture of China-coast and
English. Might have been lifted from a
book by Louis Becke or the back pages of
The Bulletin. How some Jap diver or
other had found the pearl off some island
with an unpronounceable name and how lie
had slipped it quickly into his na<ja, but not
quickly enough to elude the watchful eyes of
the two New Guinea “boys” squatting afr;
how the two “boys”—bad, wild fellows they
were—had leapt at him together, and how
the Jap had gone down with two knives in
his heart; how the pearl had fallen out of liis
naga, rolled along the deck under the gunnel
into the water. *And how Langera, the
bigger “boy,” bad dived after the pearl and
caught it, and how Matain, his mate, had
waited quietly on the deck witli his waliman
ready and, when Langera put both his hands
on the rail to hoist himself aboard, had
chopped off the hand that held the pearl and
then smote Langera on the head and killed
him.
Bickerton was watching the restless glitter
of the Chinaman’s eyes now, somewhat as
a rabbit is supposed to watch a snake's.
Matain had picked up the hand and taken
the pearl out of it and thrown the hand back
into the water. He had sailed the lugger
to Thursday Island and told a sufficiently
plausible tale to the coroner, and had hung
about the settlement afterwards trying to
find a buyer for the pearl, until suddenly
things began happening to him.
Chee’s scrawny hand shot into the circle
of light cast by the lamp. The edge of dark-
ness seemed to cut it off sharp at the wrist.
“Debbil-debbil hand belonga that one Lan-
gera come alonga him night-time, feel for
pearl alonga pocket belonga him, so fashion !”
Chee’s skeleton fingers crawled in the
lamplight, as if feeling in an imaginary
pocket.
“Matain him bin pright, him sellem that
one pearl alonga combo white man; combo
bin gibbit tchirt, trousis. Combo him keepem
pearl two pheller sleep, come place belonga
me ’n’ him say, ‘Chee Kee, you likem this
one? I bin gibbit you, ten pong!’ ”
Again the Chinaman’s yellow fist jumped
into the circle of lamplight.
“That combo pheller him too much pright,
debbil-debbil hand belonga Langera bin come
’n’ feel in pocket belonga him.”
Chee paused impressively.
“So him sellem that one pearl alonga me
for five pong.”
Chee’s hand disappeared and the glitter
of his disturbing eyes was momentarily
quenched. Bickerton watched him tiptoe
across the shop full of silent shadows and
peep cautiously through the mosquito curtain
at the rapt group of gamblers in the next
room: then the Chinaman slid softly behind
his counter and opened a drawer.
The white man found himself gazing with
eyes blurred by excitement at something
Chee Kee was showing in his palm.
“S’pose >ou wantem this pearl belonga
me,” whispered Chee Kee, “you payem hun-
dred pong, you takem alonga Sydney, you
sellem quick pheller seven hundred, t’ousan’
pong! But you no showem alonga Thursday
Island, belonga plenty bad pheller!”
Bickerton had lost the taste for custard-
apples. All he was conscious of were the
hot glitter of Chee Kee’s eyes and the black
shining object lying in the creases of his
palm. He saw that black object sinking
down, down, through cool green waters; he
saw clutching dark hands reaching for it:
and suddenly he felt he needed that object
above all things. The hundred pounds, the
fruit of his successful deal in Singapore,
seemed to burn in his pocket. Into the
green waters he seemed to plunge, he felt
liis hands clutched at by other clutching
hands, until his fingers closed round the
precious object of. his search. It seemed
almost the next moment that he heard Chee
Kee’s door gently close behind him and
found himself in the street.
Bickerton had never seen Thursday Island
under the cloak of .night before. It wore
quite a different aspect from the day. An
intimidating aspect. Feeling in his trousers-
pocket to make sure that the pearl was
really there, he hurried off as fast as he
could, without actually running, along the
shambling row of galvanised-iron shanties
that formed the main street of the town.
It was dark under the verandah roofs. Low
voices spoke in sinister murmurs behind the
shuttered fronts of the shops. Bickerton
crossed a vacant allotment full of whispering
shadows huddled under the cascara-trees;
and came out suddenly on the gleaming
beach. That converging band of moonlit
sand shone like a searchlight on him, seem-
ing to reveal to all the town his dangerous
secret. The last launch was just leaving for
the ship as he stepped on to the shore end
of the long jetty. He must at all costs catch
that boat! He broke into a run. He stumbled
over the rail ties and fell and scrambled
up again and ran on ; but by the time lie
had reached the jetty-head the launch was
far away. He put his hands to his mouth
and shouted with all his breath. To his
surprise a voice almost from under his feet
answered his feeble hail.
Bickerton looked down into the smiling
face of a big New Guinea “boy.”
“You bin wantem go alonga cabala, boss?”
it said.
To Bickerton’s disordered fancy the black
head, with its close crop of tight sooty
curls, its white teeth and the great gleaming
torso like polished bitumen below it, seemed
to be floating midway between the jetty and
the surface of the sea.
"You come alonga me, boss,” went on the
ingratiating voice, and with a stroke of an
unseen oar the apparition propelled itself
and the tiny dinghy in which its feet were
planted out of the dark shadow of the pier
into the light of the moon.
“I take you cabala, you gibbit tchilling,
boss,” the voice persisted.
It w 7 as a reasonable proposal. Bickerton
felt ashamed of his superstitious fears and
stepped resolutely into the boat. Standing
in the sternsheets, the “boy” with stealthy
and powerful motions of his right arm drove
the dinghy outwards from the jetty. Above
his head Venus gleamed preternaturally
bright, the thin golden shaving of the moon,
like a cocked eyebrow, curving over her.
Bickerton watched the black sterns of the
anchored luggers passing behind the sculler’s
back. The thin, plaintive song of some
exile of the islands came failingly across the
water. The little craft shot out into the
open, but it did not make towards the
steamer. Bickerton discovered, to his alarm,
that those friendly lights were shining over
his right shoulder instead of directly behind
his back. A swift glance round confirmed his
fear that his mysterious ferryman was taking
him out to sea!
Sitting huddled uncomfortably in the bow
of the dinghy, Bickerton gave himself up to
quite indecorous panic. What a fool he
had been to accept the offer of this sinister-
looking creature! These natives had ways
of finding out things unknown to civilised
people.
lie looked towards the luggers, but they
wore silent, sleeping on their own reflections.
No use to cry to them for help. Besides,
they were doubtless full of cut-throats, too.
He looked in the direction of the steamer,
but she seemed farther oft than ever.
So he was to have his throat cut for
nothing, for a pearl, for something that you
couldn’t eat. lie stole a look at the New
Guinea “boy” and weighed his chances in
a scrap. No good at all! He was soft, as
soft as melted butter—always had been.
Besides, lie had no weapon, whereas the
blackfellow was doubtless armed with a
knife, some beastly curving death. That
was why he kept his left hand in his
trousers pocket all the time.
Bickerton fell to wondering feebly what
that hidden left hand contained. Why did
the silent image scull with his right hand,
keeping the other so debonairly in his
pocket? A new horror shook his mind and
paralysed his limbs. He felt his hair creep-
ing under his hat. Perhaps there was no
hand there at all,!
He seemed to feel the fingers of a severed
hand groping in his pocket. Hang it all!
This was too much. He could put up with
being murdered by a living scoundrel of an
Ethiopian image, but he could not stand
being haunted by Chee Ivee’s filthy ghosts.
He glanced round towards the steamer and
observed that the lights seemed to be a
little nearer. The sight infused fresh
strength into his trembling soul, and, bracing
his feet against, the bottom of the rocking
dinghy, he suddenly projected himself, like
a dumpy little thunderbolt, full at the broad
chest of his dusky ferryman.
Ghost or not, the black boy’s body struck
the water with a loud, material splash, and
before he had time to rise Bickerton had
seized the oar and commenced sculling the
dinghy in the direction of the ship. The
heavy current swept him past it, but with
a strength and energy of which he had
never believed himself capable he fought his
way back.
The spectacle of Bickerton arriving at the
last moment at the ship’s gangway alter-
nately sculling a lugger’s dinghy and menac-
ing a protesting blackfellow swimming in
his wake w r as sufficiently unusual to excite
the curiosity of all who saw it. But
Bickerton’s soul-case had been too severely
shaken for its owner to care what sensation
he was causing. Stumbling dumbly up the
gangway and through the questioners who
crowded round him he made his way below
and locked himself into his cabin —to take
from its wrappings of worn tissue-paper
what it needed hardly a second look to
satisfy him was the black seed of one of
Chee 'Kee’s custard-apples!
M. G. Skipper.
The Star.
Constellations lit the sky,
Each an argent cluster ;
But one star, a shining gem,
Far outmatched the light of them
With its wondrous lustre.
Moving slowly through the night,
In the east ascendant,
Never jewel like to it,
Howsoever large and lit.
Shone in crown or pendant.
Wind and wave uneasy were
As they shoreward hurried,
Making night distraught and wan,
But that star above them shone
Placid and unworried.
Men have linked their fates with stars,
Marked them theirs, pursuant .
Of the lure of gold or fame;
But to me peace only came
From that sphere effluent.
As I breathed its counsel in.
Wave and windy riot
Seemed to still and muted grow—
By its calm and kindly glow
Mothered into quiet.
Though alone I viewed that star,
Somehow seemed its splendor
Meant for all it shone above,
All that yearned for peace and love,
Gentle dreams and tender.
Seemed it, as it shed rich rays
On fierce billow's seething
All along the lonesome shore,
To move onward, evermore
Best and ease bequeathing.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


QM
*?<rd
Wi
ibikl
b s 9
m
ax
m
§
*1! C
■
1
IE
(X.
i'lp;
ii
i
X
■
For full figures Model 0505
very light weight. Firmly
honed at hack only with
unbreakable rustless, spiral
steels. Finished in delicate
pink coutil. This model is
made to caress the figure
rather than restrain it —it
smooths the lines and gives
the desired flat hack effect.
Another view of Model 0505
for full figures. Note the
cunningly placed diagonal
boning on the abdomen
support—this gives maxi-
mum firmness with the
minimum of weight. The
double clastic inserts over
the hips give ease and
freedom of movement. Six
hose supporters.
Model 1211 a Wrap-Round
for slimmer figures—ideal
for sports and dancing or
every-day use. Fitted with
elastic inserts over hips
giving comfort and flexi-
bility. Finished in deli-
cate pale pink floral coutil.
Beautiful quality and work-
manship. This model affords
adequate support for the
type of figure able to wear
it. Four hose supporters.
Your Retailer
RETAILERS who realize that corsets are not a
relic of last century—that they are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the fit and look of woman’s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys—these retailers will
stock tf Twilfit . ”
“ Twit fit ” Corsets are Good—they have exclu-
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia:
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD
London, England.
Brisbane. . . Gregory & Collins.
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover.
AGENTS:
Melbourne. Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney.... Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
T.l
Amusements.
CT M 1* I II JO THE A T R E.
SAUNDERS’ CORNER, RAILWAY SQUARE.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
An Airv Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Violet Elliott, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3, 5/6,
8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6.
Reserves:
Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city Booking Offices.
gIJJNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : ROSE MARIE.
ROYAL : THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE HIGH ROAD.
PALACE : THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
OHLERKITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
THEATRE, LTD.,
Present the Mammoth REGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY,
At the Civic Centre, by the Town Hall.
A STUPENDOUS ENTERTAINMENT,
Headed by
FLESH AND THE DEVIL.
With GRETA GARRO AND JOHN GILBERT.
(A Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Production.)
A I.L VX WIIJvIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
Crystal Theatre, Broken Hill, April 7 to 16.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
Amusements.
J-
C. WILLIA M S O N, LTD..
>1 EL DO (JUNE ATTR A CTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: H. M. S. PINAFORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
A
TH K N A<] U M THE A T R
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
PERCY HUTCHISON
E,
and his English Comedy Co. in a Sparkling Three-act
French Comedy,
MR. WHAT’S-HIS-NAME.
H o * TVS
D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ROSES OF PICARDY.
ENGLAND’S MOST BRILLIANT FILM.
Also
SILK LEGS.
With MADGE BELLAMY.
Ml AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ROBERT FRASER and JOBYNA RALSTON
in
LIGHTNING.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Direction: Bailey & Grant.
EVERY EVENING.
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
ON OUR SELECTION.
BY APPOINTMENT
Mappin
A A LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND,
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVER WARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
Visitors to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of being
one of the oldest Firms of Gold and Silver-
smiths, Jewellers, etc., in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors from the
Commonwealth to call at their Showrooms
when in London.
The West End showrooms are within 5 min-
utes by taxi from the Leading Hotels; the
City Showrooms are opposite the Mansion
House, and quite near the Guildhall, St.
Paul’s Cathedral, and the Tower of London.
Mappin & Webb maintain a fine selection of wrist
watches at prices ranging from £2/5/-
The one illustrated is fitted with the new Milanese
Bracelet.
Mappin &Wfeblb
1 1 LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND,
158-162 Oxford St. W. 1., 172 Regent St. W. 1., 2 Queen Victoria St. E.C.4.
The Company has Branch establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Bombay.
Public Notice,
27th March, 1928.
UNCLAIMED money, heirs, next of kin,
PERSONS WANTED—
AITCHISON, Helen Anderson Aitchison, or Mackay.
ALDERTON, Frederick Janies, or Next of Kin.
BOARDMAN, Dorothy, daughter of Win. Gornall
Boardman.
BROWN, Thomas Walter, formerly of New Zealand.
BINNS, Enoch, son of Enoch Binns, deceased.
BRADFORD, J. Sydney Bradford, late of A.I.F.
BETTS, Ann (nee Millar), or her Children.
BARBER, John William, or his Descendants.
COOK, Archibald, born 1857, son of Janet Cook.
DEACON, Arthur Lionel, or his Representatives.
GODWIN, Mrs. Christina (nee Corbett), or Heirs.
GILDING, Charles James, formerly of Essex, England.
FERGUSON, William, formerly of New Zealand.
HELY, Thomas, of South Fremantle, West. Aus.
HARRIS, Angus Aubrey, formerly of Metcalfe, Vic.
HILL, Frederick, born in Campbell Town, Tasmania.
JAMES, Arthur John Senior James, or Representa-
tives.
JARVIS, Annie (nee Goodwin), daughter of Hy.
Goodwin.
JOYCE, Robert, formerly of Hampstead, England.
LEES, Matthew Waddell, otherwise Matthew
McDonald.
LUNDAY, Thomas, formerly of Ireland, or Descend-
ants.
McMORRAN, John R. S., landed in Melbourne, 1907.
MONTGOMERIE, Leo James, formerly of New
Zealand.
MORRISSEY, Francis, formerly of Hawera, New
Zealand.
SULLIVAN, Patrick Francis, formerly of Glenlyon,
Vic.
SELLARS, Frank Bernard, formerly of New Zealand.
SEATH, Henry (Gardener), of New South Wales,
1914.
WRENN, William Humphries Wrenn, or Representa-
Write Mr. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
immediately.
HAVE DRY MATCHES.
<!N WET WEATHER
fs
It’s possible if you have
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY, '
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
df
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St, Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.


Ready in a moment
always hade
• :
in the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
"WHERE ARE YOU STAYING IN MELBOURNE ?”
Oh, Scott’s, of course l It’s handy to everywhere—right in the heart
of the city, near offices wharves, shops, warehouses, railwav
stations and theatres. And they look after you well at “Scott’s”*
you can’t equal it elsewhere for comfort, excel- ,
lent table and personal attention. And there’s
hot- and cold-water service and direct and inter-
communicating telephones in all bedrooms.”
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and
Breakfast Bate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
MELBOURNE
9798
FRUIT
FOR GREAT BRITAIN
THE PORT OF HULL
is
Excellently Equipped for Rapid
Handling of Fruit Cargoes.
Nearly 7,000,000 Packages
Imported
during 1925.
SALES HELD THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
QUICK DESPATCH
by the
London and North-Eastern Railway
TO ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.
Further information gladlv given on applica-
tion to Messrs. BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
THE GIRL IN THE RED HAT.
BY
GRANT
HERVEY
hthe rain was streaming down. Sydney
looked sicker than Solomon the morn-
ing after his six-hundred-and-eighth
marriage. It was pessimism incarnate.
A city of sandstone, clothed in liquid
sackcloth and ashes: a city sodden, solemn
and sorrowful; and the g'rl in the red hat,
as she looked at the man opposite, who was
wearing an overcoat that must have cost
at least twenty pounds, got off the Bondi
car at Park-street in the spirit of rebellion,
and with a sigh.
"Ah, dash it all!” she said. “Virtue is its
own punishment. That’s what it is. I’m
full up of it. If anyone would buy me a
fur coat that would cost twenty guineas
I’d go the limit. Dashed if I wouldn’t.”
The man in the tram gaz-ed after the girl
in the red hat. He had two and sixpence
in his pocket and an open volume of Schopen-
hauer’s Essays in his hand.
“Blank it all!” he; said to himself. “This
stuff about virtue being its own reward
makes me tired. Just look at that girl. If
I knew where I could steal a thousand
pounds, or the half of it, I'd go after that
hat with the plunder in one hand and my
heart m the other. But who can show me
the road to a thousand pounds?”
The tram went on. The fury of the rain
leapt down upon the earth like a gentle
jaguar leaping upon Hyde Park. And the
trim figure of the umbrellaless, dark-haired
girl in the red hat quickly disappeared from
sight. With her disappearance the day
seemed to grow more dark. Vile, bilious-
colored advertisements upon the hoardings
screamed insults at the sight and at the
intelligence; and the man in the splendid
overcoat, thrusting his right hand deeply
into his trousers-pocket, fingered his two and
sixpence as if it were a bomb.
At the corner of King-street the man got
off. Simultaneously a human gargoyle with
a bunch of sodden newspapers lurched
towards him.
The man shook him off. “Damn your
pi-i-i-pers,” he said. “I want a girl in a red
hat.”
And he turned westward, abusing the
universe as he went.
“Does a girl in a red hat read a daily
newspaper? Well, here goes. Two and six-
pence worth of personal column. Life’s a
gamble. In it goes. And then I’m high and
dry.”
He entered the newspaper-office and came
out again shortly, without a cent.
“Watch gone,” he said to himself as he
emerged, fingering a receipt-slip. “Every-
thing pawned except this overcoat. All
right. Now the coat can go up the spout.”
Se he turned towards the Three Moons Loan
Office, and again disappeared from sight.
Meantime the girl in the red hat turned
into the same street from Park-street, having
paused longingly to look at some fine silk
stockings in a window by the way.
“Dash! Dash! Dash!” she said. “No-
thing but half a crown and this bangle left.
Im going to do it—l’ll hoist a distress-
signal. And now the question is, what paper
does a man in such an overcoat read? Where
will I stick the advt.?’'
She paused. “Well,” she reflected, “of
course he reads the Sydney Morning
Herald. But I’ll make sure of it. I’ll
put one advt. in the Telegraph Pictorial
and then, after I’ve pawned my bangle, I’ll
go down to Hunter-street and hoist another
signal there.”
So with rapid and decisive steps she
walked past the Three Moons Loan Office just
as a tall man in an. old blue suit, well made in
the beginning but now a little the worse for
wear,, came out. She saw nothing of him ;
but his eyes opened wide at the sight of her!
“Well, I’m damned! The girl in the
red hat!” he ejaculated, feeling two one-
pound notes in his waistcoat-pocket. “Grrli!
Look at the rain. If I had my overcoat I
could go after her now. Without it, and
with only two quid to my name, how can I
make any impression on a girl in a red
hat?”
So he stood and waited until the driving
onslaught of the rain had passed. Then he
crossed the road, went into the Tivoli bar,
and had a drink. Whilst the soda fizzed from
the syphon a small, dark man with a pessi-
mistic brow approached. He had one finger
in his waistcoat-pocket as he came.
“Hello, Falk!” the little man said. “By
jing, I’m glad to see you. Bemember that
tenner you lent me in Maoriland? Here
you are. By gosh, we struck a bad tour that
time. We were stony-broke.”
Falkland Brierly looked at the little man,
then at a proffered ten pounds. He smiled
—held out his hand.
“Hello, Dick,” he said, taking no apparent
notice of the money. “By Jove, I’m just
as pleased to see you. No hurry about that
tenner. Have a drink,”
Thorne waved the banknote. “Oh, that
be blanked!” he exclaimed. “Take this flam-
ing money, and then have a bottle with me!
Broke! Weren’t we broke that day I struck
you in Feilding? I thought we’d have to walk
back to Wellington, over the mountains and
all. Hey, but you were a life-saver. We paid
for a hall, printing and advertising with that
tenner I touched you for. And that’s how
the whole mob of us got on our feet.”
He called for a bottle of wine. Brierly
took the tenner, still with assumed indif-
ference —for it is thus that men of the world
play bluff with one another —and also
accepted with great and utterly unconcealed
gladness a long Corona-Corona cigar.
“So things are good, eh?” he queried
casually, watching the champagne as it
sparkled. “Doing all right?”
, “Right? We’ve never done anything but
right since the day you lent me that tenner,”
Thorne ejaculated. “We’ve played all the
smalls of Maoriland to roaring business.
And now we are going to have a whack at
Queensland. Opening at Brisbane Royal
next week. After that, the East. I’m on
the wave, old man. Gosh, I’ve got it right
under me. The wave! The wave! The
ruddy old wave they cal] Success.”
Brierly flicked a one-pound note upon the
bar.
“Well, we’ll have another bottle, Dick,”
he said. “I always believed in you. I
reckoned that you were just one of the ten
thousand good fellows—the men who never
got a chance. And this tenner” —he abstrac-
ted the note from his pocket, and glanced at
it carelessly—“well, if this was the steam
that helped your pistons to move”
“The steam? You better bedieve it!”
cried the little man. “It was more than the
steam. It was the dynamite. That you
believed in me, over in that ruddy old Feild-
ing; that you were willing to stand to me
when our show was frozen stiff—gosh, it
made me feel that I could tear Maoriland
up by the roots. So I went out with the
paste-pot and billed that place again, myself.
I wrote a play in one day—‘The Roman
Vampire,’ I called it—l put it on inside
forty-eight hours, and you should have s«en
the business pile in. All those old farmers
for miles around ! Feilding is all right. The
day I struck you there I had exactly one
penny. I left it with one hundred and fifty-
seven quid.”
The second bottle popped. Thorne swept
back the Mie-pound note.
“No, you don’t, old man,” he said. “This
is mine. And the next, and the next. Gosh !
Do you know what? I’ve got a kid 1
PROVED IT.
“He’s a great friend of the Stukkupps.”
“Must be; he bought their third-hand car.”
regular real, living kid. And I’ve named
him Falkland Thorne, after you. See! Buy
drinks? (Josh, what can I do to let you
know how flaming glad I am to see you?
Can I lend you a hundred quid?”
A queer feeling ran down the spine of
Falkland Brierly. “It’s turning,” he said
.to himself. “This rotten tide of luck—it’s
turning! God ! What if the wave is rising
under me—all through my doing in my last
half-crown on a personal advt. for the girl
in the red hat?” Aloud lie answered .care-
lessly : “Oh, no. I’m all right, Dick. Here’s
luck to you and what’s his name?—the little
kid.”
The little, pessimistic-featured man drew
out a cheque-book. Then from his upper
waistcoat-pocket he drew a fountain-pen.
THINGS THAT OUGHT TO BE PUT
DIFFERENTLY.
SHE: “Oh, beautiful —your step suits mine
exactly!”
HE: “Really, I AM glad—l was scared to
death to start. I’m such a rotten
dancer.”
“Gosh, but I will lend you a hundred
quid,” he exclaimed. “It’s fair interest —a
thousand per cent, on that tenner. What’s
the old Bible say? ,Chuck your bread on the
water and it’ll come back buttered! Well,
here’s the butter, old man. And I’ll pile it
on twice as thick if you want it.”
Brierly watched the showman as he wrote.
His brows were thick and black and shaggy.
He bent forward at the shoulders, like one
accustomed to staggering beneath a heavy
weight. An utterly commonplace-looking
little man, his only redeeming feature two
human dog-brown eyes.
He wrote his signature. Then he tore out
the cheque.
“There you are, old sport,” he said, pass-
ing it over. _ “Now come along to the Aus-
tralia, and I’ll show you a noise like a real
good eat —a bottle of sauterne and a chicken
Maryland.”
As they left the Tivoli bar the girl in the
red hat was standing in a small alcove
inside the Three Moons Loan Office. There
were peculiar quivers at the corners of her
mouth.
“Only ten shillings?” she demanded. “Is
that all you’ll lend on. it? Why,* it’s worth
five pounds.”
“Might have been once,” said the young
man behind the counter. “ ’Tain’t now. Take
it or leave it. Ten bob’s the limit.”
“Oh, very well,” she responded briefly.
“That’ll do.”
“What’s your name?” The sleek young
man with the well-brushed hair looked at
her appraisingly. She did not answer.
Instead, she .was staring at something that
hung upon the wall behind him—-a splendid
overcoat.
“It can’t be,” she thought. “There can’t
be two coats like that in Sydney. Heavens,
has he, too, just been here? Is he also hard-
up?”
“Name, please?” the clerk said, pushing a
ten-shilling note at her. “What’s y’ name?”
Then she returned to earth. “Shy.” she
answered with the same briefness. “Carmen
Shy. Do you want my address? If you do,
I'm staying at the Hotel Australia, and my
real name is Madame Melba. Will that do?”
Then she slammed the door, stuffing the
pawn-ticket into her empty purse as she went
out. “Impudent-eyed pup!” she continued
to herself. “I hate those sleek young men.
That’s why I liked him —the big man. in the
beautiful overcoat. He looked strong and
kind, but big and rough.”
Wondering and pondering, she walked
along Castlereagh-street. “But can that
possibly be his coat?” she demanded of the
universe. “No, it can’t be. He looked suc-
cessful —it wasn’t his coat? I swear it
wasn’t. Oh, no ! Everlastingly, no !”
At the corner a large, opulent-breasted
woman, wearing champagne-colored hair, a
magnificent fur coat, and a costly red ilat,
abruptly collided with her. The nose of
this colossal Venus suddenly went up. It
moved like a piece of india-rubber, full of
ill-temper and disdain.
“Awkward animal!” she ejaculated. And
then, all at once, a cowardly, semi-friendly,
patronising look came into her eyes.
“Oh, hello. It’s Miss Shy?” she said, hold-
ing out a hand half-covered with diamond
rings. ‘‘Haow y’ gittin.’ on?”
Carmen Shy looked her up and down in
friendly wonder.
Oh hello, Miss Inker,”, she replied
happily, glad to meet an old acquaintance.
You are looking splendid, aren’t you?
How are you getting on?”
“Fine,” announced Venus. “I’m a bar-
maid at the Hotel Australia naow—l’ve
reached the top rung of the gaime. Cotter
flat aout at Raandwick. Whenever I li-i-i-ke
I c’n have a car.”
Carmen looked at her with a sudden curi-
ous earnestness. Then she laughed. “Oh,
I see. You’ve taken the plunge, then?” she
queried. “It wasn’t just talk, what you
Vfr ec^i to say ~ n <‘< ‘ when you were sick in
\\ oolcott-street, in those funny old rooms?
You really meant it?”
Venus sniffed. “Mean it? Betcher li-i-ife.
Wot d I si-i-iy ? Me, when I git right, I’m
gaoin’ after th’ mugs like a Coogee shark—
with me maoutli open. That’s me! An’
I’ve done it. I gotter flat, I tell yer. An’
you? Wotter you got?” She looked Carmen
up and down with supercilious, unfriendly
eyes. “Still a blessed damosel, I s’pose? An’
wotcher got t’shaow f’r it—about fifteen
bobs’ worth of raags?”
Carmen flushed. She know that her
clothes were done—that they had not been
at all improved by the morning’s rain. Still,
there was now a bit of blue sky overhead.
Syaney looked like a sulky baby, half in-
clined to smile.
“I knaow wotcher got,” Miss Inker went
on. “An’ that’s what every fool of a stright
Jane has got—nothin’!”
Carmen bit her lip. She was angry.
Her eyes leapt fire. Her cheeks went dead
white, and then flamed.
“If I had the four pounds I lent yon
while you were sick in Woolcott-street,” she
began, “I’d at least have something. Here!
I've just been along to the Three Moons to
pawn the last thing I had—a bangle that
Dad gave me. Now pay up.”
She looked belligerent. Under her wet
and spoiled red hat two dark eyes blazed.
Miss Inker edged away. There were many
banknotes in her pretty bag.
“I ain’t got any money on me,” she equi-
vocated. “Not just naow. I’ll send it to
yeh—Aow ! Leggo ! Daon’t! Yeh liurtin’
Leggo me ’and!”
Carmen Shy tore a diamond ring from one
of the fleshy Venus’s fingers.
“Then I’ll have some security for it!” she
cried, holding it up. “Call a policeman if
you want to. I’ll show you up. Do it now,
you fat, over-fed, over-dressed trollop.”
Miss Inker quivered. Beneath her rouge
and face-enamel her features went abruptly
sallow. She was afraid. Turning upon her
high Louis heels she fled.
“The trollop!” Carmen repeated as she
watched her go. “The beastly, ungrateful
trollop! I fed her. I paid her rent for
her. When that man deserted her, whoever
he was, and left her in her trouble, to go
through with an operation, I did her very
washing. I bought medicine for her; I did
every mortal thing! And then, when she
insulted me with my poverty, and I asked
for my own money back, she lied!”
The diamond ring sparkled in the palm of
her hand. Carmen clenched it tightly.
Tears were leaping into her eyes. With a
quick revulsion of feeling, she began to
abuse herself.
“Well, am I any better than she is?” she
demanded, walking slowly down the hill of
King-street. “If that man in the-tram came
along I believe I’d throw myself, at his head
this minute. much driftwood as
Violet Inker. Every bit.”
The skies overhead grew brighter. The
sulkiness went suddenly out of Sydney’s
countenance. In the clear sunshine, after
the morning’s deluge of rain, the city smiled.
But the gill in the red hat, as she walked
hither and thither, staring fixedly ahead and
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30tli June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mauk Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; H. R. Lysaqiit, 0.8. E.;
GEonon J. Si.y, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
. London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairiuirn, Alfped Siiepiiekd, James Turk.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every descrintion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.’609’655
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Australii ‘. New
„ „Y . Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS at interest
. , w . . i o r fixed
periods ano transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Head Office: n • j . e • .
87 Pitt st, Sydney rrovidentaociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Ollice in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4.893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
Iho Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances effected ou »n classes of
1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture.&c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks or * W° ol > Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” id an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed think of
sd
SCHUTE,
BELL&G ud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home, Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.,
Shipping, etc.
\>joA NAD^=
UNITED STATES
EURO PE
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons, Apl. 5 l From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
NIAGARA . . 13,415 tons, May 3 J and Vancouver.
TAHITI .... 7,898 tons, Apl. 19 \ From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
MAKURA ... 8,075 tons, May 17 j San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
ffoUD^ URS,ONs
l 1 JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon /s/ands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'A
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 18X7.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
fsd
£7,494,260
5,650,000
7,494,260
£20,638,520
Dir ec tort:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esu.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Ottiee —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
517 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Portal.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
GO NORTH TO BALMY WEATHER !■
HAWAII
A complete change in a Paradise where the
average temperature is 75 degrees. Golfing,
motoring, outrigger canoeing, surf-board rid-
ing, new fruits, flowers, sunkissed beaches;
lunar rainbows gleaming through coco-nut
palms. Inter-island cruises along mystic
tropical shores; steaming volcanoes. Total
cost of 6 to 8 weeks’ round trip, with 3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii and a day in Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO to £l5O. Free stop-over
privileges, if en route to America or Europe.
Good hotels, usual American conveniences, 12s.
to £3 per day. Ask nearest steamship or
travel agent, or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Department 26, Box 241 d, G.P.0., Sydney,
N.S.W., enclosing advertisement.
QUAINT ORIENTAL TOUCHES.
HAWAII
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A. combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
* Ulysses . .
t Euripides
*Anchises
£ Sue vie . .
*Ascanius
15,000 tons, April 13
15,000 „ April 21
10,000 ~ June 4
12,500 „ June 26
10,000 „ July 23
tDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Sept. 10
ißunic 12,500 ~ Oct. 2
*First class only. tFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
BALItANAI,D . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALEARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Tares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST. WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. R 6701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills k Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
fiuddart ParkerL
.... Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.


Here’s the Best Remedy
Si
“After suffering from Piles since a child
and using many remedies which gave me
no relief, I tried Rexona Ointment with
the best results. Rexona benefited me
from the first time I used it.”
Mrs. G. WALTERS,
10b Percival Road,
Stanmore, N.S.W.
** j
“Four years ago I contracted Piles and
was advised to try Rexona Ointment,
which absolutely cured me.”
Mr. J. Gi FT OR,
McEvoy Street,
Waterloo, N.S.W.
'Rexona
The Rapid Healer
for Piles —
REXONA The
Rapid Healer
There is no comfort to the suf-
ferer from Piles—burning, bor-
ing pain, uneasy feeling, the
vague wonder whether the pain
is worse sitting, standing or
lying.
They drag all the comfort out
of life—it is foolish to allow
Piles to spoil your life.
Rexona, “The Rapid Healer,”
takes the pain away—heals the
tissues and renovates the
muscles.
Read the full directions on the
pamphlet around the tin of
Rexona and apply as directed
—a little patience will result in
the disappearance of all the dis-
tressing symptoms and you can
know the feeling of body com-
fort and ease.
ti >
r /sp£Cooling „
E/ iff joolhinq
E /M Healing
' - - /yrlnliseplic Ointmenn
Pnurifi" f Absolutely'''
‘ » Heals' Reliable
araiCTini.Tfflrai
A Reliabk Hauler for all Eruptions
and Irritations </ the sUin. tetema Sores. Culs.
Burns Rruises.sone».se*a»ico. Piles Stings of Insects,
and a II kmds of Inflammation
CUVSVDNEY^
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
n tt'f#
M t t- »> »j
's<»»jS>S- c Z„ *>*&&
r'fos® ..A^ e : \e>?i-
-v
o
.U)* lS
fs
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
RTF®
No. 1369.
still clenching a diamond ring in her palm,
had no part in that brightness. The storm
had passed from the heavens, but it was
now inside herself. Jagged lightnings of
revolt leapt down the tenebrous depths of
her soul.
“I’ll become a Bolshevik —a Socialist or
a Communist or whatever it is,” she de-
clared aloud. “I’ve had enough. No love;
no friends; no clothes; no happiness—what
does a girl live for, except for those? Me?
I’ll kill somebody, so I will. Some fat
trollop and her fifty-guinea clothes!”
Thus, and in such a mood, like an em-
bittered animal in the jungle, she strode
with feline energy through the streets. Many
men looked back at her, full of curious
wonder ; struck by the dark lightning-gleam
in the eyes of the girl in the red hat. She
was like Force incarnate—something de-
termined to Be.
As Carmen Shy, panther-like, strode on
from street to street, passing the glittering
shop-windows, she kept on repeating to her-
self two short, staccato sentences. “Fat
trollop ! Fat trollop ! Fifty-guinea clothes !”
And instinctively her eyes sought out, not
men, but every fat and well-dressed woman
■ —sought her out with the desire to kill.
“There goes another,” she said to herself.
“And another. My God! Look at that
woman in the motor-car. What right has
she to have that —to ride around the streets
with a private flunkey to open the car-door
for her —while I have to walk? I, with
seven-and-sixpence in my purse and no soles
left to my shoes!”
The diamond ring was still in her palm.
Suddenly she paused and looked at it. A
man’s ring it was, in reality; far too big
for a lady’s finger, lienee the ease with which
she had wrenched it off. Thirteen diamonds,
fashioned in the shape of a horseshoe, told
its whole purpose and history—the sporting
symbol of some affluent bookmaker ; of some
casually amorous “gentleman friend” of
Violet Inker’s.
“Well, I’ll go now and pawn that,” she
said. “It looks valuable.”
Resolutely she turned upon her heel and
walked through the crowded, sunlit streets
to the doors of the Three Moons Loan Office.
Within, as she entered, the sleek young man
with the plastered hair was glancing at a
book. A small, brown-covered book it was,
marked on the back, in small gold letters:
“Essays. Schopenhauer.”
The eyes of Carmen Shy leapt from the
book to the spot where the overcoat had
hung. The latter had vanished. And as she
glanced again from the vacant nail she
heard her heart crash. It seemed to fall
out of her—to go through the floor: to rush
through the very stone and substance of the
world.
“His ! His !” she thought. “The very book
I saw him read in the tram!”
“Well?” said the young man behind the
counter. “What is it this time? Are you
still Madame Melba?”
Her brain was on fire with rage against
the universe. Poverty? Misery everywhere?
Even the men who looked big and strong
and kind were hard-up, pawning their very
overcoats? Only barmaids and bookmakers
on top? O God, what a world! Her
eyes were filled with tears. She could have
howled aloud like a wild beast in the jungle:
like a deserted lioness, mad with anger
against the earth.
But at the young man’s gibe her tears
dried up like a flash. The fire now was in
her language, as she banged the diamond
ring upon the counter.
“This time I am the Queen of Sheba,”
she said savagely. “Thirty pounds—l won’t
take a penny less.”
Impressed in spite of himself, he took up
the ring and laid down the book. Whilst
he was closely examining the horseshoe-
shaped gewgaw, she took up the small volume.
It was open at page 182—“ The Metaphysics
of Love.”
The open page literally bristled with
marked passages. “A woman always clings
to one man,” she read, “for Nature compels
her, intuitively and unconsciously, to take
care of the supporter and protector of the
future offspring. For this reason, conjugal
fidelity is artificial with the man but natu-
ral to a woman. Hence a woman’s infidelity,
looked at objectively”
“All right,” the voice of the pawnbroker’s
clerk leapt in upon her suddenly thrilled
attention. “You can have thirty pounds. Is
it your own? It is a mighty fine ring.”
She quivered inwardly. After all, she had
stolen that ring—had taken the first step in
practical Bolshevism? What if, after all,
Violet Inker had dared to go to the police?
What if she were about to be arrested?
And then, womanlike, she decided upon her
course of action in a single instant; decided,
then carried it out.
“It’s my ring just as much as this book
is yours,” she said emphatically. “Do you
think I stole it?”
The young man became quite subdued.
“Oh, all right, don’t get mad,” he replied
placatively. “Have you taken a fancy to that
book? You can have it if you like.”
She was now examining the fly-leaf. A
name was written there —“Falkland Brierly,
Wanganui, Maoriland,” in a large, com-
bative hand. And then, all at once, as she
looked at that name, every whit of hardness
and woman-of-the-world aggressiveness went
out of her voice. Her heart seemed to
comp back to her as if it were at the end
of a long piece of elastic. And when she
spoke her tones were low, subdued.
“Oh, thank you very much,” she breathed,
gathering up the precious little book to her
breast. “May I really have it?”
“Sure !”
He had written out the ticket, and was now
counting out crisp five-pound notes before
her. “Some fool” —he dropped his voice a
little and leaned over confidentially—
“pawned his overcoat this morning and was
goat enough to leave that book in his pocket.
I say, Queen of Sheba, you—how about tak-
ing you out for a whirl on the South Head-
road to-night?”
She gathered up the money.
“I suppose you would try to teach me
something about the metaphysics of love if
I did?” she answered, smiling at him enig-
matically. “I’ll think it over. Thanks.
Good-bye.” And with the little book under
one arm and her formerly flaccid purse
now distended with banknotes, she left.
“Now I am going to buy myself some
decent stockings and a pair of new shoes,”
said the girl in the red hat. “After that,
show me a fat woman in a motor-car and I
will insult her. I’ll let her know that my
metaphysics are as good as hers, even if 1
get run in.”
Simultaneously, a block and a half away,
Falkland Brierly and the little, pessimistic-
featured man stepped out of the elevator of
the Australia. They had lunched leisurely
upstairs. And now Thorne led first to the
cigar-stand and thence to a little bar not far
away.
“Gosh, but that’s how it is, Falk!” he
exclaimed, striking a match. “There was
I, until yesterday, you might say, the stink-
ingest Socialist that ever lived. O Lord, it
makes me laugh to think of it. Before you
lent me that tenner and the wave came I
was Karl Marx’s little brother. ‘Down with
the fats!’ Not that I ever read anything by
that feller, of course. No Socialist that I’ve
known ever does. But gee, didn’t I have it?
Me? I reckoned that I was the reddest and
realest Marxian that ever set foot on Aus-
tralia. And all the time what was I? A
ruddy capitalist in embryo, gone sour on the
universe because I couldn’t get a chance.”
Brierly nodded. The chicken Maryland
had been cooked to perfection. And as for
the sauterne, it had caressed the palate
lovingly, inviting dreams of fair women sit-
ting in the sun beneath blue skies and drying
their long, wind-wafted hair. Among all
those women, too, just one dark one —a girl
for whom they provided a background: a girl
dancing like a lithe Bacchante, clothed only
in sheer beauty and a small red hat.
The strident voice of the barmaid whom
Thorne had familiarly saluted struck harsh
on Falkland Brierly’s ear. She was just
taking off a huge red hat and fixing her hair.
“Yes, I know I’m li-i-ite, Myra,” he heard
her exclaim. “But liaow could I help it?
I been robbed. In broad daylight, too. I’ve
just come up from th’ detective office. Been
tellin’ them all abaout it. And naow I
s’paose I’ll have me ni-i-ime in th’ pi-i-iper
and p’raps ha.ve t’ gao t’ court abaout it.
A saoldier come up—one of them one-leggid
wretches —and arsked me for money. I
opened me baag t’ give him sixpence, Gertie.
An’ th’ ungrateful haound tore that big
di’mond ring orf me finger an’ run awi-i-iy.”
Falkland Brierly turned on his heel.
“Come on, Dick,” he urged. “Hang their
diamond rings. We don’t want any more to
drink. Let’s go back to the Winter Garden
and have a talk.”
But Thorne clutched the bar-rail with
both hands. “No fear!” he exclaimed. “/
gave her that ring. You go an’ get your
cheque cashed before somebody pinches that.
Gosh ! The ring that I gave a hundred quid
for! Gone!”
Wondering, Brierly glanced from the little
man to the colossal Venus behind the bar.
So that she-mountain with the champagne-
colored hair was a toy of Thorne’s? No
accounting, he thought, for taste.
“All right, Dick,” lie said. “I’ll see you
later.” Then, leaving the hotel, he walked
to the bank and presented Thorne’s cheque.
A. minute later he came out with a hundred
pounds. “Now for that dashed overcoat!”
he said to himself. “After that we’ll see.”
Presently he walked into the same alcove
where he had pledged his coat. He threw
the ticket upon the counter, along with a
ten-pound note. The sleek young man with
the well-brushed hair took both. He re-
turned almost immediately with the overcoat
and handed it over. Then the telephone
rang. “Wait a minute,” said the clerk.
“When I’ve answered this I’ll give you your
change.”
Falkland Brierly waited. His overcoat-
.pockets were empty. The book —where?
“What? A diamond ring reported stolen?”
he heard the clerk say. “Shaped like a horse-
shoe? Yes. It was pawned here about half
an hour ago. A girl in a red hat —a little
girl, dark, rather good-lookin’. Said her
name was —let’s see—Carmen something. Oh,
yes. Send up a man. Carmen Shy.”
He hung up the receiver and gave Brierly
his change. “There was a book in the pocket
of your overcoat,” he said boldly. “I had
it on the counter here, thinkin’ you’d come
in for it. A girl in a red hat came in a
while back to pawn a diamond ring. While
I was writin’ out her ticket she pinched your
book. So there y’ are.”
Falkland Brierly forgot about Schopen-
hauer.
“A girl in a red hat?” he demanded. “Car-
men Sliy? Was that her name?”
The young man grew quite interested.
Life was full of “go” to-day. “Yell!” he
thought. “A girl that won’t go for a whirl
on the South Head-road deserves whatever
comes to her. Bust her. I’ll let her see!”
So he leaned over the counter with a familiar
air.
“I’d go down to the C.I.D. office an’ lay
an information if I was you,” he said.
“Reg’ler bit of hot stuff, she was, all right.
Came in to pawn a bit of a bangle first, and
said she was Madame Melba. Then she
came back again with a bonzer ring and
said she was the Queen of Sheba. Struth!
You knock against some hot'ones in here.”
Brierly turned away. He put on his over-
coat and the aspect of a millionaire.
“Well, that’s queer,” he reflected. “Can
it be the same girl? A professional thief
—is that what she is? No. I don’t believe
it. And that blowsy Venus in the bar said
that the ring was stolen from her by a one-
legged soldier? I’m going back to see about
it. There’s something more than meets the
eye—something fishy in this.”
A taxi was passing with the flag up. Hail-
ing it, Falkland Brierly got in and was
rapidly driven to the hotel.
Dick Thorne was still there, receiving from
Violet Inker the details of the robbery for
the hundredth time.
“An’ he snatched it awi-i-iy li-i-ike that,”
she said, waving her flaccid arm. “ ’N’ I
yelled aout ‘P’leece’ at the taop o’ me voice.
But ’e got awi-i-iy. Aoh, Mr. Thorne, wasn’t
’e a caow?”
Brierly smiled. “Magnificent liar!” he
thought. “Schopenhauer is right. Only the
animals are truthful, and this sub-animal lies
with her voice, her hair, her complexion, her
very clothes. Now let’s try the effect of
shock-tactics. I can lie as well as she can
when there’s a decent reason for it. I’m
(Continued on next page.)


It is through some
tiny eruption,
soreness or
scratch on hands,
arms or face that
disease-producing
germs find their
way into the
tissues .
t
*
A
L
z
xi
/ZQ'
V
>/
H
Vi
/
SKIN TROUBLE
£)ON’T neglect any skin trouble! The
slightest eruption or disfigurement holds
serious possibilities of pain and embarrass-
ment.
At the first symptoms of any unpleasant irritation, sore-
ness or chafing, anoint the place with Zam-Buk. This great
skin soother and purifier will speedily remove early symptoms.
Again, when skin has got chronic eczema, or is poisoned
or ulcerated, Zam-Buk is the one external medicine that gets
at the root cause of the trouble. Being a refined substance of
herbal origin, Zam-Buk is able to soak through the pores into
the underlying tissues.
Zam-Buk stops pain and itching, subdues inflammation,
kills disease germs, expels poisonous impurities and grows
new healthy skin. No ordinary fatty ointment or dressing
can possibly do the same good.
For quickly healing cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, scratches,
wounds, eruptions, septic sores, piles, bad legs and other
skin and scalp disease, etc., Zam-Buk is acknowledged indis-
pensable.
Mrs. J. Richardson, of 9 Cowell
Street, Melbourne, says: “I suf-
fered from fiery eczema in its worst
form. The disease started in tiny
blisters which spread all over my
body. The burning and irritation
were awful despite the most careful
treatment. I was confined to bed,
and my suffering was almost un-
bearable. Hearing of Zam-Buk’s
great value in removing chronic
skin disease I tried the balm.
Zam-Buk soothed my fiery skin,
drew out all impurity, and com-
pletely removed all trace of the
disease with a growth of new,
healthy skin.”
Mrs. F. Walters, of 214 Bathurst
Street, Hobart, Tas., says: “Poi-
sonous dye got into a scratch on
my hand, and the resulting sore
proved so serious that my first
finger was threatened with amputa-
tion. The whole arm was terribly
swollen and full of pain and
inflammation. On a friend’s recom-
mendation I got Zam-Buk, and
from the first it brought wonder-
ful ease. As I kept on with
Zam-Buk, swelling and inflamma-
tion were rapidly overcome, and
the sore was thoroughly purified
and healed.”
Heal It With
amßuk
Zam-Buk Balm, 116 box or 3/6 family size.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, //- a tablet.
FREE
TRIAL!
For FREE SAMPLES of Zam-Buk Balm and Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap, send name and address to Messrs. C. E.
Fulford (Aust.), Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney. Mention Sydney
Bulletin 4/4/’2B.
going to make a guess.” His arm went up.
It descended cheerfully upon Thorne’s shoul-
der. “Buck up, Dick!” he exclaimed. “The
ring’s found. It wasn’t a soldier at all that
pinched it. It was a little, dark-haired girl
named Carmen Shy. She pawned the ring
and they’ve got her down at the detective-
office making a statement now.”
He fixed the champagne-coiffured Venus
with his eye. She had staggered back against
the bottles on the shelves. Her mouth was
wide open. Her face had gone quite sallow
again beneath the rouge and enamel.
“Oh!” she gasped, like a balloon with its
wind escaping. “Oh!”
Thorne turned around and gaped. Car-
men Shy?” he ejaculated. “Have you been
stringing me on, Violet? Did a girl pinch
it?”
The mouth of Venus sagged lower. Sud-
denly she burst into tears. “Dick! Dear
Dick! Go down to tli’ d’tective-office an’
tell them t’ let her go,” she wailed. “She
didn’t steal it —I gev it to her. She said she
was hard up. But—but don’t let them ti-i-ike
it into court.”
Thorne’s dark eyebrows came together. His
shoulders grew more humped. His honest,
dog-brown eyes grew hard. The whole man
bristled like a bayonet fixed.
“That’s enough,” he said. “I’m finished.
And I’ll never spend a dollar here any more.
Falk, let us go out and find that girl.”
Together they left the hotel. Thorne
climbed into Brierly’s taxi.
“Drive around all the big stores in town,”
Falkland commanded. “Begin in Pitt-street.
Go right up close to the sidewalk. Go dead
slow.”
The taxi shot ahead. After a close exami-
nation of the crowd in front of all the win-
dows in Temptation-row they drove to Eliza-
beth-street, where alluring French creations
held hosts of women spellbound. They were
like bees in swarming-time, massed close
against the glass.
Thorne sat back in the slowly-moving car,
chewing an unlighted cigar. His brow was
very sombre. He looked at the thronging
women with bitter, disillusioned eyes.
“Gosh! Look at ’em,” he said. “Look at
’em there, with their hands full of your
dough and mine. Born liars and spenders!
Lord, I’ve been white to that one you saw,
and what does she do? Lies to me! ’Tain’t
the ring I care about, Falk. It’s the cussed
lyin’. What in thunder makes ’em deceive
us so?”
Falkland Brierly said nothing. He was
watching the feminine crowd with super-
vigilant eyes. Suddenly he caught sight of
a small red hat. “Stop!” he cried, and sprang
out.
Carmen Shy stood with her back to him.
trying to get a glimpse of hats in a window.
She had new shoes upon her feet, new gloves
upon her hands. And these hands, linked
together behind her back, held a purse and a
small brown book.
“Now we will try some more surprise
tactics,” said Brierly to himself. “That’s my
Schopenhauer.”
With a quick movement he seized both the
purse and the book. She spun round like
lightning and gazed at him with dilated eyes.
The magnificent overcoat, the strong, kindly
face with its close-clipped brown moustache
—she took him all in with amaze. “What—
what are you?” she gasped. “A detective
or a professional thief? I’m one—l mean a
thief —myself. Just for to-day.”
Falkland Brierly smiled. “I’m advertising
for you to-mofrow morning,” he began. “Fact
is I want to marry you.”
She burst out laughing, held out both
hands. “Well. I have 'got an advertisement
for you in both the Herald and the Tele-
graph,” she said. “Aren’t the papers slow:
We find one another hours and hours before
the wretched things so much as appear!”
Brierly nodded. “Dash the papers,” he
commanded. “Get into the car. I need a
mate.”
“All men should study the metaphysics of
love according to Schopenhauer,” she
answered archly; “For the fact is, so do I.”
The Three Stirrups.
UNTIL a few days ago, when I met him
camped in a bend of the Murrum-
bidgee, I had not seen my old bush
mate, Jack Layton, for more than 20
years. It was with mutual pleasure and
surprise that we recognised each other; and,
while we waited for the billies to boil, Jack
told me that lie was making up the river
to Gfindagai, but unluckily, three days be-
fore, his horses had disappeared in the dense
forest of red-gum seedlings that skirted the
river. “I’ve walked till I’m footsore,” he
said, “but not a trace of them !”
There were a couple of blacks camped a
mile or so on, and I suggested that, as they
knew every inch of the country and were
well-known trackers, a shilling or two might
induce them to find the horses.
“No,” said Layton firmly, “not if I have
to walk my feet to the bone and then meet
disappointment. I hate the black devils.”
Then lie sat silent, thinking, till I was
about to open up my lunch. “Put that
away,” lie said briefly. “You know that-
Jack Layton never travelled light as far
as tucker was concerned.” Then, as he
opened the lid of his battered tucker box,
and I saw the crisp white damper and boiled
corned beef all in clean bags; the tea, sugar,
pepper and salt in neat little tins; the shin-
ing pannikins, my thoughts went back a
quarter of a century.
It was after we had finished the meal
and were on our backs, smoking, that he
again spoke of his dislike for the blacks.
“I will tell you all about it,” he said, “and
then you will understand.
“It was just after we parted in the
’nineties, and I was working for Joe Carter,
the tank-sinker. Amongst us was a black
boy called Pippi. He was a kind of a
camp rouseabout, an-d used to bring up the
horses in the mornings. A lazy young dog
he was.
“Well, one morning he was late. Seven
o’clock came, and then eight, and no sign
of the horses. Hands were waiting, and as
we were paid by the week in those days,
Carter, who hated to see the scoops idle for
a minute, was almost mad with rage.
“About half-past eight young Pippi trotted
up. He was bringing only half the horses,
but he was carrying three young ducks. The
sight of these and the boy’s failure to
muster all the horses had the same effect on
Carter as a sheep-dog has on a newly-
calved cow. He rushed at the boy. With one
hand he tore him from the horse; with the
other he flourished a stirrup, which he had
jerked from the saddle, and, before we could
stop him, the rusty iron of it came down
thud, thud, three times on the boy’s back,
cutting the cheap cotton shirt like a knife,
and leaving three bruised and bleeding circles,
one on the nape of the neck and one low
on each shoulder.
“Pippi staggered to the nearest shade-tree
and lay there till the scoop teams were well
out of sight. He never showed up at the
camp again; but we heard later that he had
joined a mob of cattle going to the Gulf
country.
“I left Carter shortly after that, and it
was seven or eight years before I again
worked for him, fencing-in a six-hundred-and
forty-acre paddock on a station in the Wal-
gett district. He was married by this time,
and had one child, a little five-year-old girl.
One of the hands was a married man, too,
and lived about four or five chains from the
main camp. One evening after a blazing
hot day Carter’s little girl was over there
with a message; and, as she left, the woman
gave her two pieces of water-melon, with
instructions to give one piece to mummy.
“But Betty never reached her father’s
camp. When darkness came on she was
missed, and all the camp, men and women,
went out searching. All night they walked
or rode, eoo-eeing and lighting fires, without
success. By sunrise the news had spread
far and wide. Selectors came fronj all round
and the neighboring stations sent gangs of
men, amongst whom was one Billy King, an
aboriginal master in the art of tracking.
Tall and bearded, with twisted mouth and
broken nose, the result of a kick from a
horse, his face looked almost diabolical.
But he seemed to have plenty of confidence
in himself. “Me findem all right,” he told
Carter, and the way he said it put new hope
and life into the rest of us as we set
off again. First he would ride round the
fence to make sure that she hadn’t got out
of the paddock; and the rest of us spread
out, going in parallel lines, and then crossing
and re-crossing our own tracks. We found
nothing; yet Billy King came back and de-
clared that the child had not left the pad-
dock. ‘She’s asleep under a log or some
bushes,’ he insisted. So we set to work to
comb that paddock again.
“It was just before Christmas; the day
was red-hot, and by sundown we were all
getting down-hearted: again. All, that is,
except Billy; he still said, ‘Me soon findem.
She soon wake up and walk about. Then
me findem.’
“We searched all night, yet did not dis-
cover a trace of her. At daybreak Carter
swore that Billy King was a fool and took
charge of the search himself, instructing
all of us to get out of the paddock and comb
the country that skirted the boundary fence,
The tracker followed in, sulkily, and I
noticed that the twist in his mouth became
more pronounced and that the lips drew
back, showing the white teeth with a red
rim above them.
“We had not been more than an hour
out when there was a cry. Carter and
two others had ridden straight on to her.
God help the parents—it was a pitiful
sight! She lay face down, with her little
arms flung out, one hand clasping her bon-
net, and in the other a piece of water-melon
just as it had been cut —the piece that she
was taking home for her mother, its edges
unbroken by teeth or fingers.
“As Billy King joined us his black eyes
glowed like coals, and the jaws of the
twisted mouth were tight as a trap. I saw
Carter look at him, and then, with the
agility of a kangaroo, he sprang. ‘You black
devil,’ he screamed, clawing at him; but the
black man was alert, and the clutching
white fingers that just missed his throat
closed on the shirt, tearing it clean from the
body; and as Billy King dashed through
the thick yarran, the sun shone on his bare
back, clearly outlining three circular scars,
one at the nape of the neck and one low on
each shoulder.”
Jack Layton paused to take a swig of
tea from the billy.
“Yes,” I said ; “but although the marks on
his back proved that Billy King and Pippi
were one and the same, I don’t see why the
fact of his failing to locate the lost child
should make you so bitter against the race.”
“But that wasn’t all. Wait till I’m
finished*” said .Jack. “On thie topmost
barbed wire of the fence we found a frag-
ment of cloth that corresponded with a rent
in the child’s frock, and as-that wire was
nearly six feet from the ground the little
girl must have been either thrown or lifted
over. Bad as that was, the worst was
yet to come; for when the clothing was re-
moved, there on the little plump back, over-
lapping each other, were three vivid bruised
loops, the marks of three stirrups, one at
the nape of the neck and one low on each
shoulder.”
JIM GRAHAME.
To the Generals.
We are your dead; we stand still spent
With fighting for your world (and ours?)
Our arms are held at the “Present,”
And at our feet the poppy flowers.
We know not nations, we are thine;
Our loved ones, dead, we may not see
We wait in darkness, line on line,
The war cloud’s mighty progeny.
And as you come your pomp is still
In squadron and in massed brigade
Still in the valley, on the hill,
The regiments are on parade.
But in the darkness is the cry
(Oh kings, commanders, do you hear?)
Of long-dead men who long to die,
The phantoms of eternal fear.
Your pomp the shadow of the shade,
The shadow of the arms we bore;
Here, with the armies you have made,
You move before us evermore.
VICTORIA.
CHARLES MEEKING.


IMS**
\ «
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Apeiutt— xiOLMES & CHDRCH, Brisbane. rnvrni)l\ U/I7CT u t WiT i?c
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street. Wellington. IUNIUKU Wild I, N. 5. WALLS
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House." 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: .Messrs. ELDER. SMITH & CO., BTIJ., Adelaide, S.A.
RAY-□-VAC
The Mark of Superior Quality
dfs
df
£RE it is—the electric torch you want —peer into
dark corners with it, use it when walking at night,
'/s sake. Note these Ray-O-Lites' advantages -
strong, vulcanized fibre case, corrugated for easy grip;
octagon head to prevent rolling when laid down;
heavy brass trimmings, nickel-plated and polished;
patented lock switch to prevent accidental
discharge of battery; also many others. If
used with Ray-0-Vac Torch {Batteries, the
Ray-O-Lite will be a dependable com-
panion; --it's built to last a lifetime.
Write our distributor jor the name
oj the nearest dealer.
rrench Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR:
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
Ti PLUM
d
m
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin. •
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and Jin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tela.: 86270 (4 lines), Children. «d
•ydney Ferries,
Sick headache
Listlessness, Insomnia
Biliousness, Indigestion
Are danger signals that
Your system
Is out of order
HEED
NATURE’S WARNINGS
STOP the cause
Beecham’s Pills
Cleanse your system
Clear the blood
Tone the stomach
Stimulate Liver
And Kidneys
A dose to-night
A waken bright
Worth a Guinea a box.
Sold in boxes 1/- & 2/6*
SmM'j
4
i. s; s : ■ s',r ■ta
r|
u
f*Y
A
BALANCED FOODS FOR DOGS
With the aid of a force of chemists and bacteriologists, together with
the whole hearted co-operation of one of the great VETERINARY
Colleges, we have succeeded in developing the PERFECT DOG-
FOODS.
80% of all dog ailments are attributable to improper feeding. Meat
must form the base of all foods for dogs or other carnivora. There
is no substitute for meat as an essential food for dogs. The products
of the “HOUSE OF CHAPPEL” are MEAT foods packed in tins.
Favourably known to the veterinary profession in Great Britain and
America as:
KEN-L-RATION
MARO-MEAT
HEMO-RATION
PUP-E-RATION
also the supreme soap for all dogs known as KEN-L-SOPE
WANTED —DISTRIBUTORS
to handle the sales of these Internationally known and
Advertised products in:
New South Wales
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia
Western Australia
Tasmania
Kindly Address All Communications to:
The Manager, CHAPPEL BROS., Inc.
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Bankers references given and required
Cable Address: CHAPPEL Rockford Codes: A. B. C., Liebers Fifth Edition
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
o**
g©
” ‘V® ••■• " .•••• "
••* .** aO^
,- s s * .•* &*%s* *s*
o< >•”’


SWARD®
30MEDAE5
///,
r:
..fointment to ms majesty „
a
2i£Ji
«w# FINE _ <S! %s tMUgg
%
near
<1
siuaifc;
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPUED TO THE
iHPGRjfIIINSTIT&TC
& WCSTGnD CIUBS
JohnDewaro Sons ii
Distillers PERTHjScotljndl* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
UNDER TMI SUPERVISION Of THE COM«ON,WI*I , *‘ CU * T9 * 5
a
n=J
r®
a
rd
Mass fis Biiaipipfiestt
when diaspsitfisasng
jg@©dl dto@@B°o
It calls for discrimi-
nation and a real
knowledge of the
.
subtleties that make
I 1 ■£ i \ I iJu * JS
for happy fellow-
ship. In short it
'-:a
calls for . . . . . .
i
5
A
Q
'j
