

x W
/ > :; -\v ‘.V > >
‘ ‘\
edJt&a
f
\ \
TfS
x x 'W- &
w; It^^
•<i
i
i
mi
&§
ii
/ ,
m
i
i In
mkAi
m
Wk
II
ifi#.
titf
ss^
mm
m
?f M
P'!
■at
J#i
.!?•{ ¥
kJ uuai_.j_L
SSyXHWITmN AWARDS
t
i.M
f. i'll ;.' D I-“'_ -i.,^ Qv - ■'■■l «»»MHIIS
f. i n «5~c;;-. *i 2?i£? •!? «£& 2?
¥ . M>nx''.> <,U '»*NT I { ■; »«“t:'t;. Bs '
!&*, v ' rfjQ **^ o^' h °WT r H / Qwautv **
It n,
?Jj ; / -, v , ; j^|?
"'■i : .;s| *.4 ■’
: >• ... -.n>s. •
, T ““°“o.Our QoautC
m
mw v n 1
;f 7 -? <.] if]
iVw i 5 v > /
9
Mi
m
i n
"■ \
w V ; V <-,M -<|
i , V,o *"r fk
...... ,v, .. .-V V J
*V .v ■•> * sN v s ,y o v.y-:': : V
% * > ' & • '''''' V
'^^M xssssW
After all , you can
trust an OLD FRIEND
Times change and fresh acquain-
tances form. But JOHNNIE
WALKER —“ Born 1820 —Still going
strong”—remains one of those old friends
whom time makes even more com-
panionable-still more trustworthy.
Ask for Johnnie Walker
Whisky in the well-
known square bottle,
half or quarter bottle,
or the new concave pint
or half-pint flask for
convenient carrying.
JOHNNIE
WAbKER
WHISKY
Born 1820-
Still going S trong
You can pay your friend
no higher compliment
than to suggest that his
palate is educated to
the JOHNNIE WALKER
standard of Scotch
Whisky.
JOHN WALKER .
SONS,
LTD., Sydney, Melbourne,
London and Kilmarnock.
The Bulletin
<64 yitC'lC&64*l£j £aaCAAJ MfjL&ks f
Vol. 49.—N0. 2523.
Wednesday, June 20, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HTHE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
A 1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
At twenty we’re looking for fun,
At thirty we’re still going strong:
At forty we’re wise, we have opened our eyes;
At fifty we wonder “How long?”
At sixty we think of the past,
At seventy we’re rather mature.
But whatever your age, colds are killed, I’ll engage,
By Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Sow Journal!*
THis Booß FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne< ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
LVSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
sdf
Worthy alike
of your Pride
and your Trust
Such a masterpiece of craftsmanship is the wafer-like,
modem Elgin.
Whether wristlet or vest-pocket variety, you never
have reason to question their accuracy, and none,
however discriminating, will ever challenge such out-
standing beauty of design.
Elgin watches are true alike to the time-minute and
the style-minute.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
in the Watch Cas-e
sd
HEINZ
. l«l ,*'. AOE in u.s.a.»» r,
Vj;J. HEINZ CO^
■’ITTSBunaH.PA.
Seasoned with Heinz
own tomatosauceand
a special cheese, there is a
real place in every home
for Heinz Cooked Spa-
ghetti. It is being eaten
everywhere today as a
main dish or as a vege-
table. A delicious meal
you can serve at once—
ready cooked. Merely heat
in the tin and enjoy.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Can.
one ofthes7 varieties
HEINZ
1498
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudsonta
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
m
A. The Larynx of
Organ of Voice.
B, The Trachea H
Windpipe.
<C. The Breaeblal
Tubes of • dis-
sected lung,
ft A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
There are artists who can only fulfil
themselves by keeping to one medium.
Perhaps they have only one talent: at any
rate, they dread varied demands on their
artistic energies. The opposite kind of
artist welcomes each demand, taking it as
an inspiration, to reinforce his chief labor.
He has the temperament of a Leonardo da
Vinci, and for him “to divide is not to take
away.” Henry Tate was an artist in the
second kind. A composer, and a pioneer
at that, he seemed at first to fling all pos-
sible zeal into music. What he did in
composing, in and also in
verbal crusades for his ideas would seem
enough work for any man. To his different
friends, though, he was known now as a
specialist in first-class chess, now as a
writer of lyrical verse.
It is only by the posthumous book, The
Poems of Henry Tate, now published in
Melbourne, that we are able to realise how
much in earnest his verse-writing was.
Carefully edited with a preface by Elsie
Cole, and containing an impressive por-
trait, the book reveals the springs that
moved Henry Tate’s endeavor. The poems
in the first half are what anyone who had
followed Tate’s work would expect, remem-
bering most of them—poignant little bush
lyrics, meditations in rondel form, a few
sonnets on personalities like Edna Thomas
or Jennings Carmichael; finally, some dozen
songs that were set to music by the author.
There is one lyric near the beginning,
more sonorous than the rest, “The Candle.”
In it the poet, as a lonely pioneer, has
outlined his range with that exactness de-
nied (as Bernard Shaw has said) to all but
a poet:—
....The guttering candle burned. Its poor light
swept
Across the glorious heritage of man,
From sun to sun its ray triumphant leapt,
It lit the scenes where boor and prophet wept,
Through Record’s dusty leaves it laughing ran.
It lit the vanished waves Columbus rode,
The paths of old Galileo’s vision keen;
To Bruno’s pyre a mournful tinge it owed,
Which fell with lustre wan on Him who strode
With starry eyhs to Calvary green.
The guttering candle burned, and by its side
1 tended it amid the cosmos lone.
I felt the rising of a mighty tide,
X hea>d a voice from out the skies that cried,
“It is thine own!”
I have chosen these verses, rather than
others more musical, because they prepare
us not only for Tate’s life-work, but for
the subject of his most ambitious poem,
Aurora Australis, which fills the second
half of the book.
It is not its length that makes this poem
remarkable, though indeed any epic is a
phoenix nowadays. . “Aurora Australis” was
to be an epic in 10 books, with prologue
and epilogue. All that remained unwritten
at the poet’s death was Books IX and X.
The theme was clear: the discovery of Aus-
tralia, beginning in the pre-hist oric hints
of a Great South Land. The last two
books would show Tasman, Torres and
Cook. The form is uniform almost
throughout. It is rhymed verse in the
brief line of Scott or Macaulay, set in a
ten-lined stanza, of which the first and fifth
lines are left unrhymed; the remaining eight
make two “In Memoriam” quatrains.
But frit is the spirit of the work that is
rare. Here is someone sharing in the
youth of the world, dreaming w/.th the
Phoenicians, the Arabs, the Polynesians, in
their daring voyages and their far-flung
speculations about the nature of the world,
when
At last the little fear-bound seas
Expanded as the world grew bold.
The verse has magic that can only
be called boyish. A little doctrinaire at
times, it scorns all who resisted the light of
growing knowledge: boyhodd needs villains
and heroes. Again, there is delighted use
of strange names, recalling Conrad’s .
“Youth”:—
Nor in the dauntless company
Would Indian mariners be banned,
Who sailed to Pegu, Borneo,
To Lamori and Resengo,
Cipango, China, Zululand.
Every here and there the poem touches on
Australia, the land actually reached only
in the eighth book by Gonrngo, an imagi-
nary Portuguese, who is wrecked in the
hour of discovery.
Henry Tate’s knowledge of aboriginal
lore was large and lit with passion. He
plays with the idea of the most ancient
sailors and their incredibly daring voyages
that just might have brought them as far
as Australia:—
They may have heard the mopoke call,
They may have heard the magpie sing,
Laughed with the kookaburra’s joy
Or seen some Alcheringan toy
Carol in the air its windy ring;
Or watched the wild corroboree
Red in the gum-bough’s leaping flame,
And died, wdth all their tale untold,
Crowned with the death-bays of the bold
In halls too high for earthly fame.
As the preface points out, “Aurora Aus-
tralis” was not merely unfinished in lines:
il the poet had lived, the writing would
have received much final revision. Even
as it stands, it is a rich legacy. It seems
to me that many a teacher, presenting the
early world to the wirelessed and sated
youth of the present, will here find much
reverent and spirited marvelling, for his
own nourishment first, then for his classes.
In a word, many pages of this poem ought
to be in our school readers. The book as
a whole is a splendid annexe to the life-
work of Henry Tate the musician.
NETTIE PALMER.
The Red Page
The Poems of Henry Tate
The Inspired Vagabond
Literature, in the course of its growth
and development, has produced figures
which stand far beyond the ruck in the
curious and romantic aspects of their,
genius. Francois Villon may not be the
greatest of these, but his name carries a
certain weight, both in poetry and in vice;
and the fifteenth-century Paris he knew and
loved so well adds intrigue to a picture
that, has blurred beneath the years and
diverse treatment. His misspent life, in
the dregs of the crude society of his time,
is a fascinating, if at times repellent, study
in perverted genius. The fire of his
immortal ballades glows darkly through
the mad humors and licentious gestures of
a Master of Arts who was a thief, and
whose greatest work was done under the
protection of Fat Margot.
Within recent months I have looked
upon this poet from three points. In “The
Romance of Francois Villon,” Francis
Caro, the French novelist, has attempted
tc tell the story of his countryman. From
the Hogarth Press comes in a limited but
notable edition “The Judgment of Francois
Villon,’- a pageant episode-play by Herbert
Edward Palmer. The third medium for
viewing the man was offered by “The
Beloved Rogue” film. That the film is not
tl be despised as a medium for portraying
narrative history is borne out in part by
a, recent statement of Marjorie Bowen, who,
if not a great historical novelist, is at least
a consistent and experienced one. She
declares that films, now in their infancy,
should be able to reproduce history far
more convincingly than is possible in the
page's of fiction.
“The Beloved Rogue,” however, suffers
in much the same way as most other ambi-
tious pictures that have been modelled from
books. The story is twisted and distorted,
and is an extremely charitable version.
The material at the disposal of Villon’s
biographers is fragmentary, and it is in
attempting to bridge the gaps that writers
and commentators place the man in diff-
erent, guises. The fundamentals are there.
We know that Villon lived in a Paris fac-
ing the days of change, a Paris still tremb-
ling in the shadow of the Hundred Years
War, with lawless students abroad and
starving wolves slinking into the snow-
po.wdered streets of winter. We know that he
thieved and murdered and loved, and, in
odd moments, sang divinely, and there is
a certain stability in the pictures that have
been drawn of his companions. Chief
among these, perhaps, is Colin des Cayeux,
a student w r ho shared most of the poet’s
escapades, and separated from him only to
be hanged at Montpipeau. There is Reg-
nier de Montigny, the decadent aristocrat,
also destined for the gallows, and Selmoise,
the obsessed priest who cried: “I renounce
God. I have found thee at last, Francois
Villon,” and was slain in an attempt to kill
his enemy.
Very coldly and definitely stands Cath-
erine de Vaucelles, surely one of the most
maddening coquettes in history. Mr.
Palmer draws a clear picture of this woman.
In one passage the mother of Villon has
nothing complimentary to say:—
“But you’re, a vile, wicked woman, Catherine
de Vaucelles. May the Devil get you! For five
years you have played with my Francois, so that
he doesn’t any longer know . the round from the
square, or a pig from a windmill. You are a
learned lady of high society, and you are very
haughty and chaste. And you dress in fine clothes,
and finger the bright yellow gold. And my Francois
thinks you are the sun and the moon and all the
stars; and just lately, because you now do this
and then do that, drawing him on, and playing with
him all the time, he thinks the sun and moon and
all .the stars are not for him, or that God has put
a blight upon them.”
The pageant play follows the actual
story of Villon a little too closely for
effective stage presentation. Villon,
stripped of his reckless humor, is a sombre
personality, descending often from the stars
to the slime. Dressed up in his mad brava-
does, followed more closely among his dis-
solute friendships and through the reckless
adventures which led him into exile, he
would stand out boldly on any stage. Mr.
Palmer has attempted a just impression of
(Continued on page 5.)


"Truth in Advertising” is our guarantee and your assurance
Save considerably—Secure all your
Home Furnishing Needs from
Anthony Horderns 1
Su
u
KT 1
B
9.01
US
b^si.L
“The Tennessee” Maple Bedroom Suite, of beautifully-
figured timber, comprising 5 ft. wardrobe, 2 ft. deep and
lined throughout with Redwood, two-thirds hanging space,
with hat shelf and brass rod and one-third sliding trays,
also division for shoes; 3ft. 6in. dressing table, with large
oval mirror, two long and two small drawers; pedestal boot
cupboard to match. Made in our own
factory. Price
Cane Seat Dressing Stool
' £2/5/-
£49110/-
mm
3--C
W*_
“The Joy” Lounge Suite, comprising settee and two easy
chairs. Resilient springs ensure comfort. Rosewood frames,
upholstered in good Genoa Velvet in exquisite patterns to
match any color scheme. The value is exceptionally
good. Made in our own factory.
Price
(Department—Ground Floor—Carriage Not Paid.)
£27/10
m
m
,'V
mm
m
m
i x -.M/ :
. ..
WM
\:
;V-
-w V |
«&5s
’imQi&gmm&i#
I
&s
SIB
■- h*&
51WW
.
Vr*.* ggfo; > &3»jPb. &*&* jsWmb ?>;• r^Kv.
* ».r‘ ft* *
Indian Reversible Rugs. Manufactured in Malabar, Southern
India, from Malabar Sheep Wool. Closely woven in one
piece. The patterns and colorings are distinctly Oriental, bold
geometrical designs being woven in shades of Brown, Orange,
Cream and Black, upon a plain Fawn ground with contrast
border.
4ft. x 2ft. Oin. Each 12/9
5 ft. x 2 ft. 6in. Each . . 19/6
6ft. x 3ft. Oin. Each 29/6
7ft. x 4ft. Oin. Each 47/6
Tf
m
Oak “Concord” Bedroom Suite, comprising 5 ft. wardrobe,
with two-thirds hanging space, hat shelf, brass rod and one-
third sliding trays. Doors are decorated with swag carv-
ings, large mirror in centre door; 3ft. 6in. dressing-table has
wide mirror with narrow frame, three long drawers; pedestal
boot cupboard to match. Made in our
own factory. Price
£29/10/-
Timm
ll'U UTI LIU
n£a
in
“The Bernard” Oak Dining-room Suite, comprising 5 ft. side-
board, with shaped mirror, low back, two roomy cupboards
with shelves, two drawers with small cupboard; 4ft. circular
table, extending to 6ft., with two leaves; 4 small and two
carver chairs, with loose drop-in seats; good imi-
tation leather upholstering; service waggon. Price
£36
t-f-r
rr
m
nrxi
*3
m
ptijpn
n
mi
"rnw
rrt-i
t‘r
20
n
“(■•p
CR
Velvet Pile Oval Rugs are available in three different sizes.
Each is a high-grade quality, made in England. Beautiful
designs and rich colors that will harmonise with any color
scheme are obtainable in these Oval Rugs. The thick,
luxurious velvet pile and harmonising colors of these rugs
create a pleasing atmosphere of dignity and comfort.
4 ft. x 2 ft. Each 9,
6ft. x 3ft. 9in. Each 29/
6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in. Each 37/
(Department—Fourth Floor—Carriage Not Paid on these goods.)
CO t© tO
USE OUR “DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM”- —You Pay Only the Cash Price. No Interest Charged.
Anthony Horderns*
Anthony Hordern ®, Sons Limited, Sydney
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O


Power of
Higher Compression
Tins Willys-Knight exclusive velvety smoothness
possible only with the Knight patented
sleeve-valve engine, which gives brilliant
and sustained performance.
The trend today is toward high
compression. The public has been
quick to appreciate the greater
speed and flashier activity effected
by the high compression motor.
But in many engines, high com-
pression presents serious draw-
backs—undue wear and tear on
the motor, and the need for special
gas to prevent knocking even after
inconsiderable mileage.
Willys - Knight offers you all the
advantages of high compression
with none of the disadvantages
so conspicuous in other types
of motors.
Sustained Efficiency
Only the Knight sleeve-valve en-
gine, because of the fundamental
principle of its design, can give
highest uniform compression at all
times, at ail speeds.
You always thrill to Willys-
Knight’s surge of silent power,
smoothly and softly poured out in
an even, unfailing flow.
Protected by Patents
Most great advances in motor car
design rapidly become the property
of all automobile manufacturers.
The self-starter, lacquer finish, bal-
loon tyres and four-wheel brakes
are found on many cars. But one
of the most notable improvements
of all time—the patented Knight
sleeve-valve engine—is still jealously
guarded by closely held patent
rights.
Drive a Willvs-Knight, and your
enthusiasm will be added to that of
its present 300,000 owners.
vv‘
ft
'.‘.'iV.V.'.V.','
ga
mm
I
Si
:?:
:»
: :tv»»>
,v* v.v
.......
.
.‘.y.v.v
Spherical cylinder head and slid*
ing sleeves of patented Knight en-
gine have always provided the most
efficient compression chamber.
Exquisitely beautiful
new colors
Your choice of many distinctive colors, both
in lacquer and upholstery. Colors that are rich,
harmoniously blended, lastingly attractive.
NO VALVES TO GRIND «-* GROWS SMOOTHER WITH USE
WILLYS -KNIGHT
Overland Sydney, Limited, 148 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Overland (Vic.) Pty., Limited, 117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. Eager & Son, Limited, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
Overland South Australia, Limited, Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Adams Motors, Limited, 442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Limited, 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
fs
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
j travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street,
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
the poet’s character, and although the pic-
ture has literary value, it errs on the side
of under-statement.
The film, already mentioned, suggested
possibilities; but it is doubtful if the finest
pictorial impressions of history will come
from America. In the hands of Hollywood
directors Villon became a flapper hero, a
dashing figure of romance, just as they have
exalted their own rascally - Jesse James to
martyrdom and the dignity of a statue
in his home town.
M. H. HOLOWFT.
A Study in Philosophers
A cold lecture hall, with high ceiling, grey
old walls and tier upon tier of uninviting
wooden benches. A small army of philo-
sophers and students wfio hope some day to
be philosophers, scattered about the benches
in twos and threes, fours and fives. Seekers
these, after eternal truth,' trying to solve
the age-old problems of beauty and good-
ness and knowledge. That was the setting
for the sixth annual congress of the Austral-
asian Association of Psychology and Philo-
sophy at the Melbourne University last
month. Ardent students all—philosophers
in their way.
Outside, the golden sunlight, the first for
some days, bathed stone walls and slated
roofs and terraced garden in the kindly
warmth of its rays. A bareheaded
student lounged on a seat near the tiny
lake revelling in the warmth of the sun-
shine, regarding idly the splashes of golden
Sunlight on the white gravel paths between
the blue-black pools of shadow from the
stately buildings, following the fall of a
crisp golden leaf from a gnarled old branch
to the placid pool below. He was a lazy
fellow undoubtedly—but a philosopher in
his way.
On the footpath outside sat a ragged
seller of trifles. After being addressed for
the third time he roused himself from his
reverie to hand over a box of matches in
exchange for my worn brown penny. “Excuse
me,” he said in a dreamy voice, “but I
was thinkin’ how beautiful the day was—
how good it was to be alive and sittin’ here
in the sunshine.”
And who will say that he was not a
philosopher in his way?
R. R. PERRY.
Modernist Art in Melbourne
Lester Way does both Frater and Shore
an injustice (R.P. 23/5/’2B). His boost of
them and their modern tendencies may be
well meant, but as an examination of their
art it is curiously superficial and at one
point his remarks call for censure—his refer-
ence, that is, to their earlier association with
Max Meldrum and the gibes at that painter,
well able to speak for himself but at the
moment in America. It seems difficult to
believe, even on Lester Way’s testimony,
that Frater and Shore could have entirely
forgotten Meldrum’s generosity and the
pains he took for years to instil into them
the rudiments of painting and to give them
the benefit of his experience and profound
researches into art. If it was an unkind-
ness to teach them how to paint things
seen, by the most accurate method known',
then Meldrum was unwittingly unkind, for
his motives were beyond reproach.
The acceptance of Meldrum’s method
immediately branded the acceptor a “mere
Meldrumite” and made his path the steep-
est and stoniest in our art world. All his
pupils found this so, and the weaker com-
promised, deserted Meldrum, and in order to
justify themselves to everybody, includ-
ing themselves, had to become his detrac-
tors. Surely Frater and Shore are not
amongst this number.
I personally have sweated blood trying
to understand the art of Shore and Frater
—to locate the soaring imagination in their
vermilion-faced small boys; the intriguing
design hidden in their back yards and
purple clothes-lines. Lester Way has given
us a lyrical outburst on the subject. Per-
haps the artists themselves will oblige with
a rational explanation.
F.S.
The Two Wallaces
“F.S.” (R.P. 6/6/’2B) says I know Alfred
Russel Wallace “only as a bug-hunter”;
actually, it was “F.S.” who introduced his
pet hero in that capacitjn Anyway, it is
foolish to judge another man’s knowledge
by the amount of it he can display in one
short paragraph. As to A. R. Wallace being,
“with Darwin, the great forerunner of the
evolutionary theory,” I was perfectly aware
that he was an evolutionary theorist, though
not exactly a colleague of Darwin, and there
were scientific voortrekkers who preceded
both of them.
But “F.S.” neglects most carefully to give
his authority for saying that William Wal-
lace “murdered” an intruding English
Governor. He also fails, in a pointed
fashion, to give the name of any school-
book, illustrative of “the barbarity of the
Australian school curriculum,” from which
his innocent cheild was instructed in W.
Wallace’s record from the Blind Minstrel’s
point of view. And it is wildly illogical to
declare in a large general style that “Scotch
Historians of the nineteenth century” swal-
lowed Henry whole as sober fact, and to
back this with the feeble assertion that one
of the tribe, who dates 100 years back, once
wrote to the British museum asking if that
institution had any documents re a par-
ticular Wallace legend. He might have
asked because the legend seemed wholly
impossible. Documents, genuine or other-
wise, often have an interest, like travellers’
tales, fragments of the true Cross, and the
alleged correspondence between Judas
Iscariot and Mary Magdalene.
The evolutionary theory is intensely
interesting to those who take an intense
interest in evolutionary theories, but its
practical value hasn’t been clearly demon-
strated yet. There are plenty of historical
personages whose lives convey far more
valuable hints for the management of the
world, which really requires some manage-
ment, than will ever come from the mouth
of Homo Moustierensis. Perhaps it isn’t
worth while getting into a heat of passion
and throwing around adjectives like “bar-
baric” even if the young mind, which can’t
hold all the varieties of knowledge under
the sun, is insufficiently stocked with the
bones of our alleged ancestors.
J. E.
Some Exquisite Writing
There are critics who would wax indig-
nant, not to say froth at the mouth, over
the latest novel that T. Werner Laurie has
given covers —Edgar C. Middleton’s Poti-
phar’s Wife. I can see them, worthy fellows,
bristling up before they have got past the
notice on the jacket: “This is the Novel
of the daring Play that shocked the Critics.”
I can see them, as soon as they have come
to its end, grabbing their pens and writing
that, “any reader possessed of the slightest
intelligence will not peruse this wretched
book without feeling for it all the contempt
that such work deserves.” This under the
driving of the hag that rides your true
critics—the idea that they are Heaven-
chosen to stand between undiscerning
humanity and the nebulous god who re-
joices in the name of Literature.
But, poor fellows, they are no less fallible
than the ends they serve; and sometimes—
let us put it this way—they read hurriedly,
and perhaps they miss such jewels as this:—
No one knows the way love comes to flower ; no
scientist, probing mustily through the history of Love,
can find a reason for that sudden exquisite flowering.
One moment lie was a servant standing awkwardly
before a situation which had been thrust upon him,
and she his mistress, more afraid of his silence
than he of her eagerness; the next they were
together in each other’s arms, her head.pressed back
by the kiss he gave her as naturally as though they
had been lovers all their lives, his arms round her,
he conscious of the beauty of her, the pulsing, lively
beauty which he could sense beneath the georgette
which covered her, of the curve of a white breast
which fluttered under his touch.
Now, I ask, is that not beautiful writing?
The single word “georgette” coming, as it
does, so unexpectedly just there—does it
not make you sit up, you lesser dabblers in
style? And “a white breast which fluttered'’
Lie down again there, Swinburne; here
is no company for imageless poetasters.
A knock, at the door, a low urgent knock. He
released her, his eyes, dazed with passion, question-
ing.
“Well, what is it she asked breathlessly.
Sylvia’s voice answered from the other 'side of
the door. “It’s me, l)i,”
“What d’you want ?”
“Di, I must see you, I must —before it’s too late.”
What glutton asks for more than that in
tense, dramatic writing of the very highest
order?
Sylvia turned the handle, but Diane put her weight
against the door. ... “I warn you, Sylvia. Go away.”
“But, Di, please”....
“You heard what I said?” Then, “Don’t drive
me too far.”
How strange and passionate it all is!
And the plot of this novel. The desire
of a woman, incompatibly married, for her
chauffeur! The critics might dismiss her
as a commonplace animal; in the better-
toned fine old conservative family papers
they might say that she was “no better
than a slut.” But what is the truth of this
matter? Why, this:—
Never once had she given herself to a rotter —-to
a man whom any woman would not have been proud
to love. The man who captured her first had been
a Canadian c010ne1.... Next, Eric Gilder, D. 5.0.,
Rugger Blue, charming sportsman and gentleman, of
an old family in the North.... And then Charles
Tracey de Lomas Ailing-ham, sixth Earl of Ayles-
brough.
And then, afterwards, the chauffeur; the
chauffeur who on page 247
took her in his arms and savagely drew her to
him. “There isn’t anyone to hear you if you do,”
he said through the kiss which bruised her lips.
Thank Heaven I am not one of those
hag-ridden beings, a critic. Not in any cir-
cumstances would I be tempted to say of
this work that it is a piece of childish and
common shoddy. I expect that will be the
verdict of several thousands of readers, but
it is not mine. I think the book is a piece
of exquisite writing.
CECOL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
The Bride's Broom, by G. V. Me Fad den
(Bodley Head). A pleasant, ambling story
of rather unbelievable Dorset people of the
'thirties.
Coffee and Conspiracy, Thomas Grant
Springer (Bodley Head). Gun-running and
a revolution that rages from Balboa to
Mezatlan. A story of action spoiled by
being told in retrospect.
The Metcalfe Mystery, by Elliot Bailey
(Bles). This concerns the baffling disap-
pearance of a reputable solicitor together
with £15,000 worth of diamonds. The inter-
est is held, and what else matters?
The Blue Pavilions, by Quiller Couch
(Dent). In the long-ago “Q” told tales of
Cornwall with such artistry that “Dead
Man’s Rock,” “The Westeotes” and “The
Astonishing History of Troy Town” remain
firm in the memory of the grandfathers of
to-day, who will rejoice to have in this
Duchy Edition a neat reprint at 3s. 6d. Inci-
dentally, in a preface to “The Blue Pavilions,”
“Q” confesses that he always was a slow
writer who had his “full share of the poetic
pains of writing,” but has “cared perhaps
too little for the fate of my offspring, once
fledged and dismissed to fly.”
Answers to Correspondents,
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be talte-n of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A..T. (S.A.) : Thanks; we’ll remember that
when fixing the conditions for the next competition.
....C.R.M. (and others): When your contribution
appears, send claim to the accountant, giving date
arid page.. . . W.J.W.: Don’t doubt that it’s a fact.
Facts are often as dull as that... .Peter P.: “Min-
strel” chased off our doorstep. .. .Vic G.: Boil it
down —can all be said in one-fifth the space....
T.C.D.: Above all things, aim at simplicity....
Coreen N.: Too often reverts to prose. And watch
your rhymes... .H.J.H,: Words, words, words....
M.S.H.: “Scent” isn’t strong enough. .. .W.P.: A
touch of kittenish naughtiness, and nothing much
besides... .Dorothy C.: Canned sermons are not in
our line... . J.M.K.: A very Lazarus among fables.
....Invalid: Naughty ! 1.5.1 v.: Prosily t01d....
James B.: Not well handled. Baffles failed....
P.E.S.: Doesn’t attract... .8.F.N.: Your industrial
moral lesson is rather crude. .. .G.L.T.: Your invi-
tation to “Weep, and weep again, and, yet once
more, weep on!” is declined... .C.L.M.: Don’t care
for the kind of cleverness that is based upon think-
ing the worst of everybody.... Dora G.: Even the
w.p.b. yawned.... Allan B.: They move heavily....
Em B.: You would have to make it “rellum”
to rhyme with “vellum,” and what would
they say in England?... .Folke V.: Not enough in
the parable.. ..R.E.McC.: A close shave....
E.M.L. (Killara): Trite... .Phil T. T.: Uneven
verse-lengths. The fault was the added word, which
merely meant the same thing as the one used before.
.... J.0.8.H.: No stipend for your parson....
O. : A mere episode. .. .T. 5.8.: Poor verse.
Claim for published matter, mentioning issue and
page. Payment is being forwarded... .J.M.K.: No
story value. .. .A.W.L.: No interest in the telling.
. ...J.8.W.: Too long-drawn-out... .J.R.M.: Both
just miss.... H.E.8.; Impossible to recall its faults-
it ran as far as the last obstacle before it fe11....
11.R.V.C.: Not snap enough in them... .Malice: Best
send it to the girl direct., . .F.R.F.: The climax is
like a vaudeville jest at a funeral... .Curate: What’s
the lady done to deserve that sort of verse?....
J.S.: That retribution has happened so often....
E.R.W.: So he shot the animal? Nothing much in
that.... Eugene S.: The end shouts its coming....
J.S. (S.A.) : The rapier, not the bludgeon, is the
weapon.... Bloo.: “Song Beautiful” is anything but
that... .R.W.R.: There’s just a point in it; but the
shaping is not sufficiently well done. .. . J.A.K.: It’s
a common habit; you don’t build a good yarn upon
it. .. .G. 8.5.: You devised a nice, cheerful double
murder in a single par. ; the rest was about nothing
in particular... .R.A.A.: No paradise of print for
your “Angel”... .G.J.: You can’t “all hail the con-
queror of wind and ocean’s roll” in these columns.
.... Wang: It gives itself away at the jump....
Victor M.: “Idol” leaped 011....8.N.: Not lively
enough... .L.L. A.: Sorry; it had no chance....
E.E. : “’Tis memory’s lingering touch that stings.”
It doesn’t sting us for anything... .Algernon: Not
worth the postage stamp... .Quip: Rough verse....
P. : All smoke and whisky and soda.... John C.:
To write on one side of the paper is the beginning
of wisdom.. . .D.8.0’C.: Can’t give the “Eagle” a
fly. “Playboy” nearly—he stumbles now and again.
. ...J.E.E.: Too long. .. .Billy D. : Rocky.... Elsie
D.: The title is its best point... .P.T.F.: No
situation in these columns for Joe’s girl... .R.0.C.:
Certainly, if it isn’t printed and paid for here....
Hedley C.: Too long-winded... .M.F.H.: That drink-
ing song was sung by Noah... .L.0.K.: “Can you
give me a reason for not using this ? It runs to
2000 words.” We can give you 2000 reasons.. ..
Aaron N.: It looks like an attempt to put an issue
of Comic Cuts into rough rhyme... .'W.V.M.: There
were 581 words in one paragraph. Don’t you ever
take a breath ?.... Rona S.: Overstrained images
become grotesque. The command to the willow to
bind her hair, for example.... Les H.: Well, it’s
hardly poetical.. i .R.J.0.: Can’t entertain your ghost.
. ...W.H.8.: Good work in it, but the subject does
not appeal.... Anonyman: It might interest the
girl.... Elms: Remarkable improvement, but you
haven’t arrived yet.... Enid B.: Crude in some
respects, but there is evidence of talent... .J.8.W.:
Its amusing patches don’t compensate for the length.
....Roland E.: No use for the sermon... .E.E.M.:
On page 16 you write “Let us be brief.” Then you
go on for another 16 pages... .S.V.G.N.: Albert
Dorrington told that story... .Dell G.: The Religious
Editor regarded your outlaw lady as merely a mild
excitement... .R.M.T.: Too much sugar in “Cup
of Tea”... .E.S.S.: True; but we can’t fit it in.
. ...E.J.H.: You don’t make its improbabilities at
all likely... .Amy G.: The sort of easy stuff that
is very hard reading... .A.E.W.: That stuff should
be all snap; it merely wanders to its conclusion.
. ...T.J.P.: Not a bad story; but we fail
to become interested in “Miss Morrison—as
she was then”.... Arbuckle B.: Dreadful drivel.
....Duboyce: Artificiality spoils it. Cut the intro-
duction and get down to the good story facts....
Ed. D.: Turgid tale. .. .P.L.M.: Make us blush,
would y0u?.... Lor. D.: May be magnificent, but it
is not poetry... .G.M.C.: Your friends say you are
likely to go far? Well, your present screed
took you as far as the w.p.b..... Ed. C.: The telling
is prosaic... .E.R.C.: Not suitable; but you ought
to have matter to send us. .. . J. 5.8.: Too much of
it for the idea. . . .0.D.: Why use the bright form for
that ?... .D.J.C.: “Dreams” faded 0ut..... W.A.P.:
One ran well, but just failed.... Soames: Improving.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS. .
F.K.: Neat and promising, but nothing to grin
over yet. .. .A.M.: You are capable of doing better;
try again after further study... .A.D.F.: Left the
boxing kangaroo in his corner. .. .W. 8.: Your hod-
carrier must drop his bricks elsewhere.. . .A.E.W.:
Nothing interesting in that parson,.. .T.H.: You
overcrowd your cartoons with labels and confusing
figures. .. ,L.R.: Primitive sketches and schoolboyish
humor... .C.A.S.: Judging by his appearance your
black-tracker couldn’t trace a missing elephant....
S.G.: The jam-smeared infant that talks like Bernard
Shaw is not for U5....8.H.: If ycu had only to
di’aw eyebrows, you’d do well. ~. 12.M.G.: Very
inferior fairies... .D.A.: Alas, your friends don’t
choose our drawings... .J.N.R.: Open up your wrnrk
more and watch how your shadows fa 11... .C.C.:
Golf joke failed to hole in one.


9
'em
&
vm
i (M
t .i* / ■
i
/
Gr eat Western
M<£'
isjr
y


The Bulletin
Vol. 49. —No. 2523.
June 20, 1928.
THE LIGHT AHEAD
TIRED and bedless, gaunt and weak,
Viewed by men with cold-eyed
scorning,
Chilled and sodden
I have trodden
Many weary miles since morning.
Down the rain falls, thick and fast,
Every gurgling gutter surges;
Fate and weather
Linked together
Lashing me with whips and scourges.
Black the night and chill the wind;
Never outlook seemed forlorner.
Rain and thunder—
Yet I wonder
What is waiting round yon corner!
Throtigh the blackness where I crouch,
Through the dark, despairful hollow,
Gleams a far light
Clear as starlight.
Hope men name it. Dare I follow?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office: 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ws.; 6
months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“Tlie Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Alain Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdor,
Street, London, E.C.4 ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, If) Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and Next
Zealander,” 414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa.- — The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisoury; Benoni Newt
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
C.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 101 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. Nets
York: Brentano's, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner Oth
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; Ilolaliny’s
News Agency, 203 West 4 Isl Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans Nexus Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La. : The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 57 3 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Hoy ft. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Honc Kong. —Brewer and Co.. 696 'Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Hoad,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasaxny and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Padua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby ..
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropnle
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.- —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.-— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to Woz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
Tjfce'S&'ullelztfi.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 20, 1928.
AUSTRALIA AND THE AIR.
Australia’s thrill of pride over the achieve-
ment of Kingsford Smith and his com-
rade Ulm is natural and wholesome. It is
a tribute to a pair of gallant adventurers
who played for a great stake against fear-
ful odds and won. The finest part of the
business is that these men, like Columbus
and Drake and many a gallant pioneer
down all the ages, underwent privations
and hardships and spent months and years
endeavoring to inflame others with their
own enthusiasm, to the end that they might
obtain a craft and provision it for their
great exploit. But is it not a little galling
to our national pride to reflect that it was
an American who made the flight possible;
that a considerable part of the credit for
its success must go to the two very com-
petent and courageous American specialists
who gave the Southern Cross its eyes and
ears; that the ’plane in which the flight was
made was designed by a Dutchman and
engined by Yankees? A shower of Aus-
tralian gold has been poured into the laps
of Smith and his compatriot as a reward
for a sensational exploit; but the Sydney
newspapers that tried to obtain financial
backing for the venture months ago did
not succeed in arousing much enthusiasm.
Hinkler, with a little assistance from the
English firm with which he is associated
and some other English friends, paid his
own way; and Wilkins, whose flight over
the world’s northern ice-cap has added con-
siderably to the store of scientific know-
ledge. not his backing from rich Americans
$ * * sjc
Smith and Hinkler have taken sporting
risks and made sporting records. They
have shown the world that things hitherto
considered impossible are possible, and that
Australia, though but a sparsely-populated
continent, can produce superlatively able
flying men. The great value of their spec-
tacular performances is that they tend to
give Australia a livelier interest in tho pos-
sibilities of aviation. There is no country
that can less afford to neglect those pos-
sibilities. They fall under three heads —
defence, transport and scientific investiga-
tion. Transport could be left to look after
itself were it not that defence depend-
upon the development of a regiment—if
not an army—of civil aviators. In Britain,
a pair of islands whose relatively shorl
coast-lines can be adequately patrolled by
the biggest navy in the world, the defence
aspect of the matter is not so important.
Britain, right or wrong, and despite the ful-
minations of such air-minded admirals as
Percy Scott, pins her faith to floating
arsenals. But Australia is in quite another
cart. Even if we all lived on rice, cut
out beer, tin hares and motor-cars a,nd
worked 16 hours a day, we could not afford
a navy on the English scale, and even if we
could it would not be big enough to guard
the coastline. Whether, as Scott says, a
squadron of bombing ’planes can sink any
battleship is not proven—there isn’t much
evidence available and what there is isn’t
conclusive—but even the most conserva-
tive of old cavalry generals will admit the
value of the ’plane for scouting and recon-
naissance. It can move four times faster
than our fastest cruisers and take in 20
miles of coast or more at a glance. If we
Australians are ever called upon to defend
our land our first and most pressing need
will be a great cloud of ’planes. They are
relatively cheap—you can get a couple of
thousand of them for the price of a battle-
ship—and the only way to avoid having to
put the necessary craft on the defence
estimates is to find them a way of earning
their keep in peace-time.
4 * * *
There remains the use of ’planes for
scientific investigation. Captain Wilkins
has asked the Federal Government for a
grant of £lO,OOO in aid of his Antarctic flight.
He ought to get it. A Government cannot
be reasonably called upon to promote
sporting flights—in the event of disaster its
position would be awkward—but Wilkins’s
proposition is a bird of another color.
Apart from the meteorological value of the
researches he intends to undertake, Ant-
arctica is a continent whose resources may
be worth developing. The Mawson expedi-
tion found coal, and there may be un-
dreamt-of hoards of mineral weaith. Wil-
kins is a tried and experienced flier and
a man of international reputation. If he is
to gather fresh laurels in the polar field
why shouldn’t our pride in them be forti-
fied by the reflection that, as a nation, we
stood behind his venture?
THE SAVINGS BANKS.
A few days ago it was announced that
deposits in the State Savings Banks now
amount to £160,529,559, being an increase
of £8,828.367 in 12 months. With the Com-
monwealth institution thrown in the total
might easily be 210 or 212 millions, and
the year’s increase 10 millions or more.
There arc now over 4j million separate
accounts open, which is remarkable for
a little over six million people, and Trea-
surer Earle Page blew the fact out of a big
trumpet to the Parliament at Canberra
during a debate on strikes, or sandflies, or
something. It was added that while Aus-
tralian Savings Bank deposits grew by 6
per cent, in 1926-27, those of the United
States increased only per cent.
The figures are of course highly gratify-
ing. But they do not necessarily mean
all that they seem to mean; and lest we
should build badly because misconceiving
the foundations, the sensible thing to do
is to get at the facts. And the first outstand-
ing truth is that Australia borrowed
£40,000,000 to £50,000,000 abroad in the year
during which it added £10,000,000 or a little
more to its savings. It obviously therefore
wasn’t all its own money that was saved.
And the “savings” are to a great extent
nowadays not savings of any sort. At one
time the banks were little more than store-
houses for the reserve funds of the poor.
As late as 1903 the amount on which
interest was paid was commonly £l5O or
£2OO, and the rates were low. Now the
State Savings Banks of N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria and Westralia pay interest on sums
up to £1000; and the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank, which operates in all the States
and has bought the Queensland and Tas-
manian State businesses, pays on as much
as £l3OO. The interest rates run as high as
4f per cent. So solicitors and others have
acquired a habit of planting large sums in
the alleged Banks of the Poor, it being
better to have the money at call and bearing
handsome interest than to have it at call
in a joint-stock concern and bearing nothing.
This may be a reason why Savings Bank
deposits grew by about 34 millions between
June, 1923. and September. 1927. while those
of other banks, that of the Commonwealth
included, expanded by a mere 28 millions.
If the Savings Banks began to pay interest
on sums up to £2OOO. the evidences of all-
round national prosperity might accumu-
late' at an unprecedented pace, for a time
at all ''vents.
The fact that Australian Savings Banks
are not in the same category as those of
Great, Britain may be illustrated in this
way (the figures are for 1925-20) :
New Total Deposits
Deposits Withdrawals at End
During Year. During Year. of Year.
British P.O.
Sa v i ngs
Hanks .. £811,000,000 £81,000,000 £283,058,417
A u s tralian
S a. v i ngs
Hanks .. 1,50,500,240 170,821.778 105,431,540
The fact that almost the whole (in some
years practically the whole) of Australian
savings drift in and out in the course of a
year goes to indicate that they arc very
largely the floating balances of business
folk, trust funds and the like. The much
more stationary character of British sav-
ings suggest that they ant really the accumu-
lation of the working classes.
* * * >:<
One other point merits attention. The
savings, real and otherwise, of this com-
munity are to a very considerable extent
lent to Governments at high interest or are
locked up in private securities which are
not liquid. Now, it is quite within the
bounds of possibility that in a time of
stress solicitors and others would want to
withdraw the trust and other funds much
faster than they could be replaced. No
doubt palliative measures could be devised
—notice of withdrawal might be required,
for instance. But the awkward possibility
just foreshadowed suggests that, while the
banks are doing most important work in the
encouragement of genuine saving, the
bidding for deposit money of the more
unstable sort, even if convenient for loan-
mongering Ministries, is capable of being
overdone.
INSANITY MAY BE CURABLE.
The tragedy at Bundaberg has brought
bacteriological methods of curing disease
under a critical bombardment. Here is an
account of amazing developments of the idea
in Victoria.
At Mont Park, Victoria’s palatial hospital
for the insane, most interesting and import-
ant medical investigations have been carried
out. Important because they may lead to
a new technique for treating damaged
nerves, one of the modern world’s most
crying needs, and interesting because of the
unique method and spectacular results.
Imagine a patient arriving at the institu-
tion with all the stigmata of general par-
alysis—rambling or wholly incoherent
speech, delusions that he is the Shah of
Persia and has a bag of diamonds in the
bank, and steadily increasing paralysis of
limbs. The only favorable feature of his
condition is his morbid optimism, which
makes him believe that he never was better
in his life, although under ordinary circum-
stances he is practically certain to be dead
inside 12 months.
The spirochaete which is doing all the
damage has been permitted, probably in
his youth, to run its usual and dreadful
cycle through his blood. The idiotic prudery
which prevents frank public discussion of
our greatest social evil has doubtless led
him to seek the services of some uncon-
scionable quack. The spirochaete presently
retires into the tissues of his brain, lulling
him into a sense of false security until it
prepares for its final onslaught when its host
has reached middle age. Once in that
stronghold it defied all endeavors to evict
it—until the new method was evolved.
The treatment consists in administering
carefully-regulated doses of malaria, either
by submitting the patient to the bite of an
infected mosquito or by injecting into his
veins the blood from a malarial human
host. The latter is the method used by Dr.
Ellery.
The patient undergoing treatment has
to submit to all the experiences which befall
the ordinary victim of malaria who has
acquired the complaint on, say, a New
Guinea rubber plantation which has run out
of quinine. At Mont Park, however, the
patient’s physical condition is carefully
watched, and the microscope acts as umpire
over the internecine warfare in his blood.
That instrument explains better than words
what actually occurs. The malarial microbe
can be seen making his burglarious entry
into the red corpuscles numbering 5.000,000
to the cubic millimetre. There they mul-
tiply until they burst their host. At that
moment the patient gets the rigors which
are characteristic of malaria, and simultane-
ously globin, a poison, is liberated into the
blood. After eight to ten rigors the malaria
is‘checked with quinine.
It is this globin which is supposed to
create the defensive mechanism that pene-
trates the brain and attacks the spirochaeta
pallida in its lair, though some believe that
the effects are due to the high temperature
malarial infection causes in the body, it
having been observed that the spirochaete
cannot . survive a temperature in the
vicinity of 105 degrees F. It has al&o been
observed that syphilis, the forerunner of
G.P., seldom occurs amongst natives in-
habiting malarious regions, and it was The
Bulletin’s own Dr. Maclaurin who drew
out of Benvenuto Cellini’s autobiography
the conclusion that that inveterate gallant
was cured of the consequences of his gaiety
by an attack of malaria acquired in the
Roman swamps.
Whatever the explanation, there seems
to-be little doubt of the results. Of 3221
cases treated by various observers abroad,
31 p.c. had a complete remission of their
symptoms, and the partial recoveries
averaged the same, whereas without malarial
treatment there exists a spontaneous ten-
dency towards temporary recovery in only
11.7 p.c. In Dr. Ellery’s experience, of
the 10 cases treated at Sunbury three
showed a good remission and have been
for over two years discharged; while four
were appreciably improved. Of the 14 lately
under treatment at Mont Park, four showed
signs of recovery. One patient, an ex-
seaman, admitted in an advanced stage of
i he disease, had become an active and cheer-
ful helper in the ward. Another, also an
advanced case, with delusions, showed no
unusual symptoms except a desire to be
allowed to go to work.
PAWANG.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Roaring Asses and Dumb Lions.
We are rather particular about the captains
of our football teams. No matter how
good they may be with their mouths, they
have mighty little chance of keeping their
.jobs if they don’t win matches, and especi-
ally matches of their own making. We are
less particular about the captains of our
unions. As long as their mouths are work-
ing well, nothing else seems to matter. It
is time something else did matter.
The sea-cooks were brought out on a
strike for which they had a poor heart
themselves and which commanded not a
shred of public sympathy. It had only the
very remotest chance of success; it was so
ill-advised that, it inevitably weakened
many unionists’ faith in unionism; it
turned thousands of people thus far indif-
ferent about unions into active opponents,
one immediate result of which was the
defeat of the Labor Government in Tas-
mania, notwithstanding its admirable re-
cord. And now the men go back under
worse conditions than those which ruled
before they were induced to make fools
of themselves.
The Bulletin has no stone to throw at
their loyalty. It has no natural affection
for “free laborers.” It would rather see
men stick together once they have decided
on a course. But they must see to it that
they are not led by noisy asses who haven’t
the brains to lead them into right courses.
These cooks, for instance, should accept
it as prima jacie evidence that the men—
whoever they were—who led them into
their recent, disaster are not fit to be
their leaders a day longer.
♦
Diggers, Airmen and Authors.
To those Englishmen and Continentals who
watched the Digger in Egypt and France
there was nothing else about him quite so
outstanding as his capacity for scrambling
through. When he struck trouble he didn’t
have to wait to be told how to get out of
it. If one way was closed the obvious thing
was to find another—and be p.d.q. about it.
It is one of the two qualities which make
the Australian back-country man not only
an incomparable bushman, but also an in-
comparable mate—the other quality being
his capacity for cheerfulness.
Exactly the same qualities that made
the Digger the remarkable soldier he was,
and the bushman the wonderful mate he is.
have also made the Australian so con-
spicuously successful in the air. No doubt
he is more or less a fatalist; what is to be
must be, wherefore danger doesn’t matter.
But far more important than that is his
large capacity for quick thinking and prompt
action. The fact that the thing hasn’t been
done before is neither here nor there. After
the Australians had accomplished one of
the various impossible things they managed
to do in France, the Commander of their
army, old General Rawlinson, said: “I
can’t understand it! I can’t understand it!
How ever could they do it!” An Aus-
tralian brigadier who stood by—Australian
to the fingertips—whispered: “I could tell
him; it was just our cheek!”
But it is more than “our cheek.”
There is this extraordinary capacity for
initiative; this quick thinking and quick
doing; the toughness that comes from hard
life in a new country; the grit that comes
from the struggle in a rather cruel country
—the grit that matches the Scotsman’s, and
which made the Digger and the Kiltie such
friends in France. It is these qualities
that have given us Parer and Mclntosh
and Ross and Keith Smith; that gave us
Hart in days before these long-distance
men were heard of; that have lately given
us Hinkler and Wilkins and Kingsfokd
Smith and Ulm.
And the same qualities can be traced in
quite another direction. A little short of
a year ago The Bulletin decided to offer
£l7OO in prizes for Australian novels. Some-
how or other the long story had not beeD
much written in Australia, in striking con-
trast. to the great output of excellent short
stoiaes. I o many people it must have


THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
“THE BULLETIN” is searching for it.
The first of three annual competitions will close at
“The Bulletin” Office, Sydney, next week—June 30.
The first-prize novel will receive £3 00 and will retain
all book and picture rights.
Already over 200 entries have been received; and the
judges report that many are of high quality.
Publication of the First-prize Novel as a serial will begin
in “The Bulletin” late in August.
This will be the most interesting literary event yet
recorded in Australia.
seemed like inviting disaster; there would
be practically no response. The Bulletin s
present trouble is that the response has
already run to very nearly 300 entries; and
the work of carefully reading a library of 300
novels is a heavy tax upon the five critics
who have undertaken the task —most of
them purely out of the desire to help Aus-
tralian literature. And again the qualities
that have produced this flood of entries
are very much the qualities that won the
heights of St. Quentin and gave us the
three Smiths, Hinkler and Ulm —first, a
willingness to tackle it, to “give it a go”;
and second (invaluable this to the story-
teller) a large capacity for getting out of
difficulties. And, of course, there must be
imagination, too. But there never was a
pioneer without that.
The first of the three competitions will
close on June 30; and whether the best
of the novels which are now being read and
judged will equal in their sphere the
achievements of the Digger and the airman
in theirs, the next few weeks will tell. There
is no visible reason whatever why they
shouldn’t.
«
“Y r ou Go and Chop Wood!”
“Mr. ,J. Larkin, representing the firm of Henry
Mason and Co., worsted manufacturers of Ship:ev
(Yorkshire), arrived at Melbourne by the Orvieto.
Ho has come to Australia to investigate avenues
ci trade for the exporting of woollen goods from
England. There was danger in Australia, he said,
of over-manufacture. Australia needed to de\ clop
its export trade. At present it was essentially a
country for primary industries. Secondary industries
would come later, but there was a tendency to
rush their development to the detriment of the
development of the hinterland.”
Tile Argus prints it, of course. Who else
but the Argus would? Who else
would pretend that Mr. Larkin, the sales-
man for English woollen manufacturers, is
an unprejudiced critic of Australian woollen
factories?
Mr. Larkin suggests that there is great
danger of over-production in Australia;
that is, of the Australian market being
over-supplied with woollens and other
goods. And what is Mr. Larkin doing to
prevent the over-supply? By keeping off
the market himself? Not if Mr. Larkin
knows it! The market, he says, isn’t big
enough for him and us. Therefore, obvi-
ously, it is the Australian’s place to go and
chop wood while he, Mr. Larkin, does the
superior manufacturing jobs!
The Bulletin suggests to Mr. Larkin
that Australia sometimes finds it hard to
keep its patience with the English manu-
facturer. His utter selfishness, often mixed
with equal parts of arrogance and hypocrisy,
puts a severe strain upon those feelings
which we naturally have for the Old
Country. Mr. Larkin probably believes
that “Imperial” trade means closer bonds.
This paper assures Mr. Larkin that his
attitude doesn’t tend that way at all; on
the contrary, he is a disruptionist, and the
less quarter we give him and his views the
better for the cause of Empire unity and
goodwill.
♦
Uncle Sam and Shy lock.
“Solomon M.”: Crawford Vaughan says
(B. 13/6/’2B) he enjoyed U.S.A. official
hospitality for 12 months, and that there
is nothing of the three-ball uncle about
Uncle. In proof he mentions that our rela-
tive has agreed to accept 7440 million dol-
lars in satisfaction of the 11,522 millions
due him by his almost ruined allies. A
similar case was that of Mr. Pecksniff,
who made a reduction in the premiums
when he took Tom Pinch in as drudge and
apprentice, because the amount he received
was all Tom’s grandmother had and more
than Pecksniff expected. Uncle simply
reached for all he could get. He couldn't
go to war with 20 nations, and extract
blood profitably out of stones. He couldn’t
bring pressure to bear by a blockade; his
fleet was hopelessly inadequate, and if
blockade had been possible he would have
lost more than his allies, for U.S. com-
merce is a curiously one-sided affair. In
fact, the debtors could have repudiated
their liabilities, as some States of the Union
did and still do, and the person who pays
honorably deserves more credit than the
one who' collects vigorously.
At July 1, 1926, 18 different debtors had
handed to Uncle 1537 million dollars on
account, being 362 millions towards prin-
cipal and 1175 millions for interest. That
remarkable example of honesty deserves
recognition, for in most cases it is quite
voluntary, and in a great measure the debt-
ors are paying Uncle for the privilege of
fighting his battle for him. Britain is also
an immense creditor, but is apparently not
so good a collector.
The Motorist and the Road.
“Yenton”: Apropos a recent “Plain Eng-
lish” on the modern juggernaut and the
suggestion that the pedestrian has the right
of the road, isn’t it time we realised that
conditions of life and travel have changed?
Despite all a driver’s care, his powerful
brakes and constant vigilance, he cannot
always cope with the individual who steps
out in front of him, or that greater lunatic
who says, “Oh, he can stop.” He cannot
always stop, and many a car, carefully
driven, has been smashed rather than in-
jure the fool who invites injury. It is
surely not too much to ask that, in return
for his heavy taxation, most of which is
spent on the upkeep of roads, the motorist
should be allowed to use them?
Joy-riders and hoodlums are not motorists
in the true sense of the word, and the two
should not be confused; if the average
pedestrian were as careful as the average
motorist, there would be no accidents at
all. It is, indeed, the control over their
vehicles, and their constant care, that has
instilled into many people the idea that a
motorist won’t and can’t run into them no
matter how great the provocation. That
the motorist is not superhuman is proved
by the huge crop of preventable accidents
every week.
The writer is on the road daily, and has
been for over 12 years—in the British Isles,
France and Australia. Nowhere has he
met such carelessness by pedestrians as
here; and it is his constant wonder that
the accidents are not doubled and trebled
from that very cause, allied to the generally
chaotic state of the traffic regulations in
the cities.
A Judge in England recently gave it as
his decision that a pedestrian was not en-
titled to use the roadway except with due
care, and gave damages against a jay-walker
who had caused an accident, although,
through the skill of the driver in the case,
the pedestrian was not directly concerned
in it. In France the law allows the driver
the supreme right to the road, and it is
almost impossible to obtain damages if
injured, provided the driver has obeyed the
very letter of the law, which allows him
to go as fast as he likes, and really only
insists on due observance of traffic control
signals.
Legislation on traffic in this continent is
needed and is long over-due; and until the
law once and for all settles the status of
the pedestrian and the motorist, we shall
continue to get hysterical outbursts against
the motorist, which are chiefly the outcome
of a failure To realise the difficulties he
drives under.
♦ '
The Arrest of Jock Smith.
There were many people wffio didn’t know
that the front names of Garden, secretary
to the Trades and Labor Council in Sydney,
were John Smith until his arrest on June
13. Then they realised that the fact had
looked probable all along. The reason
why the upper limb of the law reached out
for Smith was this pronouncement in the
matter of the sea-cooks’ strike:—
“If scab cooks man the vessels our tactics
may change, and we may supply union men
even though the scab cooks are aboard.
Accidents, however, occur in the best regu-
familieg _ The new cooks will not be
gooc i sadors and w ni have to go to the
rai f iri | occasionally. They may lose their
b a i an ce. In which case the water is damp,
the sea is deep, and dead men tell no tales.’
when remarks of this sort are made their
interpretation is a matter of law and the law
j s a mysterious animal. But this much
can be said now—as a literary effort the
statement did Smith no credit. For dead
men are voluble and even garrulous at
times, while dead women have brought
many a male ass to the gallows. If they
don’t shout' in person other people may make
a noise for them, accomplices especially being
much given to revelations when a handsome
reward is in sight. And a cook who can
swim may turn up and make no end of
trouble.
The arrest, incidentally, was made by the
N.S.W. State authority. While it was in
progress the Federal power came pottering
along with a summons under the Crimes
Act and tried to serve it on the defendant,
but in the confusion it was left lying on the
floor. The Crimes Act, which has been set
working again by proclamation, is a Federal
enactment of great tonnage, which author-
ises deportation, among other things. But
it might work better if the Commonwealth
Government had its own policeman to arrest
the accused and bring him definitely within
the scope of the law, and its own lock-up
to pu t him in, and its own court to hear
tbe case. To drop the summons on the
fl oor looks futile.
♦ —
London-Australia by Car.
}
M. H. Ellis: Apropos Francis Birtles s
arrival (B. 6/6/ 28), it. still remains tor
some enterprising Australian to cover die
entire land route between London and Aus-
tralia by car. Two attempts have now
been made—one by my own party, which,
starting with a car weighing over three tons
loaded, 25-h.p. engine and decidedly ex-
perimental driving gear, set out in the heart
of the worst winter in Europe for 40 years
and reached Delhi in 1926. As the car
had done no tests, we were well satisfied
with this performance. Captain Knowles,
an Australian who won a Paris-Nice Grand
Prix a few years ago, and Mr. Birtles,
whom we cabled for at the last moment,
were with me.
Birtles returned to England and has suc-
ceeded in covering more than three-fourths
of the 10,000 miles which lie between Lon-
don and Singapore. He left out 1800 miles
of Bulgaria, Turkey and Syria, which we
crossed on the previous journey, and 500
miles from Mergui southward; but he has
to his credit the first crossing from Cal-
cutta to Rangoon by car, which we did not
achieve.
These journeys should serve a useful
purpose in advertising the possibility of a
direct land route between Colombo and
London, and the consequent bringing of
Perth within 23 days of England along a
very interesting track.
Fords (and most of them were built when
Henry was very young) ply most of the
year round on all the sections of the route,
from the Khanikin railhead in Iraq to
Duzdap. The tracks range from a fine
British military road to fast natural earth
roads which run for hundreds of miles,
with about 300 miles of the sort of thing
you find in the more passable tracks of the
Northern Territory to-day.
Furthermore, it is not the wild country
pictured by most of the touring despera-
does who cross it. There are apparently no
brigands except at one isolated point in
Iraq and on the north-west frontier of
India, but even there no white road travel-
ler is in the slightest danger. In any case
both these regions are avoidable by train.
On the Persian section of the route, so the
British Consul at Sultanabad told me in
May, 1926, the last adventuring motorist
had to hire a few picturesque fellows to be
bandits for his press-agent’s benefit.
When this route is opened up, it should
be possible to get to Perth on the follow-
ing schedule regularly except for a couple of
months in the year: —
Days. Hours.
London-Aleppo . . . . Train 5 12
Aleppo-Bagdad . . Motor 1 12
Bagdad-Khanikin . . Train 3
Khanikin (across Persia)
to Duzdap . . Motor 3 12
Duzdab-Colombo . . Train 4 12
15 3
Colombo-Fremantle . . Steamer 9
Total from London . . 24 3
These computations are based on present
schedules; in the case of train travelling,
they could easily be speeded up consider-
ably. The motoring times are based on
the assumption that about 300 miles of the
route would be improved in accordance
with plans which the Persian Government
is just now carrying out. Two of the Ford
services in the interior already run their
250- miles a day on part of the track, and
night running would be possible on all but
the at present unimproved portion.
Apart from the reduction of time, what a
tourist route —Munich, Vienna, Belgrade,
Sofia, Constantinople, the Taurus. Aleppo
of the Caravans, the Euphrates, Hit, Bag-
dad, Ispahan, Yezd (which Marco Polo
visited), all the Kipling country from the
border to Bombay, with Agra and Delhi and
Lahore on the way, Madras, Madura, Anad-
haputa and Kandy!
*
The Deportation of Undesirables.
Dear Bulletin, —A study of lawlessness,
just published, shows that in 1850 the
Lf.S.A. held the record as the world’s then
most law-abiding people. By 1926, with an
increase of population of only five times,
we increased in murderers 15 times, in
prison population actually 21 times.
At the earlier date, America contained
one of the most nearly pure Nordic popula-
tions in the world. The first waves of
immigration from the Mediterranean and
front Eastern Europe had as yet not washed
our shore. Then we became obsessed with
our tragic “melting-pot” theory. We in-
vited to live amongst us those whom we
thought were the oppressed of every land.
We converted our nation, with its marvel-
lous natural resources, into a kind of
national almshouse.
Our immigration came to include
criminals of Southern, of Eastern Europe.
These, practically to a man, were non-
Nordic. To-day we are undertaking to
deport, the first 12,000 of these. ’lt is cost-
ing our taxpayers $6,000,000. This covers
only the first 12 months of an eight years’
programme to rid ourselves of the 100.000
aliens deemed most responsible for the
crime waves in our cities.
It is only part of the Great American
Tragedy. Our country, foolishly paying no
attention to immigration, diluted for ever
its Nordic stock. To-day your Australian
Dominion constitutes one of the world’s
great reservoirs of pure Nordic blood. We
would be false to posterity did we not lay
before your leaders of thought the above
facts, that you might jealously guard all
sources of immigration.—Very earnestly
yours, C. M. Goethe, President Immigra-
tion Studv Commission of America.
+
Tests for Drunkenness.
The English Law Journal brings details
of a lecture delivered by Dr. Godfrey
Carter, of Sheffield, on the subject of
“Tests for Drunkenness,” with particular
relation' to motor accidents. From the well-
known simple experiments Dr. Carter
passes on to “the most searching and defi-
nite test of all.” Professor Mellanby and
Dr. Southgate have prepared charts, show-
ing the absorption of alcohol into the urine
in proportion to the quantity taken, and
also the rate of its elimination in the case
of the average man. As a practical measure
Dr. Carter suggests that two samples should
be taken—one immediately after arrest, an-
other an hour later. From the alcohol con-
tents of the two, and by the use of the
charts, the minimum amount of alcohol
the accused must have consumed and the
time of its consumption can be calculated,
and a very accurate conception of his state
at the time of arrest can be formed.
The strongest point seems to be that the
test shows only the amount of alcohol
absorbed into the system, and it is pre-
cisely this alcohol, and not necessarily. the
amount taken, which actually affects a
man’s judgment, perception and actions
generally. So that the tests give an accu-
rate indication of the degree of intoxication.
A Hint from the East Indies.
From an Australian settler in Java: —
A few days ago a Dutchman told me that
lie was coming by train from Soerabaia to
Kediri, and in the same carriage were a
party of Australian tourists and a young
half-caste, quietly reading. The Australians
made very audible remarks during the whole
journey on the young man’s Color and breed-
ing, and on the shocking fact that they had
to travel in the same carriage. Departing,
the young man said to the Dutchman in
perfect English: “Well, if they can make
remarks about my blood. I suppose I can
ask them what their grandfather was sent
out for.” I hope they heard him.
We Australians have a right to our ideal
of a White Australia; but other countries,
Other customs. The Dutch have tackled their
half-caste problem with manliness and
commonsense. Many of the half-castes (or
liere-borns, as we prefer to call them) come
of very good family on both sides, have been
highly educated in Europe, and speak several
languages. They are correct in their be-
havior, and can attain to the very highest
positions in official and civil life.
The East Indies are a natural customer of
Australia, and our trade should be much
greater than it is. But nothing will make
bad blood and bad trade relations quicker
than a contemptuous attitude towards the
half-caste, or overbearing treatment of the
native servants.
A story that has gone the length and
breadth of Java is that of the Australian
at one of the big hotels who came to dinner
in his singlet because it was a particularly
hot night, and talked in a loud voice about
the derelictions of the niggers! Unfortu-
nately, the misdeeds of the few earn a bad
name for the many, and I am at pains to
explain that in the same circumstances in
Australia he would be asked to finish dress-
ing, and that the dinkum Australian is a
quiet and unobtrusive person who hates to
hurt anyone’s feelings.
'
Not the least valuable feature of the
Kingsford Smith flight was its contribu-
tion to radio. During the Honolulu-Suva
section of the hop the whole world was
listening in to the long “T” of the Southern
Cross’s installation. When Australian
listeners lost the call owing to daylight
intervening, they could still hear American
amateurs telling each other the latest mes-
sage from the ’plane, their signals coming
round the darkened portion of the hemi-
sphere; and South Australia’s Arctic flier,
Wilkins, may well have been following
events in Berlin. Even the faltering of an
engine could have been detected in Aus-
tralia; the vibration of the propeller was
audible in a continuous undertone below
the signalling note.
— : — *
“G.D.S.”: In support of “Marko” and
the unhappily married (B. 13/6/’2B), a few
extracts from Bernard Shaw’s preface to
“Getting Married” will apply:—
(1) “Divorce, in fact, is not the destruc-
tion of marriage, but the first condition of
its maintenance. A thousand indissoluble mar-
riages mean a thousand marriages and no
more. A thousand divorces may mean two
thousand marriages; for the couples may
marry again. Divorce only re-assorts the
couples; a very desirable thing when they
are ill-assorted.”
(2) “The Church claims that marriage is
a sacrament. So it is; but that is exactly
what makes divorce a duty when the marriage
lias lost the inward and spiritual grace of
which the marriage ceremony is the outward
and visible sign.”
(3) “An unhappy household is a bad
nursery.”
(4) “Send the husband and wife to penal
servitude if you disapprove of their conduct
and want to punish them; but do not send
them back to perpetual wedlock.”
(5) “If, on the other hand, you think a
couple perfectly innocent.and well conducted,
do not condemn them also to perpetual
wedlock against their wills.”


COMMONWEALTH LOAN.
Interest, 5| per cent. Issue Price, £9B/10/-
Period of Loan, 7 or 14 years.
CONVERSIONS.
. . A" persons who hold stock or bonds in the 5 per cent. Commonwealth Loan maturing on 15th September, 1928, are
invited to convert into this new Loan.
All persons who convert will receive on 15th September, 1928, a cash bonus of £l/10/- for each £lOO converted.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS.
All persons may make cash subscriptions to this Loan.
The amount subscribed may be paid in one amount in full, or bjr instalments.
Any sum which is a multiple of £1 0 may be invested in this Loan.
Both cash applications and conversion applications may be lodged at any Bank or State Savings Bank; or at any Money-
Order Post Office; or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
INTEREST IS FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX .
Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra.
EARLE PAGE, Treasurer.
POLITICAL
POINTS
One of the last doings of Parliament before
it froze and went home was to raise the
minimum Protective duty on imported butter
and cheese from 3d. to 6d. per lb. Stewart,
cx-Mimster, farmer and Freetrader, vot ■ 1
for the increase, and James McMahon, who
writes voluminous Freetrade letters to the
press on behalf of the “primary producer,”
has been slow to protest. The list of duties
under the heading “Agricultural Products
and Groceries” fills over 200 lines of small
print in “Moore’s Almanac.”
Independent member Pearsall, who is the
deciding factor in the new Tasmanian Assem-
bly, favors the idea of an elected Ministry.
He intimates that the Nationalists can have
his vote provided one of their first measures
is an Elective Ministries Bill. It is the
right attitude in the circumstances, and a
Ministry representative of both parties would
he a lot better than one representative of
either could be. But without replying to
Pearsall, McPhee has formed a Ministry,
with Lee of the old loan crowd for chief
lieutenant, and the outlook for strong and
settled government is not bright.
To show Allan’s Cocky party and Dun-
stan s Country Progs, that they are “not
everybody” where the development of coun-
try interests are concerned, the Nats, in
Vic. Assembly have asked their rural section
to draw up a forward policy. Peacock,
Morley, Beardmore, Lawson, West, Angus,
Pennington, McDonald. Toutcher, Knox and
Coyle are the rustics concerned. There is
no question of their ability to knock a
programme into shape; the doubt is whether
they will give effect to it if they get the
chance.
( Certain evidence given before Judge
Kcholes, Royal Commissioner, in the matter
of Theodore s Parliamentary scat, was cleai
and instructive. Mahony, Federal member
for Dailey, had long been in bad health, so
lie resigned his seat, and it went (on Feb-
ruary 20, 1927) to Theodore, whose previous
efforts to find a Federal opening had failed.
Mahony proceeded to rest and recuperate by
acquiring and running a hotel. The money
with which he bought into the property was
not the just-received price of his 'resig-
nation. It had been won at the Melbourne
Cup of November 2, 1926, and kept in a
bookcase in the interval instead of in the
bank. In this respect it somewhat resembled
the money which ex-Alderman Green’s wife
received from her sister, but that remained
in a hole for years. A minor problem of
the same sort cropped up at the Coroner's
inquest on the State trawling industry. In
that case the Labor gentlemen hid liis batch
of notes under the carpet.
The melancholy position appears to be
that when Mahony, M.H.R., resigned his
seat for Dailey and made room for Theodore
he received a testimonial of £1429 2s. 4d.,
of which he put in £l5OO himself —his own
money and a trifle of Theodore’s. This
didn’t mean that his admirers valued him at
£7O 17s. Bd. less than nothing, but merely
that there are unavoidable expenses con-
nected with testimonials.
A soldier-settler at Caniambo (Vic.) was
forced to leave his block, he and his wife
and three children. While he was away in
search of work his wife committed suicide.
Possibly the failure was partly the settler’s
fault, yet lie seems to have made a long
struggle. The average size of a soldier’s
farm in Victoria is 255 acres, including
rocks and the mortgage. The little State has
contrived to settle 8712 civilians on an aver-
age space of 44 acres each. Meanwhile the
Northern Territory, six times Victoria’s area,
remains practically untried.
The debates on Latham’s Arbitration Bill
were fearfully monotonous, but there was one
diversion, and Blakeley, provided it:
“We took a case before an Arbitration Judge who
fixed 30s. per 100 for shearing and explained how
he had arrived at that figure. We had the advice
of the best accountants in Sydney and Melbourne to
prove that his arithmetic was hopelessly wrong, but,
stubborn as a mule, he refused to back down.”
Temporary Chairman: “Order! I cannot allow the
hon. member to apply such terms to a learned Judge.”
Blakeley: “Stubborn as an Arbitration Judge, he
refused to back down.”
For once Labor and Capital chuckled in
unison.
Australia’s Protectionist Government is
a composite of Nationalists and Country-
party men, though it is difficult to tell the
difference. But it has been decided by the
party organisations in Westralia that the
authorised candidates of both mobs in that
State are to be Freetraders or Revenue
Tariffists. The Westralian mem-
bers are mostly that sort already, but it
hasn’t been exactly a sine qua non until
now.
The gang of Westralian “Nationalists”
who say they won’t endorse Federal candi-
dates favorable to the Government’s fiscal
policy should specify the tariff items to be
“substantially reduced.” On the protected
list at present are agricultural implements,
apples, bacon, barley, biscuits, boots and
THE IMPORTANCE OF HAVING A VOTE TO GIVE AWAY.
"Mr. Bavin still refuses to amend the Local Government Act b y withdrawing the lodger franchise
given by Mr. Lang."
THE OLD HOUSEKEEPER: “Get up, get up, one of you—there’s a burglar in the house!”
THE POLITICIAN: “Go ’way, woman, go ’way and don’t annoy him. He might be one of
our own supporters."
shoes, blitter, citrus fruits, confectionery,
crockery, currants and raisins, eggs, ferti-
lisers, fish (smoked and dried), flour, furni-
ture, honey, jams and jellies, leather
manufactures, . pickles and sauces, pre-
served meats, timber, wheat, wine and wool-
lens. All these articles, and many others
not enumerated, are produced in Westralia.
but production would wither in most cases
were the protective incidence of the tariff
removed. There would be a wholesale
slaughter of useful Westralian industries if
these “Nationalist” fools had their way.
A clasli between Prendergast and his Vic.
Cabinet colleagues on police-force control
cannot be far off. No sooner had reinstate-
ment of the 1923 strikers been pushed into
the background and recruiting resumed than
Prendergast fell out with Blarney, the Chief
Commissioner, over the reconstruction of
the promotions and appeals boards. Blarney
says he was not consulted on the subject.
This the Minister denies; but in any case
he left the Commissioner off the promotions
board while appointing him to the appeals
tribunal. It would be a blessing if Prender-
gast were shifted to Water Supply—Bailey
could manage the Chief Sec.’s job as well
as the Lands.
The Austral-Scottish pilgrims who are
touring Scotland have grown tired of being
cautious and reticent as requested, and are
shouting to brother Scots to come out here
and help to fill the spacious void. The
trouble is to find the accessible void, not
the spacious one. S. M. Bruce has explained
that repatriation was made a State matter
because the Commonwealth had no available
soil of its own, which really meant that it
owned an area over 10 times the size of
England and hadn’t troubled to make a rail-
way through it. Now the Commonwealth
is winding up a year of magnificent borrow-
ing, and has greatly curtailed its public
works expenditure because it hasn’t enough
loan money to go on with. At s-uch a time
the best void for the immigrant is inside the
factory door, if the factory can be provided
in sufficient quantity.
Enraged at the defeat of W. A. Holman
in the Martin (N.S.W.) pre-selection bal-
lot, a “Nationalist” of the Foreign-trade
species wrote to one of the Sydney papers
saying lie was going to make his ballot-
paper informal, and advisingi Ilolmanites
and Foreign-traders in general to do the
same. _ Evidently the gentleman carried out
his miserable intention, and had many imi-
tators, for the number of informal votes
jumped from 986 in 1925 to .‘1747 on Satur-
day (7.1 p.c. of the whole), although there
were only two candidates on each occasion.
Even so, Graham Pratten, nephew of the
late member, had over 10,500 votes to the
sood. It was a very fine majority, in the
circumstances; assuming that something like
3000 “Nationalist” votes were meanly
wasted, the untried youngster scored nearly
as well as his experienced uncle did when
Labor stocks were at their lowest.
An unexpected result of the industrial
peace conference engineered in Maoriland by
Priminister Coates is that the. Libs and
Labs are negotiating for a coalition. The
Lab representatives at the conference didn’t
show even a blush of red, and the Libs
can’t see much reason why they shouldn't
grasp the olive-branch held out to them bv
one of the Lab leaders, Jordan. M.P. Bal-
lance and Seddon had behind them a strong
Lib-Lab Federation, and so long as that
endured the other side hadn’t a donkey’s
chance. If the hatchet can be buried the
Reformers, who have been unlucky enough
to quarrel with the Farmers’ Union, are
likely to meet their Waterloo at this year's
election.
In 1922 the Lawson Government passed
a measure to rid Victoria of that remorse-
less pest the hard-lying and hard-swindling
land-agent. It did some good, but Ananias,
the agent, found holes in it, and very large
ones. So a new Government introduced an
improved bill in 1927, and the stupid
Upper Mouse threw it out to show that it
didn’t like Labor in power. It is reported
that another effort will be made, and it is
hoped that the Leg. Council will be in a
human frame of mind this time. The, indi-
vidual who does the worst damage isn t the
shark in an office, though he is bad enough.
The supreme curse is the door-to-door prowler,
who is practically unidentifiable and leaves
only verbal traces behind him. His mere
existence is sufficient proof that he shouldn’t
exist.
The Federal Treasurer anticipates a short-
age of three millions. Decline in customs re-
venue, the result of diminished imports, is
the cause; in other words, the animal which
has been long chasing its own tail has over-
taken the appendage. Huge imports caused
a huge (paper) customs revenue. Huge ex-
ternal loans (payable in gold, principal and
interest) were required to pay for the sur-
plus of imports over exports and to cover
interest. As the external interest bill became
more huge (it has about doubled in II or
12 years) the loans left a smaller margin
to pay for imported goods, so, despite fierce
borrowing, imports had to diminish somewhat.
So the huge customs revenue fell off, and that
has left the Treasurer in a hole. The begin-
ning of reformation is to have another and
greater reduction of imports, and a bigger
landslide in the (paper) customs revenue.
The consequent and inevitable increase in
local manufactures would more than right
the situation in time.
The position grows more definite in
China. Pekin has at last been occupied by
the Southern army, and if the retreating
Northerners stay away it is reckoned that
the occupation will be permanent unless
something else happens. One report says
that Marshal Chang Tso-lin, the Northern
hero, was killed in a railway accident
during his retreat, and another says that
he wasn't. A disturbing feature is that
while Yen, whose troops are said to be
respectable, was expected to be the man in
peaceful control, Feng, with an army which
has a brigandish reputation, is said to have
entered Pekin likewise. As nobody is in
a strong legal position either to boot Yen
or to order Feng off the grass, they may
have to settle their differences, if any, in
the old violent way. The Nationalist flag,
which is the same, in name at least, as
that which Alex. Peacock waves in Victoria,
is flying, but it isn’t easy to say what
significance should bo attached to it.
Chinese rows in the past have been pro-
tracted. About .SO years were occupied in
the collapse of the T’ang dynasty and the
subsequent chaos before the Sung dynasty
emerged, and there was some 70 years of
shindy between the end of the imperial Tsi
gang and the beginning of the Liang push.
Time is no great matter in China.
The Federal Treasurer struggled in deep
waters at the fag-end of the session while
putting the best available face on the loan
situation. As he stated the case:—
Outside capital is necessary for the development of
Australia, and while that capital is coming in there
is likely to be an adverse trade balance. Every
country which has developed rapidly has experi-
enced a period of continuous adverse trade balances.
Importation of capital is all right if it is used for
development.
It is all very nice and glossy, but when the
country borrows £51,000,000 abroad in a
year, and £28,500,000 comes here in the
shape of a receipt for the year’s interest
and sundries, and the rest is much more than
accounted for by imported clothes, as hap-
pened in 1923-24, "development” looks a
poor excuse. There was a contnuous surplus
of exports over imports in the first 12 years
of the Commonwealth —enough to pay the
interest bill. Yet it developed all right.
“S.M.” : The name of the N.S.W. Statis-
tician is Waites. On .1. :ie 7, I acquired the
Federal Government statistics for the Janu-
ary-March quarter of 1925. Then I called
at the official printery to see if the State
quarterly for the end of 1927 was ready, but
I was .told that I had called too soon. Mil-
ton no doubt knew something when he wrote
that “he also serves who only stands and
Waites.”
The cocky who votes Country party in
N. S. Wales is not worrying about Bavin’s
obstinacy in refusing to repeal Lang’s Act
handing every peripatetic dosser a vote at
municipal or shire elections; for it gives
the Country party the best chance it has
ever had. There are cockies and country
storekeepers who have hitherto voted for the
Labor party, but they will roll up at the
next election, their whiskers quivering with
rage against a party that would give every
“bagman” the privilege of saying how the
rates shall ne spent. And the prevailing
opinion is that there is no sense in putting
in a Nationalist Government that approves
of an Act passed by the worst Labor crowd
that has ever ruled a long-suffering State.
THE INTERPRETERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hancock has presented Kingsford Smith and
Ulm with the Southern Cross, besides bearing all
the expenses of the flight. Lyon and Warner, whose
skill and courage contributed so materially to the
triumphant issue, have refused to share' in the
fund.”
Hancock, Lyon and Warner, greeting!
White men all to the core and pith;
Birds of a feather with those we cherish—
Hinkler, Wilkins and Kingsford Smith.
Ye who, moved by a noble impulse,
Helped our sons in their sorest need,
Each in his fashion, and share their glory—
Here’s to you and the Yankee breed!
Times there have been when we have ques-
tioned,
Kinsmen and mates, your native land,
For much that was selfish, cheap and blatant
It, your Republic, seemed to stand.
Now, however, we know it better.
r The mists of doubt you have cleared away.
You are America, great and generous;
You are the real U.S.A.
N.S.W.
TUART.


SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Merris”: As our transport approached
Fremantle in October T 4, the C.O. was on
the boat deck, peering through his presenta-
tion field-glasses. Smithers took a snapshot
of him, and posted it home from Colombo,
with something facetious pencilled on the
back. Our convoy was 60 miles from the
Sydney-Emdcn scrap, and so there was joy
in Mena camp when an Adelaide daily
arrived containing Smitliers’s snap, with
the following inscription: “Colonel Blank,
watching the fight between the Sydney and
Emden.”
Sic * :1: *
“Tee Essbie”: “Oxmead” on the word
“graft” (B. 6/6/’2S) reminds me of another
colloquialism which causes us to be misunder-
stood by people of other countries. My
brother-in-law revisited his native town,
Rugby, after having spent eight or nine years
in Australia. He had left England with a
mate, Ern, and when he returned home his
father was anxious to know how Ern was
doing in Australia. “Ah,” replied the pro-
digal, “poor Era’s been ‘crook’ for six months
or more.” The old man was scandalised.
“Good heavens!” he said, “I didn’t think Ern
was a chap like that.” It took a lot of ex-
plaining to satisfy him that Ernest had not
joined the criminal classes.
* * * *
“Shed Hand”: Many unauthorised things
have been found in casks in transit on the
Westralian railways, but the contents of
one barrel kept the employees out of Perth
goods-shed for over an hour. A load of
empty returns was being checked for delivery
to a brewer’s lorry when a porter grew
curious at the “feel” of one. It had evi-
dently been left in the sun for a while
because its staves were loose, but the bung
and tap-hole were well closed down. For
reasons of State the cork was drawn.
Instantly out filed an angry swarm of bees.
The swarm had selected the keg for a honey
CANDID CONSTANCY.
“And when are you thinking of getting married?”
“Always, my dear.”
factory, and that same night Mr. Pintpot
had got ready his empties for return. _
* * * *
“Mick Q.”: Jack Waring’s drawing (B.
6/6/’2B) of a swagman trying to read the
name on the signboard of Bungeworgorai
railway station reminds me of a guard who
found himself in a similar predicament. He
was new to the line, and, when the train
drew in to Bungeworgorai, a station past
Roma (Q.), he realised for the first time
in his life what abo. names could be like.
He did not attempt to pronounce it, but
iust cried out, “We are there
men, if you wish to get out here.” The
unusual announcement caused the passengers
to try to read the name for themselves,
and several alighted.
* * * *
“Carel”: The expression “Buckley’s
chance” (B. 30/o/’2B) dates back to the
very early days. The Buckley referred to
was the transported soldier of that name
who escaped to the Victorian bush. It was
generally concluded that he had perished
miserably, and “Buckley’s chance” became
a proverbial expression whenever forlorn
attempts at escape were discussed, in course
of time being commonly used in reference
to any apparently hopeless undertaking. But
Buckley, as history relates, fell in with a
party of blacks, with whom he lived for over
30 years.
$ ❖ V
“Barangkali”: Tell “Pas Encore” (B.
13/6/’2B) that the bet lost by Yon Mucke
to a member of the Cocos cable staff was
paid with a British sovereign which until
times became hard adorned the watch-cliain
of an exiled cableman. After the Emdcn’s
destruction the cleaning-up party discovered
many sovereigns on the crew. “Pas Encore”
notwithstanding, there is a currency at
Cocos, but it is used entirely by the natives.
Made of a composition resembling bone,
the coins are stamped on the obverse with
the crest of the Clunies Ross family and on
the reverse with the denomination of the
coin.
if it- * #
“P.X.”: So tremendous is the speed at
which the propellers of a powerful aero-
plane revolve that coming through the
storm this side of Suva the blades of the
Southern Cross were perceptibly frayed and
their measurements appreciably reduced.
Towards the end of the war a curiosity was
preserved at the Handley-Page works—a
machine whose blades had been frayed out
till they looked like giant brooms. They had
had the bad luck to strike a heavy rainstorm
in France, and the terrific beating upon the
drops had made this mess of the wood then
employed in blade-construction.
if si: *
“S.M.” : They are still worrying in Ber-
lin about the war and why they lost it.
A new tale, by the ex-director of air
raids, is about how 20 Zeppl'ns were to
arrive over London by night, Providence
taking care that they weren’t intercepted, to
drop 6000 bombs in one grand howl, to
start over 1000 conflagrations, which would
be far too many to be handled, to reduce
the metropolis to ashes, and thus to strike
the Bull empire an irreparable blow in the
lower waistcoat. The scheme, it appears,
fell through because the tender ’art of the
Kaiser wouldn’t allow such structures as
Westminster. Abbey and St. Paul’s to be
wrecked. Considering the bombardments of
Paris and Rheims few would have suspected
him of such consideration. As a result In-
is a deposed exile, when he might be sitting
on a golden throne in the Tower of London
and drinking beer out of a priceless mug.
During 11)16 the aerial Hun really lighted
54 fires in London, despite Wilhelm’s
scruples; but the fire brigades, which are
many, hosed them out again.
S: * * *
“Bumpkin”: Touching autographs of the
mighty (B. 6/6/’2B). When Jellicoe Was
dined by the Royal Perth Yacht Club in (if
1 remember rightly) 1919, the club sec. asked
a firm of photographers to lend half a dozen
huge framed but not. glassed enlargements
of fee Iron Duke and other famous vessels
formerly under the Admiral’s command. After
the wining and the dining the chief guest
was invited to do the usual autographing of
menu cards, and while he was thus engaged
some genius suggested that he should sign the
borrowed photographs as well. He gladly
complied. First thing next morning the sec.
rang up the firm and asked it to name its
price for the pictures. Later, when it heard
about the value Jellicoe had added to them,
it went out into the back of Hay-street and
kicked itself hard.
:j: * *
“Merris” : When a girl sang “The Rosary”
at our Battalion reunion Bill pulled heavily
at his aged briar, and a dreamy, far-away
look haunted his deep-set eyes. “Too right
it brings back memories,” he muttered, but
the singer had vanished long before I could
induce him to explain. “It reminds me,” he
said plaintively, “of a ’ot bath I ’ad the
first time I went on leave to Blighty. A
bonzer ’ot bath it was! As I soaked the
trench grime outer me, the voice of some
tabby come floatin’ in through the skylight;
and that was the song she sung. No, I never
found out ’oo she was, and I ain’t ’eard the
chune since ’till ter-night, but some’ow I
never ’ave a ’ot bath without thiukin’ o’
that tabby. A bonzer little bint she must
’a’ been!”
“Kerys”: Occasionally these prohibition
deputations have un-nerving experiences.
Years ago .certain drouthy people in Napier
(M.L.) noted in .a list of passengers from
Auckland the name of Blank, a famous pro-
hibitionist, and hastily arranged to call upon
him in a body and express their admira-
tion of the good work he had done in the
Cause. The deputation was ushered into
the visitor's presence, and the leader plunged
into a lengthy dissertation on the evils of
beer and the moral depravity of brewers
ART.
“Great Heavens, Lydia — where’s the
rest of you?”
“Heaven only knows—the fellow that drew me says this is all that matters.”
and their kind. Sinking into a chair, ex-
hausted by his own eloquence, he waited
for the listener’s approbatory remarks.
“Gentlemen,” said the individual, rising,
“I have listened with deep interest to a
very able and candid discourse, but regret
that I find myself unable to agree with it.”
He paused to allow this to soak in. “I’m
Blank, the brewer.”
* :J: * . >l=
“C.Q.” : Hamilton (Vic.) has been dream-
ing Wellsian dreams of the future. The
other day a commercial traveller filled the
tank of his Moth aeroplane from one of
its main-street bowsers.
“Feng-Shui”: Touching queer currency
(B. 6/6/’2B). In large transactions the
Dusun of British North Borneo use jars.
These vessels appear to be of ancient Chinese
manufacture, and range in value up to 5000
dollars Singapore. In the course of genera-
tions hundreds of tbe descendants of an
original owner inherited
portions of individual
jars, and the resulting
litigation and inter-tribal
fights moved the Govern-
ment to pass a restrict-
ing ordinance. A Dusun
who wishes to make a
splash at his own funeral
sometimes withdraws a
jar from circulation and
is buried iu it. Some
tribes used to hang the
jar over the family hearth
until the deceased had
dissolved into clear fluid.
A hole was then bored in
the bottom of the vessel
and the liquid drunk by
all hands as a solemn sac-
rament. Nowadays a
popular brand of Japan-
ese beer is passed round
instead, and the feeling of
noliness engendered is stated to be greater.
* :[: * *
“P.M.”: “Hayband’s” friend who drinks
beer and whisky mixed (B. 30/5/’2B) must
be well seasoned in an alcoholic sense. I
know a cross-country mailman who tried the
blend with startling results. A friend gave
him an important parcel to deliver at the end
of his run, and presented him with a bottle
of whisky by way of payment. When the
bottle was half-empty he had it filled with
beer at a wayside pub. He remembers having
several goes at the mixture, but his impres-
sions of the subsequent crowded hour are con-
fused. A mile or so from his destination the
river was up in flood. The horse must have
hit a partly-submerged stump, for part of the
breeching was found caught on it. Anyway,
the gig arrived at the post-office upside down,
with one shaft missing, the traces still in-
tact and an inebriated servant of the Com-
monwealth riding on the wreckage. He had
the mailbag in one hand and the bottle of
mixed drink in the other.
* * * *
“Peria Dorei”: While scouting around
the coast of New Ireland recently I came
across traces of a white settlement at Breton
Harbor. Sixty or seventy years ago a party
of Frenchmen, headed by a nobleman, set out
to form a colony in the South Seas. After
choosing a site in New Ireland many of
them died of malaria. Others may have been
kai-kaied' by the natives, a fierce cannibal-
istic race; until, a few: years back; at all
events the attempt at colonisation proved a
failure. The relics include parts of a corn-
cruslier with the makers' name stamped in
the ironwork, “Pruvost Coudroy et Cie,
I.)ouai, 1852,” and an old-fashioned anchor
half-buried in the sand with a heavy iron
cable leading to the shore.
“Sir Vaia”: To take a theodolite into the
city streets is to invite all sorts of idiotic
remarks. I struck the limit the other day.
A man who had been intently eyeing the
instrument came over and con-
fided to me that he was a sur-
veyor, too. “Working in Mel-
bourne?” I asked. “Yes,” he
said. Then with a most solemn
look he burst out: “Tell me,
my friend, have you surveyed
the wondrous cross?” I told
him that didn’t come under th?
Real Property Act, and the con-
versation closed.
“Yardlcy”: The Gretna Green marriages
mentioned by “Regency” (B. 6/6/’2B) do not
bind the parties supposed to be wedded. In
Scottish law, as it has stood through the last
40 years at least, marriage by declaration is
binding only upon couples who have resided
in Scotland for 21 days before the declara-
tion. If elopers scurry through the Gretna
Green farce, and afterwards reside in Scot-
land as married couples, acknowledgment of
their relationship after 21 days of residence
will make them legally married; but their
position would be the same had there been no
ceremony at Gretna Green.
* * : ! :
“Gouger” : The most exciting road in the
world to negotiate was Shrapnel Gully,
before the great sap was dug. On command-
ing cliffs at the gully head waited the Turk-
ish snipers. Across the track at short dis-
tances apart we threw up sandbag traverses.
The mode of travel was to run liell-for-leather
to a wall, have a breather, sneak to the end
of the bags, bend double and take a long
breath with the fear of death in it, then
rush out and tear to the next wall, hearing
the vicious hum of bullets meant expressly
for you ! To proceed at a walk was certain
death. When platoons and troops were
goiug up it meant a mile of gasping runs,
intermixed with death-speculating halts.
Half a troop of men would rush around a
traverse and fly; the rest crouched a minute
longer, knowing that unseen rifles werq
levelled awaiting their dash from cover. And
so on, and so on. To strike a light in that
valley of death by night brought a shower of
curses from unseen comrades and sounds of
hurried scrambling to dodge the bullets that
came whistling down from the owl-eyes away
up the gully heights.
* * * :!:
“Let Go” : After half a night’s weary rid-
ing in the Jordan Valley the regiment had
lost touch, and visions of a few hours’ rest
in the camp the heads could not find faded
as the morning star rose. Disgusted, sleepy
and annoyed troopers and officers rode along
following the properly slued advance posts,
when suddenly to the left came the call,
“What regiment are you?” “We’re not a
regiment at all; we’re a mob of goats,” was
the reply of a trooper in the leading section.
The regiment had twisted like a snake, and it
was a case of the tail hailing the lead.
❖ •-!: 'A: *
“Meridian”: “The Listening-Insect” (B.
13/6/’2B) is off the track in his remarks
concerning wireless beacons. He says it
needs two wireless stations, one at each end
of the route, to operate the scheme. Only
one is required. The beam wireless has been
compared to an electric torch throwing its
divergent rays in one direction, and the
modified system which operates the beacon
is comparable to a pair of motor-car head-
lights throwing parallel beams. The neces-
sity of having the double beam is to guide
the traffic when it gets off the centre. There
must be some difference in the signal to the
right and left of the centre, otherwise the
traffic would be hopelessly lost. One beam
automatically sends dots and the other
dashes. Where they converge in the centre
the mingling signals become an uninter-
rupted buzz; they may be varied of course.
The system is extensively used in the U.S.A.
to guide the air-mails in fogs. Perfected, it
would enable ’planes to fly “blind” from one
point to another, out of one beacon into
another, and so on.
ALL OR NONE.
[For The Bulletin.]
With Mollie’s legs and Mabel’s ankle,
With Hilda’s more than haughty stares
That sometimes charm and sometimes rankle,
With such a neck as Jessie bares
To glad the eyes of great and simple,
With May’s soft whisper on the ’phone,
With Daphne’s wrist and Rita’s dimple
Together—there’s a girl to own,
I grant.
But Mollie quite forgot to taper,
And Mabel’s slim the whole way up,
And Hilda, though a queen on paper,
Walks sadly like a lanky pup,
And Jessie’s neck has nought above it,
And May is mad and Daphne’s done,
And Rita’s squint—l cannot love it....
’Tis some of all, not all of one,
I want!
MACESS.
QUEENSLAND.


“C.Q.”: A Melbourne church has a
stained-glass window dedicated to a de-
ceased citizen which bears the inscription:
“Obedient to the Last." Underneath arc
the words “Erected by his Widow.”
* * * *
“Hanno”: How little the thief receives as
his share and how fat a slice of the loot
goes to the receiver was illustrated recently
in one of the Sydney courts. The booty con-
sisted of a quantity of silk and other valuable
material, the wholesale value of which was
about £4OO. The thieves who planned and
executed the theft got £5O from the fence,
who sold it for £250. At that they did better
than if they had stolen gold watches or other
easily-identified jewellery. Such articles are
purchased by receivers only on the basis of
the value of the gold in them. In a recent
case in Sydney -in which the subject of the
charge was a gold watch worth about £5O,
it was disclosed that the thief got £3 from
the fence —a quarter of the value of the gold
in the case.
>i> * * *
“Chancery Lane”: It is surprising how
many private trustees of wills under which
the trusts go on for years fail to keep
proper accounts. Sometimes they do not
keep accounts at all. A Melbourne auditor
was lately called upon by two bewildered
gentlemen seeking help, in the preparation
of the accounts of their trusteeship. Asked
about their books, they explained that
they had never kept any. but would bring
in all the papers they had. Next day there
was delivered at his office an immense sack
containing an accumulation of rent state-
ments, letters, cheque butts and the like,
which, judging from the state of the papers,
had reposed in a place frequented by
rats. From these he was ultimately able to
prepare the necessary figures, for the trustees
in this case had kept every paper and docu-
ment received since their appointment over
20 years before.
* * * *
“Gregor” : Concerning the claims to the for-
tune alleged to have been left by Sir Francis
Drake (B. 0/6/’2B), the biographies are
void of suggestions that he was at any time
possessed of great wealth. Drake made eight
voyages to the Pacific and the Indies, but
in only three of them was any sizable
amount of booty captured, and as that be-
longed to the Crown practically every penny
of it was accounted for. In 1572 a caravan
from the silver-mines was taken on the
Isthmus of Panama, in 1577 a quantity of
gold, silver and gems was secured in a raid
on the Pacific coast of South America, and
in 1587 some gold was looted in the West
EXPLAINED.
MAUD: “I wonder what makes her so popular with the hoys?”
MABEL: “Oh, that’s easy—she keeps them so much in the dark.”
Indies and a nen Portuguese Indiaman was
ST fniu r , Way home - A s eacb cap , ture
the 8 h LZ ener i e . tl , C
rnk F * )! which detailed the
ffliHv accSftp Self n D ,°® cials had a
faiiiy accurate check on Drake’s accounting.
Moreover, it is known that when Drake
returned to England in 1576. after having
been with the Earl of Essex in Ireland lw
was pretty hard up, and it is oil record
that he was almost broke after his term in
Parliament from 1585 to 1586 and that he
continued so right up to bis death in 1595.
* * * *
“Unity”: I was standing on the verandah
when I first noticed the woman with the
carving-knife in her hand rushing down the
street. I flew to the gate, as did most
neighbors, and after a glance at her gleam-
ing weapon we all joined in the chase. We
did not know whether the murder had been
or was about to be committed, but two re-
spectable citizens on the way to the station
took no chances; with a fine turn of speed
they out-distanced her, calling lustily for
help ,as they ran. Several more opened
gates and sought sanctuary in strange
gardens. From her yells of “George! Tell
him to stop !” we gathered that the destined
victim was somewhere in the crowd ahead.
Attempts to stop the frenzied creature were
futile, and we could only hope that the
affray would not be too sanguinary. Our
hearts beat wildly as we saw her reach
George, a mild-looking young man in a
blue suit, and brandish the knife before they
disappeared round the station corner to-
gether. When we reached the scene George
had already boarded the train, arid the
young woman was taking a breather against
tli station wall. “Matter?” she said, as
soon as she could speak. “The thoughtless
man goes off while I’m carving the meat
for the kids’ breakfast and leaves me with-
out a penny. And I told him twice this
morning the sales begin to-day!”
* * * *
“The Welkin”: A historic Melbourne
building disappeared when Kirk's Horse
Bazaar in BOurke-street was recently pulled
down. It was formerly the rendezvous of
all countrymen in town. A. L. Gordon
knew it well. Some very blue-blooded prads
were auctioned at Kirk’s in the heyday of
the bazaar, but in its declining years horses
were sold there for a few bob a head. The
oldest saddlery in the city is still doing
business close by the now semi-vacant block.
Burton’s livery stable in Lonsdale-street,
one of the largest in its time, still stands,
but it has been transformed into a garage.
:N * >S *
“Oxmead” : Members of tin; House of Com-
mons, according to the cableman, are peti-
tioning Baldwin to set on foot a gigantic bit
of delving into the past, the endeavor to
obtain as complete a list as possible of the
names of all persons who have sat in this
august body since it came into existence in
1265—0 r, rather, between that date and the
Reform Act of 1832, since when it is pre-
sumably all plain sailing. The idea is to
engage a regular staff of professors and anti-
quaries, and to throw as much light as pos-
sible, not only on the identities of all those
who ever assisted in making the country’s
laws, but on the parties they belonged to
(after parties came into existence), the can-
didates they defeated, and the votes they
scored under various obsolete methods of
polling. It is not stated whether the volume,
or series of volumes, will be illustrated, but
I find myself hoping it will be, even if I
never live to see it. A spirited sketch of the
two or three electors who, according to Mac-
aulay, used to meet periodically under a tree
at Old Sarum in pre-Reform days to select
the M.P. for a long-vanished borough would
make a fine contrast to the sort of polling-
booth with which we are familiar in these
enlightened days. Australia might provide
a few interesting pictures of the same sort.
In the old days, for example, the western fifth
of N. S. Wales had variously two or three
members who were always really chosen at
Scott’s Hotel in Melbourne, the meeting-place
of the owners of the great squattages of the
West Darling—squatters who exercised
almost their last bit of political patronage
when they sent Edward Buhver Lytton
Dickens to Sydney to represent them.
* * *
“A.E.Y.”: “There’s times w’en a man can
be too clever,” said Bill the Bullock-walloper.
“’Specially w’en ’e’s dealin’ with a woman.
Take Nugget Smith, now. Nugget’s missus
was gettin’ cold towards ’im, if y’ under-
stand. _ So Nugget gets a letter writ ter
make it look as if there’s plenty o’ pebbles
on the beach, an’ leaves ees coat with the
letter lmngin’ out o’ the pocket w’ere the
“»»«« is sure to see it. w’ile ’e ’as a smoke
outsifle . Suddenly ’e ’ears a fearful noise,
an’ in ’e rushes ter see wot’s ’appened. The
„ tllo ~v o „ n > nil h.o
mi ” s . us dS taKen the axe an bioke all the
cr °ckery. smasic f { ] 11 . tbe winders, chopped
«I'the phonergraft an jumped on the records,
g® s .flp“ d „ Is F u . m ap P«t > noo
la f ie dr , o- u M? e t *es t explain its
al . ] a J oke > an she cracks lum over the nut
with the eippty rum bottle; then she goes
ter the phone an tells cr brother to come
old: c l uk ' k as , °V u:skaiuks knockin’ ’er
orbout.. the brother comes out in the.sta-
Don Lizzie an’ gives Nugget sich a ’idin’
that e as ter go ter ospital. W’en they
patches ’im up ’e as ter answer a summons
for wife-beatin’. and is bound over ter keep
the peace. ’E’s lorst ’ees job in the mean-
time, so ’e rolls ’ees swag an’ goes inter
Cunnamulla, w’ere ’e gets. a start with a
feller goiu’ ter Camooweal for a mob o’
stores. An' blow me if the missus don’t 'ave
’im arrested fer attempted desertion. Yes,
poor ol’ Nugget was a bit too clever.
* * * *
“Stan Edgar”: “Cobber” may have a
Yiddish derivation (B. 23/5/’2S), but at
least one abo. tribe used
it 30 years ago. I was
born at Ivarridale, in the
heart of Westralia’s karri
country. Babies were
rarities in that district
then, and the queen of the
tribe, now extinct, came
along to inspect me. As
my parents often told me,
“Ilim cobber boy, him
belonga my country,” she
said.
HARDER AND HARDER.
GWEN: “I find, it awfully hard to keep true to one sweetheart."
BET: “One! Why, I’ve got to be faithful to three!”
“Up North”: A time-honored custom with
Torres Strait natives is the wearing of the
“love-stick,” a little piece of wongai wood
beautifully polished, hung at the neck, and
nicked. Each nick represents the wearer’s
conquest of a lady. When he marries his
bride treasures the trophy; should he die
untimely she keeps it and howls over it.
She will even show the thing to her next
husband, if any, and boast of what an
invincible man her first was.
* * * *
“Moawhango” The suspicion which fell
upon the parson of Uyrites Creek (B.
16/5/’2B) brings to mind a gentleman of the
cloth who revelled in
London. Peter Paku
and I overstayed our
leave just when Fritz
made his final bid for
Paris and the need for
men was great. The
Johns swept through
the Shakspeare hut at
2 a.m., and half a
dozen of us with no
passes finished. our
sleep in the Maoriland
clink in Chester-row.
About 9 a.m. the door
opened, and an army
chaplain entered. We
stood to attention as
the door closed, and he
put a hand to liis tail-
pocket, but instead of
the expected volume
produced a pack of
cards. “Sit down, you
blighters!” he said;
“I’m one of you.” He
had been A.W.O.L. for
22 months. Leaving
off his uniform to go
to bed had been his
undoing; a long-ai-med
M.P. had grabbed his
papers before the argu-
ment had fa ir 1 y
started. Our convivial
friend asserted that lie
had married ’em and
christened ’em and
buried ’em during his
impei’sonation.
“Miro”: There is a Maorilander who can
also tell a tale about a German prisoner.
As lie was marched back to the lines
Fritz mopped his brow and remarked “What
a day for a sail on the Waitemata!”
lie had had a job in a German warehouse
in Auckland, and candidly said that when
the row ended he hoped to have it again.
“Larrapinta”: No doubt Capt. Woodget,
recently dead in England, was a first-rate
skipper, but lie had a wonderful ship. Years
ago one of the Cutty Sark’s old A.B.’s
told me that often, as they tore past the
Blackadder. Hallowe’en or other of the
wool-clippers, the Cutty would be only ship-
ping a light sea now and again, while the
other boat would be taking them green over
the bows. And Woodget would be walking
the poop in carpet-slippers. But the old
shellback’s favorite yarn was how they
once out-paced a mail-steamer. Off Gabo
Island the P. and O. liner Bi-itannia, on
That “ihrdriven'by’a Xtherl/busted, £
Sy at°aiKdio^
fore” the Britannia poked liei nose thiou h li
the Heads. # *
“8.J.L.”: In the days of the Melbourne
Tramway Co., when a
penny fare was charged
from Swanston street
to Spencer street, a
stout dowager boarded
the tram at St. Paul’s
and tendered a half-
crown. “I really
haven’t got a pennay,”
she explained. “Don’t
let that worry you,
mum,” was the cheer-
ful response, “you’ll
have 29 in half a jiff.”
“lan C.” : The building of the tower and
spire of St. Paul's Anglican Church, Kyneton
(Vic.), reminds me of an incident I witnessed
in the venerable chapel 40 years or more
ago. A daughter of the late William Mit-
chell, president of the House of Landlords
and sister of the K.C. who now leads the
Bar, was to be married to the man of her
choice at 3.15 in the afternoon, and her girl
friends had turned the nave into a fairy-
bower. Mimite after minute passed, and
there was no sign of the wedding party,
which had to come from Barfold, the country
seat of the Mitchells. At four o’clock scouts
reported that the carriage had not been seen
by recent arrivals by buggy or on horseback.
Another couple who had been waiting to be
spliced at 4.15 were therefore summoned to
the altar, and they had all the glory of the
decorations for the knight’s daughter and
all the Mitchell guests, except the family
party, as spectators. If I remember rightly
this pair did not own jointly £4O. but they
had a grand wedding. The other bride
arrived about 4.25. There had been a break-
down of a landau on the way.
Eureka”: I know a man who is such a
sound sleeper that an ordinary alarm-clock
is useless to him. He has hit on the idea
of making his alarm-clock co-operate with
another mechanism to drag him from his
slumbers. The alarm is set for the desired
hour, and immediately the alarm-key begins
to unwind it releases the brake on the
adjacent gramophone. A noisy jazz-band
record is left in the latter overnight.
“E.M.F.” : The phenomenon that one man
, 1 come into contact with conductors
charged to thousands of volts and survive
while another will be killed on the ordinary
domestic supply of 240 volts (B. 9/5/’2S)
is mainly due to the particular portions of
the body that make contact and the condition
of the skni surface at the points of contact.
A circuit has to be completed through the
body, and if the heart lies between the points
ofconact thedanger i s greatest. Contact
with tile left hand and an “earth” on the
left foot would perhaps be the worst con-
dition. as the victim’s heart would be in
the direct path of the current. The other
linpoitant factor is the manner in which
contact is made. A brushing contact with
the conductor would not be nearly so serious
as gripping it with hands moist from per-
spiration or water. It is not the mere fact
of the pressure being high that kills, but the
current it is capable of forcing through the
body. Quite recently at the newly-completed
Bin unjuck power-station a man came in
contact with a 66,000-volt conductor-and
lived. Contact was made at the thigh, and
™™i rCU V°n PIe H trough the foot to
g"; nd. The heart being well out of the
th ® current, death did not occur,
though the Mctim s leg was badly burned.
THE TENSE PRESENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet-and-twenty, years agone,
Used her girlish wiles;
Swam and languished in the dance,
Checking love's too fond advance;
Then —forgiveness in her glance—
Luring on with smiles.
Queen Victoria’s reign long passed,
Under George the king
Gladys, thoroughly alive,
Knows how many beans make five;
Mating early, loath to wive,
She must have her fling.
Is the past to be preferred?
Not so, I protest!
Amaryllis ’neath the shade
Waits you fittingly arrayed.
Take your choice ’twixt maid and maid—
That which is is best!
W.A.
NEBO.
THE SATISFIED PHILOSOPHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I long had sought out peace of mind
And sickened in the quest;
No creed I tested gave relief,
No hard work brought me rest.
For me no more the thought-starred night,
Nor hopeful, pregnant morn ;
Serene and calm, feet first I go
On six men’s shoulders borne.
VICTORIA.
P.B.


mmrnm
m
H H
■
i^n
■ B 3 m
fragrance
and ffaVour
freshness
and favour
In fact, from
A
/A\
W CIGARETTES
are unsurpassed


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE LATEST ROSS MODEL
New x 7 Ross Glasses, complete
in brown leather sling case,
£l5/15/-
New 7 Power, Screw Focussing,
Extra Wide Field
BINOCULARS
The famous English manufacturers,
Ross, lead the world to-day in optical
productions. This latest model is a
veritable triumph. Special prisms and
a new type of eye-piece give a much
wider field of view than other glasses
of similar magnification. Improved
focussing convenience. Thus a much
larger area may be observed and
objects located and followed with
complete ease.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENTS—
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Sight-testing Opticians, 23 & 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Fincjt Inland Golf”
Link/inAu/tralia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
’n Australia the
Mbnagement—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lyon and Warner, navigator and wireless-
man, were to get £lOO each per day while
they were working for Kingsford Smith and
Ulm. But the job was to end at Fiji.
Prime Minister Bruce and at least eight
of his eleven Ministerial colleagues are Aus-
tralian born. Bruce, 45 (youngest of the
Cabinet), Att.-Gen. Latham, nearly 51. and
P.M.G. Gibson, 59, were born in Vie. Trea-
surer Earle Page, 48 next Aug., and Honor-
ary-Minister Major Marr, 48 last March,
are natives of the Ma State. Defence-Minister
Major-Gen. Glasgow, 52, is a Queenslander.
Pearce, 58, and McLachlan, 55, are natives of
S. Aus. Minister for Works Hill, 62, Major-
Gen. Neville Ilowse, 4 r .C., 64. and Minister
for Markets Paterson, 46, were born in tin 1
Gold Country.
Dealers in Masonic regalia found business
suddenly brisk last week when the Ma State
fraternity rushed to prepare themselves for
the installing of Lord Stonehaven as Grand
Master of the United Grand Lodge. John
Goulston stepped down only a peg to give
the G.-G. a place; he became pro-Grand
Master. Carrington, who died recently in
HENRY SIMPSON NEW LAND, the
South Australian surgeon, who got his
K.B. in this year’s Birthday Honors.
England, was the first peer to hold the chief
Masonic position in N.S.W. Stonehaven is
the first Gov.-Gen. to fill a Grand Master’s
chair in Australia.
J. S. Garden and Bowie Wilson, the
lawyer who is trying to get him sent to gaol
for a few years, have one thing at least in
common—each finds himself doing a different
job from that with which he began his work-
ing life. Garden was a sort of parson, of the
Church of Christ; Bowie Wilson was a min-
ing engineer, and so successful a one that
on his last job he had charge of under-
ground work at the then great Mt. Morgan.
“Jupp” Gardiner,” the old political war-
horse who galloped in ahead of the Lang
faction’s hack as choice of the N.S.W. Par-
liament for the recent Senate vacancy, holds
a record for long-distance speech ' in the
Federal Parliament that cannot be beaten.
“Jupp” spoke for 11 hours 45 minutes on
an amendment of the Electoral Act to pro-
vide for preferential voting. He commenced
at 10.5 p.m. on Nov. 13, 1918, and finished
at. 10.35 a.m. next day. After a preliminary
canter lie read the clauses of the bill one by
one—more than 200 of them! On the
ground of ill-health he got permission to
make his speech sitting down. There was
a break of three-quarters of an hour at
midnight for supper, and on resumption
Pearce made him continue standing up.
Breakfast time came, but Pearce wouldn’t
agree to an adjournment. Afterwards
standing orders were altered limiting the
time for speeches, so “Jupp’s” record must
stand. Eighty pages of “Hansard” enshrine
it.
Australians who form their opinions of
the world on such evidence of it as they see
on the screen must have been amazed over
America’s good showing in the Kingsford
Smith flight. Backing a man on the strength
of something he hopes to do, and then wiping
out the pretty considerable debt because lie
does it, is at the least princely—a generosity
which the screen-educated do not associate
with the States. Similar remarks may be
made in regard to the modesty of Lyon, who
did the important job of navigating on the
flight, and Warner, the radio operator, who
gave his panama hat to the city of Sydney.
Both these young men have indicated that
the higher honors of the flight belong to
Smith and Ulm; Lyon, in fact, stated that
lie and Warner came on from Suva as the
“guests” of the Australian pair, which is
classic in its way.
There will be nine new members out of
30 in the Speck’s Assembly. Only one, J.
G. Newton, did not ask to be re elected, and
.J. F. Ockerby, alderman and ex-mayor of
Launceston, takes his place in Bass. In
Franklin Peter Murdoch (Ind. Nat.) lost
his seat to B. J. Pearsall, an orchardist, and
Sheridan (Lab.) lost his seat to 11. S.
Baker (Nat.). In Wilmot, Palnmountain and
Shoobridge (Lab.) were replaced by .J. A.
Jenson (who got mixed up in the Shaw
wireless business) and E. J. Ogilvie, brother
of ex-Attorney-General Albert; and Norman
Cameron (Ind.) was replaced by I’. C.
Best (Nat.). In Denison Laborites Gulley
and Cleary were dropped for E. Dwyer Gray
(editor of the Voice, the Speck's Labor
weekly) and C. W. Grant (Nat.), who lost
his seat at the last State election, was a
stop-gap Senator for a few months and then
left out in the cold at the last Federal
election. In Darwin, Lane (Lab.), lost his
seat to F. M. Medwin (Lab.), a North-West
Coast farmer. Twelve candidates dropped
their sinkers of £l5.
The fall in the price of lead and zinc
killed Thomas Henry Palmer, who died of
poison, self-administered, in Melbourne the
other day. Palmer was managing-director
of the South Comet Zinc-Lead Mine, whose
affairs were wound up recently with a loss
of £52,000. For a long time Palmer fought
a back-to-the-wall contest for his concern,
but the market was too much for him. Be-
fore he crossed to Tasmania lie-managed the
Junction North at Broken Hill and bad luck
hit him several blows while he was there.
It is one of the penalties of performing an
outstanding air feat to have the snobbish
press of an alleged democratic country whin-
ing that you ought to be bracketed among
the luminaries of rather varied brilliance
who are able to call themselves “Sir.” It
happened to Hinkler, and it has happened
worse than ever to Smith and Ulm; and the
three of them, poor chaps, have received
only the Air Force Cross, which fliers
during the war reckoned as high as any
honor going. The award to Smith and Ulm
was made during the week-end.
Tom Walsh lost a mother-in-law when
Mrs. Pankhurst died in England the other
day —although “advanced,” she was still too
much a woman to give her age to any
authority who could record it. Mrs. Pank-
hurst made a name for herself by social work
in Manchester, where her husband did most
of his work as a barrister, before she and
her three daughters burst upon the world as
militant suffragists. Once, during the suffrage
riots, the mother manacled herself to the
railings in Hyde Park so as to prevent arrest.
During the disagreement with Fritz she put
as much enthusiasm into war work as she
had ever put into the suffrage agitation.
Dr. M. J. O’Reilly, of St. John’s, Sydney
Uni., who has been selected by the R.C.
bishops of N.S.W. to write the life of
Cardinal Moran, is a picturesque penman
with at least one book of verse to his
credit. He knew his subject intimately.
Mrs. W. 11. Groom, widow of IV. 11.
Groom, for many years Speaker of the
Queensland Assembly and mother of Little-
ton Groom, Speaker of the House of Reps.,
has just passed her 90th year. Out of the 6!)
years that Queensland has had responsible
government her husband and son have repre-
sented Toowoomba in State and Federal
legislatures for a continuous stretch of 67
years. Her brother, the late John Littleton,
of Crows Nest (Q.), lived to 95, and a sister,
Mrs. F. Mole, left So summers behind her.
A member of the Australian-Scottish dele-
gation abroad who could be a pretty fair
immigration agent is James Davidson, of
Woonona (N.S.W.). Arriving in that coaly
spot 40 years ago, he started business with
a covered cart; now he owns one of the
largest store-businesses on the South Coast.
“Mercedes”: The day after Kingsford
Smith’s arrival, he got away from the howl-
ing mob long enough to meet a pal at the
W. G. MAHONY, who has been explaining
to Judge Scholes how he came to quit
his seat in the Reps, in favor of Theo-
dore. A lot of money did, he admitted,
fall into his hands some time ago, but
it came from backing horses.
Quay and take him off! for a quiet one. They
hadn’t been there ten minutes when a com-
mittee approached and explained that it was
collecting for a presentation for K. Smith
and co. As others have done in like cir-
cumstances, he subscribed to his own present
rather than Have the peace interrupted.
Twenty-five years ago N. S. Wales had
two well-known clerics who liked prospecting
for metals as well as digging for souls—
Father Curran and the Rev. Patrick Mor-
rison Flinn. The latter was an Anglican,
and it was in Cornwall that he got bitten
by the bug that consumes the digger. Com-
ing _ to Australia he presently worked the
parish of Lake George when mining boomed
there ; and he was a happy man. Of late
years he had been living at Mosman, where
the sun went down when he was 79.
Passed over at the age of 90 at Whan-
garoa (M.L.) the other day, Mrs. Catherine
Stewart, sister of Bully Hayes, who started
his nefarious career as the skipper of a small
but fast schooner which traded between
Whangaroa and Auckland. His ostensible
trading was legitimate enough, but there
was a little island .off Whangaroa which
Hayes used as a depot for smuggled goods.
When at last the -revenue officers discovered
his lair, Hayes eluded capture and betook
himself to the more spacious horizons of the
South Seas. His father before this had paid
fines amounting to £2OO to keep Bully out of
gaol, so the family wasn’t, sorry to see the
last of him. His sister, who was twice mar-
ried. had eight children; and 75 grand-
children and 26 great grandchildren had been
grafted on this branch of the Hayes family-
tree when the old lady went to rest.
Henry Madden, who died in Melbourne
the other day, was one of four brothers
wlio left their mark on Victoria. Two of
the family landed knighthoods—John and
Frank, both lawyers. John rose to be C.J.
and Lieut.-Governor, and Frank was a
Speaker in the Assembly. Walter became
manager of the National Trustees Company
and a Minister for Lands. Henry was for
years the biggest Victorian exporter of
horseflesh to India.
“R. Volt”: I met 11. M. Collins, who
fell dead in a Melbourne street recently,
in many parts of the world. As Baron de
Reuter’s right-hand man he travelled over
the globe on important commissions. As
the cable companies expanded through the
Levant, into Turkey, across the Red Sea to
India, Australia and China, Collins followed
them and set up Reuter's agencies. So per-
vasive was their service to cable-users that
thousands of business men still believe that
Reuter’s own the cables. They don t own
any; they merely accept messages to any
spot on the planet, at the ordinary rates,
boil them down, code them, lump them to-
gether and fire the wad into the telegraph
offices right in the middle of the daily rush.
The commission on this service and banking
and news collection are what built up the
Reuter millions. The amazing news organi-
sation is another legacy Collins helped to
leave. It is impossible for a Chinaman to
murder a missionary in a remote hamlet in
Kansu without a Reuter emissary being on
the spot. One of Collins’s biggest jobs was
to land a railway concession in 1872 from tie*
Shah of Persia plus a deposit of £40,000
The concession was repudiated later, but
the Baron kept the deposit.
The Wildman family of M.L. have three
generations on the sea, in the service of the
Anchor Co. Capt. W. Wildman, who has
been 52 years with the co., commands the
Arahara, and his son, Capt. A. Wildman,
skippers the Ngair. father and son main-
taining the daily Wellington-Nelson service.
Capt. A. Wildman’s son is also on an Anchor
boat.
A pioneer of Cowra (N.S.W.), Robert
Anderson, who died there the other day
near the 80 mark, was also a pioneer reader
of The Bulletin, of which lie left a file
dating from the first issue. The old gentle-
man went to Cowra when he was seven
and lived there 70 years.
Just dead in Queensland, A. J. Goldsmith,
who at 20 had charge of the baby State’s
Harbors and Rivers Department for a time.
Later he managed the engineering works of
Walker and Co., Maryborough; then lie. be-
came chief engineer to the Rockhampton Har-
bor Board. lie was 80 at the end.
Brisbane’s Crown Solicitor in succession
to tin' late F. W. 1 lickson is F. O’Rourke, a
sound advocate, wjio has lately been appear-
ing for Miss Wall in the charges concern-
ing an alleged £BOOO embezzlement from the
Perdriau Co. lie will have the right of
private practice.
Brisbane University lost an old friend
through the death of Justice Patrick Real;
lie sat on a Royal Commission appointed in
1891 to inquire into the establishment of a
Queensland University. Eighty-one years old
when he died, he started life in the workshops
of the Q. railways, but studied law and
was 44 (young for those times) when he
secured his judgeship. On the Bench he
proved himself a sound lawyer if a talkative
one.
Consecrated the other day as first bishop
of tile new diocese of Northern Melanesia,
Canon Wilton will have the whole of the
mandated territory (German New Guinea)
to look after. Beginning his studies at Tri-
nity College, Melbourne ’Varsity, he finished
off at St. Paul’s, Sydney, and later was
Precentor of Sydney St. Andrew’s. Going to
Bathurst, he became canon and sub-dean of
the cathedral there. ' His new diocese doesn’t
as yet boast a church.
lan Gall's impression of CAPT. KINGS-
FORD SMITH on the morning he
landed at Brisbane.
.John Hosking. the knight who retired
from the M.L. Supreme Court bench about
three years ago, lately passed on. Admitted
to the Bar in 1875, he became K.C. in 1907,
being appointed to the Bench seven years
later. lie was chairman of the War Pensions
Appeal Board, and headed a commission
which looked deeply into the affairs of the
Shivery Islands’ Public Trust Office.
POPPIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Their graveyard rest is not disturbed
By whirring ’plane or booming gun ;
The poppies that grow over them
Are, like them, sleepy in the sun ;
The very air seems to distil
An anodyne for every ill.
To have sucked life till it was dry,
And rest in no forbidden field
Beneath the banner of the flowers,
Where more is dreamed of than revealed,
’Tis to have come to a royal end,
And found the earth indeed a friend.
And so their dust, immediate mould,
Is sacred to the flowers that blow,
As if. as erst in Eden, they
Did in a faery meadow grow,
And with the dead men dreaming knew
That death itself’s an Eden, too.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


CAPTAIN BRUCE ANNEXES ANTARCTICA.
“Mr. Bruce has been urged to forestall other nations and induce the British Government to consent to Australian occupation of the Antarctic continent.”


Kl 9
KRAFT CHEESE IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Kraft Cheese is made in Australia by Australians and it
conforms in every way to the Food Laws of Australia. It
is the finest, cleanest and most flavorsome cheese known.
f
Kraft Cheese, clean and
wholesome, cuts easily into
smooth golden slices for
sandwiches.
"€4:
*p
r;
a*
ss
t»
s&sS
e
m
yjt
3
I
Just tightJor
AUSTRALIA
Kraft Cheese is sold
by weight or in %lb.
cartons by all grocers
and storekeepers.
CHEESE has made the healthy
practice of cheese eating a very great
pleasure for both young and old.
Kraft Cheese is wrapped in tinfoil so that no
hands touch it until you get it. The vitamins,
the mineral salts and the proteins are there in
abundance, the flavor is unimpaired and
every bit can be eaten. There is no rind and
no waste.
Eat some Kraft Cheese every day.
m
■X00&
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Pty., Ltd., Grand
Central House, 270
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.; Riverside
Avenue. Melbourne,
Victoria.
Kraft Cheese is uniform and consistent in quality and
flavor. The tinfoil wrapping keeps it from exposure to
the impurities of the air and the dangers of continuous
handling. From the first process of manufacture until
it reaches you it is absolutely clean.
EAT KRAFT CHEESE—TRY IT THIS WAY TO-DAY
CHEESE AND APPLE PIE—In certain parts of England it is
the custom to eat cheese with apple pie, and the combination is a
very piquant one. The cheese a!:o gives certain desirable, healthful
and sustaining food qualities which apple pie by itself lacks.
KRAFT CHEESE SOUFFLE. — Ingredients—\ cup Kraft Cheese,
grated, } cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 eggs, \ cup flour. Method—
Prepare a white sauce with flour, butter and milk, add cheese and
cook, stirring until thick. Add yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to
taste. Mix carefully and fold in stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs.
Turn into greased baking dish and set in a pan of water in a hot
oven. Bake until firm.
KRAFT CHEESE PUFF. — Ingredients —Jib. Kraft Cheese, grated,
8 slices bread, 4 eggs, 1 quart milk. Method —Butter slices of bread
and place flat in baking dish. Between slices put cheese and salt
and pepper to taste. Beat eggs in milk, pour over bread, sprinkle
cheese on top and bake in moderate oven for half an hour. Serve
immediately.
KRAFT HAM-CHEESE PlE.— lngredients —fib. cold boiled ham,
1 cup Kraft Cheese, grated. Method —Place slice of ham in pie-
dish, sprinkle with grated cheese. Repeat this, alternating layers
of ham and cheese until ham is used up. Place in hot oven long
enough to heat through and melt cheese—about 10 minutes. Serve,
cutting like pie.
“CHEESE AND WAYS TO SERVE IT.” This is the title of a book of recipes, beauti-
fully illustrated in color, copies of which are free. Send a lid. stamp to cover postage
and we will forward your copy at once.
CUT OUT AND POST TO NEAREST ADDRESS,
KRAFT WALKER CHEESE CO. PTY, LTD.,


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne. Sydney, and
97 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation-
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank, offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Workers* Compensation.
BEFORE YOU RENEW YOUR POLICY
LET US QUOTE YOU!
SAME OR BETTER SERVICE FOR LESS MONEY IS
A BUSINESS PROPOSITION .
SAVE ON OVERHEAD—OUR LOW PREMIUMS HELP YOU TO DO SO.
WE ’ SPECIALISE IN
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION!
COVER NOTES ISSUED TO INQUIRERS IMMEDIATELY, IF REQUIRED.
LIFE, FIRE, ACCIDENT, PLATE-GLASS, MOTOR-CAR
AND ALL BRANCHES OF INSURANCE.
The Community General Assurance Co., Ltd.,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telegrams; “COMMUNITY,” SYDNEY. ’Phone (2 lines): 8W6562, 8W658C.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Princess Charming ’
Royal (com. next Saturday) “Scandal ’
Criterion “Our Betters ’
Palace (com. next Saturday) “Nice People’
Empire “Top Hole”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Opera
Royal “The Girl Friend”
King’s (com. next Saturday) “The Patsy”
Comedy “Rookery Nook”
Atiien.eum “The Luck of the Navy’ -
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic " Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
The cynicism of “Our Betters,” which
introduced Margaret Bannerman at the Syd-
ney Criterion on Saturday, could not have
been more ruthless and bitter had Somerset
Maugham written it under the goad of a per-
sonal grudge. Margaret Bannerman is
brilliantly unmoral as Pearl, Lady George
Grayson, a woman totally devoid of feeling;
another of the successes is Mayne Lynton, as
the fatuously-enamored Arthur Fenton, who
(her £BOOO per annum being insufficient)
places at her disposal the money he has made
out of poisoning America with cheap foods.
Maidie Hope, as a Duchess who has conveni-
ently disposed of the Frenchman who pro-
vided her title, and who now consoles
herself with a sequence of young male,
demi-mondes, provides the bulk of the
play’s comedy. Geoffrey Millar handles the
perfect cad, who is the Duchess’s present
attachment, adroitly; and Francis Lister is
the American snob, Thornton Clay, whose
ambition is to be taken for an Englishman.
Maugham has treated with a much kinder
hand Lord Bleane and two or three others.
The staging is worthy of the polished per-
formance.
The political opinions of Tlieo Hill (ex-
N.S.W. M.L.A.) and some remarkable
soldierly qualities fell like a mantle on Allan
Wilkie when, at the Newtown (Sydney)
Majestic last Saturday, he proceeded to be
Ooriolanus. Wilkie’s disdain for the plebs
was inclined to be volcanic, rather than lofty,
the resulting character being one who was
more looking for trouble than having it forced
upon him. His death, too, was an abrupt
affair; but otherwise Wilkie gave good weight
to the part. Lorn a Forbes was an excel-
lently fiery Volumnia; MiSs Hunter-Watts
was appealing as the tender wife Virgilia;
RENEE DIXON, in “Top Hole,” at the Sydney Empire.
Alexander Marsh the envious Aufidius, and
John Cairns the amiable Menenius Agrippa.
“Twelfth Night” will be revived to-day
(Wednesday), and on Saturday Julius
Cresar will fall beneath the knife. This is
the third month of the season, arid the
business has been so good that there is
probably regret in some quarters that
Wilkie’s request for a season in a city
theatre was not given kindlier consideration.
Miles Malleson, author of “The Fanatics,"
which the Playbox eo. presented last week
for what should be a long sequence of Wed-
nesday-night performances, has confined the
doctrinaire's tendency to preachiness well
within the limits of good play-construction.
In the second act, certainly, there is what
resembles a chapter from Dr. Marie Stopes’s
“Married Love,” done into dialogue on the
Sandford and Merton principle; but the
discussion is made interesting by the con-
trast of three feminine characters —one can-
didly admitting indiscretions, another eager
for knowledge, and the third suffering shocks
to her conventional ideas that make for
good comedy. There is much argument
against a loosening of matrimonial chains
inducing an orgy of licentiousness amongst
the ignorant, and in the last act reformer
John Freeman (Duncan Macdougall) is
seen giving three cheers when his sister
(Freda McGhee) declines to marry Colin
Mackenzie (J. M. C. Boult) until she has
lived with him for a probationary period.
Macdougall, although not suitably cast as
the fanatical John, gives force and enthusi-
asm to his arguments. Jack McFadyen, as
the irascible father, creates a good measure
of comedy, Zelma Bernstein brightly repre-
sents John’s feminine indiscretion, and
Mary Charles (Margaret Heal) is sympa-
thetic as a strong-minded young woman who
has not let convention stand in the way of
her amorous enjoyments.
Losing Mayne Lynton, one of the essen-
tial props of “The Last Warning,” the
Muriel Starr co. shelved that pibcc in favor
of a revival of “The Donovan Affair” last
Saturday. Mayne Lynton’s place as the
householder was moderately filled by Fred
Francis, and Loris Bingham played Ruth
Linsey in place of Nancye Stewart. On
Saturday “Nice People” will take the
Donovans’ place at Sydney Palace.
The Williamson-Melba opera is now to
open at Sydney Majesty’s with “Aida” on
July 7.
On Saturday Leon Gordon will revive
“Scandal,” the play by Cosmo Hamilton
which caused a shock in days before bedroom
scenes had become common. The farm con-
ducted by “The Rudd Family” at Sydney
Grand Opera House is raising crops of coin
for Steele Rudd and Bill Anderson. The
three musical comedies —“Princess Charm-
ing,” at Her Majesty’s; “Rio Rita,” at the
St. James ; and “Top Hole,” at the Empire,
—-remain unchanged.
S*S ❖ $
The boy pianist, Shura Cherkassky, who
excited the United
States, is to pre-
sent his knicker-
bockered person at
the Sydney Town
Hall on June 30
and some subse-
quent nights.
“Ace High*”
produced at the
Sydney Tiv'oli by
the Ivelso bro-
thers as one com-
plete half of the
programme, is a
trump card. Joe
and Harry Kelso,
two of the bright-
est patterists seen
for a long time,
are the plums of
the pudding, the
ing r e dien ts of
which include
Katz's saxophone
band.
George Wallace
has slapped the
title “Some Night”
on the latest fri-
volity at Fullers’
Theatre (Sydney).
A laughable show.
Hoyt's De Luxe
(Sydney) has a
gay comedy in
“The Latest from
Paris.” “The
Trill piph of the
Ilat,” a well-pro-
duced British film,
is also on the bill.
“Wings” takes its
flight from the Re-
gent after Friday
to let in “The
Ganclio” Douglas Fairbanks disguised
as a Spanish Version of Robin Ilood. “The
Garden of Eden.” screened. at the Capitol,
is pure flapper-food. The Haymarket has
the Humphrey Bishop revue co. to fill in a
portion of the time; it still gives two big
films. “The Pioneer Scout,” at the. Lyceum,
is a good picture of Wild West pioneering.
The Crystal Palace keeps to “Uncle Tom's
Cabin.”
John Brownlee was the reason why the
Williamson-Melba people staged Massenet's
“Thais” for the first time in Australia,
As Athanael that early-Ghristian example
of the wowser, the Geelong boy dithered the
Parisians, and a crammed His Majesty’s
was equally dithered on Saturday. In the
austere hut well-fitting robes of a desert-
living elder, he eloquently exhorted Lina
Scavizzi, as the famous courtesan of Alex-
.andria, to abandon
her evil courses and
join him in holy
meditation in the
wilderness. Brown-
lee was perfectly in
place. His handsome,
earnest face, long
brown locks and
beard suggestive of a
latent dandyism, were
an instant passport
to the understanding
of his audience, who
could see more clearly
than the objectionable
monk himself that his
pious solicitude for
Tliais’s soul was
really a suppressed
yearning- for her love-
ly body. After firing
Thais's palace in
Alexandria, without
causing any resent-
ment even * in fire-
insurance circles in
that city, he departed
with the lady to a
sketchy oasis in the
desert, followed by
the envious curses of
her late customers.
There she died of
fasting arid penance
just as his heart was
awaking to her carnal
beauty. It is easy
to see why Massenet’s
opus has seldom been
heard of since its first
production in 1894.
The music is cold to
the point of frigidity.
Thais and Athanael
are never once in love
with each other, in
the earthly sense, at
the same instant. But psychologically it is
deeply interesting. The performance was
excellent.
“Tales of Hoffman” was not Very grand
opera as presented by the Williamson-Melbas
in Melbourne last week. As the mechanical
doll, Toti' dal Monte was, of course, delightful.
The voice which emerged from the moonlike
visage wore the queer unearthly aloofness
of a radio broadcast, yet had the sug-
gestion that a thousand years or so of evolu-
tion might turn it into something nearly
human. Her gait was the perfection of
automatised motion, and the eerie impres-
sion that here was actually a thing of
springs and wheels come to life was en-
hanced by the incomparable way Luigi Cilia,
that excellent small-part actor, followed the
thing round in an agony of solicitude and
trepidation. Granforte began as Coppolius,
the thaumaturgist, and turned up again as
Dappertutto, the magician, and anon as
Mirakel, the doctor, when he looked like the
corpse from a neighboring mystery play
enjoying a busman’s holiday. Vera Bedford
gave to the living picture a strong, clear and
resonant vocal organ. Except over these,
The Bulletin failed to get excited. Offen-
bach's slender opera struggles rather despe-
rately to keep its place in the modern reper-
toire, and the Williamson-Melbas appear to
have done their best to give it its quietus by
staging it hastily and casting it badly. The
frothblowers* chorus sang well, however, and
the Barcarolle was rendered w r ith full syrup.
Moreover, a season which has to its credit
magnificent performances of “Aida,” “Tosca,”
“Turandot” and “Manon,” among others, has
nothing to be ashamed of.
For the first time in the Firm’s history
an Australian work is to be intruded into
a grand-opera season. Fritz Hart’s “Deirdre
in Exile” will replace “0. Rusticana” as
savory to “I Pagliacci” on June 22. Small,
volatile Fritz will wield the baton, and
Lilian Crisp, v r ho is a Victorian, will take
Deirdre, as she did in the amateur produc-
tion at the Playhouse in 1026. John Brown-
lee will throw his vocal weight into the
part of King Concliubor, and presumably
the monarch will be supplied with an
adequate army. In the Playhouse show
he was reduced to the expediency of loudly
ordering the alleged horde to stay outside
on the doorstep when he entered his palace.
* * * :l:
“Good News,” at Melbourne Princess, pur-
ports to tell, in music-comedy language, the
truth, the whole truth and nothing like the
truth about American co-education. It
appears to be a sort of mixed baby-farming.
Girls spend much of their time under boys
beds, though the consequences are far trom
serious. As a plantation of waving limbs
verdured with smiling faces the piece gets
this paper’s endorsement. Edith Murray
and Dorothy Merritt (a quaint little peison)
are notable among the dancers. Victoria
Regal has a queenly high kick and Hal
Baker is a bright lad. The Australian
orchestra abandons the boiled shirt of com-
JENNIFER WYNNE, who plays Mistress Quickly and other
character parts with the Allan Wilkie Shakspearean Co.
merce for football jerseys and low-comedy
Stetsons, these being more in keeping with
the occasion.
* * * . *
At Melbourne Athenaeum Lieut. Percy
Hutchison, R.N., V.C.. will unmask Ger-
man spies until further orders from the
public. “The Luck of the Navy” bears all
the marks of having been hastily written
for a special and ephemeral market. It is
easier to imagine the enthusiasm of a
don audience in wartime for the giglot than
to work up a present head of steam for it.
Townsend Whitling, Watts Weston, Steuart
West, Frances Dillon and Stella Francis
help pile up the necessary agony.
“Rookery Nook” is gently simmering at
Melbourne Comedy. The audience accepts
the excellent but prolonged fooling of Basil
Radford and Hastings Lynn with resigna-
tion. The 16-year-old Australian acquisi-
tion, Donalda Warna, as the pyjamaed in-
nocent who breaks into a bachelor estab-
lishment, is fresh and sincere and light as
a summer cloud: and the years should add
depth to her acting. In this Showman’s
experience no woman can perform ingenue
parts convincingly until she is well into the
forties.
Sir F'rank Neil—this paper is merely
looking ahead—continues to give the public
what it wants in “Please Get Married” at
Melbourne Palace. The Royal is still engaged
for “The Girl Friend” every evening.
A good variety show being an agreeable
novelty in Adelaide, that temporarily at
the Royal is going well. Especially is the
ape turn on a good wicket, for if the ani-
mals do as they should all is well, and if.
as often happens, they do as they shouldn’t,
the audience is still better pleased. “Three
Live Ghosts,” at the P. of Wales, Ims the
spoken drama all to itself. Uproariously
funny are Fields and Conkiin, at Wonder-
graph, in “Two Flaming Youths.” “The
King of Kings,” at West’s, has made the
religious side of Adelaide surprise itself by
giving a verdict almost unanimously in
favor.
“Cramer”: An interesting curiosity in
“Turandot” is the song “Signore Ascolta,”
sung by the slave-girl Liu, after which the
audience stands up under the impression
.that it is paying respect to old Puccini’s
last dying strains. Actually the tune, minus
the dead composer’s Italian orchestration, is
a genuine Chinese song, “Sian Chok,” which
was translated into the European notation
by a Shanghai missionary 70 years ago.


Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
m
For the executive type of man only, we have
published rather an unusual booklet called
"Forging Ahead in Business.” It contains a
concise description of the Institute’s work,
besides business facts of interest to mature
men. Have your secretary write us for a com-
plimentary copy, or use this advertisement.
Name
Business Address
Modern
WHICH COUNTS MOST?
First Cost or Cost of Upkeep?
buying exactly the right belt for its purpose may cost a little more in the first place, but
it is genuine economy in the long run.
We make a type of Leather Belt for every purpose—each the finest in its class.
PIONEER CHROMOL
COMBINA PLATYPUS
Every belt bearing one of these Ludowici trade-marks is fully guaranteed—and backed by
70 years of belt manufacturing experience.
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers Since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street. Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane ;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland ;
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
& ’ ’
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
1918 £249,987 £68,985 15 p.c. = £105,411 £690,630
Transferred 10 Capital, £70,273 . . 620,357
1919 222,950 68,338 15 p.c. = 115,951 059,018
1920 161,039 66,960 15 „ „ 115,951 ( fil9l
Drought exes, written oft', £25,000 J ’
Premiums on new shares, £35,960 648,106
1921 119,427 65,614 10 p.c. - 84,493 617,426
1922 237,039 65,641 15 „ „ 137,527 651,297
Harrison, Jones anti Devlin, Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares .. £37,500 688,797
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c. = 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares £186,113 976,055
1925
Premiums on new shares, £187,500 .. 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,909
1927 373,377 63,091 15 ~ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. - 287,500 1,805,635
Ahout halt-way through the term a quarter-
million of new capital was got 111 at a
premium of los. per share. 1 hat made paid
capital £2,000,000, of which £1,033,151 was
subscribed in the last five years, and reserves
benefited by £187,500 of share premiums.
th e totai so contributed since 1924
£561,113. The premium—-15s. per share on
tlm last three issues—puts a different com-
plexion on the 15 per cent, dividend. It
means that the new capital is costing the
co only Si p.e. Last year average capital
and reserves combined netted exactly that
rate comijared with .) p.c. in the previous
year. i hat was after allowing for th
debenture interest there is £1,428,62- of
debentures carrying 4 p.c and 5 p.c On
capital alone the net profit (£311,880) was
10.3 p.c. compared with 17.7, 18.9, 21.8 and
23.3 p.c. back to 1924, when wool brought
record prices and fat commission earnings.
But of course the new capital couldn't be
expected to earn at the same rate as the
old million, H may presently.
The co. is still a pretty big woolgrowex,
and its properties have had, on thc whole, a
very fair experience lately. Incidentally,
about three-quarters of Queensland's pastoral
areas are in a good, healthy condition. The
other quarter of Queensland, the Vic Mallee
and a bit of S. Aus. and N. S. Hales have had
a bad spin, but the greater part of Aus-
tralia—and the co.’s interests spread over the
whole continent—lias enjoyed a succession
of good seasons. The last wool clip was not
so bulky as the previous one, but prices,
especially for cross-bred, strengthened, and
altogether it was one of the most satisfac-
tory seasons experienced for a long while.
scoured and greasy fleece averaged
£lo 6s. 9d. per bale for the nine months to
March 31 as against £2- 9s. id. tor the
corresponding period of the previous year.
and the co. sold or slopped ~04,-15 bales, or
only-613 less than in the_l.)_i term.
Partly because of satisfactory prices and
partly because of the expansion of the busi-
ness, Goldsbrough s disclosed gross earnings
/ooA sprang £33,788, mounting to
±889,060: .
Gross Debenture dent* Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit,
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 359,317 134,367 68,33 s 2000 154,612
1920.. 299,901 161,862* 66,960 2000 09,079
1921.. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 53,813
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., purchased.
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924.. 498,039 205,280 64,569 2500 225,690
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., puichased.
1925.. 806.413 429,100 63.346 5000 308,967
1926.. 846,050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,002
1927. . 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5000 311,880
♦lncluding £25,000 drought exes.
But exes. (£500,218) moved up £32,319,
and consumed 57.2 p.e. of the gross profit
compared with 55.7 p.c. in 1927 and only
36.7 p.c. in 1922. Of the year’s increase
£10,350 was land and income taxes; the
£91,732 paid out under that head was no
less than 4.7 p.c. on the average capital
employed. It is doubtful to what extent
exes, can be cut back; but before writing
gross profits into the sheet, provision is made
for bad and doubtful debts, etc., and it is
possible that some true profit may be tucked
away under cover of the £4,445,217 at
which advances figure in the books. They
increased £47,994 during the year. There
is a hefty inner reserve in the property item
(£577,375), notwithstanding that the book
value increased £64,573 last year. In 1923
premises were in at £536,269, and it was
then said that valuations had not been
materially altered since 1900. Within the
last couple of years the co. has doubled its
storage accommodation at Port Adelaide and
built a new wool store at Fremantle.
The purchase of Harrison, Jones and
Devlin, Ltd. (N.S.W.), in 1923, and Bagot,
Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A. and W.A.),
in 1924, and a run of good seasons have
been the chief factors in the co.’s remarkable
expansion over the last half-dozen years.
Since the close of accounts the business of
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), fat stock
salesmen, which had an issued capital of
£25,000, has been bought. The price has
not been disclosed.
There have been big changes in balance-
sheet figures:—
Liabilities,
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 773,010 1,750,000 1,750,000 2,000,000
Debentures . 1,504,648 1,434,658 1,430,388 1,428,622
Other liabili-
ties .. 118,411 813,211 1,098,624 882,243
Assets.
Liquid assets 647,455 1,023,287 774,204 976,418
Advances .. 1,967,430 3,687,113 4,397,223 4,445,217
P r o perties
and stock 220,723 345,500 307,701 208,041
P r e m ises,
etc. . . 212,803 634,049 512,802 577,375
Other assets 64,105 93,889 120,776 114,449
Last; year’s new share and premium moneys
enabled the board to work down the amount
held on deposits (£201,847) by £198,487.
The reduction in the whole of the sundry
creditor items was £216,381, and liquids
(£976,418) —chiefly deposits and cash —in-
creased £202,154. Thus an excess of liabili-
ties over liquids amounting to £324,3(50 at
March 31, 1927, was turned into a liquid
surplus of £94,175 at the close of last
accounts.
Thus far the outlook for the current
year is distinctly bright. Optimism pre-
vails as to the future of wool prices, and
cattle are now bringing a better figure
than for some years past. The market, satis-
fied that the 15 p.c. div. will be maintained,
looks at the fine pile of visible res rves
(£1,865,635), equal to 18s. Bd. per share,
mostly in advances, adds something to cover
goodwill and the inner strength and pays
50s. 9d. for the scrip. After allowing for the
final div. and bonus (25.), the return at that
price is 6.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Electric Light and Power Supply (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1919 . . 38,598 8 p.c. = 19,868 7,610 6,565
1920 . . 42,987 8 „ .. 20,488 8,454 20,610
1921 . . 37,403 104 ~ ~ 27,259 10,000 20,754
1922 . . 45,597 10 ~ „ 32,473 12,500 21,378
1923 . . 58,655 10 ~ „ 39,207 13,000 27,826
1924 . . 55,303 10 ~ ~ 43,704 16,000 23,425
Premiums on shares, £ll2 . . 23,537
1925 . . 72,413 10 p.c. = 53,513 18,000 24,437
1926 . . 89,526 10 „ ~ 57,937 26,150 29,876
1927 . . 90,515 10 ~ „ 61,375 27,700 31.316
1928 . . 102,446 10 „ „ 65,330 33,100 35,326
Shareholders have had a steady 10 p.c. for
the last eight years, but after allowing for
depreciation, shown as written off in the
table, there has been nothing very much to
spare. Over the same period reserves have
benefited by £14,716. Last year’s net profit
(£69,346) was only 10.6 p.c. on average
capital compared with 10.2, 10.9, 10.1 and
7.3 p.c. back to 1924, when earnings bore
a special charge for renewals. The true
profits, of course, depend upon whether
provisions for depreciation are greater or
less than requirements under that head; it
seems most unlikely that they have been
insufficient—the co. has been operating for
21 years, and should have enough data about
wear and tear and obsolescence by this time.
The £33,100 set aside last year was 3.5 p.c.
on the average amount invested in power-
house and equipment.
There is no indication that the 10 p.c.
div. is likely to be interfered with, but
nothing better need be looked for. The
corporation is carrying on a public utility,
and doing it very efficiently; but to pay
anything more than 10 p.c. would be to
invite interference. Shareholders have to
look to new issues, which are made at par,
for their sweets. And, of course, there is a
limit to that, especially as the Sydney elec-
tric-supply undertaking has now hemmed this
co. in.
Nevertheless, though the areas supplied
are thus circumscribed, the business con-
tinues to expand steadily. These figures
indicate the growth since 1912 :—-
Working
Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
1912 .. 1,203 £20,564 £9.463
1916 .. 3,648 47,844 23,139
1920 . . 7,596 80,496 31,456
1922 .. 10,824 115,111 59,568
1924 .. 15,032 147,086 78,533
1925 . . 17,311 167,592 84,950
1926 .. 19,310 187,719 83,693
1927 . . 21,267 207,509 97,994
1928 . . 23,125 226,183 104,237
A pleasing feature of the last accounts is
a drop of £794 in the outlay on fuel, etc.,
an indication of the efficiency of the new
plant. Altogether working exes, took 46.1
p.c. of last year’s revenue compared with
47.2 p.c. in the previous term. Light and
power figures are not separated in the sheet,
but a good deal of the recent growth has
been on account of industrial expansion in
the five suburban territories over which the
co. holds franchises. These rights still have
from 15 to 39 years to run, except in the
case of the original franchise (Balmain),
which is perpetual; but in all cases the coun-
cils concerned have statutory purchase rights,
mostly at 10-yearly intervals. The exercise
of these rights, however, is unlikely.
During the year the co. made substantial
additions to its plant and mains, and
the book value of the fixed assets increased
£178,875. To meet this outlay the board
had to go outside for £93,193, thus increasing
the debt to £161,794. Here is the situation
as the published figures disclose it:—
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £262,426 £601,250 £645,666 £675,000
Debentures . . 50,000
Other liabilities 59,873 50,390 66,513 161,794
Fixed assets. . 413,875 818,196 886,336 1,065,211
Stocks, etc. .. 24,952 19,129 20,771 20,839
Book debts .. 15,403 13,088 12,717 15,472
Cash, etc. . . 15,868 3,563 22,276 3,474
To relieve the position 100,000 new £1 shares
were issued shortly before the close of
accounts, but only £25,000 (ss. per share)
of the money had come in when the books
were ruled off. The balance of it will
probably be called during the current year.
To provide for further expansion of the
business fresh capital will be required at
no distant date, but whether this will be
raised by debentures or an increase in the
share issue has not been decided.
On the market the fully paids, which have
a net tangible backing of 215., are priced
:it; 335. After allowing for the final div.
(Is.) the return at that price is 6] p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The last sale of the
contribs. was at 15s. 6d.
Commonwealth Traders’ Insurance Co., Ltd.
This co. amalgamated the fire, marine and
accident departments of the Commonwealth
General Assurance Corp. and the Australian
Traders’ Insurance Co. in 1925. In the fol-
lowing table purchase account and prelimi-
nary exes, are not treated as assets: —
Towards
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
1926.. 10,374 Nil 10,374 29,618
Added preliminary exes, £441 . . 30,059
1927.. 18,167 Nil 18,167 11,892
Added goodwill, etc., £2637 . . 14,529
1928.. 6,318 Nil 6,318 8,211
The underwriting profit (£3110) shrank
£11,804, and was only 3.3 p.c. compared
with 15.8 p.c. in 1927. Rebates, exceeding
£20,000, on Workers’ Compensation pre-
miums and an unfavorable loss experience
were responsible, the chairman says. Gross
premiums (£115,146) fell away £13,623, but
the shrinkage in net premiums was reduced
to £5128. That was because the risks rein-
sured (£26,034) were £8495 less than in the
previous year. Here is a detailed view of
underwriting performances:—
Net Claims Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Ratio. Ratio.
1926. . £49,389 £17,843 £23,534 36.1 p.c. 47.6 p.c.
1927.. 94,240 48,220 31,106 51.7 „ 33.0 „
1928.. 89,112 53,289 32,713 59.8 „ 36.8 „
It was not to be expected that the co. would
escape the generally unfavorable loss experi-
ence ; beyond care in the selection of its risks
the management has no further control in
that direction. But it has complete control
of exes. During the year they climbed £1607,
reaching £32,713, or. 36.8 p.c. of net pre-
miums compared with 33 p.c. in 1927, and
that is unsatisfactory. One of the results
to be expected from the amalgamations which
this co. represents was a substantial reduc-
tion in overhead.
No div. was received from the chief sub-
sidiary—Australian Traders’ Insurance—
which paid 10 p.c. in the previous term.
Nevertheless interest, divs., etc., figure at
£3208 as against £3253 in 1927.
Thus far the board has followed the sound
practice of building up the protection for
policy-holders; hence shareholders have gone
hungry. After writing £636 off the purchase
and establishment accounts, reducing them
to £40,000. reserves and undivided profits
totalled £31,789, or 35.6 p.c. of the year’s
net premium income. But nine months of
the co.’s risks under the N. S. Wales workers’
compensation law had expired when the books
closed, so the full 40 p.c. usually looked for
as cover for unexpired risks was not neces-
sary. Policy-holders have, in addition, the
protection of the paid capital (£83.338) and
over £89,000 of uncalled capital.
Paid capital and reserves are in the
form shown in this table:—
1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. . . £76,806 £79,787 £83,338
Liabilities 20,162 26,548 17,599
Equipment, etc. . . . . 1,159 1,603 1,828
Shares in other cos. . . 49,121 49,121 49,121
Book debts 8,538 25,252 18,421
Public securities . . . . 6,087 16,919 18,957
Cash, etc. . . . . . . 2,444 1,549 4,399
The co. holds all the shares in Australian
Traders’, which in turn owns the Southern
Cross Marine Co. At Sept. 30 the Australian
co.’s funds totalled £40,692 —capital £24,750,
reserves £15,942. It has paid five divs. at 8
p.c. and one at 10 p.c., but owing to heavy
losses (77.9 p.c.) it was decided to leave
last year’s profit—£337B, equal to 13.6 p.c.
on capital—in the business. Other holdings
include a block of shares in the Common-
wealth General Assurance Corp.; these have
no immediate and a very vague future value.
Shortly before the close of the 1927 accounts
the small fire, accident and marine business
of the Empire Life and General, which re-
cently sold itself to the Federal Building
Assurance Co., was bought for £2556, and
the purchase account increased by that
amount.
So far as shareholders are concerned there
is still £B2ll of their money unrepresented
by tangible assets. The declared policy of the
board is to steadily remove the froth from
the accounts, at the same time maintaining
an adequate reserve against unexpired risks.
Prospects largely depend upon the extent
to which exes, can be kept in hand.
Prestige, Ltd.
This energetic Melbourne hosiery co. was
registered in 1922 and two years later half
the ordinary capital was written off. The
public became more widely interested in
1925, since when its history has been: —
r Dividends n
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1920.. £12,941 £544 10 p.c. = £3,761 £8636 £ 14,000
Written off buildings, £2OOO . . 12,660
Share premiums, £3425 .. .. 10,085
1927.. 10,049 544 15 p.c. = 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23,833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28,768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 . . 24,297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,463 9644 33,941
Early in the term the old 9 p.c. prefs.—
there were 6041 of them —were converted
into 8 per cents., holders receiving 12 new
for every 10 old shares. That called for
the capitalisation of £1209. Later £50,000
of prei. capital was offered and snapped up.
Meantime the uncalled balance (£9870) on
32,846 10s. ords,, issued at a premium of
ss. shortly before the close of the 1927
accounts, was got in. All that made paid
capital £111.710 in 57,250 £1 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 108,920 ords. Reserves also bene-
fited by £4935 of share premiums. Out of
the various adjustments a taxation reserve
of £4471 emerged, and a further £1529 was
added to it during the past year. The latter
amount plus an unexplained reduction of
£424 in reserves accounts for the difference
between the £23,060 of profit claimed by the
accounts and the £21,107 shown in the table.
After allowing for a full year's pref.
requirements (£4580), the balance of last
year’s net earnings was 30.3 p.c. on the
ordinary capital compared with 34.7 p.c.
in the previous year, so the 15 p.c. div.—
5 p.c. of it is labelled bonus —was a com-
fortable matter. But it represents only
p.c. to old holders, who have thus averaged
4 p.c. since the co. set up in business six
years ago.
The concern was launched in the post-war
boom. In the first two years’ trading it
made heavy losses, and to square accounts
10s. per share was struck off the ords. in
1924. That put the business on an even
keel, and with the assistance of a slight
adjustment in a few tariff items and the
sound policy pursued by the management,
sales increased and the plant was kept at
work. The recovery has been splendid, as
the figures show. Over the last three years
less than half the total net earnings have
been distributed; so reserves of £33,941 have
been accumulated. A tight hold has been
kept upon exes., which consumed 67.4 p.c.
of last year’s gross profit (£70,871, up
£12,108) compared with 67 p.c. and 67.5 p.c.
in the two preceding years. All very satis-
factory ; and provided those ratios can be
maintained, prospects are highly encourag-
ing.
Balance-sheet figures, which are moving in
the right direction, reflect steady building
for bigger turnover :
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £33,181 £43,651 £50,632 £111,710
Debentures . . 9,563 —■
Overdraft .. 7,460 15,209 23,358 9,864
Sundry creditors 3,948 7,943 12,874 18,489
Freehold . . 15,126 16,063 18,045 31,801
Plant, etc. . . 15.059 15,676 28,646 48,111
Stocks . . 16,646 41,661 63,433 85,985
Book debts, etc. 9,669 12,100 10,544 21,772
Cash . . 6,679 749 2,171 25
The £66,013 of new capital and share pre-
miums that came in during the year, together
with the surplus earnings, enabled the board
to clip £13,494 off the overdraft (£9864) ;
the balance went mostly into fixed assets
and stocks. Including stocks (£85,985), in
at cost or less and up £22,551 during the
year, the more or less liquid surplus
(£79,428) increased £39,512.
The marketing end of the business appears
to be right, the policy being to improve the
quality rather than cut prices. Turnover is
on the increase, and additions are being
made to the new full-fashioned hosiery plant.
The amount put by to cover depi’eciation is
not disclosed, and much depends upon that


PROSPECTUS of Issue of
50,000 8i p.c. CUMULATIVE PARTICIPATING PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1 EACH in
THE HAYMARKET LAND 8 BUILDING COMPANY LIMITED
(Registered under the Companies Act, vV.S.JF.)
RICKARD HOUSE : : 84 PITT STREET : : SYDNEY
CAPITAL ~~ - - £150,000
Divided into 50,000 &i p.c. CUMULATIVE PARTICIPATING PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1 EACH, and
50,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF £2 EACH.
Directors:
SIR ARTHUR RICKARD, K.B.E. (Chairman).
SIR ARTHUR A. C. COCKS, K.B.E.
The HON. DANIEL LEVY, M.L.A., Barrister-at-Law.
MAJOR A. L. RICKARD.
F. E. BRYANT, Esq. (late Manager of the Union Bank
of Australia, Ltd., Sydney).
Bankers:
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Sydney.
Solicitors:
S. G. ROWE & CO., Rickard House, Sydney.
Auditor:
ROBERT W. NELSON, F.C.P.A.
Manager:
E. A. LIVI, A.C.I.S.
Brokers:
F. O. FURNER & CO., 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WM. TILLEY & CO., Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE HAYMARKET PERMANENT LAND, BUILDING & INVESTMENT CO., LTD., was formed in the year 1 880, and the name
of the Company has recently been altered to THE HAYMARKET LAND AND BUILDING COMPANY, LIMITED.
The operations of the Company have for some years past been conducted on very conservative lines in all its land transactions.
• Opportunities for extension of the business in safe and profitable avenues are available, and the Directors have decided to issue
50,000 82 p.c. Cumulative Participating Preference Shares of £l each in order that they may avail themselves of such opportunities.
Special attention is directed' to the provision in the Articles of Association of the Company which prevents the Company from
issuing Debentures having any charge in priority to the Preference Shares over the assets of the Company unless with the
consent of seventy-five per centum in value of the Preference Shares issued.
This is an exceptional safeguard to the interests of the Preference Shareholders.
It is seldom that such a safeguard has been offered to Preference Shareholders, who, save for the usual current debts, have a
first charge on all equities and securities owned by the Company-—almost akin to a Debenture—with the additional advantage
that dividends to-day are entirely free of State Income Tax and free of Federal Income Tax up to 1/- in the £l, whereas the
Debenture interest is taxable on the holders.
With this additional capital, the Directors are confident that a greatly increased rate of profit can be earned.
The books and accounts of the Company have been continu-
ously audited by Mr, Robert W. Nelson, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant,
from 1915 to date, and he certifies as to the profits and the financial
position of the Company as follows:
Challis House,
The Directors, Martin Place,
The Haymarket Land & Building Co., Ltd. Sydney,
Rickard House, 2 7th March, 1928.
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —In accordance with your request, I have pleasure in
certifying that the net profits of the business for the seven years ended
31 st December, 192 7, after making provision for Land and Income
Taxes and all other proper charges, were as under: —
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
£6,503 0 9
10,05 7 9 7
10,682 1 6
7,028 11 7
5,546 19 7
10,201 1 11
6,658 5 6
£56,677 10 5
being an annual average of £8096/15/9.
FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY.
The assets and liabilities as shown by the audited Balance Sheet
as at 31st December, 192 7, were as follows:
LIABILITIES.
Capital —50,000 Shares of
£2 each, fully paid .... £lOO.OOO
Mortgages and Balances
owing- on property with
interest accrued to date 32,096
Deposit Accounts with In-
terest accrued 6.243
Sundry Creditors 238
Reserve Account as at 31st
December, 1927 10,000
Taxation Reserve 1,750
Profit and Loss Account
Balance as at 31st
December, 1927, after
payment of dividends
for the year and appro-
priation to reserve.... 418
0 0
19 7
14 9
3 8
0 0
0 0
6 1
£150,747 4 1
ASSETS.
Secured Buyers’ Balances
and Mortgages bearing
interest £34,385 0 6
City Council Leaseholds —
—Rent-Producing Ware-
houses, Wentworth Av. 37,088 15 6
Unsold Land and Property 30,942 11 G
Debentures of other Com-
panies 40.000 0 0
Commonwealth War Loan,
£lOOO, and Interest
accrued 871 1 4
Commonwealth Bank .. . 946 9 3
Sundry Debtors and Pre-
payments 5,438 6 0
Shares in other Com-
panies 1,075 0 0
£150,747 4 1
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) ROBERT W. NELSON,
The assets of the Company have been valued on a conservative basis and are mainly secured and tangible. The buyers’ balances are
sound, the aggregate amount paid off by purchasers being 5 3 p.c. of the original contract price. The Wentworth Avenue warehouses shown in
balance sheet at £37,088/15/6, have recently been valued by Raine & Horne, Ltd., at £46,000. The unsold land and property is listed at cost.
As the dividend on the proposed issue of 50,000 p.c. Cumulative Participating Preference Shares would only involve an annual
charge of £4250, the security of the investment is apparent, as the average annual net profit for the past 7 years, after paying all outgoings,
including Income Tax, is, as certified above by the Company’s Auditor, £8096/15/9. This was earned on a capital of £lOO,OOO, and as it is
expected that the additional capital will be invested in more remunerative ventures, the proportionate increase on the new capital should be
greater.
The profits of the Company available for distribution in each year will be applied in payment to the holders of the Cumulative
Participating Preference Shares of a cumulative dividend at the rate of 8£ p.c. per annum, with a further non-cumulative participation with the
Ordinary Shares in all surplus profits after the Ordinary Shareholders have received a dividend at the rate of p.c. in any year. All prefer-
ence dividends will be a first charge on the profits of the Company and will be payable out of such profits quarterly.
When the preference capital is subscribed, each £1 share will be backed by assets to the value of £3/4/-, and such shares will be
preferential as regards return of capital.
This issue offers an opportunity to invest in an old established and successful Company, the funds of which are invested in tangible
and secured assets. The return is liberal, viz., 8 \ p.c. per annum with a further participation in profits. The shares are backed by an excellent
security, and, as before stated, dividends will be payable quarterly.
It is intended to apply to have the Preference Shares listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange.
The shares will be issued payable—s/- on application, and 15/- on allotment; or at the option of the applicant, payable—2/6 on
application, 2/6 on allotment, and in calls of 2/6 at intervals of one month, with the right to the applicant to anticipate any of the calls at any
time. Application money paid will rank for dividend from date of allotment, and allotment and call moneys from date of payment.
Those desirous of taking up shares in the new issue are invited to fill in and sign the attached application form, and return to the
Company’s office, together with cheque for the application money on the shares applied for.
BROKERAGE.
The Company will pay the usual brokerage on applications received from members of any recognised Stock Exchange.
DATED AT SYDNEY this 23rd day of April, 1928.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
FOR 8| p.c. CUMULATIVE PARTICIPATING PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1 EACH IN THE HAYMARKET LAND AND BUILDING COMPANY, LIMITED.
To the Directors of
THE HAYMARKET LAND AND BUILDING COMPANY, LIMITED,
81/ Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, — .
I hereby request you to allot me .. <S4 p.c. Cumulative Participating Preference Shares of £1 each in the above Company.
I enclose cheque for .....being a deposit of .....per share on application, and I agree to
accept such shares or any less number you may allot to me in accordance with the terms of the Prospectus dated 23rd April, 1928, and to pay on allotment.
See f (a) The balance unpaid in respect of the said shares being 15/- per share.
(b) 2/6 per share, and the bal nice in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of one month.
I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and request and authorise you to place my name on the Register of Members
for the shares so allotted to me.
Name in full Profession or Occupation
Address in full
Dated
Usual Signature
NOTE—If it is desired to pay the whole balance on allotment, strike out Paragraph (6). If it is desired to take the extended terms, strike out Paragraph (a)’


Know Anything Good?
Thirty-odd Companies’
Accounts Dissected.
Prospectuses Examined by Experts.
WHAT’S BEST TO BUY?
Practical Help for the Investor.
The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly for June,
still further improved.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or Tiie Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* * * *
Little labor is required to instal a Pioneer Wood
Pipe line, for it weighs only a third as much as
metal. This modern non-corroding conduit is un-
rivalled for mining, dredging, irrigation and indus-
trial purposes as well as for water systems. Get full
information from The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic. — Advt.
H: ❖ # * •
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney ; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
aie jjs ifc sH
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
if if * if
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* if *• *
The construction of firebreaks and tank drains, also
the clearing of drains in and around watering places,
and from wire-netting fences, can all be effectively
and economically handled by the use of the special
graders which are made by Messrs. Arthur Lepiastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd. These machines are available in
seven different sizes, either to be hauled by tractor
or horses, the prices ranging from £45 to £lO5
each. There are many properties equipped with these
machines and the results obtained amply demon-
strate the necessity of having a grader available on
the station or large farm. As most people nowadays
possess motor-cars, one of these machines will also
be able to construct and maintain in perfect condition
the private road to the homestead. Full particulars
are available from the manufacturers, Messrs. Arthur
Lepiastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
General Secretary.
S 3 O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
I Swift & Company L.t<l- Australasian Agents. 2fi 30 Clarence St.. Sydney H 1
&
DT
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
and the figure at which stocks have been
written into the sheet.
The net tangible backing for the prefs.,
which have priority as to capital, is £2 10s.
lid., and last year’s net profit was over 41
times their full annual requirements. The
market prices them at 20s. 6d., at which
figure the return is 7.8 p.c. For the ords.,
which are covered by 10s. 3d. in net tangibles,
16s. 9d. is paid. The return at that figure,
after allowing for the final div. and bonus
(Is.), is 91 p.c. as long as the 15 p.c. dis-
tribution continues.
The tunnel connecting the 1100 ft. level in
the North Lyell with the reduction works
at Queenstown has been broken through
ahead of schedule. It was a 7000 ft. job,
and the hole, which was • commenced from
both sides of the mountain simultaneously,
was 6920 ft. through pyritised grey schist,
progress being at the rate of 105 feet per
week. The job occupied 14 months and the
estimated cost was £60,000. The idea is to
reduce haulage costs and facilitate other
economies.
Lyell’s electrolytic refinery at Queenstown
has been completed at a cost of £75,000.
Current will be supplied from the Govern-
ment plant at Lake Margaret, and a reduc-
tion of £4 per ton of copper produced is
expected. Hitherto Lyell copper has been
refined at Kembla.
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) treated 232,934 short tons
for £374.022 worth of gold and silver in
1927. The figures include 31,734 tons ore
from the Grand Junction, assaying 6.7dwt.
gold and I.lsdwt. silver, worth 295. lid. per
ton as against Waihi’s 7.sdwt. gold and
2.3dwt. silver, worth 355. lid. Altogether
crushings averaged 325. Id. compared witii
335. 7d. in 1926. A further £45,824 came
from bullion in process of treatment, and
with sundry receipts total income mounted
to £446,536. That includes the value Of
power (£10,625) supplied by the M.L.
Government in terms of the Ilora Hora
hydro-electric purchase. Receipts in 1926
aggregated £383,890, and in 1925 £398,694.
Including taxation (£24,533) last year’s
exes, absorbed £310,131, and a further £8550
was written off for depreciation, leaving
a net £103,322. Divs. called for £74,386.
Development disclosed 166,000 tons of new
ore, but reserves (489,000 tons) show a re-
duction of 69,000 tons. Although financial
results for the year have been good, explora-
tion and development work has been very
unsatisfactory. The directors say :
In the lower levels the payable ore developed
has been insignificant, and unless improvements are
disclosed by the boreholes, which are still to be
drilled below No. 15 level (1880 ft.), it is recom-
mended that no further shaft sinking be done; that
the ore at No. 15 level be extracted as soon as pos-
sible and the water allowed to rise to near No. 14
level. In other parts of the mine, on higher levels,
small blocks of ore have been found, but it is becom-
ing in< reasingly difficult to find any considerable
quantity, and few places remain to be explored
with any hope of success. During the past two
years about Gsooft. of prospecting by diamond-
drilling has not resulted in the discovery of any
appreciable quantity of payable ore. A more rapid
depletion of the ore reserves seems inevitable, and
the exhaustion of the mine may have to be faced
within a very few years.
But the end of the mine—in its 35 years
it lias yielded bullion worth £15,440,000,
from which £5,545,000 was distributed in
divs. and £837,000 paid in income tax—will
not mean the last of Waihi as a mining
co. The board has been on the look-out for
some time, and, nothing attractive having-
come forward in gold, it is now turning its
thoughts to tin. Superintendent E. G.
Banks, at present in Siam, believes he has
found a proposition worth attention, and,
in conjunction with “a well-known tin-
mining company in the Far East,” Waihi
has secured an option over this property.
Joint tests are being made.
The main pillar of the Waihi’s strength
is a long list of mostly gilt-edged invest-
ments, in at £465,894, but wbrtli more.
Capital, including the September bonus issue
(£123,977), is £247.953 in 991,814 ss.
shares. The co. has £63,965 put by for
exploration, in addition to which there is
the dividend equalisation reserve (£106,000)
and Hora Hora account (£159,535). This
last is the cost price of the power plant for
which, in September, 1931, the M.L. Govern-
ment is to pay £212,500. General finance,
investment and the exploration of other pro-
perties is the way the board sums up the
future programme; present ore reserves re-
present about two years’ feed for the mills.
At the recent rate of extraction there should
be enough in it to pay two annual divs. of
2s. each. The scrip is quoted around 11s. Bd.
* * * *
Minister Neville Howse’s official warning
about oil speculation was none too early.
There has been, for instance, a wild rush
for oil lands in the Maranoa, and most of
the country from Brigalow, 190 miles east
of Roma, to 40 miles north of it. has been
applied for. Flotations are almost daily
affairs now. but no one should risk more
cash than he can well afford to lose, for,
though oil “specking” is fascinating, the
outside floats arc very great gambles. The
geologists’ reports range from not unfavbr-
libit*, but guarded, to highly optimistic —the
latter where dome or anticline structures are
stated to have been proved on surface out-
crop. The small speculator is being coaxed
with Is. deposits and Is. monthly calls. If
Roma No. 2 does not come up to expec-
tations, there will be a smash in the market.
In years gone by there was a very heavy
gas-flow struck at Rental's selection, near
Brigalow, during boring for stock water.
The gas-flow started somewhere about 180 ft.
down, and it is now averred that it had an
oily smell. A company is starting operations
to test the gas, and one advantage is that,
although iu the Walloon series, there is not
likely to be artesian water. There are. how-
ever, very gassy eoalseams about the district
at shallow depth, and it must be considered
quite a probability that it was ordinary coal
gas that was struck. Coal is also included
in the search, and the discovery of a clean
seam right on the railway would be a help.
* * * *
Interesting news arrives from Mareeba
(N.Q.) about Roots Creek. Four test
shafts had been put down, but the water
was too heavy in three of them to bottom.
The fourth hole gave 211 b. of tin per c.y.
for the total depth of 4ft. One of the other
shafts had Ift. of rich wash. In the same
district, at Mt. Molloy, the Mitchell River
Tin Dredging Co.’s area is being tested by
drilling, preparatory to laying-out the plan
of working. The main difficulty at Root’s
Creek is the making of a track to the
ground. A new direct route has been
selected, and as soon as the road is made
an elevator and pipe-line will be despatched.
The first clean-up of tin is expected inside
five months. Dr. H. I. Jensen is supervis-
ing the work of both these concerns.
* * * *
Two cos. have been formed on the Stan-
liills field (N.Q.) to work the Mount Cassi-
terite and Mauretania tin lodes. The future
of the field is not yet certain, and values
recovered have been below expectation. Be-
fore raising further capital the Mt. ]Cassi-
terite people have secured an extension of
their option, and are sinking the shaft,
which is in a greisen lode carrying low
values. It is not a field that prospectors
can be advised to look at on the basis of
present metal prices. Many of the early
men have moved on.
* * * *
The news from Great Northern tin, Her-
berton (N.Q.), is still encouraging for share-
holders. Development i.s confined to stop-
ing the faces, all of which, both in floor
and roof, are reported to be in 20 p.c. ore,
with patches of low to medium grade. A
nice paddock of concentrates is being accu-
mulated.
* * * *
There is a reminder of the early digging
days in a syndicate formed to re-open the
Perfect Cure mine, near Beech worth (Vic.),
which was owned in 1858 by J. A. Wallace,
lie worked a sft. reef to a depth of 100 ft.,
getting up to 6oz. per ton ; No. 2 reef was
worked for one ounce to the ton ; No. 3 reef
at one crushing of 217 tons gave 2250 z. gold.
On the same ground a shaft was sunk 120 ft.
and stone worth 2oz. to the ton was met with.
It is now proposed to finish a tunnel to cut
these four lines. The face is in 667 ft., and
there is another 266 ft. to go. There are
many mines in the Beecliwortli district
which were worked on the surface for high
yields; hence the interest in this experiment.
* * * *
It will be a few weeks before reliable in-
dications can be got from Bisclioff’s new
mine (Tas.). The old one, which lias a
wonderful record covering 54 years and
nearly two and a half million in divs., has
worked back to the solid rock in the Brown
face on the mount itself. A couple of years
ago the directors were faced with the ques-
tion whether to whack up the reserves
among shareholders or to find a new outlet
for capital. They kept scrip owners quiet
with a couple of disbursements out of re-
serve, while Briseis manager Lindesay
Clark investigated a proposition to wojpk
tlie North Valley deposits. These were
tested, not by bores, but by shafts, and
Clark recommended dredging. A pontoon
has been erected, and fluming, etc., con-
structed, and Levings (the manager) is
taking it down 30ft. (where tin is indicated
in every foot, as well as all over the valley)
for a starting place. The plant is working
now, but Levings won’t talk till he reaches
bottom. Even then the returns may not
look promising, but he has started on the
poorest corner of the paddock, so if he can
give a favorable report it should speak well
for the future.
* =!= * *
Oroya Links is now in liquidation. Share-
holders receive in exchange for several Kal-
goGrlie leases and investments, valued at
£lB.OOO, one fully-paid 2s. share in North
Ivalgurli for every three Oroya Links shares.
They also get some shares in the Malayan
Tin Trust, in which Oroya Links holds an
interest, and “sundry other investments” are
expected to yield 3d. per share. With what
il has got and what it will get from Oroya
Links. North Ivalgurli should have about
£40,000 in liquid resources with which to
develop the amalgamated properties. Some
of these have fair ore reserves; the quan-
tity in North Kalgurli was estimated by
Vail, of the Lake View and Star, at 42,000
tons, of a gross value of 31s. 4d., with the
possibility of further development exposing
richer stuff and increasing the average value
of the whole.
❖ *
New Consolidated Goldfields ,of South
Africa seems to have taken a liking to IV est-
ralian gold ventures. It has already backed
Wiluna and Lake View and Star to a sub-
stantial extent, and is said to be investi-
gating the prospects of North Kalgurli and
one or two other shows. The interests of
the co.. which has a paid capital of
£4,500,000, have hitherto been mostly con-
fined to South African and American mining,
chemical and metallurgical corporations and
Roumanian oil ventures, and from some of
these its income has been considerable. Last
year’s profits totalled £512,000, out of which
an 84 per cent. div. (£382,000) was paid.
Assets included: Investments at or under
cost, £3,800,000; properties and ventures,
£40(5,000 ; loans at short call, £263,000; divi-
dends due to the co., £144,000; advances and
mortgage securities, £318,000; cash,
£160,000. Just the sort of investor that the
West has been looking for.
s|: sic sic sic
London-controlled Star Emerald Syndi-
cate, Ltd., has issued a circular dissociating
the directors from the recent boom in shares,
and stating that no member of the board
was in any way interested in the specula-
tion. No explanation is, however, offered
why the directors failed to issue a warning
when the ss. shares were run up in a few
weeks from under par to over 50s. The
claims are in W.A.
Sic Sic B|S Sic
Wiluna Co. (W.A.) is preparing to do
big things. Production is expected to be in
full swing at tin 1 end of 192!) or early in
1930. State Mining-Engineer Montgomery,
when reporting on Wiluna last year, said
there was no reason why the property should
not have a life of at least 25 years, and
maintain an output of 300,000 tons annually
above the 800 ft. level for at least 10 years.
Reserves exceed a million tons.
sic Si: sic *
Chairman J. S. Meagher recently told
shareholders in Tongkah Compound No. 2
that north of the road which bisects the
co.’s area there was 135 acres containing
5.500,000 c.y., or about seven years’ work for
the present reconstructed dredge, whose use-
ful life would then be exhausted. The dredge
was bought from the parent when the latter’s
Seremban (F.M.S.) property was taken over
in 1919. It stopped at the beginning of this
year for overhaul and the fitting of a new
steel bucket-band —the cost is something
over £6000; The reconditioned plant started
on April 2. For the first half of June it
treated 38,735 c.y. for 11 tons t. 0., aver-
aging ,691 b. South of the road there is
11,500,000 c.y. of dredgable material. When
tiie time is ripe it will be necessary to
instal a new dredge to work this southern
area, wliiqh covers 257 acres, but no action
is being taken at present. The co. paid
its last Is. div. in November, 1927. Capital
is £81,250 in 100,000 £1 shares. The paids
ar,fe. steady at about 255.
si: sic si: sic
Austral Malay’s report for 1927 shows a
total income of £22,387, pll from subsidiaries,
and administrative costs and depreciation
took £2296 from that. Dividends absorbed
£2O 000 (4s. per share). The drop in tin has
huide the dividend outlook uncertain, but
directors expect to keep up the quarterly Is.
During the current year the # co.’s Klang Rah
was sold to Pangnga Tin Concessions for
£35,000, the deal showing a profit of £7OOO.
The flotation of Pungah has been the co.’s
principal job during the year, and a lot of
trouble has been experienced in settling
claims for surface rights. The sale has
not yet been completed, and Austral Malay
1 paid out £150,000 in connection with
the rights on behalf of Pungali. Austral
Malay's paid capital is £lOO,OOO. Shares
in other cos. stand at £112,925; prospecting,
£100,102; advances, £17.065; cash balances,
£54,967; other assets, £5186.
Of the Austral Malay subsidiaries satis-
factory reports are made. Ivampong Ka-
munting has been a regular div.-payer for
nearly 15 years. The two dredges dug
1.570.000 cubic yards during the year for
692.13 tons t. 0.; average .991 b. Working
costs were 0.05 d., and profit 12.04 d. Labor
costs and dredge renewals increased expendi-
ture by .57d. over the previous year’s. Net
profit was £62,352. after writing off £13,409
for depreciation and amortisation. Four
dividends equalling 7s. 6d. per share absorbed
£52.500. There is still four years’ work
ahead of No. 2 plant. No. 1 dredge should
finish on the Ivamunting ground by October
next, when it will be transferred to the Kar-
angan (F.M.S.) property, acquired in 1923.
A new pontoon is being installed there, and
it is expected that the dredge will be at
work six or seven months after its arrival
on the new ground—£99l6 has been laid
aside to. maintain divs. until this dredge sets
in, but the fall in tin and the sinking of
No. 2 dredge should he remembered. The
directors expect to pay (id. in June, and Is.
per quarter for (lie remainder of the year.
That, with Is. already paid, makes a total
of 3s. (id. compared with 7s. 6d. in 1026.
At Asam Kumbang sunken timber and
debris gave a lot of trouble and affected
costs. Yardage was smaller than for the
previous year, but recoveries increased from
.071 b. to .981 b. Working costs were 7.19 d.
per yard, a high average due to the causes
stated, which are not likely to persist. Net
profit was £30,047. Four dividends (65.)
called for £30,000. It is anticipated that
it will be possible to distribute 4s. during
the current year.
IJlu Yam also experienced trouble with
timber and clay. Recoveries averaged .771 b.
as against .071 b. for 1926. Net profit, after
the usual deductions, was £37,514. Divi-
dends and bonus of Bs. took £40,000. Addi-
tions have been made to the co.’s plant tend-
ing to increase efficiency. During the cur-
rent year two divs. of Is. each have been
paid it may not be possible to continue at
that rate.
* * * *
Kuala Lumpur, a Melbourne concern
floated in 1923 to take over Kalumpang Tin.
continues to experience trouble with its new
dredge, a big 130,000-yard plant, fitted
with jigs and classifiers. The jigs have been
giving the trouble. An expert has been
engaged to investigate.


THE DI/TILLER/ AGENCY LTD.
EDINBURGH /GOTLAND
(patoh]


CHRYSLER.
Utmost in Motor Car Value
The whole world knows how
Chrysler has won public prefer-
ence in every price field because
of vital developments in per-
formance, appearance, comfort,
dependability and long life.
And now this leadership be-
comes more emphatic than ever
by Chrysler’s new sensational
values.
Because of Chrysler’s unvary-
ing custom of stepping faster
than the procession, the world
today expects and receives extra
quality and extra value in every
Chrysler.
As confirmed by ever-climbing
sales which have lifted Chrysler
from 27th to 3rd place in vol-
ume of sales within 42 months,
the world is recognising that the
nr:
K
V
y
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave 2? Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street. Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
Chrysler spirit of progressive-
ness positively assures this
extra value.
For it is this progressiveness
which, since the first Chrysler,
has continued to pioneer and
develop the worth-while im-
provements in motor car per*
formance and smartness for the
remainder of the industry to
emulate and imitate.
See the new Chrysler models —
“52,” “62,” “72” and Imperial
“80.” Study them in closest de-
tail and note how far they are
in advance of all competition.
Then make any test you wish,
yourself at the wheel. The more
exacting your requirements,
the more certain your choice
of a Chrysler.


*Such a reputation is not won overnight
.
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 /or 9d 20 for 1/6
Xlaior Drapkin <& Co.. London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
J
l i A -
Y®
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which meq.ns more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Mundowie” : “I used to make a rise now
an’ again by gettin’ swell visitors to dig for
gold,” said Sam, who had a poor claim at
the back of Tibooburrra (N.S.W.). “They
liked to take home a little nugget as a swivi-
ner, an’ if they dug it up themselves it was
valued all the more by their lady friends,
who got it made into a ring or a brooch.
So I meets the toff an’ guarantees for a
quid to put him on to a spot where he’ll
strike a good specimen. Then I go along
and buy a bit o’ gold, which I pays for
afterwards. Sometimes it was worth as
much as ten bob. Of course, some o’ them
blokes knoo they was workin’ a salted mine,
but that didn’t • matter. They could say,
without tellin’ a lie, that they’d dug up the
gold theirselves. An’ they never asked too
many questions about it. But I fell in at
last, an’ chucked the business. A cove who
HIS LAPSE OF MEMORY.
THE P.M.: “Did you call the accused a rogue and a thief?"
WITNESS: “Yes, yer Honor, I did.”
THE P.M.: “And did you call him a liar and a pimp?”
WITNESS: “No, yer Honor, I didn’t—a man cant remember everything.”
was tourin’ around struck a nugget worth ten
quid that I didn’t know was there. An’ it
was the only virgin gold that ever come out
of the rotten claim !”
* * * *
“Pythos”: “Bud G.” (B. 23/5/’2S) asserts
that not 10 per cent, of bush prads can walk
at the rate of four miles an hour. I say 95
per cent, of ordinary station hacks can walk
at that rate or faster. I have timed dozens
of them. One I put the watch on covered
exactly five miles in 50 minutes, and it
was a genuine walk all the time. Here in
western N.S.W. the name of the horse that
can’t walk four miles an hour is mud.
* S * *
“Gouger”: In a Sydney paper there’s an
account of a man being treed all night and
attacked by dingoes, and that in quite a
civilised portion of N.S.W. This is where I
get back on those members of the Council
who went for me tooth and claw
years ago when I described similar
dog attacks on men and women in
the far Outback. I believe even
The Bulletin was dubious, for
one such par. was delicately headed
“ ‘Gouger’s’ Wild Tale from the
Hills.” I hope those scribes who
spattered my spotless reputation
will now apologise. The Mere-
wether man was lucky, for there
have been lone wanderers in Cape
York Peninsula whose gnawed
bones have been the only witnesses
of a successful dingo attack. Up
there in hard seasons the brutes
travel in great packs and make
the ranges resound with their
howls. At such times the pack-
horses of prospectors cling warily
together at night, and a man is
often awakened by a wild clashing
of bells as a straggler is chased
back into the mob. I remember
occasional lively nights when raven-
ous dogs chased tin 1 prads clean on
top of the tent, and the row was
like a hundred belfries in demen-
tia. The dogs wouldn't budge until
wo opened fire with rifles. And the biggest
rogue among the horses was always the first
to bolt into camp.
* * * *
“Pfella”: I can back up "Mnlga Mick"
(15. 1(i/5/’2S) as to the keeping qualities
of dried meat in Northern Australia, even
though blowflies become grandfathers there
inside a few hours. In the nor'-west of
Jarrahland I knew a lmlf-caste who kept
a constant supply of dry chip kiangaroo
strung up on wires between trees. He would
rub something—he: would never tell us what
—over the meat, and it was certainly a great
preservative. During the first three days
after putting out a batch lie carefully
watched his preserving site. If a crack
appeared in a strip of flesh he straight-
way used it for the next meal. The per-
fectly coated chips were good for years,
and tasted better than S’African biltong.
“B-Gar” : I’ve had the same trouble with
white ants as “Aden.” (B. 16/5/’2B). Our
final method of protecting our bulk supplies
was simple and effective. With No. 8 wire
we suspended an old table, wire being
attached to the upturned legs and thence to
each corner of the storeroom. Near the
top and bottom ends the wires ran through
corked broken bottles, filled with honey and
arsenic. If the ants jumped the first hurdle,
the second invariably pulled them up. Once
a month was sufficient to renew the dope.
That table carried our three months’
supplies.
* * * *
“Clef”: “Pfella” (B. 25/4/’2B) is right to
some extent about the scarcity of Binghi in
Jarrahland’s south-west, but IloberI: Rose, of
Parkfield. the sister estate to Australind, had
no trouble in mobilising a big crowd when
fie gave his twice-a-year entertainments to
the natives. There were cricket and football
matches, and the blacks took to both games.
Bob Rose would inform the abos. working
on his place of the date of the meeting, the
abo. wireless got to work, and the. natives
flocked in from remote places to which it
would have been impossible to send a mes-
senger in time to deliver the invitation. One
reason for the small number of abos. in the
south-west nowadays is that the authorities
very wisely shifted all their camps from the
vicinity of the timber-mills and bush settle-
ments.
“Pudden”: Westralian blacks may stay
away from willie-wagtailless country, as
HE HATED TO DO IT.
CUSTOMER: “I hope it looks all right, Mr. Cohen. I wouldn't like to be conspicuous
COHEN: “Mine frendt, I hate to sell you dot suit. It suits you so veil nobody vill
notice it, and I lose de advertisement.”
“Pfella” states (B. 25/4/’2B), but that isn’t
the case on the Q’land-N.T. border. Over
the whole of the Barkly Tableland Willie is
a rare visitor, coming about April and sel-
dom staying till September. Barring odd
spots which are regarded as possessed of the
Devil, the blacks are, or used to be, thick
over the tableland. Further west, over in
the so-called desert, the willic-wagtail never
ventures. But the blacks are there—big old
fellows with Von Tirpitz beards matted with
grease, whose only knowledge of the white
and his ways lias to do with the commercial
possibilities of a young gin.
* _ * __ w
“Bad Australian”: In the ’eighties mottled
calfskin waistcoats ornamented with buttons
made from quandong-nuts mounted in silver
were aliected by the flash bushman. The
more fastidious Brummels went in for gold
mountings instead of silver, the nut itself
being carved in various quaint designs. Tie
or neckerchief slides were made from nuts
similarly carved, and where quandongs were
not available a section of sheep-shank was
used. In some cases the work of the quan-
dong and sheep-shank artist showed con-
siderable ingenuity in design and the carv-
uig was so skilfully executed that many
found it difficult to believe that his full kit
of tools consisted ot a file and a small pocket-
Clll^e ‘ * ... - ...
” ",
C. Coral : borne spherical glass objects
about five inches in diameter washed up on
one of the beaches in Torres Strait the other
day, and the islanders were naturally keenly
interested in them. Examining one care-
fully' for signs of a “bottle paper” such as
tliey arc accustomed to finding (in connec-
lion with the charting of ocean currents),
they were mystified to discover that the
glass was sealed, with no sign of a cork,
"Number one glass for make that electric
light,” one sage suggested, but the examiners
ruled this out because “he no got wire
inside.” Then one boy had an inspiration,
“You fella no savee that one? Ah, you fella
no travel ’bout ’long steamer like me. I
been see that kind —he got long piece glass
on top, he ’nothcr kind bottle belong rum,
for stop on table.” His suggestion of a
damaged decanter, however, also found no
favor when it was pointed out that the
floating specimen never had a neck. Show-
ing the spheres to some nautical men after-
wards, I was told that they were used
originally as floats on submarine nets in the
North Sea during the war, their greenish
tint making them invisible; and someone
else informs me that, placed eight feet apart,
they are used now as floats on the big sliark-
catching nets. These particular ones had
apparently floated up from Sydney way.
* * * *
“Up North”: The most prolific river for
game in Queensland is the Mitchell. It starts
at a gallop in the precipitous east coast
range, moderates its pace first to a canter,
then to an amble, and finally crawls west to
the Gulf of Carpentaria. " It mothers an
overgrown fresh-water crocodile, and a huge
shark occasionally thrashes its quietest pool
into a fury. Savage giants with saw-
tooth swords poking out from aggressive
sn outs challenge the sharks. Smaller
denizens are the catfish, cod up to 1001 b. in
weight, and a garfish that will fight at the fall
0 f a leaf. Almost every hole swarms with
josser fish of outstanding size and aggressive-
ness according to their kind. Waterfowl
make favored localities a Bedlam. Droves
0 f wild pigs root along the banks and
penetrate for miles into the adjacent lands,
*** ' *
“Gumblegubbin”: Is there anything that
travellers are more careless with than
pocket-knives? I saw a farmer one morning
take a cupboard drawer outside and empty
jt on the ground, first calling the fowls up
to catch the cockroaches that infested it.
Among the contents were about three dozen
pocket-knives, which he had picked up while
riding to and from town. On the Balonne
I met a traveller who made a hobby of
hoarding pocket-knives. Tie must have had
50 in his pack-bags, picked up on the roads
and in deserted liuts, and though the accu-
initiation was becoming a burden he wouldn’t
sell one. lie liked to talk over them,
telling where and how lie found this or
that one, and what he was doing. I asked
a drover once for the loan of his knife, and
lie handed me one that I’d lent to a shearer
about six months before. The drover told
me he had picked it up at an old camp
over 300 miles away,
(Continued on page 25.)
SECOND FIDDLE,
[For The Bulletin.]
There ain’t no doubt that ’Erb is slow; 'e
never runs a place.
’E sits there twirlin’ ’is felt ’at, a queer grin
on ‘is face,
W’ile other coves arc ’oppin’ in ; ’e won’t go
fer 'is w’ack.
’E wants to be woke up, ’Erb does, ’e’s alius
’angin’ back.
’E’s got a gal, or thinks ’e ’as, an’ every
Sundee night
’E rides ’is ole mare to ’er place. Yer'll see
’im sittin’ tight
A-swappin’ yarns with ’er ole pot. 'E doesn’t
seem to care
How much she flirts with Jimmy ’lggs, not
even w’en ’e’s there.
I seen ’im bring ’er to an ’op, an’ then not
dance with ’er;
'E’d see ’er dingin’ close to ’lggs, an’ never
make a stir.
’E’s “secon’ fiddle” orl the time, an’ with
’is bass-string broke—
I never in me livin’ days struck such a
simple bloke.
If ’e don’t mind, the way ’e acts, ’e’ll find
things pretty queer;
’E’ll die some time -before ’e knows—’e’s
much too slow fer ’ere.
An’ ’Eaven he’s darn-near sure to miss—as
fur as I can tell
’Erb’s booked for secon’ fiddle in an orehestrer
in ’Ell.
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


rz/'
i
Y
-/V
£
**£/
>*/
r^i
*4
v
30
\ X
□
*1
T 'T
H
H
V
fJ*A
SIHOI
fcw
__Zi
.'.''hiV^T'
Service
Always and Everywhere
It is the experience of owners everywhere
that Graham Brothers Trucks and Buses
seldom need repair parts or service-—yet
always have both available.
Their unusual earning power need never
be checked or interrupted throughout their
long lives.
See the 6-cylinder 2-Ton truck with
4-wheel brakes (Lockheed hydraulic) and
4-speed transmission---latest of a great line
of money-earners.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
F 39S
20/6/’2B.


MAN NEWS
4/<M
sr
The
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
3!4* ns * w ide will
not sag ; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
30/-
Post Free
—-'"v, — • >- ~— v r«.. •
mmmrn* ± - 7 mMk
r m
--\
r / —— , "-A
:j.s ; -m--2s/* m 3 Jr.., I $ j^/s»
i
: Hi i
ipp^
|j
S
m
\ M :.
s£Saa« •**S£iiP
V'v :>v<
«k\ BBK ' /.
<:::> me::;
c
AUSTRAUAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £lOO,OOO.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 187 4.
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
“Vincimus”: Both “Six and Eight” (B.
14/8/’2B) and “Fitzwilliam” (B. 4/4/’2B)
have got me puzzled by their directions for
the use of a watch and the sun to find the
north. I don’t see how it can be worked.
At, say, 5 a.m. the sun is in the east, and at
4 p.m. it is in the west. In other words,
it has shifted nearly 180 degrees, but the
difference in the position of the hour hands
is only 15 degrees. I’m bles.t if I know what
part of my watch-face I am to point and at
what I am to point it in midsummer where
I live —latitude about 20J degrees south,
where at midday the sun, instead of being
in the north, is well south of the zenith.
!|! * * *
“Larrapinta”: “Up Top” (B. 16/5/’2B)
lays it down that bees are attracted by a
white cloth. Whatever they may do in the
tropics, they don’t act like that in most
parts of this continent. A swarm usually
settles on a charred stump or limb —never on
anything white; unless by some chance it
TRUE TO THE LAST DROP.
“I’m sorry to hear you’re so ill, Mickey; but Mary seems to be sticking to you well.”
“Baal ol’ woman leave Mickey, Missy. Mine got flask rum longa pocket.”
settles among the bees about The entrance of
a white-painted hive. Wearing white shirt,
overalls and liat when working among bees
means comparative freedom from stings, but
dark clothes and a black felt hat infuriate
even the gentle Italian bee, while the hybrid
goes crazy and stings the dark clothes and
their wearer without stint. It is different,
though, when bees have been confined in
their hives for weeks by cold, rainy weather,
The first bit of sunshine causes them to fly
out, and on such occasions white washing
hung on a line to dry attracts them
irresistibly. That means that everything
has to be washed again, but it hasn’t any-
thing to do with the theory “Up Top”
advances.
* if * *
“Lao-dah”: Vic. Fisheries and Game De-
partment is at last becoming active in the
protection of the native-bear. Some years
ago the animal with the pathetic air of
hopelessness was available to suburbanites
as a pet, if permits were asked for. The
result was that hundreds went into sense-
less captivity. The issue of permits has since
been stopped, and persons keeping bears are
liable to a fiver penalty. Billy Bluegum
doesn’t thrive in a four-by-four cage in
Footscray, but he loves to cling to a tree
by a country roadside and study the motor
traffic.
ijs
“Drover”: Carrying by means of, camel
teams must have fallen off a lot on the
Farina-Q’land route, if “Aniraf’s” statement
(B. 36/5/’2B) is correct. He says the
muster on the Farina common yielded only
422 ships of the desert. When I followed
cattle down the Birdsville track 10 years
ago, two brothers from Baluchistan told me
they owned 500 camels between them, and a
number of other Baluchis and Afghans had
anything up to TOO camels each. Perhaps
they have shifted their quarters further
north.
if if * *
“Tiki” : * The Maori race, after suffering
a substantial decrease of population attri-
butable to its association with whites- —
T.B. and waipiro have been the worst scour-
ges—is picking up again and taking an
interest in its traditional arts and crafts.
There are still alive many men who have
a command of the wood-carving technique
employed to beautify canoes and wliares,
and there are old women who know all there
is to be known about mat-making. A Board
of Maori. Arts has been suggested to foster the
artistic instincts of the race, and the idea will
certainly have support from both the Maoris
and their white friends. Already the build-
ing of large meeting-houses on the time-
honored architectural lines has been recom-
menced, and new buildings of considerable
distinction have replaced hybrid patchworks
at Rotorua and on the beach at Ohinemutu.
A certain realism that necessitates the
swathing of portions of the finest examples
of Maori carving preserved in museums
will necessarily be eliminated from the re-
naissance school of Maori art.
“Gregor”: It might be a good idea to intro-
duce a few hundred Canadian beavers in
some carefully-selected locality where their
work could be studied. These little animals
are possessed of an almost human intelli-
gence and capacity for co-operative organisa-
tion. In their native state they build their
towns in rivers, generally streams which
are not very deep or very fast-flowing. They
begin by throwing a dam about two feet
thick from one bank to the other, often
constructing another reserve barrier behind
it in case the first one is accidentally broken,
Then they build their little dome-roofed
houses in the depth of water so obtained,
some of the animals being told off to carry
wood for the dams and the houses, some to
do the burrowing work and others to labor on
the houses. Their dams are useful to man.
proud man, as well as to themselves, and
ANY PORT IN A STORM.
“Settin ’ down, do ’ee be? Wha’s the meanin' civ' it in workin’ hours?"
“Got a hoffull pain in stummick, Cap’n.”
“Aw, ’ave ’ee! Mate got one, too, I ’spoase?”
“No, Cap’n, ’e—’e do belong rubbin’ me.”
their presence in some of the smaller inland
streams of N.S.W. and Vic. might mean
the conservation, at no cost whatever, of
millions of tons of water now lost every year.
* *=!= *
“Larrapinta”: Some strange or disliked
odor about the clothes or person of “Nuce'
(B. 16/5/’2B) was probably the reason why
his usually friendly horse and dog showed
signs of enmity. When I was a lad on my
dad’s farm I found that if I groomed Bobby,
the stable bully, first, nearly all the other
horses would jump back if I let them smell
the brush or currycomb ; and if I groomed old
Snip—the horse Robby bullied most —first,
and then went up to Robby, that animal
would bite at me as soon as I held the
brush near his head. My own dog, too,. bit
me one night when I came home after visit-
ing a neighboring cocky. A sharp shower
of rain caught me on the way over, and as
my own clothes failed to dry in time I wore
a borrowed suit home. The dog came up,
sniffed something strange and got to work
with his teeth. On hearing my voice he
jumped back, and then plainly showed in
dog language how sorry he was.
* * $ *
“Kingaroy” : “Pick’s” advice (B. 23/5/’2B)
to go to the ants for weather tips must be
taken with reservations. During the ’26
drought in our Queensland district ants used
to bring their eggs to the top of the nest
nearly every morning during what should
have been spring, but we got no rain. Well
into December we , were all drawing water
from a scooped-out hole in a sandy creek.
Then we noticed ants’ nests all over the
bed of the creek, and concluded that the
drought would drag into the spring of ’27.
But it didn’t. There was 14 feet of raging
water over those ants’ nests within 48
hours.
“Eromeno” : A little black ant is the latest
pest up here (N.Q.) ; food left unprotected for
five minutes is smothered in ’em. They wander
everywhere these days in the Far West, and
it is the usual thing to clean out your bed
before turning in. They’re running over the
paper now as I write. The supposition is
that they have arrived from the South in the
huge quantities of feed which have been
imported here during the past few years.
But. wherever they’re from, they have one
good point: they attack, kill and eat their
white brother as if that were their main
purpose in life.
Sfr * * s*?
“Isobar”: Why should “Boronia” (B.
9/5/’2B) worry about bush barometers when
a reliable little aneroid can be obtained at
a reasonable price? They take up no more
space than an alarm clock, weigh next to
nothing and are well protected against injury.
With such an instrument and a wireless-
set any bushdweller as interested in weather
forecasts as “Boronia” seems to be ought to
feel tolerably secure. Forecasts are radioed
from all the capital cities, and read in con-
junction with the aneroid are more trust-
worthy than all the pet corns, seaweed, gin-
gerbread, ants, spiders and other natural
indicators that ever existed. Add wet and
dry bulb thermometers to the aneroid and
radio, and you can't go wrong.
“Tik”: There is a reliable bush barometer.
When the blowflies come in by the hundred
and you get the business end of them on
everything you possess, from the meat to the
mustard, and the blankets to the baby, you
may know it is going to rain cats and dogs.
If a dozen or so come in and are not so per-
sistent, there is going to be a cool change
merely. After a rain which the blowflies
have predicted, look out for your sheep; for
what they did, or threatened to do, in your
house is only a circumstance to what they
will do for your jumbucks when the wool is
wet.
sjc $ •!•
“E.V.S.” : A sea mullet recently sent from
Bribie Island to the Queensland Museum
contained both roe and milt. Such cases of
hermaphroditism are rare.
* ijc 4* . ♦
“Adelaide” : Immigration restrictions have
dropped on some very small game at Port
Pirie (S.A.). An incoming ship brought in
a pigeon that came aboard near the African
coast. The usual ship’s-pet bond of x5O
against its being landed in Australia was
demanded by the Customs, and, this seem-
ing unreasonable to the skipper, the bird
became a part of a pie.
* * * *
“Pick”: Eagles have an object when,
in constructing their eyries, they first lay
a broad platform of closely interwoven
sticks. The eaglets (three as a rule) grow
with surprising rapidity and in a short time
fill the nest. Then there isn’t room for the
hares, rabbits or lambs brought to them for
sustenance. That’s where the platform comes
in handy. The banquet is spread below
the nest, and, leaning over, the young
scavengers feed without danger of being
jostled out; even if they do happen to fall the
floor below catches them. Also their food
is secure from falling to where they: couldn’t
reach it, and they do not starve when their
parents are long absent on foraging ex-
peditions.
LOST TIME.
[For The Bulletin.)
There is always a discussion when they
come round with our pay,
For they never fail to dock us for the time
we’ve been away;
Old Joe becomes indignant at the crook
spin that we get,
And he calls on us to witness that he’ll beat
the blankers yet.
But, as Jim says, “What’s the blanky use
of kicking up a row ?
They’re the winners—let ’em have it. It’s
too late to worry now.
The bit that we are losing isn’t worth au
argument,
And the lost time, as they call it, was the
best time that we spent.”
For no time is ever wasted and no time is
ever lost,
And for every carefree moment every man
must pay the cost.
An argument is foolish, best to grin and
see it through,
When they’ve added up the figures and the
bill comes in to you.
When our working days are finished and
they pay us off at last,
When the good times are all over, and the
bad times are all past,
Will they keep as close a tally-—will the
last paymaster be
Just as hard as all the others on old Jimmy,
Joe and me?
When the last big job’s completed, and the
last “Yo-hos!” resound,
When they’ve made up all the time-sheets,
and the pay-clerks come around,
When the final i is dotted and the last small
t is crossed,
Will they dock us then, we wonder, for the
time that we have lost?
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page ia set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The- service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is ceserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Young English nurse, late of Blackpool
Hospital, would take care of child or invalid
for return passage England. Ex. refs.—
5054.
By girl (16), well educated, position with
good prospects, preferably out back. Go
anywhere in Australia. Good refs.—5036.
Lady (under 30), in Q’land, wishes to
join another in a frock business. Can make
alterations, has ideas and a little capital,
but no experience. Would enter established
business or start one with an experienced
partner or one with organising ability in
city or large country town. Bet's, exchanged.
—5008.
By youth (17), strong and healthy, job on
Queensland cattle station. Good relfs. —
5050.
Bv young man (24), position, Sydney, as
foreign correspondent. Good knowledge
French and German; acquainted with Italian
and Spanish, experience of boob-keeping,
typing and office routine. —4999.
By youth (17), job as jackeroo on station
in N.S.W.; 12 months’ experience on W.Q.
cattle station. Can drive car and cook.
Good refs. —5031.
By youth (18), ed. pub. school, work on
station N.S.W. or Q’land. Can ride and
drive car. Good refs.—5028.
By young Englishman (20), well educated,
position on poultry farm N.S.W. with a
chance to get on. Keen and willing. Experi-
enced in housework. Keep and small wage.
—5003.
By two young Englishmen (29 and 30),
educated, reliable, jobs on N.S.W. wheat
farm. Experienced with team and tractors,
handle any implement, expert knowledge of
petrol- and oil-driven engines, lighting sets,
etc. Would consider share farming. Ex.
refs.—5056.
By lady (25), sound general and com-
mercial education, hard worker, knows every
town in W.A., position as representative,
reputable Eastern) state firm, or outdoor
saleswoman. Now handling underwear,
mantles, perfumes, laces and men’s suits.
—5066.
By plumber studying for architectural
drafting, opportunity to serve probation in
architect’s office, or job with contractor, W.
Q’land, object of improving draftsmanship.—-
5076.
Information concerning descendants of
William Henry Kavanagh, who left Cool-
graney Co., Wexford, Ireland, about 1825.
(To R. Tennyson, 29 Derby-crescent, Caul-
field, Vic.)
Whereabouts of Mrs. Abbott, last heard of
at _ Rylstonc amd Wellington (N.S.W.)
Maiden name Florence Isabel Holland, born
Maitland (N.S.W.). Brother inquiring.
(To W. IX Holland, Willow-street, Bar-
caldine. Q.)
Names, addresses and ranks of naval offi-
cers in Australia who were at the Battle
of Jutland, with a view to organising an
annual dinner. (To Commander C. H.
Rolleston, R.N., retired, 29 Bligh-street,
Sydney.)
To buy books on codes, cryptograms and
secret writing. (To Dr. M. Hall, 22 Anson-
street, Orange, N.S.W.)
To buy back numbers of Art in Aus-
tralia. —5047.
To sell block at Ettalong, Woy Woy,
N.S.W., handy to beach on main ’bus route,
£150, at £1 weekly. (To C. Young, 24 St.
Mark’s-road, Randwick, N.S.W.)
To sell by Bradford dyer, retiring from
business, books and formula; which contain
fruit of 14 years’ practical and experimental
work in dyeing wools, cottons, silks, etc.
£450 or offer..—5055.
To sell architectural textbooks “The
Orders,” “Architectural Drawing and Let-
tering” and others. List sent. (To B.
Coolesey, Arthur-street, FlemingtOn, N.S.W.)
To sell high-class microscope, lamp and
accessories. £25.—4061.
To sell “Iconography of Australian
Species of Acacia,” by Von. Mueller, 13
vols. Cheap. (To “Korong,” Birdwood-
ave., Lane Cove, N.S.W.)
Book on “chair-caning,” or any informa-
tion relative to the subject.—5057.
Information Sought.
Can you supply a recipe for liquid qum? —
4679.
Dissolve 2oz. gum arabic in J-pint hot
water, and add half teaspoonful salicylic
acid as preservative.
/ have a dog’s skin which I wish to tan.
When it was taken off it was not pegged
out. What is the best way to deal with it?
—4811.
Soak in clean cold water until quite soft,
then carefully scrape the pelt with a blunt
blade and remove any adhering flesh or fat.
Make up a tanning liquor of 2oz. powdered
alum, loz. common salt to each gallon of
water and soak for 24 hours, preferably in
a wooden tub or cask. Wash in fresh water
and again scrape the pelt. Make up another
liquor, this time without the salt, and soak
for another 24 hours. Wash again and nail
out very tight on a table or board away from
the wind and sun. Should the skin be a
little harsh when dry, rub sparingly into the
pelt a vegetable oil, then, wash and dry again.
Which foodstuffs contain the greatest
amount of iodine? —4534.
No foodstuffs contain any iodine worth
mentioning. It is found in the ashes of
certain seaweeds and in minerals.
II ow can I apply French polish to black-
wood ?— 4807.
Work the wood to as smooth a finish as
possible. Stain with bichromate of potash
mixed in hot water. Itub in fine plaster of
Paris wet, and wipe off before it dries. When
dry, rub in raw linseed oil, and clean off.
Mix one part button shellac with six parts
methylated spirits and, when dissolved, apply
with a rubber of strong white cloth over a
ball of wadding. Rub well and, when dry,
lightly sandpaper. Apply two more coats,
the third with a circular movement until
there is high lustre. Sprinkle a few drops
of the oil on the surface, damp the rubber
in spirit, and rub till all smears disappear.
Rub again with spirit and a few drops of
water.
What is the latest method of testing
varnish for resin, and what re-agents arc
used* Is there a textbook on the subjectt—
-4850.
The presence of resin in quantities as
small as 5 p.e. can be detected by placing
two drops of the varnish to be tested on a
watch glass placed on a white paper. Two
or three drops of acetic anhydride arc added,
the mixture stirred and a drop of concen-
trated sulphuric acid added, when, in the
presence of resin, a purple coloration will
form on the edge of the mixture and quickly
disappear. Tliis method is known as the
Liebermann-Storch reaction. Holley’s, pub-
lished by John Wiley and Sons, New York,
is a standard work, but useful only in the
hands of a trained chemist.
(1) What procedure should be taken so as
to enjoy full legal protection in pegging out
a gold claim on private property in N.S.W.?
(2) What is the limit to the size of a claim?
(3) What would be the cost? —4B44.
(1) and (3) You must obtain a miner’s
right (issued at Department of Mines, Syd-
ney, or at any Warden’s clerk’s office in N.
S. Wales, cost 2s. Gd. for six months, or ss.
for 12 months), and then lodge application
for authority to enter and prospect for gold
with the Warden’s clerk for the division in
which the land is situated. A deposit of
55., together with your miner’s right, should
accompany the application. Should autho-
rity be granted, application for a lease
may be made, with which it will be neces-
sary to lodge survey fee and first half-year’s
rent at the rate of £1 per acre per annum
for so much of the surface as may be re-
quired. Alternatively, you may, with the
consent of the Minister for Mines, enter into
an agreement with the owner of the land.
(2) 25 acres.
Now is tortoiseshell welded? —4774.
The edges to be united are shaved to a
feather edge and laid together With a piece
of fresh shell upon them; the whole is
soaked in hot water and then put under
great pressure until the parts are united.
On a small scale a joint can be made by
wetting the parts to be united and gripping
them in a pair of hot pincers, repeating* this
operation till the joint is secure. The
pincers must not be so hot as to burn the
shell.
A youth tinder 21 broke his teg while at
work with his employer’s horse. He received
the usual compensation according to N.B.W.
law. Who is legally responsible for his
medical fees —the youth, the employer or
the parent? —4674.
The youth is liable, but he can recover
from his employer.
If a child is adopted at. birth, could its
mother in after years claim it? —solo.
Yes, unless she had surrendered her rights
in a deed of adoption.
The floor of my cold-storage room con-
sists of tivo layers of hardwood, with build-
ing paper between and four inches of saw-
dust underneath. It does not insulate satis-
factorily. What’s the best cure? Concrete
has been advised, but wouldn’t it be too
slippery ? —4902.
The sawdust is useless. Put a layer of
2in. corkboard set in bitumen over the exist-
ing floor and finish off . over the cork with
2in. of concrete. Finished with a wooden
trowel it won’t be slippery.
(1) Has the Commonwealth Research
Council made a recommendation concerning
minerals for sheep fodder? (2) What is a
reliable mixture for use in N.-E. Vic?—4 9l4.
(1) No. (2) The Vic. Agricultural Depart-
ment’s formula is: Salt, 40]b.; bone flour,
201 b.; air-slaked lime, 251 b.; sulphur, 151 b.;
sulphate of iron, 31b.; potassium iodide, soz.
These ingredients should be passed through a
sieve to ensure thorough mixing, and placed
in a position protected from the weather
and where the stock may have free access
to it.
What is a good drench for fluke in sheep,
and how is it, administered? —-4863.
Don’t use a drench. The modern treat-
ment is by carbon tetra-chloride, in capsule
form. Instructions for use accompany the
capsules. .
Ilow can I work out the offset per chain
in feet and inches of a 2-chain, 21-chain, 3-
chain and 4 -chain radius curve. The books
talk about sines and cosines, which I don’t*
understand? —4872.
Your best method would be to draw the
curve, say, to one-tentli full size on any
approximately level surface, then measure
the distances and offsets in inches, and mul-
tiply each by 10, to get the lengths to use
on the actual curves. To set out a curve,
draw a straight line and mark on it points
A and B 16ft. apart. Using the tape, then
strike an arc 20ft. raidus from A and an-
other 12ft. radius from B, the two arcs inter-
secting at point C. .Toin B and C and, for
a 2-chain curve, extend the line, passing
through B and C to a distance of 13ft.
from B. Taking the end of the extended
line as centre, strike the curve from B.
Mark off, say, 12in. intervals from B along
B A, and draw offsets from these points to
the curve. This gives the lay-off on one-tenth
scale.
What is the cause of and remedy for ichite
patches on the finger-nails? They have lately
come on every finger of loth hands. —5002.
More than one cause. Often it is because
the patient is generally run down in health,
or is not getting enough exercise. Try taking
plenty of fruit, cod-liver oil extract and good
plain food.
I was a canteen sergeant on the transport
.1 nchiscs for seven months during the war.
Am I entitled to the Mercantile Marine War
Medal?— 4734.
No. The medal is awarded only to mem-
bers of the crew.
Can a private N.S. H\ eo. supply residents
of a township with electricity without
license, and is there a limit to the voltage?
—5022.
A franchise must be granted by the local
shire or municipal council and approved by
the Governor. The agreement entered into
between tlie council and the franchise-holder
would regulate voltage. There are a number
of agreements with councils which have not
been approved by the Governor, arid which
are invalid.
How arc bananas ripened ready for sale?
-—41152.
The fruit is enclosed in a chamber air-
tight, save, for a small vent at the top.
During summer, the heat generated by the
fruit is usually sufficient to effect its ripen-
ing. The process can be accelerated by using
a small gas jet, regulated so that the tem-
perature does not exceed !)0 degrees. At a
temperature of 75 to SO degrees ripening is
slower, but the fruit yellow's, whereas under
a higher temperature it remains green.
How can I mend small holes in an iron
tank? —4012.
Clean the surface for three inches round
the holes, paint with elastic -carbon or bitu-
menic paint, and apply canvas patches, paint-
ing over the patches wdien in place. When
dry apply another coat of paint over each
patch.
I teas employed by the Government when
T caught a chill, which developed into T.B.
I. was granted a tear pension of £2 2s. per
week, as the Repat. Depart, accepted it as
a war disability. Am 1 entitled to any pay-
ment from my former employers for compen-
sation? —4867.
You would find it difficult to prove your
claim. The Court of Appeal has laid it
down that in cases where an ailment is due
to _ the severity of the weather it does not
arise out of the employment.
(1) What is the cost of cremation? (2)
What is the cost of ordinary funerals? (3)
What is the regulation number of persons
to one grave at Waverley Cemetery, Syd-
ney.-—5501.
fll To a member of the Cremation
Society of Australia the cost of funeral and
cremation is £l2 12s. (2) From £2O up-
wards. (3) Two coffins; the question of how
many urns containing ashes may be buried
is under consideration by the trustees.
(1) What type and size of accumulators
would be most suitable for a four-valve re-
ceiver employing four Cossar 0 -volt valves?
(2) What is the function of filter chargers?
(3) What is a good make of filter charger
for use with this accumulator? —5039.
(1) If used with a trickle charger, a 6-volt
22 ampere-hour C.A.V. If you intend to
charge your accumulator at a garage, use
a 6-volt 33 or 44 ampere-hour accumulator.
(2) A trickle (filter) charger enables the
riser to charge bis low-tension accumulators
off 240-volt supply mains. (3) The West-
inghouse Cos. "Rectox” gharger, £5 10s.
What rent am 1 allowed to charge under
the Queensland Fair Rents Act- for a three-
year-old house which cost £550 to build? The
allotment cost £IOO.-4920.
Ten per cent, on tlic cost of building and
unimproved value of land, less a fair allow-
ance for depreciation. In your case 255. a
week would be about right.
(1) Can the frog of a horse's foot actually
become bruised? (2) In the case -of so-
called “bruised frog” ivhat actually Is the
trouble? (3) In shoeing a horse, should
the frog of the foot be on a level with the
surface of ground?— 49B3.
(1) and (2) The frog can and does be-
come bruised. (3) In shoeing, the frog
should be left as nearly as possible intact,
arid the shoe set with a view to the fact
that the function of the frog is to deaden
concussion.
What is the world’s record for typewriting
speed? —soos.
For the last six years the record has been
held by George L. Hossfield, an American,
whose best speed, recorded last year, was 133
words a minute. The test is to copy unfami-
liar matter for one hour. Bach five strokes
are counted as one word, and a deduction
of 10 words is made for every error. A
speed of 230 words a minute has been
attained on memorised matter.
(1) What would be a fair distance to
expect a .22-calibre rifle to shoot with accu-
racy, using long cartridges? (2) Would a
longer barrel give better carrying power? (3)
What is the speed of .22 bullets? —5041.
(1) Seventy-five to 100 yards. (2) No.
The length of barrel is scientifically adjusted
to give maximum efficiency. (3) The muzzle
velocity of .22 bullets (long cartridges) is
1067.57 feet per second.
Information Supplied.
4857. —To syphon out the'w ater and clean
a tank, get a rubber hose long 'enough to
reach from the tank bottom to tlje receptacles
into which the water is to flow. The re-
covers must stand lower than the water to
be syphoned, and should not be too large
to lift higher if the wmter has to be run
back. Plug one end of the hose, fill it wfith
water and place the open end well down
into the tank, then remove the plug and
run off the water. Leave about four inches
in the tank with which to thoroughly swill
out the silt. —“Wrash.”
Brief Answers.
E V.S.: Only as a gamble, with not very
good chances....C.J.S.: (1) Everything depends on
management, which has to prove itself. No accounts
yet issued. But you’ll have to pay up your 205.,
anyway, if they call for it. (2) Don t know it.
What’s the address? H.R.G. (S.A.): Not im-
pressed with it. They are nowhere near the profit-
earning stage... .M. 0.5.: Yes; you have contracted
to pay £1 per share. Prospects not hopeless by
any means... .W.L.8.: Leave it alone... .E.E.M..
Yes; it is in the third of our 10 classes Old
Reader: No. The co.’s investments are not suffici-
ently liquid, and the risks of depreciation much too
heavy J.H.T.: Cuttle-fish bone can be procured
from Angus and Coote, Ltd., 500 George-street, Syd-
ney, at sd. a piece J.H.: Send us his name and
any other information you have and we 11 try to get
what you want. .. - A.E.S.: (1 to 4) Useless trying
unless you have had experience. (5) Apply to
the Passport, Office, Customs Department, Mel-
bourne. (6) You can get from Sydney to England
via Suez for £3B third-class single by various lines.
(7) Write to Dorman, Long and Cos., Ltd., Bridge
Department, 0 George Street, Sydney. .. .R.S.: Vic-
toria Cross Cos., Ltd., Logan-road, Woolloongabba,
Brisbane; Australasian Jam Cos. Pty., Chapel-street,
Melbourne; John Brooker and Sons, Croydon, S.A. :
C.F.S. Co-operative Preserving Cos., Ltd., Bourke-
streot, Waterloo, Sydney W.J.: The Music Box,
231) West 45th-street, New York J.T.W.: Try
Department of Lands, Brisbane... .P.S.: (1) Your
requirements haven't been made clear. (2) Would
suggest “Modern Australian Literature,” by Nettie
Palmer ; “An Introduction to the Study of Austra-
lian Literatyre,” by /ora Cross; “The Development
of Australian Literature,” by Turner and Sutherland;
and “Australian Writers,” by Desmond Byrne....
J.M.: The information was given in reply to 4829
(I!. 6/6/’2B) E.W.D.: Work on Vol. IV of
“Official History of Australia in the War” has
begun, but date of publication can’t be predicted.
Six ot' the 12 vols. have already been published,
and Vols. 11l and V are completed, all but indexing,
which will soon be completed.. . .T.F.8.: 2FC
transmits from Pennant Hills, and 2BL from Coogec.
No likelihood of a change. .. .Lease Kew: You are
bound by the terms of the lease to pay rent for four
years. Your best course would be to find another
tenant, failing which you should make the best
offer you can to the landlords to induce them to
cancel the lease... .J.R I .: Sydney views in very fine
condition would realise from £1 to £2O each,
depending on plate, color and value. In poor con-
dition, they are practically unsaleable... .L.L.T.:
E. Roos, 70 Pitt-street, Sydney... .A. G.: Stoll Pic-
ture Productions, Ltd., Temple-road, Cricklewood,
England, and Gaumont Cos., Ltd., Lime-grove, Shep-
herd’s Bush; British National Pictures, Ltd., 149
Regent-street; Walsh, Pearson and Cos., Ltd., 3
Rupert-street, all of London:.. . 11.W.8.: Bill Bow-
yang’s Magazine ceased publication some months
back. Frank Reid, Bowen, Q., may be able to tell
you about the fate of your MSS... .W.J.M.: (1)
An account of the incident has been posted. (2) We
have no recollection of such a prosecution....
G 8.5.: The 1902 edition of Kipling’s “Just So
Stories” sells in good condition at about 30s. Many
of the stories in this book were published for copy-
right purposes in 1900, only about 25 copies of each
being printed. These sell now at about £SO. The
Ladies’ Home Jouhnal published some of the
stories in 1900. .. .Vickers: Try Tyrrells, Ltd., 104
Gawler-place, Adelaide. .. .D.C.: The drawings do
not reveal any unusual talent. Don’t advise con-
centration on an art career. .. .J.W.C.: Write to the
Alexander Hamilton Institute, 11a Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. .. .R.G.: Try Charles Hargreaves, Brisbane-
road, Manly, Brisbane... .W.J.M.: (1) You pro-
bably are referring to the Masseeley Roller-Cam
showcard and ticket machine, which embosses three-
and four-color work on showcards. The process
can be learned easily. Machines can be procured at
a cost of £4O upwards from Lendrum, Ltd., Winch-
combe House, Bridge-street, Sydney. (2) See Pils-
worth’s “Process Engraving” or any good book on
the trade. .. .G.G. : Rapping a baton on the pave-
ment as a police signal is confined to U.S.A. cities
and only used at night. Whistles are also used....
8.M.: In the absence of an order by a Judge the
Court will give such information only to a party or
his solicitor. .. .Casey: (1) You can register the
trade-mark at the Patents Office. Such registration
would not prevent others selling a drink of the
same sort under another name. (2) Any importing
firm in the trade will give you an idea of freight,
duty and insurance charges if you supply exact infor-
mation... .A.S.G.: The, Massey-Harris Cos., Perth, will
give you the information privately if you write.
.. .. If.TV.S-.: A motion to adjourn the debate is in
order at any stage, unless the rules or standing
orders decree otherwise. .. .D.K.R.: The charge is
the usual one for such services... .Ii.II.: No infor-
mation available yet. .. .H.N.R.: Orient Line
steamers do not carry apprentices and all officers
must hold a master’s certificate. Get in touch with
the Union Steamship Cos. of N.Z., Ltd., or the
Commonwealth and Dominion Line. . . .C.D.: The
N.S.W. Department of Lands publishes lists giving
particulars of Crown Lands available for settlement
in the Eastern and Central Divisions of the State,
with the exception of lands in irrigation areas. The
lists will be sent to you for six months free on
application. Particulars of leases in the Western Divi-
sion are obtainable from the Western Land Board,
Barrack House, George-street, Sydney, and of
irrigation area leases from the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission, Union House, George-
street, Sydney... .D.0.5.R.: Ehlerman’s “Corner-
stones of Auction Bridge” (Bs.), Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney.... E.E.M.: “Aerobatics” (14s. posted);
and “The Aeroplane Speaks,” both by H. Barber
(12s. posted), Angus and Robertson, Sydney. “Prac-
tical Flying” is not stocked in Sydney, but any
bookseller could order it for you... .G.G.A. (and
others) : The funds of the German Verge Trust are
now becoming exhausted, and only special cases of
distress can be considered. Assistance can be
given only as loans are repaid.... C.M.: Aus-
tralasian Films, Ltd., 251 a Pitt-street; Famous
Lasky Film Service, Ltd., 6G Reservoir-street; Metro-
Goldivyn-Mayer Pictures, 183 Elizabeth-street; Kodak
Pty., Ltd., 379 George-street; all of Sydney. Prices
depend upon varieties and size; any of the firms
would supply catalogues... .F.J.8.: If the service
was effective in the first instance there is nothing
to fear. .. . V.C.B. : Apply to the big Brisbane
pastoralist companies and insert an advt. in one
of the local dailies... .H.S.: Kikuyu grass is an
excellent milk producer... .J.M.C.: After last
revision of the N.S.W. State Electoral Rolls, there
were 1,353,340 electors. No details are available of
lists compiled this year. .. . V.W.: Both coins are
fairly common and have only face value.... R.W.:
Crude rum in milk is not a cure for asthma and
is an undesirable beverage to take habitually.
The secrets of rum distilling belong to the distillers.
....M.L.L.: Lyre Bird brand, from Underwood
Typewriter Cos., 91 William-street, Melbourne
D.A.: The coin is a Portuguese 1000 Reis piece of
1090. Its value to collectors is about £l. The
gold value is about 6s. 6d.....(Many others mailed.)


Tr»
Burrc
□
df
sd
Serves Business
as Business Should be Served l
More than 100 Burroughs styles and sizes
of machines are built to serve business in
every branch of accounting and figure
work. Whether your business be small
or large, and whatever kind, there is a
Burroughs that will help you save time
and money.
Burroughs Portable Adding Machines are made
in many styles and sizes. They are light in weight,
compad and easily carried from desk to desk or
counter to office.
Portable Wide Carriage machines are equipped
with 12-inch movable carriages, thus enlarging their
field of usefulness. They are obtainable with four
or six columns of pounds adding capacity and with
a dire# subtrading device, if it is so desired.
Calculating machines take the place of unreliable
scratch-pad figuring—adding, multiplying, sub-
trading and dividing. They are rapid, accurate,
convenient and low priced.
The Burroughs Duplex adds two columns of
figures, giving a total of each and a grand total of
both; or adds several groups of figures, giving sep-
arate group totals and an automatic grand total of
all groups.
Burroughs Book-keeping Machines—more than
75% automatic—are made to post ledgers, make
customers’ statements, keep stock records, etc.
We will gladly help you solve your figuring and
accounting problems. Just write or telephone our
nearest office. No cost or obligation to yourself.
Burroughs Machines are priced from
£32 10s. for twelve months terms.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH
Sole Distributors :
Sydney
IRA L. 8C A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Hobart Perth Newcastle
Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin Christchurch Wellington


"v
THE CLIP on the ROAD
Consign it where its sale at full market
values is certain. Place it in the hands of
selling brokers who, season after season,
prove their ability as salesmen by consis-
tently securing highest possible results for
growers.
Send the icool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s popularity is solely due to their
success in doing well for clients.
fs
To be Rich—Yet to be Without a Penny—
to own property that cannot be touched —that is the unfortunate
position of many a man’s dependents today, during the many
weary months required for Probate Duty assessment. Even when
assessed the heaviness of this tax often forces dependents to
sacrifice part of their heritage to pay it. These are needless
hardships —P. &C. Probate Assurance removes all of them. It
provides money during the assessment period, pays the tax,
and ensures to dependents their property intact.
Discuss this important matter with our representative or send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man : H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
114-ITO CASTLE RE ACJH ST. SYDNEY n=S
PEAPES
—for vien AND their sons.
Concentrating wholly on the needs
of men and their sons, Peapes
formulate many new styles of
individual character.
To-day they sponsor the “Suplex”
Collar, not semi-soft or semi-
stiff, but a flexible stiff double
collar which gives comfort with-
out creasing.
Four, shapes and quarter sizes,
1/6 each, 17/6 dozen.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE BAD-NEIGHBOR CURSE.
“Cuchulain”: The man on the land has
enough to contend with in the way of natu-
ral pests, but he frequently suffers worse
from an unexpected source, for the bane of
many a grazier is the bad neighbor. Some
of the annoyances seem trifling at the moment,
but repeated carelessness is apt to cause
much waste of time and labor which can
ill be spared from the routine and emer-
gencies of the land. Go through these ques-
tions and see how many you can answer yes
to:—
1. Do you take care to shut your neigh-
bor’s gates and .so prevent carefully-drafted
stock from getting boxed arid rabbits from
getting in ?
2. Do you avoid cutting up his roads, in
wet weather, by getting oil to the rough as
much as possible with your heavy vehicles?
3. Do you faithfully keep down the burrs,
briar and other noxious weeds on your boun-
dary, so that his clean side is not persistently
resown after the work he has put in?
4. Do you always take a fair share of the
work of repairing boundary fences, creek-
crossings, etc.?
5. Do you borrow tools and keep them
longer than is necessary? Or fail to re-
turn them altogether?
6. Do you arrange with any of the men
doing piece-work at a neighbor’s to help you
without consulting him in any way?
7. Do you prevent your dogs from foraging
in your neighbor’s paddocks (they may be
only catching rabbits-—and they may be
learning to kill sheep!)?
8. Do you prevent, as far as possible,
your employees trespassing on the same pre-
serves ?
9. Do you take proper precautions to keep
your bull, rams or other stock from wan-
dering on to your neighbor’s, and so wasting
a year of his time by spoiling his carefully
built-up flock?
10. Do you burn carcases against the
boundary in a bad time to prevent the breed-
ing-up of blowflies?
It. Do you stop your ewes and lambs
from making a prolonged stay on the grass
and water of a neighbor who has already
notified you of their presence?
SHEEP V. WHEAT.
“R.R.R.” : I hope few farmers will follow
“D.J.” and replace wheat entirely with sheep.
The gross profit from 500 sheep might be £4OO,
but how long will 500 acres of land keep
500 sheep? In less than two years they
would eat the grass to the roots and prevent
any re-seeding. The land would become
“sheep poor” and foul. In dry times there
would be no stack of hay nor store of oats.
Lucerne will only grow in favored localities.
It will not grow in the great wheat areas
of light rainfall.
There are four ways in which the farmer
can combine wheat-growing with sheep. I
have tried the four:—
(1) Run any old kind of sheep to keep
the fallows clean, and sell them when they
have finished the job. There is an invisible
profit in this method. The sheep clean, ferti-
lise and consolidate the fallow land.
(2) Buy sheep whenever the natural feed
is plentiful, and sell them when the feed
gives but. This method does not pay too
well. The market is usually against you,
both buying and selling. Agents’ fees and
freight absorb most of the profit.
(3) Keep a flock of sheep, breeding ewes,
just as large as the summer feed will hold
in good condition. Seed half the available
land with oats and barley. As soon as the
crop is eight inches high buy sufficient stores
to stock the cropped land at the rate of six
sheep to the acre. After shearing put the
sheep into the best feed paddocks and fatten
as quickly as possible. Then sell them. By
this method the wool is sure profit, and often
a profit can be made on the animal as well.
The permanent flock of breeding ewes should
pay all cropping expenses. The land can be
seeded with a combine at a cost of Bs. per
acre, including super. Harvesting, with its
costly machinery, labor, bags, insurance, is
the heavy expense in wheat-farming.
(4) On a 1000-acre farm seed 300 acres
of wheat for grain, 300 acres with fodder
crops of oats and barley, and fallow 300
acres. Keep a permanent flock of about 500
ewes. As soon as the fodder crops are high
enough, buy 500 mated ewes. After shearing,
and before feed becomes scarce, sell these
ewes with lambs at foot, or wean the lambs
and sell separately. In order to have a
reserve supply of food for dry times, one of
the fodder paddocks should be reserved and
cut for hay or stripped for grain. The wheat
stubble will be a welcome change for the
permanent flock and keep them in food for
a couple of months.
In my experience No. 4 is the best method
of combining wheat and sheep. With wheat
and wool at present prices, in fair seasons
the gross return should not be less than
£2250 —wheat £1350, sheep £9OO. In good
seasons the return should be much higher.
Running expenses should not be more than
£lOOO.
Several “Don’ts” should be observed :—-
(a) Don’t buy old sheep or inferior sheep.
( b) Don’t overstock.
(c) Don’t keep wethers, after they are
fat.
(d) Don’t be without a reserve of hay or
oats.
(e) Don’t try to make money dealing in
sheep.
MENDING THE LAND.
“Firestick”: Every detail of our work
must be regarded from the point of Aus-
tralian usage, which, particularly in the
matter of rotation of crops, differs widely
from that of all other agricultural countries.
Admittedly a fundamental weakness in
Australian farming is the restricted range
of crops, farmers being over-inclined toi
specialise; but to be worth a place crops
must fit in with current conditions and offer
reasonable chances of return. Just now
there seems to be little likelihood of clpvers
becoming an important factor in our rota-
tions, some of the wet dairying country
and subterranean clover in the south ex-
cepted. Over the wheat belt generally nitro-
genous fertilisers are not required—their
use is apt to depress yield. The Austra-
lian sun is capable of producing soluble
nitrate from the organic matter in our
soils by speeding up nitrification, and all that
is required is a system of farming which,
along with the use of super., will tend to
maintain supplies of humus and which will
be achieved by the growing and feeding
off in situ of fodder crops. Amongst all
the available fodders suited to the bulk
of our farm lands oats stand pre-eminent
as the cheapest, safest, most adaptable and
easily grown ; and although in favored locali-
ties lucerne is being increasingly used, it
is to be advised only when it can be left
in possession for from three to five years.
Lucerne is easier to germinate than most
clovers, is hardier, longer living, more produc-
tive and better suited to our conditions.
The best farmers in the wheat belt to-day
adopt the rotation: Bare fallow —wheat
gradually widening to bare fallow—wheat—
oats. And although when economic condi-
tions justify it changes will occur, it seems
probable that the present system will stand
perhaps for another decade.
BRAN AS HORSE FODDER.
“Paul C.” : It is only when bran is fed in
a dry state that it may be regarded as a
fodder; when used wet it becomes a laxative.
If used dry it is a valuable food mixed with
chaff or grain, as it is rich in protein, and
is a flesh- and muscle-forming fodder, as
well as being a milk-producer in the case
of brooding mares. When it is fed to horses
in a wet condition, it is swallowed without
proper mastication, and passes through the
system in a partially-digested state. It
serves a useful purpose when a laxative is
necessary, as it does its work without violent
action; but it should not be used too fre-
quently—once a week is often enough—-or it
loses its value in cases of constipation.
When it is decided to give a bran mash
mix three or four pounds of bran (according
to the size of the horse) with an ounce of
table salt. Put into a bucket and pour in
three pints of boiling water. Stir well, cover
over with a doubled sack and let it stand for
20 minutes, when it will be fit to use.
A CRACKED lIOOF-QUARTER.
“Paul C.”: Most horse-owners have re-
course to blistering, scoring with a sharp
hot iron or riveting, but these usually fail to
effect a cure. My plan, is to make a cut
with a sharp knife above the crack and at
right-angles to it. This should be half an
inch long and a quarter of an inch deep.
Draw lines a quarter of an inch each side
of the crack down to the bottom of the hoof.
Following these lines, make a cut a quarter
of an inch deep. Then loosen the piece of
crust at the top with the knife, and pull
it off with forceps. Fill the groove thus
formed with well-tar rad tow, and lace a
piece of soft leather round the hoof tightly
to keep the tow in position. Keep the horse
in a stable or small enclosure for a couple
of days. He may be then turned out if a shoe
is put on the injured foot, so that the heel
is given sufficient “spring” under the cracked
quarter to take the weight off it. In three
months the horse will be sound again and
fit for work.
GET READY FOR THE LAMBS.
“Nemo”: Prepare a lamb paddock. Lambs
get lost and entangled in long, coarse grass
and find little nutriment there. They re-
quire plenty of sun, which such growth pre-
vents their having, and also room to play
and race. They will always choose a
cleared space, such as a bush road, for their
sport, and, especially in frosty regions, exer-
cise is good for them. Burn off the old
grass, or stock it heavily so that it will
be broken down and have a nice green shoot.
Trespassers there should not be tolerated.
BLOWFLY DESTRUCTION.
“Grcenhide Bill": “W.P.D.” (B. 2/5/’2B)
advises to boil 100 gallons of water when
preparing the dip. This may be all right
where wood is plentiful, but would soon use
up all the wood to be found on some of our
open downs stations. A better method is to
boil the arsenic and soda ash in five-gallon
drums—sufficient ingredients in each drum
for one charge of the mixing-tank, whatever
capacity. Care should be taken to prevent
the mixture from boiling over.
To an extent the length and density of
the wool should be considered in deciding
the pressure required, but in ordinary circum-
stances 1001 b. is ample for one nozzle, and
2001 b. for two nozzles worked by the one
plant. With two nozzles working, 5000 sheep
can be sprayed in a day with a power-plant.
If yarded overnight the sheep will be easier
worked in and out of the spraying-race, and
much time saved. Let the sheep out of the
yard as soon as possible—the wetter the
better; thus you will destroy thousands of
flies about the paddocks. Keeping them in
the yard to dry will kill the flies thereabout,
but a yard occupies a very small area com-
pared with the average paddock. Of course,-
the badly blown sheep should be kept in hand
and dressed until free of the scourge.
Poisoned baits and traps will destroy mil-
lions of flies, but I prefer the following
method of catching them before they become
flies: Get a short length of iron troughing,
or a large iron tub, and stretch a piece of
wire-netting over it. Throw a dead sheep
(the fresher the better) on the netting, but
don’t poison it, and in a week’s time let
“W.P.D.” or anyone else try to count the
result. I’ll bet it can’t be done in a week if
the flies are numerous and the weather humid.
This method, if used extensively about the
principal camping-grounds, watering-places,
yards and sheds, etc., will prove much more
effective than baits and traps in keeping the
fly in subjection, and will be found much
easier than collecting poisoned flies and burn-
ing them.
BUSH lIAY.
“W.P.D.” : For years I have advocated cut-
ting Mitchell grass in good seasons for hay.
Mr. 11. Aiming, of Wetherby (Q.), adds his
testimony to mine, and says that it can be
cut and stacked for £1 a ton, and thatched
for another ss. A reaper and binder, costing
about £7O, will cut with one man and three
horses about 12 acres a day.
The drawback to bush hay is its low food
value, and unfortunately the better the sea-
son the lower the food value. But by top-
dressing a given area with super, much
heavier crops with greatly increased food
value can be grown ; the increase under both
headings will be up to 200 per cent. It may
be necessary to top-dress every three or four
years, but even that will pay very well.
COUNTRY WOOL SELLING.
“Delta”: “Gamma” (B. 30/5/'2B) ad-
vances three arguments in favor of the coun-
try. buyer:—
(1) Spot cash instead of a wait of months for
returns.
(2) The buyer takes the risk of the market.
(3) The brokers’ high charges are cut out.
As to No. 3, do the associated brokers sell
the wool any earlier for the country buyer
than they would for the grower ? Do they
charge him a lower rate of interest on ad-
vances against the wool? Do they charge
him a lower rate per bale for warehousing,
etc.? If so, the grower would like to hear
about it. They certainly charge a lower rate
of commission on -large clips than on small,
and the country buyer has a slight advantage
in that respect, but all charges made against
wool by the broker, as well as the interest
on the value of the wool while in store
awaiting sale, must be allowed for in the
price offered to the grower.
After estimating the value of the wool and
making the aforesaid deductions, the country
buyer has to allow a margin to cover Ins
travelling expenses and to provide him with
a profit commensurate with the risk, he has
to take of the market falling before he can
re-sell. In some cases he also has to allow
for a commission paid to a local agent who
introduces him. Clearly, then,, this margin
on which the country buyer lives —and as
a rule he lives well—must come out oi the
pocket of the grower.
In the early shearing districts country sell-
ing is negligible, and is practically confined
to small lots; but as the season advances
the wool arrives in store faster than exist-
ing facilities can deal with it, and the wool
shorn in the cooler and consequently later
districts has to wait three, four or even live
months for a place in the catalogues. It is
in these late districts that the country buyer
flourishes, purchasing whole clips, not only
from the small men, but also from some of
the larger stations, growers preferring to
accept the cash and let the buyer carry the
risk. The associated brokers of Sydney,
while they have for some years complained
of the increasing tendency for late growers to
sell in the country, which, they contend,
threatens to disrupt the whole selling organi-
sation, have failed to offer any practical
remedy for the evil they denounce.
It is stated that a movement is on foot
to form a new wool-broking company, with
the object of selling wool promptly by auction
in Sydney, and that shares will shortly be
offered to woolgrowers. Provided the new
co. is well managed—and the woolgrowers
may see to that by securing a controlling
interest in the capital—it appears to offer all
the advantages of prompt realisation now
only obtainable by selling in the country, to-
gether with the full competition of the world’s
buyers as in the present auction system.
SHEEP-WORMS AND MALNUTRITION.
“Agricola”: “Bosso” (B. 30/5/’2B) struck
the right note when he urged prevention as
better than cure, but crashed when he urged
flockmen to burn the grass regularly. It
may be sometimes excusable under stress of
circumstances, but it always hastens the evil
day, because humus is destroyed as well as
the eggs and bodies of parasites that cause
trouble in sheep.
Much better than burning is top-dressing
with lime and superphosphate, and then sen-
sible regulation of the grazing. Subdivision
as far as practicable and maintaining good
soil conditions’ keeps the spread of parasites
at a minimum, and the resistance of the sheep
at a maximum. Impoverished soil means
poor constitutioned sheep and worm troubles,
and so-called “braxy” or “black disease.”
These vanish when the top-dressing is done,
and are almost entirely prevented by keep-
ing the salt-boxes supplied with salt 501 b.,
super. 351 b. and wood ashes 151 b. Benefit
in many cases is secured by adding a few
pints of water containing 3oz. of potassium
iodide.
AGES OF SHEEP.
“Boyanga”: Answering “8.G.” (B.
25/4/12S), a hogget is a sheep between 10
and 16 months, irrespective of whether it
has been shorn or not. From birth to five
months, it is- a lamb; from five months to
ten months, a weaner; from 10 to 16 months,
a hogget. At 16 months old the two middle
incisor teeth are pushed up; at 18 months
these two big teeth are well developed, and
the sheep is then a two-tooth or a one-year-
old-off. Later the two milk teeth on either
side of these two incisors are replaced by
two more permanent teeth and the sheep is
then a four-tooth or two-year-old-off. It is
then approximately 28 months old. The
process for the remaining permanent
incisors is somewhat similar, until event-
ually the sheep has eight of these, when
it is an eight-tooth or full-mouth. At this
stage the sheep is slightly over four years
old, but the even reckoning is sufficient for
most purposes.
Climatic conditions and the treatment the
sheep receive during the first 12 months
sometimes cause variations. For instance,
I have known sheep to be three years of
age before they had cut their four teeth,
but they had been badly infested with
stomach worms and received five arsenical
drenches (10 days apart) whilst still in the
weaner stage.
THE GALVANISED BURR.
“BoyAnga”: A pest that should be
watched for is the galvanised burr ( Bassia,
birahii). It has gained a footing in wes-
tern Queensland and western N. S. Wales,
is fairly common in the Narromine, Wal-
gett and Gunnedah districts, and lately has
made its appearance in the Tamworth dis-
trict. Stock will not eat it, and as, like
most noxious weeds, it is drought resistant,
it will spread over the dry inland areas
without much difficulty. It is of spreading
habit, two to three feet high, and somewhat
(Continued on page 31.)


ENGLAND to AUSTRALIA/
vApproximately 17»000 miles)
bxrtles COMES THROUGH!
•,.v, '
'' ' v , ‘
r
ftiiiiilMlllilMP^iii^'
w®.
:**x-
m
,V 7 !
ipiplli
..
:%•
i
P&HS
W:
■C W
* ♦ \ljsN
S§# :
ggs
D
n
w
impresses its tread where
tyres have never been!
mm
s
:>■* -| p
1
1
m
m
F. Birtles at wheel of his 16-h.p. Dunlop-shod “BEAN.”
In undertaking to travel from England
to Australia Francis Birtles deliberately
selected Dunlop Tyres. Can further
proof be needed of Birtles’ confidence in
Dunlop? His perilous venture across
thousands of miles of arid deserts,
peopled by unfriendly tribes . ♦ . across
scorching plains . . . through primeval
jungles . . . over mountain ranges never
previously travelled on wheels ... is
one of the most outstanding achieve-
ments in automobile history.
~ * and Dunlop carried the load in the
typical Dunlop way . . . no trouble!
such are the tyres that Dunlop builds
sturdy enduring reliable !


5
o' e
oo
\> e
O'
tV e *
-TV*®!?
oo
ys
trf
OP
0.0
TO
\' c
S e
\A
Ocv°
OP
o'
vV^
v e
Ocv e
000
\OS'
e* c
S'® 9
/?
vis
t et
s"
e Pu6/
v\t
te
ta c
tec*
eP s
°Wfj
V e
Part
<^Yv\s
ers
Or
in
all
es
o' v
Port
w °rld
at
fe
Pay
eir
truck
Profit
to
e arfi
er
°Uge
an d
pe riofi
any
th
er
an
Ve hicl
av e
ey
s ted
tV e
Q
e'
Jcv*
\eo
£,eV
e>
t'°
e"
o''
tO
TO
t e
t c
TO?
to
\0
to
cO
t e
\e
\v' c
VO
to'
VJ'
to
tvS e
T»
bV' c
CO"
o"
Toe
vho'
so
de
de\
v>/i
ttt°
SO
O ot
Vvoose
to
dtte
tbot
c tvy
e" a
V,uVo
e"' s
etf
uvt
beeo
reA
ds
\vave
n ee
xd® pX
ec' a
sp
o'"
iot
Q
%
n
s
4.
M
;<
s
L
V
x:
'H-
lfim pmipikii HmFimnH
iiiuniuniuniiiNiiiniuiu
A coupon
fjl in
which you csa
with penciL
me most
profitable,
investment
in the
Qruckfield
If you are unable to call and inspect the Republic
range let us send literature. Mail the coupon to
your State dealer.
Please send me the fullest information about
Republic Trucks.
Name
Address
Write in Block Letters.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.


Riding
comfort
surprisingly increased by Abbey
Riding Boots. They feel so free, so
snugly soft inside and yet are close
fitting. They look smart and well
shaped, but are designed for most
exacting service.
The uppers are lined completely
with soft leather. No canvas, no
irritating raised seams inside. Inset
pieces of stout elastic at ankles give
easily with all foot movements,
maintaining the good fit as well.
And the pliant, tough soles are
made of the best obtainable grade
of leather. Absolutely no second-
quality used.
Order by Post
Three widths for every size!
You can select a narrow, medium
or wide fitting in any size. State
width required and order a supply
of the correct Abbey Polish as well
(6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf 427-
Black Box Calf 37/6
J/O-page colored catalogue post
free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
h 77. Sydney.
Begin the Cuticura
Habit Early In Life
For more than two generations
Cuticura Soap has been the favor-
ite for nursery, toilet and bath. Its
daily use, assisted by Cmicura
Ointment when necessary cleans
skin health in infancy and child-
hood, and freedom, in the majority
of cases, from skin affections in
after life.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment ls.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
How so daintily white?
Not by accident are beauty of form, exquisite lightness, and
snow-like purity of colour seen in the Dainty White China Tea,
Coffee or Breakfast sets and other chinaware which bear on
each piece the name of Shelley. The special hardness of
texture peculiar to English Bone China, and 175. years of
hereditary craftsmanship, have made Shelley China the
delight that it is.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel " Lucie Attwell and- Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: —T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
"CHINA
Look for the name Shelteq on each piece of China j[
\
GREY
HAIR
[WOOED
SPOIL
IT?
tP T V C '
*°-w T «'v<a Y
«S*% >'**.
°\c ecL o'- \\' <y\
■Sf^’sT^)
»»> >'?„J
<$ «.. “
c> 1
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
'JBH
The Martin Ditcher
A ustralia's Road-Builder
Road-building, Repairing and Main-
tenance are carried out with ease by
the Martin Ditcher, either with horse
or tractor. It is the best friend of
the municipal shire engineer.
Price £35.
All parts are welded,
bolted and riveted
together. The blade is
of high-carbon steel
and every ditcher is
guaranteed.
df
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelai* 10
B.K.
similar to the roly-poly in appearance. The
leaves are small and narrow, about half
an inch long, and the stems are clothed with
white woolly-matted hairs. The. flowers are
very numerous and hardly discernible, and
later become hard spiny burr-like fruit;
each burr has five stout spines which readily
adhere to the wool or hairs on stock, thus
facilitating the spread of a most objection-
able weed.
CO-OPERATION FOR THE PRODUCER.
“Larrapinta”: In 1926 the South Aus-
tralian bee-keeper was in a bad position.
The wholesale merchants held big stocks of
honey, the prospects for the next season’s
harvest were good, and it looked as if there
would be a big glut. The buyers were
chary, and offered 3d. per lb. for the best
grades, while lower-grade stuff was practi-
cally unsaleable. The bee-keepers held a
conference, decided to form a pool, and
appointed an existing co-operative concern —
the S.A. Farmers’ Union—-as receiving-
warehousing, financing and selling agents.
The first year’s pool has been wound up
and the final payment made. After deduct-
ing all expenses—including South Austra-
lia’s share of the cost of establishing a
bottling plant and securing premises near
London to put Australian honey on the
English market, as well as sending a lead-
ing bee-keeper to London to manage the
venture —the bee-keeper will have received
4d. per lb. net for the highfeSt-grade honey,
and profitable prices for the lower grades.
This season’s crop is bringing about 5d. —
a marked advance on the 3d. offered by the
merchants two years ago. The first pool’s
total of honey received was 800 tons, of
which 150 tons were exported and the rest
sold in Australia. This year's pool will
be smaller —the season was poor.
At the start the pool experienced its
greatest handicaps from those deadly foes
of co-operative enterprises —the disloyal
member, the short-sighted critic and the
man who expects miracles —but to-day all
criticism is silent, the venture well estab-
lished and successful. And the consumer?
Well, honey is just as cheap to him, and
he now receives a standard blend in clear
glass jars, so that he can see what he is
buying.
SPROUTING OATS.
“Jack Point” : Different methods of sprout-
ing oats and other grain should be employed
according to the warmth of the weather..
The best method for cold weather is to
soak the grain for 24 hours ill warm water
(100 to 120 degrees). Then empty into a
sack—a thick corn-sack is best, being
warm. Soak the whole thoroughly again
in warm water, and hang the sack up out
of the wind in the warmest place possible.
Dip it twice a day in warm water, and at
the end of three or four days the grain
should be sufficiently sprouted to be turned
out on the usual shallow trays to a depth
of about one inch. It should then b<>
watered twice a day with warm water, and
fed to the fowls when the green shoot , is
about li inches long. To prevent mould,
add formalin when first soaking at the rate
of three or four drops to four pounds of
grain. Only sufficient for about three days
should be sprouted at once, because when
the grain sprouts too much before being fed
to the birds it loses much of its food value,
notwithstanding that there is more green
feed.
The chief virtues of the practice of ger-
minating the grain before feeding is that
whilst the dry grain contains no vitamines,
the sprouted variety is rich in vitamine B,
in addition to which the grain is much more
palatable and digestible.
PRUNING TIME.
“Rural”: The main purposes of good
pruning is to balance the tree, force the pro-
duction of fruiting wood from the base,
open up so as to get a maximum of sun and
air, keep the growth at a reasonable level
and allow of effective spraying against pests.
A dozen leaders will overcrowd a tree.
Keep the leaders down to eight or nine at
most. Plard cutting promotes growth.
In apples, the Jonathan and other lateral
producing varieties must be worked differ-
ently from those that produce the fruiting
spurs on the main arms, such as the
Stunner. Again, the popular Jonathan
produces weak and often blind buds on its
laterals (where the fruit grows), and to
cut to one of these would mean trouble,
whereas such trees as Sturmer will throw
growth from any bud. As a rule, such
trees take three years to produce fruit-
First year, the young wood is grown; second
year, spurs form ; third year, fruit.
The pear produces fruit on both spur
and lateral growths, and a safe plan is to
cut out any heavy, thick based laterals and
so maintain a balance.
The peach bears on second-year wood, i.e.
the young growths of the previous year
(always laterals). Once these produce fruit
they must be removed, otherwise they die
out. Keep the young wood growing and cut
out the old laterals, also thinning out every
alternate lateral in the winter to ensure new
growth the next season. Also always cut
back the leader to several buds above the
laterals, so as to keep the sap. running
through the tree. If a tree has not received
such attention as outlined, head it back
well, and cut out all side growths, leaving
the. bare arms. New growth will result; no
fruit the next year; but, judiciously thinned
out, there will be no lack of fruit the second
year.
Plums are treated similarly to the peach,
but the laterals do not produce fruit till a
year after the peach: first year, growth;
second, spurs; third, fruit. Cut out all
water shoots and upright growths apart
from the leaders or main arms, which form
the tree.
While it is true that the injuries to fruit
trees and losses to growers from vicious and
altogether unnecessary pruning cannot be
estimated, it would be erroneous to assert
that the trees (which, after all. are arti-
ficial productions) should not be pruned at
all. Attend to pruning as soon after the
fall of leaves as possible. Spring pruning
has an influence in retarding summer growth
and development.
The white lead for protecting open cuts
on the trees, as recommended by “Hop
Scrub,” would be found much better, more
effective and elastic if mixed with its own
weight of melted mutton-fat and enough
raw linseed oil to make it into a creamy
paint. A few’ crystals of permanganate of
potash (or a little carbolic acid) would add
value to the mixture.
HINTS FOE THE FARM.
“A.M.” : Eggs should not be set when more
than seven days old. Keep them in bran and
turn them every day until ready for the
hen or the incubator.
“B. Round” : Re sore shoulders or backs.
The first thing necessary is a well-fitting col-
lar or saddle lined with basil. An article
thus lined is very easily kept clean and soft
by the use of an oil-rag. Also, of course,
wash or brush away any dirt from the
affected parts. An old argument against
basil-lined collars and saddles was that one is
unable to probe or chamber the article away
from the affected spot. But such a method
of relieving the sore is ineffective, as a collat-
or saddle is constantly moving while the
horse is at work. A hollow thus merely'
aggravates the sore.
“Jarambi”: When roofing the milking-
shed, dairy, barn, etc., with galvanised iron
use a pair of pliers to hold the spring heads,
allowing quarter of an inch of point to pro-
ject ; it will save spring-heads, time, pro-
fanity, inches of skin and a pint or two of
blood ; it also helps to give alignment.
“Warepa”: Taking harness to pieces and
re-assembling after washing and oiling re-
quires care. To change some straps from
off side to near side reduces the wear. Change
the near rein to the off side and the near
shaft-tug to the off side. S(jme straps it is
necessary to put back, notably the “britchen”
straps, which take a distinct set or shape.
The throat-strap of winkers shapes itself
to the throat, and the hip,-strap of the
“britchen” also acquires a set shape, and it
is advisable to put them back to the side
they came . from.
“Nota Bene” : To make a mouse-proof hay-
stack, sink sheets of galvanised iron edge-
ways into the ground for a few inches, mak-
ing a wall—-the Width of a sheet high—the
desired length and width of the proposed
stack. Turn the corner sheets. Rivet all
joints and build inside the enclosure right up
to the wall.
“N. 8.”: An excellent remedy for greasy
heel is to wash with soap and water, dry
carefully and apply white lead and salad oil
mixed together. Apply every second day.
“Drover” : To get rid of callus lumps on
horses, open up with a knife dipped in an
antiseptic solution arid apply a liberal dose
of powdered Milestone. Watch results, and
repeat as often as is necessary. Between
applications wash thoroughly with warm
water, to which has been added Condy s
crystals.
“Agro”: On nearly every poultry farm
there is some waste space. Sunflower seeds
are a useful feed for poultry, and they gener-
ally grow well on such land. In addition to
the seeds being useful for feed, the leaves
and stalks if chaffed make excellent material
for the scratching-pens.
“Drover”: To save a prad that may be
girth-galled, use a breastplate and a crupper
on the saddle. Thus the girth and surcingle
can be kept slack, and (with careful riding)
the saddle held in position and the gall not
irritated. Don’t try it on anything that is
liable to pig-root.
“Steve”: Don’t forget to put plenty of
wood ashes in the pigsty. Dinny is very
partial to charcoal, and it helps to keep him
in good health.
“The" Bat”: Pay attention to the saddle
cloth. It must fit and not be too rough.
Look carefully for any bindies or burrs. A
good bush cloth can be made from a chaff-bag
from which alternate threads have been
drawn. A wash frequently will not be an
evil.
“Bill R.”: When germinating the seed of
any ornamental or bush tree, use the stalk
of a large thistle, or similar hollow stem.
Cut a six-inch length of it and clean out
the pith, if any. Then fill with soil and
plant the seed. Keep moist and warm.
When the plant sprouts place the lot in
the ground where the tree is to grow.
“Pick”: Study the ground in deciding
the position of the straining posts. Succes-
sive strainers should never stand on oppo-
site sides of a depression, or the wires when
strained will lift the intervening posts.
Wire-netting, too, will bulge as it passes
over the ridges or through the hollows. To
straighten it, cut the netting at the greatest
sag, then double it until rigid and fasten
with tie J wire.
“K. 8.”: The principal cause of hard
mouths is the flash horse-breaker’s way of
holding on by the reins instead of by what
is derisively termed a “monkey strap.” I
was once a sinner in that , way myself, and,
like others, flattered myself that I was a
“balance rider.” Even the experienced rider
has to have some hold to assist his
“balancing,” and the only effective one for
99 per cent, of us is either “monkey strap”
or reins.
“Nota Bene”: Get a strip of green wattle
bark, chop it into small pieces and place in
a kerosene-tin about half-full of water,
letting it soak for about 24 hours. Then
strain, saving the water. After work, when
the harness has been removed, wash the
young horse’s shoulders and any other place
that has been at all chafed, using warm
water and soap. Dry, and wash again with
the wattle-bark water.
“Loo B.” : In nine cases out of ten, sores
on the shoulder are caused by badly fitting
collars. Soak the new collar overnight in
a tub of water: thoroughly saturate the
straw stuffing. Put it on the horse while
it is wet and work the animal in it. It will
be found that the collar will adapt itself
to the shape and movement of the horse’s
shoulders, and will be quite comfortable
when dry. It is important, of course, not
to change the collar from one horse to
another.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan,
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder
1
Address’ Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
BRANDY
otanjcU fbi
ZAjuaJutij
WJL
(V&Jbd
oK
Oi/eA
*
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
SMOKE-OH!
The secret of success is to live and take.
A bigamist is a man who makes the same
mistake twice.
A „*:>t of motorists are arguing over the
new Ford A lot of others argued under the
old one.
Even nr n who confess to not understand
ing women should, in these days, have a fair
knowledge of their understandings.
GET HIM USUI) TO IT.
WIFEY: " Listen , dear—I leapt to ask you for twenty pounds.
Tell me how to begin.”
Hubby: “ Certainly, little girl! Try me with a few other
jokes first.”
“The most unlucky month in which to
marry.” says a statistician, "is May.” Of
course it i 5.... So are all the others.
Our heart goes out to the moralist who
dislocated his jaw through yawning in the
middle of his own speech.
A Westralian newspaper is offering prizes
for a 2500-word essay, suggesting a solution
of Australia’s industrial difficulties. We
think our effort is sure to win. We
wrote “Work more and borrow less” 500
times.
Man wants but little here below,
And, when it comes to dress,
The flappers, judged by what they show,
Require a great, deal less.
FRENCH EXERCISE.
Has the thin wife of the bald alderman a
new Rolls Iloyce?
No. but the council will consider the ten-
ders for the proposed municipal chewing-
gum factory to-morrow.
The hand that wields the lipstick rules the
whirl.
* *
The nose that goes too often to the stoush
gets broken at last.
*
“Hullo, Blank! What are you doing hero
in Canberra?”
“Nothing, nothing!”
( Blank’s a politician, but never tells lies.)
“What’s wrong with the links? Why
aren’t you golfing?”
“Golfing! Up here!”
“Why not?”
“There’s only IS darned holes here !”
❖ *
“Money talks, all right,” as the man
said who had married it.
* *
A speaker recently declared that motorists
who endanger life should be shot. And they
often are.
* *
Some people are complaining that there
are too many figures on the number-plate-;
of motor-cars. \Ve would add our complaint
that there are also too many figures under
motor-cars.
The mission of yellow journalism is to
cast imitation pearls, etc.
Since from the poets’ raptures
We learn that shoes are “ shoon,”
They surely are consistent
In styling boose a boon!
"Well, Mrs. Murphy,” said Bridget
(t'Brien. “I don’t wish yer no harrm, but
if ivcr yer gets run
over, 1 hope it’s with
a 10-ton truck filled
with concrete."
If a modern dress-
designer had been put
in the garden instead
of Adam, he would no
doubt have spent all
his time trying to
grow a fig-tree with
smaller leaves.
It is reported that a
man in Hobart who
went out to tele-
phone for a doctor did
not return home for
three months. The
Hobart exchange must
have improved since
we were there.
A conference of
English sanitary in-
spectors announce that
milk will shortly be
obtained from grass
without the aids of
cows. Finding the
grass, however, will
often still be a cow.
* *
We understand that
five years is about the
time it takes the aver-
age newcomer to
Darlinghurst to get
properly acrimeatised.
$ *
A girl knows she is
looking her best when
none of her girl friends
tell her so.
Expecting the worst is about the only
kind of excitement many people enjoy.
* *
It's another of life’s little contradictions
that a man can marry a widow and marry
amiss at the same time.
Many a single man is doubtful whether lie
can get on without a wife; then he marries
and becomes cocksure he can’t get on with
her.
We hear that a Scotsman gave a club
steward a tip the other day, asking, as he
did so, that it be put back on the cue.
* ❖
A woman’s idea of 50-50 is for her hus-
band to give her half his wages, and pay
the bills with the other half.
A Daimler sedan and a swagger Rolls Royce
Were sunning themselves in a city street,
When the Daimler asked in a cultured voice,
“Why are you fidgeting so, my sweett”
The Rolls Royce wriggled and tried to see
Her shining sides in a window-glass.
“I fear,” she said, “that I’ve picked up a
flea —
Have you seen any Baby Austins pass?”
“What would we do without our poli-
ticians?” asks an economist. We know what
we should like to do with them.
SUCH A REASONABLE LITTLE WIFE.
HIM: “It’s not fair. You went off with that bounder and
left me standing there like an ass.
Her: “Well, even if I did marry you, I cant help the way
you naturally stand, can I?”
Obsession is nine points of a bore.
SEX.
“I am not like other women. Silks and
furs and jewels have no appeal for me. I
want to do a man’s work.
I want to show that a
woman can do equal work
with men. I intend never to
marry, but to take up some
big work —to seek to improve
our social conditions. I am
going to take my place
amongst the reformers.”
When her daughter ceased
to address her as if she was
a public meeting her mother
sighed. “You’re very strong-
minded, I know, Amelia,”
she said, “and I suppose you
will do what you want to
do.”
“Very well, . Mother.”
said her daughter decidedly;
“then I want -your help. The first thing to
do, of course, is to design a dress specially
suitable for the role in life I have under-
taken.”
Percy Pawnticket.
Jack and Jill
Went up the hill
To fiet. some water, it's said.
But I aslc you this -
What went, amiss,
That Jack came down on his head?
HOME, SWEET HOME.
Personnel : Any Melbourne suburban family
Time: Any Sunday morning.
Place : The family breakfast table.
Dad: “Wliat! Chops again! Pm sick of
chops.”
Mum: “Willie, just wait till I'm ready.
I haven’t got ten pair of hands.”
Harold (the eldest boy) : “By eripes, yor
ter seen ’em. Ginger Doolan got .six goals
an’ Tim Mularky”
Betty (the eldest girl) : “Yes, we won b
two sets. Mum. Alice Brown’s got a lovely
new blazer, jazz effect. It”
Dad: “Yes, th’ darned jockey was no
good. Fulled bis head off, and’
Gertie (aged six) : “Dad, speak to Willie,
It's my Comic Cuts. It is, I tell you 1
Oh!”
Mum: “What’s that burning? Tli’ toast.
Why don’t some of you watch things?
Dad : “Yes, they come up th’ straight neck
an’ neck”
Harold: “By cripes, th’ umpire wus
crook”
Molly faged seven-
teen) : “He’s got such
dreamy-looking eyes. I
liked him better in
‘Consuming Love,’
though, he’s”
Willie: “Got any
more jam, Mum? N >
it wasn’t me. Gertie
—she’s”—
Betty: “And Her-
bert Jones is growing
a toothbrush mou-
stache. He’s”
Gertie: “Dad, speak
to Willie ! Mum, didn’t
you give that piece to
me?”
Dad : “He opened at
tons, an’ come down t’
six ter four. Some
crook work”
Molly : “She looked
lovely. And in that
scene where she”——
Harold: •‘We'll give
them a stick next time
we meet ’em. We’ll”
Mum : “Do be care-
ful with that butter.
It’s not got for no-
thing. It’s”
Gertie: “Dad, speak
to Willie. No, I
won’t give it to you
Betty: “They say
his people are very
well off. He’s”
W illie: “True, Mum, this is on y me third
pieee. I”
Dad : “I go up and say, ‘What price’ ”
}! oPy ,i +
Harold: lie had th easiest shot in life.
right in front, and
Mum: hor goodness sake, child, let me
IFt a mouthful. I
Gertie: “Dad, will you speak to Willie?
I)ad, didn’t you give it t me yestday
Betty: “And you ought to see the way
‘she swanks. Goodness ——
p ■ B ™ a , 3 daylight robbery. It
Molly : He s the cutest case you ever
saw. with a twinkle ——
Mum: “Don’t be here all day. I’ve got to
get dinner ready. Gertie, you
Harold: /And the way that big lounger
used his weight
BUT SHE WILL.
“Nice suit you’ve got on, of man.
Wife pick it?”
“No, not yet.”
P»etty: “He wants me to play with him
again next Saturday”-
Mum: “No. you don’t, Dad. There’s a
quarter of blocks out in th’ shed to be”
Dad: “Cripes! A man never gets any
rest. I”
Wang.
SHE ALWAYS WAS CANTANKEROUS.
When, in their days of innocence,
lire anil her Adam lolled about
Safe in their garden’s lofty fence,
/ wonder what they scrapped about?
She craved not clothes', she craved not rings,
Was satisfied with bed and hoard
And other inexpensive things
Kindly provided by the Lord.
A<> other slw, no other he
Could bull into their paradise.
There was no room for jealousy
Or cnviousness or avarice.
Yet long before the serpent came
And drove them from their fine, estate
I'll take a shade of odds the dame
ller Adam could exasperate.
And when the Kail made Adam grieve
(To work the poor chap had to go)
I'll bet you what you like that Eve
Staid, "All your fault! I told you so!”
N.N.W.
HYRAM.
LULLABY.
The troubled air about my head is breaking
In waves of sound, so strong and wide
and deep
'The window-panes and walls arc wildly
shaking,
As though a dancing tryst the mountains
keep ;
And. worried dogs for miles around are
waking,
Unto the starry sky their voices leap;
And slumber all our neighborhood’s for-
saking,
Since Brown is singing, “Sleep, my Baby.
sleep /”
QUEENSLAND.
MAGESS.


KINGSFORD SMITH
succeeds
llii
r.
G.
TO
.
V
V
'll, I
Sonds
Pun FVooL
SingUts
Short
Slttxts
fyaaorf /Son/ 9 /?*?
6/j.f .
c--/?sZZm /o ///£ /wc //La/- c/i^C'v
</ ~/<>Z?-Z9//k*<S /itu~A&4 J /{J/L^^/j
/fa /fc&H <¥ />&-/ /ST//. /fO /o
/co <?- O-oooS
/&&L0&O /%/- ( L , y /%jLy
(2rrjy/zrr/- /%/£. {/b// r -
c?~
$/(u
AUSTRALIAN GREATEST
AIRMEN GIVE PRAISE TO
(j ßond's
ATHLETICS WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
o-
-0“"
c>=
bond's
Ankit length.
Puli WooL
Underpants
<scmds
Pure WooL
(JthUtic Singtds
Whilst the whole world has stood
aghast at the Achievement or
Caiot. kingsfovci Smith and It is
gallant Colleagues Bonds Underwear
has afforded them untold Comfort
through those hours of intense/
Cold & Anxiety^
bond's
Silk 6 WooL
Knee Lmgth L[Pants
6 SingLds


A MAN in
LONDON
needing clothes can visit a “show” shop and
be duped; or he can patronise a West End
establishment where, even after the customary
10 per cent, discount for cash, he will be
helping to pay for those who never do; or he
can find a Tailor whose standing is unquestion-
able who makes clothes for cash payments only.
Mr. Jennings, of Newgate Street, London,
has been in business for a quarter of a cen-
tury, and has a large clientele in Australia.
Only cloth made by reputable manufacturers
from finest Australian tops is countenanced.
The t utters he employs are live men with wide
experience. All clothes supplied by Mr.
Jennings are made by hand, and complete
satisfaction is guaranteed.
His modest prices are based on cash pay-
ments only, Lounge Suits, for instance, costing
from 7 to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1026.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, .Esq.
Victorian Branch; 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Pueensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE. Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
The Federal
BJf
o*
vO^'
XY^V#
Poverty
Point
“M.G.S.” : Vital statistics of 14 operas of
the Gonsalez season in Melbourne show that
five adults were murdered, two (both prima
donnas) died of galloping consumption, one
of poisoning, two by their own hands, five
by ordinary killing, three by burning and
four (all sopranos) of broken hearts; and
there was one case of child murder. Each
opera was repeated an average of four times,
so you get a total casualty list of 92. Yet
if a spoken drama ends with so much as
a cut finger the theatregoer complains that,
it is sordid. Why is the same person able
cheerfully to sit and watch blood drip,
provided it drips to music?
“Pianissimo”: Melba, in her memoirs, de-
scribes how she sang from a gondola along
the canals of Venice. With her was Tosti,
and as the impressionable Venetians trailed
behind and crowded and applauded, he
handed round his hat. The result was highly
satisfactory. Later, in a punt on the
Thames, the same idea occurred to Tosti.
Melba tried to dissuade him,; she knew the
English temperament. lie insisted, and she
sang. Not an echo cheered her. The irre-
pressible Tosti again handed round the hat.
Tediously he managed to collect a few pence.
“Cauboy” : Now that the mists of propa-
ganda are drifting away it can easily be
seen that Melbourne can’t support two grand-
opera companies simultaneously. One of
the troupes has been playing to full houses
—and it isn’t the one which is quoting the
cheapest prices. The fact is that the grand
opera habitue will stand almost any degree
of piffle on the dramatic side, but his music
must be served on a golden, dish by perfect
waiters. He has no objection to cheap
prices, but, rather than listen to second-
raters, he would stay home. With certain
people opera is an overwhelming habit, like
opium. I know one spinster, of slender
means, who has spent £2O on the Williamson-
Melba season; but she has saved up since
1924, and it is her only indulgence. I offered
her a free seat at the rival circus, but she
didn’t even thank me.
“P.H.”: Stage traditions die hard. Paper
flowers are one of them. In the convent
scene of “The Green Hat” Judith Anderson
carried a sheaf of red roses that crackled
and rustled most unflower-like. In “Diplo-
macy,” at the Melbourne Comedy, two bou-
quets of paper roses in the first act are duly
admired —and smelt! In a subsequent scene
(in Paris) artificial flowers are mixed with
good Australian gum. Even so with Oscar
Asche, otherwise almost faultless. His Des-
demona Champion brought in crepe-paper
gladioli, which later Oscar inhaled with rap-
ture. Two I know who always used real
blooms —Marie Tempest and Pauline Fred-
erick.
“Shep”: Film-magnate Jesse Lasky has
risked the wrath of his country by declaring
in England that, the exaggerated American
accent is not all it could be in drama, and
that in speech English actors and actresses
are a long way ahead of Americans. An-
ticipating phenomenal development of talking
pictures in the States, he is in England to
lure talking stars to America, pure speech
being a most important qualification.
“Adsum”: Not all “Princesses” have been
failures (B. 23/5/’2B). One—“ The Balkan
Princess”—ran a long time in London, and
it had something in the way of a divvy for
the Firm, too, despite that supreme banality,
“1 Wonder Who’s Kissing Her Now?”
“Ij. de It.” : When the Firm announces
that, “despite the enormous success of
‘Aida’ the directors are reluctantly obliged
to withdraw it,” for once they really mean
it. The magnificently-staged grand panto,
with the added attraction of Geelongito
Brownlee as Amonasro, has been a huge
draw and has run into six overflow perform-
ances. I submit as a suggestion that J.C.W.
hold back the principals at the end of their
Australasian season and run “Aida” for an
extended period. At reasonable prices it
ought to apiii roach the rfecorld of “Roso
Marie.”
“Hamfat”: Miss Carrie Tennant, long
associated with Burdekin House (Sydney)
efforts, is trying to give Australian pIay-
wrights a chance. For one week each
month, beginning on July 11, she is
arranging to produce one-act Aus-
tralian plays at Burdekin House. She
has gathered a good bunch of assist-
ants around her, and the tried-out
plays that have the right quality will
be passed over to lion Finley for
production at the “art” theatre at
North Sydney. So, for the first time
in their lives, Australian playwrights
may find themselves pur me,d instead of
avoided; Miss Tennant, who can be
found at Burdekin House, actually
wants to hear from them.
“G.T.”: “Faust” at the Melbourne Prin-
cess recalls a night of this opera in Dublin.
Mcphistopelcs was only half-way down to his
fiery abode when the trapdoor stuck and
would not let him through. Silence for a
moment; then a cheerful voice from the gal-
lery : “Hooray—Hell’s full!”
“N’Yoik”: Melbourne is to be given first
look at “The I’atsy,” the Firm’ls latest
American acquisition. “Patsy” is local
patois for Cinderella, which sufficiently ex-
plains the type of comedy it is. Ten com-
panies are travelling it about the States,
where it has had a success only second to
“Abie’s Irish Rose.” Irene Homer, a ver-
satile young Broadway headliner, who has
played parts as far apart as Portia and
Tondcleyo, will be the star.
“W.1.U.”: “L.H.P.,” who complains about
Saturday’s higher prices (B. 16/5/’2B),
ought to know that theatre patrons are
charged only what they are ready to pay.
Many years ago Broken Hill folk who wanted
to make sure of thp cheaper seats had to pay
6d. extra for early doors. They stood it
“RIGOLETTO,” AT HIS MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Rigoletto Granjortc searching for Gilda
dal Monte’s ear in the dark.
for a time, and then struck. It hasn’t been
charged since. Quite recently the picture
proprietors, with some justification, bumped
their prices up 3d. and 6d. They screened
to the orchestra and attendants for a week;
then they decided that the lower prices
paid better.
“Hamfat”: Contrary to “L.H.P.’s” state-
ment (P>. 6/6/’2B) that “Henry VIII.” has
not been produced in Australia since the days
William Cress wick, I think there has been
a much more recent production. Theatrical
records are very incomplete here, but I am
informed that Harry Douglas, playing the
Duke of Buckingham, so impressed an audi-
ence that, though he was duly executed in
the third act. the crowd refused to leave at
the end until he had been found and brought
back in street clothes to receive the plaudits.
That, I understand, was with a Bignold pro-
duction.
‘‘Wood's Hreen” (Loud.) : When Henry
Irving produced “Hamlet’’ Ellen Terry
wanted to wear black for her Ophelia. Irving
A GOLFING LAUGH FROM “TOP
HOLE,” AT SYDNEY EMPIRE.
Mr. Willoughby (Bert Barton): “Tell me
—why are the Scotch such good
golfers?”
Mr. Blunt (Fred Bluett ): “I suppose be-
cause it’s a gift!”
tersely replied that there was only one
person who would wear black in the pro-
duction —himself. Jean Forbes-Robertson, not
being so governed, lately donned black in the
Old Vic. production of the tragedy. Jean’s
interpretation thrilled the audience by its
poetry, pathos and superb diction.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The Harbor City’s first
permanent “art” theatre will be. in North
Sydney. The old Town Hall in Alfred-
street being available at an amazingly small
rental, eight enthusiasts guaranteed pay-
ments for two years, and others, including
an architect who will plan alterations and
a lady who will see that the floors are
scrubbed, have gone enthusiastically into the
fray. The little showhouse, just over the
ferry-train escalators, is to be christened the
Turret Theatre, and Don Finley, who has
charge of the art side, hopes to keep going
a sequence of the sort of plays the commer-
cial theatres dare not handle, with a sprink-
ling of work by Australians.
“Hamfat” : A notable theatrical life closed
the other day with the death of Alfred
Bishop, brother of Australia’s Kate Bishop
and uncle of Marie Lohr. The veteran, com-
pletely blind for the last six of his 80 years,
and almost blind long before that, made
his first appearance in “Gulliver’s Travels”
at the age of seven. He was continuously
in engagements with the most notable actors
till he turned 74, when complete darkness
fell on his eyes while he was playing Jean
in “The Return” at the London Globe.
“W.”: An orchestral concert lately given
in London’s iEolian Hall by Australian
pianist William Murdoch caused a booking-
fever amongst music-lovers. Willie, now
described as a “temperamental English lyric
poet of the piano,” revisited liis own land
a few years back with Kirkby Lunn’s con-
cert tourists.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : At time of writing,
“The Wrecker,” E. J. Carroll’s money-
spinner, is at Holders Green, and is to go
on an extended tour of the English pro-
vinces and Ireland. Clyde Meynell, who
is in much better health than when he
retired from the J. C. Williamson direc-
torate, will take charge on the tour.
“Matahari”: We must give Germauy
credit for having had the foresight to. send
cinema photographers to take “shots” not
only just behind the line but of actual fight-
ing under conditions which cannot be re-
produced. Had other countries, particularly
America, adopted the same system, we -would
not have been bombarded with such faked
war pictures, the battle scenes of which are
a joke to anyone who has been through a
big stunt, and can only leave a wrong impres-
sion on those who have not seen war.
“Wings,” the latest release, will be a success
simply because it portrays a branch ot the
war not tackled by producers before, nor a
start, our censors ought to cut out the women
dashing about in the line, driving ambulances
and such like. It was not done. In tour
years tli e only women I saw near the sup-
ports were two old French daines of.abo.it
70, coming to try to find valuables in the
wreck of their home at Meteren. Even then
they had an armed guard with them to hurry
them away.
“Spag Getty” : With the avowed object of
strengthening' the Italian national spirit.
Mussolini is establishing State theatres at
Rome, Milan and Turin, with Pirandello as
director. A stock company will visit each
house in turn, putting on plays mostly by
Pirandello D’Annunzio, Bracco, Sansecondo,
Tontempelii, and other native play-wrights.
Works of the better known foreign drama-
tists will be staged occasionally.
“Spero”: The Salvation Army to-day says
some nasty things about the moving pictures,
but one of Victoria’s first series of movie
entertainments was provided by the Army.
About 20 years ago the Salvos held a weekly
show in a hall at South Melbourne, and the
innovation attracted all classes.
“L. de It.” : Touching the Fuller proposal
to give a season of English opera. It is
generally forgotten that Sullivan essayed the
grand variety before his partnership with
Gilbert set him on the highroad of light
comedy. “Ivanhoe,” performed in 1891. was
good music attached to a scrappy story, but
it achieved considerable success. “The Yeo-
men of the Guard” also occasionally strikes
the note of tragedy and deep feeling expected
of grand opera. Gustav Holst’s “Savitri,”
a beautiful and haunting setting of an Indian
legend, deserves a place in the repertoire. It
was played—-and very charmingly played—
by amateurs in Melbourne recently. And
while they are at it the Fullers might throw
in some Australian opera—Fritz Hart’s
“Deirdre in Exile” is well worth revival.
“C. Ockney”: Oscar Asche has got his
discharge from bankruptcy and has started
at the London Vaudeville with a play called
“Who’s Who,” written by two newcomers,
Clifford Poultney and Ronald Daniel. Oscar
produces and heads the cast, which includes
such well-liked performers as Dorothy Min to,
Grade Leigh and A. W. Baskomb.
“Lud”: Fearsome, horrific plays, out-
Wallacing the Edgar Wallace thrillers, are
going on —and off —the London stage just
now. “Sweeny Todd, or the Demon Barber
of Fleet-street” needs no comment. “A
Man with Red Hair” is as bloodcurdling a
piece as ever the footlights have seen, and
“The Monster” runs it close, while a grand
Guignol programme of five choice flesh-creep-
ers from Paris is being launched. One
manager, however, plans to lead theatregoers
back to comedy and sanity with a piece en-
titled “Mud and Treacle,” the work of
Ben Levy, whose “This Woman Business”
scored a hit a couple of years back.
“Hamfat” : Australia is losing three more
girls who have gone far, but find they can-
not go far enough on the local stage—
Billie Lockwood, Byrl Walkley and Thelma
Burness. Each has stepped into lead in
emergency, and done very well.
“Spokesliave” : Those who find the old-style
opera too romantic and unreal should sample
some of the moderns. In “Die Tote Stadt,”
by Erich Wolfgang Korngold. recently per-
formed in Vienna, the hero, having lost his
wife, dreams of consoling himself with a
street dancer who has just dropped in and
gone out again. However, the wife’s por-
trait comes to’life and sings; wherefore the
chastened widower, hearing the dancing-girl
returning, prepares to give her a rebuff. But
she has only forgotten her umbrella ; where-
upon he consults a time-table and catches
the next train home.
“M.G.S.”: The latest demand in Mel-
bourne is for a censorship of plays. The
trouble about such a censorship is that it
invariably hits the play of genuine literary
merit and serious dramatic intent and
lets the mere box-office smut-purveyor
go scot-free. A recently instituted regu-
lation in N’York is instructive. Its only
definite declaration is that producers of
plays in which the demi-mondaine appears
or is even referred to will be prosecuted.
Such a rule applied here would prevent Allan
Wilkie performing “Measure for Measure,”
or completing his Shakspearean cycle by
staging “Pericles.” It would land Beresford
Fowler in the jug for reviving “Mrs. War-
ren’s Profession, - ” where Gregan McMahon
would follow him for putting on O’Casey’s
“The Plough and the Stars.” Dion Bouci-
cault would also have to serve a term for his
performance of Lonsdale’s “Spring Clean-
ing.” and Margaret Bannerman would no
doubt occupy the neighboring cell for per-
sisting with “Our Betters,” since there would
obviously be the same objections to male
demi-mondaines as to female. All the persons
mentioned are genuine artists, and the plays
are valuable contributions to the drama.
“Getting Gertie’s Garter” would continue to
flourish, though it isn’t.
BALLADE OF DRAMATIC DIET.
[For The Bulletin.]
The fond tragedian is doomed
Who thinks to make his hearers quake
By lines reverberantly boomed
When charged with tea and currant-cake;
The vocal chords will crack and break
Without the nutriment bequeathed
By ante-caudal bovine steak
On which fried onions have breathed.
Fitz-TJrse, with whom I sometime roomed,
Was guilty of this prime mistake.
Ilis reputation lies entombed
Beside Oblivion’s bitter lake.
He held the tender piscine flake
Of snapper, garlanded and wreathed
With sause Tartarc, amends might make
In voids where onions should have breathed.
To see comedians engloomed
Makes audiences roll and shake
Who think the feebleness assumed ;
But, laddie, pastrycooks who bake
Gateaux and kickshaws never take
Their wares themselves, for, being teethed,
Man needs, when great things are at stake,
The heartening zest by onions breathed.
Envoy.
In Sweet Will’s time, Sir Francis Drake
Chased Spaniards though the tempest
seethed,
Drawing an ardor nought could slake
From beef on which strong onions
breathed.
N.S.W.
BYSOM AUBERE.


r
'*4-
4
MISS BETTY REA, a dainty
Rexona Girl, writes: “/ always
use Rexona Soap, and have
t;ever found anything to equal
it for the skin and hair."
■
1
PpetKj !
iSe ©aintij! -
yittmctwe!
fte a- tfex&na,
° S^t!
Ml SS EILEEN PINK ST ONE,
a lovely llexona Girl and winner
of the Newcastle Most Beautiful
Blonde Competition, writes: “1
always use Rexona Soap, for I
find it unequalled for the skin and
hair.”
MISS
BERTHA RICCARDQ,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: “I always use
Rexona • Soap. It is un-
doubtedly the best for the
skin and hair.”
* •
MISS
MARION LIGHTFOOT,
a charming Rexona Girl,
writes: Rexona Soap makes
the finest shampoo for the
hair and is also invaVuble
for keeping the hands in per-
fect condition.”
MISS
DORIS HENDERSON,
a . pretty Rexona Girl,
writes: “2 ibid Rexona Soap
used regularly enhances the
beauty of the complexion,
and makes the hair soft and
glossy.”
*
m
, ' t ass ! j
/4nr\o /ynw&c™
ULWj VP 3 M JO &
tniovw,
/ §kin
d-f/resk bi
£oveL
©llsingf 6nlij Rexona <§ oap
L y aR{
The beauty of a fine, clear, healthy skin is
more important than any one feature
the face may possess. If a girl enjoys a
good complexion, she cannot fail to look
attractive, no matter what other charms
she may lack. It is a case of complexion
first, and all other attractions afterwards.
It is not difficult to obtain a clear and
satin-like skin.
Rough, ugly skin indicates neglect—but
with the daily use of Rexona Soap and
Rexona Ointment to heal any breaks and
sores, all complexion and skin troubles
are soon ended.
When you see a girl with a clear, rosy
complexion you may not be far wrong
in hazarding a guess that she is a
Rexona Girl and is a constant user of
Rexona Soap. The complexion of the
Rexona Girl gives her an air of distinction
and distinguishes her from other girls, who
do not use Rexona Soap and who do not
take the same great care of their skin.
m
w,
rfV,
'nu
m
w>
m
P&
m
\*Z
563
v^ x
'/'?//,
tot
H
////
//'///
Gksuaim*


wm,
i
i
9.
"j ',//////////,
■ss////////A(w.
y//'6
W/A
<4/4
•,s.s. t..Vs
W‘‘ fa w y/
mm
jf.ri /A r J.v.
&s Mi A %
» IW/?J «7
i
•T'
%
aftASB
H
A
{>.
m
5^
y/
%
Va
mam
Va
f
ii
*4
*2
kS
4 4
wy
an »
wsm^mx
W""'.
m
Y/SA
V/a
m
W.Vy
<4
»
'•4
■
H
S
4
m
rrWI
Vk
wz
Va
jj/
'"A'vA
Wk
%
1
44
//
i
st*S»
H
v.vA
V'"'^
W/AZ
////SSA fl
H
•4/44
AMI
mmw
»
i
/'//(* y/.y'
5 AArf*.A/ji
f
5"~
P.ASii
'/yv'/'ZTZ >
i6rn;
m
mm.
m
4
$?,,//////
Y/5.............. S.V/t>
%
turn
/A
i
//
J
I
REMEMBER the story of the battle that
was lost due to the lack of a horse-
shoe nail? It has its parallel in Motor Car
Service. It’s the little things that count.
Service as interpreted by General Motors
means that wherever you see the General
Motors Dealer’s Sign, there you will find
everything that you expect in “service,”
from the smallest nut upwards.
General Motors (Aus.) Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne - - Sydney - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Perth
i
m
%
■
v
m
lij
°Pu
Ho'°
CHEVROLET
V
3>
offrnrfrrtA:
km
w
Va
K9b
O'
1
IN
xog:


Government Insurance Office of N.S.W.
THE MINT BUILDING, MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE
DISCOUNT TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
A DISCOUNT OF TWENTY (20) PER CENT.
will be granted by the Office to holders of insurance
(other than in respect of Coal Mining) current on the
30th day of June, 1928; to be calculated on the
adjusted premiums for fully-completed annual periods of
insurance so current.
Allowable as deduction from premiums for the
renewal of insurance following annual premium adjustment.
The Objective of the Office is to Provide Employers
with Insurance at Lowest Possible Cost.
PROMPT QUOTATION OF RATES UPON REQUEST.
Mutual Insurance with Your Own Office.
W. N. McFARLANE, General Manager.
E 6720
A
THE "WINTON
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE
A Saddle high-grade in workmanship and
materials, designed for greater comfort to horse
and rider. It has combined flap and skirt sewn
direct on to the se;at, giving a narrow, non-
chafing grip. The pads are set well up and give
perfect security for rough riding.
£l6/10/-
FITTED AS ILLUSTRATED.
Freight Paid for Casli to N.S.W.
Railway Stations.
THE “BEENIE” RUG
THE IDEAL STAY-QN RUG.
“A” QUALITY, FOR TURNING OUT.
Made of Super White Flax Canvas Lined with AVarm VA r ool Collar Check.
sft. 6in., 51/6; sft. 9in., 53/6; 6ft., 55/-. Add 2/9 for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE AND FULL RUG LIST.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
>3"vc
/ Always Mark
Everything with
Before sending to the Laundry,
they ensure Ownership— Cash’s
Names are Fadeless, and in-
valuable not only for marking
Linen, but any woollen article.
“A Few Stitches and They’re On.”
PRICES:
12 doz. 7/6,6 doz. 5/*, 3 doz 3/6
Write for Name Style Circular to
Jo I r ACU PTY. 85 Cubitt Street
.& J. LAjfl ltd. Richmond, Mclb.
I
".(f
\
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital . £lOO,OOO . , , directors
i AQ , John Deans, Esq. <Chairman).
issued Capital 49,161 G . Woo tiger, Esq.; S\ .T. Goulston, Esq. •
Paid-up Capital 30,234 K. G. H. .Toscland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, Genera) Manager.
Holds More Ink
self-filling
SAFETY
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA HUE & CO. LTD.
I'.O Bunhill Row. London, E C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas,'Dinners.
Delightful lb-minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
P. RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 1 Lines.
Type, Tripe & Co.
, J. G. Burrows, an old Inky Wayfarer
who for nearly HU years was oni the
Argus staff, recently celebrated on the same
day the 63rd anniversary of his marriage
and liis 84th birthday.
Hundreds of people who have been charmed
by Elsie Cole’s verse —Dr. Souter recently
discussed it enthusiastically on the Red
Page—will be glad to know that Lothians
are soon to publish a volume of her work,
“Children of Joy.”'
“Alastor”: P. J. Dillon, secretary to
Queensland’s Agent-General in London for
17 years and author of a book of verse, has
been appointed editor of Archbishop Duhig’s
new paper in Brisbane, the Age. Archbishop
Duhig also owns the big Catholic weekly,
the Sunday Visitor, which has an all-
Australian circulation of 40,000.
QUALIFIED.
MODEL: “Don’t talk to vie about the quiet
life! I mean to have a good time!”
ARTIST: “What a hideous old scrag you’ll
become!”
MODEL: “Oh, then I’ll settle down and run
a beauty parlor."
New Captain Cooks :—-
A new discovery of Australia, and the good picture
market that has grown within it, has been made by-
sundry English artists during the last few years;
Charles and Margaret Gere invade that mart with
a combined show of water-colors, displayed at the
Macquarie Gallery. The lady has a delicate fancy
and a mystical touch; her work has weak dainti-
ness beside that of her brother. Both show a similar
fault here and there—a tendency to flatness. Yet
Charles Gere rises to magnificence at times as in
“A Distant View of the Matterhorn” and “Mountains
of Valais.” He, too, can get the softer touch, and
“The Severn at Newnham” is delightful ; but why
the good man in “St. Anthony Preaches to the
Fishes” should be made a giant is a mystery.
“Coot”: There recently came into my
possession a letter written by Marcus
Clarke to a friend. “I will lend you my
dress clothes with pleasure—if you c-an
wear ’em,” he wrote. “But remember that
my left sleeve is some inches shorter than
the right. Will you have ' ’em?” Was
Clarke’s left arm shorter than his right?
Why artists grow grey-headed:—
Harold Herbert is up for inspection again ai
the Fine Arts Gallery, Melbourne, and the show
invites reflections as to whether it is possible for
even the most competent painter using water-color
as a medium to achieve realism —and realism is
what Herbert appears to be aiming at —except
within very narrow limits. There is only one way
of faithfully recording natural appearances—to «et
down the strongest tones in a subject wherever they
occur, and when one. has those right to set down
those of next importance and so on. Where a scene
consists of simple elements, such as a range of blue
hills across a light wash of plain, this can be done
with a fair amount of accuracy, as Herbert shows
in his brilliant impressions of lone sandhills against
a scrap of sky. Whore it includes a village street,
a score of houses, some animals, a bridge or two,
trees, men and sundries (with the sun shifting and
racing clouds changing the whole tone scale every
minute), the business becomes too complicated for
the human eye. This riddle of objects has to be
expressed in a similar riddle of tones which, as
water-color cannot be worked over to any extent,
have to be set down once and for all. Some of
them are put down wrong and the artist retires to
his studio and tortures the others into some sort of
plausible relationship. The result is usually a mess
and explains why a water-color which pleases at
first sight often becomes an irritation afterwards.
These remarks are not meant to be derogatory of
Herbert, who is the most competent and striving
of the Victorians in his class, and at his best -s
exquisite. They are merely advanced as a possible
explanation why romanticists like Blamire Young
live to a ripe old age, while others grow grey-headed.
“Unity”: A fable that crops up periodi-
cally in the Australian press concerns a child
being hanged by nuns in a Spanish convent,
whereupon her enraged father shoots four
of the nuns. The story appeared in a Sydney
paper about a year ago, and was duly fol-
lowed by a denial. Recently it managed to
get into the guarded columns of S. M.
Hekali), with a refutation following next
day. Maoriland papers also published it,
but the Auckland Herald did not take the
matter lying down. In its correction it
soundly slated the London Daily Chronicle
for not examining the report before broad-
casting it throughout the world, and re-
marked that the story was “a malicious in-
vention with no foundation whatever,” In
Maoriland they still hold that accuracy is
the soul of journalism.
The Painter-Etchers’ Sydney show: —
Growth in strength and a greater kindness to
plain black-and-white are features of the Painter-
Etchers’ annual exhibition at the Education Gallery.
Most of the 232 prints and drawings show good work;
in a fair percentage the results achieved are excel-
lent. Sydney Long has a way of intriguing the
imagination, best shown in his eight prints of
“Reflections, Avoca.” There is force and character
in Thomas Friedensen’s head of an old drover, and
his “Homestead, North-West,” is nicely done. F.
Sidney Walker’s “Evening, Narooma,” should augment
the popularity of that pleasant resort. Sydney Ure
Smith shows a man “Packing Oranges” into a cart,
and Barclay Godson has some very well done views,
which advertise a tour of Europe. Among the host
of other exhibitors, H. Van Raalte scores with a
couple of fine aquatints, Squire Morgan with a
romantic “Path to the Beach” and A. H. Fullwood
and F. C. Britton with views of the city railway
and harbor-bridge construction.
“Coot”: Melbourne’s Yorick Club, which
celebrated its (30th birthday on May 30, was
founded by F. W. Haddon, editor of the
Australasian and subsequently of the
Argus. Its first secretary was Marcus
Clarke. At the preliminary meeting to dis-
cuss the formation of the club, Adam Lind-
say Gordon was present, but he did not
join until later. There were 39 foundation
members, who were originally restricted to
“literary men and those with
literature, art and science.” In 1871. the
barriers were lowered to admit professiona!
men. Marcus Clarke was succeeded as sec-
retary by B. F. Kane in ’6B. and he was
followed bv John Madden (afterwards C.J. 1
in 1871. The Yorick has always been tin
favorite club of Melbourne Inky Wayfarers
Among visiting literary men who have bee
entertained by it were Max O’Rell, Kiplin
and Mark Twain.
Some Adelaide pictures :
Maude Priest, who has been showing in the Society
of Arts gallery, has been more afield than mos
S.A. painters, and brings spoils from Devonshir
and .Cornwall, Gippsland and Ballarat to add to
the usual local scenes. The best proof of the
marked advance’ in her art is her diploma pictures
for the British Water-color Society.
Beatrice Chcttle and Florence Yeates follow with
a joint show. The former, after only a few years
in Australia, has caught atmosphere and light
wonderfully well. Sounder in drawing than most
of her rivals, she gets her color effects with a multi-
tude of exact touches. Daintiness is the “note” of
her water-colors, which are just what the public
wants. Miss Yeates’s work is more of the liit-or-
miss school, and would be better for more cure
given to it. Her, strong point is an intimate
knowledge of the wild rock-scenery in the heart of
the continent.
“F.S.”: One advantage of the Felton Be-
quest is that, as Vic. National Gallery gets
most of its pictures from the fund, it can
spend much of its own cash on its personal
appearance. Extensive alterations have just
been completed and the place is now a fitting
shrine even for the £30.000 Van Eyck.
Doors and par.) netted flooring are a testi-
monial to the beauty of Australian black-
wood and the excellence of Australian
joinery. The sable Buchan marble of the
staircases contrasts delightfully with the
white Italian. Every slab was a selection
from tons of material quarried. The over-
head lighting removes some of the irritation
of the reflecting glass of the pictures. A
commendable feature is the elegant dining-
room with the Italian fireplace and the
Windsor tables and chairs with eating tools
to match. A wine cafe, with a band under
the trees, is an indispensable, adjunct to
everv Gallery I have seen in Berlin, Paris
and Leningrad, and does much to reconcile
the- multitude to Art. The wine, the band
and the trees are absent in the Molb.
example, but a step has been made in the
right direction.
“R. Volt”: I have listened to the dot-
dash of the Morse sounder announcing many
dramatic events —the relief of the legations
in Peking in the Boxer outbreak, the death
of King Edward, the sinking of the Titanic,
Britain’s declaration of war on Germany.
Australia’s first casualty list from Gallipoli
and the first draft of the peace terms from
Versailles. But it took a Melbourne re-
porter to tell me what that passionless,
monotonous beat-beat sounds like to the
layman. He was detailed to sit up all night
while a local amateur listened-in to Kings-
ford Smith’s messages from the Southern
Cross during its hop from Honolulu to
Suva. At one time, according to the jour-
nalist. the signals laughed. Another time
they spluttered with excitement (static, no
doubt). Anon, “there was happy music in
their note.” The only time I have known
Morse to express anything but a prosaic
attention to business was when an operator
in Melbourne once broke off in the middle of
a long code message to Adelaide and com-
menced thumping out the rhythm of a well-
known Salvation Army hymn. When the
shocked Adelaide supervisor told him to get
on with bis work, he replied, “I can’t, unless
you blinking well remove General Booth
from our front door!”
A FORECAST.
[For The Bulletin.]
A serried horde of pilgrims surged through
Canberra to see
The Wawlieresli Memorial. His Ex., the
Gov’nor G.,
Removed the floating draperies that veiled
the noble calm
Of Waw’s Shakspearean features. With
tense face, uplifted arm,
His Ex. addressed in ringing tones the
bushed, expectant mob,
When suddenly there rent the air a loud,
convulsive sob.
A scandalised policeman hurried up with
mien austere:
“Come, come! Behave yourself! We can’t
allow no ructions ’ere!"
He touched the old man’s shoulders, and
he trembled like a leaf.
Despite himself, the cop was awed by such
abysmal grief.
For heedless of Authority bis fingers
plucked the grass,
And, beads of perspiration on bis dome, he
moaned “Alas!
“I am—l was —an editor. Ah, hear me ere
I pass!
And —mca culpa— sUch an ode as Keats had
writ with pride
He sent me —which I basketed.... Go, tell
them how I died!”
VICTORIA.
WAWHHERESII.


Up or down. Tough skins or tender. You
can rely on a “Valet" for the smoothest of
smooth shaves.
The secret is the sharpness of the blade—and
the reason of that sharpness is the
a device that is part and parcel of the razor.
Ten seconds a day without removing the blade
and you have an edge like new or better th-n
new. Not once but 50 or 60 times for 50 or 60
perfect shaves.
VALET”
Safety Razor
'“‘yfe
o
VAI
®P
No. 99 Set. Contains the essen-
tials for a perfect “ Valet ” shave
— razor, three blades and
strop in neat case . .
3'6
No. 55 Set. Contains razor three
blades and strop in hinged con-
tainer. In highly po-
lished nidielled case
10'-
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181. CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
New Zealana Agents: I AN STAVEREN BROS.. LTD., AUCKLAND. WELLINQTON and CHR SI CHURCH.
111.
* ,l| ll|.lj l:t-
-"• j.ii, m lff
in
Wife
I
if
TWOPENCE FOR 24
HOURS’ HEATING
You can have warm, pleasant
rooms all through the winter at a
cost of about twopence per room
for 24 hours by using
IDEAL 7 IDEAL
1 Radiators I Boi less
There are no grates to clean or soot to be
removed from hangings. The new Classic
Ideal” Radiators are most artistic in appear-
ance and enhance the finest of rooms. Com-
fort with economy —the ‘‘ldeal System
rapidly pays for itself. For country or city
use. Write or call for particulars.
JOHN DANKSsSON mim
524-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY (pam Liverpool st.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
4Bik't4sL _
U. S. ROYAL CORD TYRES ARE GOOD TYRES
BE/reasons
w»-
I A V
(1) Because the builders of ROYAL CORDS own
vast rubber estates there is plenty of rubber in
ROYAL CORDS.
(2) Because pure rubber latex is used, it is the right
kind of rubber.
(3) Because the web cord fabric is impregnated with
sprayed rubber, you are sure of rubber in the
right places.
(4) Because there is no tyre-building plant in the
world to equal the U.S. Plant.
(5) Because a ROYAL CORD can’t help outliving
all other tyres.
(6) Because the ROYAL CORD is, of necessity, the
l|\ best balanced tyre made.
J iktmV V»i*..
UNITED STATES
11
U
ROYAL
CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
439 Kent Street, Sydney. ’Phone M 2031 (4 lines).
102 Victoria Street, Melbpurne, N. 3. Cent. 943 7.
11l Margaret Street, Brisbane. ’Phone 4250.
195 Flinders Street, Adelaide. ’Phone 6246.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth, ’Phone A 3 151 (4 lines).


Firearms Sent C.O.D.
WALTHER
22cal.
AUTOMATIC PISTOLS
Magazine holds 13 long-rifle cart-
ridges. 7Jrin. barrel model, £7/5/-;
barrel model, £7/15/-. Post
f'ree. No license is required for
n in. model. Easy to take apart.
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
Welcome the Coming —Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [s
DONALDMACKINTOSH
THE GEN MAN.
YOUNG
MATCH
SHOOTERS
buy from the man who is an expert
proved by test. Lie knows a gun.
Match ,Guns by Greener, Cashmore.
Webley Scott and Powell. 2f Nitro-
proof, crossbolt, choke bore, £2l.
Special Match Guns by Cashmore,
2 j Nitro-proof, crossbolt, dead level
rib, £35, £42/10/-, £75.
IF. W. Greener ditto, at £32/10/-,
£42/10/-, £7O.
Ilighest-grade Match Gun by Purdey,
£155. Cashmore Nitro Special,
£155. Chas. Lancaster, £135. Jas.
Woodward, £75, and Wm. Powell,
fs
£ll5. The finest selection of Guns
ever imported by me for 20 years.
REPAIRS to Gun, Rifle and Revolver by
skilled workmen. Ask your shooting pals
who have given me a trial, for the last 20 years,
and have seen ray workshop.
32 -page Catalogue, with Hints to Shooters,
posted free.
DONALD MACKINTOSH
(OF SHOOTING
FAME),
Gun Maker. 432 BOURKE ST., C.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sir Allan, an unlucky horse iii an un-
lucky stable, suffered a cruel stroke ■ of
misfortune in the first division of the Flying
Welter at Rosehill on Saturday. Third
favorite (at 9 to 2) in a field of 12, he
raced up to the leader, Quince (6 to 1), a
furlong from home and was running past
him, with something in reserve and every-
thing else settled, when the poor little beggar
broke down —so badly that he is not likely to
race again. So Quince, AVho is a half-brother
to Loquat, won, and being an improving
sort he is likely to Avin again; but it was
desperately hard luck for Sir Allan and
party. Padicol (3 to 1) was a fast-finisli-
ing second.
The June Handicap was a good betting
race, sweep considerations making competi-
tion brisker than it might otherwise have
been. Blather (4 to 1) looked like a Avin-
ner early in the piece, but he likes to have
things his own way, and his small rider
hung on to him a bit too much. At all
events, he was narrowly beaten by Gipsy
King (7 to 2), and Cute Bird (7 to 1) was
a close third after a good tussle with Lud-
denham. Gipsy King, a rather good sort
of four-year-old by Bernard —Gipsy’s Warn-
ing, was the only favorite to score during
the day. He was ridden by Crowley, who
had another winning mount on Travail (7
to 2) in the two-year-old race, but for inter-
ference in that event the lad was suspended
for three months. Prime Don. a fair three-
year-old in the spring. Avas running on well
at the end of a seven-furlong race for horses
of his age. but did not begin well enough
to bother the placed horses, Prest (8 to 1),
Inflation (14 to 1) and Monoplane (7 to 1).
The stipendiary stewards awarded the big
money to the Inflation people on protest, and
McShortodds rejoiced. He was doubly pleased
at the end of the Granville Stakes. AAdiicli
went to the unthought-of Hard Chip (20
to 1 and few takers).
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes: Good and Gay; next,
Rose Star.
Flying Welter: Resorby; next, Prome-
theus.
Moorefield Handicap: Zuleika or Pigeon
Pie; next, Cute Bird.
Hurstville Mile: Zuleika or Pjgeon Pie;
next, Beelgah.
* * * *
Woolpack's display in the Toolambool
Hurdle at Caulfield on Saturday gained him
many friends among students of Grand
National form. There was a first-class field
of 14, and Ilenare Avent out favorite at
fours, Sandhurst and Deauville being at sixes,
and Johnny Cake, Woolpaclc and King David
at eights. Second to Tantaroo racing doAvn
the side, Woolpack led into the straight and
had no difficulty in winning by three lengths
from Ilenare, who had anything but an easy
passage, Johnny Cake being another length
or so further back and Bligny fourth. Wool-
pack, one of the Shepherd Kings, is in the
National with 9st. 131 b. He had 51b. more
on Saturday, but Ilenare Avill meet him on
111 b. better terms.
Victory in the Wanda Steeplechase en-
tailed a 71b. penalty for the National Steeple-
chase, and, chiefly on that account, there
were only six starters. Gulyarri (5 to 2)
jumped much the best of the bunch, and
after Ivilvenny (4 to 1) fell at the second-
last jump the favorite easily accounted for
the others. Derision (7 to 2), who blun-
dered badly at a fence, was a poor second,
Bannock being the only other horse to
finish. Gulyarri is not’ engaged in the
National Steeplechase. He was ridden by
Tommy Butler, and the time, 4min. 39Jsec„
was a course record for “about” 2 miles and
3 furlongs.
Punters crashed badly in the two-year-old
race, a Ghrysolaus colt called Solitas (20
to 1) winning easily, though one of the
last to leave the barrier. But Bombard (6
to 4) served them well in the Richmond
Handicap, wherein Llanthony (10 to 1),
NO ANCIENT HISTORY WANTED.
“Doesn't look much of a horse to me. Has he ever won a race?”
“Why, man, I tell you he’s had a long list of wins to his credit.”
“Yes, but I mean within the last fifteen or twenty years.”
now almost due for the old-age pension, was
a poor second. Duncan rode the winner,
who should score again soon in the indifferent
company he will have to meet. In the Rosny
Plate, Elwood Fisher’s Quantock gelding
Zanibar (7 to 1) gained his third successive
victory. Nearest to liim at the finish was
Eurythmic’s offspring. Hafry Gavin (15 to
1), who hung out rather badly.
* * * *
‘ Eric Connolly failed to convince the
Y.R.C. stewards of his bona fides in the
Broken Doll case, so the owner of Murillo
will be missing from the Australian turf for
the next 12 months. Nor will Murillo be
able to start in any of the big spring handi-
caps—a sale would not be in order now.
The last much-paragraphed punting owner
disqualified in Victoria was J. R. Corteen,
of Purser notoriety. Corteen did not re-
turn to the game.
* :!•■ * *
“TJla” : E. M. Pearce has kept his word;
Mollison wasn't nominated for the Cups.
He is to be reserved for the rich three-year-
old and w.f.a. races. And now, will Mol-
lison stay the Derby distance? I think not.
His dam. Molly's' Robe, was purely a
sprinter. His sire, Seremond, has given the
turf many sprinters and some middle-distance
horses, but his only proved stayer was Sere-
mite, and Seremite was of little account.
Mollison may win a Newmarket, or steal a
Doncaster; but I wouldn’t back him in a
Derby with bad money.
sjs - 5jC i]i
“Don Crew”: Once, in the lean years,
Jimmy Pike bestrode a raw-boned steed in
a six-furlong flutter. The moke finished a
furlong behind the bunch. None too pleased
at the display, Pike steered his charger into
the weighing enclosure and was about to
dismount when the owner approached. “Well,
he didn't do so badly,” that dead-game sports-
man said. “But I think he’d go better in
a longer race. Don’t you?” “My oath, I
do!” answered Pike. “If you take my tip
you’ll put him in the Eight Hours proces-
sion.”
* * * *
“Minto”: The Derby originated in the Isle
of Man, being instituted there in 1687 by
William, Earl of Derby, then Lord of the
island; the prize was five pounds sterling.
England saw the Blue Riband for the first
time in 1780. Since then Derby races have
been run almost everywhere. Each of the Aus-
tralian capitals.has one, and in France one
of the chief races is the Prix du Jockey Club
or French Derby. Incidentally, when Finas-
seur won the French event he ran the mile
and a half in 2min. 283-ssec., which easily
beats the official time for any English or
Australian Derby race, though Manfred must
have gone pretty close to it, if he didn’t
actually beat it, in the A.J.C. Derby of 1925,
when lie Avas left half a furlong. Some time-
pieces, indeed, credited the great Valais bay
with 2min. 28sec.
“Active V.”: “R. Volt” (B. 13/6/’2B)
exaggerates slightly when lie says that the
*
English Derby result was received in Aus-
tralia three-fifths of a second after the
winning horse passed the post. Thirty
seconds was the actual time of transit to
Australia by both cables and beam. .
* * * *
“Don Crew” : “You can't teach them coun-
try jokers much,” said Bill, reaching for the
whisky bottle. “In nineteen-ten me and Nasty
Dave was runnin’ a nag in a two-horse flutter
in Western Queensland. He was such a red-
hot favorite that we decided to pull him
up, so we passed the word to the jockey and
plonked our cash on the other horse. But
the boy couldn’t steady him up. and he won
by the length of the straight. ‘lt's all right,’
says Dave. ‘I thought lie was likely to bolt,
so I yanked a coupla pounds of lead out of
the lead-bag. Come on over and see him
weigh in.’ We went on over —and heard the
clerk of the scales call ‘weight.’ The flamin’
cow had backed him himself.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Slim” Ryan (list. 9flb.), who comes
from the L.S.A.. made his first appearance
in the Sydney Stadium ring on Saturday
night, his opponent being Jack Elliott (list.
13Jib.), of London Town. After a couple
of tame rounds, each being apparently intent
on learning a bit about the other’s tactics
and tricks, Joe Wallis bade them fight more
and hug less, and they obeyed. The rangy
YV.nk scored with some nice lefts, which
drew blood, and a heavy right to the cheek-
bone, which punch raised a “mouse” so
sensitive that Elliott winced each time Ryan
rubbed it with the inside of his glove.
Ryan further distinguished himself by land-
ing left swings decidedly low. Nearly
dropped by .heavy rights to the jaw and
temple in the eighth round, Ryan appeared
to lose all self-control. He rushed Elliott over
to the northern ropes, hit him low several
times, and pushed him through the ropes.
Then the referee awarded the quarrel to
Elliott on a foul. The Ryan blood being
now boiling, “Slim” pitched into the English-
man, who, truth to tell, was quite ready
to go on. Seconds rushed their men and
ringsiders joined in. Finally the excited
youngster from ’Frisco (he is only 20) h was
subdued and held down in his corner till
the ring was cleared.
* * * $
“Old Timer” : Sydney racecourse-detective
Jim Austin was once an amateur champion
heavyweight, and loves to yarn about the
great days of the game. “Where is old
Mick Dooley now?” lie asked of the writer.
“In Westralia, is lie? Old Mick had the
best left hand I ever saw. Remember the
night lie fought Fat Kiely? Poor old Pat
was no match for Dooley, and it was
arranged that he was to cough when he had
had enough, and Mick would do the test.
Early in the second round Mick landed one
of his wonderful left jabs on Pat’s throat.
As he recovered and came forward the big
blacksmith coughed. Instantly Dooley let
fly with left and right, and Kiely went down
and out —genuinely. When they met down-
stairs Pat remonstrated. ‘Plnvat was the
mattlier wid yen?’ he said. ‘Ye agreed that
I was to stay six rounds, ayd ye wint mad
and battliered me out in the twotli.’ ‘Yes,’
said Dooley, ‘but you said you’d polish when
you’d had enough, and cough you did.’ ‘Ye
made me cough wid that blackguard jab
in me t’roat,’ said Pat. ‘Ye made me cough,
I tell yez.’ And Mick made more than Kiely
cough with that terrible stiff jab. Strangely
enough, his own voice was subsequently
reduced to a husky croak by a similar jab
from Martin Costello.
* * * * ~s
“Bendigo” : Tom Ileeney's sudden rise in
the pugilistic world is the more remarkable
since all John Wren’s experts and stoush-
advisers were unable to observe any boxing
promise in the man from Maoriland. Like
Bob Fitzimmons, Keeney has proved him-
self in the only unanswerable way, by
beating all the rival candidates stacked up
against him, for, though a couple of draws
were recorded in the series of “elimination”
bouts, even Americans admitted that the
overseas man was the sufferer by the de-
cisions. Rugged and powerful, with con-
siderable hitting ability, Keeney lias shown
that he can take punishment as unflinchingly
as many of the old time Australasian
champions, who, like himself, learned their
fighting in the ring itself. None of his op-
ponents to date appears to have even shaken
him, though they hit hard in America. His
prospects against Tunney seem excellent,
since, for an American fighter, the ex-marine
is rather a boxer than a slugger of the ap-
proved Yankee type. There are more un-
likely things than that Maoriland may again
find itself the proud possessor of a world’s
champion.
The Ludccke-Zarynoff fiasco had its effect
on the offertory at the Bill Meeske-Bob Kruse
wrangle at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night, . the higher-priced accommodation
having a very draughty appearance. Robert
is a handsome blue-eyed grappler, a boy in
years but a Hercules in physique. Bill
lialched him over and gained a fall in lmin.
29scc. after the commencement of hostilities,
but though the Australian tried hard he never
again looked like scoring. After punishing
and weakening William with a barred toe-
hold, the Yank secured a figure-four scissors
on the body and forced Bill down. That
was in the third round. There was no other
fall, and Robert received the decision on
points. Coming in at lost. 31b., he was 91b.
heavier than Meeske.
Footbrawl
Vic. League’s strongest 18 visited Adel-
aide on Saturday and tackled the Crow-
eaters, with whom they drew—Vic.. 13 goals
10 behinds ; S.A., 11 goals 22 behinds. Adel-
aide people saw a tremendous game on the
rain-soaked Oval and went home well satis-
fied with their own men.
A second Vie. 18 met the Ma Staters on
the Melbourne ground. The Light Blues
marked decently and kicked pretty well, but
the final score told its own tale: Vic., 26
goals 12 behinds; N.S.W., 14 goals 11
behinds.
(Continued on page 41.)
THE UNREASONABLE SEX.
[Foil The Bulletin.]
She liked its colors! Starve the flamin
bees,
Did ever any jane have any sense?
And all my talk gone on the balmy breeze,
Although you would ’ve wagered pounds
to pence
That she was list’nin’ Avlien I spilt the oil.
For half an hour I’d nagged about Lenore,
An’ wouldn’t you be sorer than a boil
To hear, in spite of all y’ve said before,
“Wliat’s that? I like it! Number seven-
teen !
00, isn’t that a pretty pink an’ green?”
She liked its colors! Aav, it serves me
right;
A mug that takes a woman to the course
Deserves it all an’ more. But, strike me
tight,
Y’d think she’d listen when y’ve studied
horse
Like others do philosophy an’ law,
An’ tell her all y’ know an’ all y've heard ;
But, no! It doesn't matter how I jaw,
She’s got her fancy —and it’s goats pre-
ferred.
“I know,” she says, as chesty as a queen,
“But still I like that ducky pink an’ green.”
She liked its colors! ’Struth, I talked a
treat;
There’s some that argue an’ there’s some
that don’t,
An’ she jest sits there, calm-like, in her
seat;
“That stiff!” I says. “That’s Ortawin
that won’t.
When Noah ran the track on Ararat
A three-legged tortoise used to give it
weight.
Aw, come to earth! Lenore could carry
that
A mile an’ three, then race it up the
straight!
Why, this Lenore’s a gallopin’ machine,”
I says.... She murmurs. “Such a lovely
green!”
She liked its colors! Well, I did me best
To show her what a goat she’d gope an’
picked,
But when I got the issue off me chest,
She on’y said, “It’s lovely.” I was licked,
And off she goes to back it on the tote,
An’ me still yappin’ like a poisoned pup;
I rushed the bar to find an antidote.
An’ never even saw the flamin’ Cup.
But, Hell! A rotten race it must ’ve been.
Aw, yes! It won —that ducky pink an’
green!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Satisfaction, not for a year or two, but for a lifetime, is
faithfully built into every MAGNAVOX product!
MICK SIMMONS ARE APPOINTED DISTRIBUTORS FOR
fifAGNAYOX.
SINGLE DIAL (6-valve) RADIO
m
“HI-BOY” MODEL,
in artistic cabinet oj
mahogany.
PRICE £55
Complete with Battery equipment.
The New
Simplicity of
Operation —
Finest Performance
Results —
Far Greater
Range —
The perfected and proved single-
dial control set is a Magnavox. A
flick of the fingers, and instantly,
clear, rich and powerful, your
broadcasting station comes in. All
MAGNAVOX Sets are pre-tuned at
the factory by a tuning meter that
is a thousand times more sensitive
than the human ear. This means
every Magnavox is always in per-
fect resonance —which permits of
that amazing beauty of performance
and quality of reception for which
these sets are so justly famed.
fifACNAVOJL
RADIO SPEAKERS
“BEVERLEY”
MODEL,
£l4/14/
mssL
¥
*9
a
Electro-
Dynamic-
Power
Principle
After an evening or two listening to a Magnavox “Beverley”
dynamic cone speaker, one’s standard of radio entertain-
ment is so raised that the shortcomings of other
type speakers are very noticeable. Highly-trained musicians,
sensitive to delicate tone shadings, and who wince even at
slight distortions, find this speaker or reproducer a real joy.
Musical critics who have appreciated the educational and
news features of radio in the home, but whose sensitiveness
to distorted music has kept out radio, will now welcome a
radio installation with the dynamic speaker.
MAGNAVOX “WARWICK”
MAGNETIC CONE MODEL
PRICE £7/10/-
df
Embraces entirely new principles of
construction. The “opposed pole
piece” in this speaker is an exclu-
sive Magnavox patented feature.
The “Warwick” has greater power
with fewer parts and a coil that
takes full “B” current of a power
tube without overheating. Abso-
lutely no possibility of rattling or
distortion.
The result of many years of research hy the famous Magnavox engineers, the new
Magnavox Speakers unquestionably represent the greatest achievement in the Radio
field. Hear them, in our Audition Rooms against any other type of Speaker, and you
cannot but be convinced of this dominating fact.
Appointed Distributors of MAGNAVOX Radio—
c Ttfficfc Simmons
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
AND AT NEWCASTLE AND BRISBANE.
‘'The Premier House for all Radio Supplies.”
ISSUED FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY, THE WHOLE
OF THE CAPITAL OFFERED HAVING BEEN SUBSCRIBED.
PROSPECTUS
OF
Roma (Block 89) No
Liability
(To be registered under the N.S.W. Companies Acts 1899-1918.)
CAPITAL ----- £50,000
(Divided into 200,000 Shares of 5/- each.)
165,000 Contributing Shares of 5/- each offered for subscription
payable 6d. per share on application and 6d. per share
on allotment and the balance in calls of not more than
6d. per share. (No Call will be made until after the
expiration of two months from the date of the incorpora-
tion of the Company.)
35,000 Shares of 5/- each fully paid up are to be allotted and
issued to the Vendor, Arthur Sydney Halcrow, together
with £3OOO in cash, as the consideration for the sale, as
in terms of the Agreement for sale hereafter mentioned.
THE VENDOR has undertaken by himself or his Nominees
to forthwith apply for 30,000 of the issue of Contributing
Shares and pay the application and allotment moneys
thereon.
200,000
Directors:
CHARLES SMITH MILLICAN, Kulgoa Road, Woollahra.
ESCA MORRIS HUMPHERY, 185 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
E. C. SAINT-SMITH, F.S.T.C., Consulting Geologist, Brisbane
(late Government Geologist, Queensland).
(One other Director to be appointed.)
Bankers •
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, SYDNEY.
Auditor:
E. A. CAMERON, F.F.1.A., 250 Kent Street, Sydney.
Solicitor:
N. E. PHILLIPS, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office:
JAMES HILTON, F.C.1.5., 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
The Company has been formed to acquire oil lands, to test,
develop, work and sell the same, and inter alia for the purpose
of adopting with or without modification an Agreement dated the
12th June, 1928, between Arthur Sydney Halcrow of the one part,
and James Hilton as Agent for the Company of the other part,
relative to the purchase of Block 89 of approximately 10,000 acres
on the Roma Oil Field.
Block 89 is situated approximately 5 miles from Roma Oil
Corporation bore, and is being reported upon by E. C. Saint-Smith
(late Government Geologist, Queensland). The report will be
published when received.
Mr. E. C. Saint-Smith has accepted a seat on the Board.
BROKERAGE.
The Company will pay a brokerage at the rate of 3d. per share
on all shares applied for and allotted on applications identified as
coming through the Company’s broker, or his agents, and an over-
riding commission of 1 per share.
CONTRACTS
sth June, 1928.—Option A. L. Reid, Alfred Hayhow, Jacob
Goodman, Samuel Solomon, Isaac Bernard Goodman, Jonah
Goodman, Percy Worboys, Rosalie Goodman, A. C. Ringland,
Rose Solomon, Moffatt Howarth, Molly Howarth, and Thomas
Lowney to Arthur Sydney Halcrow.
12th June, 1928.—Agreement between Arthur Sydney
Halcrow of the one part, and James Hilton as Agent for the
Company of the other part.
1 2th June, 1 928.—Agreement between James Hilton as Agent
for the Company and J. T. Walton & Sons, Limited, relative to
the placing of shares.
The Agreements above mentioned may be inspected at the
office of the Company’s Solicitor, or at the office of the Secretary,
at which addresses the rules of the Company may also be inspected
during usual business hours.
June 13, 1928.


m
■ § ■ g
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O. Proprietor:
One Minute Railway Station. T. M. AHERN.
One Minute Wharves.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
H r onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
USE
Ifyujkezlb*'
edge brake lining
REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
BRITISH.
After towelling up the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers side at Lismore by 20 to 9, the English
Rugby League footballers went on to ±>ns-
bane, where a Queensland team defeated them
on Saturday by 21 to 7—five tries and three
goals to a try and two penalty goals. In-
Queenslanders led all the way, und °2| c ‘
classed the visitors forward and back; tne
Englishmen sorely missed Parkin and Ellaby,
their scoring winger. With Gorman at Ins
top at centre, some excellent concerted woik
was seen in the second half, when the lian-
analanders had settled fairly into then-
stride. In the closing stages the game be-
came decidedly rough, the Englishmen once
more evidencing the fact, that they are in-
clined to grow peevish in a losing game.
Burgess, their captain, was sent oft tor
stoush, and was shortly followed by the
Queensland forward, Sellars. Steinolirt, ot
Toowoomba, distinguished himself in the fine
Northern pack. Fairclough stood out among
the English backs, and Sloman played a
great game in the forwards.
The Australian side for the first Test to
be played in Brisbane on Saturday includes
only five N.S.W. players. Craig agam takes
the full-back position, and the Eastern
Suburbs centre, N. Hardy, partners Gorman,
with Aynsley and the N.S.W. country
winger, Freestone, in the outside positions.
Freestone has made good with a vengeance,
since this is his first season in representatne
football. Two Queenslanders, Edwards and
F. Laws, fill the half-back possfes, while
the N.S.W. forwards are Justice, Treweeke
and York, the latter another football fledg-
ling from the country. Steinolirt, Dempsey
and Armbruster (Queensland) fill the re-
maining places in the pack. It reads an
uncommonly good side, and the chances ot
the back combination are improved by the
selection of two halves who have, played
together often and know each otliel- s game
to a nicety.
* * * *
By way, presumably, of celebrating the
resumption of the Rugby League’s grade
matches in Sydney on Saturday, St. George
and Western Suburbs treated the spectators
at Sydney Cricket Ground to one of the
roughest and foulest exhibitions of alleged
football that have ever disgraced that his-
toric arena. The ground Was in an impos-
sible condition after the rains aiid good
football was out of the question, but no
attempt to play it was made from the be-
ginning. The rough stuff began almost with
the whistle, and the referee had lost all
control of the players from a few minutes
of the start. In all four men were sent off,
and at least a dozen should have been. The
ugliest feature of the melee was not the
universal punching and scragging, but the
deliberate use of the boot by many of the
players when an adversary went down. So
pronounced was this that both sides tacitly
agreed towards the end to cut out going
down on the ball in the ruck aiid loose, and
so lived to fight again another day. The
close of the affray saw St. George, with three
men in the dressing-rOom, win by 12 points
to 10, though no one took much" interest in
that phase of the proceedings.
The surprise of the day was the defeat
of South Sydney by Newtown, the Blues
winning squarely by 17 to 12, or three tries
and four goals to two tries and three goals.
The Newtown forwards were chiefly respon-
sible for the result, and were favored . by
weather and ground conditions. University,
just back from a Queensland tour, showed
improved form to beat Balmain comfort-
ably by 16 to 5. Eastern Suburbs, the only
unbeaten team in the competition, came near
cracking its record against Glebe, which is
in a very lowly position this year. The
ground conditions were all in favor of the
hard-rucking Glebe forwards, and with the
Glebe backs adopting a policy of smother-
ing the opposition inside backs, the leaders
were hard put to it to scrape home by a
try and a penalty goal (5 points) to nil.
* s|: *
“Wodgil”: Partly because of the fierce
competition, Rugby League fame is a fleet-
ing thing. Alan Righton, the N.S.W. full-
back in the first match against Queensland
last year, was relegated near the end of the
season to the South Sydney reserve-grade
team (in effect, the seconds), and there he
remains. Lapliam. who started in the South
Sydney and State packs last season v lias
also been dropped to South’s seconds. Kelly,
of St. George, whose form against Queens-
land prompted Brisbane critics to hail him
as the finest forward in Australia, failed to
get a game for N. S. Wales against the Eng-
lish team. Bennie Wearing, idol of Sydney
G. crowds for years, has also lost his place
in the N. S. Wales side. Yet only a few
weeks ago lie was reckoned a certainty for
the Australian XIII.
* si: Sj5 *
The All Blacks in South Africa did some-
thing to rehabilitate their slightly shaken
man a last week, when they defeated the Free
State by 20 to nil, and turned the tables on
the Transvaal in their second match by 5
to nil. This makes six games played for
two losses and four wins. That the tourists
are up against it is evidenced in the
announcement that they have changed their
famous scrum formation of 2-3-2 for the 3-2-3
system played by British teams and the other
Rugby Dominions. The wisdom of such a
policy is more than doubtful, since the change
over practically means an entire revision of
scrum tactics as far as the visitors are
concerned.
* * * *
The Rugby Union games in Sydney on
Saturday were marred by rain-soaked
grounds, but this did not prevent some good
football being shown, though generally the
forwards ,had the best of the deal in the
heavy going, the backs finding it difficult to
handle the soggy ball. Randwiclc surprised
by going down to Northern Suburbs, the
Red and Blacks outplaying the seasiders
and winning by 20 to 14, or four tries and
three goals to four tries and a goal. Rand-
wick’s forward division was again found
wanting; the Northern side, both forward
and back, was the better team on the day.
In Hind and Lyne, a centre and a winger,
the winners have a pair of really good backs,
while the vanguard is capable and effective.
An interlude was the ordering off of skipper
Meagher, the Waratah half, for undue
roughness at the expense of one of the
Northerners. Another of the leading teams
to take a toss was Y.M.C.A., which suc-
cumbed to Western Suburbs by 20 to 17.
This is the first defeat which has come the
way of the Young Men, who sadly missed
their skipper and five-eighth, the nippy and
versatile George. West scored five tries and
three goals to two tries and four goals;
A MATTER OF COURSE.
ROBBO: “Wot makes yer think this joint’s (join' ter th’ clogs?”
NOBBO: “Well, I jist found an ’air in me soup.”
King was iii groat buckle at centre, and tin 1
forwards, headed by D. Ross, successfully
employed spoiling tactics. The Y. Emmas
were unlucky to lose winger Gordon in the
second spell'through injury, but they failed
to show convincing form at any stage of the
game. A forward game at University Oval
saw the ’Varsity win from Eastern Suburbs,
who failed to adapt themselves to the con-
ditions, by 14 to 3. Glebe-Balmain got a
surprise from the newly-formed St. George
team, only scratching home by 20 to 17.
The Saints’, forwards have developed into
a really sound pack.
* * * =!=
“Tuart”: Phil Matson, known wherever
Australian football is played, is dead in a
motor smash in Perth. He was a great
player in his day, and became renowned as
a coach when too old for the rigor of the
game. The dashing kind of football for
which Westralian teams are noted is largely
the result of Matson’s example and precept.
He was a good cricketer and breast-stroke
swimmer as well, and a white man through
and through.
Jj. sjc * *
“P.R.”: Ha.s the Wimmera (Vic.) created
a precedent in football administration? All
the members of its League’s independent
tribunal are ministers of religion.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australians won the first three rubbers
■of their match against an English team
not quite the best —at Manchester. Craw--
ford beat Austin 4-6, 6-2, 9-7, 6-8. Hopman
had an easier passage against Sharpe: 4-6,
2-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-2. The most satisfactory
aspect of the match was the decisive win of
R. O. Cummings and Moon over the English
Davis Cup pair, Crole Rees and Eames,
The latter’s underhand screw service bothered
the Australians at first, but both finished
with the match well in hand, scores being
10-8, 8-6, 6-8, 7-5. in their favor. In an
extra singles match Crawford beat Sharpe,
6-4, 74i. The result should improve the
confidence of the younger players for the
Wimbledon games. Something of the sort
is badly needed, on performances to date.
:i: ** *
“Shrewsbury”: Some time ago a Bulle-
tin contributor quoted Tilden as saying that
the best of women tennis players, even the
famous Suzanne, would have no earthly
chance against any one of the first hundred
players of the other sex. Helen Wills has
gone near to falsifying this prediction by
beating D. 11. Williams!, the Welsh
champion, 9-7, 6-4, tli e scores indi-
cating that the Taffy was all out.
The victory says a lot for Helen’s tennis
ability, and even more in support of those
who maintain that tennis can’t seriously
be considered as a true man’s sport. What
earthly hope would women have against men
on equal terms in cricket, football or eve a
golf, to instance only three acknowledged
manly sports ?
* ** *
“Rough House”: In spite of the ardent
championship of such supporters of the pas-
time as “Leonta” (B. 30/5/’2B), it cannot
be denied that tennis produces some invidious
traits in its addicts. In addition t(* proofs of
this fact quoted by other writers in The
Bulletin, I would draw attention to a re-
cent resolution of the N.S.W. Tennis
Umpires’ Union to the effect that “drastic
action” is imperative to suppress the trucu-
lent attitude of some players towards
umpires. Some of the latter, indeed,
announced their intention of refusing to
officiate in future unless some measure of
protection is afforded them by the authori-
ties. Several expedients for safeguarding
the persons of the umpires suggest them-
selves. Possibly the stationing at the Rush-
cutter Bay courts during tournaments of a
couple of mounted police, as is done at Mel-
bourne football matches, might do something
to quell the rising tide of ruffianism. Even
an umpire has some claim to compassion.
* * :!: :J:
“Rev. Knucklebone”: There has been a
lot of wailing and gnashing of teeth over
the entry forms for the Wimbledon tennis
tourney. These have required all entrants
to contract that they will not write or
broadcast tennis news, or permit their names
to be used in that connection. The ban
only applies to the British press, so Tilden
and others who specialise in tennis journal-
ism will not be affected as far as America
is concerned, nor will our own literary-
minded players find their Pegasus curbed.
Still, one would like to see a similar rule
enforced in Australia, for this country is
specially afflicted by the player-official-
writer, who airs his uninteresting views
and personal foibles in the daily press for
a consideration, to the great distress of his
Majesty’s liege subjects.
The Nineteenth Hole
The qualifying round of the N.S.W. ama-
teur golf championship began on Saturday
in a boisterous southerly. In spite o'f this
some good golf was shown, R. K. Lee Brown
and W. G. Sturroek both achieving a round
of 74, which is good going under any condi-
tions for the Kensington course. The 16
players left in are headed by Hector Morri-
son and W. G. Sturroek, with 152 each, Lee
Brown lying second with 153 for the two
rounds. Eric Apperly, champion last year
and on many previous occasions, is eighth
on t'he list.
* * *
“Hazard” : They may hole out in one but
can they beat this? A lady playing on the
7th fairway at Wee Waa (N.S.W.) drove
a ball so enthusiastically that it struck a
player about 50 yards ahead, and was
lost to sight. After they had looked for it
for some time, another ball was played, and
the game went on. The round concluded,
the player who had been struck decided to
have a smoke. He dredged in his trousers
pocket for matchesl, and fished out the
missing ball.
:|c * * *
“Percy Piebald”: “Divot Digger” (B.
30/5/’2S) has been deceived. At the annual
meeting of the Royal Queensland Club some
members harped on the “intensity” of the
rough and the urgency of its annihilation.
President George Brown artfully replied that
the job would be tackled as soon as the money
was forthcoming. “We’ll do it ourselves!”
vomeone shouted, and there were approving
cheers from gentlemen'who had dined well.
So the committee called for volunteers for
a Sunday morning, and the club manager
arrived a good hour before liis usual time to
lead the assault on the abnormality of
fungus growth. After half an hour’s wait
the working bee of one was dismissed at
9.15 a.m. and the project was abandoned.
* * *
“Schlaff”: A controversy has been raging-
in Britain as to who is the oldest golfer
playing. The betting is strongly in favor
of the Rev. H. H. Stewart, of Cardiff Golf
Club. The ancient is 81, but is still winning
competitions, and he is captain of the club,
which must be another record. He has hot
won the club championship since he was a
kid of 60, but has high hopes.
* * * *
“Gouger”: I have an old book, printed in
1817, in which a golf ball is described as
being “considerably smaller than those used
at cricket, but much harder, being made of
horse leather stuffed with feathers in a
peculiar manner and boiled.” Very different
from the article now in use. The book
mentions also that light balls are used when
playing with the wind and heavy ones against
it. Moreover, balls played off at the be-
ginning of the game must not be changed
until the next hole is won, even if they
should burst. What arguments the shades
of those old pros, must enjoy if they follow
up the present-day game to the nineteenth
hole!
* * :!:
“Wyle”: Women golfers in Melbourne
have practically taken possession of some of
the links. I don’t know whether more hus-
bands do their own washing-up and other
household duties here than elsewhere, but
I do know that the face of the feminine half
of the population promises to be well tanned
within a generation or so. Some of the
ladies swing a hefty stick, too. But they
don’t always appreciate the discipline of
the game. At one course recently the couple
who had the winning card in the foursomes
were disqualified because they had sheltered
from the rain or something, and their pro-
tests had an earnestness about them that
commanded attention.
=h * * *
“Lloylake” : An interesting fact about Aus-
tralian golf is that comparatively few courses
are situated at recognised seaside resorts,
though exactly the opposite is the rule in
Europe and America. This is the more sur-
prising, since Australians go in so much for
bathing on the surf beaches. There are places
which practically depend on the surf-bathers
for their subsistence, yet few of these seem
to have recognised what an additional magnet
in attracting seaside visitors is a golf course.
It is not going too far to say that no British
or Continental watering-place to-day would
be considered decently equipped to cater for
visitors unless it had links. In the same way,
it has become an imperative necessity that
municipalities with any claim to a modern
outlook should provide public courses for
citizens and visitors. We are far behind
the times in Australia in both respects.
(Continued on next page.)


m
«©►
«@5?
Yeaston
Pure Dried
Brewers Yeast
DOSC
One to four TabJeis
Kocke Tompsitt fcCo
7 T,
Bottles of 36 - 2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
The secret of buoyant spirits and never-tiring energy lies
in healthy, normal digestion. Fatigue, headaches and
depression are usually caused by faulty elimination of waste.
Fresh, active yeast consists of millions of tiny plants which
act as healthful cleansing agents in the system. Yeaston
Tablets are guaranteed to contain live (active) yeast cells.
A course of Yeaston Tablets will build up a stubborn resist-
ance to disease, and give you new zest in life.
Yeaston Tablets are (guaranteed Pure
and contain no drugs, chemicals or preservatives.
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT &. CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street. Melbourne.
“A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within.”
&
Nature* s
Corrective
Tonic Food
Car and Cycle <
“Garry”: The first part of Sydney Bicycle i
and Motor Club's flexibility test was a bit ]
like the slow bicycle races that used to be 1
featured at gymkhanas. Four out of 17 <
entrants in the more than 4-cylinder class —
all driving American cars, save for one
Bugatti—stalled their engines while trying
to crawl on top gear. The acceleration test, :
over the same one-fifth-of-a-mile course, 1
was easier. Honors in this were shared
by Otto James in a 4074-c.c. Chrysler and ■
A. W. Turner in a 3874-c.c. Willys-Knight.
who covered the distance at the rate of ]
4(1.7 m.p.h. But Turner’s car stalled in the •
slow tost, and the award went to James, who ;
demonstrated that it is possible to drive a
high-powered car at 2} miles an hour on top.
In the 4-cylinder class the only American
car entered was a Chev., which stalled on '
the low-speed test; all the other cars were
English, J. J. O’Rourke, in a 4224-c.c.
Vauxhall, won with a slow speed of 2.89
m.p.h. and a fast speed of 43.3. Six out
of 12 entrants stalled on the slow run.
* * * *
“Inga” : The old argument as to which is the
fastest standard car was given a fresh basis
when the Black Hawk Stutz met the Bou-
logne Hispano-,Suiza in a 24-hour go at
Indianapolis. The match arose out of a
£SOOO bet made by M. Weyinann with the
president of the Stutz co. that he could
find a standard English or Continental
touring car that was faster than the
standard Stutz. The race was a procession,
the Hispano simply running away from
the Stutz. The llispano’s maximum speed
was about 90 m.p.h.. which was maintained
for the first six hours, but as the Stutz
averaged only 70, the Hispano’s speed was
reduced for the rest of the run. At the
nineteenth hour the Hispano had a lead of
200 miles, and the American car retired.
The winner has been challenged to race a
Bentley (English) car of the model which
won the 24-hour Tsle of Man race last year.
* * * i|:
“0.11,1'.": Contestants in this year’s
Tourist Trophy race on the Isle of Man must
have had all the thrills they wanted. Rain
and fog fought against them, and such
hairpin bends as tin l Ramsay and Gover-
nor’s Bridge present, under such conditions,
a pretty problem of valor versus discretion.
Winner in the senior section (500 c.c.) was
C. J. Dodson, a Manchester boy, who
bestrode a Sunbeam, lie averaged close on
03 m.p.h.—very fast in the circumstances,
but nowhere near a record. Last year the
winner averaged 684. For years the event
was over six laps of a circuit of 37 miles
1300yds., making a fraction over 226 miles,
hut now there’s an extra lap. Alex. Bennett,
winner of last year’s senior race in record
time, rode a Velocette in the junior section
(350 c.c.) this year and broke all records.
Simcock, the only Australian competitor,
was running second in the fifth lap of the
senior race when he came a cropper and had
to retire.
* * J»: Or
“J. 11.” (Lond.) : Hunting’s dirt-track
syndicate isn't having things all its own way.
Others got in before him, notably Keith
McKay’s crowd at Glasgow, and an English
co., with first-rate British riders, at Stamford
Bridge. Hunting made the mistake of trying
to get free publicity—an aspiration not
appreciated by newspapers in a competitive
age. Another snag he struck was the opposi-
tion of the tin-hare people. In the end the
Queenslander had to agree to an arrange-
ment under which the Greyhound Racing
Association took 50 per cent, of the Hunting-
syndicate’s profits in return for graciously
allowing it to race on G.R.A. tracks.
Miscellaneous
“8. Gumia”; J. W. Trumble, now in Eng-
land, has gone into raptures over Constan-
tine, one of the colored members of the West
Indian team now in England. He saw Con-
stantine make 86 and 103 and take 7 for
57 v. Middlesex, a strong batting and bowling
side, and proclaims the black a champion.
Constantine, it seems, hit two sixes and
eight fours in his first knock, and in his
second reached the century in an hour, his
slogging enabling his side to win the match
with a few minutes to spare. He bowls fast
and is a first-class field. “We must have
that man in Australia in 1929,” says the
veteran of the 1886 Australian XI; but he
reckons without the union rule —25 runs an
hour. Constantine would be declared
“black.”
SjS v *!•
“Boronia”: At a cricket match played
near Cunderdin (W.A.), a batsman cut a
ball hard to point, the catch being cleverly
taken about an inch from the ground.
Amazed for the moment, the hitter did not
move out of the crease, whereupon the
bowler appealed. A decision was refused
by one umpire on the ground that his
vision had been obstructed by the batsman.
“I didn’t see it either,” said the other umpire,
so the man who was out remained in. Has
a similar thing ever occurred before?
“Tuart”: In a lottery forbidden to resi-
dents of N. S. Wales, home of the tin hare
and other high-minded pursuits, the first three
prizes of £SOOO, £IOOO and £SOO have been
won by N. 8. Welshmen. The numbers were
01,955, 09,014 and 40,970; thus each added
up to 20. And No. 13 drew a £2O prize.
** * *
“Schnorrer” : Dr. Harold M. Abrahams is
to captain the British athletes at the Olympic
Games. Abrahams won the 100 metres at
Baris four years ago; lie was a member of a
great team, which included E. H. Liddell
(400 metres) and D. G. A. Lowe (800
metre’s). Abrahams was the first Jewish
athlete to be made president of a sports club
at an English university.
** * *
“Cash Amateur" : Olympiads have almost
invariably ended up with a row of some sort
or other, but the one brewing this time
threatens to out-slang all its predecessors.
The casus belli will be the question of pay-
ment for lost time, which was unexpectedly
permitted by the Olympic Committee,
largely Continental in personnel, in the case
of Soccer football competitors. The principle
of payment for time and wages lost while
competing as an athlete is diametrically
opposed to all tenets of amateur sport, and
the committee’s action raised a storm of
protest from the leading competing countries.
Britain, for one, seriously considered with-
drawal from the Games, but agreed, like
America, to waive the question for this occa-
sion only, rather than bring about the col-
lapse of the Olympiad by a last-minute with
drawal. However, the matter will be served
up hot and strong during the conference of
Olympic delegates, and the results may be
momentous. Incidentally, Uruguay was first
in Soccer football at Amsterdam, as it was at
Paris in 1924.
** * *
“Minto”: It is strange that among the
many gambling schools in Sydney only two
or three go in for faro. From a punter’s
point of view faro (or “mosli as the Chosen
call it) has many advantages over such games
as hazard and two-up. At faro he has only
one man to beat —the banker —and has no
trouble in getting “set.” Also he can bet as
little or as much as he likes, and when he
likes. At hazard and so forth a player is not
encouraged to vary his bet; if he wins a fiver
on a spin he is expected to bet at least a
similar amount on the next, otherwise he
may find some difficulty in getting the “out’
backer to “set” him. The only thing in tlm
banker’s favor at faro is the “splits.” This
occurs when he pulls two kings or some other
pair ' *
“A.H.8.”: Apropos of long-distance swim-
mers (B. 30/5/’2B). the Maoris tell you that
a woman named Hinepoupou once swam from
Kapiti Island across Cook Strait to the
South Island. The
distance, 30 miles,
is rather far to be
easy of belief, but
native tradition in
both islands holds
firmly to the story.
Another woman
JOHNNIE
LECKIE,
featherweight
champion of
Maoriland, who
has been booked
for an Aus-
tralian tour.
swam from Kapiti
to the nearer main-
land, a distance of
seven miles, with
her child on her
back. It was the
night following a
raid by the island-
ers ; the alternative
was the oven. A
half-caste daughter
of that wom a n
still lives in
land.
“Kune”; At a recent bridge party in Auck-
land (M.L.) a chorus ot gasps and cries of
incredulity disclosed the fact that each of
the four players had received a complete suit.
The pack, a new one, had been shuffled and
cut in the orthodox manner. It is on record
that similar hands have been dealt in Eng-
land and America, but no previous case has
b on reported in Maoriland.
“Ula” : The Lindrum brothers (B. 6/6/’2B)
are indebted to their father for all they know
of billiards. lie schooled both from their
childhood ; Walter played his first stroke from
a chair. Dad was a front-rank player him-
self in the days of the polished Evans and
Harry Gray, father of George. After a wan-
dering life, which took him into every State,
he settled down as proprietor of a Melbourne
saloon.
* * * *
“Veteran”: At the official opening of the
Sydney High School’s new premises H. S.
Dettmann, S.G.S. headmaster, contrasted the
playground of to-day with the pocket-handker-
H. G. COOK, a promising Rugby Union
wing-threequarter. He plays for Eastern
Suburbs.
chief area in Castlorcagh-street. “Boys
didn’t go in for sport then,” he said, “so
much as they do to-day.” Perhaps not; but
the old school could always hold its own in
games. On the cricket field it had Sid
Gregory, most delightful of batsmen, and
sturdy Alick Mackenzie; in football, Tom
Broughton and Ballantyne shone; and E. A.
Southee, Archie Mactaggart and Arthur Eedy
excelled as athletes. Many were the pranks
they and their contemporaries played 45 years
ago. Does Broughton remember colliding
witli Joey Coates, then headmaster (wasn’t
lie an inter-colonial batsman?), to the griev-
ous injury of Joseph’s pants, when sliding
down the front steps? And docs one of the
girls—they were located on the upper floor—
recall dropping a water-bag by mistake on
A. B. Piddington?
* :;< * *
“W.1.U.” : It looked as if faith in adver-
tising had been stretched to its uttermost
by the man who advertised in the Barrier
Miner for a fishing boat, but it was not so
hopeless as it seemed. Though the river is
70 miles away, the new railway and the motor-
car have made a difference. Camping parties
line the river banks each week-end and
excursion trains are helping to make Men-
indie the Hill’s watering place.
# * * *
“Mundowie”; I wanted to buy a stamp in
a hurry, but when I went across to the
post-otfice the official was absent. I ran
him to earth in the billiard-room, about
100 yards farther up the street; he was
having a game with the constable. “Wait
till we finish,” he said. On the way back
to duty he remarked that the office was too
dead in business hours. “This is billiards
day,” he confided; “to-morrow we play
cards and draughts on the sorting table.”
After serving me with the stamp he went
back to his mate and the ivories. As he
sometimes handed out nothing but one pill
pamphlet in two days I didn’t blame him.
* * * *
“Booty” : The fastest dog in the Waterloo
Cup at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) last week was
Carter Bros.’ durable streak Terminus.
Course after course in the four days’ battle
saw the champion of five seasons with speed
for sale. Then, in a semi-final, he met
Ilillcourt Lass, which dog on the previous
coy had downed Orion, equal-favorite with
Andy for the stake. The bitch put up a
great battle for the lead, but, nearing the
hare, his usual whiplash burst carried her
grey-muzzled opponent out in front for the
opening points. An unsatisfactory, scram-
bling course, in which the ohl dog had none
of the luck, ended with the flag against him
—a half-point defeat. The final matched
Lass against the consistent Andy. The
“going” early had been like scrambling over
blue metal, and the heavyweight, on two
wheels and some bruises, had had enough.
For the first time in his two seasons Andy
was beaten. It was a great turn-up for the
books. Lass’s owner took £lOO to £2 at the
opening call; altogether she was supported to
win £9OO.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Listening-Insect”: A new terror is com-
ing in the shape of aerial advertising, already
popular in barbarous poi’tions of the U.S.A.
An aeroplane is sent up to a height of 2000
or 3000 feet. The information that Blank's
underpants are the Best is transmitted from
a land station and picked up by the flying
machine, which broadcasts it by means of
an amplifier and public-address loud-speaker.
The resultant roar can be heard over an
area of 80 square miles.
* * * *
“Boronia”: It has been long known that
the bark of the marri- (or redgum) tree
of Westralia is rich in tannin content, but
for commercial use it requires special chemi-
cal treatment in order to get the tannin into
permanent solution. Experiments are being
conducted to ascertain if this difficulty can
be overcome. The possibilities of the coat
of the giant karri are also being tested.
While not so rich ns redgum, the bark of this
tree is more easily obtainable. Thousands of
tons are burned every year at the sawmills.
>n * * *
“T.Q.Z.” : “B-Gar” lately mentioned 10,000
ewes as having been railed 900 miles with one
sheep lost. That was in Queensland. At the
latter end of last year 53,000 sheep were
trucked from Darnick, on the new Broken
Hill line, to Cooma, on the Goulburn-Bom-
bala line, no less than 800 miles, with a loss
of under double figures. Lately those that
were not sold were returned —23,000 of them
—the same distance, with a total loss of one.
1 will back the N.S.W. railways to do better
in stoek T shifting than any other system in
the world.
* * * *
“Trevallyn”: Melbourne business people
are beginning to take an interest in Laun-
ceston. Chandlers, the hardware people,
have bought a controlling interest in Wm.
Hart and Sons, one of the oldest ironmongery
businesses in the Speck—it was started just
on a century ago by the grandfather of the
present manager, C. W. Hart, who is to
remain at the wheel. And Allan and Co.
have purchased the music department of A.
W. Birchall and Sons, the oldest booksellers,
stationers and music people in the north of
the Speck.
* * * *
“Cartot”: A sensible American custom
which has been introduced in a small way
here is that of writing on the flap of an
envelope the sender’s name and address, so
that in the event of non-delivery the letter
may be returned direct and unopened. If
this were universal, there would be no need
for expensive dead-letter offices.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: A tree growing in the
Sepik (Papua) river country should be of
value to the white man. The natives make
incisions around the trunk, at the bottom
gutter placing a spout leaf, which drains
into a bamboo cylinder a clear yellow oil.
This is as good as cocoanut oil, and they
use it as such. It takes a considerable time
to fill the bamboo, the course of the oil
being protected from the rains meanwhile
by palm leaves.
=!: * * *
“L.H.H.” : Not all the good things in the
motor world come from abroad. The Bennet
tyre chains were invented in Cunnamulla
(Q.) what time Bennet was working there
as a mechanic. Their outstanding merit is
in the patent fastener, which enables them
to be put on just as easily after a car is
bogged as when it is standing on a dry
surface. The first Bennet chains were
turned out by hand in Cunnamulla; now they
are manufactured in an up-to-date facfi&y
in Brisbane.
* * * *
“R.E.G.McD.” : As one of the men respon-
sible for the way our honey is put on
the English market, may I tell Ettie
Bout that the “Golden AVattle” trade-
mark, to which she objects, was carefully
considered, and finally chosen because tons
of wattle-blossom are brought from Nice
(France) to Covcnt Garden and distributed
to florists and street-hawkers, who sell it
all over London as “Wattle Australia’s
national flower.” The name is, therefore,
quite well known there, and is connected
with Australia in the public mind. The
time is not yet ripe to put two grades of
honey on the English market —we may put
on a fuller-flavored “aromatic” honey later.
We take good care that the honey is not
overheated; our blending and bottling factory
at Mitcham (Surrey) i§ run by experts, and
employs methods and processes copied from
the two largest honey-packing plants in the
world —at Medina, Ohio and Los Angeles,
California. We did the best we could with
our funds (the Aussie beekeeper is not a
millionaire), and the way our product is
being accepted by the English consumer is
proof that we are working the right way.


!n the Differential
!n the Gearbox
In the Universal
in the
Rear Wheels
InthefanDrive
In the Engine
In the
Front Wheels
The Importance of the Bearings
in the most vital and inaccessible parts of your car
v vV a o< <
BECAUSE you cannot see the part they
play, you are apt to discount the
importance of the bearings in your
car.
You must realise, however, that they are
responsible for the smooth working of the
most vital and inaccessible parts of the
engine and chassis.
The presence of R & M British Bear-
ings adds longer life and greater running
smoothness to your car.
BRITISH R&M BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
are so reliable and efficient that they are
used by more than 80 per cent, of Brit-
ish Motor-car Manufacturers.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors:—
GARDNER WAERN 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS FTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
WEST. AUS. AGENTS: (Automotive) COVENTRY
MOTOR CO., LTD., PERTH.
PLUMBERS
and STEAM FITTERS
A PRACTICAL TRADE ASSISTANT.
sd
PRICE,
COMPLETE SET
OF 4 VOLS.,
QA I
0 1/|-
POST
FREE
ASK
THE
GUIDE
The right answer
to every problem
is at your finger-
tips.
EVERYTHING AN ELECTRICIAN WANTS TO KNOW.
HAWKINS’ ELECTRICAL GUIDE,
Complete Set of 10 Volumes,
Price 50/-. Postage 2 6 extra.
Write for Lists. The Best House for Technical Books.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Stte SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
r
mm
m
m
m
’•Vu-*
H
■
I
i
m
■
tmk
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
crops.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10 acres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
’ Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fs
ToH.M.
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
mmim®
Australasian Agrsnts—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
cmampagmc
Cbarieslleidsieo^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ Mum." Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
to
Wentwoi
hqlel
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from ...... 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
df
O 7hp cen/ne of S /onc/s
of/sJ/ngu/shoc/ Soc/o/ Life .
wm
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe-—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. Hot ana cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5? 80 —10 Liner
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kaisser
SLIPPERR
HEEL
SILK HOSIER
What sort of citizen docs a Business-
Efficiency Exhibition attract? In the deluge
of last Friday’s lunch-hour the answer was
crowds of hurrying girls; flappers in sodden-
silk and near-silk hose, wrapped in coats,
with imitation calfskin or chinchilla collars ;
flappers in spatees and gay macintoshes;
business women whose top-coats opened over
well-cut suits; boy flappers in Fair Isle
sweaters, in belted-in raincoats; young men
whose tweed top-coats smelled as sodden as
the atmosphere; middle-aged men; elderly
men. But in all that crowded Town Hall
on Friday, not one middle-aged or elderly
woman !
The exhibits were awe-inspiring, and as
a product of human ingenuity wedded to
ready-reckoning enough to make the brain
reel. There were weird machines that in
one tapping of the keys by a blue-eyed priest-
ess printed entries and added the figures
in (1) a loose-leaf day-book, (2) a ledger
and (3) a statement of account. Another
exhibit was a complete addressing outfit
whereby hundreds of envelopes could be
printed in about three minutes. There was
an infernal machine that devoured cards as
ravenously as a mincer would deal with
sausage meat. A girl with wide-apart quiet
grey eyes and ash-blonde hair sat at a
noiseless typewriter, her ears muffled from
the outside world by the ear-pieces of a dicta-
phone. “Splendid!’’ she said when asked
what it was like. “You see, ho can’t poss-
ibly grow] ‘I didn’t say that.’ For there’s
the record.” Near by a hand, long, slim,
sensitive, losing nothing of its Rembrandt
effect from the green curtain through which
it emerged, moved over a keyboard. From
the bowels of the attached machine came a
long typed streamer. Oh the other side of
the curtain, the machine and its work and
pomps hidden from her gaze, sat the owner
of the lone hand. Not far away a girl who
looked about 14 was lecturing and showing
off the points of another magic table-book.
This could not only dispose of long tots,
but multiply, subtract and divide them in
£ s. d. or dollars and cents, and afterwards
serve the result in a casserole or a diamond
necklace. After that one visitor rushed
into the rain-swept streets to cool a fevered
brow, and jumped into a twopenny tram
with the feeling of having escaped from the
Spanish Inquisition and Madame Tussaud's
all in one.
One of Premier Bavin’s first public jobs
since his illness will be the laying of the
foundation stone of the new hostel at Darling-
ton for Deaf and Dumb and Blind Children.
To-morrow (21st) at three o’clock.
The Criterion had a rim of standing
people behind the seating accommodation to
welcome Margaret Bannerman to Sydney;
the lady seemed surprised at the storm of
applause that greeted her first appearance.
But a lively audience scattered its welcomes
impartially. It showed itself glad to see
Mayne Lynton, for instance; and when, at
the end of the third act, Pirie Bush made
his appearance, a ripple of applause showed
that theatre patrons follow the domestic
affairs of mummers even when they are not
in the star-line. Bush was married last
Thursday.
Would you like to know how the judges in
the great novel competition are working? Up
till Saturday morning last there were 201
entries, and they were coming in a dozen a
day. As they arrive they are entered and
put into safe deposit, whence they are first
drawn upon by one of the two staff men
among the judges—Mr. Clegg or Mr. Mann,
the latter representing the A..T.A. These
have to agree upon rejection before an entry
ceases to have any further interest in the
£l7OO prize money. From this first winnow-
ing what is left of the crop goes on to Mr.
Honey. These three may agree on a further
rejection. Those still left in go on to Mr.
Sou ter and Mr. Mackaness.
So far, of about 110 stories read, 80
have been definitely passed out. Df the
balance of 24 two have been put into the
select number of the finalists by all five
judges; two or three others have thus far
gained the favor of four judges, and the
others have not yet been through the hands
of all of them. Of course, they don’t know
whose work they are reading, nor does one
judge know the verdict of another. That
in such circumstances the whole five should
already have been able to recommend two
works for final consideration suggests that
more than one strikingly good story will
publication when Tiie Bulletin adds
a serial to its other features in the last
week in August or the first week in Septem-
ber—the date can't yet be fixed for certain.
Ilis Excellency Hubert Murray, of Papua,
left Port Moresby on a recent Friday, tak-
ing with him as his guests Apostolic-
Delegate Dr. Cattaneo, Monsignor King
and Bishop de Boismenu, with Judge Gore
and his wife and their small son Richard.
But the visit of all this ecclesiastical ton-
nage hasn't given the sun-baked port half the
thrill that the arrival of a Mrs. Staniforth
Smith did. To say that the Hon. Staniforth’s
marriage caused a stir is to whisper it: it
was thought lie was Papua's most confirmed
bachelor. Mrs. Smith is a niece of West-
ralia’s ex-Premier Jimmy Mitchell; and
Staniforth himself was one of the West’s
first Senators.
His Ex. the State Governor and his
lady are giving the special appeal on behalf
of T.B. Diggers their help. A meeting to
push things forward is to be held in the
Town Hall on Thursday afternoon. June
28. A fund of £2S,(XX) is aimed at, so that
the stricken men and their dependants may
receive more assistance than is possible at
present.
The Feminists have a new leader. Mrs.
Willie Holman was duly elected and installed
last week. For several years Miss Preston
Stanley and Ruby Rich have been the Femi-
nists’ mouthpiece; but Ruby is away in
Europe and Miss Stanley is busy with the
Prohibition party. No woman in Sydney is
better fitted for leadership than Mrs. Hol-
man. She is a good speaker, has ideas above
the ordinary, and has always associated her-
self strongly with the Feminist movement.
The first part of last week Sydney spent
in the air. so to speak, lvingsford Smith,
Charlie Ulm and the two Americans, Warner
and Lyon (Dandy Lyon, a youngster calls
him) were, as far as the public was con-
cerned, the only beings in the city. Even
the actors in the two bribery and corrup-
tion inquiries were forgotten. “Rio Rita”
gave a gala night for the fliers’ benefit
which netted nearly £l5OO, the I’rinCe
Edward followed up with a pretty cheque;
in short, the same programme of rivalry in
giving that pursued Hinkler is tipping these
last Cagles’ wings with gold. There was a
procession through the streets, with much
waving of hands and hurrahing. A wreath,
too. was brought to the Cenotaph, hut the
pilgrimage was too spectacular and the
crowds surged an overwhelming wave be-
tween the victorious Quick and the equally-
victorious Dead.
The lady who was Australia’s chief hostess
in Washington till a month or two ago is
the subject of the picture alongside. She
is the wife of knight Hugh Denison, who
found the job
of Commis-
sioner to Uncle
Sam neither
wide enough
nor subtle
enough for his
distinct gift as
a diplomat.
That Hugh
Denison is a
judge of men
and affairs can
never be
douh t (> d b y
anyone obser-
vant enough to
see the quick
summing - up
that lies be-
hind his jovial
smile. As an
ambassador he
could have
shone, but a
Trade Commissioner—it was up sticks and
back to Australia! His lady, who is a fine
hostess and a generous giver to charity, is
as popular in Sydney as her husband.
Horizon-blue uniforms, service medals and
flowers—deep blue, pale blue and red. the
Air Force colors, fashioned into aeroplanes
or massed in unfettered beauty, as on the
table of Mrs. A. E. (trace —were the flashing
prisms of the Australian Flying Corps Ball.
The affair made one of the Wentworth’s big
nights last week. The flowers were really a
delight, and from the very entrance to the
palm court the scent was like a Song of
Araby is supposed to be but isn’t. The Gov-
ernor-General (a grass-widower just now)
was gaily ushered in to tin* roll of the kettle-
drum at about nine o’clock. Supported by
Major Nicholls, he took the handshake from
a committee which had George Hartman for
its president. Mrs. Hartman decorated her
mignonette-green chiffons with her husband’s
gold-winged flying badge. Very striking was
Mrs. Garnet Malley's silver-and-green sheath
frock worn to the tinkle of crystal earrings.
The Widgeon Wacketts, her white georgettes
starry as the Southern Cross, and Captain
Geoffrey Hughes were flying-names not to
be overlooked, and Mrs. Ellison caught the
fluttering- wing of with her table
decorations —a replica of Kingsford Smith s
’plane. Isabel Frazer came in lilac and palely
green chiffons, while Mrs. Horsfield s saffron
yellows made a brilliant splash in the mostly
black-frocked party hostessed by Mrs. J.
Garlick, wife of the Civic Commissioner.
Blown on the week's cyclone to the Ambas-
sadors’ cabaret for the Dalwood Rest Home
last Thursday, Gladys Moncrieff contrived to
look as though she’d just stepped out of a
bandbox. Her grey frock of some soft silky
material had an expensive flash, like plati-
num ; and her pink felt hat was an irresist-
ible inducement for a complexion to make
a special effort. A musquash coat defied the
elements, while her presentation basket of
pink sweet-peas and violets gave promise of
better days to come. The giver of the home,
A. E. Dalwood. led Gladys out in the first
dance. There was a parade of frocks to wear
by day or night, and chief of the attractive
mannequins was Muriel Lewis from the Leon
Gordon company. Mrs. Stewart Dawson was
president of tin' committee and one of the
afternoon’s hostesses. The Dalwood home is
used in conjunction with St. Margaret's Hos-
pital, and this Letter knows already of one
poor mother left with two little ones
besides the newly-born to whom its open
doors meant the difference between despair
and a new lease of courage.
A pretty Riverina bride who sought the
benefit of ’St. Stephen’s was Eileen Nette,
of Lockhart. Her wedding garment was
composed of layers of white georgette and
pale pink tulle. The veil was of softest pink,
and fell coyly over the eyes. Edna Partridg •
in flame velvets, was in attendance, and
Dr. W. 11. Nette, of Biggenden (Q.), squired
his sister. Padre Hugh Baton O.K.’d the
vows between Reginald Browning, from the
same Riverina town, and Eileen, and later
the bride’s sister, Mrs. W. Gilmour, hostessed
a reception at the Wentworth.
St. Stephen's Kirk, in Phillip-street, did
brisk business last Thursday night in spite
of the cyclone. The first to seek its service
in the little matter of a ring-adjustment were
Noni Robinson and Douglas Fell. White
velvet formed this bride’s attire, and embel-
lishments were added in the form of a veil
of filmy old lace, the usual complement of
orange-blossom and an exquisite crystal
shoulder spray. Four daffodil ’maids (at
least, one of them, Mrs. Alan Harnett, was
a matron), in gold frocks and green hats and
shoes, followed where the velvet train led.
Afterwards cake was eaten at the Rose Bay-
Golf Club, where the bride’s mother. Mrs.
W. Robinson, wore a dress triumph in Italian
blues. Noni’s father was the late Dr. Robin-
son ; and Douglas is one of the John Fell
boys, of Northwood.
Mary Cordeaux, member of a pioneer
family who perpetuate their name in Cor-
deaux dam, is going to link hands with Row-
land Ilassall, of the cleric clan which had old
missionary Rowland Hassall for a founder.
One of Hassall’s sons married a daughter
of Parson Marsden, by the way. Miss Cor
deaux’s fiance is only son of the R. G.
Hassals, of Braidwood.
The bridesmaids at Noni Robinson’s wed-
ding last week obtained an unusual effect
by having the layers of their gold tulle
spattered with velvet flower-heads in green,
gold and cream. The tulle skirts were long
and full, and the weight of the flowers made
them sway and swish as the tall ’maids
(one of them Sydney’s most popular bride’s
attendant, Nell Charley, but this time a
matron of honor) walked the aisle.
Margaret Bannerman, who opened on
Saturday night in “Our Batters,” according
to one lyric interviewer, has cornflour hair
and a complexion of peaches and cream.
Well, with that equipment sin; need never
starve.
A placid little art show breathing beauty
of line opened itself in the Education Gal-
leries. It is filled with the work of Syd-
ney's Painter-Etchers. The unassuming and
greatly gifted Syd Long is its high priest,
and he ordained that there should be no
opening ceremony. In London and Paris
to have your Show opened by anybody at all
would be to mark yourself a provincial. Syd
himself is responsible for some exquisite
bits of the Hawkesbury; Dorothy Paul, who
is acting secretary, shows two pieces—the
Show has attracted entries from quite a num-
ber of women etchers. But the great art-
interest in the exhibition is an ethereal
study of gums by Vernon Hilder, a son of
Australia’s Keats of the brush. The boy, by
the way. is earning a crust as a stage car-
penter, but the interludes in the daily round
are spent with Art under the guidance of
kindly Syd Long.
The knowledge that Australia is wallow-
ing in grand opera seems to have frightened
off the managers of one-man shows. Last
year and the year before a constant proces-
sion of master violinists, piano-poets and
’cellists i?i excelsis occupied the barren plat-
form of the Town Hall; but this year,
except for the Moiseiwitsch season, its
Arctic depths have been left unstirred by
song. Now E. J. Gravestock, as intrepid as
Wilkins surveying the Polar fields and say-
ing "There will i plant the starry banner
of Australia,” has decided to thaw the frozen
silence with the young pianist Shura Cher-
kassky. Shura, just 16, is the child of exiled
Russians. He has had the advantage of
four years’ training by the world-famed
Josef Hofmann Curtis Institute in Phila-
delphia.
Forty-six little debs., fluttering like a
covey of white doves, asked the blessing of
Mother Church on their social aspirations
last week at the Catholic Ball. Names
that run through the history of storm-
tossed Ireland as intimately as a
sub-editor’s green ink runs through the
lines of copy were breathed by the official
chaperones as Snow-white after Snow-
white bent to kiss Archbishop Kelly’s ring.
Every one of his SO years telling in the
wisdom and benevolence of that extraordi-
nary face, the Prelate smiled on the young
things; and who can doubt as they ap-
proached demurely along the red carpet that
the “Advance Australia Fair” played by
the band became indeed a blessing from the
veteran Shepherd of St. Peter? Mrs. J.
Brennan, whose husband was the president
of the ball, presented the girls; she wore
a mixture of ethereal pink and blue chif-
fons, silver lace outlining its uneven hem.
Herewith Joan Norton, daughter of John,
deceased. To-morrow, June 21, Joan will
be 21; and then she steps into as pretty a
fortune as any Australian girl can call her
own £15,000
o r perhaps
more a year.
Instead o f giv-
ing a ball she
is celebrating
her birthday
by giving away
large sums of
money to
various organi-
sations for
the betterment
of the lot of
women a n d
children, t o
t h c A.J.A.
benevolent
fund a n d to
the Limbless
an d Blinded
Soldiers. Joan
is a clever
girl, a good
pianist an .1
linguist. She lias travelled a great deal,
writes music sometimes, is not engaged and
is living with her mother, Mrs. Norton Cul-
lianc, at Vaucluse, in the home she has
bought from the Capes.
There was joy in the Wentworth on a night
last week when Fort-street Old Boys
rallied round the school banner. This flew
red and white from the balcony, and each
table was valiant with red and white
streamers. Fort-street Old Girls helped to
man the pleasure craft and ran the girls’
committee without which no dance seems to
prosper. C. A. Macintosh was the night’s
captain, the crew of his gig were Claude
Warby, G. Amsberg, Mrs. D. E. Kennedy and
Dr. Holland, and wristlets of office sparkled
on the arms of Mrs. Claude Warby. Vera
Waterstone, Doris Paterson, Maisie Golding
and Dorothy Brown. The night’s takings are
to help establish a Fortians’ Club.
An all-pervasive smile rippled about the
Ambassadors when the Dental Association
had its yearly dinner dance. And who should
be more appropriately present in this hy-
gienic gathering than Minister for Health
Arthur? He and his wife were the guests
of the presidential Cecil Walton couple. Mrs.
Arthur’s mauve and silver frocking toned
with the palely-pink georgettes worn by the
hostess. In the same group were the presi-
dent of the Society of Dental Science, with
Mrs. Scholes, and other lights of the pro-
fession. Tuttle Pyorrhoea, who pushes in here,
there and everywhere, for once played Cin-
derella and stayed away, A cargo of sequins,
rhinestones and crystal; bales of soft georg-
ettes and velvet and lace; shoes and
stockings worth a king's ransom (at cur-
rent rates) had been consumed to orna-
ment the roomful of well-dressed women.
A pretty frock of ivory lace that was a suc-
cession of tiny lace frills to the ankle was
worn by a slim dancer; and a frock of sea-
blue velvet splashed with diamonds and
bordered in sequins that flashed like prisoned
water enveloped Mrs. S. Roberts.
Trixie Tange, looking more like a suddenly-
awakened daffodil than ever, struck the con-
cert grand at the Conservatorium last week
with all the power, brilliance and sensitive-
ness of an artist of twice her years. Since
her last concert in Sydney Trixie has had
two years’ hard study in Vienna. The
result is a more vivid flowering of her native
talent.
And before this Letter slips into its pink
overall it must express sympathy with Mrs.
Tom Walsh, whose famous mother, Mrs.
Emmeline Pankhurst, died last week.


Modern
and its
m
M
»n
‘“els
55
Mnmwpitt
umn'
m
£S
«>u.ofi
% %
W % '
*4> % %
»
4.
%
- < * V
\ * \ \ *> \
<k % % \.X \
f < %■ 'o X
*
s'
sr
wr % e- <
% V &
<
$
✓r
2
Cj V>
V A
O'
<£
+
✓r
8
*6
cfc
2
4.
4.
T*
%
0
y.
7X
2
Of
&
2
Z>!
3>
vr
%
<y
4
y
y
rO
0
«
$
<2
<y
4
$
A
V
4
$
<
y
4
%
y
y
X}}
¥
y
\
M
vT
'//
a
V
3£^j
li^
1
AW
mm
\r
m
Trs^
*
S:
5
n
JSJONE of us would like to see Australia in the position of “the
goat.” Yet some Australians are being deluded daily by
prejudicial propaganda directed against Australian-made goods.
They are told, or it is hinted to them that “the imported is
better.”
What a fallacy this is !
Take Old Court Whisky for example. Surely the non-acceptance of our €l,OOO
Challenge clearly establishes its purity. Frankly, in face of the employment of the
most modern methods of distilling, plus the use of Australia’s incomparable raw
material, it is impossible to disprove it.
It is not only pure, but mellowed and matured by years of patient “ ageing in the
wood.”
There are Australians who haven’t yet tried Old Court Whisky. They have
been persuaded that some other brand is better.
Last year Australia lost £1,875,000 by drinking imported whisky.
This, to say the least of it, is looking into a well of national disaster. Keep out
of it! Rely on your own judgment! Try the test of taste and prove to your own
lasting satisfaction that Old Court is incomparable.
rjhc Vorlcfc Purest


m
m
l(nexppclecl
* Qrrive —\
... .you need never feel that your table
lacks a desirable dish. Swallow and Ariell
have provided for the occasion! All you
need do is to be sure that your pantry is
never without at least ONE Plum Pudding
—those rich, fruity, flavorsome pud-
dings that Swallow and Ariell make—
and everyone enjoys. Ask your grocer
] wallow 6rCbiiM<f
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
L
Scott’s has always
kept abreast of the times
in its repleteness with every
modern convenience and equip-
ment, among which are electric fires
and direct and inter-communicating
telephones in all bedrooms.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and Breakfast
Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams and Cables:
“Scottsotel, Melbourne.”
Phone: Cent. 9QII (10 lines).
Melbourne
Chatter
His Ex. and Lady Somers, with about
100,000 less exalted folk, spent Wednes-
day afternoon at the Essendon aerodrome
waiting for the coming of the Southern
Cross. The scheduled time of arrival was
2.30, but it was 4.30 when the escorting
'planes leading the giant blue machine with
its silver top came into view. After making
a sweep over the city, the Fokkor returned
to gracefully alight at the appointed spot.
The “See the Conquering Hero” of the Air
Force Band was drowned in the cheering.
The thousands who had scanned the skies
so long and anxiously behaved splendidly—
perhaps their feet were too numb to move.
Anyway, Ivingsford Smith and his party of
fliers, which included his mother and Mrs.
Ulm, were transferred to waiting cars and
driven around the outskirts of the ’drome
before the great rush of humanity com-
menced. The official welcome was staged
on a lorry, where the Governor, Premier
Hogan, Mayor Morell, the Mayor of Essen-
don. Colonel Brinsmead and C. McKay gave
enthusiastic greetings, the quartette of
Pacific-conquerors replying very briefly, as
the shades of night were falling fast.
Though the day was cold and the sky
murky, the wait was not very irksome.
Thrilling entertainment was provided by
Squadron-leader Smart, who did corkscrew
spirals and double somersaults with his Moth.
Everything went off very happily. When the
Southern Cross at last arrived, Mrs. Erito-
marte James, president of the Wattle League,
was able to hand Kingsford Smith a wreath
of wattle without losing a leaf. Within the
official enclosure, where there were seats,
were Lady Somers, in a tweed suit with a
henna felt hat; Mayoress Morell and Sheila,
Mrs. Brinsmead, Mrs. C. McKay, with
cherry red millinery and a navy costume,
General Monash, the Clarke lady and some
other important folk. During the wait the
v. r. party was taken round to view the
’planes, and the billy was boiled at the
Club House. The road from the tram line
to the ’drome was in a dreadful condition
and a special providence must have watched
over the motorists who used it, for there were
no accidents or breakdowns.
The Theatre Royal wore gala dress of
flags, balloons, festoons of red, white and
blue, and colored lights, with groupings of
heath, gum-tips and Iceland poppies round
circle and boxes, on Thursday night in honor
of the Pacific fliers. A miniature ’plane
whirred over the stalls and the Australian
ensign, and the Stars and Stripes draped the
proscenium and front of stage. The Aero
Club ran the ticket sales, and the perform-
ance was delayed so that a fitting welcome,
with the “Conquering Hero,” could be given.
Kingsford Smith and his companions came
straight from the Aero Club’s dinner, accom-
panied by Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Ulm, who
were presented with posies by the manage-
ment. At the end of the first act Annie
Croft sang a ditty about the flight, and a
film version of the great exploit was shown.
Then the four fliers had to take the stage,
where Miss Croft, on behalf of the Firm,
handed over gold cigar boxes for the pilots
and cigarette cases for their American com-
rades. Somebody in the gallery shouted:
“Why don’t you kiss them?” and Miss Croft
acted on the suggestion. May Beatty and
Lorna Helms rushed on also —Australia would
be there —and embraced the overwhelmed
quartette, who eventually were carried out
shoulder high by the pink and mauve clad
chorus, Kingsford Smith having said “Thank
you for everybody and everything.” In
the packed house were sighted Colonel and
Mrs. Brinsmead, Air Commodore and Mrs.
Williams, Mrs. Barry Thomson and Jack,
and the Clarence Marriott couple.
Kingsford Smith and his companions were
welcomed and entertained with scarcely
any intermissions for breath during their
short stop here. A very full day on Thurs-
day wound up with a dance at 3LO head-
quarters. On Friday in the morning the
city was fog-bound, and the Southern
Cross’s departure for Canberra had to be
postponed from eight to eleven-thirty. The
aviators dropped a wreath on the Shrine
site and circled over Government House
before flying north.
Mrs. Charles Tait, with a bois-de-rose
velvet bridge coat over a pale green gown,
and Mrs. F. G. Nicholson, in black, were
responsible for a crowd that elbowed its
way at a cabaret show at the Embassy on
Thursday night to aid Queen Victoria Hos-
pital. items by artists from the J.C.W.
companies were interspersed between dances.
Adelaide Allan, wearing black with sub-
dued scintillation, and Sheila Morell, clad
in green georgette, were ticket secretaries.
Caps and quaint articles were sold by Cecil
fait and half a dozen helpers. A grand
opera skit, put on by May Beatty and (Jus
Bluett, was greatly enjoyed by all, and
especially by Toti dal Monte and Signor
Lumonto. The Embassy Eight, a bunch
f society ballerinas that included Kings-
bury Baillieu's widow, formerly Gracie
Lavers, swung graceful legs and looked very
attractive in ballet frocks of orange-hued
silver-edged frills topped by white wigs.
May Beatty’s schoolgirl daughter, Bunny,
in petallod flounces of pale pink, made her
debut as a dancer and scored a huge suc-
cess.
Mayoress Morell, who is president of the
Hospital Auxiliary, was there wearing powder-
blue georgette beneath a coat of silver tissue.
Mrs. Norman Falkincr, French Consul-
General Turck, Madame Turck, in flounced
frock of black taffeta ; Mrs. W. M. Robins,
patroness of the Q.V.11., robed in gold lace;
Mrs. R. Fiteher, in harmony of pale blue
georgette and opalescent pailettes, were
members of one large party. Carrie Moore,
now Mrs. Wyatt, of Sydney, who was spend-
ing a few days here, was in white with silver
bead embroidery, and Jennie Brenan flitted
about* in oyster grey, making the wheels
run smoothly. Lucy Stogdale introduced a
new note in a somewhat lengthy frock of
ivory Limerick lace. A flutter was caused
by the arrival of the Pirie Bush couple, who
were wedded that afternoon.
Mayoress Morell has a very able lieu-
tenant in her only daughter, Sheila, pictured
here by Lafayette. In addition to assisting
her mother at
civic functions.
Miss Morell
has many in-
terests of her
own. Just
now she is a
member of the
committee of
juniors which
is engineering
a dance for the
Austin Hos-
pital at Mal-
vern City Hall
next Friday.
C'ongratul a-
tions on reach-
ing her majo-
ri t y were
poured upon
the handsome
lass at a
birthday dance
given by her parents at the Embassy on
Wednesday night. The hop was almost en-
tirely a gathering of the coming-on set.
The new elector smiled her thanks wearing
a confection of silver and pink lace with a
whisper of mauve.
The V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield on
Saturday had for weather a mixture of
shine, shower and shiver. Society was but
sparsely represented, and even the commit-
tee ladies’ box looked somewhat deserted.
It was a day for furs. Mrs. Merson Cooper
was wrapped in Kolinsky combined with a
fawn and brown felt hat, and a red hat
made cheery topping for Mrs. F. Gilder’s
squirrel coat. Mrs. Rupert Downes, lately
back from Q’land, was in a tailored suit of
cocoa tones with harmonising felt millinery.
A coat of mole fur shielded Mrs. Peter
Lynch from the chilling breeze. Familiar
figures on the lawn were Mrs. T. A. Tabart
and her daughter Pixie, Mrs. E. Bullen
Allan and Mrs. R. Meade, the Rogers-
Thomsons, the Ben Chaff eys, Mrs. Percy
Blackbourn and Mrs. Graham Browne.
The Royal Colonial Institute and the Vic-
toria League united at Menzies’ one even-
ing last week to honor Sir John RuSsell,
director of the famous Rothamstead experi-
mental station in England. Medical knight
James Barrett, as president of the R.C.1.,
led off the speechifying ; and Chancellor Mac-
Farland and Prof. Wadham gave greeting
on behalf of the Uni. Mrs. .T. S. Fraser
spoke for the V.L., and 11. A. Mullett struck
a topical note by introducing the subject of
superphosphates. The guest of honor, in reply,
lightly disclosed a vein of humor to an audi-
ence that hadn’t expected anything of the
sort. After the set programme there was a
general buzz of chatter over coffee and cake.
In the throng were the Barrett lady, with a
gleam of sequins on a sunset-pink robe; her
daughter Cara, the Mitchell lady, Mr. and
Mrs. Courteney Dix, Prof. A. Gunn and his
wife, and Colonel Pottinger.
Though rain came down in torrents, Old
Collegians of Santa Maria to the number of
about 200 gathered for their annual hop at
Ormond Hall, which was gay with quaint
lanterns and colored balloons. The presi-
dent, Mrs. Hoy Cash, in soft draperies of
pale lilac hue, and secretary Dorothea Hart,
whose black gown was embossed with tan-
gerine blossoms, cast an official eye over all,
aided by a committee of former schoolmates.
Kindred bodies sent representatives. Old
Xaverians' delegate was Mons. Schrader,
who was accompanied by his wife; and Mrs.
.T. E. McMahon, whose bunchy, floral-
patterned gown was the smartest there, rep-
resented the C.E.C. Old Girls’ Association.
Laura Brennan, in coral pink; Clare Bren-
nan, in powder-blue; Bat Barer, mostly wee
frills of petunia taffeta; Mary Hobbs, in
emerald-green and silver lace; and Mona
Redmond, whose black gown was embroidered
about the skirt section with a regular garden
of flowers, with stray butterflies and birds,
were some of the younger dancers.
The cadets of the training-ship Wan-
garatta were given a jazz party by the junior
section of the E.S.U. one night last week.
The rendezvous was the picturesque kiosk in
Fawkner Park, and the dance progressed
gaily while rain drummed steadily on the
roof. Captain Scutt and the officers
accompanied their charges, and Mrs. Me-
Lay, in gown of scintillating black, played
the role of chaperon. Lynette Young, who
secretaried the hop, was clad in black velvet.
Her assisting maids included Meg Massey,
Stella Kirkham, Freda Thompson and Dona
Cameron.
St. Vincent's Hospital Auxiliary of junior
workers, formed a couple of months ago,
started its efforts with a dance held at the
institution’s Brenan Hall. A friendly firm
provided the decorations, and dancers were
many, causing Rost; Bullen, the youthful
president, to wear an expression as spark-
ling as her pale-pink frock. Molly Warden,
hon. sec., clad in an old-world gown of
rose taffeta ; and singer Marie Magan, lion,
treas., in tawny-lined satin clouded with grey
georgette, beamed in unison.
A cheque for St. Vincent’s Hospital was
garnered on Wednesday night by the staff of
B. Seppelt and Sons, who held a well-
patronised dance at Ormond Hall. Ruth Bull,
whose petal-pink taffeta frock had a gleam
of pearl embroidery, was treasurer and chief
engineer, with J. B. Seaton as hon. sec.
The firm showed a practical interest in the
effort, and Mr. T. T. Seppelt and his wife
wore present. The lady, who wore black
with a scintillation of diamente, was handed
a purple-and-wliite posy. Mr. and Mrs.
A. T. Fidler, the W. Hunters, Miss M.
Seaton, in gown of flame hue ; Lenore Dow,
wearing a sparkling green frock; and R. W.
Trewkella were dancers.
St. Vincent’s Nurses’ Association’s second
annual dance, held at No. 9 on Saturday
night, set fully 200 dancers tripping to the
strains of a feminine jazz band. Rear-
Admiral Napier and Mrs. Napier, who was
sheathed in gold lace and tissue, were guests
of honor, the lady’s interest in the auxiliary
being recognised with an offering of flowers.
Mrs. W. R. Burston, who secretaried the
hop, and Mrs. Glover, president of the asso-
ciation, also received posies. Both wore
gowns of black satin with scintillating em-
broidery. Among medical couples there were
the Brendon O’Sullivans, she in pale pink;
the Leo Tighes. and the Gerald Baldwins.
Mrs. C. L. Kimpton, president of the dance
committee wore silver tissue and grey georg-
ette, and Alice Cavanagh, treasurer, was
in pink, crystal embroidered.
“Thais,” at His Majesty’s, was a triumph
for John Brownlee in the role of Athanaei.
The Egyptian settings painted by the local
Colemans were fine, likewise the dressing.
Lina Scavizzi was seductive in Act I in
diaphanous-blue covering concealed beneath a
toga of cloth of gold, and beautiful also in
draperies of apple-green contrasted with an
auburn coiffure. The final white garment
of repentance enhanced her looks. The huge
audience, that spared some of its enthusiasm
for tenor Browning Mummery and the first
violin of the orchestra, was headed by the-
Governor and Lady Somers, who had an
ermine wrap over a black gown. Melba,
looking very pleased, sat behind the v.-r.
patty with Mons. Turck and his daughter
Ninette. The William Godfrey couple joined
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme in her box, and operatic
stars galore crammed into most of the other
pens. Mrs. Erskine Foster and Miss Bulli-
vant, Mrs. Percy Chirnside, with her daugh-
ter and Mrs. Andrew Chirnside. Mrs. Fred
Grimwade and Mrs. Leigh Falkiner joined
400 Geelongites and about a thousand others
in cheering Brownlee.
The first performance here of “Rookery
Nook,” >at the new Comedy Theatre on
Saturday night, drew a capacity audience.
The flowers at the last curtain made a
lovely show. The stage frocking was of
the simple and pretty order, Helen Simon's
primi’ose raiment, traced with a floral de-
sign. standing out. Mr. and Mrs. Bob
Bruce, the Percy Blaekbourns, Mr. and Mrs.
F. Doyle. Cora Spowers and Tulla Keating
were in the audience.
That Fritz isn't entirely forgiven was mani-
fested at the premiere of “The Luck of the
Navy ” the Percy Hutchison company s otter
ng at the Athenaeum on Saturday The
spy play received a warm welcome but the
League of Nations will be glad to lieai that
in the final flower distribution Germans
and Britishers shared alike, h ranees Dillon,
who plays the German lady masquerading as
English, dresses the part well and looks
striking in an evening gown of henna and
gold brocade over which she trails a fan of
pheasant feathers. Stella Francis and Mary.
Brackley sport a variety of dainty flock*
suitable for the flapper and deb.
The owner of this smile, Edna Binge-
man, makes kiddies her chief interest. Just
now as assistant-secretary, she is working
hard to secure
the success of
the Rotary
Club's dance
at St. Kilda
Town Ilall on
July 6. The
object is to
provide funds
for the memo-
rial play-
ground to be
established in
honor of the
late Sydney
Stott, an earn-
est helper of
the movement.
These play-
grounds dotted
about this
city’s crowded
suburbs are a
health - bring-
ing gift to
children who would otherwise be running the
streets, and there is always need for just
one more. Miss Bingeman, who is a local
girl born and bred, is also a secretary of
the Playground Association. A Ruskin cam-
era caught the cheerful expression.
After a spell of grand opera the Princess
Theatre reverted on Saturday to musical
comedy. “Good News,” which is full of
dances, has American college students as its
characters, and it’s a well-dressed show.
For once the orchestra has something to re-
joice over. Being part of the piece the band
wears winter raiment of woollen jersies, red
and grey striped, and flannel pants and grey
headgear. Gay jumpers, and accordeon-
pleated skirts figure largely in the wardrobe
of the feminine principals and the misses of
the chorus. The daintiest petal-frilled white
georgette frocks are mingled with the cream
flannels of the lads in an effective scene.
First-nighters showed lots of approval,
and the flowers passed up were lavish.
Mayor Morell, his lady and daughter Sheila,
the George Dickensons, Mrs. Leslie Mac-
donald, the Ramsay Kings and Beryl Ainslie
were a tiny percentage of the house.
The wedding of Pirie Bush, of the Mar-
garet Bannerman co., and EUenor, daughter
of Mrs. T. R. Scarfe, of Adelaide, was cele-
brated, the parties not being of the same
faith, in the sacristy of St. Francis Church.
The bride wore a powder-blue ensemble gown
with lynx fur collar, and a felt hat trimmed
with a sapphire brooch. Mora Saclier at-
tended her in a beige ensemble, with harmon-
ising felt millinery. At the Oriental afterward
Mrs. Scarfe welcomed about 60 guests,
Margaret Bannerman, Beatrice Day, in pale-
grey costume and hat, and Signorina Giusep-
pin'a Zinetti. of the grand opera co., being
among the number.
St. John’s, Toorak, glimpsed a bonnie bit
of girlhood when Nancy Wells wed her
Maorilander, William Pritchard. He had
come across the Tasman to woo his bride in
leisurely fashion, but business hurriedly re-
called him, and Miss Wells decided to keep
him company. She is the only daughter of
the late Chaplain Stanley Wells, of Caul-
field Military Hospital, and as the man of
the family 16-year-old brother Graham
lent his sister his arm for the occasion. Her
glistening white gown was bathed in a
shower of tulle, decorated with sprays of
orange blossom, which also veiled the deep-
blue eyes and sun-kissed locks of the bride.
Two almond-green clad ’maids attended her.
Mrs. Wells entertained afterwards at No. 9.
An echo of the visit of the American fleet
is the engagement of Una Margaret, daugh-
ter of the George Coghills, of Canterbury,
and Ensign George L. Phillips, U.S.N.,
whose ship is the Galveston. They met when
the stars and stripes invaded these shores
about three years ago, and their marriage
is expected to take place at the end of the
year, when Mrs. Coghill will accompany the
bride-elect to Uncle Sam’s territory.
Constance Neville Johns, tall, slim and
fair, and garbed in blue, gave a successful
recital at the Assembly Hall on Saturday.
The soprano was heard in German, Spanish,
French and British songs, the last includ-
ing compositions of Alfred Hill, Margaret
Sutherland and Mona Mcßurney.


Oriental Pearls
SS
mh
SI
m
Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
g Stringing of PEARL
Necklaces on
1 the premises.
Wm.DRUMMONDeCO
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS S T MELBOURNE
a
'3-v
L
“Sanatogen has a
direct favourable
influence on the
whole nervous
system,”—
wrote Prof. Rodari,
of Zurich Univer *
sity.
Buoyant Health
—with Sanatogen
NERVE-STRENGTH and buoyant
health, that’s what Sanatogen will
give you.
. C^>
Sleeplessness, listlessness, loss of appetite —
all those signs of weakness will very soon
disappear, in fact, within a fortnight you
will notice a remarkable change for the
better in your health.
no
START taking Sanatogen to-day. It is
sold at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBORO' ENGLAND
A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS
MOUNTED IN PURE
PLATINUM AND
18ct. GOLD.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, ISct. Gold
Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£l5.
: K
A. Saunders’ Dia-
nonds, Fancy Plati-
num-set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Hexagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ All-
Diamonds and Plati-
num AVedding Ring,
£25, £3O, £35,
£4O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set 18et.
White Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover,
Set Platinum, 18et.
Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Four
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Five
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
.Ring,
£l5.
Saunder
Dia-
monds and Sap-
phire, Set Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£35.
A. Saunders’ Dia
mond Button
Cluster, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Two
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
iset, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders' Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£65.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds and Emer-
alds, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£25.
ALL ORDERS HY MAIL Receive
Our Special and Prompt Attention.
RING BOOK with 3IZE CARD
forwarded free on request.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Big Ben Deluxe
2,/
Big Ben
luminous
25 /~ A
Sleep-Meter
10
Socket Sen
Baby Ben Deluxe Pocket Ben
luminous 8^
*%
For these Dark Mornings
TT’S harder to get up at this time of the year because it stays
dark longer in the morning.
Any Westclox will get you started promptly, for it calls you
exactly when you wish. That name “Westclox” on the dial
is your assurance of reliability.
Big Ben De Luxe and Baby Ben De Luxe are the newest
Westclox. They’re unusual alarm clocks, handsomely designed
and have the same good timekeeping qualities that have made
Westclox favourites for many years.
Prices of Westclox range from 8/6 to 28/6.
Bui.t by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY
Distributors for Australia
PERTH • BRISBANE


If WILL con tou
AT LBAfT
£20,000,000
TO FILL M.I.W.WITH
UMJJi •
MaKe no mistaKe,
Prohibition will cost
you at least £20,000,000
IMMEDIATELY,
should it ever be
introduced. The
annual increase in
taxation would be
AT THE LEAST
£8,600,000.
What would you get
for your money ?
Prohibition depends for its “success” on persecution
SPIES brought about by spies and sneaks who are prepare
to sell their self-respect" for money “From infornrat,on received would
be the phrase covering their underhand activities.
__ __ w-s lt is a well-known fact that
800 1 L/ILOVjILtvv!) the most ardent supporters
„« i™
“ZT K—t. which will (°c!.. Ih. -»> in»uil«™ <•» »<
grogging ever known?
armed officials revolvers and
euns to enforce Prohibition in other countries. GOOD laws do NOT
have to be enforced by armed officials. There is something rackety
wrong with a form of legislation which must be backed up with bul.ets
and threats.
~ K n w jg w -at a w O Prohibition is never, and will never be,
PI Jl regarded seriously by the people. As
a law it is regarded with contempt. Contempt for one law leads to con
tempt for all laws. Contempt for law is the beginning of crime. Do you
want to pay for more crime in this State?
Common-sense and regard for the principles of
decent living will prompt you to vote
AGAINST Prohibition on Polling Day.
VOTE HO'
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
I TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To VIDA WINIFRED DARTER formerly
of Launceston in Tasmania.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of
this Court citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Errol John Carter for dis-
solution of his .marriage with you on the
ground of desertion. TAKE NOTICE that
unless you cause an appearance to be entered
in the Registry of the said ( ourt at Hobart
on or before the 27th day of July uext to
answer the said Petition the Court will
proceed to hear the said charge proved and
pronounce sentence your absence notwith-
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
TT) OLAF EMANUEL LUNDIN, Son of
1 Olaf Lundin of Gelfe, Sweden, and any
child or children of the said Olaf Emanuel
Lundin and all persons claiming to,
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 19th
day of April, 1925, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upoii to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of November,
1028. your claim to the estate of Axel
Wilhelm Barkman, who died at Te Kuiti in
New Zealand, intestate, on the 16th day
of March, 1926, failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 24th day of
April, 1928.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missing; Friends.
"TO GEORGE HARRY MAW formerly of
* Adelaide in the State of South Aus-
tralia and of Melbourne in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition for Divorce has
been issued in the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria by JOHN PATCHETT of Albion
Street West BrunsAvick in the said State
against his wife FLORENCE ELIZA
PATCHETT on the ground of her adultery
with you. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that unless you enter an appear-
ance in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court in William Street Melbourne
on or before the twenty-first day of July
1928 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.
GORDON RENNICK. LL.B., of 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
TIM ANDERSON, late Atherton Table-
J land, communicate sister Upper Barron.
Important. Policy not paid.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
tO SUCCOId .THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Ctia.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Recognized as the
standard of the world
for over a quarter of a cen-
tury, WEED TYRE CHAINS
are the preference of motor-
ists everywhere. They grip
and hold; assure positive
traction; and protect car and
occupants from the dangers
of skidding.
Always insist upon WEED
Chains. Order them
from your dealer
WEED
TYRE CHAINS


e*USi
w
A
0;
JC * W^>!*«To7
F2fiss§SS
l!*M
m
SsSSs
m
m
-M'
* J
CAIRO —77? p of keut key
CEYLON - EGYPT - EUROPE
ORIENT LINE
2-4-6 SPRING STREET
SYD N E Y
Amusements.
C M PIRE THE A T K R
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russel!
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1./-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
VD X E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES
J C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
PRINCESS CHARMING.
ROYAL: SCANDAL.
(Commencing Next Saturday.)
CRITERION: OUR BETTERS.
PALACE: NICE PEOPLE.
(Commencing Next Saturday.)
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
P EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
Presents
WINGS
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE,
With CLARA BOW, RICHARD ARLEN and
CHARLES ROGERS.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
J C. wILLIA M S O N. LTD.
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
ROOKERY NOOK.
KING’S THEATRE: THE PATSY.
(Commencing Next Saturday.)
A TIIEN M U M THE A 1 R E
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON,
In the Enhtralling Three-Act Plav,
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY.
H° Y 1 S D E LU X E THEATRE
MFLROURNE.
NORMA SHEARER in
THE LATEST FROM PARIS.
A i so
SECOND TO NONE.
With MOORE MARRIOTT.
Amusements.
A , L :\: V WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
VVATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SH A KSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batvn. Box 2229 Sydney
’Phone: MA1277.
M AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY,
IVOR NOVELLO and ISABEL JEANS in
THE ALL-BRITISH PICTURE,
DOWNHILL.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
Legal Notice.
'T'HERESA ALICE TAYLOR (also known
as Amy Wilson wife of Reginald John
Wilson of Sydney Fireman, Amy Rose
Wilson, Alice Rose Wilson, Alice Rose
Payten of Sydney Widow, Rose Whatton,
Rose Lewis, Rose Walsh, May Taylor, Ira
Bray, Annie Smith, Myra Bray and Rose
Long) Deceased Intestate.
PURSUANT to a decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
its Equitable Jurisdiction dated the Thirtieth
day of March 1928 and made in a suit No.
5119 of 1928 in the said Court IN THE
MATTER OF THE ESTATE OF THER-
ESA ALICE TAYLOR LATE OF SYDNEY
IN THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH
WALES DECEASED INTESTATE
BETWEEN the Public Trustee as Plaintiff
AND Lucy Emily Ferrari as Defendant
whereby an order was made that it be
referred to the Master in Equity of the said
Court to inquire who are the statutory next
of kin of the abovementioned intestate
NOTICE IS PIEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the
said inquiry are to send by post by prepaid
letter to Messrs. Gale and Gale 26 Hunter
Street Sydney the Solicitors for the above-
mentioned Plaintiff so as to reach them on
or before the 25th day of July next their
full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their
claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the Benefit of the said decretal
order unless the Court or a Judge thereof
or the Master in Equity on application
otherwise orders. CLAIMANTS are to
attend personally or by their Solicitor before
the Master in Equity at the Supreme Court
Elizabeth Street Sydney on Wednesday the
First day of August next at Eleven o’clock
in the forenoon being the time appointed for
adjudicating on the claims.
Dated this 28th day of May One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-eight.
W. A. PARKER,
Master in Equity.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the origin wl.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Goodwins have had a busy week.
After the various welcomes to Kingsford
Smith and his comrades they attended a
dance at South Brisbane Tech, in aid of
the cancer campaign and Dutton Park School
grounds funds. Gold and blue and gay
bobbing balloons were the decorations, and
Lady Goodwin and Mayoress Jolly were
given flowers. Miss Hine-Haycock was with
the Goodwins, Colonel Campbell attending.
A large number of kiddies were in fancy
dress.
The Anzac Ball, arranged by the
R.5.5.1.L.A., was in the Trocadero. Lady
Goodwin wore silver grey satin marocain,
beaded in steel, and Mrs. E. S. Mutton, in
black mariette and Chantilly, presented her
with red roses and gerberas in a silver holder.
Mayoress Jolly received pink roses to match
her frock of ash-rose satin and gold. Mrs.
Sligo wore love-bird green and Mrs. Percy
Reay was in silver net with an amethyst
tulle scarf. Flags and palms decorated the
hall.
Lady Goodwin presided at the opening of
the new city rest room of the C.W.A. Grey
and blue is the color scheme of the room,
with cosy lounges and easy chairs. Autumn-
tinted blossomry was handed to Lady Good-
wiri, who is an ardent flower-lover, by Mrs. J.
P. Petersen, president of the city branch.
Lady Goodwin was in fawn-hued tailor-
made with brown fox furs and brown hat.
Miss Hine-Haycock came with her in mignon-
ette green. Her flowers were crimson roses.
Jean Naylor and Miss I). Hargreaves looked
after a musical programme and tea was taken
at tables decked with poinsettias.
The marriage of Arthur, son of the W.
Langmores, of Prospect, Jondaryan, to
Agnes, elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Hope
Michod, Ascot, took place in St. Augustine’s,
II a m i 1 t o n,
where the knot
was tied by
Dean de Witt
Batty. The
bride, pictured
here by Dea-
zeley, was in
ivory mariette
studded with
silver sequins.
She wore her
mother’s wed-
ding veil of
tulle and
orange-blooms.
Stephanie
M u n r o and
Margaret
Michod were
’maids in pale
pink velvet,
with coronets
of velvet and
diament e.
They carried pink posies. The feasting was
at the Bellevue, and the bride’s new home
will be at Mount Victoria station, near
Longreach.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The big dance for the Children’s Hospital
at Government House ballroom was successful
in every way. Mrs. Marillier, in black
chiffon velvet, did a sturdy trade with a
hydrogen cylinder and myriads of balloons.
Lady Campion smiled from her cubbyhole
under the gallery in embossed black satin-de-
soie and diamond necklace and hair orna-
ments. The Lathlain lady, in black shot
lame, and Mrs. Sinclair McGibbon, also in
black adorned with silver-and-gold traceries,
sat with her. Dr. Lindsay Male brought his
wife, in buttercup georgette and a tangee
shawl. President Mrs. A. Jacoby wore layers
of swinging black fringe, and joint secre-
taries Mrs. .T. Winterbottom and Mrs. Harry
Maynard wore mignonette and lemon re-
spectively. Mary Padbury chose brick-red
georgette, Joy Lathlain had a collar to her
hydrangea frock, and Doreen Winterbottom
wore a long transparent hem on her gown
of rainbow-striped taffetas.
The quartette of R.A.F. Southampton
flying boats boomed over the city recently
accompanied by Wackett’s Widgeon, which
looked like a mosquito beside them, and
alighted with great splashes on the blue
waters of Matilda Bay. Mounts Bay-road
was a dense labyrinth of traffic during the
week-end, and packed launches took curious
trippers round the craft. A bunch of en-
gineering students were among the lucky ones
invited aboard.
The Karrakatta Club gave a jolly dance
for Cave-Brown-Cave and his fellow fliers,
when two debs., Margaret Eagleton and
Monte Holland, made their bow to society.
Lady Campion wore plumbago-blue chenille
georgette, and Mrs. J. A. Klein silver lame
and black.
One of the smartest parties of the week
was Mrs. Jack Brooking’s bridge at the
Karrakatta Club, where roses and violets
were the sweet-smellihg decorations of the
winter garden. Among the guests were Mrs.
Percy Pretty, Mrs. Gilbert Barker, Mrs!
Goldsmith, Mrs. Drummond-Hay, Mrs. Hol-
land, Mrs. Woodroffe, Mrs. Mervyn Brook-
ing and Mrs. A. J. Leekie.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
For the Royal Yacht Club’s ball at the
Continental the ballroom was decorated with
red berries and red, yellow and brown leaves
and a large ship’s bell tolled at the end of
each dance. Commodore O. R. Tinning
entertained a big crowd, his pretty daughter
Jean playing hostess in pale green georgette
and silver. The C.J. and his lady were in
the throng, also the J. Rycrofts, Mel ar-
lanes and Laughtons.
The Newnham Racing Club’s winter meet-
ing at Launceston was rather spoilt by
a heavy fog, which bung about nil day and
had a depressing effect on everybody. How-
ever, it was not really cold, and the warm
colorings of cloth and fur and bright little
pull-over hats of felt and velvet worn by
feminine punters did something to mitigate
the gloom.
The little northern capital had a gay week
or two round about race-time with bridge
parties and dances. At a “Back to Child-
hood” evening arranged by the Launceston
Rangers and the Girl Guides, the dressing
of a bottle in an o rigin al costume was one
of the competitions.
This is artist Joseph Connor, who has
lately had a picture, “The Blue Boat,”
hung on the line at the Royal Academy
Show. lie lias
also been a suc-
cessful exhibi-
tor in Paris,
where Mabel
Hook e y an d
Miss Oldham
helped him to
hold ii)) the
reputation of
this distant
Speck, lie is
self-taught, ex-
cept for
little study in
drawing from
life u n d e r
Mildred Lovett,
lie has been
an exhibitor
at shows of
Soci e t y of
Artists a n d
Australian In-
st itn t e of
Water-color Painters and has also exhibited
at Wembley. His work has been among the
best at the fas. Art Society’s exhibitions
for years past.
Captain 11. L. Bennett and his wife put
in a strenuous time during their last few
weeks in Hobart before their transference
to Sydney, hardly a day or an evening pass-
ing without some sort of farewell function.
Among other sliivoos in their honor was a
bridge party given by Margaret O'Grady and
a farewell dinner at Hadley’s spread by the
F. X. de Bavays. Margaret O’Grady, Mrs.
Stoyles, N. E. Somers and Brendan Clarke
were guests.
Hunting is in full swing in the Midlands,
and the club had a splendid run after a
meet at the Alfred Bennetts’ place, Ashby,
Ross, to which they returned at the finish,
and were entertained at tea. The master, J.
Archer, and Mrs. Archer have lately re-
turned from a trip to Europe, and when
in England did a good deal of hunting in the
shires.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Licensed Victuallers’ race meeting
was blessed by the weather and a good
attendance. His Ex. was there with the
usual cheery Government House party,
only Lady Hore-Ruthven being absent.
Mayoress Bonython was soon to be seen
near the tote, a slim figure in black. The
Bruce lady, in a fur coat and felt hat, and
the Premier’s pretty wife, in a dull cycla-
men outfit, were also punters. Chairman
Duncan and his wife entertained on behalf
of the club. The lady favored a black fur-
trimmed coat and felt hat.
Yet another charitable institution has been
added to our long list. The Nortlicote-
Grange rest home for mothers and babies,
a gift from Josiah Symon, was recently
opened by Lady Hore-Ruthven. Tiny Janet
Symon presented the Governor’s lady with
a posy, and after her Ex., in a red coat
trimmed with fur and a black velvet hat.
had unlocked the front door with a silver key,
tea was served in a marquee, Mrs. Owen
Crompton playing hostess.
The United Church Tennis Association
held a large dance at the Arcadia Cafe, when
the trophies won in the recent tournament,
including a magnificent silver cup given
by Mayor Bonython, were presented by the
Mayor and Mayoress.
Miss Ivy Phillips (Mrs. Smuts) gave a
farewell recital at the Town Hall prior to
her departure last Thursday for her home
in South Africa. The stage looked like a
flower garden at the end, and the audience
was a large one.
The knighthood conferred on surgeon 11.
Simpson Newland has not raised one dis-
sentient voice. His wonderful facial patch-
work among the victims of the war is still
talked of with admiration and gratitude.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The Victoria League held a social even-
ing to welcome home its president, Mrs.
Weddell, and to farewell Mrs. E. Gurry.
Among the guests were the Rev. Dwyer and
his wife, of Owenpilli mission station ; Rev.
J. S. Needham, chairman of the Australian
Board of Missions; manager Cotton, of
Brunette Downs; the Matsons (8.A.T.) ;
and C. W. Conacher, of Sydney. Music,
games, dancing and songs made the evening
pass merrily.
The Anglicans have been very busy pre-
paring for their bazaar, which will take
place when this Letter is on its way. Moon-
light tennis matches, picture shows, courts
of injustice and other devices to provide
stocks for the various stalls have been in
full swing of late.
Mr. and Mrs. C. Chambers, of the wire-
less station, are leaving by the Koolinda.
lie having been transferred to the western
station. They have won many friends during
their three years in Darwin, and tennis
matches, tea and chatter helped to make
a farewell that was given them at the
Methodist parsonage a pleasant affair.
We have had a Chinese wedding, Pauline,
the daughter of Chee Quee. being married to
Chin, the son of See Pon. About (10
guests sat down to the wedding breakfast
at the house of AH Hassan. Among the
guests were many Chinese ladies.


FERRODOR
ANTI-
CORROSIVE
PAINT
THE MOST SATISFACTORY WEATHERPROOF
PAINT FOR INDUSTRIAL AND DOMESTIC USE
Perfectly Protects all Iron, Steel and Woodwork from Rust and Corrosion
FERRODOR PAINT has won its place in the front rank of weather-proofing
materials. It affords absolute protection from the attacks of the weather. It successfully
resists sun and rain, salt air and chemical fumes. Its wonderful elastic properties enabe
it to expand in hot weather and contract in cold weather, so that it will not blister,
crack or peel.
FERRODOR PAINT has been used successfully on many large jobs, and has proven
beyond doubt its ability to withstand the weather, one coating in one case on recoid
lasting 22 years without re-painting!
FERRODOR PAINT is packed in paste form to eliminate waste—you only mix
what is required—and there are twenty colors to choose from.
Some of the jobs on which FERRODOR PAINT has been used:
GASWORKS The Gas Purifiers at Bathurst Gas-
works were painted with, a err odor
Paint 20 years ago, and up to date
have not been repainted, nor do they
yet need repainting.
STEEL FACTORY CHIMNEYS One painting with Ferrodor Paint
has been giving every satisfaction on
a large steel chimney 1 25 ft. high and
6ft. in diameter at Messrs. Tooheys,
Ltd., Brewery.
WHEAT SILOS ------- Ferrodor Paint has been used on the
huge Terminal Silos at Glebe Island.
These do not yet need repainting.
RAILWAY WORK ----- The N.S.W. Government Railways
are large purchasers of Ferrodor
Paint for use on bridge girders, over-
head standards, etc., which are ex-
posed to the weather.
Some of the Users of FERRODOR PAINT
N.S.W. Government Railways
N.S.W. Public Works Department
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Australian Giass Manufacturing Co.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd,
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilizers, Ltd.
Cresco Fertilizers
Mt. Lyell Chemical Co.
Cuming, Smith and Co.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Taronga Park Trust
Color Card and Full Information Sent Free on Request
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPAN/
______ LI M ITCP—<
SYDNEY 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE. . Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH. 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE.. 521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE.... 157 Waymouth Street.
NEWCASTLE.. 17 Bolton Street.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
&7Yb7l&
LIQUEUR
1 / <V,/DL
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANTS
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
1
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 6, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/*
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
NO FLOWERS.
By— ROBERT FRANK.
THEY looked at him, Kelly the Mug—
looked at him contemptuously, and
spat. And Kelly the Mug, broken
nosed, battered about the eyebrows, and
with the left side of his face curiously con-
caved, looked back at them and pleaded for
another chance.
“Nothing doing, Kelly,” they said. “You’re
finished. You’re a has-been.”
“Has-been nothing,” persisted Kelly 1 in
las husky voice. “I been K.O. Kelly an’ I’m
K.O. Kelly still. I been trainin’ an’ I got
me punch”
“Looks like it,” they sneered. “It’s been
Kelly Iv.O.’d in your last three fights—one
round each. Hop along now, this is our
busy day.”
“Ah now, look here, boss —one more
chance. I’m only askin' you for one.
Honest, I been crook, but I’m right now.
I been trainin’ and I got me punch. Jist
this one, an’ if I don’t make a comeback
I’ll go quiet. If I don’t go the distance I
don’t draw no money, an’ I don’t bother you
no more. Honest, I’ll make a fight of it.
I got to make a fight of it. I’m stony
broke, boss, an’ me kid’s crook again. Give
us one more go.”
“That right about training, Kelly?” they
asked him.
“It’s Gawd’s truth,” said Kelly hopefully;
“I reckon I’m fit to go twenty.”
“If you can go eight and make a fight of
it, it will do us,” they replied. “And >f
you don’t go eight, you get nothing. That’s
right, isn’t it?”
“That’ll do me,” said Kelly with an op-
timism sadly belied by the sinking feeling
at his heart.
“Well, it’s your last chance, Kelly. You
can have Young Mack on Friday night, over
eight rounds.”
“Huh! Young up-jump they call a cornin’
champ,” growled Kelly sulkily.
“If you don’t like it”
“Like it?” With an effort Kelly brought
the optimism back to his voice “Look here,
lie’s been skittlin’ them all, hasn’t he? Well,
watch me skittle him. I’m K.O. Kelly, I
am”
“You were —a long time ago,” they gibed.
“I’m as good as I was,” he flung back
“I’ll show you. Friday night.”
And Kelly the Mug left them, and outside
their office he picked up his shoe-shine out-
fit and humped it home in the dusk. For
Kelly the Mug, once for a brief season or
two the idol of the fickle fight-fans, now
knelt before them in the streets and with a
certain deftness ran blacking brushes and
pads over their shod fet. Barely thirty,
and burned out, was Kelly. He’d been
punched silly, so> those who remembered him
said. One of the tough, hard-slugging type
of fighter, he had never won a fight on
points. He had made temporary fame for
himself with a run of knock-out victories
and his capacity for absorbing punishment.
Kelly had absorbed too much. Kelly the
Mug.
Now he blacked shoes to earn enough to
keep body and soul together, and occasion-
ally made a pound or two as an emergency
or preliminary fighter, absorbing more
punishment. He seemed to live in a per-
petual state of daze. His eyes had that
shallow appearance, and his voice had that
husky, shallow sound, as if continual
punching had filled up his head inside,
solid. There was no depth. Occasionally
when he looked up one seemed to see half-
formed thoughts struggling on the surface
of his shallow eyes, struggling vainly to find
admittance to the thickened brain behind.
But that was only appearance. Kelly had
his thoughts. They centred round his kid, a
crippled daughter who all day lay helpless
in the room they shared.
About eight years old she was. T.B. had
carried her mother off and some infection
had malformed the daughter’s spine tili
she was at eight years old a curled-up,
twisted little thing. But to Kelly there was
something beautiful about her.
When he came home at night and lit the
she would stir and call softly, “Hello,
“Hello, Kid, how’s it going?” he would
reply.
“Oh, I’m feeling much better to-day,” she
would reply seriously.
And Kelly would clear away the milk
glass and crumbs of biscuit he had left to
serve her during the day. and scrape to-
gether the rough meal they had together
each night.
Afterwards he would sit and tell her of
things he had seen during the day. She
would show him what she bad been doing.
She loved flowers. At first she used to
busy herself with pencil and paper, draw-
ing them. Lately a woman from near by
had been teaching her to make them of
paper. The child was adept and proud of
her new accomplishment.
“But I like real ones best. Don’t you,
K.O. ? They’re sweet, and soft, and cool."
Then she added with a sort of rapture: “I’d
like to have a bed of flowers —soft, cool,
sweet flowers! They are so nice on the
skin.”
Kelly was puzzled at her vehemence. He
did not think much about flowers. But her
mother always liked them, and the girl got
it from her mother, he supposed. It was
funny they liked flowers so much. He always
remembered and brought her some when he
made extra money by fighting. Lie had always
supposed that she liked looking at them.
This about flowers feeling nice was queer.
But as he looked at the weary little face,
and lifted the little hand, transparent and
fragile, something stirred in his mind and he
half understood.
He fiddled with her hand almost shyly,
and with great difficulty he said, “Yer look
a bit like a flower yourself, Kid. Mebbe I
can get yon some soon at the week-end.”
In the mornings, before their breakfast,
Kelly rummaged out his old skipping-rope
from a corner, and she timed him with the
old alarm-clock while he skipped. Then she
would call, “Now then, K.O.', strut your
“Kelly felt himself being dragged. He did not open his eyes till he was seated in
his corner."
stuff !” and Kelly would for a few minutes
indulge himself in shadow-sparring round
the room, with suitable snortings and fierce
expressions. Poor Kelly! That was his
pathetic idea of being in training. Put
it made no difference, anyway, for the jaw
of Kelly the Mug was long ago crystal-
lised from repeated puneliings. One crack
on Kelly’s jaw, and Kelly was down. All
the training in the world would not alter
that, though Kelly would never believe it.
On the Friday night he was full of con-
fidence. lie straightened up the little room
after their evening meal and made his girl
as comfortable in her dingy bed of blankets
as was possible. The back of his knuckles,
as he gripped the upper edge of the blanket,
brushed her face. The contrast stirred in
him again that half understanding, that
queer embarrassment.
“You are a bit like a flower. Kid,” he said,
“Knock him, K. 0.,” said the fragile thing
in the bed.
“You bet.” said K.O.
An hour later K.O. Kelly, otherwise Kelly
the Mug. was seated in his corner of the
ring, with a haze of tobacco-smoke about him
and the smell of eucalyptus and embroca-
tion strong in his nostrils. And brutally loud
in his ears came the comments of the throng.
“Good old Kelly the Mug, come to get his
sleeping-draught,” cried a ring-side wit.
“Whoever he’s fighting, I'll give tens
against the Mug,” yelled a ribald bookmaker.
In the opposite corner to Kelly sat a tall,
red-haired boy. There was eagerness in his
eye and in his pose. Liis skin was incredibly
white. He looked thin about the waist.
The referee called them into the centre
of the ring for the usual formalities.- Kelly
noted that the eyes of the very white Young-
Mack' were ice cold. The chill of them
seemed to nip at Kelly’s heart, but he
was an old campaigner and put that sort of
thing aside, as he turned back to his corner.
“Clang!” went the gong. “Box on,” said
the referee.
Kelly turned and found the very white
youth pacing towards him. There came a
jarring shock, and Kelly’s head jerked back.
That lance-like left for which Young Mack
was noted had struck home. Kelly automati-
cally rolled himself out of the way of the
smashing right which followed up, and
smothered.
“Make him fight!” roared the fans.
Kelly suddenly unwound in air attempt to
stage one of his old devastating tigerish
attacks, but young Mack danced easily out
of reach and contented himself with irrita-
ting jabs to the face, bringing the blood to
Kelly’s nose. Kelly vainly tried to reach
the white will-o’-the-wisp with ponderous left
and right swings, hurling himself round the
ring after his dancing devilish tormentor,
always just missing him, always taking that
stinging left jab to the face. A helpless rage
burned deep down in him.
Liis efforts quickly tired him. He began
to breathe hard. He felt a slight drag at
liis knees. “Must ease up.” he thought. “If
I can slip that left and get in close, rip
a few hard ones into the belly, it’ll slow him
up a bit. And then I’ll have him.”
Kelly slipped the next one— and the cun-
ningly-concealed right crashed on to his jaw,
just a fraction high, lie felt his knees loosen.
He felt himself sprawl. He heard the voice
of the referee count “One—two”
At eight lie struggled to his feet. All
round him was a blur. His legs felt heavy.
He saw a white shape emerging from the
haze round him, close to him. swung wildlv
at it, and feeling his gloves graze flesh, fell
into a clinch.
“Push him off! Finish him! Don’t let
him hang on—push him off.” Ha heard the
savage cry of the fans, the words thudding
against his ears as if the multitude was
crowded into the ring.
Then he was pushed off. For a moment he
stood swaying. He grinned feebly.
“No flowers, by request!” called a ring-
sider joyously.
As through a mist Kelly saw his foeman's
left poised. He moved hazily to avoid the
coming blow. Like an explosion there came
a sudden shock at the -side of his face and
a frigid pain that seemed to clear his
mind as if a flame had burned away obstruc-
tions.
The faces of the crowd stood out in vivid
relief, the ropes, and the referee, and the
delicately pacing boy he was fighting.
No flowers? No flowers? Yes, by God,
there would be flowers! Oceans of flowers!
Kelly felt the flame that cleared his mind
surging through him. Suddenly he raged
across the ring, carrying his opponent before
him. At last he got in close. At last he
was inside that torturing, aggravating left.
The impotent rage it had aroused in him
grew to a purposeful anger. Left and right
lie ripped to the body, left and right he
crossed to the head. He felt the white
flesh yielding before his punishing gloves.
The gasps of his victim were music in his
ears.
The gong went. The house was in an
uproar. Kelly sat in his corner, master of
himself. The bookies wen? incredulous. They
knew their Kelly. He was a set-up for this
rising, champion. Kelly the Mug, glass-jawed
and burned out. His rally was a flash in the
pan.
They seriously called threes against Kelly
everywhere. Kelly, cool, feeling miraculously
strong, looked across and saw his enemy,
his skin dappled with angry red patches,
his face puffed and bleeding. And Kelly
snapped up the odds against himself wher-
ever he could get set.
At the gong he leapt from liis corner.
Never had he been so strong. Never had he
been so irresistible. And never had lie had
such a tough and game opponent. Kelly
roughed him and punched him round and
round the ring and floored him twice in the
round. Ke’ly took the youngster’s bitterest
punches without a flick of the eyelid.
lie was delighted to find that his old
capacity to absorb punishment had returned
to him. He revelled in it. The strange
silence of the house seemed a tribute to him.
“I’m as good as ever I was,” Kelly told
himself.
The rounds went with incredible swift-
ness. The further he went the stronger he
felt. In the fifth lie went out with tile con-
viction that it was to be the last. Young
Mack, terribly punished, tottered from his
corner, and as he came Kelly measured him.
and swung liis right flush to the jaw. Young
Mack crumpled.
With a feeling of surging elation Kelly
stood off and watched the referee measure
the count with his forearm and extended
forefinger. “One—two”——
Kelly had won and he had won real
money. “Who said ‘No flowers’?” he cried
with fierce joy as he leapt from the ring.
Twenty minutes later lie ivas down town
looking for a flower shop. “I want flowers,
lots of ’em,” he told the woman who looked
in bewilderment at his scarred face. He
hired a taxi and loaded it with flowers. “The
sort that feel niebst on the skin,” he ex-
plained. Then he raced homeward.
“Flowers, Kid, I’ve got your bed of
flowers.” And he filled the room and covered
the bed of the wonder-struck child with
flowers. The room was transfigured. There
was a strange brightness and the mingling
scents of the blossoms filled the place with
a stinging freshness.
“It suits you, Kid,” he said bashfully.
“Yon look like one yourself.”
She seemed infected by his shyness, too.
She said : “You’re like one, too —three—four
--five—six —seven—eight—nine—out!”
Her voice had changed strangely to a
masculine hardness. The flowers, the scents,
the freshness receded.
“Good as ever I was,” mumbled Kelly
dazedly. “No flowers, eh? Knocked him in
the fifth—oceans of flowers. Knocked him
clean in the fifth.”
“Garn, where have you been wandering
to,” asked the sarcastic, rough voice of his
seconds. “This is half-way through the
first.”
"Never knew what hit him,” commented
the off-sider.
Kelly felt himself being dragged. Lie did
not open his eyes till he was seated in his
corner.
A little later Kelly the Mug, blind bo-
puzzlement in his eyes, crept dumbly from
the building, dumbly along the streets, and
dumbly into the room occupied by himself
and bis kid. He did not light the gas. He
sank beside her bed. and his hand rested
where it felt the edge of the harsh blanket
touching the silk of her face.
“Hello, K. 0.,” she murmured.
He did not reply.
“No—no flowers?” she said sleepily.
And perhaps because he had absorbed so
much punishment and had long ago been
punched silly, Kelly the Mug put down liis
head and gave way to blubbering like a bov.


Hi
O
o
a
n
m
c
■ >
.a-
-11
&
&
Sk
* : -
gSs
♦
M
.
:a
Q
H -J
0
•ft
Recent Orders include:
AUSTRALIA:
25 Locomotives for Queensland
Government Railways.
EUROPE:
50 Locomotives for the Great Western
Railway.
ASIA:
51 Locomotive Boilers for the Bengal Nagpur
Railway.
AFRICA:
Powerful Twin Screw Tug for the South
African Railway and Harbour Board.
AMERICA:
7,250-ton Oil Tank Steamer for the
Vacuum Oil Co.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & Co., Ltd.,
SALES ORGANISATION:
Kinnaird House, Pall Mall East, London, Eng.
Works and Shipyards, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne.
Sole Representatives for Australia: Messrs. Gilbert-Lodge & Co., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M. 6.723


A t Harrow, hats
conserve tradition —-
elsewhere they make
or mar the whole
appearance of a man
by their style, finish,
quality and, above
all, individuality.
In buying a
either Soft Felt or
Bowler, you will
get a Hat worn all
over the world as
the best style and
value, the result of
60 years’ leadership
in hat-making.
High-class Felt Hats
are made from the
pure fur of Rabbit,
Beaver, etc.
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD [BY
THE BEST
HATTERS
<Sb
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY, BOX 1845 K, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE, BOX 364. G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z., BOX 763.
PILENTA. the Best Skin Soap— Advt.
The Homecoming.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY RANN DALY.
THERE was no taxi waiting at the little
dark station, so Collett decided to leave
all his luggage behind except a suitcase
and walk home. Only half a mile, and a
night full of stars ! He stood buttoning his
overcoat around his big figure, half-imagining
that the platform swayed slightly like a deck
beneath his feet. The mountain air of the
outer suburb was stimulating after three
weeks at sea, and there was a breath of
watered lawns and roses, filtering down
even to the low-lying station that usually
smelt of bad coal.
“Hullo! You, Mr. Collett!” said the
stationmaster, flashing his lantern upon him.
“Back again?”
“Yes, back again,” repeated Collett mech-
anically, gathering his luggage together. A
bit sooner than I expected, t 00.... 1 here s
a porter about somewhere, I suppose.”
“Yes, lie’ll look after that,” said the
stationmaster. “Just leave it there. ...
Good voyage?” .
“Not bad,” said Collett, thinking ot the
miles of smooth, oily sea and of Ada s eyes
turned toward him from her deck-chair.
“Glad to be home again, though. Ivc been
on the move ever since I left six months
ago. Hardly two nights in the same bed
till I got on the boat again.”
And there flashed before him a vision of
thick, matted jungle, swampy widths of rice,
and the spidery derricks that reared them-
selves above heaps of black slag.
He felt he had been away for years instead
of months as he made his way past the
darkened fruit-shop, the chemist’s and the
quaint box-like modiste’s, that had the same
two costumes in the window as when lie
had left. It was nearly midnight. The
lights were out in most of the houses, and
only in the big, white bungalow with its
screen of camphor-laurels was there noise
and jazz music. For the first time Collett
felt a bit uneasy about his unheralded home-
coming. These things never went quite. as
one expected them. Would Mollie be sitting
up reading, or would she be immersed in her
first sleep? She slept so heavily, and was
usually drowsy and querulous when she was
awakened. Perhaps it might have been
better to have cabled from Singapore!
“What if she's away at her mother s ?
he thought.
And he visualised a bleak, locked house,
with the blinds drawn and the holland covers
over the chairs inside. But he shut it from
his mind. The vision he had had in the
train was better —Mollie standing fluffy and
bewildered at the head of the stairs in her
saxe-blue dressing-gown, a candle in her hand
and the warmth of her bed about her. He
saw the startled look in her eyes as she
peered down into the hall, and then heard
her little flutter and cry:—
“Oh, Frank! I couldn’t believe it was
really you!”
The boat he had come down by drifted
away into dim seas. It was all extraordi-
narily unreal now, those timeless evenings
on moonlit decks, with the screw throbbing
faintly somewhere aft and the water shim-
mering with phosphorescence. Even the
emotions Ada roused in him as she curled up
beside him in her deck-chair were unreal.
Could it have been himself who had thrilled
to the tremolo in that soft, self-pitying
voice:—
“I’ve had a rotten time ever since I mar-
ried him. He never really cared about me,
and he was years older. Now that I’ve broken
away I’m not going back. Never !”
And tlie plans they had made; such vague,
woolly plans! There was the evening they
had hung over the rails when the boat was
in port, looking at the dim shape of Mag-
netic Island and the lights that twinkled near
the beach. How happy they could be, Ada
had said, if they only had a bit of a cottage
on an island like that, far away from the
rest of the world! They could live on almost
nothing; bathing, fishing, lolling about in
the sun and forgetting the mess they had
made of their lives. And with his arm around
her waist, and her head snuggling up against
his shoulder, he had almost believed her.
Well, any man was liable to make a fool of
himself sometimes.
He turned the corner and began to walk
up the last little hill, his heart pumping
harder as he smelt the niglit-dew on the
pittosporum hedges. Home! This street had
always had a different smell from all other
streets as he swung into it after a hard
day in town. But it would have been better,
after all, if he could have been sure that a
spread supper-table was waiting for him.
with Mollie hovering round, excited and ex-
pectant, a hundred questions trembling on
her lips. Better than waking her up from
her first sleep !
It was then that he saw the car drawn up
in the darkness of the overhanging jaca-
randa by his gate. Even at the first glance
Collett felt something sinister and furtive
about its long body and low chassis. The
lights were out on the other side of the
street; a couple of dim ones burnt in his
own. Collett pulled up twenty yards away
from the gate, hesitating and disturbed.
What visitor would Mollie be likely to have
at this hour?
“I used to hate the way he came home
suddenly," murmured a voice in his ears.
“As if he was always trying to catch me out!
It made me positively want to give him
something to be suspicious about.”
And a vision of the big, stout rubber-
planter swam before his eyes, the cropped
head, the reddish face and the little bristling
moustache that did not cover his thick lips.
In a woman’s indirect way—through little
casual phrases, through little anecdotes of
their daily life —Ada had created the man
for him till he knew him better than most
men he had met in the flesh. Knew also
the way a cloud dropped over her mind when
he came back from his trips to the coast!
Before he realised what he was doing, Col-
lett had crossed the street and was looking
at the house from the opposite side, a sick,
uneasy feeling in the pit of his stomach.
That was Mollie’s bedroom, where the light
was burning behind the red blind. While
he was staring at it a man in an overcoat
came past, giving him a queer look, and he
walked hurriedly to the end of the street,
feeling there was lead in his suitcase and
that his feet belonged to someone else.
“Why don’t I go in?’’ he asked himself.
“It’s my own house. There’s nothing wrong.
If he had waited another three days at
Singapore, he was thinking, he would have
got a bundle of mail from Mollie, but that
would have meant missing the boat. And
the last letter he had had from her had
borne a date that was four months old now!
Hadn’t lie felt, even at the time, that there
was something secretive about it. something
hidden behind the sprawling handwriting
that was so frank and open on the surface?
“Women,’’ he thought vaguely—“they’re
all alike. How can any man know them
or trust them?’’
A wave of passion swept over his brain,
dimming his eyes. There oughtn’t to be
one standard for men and another for
women, Ada had said one night as they slid
through the smooth waters of the Barrier,
and he had agreed. Ilotv emphatically lie
had agreed! But lie had only been think-
ing of the rubber-planter.
He was back again, watching the light
in Mollie’s bedroom. There was a shadow
on the blind, indisputably that of a man.
lie felt the blood burning behind his eyes
as lie tried to trace the features, and the
faces of Mollie’s friends passed in fantastic
procession before his vision. Crossing the
street he began to examine the car that was
still waiting, crouching like some lean, fur-
tive animal in the darkness of the jacaran-
da, but lie could get no satisfaction from it.
“I’m not going to hang around here,” he
told himself desperately, "if there’s really
something wrong.”
His movements at the gate suggested that
he had been drinking. He had intended to
bang it with a rough assertiveness, but he
found himself closing it as softly as if it
were made of brittle glass. And when once
inside he did not go directly to the door, but
turned aside to the rose-bushes, trying to quiet
the drumming in his ears. The world seemed to
be rocking around him. There were faint
movements inside, a whisper of voices, the
sound of someone coming downstairs.
“lie never understood me,” came an echo
from the cells of Collett’s brain. “Never
tried to understand me. He was more
interested in some Dutch girl he knew before
I came.”
The door opened quietly, and a sharp
oblong of light fell across the cropped lawn.
It closed again, and a man appeared at the
head of the low steps. This was the crucial
moment of his life, Collett felt, and he was
unprepared for it. His tongue was thick
in his mouth; his thoughts Avere wild and
volcanic; all his life was in his hands and
in the blood behind his eyes.
The man stopped with a jerk as he lum-
bered out from behind the rose-bushes, then
stepped back a pace and pulled himself
together. He was young, trimly-built, self-
possessed.
“Well!” demanded Collett, finding his
tongue. “Who are you, and what the devil
are you doing here?”
There was a thickness in liis speech, a
menace in his big body. The other kept a
quick eye on him, as though calculating
whether he was drunk or dangerous.
“That’s what I was going to ask you,” lie
rapped out.
Collett came a step nearer to him.
“Well, I’ll tell you,” he said with delibera-
tion. “My name’s Collett —-Frank Collett.
This is my home.”
“Eh?” said his companion, taken aback.
“It’s true,” said Collett darkly. “Per-
haps I came home a bit too soon.”
A jerky laugh came from his companion’s
throat. “Oh, not a bit,” was his light
response. “Not a bit. Your wife—she didn’t
expect you for another month though.”
“So it seems.”
They looked into one another’s eyes for a
moment, but somehow it was Collett who was
embarrassed. The professional complacence
of that sallow, good-looking face took the
heat out of his blood, brought him to earth.
Down to the sane, familiar earth he had
often turned up with his spade on Saturday
afternoons! He was no longer in a tropic
world, filled with stimulating scents, phos-
phorescent seas, and women who were not
understood: he was in Mollie’s rose-garden.
“She didn’t expect you,” his companion
was saying, “but she'll be damned glad to
see you. of course.... A boy—a fine boy.
Both doing well."
And leaving Collett standing, dumb and
motionless, he brisked off to his car.
Old Spanish Song.
Lemon blossoms, falling slowly,
White as maiden prayers and holy!
“Senorita, hear my sigh !
Kiss me, else you surely die.”
Lemon-blossoms, old and yellow
As the lemons growing mellow!
Swift a caballero fled....
Dark the small disdainful dead.
N.s.w.
ZOKA CROSS.
Pearls of Broome.
Placid and fair upon a silken thread
A hundred drops of moonlit beauty gleam,
Seeds of dissension from the ocean’s bed.
Pure, flawless pearls of Broome!
Rich spoil! A white man’s bartered life, are
they,
A brown man’s prisoned doom, where
darkly lies
A blood-stained lugger ’neath the sunlit bay.
Rare, priceless pearls of Broome!
They rise and fall, calm as the sleeping sea,
Cold and unsullied as the virgin breast
Whereon they lie. aloofly scorning me.
Hard, worthless pearls of Broome!
S.A.
L. B. ZAMMIT.
A Chat with Muriel Starr
A Star Indeed!
(By Helen Jean Beegling.)
HELLO everybody! How are you all?
Would you like to meet Miss Muriel
Starr, eh? It really is quite a thrill,
you know, to realise that at last you are
going to meet someone you have admired
for about 15 years. This is how I felt
when I was asked to interview Miss Starr.
As a matter of fact, there have been so
many interviews with this lady that any-
thing I can tell you, you probably already
know; no, I withdraw that statement —and
guarantee that for all the interviewing she
has had I will tell you something fresh in
this one. All right then! I know if
I were to put the question to you, “Would
you sooner meet Miss Starr in the ‘Aus-
tralia’ or in her dressing-room?” that the
answer would be: “Why, in her dressing-
room, of course!” Come along then; the
Palace Theatre, you know, is a small one
and so are the dressing-rooms—this is the
stage-door, step inside, now down these
narrow, cold-looking steps and here we are,
right, outside her dressing-room.
“Miss Starr, may we come in and have a
chat with you?”
“Who’s there? Oh, it’s you, Miss Beegling.
“Come right in; I am just going to start
making up, but I guess we can have a yarn
nevertheless.” I feel you would like to know
what Miss Starr’s room is like, so I will
tell you as best I can. The first thing I
noticed was a most wonderful perfume, faint,
and yet ever present; the second thing
was a large bath towel on which were
pinned dozens of telegrams; all round her
big mirror are cards from the dozens of
baskets and bouquets which she receives;
and all this sort of made the room personal
to Muriel Starr, of course. On a wide
shelf in front of the mirror, were the
usual conglomerated mass of articles, make-
up, powders, perfumes, letters, bills, flowers,
etc. Miss Starr shook her thick mass of
hair out, put a cap on (to keep it out of
her way) and started the art of “making-
up,” at the same time talking to me; in
the background was, of course, her dresser.
It is hard for me to say what I want to of
Miss Starr, you all know her and love her
so well, and I too, like you, have admired
her for years on the stage. But a person
on the stage and off can be two different
personalities, you know, and I might have
been horribly disappointed when I actually
met and spoke with her. Will it surprise
you, 1 wonder, to know that she is just
as wonderful in her dressing-room as in
front of the footlights? Muriel Starr is
a personality; by this, I mean she stands
alone—she could never be one of a crowd,
her personality is too great. In ordinary
talk I found her delightfully free from any
self-consciousness, and interested in others;
in fact I am tempted to express regret that
her charm of manner in private conversa-
tion is not realised by you who meet her
only across the footlights.
Of all the voices that I have ever heard
there is none which appeals to me as does
Miss Starr’s. How she can love! how she
can suffer! It’s all there! She is a woman
of intense feeling; nothing Miss Starr does
would be done in a half-hearted manner;
her whole heart and soul is put into it,
whatever it may be; she is capable of suffer-
ing intensely and of being supremely happy.
Muriel Starr, as you probably know, was
born in a lumber camp, and first went on
the stage in New York at the age of five.
Her mother and sister still live there. Com-
ing to Australia first of all as far back as
1913 she straightaway became a firm fav-
orite with the public, and on and off has
been here ever since. This trip, she has
been with us almost four years. She loves
Australia, and loves Sydney, but she is the
type of woman who would love anywhere
she happens to be, she is so adaptable;
though through all her travels she has
still retained her American citizenship and
still thinks that Americans make the best
husbands.
In her productions you have probably
noticed, what wonderful clothes she wears,
and what exquisite taste she displays. Is it
any wonder then that when I asked her,
“Are you -very keen on the latest fashions?”
her reply was, “Well, as a matter of
fact, I wear so many on the stage that I
get a bit sick of them off; still I get keen
at times and then don’t care for awhile. I
have had clothes in one production which
have cost me over £600.” Her favorite
color is green, and she rarely wears
jewellery. She admits, without a qualm,
that she would like to travel all her life,
in warm countries. I somehow could
imagine her loving tropical isles.
I might mention here, before I forget, that
Miss Starr, like all other discriminating
women, is a strong advocate for Mercolized
Wax. Would you like to know what she
said? All right, this is it: “Tell them I
have been a user of Mercolized Wax for
many years, and that I have always found
it excellent for perserving the skin.” You
will find it leaves your skin smooth and
white, and it is so refreshing to use, apart
from its wonderful value as a skin cleanser.
Barri-Agar Face Powder is another of Miss
Starr’s favorite toilet preparations. By
this time Miss Starr was made up, hair
done (she is letting hers grow) and dressed
ready to go on. The show T was about to
start, so I left her to go round to the front
of the house to see it.


Gentlemen prefer
SURELY life offers nothing better than the
pleasures of congenial company, of
cheerful surroundings, and last, but not
least, the satisfaction of being well and
correctly dressed. It is remarkable, however,
that many splendid young men and beautiful
Australian girls, careful in all other matters,
are careless as to their footwear! Undoubtedly
it is a fact that the shoes you wear will mar
or make your appearance.
Better-class men and women choose their
shoes with discrimination —they do not blindly
accept the first pair that is offered to them,
but emphatically insist on having J. H.
Sharwood’s, knowing full well that the sales-
man who offers some other make alleged to
be 'just as good’’ has his own ends to serve.
First ascertain which of the great range of
Sharwood shapes fits exactly, and then
always ask for that shape. You will be
assured of the same consistent comfort.
Remember, the name is on every pair. Look for it!
I ■"*>
FAULTLESS
FOOTWEAR
■
;
■
V,
.
• '••••;-
j*io*** I*' 1 *'
'l;'.
5
sir
9-
Should you have any
difficulty i n purchasing
Sharwood Shoes you are
cordially invited to write
to Head Offices, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, Vic., when you
will be advised as to the
nearest store front which
they are obtainable. Do
what others do decline
substitutesand look for the
name on every pair.
QHet wiine cire Sharwoods too


Babies
thrive on
it is so
nourishina and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
16.
BUTTONING UP THE PURSE
is an out-of-date phrase, but the principle holds good; yet
there is a better way of saving money than by merely refrain-
ing from spending it.
Money in your pocket, or your purse, is practically money
spent, for it is too readily available for every whim to buy
this or that unneeded trifle.
Save in the modern way. Open a Commonwealth
Savings Account and let the pounds and the shillings and the
pence work for you.
There is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office.
Commonwealth lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by. the Commonwealth Government.)
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
the " BULLDOG "
HAMMEALESS
igjSginjj^;
GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. '£l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £ 4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne; & Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
AN OFFICER of the LAW
By J.MMAbbott
IT was almost dark and was raining heav-
ily when Mr. John Fitzgibbon rode up
to the front door of Peter Baxter’s Poly
Cow Inn at Parramatta —it stood, in 1820,
at the lower end of George-street, on the
river side —after a very uncomfortable jour-
ney from Sydney. Since passing the toll-
bar on the outskirts of the town —which
was somewhere in the vicinity of the present
Central-square, near the railway station —
the downpour had not ceased until he drew
rein at the Poly Cow, and he was almost
wet through, entirely disgusted with the
game of life, and wholly of a pessimistic
frame of mind. However, the comfortable
glow shining through the red blinds in
Peter’s windows, and a smell of grilling
steak and frying onions, that wafted itself
out from the kitchen at the back into the
bleak and windy evening, did something to
alleviate this mood of discomfort and un-
happiness. As he dismounted stiffly from
the saddle and began to fumble with the
fastenings of the valise strapped over the
pommel, Mr. Fitzgibbon felt distinctly more
cheerful than lie had been through all the
fifteen miles of disagreeableness that lay be-
tween his cottage on the Rocks and the little
tavern at Parramatta.
He hitched the reins over a hook in one
of the several posts provided for the pur-
pose beside the stone drinking-trough in
front of the Poly Cow, and walked across
the pavement to the door, above which flick-
ered an oil lamp with red panes at either
side, and a yellow and hornless cow’s head
painted on the unstained glass that faced
the street. Above this nocturnal advertise-
ment of the establishment as a licensed
lipuse, the signboard creaked to and fro as
it swung in the wind from an iron bracket
projecting at right angles to the wall. Had
it been daylight this work of art would have
displayed a blue cow without horns on its
eastern side, and a pink one on the other.
Also, if the visibility had been better, Peter
Baxter’s inn would have been evident as an
oblong edifice with wide eaves, six windows
in the upper storey and four in the lower,
having a front door, with a semi-circular
fanlight above it, between the two pairs
of the latter. It was one of those plain,
substantial buildings that used to be erected
in New South Wales during the reign of his
Majesty King George the Fourth, of more
or less blessed memory.
Taking a heavy horse-pistol from one of
the pockets of his caped overcoat, Mr. Fitz-
gibbon knocked loudly with its butt upon the
closed door, and returned the weapon whence
he had withdrawn it. Presently the door
was opened, and a very stout and burly
man blocked the bright aperture with his
bulk, standing silhouetted against the glow
within.
_ “Good evening, Peter,” said the traveller,
his teeth chattering a little because of the
cold. “Can ye put me up for the night? And
please to send someone to stable and feed
my horse. I have to be on to Windsor in
the morning. Can ye give me a bed?”
The big man peered out into the darkness,
where the flashing raindrops glittered as
they fell through the band of light at the
white and not ill-looking features of Mr.
Fitzgibbon until he seemed to recognise
them.
“Why, bless me soul, ’tis Jack th’ Stret-
cher!” he said. “What a devil’s own night!
Lord, yes—l can gi’ ye bed and board, Mus-
ter Fitzgibbon. I’d not be for turnin’ an’
Orangeman’s dog from the door on such a
night as this, let alone a hofficer o’ th’ law.
Come in, come in—an’ dry y’self afoor th’
lire. ’Tis all right,” he added, in a sort of
confidential undertone—“there’s not a soul
here to-night except ourselves an’ th’ cook.
Th’ missus an’ tlr kids is away to Sydney.
An’ if any should come,” he went on in
contradiction to his just-expressed sentiment
as to the canine Protestant —“I’ll turn ’em
away. Come in an’ make y’self comfort-
able.”
So Mr. Fitzgibbon, the Hangman, travel-
ling to Windsor upon Government business,
established himself for the night at Parra-
matta, within the hospitable walls of the
Poly Cow, satisfactorily certain that no
other guest who might entertain a pre-
judice against his useful office would be
likely to interfere with his comfort and peace
of mind during the evening.
Fie could never understand why he was
unpopular, though ho recognised the fact
that he was. lie was a genial fellow, and
naturally likeable. It hurt him that people
should shun his company. Peter Baxter,
whom lie counted as one of his few friends,
knew this, and w T as kindly solicitous, even
to his own cost, that Mr. Fitzgibbon should
not suffer contumelious offence whilst so-
journing beneath his rooftree.
When the evening meal had been satisfac-
torily disposed of —a porterhouse steak,
potatoes and succulent onions, washed down
with bottled Burton —Mr. Fitzgibbon and
his host sat at their ease before a roaring
fire which caused a faint steaminess to
emanate from the drying clothing of the
former gentleman, smoking churchwarden
clay pipes and drinking punch from a china
bowl that stood upon a little table between
their high-backed wooden armchairs.
“An’ if I may ask. Muster Fitzgibbon,”
said Peter Baxter, puffing at his pipe, “wot’s
th’ partic’lar little liaffair that tikes ye to
th’ Oxbro’ this time? Pray, hexcuse my
curiosity, but I s’pose there ain’t no ’arm in
askin’. A man’s nat’rally cur’ous regardin’
sich haffairs as you ’ave to do with. Nat’-
rally.”
Mr. Fitzgibbon took his pipe from his
mouth and sipped his punch appreciatively
before replying.
“ ’Tis the case of a young fellow was
caught bushranging about three weeks ago .
“The hangman shook his head. 'No, I know nothing of him. Who is he?’.....
‘God! That boy’s my son!’”
on tli’ Blue Mountain road, not far from
Springwood. Quite an amateur, I under-
stand. He had no more sense than to bail
up Captain Bullivant —of all men! You
know ‘Bull’ Bullivant, don’t you, Peter?
The only way to practise highway robbery
upon that gentleman would be to shoot him
dead, and "then to ask him to stand and
deliver. No chance of persuading him to
do so while he’s got breath in his body.
The ‘Bull’ immediately fired a pistol at the
young fellow, missed him, put spurs to
his horse and charged him. hell-for-leather
and the Scots-Greys-at-Waterloo style. He
knocked him flying, jumped down from his
horse, hit him on the head with the butt
of his pistol, stunned him, and had him
triced up in a brace of seconds as pretty
as I could do it myself. Then he catches
the young fellow’s horse, waits till he’s come
to. makes him to mount, ties his ankles
below the horse’s belly, and drives him be-
fore him down to the stockade at Emu
, Plains, where he hands him over to the lock-
up keeper. Fie was tried at Windsor last
, week, when the Criminal Court sat there,
, and —well, he comes into my hands at nine
o’clock in the morning, the day after to-
morrow. ’Tis a confounded nuisance—they
ought to have brought him to Sydney. We’ve
the latest thing in drops down there. At
Windsor, all they’ve got is two posts and
a cross-beam —ye’ve got to use a cart.
Clumsy—damn clumsy! And adds to the
suffering of the patient. No good. I’m
a humane man. I don’t like it. ’Twould
have been as easy to take him to Sydney
from Emu Plains as to Windsor in the first
place. But in these cases the principal
parties concerned—myself and the patient—-
they’re always the last to be thought of.”
“An’ what’s this young fellie’s name—
remember it?” asked Peter Baxter care-
lessly, as he refilled his tumbler with the
punch ladle.
“Let me see —I’ve heard it. Ah, yes. ’Tis
Amos Appleby.”
Mr. Baxter sprang to his feet with an
agility surprising in a man of such bulk.
In his haste and agitation he upset the
little table so that the punch-bowl fell to
the brick floor and was smashed to pieces.
The landlord of the Poly Cow stood before
the fire and stared down at his guest with
bulging eyes, the veins swelling in his tem-
ples and his red complexion taking on a
tinge of purple. Mr. Fitzgibbon, regarding
him with startled apprehension, had fears
that he might suffer a stroke of apoplexy.
“My God!” gasped Peter Baxter, clutch-
ing at his neck-cloth to loosen it. “My God,
Jack tli’ Stretcher—-d’ye know who that
young follie is? That ain’t his proper name
—’tis a halias.”
The hangman shook his head.
“No, I know nothing of him save what
I’ve just told ye. Who is he then?”
“O God! That boy’s my son!”
Mr. Fitzgibbon was upon his feet on the
instant, and had laid his hand upon the big
man’s shoulder with ready sympathy. His
kindly face displayed the deepest concern.
With much feeling he sought to cheer the
distracted father.
“Bear up, Peter; bear up. Remember—
he’s in my hands!”
❖ ❖ ❖ *
The rain had gone and the morning was
bright and fine as Mr. Fitzgibbon rode over
Castle Hill on his way to Windsor about
ten o'clock on the following morning. All
the beautiful valley behind him, with the
river winding through the trees and the
little town stretching from west to east along
its banks, was bathed in sunshine. Birds
carolled in the tall timber on either side of
the road, and overhead the sky was cloud-
lessly blue. It was just the sort of morn-
ing to inspire cheerfulness, and despite the
fact that lie was bound upon a mission of
death, in ordinary circumstances Mr. Fitz-
gibbon’s naturally cheerful temperament
would have responded to it readily.
But as he trotted his horse and turned
him to face back towards Parramatta —
lie always paused to admire the view at
this point on the journey to Windsor, and
did so mechanically this morning—it was
evident that his frame of mind was one of
gloom and pessimism that almost amounted
to dejection. He looked worried, sorrowful,
hopeless and despairing.
To regard John Fitzgibbon, the common
hangman, no one would ever have suspected
the terrible sordid and morbid nature of
his occupation. Just as some Judges look
like coachmen or some surgeons like the
second mates of windjammers or some bar-
risters more criminal than the criminals
they are called upon to defend, so the last
instrument of the law for the County of
Cumberland in 1820 looked anything but
what he was. Clean-shaven and with clear-
cut features, his face suggested rather that
lie was an ornament to some learned pro-
fession, and a man of mild, benevolent and
altruistic habit, than that he was the occu-
pant of possibly the most degraded office
which anyone may fill. Kindliness and sym-
pathy were the chief characteristics of his
physiognomy. And, to do him justice, he
was both sympathetic and kindly. Child-
ren—those infallible judges—always showed
a liking for him. Dogs and other animals
attached themselves to him instinctively.
That the legal murder of his fellow men was
his means of livelihood was the last supposi-
tion that could enter the most fanciful of
imaginations. You would readily have sus-
pected anyone who informed you that such
was really the case of uttering the grossest
of lying slanders. But so it was.
However, John Fitzgibbon has been dead
these hundred years and more, and it will
do us no harm to-day to accord
him whatever may be of credit in
this brief fragment of hi.- biog-
raphy. The typical hangmn i. like
the poet, is born and not made.
As in the case of the verse-maker,
his rewards are entirely inadequate
to his efforts. The poet finds in his
art the recompense that is denied
him in more material form. The
executioner finds his in the satis-
faction of his perverted instincts.
Dr. Havelock Ellis would possibly
class him as some sort of Sadist.
It is certain that all he gets out
of his sorry trade is not repre-
sented by the miserable fee which
comes his way with every life he
takes.
Fitzgibbon had been a boatswain
in the navy. For some offence
against discipline he had been
transported for seven years to
New South Wales, where he had
immediately been set to work in
a road gang that was engaged in
the construction of the very high-
way along which he was pro-
ceeding to Windsor this morning.
Its overseer was one “Red” Cassidy,
a terrific and ingenious tyrant, who
had peculiar gifts in the direction
of making life a hell for every
prisoner who toiled beneath his
superintendence. He had made
Fitzgibbon’s such a hell that one
fine day the latter, splitting his
skull with a shovel, sent him in-
stantaneously to a sphere where
it was piously supposed in the
gang he would enjoy some of the
conditions which he had been so
ingenious in inflicting upon his
fellow-men in this one—possibly,
it was hoped, even worse conditions. For
this the ex-boatswain was sentenced to death.
At the foot of the scaffold he was offered
his life if he would undertake the duties of
hangman. It was a fine day, he was in no
mood to die, and life had its allurements.
So he consented, and thus, though not born
a hangman, he was made into one. It was
conceded by those who knew what they were
talking about that he was the very best
practitioner of his trade who had hitherto
been seen in the colony. Quick, merciful
and sober —if a man had to die, he could
not die under more skilful supervision and
attendance.
“To think,” he soliloquised, as his eyes
wandered over the beautiful landscape be-
low, “that this youngster I’m to top off
to-morrow should be the only son of Peter
Baxter! Too bad —too bad altogether ! I
remember his telling me how his boy had
run away from home —last time I stayed
with him at the Poly Cow. How we argued
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yahwood; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
Geoiigr J. Sly, LL.D.; i.ieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MEI,BOURNE (326 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rutulle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
Condon Directors :
A. Dodds Faikbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tore.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
.. £2,000,000
. . 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
. . £1,250,000
970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, EC.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
/\ LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
~ 1 1 25 Cigars,
31# 50,23/9
§§f# 100,46/-
Post paid to
any address.
\W Sampler Box
containing two
W ls. Post
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for ci ufe
Reil Cigar Factory.
Shippin
IIS
%
£
j=r* „
Hawaii
Leave Winter Gladly
For Glorious Honolulu
Picturesque Auckland, favorite
seaport of Northern New Zea-
land; sparkling Suva, glowing
in varied colors, like a■ gem of
many facets in the silver setting
of a coral reef; far-famed Hono-
lulu, treasure palace of a thou-
sand novel sights and starry
nights: these await Australians!
Return Excursions
(from Sydney)
First Saloon . . £75
Second Saloon. £55
TAHITIAN TOURS
An alternative
winter holiday-
in the South Seas
presents itself in
the Union Com-
pany’s excursion
trips to
Rarotonga and
Papeete
coral sisters in
Tahitian waters.
EVERY luxury of sea travel is enjoyed on
the palatial Canadian-Australasian liners
by excursion passengers to Honolulu. The
round trip costs little more than a city holiday.
The Niagara will leave Sydney on June 28 and
the Aorangi on July 26. Particulars and litera-
ture from Union Steamship Co., Union House,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Vis it Pacific Isles!
U ol ,p^«
M JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 74 75) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fr
-C
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. •
RESERVE LIABILITY
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, - Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL -------- 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COIIEN. Chairman; Hon. .TAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Bircliin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shippin
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather, in novel setting
ot tropical moonlight and melody .quaint tea-
rooms and Oriental bazaars. Exciting sui-fing-
and outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui and
Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal islands.
A vacation that’s different. Good hotels from
12/- to £3 per day, with meals, ho extia
charges for stop-over privilege when en route
to America or Europe. Kound-trip, Sydney and
return, 8 weeks or less (3 weeks in
Hawaii) can be made for about £lOO to £loo,
inclusive. Ask nearest travel or steamship
agent- or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept.
2G, Box 241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full
information, attractive booklet, attaching
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORAItA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NOIITH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALETS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLlM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDfIIIT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Biil
VX
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
Three Day
Tours
Rail & Motor
£4/7/-
Motor all the
Way,
£5/10/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious
Scenery,
Wonderful
Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room
Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Safe and Sure that’s what
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
is for Coughs
and Colds
uui « u v.ji mu mam wmittwa
V,, V, 1
HUt
\
22
/✓. \\
m
y
At the first sign of a Cold there is nothing
better to use immediately than repeated
doses every two hours of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It reduces
the fever, alleviates inflammation, and has a
marvellous tendency to remove the unpleas-
ant condition. It is perfectly safe to use,
contains no narcotics or poisons of any kind
and can be given with the same security to
the youngest child as to the most aged per-
son. Beneficial results are almost immedi-
ately apparent, repeated doses during the
day at intervals of two hours followed by
a teaspoonful in half a cup of hot water at
night, often rids one of a “Common Cold”
which might develop into something more
serious. It is very sooth-
ing to the bronchial
tubes, and its benefi-
cial effects have been
proved times without
number.
Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery is obtain-
able practically every-
where throughout Aus-
tralia in regular size
bottles at 1/9; large
\bze, 3/-
D^stieldorrs
New Discovery
1/9 for Coughs 3 .
1 0 COLDS
A *
TRADE ®2>TJ MARK
&
nsa
For «
(oughs
AND
Colds
m
i
&
fOg
OME !
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES;
CR. GEORGE AND RING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET,
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
it out, and came to a conclusion he d cleared
off to sea. ’Stead o’ that he goes a-bush-
ranging. And tries to bail up ‘Bull Bulli-
vant. No luck—no luck at all! Oh, well,
what can I do? Only make it as easy for
him as possible. Contrive some sort of a
drop. But, by God, I’m sorry. I’m real
sorry for Peter Baxter. A good man, a
de\:nt fellow. ’Tis hard.” He shook Ins
head miserably.
Picking up his reins he turned his horse’s
head and continued on his way to the
Hawkesbury, through the fresh-smelling for-
est of rain-washed eucalyptus.
* * * *
In Windsor Mr. Fitzgibbon found accom-
modation in the house of the gaoler, Mr.
Timothy Neagle, which stood just inside
the entrance to the prison. He made it a
rule never to put up at an inn in any town
where lie was to exercise his calling for the
simple reason that, upon the presence of
the hangman becoming known to other
guests in the house, they usually decided
to leave it, or, if they did not wish to go
themselves, would manifest a distinct in-
clination to eject him from the premises
with violence and opprobrium. More than
once he had had to demonstrate vigorously
to prejudiced and disagreeable persons that
he had not for nothing been the champion
bare-knuckle boxer of more than one ship
in the Royal Navy. But this was an in-
convenience when one had a serious and deli-
cate task to attend to in the morning. More-
over, it was unseemly, to say the least of it,
for a man in his position to appear upon
the scaffold with a black eye or other dis-
figurement incidental to a bout of fisticuffs.
The master of ceremonies at such functions
should be above reproach, in appearance at
least. It was necessary to observe the de-
cencies of life even on the gallows.
In the afternoon he had gone in to see
young Baxter, alias Appleby-—partly to
appraise his weight, nerve and vitality, but
more particularly to deliver a message of
farewell and a bottle of rum that had been
sent to the condemned youth by his deeply
sorrowing parent.
“ 'Tis very sorry I am for you, Teddy
Baxter,” he said consolingly, “and your
father sends you his love and this bottle
of rum, and says he forgives you, and hopes
you’ll die game. I’m sure you will, my boy.
But just a word of advice. I’ve hanged
many men, so ’tis worth having. ’Tis to
leave yourself entirely my hands. ’Twon’t
hurt you—no more’n )faying a tooth drawn.
So you”
“Good Gawd,” said the condemned lad,
rising to his feet and glaring at Mr. Fitz-
gibbon with fierce resentment, “so you're
th’ hangman, are ye! Well, take that
and be to ye!” • *
Taken by surprise, Mr. Fitzgibbon re-
ceived a very sturdy punch upon the nose,
but the next moment the impetuous Teddy
Baxter crumpled upon the floor of the cell,
having been very deftly uppercut, on the
point; of the jaw. When lie came to lie found
the hangman bathing his temples with cold
water, whilst the functionary’s nose dripped
blood and was considerably swollen.
‘‘ T !iei' e now, you’re all right again,” Mr.
fitzgibbon was saying. Gaoler Neagle
frowned at him from the open door. “You’ll
no well enough. But you shouldn’t ha’ done
mat to me, my boy. ’Twas but in kindness
I came to see ye, and for to give you your
father 3 message. Roughness like that's a
mistake. ’Twouldn't pay with some execu-
tioners, I promise ye. Ye’d have a bad ten
minutes to-morrow morning if I didn’t hap-
pen to be a forgiving man who knows how
to make allowances. You mightn’t believe
it, but tis myself who’s your best friend
now, m lad. Here, shake hands, and take
a swig o this rum. ’Twill do you good. I
your spirit, but I don’t enjoy a punch
i, .0 any more than the next fellow,
tis all right, however. .Tust keep your spirits
U P- Ihe parson’s coming to see you now,
So IA clear out. Don’t let him frighten
you. What Idotoye in th’ morning’s no-
thing—naught but the loss o’ life. And
that, of course, can’t be helped. But no
pain no trouble at all. Keep your heart
up, my boy.”
He went out, and Mr. Neagle admitted
the chaplain, who had been waiting outside
the cell.
Down by the river, as the sun disappeared
behind the long indigo wall of the Blue
Mountains to the westward, and dusk stole
imperceptibly over the wide valley of the
Hawkesbury, Mr. Fitzgibbon, his arms
folded across his broad chest, paced to and
fro along some twenty yards of bank, deep
in thought. For nearly an hour, until it
was quite dark and glittering stars were
wheeling in the high heavens overhead, he
walked slowly up and down with the air
of one who threshes out some complicated
problem. About seven o’clock he stopped,
struck liis right fist sharply into the palm
of his left hand and muttered his resolve.
“By God, yes. I’ll do it. Tom Raikes
—he’ll. provide the horse. He owes me a
good bit. I’ll fix Neagle up. The boy shan’t
hang—not if I can help it. Damme if he
shall. ’Twill be good news for Peter when
he hears of it. No doubt I’d have had to
hang the lad sooner or later. But let him
have this chance. His father’s been a good
friend to me. P’raps this’ll pay him back
a bit of what I owe him. Maybe he won’t
forget Jack the Stretcher.”
He walked up the ridge in the direction
of the town. An hour later he returned to
the gaoler’s house, carrying four pint bottles
of rum.
At three o’clock in the morning the un-
happy Teddy Baxter, lying awake in the
darkness, full of fears and tribulation, was
astonished to see a gleam of light suddenly
appear through the crack at the bottom of
the cell door. He had been left alone after
the half-tipsy gaoler—Mr. Fitzgibbon’s rum
was already doing its work—had visited him
at ten o’clock. Condemned prisoners were
not so closely and inexorably watched in
those days as they are now. It was not
a matter of much consequence if they cheated
the sheriff by suiciding—indeed, it saved
a good deal of trouble —yet they seldom did
so. There is always some sort of hope—
even to the last quarter of an hour —and
the will to live is man’s strongest instinct.
The door opened and revealed Mr. Fitz-
gibbon with a guttering candle in one hand
and a bunch of keys'in the other.
“H’sh,” he hissed. “D,on’t talk. I’m
going to set you free. Mr. Ncagle’s drunk.
There’s a horse down near the bridge across
South Creek. I’ll help you over the wall.
Get back to the Mountains. But don’t
make a fool of me by being taken again.
I’ve, got a file here and’ll have those irons
off in no time. No, no—don’t thank me.
Your father’s been my friend when I most
wanted one. The hangman’s not got too
many. When you see him again—if ever
you do —tell him that Jack Fitzgibbon was
not ungrateful to him, and that he sent him
his best regards. Come, now —put your
right foot on the table while L get busy with
this file. But keep silent —don’t talk.”
With the dawn, Mr. Timothy Neagle pain-
fully awoke to a hazy consciousness that
his head ached, and that a great sensation
of nausea beset his stomach. After a violent
bout of retching he felt a little better, and
was able to define the sense of vague re-
sponsibility that had troubled him in the
first moments of returning consciousness. It
came to him clearly that he must be stir-
ring himself, and must see after the prisoner
who was to suffer at nine o’clock. With
somewhat tottering footsteps, he made his
way to young Baxter’s cell.
“My Gawd," he gasped as he stared into
the empty cubicle, and in the dim light fil-
tering through the little barred window high
up in the wall beheld the filed irons—“th’
young warmint’s slipped us! Here’s a pretty
go! Lord, I’ll have to tell th’ Comman-
dant.”
He hurried to the entrance of the gaol.
The sky was reddening over McGrath’s
Hill to the eastward as Mr. Neagle let him-
self out of the little wicket in the big gate.
Immediately in front of it stood the two
tall posts of the gallows with their connect-
ing horizontal cross-beam, which had been
erected yesterday. Mr. Neagle gaped at ii:
in astonishment. He rubbed his eyes, con-
vinced that he was dreaming. A man’s
body hung limply at the end of the rope.
“Good Gawd!” he muttered hoarsely as he
took a faltering step forward. “Saints, ’tis
th’ hangman hisself!”
Counsel for the Defence.
A COMPLETE STORY BY F. A. WAUGH.
ONIA once have I ever made a complete
fool of myself and gained anything by
it. Only once—but here, I'll tell you
about it, and you can see for yourself how
it was.
I’d landed a job as a fireman aboard one
of the London-bound boats, and about the
third day out from Fremantle I was up
getting a breath of fresh air when I heard
a cough and a dejected-looking young chap,
with saloon passenger written all over him,
drifts up alongside and says: “Good-day.”
“Good-day,” I says. “How are they all
at home?”
“Listen.” says lie, ignoring my kind
inquiry, “you’re a fireman, aren’t you?”
“Well, what about it?” says I.
“I thought you were,” says he, looking
round as though he expected someone to
jump on. him from behind. “I came down
here hoping to find a fireman or something,
and now that I’ve found him”
“Yes, and now that you’ve found him?”
I’ve got a proposition to put to him.”
And with that he dives into his pocket
and produces a card with John B. Thorley
on it.
“That’s my name,” he says, “and the pro-
position is. this. You'll go up above and take
iny place in the saloon, and I’ll come down
here and take yours in the engine-room.
llow about it?”
“How about explaining it?” says I, won-
dering if he’d been warned off up above for
stacking ’em or somehing. “When I hear the
details I’ll talk business.”
Then he starts off to explain. He wasn’t
much of a public speaker. He had a habit
or losing lvis place and getting tangled.
suppose 1 d have been the same myself
it Id been him. Anyhow, the drift of his
remarks was this: He was suffering from
a jealousy-tortured soul. Upstairs there was
a girl with azure eyes and a smiling face,
but it didn’t smile on him —not now —it used
to. They had come apart and she’d left
poor old John B. out in the frost. The
blighter who’d done him out of his girl
evidently believed in making the most of
his time, for between him and the girl one
of the fastest flirtations ever seen at sea was
in progress. And John B.’s agony had become
so acute he felt he’d go mad if he didn’t
get away from the scene. Eventually lie
had made a desperate decision to change
places with one of the firemen and spend
the rest of the voyage sweating the poison
out of his soul. Jealous men do queer
things. But when he’d finished I felt a lot
of sympathy with him. I know what women
can be.
“Well, if that’s how things are,” I says,
“I don’t mind giving a hand. I’ve never been
a first-class saloon passenger before, but
from what I know of it it'll do me. So
let’s get on with the business. The first
thing you’ll have to do is fix things with the
skipper and the engineer.”
“Leave that to me,” says he; '“the cap-
tain’s a friend of mine. What’s your name?”
“Smith,” says I.
“Smithy,” says he, taking my hand and
giving it a shake, “you’re a sport. I’ll go up
and get you some of my clothes —we’re
about the same build —and you can get out
of yours and hand ’em over to me.”
“Just a minute,” I says—“who’s your
cabin mate?”
“Nobody,” says he. “I was in a double
cabin, but there was a single vacant and I
moved into that a couple of days ago, so
you’ll be right on your own. And, I say,
if I get fed up down below and decide to
come back, you still stick to the cabin. I’ll
see you’re compensated for your job.
Smithy, old son”; and with that off he goes
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
“The Shrug,”
By Francis Osborn.
The war left us some queer legacies.
This is a gripping tale of one of
them.
“The Windmill.”
By R. J. J. Affleck.
Are you afraid to look down from
heights? This is a story, full of
human interest, of such a one.
AND THREE OTHERS.
‘€very picture
Veils a JjJVory
C KE.TV
>s
7a
P
m
Look to Your Kidneys
Stop That Wearying Backache!
MAKE life a pleasure again. That pain in the small of
the back; that urinary disorder; that tired, nervous,
old and worn-out feeling; those headaches and dizzy
sensations; all may be due to kidney weakness, which can be over-
come. Worrying will not help you. Get fit and well by taking
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This medicine gives the kidneys
the strengthening help they need, and so prevents rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, dropsy, stone in the kidney, or inflammation of
the bladder. Although Doan’s Pills relieve even these serious
symptoms, PREVENTION is by far the wiser plan. An occasional
course of Doan’s will keep you in good health.
CONVINCING PROOF FROM
SYDNEY.
A MAN’S CASE
Mr. A. Bartle, No. 3 Gladstone Street,
Bexley, Sydney, says: “Off and on for years
I suffered with disordered kidneys, the result
being that I was tortured with backache.
When I had a bad attack my back used to
be so stiff and lame that I could not even
turn in bed without suffering agony. The
kidney secretions were affected, being thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I was also
subject to dizzy attacks and, generally speak-
ing, felt far from well. One day a friend,
hearing of a cure by Doan’s Kidney Pills,
urged me to try them. I bought some without
delay, and used them with excellent results.
The first bottle gave relief, and five bottles
made a complete and perfect cure.”
Ten years later Mrs. Bartle says: “Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured my husband of
backache and kidney trouble over ten years
ago, and he has had no return of the com-
plaint since.”
A WOMAN’S CASE
Mrs. S. Drew, 28 Briggs Street, Camper-
down, Sydney, says: “Sometime ago my
kidneys were in a seriously disordered state
and in consequence I suffered terribly. My
back never stopped aching, and I was almost
crippled with the ailment. Dropsical swell-
ings showed on my legs and ankles, and there
was puffiness under my eyes. The state of
my health worried me terribly and as I had
taken all sorts of remedies without deriving
any benefit, I was beginning to think I should
never be well again. However, at last I got
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they proved
a godsend. The first couple of bottles
eased my suffering a little, and seven bottles
of the pills cured me completely.”
Seven years later, Mrs. Drew says: “I have
had no return of my old complaint since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over
seven years ago.”
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S, REMEMBER.
Sold by All Chemists. Foster-McClellan Co., Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Backache Kidney
SYDNEY MAN CURED OF PILES BY
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. W. Solomon, Wentworth Street, Parramatta, Sydney, says: “About
20 years ago I had a very severe attack of Itching and Bleeding Piles, and
underwent an operation. I was right for about eight years, and then the
complaint returned. The agony was terrible. Not wanting to undergo
another operation, I started using Pile remedies. The number I used would
astonish you, but they gave me no benefit whatever. I read of Doan’s
Ointment curing others, and decided to give it a trial. After a few applica-
tions I obtained relief and one pot cured me. I always keep Doan’s Ointment
in the house, and shall never be without it, for I know what a thoroughly
good remedy it is.”
Ten years later Mr. Solomon says: “I have still the same good opinion
of Doan’s Ointment. It cured me of the Piles many years ago, and I never
suffer with this complaint now.”
KEEP A TIN ON HAND. IT’S MIGHTY USEFUL WHEN
NEEDED, AND IT’S NEEDED MIGHTY OFTEN.
and inside of an hour I’m washed and
shaved and set up on deck looking like a
Grown Prince, and John B.’s down in the
fo’c’s’le.
When dinner time came round I went in
and took my place at the table and managed
to get through without any casualties, and
afterwards I went up on deck and sat smok-
ing one of John B. Tliorley’s best cigars.
As I was sitting there thinking over the
business it seemed to me that John B.
was getting a pretty lean return. It didn’t
seem right to me that I shouldn’t try to
etpial things up a bit somehow. As I was
pondering on this a girl came up from down
below and walked past me to a chair at the
far end of the deck. As she passed I got a
look at her face, and I knew from the details
John B. had given me while we were chang-
ing over that she was the young lady respon-
sible for all the friction.
“It wouldn’t be doing any harm,” I says
to myself, “if I tried to reconcile things a
bit. Why shouldn’t they be brought together
again? Anyhow, I’ve got nothing to lose —
so why not?”
Then my attention was attracted by a
bloke in evening dress who came out and
made straight for the girl. For awhile they
chatted away, she glancing about her all the
time as though she expected somebody to be
watching and grinding his teeth. Then the
chap in evening dress starts to get a bit
fresh, but instead of playing up to him, she
shakes him off, and he goes off looking a
bit puzzled.
“This is where I get in,” says I, and with
that I hitch up John B.’s pants with one
hand, take my courage in the other and shift
myself to the side of the girl.
I didn’t give her any chance to raise
objections. I hit straight into the middle of
things. “Missy,” I says, laying my hand
on the back of her chair, “do you know
that while you’re sitting here in comfort a
young man who loves you more than any-
thing else in life is slaving his soul out
down in the engine-room?”
“Oh, is that wli >re he is?” she says, look-
ing up. “I thought he must have thrown
himself overboard.”
“He loves you,” says I.
“He’s got a peculiar way of showing it,”
says she. “The other night I saw him kiss
another woman.”
For a moment she had me blocked. John
B. hadn’t thought it necessary to tell me,
anything about that; and I was a bit puzzled
how to clear it away.
“Missy,” I says,
“you musn’t con-
demn him for that.
He was carried
away by the moon-
light.”
“He’ll be carried
away by the ambu-
lance if I ever see
him do it again,”
says she.
“It wa s the
moonlight,” I in-
sisted, loosening my
collar.
“I don’t believe
it,” says she firmly.
“And you can tell
him from me I
never want to see
him again.”
“Missy,” I says,
“I suppose it’s only
natural th at I
should want to
keep my own name
out of it, but as
you don’t seem to be in a forgiving mood to-
night, I suppose I’ll have to tell you the truth.
I'm in this business as much as John. In
fact, I started it all by betting him a box of
cigars that he wasn’t game to kiss that other
woman and let yon see him do it. When I
challenged him he jumped at it. He said
nothing on earth could shake your faith in
him.... I was just thinking how mistaken
lie was.”
“So was I,” says she. “And now, if you’ve
exhausted your fairy tales I wouldn’t mind
if you minded your own business. It’s bad
enough of him to flirt with other women
without sending you along with a lot of
rubbish that a child would have more intelli-
gence than to believe. Go and tell him
what I said, and in future please keep out
of other people’s affairs.”
“There’s a lot in that,” says I. “but it’s
a bit late to think of it now we’ve gone so
far. I’m not. going away until I put things
right for John B. He’s a pal of mine.”
“That’s another point against him,” says
she, “Would you mind letting me past?”
“Missy,” I says, “sit down. I’m only an
ordinary kind of a man, but I know right from
wrong—or I think I do—which is about all
any human being can claim—and it doesn’t
seem right to me that you and John B. should
be at loggerheads over what, when all’s said
and done, amounts to nothing. I don’t know
him as well as you do, I suppose—l only
met him recently—but he struck me as
being a decent young fellow, and you strike
me as being the right sort of girl, so why
can’t you hit it off together? If he didn’t
really love you he wouldn’t have gone down
to the engine-room and changed places with
me—er —Menzies the fireman, so that he
could sweat out the poison that’s torturing
him. When he sees you in the company of
that other fellow it nearly drives him mad
with remorse. Before he kissed that other
woman to win a foolish bet from me, you
loved him and cared for him with all your
heart, and now you’ve flown to the other
extreme and say you never want to see him
again. Don’t you think you’re making it a
bit tough on him?”
“Don’t you think lie’s making it a bit
tough on me?” says she.
“Admitted,” says I. “But you must forgive
and forget. Isn’t that it? The most erring
things on earth, you must remember, are
human beings. There was never a man born
who didn’t have a fault, and there was never
a woman born who didn’t remind him of it.
John B.’s skidded off the path perhaps, but it
doesn’t say he can’t right himself again.
And, after all, what’s he done? Kissed a
woman. Was there ever a man born who
didn’t? If I were you I’d wipe all his sins
out and give him another chance. He’s had
his lesson.”
Well, for awhile she sat still just looking
out to sea and saying nothing, and then
she looked back at me and there were tears
in her eyes.
“I—l would,” she says, pulling out a hand-
kerchief and applying it to her eyes, “but
that’s not all. The —the night before last
a musical-comedy actress smiled at him
and he went straight off and bought her a
hu-liuge box of choc-chocolates and they sat
down the other end of the deck with a rug
over them cud-cuddling and making eyes at
one another until they’d—they’d eaten the
lot.”
That one staggered me a bit. John B.
had forgotten to tell me about that too.
.Believe me, pitfalls are plentiful along the
path of the matchmaker! But I rose to the
occasion as well as I could.
“Now, now, don’t cry about it,” I said,
patting her on the shoulder. “You know
what these actresses are. A man can't be
held responsible for anything he does once
they take it into their heads to smile at
him.”
“He —he should have thought of me,” she
sobbed.
“Probably he did and hoped to God you
wouldn’t spot him,” I says to myself. Out
loud I says: “I suppose it’s quite useless
trying to convince you that was also a put-
up job to test your affection and win a
bet?”
“Quite,” says she. “He’s a mean, treacli-
ei’ous, false-hearted brute. But you can go
down and tell him I’ve forgiven him. Make
him come up out of that filthy place and
be sensible.”
“Missy,” I says, patting her on the
shoulder again, “you’ve turned up trumps.
John B.’s got the finest little girl in the
world if he only knew how to look after
her. If this lesson hasn’t cured him I’ll
forget I’m a well-behaved, gentle-tempered
citizen, •and give him a lesson that will cure
him.” And at that I stopped for want of
further words. There was something I
wanted to ask, something I wanted to find
out, but somehow my freedom of speech had
gone. For awhile I stammered rounld and
then at last I got it out. “Missy,” I says,
“while we’re on the subject—l mean —
well, you know what I mean, I’d like to be
able to tell John B. just how things stand.
Do —do you mean to say you’ll forgive him
everything and marry him? The captain
could fix it up, and I’d be best man.”
At that she gave
me a strange sort
of a look, then she
starts to laugh.
And she went on
laughing till the
tears stood in her
eyes. “Why, you
ridiculous man,’’
she gurgled, “what-
ever will you want
me to do next? I
wouldn’t dream of
it. As a matri-
monial promoter
y o u ’d probably
meet with a fair
amount of success
—you’re an apt
enough liar but
for all that you
can’t arrange a
marriage between
John Tliorley and
me.”
“Why not?” says
I, all my hopes
suddenly crashing.
“Because,” says she, displaying the third
finger of her left hand, “I married him
two years ago.”
Which was another thing John B. had
forgotten to tell me.
The Hills.
When I went back to the high lands
I lost my heart again
To the peaks and the lonely places
And the forests’ far domain,
With the winds blowing about me
In a flurry of fine rain.
Almost had I forgotten
llow the timbered ranges lay
Low to the dusky sky-line
Stretching away, away,
Under the dappled sun gold
Of a fine spring day.
I had forgotten the call of birds
When the day was newly born,
And the east broke into flower
With the primrose petals of morn,
With the lights on the peaks uplifted
And a last star all forlorn.
I saw the sky ships sailing
As in dreams I see them yet
Ever above a leafy sea,
Cobalt and violet,
Till the first shy stars were taken
In the evening's tangled net.
I heard the roar of the torrent
Swollen and swift with flood,
And the forests’ deep-toned answer
To the east winds’ wilful mood,
And the surge of its splendid freedom
Beat into my blood.
Where the cliffs keep watch and warden
By chasm and cloudy glen,
In the deeps of the wild wood garden
Afar from the ways of men,
Grey life broke out into blossom
And my heart grew happy then.
I turned away from the forest,
I left the hills behind,
For love itself has a hundred chains
To hinder and hurt and bind.
So I turned me back with an empty hope
Home in the evening wind.
VICTOKIA,
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


d
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
I Qu
I N. 5
I Vi.
I 801
CONCORD
N. S.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Office—*93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.,
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDEB, SMITH & CO., BTD., Adelaide, S.A.
dfdfdf
The finest
protection it
is possible to
have!
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear for
Women and delightful
Pullovers for Man.
Pure Wool Stackings
for Women, Half Hose
for Men and J Hose
and Socks for Children.
LET the temperature vary as much
as it likes, Wolsey Pure Wool
Underwear is the finest protection.
The even, bodily glow which Wolsey
Pure Wool Underwear ensures, is
proof against all! Wolsey is economi-
cal too, it will never shrink or lose its
shape. It is British-made by British
labour. Be safe buy and wear
Wolsey, to-day ! When ordering,
see the Wolsey Hea:d Trade Mark
on every garment!
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
ffl*
SUPZ
1h e
m.
y
ce
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the I 6-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
* Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
ToU
heuUhy
is to be
fit for
Work o««
pleoSMf®
- . L *<1
fgfgfgf
To keep fit and in form, you need sound,
robust health. Assist nature to maintain
perfect health by ensuring a sound diges-
tion. This is where Beecham’s Pills come
in! They invigorate the digestive powers,
clear the system of injurious accumulations, give tone to the stomach
and stimulate the liver, making you feel fit and well.
Keep keen and fit for work and play by taking
tSeechamb
Worth a
Guinea
a box
đ
MARINE ENGINES
FOR trustworthy and en-
during power install a
Kermath Marine Engine.
Kermaths are built to give
efficient service that lasts
through the years—“A
Kermath Always Runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling
means easy starting.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit. Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address - Kermath
fgfgfgf
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
PLUM
c rj**y’
m
o
0°
6/
e
■
tl0 v ’ '7? •••■'' .••'■’
l" y»\6' i!S •' ••• •••'
1 .X 1 .••• .•• v *K«* 3**
■ 1


I
A/V
OF
STUDEBAKERS
ERSKIIME SIX
NEW BODIES . Added beauty expressed in
more graceful lines, new two tone colour
harmonies unusually luxurious interior ap-
pointments, all instruments under glass on
a new dash.
MORE ROOM : Bigger, roomier, more com-
fortable ; greater leg and head room front
and rear, with deeper, wider seats, cushioned
for restful ease.
INCREASED POWER : New 43 horse-
power engine. Advanced engineering and
precision workmanship permit you to drive
at 40 miles an hour the day you take delivery
—no laborious breaking-in process at 20 m.p.h.
GREATER ECONOMY: A new magazine
high-pressure lubricating system and engine
refinements make oil and grease changes
necessary only every 2,500 miles—after the
first 1,000 miles.
STRENGTHENED CHASSIS: Built with
high quality alloy steel, more rigidly braced,
with additional cross members and deeper
frame, swung low as a racer yet with ample
clearance.
DOUBLED SAFETY: Perfected steering of
new design, with easier, instant response, am-
plified-action four-wheel brakes, low centre of
gravity and two-beam headlights.
Erskine Models from £298 to £448
Director Models from £378 to £570
Commander Models from £560 to £650
President Models from £665 to £875
All New Models equipped with shock absorbers and four-wheel brakes.
F.O.R. SYDNEY
A
wsm
T-,. l
m
'■m:/
S>N
a,
ft
A N A
IT!'
«i
! i.
► : J W
lift
:
*3
SV (
1
\
:;.r
r
WEB 42
©
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane,
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important townt.
SOUTH
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
The New
Erskine
Sedan
£390
(With Bumper Bars.)
Studebaker holds all the highest
Speed and Endurance Records
for fully equipped Stock Cars in
Australia and America.
